She just leaned on the balcony of her Haven, turning away people interested in a drink, watching darkly.
“What a mess. How much magic is being lost here?”
She was in a bad mood for two reasons. The first was this flood of people, though the treasure trove of coins Barnethei furnished her with made her cheer up a bit. He was panting as he sent one of his clones to talk to her.
“They started appearing last week, Larra, just after you left. Ate us out of everything! We’ve been fishing in the river nonstop, and there was a huge field of these clams that taste, well, like clams.”
“Oh? A food source?”
She brightened up at that, but Barnethei grimaced.
“Used to be. Every group marching through found them and stripped the entire field. I tried to save some, but—”
She glowered at him.
“You should have staked it out as The Explorer’s Haven property!”
“Larra, we can’t guard it. It was too far a walk to do, what, post a sentry? Everyone’s putting down that kind of thing. Flags, even roping off areas—it’s a bit ridiculous.”
She jerked her head over her shoulder at a glowing scrying orb.
“Have you seen the television, Barnethei? It’s all that’s being discussed. Speaking of which, I have some friends up here you should visit—after you deal with the customers.”
The group of weary adventurers, seventeen strong, made Barnethei’s eyes widen, then burst into a delighted smile.
“Orchestra! You found Deni!”
He expected Larra to be smiling, but she was not, which made Barnethei grow wary, but a blonde, rather disheveled adventurer glanced up from scarfing down food. Deniusth, leader of Orchestra of the North, looked exhausted, furious, and rather unlike his polished reputation in the north.
“Is that Barnethei? I might as well put in an appearance at his inn. Do a performance for all these people—and see if anyone’s got word of those damn traitors.”
Nothing would do but for him to get up and marshal his team to put on some music for the astounded travellers below. Deniusth couldn’t resist a crowd or admirers. Larracel leaned on her railings as Barnethei’s clone murmured.
“How’d you find him?”
“Light comet spells.”
He blinked, and she shrugged.
“I went up and down the New Lands, firing them at maximum range. He knew it was me. Not many people have magic right now; his team ran out of magic except for their high-grade artifacts and relics.”
“Ah, and that sour expression must be because he refused to stop adventuring?”
Larracel the Haven stared at Deniusth’s back as he struck up a tune on his violin, his bow-sword singing sweet music, attracting every eye.
“He’s still going after the thieves. Mostly the Silver-ranks. He’s cut up thirty-three of them so far. It’s bad business.”
Barnethei whistled softly. Adventurers killing adventurers. Even for the haul of Albez—he swallowed.
“Thirty-three? That’s insane, Larra.”
“They’ve got artifacts. Though half didn’t have them on them. I had words with Deni, but he’s got the bit in his teeth. I’m going to tell the Guild. They’ll censure him, but they have no one to stop him this far south.”
“So…he’s just going to go out and start hunting them again?”
That was dire to Barnethei’s mind, and Larracel grimaced.
“As soon as they’ve eaten. They’ve dropped off a bunch of depowered artifacts for me to try to revive and hold onto. And I’m having to charge all their damn artifacts up.”
“You could—not. That’d slow Deniusth down.”
No wonder he looked less-than-stellar. Orchestra was a Named-rank team with a Named-rank individual in Deniusth, but they were musicians who could use their abilities in combat. They could wipe out a group by playing in concert, but Barnethei bet that without their charms or bought magic, Deniusth was at the mercy of bugs or the wear of travel. They’d lost their edge after being successful and in the north so long.
He didn’t say that to Larracel, and her glower made him snap his mouth shut.
“Are you mad? He needs all the magic he can get! I’m charging him for it, though.”
If you didn’t give him all this help, he’d have to quit. But Barnethei was reminded why he had wanted his own inn. Larracel would do anything for her old friend and comrades, and that was that.
He changed subjects.
“Do you have more food? I’m going to need everything we can fit in The Explorer’s Haven. Oh, and more buildings.”
She grunted, sour, but shifted her mind to business.
“I finished work on them. It took some doing! I went to Goisedall for new hands—it’s not the best, but I’ll make do with what I’ve got. I might need to delay returning to The Explorer’s Haven, too, if I need to stock up on food. Goisedall is having a shortage on top of the hard winter, and I might need to fly the Haven back further to resupply.”
“Just so long as we’re good on magic—”
“You will be, and that’s with our new staff. Which reminds me—Roreen? Where’s the new hires?”
That was how Barnethei met the very nervous crew of Drakes and a Gnoll from Goisedall. He shook hands with a Drake kid who couldn’t have been more than fourteen, shot Larracel a glance, then hissed at her.
“Larra! I asked for [Mages] to run a Mage’s Guild for all these [Messages] people want to send! This is my [Mage]?”
The Drake boy was nervous as Larracel hissed back.
“He’s the only one Goisedall would let me hire. He can cast the spell, and I gave him some lessons. Make do, Barnethei. Everyone else is either working with all the travellers or are explorers themselves! Besides. He’ll do better at your inn than the city.”
Her eyes lingered on the Drake boy, who stammered.
“I’ll do my best at your inn, Innkeeper! I’ve been working at the Mage’s Guild for three years, and I can send [Message]! I’m a Level 11 [Message Apprentice]!”
One look at him and Barnethei groaned internally because he knew this was one of Larracel’s strays. She liked hiring them and then putting them in cities with decent jobs. He supposed he was her first stray, but this kid…
His name was Illic, and he was short, slim in a way that suggested underfeeding, and he had one eye. He had droopy purple neck spines and pale yellow scales, and his one good eye was green. He seemed perpetually nervous, and Barnethei got to one knee, smiling.
“You’re an apprentice in Goisedall? We could definitely use a [Message]-sender in my inn. I didn’t realize you could get an apprenticeship that young! Are you sure you want to stay at The Explorer’s Haven?”
He glanced at Larracel, and Illic became panicked. He glanced at Larracel, who gave him a reassuring smile.
“I—yes, Innkeeper! I’ll work hard! I’ll be paid better than in Goisedall, and I don’t mind hard work!”
“I’ve settled his rate, Barnethei, and room and board are included.”
“Of course. But your family—?”
Ah, that was it. Barnethei saw Illic’s good eye stare down at his feet, and Barnethei sort of figured it out. If you were being paid at apprentice-rates in a city, that wasn’t what you were supposed to live on. Even for a Mage’s Guild—Larra shot him a significant look.
“He can cast [Message] nine times per day.”
Nine times? I need ninety! But Barnethei just sighed. He smiled at Illic and reassured the lad he’d have a room with the others, then met the others.
It was a small crew from Goisedall. A [Fisher], a [Farmer] willing to work the fields, and a [Hunter] in the Gnoll who avoided the others. Most were just Drakes searching for work, but the Gnoll woman looked higher-level than the rest. Her name was Yirr. She had feathers behind one ear, and when he asked her where she was from, she jumped.
“Me? Nowhere. I’m tribeless. A [Hunter]. I can range for food, yes?”
Barnethei assured her they’d work out a good system for her to use The Explorer’s Haven as a base to operate from, and she relaxed. He turned to Larracel after she left to go to her rooms, and the former [Wizard] spoke.
“I appraised her and put her under truth stone. She lied about being tribeless, but she’s not a murderer or a thief.”
“A lot of room in there for other problems.”
“She’s a Gnoll, and she’s a Level 26 [Farfield Huntress]. Good talent is at a premium, Barnethei. She’s the only Gnoll who’d hire on, and that’s because none of the other groups would associate with her.”
Great, so he had a kid-[Mage], a [Huntress] no one wanted, and…well, at least the Haven had food. Barnethei indicated the coffers of coins he’d pulled in.
“It might not be as lucrative as noble guests in the Haven, but we are selling. No full group has turned back despite the warnings, and if I can get Illic to recharge artifacts, we’ll have business.”
“We’ll see. I’ve taught him the basics, but he’s a Level 11 [Apprentice], Barnethei. Gentle hands.”
“Always, Larra.”
 
——
 
That night, Barnethei did his best to have the new staff feel welcome. They actually all ended up serving tables with the rush, and the boy, Illic, kept on his feet until after midnight when Navien noticed and sent him to bed with as much food as he could eat. Barnethei had to admit, Illic worked hard, and it warmed him to the lad.
Yirr clearly didn’t like serving people and instead just fetched water and avoided every other Gnoll like the plague. Barnethei thought the other Drakes were just grumbling about having to do service jobs, and he was glad Larracel had more buildings to put up. A miniature Mage’s Guild, a room on one side of The Explorer’s Haven, and more rooms for staff. No one wanted to stay at The Explorer’s Haven at the moment.
His main concern that night was getting information out of Deniusth. Everyone wanted it, but the famous Violinist was close-lipped about what he’d seen. Since he’d raced to the New Lands, he’d been here longer than almost anyone else, and his insights he shared only with Larracel and Barnethei.
“It’s not that bad here, aside from the damn mana drain. All the monsters are Gold-rank at worst. They’re sea-creatures adapted for land, mostly. We had to wipe two packs of those Landsharks. Those are the worst regular threats. But we just blast them with sound, and they keel over. Damn shame all but two of our bags of holding broke or I’d have had the entire lot for a [Butcher].”
He had a lot of trophies and plants and such he’d gathered in the hopes they were valuable, but the Violinist was obsessed with the thieving teams. He kept telling Barnethei to furnish him with any rumors about them, and he had descriptions of the lot.
Barnethei didn’t like Deniusth as much as the others. Colth was someone everyone loved; half the Haven’s staff had had a crush on him at one point or another, despite his title as Colth the Virgin. Mihaela was a menace, but she was at least a hard worker.
Eldertuin was convivial; Viecel was mad, so they were pretty much net neutral. But Deniusth…the rest of his team were more retiring, like Gores, their [Trumpeter], or the younger, Gold-rank members. The Named-rank just acted superior to everyone.
Larracel was making notes; she was a former adventurer herself, and she was painting an image of this land.
“There are threats, Deni. Those damn bat swarms hit us twice. I’ve seen the Landsharks and a number of other monsters. Cericel for one.”
The blood-sucking monsters? Barnethei drummed his fingers on the table and resolved to build the walls higher. They had to dig out foundations for them, so Larracel couldn’t just pop them down like the other buildings. She claimed geomancy of a kind that lasted wasn’t something she’d ever mastered.
Deni shrugged.
“True. Even Gold-rankers might struggle around here. I pity the civilians. However, the outskirts of the New Lands shouldn’t trouble Barnethei and his staff. If they run into trouble, Orchestra will gladly hunt down local threats.”
He favored Barnethei with what he probably imagined was a generous smile. Barnethei offered him another drink, and Larracel frowned.
“Nothing worse than Landsharks, Deni? If that’s the worst of it, I’m frankly surprised. With all the magic that went into raising this place—Drowned Folk talk about the depths of the ocean like Death Zones.”
“Pah, they exaggerate everything. I haven’t seen a Kraken on land. And there aren’t even undead! Though…I suppose we’ve had inklings something’s off.”
Deniusth quieted a moment and drummed his fingers on the table. Larra’s head rose.
“Monsters?”
“…I don’t know. Every now and then, Chokole, our drummer—she’s gotten a [Dangersense] warning. It might just be she’s Gold-rank.”
She was their Dullahan member, and Deniusth nodded to her as he drank some fortified wine.
“We never saw anything. But I confess, I had a few moments where I swore I saw something moving fast across the ground.”
“Then it was there, Deni. I told you, this is an unknown area. Why don’t you link with Eld and—?”
“Eld’s just going to talk my ear off about forgiveness for those thieving bastards, Larra. Leave off! If they’d stolen your haul, you’d be throwing [Meteor] spells after them with me. I’ll head out tomorrow, but I will be back for The Explorer’s Haven.”
Larracel blew out her cheeks.
“Murdering fellow adventurers never ends quietly, Deni. I am interceding on their behalf and the Adventurer’s Guild! Don’t look at me like that. You think the Guild likes them stealing all that treasure? We all know how this can go. You’ve killed Silver-rankers, but the Gold-ranks have friends, and they have artifacts.”
He half-rose, flushed.
“Albez was our haul—”
“Albez was a haul no one expected to get, Deniusth! That [Emperor] who helped you locate the actual laboratory has more of a claim than any one Named-rank team! Be reasonable! Yours is the richest team, and you’re acting worse than Viecel collecting a debt.”
“I don’t want to hear that from you. You want to talk money, Larra? What about right after Chalence when suddenly you had all those debts I needed to pay off? I’ve always given the most out to everyone, and look how fast that’s forgotten. Who loaned you all that money for your inn? And then the second one when that magic grease fire burned the first, eh? And who paid for Mihaela’s [Healer] bills without ever asking, or—”
Barnethei was standing to the side of the bar, not glancing directly at Larra or Deniusth. This was also familiar—the fighting. They were the oldest of comrades and friends, and they fought like Named-ranks. Viciously.
Larra had gone very still, her hands gripping the edge of the table. She broke in, voice low, rasping, like someone drawing a blade.
