It could be something nasty. Larracel was a week out, and Barnethei sighed. All things considered, he thought he could have gotten everyone to stay with the Haven one more month to see if anything actually was out here—
But the raid happened the next day.
 
——
 
Barnethei had been in the Haven during a lot of bad moments. Larra’s Haven had fought off monsters, [Bandits], even a stroppy [Lord] who’d insisted she bow to his will. Even the Bloodfeast Raiders, though help had come via House Veltras’ forces before they did more than five minutes of attacking.
He’d never…lost a defense of the inn. Never thought about it.
Not with Larra.
No warning, no offers. They’d begun shooting arrows the moment they came into view. Not untrained idiots either; Barnethei tried to sit up.
He had an arrow in his shoulder and would have reached for an emergency potion, but his hands were up. He had magic in his wand—but they had the door and arrows pointing at him and the staff.
Several were hit, and Illic was hiding in the Mage’s Room. Yirr was howling curses; they’d gotten her through the arm and legs.
This is bad. Masked figures were stomping through the inn, grabbing bottles from the bar, yanking food out of the kitchens—that was what they were after. Food.
But they took the fancy silverware, the gold, and all the artifacts they could.
“Told you this place had magic. Magic. Get their bags of holding.”
Adventurers? Barnethei tried to speak.
“This place is under the Haven’s protection—”
Someone kicked him, and he decided not to try charming them. Voices spoke as he reeled, and Navien shouted at them to stop.
“The fucking Haven? No wonder—”
“Shut up. How much’ve they got? Get everything we can carry—hey, they have bags of holding! Hand them over!”
Barnethei had a grip on his wand, and he saw the staff raising their hands, looking to him. Then someone shouted as one of the masked [Bandits] grabbed them.
Navien? She was fighting as they towed her out, and Barnethei spoke.
“Hands off the staff.”
He aimed his wand down—and every bow swung towards him. So did several blades.
“Drop the wand! Drop them and kick them over!”
The [Vice Innkeeper] felt his heart pounding, but he didn’t drop the wand.
“You can have everything we’ve got. But the Haven’s staff are off-limits. Let her go or we’ll all regret it.”
He met the eyes of what might have been one of the leaders, and the [Bandit] hesitated. The Haven’s staff still had wands, and the crossfire before they’d gotten to the windows had killed at least three of the bandits’ number.
Barnethei didn’t have any Skills for combat he could turn the tides with, but he did have [Voice of Persuasion] and other Skills. He used them now.
“Larracel the Haven is a Named-rank adventurer. This is her inn. You kill us, or ride off with anyone, and every adventurer in a thousand miles will be after you.”
The bandits hesitated, and after a moment, one of them jerked their head and snapped.
“—Let her go. Come on, we’ve got to move!”
They were gone like a storm, and only after did Barnethei yank out a potion, relieved they hadn’t figured out he had one. Then someone began sobbing, and Illic came out from the Mage’s Room. Barnethei cast around and saw Navien standing there.
Panting, her bright uniform in disarray. Looking at him, and he—
He spoke, voice rasping.
“We’re closing down this damn inn. Count how much food we’ve got left, heal everyone up, and—how the hell did they get past the walls? Did no one put up the wall spells?”
“One of them had a hammer and blew through it.”
He was on his feet, cursing the New Lands, cursing bandits and the ground and everything else. He threw his hat down as he rose, and Larracel’s refrain echoed in his head.
Not hard work. Just luck. Luck…
This entire place was unlucky. The [Bandits] had taken everything they could find, and all the inn had left was stuff they hadn’t found tearing everything apart. Barnethei sent a [Message] to Larra telling her he needed her here now. She responded she was on her way and to close the inn.
He didn’t even level that night. Nor did he expect his class to change.
Her inn. That’s why they’d left them alone. Navien…Barnethei’s blood ran cold to think what would have happened if he hadn’t said anything.
[Vice Innkeeper]. He wondered what Ishkr would have done, or Erin Solstice, that woman in a wheelchair. Crossbows under the table. How he’d laughed at that.
Bandit bastards. He wished he’d had a gallon of acid.
 
——
 
The next day, no one was working. They barely did more than board up the windows, and Barnethei had to chivvy and bully the staff to sweep the floor of glass and splinters, check on the fish nets—do something.
If Larra was delayed, they’d need the food; the fish nets in the rivers were one of the few resources they had, and Barnethei had had the idea to dig out a small pond and try to raise more fish. So far, predators kept going after them, but Yirr shot them down, and right now…
“Anything you’ve got, we need. Lampreys, anything remotely edible.”
She nodded and limped for the door, and Barnethei cursed. He’d shared his potion around, which had been the only one the [Bandits] hadn’t taken. So even her injuries were still present, and his shoulder still twinged.
This was bad. Illic seemed terrified as he hugged the slime to his chest; it rolled after Yirr, anxious, as the Gnoll cursed and stopped to feel at her knee.
“Illic, get this thing away from me. I have to hunt.”
It rolled over to her leg and seemed to hug her, stretching up to make two ‘arms’ encircle her fur just above her boots. She glowered, but waited for Illic to pry it off her before stomping towards the door. Barnethei rubbed his shoulder again.
“Come on, people, we have to work.”
He’d hauled the dead bodies away; the [Bandits] had left their own behind, and he’d found three Human corpses staring up at him. The Silver-ranks of Albez? It had occurred to him when they recognized the Haven, and if so, he was going to tell Deniusth to get over here now and…
The Drakes from Goisedall all seemed ready to quit, and the Haven’s staff were done. Half of them snapped back at Barnethei as he asked for hands to help repair the damage to the wall…or cleaning the blood or broken windows.
Navien was having the day off. But Barnethei needed the windows boarded up! That’s how the [Bandits] had gotten into the inn.
“Crenellations. That’s what The Wandering Inn had. Crenellations, and that watchtower needs barricades or something!”
They’d pinned two of the staff with arrows from afar. Plus, the wall spells had no teeth. A moat. What had Ishkr said Erin had once done? Put bear traps outside her inn?
Even if he wasn’t going to stay, a week meant those bandits might be back. Or another group.
“Illic, you stay inside and let me know if Larra sends a [Message], there’s a good lad. Check on Navien and get her anything. And keep the slime out of the way, would you?”
“I-it wants to give you a hug, Innkeeper.”
It was stretching two tiny arms up, and Barnethei almost snapped that he had no time for this, then he took a breath. He offered a finger, and it shook it, and then he handed it back to Illic.
“You’re very brave, Illic, and I know this is hard. Navien?”
When the Drake promised to do that, Barnethei strode off.
 
——
 
Amazingly, he felt better as he got to work, which he supposed was because he was actually doing something instead of standing around and thinking how bad this had been. Three versions of him strode to the windows, boarding them up and telling Tanny to put a few heavier pieces of furniture next to the door. In case they had to barricade it.
He’d just finished making a crude arrow-slit ‘window’ he was going to copy and put on all the frames when Barnethei rotated his shoulder and realized it wasn’t twinging.
“—the hell?”
Was that healing potion delayed or something? He thought maybe since he was exercising he didn’t feel the pain and it’d return, but it didn’t. In fact…when Yirr came storming back past the walls, she was running.
“Barnethei! Something’s savaged the corpses!”
He hadn’t buried them, and Barnethei scowled.
“Probably carrion.”
She was unnerved.
“Not any I’ve seen! It ripped out all the bones and their clothing! It—it’s grisly, no. Don’t let Illic see. This way.”
She led him at a jog, and when he saw the bodies, Barnethei felt very unwell. Two corpses were denuded of both clothing and…he shuddered.
“Looks like someone ripped their bones out. Dead gods—we have to bury them.”
Yirr looked sick, but nodded.
“Or toss them in the river. The fish would love them.”
He refused to countenance that. The plague or rot or undead—! Plus, imagine eating fish after that. They dug shallow graves, well clear of the inn, and Barnethei’s stomach was roiling when they were done.
He hadn’t touched the dead before. To distract himself, he glanced at Yirr’s foot.
“You were limping bad this morning.”
“I was. I—hrr. It’s stopped hurting.”
She was as astonished as he as she felt at her foot, then flexed the arm that had been shot. Barnethei’s eyes narrowed.
He might not be ready for this—but he was no idiot when it came to magic. Healing wounds, even partially-healed ones like these, wasn’t easy. Even the Healer of Tenbault, whom he’d met and served at the inn, couldn’t just up and cast magic.
It was like they’d both gotten a healing potion, but…he scratched at his head.
“Unless Navien has a Skill, there’s nothing I’ve got that would do that. Unless…wait a moment. No, it can’t be.”
The slime? It was ridiculous, but Barnethei distinctly remembered it hugging Yirr’s bad leg, and he’d touched it with his finger. Larra had a book of exotic monsters, and he’d heard of Magma Slimes, Death Slimes, but never…
 
——
 
“Illic? Can I see your slime a second?”
Barnethei strode back into the inn, relieved to see some of the staff were working at least. Some of the Drakes and a young woman with a box over her head were boarding up more windows.
Barnethei was so intent on the slime he paid little attention to anything else. He had a cut on his finger he’d made, and when the slime saw it, it rolled out of the little den that Illic had made for it in his Mage’s Room. It seemed to hesitate when he offered it a finger, but then it reached out and poked his finger.
The familiar, painless tingle and his flesh reknitting made Barnethei’s heart nearly stop. He stood there, mouth open, and Illic was astonished.
“Slimey healed you?”
Yirr’s eyes nearly popped out of her head. She cut her own paw, and the Healing Slime seemed rather annoyed as it rolled over her paw and left it whole. It jabbed her fingers a few times as if to say, ‘hey, cut that out! Stop hurting yourself, dummy!’
“Five Families! This—this is a Potion Slime? A Healing Potion—”
Barnethei almost shouted, then lowered his voice. He glanced around as Illic’s eyes shone with wonder, then he turned to Yirr.
“Not a word of this to the Goisedall Drakes. Larracel will pay a fortune to study the slime! Dead gods—with the Eir Gel shortage?”
This was a windfall! The kind of discovery that made all this disaster worth it! If they could breed it or just feed it and get samples—
Barnethei’s mind was racing, and he saw Navien was on her feet with a cluster of employees. They were shaken, but he almost smiled as he strode over to them.
“Navien! I just found out the most amazing thing!”
“Barnethei—”
Something about her tone made him slow. Navien had her wand in one hand. Just…holding it. He turned, blood running cold.
The bandits? But no—she was pointing to the windows. He saw the Drakes hammering nails into the wood, some of the staff, and then a sawing sound. Someone appeared with two pieces of wood and began hammering them with enthusiasm, if not true expertise, into the windows.
A…young woman with a box on her head peered through the windows, then went back to saw more pieces of wood. A member of staff, of course. Yes.
One that Barnethei had never met. She’d just gotten to work so naturally that even the other people hadn’t focused on her right away. Until you saw she—and that was all you could see through her clothing, gloves and apparel covering every inch of her—had a box on her head.
A square of wood, really. Not even eye-holes. Barnethei’s eyes slid to Navien, and she whispered.
“She appeared when you two were gone. Barnethei—”
He felt a prickle down his spine then. And all Larracel’s old adventurer stories about dungeoning and thinking you had heard a friend—only to see Children mimicking their voices or familiar figures waving to you in the murk only to be a monster in disguise—a dead comrade’s voice parroted—came back to him.
“Navien? Check the bar, would you? Illic, get back to the Mage’s room. Yirr, go with him.”
The Gnoll was sniffing the air, and she wore a very disturbed expression on her face. She whispered to him as she passed by.
“Blood and the corpses.”
Oh no. Oh boy. Barnethei checked his wand and saw he had four charges of his spell left. He wished those bastards had left more mana crystals—he readied his magic, wishing he’d actually kept [Fireball] in his roster. Damn, Larracel had been right about that too.
“Everyone inside! I need to give a—a speech about the state of things! Navien, let’s get a bottle out! Assuming there’s any left.”
He shouted, keeping his voice jovial. There was a pause, then the Drakes filed in. One of them, the [Fisher], jerked a thumb and mouthed frantically at Barnethei; they’d noticed it too.
All the staff came in, spreading out to the walls, and then, after a pause, the door opened, and the young woman with the box on her head came in.
She was definitely…female. Human, based on her appearance, and that was all Barnethei got. The box turned towards him, and he saw the staff sidle back from her a bit.
He was glancing at the six with Navien, who had the best shots. They were crouched down, pretending to reach for bottles, and Barnethei gave her a fraction of a nod, rubbing three fingers against his chin like they were coordinating an event at The Adventurer’s Haven.
Three, two, o—
Her eyes went wide, and she shook her head as one of the staff visibly moved behind the bar. Barnethei hesitated.
Navien slowly rested her hands on the table, knuckles down, and raised two fingers slightly, and he froze.
[Dangersense]. It must have just activated. He realized everyone was staring at him—Yirr, the staff—and spoke.
