“It might not be Illic. I think…it’s the slime. I’ll be with her whenever she’s inside. But we don’t have many options. Chasing her off seems like it leaves us dead, and right now, we don’t even have food resupplied. We might need to eat those bats and racoons she’s killing.”
That was dire enough. Then Navien glanced at the door that led to the mana well.
“How many days of power do we have?”
Barnethei didn’t answer for a moment.
“I’m keeping the Runes of Preservation up. Everything else turns off. Even with them dead—we can last a while.”
The only question was…was this what Toren was after? What happened when they ran out of mana? Well, first things first. Barnethei began to treat Toren like a full member of staff. It went…weird almost at once.
 
——
 
Toren hung around Illic. Illic was terrified of him. Toren inspected Illic.
It wasn’t because he cared about the one-eyed boy. But the skeleton, who did alternate between the gregarious female self and just a crossdressing male skeleton with a mask and padded breasts—didn’t trust Illic.
The Drake was taking care of Healing Slime. Toren was Healing Slime’s protector. Toren had let Healing Slime go, because he’d been unable to move and the inn had been the only option.
But if he had to, he was still on board with the ‘murder everyone except maybe Barnethei and Illic and drag them out of the New Lands until I find a way to feed Healing Slime’ plan.
He didn’t think it was his go-to option. But he was definitely putting it on the table. To his surprise, the person who took it off the table and slapped him in the jaw was Healing Slime.
The slime had regained some of its mass, though it was still a quarter of the size it had been, and it attacked Toren! Pummeling him with its gooey appendages with all the force of a wrathful rabbit kit! Then it seemed to think it had gone too far and hugged his hands as he cleaned the counter in the Mage’s Room.
He was so astounded he almost dropped his jaw. Healing Slime was vetoing the killing thing! It expressed, in the wobbling gyrations of its body, that if Toren killed or even hurt Illic, the skeleton would have Healing Slime to deal with, and you had better watch out, buddy, because it might heal you…less than ideally!
Healing Slime didn’t really have a good sense of threats. Toren would have said, ‘I will pluck out your eyes and feed them to you like grapes’, but he appreciated Healing Slime’s dedication.
It turned out…Illic had been caring for Healing Slime! Giving it scraps of food, water, and even his mana! The two had become that worst of things, friends, in the short days which had kept Toren from Healing Slime.
This was so shocking Toren went and put his head in the river for ten minutes. He pulled it out, scaring Yirr so bad she slipped in the water, and slapped his wet box hard.
Okay, murdering Illic time. Healing Slime couldn’t have friends! He was Healing Slime’s…
 
——
 
They got guests. Toren drummed his fingers on a table during a break, watching Illic nervously sending [Message] spells as a few travellers asked him to report things they’d seen or get news.
He wasn’t good at casting magic. Toren wasn’t exactly a mage himself, but he recognized a deficit of talent when he saw it. What the kid had a surfeit of was nerves, though.
“No, not Marwshe! Marsshe! M-a-r-s-s—are you stupid?”
“I-I’m sorry, sir! I’ll recast the spell!”
Here he went trembling like a leaf again. He had one eye, which Toren thought was an interesting stylistic move; he hadn’t met many people with one eye himself. Illic was so timid. Here you had this angry Drake yelling in his face, and he was just taking it! Like a lemon!
This might be the service industry, but Toren had learned from his many jobs that you had to have standards. Doren would never allow this kind of thing, but Barnethei was too slow on the draw, focused on Toren as he was.
So…the skeleton got up, tapped the Drake on the shoulder, and then slapped him.
“Hey! What the—”
Illic stopped cowering as Toren pointed at him, then made a ‘back off’ motion with his hands. The Drake felt at his cheek.
“You hit me! You—”
“Excuse me, sir. Please don’t shout at our [Mage] on duty.”
Then Barnethei was there, all smiles, and the Drake backed down. He received a roasted bat on the house, and then Barnethei made Toren apologize. The skeleton hung his head—before Barnethei turned the smile on the victorious Drake.
“And may I just add, sir, that if you shout at our [Mage] again, I may have to refuse you and your entire group service?”
The Drake’s smirk turned into an expression of anger, but then worry as the rest of his group swung around and gave Barnethei a deeply worried look. Then he was apologizing to Illic, who forgave him, and Toren, who did not.
 
——
 
They debriefed about it. Toren wasn’t…scolded for being stupid, that’s not how Barnethei said it.
“You stepping in for Illic was the right thing to do. I think the method wasn’t ideal, though. You see how I handled it? You…talk things out instead of using violence. That’s how the Haven operates.”
He was carefully watching Toren as the [Barmaid] with a box over his head sat there, a cup of water in front of him. Toren was astounded.
Whenever he messed up, Erin had shouted at him he was stupid or something. Barnethei? He didn’t even phrase it as ‘doing something wrong’, just suboptimally, and he repeated that Toren protecting Illic was the right thing to do.
Toren was so confused he tilted his head up, drank the water and thereby soiled his pants since it ran straight through the cloth, and spoke.
“Yes, boss. What do I do instead, then?”
He…had to know. Barnethei blinked, traded glances with Navien, then had her play the part of an angry customer.
Deflect the anger. Don’t use violence unless you had to. Always go back to hospitality—but never let them get away with rudeness. The employees of Larracel were all about maintaining the image of the Haven and making anyone who so much as crossed one of the staff pay for it one way or another.
And Toren…listened. He observed. He learned.
He was good at that. If someone told him what to do.
 
——
 
The altercation had a second result. Not only did it make Illic more trusting of Toren, it made Toren reframe how he saw Illic.
The timid, one-eyed Drake boy with his simple faux-mage robes and patched pieces of cloth at the elbows was just pathetic. Utterly. He had leather wrap sandals that clung to his claws since he couldn’t afford fitted shoes, and he’d tied the robes around his tail with some purple cloth since he couldn’t afford more custom clothing.
He was an [Apprentice], but so timid and fearful, even of Barnethei and his staff, that it annoyed Toren.
Why, he was just like a certain skeleton back in the day. Helpless, underleveled, weak—as pathetic as Healing Slime. Worse, because Healing Slime had the backbone and moral integrity of Giants.
He wasn’t eating well of late, because he had a thing about racoons and bats. He tried, but even the Haven’s staff had trouble eating the bats in anything but a very processed form, and the grey meat required oil. They had some from the racoons, but rendering it out of racoon carcasses was messy, inefficient, and only Yirr could do it decently.
Barnethei did his best to get enough supplies, but he was trying to run an inn, bartering with some groups by spending their coin for food—and there wasn’t enough. So, one day, Toren told Healing Slime to mind the inn and went out searching for love.
 
——
 
He found love. Lots of it. Toren peered at the Corusdeer stag in the midst of rutting with a doe and nodded to himself.
The Corusdeer were about; you just had to have eyes that could spot the living and the willingness to run nonstop for six hours searching for them.
Love was excellent. In his experience, it meant the two deer were too slow to avoid a screaming skeleton running at them with a knife. Then, of course, he had to drag two corpses back while kicking away insects and scavengers, but after he killed a few of them and added them to the pile he was dragging, the others seemed to get the message.
Barnethei’s mouth was open when he saw Toren dragging the two Corusdeer back with a host of smaller critters. He seemed to have thought Toren had vanished, but when Toren put down his burdens and flopped onto his back, Barnethei bent over him.
“Er…Toren. Do you know how to make a sled?”
Toren peered at the dead corpses he’d dragged across the ground so much they were a bit uh…worn, and he’d had to run back and forth carrying the rest while leapfrogging them back. Slowly, he put his hands over his face. Out of embarrassment—he didn’t even remember his sled-trauma at first. It was only midway through having Barnethei show him how to make one that Toren recalled his trauma…but then he got back to work, scraping at some coral bark they were joining together to create a flexible mat.
 
[Barmaid Level 16!]
[Skill – Basic Crafting obtained!]
[Skill – Repetitive Task: 110% Efficiency obtained!]
 
——
 
Toren wanted to cook the Corusdeer up himself, but when Navien saw the rather overdone piece of meat, she took the knife and taught Toren how to cut meat properly. Then about why people didn’t like well-done meat and how to tell it was hot enough to avoid parasites or sickness.
The skeleton slapped the cut of venison on the table in front of Illic, and the boy flinched, but Toren just folded his arms.
“I think Toren got this for you, Illic.”
“T-thank you, Toren!”
The boy practically tore into the meat, and Toren watched as Navien chatted about harvesting the Corusdeer’s fat for oil. Another job he’d never known you could do with food. Erin just cooked noodles.
Something about watching Illic eating made Toren feel like killing the Corusdeer was worth the effort, so he resolved to do it again. Then Barnethei suggested Toren check the rivers for those fish-swarms that would mean plentiful catching—if they came by.
Being a skeleton really helped identify where living things were. Toren quickly discovered that the swarms of fish that everyone probably went for were temporary; it was their breeding season, and they were swimming downriver fast. The rivers looked empty after that, save for only a few fish, but that was because a lot hid in the muck and only came out at night to eat the glowing bugs in this area that rested on the water.
He brought a lot back, alive, for the fishery that Barnethei wanted and watched, chin resting on his hands, as Illic bounced up and down, observing Navien frying a fish in a pan. Yep…just like Healing Slime; the two jiggled exactly alike.
When the boy went over to thank Toren, the skeleton hesitated, then slapped him on the back. Which was another Erin move—and got him another debriefing. He was astounded to learn there were more affirming actions than ‘slap on the back’ or ‘punch in the shoulder’.
Pat on the head?
Dead gods. He tried it while Illic was eating, and Barnethei and the staff watched as Illic flinched, then blinked at Toren. The skeleton lifted his hand, and Illic smiled uncertainly.
“Thank you, Toren!”
Pat, pat. The Drake boy’s neck spines lowered each time Toren touched his head, and Toren was amazed once more. Would the similarities to Healing Slime never cease? There was something very…fun about having Illic’s face light up.
Rather like having a favorite zombie, but, somehow, more cute. Healing Slime certainly agreed as it bounced up and down in Illic’s cup of water, and he giggled at it. Upon hearing the giggle, Toren decided that once again, Healing Slime was correct.
Illic was a net asset, and if anyone tried to hurt him, Toren would murder them and wear their face. Actually, that would scare Illic, and he’d been taught conflict management, so he’d do that first.
 
——
 
The next few days saw Toren working hard on a new project—making backup robes for Illic to wear. All they had was bedding, and the only other thing?
Hides. Tanning a hide was an involved process, but after some consultation, Barnethei got the instructions to do it via [Message] spell, and Toren mucked around with it. And he levelled, again. Because…this was tending to an inn.
It all was. There was actually very little serving taking place, but Toren had never liked being a [Barmaid] who just passed out drinks and pasta.
Now, a [Barmaid] who needed to rebuild the walls higher and beat down Corusdeer and trap fish? That was an interesting life. But his new class made Toren sit up and realize—he had a good thing going here.
 
[Conditions Met: Barmaid → Boxhead Barmaid!]
[Boxhead Barmaid Level 17!]
[Skill – Don’t Mind the Box Created!]
[Skill – Advanced Crafting Obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Cooking Obtained!]
 
It was a bit…weird that [Boxhead Barmaid] wasn’t a unique class but [Don’t Mind the Box] was. Then again, how many people walked around with that kind of thing on their head?
Certainly, the guests seemed to be weirded out by it less. Instead of staring at him, they’d just glance twice and treat him like an odd employee.
Accordingly, female Toren, who felt like she needed to justify herself here, began to really change their affect.
She found some ink—and the next day, Barnethei nearly spat out some freshly-grown potato slices as he saw her face.
She’d drawn a smiley face on it. Just two blobs of ink and a smile. He almost laughed.
“Er—Toren, I take it you’re in a good mood?”
She nodded, and he hesitated.
“Well, uh, can you clean the outhouses? It’s time to reseed the farms. I know that’s not your favorite—”
To his surprise, she reached up, wiped the ink off, and drew an upside-down smile instead. This turned out to be a permanent addition to Toren’s mannerisms.
She could speak; she just chose not to. Rather, she liked drawing her ‘face’ and apparently got a Skill that let her do it without staining the box black.
Which…okay.
 
——
 
Barnethei had a staff meeting about it in private, which consisted of Navien, himself, Yirr, and two other senior members of the Haven. They’d been having them since Toren had appeared, but less frequently and less urgently. Even so…he was pouring out bits of some brandy from a bottle for everyone, a treat since they had bartered almost all of it away.
“That’s a Skill. It has to be. The rest of it I put down to being magic or something, but the way that ink changes…so is she a person after all and we’ve been treating her like a monster?”
Yirr folded her arms, snorting.
“She still smells like nothing but clothing and bone. I don’t care how nice she acts—monsters can have levels. Like Goblins or…other things.”
Navien was playing with her cup.
