“I-it was so fast we never saw it at first. We thought someone just got lost, but more started vanishing, so we locked the camp down. Then it came in. It looked like a Ghoul. But it wasn’t.”
The white-faced woman was a [Merchant], one of six survivors of a group who’d passed through the Haven not a week back. Barnethei glanced at the watchtower, which had three of the staff in it.
“How big?”
“Smaller than the horses, just. All fours—it was so damn fast. It just grabbed Beiknam, our [Guard Captain], and ripped his throat out. Then it started grabbing everyone—”
“Is it following you?”
“I don’t know. We’ve been riding since dawn.”
Something had destroyed a group of forty settlers in two days. They had escaped their camp, not by fighting it off; they were just the ones who had gotten onto horses and ridden off while it took down people fleeing.
Barnethei’s hairs were all standing up, and he sent an urgent [Message] to Larra, who told him to lock down the inn and get ready to activate wall spells. Everyone hunkered down as the survivors babbled.
“We can wait it out if it comes at us. Larra’s got a strategy: you lock down, remove scents, cover windows, and most monsters get bored. No one panic. Don’t go outside for anything, got it?”
One of the staff raised her hands.
“What about the outhouses?”
He bit his tongue.
“Just—use one of the spare rooms and put a bucket in there. Don’t give me that look, Menli! We’ll see about integrating the outhouses to the inn, but Larracel will have to enchant them. Or we finish those walls…is everyone inside?”
“The Drake [Farmer] is, and I ran down to the river to get the [Fishers]. Everyone’s here. Wait—where’s Yirr?”
Barnethei cursed. The one person who might head out—! He tore up to her rooms, and she wasn’t there. He swore, cast around, then remembered she’d been drenched in water.
“Yirr? Are you in there? Yirr, there’s a monster—”
He threw the door open because he’d assumed the bathing room would be locked, and Yirr whirled. Barnethei got a glimpse of a lot of fur as she howled at him, then closed the door.
“Oh, I’m so sorry—”
He stopped. Then stared at a wall as he replayed what he’d seen. Not because he was that lewd or crass; you didn’t see much more than, uh, fur, even if Gnolls were naked anyways. Barnethei’s eyes opened.
“White f—”
Yirr slammed the door open and grabbed him. She growled, eyes wide.
“Don’t tell anyone! Swear!”
She had a patch of white fur on one arm, and she appeared frantic. She grabbed some of what he realized was hair dye and began scrubbing at it. Barnethei blinked at her.
“You’re a Doombearer?”
He knew that from the Meeting of Tribes, and she snarled at him.
“I’m not! I’m—”
Then he realized who she was. It took him a bit of reminding himself of the events there, but Barnethei distinctly recalled one tribe had been given the white fur.
Plain’s Eye. No wonder she’d called herself ‘tribeless’. He promised Yirr he would tell no one, and she looked relieved, then concerned when he relayed the information about the monster out there.
It was a long night of standing vigil, but there was no monster attack nor sightings of it. The next day, the group rode out, refusing to stay. And Barnethei informed Larra there were monsters even on the outskirts, enough to slaughter a Level 22 [Guard Captain] with ease. But that, he realized in time, wasn’t the real threat facing The Explorer’s Haven.
Three months into the New Lands venture, Barnethei ran into his first bandits who came after The Explorer’s Haven, that fixture of magic and…food. Not monsters, but people.
When he stood in the ruins of the inn, glass windows exploded, tables with arrows sticking out of them, seeing Navien and the rattled staff lowering wands, then—Barnethei began to put a time limit on how long he thought The Explorer’s Haven was worth trying. But that was a raid he’d fought off.
Losing one—
That was when it went bad.
 
——
 
Toren, Job-Hunter.
Toren the Vengeful One.
Toren, Employee #1 of Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop.
In Service to the Immortal Tyrant: Toren.
A Head and Two Hands Carried by a Slime.
 
The job market was a rough one. Some days, you caught a lucky break after putting yourself out there and got what seemed like a cushy gig. No overtime, a high-level boss, all the death magic you wanted—but then you had to really look at yourself in the mirror and ask if bullying Dragons was what you wanted to do with your life.
Integrity over immortal tyrants. He’d quit his job, and it had cost him all his bones, his class, his gear…even Maviola. But he had his values, whatever those were worth.
A skeleton head and two hands that extended just up to the elbow bounced along in a glowing, purple slime racing across the ground. The New Lands of Izril, or thereabouts. Just a head and two hands.
That was all he was these days. He wasn’t a provider. He wasn’t even able to move; his head could roll about with great effort, but he was helpless. And the being he was supposed to care for, Healing Slime, was bearing him onwards.
What a failure. What a crock. He just wished…he wished he didn’t feel relieved. He wished Healing Slime didn’t feel so proud of him.
We’re in so much trouble. Healing Slime wasn’t a fighter or a lover. It was a slime! It had no offensive capabilities aside from its Speed Slime form. It refused to put Toren down, to let him die. Friends until the end.
He should have worked for Nerrhavia, slipped away when she wasn’t watching. He shouldn’t have grandstanded his goodbye, flipping off his boss like he’d wanted to do to all of them except Doren. He should have…
The skeleton was helpless, a passenger riding along. This was not a story about Toren, for the moment, Toren the Unemployed, Toren who had lost everything, Toren the Hero of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
This was a story about a slime.
 
——
 
It had no name. Healey. Slimey. The Defender of the Cave. It had been many things it didn’t really understand.
Accidentally made. Not intended to live. Valuable and at the mercy of so many things. Abused, neglected, a creature in a world not set up for it.
Terrified, starving. Until a skeleton had picked it up and shown it affection. Fed it, and they’d clung together, shivering in the dark castle of death. Then left.
Sad skeleton, brave skeleton, going in circles. The slime understood circles. It was a blob of glowing liquid, shimmering with the potion that made it up; a circle, even if it wobbled and deformed. That was what the skeleton did.
It went in a circle back home, growing sadder. Hurting itself. Then it found a good place in a musty shop of dust, and a man who fed the slime nice things and wept tears like the skeleton, only visible.
Then they’d had to leave for reasons the slime didn’t get. Met a terrifying pair of eyes as old as mountains who sat on a pile of bodies, laughing and swinging her legs idly as she peered down on everything, and the skeleton thought he liked her, and the slime was afraid the skeleton was becoming like the bad things in the castle. But—he—Toren—wasn’t.
He was like the Defenders of the Cave. A Shield Spider, biting and clawing at a Creler not because it had to, but because it should. A thing that didn’t have to be what it was, but tried.
So, the Healing Slime rolled across the ground as it turned from green to yellow, and the skies burnished themselves into a golden orange. The vast slime of light in the skies sank, on and on.
It knew this was a Bad Place, eating it and Toren, but the Bad Person was behind them. So the slime rolled on. It had to protect the skeleton.
Toren.
Names were hard for the slime. But it remembered his. The skeleton carried the death magic in it, at odds with the life magic in the slime—not that it thought in those words. Just…attraction and repulsion, good and bad.
This land was bad. It made the slime hungry, but it kept going. For its friend.
Till the end. The Healing Slime had no concept of the future or dreams. It had gone with Toren because he was a Kind Person. Almost left him because he was becoming another Bad Person, but it had waited. Now it knew he was a Kind Person.
So—the Healing Slime had no idea of months or what was coming ahead. But it formulated a plan, and it was to keep going with the skeleton.
Until the end. It burned magic inside of it, converting it to speed. Faster, faster so the Bad Person didn’t catch them.
 
——
 
The skeleton thought for them. It could hear the Healing Slime’s thoughts, but since the slime didn’t think in the same ways, it often understood the world based on Toren’s thoughts. Learning from him.
The skeleton was worried. It thought, the Healing Slime couldn’t regenerate magic here—wherever ‘here’ is. The New Lands? Damn, this place sucks. 
Which was true. For two magical beings, this was as close to hell as you’d get. Healing Slime was digesting yellow grass as it rested. Or tried to; the grass had tiny bits of magic in it, but magic was all…leaving them.
Sinking down into the ground. They felt it. For the skeleton, it was actually better. As a skull and two hands, he was actually minimal in terms of death-magic usage. And his two Stellar Ivory hands were producing death magic, so he was a net positive of death magic until he got a body.
But Healing Slime didn’t eat death magic. It was leaking mana, even as it tried to stop it. It was all mana; once Healing Slime’s mana core depleted, it would die. Already, it had lost a bit of mass; it had gained some in Doren’s shop until it was the size of Toren’s chest. It had shrunk about an inch after a day.
The skeleton thought: we need to get me a body. I have to protect Healing Slime, but how?
Healing Slime rolled over to the skeleton and picked up its pieces. Silly skeleton. It was so worried about the Slime, thinking of its death and imagining the terrible pain it would feel if that happened. The skeleton didn’t think that anyone would feel the same for him. So the slime rolled on.
The mana drain lessened as they moved away from one spot, then intensified again; the slime slowed, then rolled away experimentally. It was lesser…here…it rolled around curiously, then made a circle.
Oh. It knew circles. There was a big circle of this mana drain. And another circle here. It overlapped in places…there were lots of circles, some huge. It began avoiding them, rolling around in a weird pattern only it could sense, avoiding the worst of the mana drain.
It took the skeleton two days to notice what the Healing Slime was doing. Then it wondered what was causing the drain. The slime hadn’t been curious until the skeleton thought that. It was too busy searching for something to eat.
It found nothing.
 
——
 
A third of it was gone. The Healing Slime paused by a pool of water to drink. Water, at least, was something it could use. The skeleton was very worried. It wanted Healing Slime to go back—but the slime was afraid of the Bad Person.
Bones. They just needed bones. The Healing Slime rolled into the waters, which cushioned it, helping it preserve its magic a bit. Then it jerked—
The crocodile snapped its jaws shut as the Healing Slime tried to escape, but the water made it just roll in place. The hungry crocodile was biting for the inviting jelly snack when the skeleton’s skull, lying on its side, blazed at it.
Purple eyes flared, and the crocodile froze.
[Terror].
Get lost. The crocodile instantly dove, and the Healing Slime frantically paddled itself to shore. It was nicked; it bled some of its body out, then fused the membrane shut. The skeleton’s jaw was chattering with fury and worry. The Healing Slime picked up the pieces.
These things happened. The first place it had been had been filled with things hungry for it. Everything wanted to eat the slime.
Aren’t you angry? Don’t you want to murder them all?
The skeleton thought at it, and the slime didn’t know. It got afraid. It didn’t want to die. But it didn’t want to kill the things that tried to eat it.
The response was so astounding to the skeleton it stopped thinking for a bit. A part of the skeleton wanted to kill everything, even the slime. But the slime…didn’t really want that. It just wanted its skeleton to smile.
When the skeleton heard that, it started crying. The slime switched to speed and zipped into the distance. They wanted to eat it, this slime of magic. It was hard—but the skeleton had fought the Bad People that looked like it in the castle.
 
——
 
It was the bugs. It was the bats. It was everything that moved—trying to land on the Healing Slime and suck a bit of it out, to feast on the magical little creature.
Toren was going to kill them all. He lay, helpless, as the Healing Slime rolled through beetles covering it, absorbing them, spitting out carcases, fleeing bats swooping down to take bits out of it—even butterflies!
[Terror]! [Terror]! I’ll kill you! I’ll kill all of you! The skeleton’s eyes flared purple, but he couldn’t use his magic forever. Worse…insects had less concept of fear than animals. It worked well on Corusdeer or bats, but not bugs.
The Healing Slime was half its mass and having trouble lugging Toren around when it finally found a dead body. It rolled to a stop as it found a weird canyon stretching across the land—then hid itself when it sensed something moving.
Nearly two dozen men and women were dismounted, conferring together as Healing Slime froze. It rolled into some bushes, and Toren heard some low voices.
“—here? We’ve been scouring this spot for days, and we’re no closer to finding whatever damn ruins the Silver Swords went into. It’s all rock and rubble, and the damn undead swipe at us!”
“You saw them. There has to be loot here.”
“Loot worth starving to death? That bastard Violinist is here—you heard about how he got some of us. We’re wasting time when we should be—”
Adventurers. They were having a heated argument, and Healing Slime shrank against a bush as one of them, holding a dimly glowing staff, stared ahead at the ruins in the plateau. Then sidelong at them.
Toren and Healing Slime made not a sound. After a moment, the [Mage] frowned and joined the discussion.
“It’s not worth pursuing anymore. If the Silver Swords cleared the dungeon they took everything of value. If not, they ran into something too nasty to take on. If the Terlands return…”
They argued for nearly twenty minutes before riding away. In that time, Healing Slime didn’t move an inch.
Toren was worried about the small creature. It just lay there, not moving, colors swirling faintly as it tried to conserve energy. He thought that was what it was doing.
