That was changing. The New Lands had invigorated the Minotaurs, but more than that—this changing era had gotten even Prince Khedal antsy and raring to show foes like the King of Destruction that the House of Minos was more than a single threat. However—until now, Inreza had been silent and allowed Minotaurs to do as they pleased.
Her little incident with the two [Commentators] had provoked a response, though. Not of rage; lots of Minotaurs had written into the Channel 1 News to argue, but Inreza had not. She’d instead summoned the top [Engineers] and [Mages] of Minos to her throne and consulted with them.
Three days. Three days and every [Engineer] had been sighted racing around, calling for wood, making measurements, hurling things into the harbor—the same with [Mages]. They’d come back to Inreza with prototypes. Curious Minotaurs had seen the famous [Thrower], who could hurl the axes of Minos at any ship in her range from miles away, lifting odd projectiles and tossing them into the bay. Most splintered from the sheer force of her throw, but after three days, she seemed pleased.
So—she boarded one of the massive warships crewed by Minotaurs, called for a [Mage], and had them transmit an image of her after sailing up from the House of Minos towards Izril at top speed for seven hours straight.
The magical warship, the Horn of Maweil, was fast, and Minotaur rowing teams added to the speed. When Sir Relz somewhat nervously saw Inreza standing at the prow of the ship, Izril’s shores were in sight.
Barely in sight. The new section of the New Lands was a bare strip that Inreza had to squint at, and many Minotaurs not actively on duty were using spy glasses to gaze at it. But they were close enough, and she didn’t have time to sail all the way from the House of Minos any closer. Sir Relz’s voice broke her out of her silent observations.
“Ah, greetings, King of Minos! We don’t often do exclusive interviews, even for royalty, but you claimed this was about the New Lands of Izril? Some proclamation regarding the little flag discussion we had aired? I hope my commentary wasn’t offensive to Your Majesty.”
Discussion, not argument. No, not to royalty in person. Relz had heard Drassi had nearly been assassinated after insulting Queen Yisame, and he was sure a Minotaur King wouldn’t do that—but he was nervous.
“Sir Relz. I have taken your words to heart. Thusly, I accede to the will of nations that a flag marks the land around it as claimed. What was the proposal? Ten thousand feet? It surely is wisdom for such a view means that no village or individual party, be they [Merchants] or adventurers, will have a claim to these New Lands. Only nations and those of the like.”
Inreza calmly replied as the sea wind blew her hair, pointing out one of the best arguments against Sir Relz’s points. He coughed.
“I, uh—I’m sure anyone can make a flag, Minotaur King Inreza. And it seems to be a rather skewed representation of my points. If I may—”
She held up a hand.
“I accede to your points, [Commentator]. And to that of nations. I do not know them, and the House of Minos does not govern their wills. Therefore, I have arranged a small demonstration of the House of Minos’ new colonization method of the New Lands of Gnolls.”
“I don’t think anyone calls it the New Lands of—er—what is that? Colonization method? What—are those flags?”
She had a long, long pole in her hand, more like a ballista bolt than a flag. It was sturdy, hand-carved from a single length of wood. It had to be aerodynamic, so the [Engineers] had even added fins on the sides, which would snap open after the initial throw. But the hard part was the payload: the wrapped bundle of cloth on the end. It was secured to avoid ripping open on throw, and Inreza drew back her arm.
Then she threw the first flag so fast and hard that the blast of air followed the flag, which arced into the distance, up, up—and headed straight out. Towards the New Lands.
“Wh—Ancestors, that’s the most incredible arm I’ve ever seen in my life!”
Noass breathed, and Sir Relz’s monocle popped off his face. Inreza, perhaps the highest-level [Thrower] in the world, picked up another javelin. Then threw again.
It took only a few more throws before the two Drakes realized what she was doing. She was throwing flags at the New Lands.
“Wait a second—you can’t hit them from there! And that’s not fair!”
Noass burst out, and the Minotaur King hefted another flag up. She spoke to a smiling [Captain].
“I believe the ruins of that tower are most valuable. Or should I aim for the hills?”
“Hills contain minerals, Your Majesty. Both?”
“Mm.”
She smiled, a scarred grin, and threw. The Drakes began protesting vehemently, but they were drowned out by the laughter of the Minotaurs.
It was, by the way, a bluff. Inreza had no vision of the New Lands, nor could she aim that precisely at everything. But the [Engineers] had calculated some of her flags would probably survive impact and put down spells to give the Minotaurs vision of where they landed. It’d go to the House of Minos’ colonists, so this wasn’t just a pointed counterargument.
But it did do the job. Just to prove this wasn’t a joke, Inreza took aim and spoke.
“Gnolls plant no flags, Sir Relz. Will you claim the Great Plains the same way? Or is all of Izril up for grabs? If so—I would rather like this spot.”
She used [Pinpoint Aim] this time and carefully, using a [Scrying] spell, tossed the last flag-javelin and lowered her arm, sweating. It hit the ground, and Sir Relz stared at the place she’d tossed it at, far in the distance.
Zeres, the City of Waves, found a flag with the House of Minos sticking out of a hill right next to their walls. It was promptly taken down within minutes of landing, but not before Channel 1 put up a splendid shot of it flying Minotaur colors there.
Point made, Inreza sailed back to the House of Minos, watching the scrying orb with amusement as outraged Drakes and monarchs began protesting the flag-system and denouncing it; they would honor only actual colonies!
She returned to the House of Minos to the beating of drums as Minotaurs pounded approval or stood on the docks, stomping or calling out to her. The wise King of Minos returned to her throne and sat, sighing, overwearied from so long on her feet.
Even Minotaur Kings had to have fun.
 
 
Year 24, Month 2, Day 24. Trouble.
 
Barnethei was waiting for Larracel to get back and checking the mana well, which was at 10% power, when he had trouble from a group leaving the New Lands. There was a clamor as he strode to the inn.
“Ladies, gentlemen, what seems to be the issue?”
Navien was trying to block a group of rather ragged-looking Drakes from leaving. Her response was curt, and Barnethei got that feeling of trouble instantly. He had a sword he kept under the counter and training from Named-ranks, and it was only thirty Drakes. The staff all had wands, but—
“They tried to walk out without paying, Barnethei.”
“Excuse me—our city will cover the costs! We’re just short on funds at this moment.”
The Drakes didn’t have a leader, and they turned out their pockets as Barnethei groaned. It wasn’t an uncommon experience; plenty of people came to The Adventurer’s Haven for the free bread and didn’t want to pay.
“Miss, we don’t accept deferred payments. Surely we can come to an arrangement? I’d hate to inform the Watch or lodge a complaint via the Mage’s Guild.”
“There’s no Watch here. I’m sorry, but we were starving—our bags of holding burst, and these damn lands won’t grow anything! We’ve got nothing to sell, so—”
She wanted to push past him, and he barred the way. She backed up and put a hand on her sword hilt, but he indicated that.
“Excellent idea, Miss! We would accept some goods, though it’s certainly not ideal. Once your city pays your bill, we’ll be happy to return the items via Runner.”
She hesitated—then saw the staff were politely lined up behind Barnethei, next to tables, or at the bar that was coincidentally great cover if it came to a shootout. One of the Drakes cursed.
“You can’t take our weapons!”
“Jewelry, then? Anything valuable you’ve found? Surely you don’t think any self-respecting establishment would just let you walk out, Miss…?”
She didn’t want to give him a name. The Drake glowered.
“We don’t have anything of value. You want sea shells? We’ve got that, shitty monster hides, and bugs. There’s nothing out there. Just weird animals, no magic, and nothing to eat.”
Barnethei felt a prickle on the back of his neck as she threw down some mangled hides, proving her group hadn’t had a good [Hunter]. He began negotiating, somewhat exasperated.
This wasn’t ideal—he didn’t want to steal too much, and a fight was the last thing he needed. So he had them turn over a pair of daggers, some of their travelling gear—empty backpacks, ropes and climbing gear, even a lot of shovels and pickaxes he assumed they’d been planning to excavate with.
However, hunger had forced this group back. The Drake in charge cursed as she handed it all over, but was surprised when he offered her a basket of bread.
“For the road. The Haven does appreciate hunger, Miss. Just what was the problem?”
She gave him a suspicious gaze, then grabbed the basket, embarrassed.
“There’s nothing to eat. Nothing grows out there. Believe me, we tried Yellats, we tried turnips, wheat, onions, everything. This entire damn place is a trap. Thanks for the bread. I’m sorry we didn’t have coins—we bought all the food we could from more idiots heading inland. I’d leave if I were you. No one’s settling the New Lands.”
He thought this was an exaggeration from a group dealt a bad hand, but that warning about the farms…his skin was still tingling as he saw that first group off.
More followed.
 
——
 
It became a routine in The Explorer’s Haven to ask for money first and then offer the free bread. If they couldn’t pay, they had to barter or were turned away with the basket of bread. Most groups were reasonable and bartered.
Some begged.
It wasn’t a lot of them, not at first, but that recurring song and dance began to play in Barnethei’s head. A group would come back, hungry, desperate, and ranting about the lack of food, difficulties hunting—dispirited and either swearing to come back ready or just done with it all.
They were the first waves who’d gone in unprepared, and there were still more people coming in than going out. But Barnethei heard that refrain about the ground and began warning any group ready to plant about the issue.
It wasn’t insurmountable. In fact, when the Haven next arrived, he gave Larra a direct request.
“Chickens.”
“Excuse me?”
She was aghast at the amount of bartered goods he wanted her to sell and was upbraiding him about it, but Barnethei’s request threw her.
“Chickens, Larra. There are bugs aplenty. I need chickens, cows—can I have some from the barn? If not, then get me chickens, cows, goats—herd animals. That’s how you live in the New Lands.”
It was so obvious. Grass, the yellow grass of Kishkeria, was plentiful and fed animals well. All the horses who came back with groups looked bright and perky. People couldn’t eat grass, but milk or the animals themselves?
“That’ll take a while to get! As for all this crap—fine, fine. Mihaela tells me this isn’t isolated to this region. The half-Elves are warning all their allies, and it’ll be common news within a week or two. The ground’s salted. Damn, it’s so obvious! Here’s what I’ll do: I’ll dump half the soil and farm and get more. And come back with as many animals as the Haven can carry. You keep the inn going.”
“Is it worth continuing, Larra?”
He caught her arm, and she gave him a long look.
“…It might not be.”
That scared him, for all the effort and coin they’d put into this, but Larracel’s eyes flicked to the horizon.
“As long as they can barter, we’re making coin. Are you levelling? That’s fast, even for starting a new inn.”
“Level 43 a while back, one Skill. We’re working dawn-to-dusk. Hard work pays off, Larra.”
She snorted, ignoring that.
“Then it’s worth something. Keep the inn open, and if the other adventurers need help—”
Great, so he was her lifeline for her friends. Barnethei sighed and adjusted his coat, which was growing a bit less lustrous without access to all the magical amenities. Even the Haven appeared a bit less pristine. Larracel indicated Roreen.
“Half the staff gets sick when we bump along the road here. Like seasickness. Once someone builds a damn road, this will be easier. Anything else?”
He shrugged. The Explorer’s Haven was still making money, and Larracel had begun to attract clients with her new routes, but he could not honestly say this new inn was doing as well as he wanted.
Not even half as well. Bugs and bats assailed the inn by night, and the lack of amenities were making the staff stir-crazy.
“Can I let some of the staff go with your inn for a circuit, Larra? There’s not much to do here.”
She ground her teeth, but arranged a swap of unenthusiastic staff from Barnethei’s inn. Then she just stood there.
“If there’s treasure in the New Lands, artifacts, monsters, whatever—we’ll see it. If it’s all a waste of time, we’ll know in a month or two. Hold till then.”
It made sense, and Barnethei nodded. He had a sour taste in his mouth as he went back to the Haven and told everyone the plan. Then he broke out a drink, again, and offered Illic some fruit juice. The boy seemed nervous about his employment, as if they’d toss him back to Goisedall, and went scurrying around, sweeping the damn yellow beetles out of the inn. Navien sighed as Yirr tromped in with more beetles and a carcass of something disgusting.
“I killed this thing. Want it?”
It was…a giant, scaled lizard! Barnethei recoiled instantly, and their acting [Cook] blanched, but Yirr assured him it was edible.
It was this long-faced lizard that apparently lived in the river. After some consultation with his bestiary, a gift from Larra, Barnethei tentatively identified it as a ‘crocodile’.
The Gnoll was wet and hurried inside to change, and Barnethei was asking their [Cook] to see if they could do anything with it. Food was food—
The clamor at the walls encircling The Explorer’s Haven made him look up sharply. Larracel had insisted on a watch tower, and someone was always there. There was a shout.
“Barnethei! They’re all wounded!”
He raced out of the inn and saw the first casualties with his own eyes. There were six of them on four horses, riding hell-for-leather. The poor animals nearly threw their riders off, and they were all covered with blood.
 
——
 
