Year 24, Month 2, Day 3. The Explorer’s Haven abounds with guests and hope. Though nothing is growing.
 
Roughly thirteen days after founding The Explorer’s Haven, Barnethei was in the rhythm of his new inn. It wasn’t perfect; the new Haven was so small he’d run out of things to do, and he had decided to till some more soil or go riding to find something new to try and cook up in the kitchens.
The entire staff were like that; they were a mix of busy whenever a group rolled towards their inn and just—bored.
They were an elite serving staff. If you compared them to soldiers, they were like Manus’ special forces—any one of them could hold down a regular inn with their Skills.
[Sweep the Tables] from Paveca could clear half the tables filled with dishes instantly and deposit all the dishes in the kitchen, ready for washing. Navien, the [Head Cleaner], was even more impressive, and she had Skills in cleaning and management; she could use [Systematic Warfare: Shared Intelligence (Inn)]. What that meant was anyone in her team would see every stain, un-bused plate, waiting customer, or unattended cooking pot glow in their vision if someone had noticed it.
It was the kind of thing a [Strategist] got for, well, war. All of it meant that The Explorer’s Haven, a single building, wasn’t nearly big enough for the eighteen-person crew that had been left to attend it.
It was a mix, actually, of working harder than they’d like and not having enough to do. Barnethei had put in more elbow grease these last few days than he had in years, which he knew would happen, but it was a bit—frustrating for him and the staff.
Because of the lack of magic. It was a waste to have Navien spot-cleaning one area when she could normally have an enchanted broom and sweep across the entire Haven by herself. Similarly, Barnethei could man a bar, pour drinks, and clean taps—but normally he was a bit more magical.
He was a [Vice Innkeeper of Spells]! It wasn’t for show; Barnethei had taken over smaller inns as practice for this day, and anywhere else he could conjure eight [Arcane Familiars] who’d be swooping around performing chores, casting spells to amuse the audience, or just whatever needed doing!
If not for the New Lands, he would already have used magic to terraform the earth and make the walls higher, prepare new ground for more buildings, or cast a permanent magical umbrella to mitigate the rain and mud everyone tracked in. Dead gods, he could have purified water, used a [Speed] spell to race around exploring…
Instead, all his mana was going to keeping bare-bones spells running in the inn thanks to his Skills. Which still put him ahead of most unlucky teams, given Larracel’s mana well, but it chafed.
Nevertheless, Barnethei felt like the inn was doing well enough to expand and commented that to Navien.
“We’re going to need a few more buildings dropped off. I’m thinking—second farm, maybe a ranch upgrade, plus a fishery. But more importantly, some more convenience buildings.”
“Like…?”
“A Mage’s Guild. I’ve sent Larra a [Message] about it, and it seems to me that’s what these new groups need the most. Now that word’s spread, everyone’s coming to us for magic.”
Barnethei’s white undershirt was rolled up to his elbows, and he was cleaning the mess off the bar as Navien swept around him with a mop. There was a liberal coating of dirt from the last group eating and drinking merrily in the common room; everyone was muddier thanks to the lack of roads and spring rains. But spirits were high.
This was the ninth group Barnethei had seen come in—a full six dozen strong, all of them Humans.
Humans—which meant they had come either from the north or via the sea, beating even local Drake and Gnoll groups. Barnethei was an old hand at guessing visitors, and he listened to their accents for a moment.
“Chandrarian, five coppers on it.”
Navien made a face at him. She knew better than to cross swords with his instincts on a visitor’s background. Barnethei strode over, a complimentary plate of fresh garlic bread in hand. Thanks to The Explorer’s Haven retaining magic, they could have all the food they wanted.
“Hello, and welcome to wet Izril from Chandrar’s sands! It’s not always showering—how was the sea trip?”
They turned, greatly surprised, and laughed as one stood up.
“Innkeeper! This is a pleasant shock! We were set to march into the New Lands and we find an inn already here? How did you know we were Chandrarian? Every other group we’ve met, including some snooty Terandrian nobles, thought we were one of them!”
His skin was paler, which might explain the misunderstanding. But he had more of a drawl that Barnethei recognized, and his clothing was longer, the kind of thing you’d have if the sand whipping at your face were a concern. Let alone the fact that this group had different blades, paid for their food first, and brought their own water…
“My name is Barnethei, of The Adventurer’s Haven formerly. I’ve had more Chandrarians than I can count. The water’s free; we draw it from the river via a well, and this is a complimentary plate of garlic bread, a custom of the Haven in any form. Which nation do you hail from?”
Delight and interest as their leader stood.
“Why, glorious Medain, of course! We’re one of a score of groups sent with the blessing of High King Perric himself! Though we’re not adventurer-led. Some of us are former Silver-rankers, but we intend to put down deep roots here for the Gold-ranks who’ll come after. We’re bound deep inland. No offense to your inn, but if there are already buildings here, we want to establish ourselves far further afield.”
His teeth flashed, and Barnethei smiled, ears perking up.
“May I offer you a drink to toast your expedition? What are you seeking, exactly?”
“Anything adventurers want! A dungeon, ruins—we’ll settle away from it, but they need to eat and rest! And appraise whatever they grab.”
Several of the others nodded, eyes gleaming. Barnethei got it. Ah, so they were taking the supporter model for adventurers. Transport, patching up armor or flesh, scouting—there was money to be made in ‘securing’ a ruin. That was what everyone talked about. He would have asked more, but there was a shout from outside.
“An Ancestors-damned inn? Company, halt!”
More guests? He excused himself, and a wary group of Drakes had halted, seeming dismayed and agog by the presence of the Haven. The leader introduced himself warily.
“I’m Explorer Captain Vons, chartered by the Trisstral Alliance for exploration of the New Lands. This inn—are we in any group’s territory? Here are our papers, ratified by Fissival and Salazsar.”
There were over three hundred people in his convoy! Barnethei grew excited and wary, but the Drake blinked when Barnethei told him it was merely an inn without a city. He shook his head.
“We can’t afford all of us entering. Rest stop, one hour! Anyone who wants to pay for the inn does it on their own expense!”
“We have some complimentary bread—the Trisstral Alliance you said?”
The leader of the Medain group came out; his name was Racnem, and the Drake, who was Captain Vons, blinked and shook the man’s hand with clear wariness when he heard he was from Chandrar.
“I’ve never met a Chandrarian…but it’s the new era, one thinks. No city? With respect, are you sure it’s safe? There are barely more than five-foot walls here! Where’s your Watch?”
“We take care of ourselves, and the walls are in-progress. We can raise them with spells. Ah! I should warn you two about the local climate. But first, come in, Captain! Allow me to treat you to a drink.”
“I can’t drink while I’m on duty, sir, but I will take a cup of water. Thank you.”
The Drake sat awkwardly as more of his people came in. A mix of almost all Drakes and a few Gnolls, who appeared more travel-weary than the Chandrarians. It transpired they’d been marching ever since the New Lands rose; they’d come across the entire south of the continent since their cities were far, far to the east.
“I have orders to secure a viable spot for the Alliance and scout out land for allied parties immediately. More will be coming; I’ve heard three thousand colonists are being mustered, but my company needs to secure a spot.”
There it was again, ‘secure’ ground. Barnethei was from the north, so he had a more laissez-faire approach to his concept of boundaries and lands. But these other groups seemed to feel like if they planted a flag, it would be their area. Indeed, the Chandrarians ate faster as they heard the Drakes speaking, preparing to beat them to the jump.
“I hope we don’t find the same spot, sir! But we’re after ruins. May I offer you this token of friendship? It’s a charm from Medain.”
Racnem offered Captain Vons a glowing charm carved into the shape of a crescent moon, from Medain’s crystal mines. It didn’t do much other than offer a rather beautiful [Light] spell, but Barnethei’s eyes lit up when he received one.
“That’s very kind of you, sir. I, uh—let me offer you one of the Trisstral Alliance’s bows. We have strong woodworker classes.”
They were being convivial, excited despite their competitive spirit, and in line with the last eight groups who’d come here. Mostly Izrilian, but one Terandrian group who’d been even hotter on the jump than this lot.
Sailing south from Terandria, or east from Baleros, was far harder in terms of sheer distance than a Chandrarian or native Izrilian group, so Barnethei suspected he’d get more diversity soon. But the charm reminded him of his job, so he cleared his throat.
“Gentlemen, I’d be remiss if I didn’t offer a warning about the climate ahead and, frankly, behind you. The Explorer’s Haven is a subsidiary of The Adventurer’s Haven, and Larracel the Haven herself has issued a warning to all adventurers and parties passing into the New Lands…”
Both groups grew wary, and while Captain Vons didn’t know Larra, the Medain group actually recognized her as a former Named-rank. When Barnethei explained the mana drain problem, the two had similar reactions.
Racnem paled instantly and licked his lips. Captain Vons just swore and began writing a report.
“No magic? But all the adventurers and what we came here for—”
“Bags of holding will go down? Damn! I need to check the company’s supplies. This is a disaster!”
It was the same reaction every group had had, and Barnethei felt bad for them, especially since they were six days in and the signs of magical wear had already appeared in both. In fact, the crystal charm he’d been given was far dimmer than it should have been.
Soon, Racnem would have only a bunch of pretty crystals that would take magic well, valuable—but worthless until they were enchanted. But the crystal glowed and became a beacon of light as Barnethei touched it, and both men blinked.
“In The Explorer’s Haven, sirs, we have magic. [Message] spells, runes of preservation—I encourage you to think of us as a helpful way station. Larracel’s magic is that of a Level 50 [Wizard].”
“Can you recharge our Bags of Holding?”
“Not yet, Captain—but have your [Mages] cast from within our boundaries. It will make the spells far easier.”
They did that, rapidly sending word to their groups, and Barnethei reflected he could have charged for this information, but the goodwill he got from both groups was worth it in his eyes.
The Explorer’s Haven had to be a credible building, and both promised to mark this on their maps—and they had to draw maps! They were off within the hour, racing now to move before they lost magic, but here was the thing Barnethei had noticed. They said the same thing.
“Go back? Sands cover me, but High King Perric will have my head for turning and running without finding even a single monster!”
Racnem laughed, and it sounded like a joke. Vons adjusted his broad-brimmed metal helmet, more like a hat than a full on helm. He hefted the pike on his shoulders as he set his face.
“We’ve come this far. We’d better make this expedition pay off or the Alliance will have my tail.”
That’s how they talked, each group who got this warning. Only a few turned back, sometimes sending members with items to run them out of the New Lands to preserve their worth, but the majority continued onwards.
We’ve come too far. 
There’s too much at stake. 
We have to find out what the New Lands hold.
They’d put their fortunes and futures on the line to get this far. At thirteen days, Barnethei had felt like it was all the heart of adventuring, risk, and daring despite the odds.
After a month and thereafter, he began to sour on how they said it and heard in that refrain the madness Larracel talked about. The point of no return, the sunk-cost fallacy where adventurers continued into the lair of the monster, even when they were unprepared, wounded, and stretched to their limits, dead comrades behind them.
This has to mean something. Then—he began to regard the New Lands as a trap for everyone, not just magic-users. But at first, it was good.
Then came the floods.
 
 
Year 24, Month 2, Day 18. Larracel returns with an old friend. A flood without water, a delivery of people, but not in the [Slaver] kind of way.
 
The fourth time Larracel’s Haven returned to Barnethei’s new inn for a refuel of mana and food, Navien practically dashed out to meet them.
“Larra! We need every member of staff you’ve got!”
“Trouble?”
Larra spun from tending to the weary group of adventurers devouring food as she scanned them for ticks. The bouncing Haven, moving over uneven terrain, wasn’t nearly as fun as it used to be; she was keeping mana low as they moved into the New Lands, but it was still a sight as it came on.
“No—we’re up to our ears in travellers! There are three hundred waiting for tables! And we’re almost out of supplies!”
Larra blinked—and then Roreen, who was filling in Barnethei’s old role as second-in-command, leapt from behind the bar.
“We’re on it! All but five, with me! We can lower the Haven and take in business too!”
“Don’t flood my inn, Roreen. Let Barnethei’s inn handle it!”
Larra shot back, and the [Bartender of Delights] nodded. She saw The Explorer’s Haven was indeed flooded, and they were pouring across the New Lands now.
People. It was like a migration of animals she’d once seen while adventuring in Chandrar; they were on foot, horseback, moving via wagon, even flying in the case of Garuda.
The settlers had come at last, in such numbers that this told her that the Haven had beaten the full rush by about two weeks. Barnethei was a whirlwind, three [Innkeepers] dashing about to feed everyone, shake hands, and deliver the magic warning.
