Roreen. She dove inside as rays of light began piercing the Haven’s shields! They slashed through the barrier, punching through the wood and flooring, and Barnethei paled.
No Gold-ranker can do that. What kind of monster is this?
Named-rank. Some kind of insanely powerful water monster, possibly dredged up when the New Lands rose. However…he saw it dodging a hail of arrow spells and was confused.
If it was just this, Larracel could take it on. He didn’t feel like this kind of monster, even if it had spell abilities, could bring down a Level 50 [Wizard]. Not in her domain. Then someone snatched the scrying orb up, and he saw the second monster attacking the inn.
It looked…like a waterlogged corpse, barnacles covering a bloated, blue body. Just a single figure bathed in [Light] spells—until someone fired a [Fireball] at it. Then the torso split across the belly, and bones lifted and lifted, massive ribs of chitin unfolding and long legs skittering across the ground—
It was a gigantic centipede compacted into a single body it infested. It shed its disguise and twined around the Haven, encircling the entire structure as it constricted. Then its eyes on its horrific face glowed.
“Spell! Sp—”
Roreen was running when the red light passed over her, and it didn’t affect Barnethei, but he saw her leaping for cover, face panicked, mouth opening—slowly.
Slowly. Even her jump was too slow, and he breathed in horror.
“[Mass Slow]. It’s got spell powers? In the New Lands?”
Two empowered monsters both worthy of a Named-rank threat! The only thing that saved the Haven was another ray of light, and Barnethei saw the school of magical fish fire one through part of the centipede, which jerked and turned its gaze on them.
They were fighting! The two monsters had no love of each other it seemed, and the centipede fired red arrows off its legs, hundreds of them given how long it was. The school of fish broke apart, weaving and dodging.
Two apex predators going after the Haven. Both monsters were attacking again, and then—then he saw her.
 
——
 
Larracel the Haven had been finding her hat. A [Wizard] had to have her hat, pointed, and her robes on. Magical boosters. She adjusted the worn, ancient red velvet lined with fur.
There was a blue brooch around her cloak, a shining stone filled with mana to draw on. She finished drinking, and the azure Potion of Arcane Energy fell from her grip as Larra drew her wand.
She reached the roof of her private laboratory and workshop and spoke.
“Staff, inside! [Triple Continuous Casting: Grand Lightning, Hand of the Spectral Giant, Burst of Dispel Magic].”
Her finger rose, and she shot a marking spell towards the centipede. The fish whirled and became a whale that opened its mouth. Larra saw the centipede twining around her inn focus on her.
The [Grand Lightning] spell blasted it in the head, but it just reeled before making a horrific hissing sound. Spell resistance. The [Wizard] grunted.
Barriers are at 54%. Falling fast. She clenched a fist. Imagined swinging it.
The first [Hand of the Spectral Giant] hit the centipede so hard its entire body jerked off her inn. The second one clocked it as it tried to whip itself at the hand. Larra was no Eldertuin or Colth, but the rush of giant, glowing red hands punched the enormous centipede in a flurry. It fell, slithering at the oxen, who screamed, but her barriers blocked it. It skittered back, confused.
“Larra! The fish—!”
They fired a ray spell straight down at her, having charged up their magic. The [Wizard] pointed her wand and fired the [Burst of Dispel Magic].
It was probably lower-tier and weaker than their onslaught, but the bubble of anti-magic disrupted the beam such that only fragments of unfocused magic reached her. She snapped her fingers.
“Not that adept, are you? [Bubble of Antimagic].”
She localized the spot on the glowing fish and drew hard on the magic in her brooch to cast the spell at range. But if it killed them—
The fish noticeably dimmed as she opened up a bubble of anti-magic around them, and she hoped they’d drop and die, but the fish in the center glowed and overloaded her spell. Larra cursed.
“It’s got more magic than a Gold-ranker!”
The fish were angry now; they spread out, firing lesser ray spells which pierced her barriers. Focusing on the [Wizard].
Larra hated foes who could breach her barriers, which were her bread and butter. But she was still a Named-rank adventurer and knew better than to barrier twice if once failed.
“[Reduce Weight]. [Jet of Air].”
She didn’t fly like Valeterisa, she just jumped and saw them shredding the roof of her laboratory. Larra felt the air whipping at her robes as they aimed up at her.
“[Siege Fireball]. [Jet of Air].”
She cast the spell, amped it up—then shot herself down as the beams crisscrossed the night sky. She fired the oversized fireball into their midst and smiled as several fish fell, cooked and dead.
Shame they were screening their leader. In response to her assault, she saw the lightning arcing off each fish turn to a hazy aura of heat. Were they…changing their elemental armor spells?
This would have been fascinating to Valeterisa, but Larra wanted the fish dead or gone now! But the centipede—
It leapt on top of her barriers, clawing at her through her magic, in the shape of the man, having recompressed itself. She pointed.
“[Maximus Forceorb]. Away from my inn!”
The impact tossed the figure skywards, so fast and so far it only unspooled itself into its centipede shape two thousand feet away. She saw it falling out of the sky, a demented worm, then scuttling towards her fast.
Larra was breathing hard despite only casting a few spells. She swivelled and saw the fish firing. She lifted her wand, but they weren’t firing at her—then one of Larra’s warning spells registered a threat striking them from the east.
“Selphid’s tits, what now?”
Larra flew up and saw the giant centipede backing away. It turned and began scuttling for the foothills in the distance. The fish kept fighting—until black bolts started firing up at them, and they scattered back from a wave of darkness that washed over Larracel. Darkness…and green magic. She shuddered as she identified it.
Death magic. Then Larracel saw the first rotten bodies smashing against her barriers from the other side, and she gazed down at the wretched palanquin bearing aloft one of the largest undead she’d ever seen in her life.
The Crypt King lifted multiple hands and fired [Deathbolts] at her, and she countered with a hail of burning arrows. In response, the rotten warriors armed with metal and overgrown, filthy armor raised their arms and shielded their heads.
“Those aren’t Ghouls. Those are…Ghoul Soldiers? What are those?”
The Anguivess Host had come. They began to spread out as Larra tried to take her Haven away from them. She launched [Valmira’s Comet] into their midst and sent bodies flying away. In response, the Crypt King raised a staff of moldering flesh and bone.
[Mass Stoneskin]. Launch the assault. The undead poured forwards, attacking the Haven. The Crypt King was laughing.
The strange skeleton which had come had opened the way above. The risk—worth it. This was not the Crossroads, but a bounty had been found! A great spellcaster, a prime addition to the Anguivess Host! Better yet—
Seithbone. They’d found the key to seithbone. A bounty of it so vast that the Crypt King spoke for the first time since it had reached this pinnacle of death.
 
<A GREATER SERVANT OF DEATH CALLS. THE PLACE OF POWER FOUND. THE LIVING QUAIL. BEGIN THE AMASSING.>
 
Its call went out across Izril, and every being of death of a Crypt Lord or higher heard it. The undead began to move, rivals, servants.
There?
There.
 
——
 
Toren felt like this wasn’t his fault. He was peeking at the fight on the scrying orb as he wiped suddenly very sweaty palms on his clothing. And he didn’t have sweat glands!
The Crypt King was probably just another fellow. He tried to tell himself that the voice shouting in his soul to ‘march to this spot and slaughter the living and harvest the power’ was purely localized to him. Not the entire continent or world.
Female Toren was no help; she’d abandoned him because she felt this was his fault. This was what happened when you had multiple personalities. Lots of spreading around the blame.
“She’s not going to get away. The Haven can’t—it’s not getting away.”
The Adventurer’s Haven was buckling under the Anguivess Host’s assault. They were too coordinated, blocking the spells with their enhanced weaponry, for Larra to break them to pieces. Not alone.
The Haven couldn’t outrun the undead; when they tried, moving at a decent clip, the undead just sped up. The Crypt King could empower its people. Toren watched as Barnethei’s knuckles whitened on the table. The man cared about this Larracel. He was actually checking the horizon, as if they could see the fighting…
No, wait. Toren thought they actually could. The flashes to the east were so faint, and he doubted even he could make it at full tilt, but Barnethei was desperate.
“Someone—! Surely there’s one adventurer nearby? Deniusth, get in there, you fool!”
What was amazing was how long Larracel was holding out. When she realized she wasn’t doing enough damage, she lowered the inn and raised more barriers. She seemed to angle them against the undead attacking, rebuilding cracked shields of magic. They spread out, hammering on the Haven, and even after an hour—
“She can’t hold up the barriers forever. She must be draining the Haven of all its magic, Barnethei.”
“She once held a barrier spell twelve hours straight. She’s Larra. She can do it, Navien.”
He didn’t glance away, didn’t even blink. Navien whispered.
“That was a single hallway in Chalence, not this.”
 
——
 
The Anguivess Host were down to the second-to-last barrier, which set them aflame as they struck it. But the Crypt King was firing spells nonstop from its bloated body, trying to get at the Haven, when the upper torso of its huge, blob-like body twisted.
It sat on a palanquin of flesh and bone, supported by countless Ghouls who carried it. The Crypt King stopped pointing forwards, and then its heads turned. It twisted right, left—
Mihaela Godfrey didn’t kick it, but her foot smashed half the Ghouls carrying it on the left side, and it went crashing down. The Guildmistress of First Landing caught herself, coughing, and then shouted.
“Couriers! Watch the undead!”
Couriers. Six more of them blitzed across the Anguivess Host’s flanks so fast Toren barely saw them! Drakes and Gnolls throwing flasks, slashing with swords, pulling the undead away from the Haven. Navien gasped.
“Mihaela! She must have run across the continent!”
The Guildmistress spun and kicked a Crypt Lord so hard that while her foot lodged in its abdomen, the rest of it exploded with the kinetic force. Toren winced.
Ooh. He wasn’t a fan of these particular undead, but he had some sympathy; they were suddenly faced with seven high-level speed experts.
Give the Crypt King this: he might be a slightly unoriginal, close-minded, slime-hating fool, but he hadn’t lived as long as he had by picking bad fights. The moment he saw the Couriers appear, he called a retreat.
The Couriers let him go after shooting several volleys at him; he was too well protected by his own magic and servants to destroy. Toren thought it was a tactical mistake. He didn’t miss how Mihaela Godfrey was doubled over, coughing, on her hands and knees, nor how the Couriers retreated around the Haven.
Well, well, well. Turned out if you gave undead personality and intelligence, you could bluff them like idiots. Larracel herself fired a volley of spells at the Anguivess Host’s backs, and Toren shook his head.
Dumbasses. The skeleton stopped polishing a mug like a mirror and stared at his reflection. He put down the mug hurriedly.
Well, at least Barnethei cheered up. Toren got back to work beating bats to death with a rock. He knew this mattered on multiple fronts. For one thing…even if the living hadn’t heard that call to arms from the Crypt King, it was clear to Toren that he’d been wrong.
The New Lands did have magic in them. Highly magical creatures that exceeded anything he’d found around Liscor, up to and possibly including the High Passes.
Boss-class monsters. More than enough reason for any settlers to worry.
The second thing Toren realized—was that the Haven wasn’t coming any time soon. Barnethei realized that the next day, and it changed a lot.
 
 
Year 24, Month 3, Day 9. A changing of fates. The new girl drops the act. Affection and terrible slaughter. Also…martial arts?
 
The rescue of the Haven was a miracle that became a broadcast on the news. Barnethei didn’t watch it; he had to lie in a chair and pour himself a drink.
He’d never, ever seen Larra pushed that hard. He knew she was probably shaking, snapping at everyone, and he wanted to be there, helping let her rest, but she wouldn’t until they were all completely safe.
Small wonder she’d quit adventuring if that was what she’d seen. Dead gods. Three Named-rank threats. All coming after the Haven.
His relief changed to concern at once, though, because Larra didn’t mince words. She sent him a [Message] spell.
 
Barnethei,
I’m alerting every adventurer I know about multiple Named-rank monsters. Each one might be worth a fortune, but they’re also walking death. They’re the most highly charged magical beings I’ve ever met.
The Haven can’t get to you. I burned out all my mana, and it’s damaged. Mihaela’s escorting me back to safe ground.
Get out of The Explorer’s Haven if you think it’s safer. Leave that thing behind and take the horses. Otherwise, keep the barricades high. I’ll be there as soon as I can.
—Larra
 
Thus, he was faced with a terrible choice. Either go on foot towards where those Named-rank monsters were, or stay with his own strange nightmare about, not to mention the bandits.
Barnethei elected to stay. On the move, outside an inn, all their Skills were useless. Here they had walls. Here they had…well…
Toren.
When everything was going wrong, you grew desperate for any asset. And if they had some kind of tireless, dangerous creature content to play at being a member of staff? Barnethei had a meeting with Navien, Yirr, and some of the older members of The Explorer’s Haven.
“New plan. We’re befriending Toren. Share notes, don’t promise or give her anything dangerous—Djinni rules—but we need those walls built higher.”
“What if she wants to get to know us? Illic? I’m not putting him in danger!”
Navien balked at that, and Yirr agreed, fur standing on end. Barnethei rubbed at the stubble on his chin.
