Elerlyth took a deep breath, stood up herself, and winced. “I'm fucking sore, you asshole!” She said and punched him in the mouth as hard as she could. Ren's head whipped to the side, but he didn't move otherwise. Elerlyth's eyes widened as Ren turned his head back to look at her. Relief flooded into her from him, and then happiness.

“I'm really glad you're feeling better.” Ren said and equipped his clothing.

Elerlyth's mouth dropped open in surprise. “I just punched you in the mouth! Aren't you going to fight back?”

Ren chuckled. “Of course not. I deserved it.”

Elerlyth made another fist and punched him as hard as she could again, with the same result. More relief and happiness flooded into her.

“Fight me, you little shit!” She punched him with her other fist, and Ren's head whipped the other way. Amusement and happiness came back at her, and she started to shake.

“I'm not going to fight someone I worked so hard to make better, Elerlyth.” Ren said, and she felt his consternation. She went to punch him again and he held a hand up to catch it, swung her around and pulled her down into a dip, as if they had been dancing.

“Your ability should be at a high enough level now that you can choose when you want to feed, and not suffer like you have been.” Ren said, and she looked back at him in shock. “You can message me at any time, and I'll meet you here to feed you.”

“But... but... our fight...”

Ren stood her up. “I accept.” He got the notification of PVP mode, and dismissed it.

She put up her fists to fight and Ren smiled.

“I concede.”

Elerlyth got a popup and she dismissed it. “I didn't get any XP!”

Ren laughed. “Level 6, remember?” He said and took both of her hands and cupped them together. “Keep them like that.” He said and took out a handful of platinum coins and piled them in her hands. “Consolation prize.”

Elerlyth looked at Ren, then at the pile of coins.

“I'll expect a message from you in a few days.” Ren said and walked up the stairs. “Bye, Elerlyth.”

She stood there in shock, and completely naked.

Ren came back down and walked over to her. “You might want to get dressed.” He said and took her hand. “I know you're gorgeous and everything; but, I don't think flashing everyone is a good idea.”

She knew he was telling the truth about her being gorgeous, and her mouth dropped open. He let her hand go and started to laugh as he went up the stairs. He waved to her and she still stood there in shock. Ren went into the apartment and to the portal in the living room.

“I better take care of business first.” Ren said, logged out, and cleaned himself up. He donned another condom and logged back in.
