“Are you okay?” Ren asked, and he sent concern to her.

Elerlyth nodded after a moment. “What did you do?”

“I just remembered the single best moment I experienced.”

Elerlyth's eyes narrowed. “It doesn't feel like that.”

Ren grinned as he understood what she meant. “It wasn't having an orgasm, Elerlyth. I remembered Nathalia's hair as it rolled across the bed.”

She looked at him with surprise on her face, and he blushed a little. “I knew you loved her, but you really love her.”

Ren nodded. “She's been the best thing that's happened to me in here.”

Elerlyth smiled. “So far.” She took his hand and pulled it towards herself. Ren didn't stop her this time, though. She could feel is trepidation, his guilt, his admiration of her, his love for Nathalia, and he was horny. So very, very horny.

“It seems your little adventure with Nathalia has let a monster loose.” Elerlyth said and placed Ren's hand onto her breast, and held it there with her hand. Her nipple popped out immediately at Ren's touch, and she caught her breath. It's never done that before! Elerlyth thought, as she moved her legs out of Ren's way. He slid close to her and used his free hand to rub along her thigh, hip, abdomen, and cupped her other breast. That nipple popped out too, and Elerlyth's eyes widened.

“This isn't a romantic relationship, Elerlyth.” Ren said as he eased her back into the corner of the couch. “I want to feed you so well that you won't have to worry about it for a while.”

Elerlyth could feel his determination to do just that, and Ren's concern over her well-being. She also knew he was telling the truth.

“I'm just using you for sex, Elerlyth.” Ren said and massaged her breasts. “Nathalia was right. I wanted to keep going with her for as long as I could, but I didn't want to hurt her.”

Elerlyth could feel everything Ren felt, and she drank it all in. His regret that Nathalia was right, his sorrow that he has to turn to someone else to satisfy himself, disappointment in himself, wanting to let himself do it, and reckless abandon.

“You're going to be my Nathalia surrogate.” Ren leaned in and gave her a kiss. “I'm going to do you until you beg me to stop...” He said and grinned. “...and then I'm going to keep going.”

Elerlyth's skin flushed a darker color, and she shivered from the intense feelings coming from Ren. She felt her ability open up, wider than it had ever been before. Ren stood up and pinched the webbed bodysuit.

“Off, please.”

“Now, just a minute...”

Ren switched to his Command Aura and Elerlyth stared at him. “I've only got 10 hours left before morning, and I intend to use them all.”

“T-t-ten HOURS?!?” Elerlyth looked at him like he was crazy, and Ren laughed.

“I know that look.” He said. “Don't worry. I'm going to hate myself so much by morning that you won't be able to eat it all.”

Elerlyth frowned at him as she could already feel the self-hatred starting. “Don't you dare hate yourself!” She said vehemently. Ren was so shocked that his concentration slipped and the Command Aura faded. She pushed him off and she stood up. “You're offering yourself up as food, goddammit!” Elerlyth fumed at him. “You're giving me everything you have! I can feel it all, Ren!” She said, grabbed him by his shirt, and moved him around to sit on the couch, and pushed him into the corner.

“You're trying so hard to convince yourself that you're doing something bad, and that Nathalia won't want to spend time with you afterwards!” Elerlyth closed her eyes and let her anger subside. She took a deep breath and continued. “Ren, you've just figured out that sex unlocks the most intense feelings that anyone can have, and you want to give that to me!” She paced back and forth in front of him, and he stared at her.

“Now I can feel your admiration.” Elerlyth said as she kept walking. “If anyone should be mad, it's me!” She turned to him and tears came to her eyes. “I'm the one using you, Ren.” She knelt and put her hands on his knees. “I want to suck every single emotion out of you!”

Ren put a hand on her face and she felt his acceptance, and willingness to let her do it.

“You're actually happy to do it.” Elerlyth said as the tears ran down her cheeks. “Ren, how can you let me do that?”

Ren slid forward and spread his legs to either side of Elerlyth's body. With him sitting and her kneeling, their faces were at the same height. He put his other hand on her face.

“I was trying to take the blame for this, you idiot.” Ren said, and she felt his admonishment and amusement. Elerlyth laughed through her tears and Ren wiped them off of her face. “I thought if I took control and used you to satisfy myself, you wouldn't feel so guilty about all of this.”

“You are such a stupidly sweet fool.” Elerlyth said.

“I've been hearing that a lot.” Ren grinned.

She chuckled and shook her head. “Now what do we do?”

“I think we should agree to share the blame.”

“Agreed.” Elerlyth nodded.

“We should also hate ourselves a little bit...” Ren said. “...and then fuck like bunnies.”

Elerlyth snorted a laugh. “That sounds really odd coming from you.”

“Okay then.” Ren smiled. “You should say it.”

She leaned in close to his face. “Ren...” Elerlyth whispered in a sultry voice. “...I want to fuck like bunnies.”

Ren shivered a little as she said it, and Elerlyth smiled as she felt how she made him feel.

“You're so delicious!” She purred and gave him a kiss. Ren let her feel everything that he felt, and she opened her mouth to let their tongues intertwine. She felt his excitement, and need, a little bit of self-hate, longing, regret, enjoyment, and pleasure. There were tons of other emotions mixed in, but she was a bit too busy to care and drank them all in. They stayed that way for several minutes, until Ren remembered he only had 10 hours left. He broke the kiss and looked at Elerlyth. Her eyes were closed and she licked her lips. Ren let satisfaction flow into her, and she opened her eyes.

“It's not going to be that easy to feed me.” Elerlyth said and stood. She moved in close to him and spread her legs a little. It gave Ren a great up close view of her bodysuit's crotch, and he looked up at her. She stored the bodysuit and stood in front of him completely naked. Ren looked at her from her head to her toes. Elerlyth felt his admiration and appreciation of her muscular form, and then Ren looked up to her face.

“What are you waiting for?” Elerlyth said and grinned. “It's not going to lick itself.”

Ren chuckled, leaned forward, and kissed her opening. Elerlyth took in a sharp breath and Ren reached his hands around her and cupped the cheeks of her firm ass. He used his tongue to tease and lick her, sucked her a little and he looked up at her. Elerlyth was staring at him with wide eyes, because she could feel how much he was enjoying tasting her this way. Ren let her feel how much pleasing her was pleasing him, and Elerlyth put her hands on his head. She ground herself into his face, thrusting slightly, and moaned as he continued to work her with his mouth and tongue. Ren let his teeth graze her sensitive spot, all of her muscles tensed up, and she came.

“Oooohhh god!” Elerlyth said and Ren kept licking her. Her whole body shook several times and she started to collapse. Ren stopped sucking on her and caught her as she tried to slump to the floor. He picked her up easily and turned around to lay her down on the couch.

“Ren... god, that was... you enjoyed it more than I did!” Elerlyth said, shocked. “I felt it all. I fed on it all.” She shook her head and reached a hand out to him. “Thank you. Thank you so much.”

“Don't thank me yet, Elerlyth.” Ren said. “I've only just begun.”

“What are you... ooohhhhh!” She said as Ren flipped her leg over his shoulder and he dove back into her with his mouth. “Ren... god...”

He kept working her with his mouth for a few minutes, then got a finger involved. Elerlyth felt his joy in pleasing her, and his pleasure from feeding her freely. She drank it all down and her eyes widened as her ability leveled up.

“Ren! My ability! It... OH GOD!” Elerlyth yelled as Ren found her spot and used it relentlessly. She closed her eyes and grabbed onto the couch to stop herself from writhing around. Ren sucked on her and flicked her special spot, and Elerlyth came again, and again, and again. “Guuhhhhhhod!” All her muscles tensed up again and again and she started to convulse from how much pleasure Ren was getting from giving her pleasure. Elerlyth drank his emotions, and drank, and drank. She stopped moving and let the couch go, and lay there motionless. Ren stopped touching her and slid out from under her leg.

“Elerlyth, are you still with me?” Ren asked, and grinned as she gave him the middle finger.

“Give me a minute.” She said and took several deep breaths, then she shook her head. “How...how are you doing that?”

“Doing what? Having fun?” Ren asked.

Elerlyth nodded.

“Seeing you trying so hard to not writhe around, trying to not let yourself go, is really fun.”

“You bastard.” She said and glared at him. “I'm in pain here, and you think it's fun?”

Elerlyth stopped breathing and was almost overwhelmed with the flood of concern coming from Ren, but she drank it down and then caught her breath.

“I'm sorry!” Ren said. “I thought you'd really like it if I kept going.”

Elerlyth sat up and kissed him. “I'm okay.” She said, and drank the huge deluge of relief flowing from him. Oh my god! He... he can produce so much... and it's all just him! No boosts or venom! She thought and then smiled. “I think it's time I returned the favor.”

“Are you sure?” Ren asked. “Do you need time to rest?”

Elerlyth shook her head. “Switch places with me.”

Ren stood up and Elerlyth slid off the couch and knelt on the floor. Ren stored his clothing and Elerlyth stared at him for a moment, then pat the couch.

“Sit.”

Ren sat on the edge of the couch, and Elerlyth spread his legs. She took several deep breaths and looked at his throbbing member.

I can do this. Elerlyth thought. It just looks big. She leaned forward and took the tip into her mouth and moaned at the silky feeling of him in her mouth. She flicked her tongue and slowly started to move up and down on the shaft. She breathed through her nose and kept going. She looked up at him, and saw he was watching her intently. Elerlyth felt him pouring the feelings into her and she worked harder to get him all in. She almost got there and her gag reflex kicked in. She pulled out fast and swallowed, trying to not throw up. She felt appreciation flood into her as Ren smiled at her.

“I'd ask you to keep trying, but I want you to have fun.” Ren said and grinned. “Choking is not fun.”

“I can do it!” Elerlyth said, and tried to take him back into her mouth.

“No.” Ren said, and she felt his determination and concern. “I won't let you choke, just so I can feel your lips against my body.”

“But, you really want that!” Elerlyth said.

Ren chuckled. “I don't care what I want.” He said and stood up. “Right now I care about what you want.”

Ren picked her up easily and she gave a little yip of surprise.

“How strong are you?” Elerlyth asked.

Ren held her close, slid her down slowly, then positioned himself in front of her opening. “Strong enough.” He pulled her down quickly and jammed himself inside of her.

“Holy FUCK!” Elerlyth yelled as Ren caught her and pounded her up and down as hard and as fast as he thought she could take it. She put her hands on his shoulders to hold on, and Ren kept standing up and pounded her hard.

“Oh...oh...oh...oh....ohh.....ohhhHHHH!” Elerlyth gripped his shoulders tightly and came. Ren felt her go, and Elerlyth felt his resolve to make her come as much as he could. Her eyes widened as he fulfilled that resolve, and she came over and over again. She drank it all down, more and more pleasure from the both of them, and then his rhythm started to change.

“I'm.... close...”

Elerlyth licked her lips. This is it! She thought. The only moment that someone really lets all their feelings sh- Her thoughts were interrupted as an orgasm caught her unawares, and her body clamped down on Ren, and it made him orgasm, too. He stopped moving, and Elerlyth opened her ability all the way and drank everything down. They held each other close, as Ren continued to stand there and hold her up. Elerlyth took several breaths and looked him in the eyes, as he stared at her.

“I'm sorry, Ren.” She whispered and leaned down to kiss him. “I was so hungry that I took it all.”

“I know.” He said. “I felt it.”

“W-w-what?!?” Elerlyth said, shocked. “How? How can you still talk? When I use my ability... my full ability... there's... there's usually nothing left.”

Ren grinned. “You gave me the clue earlier when you said that I figured out the full power of emotions when in situations like this.”

“What do you mean?”

“Think back, Elerlyth. Did my emotions become stronger when we came together, than they are normally?”

She thought about it, and then her eyes widened. “No! It's the same!”

Ren smiled. “I've been completely open with you, Elerlyth. I haven't held anything back at all.”

“I know... I could feel that... but there's still always a reserve hidden for when people let everything go.”

“Most times, yes.” Ren said. “Not me, though.”

“Why?”

“Because, my sweet little devil... I don't have to stop.”

“What...OHHhhhHHH!”

Ren picked her up and started pounding her again. He kept going, for over an hour, standing there and pounding Elerlyth until she begged him to stop feeding her, that she couldn't take any more. Ren stopped and moved over to the couch.

“Do you remember what I told you earlier?” Ren asked as he laid her on her back, still inside of her. “I told you I'd do you, until you begged me to stop.”

“Yes, I remember.” She said.

“And what did I tell you I'd do after that?”

Elerlyth's eyes widened as Ren pulled out most of the way. “When I begged... you... you'd keep goinnNNGGGGG!” She gripped the couch as Ren kept going and made her feed, over and over again. He switched positions, angles, which way she faced, but he never stopped having sex with her until the morning. When sunlight shone in through the window, Ren made Elerlyth orgasm again.

“Elerlyth, it's morning.” Ren said, and pulled out of her.

She writhed at the removal of something she had come to think was a part of her. She stared at Ren as he stood up.

“How do you feel?” Ren asked.

