Ren woke up on the bed and propped himself on his elbows. He looked around, but all he saw was an empty room. The comfy chair was missing. “Nathalia?”

“Ren!” She said from the room that should be the bathroom. “Close your eyes!”

“They're closed.” Ren said and closed his eyes. He heard soft footsteps enter the bedroom and he waited.

“O-okay.” Nathalia said, shyly. “You can open them.”

Ren opened his eyes and they kept opening until they were as wide as they could possibly be.

“By the gods.” Ren said as he stared at her. “By the gods, Nathalia... you're beautiful.”

She stood in the doorway of the bathroom, wearing a completely see-through negligee, and a small pair of underwear. Her hair was undone from the braid, and the curly mass flowed out and around her like a curtain. Nathalia's face was completely red as she tried to not cover herself, since he could see she was trying her best to keep her arms at her side. Ren hopped out of bed and quickly went over to her.

“This is what you were making last night?” He asked, and took her into a hug.

Nathalia nodded slightly. “You know I'm terrible at sewing.” She said. “I worked on it for so long, that I fell asleep.”

“Darling, you didn't have to do that.” Ren said and gave her a kiss. “I'm very happy that you did, though.”

Nathalia's blush stayed in full force as he hugged her closely, and she felt how happy he really was. Her breath caught and Ren smiled at her.

“Do you like it?” She asked.

“I love it.” Ren said. “Not because of what I can see, but because of what you went through to make it for me.”

Nathalia reached a hand up and stroked his face. “I wanted our first time together to be memorable.”

Ren chuckled. “I had the same thought; but, I didn't make a see-through outfit to wear for you.”

She grinned. “I wouldn't mind seeing that.”

“If you have any of that fabric left...” Ren suggested.

Nathalia shook her head. “I used up almost all of it, trying to make this.”

Ren gave her a quick kiss. “I hope you'll be happy with just nudity.”

“That depends on if you mean it, or if it's just sex.” She asked.

“If all I wanted from you was sex, you'd already be on the bed and I'd be inside you.”

Nathalia shivered at the truth in Ren's words, and she smiled. “You don't know how much that means to me.”

“You're wrong.” Ren said and picked her up. Nathalia grabbed him around the neck, and he carried her to the bed. “I know exactly how much it means to you.” He laid her down on the comfy mattress and smiled. “Because it means just as much to me.” Ren stored his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak into inventory, and followed it with his Travelling Clothes. He stood there above her with only a pair of Spider Silk underwear on, and Nathalia could clearly see how happy he was.

“Ren...”

“Yes, Nathalia?”

“Don't make me wait anymore.”

Ren grinned. “I'm sorry, but you have to.”

“W-w-what?” She said, surprised.

Ren laid down beside her and gave her a kiss. “I am going to take my time with you.” He ran a finger down her neck and along the frills across the opening above her chest. Nathalia arched her back and pushed her breasts out for him, but he didn't grab them like he wanted to. He used a single finger to trace the edge of her breast and then up to the middle, where a very prominent nipple awaited his touch. Instead of pinching it or rubbing it, he still used a single finger to trace the areola's edge and then the nipple itself. Nathalia's breath sped up when he touched her there and he moved his hand over to her other breast and repeated the same movements.

“By the gods, Ren... please...” She whispered. “I've been so good for so long.”

Ren smiled and slipped a hand under the end of the negligee and slid it up and over the soft mounds of flesh, and Nathalia took in a deep breath. He gave her a passionate kiss, then kissed her neck, and she giggled. He worked his way down the middle of her chest, paused for a moment, then dove for her right nipple.

“Ohhhhh....” Nathalia moaned as Ren sucked and licked her there. He used a hand to massage her and work a good amount of flesh up and into his mouth. He moved his hand away, and the flesh slowly pulled it's way out of his mouth. When it came to only her nipple left between his lips, he sucked hard for a second, there was a popping sound, and the breast popped free.

“By the gods...” Nathalia whispered. Ren repeated this with her other breast and it nearly drove her wild.

“Please, Ren... please...” She begged.

Ren smiled and moved down to her waist.

“Yes... oh, yes...”

Ren hooked the edge of her underwear with his fingers, and slipped the thin fabric down her legs and off completely. He handed the underwear to Nathalia so she could put them into inventory, and she tossed them onto the floor.

“You're going to need those later.” Ren said.

“I don't care!” She said, nearly mad with desire. “Hurry!”

“Your wish is my command, My Lady.” Ren said and moved away and down to her waist. He eased her legs apart. Only a small tuft of hair was above her opening, and Ren smiled.

“W-what... what are you...”

He dove his face into the space between her legs, and Nathalia gasped. She writhed around as Ren kissed her there as passionately as he had kissed her mouth earlier.

“Some... something... Ren... there's something...”

She started to buck and twitch and Ren kept going. It didn't take long before Nathalia's legs clamped down on his head and she screamed.

“AHHHHHHHH!!!!”

Ren kept licking her and she kept going, over and over. Her screams settled down eventually into a constant moan. He gave her one last kiss there, and she tensed up for a moment and then her legs fell away from his head. Ren moved back up the bed, and lay by her side.

“Nathalia, are you okay?”

“W-w-w-w-what?” She said, and tried to focus on Ren's face. Her eyes didn't quite work yet, though.

“I'm going to give you a few minutes to recover before I keep going.”

Nathalia blinked several times and turned her head to look at him. “You... want to... keep... going?”

Ren smiled. “I do, but I think you've had enough for a few minutes.”

She nodded vigorously and then closed her eyes. “I never knew... Ren, that was... by the gods...”

Ren lay there and waited for several minutes until Nathalia's breathing evened out and she could see him properly.

“Ready for Round 2?” Ren asked.

Nathalia's eyes widened as she looked down at herself. “Are you going to... kiss me there... again?” She asked, and licked her lips. Ren smiled and shook his head.

“I had something else in mind.” He got up and knelt on the bed, and stored his underwear. Nathalia's breath stopped as she saw Ren's throbbing member in it's entirety, for the first time.

“By the gods!” She gasped and started breathing again. “It's...”

“Yeah, I know...” Ren said. “It's quite bi-”

“...beautiful.” Nathalia whispered, and Ren looked at her in surprise. She looked at him with desire. “Can I touch it?”

“You can do anything you want to it.” He said and grinned.

Nathalia sat up, then reached out a hand to caress the silky skin. Both Ren and Nathalia shivered at the gentle touch. She moved her hand over the tip and around the edge, then used her other hand to grasp it firmly.

“If I'd known...” Nathalia said and moved her hands slowly along the shaft. “...I wouldn't have held myself back for so long.” She leaned in and put her face right next to the tip, and looked up at him. “I've never done this before, Ren.” She stuck out her tongue and licked the front of the tip. “If I do something wrong...”

Ren chuckled, and Nathalia felt it through his member. “Darling, you can't do anything wrong.”

Nathalia nodded and put the tip into her mouth. She sucked it like Ren had sucked on her nipples, and she tried her best to get as much of it into her mouth as she could. He couldn't hear her breathe, so he tugged on her hair a little, and pulled her away from him.

“You need to breathe through your nose.” Ren said. “Or you might pass out.”

She nodded and tried again. He could feel her breath through her nose and she got about half of it in, then she had to stop and backed off again.

“How... how is it?” She asked and looked at him.

“Honey, I don't know if I can last much longer if you keep going.”

Nathalia smiled and slipped his member back into her mouth and kept sucking. Ren closed his eyes as she moved in and out, and got faster with each movement. He began moving his hips in time with her, then opened his eyes.

“Almost...” Ren said, and she looked up at him. He nodded and she stopped moving and let him go in her mouth. Ren spasmed over and over, and Nathalia's eyes widened. It was a bit too much for her to hold, so she slid her mouth off of his member, and everything spilled out and onto the bed. Ren kept going for another few seconds, and then the spasms eased off.

“Nathalia, are you okay?” Ren asked, concerned. He took out a scrap piece of cloth and knelt in front of her, avoiding the mess he'd made. “There was a lot more than I thought there was going to be.” He wiped her mouth and chin off, then a bit on her leg and put the cloth over the mess. “You made me go so much.”

Nathalia blushed a little and Ren kissed her. She was surprised for a moment, and then she closed her eyes and kissed him back. A minute later, he broke the kiss and looked at her.

“I hope you're ready.” Ren said, and eased Nathalia back down onto the bed.

“I've been ready for weeks, Ren.” She said and blushed. “Are you?”

His eyes glanced down, and Nathalia followed it. Her eyes widened at his throbbing member.

“Did... did it get bigger?”

“You did a great job.” Ren said as he positioned himself near her opening. He rubbed the tip of his member over her, and Nathalia caught her breath. He did this several times, and she started to writhe on the bed.

“Please...” Nathalia whispered. “...I've waited so long...”

Ren slid the tip inside of her and she stopped breathing. He slid it back out and she started breathing again. He slid the tip back in and her breath sped up, and he slid it back out. Nathalia moaned and looked at Ren with longing. He gave her a kiss, and slid himself about half-way in.

“Oh... oh... by the gods...”

Ren pulled almost all the way back out, then jammed himself all the way in.

“Agh!” Nathalia winced, and Ren just held her close and didn't move.

“Are you okay?” He asked.

Nathalia didn't say anything; but she nodded slightly.

“I love you, Nathalia.”

“I love you, too.” She said, and Ren kissed her.

She kissed him back, and he pulled out most of the way. He had to fight against her body to get himself all the way back in, because she was gripping him so tightly. Ren started to move slowly in and out, and Nathalia moaned as his movements rubbed her just the right way. He took his time and kept moving slowly, and Nathalia's breath kept getting faster and faster. Ren didn't go any faster, though. He wanted this to last as long as possible. It took about 15 minutes for him to get her to the point where he thought she was ready, and she looked at him with wild eyes.

“Ren... I'm close... so close... please, please go faster....” Nathalia pleaded. He smiled at her, but didn't go any faster. “By the gods! P...please... uh... uh....uh..uh.uh.uh...”

It only took another 2 strokes and she clamped her legs around him, grabbed his hair with both hands and kissed him. She screamed into his mouth through the kiss and Ren kept moving slowly. She broke the kiss about 15 seconds later, but didn't let his hair go.

“St-stop.” She whispered.

Ren stopped moving, she relaxed, and her legs let him out of their death grip; but she kept a hold of his hair. She took several deep breaths and looked at him.

“Is it always like that?” She asked.

“No idea.” Ren said. “This is my first time doing it as an Adventurer.”

Nathalia's eyes bulged out of her head as she stared at him. “Your... your first time...”

“I told you I wanted to be with you first.” Ren said, and Nathalia pulled him into another passionate kiss. Ren moved slightly and Nathalia froze. He broke the kiss. “Are you all right?”

She nodded. “Don't... don't move yet.”

“Is it sore?” Ren asked concerned.

Nathalia shook her head. “I just... I could go again... and I want us to go together.”

“I could pull out...” Ren suggested, and he felt her body hold him tighter.

“Don't you dare!” Nathalia said, let his hair go, and ran her fingers through it to straighten it. “I'm sorry, I needed something to hold on to.”

“I wasn't complaining.” Ren said and kissed her.

“That didn't hurt?” Nathalia asked.

“It did, but I ignored it.” Ren said to her surprised expression. “If you need something to hold on to, go ahead.”

She took several deep breaths. “Okay, I think I'm ready.”

Ren slid himself out of her and she caught her breath again.

“By the gods, Ren...” Nathalia stared at him. “...don't go slow.”

“Then you better get a good grip, my love.”

Nathalia reached up and laced her hands in his hair. Ren grinned and then pushed himself hard into her. She gripped his hair as he pounded her over and over, non-stop.

“By the... by the.... by the GODS!” Nathalia yelled as she came again, and Ren kept going. “Oh... oh... oh... Ren... oh...”

He kept driving himself into her again and again, and Nathalia came twice more. He felt himself getting close, and his rhythm started to falter.

“Darling... I'm... I'm close...” Ren said, and his breath sped up.

“M-m-me... t-t-too......” Nathalia grunted.

Their eyes widened at the same time. “Now!” They said together, and Nathalia clamped her legs around Ren to hold him inside, and Ren grabbed her shoulders to hold her close. They kissed each other as they both spasmed. Ren let himself go completely; Nathalia felt his release deep inside of her and came again. Her body gripped Ren's member harder than it had before, and Ren came again himself. They repeated this cycle for nearly a full minute, before Nathalia lost all feeling in her limbs and she let Ren go. He pulled himself out of her, and she wiggled a little from the loss of contact. Ren rolled off of her and took several deep breaths.

“Wow.” They said at the same time, and turned their heads to look at each other. Since they both had surprised expressions on their faces, they both saw each others surprise, and then they started to laugh.

“Ha hahaha!” They laughed together and Nathalia put a hand on her belly from laughing so hard, and she winced. Ren stopped laughing and rolled over to look at her abdomen.

