“Are you all right?” He asked, and touched her gently. Nathalia didn't wince this time, but he thought she might be hiding it. “Nathalia, I'm sorry I hurt you.”

Nathalia laughed and Ren looked at her. “Ren, I'm not hurt.” She said and caressed his face. “Yes, I'm sore, and I'm going to be really sore tomorrow.” She grinned. “If I thought you could keep going, I'd do it again.”

“You shouldn't have said that.” Ren said and got up on his knees, and his member was still rock hard.

“By the gods, Ren!” Nathalia exclaimed. “How?”

Ren smiled crookedly. “I can keep going, no matter how many times I finish.”

She looked at him. “I... I can't take it like this right now...”

Ren grinned. “My love, don't worry. I'll be gentle.” He said and picked her up. She gave a little yip of surprise and he took her into a hug. He kissed her gently for several moments, then asked her to get on her knees and turn around. Nathalia did as he asked, and Ren eased her head down onto the bed.

“Ren... this is... really embarrassing.” She said and blushed as she looked back at him over her shoulder. Her hair cascaded across her back and onto the bed.

“Nathalia, you shouldn't be embarrassed.” Ren said and looked at the paradise presented to him. “You're absolutely beautiful.” He stroked her opening with his fingers and she started to moan. Ren was surprised to find that Nathalia was tight again when he slipped 2 fingers inside of her. He searched around and when he found the right spot, he waddled forward enough to easily enter her. Ren brushed his tip against her opening, and she pushed herself back onto him, and she gasped.

“By the gods, it feels bigger this way!” Nathalia said, then stopped talking as Ren eased backwards and then forwards again. He went agonizingly slow at first, and rather than pound her like he did before, he set a good rhythm and kept it. Not too fast that it might hurt her, but not too slow that she'd get angry. Ren kept going like that and Nathalia's breath became faster and faster. She didn't tell him to slow down, or to go faster, so he knew he had the best pace for her. He remembered that spot he had found earlier and moved himself slightly to change the angle, then hit that spot for her.

“Oh, Ren!” Nathalia said. *hits spot* “I love you!” *hits spot* “I love you!” *hits spot* “I LOVE YOU!” *hits spot* “AhhhhhhHHHHHH!!!!” She screamed and reached back for his hands, and Ren grabbed them. She pulled hard on his arms, and her body clenched tightly onto his member. He stopped moving and came inside of her again.

“By the GODS!” Ren exclaimed, and spasmed several times more. Nathalia let his hands go, slid off of him, and down onto the bed. She rested on her side, and he could see that she was breathing hard. Ren took several deep breaths himself and then lay down beside her. He kissed the tip of her nose, and Nathalia smiled.

“That was...” She started to say.

“So much better than bacon.” Ren said and grinned. Nathalia started laughing and he joined her. They lay there for a little while, and Ren ran his hand through the huge curtain of her hair.

“Thank you for taking your hair out of the braid.” Ren said as he played with it. “It's really nice seeing your hair like that.” He smiled. “I've been wanting to see it unleashed since I met you.”

“I hope you don't expect it every time.” Nathalia said. “It takes forever to braid it again.”

Ren tossed the part he was playing with over her shoulder. “I think seeing it once is enough.” He said and smiled. “I don't know if my heart could survive seeing you like this all the time.”

Nathalia smiled herself. “I was going to say the same thing about you.” She said and cupped the side of his face and gave him a kiss. “You're everything a woman could ever ask for.”

Notice!

You have earned a new title: Prince Charming!

You personify the vision of a woman's ideal man, both romantically and physically. You will automatically draw the attention of impressionable women within your Aura's radius.

Aura (Personal) Bonus: +5 levels

Stat Change!

Aura (Personal) Level 2 (Intermediate 0%) - Current distance: 15 feet

Ren's eyes widened at the popups. “Nathalia...”

“You're rich, you're handsome, and...” Nathalia looked down at his still throbbing member. “...you can satisfy any desire.” She reached down, stroked him lightly, and Ren caught his breath. She looked back at his face and smiled crookedly. “I knew you weren't lying when you said you could keep going.” She moved her hand faster and Ren stared at her. “I didn't really need proof, but here it is.” Nathalia said and picked up the scrap piece of cloth from the bed to hold over the tip.

“N-Nathalia!” Ren stammered, as he ejaculated into the cloth. They stared at each other as she kept stroking him and he kept ejaculating. She stopped stroking and leaned in to kiss him. Ren cupped the side of her face, and she broke the kiss to lean back.

“You're too much man for only me to hold, Ren.”

Ren blinked a few times. “Nathalia...”

“You've satisfied me more than I thought I could ever be, my love.” Nathalia said, balled up the cloth and set it aside. “My body feels weak and I'm exhausted, but you... you could keep going, on and on.” She sighed and closed her eyes. “I'm sorry that I'm not enough woman for you.”

Ren moved the hand from her face to her shoulder, and shook her a little. “Nathalia, you're more woman than I deserve.” He took her hand from his face and put it over his heart. “If I do end up sleeping with someone else, please... please understand...” Ren pleaded. “...that it's just sex. You're the one that I love.”

Nathalia opened her eyes at the truth in his words, and saw his sincerity. “Ren, what we just-”

“No, Nathalia.” He shook his head. “What we just did... sharing ourselves like this... we were making love, and proving to each other how we felt.”

“But...”

Ren gave her a light and gentle kiss on the lips. “I told you before. If all I wanted was sex from you, I'd have used you and probably tossed you aside long ago.”

Nathalia snorted a laugh. “I wouldn't have been that easy to conquer.”

Ren grinned. “I seem to recall a smitten young maiden who wanted to 'pet' my dire wolf cloak.”

Nathalia grinned, too. “I couldn't help it if your prowess impressed me way back then, before I got to know you.”

He gently massaged one of her breasts and she sighed. “I was impressed by you as well.” Ren said. “So confident and sure of yourself, cooking for a ship full of men.” He smiled. “I honestly don't know why they weren't all begging for your attention, or fighting each other to get to you.”

Nathalia chuckled, and her breast jiggled in Ren's hand. “Probably because I was confident and sure of myself.”

Ren let her breast go and raised both of his eyebrows. “What do you mean?”

“You're the only person to ever come up and talk to me like you did.” Nathalia said. “You treated me like a person, and not something to be won or ignored.”

Ren smirked. “Then that's the first time I've ever ridden in a ship full of fools.”

Nathalia laughed, and Ren ran a hand down her arm and took her hand in his. Her eyes widened as he got a serious look on his face.

“Thankfully, I'm not one of the fools.” Ren said. “My Lady, both I and this body are yours, to do with as you wish.” He said, and kissed the inside of her wrist. “My lands, my wealth, and my subjects, are yours to command.”

Nathalia gasped as Ren performed part of the wedding ceremony. “Ren... you can't...”

“I want to prove to you that all I'll do with anyone else, is just sex; no matter what other feelings might develop.” Ren said. “When I'm with you, though; you will always have all of me.”

Nathalia cooed a little, and then smiled. “My Lord, both I and this body are yours, to do with as you wish.” She lifted his hand and kissed the inside of his wrist. “Your lands, your wealth, and your subjects, are mine to command.”

Notice!

You have agreed to share your Superb Spider Silk Coin Vault with Nathalia Neram.

Confirm: Yes / No

“Yes.” Ren said. “Everything I have is yours.”

Nathalia gasped as a new key appeared around her neck next to the House Neram key; then she saw the amount of money Ren had, and that she now had access to.

“By the gods, Ren!” Nathalia exclaimed. “You... you could have bought... everything.”

Ren chuckled. “I'm sure I'd be limited to a certain amount.” He said. “I haven't hit that limit yet, though.”

Nathalia shook her head in disbelief. “You really are too nice for your own good.”

“Yeah, that's a popular opinion.” Ren smirked and took her hand again. “If there's anything you need, anything at all...”

Nathalia sat up and her see-through negligee slid down to cover her breasts again and she looked at it. “It doesn't hide anything at all.” She said and chuckled. Ren sat up next to her and took her into a one armed hug.

“It's not supposed to.” He said, and gave her a kiss on the cheek. “You wanted to turn me on, and it worked like a charm.”

Nathalia looked down at him. “Even after all this talking, you're still ready to go.”

“I'm right beside someone I love very much, and she's practically naked.” Ren said and grinned. “I'm trying really hard to not go all over you while I sit here.”

Her eyes widened at him and Ren chuckled.

“You're pretty damn sexy, you know.”

Nathalia blushed slightly and smiled. “I think you're late for a date with a certain dark-skinned emotion drinker.”

“What?” He said, surprised.

Nathalia laughed. “You forgot that you need to go and feed Elerlyth again?”

“Oh, right.” Ren said. “I guess I better go.” He took his arm away from Nathalia and stood up beside the bed. He reached out a hand to her, she took it, and he helped her stand. He cupped the sides of her face with both of his hands and gave her a gentle kiss.

“Try and get some sleep.” Ren said, and stepped back. “We'll should be able to head back to the city in the morning.”

“Are you sure?” Nathalia said. “You're not going to stay here and keep feeding her?”

Ren shook his head. “I'm hoping that I can feed her so much tonight that she can go for a while without it.”

“Good luck.” Nathalia said. “I'll see you in the morning.”

“I love you, Nathalia.”

“I love you, too.” She said, then gave him a kiss. Ren equipped his Travelling Clothes and his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, then turned towards the doorway.

“Ren.” Nathalia said, and he turned back. “You have my permission to have sex with her.”

Ren's eyes widened at her words. “Nathalia...”

“If you come back here in the morning and tell me you love her, though...” Nathalia scowled at him. “...I'll kill you.”

Ren concentrated on his personal Aura and took her into a hug. “My Love, I'd kill myself before I'd hurt you like that.” He said and kissed her passionately for a moment. He broke the kiss and stepped back. “Goodnight, My Love.” He bowed to Nathalia deeply, heard her gasp, then he walked into the living room. He opened the cabinet, stepped inside, and nailed it shut. He turned to the portal and stepped through it. He took the nails out far enough to open the door, then stepped out to shut it. Ren walked out of the apartment and then down the stairs to the landing.

“You're back.” Elerlyth said, and Ren smiled. She was still sitting in the same spot, but her head was resting on the back of the couch so she could look up the stairs.

“I said I would be.” Ren came down the rest of the way and stepped over in front of the couch. “How are you feeling?”

“Terrible.” Elerlyth said, then smiled. “You, on the other hand, are positively glowing.”

Ren grinned and Elerlyth chuckled.

“Was she really that good?”

“Better.” He said and sat down on the couch by her feet. “It was my first time in the game.”

Elerlyth grinned. “You busted a nut, didn't you?”

Ren nodded.

“How many times?” She asked curious.

“I lost count.” He said, and grinned at Elerlyth's shocked expression. “I was there for an hour and a half. It was a lot.”

“An... an hour... and a half...” Elerlyth stammered.

“We didn't do it for the whole time. Nathalia was sore after a while, so we had to take breaks and change positions.” Ren explained. “Plus, I wanted to take my time.”

“Good god.” Elerlyth shook her head. “You must have wrecked her.”

“I was careful.” Ren said. “Actually, now that I think about it, I better go and take care of something. I'll be right back.”

“Logout.”

********

Ren took off the VR headset and set it down on the rollaway table.

“Hi, Ren.” Barbara said, but didn't comment on anything she had seen.

“Hey, Barbara.” Ren said, and carefully slid out of the bed. “Bathroom break.”

She nodded and looked away as Ren kind of waddled to the bathroom. He shut the door and eased his pajamas out and down to reveal a very full condom.

I'm glad I left all that extra room. Ren thought and gently eased the condom off and did what Stella had shown him to do. He emptied it and flushed the contents, wrapped the used condom in toilet paper, and put it back in his pocket. He cleaned himself off, used the bathroom, then opened another foil packet and slipped the condom on. He left a little more room at the end, just in case, and washed his hands. He left the bathroom and climbed back into bed. Barbara helped him put the VR headset back on and Ren settled down on the bed.

“Thanks, Barbara.”

“You're welcome.”

“Flow Login Start.”

********

“That was fast.” Elerlyth said.

“I just needed to use the bathroom.” Ren said and looked at her. “Your skin lost some of it's color already.”

She nodded. “What you gave me lasted a while, though.”

Ren reached a hand out to her and she took it, gratefully. Elerlyth sighed as Ren's emotions flooded into her.

“Oh... oh my...” Elerlyth said, as Ren thought about the things he did, and the feelings he experienced while doing them. He sent everything to her, and she licked her lips. “Good god, Ren.”

“Are you getting enough?” Ren asked. “I know memories aren't as powerful as experiencing it first hand.”

Elerlyth laughed. “I sincerely doubt she'd want me standing there holding your hand, while you plow into her, Ren.”

Ren chuckled. “Oh, I can guarantee that.” He said and looked at her. “Nathalia's pretty possessive.”

Elerlyth grinned. “I can feel that.”

Ren closed his eyes and pictured Nathalia's hair as it cascaded across the bed and how he felt when he saw it. Ren opened his eyes to look at Elerlyth when she caught her breath.

