She did not sleep.

The chair across from her was empty and the house was full of his absence -- the boots by the door, the almanac open on the shelf, the dent in the mattress where his weight had pressed the straw flat over thirty-two years. She sat at the table with the water jug between her hands and she did not sleep and when the first grey light came through the eastern window she stood and walked out the door and crossed the dark fields toward the ridge.

The dog came with her. Tam was old and slow and had been Edric's before he was theirs, a liver-spotted hound with a grey muzzle who slept on the porch and tracked muddy prints through the kitchen and had not left the yard in two years. But when Maren opened the door he was there, already standing, already pointed toward the ridge, and he fell in beside her with a purpose that made her throat ache because it meant the dog knew. The dog had been watching the ridge since yesterday afternoon and the dog knew that Edric had not come home.

They crossed the east field. The seed bag still hung on the fence post where he had left it. She did not stop for it.

The opening was the same. Seven strides across, perfectly round, the soil ending and the smooth honey-colored stone beginning. The pale green moss-light still glowed from the walls below. The air still rose warm and damp, still smelled of copper and wet earth. But the silence was different now. Yesterday at sundown the silence had been an absence -- Edric not answering. This morning the silence was a presence. Something down there was breathing, and it was not her husband.

Tam reached the lip first. His nose worked the stone edge, reading what was written there in scent -- boot leather, sweat, barley dust, the particular smell of a particular man -- and a low whine started in his chest, thin and continuous, the sound a dog makes when it has found what it was looking for and the finding is wrong.

Maren looked down into the passage. She had the water jug. She had nothing else. She had not thought to bring anything else because this was not an expedition, this was not a choice, this was the thing that happens after the thing that should not have happened. She was going to find her husband.

"Edric," she called.

The sound went down into the wet stone and did not come back.

She went in.

---

The passage was everything Edric had seen and nothing Maren noticed. The warm wet stone, the bioluminescent moss pulsing in its slow green rhythm, the ribbed walls that expanded and contracted with the dungeon's breathing -- she registered none of it. She was looking at the floor. Boot prints. His boot prints, the ones she knew from thirty-two years of muddy kitchen floors, the left heel worn down on the outside edge from the way he favored that hip. They were faint impressions in the thin film of condensation on the stone, already half-evaporated, but they were there and she followed them the way you follow a rope in the dark.

Tam moved ahead of her, nose to the ground, the whine in his chest rising and falling with the dungeon's breathing as if the two sounds were learning each other. The dog did not hesitate at the shallow pool where the floor dipped and the iridescent liquid collected. He went around it. He did not hesitate at the narrow section where the walls pressed close. He squeezed through and she squeezed through behind him, the wet stone warm against her shoulders, the water jug held above her head.

She was fast. Where Edric had counted steps and observed the changing light and felt the passage's breathing, Maren moved with the blind efficiency of panic. She did not count. She did not stop. The moss-light and the amber glow and the deepening warmth passed over her the way landscape passes a rider at full gallop -- present but unregistered, backdrop to the only thing that mattered.

She reached the first chamber in half the time it had taken him.

The moss-light gave way to amber. The domed ceiling, the spiraling ridges, the condensation running down the walls. Tam was already across the chamber, nose pressed to the floor where the passage continued deeper, and the whine had become something else -- a keening, high and broken, the sound of an animal at the end of a trail.

Then the words came.

She felt them the way Edric had felt them -- not heard but known, a pressure behind the sternum, three syllables rising from somewhere below language: what do you want.

Maren Voss did not hesitate. She did not wonder or weigh or examine the question from multiple angles. She was not that kind of person. Edric had been the one who understood things before he acted on them. Maren acted.

"I want to find him."

She said it aloud. The walls contracted once, sharply, and the answer was pulled from her like a splinter from deep in the meat of her hand -- the same direction it had gone in, but faster, harder, and it hurt coming out.

The Designation settled into her like a fever.

```stat-screen
  DESIGNATION ASSIGNED

  DESIGNATION: The Dowser
    Gift: Resonance — Press palm to any surface to feel
    the lingering presence of those who touched it.
    Emotional state, direction of travel, time since
    contact. Stronger impressions from stronger emotions.
    Effect scales with Attunement.
    Cost: Fading — Each use of Resonance erases a memory
    of the person you seek. Most recent memories first,
    working backward. Sustained use may initiate
    independent cascade. The closer you get, the less
    you remember why you are looking.

  You find what you are looking for. You no
  longer know what it is.

  Vitality ........... 26
  Resolve ............ 38
  Attunement ......... 8
  Fortune ............ 11

  You are Dowser #1.
  There is no survival data for this Designation.

  Resonance detected: 1 prior entrant.
  Status: Deceased.
  Time since death: 14 hours.

  Note: The person you are looking for is already dead.
        This information is provided as a courtesy.
        Previous courtesy recipients: 0.
```

She read it. Unlike Edric, she read every word. Designation. Resonance. Fading. She understood the trade -- the Gift would lead her to him and the Cost would take her memories of him, and the transaction was so precisely cruel that she almost laughed. Almost. The numbers meant nothing. The words meant everything. *The person you are looking for is already dead.*

She already knew. She had known since yesterday at sundown, standing at the lip, calling into the dark. She had known the way you know weather -- not from evidence but from the body, from the way the air felt, from the absence of something that should have been there. The Ledger was only confirming what her bones had told her twelve hours ago.

She pressed her palm to the wall.

The impression hit her like a wave. Edric. Here. Fourteen hours ago. She felt the weight of him leaning against this wall, the warmth of his hand, the quality of his attention -- curious, careful, the particular way he touched things when he was trying to understand them. She felt the wonder in his fingers. He had been marveling at the stone. At the breathing. He had been interested in this place that would kill him, and the echo of that interest was so completely, so specifically him that her knees buckled.

The memory of the morning vanished.

Not gradually. Not like forgetting. Like amputation. One moment she could see him at the kitchen door, the light behind him, his voice saying *it is not far*. The next moment there was a hole where that memory had been -- the shape of it still present, the way a pulled tooth leaves a socket, but the thing itself gone. She knew there had been a morning. She knew he had left. She could not see his face in the doorway. She could not hear what he had said.

The Cost. The first payment.

She pressed her palm to the floor. The trail was there -- boot prints she could feel rather than see, a path of fading emotional residue that pointed deeper. She followed it. Each touch gave her Edric and took her Edric -- a moment of his presence traded for a moment of her memory.

She paid. She kept paying.

Touch: the junction where the passage split three ways. She felt him hesitate, felt the pull of the center passage, felt him choose. She lost the memory of last Tuesday -- his hands on the plow, the set of his shoulders, the song he hummed when he thought she could not hear.

Touch: the narrow passage. She felt his shoulders against the stone, felt the damp warmth, felt his heartbeat quicken. She lost the week before that -- the argument about the east fence, the way he had apologized by fixing it without a word, the sound of the hammer at sunset.

Touch: the entrance to the red chamber. She felt his fear. She felt his wonder. She felt the moment he chose to go in rather than go back. She lost their anniversary -- which anniversary, she could not say, because it was gone, the candles and the bread and the laughter and the way the house had smelled of rosemary.

Each payment left her less. Each trail-touch brought her closer. The Gift and the Cost were a single machine and she was feeding herself into it, memory by memory, and the further she followed him the less of him she carried.

---

The red chamber. The barley.

She smelled it first. Fresh-turned earth and green growth and the particular sweetness of barley when the heads are just forming. The smell of home. The smell of the east field in late spring. Her legs nearly gave.

Tam was already there.

The dog had outpaced her in the passage, his nose finding what her Gift found by touch, and he lay now in the barley with his grey muzzle against a dead man's fused hand. The keening had stopped. The silence that replaced it was vast.

The scavengers scattered when she entered.

Small and pale and wrong -- the same creatures Edric had glimpsed in the passage, multiplied now, clustered around the body and the barley garden. They had been feeding on the exposed tissue above the root-line, on the barley itself, grazing on the impossible green with mandibles that clicked in the red light. A dozen of them. Two dozen. They fled at her approach, skittering into cracks and shadows, but she could see them circling at the edge of the amber light, waiting for her to leave.

She did not care about them. She crossed the barley and knelt beside him.

Edric. Rooted into the floor. Legs gone, taken by pale woody growth that merged with the stone. Torso leaning forward, chin on chest, hands flat, fingers splayed and fused. His face was peaceful. His eyes were closed. He looked like a man who had fallen asleep in his own field, and the barley grew around him as if the field had followed him down.

The mattock lay beside him. The ash handle had sprouted. A small branch now, finger-thick, with three pale leaves.

She touched his face. Cool. Not cold. Preserved.

She pressed her palm to his chest.

The Resonance bloomed. His final moments -- the roots climbing his legs, the pain enormous and then not, the warmth entering him completely, and beneath all of it a single coherent feeling that cut through the fear and the dying like a blade through cloth: Maren. Not her name but the whole of her, the weight and shape and meaning of her in his life, the gravity she exerted on every thought he had even at the end, especially at the end.

She lost their wedding. The memory lifted out of her cleanly, completely -- the dress she had borrowed, his hands shaking on the ring, the way his father had wept. Gone. Socket where the tooth had been.

On the wall behind his body, words in handwriting she knew from feed orders and almanac margins:

*Tell Maren I should have brought the water.*

She read it. Read it again. She could not remember what the water referred to. She knew it meant something -- she could feel the significance of it pressing against the empty place where the memory should have been -- but the morning was gone, taken by her first touch on the wall, and the water was a reference to a conversation she could no longer recall.

This was the cruelty. Not the death. Not the body. The cruelty was reading a dead man's last words addressed to her and knowing they referenced a moment she had traded away to find him.

She wept. Without sound, without movement, just the salt and the heat and the shaking. Tam pressed his flank against her leg and she wept with her hand on her dead husband's face and the inscription on the wall that she could not fully understand and the barley growing around both of them.

Her hand found the crystal. Warm, smooth, the size of a plum, resting near where his heart had been. It glowed with a faint gold light -- gentle, specific, like holding a cup of tea someone else had poured.

She pressed it to her forehead.

The chamber vanished.

She was standing in a doorway. Morning light in long amber bars across a kitchen. Bread smell. Woodsmoke. She was looking at herself -- her own face from across the room, the lines around her eyes, the flour on her apron, the angle of her head. She was beautiful. Not the beauty of youth but the beauty of someone you have known so long and so well that the looking is like breathing, involuntary and necessary and so constant you forget you are doing it.

*Bring water.* She heard her own voice through his ears and the words were not nagging. They were love. Practical, unglamorous, specific. The kind that says: I expect you to come home. The kind that plans for tomorrow.

*It is not far.* And the feeling beneath the words -- calm, certain, the quiet knowledge that this woman in the doorway was the best thing in his life and he would see her tonight.

The crystal shattered.

She was back. The red chamber. The body. Gold fragments dissolving between her fingers. The memory the crystal had given her was the same memory her first touch had taken: the morning, the doorway, the look. She had it back. She had it from the other side.

And then the Fading took it again.

She felt it go. The crystal memory, fresh and warm and devastating, lifted cleanly out of her the way all the others had gone -- the Resonance from touching his chest still active, still extracting its price. She had the morning for ten seconds. She saw his face seeing her face. She felt what it was to be loved by Edric Voss. And then it was gone and the hole it left was worse than the first time because now she knew exactly what had been in it.

```stat-screen
  MEMORY CRYSTAL CONSUMED

  Type:     Gold (love)
  Source:   Edric Voss, Reaper #1
  Content:  Morning kitchen. Wife in the doorway.
            Light through eastern windows.

  Effect:   Fortune +2 (11 → 13)

  Note:     This is the first Memory Crystal consumed
            in the Maw. Cumulative Resolve penalty:
            0 (first crystal is free).

  WARNING:  Crystal memory subject to active Fading.
            Retention not guaranteed.
```

She stood. She was already standing. She was already moving.

Not back. Back was the entrance, the ridge, the house with the empty chair, a life shaped entirely by the absence of someone she was losing the ability to remember. She could not go back to that. Not with holes in her where he should be. Not with the taste of a memory she could no longer identify dissolving on her tongue.

She went deeper.

Tam did not follow. The dog lay beside Edric's body with his muzzle on the fused hand and his eyes on Maren and he did not move. An old dog's judgment, simpler and more correct than anything the Maw would offer: stay with the dead. Let the living go.

---

The Marrow Warrens began without warning.

One step the walls were warm and wet and amber. The next they were white. Bone-white. Dry. The moisture that had clung to every surface in the Gullet was gone. The air was cool and still and smelled of nothing -- no copper, no earth, no green. The absence of smell was as shocking as a blow.

```stat-screen
  ENTERING DEPTH 2: The Marrow Warrens

  Known hazards:    Labyrinth disorientation, bone parasites
  Deaths on Depth:  0
  Survival rate:    No data.

  Resolve +1 (Depth transition)

  Resonance detected: 0 prior entrants on this Depth.
  The person you are tracking did not reach this far.
```

She pressed her palm to the white wall. Nothing. No warmth, no echo, no trace of anyone. Edric had never touched these walls. He had never walked these corridors. He had died one floor above and the trail was over and her Gift was useless and the cost it had extracted -- the mornings, the evenings, the anniversaries, the arguments, the daily domestic architecture of thirty-two years -- had been paid for a path that ended at a body she was already losing the ability to grieve.

She walked anyway.

The corridor branched. Left, right, left again. Then right, right, left. Every passage identical: smooth white walls, flat white floor, white ceiling. No moss. No light in the walls. The illumination was sourceless and even, casting no shadows, offering no direction.

She touched the walls as she walked. Not for Resonance -- there was no one to track. For contact. For the feel of something solid, something real, something outside the dissolving landscape of her own mind where the holes were spreading. She had lost their wedding. She had lost the mornings. She had lost the arguments and the reconciliations and the way the house smelled when he came in from the fields. She was losing the shape of his hands. She was losing the sound of his voice. She was losing him by degrees, and the worst part was that she could feel each piece go, could feel the edges of each absence, could map the growing emptiness without being able to stop it.

She called his name. The bone corridors gave it back to her distorted -- the white walls bouncing the sound in wrong directions, fracturing the syllables, turning a name into noise. She followed the echoes because they were all she had and they led deeper and they led nowhere.

She was lost in minutes. The Warrens were designed for this.

She pressed her palm to a wall. Nothing. Another wall. Nothing. A floor. Nothing. No one had been here. She was the first, the only, alone in a bone labyrinth with a Gift that worked on memory and a mind that was running out of it.

She could have gone back. That was the thing. At the entrance to the Warrens, where the warm amber gave way to bone-white, she could have stopped. The Gullet was behind her. His body was behind her. The entrance was behind the Gullet. She could have gone home and lived with the grief the way people live with grief -- by carrying it, by enduring, by letting the weight of it become bearable over ordinary days.

She could not do that. She was Maren, who acted. Who had always acted. Who could not sit with a wound but had to find its edges, understand its depth, press until the pain made sense. She had married a man who waited for the season to turn and she had loved him for his patience and she did not have one drop of it in her own blood.

The corridors closed around her.

She ran. She turned corners she had turned before and did not know it. She called a name she was losing the ability to connect to a face. She pressed her palms to walls that held nothing and the Fading continued -- not from the Gift now, the Gift was finding nothing to take, but from its own momentum, the process started and self-sustaining, memories dissolving in a slow cascade that had passed from their shared history into her private one. She was losing childhood memories. The color of her mother's kitchen. The name of a horse she had loved at twelve. The feeling of her feet in cold river water on a summer day.

She stopped at a junction. Four identical corridors. She pressed her palm to the nearest wall -- not for Resonance, just to feel something solid -- and caught herself waiting for the impression. The old reflex: press, receive, follow. Nothing came. She held her hand there and understood, with the clean clarity of very late things, that she had forgotten what she was looking for. Not where -- she had never known where. But the why. The name that had been the needle of this compass. There was a shape of a person in her chest. She loved them. She was certain of it. She could feel the specific weight of it, the thirty-two-year density. But the name -- the name was a door handle in the dark, her fingers closing around air.

She pressed her other hand to the wall. Still nothing.

In a bone-white corridor that looked like every other corridor, Maren Voss stopped walking. She leaned against the wall and slid down it until she was sitting on the floor with her knees drawn up and her hands flat on the white surface and she tried to remember a name.

There was a name. She was sure of it. A name that mattered, that was the reason she was here, that was connected to the warmth she could still feel in her chest like the afterimage of a fire she could no longer see. She had come here for someone. She had walked into a hole in the ground and followed a trail and found a body and read words on a wall and none of it was accessible anymore. Just the shapes. Just the sockets where the teeth had been.

Someone. She had loved someone.

She could feel it -- the love -- even without the memories to anchor it. It was there the way warmth is there after the fire goes out, sourceless and fading but real. She held it. She held it the way you hold water in cupped hands, knowing it is already spilling, holding it anyway because the holding is the point.

The bone parasite found her there.

It came from the dead end behind her. Low and flat, pale as the walls, visible only as a faint distortion in the sourceless light -- a thickening where no thickness should be. It moved on bone-white digits that blended perfectly with the bone-white floor. It had no eyes. It had no scent. It navigated by vibration and heat and the slow movement of the maze itself.

It had been moving toward her for three minutes. She did not hear it -- the digits made no sound against the bone floor, only the faintest displacement of air, a coolness arriving from the wrong direction. If she had been present she might have felt it. The back of the neck. The animal knowledge of approach. But she was not present. She was in her hands.

She did not see it. She was looking at her own hands, trying to remember whose face they had touched.

The pain was quick. The bone-digits found the tendons in her ankles and severed them with a precision that was not cruel because cruelty requires awareness and this thing was not aware. It was architecture. It was the maze defending itself the way a body rejects a splinter.

She fell sideways. She did not cry out. There was a name -- she could feel it in her mouth, two syllables worn smooth by thirty-two years of use. She said it.

"Edric."

The sound echoed in the Warrens and came back wrong -- fractured by the bone corridors, scattered into noise. She heard it return and did not recognize it.

The Fading took the last of it. Not a specific memory but the architecture itself -- the ability to know that she had lost something, the awareness of the absence, the grief that required a referent. She could not grieve what she could not remember having. The love was there, still, the fire's last warmth, but it was untethered now, floating free, belonging to no one and nothing, a feeling without a cause.

She was quiet at the end. The bone thing was efficient. The corridors were silent. Somewhere above her, in a chamber made of amber light and impossible barley, a dog lay beside a body and did not move, and the two of them -- the dead man and the old dog -- were the last remaining proof that Maren Voss had been loved and had loved in return, and neither of them could tell anyone.

---

On the wall of a bone-white dead end, deep in the second Depth of the Maw, words appeared. Pressed into the smooth surface from within, in handwriting that was quick and sharp:

*Someone was here. I think I loved them.*

The second Death Inscription. Written by a woman who could no longer remember the name of the man she had come to find, next to whom she had slept for thirty-two years, for whom she had carried water to a ridge and called into a hole in the ground until her voice broke. The Maw had taken the name. The Fading had taken everything except the shape of the feeling, and the feeling was what the stone preserved.

Future entrants would find it. Would read it beside the first inscription, one floor above:

*Tell Maren I should have brought the water.*
*Someone was here. I think I loved them.*

His: a name and a regret, addressed to a specific person.
Hers: the ghost of a feeling, addressed to no one.

A conversation between the dead where one side remembers and the other has forgotten, and the reader knows both sides and the stone knows neither, and that is the shape of the dungeon's cruelty -- not that it kills, but that it takes the meaning from the killing.

```stat-screen
  DEATH REPORT

  Entrant:         Maren Voss
  Designation:     Dowser #1
  Depth reached:   2 (The Marrow Warrens)
  Time survived:   51 minutes
  Cause of death:  Fading (Cost manifestation).
                   Secondary: bone parasite infestation

  Vitality at death:     0
  Resolve at death:      39 (+1 Depth transition)
  Attunement at death:   14 (+6 from Gift usage)
  Fortune at death:      13 (+2 Gold crystal)

  Gift used:       7 times (Resonance tracking)
  Monsters killed: 0
  Distance covered: 1.1 km

  Memory Crystals consumed: 1 (Gold — love, Edric Voss)

  Memories erased by Fading: approximately 30 years.
  Final cognitive state: identity dissolution. Subject
  retained emotional attachment to unknown referent.
  Subject could not identify the referent at time of
  death.

  Note: Fading cascade self-sustained. Cost model updated.

  Note: The entrance was visible from Depth 1.

  Harvest:
  - Death Inscription: 1
  - Memory Crystal: 1 (Blue — grief)
  - Floor Mutation: Resonance echo. Bone corridors near
    death site retain faint emotional impressions.
    Classification: minor.
  - Gift Absorption: Resonance acquired by the Maw.

  You are death #2.
  998 remain.
```

No one read it.

In the bone-white corridor, a Memory Crystal formed. Blue. The color of grief. Because at the end, with the Fading stripping everything else away, the strongest thing left in Maren Voss had not been the love -- the love was there but untethered, a feeling without a name -- it had been the grief. The ache of reaching for something that was no longer there. The crystal held inside it a woman in a white corridor, trying to remember a face, feeling enormous tenderness for someone she could no longer identify. A future entrant who consumed it would feel the grief without knowing its source. Would gain +2 Resolve from the sheer endurance of a woman who kept feeling after she had lost the ability to know what she was feeling for.

Above, in the Gullet, Tam lay beside Edric's body. The old dog had not moved. The barley grew around him, green shoots pressing against his liver-spotted flanks. He did not move and he would not move, and when the next entrant came they would find him there -- thinner, quieter, lying with his muzzle on the dead man's hand -- and they would step around him and the dog would watch them pass with old eyes that held no judgment, only the patient incomprehension of an animal waiting for a person who would not come back.

The dog did not leave. The barley grew over him the way it had grown over Edric -- slowly, without violence, the green shoots pressing against his liver-spotted flanks until he was part of the garden, another quiet thing the first floor held. His breathing slowed to match the dungeon's breathing. Six beats per minute. Then five. The old dog did not fight this. He had been waiting for a person who was not coming, and the waiting had been its own kind of sleep, and the sleep had roots now, and the roots were warm.

The Maw did not count the dog. The Ledger did not record him. He was outside the system, irrelevant to the Lock, a piece of grief that did not fit the mechanism's requirements. But every entrant who passed through the Gullet in the first year remembered the dog more clearly than they remembered the inscriptions, and when they told the story of the garden they said: there was a dog. And that was enough to keep him.

The second tumbler turned. The Lock registered: a wife, killed by her own search, in the maze below the chamber where her husband grew. Two deaths. Two crystals. Two inscriptions that would never understand each other.

The dungeon breathed, and in the Warrens, the bone walls shifted, and the corridors reconfigured around the body the way a river routes around a stone, and she was buried in bone, and above her his barley grew, and below her the deeper Depths waited for the nine hundred and ninety-eight who would follow.

Death #2. 998 remain.
