“You’ll have me.” Stuart let go of Alden’s freshly bandaged hand. “I wonder if the Burden of Spell facet would allow you to hold one of the ways I create. And what the result would be.”

“You mean literally hold the tunnel that forms when you use your skill?” Alden tried to wrap his head around the idea. “It doesn’t exist for very long. Did whatever you read about my skill say I should be able to do something like that?”

Stuart shook his head. “It wasn’t detailed in that way. You know we can do things with our skills and steer them in directions their designers never imagined? You can follow rules they didn’t set and value aspects of yourself that they didn’t account for.”

“Like your father deciding ‘fair play’ was an important concept for Cleaver of Strength? And you deciding to use Maker of Narrow Ways like you plan to.”

“Yes. You can do the same as The Bearer of All Burdens. You’ll find your own  way of liking it, and you’ll turn it into something that is uniquely yours even if others have held the skill in the past. I look forward to finding out what you’ll be doing with it a few years from now.”

“I’m really not getting tired of being able to talk about it. Do you have preferences for what I choose during my next binding? Now that you know I’ll be working with this. If we’re going to fight together, there must be some things you wish I’d lean toward.”

Stuart pulled his legs up to sit with them crossed on the wide sill. “I want…to understand what you’re choosing and why as part of making my own choices. I’ll give you my opinions on everything, but I don’t want us to be very concerned about maximizing the functionality of each other’s skill for our early bindings. I think we’ll find plenty of ways to support each other as it is.”

“What’s next then? Now that you’ve solved the thing I thought would be getting in our way for… I don’t even know how long…what do we do? I’ve changed my classes around at Celena North so they’re mostly helping me get ready.”

“Your MPE classes aren’t bad training for now. I’ll help you practice your skill and your wizardry whenever you want. But I won’t be very good at that for a while after first binding…I don’t know how much I should delay that… ”

“Not at all for my sake,” Alden said adamantly. “The advice your father gave you sounded good. Do it when you’re sure. That’ll be the right time. Everything else will fall into place around it.”

“I’m scared.”

Alden’s stomach clenched. “That’s healthy.”

Stuart stared out over the grounds of the old house, toward the hillside where they’d fired the keda bean together.

“Our friendship is now so many things I’ve wanted. I wish I’d met you years ago, or that we had years ahead of us to live like we did today, or that day.” He gestured toward the hill. “I’ll change, Alden. I want to be better. What if I’m not? What if, as a knight, I’m worse?”

The obvious answers crossed Alden’s mind:  You won’t be. You won’t change that much. Lots of people have done it, and you’re as good as any of them.

But the obvious answers kind of sounded like bullshit in the face of emotion this raw. He reached for Stuart’s spot in reality and stayed beside it. An act of attention. Closeness.

“I’ll be here,” he said.

******
