“I was considering my reply,” Stuart said. “If I heard another Declared had selected that skill—someone who was a stranger to me—I would admire their choice and think they were someone I’d like to know. I would look forward to meeting them and would make what efforts I could to be considerate of their need for an entruster. There’s nothing fundamentally wrong with The Bearer of All Burdens, not even to the slightest degree. It is dignified, versatile, and selfless. What it costs the knight, or Avowed, who becomes it is repaid in potency. Actually, it’s more practical than my own skill will be in many ways, so I hope you won’t worry about that again. If you had chosen it for yourself after a choosing season like my own, I would be glad for you and think you had chosen something close to perfection…. But every time I think of you choosing it in ignorance, I grow more furious.”

The forest went as quiet as it usually was closer to the siblinghold. Shadows seemed to sharpen. Stuart’s eyes burned.

Alden could suddenly imagine him taking on the Grand Senate. Only it would be less like politics and more like what he’d done to Ro-den.

“Thanks for that,” Alden said. “But don’t send the trees to war for me… unless they’re definitely going to win.”

Stuart exhaled and relaxed his grip on the walking stick. The nearby trees creaked, and the noises began to return as he and Alden moved on.

“This skill will grow with you for your whole life. You could choose another and neglect your first, but it will always be a prominent part of you. There’s a different…weight to a skill like this than there is to something like your spell impression. I say you may neglect it, but that’s a last resort that is likely to have bad outcomes. Ideally, you would have had access to everything I’ve had access to before your first binding. But you didn’t. And from where we are now, the best course is for you to nurture what you have become and take pride in it.

“One day, when you’re sure you have an enduring, positive relationship with who you are as The Bearer of All Burdens, then you might bind another major skill. The older knights tell us the right reason for doing something like that is to run closer to what we already are instead of fleeing from the first skill. They also say we’ll find it hard to tell the difference during the early years. Does that make sense?” He looked over at Alden worriedly.

“It does,” Alden answered. “Lying to yourself about why you want a new skill would be an easy trap to fall into. Convincing myself I’d be better at bearing burdens if I could fly…it might be true, but if I’m taking a flying skill even a little bit because I don’t like something about Bearer, like entrustment, I’m feeding self-hatred.”

“Entrustment,” said Stuart. “I’ve wanted to address this with you. How much do you truly dislike it? And what would make it worth the sacrifice that is inherent to it?”

The way he asked was careful, so Alden tried to answer with equal care. “At best, it’s inconvenient. I can’t use my skill without requesting permission or tricking another person into giving it. At worst, it terrifies me. If something bad happens when I’m alone or with someone who won’t entrust anything, I don’t have a skill. I know the point of it is to make me more powerful in certain circumstances and that a preservation skill without entrustment would be weaker than mine. On most days, I even think it’s worth it…if the effect’s strong enough compared to what it would be without it.”

“You do! Good!”

Alden let himself laugh a little at that. “You were worried I was holding onto much worse regret, I guess? I’m fine. Honest. I’m just not sure I would have accepted that price if I’d understood more and thought it through. I don’t think I’m going to flee from it, though.”

“I’m relieved you acknowledge its potential,” Stuart said. “It’s the kind of restriction anyone might struggle with, even someone who’d chosen it wholeheartedly. But as long as you don’t <<despise>> it, I think you’ll come to appreciate it more than not. You need more practice with taking advantage of that aspect of the skill. I’m not sure you’ve ever used it in an ideal way except perhaps with Kivb-ee. But that wasn’t the best situation, and she wasn’t the best entruster to help you experience all it has to give.”

“Harsh.”

“I only mean that she’s a child and not very powerful.”

“Harsh on me,” said Alden, frowning. “Do you really think I’ve only ever had one correct entruster experience? What about Zeridee?”

Stuart lifted his stick to encourage another bush to get out of his way. “I know she had a severe brain injury that prevented her from thinking clearly, but didn’t you say you had trouble getting her to agree to your help?”

“She didn’t want me to take any risks because my death might make an art’h sad.”

“It would have.”

“Good to know.”

“To me, it sounds like she might not have been able to be a proper entruster. Your magic was very effective during that disaster, but that doesn’t mean you were expressing your skill perfectly. You were, as you just indicated, immensely burdened. That would make you more in tune with your skill, but your skill is like a song with many notes. Were you singing all of them well, or only the ones that are about suffering and sacrifice? Most of what you’ve done as The Bearer of All Burdens has been <<wrong difficulty>>, hasn’t it? Either too unserious or too torturous. How many entrusters have actually trusted you to protect something that is important to them? And how often are you genuinely willing to serve them in that way?”

“Both of those at the same time?” Alden looked down at his feet, thinking. “Hardly ever. Maybe with you during the mishnen. Ro-den’s assistants. I don’t really know how any of you felt, though. But definitely with…”

“Kivb-ee,” said Stuart. “You carried her frequently, didn’t you? During your final days at the lab, not only during your run to find Aunt Alis. She needed you to bear the burden of the chaos for her and trusted you to do it. You wanted to do it. That was probably close to a perfect expression of your skill in multiple ways. I think your, ‘At best, it’s inconvenient,’ doesn’t acknowledge that the entrustment requirement made you strong enough to do that.”

“I know,” Alden said. He looked down. They were getting close to the old house. There was bluish green grass here peeking up between roots. “I do appreciate that.”

“If Kivb-ee had been as powerful as Father, you might have been able to shield the whole laboratory without much strain.”

“I…what?” Alden leaped ahead a couple of steps so that he could spin and face Stuart. He held up his hands even though Stuart had already halted. “The strength of the entruster’s authority affects what I can do? That much?”

“It does.”

“How do you know that? How do I not know that?”

Stuart raised an eyebrow at him.

Alden raised one back. “Because I’m not usually approaching entrustment with the proper attitude.”

“Entrustment isn’t a restriction that exists solely for the sake of adding to your burden. It’s magic you can do, intentionally, to forge a connection between you and another person that will increase your skill’s authority to influence reality because you’re not alone. You’re representing someone else as well. If you do it in the right way, the authority of the other person becomes a relevant factor.”

“Oh.”

“But you don’t have to be the perfect Bearer of All Burdens in every way every time you do anything with it. As long as you’re not fighting yourself, however you want to use your own skill is fine.”

“I want to make sure I know how to do it all, though. I don’t want to be a half-ass knight. I want to be able to preserve a large asteroid that’s bothering my entruster. I’m assuming my entruster is you, by the way.”

“A bothersome asteroid?”

“You’ll pick one, and I’ll throw it toward a moon-sized demon. You know, if your own skill is exhausted.”

Stuart’s expression shifted from consternation to delight. “I’d like to do that, too.”

“Of course you would. Who wouldn’t? We’ll make it a goal.” Alden turned and led the way forward, squeezing past the next bush before the walking stick could get involved.

“Half-assed is bad?” Stuart asked.

“Correct.”

“Badass is good.”

“Also correct. You are a badass who kicks ass with a walking stick.”

“That’s confusing,” said Stuart. “But I will learn.”

******

******

“ …so I took Burden of Enchantment,” Alden concluded. “It hasn’t been useful many times yet, but I think when I’m better educated about which enchantments do what and can be moved where…well, I’m hoping it will be something worthwhile.”

It was around midday, and he sat on a huge windowsill beside Stuart, facing the outdoors with his feet dangling over the edge above a carpet of dead leaves. Stuart said if that carpet was swept away, a “spell court” of stone stars would be revealed. But there was no sign of that, and the grand hall at their back had almost as many leaves in it. They covered the glossy floor and piled up in drifts at the base of columns carved into the shapes of plants and animals that Alden didn’t know the names of.

The old house was a magnificent place, but a very strange one. There were no windows, only the openings where they would have been. When people last lived here, spells had allowed the good weather in and kept the bad out. Some rooms had no roofs. There was furniture, but not in normal amounts or arrangements—a set of stools in one room, a wardrobe in another, a table with a white basin full of water in a third. It had been hot and clean, and Stuart had encouraged Alden to wash his hands in it because he’d been brushing grime off things everywhere they went to see what the house really looked like.

Nothing seemed to be dirty beneath the dirt the way it should have been. Piles of rotted leaves left no stains on the floors. Something that looked like mold had fallen away from an entire wall when Alden had only wiped a single board.

It was like this place remembered how to be a house and wanted to be one again.

It also wanted to drink Alden’s blood like a vampire. That should have been concerning, probably. But the house wasn’t too mean about it, so he had decided to take it as evidence of welcome. Like Stuart was doing.

“I’m sorry it’s taking so much,” he said, sounding more chipper than sorry as he wrapped the fifth makeshift leaf bandage of the day around Alden’s left palm. “These do seem to be slowing it down.”

When they’d first arrived, Stuart had buried his walking stick under the tree he’d cut it from. Then he’d introduced Alden to the house as the friend, the knowledge, and the power he’d brought back from his trip to foreign lands. Alden had done his part by shining his light spell around to show the house he was friendly, knowledgable, and powerful. After minimal protest, he’d also given the ground a few drops of blood from a tiny cut they’d made on his palm.

A couple of weeks ago, he’d have argued more. Not because he minded donating his blood to a house, but because he’d been specifically deprived of the opportunity to do it before. During his welcome to the siblinghold, no human blood had gone on the hearthstone. Sure, it was a little bit of a bummer to be left out, but he didn’t want his DNA to break something because ancient wizards hadn’t imagined just how foreign a foreign guest could be.

Now, though, Stuart insisting was enough reason to ignore his misgivings. His friend had built and furnished a small building and threatened a teacher with it. He’d stolen a demon hide that they’d been told not to mess with. Ro-den was probably feeding that thing to his grasshoppers while plotting how to murder Stuart…when he finally stopped skipping school.

So Stuart was definitely getting yelled at soon, and some amount of fallout might land on Alden, too. But considering everything he was getting in return, it was worth it.

If his friend wanted this house to meet a human the old fashioned way, so be it. Alden had taken off his rings and shed a few drops on the same patch of soil where Stuart had apparently donated so much he’d almost fainted a few days ago.

The gremlin had been a giant mental question mark ever since. Like it knew something was going on and couldn’t decide if it was a positive or a negative.

The old house hadn’t collapsed on top of their heads, and no alarms had sounded. Instead, the wound on Alden’s hand had gotten wider and wider until he was leaving a trail of blood drops behind him as they explored.

“It’s funny that one of the first things we do once I’ve got my protective rings is take them off so that they don’t interfere with the house injuring me.”

“Leaving is a better prevention if the bleeding won’t stop. And of course your Burden of Enchantment will be useful. A lot of the equipment knights use gets damaged but not completely destroyed. I think you should be able to move an enchantment that’s still good off of something broken onto another tool. The possibilities will increase as your power grows, and I’ll be there to help you decide what can be successfully transferred. If we’re partners, my knowledge is yours.”

“That’s nice to hear. I wish I could learn everything myself, but until I can actually cram decades of new information into my brain… ”

