285

******

Before Stuart had stepped outside, he’d cleaned most of the melon from the alcove. The room still smelled like it. Alden stood near the door, exhilarated by his freedom from the secrecy contract and eager to follow his friend, but waiting for a final interaction with Worli Ro-den. Even though he didn’t know what there was for either of them to say, there must be something. Ro-den had pushed to get him alone for a private conversation. Now they could have one. Alden was surprised the man hadn’t burst into speech the second Stuart exited.

Didn’t he have more for me than ‘You’ll die!’? Details about that warning?

Or even a request not to spread the word about his tutoring sessions?

Ro-den was just sitting. He slumped on the chest that held Renjen-art’h’s demon hide, drinking from a cup. Alden noticed that it didn’t match the other dishes Stuart had taken from the table. He had time to observe random details like that, since the person he was waiting around for wasn’t speaking to him after all.

Guess the smooth talk was a show again, he decided. And I’m not worth the effort now.

Alden told himself he should count this silence as a win and simply be grateful that the professor wasn’t pushing him to reactivate the tattoo.

He was extremely grateful. To Stuart. But the longer he stood here, watching Ro-den sulk, the more furious accusations were coming to mind. He had had a long time since their last talk to fill a well inside him to the brim with resentment. He could dip his hand in there and pull up so many different varieties of anger for this one person.

Here was some tinged with his embarrassment about how easily he’d trusted and how much he’d failed to understand. Location-specific grievances were coming to mind; he was here to see a mind healer who was helping him deal with his memories of Thegund, after all. And he could feel even darker stuff rising—cruel things he’d pictured himself saying to Ro-den when he woke up from nightmares about cleaning the remains of Kibby’s family out of the car.

No. There’s nothing from that place that should ever be said.

“I’m glad I can talk to Stu about myself now,” he said. “Properly. But I don’t see a good reason to spread around most of the things that were covered by our agreement, if that’s something you’re worried about. I’ve got enough common sense not to shout about Earth Contract’s soft spots or the smuggling of bombs.”

Ro-den’s only answer was a glance.

That’s it? How exactly did Stuart put him in this state? I guess I did basically say that I’ll keep what benefits me and protects my planet a secret, and that might be so obvious it’s not worth responding to.

Whatever. If this is all there is, I’ll go.

He turned.

“‘Common sense’ must mean something different to you than it does to most intelligent beings.”

Ro-den’s parting shot was quiet but petulant. It struck Alden as absurd. The ‘bald general,’ the Distinguished Master, the tyrant of the LeafSong labs. Joe. Sitting on a box with nothing more to offer than that insult.

Who is this person? Why did he have so much power to disappoint me?

“People expect you to be cool,” Alden said in English. “So many people. You obviously know how to be, but then…you aren’t.”

When he stepped out into the evening air, he felt like he’d finally gotten that clean break Ro-den had insisted on when they met at Matadero.

Stuart was waiting for him on the road. He’d already selected a green pebble from the bucket to carry as his offering to the House of Healing.

Now there’s a guy who knows how to be cool when it matters.

Stuart was trying to hold his pebble in one hand and multiple cantaloupe shards in the other. He had his anti-Ro-den stick under his arm. His mouth was full.

“How did you do this?!” Alden crowed, bounding over to join him. “You looked exhausted when we talked a few days ago. You still do. Have you been trying to make this happen all week? That’s badass! You need to teach me how to say ‘badass’ in Artonan. I thought we were going to have to put up with so much shitty misunderstanding before this was over. I was trying to train my way out of it. But you just came along and figured it out and solved it. Give me that. You didn’t have to eat the attack cantaloupe. I would have brought you another.”

He was sure Stuart had been extreme. The chest Ro-den was taking was extreme all by itself. Wasn’t the rest of the art’h family going to flip out when they realized it was gone?

“I’m relieved I did the right thing,” Stuart said. “If I’d been wrong about you needing help with it— ”

“You were right. You were so right. And you’d better be proud of yourself for persuading Ro-den. He wouldn’t even answer a call from me.”

Stuart wrapped his fingers around the last piece of melon before Alden could take it. “I am a little proud.”

“Be a lot proud. And if the consequences from your family are rough,” said Alden, “I’ll be worth the trouble eventually.”

“Already. Not eventually.”

“You can blame the demon hide on me. Tell Aymeg I’m so stupid I misunderstood him and thought he wanted me to give that chest to a smart wizard.”

“I won’t do that.” Stuart paused. “Blaming you wouldn’t be badass.”

Alden laughed. “You’re right! I feel shame for even suggesting it. Let’s go get my mind healed so that I have better ideas in the future.”

******

The long walk along the inward path that night was as helpful as always, but for the first time, Alden was in a hurry to leave at the end of it. He popped out of the grotto where he had been obediently steeping and bowed his thanks to Healer Yenu at the spiral’s entrance.

His peaceful thoughts were already being swept up in the thrill of finally getting to head to the Rapport and have a talk about his skill without anything getting in the way.

“Where’s Stu?” he asked, looking around the dark grove behind the House of Healing.

“Inside,” said Yenu-pezth. “He argued with his healer that he would not sleep, but he is sleeping. Let that be instructive.”

Sleeping? He’s going to do that for hours. I can say anything I want, but who am I supposed to talk to?

“Good.” Alden tried to sound like a person with self-control. “He needs it.”

******

******

“It’s part of a ritual for when a member of the family goes traveling. It allows me to carry the land with me, in a way, wherever I go.”

Stuart pointed the object under discussion—his walking stick—toward a cluster of bushes that had overgrown the path to the old art’h house. The bushes leaned away, opening a narrow trail for them to pass.

“I couldn’t invite Ro-den here, so I did this. Leeter-zis leveraged the power I was carrying with me and designed a separate ritual to enhance it and make the greeting house my domain. I thought he’d be able to do something like that after seeing his work during the Here-to-There.”

“Despite the first impression I had of him, he turned out to be a serious wizard,” said Alden. “And he did tell me he wished he could use you as an ingredient here in your home.”

“He told me the same thing. He wasn’t hesitant about it at all. And the way he takes advantage of other peoples’ festivities for his casting requires creativity and competence. I was still surprised at how much he managed in such a short amount of time, though.”

“Him? I can’t believe how much you did in a short amount of time. We’re definitely in private now? Since you started talking about this, I can say whatever I like, too?”

It was an early morning in the middle of the woods, but about fifteen minutes ago, Stuart had said he sensed his brother Kofa. They’d walked in companionable silence since then.

“We’re alone.”

Alden hit him with an authority greeting. “Finally! Hello! I’m The Bearer of All Burdens. But that’s a gloomy title, so please just call me Alden.”

Stuart stopped. The butt of his walking stick dug into the soil. Alden had almost gotten used to its presence, but the stick did call attention to itself in a way a normal accessory wouldn’t.

Stuart returned the greeting with his own authority, but said, “Would you please not speak jokingly about your skill for now? It’s important that I understand how you think of it, and with everything that’s happened and language differences… ”

“You want to be sure.”

Stuart nodded.

“I understand. That’s the right thing.” Alden did want to make sure they were on the same page, too. “I’m…not certain whether or not I was completely joking about that. I am The Bearer of All Burdens. Sometimes that sounds impressive to me. At other times, it sounds too hard. Bearing burdens isn’t the most pleasant concept I can imagine for a skill.”

Stuart’s reply was soft. “I hear.”

“I’m proud of a lot of things I’ve done with it, but I’m also overwhelmed by it. For example, you asked about that time I managed to hold Zeridee with it during the flood. Just my magic, no hands. I was in pain, dying myself, and trying to hold onto her with everything I had left. I am glad I can do that, but I don’t actually want to have to do that. To go that far to be one with my skill. And then, in addition to that, you told me there was a way to have a skill that does very similar things to Bearer without the entrustment restriction. I can’t say that doesn’t make me…regretful. Somewhat. The negative emotions aren’t my main ones, but they’re there.”

Before Stuart had a chance to reply, Alden added, “Right now, I’m so happy I get to talk about it. I might tell you I’m The Bearer of All Burdens fifty times before the day is through.”

“It’s a beautiful skill, Alden,” Stuart said after a moment. “I’ve collected some of the information that’s available on it for you.”

“Thank you!” Alden blinked. “But already? That was fast.”

They’d both spent the night at the House of Healing and gotten up early. Stuart had done a short ceremonial handover of the greeting house to the healers. Now, they were back here to talk and give the walking stick to the old house. It seemed impossible that Stuart had found even a second of free time.

“I had a reasonable theory about which skill was yours before yesterday.”

“You did?”

“After I realized the contract with Worli Ro-den was what made you act so unlike yourself whenever I wanted to discuss your skill with you, the possibilities narrowed. He wouldn’t have forced you to hide the truth if it were a common Avowed talent. And when I gave you my tablet to research masterpieces, I saw that you were most interested in spells similar to the skill you already have. As if you intended for it to be your main one long into the future. That narrowed the possibilities even further. Once it occurred to me that you might have bound one of the skills that were designed for early Avowed, I looked them up in our manuscript library.”

The whole mystery of what was wrong with me was being unraveled while I assumed I had to deal with it myself.

“I even knew where the information I wanted was without asking. Jozz had looked at some of those skills when researching to find his own. And I had followed his research while trying to help you. Among those skills, there was only one that could have been yours, and it matched so well that I was almost sure.”

“You figured it all out just like that.”

“After seeing you use your skill many times and spying on you.” Stuart sounded frustrated. “I’m sorry I didn’t realize sooner.”

“I have no complaints,” Alden said. “I feel ridiculous, though. I even thought you were trying to be sneaky when you gave me the tablet with the spell descriptions, but I didn’t know how sneaky. Did you read my search history or something?”

Stuart pointed to rusty orange eyes that wore thin golden implants.

“Your eyerings! I’m an idiot. Of course you can view your own tablet through them.”

“You’re not an idiot. You just trust me, which I hope you will continue to do. I’ve felt guilty. I had to stop myself from confessing.”

“It’s all good. It’s really good from my point of view. But what’s…so…my skill is something you’ve read about. You’ve seen me use it, and now you know it’s going to be something I do a lot of. For a long time. What do you think about it? From a knight’s perspective. And from a practical one. Honestly.”

This was a question that filled him with nerves.

Stuart had said the skill was beautiful, but that seemed like what one person should say to another in this situation. Even if a knight revealed they had a skill that was weird as hell, Alden thought he would be able to sincerely tell them it was beautiful that they’d found the thing they wanted to make part of their soul and chosen to share the news with him.

Useless, broken, or painful things could contain beauty. But he didn’t want to hear that he was a quirky clunker by the standards of someone who’d been exposed to all the awesome modern skill options.

Maybe I shouldn’t have asked. If he thinks I’m massively flawed, I’m not sure I’m ready to hear it.

Stuart was taking a long time to answer the question, too, which wasn’t helping.

“Stuart?”

