Plazia’s voice was a low growl.

“We cannot stop the beast, but we can stop Elysium.”

I pulled open the portal restraining Plazia.

“Of course. Can you warp us-”

He sliced his spear above my head, the blade humming with violence.

“It is done. Go.”

I let the portable portal shrink before diving into the fresh warp. As I did, the vessels of Elysium floated over me. They hovered in the distance, and a portion of the Hybrid bubbled out towards the ship. For a moment, it looked as if the giant would destroy the vessel, but this was no mutiny. A vast rip in space opened behind me, and the end state eldritch flooded towards the enormous warp.

Like water pouring through the tiniest crack, it would leave Blegara and become Elysium’s hound, if not their Cerberus. Like that dog, this Spatial Fortress would guard the hell Elysium wanted to create. It would lash out and destroy anyone who dared challenge them, and their silence psionic poison would spread.

I raised my hands, and mana siphoned into my palms. A seething rage fueled me, and I pulled my elemental furnaces out of my storage. They fed on my flesh, and I turned my own body into fuel. I burned through all that I was, pulling from the vast energy flow that always suffused me. The energy spiraled in an expansive, chaotic flow, its voice like some distant echo of a monster.

Fifty minds crushed it down and directed the shifting mass, my psyches swarming to contain the enormity of this power. As the mana bubbled out, I held my body together with gravity. I melted before unleashing a hurricane of singularities. The vessels of Elysium imploded into globules of darkness. The mana hungered, and the mana feasted.

The sorcery unleashed a kinetic hate, one that let Elysium know what would come to them when they neared me and my planets. It compounded. Light cascaded onto light, the points of physical outburst bleeding into an enormous cloud of white in all directions. Above me, I spread my hands. I cast a shadow shaped like a cross, and a star of destruction plumed overhead, its light a purging destruction, a cleansing glow, a smothering oppression. It left nothing behind but disparate clouds of debris.

I let my arms fall down, and the portal fell apart above me. Millions of lives ended in an instant, and their souls, if they were real, scattered around me. I ended all of them without a moment of doubt or hesitation, and I closed my eyes. The horrors of Giess flooded through me. The twisted bodies of Springfield dragged themselves through clouds of petals in a remembered distance. I looked into the eyes of the Rulers of Leviathan-7 and watched Hybrids crawl from their necks, the rulers’ spines in their jagged maws.

I breathed in that carnage, becoming one with it. This was a part of who I was. I was not only a beginning. I would be an end as well. More would need to be done, and vessels opened around the body of the monster, but on the other side of it. More of the ships arrived at an angle, and more still at another point.

With them arrived a psionic link that formed with me. A new voice funneled through.

“Harbinger. We are removing this threat from your planet. Where is this hostility coming from?”

My voice was ice and blood.

“I will give you no weapon against me.”

“If we wanted to destroy Earth, we could’ve done so already.”

I laughed, the expression hollow and full of menace.

“I have no reason to believe anything you say or will say. You have no reason to believe yourself. Elysium has crossed a line. They’ve stepped over the sanctity of a person’s soul, and they will reshape everything until it bends to them. Until it is broken. How can you support them still?”

“You’re talking about the lottery, aren’t you?”

I threw my hands out.

“What else? You know what you’ve done. You tried to take my body. Well, you’ve planted seeds, and now you reap what you’ve sown.”

The voice sighed, and the biomass above me ceased its movement. The beleaguered general spoke out.

“This…This must stop. You’ve already killed hundreds of thousands.”

Mana oozed from me like a dripping venom, volatile and menacing.

“If you ignore me, then my actions will speak louder than my words. I will kill millions. I’ll purge worlds. I’ll leave skies red and the ground molten. I told Elysium to never come near me or my planets, and you chose this path. I am the one who will walk it.”

The general's voice stayed calm.

“We’ve done nothing of the sort. We have ceased this Spatial Fortress from smothering your planet.”

I kept my eye on their vessels. They didn’t budge.

“You know that’s a lie.”

A pause. The voice murmured.

“Does it matter? We’re eliminating it. Let us handle our business, and we’ll leave you alone.”

More lies. I raised my hands.

“Why does Elysium want to stop Schema so desperately? What could possibly justify all of this? The lengths you’ve all dedicated yourself to, and for what? To try and make improvements to Schema’s system? Surely there’s a better way than stealing a person’s soul and carving the cipher onto their bones?”

Another silence passed over us. The general let out a sigh.

“Have you ever wondered where mana comes from?”

A dread pooled in my stomach. I winced.

“It’s the manifestation of a mind’s will. It’s from the mind.”

“You existed on a planet before Schema’s invasion. Did your people manifest supernatural phenomena before Schema’s arrival?”

“There were people who claimed it, but nothing definitive.”

“Then where does mana come from if not the mind?”

I blanked.

“I…I don’t know.”

The voice spoke like stone.

“But we do. We know exactly where and how it's derived. We know when it came into mass use, the history of why the knowledge spread, and why it’s something every Schema user wields. We know Schema’s end game, and it’s far worse than what we’ve done.”

I narrowed my eyes.

“What could possibly be worse than what you’ve committed?”

The voice spoke in low tones.

“There are slices of what Schema’s been commissioned towards, and they are worse than nightmares. They are purgatory, a hellish destruction we want no part in.”

I snarled.

“Get specific. Vague rambling will get you nowhere with me.”

“I can show you, if you let me.”

“I’m not leaving with you anywhere.”

“Then understand at least one thing. We know that Schema isn’t what you think it is. We know that it’s a pawn to the Old Ones.”

That gave me pause.

“Schema defers to them, when necessary, but a pawn? What makes you say that?”

The voice radiated with certainty.

“A simple question. Where does mana come from?”

Understanding washed over me.

“It’s…The Old Ones.”
