Platinum rain fell onto the gathered people, though a few had [Personal Weather Ward]s on; like Cyril and several farmers. Yetta stepped out onto the growing grain, her face raised to the rain, a hand touching the thickening wheat. She smiled. She laughed.

The farmers around Cyril began rapidly deploying into the fields.

All around the whole of the farms the same scene was playing out; hungry people going out into the fields, gathering food, [Telekinesis] widely employed to pluck wheat right from the ground and place it in large covered wagons. At least that’s what a gentle use of Ophiel’s [Scry] ability was telling Erick; it also told him that Ophiel didn’t need to be moved, he was already in the center of the farms. But there was a problem; the farms here had been seeded and tilled in a space to rival Spur’s own fields; they were much larger than the space Ophiel was currently raining upon.

Ophiel, using his own mana, didn’t benefit from any of Erick’s other abilities, like Clarity, or Aurify’s area multiplier. Erick hummed. Erick tried to fix this. He tried to imbue Aurify into Ophiel.

Aurify didn’t go. It wouldn't go.

This was a complication.

Multiplying abilities did not work that way? Just to make sure, Erick tried to imbue Scion of Focus into Ophiel. Again, nothing; except a little whine from both the large and little guy. Erick stopped trying to imbue abilities onto him. Ophiel was already benefiting from Erick’s own MP and mana regeneration, so it was probably fine to have a 3600 mana drain per hour, when Ophiel regenerated 15,000 per hour—

Wait.

No Clarity or Meditation on Ophiel. That meant that Exalted Storm Aura would cost Ophiel 3600 mana for one hour of rain and he only had 3800 mana, but he would naturally regenerate 15000 per day, which was only 600-ish per hour, so one hour of rain was about all Ophiel could do, and he had to support himself in the sky while he did it.

Erick started channeling his own mana, and his own abilities, directly through Ophiel, flashing the rains out wide, onto the rest of the farms, to farmers waiting for their own crops to start growing under the many, many spotlightwards. Ophiel relaxed, gently feeling Erick’s mana flow through him, into the sky, his own reserves left to his own devices.

Jane popped out a [Weather Ward] across herself, Erick, and Poi, saying, “That’s enough rain on me for now. But good show, Dad.”

Cyril said, “Thank you, Archmage. This will be a great help.”

Yetta called out from the fields, “Those fuckers in Wellok can choke on their inflated prices.”

Cyril called out to her, “Trade is a part of keeping the Greensoil Republic intact, Yetta.”

Yetta threw her hand in the air at Cyril in some quick, rude gesture, then returned to feeling the rain upon her skin.

Erick said, “You made the farms too big for me to support this action all night long, but if you reduce to a kilometer across, then I can see about supporting this all day and night for a while. Right now, this is only going to last an hour. I need to sleep.”

“As you wish, Archmage.” Cyril nodded to Erick, saying, “My men need to sleep as well, but they will sleep much easier knowing there is grain to thresh and grind, and bread to bake, waiting for them tomorrow. An hour of this is more than enough, for now.” He added, "But if you can go longer, it would be much appreciated."

"... Maybe."

Erick sent a request to Poi that they had worked out beforehand; now seemed like a good time for this next part. Poi reached into a bag at the base of his back, and took out a small cloth bag Erick had put together as another small gift. Poi handed the package to Erick.

Erick held out the bag to Cyril, saying, “Here’s some seed potatoes for diversifying your crops. Plant the eyes on the potatoes to get more of the same kind; plant the seeds from the white flowers if you wish to experiment with different breeds. Potatoes are great; just boil and eat, if you can’t do anything else like butter or salt. They won’t taste good that way, but they will provide sustenance.”

Cyril smiled as he took the bag, holding it close, saying, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt.”

“Glad to help.” Erick said, “And now, I’m ready to say ‘til tomorrow’.”

Cyril stared out at the farms, and the growing fields. “Until tomorrow.”

Erick added, “Oh. And just so you know? If there’s something here that is not a produce, it won’t grow when I have not allowed it to grow. So you shouldn’t need to worry about someone slipping Daydropper seeds into the fields.” He said, “I’d imagine that would be a problem, yes?”

Erick eyed the ‘farmers’ in the fields. Armor peeked out from under some of their tunics. They moved with eyes half gazing into the night, expecting something to leap out, or attack. Several had swords, and all of them looked capable of holding their own on a battlefield.

Cyril said, “We expect something to happen, but we are prepared. It is good to know that daydropper seeds won’t sprout, though.”

“At least not under my power.” Erick added, “I hope. I’ve never actually tried it, or been near them. What do they look like, again?”

Yetta spoke from the yellow fields, “Like ivy with purple undersides, surrounded by purple shards.” She added, “But even if some sprout here tonight, they aren’t called ‘Daydroppers’ for nothing. They have to build up their dead air purple undersides at night, before the sun forces them to drop it during the day. [Grow] speeds this process, but it is still a process.”

Erick said, “Good to know.”

With a hand held out to Jane and Poi, Erick blipped away in a flash of white.

Ophiel remained in the sky, continuing to anchor Erick’s [Exalted Storm Aura] across the fields, while also clinging to Erick’s shoulder, staying with the whole party as they made themselves at home in their rooms in the White Palace.

- - - -

Erick’s rooms at the White Palace were spartan, in that there was no furniture at all. This was actually perfect, considering that everyone expected to be sleeping in tents. Teressa had already conjured appropriate beds and tables and chairs, as well as wash basins and everything else any of them could have wanted.

… Erick bought [Conjure Item], and just because he could, he got [Conjure Armor], too.

Conjure Armor 1, instant, 50 MP + Variable

Create weightless armor of whatever design you can create. Lasts until catastrophic damage.

Conjure Item 1, instant, 5 MP + Variable

Create an item of up to minor size. Skill with mana manipulation determines final creation. Lasts until suffering 5 points of damage.

Now was as good a time as any to power level these skills, while he met with everyone around a table, to openly discuss what was going on all around them. Erick flashed dense, complicated conjured items between his hands; ornate Faberge-type balls, with sparkling swirled carvings and layered, spinning inner structures. Each one cost several hundred mana, and granted several hundred experience.

Erick started with, “So they had that field ready to go for me. I went along with it because they looked like they needed the food, so please don’t begrudge me helping where I can help.”

Poi said, “I was going to, at first. But it is as you say: they needed it.”

“I’m glad you’re back to some of your old town council crafty self, Dad.” Jane said, “As for me? This entire day, since I got here this morning, has been people, one after the other, trying to trick information out of me.”

Erick flashed ornate, bejeweled gauntlets on his hands, with a hundred tiny eyes and four dozen tiny wings, leveling [Conjure Armor]. “As long as that’s all they’re doing.”

Jane looked at Erick’s gauntlets. “Are you powerleveling [Conjure Armor] and [Conjure Item]?”

“As well as testing these two rings.” Erick said, “They’re still going strong at six and eight.”

"Really!" Jane's eyebrows went up. "Well okay then."

Teressa, Poi, and Rats looked at the rings on Erick’s fingers.

Rats asked, “Those aren’t the same ones—”

“Don’t answer any of Rats’ question, sir.” Poi said, “Like Erick says, as long as they’re just trying to be friendly, I think we’re fine.”

Erick asked, “Has anyone found out if Cyril would be a good king, or if Odaali is a government that should be reinstated?”

Poi said, “They are as good as the rest of them, sir. Continuing on this path is the only way forward you have, anyway. If I were you, I would put this question out of my mind, for now.”

Erick grumbled, “It would be nice to know if I should prepare for something awful down the line.”

Jane said, “From what I've seen, the humans around here seem like standard humanity. Faults and horror and pain, same as anyone else. Probably a bit more cloak and dagger than Spur, back when the incani there were trying to oust us from the city. But that’s only in the extreme, and right now we're in an extreme time. Usually, they’re just out for their own.” She added, “Which seems normal enough to me.”

Teressa sighed a little, saying, “You humans are so unnecessarily violent with each other. Come to a proper orcol town, and you’ll see exactly how fucked up humanity is.”

Erick smiled.

Jane said, “Probably true, according to everything I’ve heard and seen.”

Erick asked, “Where are the dragonkin towns?”

Rats frowned directly at Erick.

“What?” Erick asked. “Did I say something wrong?”

“Yes, sir. You did.” Poi said, “Dragonkin come from all races and ourselves; we live everywhere. To relegate us to our own civilization is backward thinking at best, and leads to the death of countless dragonkin, at worst.” He added, “There’s historical precedence that you just don’t know about, so it's best to leave that alone, and never talk about Dragonkin being forced into reservations ever again.”

“… Sorry, Poi. Rats.” Erick said, “I did not know.”

“Think nothing of it, sir,” Poi said.

“Anyway! About you humans:” Rats explained, “It’s always something with the humans —no offense— but they’re always at war with one another, or someone else. Always with the banditry, too.” Rats said, “Ya know? That’s probably the largest problem going forward with Odaali. Even if liberated— actually, especially if liberated, this whole part of the world is gonna become a hotbed for organized crime. All these castles and towns, emptied by Daydroppers and the Halls of the Dead? Odaali is ripe for turning rotten.”

Teressa nodded, “I agree with that. They’re going to have a hard time with people getting their lives back on the road.”

Jane said, “We’re getting a little ahead of ourselves, aren’t we? There’s two Queen Daydroppers. I saw them earlier. They’re… Odaali-sized.” She added, “And deep. Buried in the Underworld, through tunnels that should have long ago been closed.”

Erick flashed ornate, high-mana-cost armors around his arms, and set down onto the table trinkets composed of a dozen moving parts, saying, “How did you… do that? Investigate the Queen Vine already?”

“My new spell lets me do a lot.” Jane lifted her hand and darkness flowed around the limb, to twine out from her elbow, to form a shadowy second forearm and hand. She waved with both of them, her natural and her shadow hand, before dismissing the shadow back to nothing. “I probably shouldn’t explain it, considering people are listening to us right now. Or talk much about what I saw until it's go time.”

Erick looked at the walls of the room, saying, “I’d be upset, but I expected it.”

Poi said, “We all expect it, and are prepared.”

Teressa asked, “I’m on first watch, then.”

Erick dumped a bit more mana into ornate, useless things, and then started dumping HP into [Defend], [Perfect Hearing], [Ultrasight], and [Scent Tracker]. Ophiel sent a quiet question, wondering what he was doing; Erick sent back an explanation of ‘raising his skills’ and ‘nothing that important right now, but for the future’. He said, “I’m going to work on this while its raining out there.”

Everyone went their separate ways, but Erick remained in the living room, working on his spells and abilities, occasionally checking in at the farm.

And then he realized that he had taken Yetta’s [Gate] to get here. How was he supposed to rain at Spur’s farms tomorrow, when he had no known [Teleport] path to get home? He could probably rely on Yetta to make another [Gate] for a copy of Ophiel to fly through, but that seemed like a poor solution to what looked to be a longstanding problem.

So he created another Ophiel, and gave them all [Teleport].

Erick sent the third Ophiel up into the sky, and then west, using the [Familiar]’s innate [Scry] to ride on his shoulder for a little while. Ophiel loved the open night sky, with stars above and wind flowing strong. He sang to the world as he [Teleport]ed west, over prairie, over forest and vast, never-ending mountains, above ice capped peaks and over the Crystal Forest, with Crystal Agave and mimics glittering in the night. They witnessed land and sky that neither of them had ever seen before.

It was a nice trip. They stopped at several interesting locations and cast hundreds of spells; Erick leveling up some other things that he had neglected until now, but that he would need for the battle tomorrow.

Erick and Ophiel also got hopelessly lost.

After an hour or two of exploratory [Teleport]ing, Ophiel finally managed to get close enough to Spur that a [Teleport] to ‘above the house’, put the winged [Familiar] above the Human District. He let out a trill of happiness; he had found his destination! And then he [Teleport]ed away, super fast, because someone was firing some high-powered spell in his direction.

A rushed telepathic link from Poi struck Erick with, ‘What are you doing, sir! [Teleport]ing your creature into Spur like that!’

‘Finding the way home, Poi,’ Erick patted the Ophiel on his shoulder, sending, ‘He’s going to spend the night there, too, watching over the house.’

‘… Okay. They know, now.’ Exasperated, Poi sent, ‘Good night, sir.’

‘Good night, Poi! Thanks for always looking out for us.’

‘… You’re welcome. It is a pleasure.’

While Erick strung mana and [Exalted Storm Aura] to the Ophiel at Cyril’s Farm, going on what looked to be an appreciated hour number three, he directed the Ophiel closer to Spur to find the best way from there to the White Palace, while flashing out ornate [Conjure Armor]s and delicate [Conjure Item]s.

Soon, Erick had plotted a direct course between the White Palace and Spur, gotten a lay of the land, and seen exactly how much destruction the Daydropper had created out of Odaali.

- - - -

