Down on the ground, the white beams were coming out of walking corpses without any real rhyme or reason; he would need to destroy a vast many of them. But as Erick watched, he saw that the attacking horde was getting better at attacking Ophiel. There were minds at work in that horde. Erick knew each of them was a human soul trapped in an undead body, working under the commands of those in the city, but it appeared some of the horde also maintained their intelligence into undeath.

Killing them was a philosophical question for another day.

Erick was far enough away from the front lines, and there were more than enough enemies here, that a [Wintry Sea] would likely stay in the area. Erick imbued the spell into Ophiel, and directed Ophiel to unload upon the undead.

Wintry Sea X, long range, 1 minute per level, 250 MP

A large designated space rapidly loses all heat, dealing <damage> to all inside. Damage from Wintry Sea automatically slows. <Wintry Sea attaches to those most affected by itself, and will switch to another target if the most affected target perishes>.

Glittering blue spheres of cold blossomed across the horde below. Seven at a time, three times in a row. Twenty-one orbs of blue glittered in the daylight, and raced off. Ice formed on the edges of fences and bricks. The effect upon the undead was immediate; legs broke off, frozen to the ground, while the body continued forward without control, smashing down, breaking into blackened chunks of frosty flesh and bone. [Wintry Sea]s rapidly scattered across the land, moving through the horde like hyperactive children, left and right and forward in lunges and spurts, focusing on a target long enough to break it, and then moving on. Within moments, the lancing white beams ceased. The horde in this small part of rural Odaali had been routed, but pieces of it still remained; the blue spells scattered fast and far while generally moving north, toward Odaali, following the largest concentration of undead but skipping some targets here and there for whatever indiscernible reason.

Ophiel followed the blue spheres north, keeping pace with them from the air as they ripped apart the undead, while the [Domain of the Withering Slime] cleaned up every daydropper in sight, the bursting [Cleanse] of every daydropper death carving ten meter holes in the purple droppings that layered the ground.

The manasphere shifted, as some massive spellwork took hold of the ambient mana. The sky churned. The air turned sharp. Sparks filled Erick’s vision—

He came back to himself, sitting across the table from Wilhelmina.

“Uh.” Erick tried to reconnect to Ophiel, but the seven at the battlefield were gone. One was still there in Spur, and another two were nearby; one on Erick’s shoulder and the other hovering high in the sky above, keeping several dozen eyes on everything around the White Palace. But the Ophiel Erick had sent into the city were destroyed in some massive spellwork. Erick said, “They killed all of them.”

Wilhelmina spoke, “Yes. The counterattack has begun. They’ve activated the Queen’s [Shard Storm].”

Erick touched the Ophiel on his shoulder; he seemed sad, but at Erick’s touch, he trilled out excitement. He was ready to go again. Erick would be ready to go, soon, too; as soon as his mana came back. He summoned the first of seven more Ophiel directly out of the window to his room, and sent a [Scry] orb high, high into the skies above the battlefield.

- - - -

A storm of something had filled the world; it immediately consumed Erick’s [Scry] orb.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself. “What the fuck?” He leapt out of his seat to look out the window.

Odaali was several hundred kilometers away, but with how high that something was—

Wilhelmina said, “I thought I would have seen it from here the first time she activated, too. But you can’t.” Wilhelmina explained. “We’ve cleared the lands surrounding Odaali of both undead and daydroppers twice before, but each time, once there is enough damage done to the surroundings, the Queen Vine activates her mana storm. It reaches out halfway to the front line and high into the sky, doing several small actions all the while killing everything that the Queen does not permit in her presence.”

Erick listened to Wilhelmina and sat back down, his mana recovered enough to pop out another Ophiel; so he did, right outside his window to join the other one.

She continued, “In some arcane, unknown order, it gathers the souls freed from destroyed undead, either creates or repairs the bodies destroyed and stuffs the souls back inside, and reseeds the land with daydropper seeds. All the while ripping the manasphere into a [Force Shrapnel] storm on the level of a goddess.”

“Downtime?” Erick asked.

“None.” Wilhelmina said, “She can reactivate her mana storm at will, and while she does, the entire sky turns to dead air. Our frontlines are currently holding open many, many [Cleanse Aura]s, in order to keep the effects on the rest of the Greensoil republic to a minimum—” She paused, listening to the air; lines of intent connected her to at least three other people. She said, “Archmage Tenebrae is unable to [Dispel] the mana storm, but Archmage Opal seems to be having some luck understanding the spell.”

“Archmage Opal is here?” Erick asked, turning to Poi.

Poi said, “I doubt it. She lives near Spur and does not move for anyone or anything; her [Familiar] is likely on scene, though.”

Wilhelmina said, “Your guardsman is correct.” She paused again. She sat much straighter, and said, “Opal says that the [Shard Storm] is not truly originating from the Queen Vine. It’s five people working in concert to create the spell—” She frowned. “You can do that?” She shook her head, saying, “No. It can’t be; ritual casting is not capable of linking with monsters! That just doesn't—”

The air sparkled atop the table, above the map of Odaali Jane had created out of [Conjure Item]. A sphere of shimmering opalescence appeared. Erick looked around; he, Jane, Teressa, Wilhelmina’s guard, and Rats, were not expecting this appearance. But Wilhelmina and Poi were nonplussed. Poi looked at the opalescent sphere like it was perfectly normal to see such a thing just appear before him. Wilhelmina gazed upon the sphere like it was an annoyance.

Wilhelmina started in on the floating orb, “You will do what was bargained for, Opal.”

“I am.” Opal’s voice emanated from the orb. It was a wispy, scratchy thing, belonging to a woman who had smoked at least two packs a day for forty years. The orb turned toward Erick, “That [Wintry Sea] of yours is a menace. You should never use it outside of a situation like this.”

“I am aware,” Erick said.

“Good.” Opal said, “Then to fulfill my bargain: Erick. I have fully seen the entirety of Odaali and the land underneath. If you send your [Familiar] up high and drop those [Wintry Sea]s from outside of the sphere of the [Shard Storm], and I pop the [Ward]s protecting the city, I have no doubt that that awful spell will fall into the city and disrupt several of the components sustaining the storm. The [Shard Storm] won’t go away, and that won’t be the end of the fight; that Queen Vine has much worse tricks up its sleeve. But it will enable the rest of the plan to come together.” Opal turned back to Wilhelmina. “They have plans to blow the city if they cannot hold it. Keep your men out and plan on rebuilding.”

Wilhelmina suddenly yelled, “That is unacceptable! You must take back the city intact!”

Opal’s floating orb said, “I will be taking down the various [Ward]s layering the roof of Odaali when you are in position, Erick. Expect to get pushed aside by Tenebrae as soon as that old asshole makes his appearance—”

Wilhelmina stressed, “You will take back the city without letting them blow it up, Opal. Find a way. That’s what you archmages do, isn’t it? Find unlikely magical solutions to otherwise impossible scenarios?”

Erick asked, “How are they going to blow it up?”

Opal spat out, “Overcharged grand-rads at every city block—”

Wilhelmina gasped, as Erick drew a complete blank.

“— laced in with the Queen Vine; when she dies, the city dies.”

Wilhelmina said, “Then we shall kill the people! And when the defenders of the city have fallen, we will take our time extricating the Queen Vine.” She demanded of Erick, “Don’t you have some spell that targets people?”

Erick froze, then quickly came back to himself, shouting, “NO! I DO NOT!”

The room went quiet.

Wilhelmina’s face turned hard; distant. After a moment, she spoke with authority, “Do what you must, and I shall pray my city doesn’t become a crater at the end of today.”

Opal said, “A crater might be preferable, Wilhelmina. No one will want to live in Odaali after it has fallen this far; Spur is only recovering because of Erick, and my city has been trying to recover for a hundred years.”

“Is there a way to enchant rads from a distance?” Erick asked, a sudden idea springing to mind. “Sorry, that was nonsensical. I meant: Could we disenchant the rads that they’ve primed to blow?”

“No.” Opal said, “A few hundred years ago, sure, back when rad-bombs were pathetic little things. But not these days. The ones they’ve created in there are the good kind, too. Top of the line; Odaali will be a memory if they trigger.”

Wilhelmina sighed into her seat.

“Okay...” Erick tried, “Do you know how a Shade’s [Teleport Lock] works? I’m sure they’re planning on escaping the city before they blow it, right?”

Opal’s orb vibrated with laughter. “Not the slightest idea! I’ve been trying to figure that out for the longest time. They get the spell from Melemizargo himself; its deity-granted magic. It’s not even in the Script. There are ways to prepare an area to lock out almost every kind of magic, including teleportation, but they’re expensive and take time to create. A Shade’s [Teleport Lock] is absolute and they can turn it on and off at will. Near as I can guess it’s an aura of some kind. But even people with [Eyes of Magic] looking at Shades operating the spell can’t figure it out.” She added, “I doubt you can, either.”

“… If I figure it out and lock them down, would they give up? Or would they go down with the city?”

Jane giggled, and Opal went silent. Wilhelmina looked hopeful for half a moment, but quickly turned to resignation.

Wilhelmina said, “I doubt it. They’re prepared to die.” She sat a bit straighter. She said, “Forgive me my lack of decorum. Attack the city, any way you can. Let them blow it up if they wish. Depriving the enemy of a stronghold in the center of the Greensoil Republic is more important than saving a city that might never recover.”

Opal said, “I agree.”

Erick’s mana had mostly recovered, so he summoned four more Ophiels outside the window of the room. He was back down to low mana; he needed to wait to recover. He asked, “So? The plan?”

Opal said, “The upper reaches of the city are layered with [Weather Ward]s and—”

“Wait.” Erick said, “Could I [Grow] the Queen Vine instead? Have it turn on its masters?”

The room went quiet again.

Opal said, “You would likely get added to the Kill and Exterminate Quest.”

“Ah.” Erick said, “Never mind that idea, then.” Erick had another idea. “How about producing a plant that is parasitic with the daydropper, neutralizing its ability to create dead air? And then I [Grow] that one?”

Opal hummed. “What were you thinking?”

Wilhelmina did not look hopeful; she just looked more resigned.

“A [Cleanse] vine,” Erick said.

Opal hummed again. She said, “The danger in attempting to create such a thing is that you create another problem for the environment, and besides: whose version of [Cleanse]? A plant might grow and mutate into applying [Cleanse] in a way you will never expect. It might view the bacteria in the human body as an infection. Or worse: it might grow to view humans themselves as an infection. That could be worse than the daydropper. People have been making and dying to monstrous plants for a long, long time, because those plants almost always turn on their creators, and then themselves. The Daydropper is among those that do not follow this trend, and so we are in the middle of a Kill and Exterminate Quest to get rid of it.” Opal’s sphere rotated once. She said, “A [Cleanse] vine is a bad idea. Creating a magical plant should only ever be done under controlled conditions and with priests of Atunir in attendance and in approval; never on the battlefield.”

Erick’s mana was full enough, for now. He said, “Then no [Cleanse] Vine.” He had another idea, “How about normal rain? And then I freeze the Queen Vine with multiple layers of [Wintry Sea]?”

“Oh?” Opal hummed. “Maybe?” The orb stilled.

Everyone waited for her to speak again.

The opalescent orb dropped to the table and rolled a foot, coming to a stop on a wrinkle on the map.

“Uh.” Rats asked, “Was that supposed to—”

The orb righted itself, floating into the air, Opal’s voice coming out of it, “I just checked. Freezing the Queen Vine might explode the ordinance, or defuse them. They’re using high-grade Tower designs popularized five years ago over on Nelboor, and those things worked well all up and down that war-tossed continent." She hummed. She said, "Colder temperatures do negatively impact the explosive yield of rad-bombs, either way. It’s a toss-up; I have no idea if this will work.”

“Do it.” Wilhelmina said, “I give you permission. Those bombs did not work so well in the winter, Opal. Check your sources again.”

"I guess I will!" Opal asked, "We’re going with this plan?”

"Yes," Wilhelmina demanded, a spark of hope in her voice.

“Yes,” Erick agreed.

“Tenebrae has been notified.” Opal said, “He’ll do his thing once we’ve started the attack. This is what we’re going to do...”

- - - -

Far and away, south of Odaali, but within sight of the city, seven Ophiel [Teleport]ed into existence, each holding rocks that had been anchored with area [Absorption Ward]s provided by people with more than enough mana to spare to create powerful area protections. Each Ophiel also gently flickered white with [Personal Absorption Ward]s. Three of the Ophiel held opal orbs, in addition to their [Ward]ed rocks.

