Ophiel hovered high in the cloudless, dark sky, [Ultrasight] and [Perfect Hearing] ticking down against his mana instead of against his HP, since he had none of the latter. With a hundred eyes, he gazed upon the enemy, and the enemy was vast.

White walls a dozen meters high and thousands long, surrounded a minor mountain, capped with bright white searchlights trained on the land outside. Erick focused on the outsides of the city, first.

Devastation and destruction laid everywhere, houses torn from their foundations, trees scattered, but there were no fires; fires didn’t survive under the blanket of dead air that dominated this land. Nothing lived out here except for daydroppers; nothing moved except the undead, and there were a lot of undead. As far as Ophiel could see, shambling corpses moved among the debris of their former lives, echoing pain into the sky, screaming; heard by no one but themselves, and Ophiel high above.

Larger undead monstrosities, amalgamations of bone and viscera, prowled in the darker places, watching the night with dozens of eyes scavenged from the dead. Ophiel saw as one of the horrors ripped out of its hiding hole to snatch a zombie that had gotten too close; munch crunch went the lesser undead, its mass added to the larger monster.

Ophiel turned to the white city. Someone had scrawled large black graffiti on the walls, reading ‘Kill and Exterminate Quest: Humans!’. Ophiel flew higher still, up above the searchlights pointed outward, to see into the darkened interior.

Ophiel [Teleport]ed higher still, as some fire magic engulfed it, but failed to do more than half of its [Personal Ward] in damage. Still, Ophiel needed to move faster, so Erick imbued him with [Swift Movement], and Ophiel flew faster, quicker, [Airshape] propelling him to be the wind and be just as untouchable. Fire lanced out from the city, streaming from unknown sources in the darkened city interior.

But it wasn’t dark. It was a [Distortion Ward], Erick recognized the characteristic Picasso-esque scattering of reality under the dark upper layer of the city’s airspace as a plume of fire snaked out from below that distortion, looking like a red static until it breached the surface and turned into a radiant animated fireball that flew into the sky, giving chase, racing to catch Ophiel.

Ophiel sang louder, violins and flutes booming out of the creature as it flapped and moved across the darkened, obscured undead city of Odaali, keeping ahead of the hungry flames.

Erick had seen enough; he couldn’t see anything.

Ophiel [Teleport]ed far away, one [Teleport] chasing the next, back toward Spur, leaving the screaming undead and destruction of Odaali far behind.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself after he left Ophiel at Spur.

Tomorrow was going to be a big day.

He checked on Ophiel-over-Cyril’s-farms; he was doing fine and happy, raining across people who needed food. This was hour four of the rain, and people were slowing down. The silos were getting full, and there was nowhere else to put all the growing grain. Erick dismissed that Ophiel; the rain was done, for now. Ophiel-over-Cyril’s-Farms went into non-existence with a gentle whisper of wind; now there were two Ophiel in total. Erick patted Ophiel, then went to bed.

Tiny Ophiel hung on to Erick’s headboard, watching over him as he slept, while also watching over the house in Spur.

- - - -

Breakfast was a quick affair, punctuated halfway through by Yetta who burst through the front door, shouting, “There will either be spellfire or there will be archmage blood spilled by my hand!”

Everyone was suddenly tense. Poi stood rigid over a stove of hashbrowns, while Jane casually set down the pancake she was grabbing. Teressa sighed out, catching Rats’ plate before it hit the ground.

Yetta yelled, “Give me your answer!”

“Fucking hell, Yetta!” Erick said, “I’ve already scouted the place and have a plan for killing not only the undead prowling around the outside of the city, but also the rest of it. Calm, please!”

Yetta stared at Erick. Poi poised for an assault, while shadows flickered behind Jane’s eyes.

Yetta looked around her, and said, “Fine. Start your assault when you are able. None of the other archmages are willing to go first.” She looked away, saying, “Sorry. It’s been a day, and it hasn’t even begun.”

Erick said, “I don’t pretend to understand what you’re going through, but I am here to help, and I am understanding in my own way.”

Yetta frowned. She said, “Start in on the outside of the city, whenever you are able. The other archmages will take their cue from you— and before you ask, no, they won’t share who they are or what they’re capable of, and if they think I am giving away their secrets, they will pull out of the fight.”

Erick nodded over his plate of eggs and bacon, saying, “I’ll begin the assault in one hour; and it will be very, very obvious.” He reluctantly said, “I hope I am as effective as you hope.”

“… I pray for that as well.”

She blipped away in a smattering of yellow light.

Erick breathed. He sighed and said, “I’m going to be defenseless while I’m doing this. Are we good to go?”

Jane asked, “So you went to Odaali last night? With Ophiel, I guess?”

“Just into the sky,” Erick said, as Poi sighed in the background. Erick continued, “High white walls, a dark [Distortion Ward] covering the whole city, undead prowling around outside.”

"So I guess it's time to talk of what I saw." Jane said, “It’s not just one [Distortion Ward], but thousands, and it’s not just blanketing the top of the city, but all the way throughout the whole space.”

Erick looked at Jane. “How much of Odaali did you already explore?”

“I've only seen about as much as any competent spy should be expected to see.” Darkness flickered from Jane's hands up around her body, as she said, “Spying is very easy, now. And I had all of yesterday, too.” She whispered, “I can see through this stuff.”

Teressa said, “Killzone is going to love that.”

Jane smiled. “He already knows, and you are correct.”

“… Can I get a map on this table, here?” Erick gestured at the breakfast table.

Jane said, “Yes.” She stabbed a hashbrown with her fork, adding, “After breakfast.”

Erick started summoning Ophiels outside of his window, saying, “That’s fine. I have to summon the full squad, anyway.”

Ophiel trilled as more and more of himself appeared beside himself, flying outside of the windows of Erick’s rooms at the White Palace. Erick let them go explore, for now. The battle would begin soon; there would be no time for peaceful flight when the spells started flying.

After his mana was back, and breakfast was over, Erick asked, "So tell me what you saw?"

Jane began, "So what I saw was this: The city is full of undead and living patrols..."

- - - -

Seven Ophiels flew in a cloudy sky, high above troops stationed on thick stone walls that cut through farmland and estates. The hastily erected stone barrier was the front line of the containment effort; it rose from the ground twenty kilometers away from Odaali, a full encirclement of the captured city, but even at that distance it was barely able to contain the undead and the daydroppers that spilled out of the white walled city.

On both sides of the wall, as far as Ophiel could see, was destruction. Past the wall, toward Odaali, was blackened ground and prowling undead terrors, but even on the defended side there was horrendous damage; the Coalition Army had had to push in toward the city, fighting all the way, destroying homes and town halls and everything that had taken hundreds of years to build, in order to take back the land and create the front line wall. But this was as far as they could go. The undead were too strong, the daydroppers too plentiful the closer one got to Odaali.

The front line wall had even been breached in several locations last night, but the Coalition Army pushed back the undead and took back the front line. Fires still smoldered on both sides of the barrier; oxygen was able to exist here, but not any closer to the city.

Ophiel flew high, across the barrier, spreading out as he traveled closer to Odaali, taking in the sights, getting a lay of the land in the daytime, while Erick decided on the best way to attack. The white walls rose twenty kilometers in the distance, but the fight was also right below.

In the daytime, Erick could clearly see the undead horde that had been raised out of the populace. Thousands of people stood everywhere, like desiccated corpses walking around on puppet strings, shambling and plodding from here to there, some barely clothed except with tatters, others in the armor they had likely died wearing. They strolled aimless, across most of the land, but directly underneath Ophiel, they looked up at the winged [Familiar].

With purple eyes gazing skyward, the horde underneath Ophiel took notice of the winged creature above, and they stopped being shambling, directionless creatures. They moved smoother, they walked faster, they tried to remain under Ophiel, but when they couldn’t, the horde up ahead was already staring at Ophiel.

There was some semblance of a hive mind in there, according to Jane, and it seemed to be true. Erick reflected it would have been nice for Yetta to speak about what she wanted out of the assault, of the best way to attack, but Yetta was probably herding her own cats right now. She expected Erick to see what needed to be done, and then do it. Erick hoped he lived up to that demand.

Ophiel flew forward and the landscape changed from blackened devastation, to devastation covered in green. Green vines blanketed the land, thickly covering the remnants of destroyed buildings, twining around dead trees, covering farm fences and roads, choking out groves of trees, while fragmented purple shards layered below the Daydroppers.

A dense magic held in the air; some variant form of [Airshape] that locked the underlying layer of dead air from blowing away, like an invisible smoke holding ten meters above the ground. If Ophiel were a breathing creature, it would be dead the second it flew below that layer of variant air. Luckily, it wasn’t, and it would never need to get that close, not for what came next.

Now was as good a time as any to start killing; he was far enough away from the front line wall. Erick would be using his own mana for this part.

A white orb materialized around the central Ophiel of the flock of seven. Thick air crashed outward, spilling hundreds of meters down to the ground, suddenly inundating the green and purple land ten kilometers in every direction. A riotous keening filled the air from all sides, as daydroppers suddenly withered and died. Plumes of clean air burst up through the layer of dead air, scattering thick air into the sky.

Ophiel spread out further, preparing to take evasive maneuvers, and fire back at anyone—

Lances of light sparked up from the undead horde below, aimed at every Ophiel; Ophiel dodged, [Blinking] around under his own mana. With [Ultrasight] and a hundred eyes for each body, Ophiel saw every attack before it came near; evading came naturally to him. Ophiel was the flier; Erick was the gunner. Erick was thrilled Ophiel could dodge this well; this was so much easier than doing everything himself.

Erick maintained the [Domain of the Withering Slime], but went back to his body to check on a few things. He was sitting at the cleared kitchen table over a map of the city, and—

Wilhelmina sat on the other side of the table.

The Duchess said, “Good morning, Archmage.”

“Uh.” Erick looked around, then gestured at the map in front of him, saying, “I’m in the middle of… this.”

Rats delivered a cup of steaming tea to Wilhelmina, while Jane sat by Erick’s side and Poi stood behind him. Teressa was by the door, arms crossed, wearing her full body grey armor, standing next to a similarly armored man who was rather intimidating and probably a very large human, but who was still two feet shorter than Teressa.

“Don’t mind me.” Wilhelmina said, “I’m here to provide assistance to the only archmage who seems willing to attack. If you don’t need my help, then you don’t, but I would be remiss to not provide said help, when I am doing nothing but entertaining people who want a piece of the pie before it’s even come out of the oven.”

Erick checked his notifications while he listened to her, and yes, there were lots of Daydroppers dying as he fed his [Domain of the Withering Slime] into the battlefield.

Erick nodded, saying, “Okay. Then. Update: Withering is working well on the battlefield south of the city. Looks like I’ve already taken out… two hundred daydroppers, or more. Number is still going up. They’re all low level?” Erick looked over the notifications. “Maybe… level 20ish?”

Wilhelmina did not seem to take this news as good. She just calmly said, “The Queen Vine eats all of those who get above level 25; we discovered that rather early after establishing the front line. All the smaller undead are around that level, too. The larger ones are level 40, but we’ve only ever managed to kill two of those; they exist as a mind that moves from soul to soul, and can escape through the horde if there are any other nearby undead.”

Erick said, “Thank you for the information.”

Wilhelmina dipped her head, then lifted her face to look at Erick, saying, “Of course, Archmage. When I heard Yetta had just thrown you into the battle, I knew she wouldn’t have given you enough information about the forces you face. Yetta might be a Champion, but she was an adventurer for many, many years before this recent addition, and that is how those types are, unfortunately.” She added, “Feel free to question me about anything you might be seeing out there, at any point in time.”

Erick nodded; Jane had given him much of what he needed to know, but Wilhelmina would know more, if Erick needed more answers.

Erick went back to Ophiel.

Ophiel dodged lancing beams of white light with simple rolls and experienced [Blink]s, but with seven bodies and without Erick’s direction he had taken some large hits to his [Personal Ward]s. There were still seven Ophiel flying around, though. And Ophiel was getting better. He was gaining battle experience faster than he was losing integrity. Erick shored up the mana of several who were low, and then went on the offensive.

