Wilhelmina ignored Yetta, and spoke to Erick, her voice husky, “We have all seen the validity of your power, dear Archmage, via our ever-patriotic Viscount Helix of Frontier, but if power was all that was needed, then we would have been able to oust the interlopers from Odaali ourselves.” She explained, “Undead of all kinds have infested Odaali from tunnels to towers, while the rank and file of the Halls of the Dead maintain and [Grow] the Queen Vine with the bodies of our own former citizens, binding ever more souls and ever more power to the Queen Vine itself. The Queen Vine started displaying spellcasting ability days after the destruction of our people, and it has only grown in power since then.”

Yetta said, “This is why we should gather our forces now and strike while the Queen Vine sleeps, while they’re still expecting us to attack in two days.”

Wilhelmina shook her head, saying, “Champion Yetta is a force of nature, and you might be too, Archmage Flatt, but we are fighting a force of nature, and caution is better than discarded chances for surprise.” She said, “Yetta and we have two other archmages bargained for the battle, each with great magic of their own. I do not fear, but I do certainly know, that it will take every one of you and all of our armies combined to take down this creature and the people feeding her.”

Yetta sighed, then looked to the sky, right before blipping away in yellow light.

Wilhelmina frowned at the empty space, but turned toward Erick with a smile, saying, “A pleasure to meet you, Archmage.” She gestured to the rest of the people on the veranda, saying, “I would love to introduce you to some of the other guests, if you are willing?”

Erick looked out at the people at the party, and an echo of the party he threw a few weeks ago came back to him; he could ask these people about trades for gems, or services, or try to entice them to come to Spur to kill more Shades… But. Erick had never expected the Champion to run into any trouble at all. Honestly, he should have expected deaths. He was shortsighted and naive, and Melemizargo was beyond anything Erick could ever hope to do, or at least anything Erick could hope to do right now.

He would have to leave politicking for the deaths of Shades for another day; one where Odaali was firmly on its feet, and able to be a tight friend to Spur.

Erick said, “Thank you, but I must decline. I would much rather know who you are, who Cyril is, and what the Greensoil Republic actually is. I have read up some, but there’s just so much to learn, you know.” Erick joked, “Just a month ago, I got out from under the impression that monsters could be reasoned with.”

Wilhelmina smirked, and there was no doubt in Erick’s mind that her smirk was the calculated visage of a very powerful woman. Wilhelmina gracefully gestured to the high table, where she and Cyril had been sitting. “Then please join Cyril and I, where we may speak about our Great Republic.”

She walked to her chair; Erick walked with her, “Yetta said that this whole place is only a few weeks old? It looks rather well made for that.”

“It is well made; formed by the expertise and power of many Stone Mages.” Wilhelmina touched a chair next to her own, before sitting down. “With all the carrion eaters circling the corpse of my homeland, one must bribe them off with a show of power and goodwill, lest one be eaten alive by one’s own countrymen.”

Erick suddenly paused, but he sat down in his chair anyway, as Wilhelmina twirled a hand through the air. Two servers in butler-black rapidly and perfectly delivered one wineglass to Erick, as well as refilled Wilhelmina’s glass with a sparkling red wine, then filled Erick’s glass with the same.

Erick smiled. He liked this openess of Wilhelmina's, even if it was a calculated manner.

Erick said, “I truly do hope that rebuilding goes well for your people, but I would be remiss to blindly hope for the success of people who have tried to have me killed.”

Wilhelmina held up her glass, smiling to say, “Then, a toast: To reconciliation.”

Erick raised his own glass, repeating, “To reconciliation.”

She sipped hers first, and only then, did Erick drink. It tasted like wine.

Wilhelmina said, “I have been made aware of the events surrounding your run in with the Green Circle, and the Viridian King apologizes for the overzealous actions of his people. There’s no excuse but that we thought you were a threat. A while has passed since then, though, and it appears you were telling the truth about who you are as a person.” She added, “If you are willing to leave the past in the past, then we would be grateful for such forgiveness.”

Erick smiled softly. He changed the topic, “I’ve just gone on my first wyrm hunt, and that was an eye opener, as well. How do you prevent wyrm attacks in your Republic? I’ve heard it's much more densely populated than the Crystal Forest.”

Wilhelmina smiled, gesturing to Cyril who had sat down beside her, saying, “Adventurers like my grandson here are the ones responsible for keeping the northern barriers intact. Odaali has had a long history of supplying men and women and sustenance for the frontlines. All that has stopped, for now. The Greensoil Republic must survive without us, and likely for a decade or more. This destruction by the Halls of the Dead will have heavy, longstanding problems, that we won't know are coming until they are upon us.”

Erick felt a pang of loss as he looked out over the crowds, while Wilhelmina spoke. The people in the crowds were not dressed in perfect finery; Wilhelmina was, for sure, but there were little things among the crowd that gave away the truth of this gathering. Jewelry on one woman was not matched to the man she was with, or the clothes she was wearing. The sword on one man’s hip had an ornate jeweled grip, but the sheath was bare wood. And most telling, everyone seemed to be wearing more clothes than they likely needed; all the people were all exceedingly skinny. A great deal of them looked as skinny as Cyril, and Erick knew what Cyril had gone through.

He looked upon the tables, at the plates holding tiny finger foods that had been dispersed throughout the event; many of them were empty. The waiters in butler-black were not replacing them fast enough, or maybe they couldn’t.

Erick whispered, “Do you all have enough food?”

Wilhelmina asked, “Would you like to sample some of the local delicacies?”

“No. I mean—” Erick paused. He said, “Everyone here is rather skinny, and you just said that you supplied sustenance to the front lines. Was Odaali a breadbasket of the area?”

Wilhelmina said, “We are not destitute, Archmage. Yes, there have been hard times, but we will survive.”

“I apologize. Forget I mentioned it.” Erick sipped his wine. “This is a lovely vintage.”

Wilhelmina frowned a fraction, then schooled her expression to neutral as she looked at Erick, silent and thinking.

Erick was fully aware that she expected him to offer assistance on his own, but if she wasn't willing to ask for it, Erick wasn't willing to offer it for free. To do otherwise would start a dangerous precedent when it came to people in power; people like Wilhelmina.

Erick sipped his wine, looking across the party, [Perfect Hearing] telling him many small tales. Of scattered battles with the Halls off the Dead. Of burned fields, seeded with daydroppers and undead. Of a new spell developed by the Halls of the Dead, that corrupts the land and inhibits the growth of any other plants at all. Of disastrous food shortages.

Erick asked, “What’s this spell that corrupts the land do, exactly?”

Cyril answered, “It doesn’t corrupt; it picks up the topsoil in a large area and [Teleport]s it to a location.”

“Ooh.” Erick said, “That’s devious.”

Cyril asked, “And to answer your previous question: We do not have enough food—”

Wilhelmina shot her grandson a pointed look.

“—and would appreciate your assistance in this matter, once the city has been retaken and the Halls of the Dead have been delivered to their makers.” Cyril continued, “Personally, I would like to have you start the rain right now, if you are able. We already have a starter field tilled and prepared, hoping that you would see our plight and step up to the cause.” He added, “I am glad that it only took seeing our best, to see that we are actually very deep in the shit.”

“Cyril.” Wilhelmina whispered, “You are making mountains out of hills. Odaali is not that poor, nor are we weak enough to need handouts. We have bargained for our successes; we are not beggars.”

Cyril turned away to look at the party, saying, “As you say, Grandmother.”

“I still want to help,” Erick said, “Let’s go see those fields.”

Cyril stood right up. “I would love to.”

Erick stood up, smiling.

Wilhelmina brushed a hand through the air, saying, “Then I suppose tonight is over.” She stood up, saying, “It was a pleasure to meet you, Archmage.”

Cyril was already walking away from the party.

Erick said, “A pleasure to meet you as well, Duchess.”

Erick got out of there as fast as he could, but not fast enough to get away before people could start talking about him, and dissecting his manners. Apparently, he was a ‘certifiable bumpkin’, and ‘not fit for court’, but also ‘that’s how those adventuring types are; completely unwilling to play the game’. Poi and Jane followed Erick, following Cyril, Jane giggling ever so slightly, as they walked down a white stone hallway, away from the party.

- - - -

Dozens of spotlights filled the sky, turning night into day, illuminating a vast field of tilled, dark soil, waterways, roads, and storage sheds, all around Erick and the people who brought him out here.

Yetta had come back from wherever she had gone and now stood by Cyril, who stood by the farmers at the edge of the field. Everyone, and even Yetta a little, was skinny, like they hadn’t gotten enough food for a while. Erick felt bad about this whole situation, now that he saw the problem laid out before him like this. Even if they were a part of some conspiracy, if people chose to appear before him in pain, Erick would help.

… Erick was not paranoid; he was simply open-eyed. There’s no way that they made these fields in the five minutes it took to get here.

Poi and Jane stood around Erick, watching the land and the people and the sky for threats. Erick consoled himself that a bit of paranoia was a good thing; there were people out there who wanted to kill everyone here. The Halls of the Dead were just the most prominent local threat.

Erick linked telepathically to Ophiel, still on his shoulder, who had been watching everything, and who was staring at the wind in the sky above. Erick explained to his [Familiar] what he was prepared to do, and to learn that this was going to be one of his main responsibilities.

Ophiel seemed playful, pawing at Erick’s shoulder with tiny claws hidden in his lower wings. Erick let him go and he shot off into the air with a gusting wind, guided by gentle mental nudges. One moment flashed into the next, and Ophiel expanded, two dozen wings, a hundred eyes, flying high and free, echoing the music it heard at the party, violins and flutes mixed together in some alien way, quiet but carrying on the wind.

Poi relaxed, whispering, “Thank all the gods and demons; it learned some better music.”

Erick smiled, guiding Ophiel’s flight into the sky, feeling the pure joy coming off of Ophiel, as he looked around him to check on the reactions of the others.

A small smile grew wide upon Cyril’s face, his eyes softening under the harsh lights from above, his white and gold clothes shining in the night. A few farmers behind him quickly did some strange hand sign; two fingers of their right hand pressed over their hearts.

Jane whispered to Erick, “I really hope you didn’t create some actual angel, Dad.”

“Pah! He’s not an angel, Jane.” Erick looked to the sky, at Ophiel flying and spinning through the air, expanding to his full size. “I just hope he grows right and good. He’s still developing.”

With another gentle command, Ophiel hovered above the spotlights and relaxed into the air. His wings extended all around, holding him in a fluttering hover, like some starfish in the sky. Feelings of contentment flowed back to Erick; Ophiel liked existing in the sky, and if he got to do more than that, then he was even happier.

Erick imbued mana into himself, into Ophiel’s blue box, feeling for an imbueable connection that shouldn’t need direct contact; the connection was there, in the blue box. Good. Erick grabbed hold of that connection and began flowing [Ward] into Ophiel. Ophiel took the spell and fidgeted in the sky, not sure what to do with the new magic. After he played with the spell for several seconds, Erick had Ophiel put on a [Personal Weather Ward], like a father gently stuffing his fussy child into a winter jacket.

Ophiel put on the [Personal Weather Ward] without great difficulty, but feelings of oddness flowed back to Erick through his connection.

Then, Erick imbued Ophiel with [Exalted Storm Aura].

Ophiel trilled out pure joy and immediately the air filled with mist, the spotlights above catching heavy on a rising fog. A song of violin storms rose into the sky, expanding across the night, silver glows roiling upon each other, growing and growing, until platinum rain fell upon the soil.

Erick stopped feeding the spell to Ophiel and the spell stayed active; it shouldn’t have surprised Erick, but it did. Ophiel had his own mana, so of course he could maintain the spell on his own. All he needed was a copy of the spell in the first place.

“Huh.” Erick uttered.

Jane asked, “What?”

“I’ll tell you later.”

Ophiel gently spun in the sky while platinum rain fell all around.

Already, wheat, yellow and bright, was coming up from the soil, while Erick, Cyril, Yetta, and everyone else stood on the road, watching Ophiel bring succor to a nation in distress.

Erick summoned another Ophiel. There was no rip in reality that inverted into a winged and eyed creature; Ophiel simply appeared in his tiny version, exactly how Erick had intended.

Briefly, there was a flicker of confusion between the two winged [Familiar]s, but the second one was the same as the first; they were just experiencing the world from two different perspectives. The original continued to hang in the air above the farms, raining platinum upon the fields. The second flitted onto Erick’s shoulder, content and happy, and now happier that it was in the air, and also on Erick’s shoulder. Ophiel seemed to like being nestled onto Erick, according to the emotions coming off of his telepathic connection.

