On Day 9, Wren asked her question.

She had been waiting for the right shape of the asking. She had been certain since Day 7, when she had written in her journal: *What happens to a dormant place during a pulse? What does the Eye do that night?* The questions were there.

The shape arrived in the morning, after the insect chorus faded and the birds had begun. Nine days. The number was close enough now to have weight in her chest when she thought about it, a physical awareness rather than a notation in a margin. She found Maret at the fire's south side, the clay cup in both hands, watching the smoke go up through the canopy.

"I need to ask you something," Wren said.

Maret looked at her. The long assessment -- not the cataloging look, something different. Slower. "About the pulse."

"About what happens during a pulse. To places that are bonded."

Maret was quiet for long enough that Wren had time to doubt the ask. Then she set her cup down on the flat stone beside her and said: "I'll tell you what I know. Some of what I know is from the oral record. Some of it is from watching."

She picked the cup back up.

"And some of it," she said, "is from losing someone to it."

---

The Rimfolk called it the holding.

Maret did not call it a horror. She called it the cost of going deep without going carefully -- the distinction she made between depth and speed, the way she separated a Wayfinder who takes ten days to understand a place from one who rushes to the bond in two. She told it as a story, in the oral historian's mode: a specific person, a specific place, a specific night.

A gatherer named Fell. A fen in the basin's southern reach -- not the Eye, but something of the same ecological family, a slow-water place with a long memory. Fell had been bonding the fen for three months, working steadily toward Familiar depth, which for a Rimfolk gatherer with a strong Elemental attunement was not unusual for a sustained season in one basin. The bond was deep. Fell understood what the fen was.

The pulse came on Day 18 of that cycle. Fell was at the fen when it happened -- not by accident, by choice. She had wanted to be present, to understand what the pulse did to a place she knew. The corruption passed through. The fen's deep core shuddered and was still. Fell was still too.

"The bond held at full depth," Maret said. "When the corruption wove through the pulse, it wove through everything -- the fen's resonance, the bond, the space between. And when it cleared, Fell and the fen were not two things joined. They were one thing that could not separate."

Wren kept her face still.

"Not dead," Maret said. "Not in pain, as far as we could tell. Fell speaks in present tense about things that happened three centuries ago when the fen does. She goes where the fen goes. When the water table drops, she feels thirsty. When the pulse comes, she weeps with the forest." She picked up her cup again. "She is still alive. She is not unhappy. She is not a person anymore, exactly, but she is not lost."

"How long ago?"

"I was twenty-three," Maret said, which was not an answer to the question Wren had asked and was an answer to the question she had meant.

The fire cracked. A bird moved through the high canopy -- not a song, just passage. Wren sat with it.

"I have four active bonds," she said.

"I know."

"Two of them are in a cluster. The cluster nodes are at Varethen, where the corruption has already breached the ghost-elm perimeter." She kept her voice level. "One of those nodes is dormant."

"I know," Maret said again.

"So."

Maret looked at her. "So you are asking me if you should be elsewhere on Day 18."

"I'm asking what you know about risk factors. About what made the difference between a bond that held after the pulse and one that didn't."

Maret was quiet for a long time. Long enough for the fire to settle and the morning light to shift. Then she said: "Fell was at the fen. Present. The bond was at Familiar depth -- that is the second threshold, past Glimpsed, not yet Known. The corruption passed through while she was in contact and the bond was fully open."

She looked at Wren.

"You are at Glimpsed in all four bonds. That is the first threshold -- the shallowest named depth. The bond is present, not immersive. The corruption would have to work harder to find the channel through."

"But it could."

"Everything could," Maret said. "The relevant question is whether you go to ground or whether you stay and pay attention. Fell made a choice. Her choice was not wrong -- she wanted to understand, and she understood. The cost was what it was."

She picked up her cup and drank.

"Pay attention to what changes," she said. It was the same advice she had given about the Thornwild, worded the same way. Wren did not think this was coincidence.

---

She did not go to Varethen that morning.

She went instead to the camp's northern edge, where the ghost-elm grove began, and she stood at the margin and listened.

The grove had been humming since Day 6 or 7 -- not sick, but different. She had noted it and set it aside and not yet had a framework for what it was. Now, with Maret's words about the pulse sitting in her chest, she listened with the specific quality of attention that came from knowing something was there and not yet knowing what it meant.

The hum was lower than it had been. Not quieter -- lower in frequency, a shift toward a register she felt more in the sternum than heard in the ear. The ghost-elms were resonating in a different key. As if they were tuning for something. As if the grove knew what was coming and was adjusting its structure in preparation.

She thought: *bracing.*

The trees were bracing. The way a joint locks before impact. The way a structure settles its weight before a load arrives. The ghost-elm network -- the resonance that ran through root and root-to-root contact across the entire grove -- was stiffening into something denser, slower, more deliberate.

She held her compass level and swept it slowly through the grove's margin. The bond-potential shimmer from the [Wayfinder's Eye] played across the trees' bark in the grey-green light: good shimmer, healthy shimmer, the living trees doing what living trees in the Thornwild did. But the texture of the shimmer was different than it had been on Day 5, when she had first stood here. Denser. Packed closer to the bark rather than radiating outward.

The grove was holding itself in.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  OBSERVATION LOGGED
  Location: Warden's Eye — Ghost-Elm Grove Margin
  Type: Ecological (Resonance Shift)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Ghost-elm network resonance frequency: shifted lower.
  Bark-shimmer texture: compressed, inward. Bond-potential
  readings within normal range but directionally inward
  rather than ambient.

  Assessment: pre-pulse structural adjustment. Grove
  network bracing against approaching resonance event.

  Environmental Reading: +3 proficiency
  Resonance Sensing: +2 proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

She read the notification twice. *Resonance Sensing: +2 proficiency.* She had seen the skill listed before, somewhere in the early readings. The System had been tracking something she had been doing without her naming it. The System had been tracking something she had been doing without naming it.

She let the observation settle. Went back to camp.

---

Theron was at the ruins when she passed by them on her way back.

She almost didn't stop. She had been moving with purpose, the grove observation and the Resonance Sensing notification still sitting fresh, the need to feel the bond network at camp pulling her forward. But she saw him standing at the central clearing -- not surveying, not working -- and she stopped.

He was standing still in the way he stood still when he had arrived at something rather than when he was waiting for it. His back was to her. He was facing the well. The clearing was in morning light, the ghost-elm canopy opening above it into a column of pale sky, and in that light the ruins had the quality of places that have been looked at for a long time: worn smooth by attention even though the stone itself was rough.

She did not go in. She did not want to interrupt.

She heard him speak quietly. Not to her -- she was outside the clearing's edge and he hadn't turned. A few words in a language she did not know, the Rimfolk cadence she had heard in Maret's oral-history register but quieter, more interior. Names, she thought. Just names spoken into the air of the place that should have held them.

Then he was quiet again. He stood that way for another minute. Then he turned, unhurried, and saw her at the edge.

"You were at the grove," he said.

"The resonance has shifted. They're bracing."

He nodded. Not surprised. He began to walk back toward camp and she fell into step beside him and for a while neither of them said anything.

"She told you," he said, eventually. Not a question.

"About the holding. Yes."

He looked at the ruins as they passed the threshold stone. The south-east glance -- toward Varethen, toward the weight of it. "Maret has been carrying that story for a long time."

"I know."

"She doesn't give it often." He paused. "The fact that she gave it to you -- that is also information."

Wren thought about that. About Maret's "she'll tell me when she's ready" and the specific way she had said it, not about Hadley but about something else entirely. About the careful portions of the oral history and what was still being withheld.

"Information about what?" she asked.

But Theron's attention had moved back to the ruins -- to the north wall, to the east structure's ankle-high remnants. He was assessing something. She recognized the look: the practical mind of a man deciding whether something could hold. "The east slab," he said. "The one the ghost-elm roots are bracing. That could survive a winter, with the roots where they are. Longer than I thought."

He said it the way he said things that were not quite announcements -- as observation, as a weight placed quietly on a scale. Not a plan. An assessment. The beginning of one.

She did not press the earlier question. She had EMP enough to know when a door had been opened and when it had been closed. He had opened it and then moved past it. She filed it as the first door. She would come back to it.

---

Maret was gone from the fire by the time they returned to camp. Hadley was in the fen's margins, doing something with his notebook and the stick he had been using as a probe for three days. The ordinary rhythm of the camp, going on around the morning's weight.

She sat on the fallen trunk at the settlement's edge and watched Hadley work for a moment. He was chest-deep in the mirewillow understory, narrating something under his breath. She could not hear the words, just the cadence: question, observation, conclusion, next question. He had been doing this for three seasons in the Thornwild basin. He had survived every pulse in that time.

"Hadley," she said.

He looked up. His notebook was open to a diagram she could see from ten meters: something about root angles.

"When the pulse comes," she said, "what do you do?"

He considered. Not surprised by the question -- he had heard Theron and Maret both speak about the pulse, had been in camp for all of it. "Go upslope," he said. "Night before. I've done it every cycle since my first one."

"Above the corruption line?"

"Couple hours' walk. There's a shelf of rock above the canopy -- not the Warden's Shelf, just a ledge, but clear. I set up there the night before and come back the morning after." He probed the root with his stick, watching the water table's response. "I always thought it was obvious."

She thought about her bond network. About the threshold stone's pre-tremor. About the Eye watching something to the south-southeast.

"Not for everyone," she said.

Hadley looked at her. He was good at reading her face -- better, she had come to understand, than she usually allowed for. "You're not going upslope."

"No."

He went back to his notebook. Made a notation. "Okay," he said, which was what he said when he had decided something was Wren's decision and not his. Then, without looking up: "I can stay below if you need someone to."

She thought about it. Thought about what Maret had said about Fell: she had wanted to be present, to understand. Thought about Hadley's three seasons of practical survival.

"Go upslope," she said. "You've been doing it that way for a reason."

"Yeah." He moved the probe. "But I wanted you to know the option existed."

She stood at the fen's margin for a moment, the mirewillow understory moving around him in the slow current.

"What's it like," she said. "Upslope. What do you hear."

He considered. "You can feel it. Even from the ledge, through the rock. Not the pulse itself — just the basin settling. Like a held breath, then release." He probed again, watching the root response. "The corruption does something to the sound. It goes quiet right before. Bird-quiet."

She kept that. It was, she thought, the most useful thing anyone had said to her all day.

---

She had packed the rosemary from home.

She had not opened the small cloth packet in nine days. It sat in the bottom of her kit bag, under the spare compass lens and the folded survey paper, and she had not touched it because she liked knowing it was there. A presence. Something from before the basin, from the kitchen at home where her mother had hung it in bunches from the ceiling, where it had been background since before Wren could remember.

She took it out after lunch, while the camp was quiet and Theron was in his midday silence and Hadley was still in the fen margins. She held it in her hands for a moment. The cloth was slightly damp from nine days in a pack in a humid basin. She could smell it faintly through the fabric.

She opened it.

The scent was immediate and specific: her mother's kitchen, the dry air of a house rather than forest, stone floor and cedar shelves and the specific smell of somewhere that knew her. She held the opened packet and breathed it and let herself be, for thirty seconds, somewhere else.

Then she set it on the stone beside her -- not putting it away, just setting it down. Let the scent continue in the open air of the camp, mixing with wood smoke and the Thornwild's green-wet underbreath, the sweet distant thread of the corruption's signature.

Nine days. She had thought she would open it when she needed steadying. But what she felt now was not unsteady. She felt the bond network running through her in six connections, the Eye's rhythmic pulse, the threshold stone's pre-tremor at the edges of its dormancy, and underneath all of it the insect chorus counting along. She felt present, located, known.

She did not need steadying. She had wanted a scent from home.

