Every single Primordial Tree on the ground below is not affected by the waves of Advanced Primordial Aura clashing in the sky.

It moves through reality at a frequency far different than these living artifacts exist in.

Some exploding high-quality ether glyphs do create shockwaves that fall back into the physical realm, and stray waves of disconnected Demonic Essence tear up the ground when fragments back their way through. However, the majority of all this mass and energy is absorbed by tendrils of corruption or waves of source resin that cover the entire bottom half of the dome.

Every tree has submitted to the Rising Emperor, so the physical force from Maria's and my auras is not harmful to them at all.

There is only one structure beneath the entire domain that is being damaged, as it contains anchors that root it into reality with Advanced Primordial Aura. It is the stump of the tree that is being shattered and cracked open by the clash.

A very unique aura seeps out of the cracks. It feels like a Dryad, but there are no glyphs visible to check if my instincts are correct.

Wherever this is coming from, it feels like large amounts of this aura are still trapped underground, and the barriers of the central domain are actually blocking out most of what I could be sensing.

The silver threads that are now covered in a bright white, pulsing hot glow are not just surrounding us on the sides and above this dome; there is a perfectly flat floor far beneath the visible ground, creating half a sphere.

This space alone is where my advanced senses stop, the rest of reality outside can only be perceived through others' eyes.

Yet, as visuals of the last remaining Imperial Demons in the Lower Realm being killed are playing in my mind, I see small changes in Marcellus' body.

There are small tendrils of invisible soul ties, and collections of high-quality ether glyphs that disappear one by one. Each severed soul tie makes his Demonic Essence turn darker and colder, as he becomes more isolated from the true galaxy down below.

I can even see the smaller-scale wars taking place in the outer settlements of the purple zone.

Many of the Ascended Demons and Outer Guards flood out of the inner domains because of the horrific pressure that seeps out of the trees.

Those with links of loyalty can exist freely in peace, but those that are opposed feel the collective Primordial Aura of every Dryad's minor legacy left behind.

My own Advanced Primordial Aura even raised their intensity further, making even First Bloods flee from the overwhelming pressure in the Ritual Domains where the strongest Primordial Trees stand.

Even without my help, there are thousands of strong Domain Lords in the outer settlements that could have killed Outer Guards, just like Ulgar, Axel, and Vardon.

I witness many Domain Lords leave their protective shelters and fight the hordes of Demons that come their way. There are enormous sand worms, emerald lizards, golden lions, insects with more eyes than limbs, humanoid bears with long horns and tusks, fiery scorpions, and dozens of races that look nothing like anything I've ever even seen to be an equivalent equal in dungeons.

Some of the outermost domains aren't even limited to a single race or clan. There are domains that are collections of hundreds of thousands of extinct races. They group together as the last remains of their forgotten worlds. Some of which have lit up again on the World Wide connectivity system, on the edges of the galaxy; others still remain dark, as the one representative here in the Primordial Garden is the last of their kind.

Many of these creatures would never be able to fend for themselves against an Outer Guard, but as the waves of Advanced Primordial Aura flow into them, they can all tell they stand a fighting chance.

In the front lines, closer to the neutral domains, the first appearance of a First Blood escaping into the outer settlements occurs.

There is a Black Ogre, white Griffin, and rust-colored Mammoth that stop it before it breaks through to the weaker domains.

Not long ago, the three of them were pinned to the tops of buildings under the pressure of a First Blood's resting aura alone.

Yet now, a deep red and black metallic energy floods through all of them with enough pressure to keep them upright and clash on equal grounds.

All throughout the ring, for hundreds of quadrillions of kilometers all the way around, the strongest of the Domain Lords all clash with First Bloods that they never dreamed of standing up to before today.

Shockwaves and brutality fill the Purple Zone, and the lives of First Bloods are taken one by one as the mana-based Domain Lords grow stronger every passing second.

Simultaneously, Maria and I fly around the dome, getting faster with every collision.

The two chaotic daggers that try to follow us become so damaged that their attempts to actually injure us become hopeless.

I'm able to keep my momentum through the sky while swinging my blade across my body. I don't even have to stop or change directions in the air when we clash.

My soul sword continues to become hotter and more bloodthirsty with every collision.

It even catches cracked pieces of chaotic soul mass from the daggers and devours them mid-swing.

The copies of primordial blades grow as its will expands too. There are over ten million miniature red blades that follow me like a crimson shadow.

Each of them morphs into my own Advanced Primordial Aura, and there are strands of pure, high-quality ether that connect my Creator's legacy glyphs to the many floating swords. I can instantly cast and create even stronger arrays with this mist of crimson swords, it is like an even larger pseudo-greater form that grows around me.

I even ignore the chaotic dagger that tries to attack me once my defenses grow strong enough.

I'm able to let out a full-powered black and red wave of fire, while millions of smaller floating swords spin and summon glyphs together to protect my back. A massive crimson sword array blocks the orange dagger in mid-air, and I land a devastating blow on the demon.

It burns through an enormous amount of Chaotic Aura and lands a direct hit on one of the demon's legs.

It's completely incinerated to nothing but ether mist and raw Demonic Essence.

From his other side, Maria flaps her enormous crystal angel wings and swoops in faster than the demon can react in this moment of shock. An unfathomably thin blue and white blade of ice slices through the atmosphere of auras and cuts off his opposite arm and a quarter of his face as well.

The demon yanks its head out of the way in time to save most of his horn, but lets out a chaotic roar when the separated flesh freezes to mirror-like crystals and shatters in an instant.

Marcellus pulls both of his chipped blades back toward himself, away from both sides of the central domain. Yet, he can only properly catch one. The other just floats where his lost hand should be. His rainbow-orange eyes look even more erratic, cruel, and filled with hatred as he stares down at us with a chunk of his face missing.
