Zac had finally found his match in raw strength. Actually, Astora Theomore might have him beat. Her raw Strength wasn’t necessarily higher than his, but Zac’s Void Emperor Bloodline mostly provided utility. Only [Spiritual Void] giving some direct strength in combat. Meanwhile, his Life-Death constitutions were almost solely focused on boosting defense.

Meanwhile, Astora felt like a humanoid calamity as she stepped onto the docks. Astora’s bloodline thrummed with destruction. Her Hidden Nodes, talents, bloodline—everything must be geared toward destruction to exhibit such a hair-raising aura. And why not? Would a Theomore Princess lack exceptional War Regalia and other defensive treasures? Would she lack sturdy guardians to take the hits?

The answer was no, even in this situation. A squad of royal guards emitting a bloody enough aura to make Zac’s Killing Intent pale in comparison streamed out of the dimensional gate. Astora’s order was drowned out by the noise, but its meaning quickly became clear. The guards moved out in pairs, ruthlessly cutting down any doppelgangers left on the docks.

The invaders unleashed terrifying treasures or abilities in a desperate attempt to survive, but the Royal Guards were completely unstoppable. Glowing runes on their armors seemed able to negate any form of attack. Such measures couldn’t possibly be part of their own strength, seeing as they were only Peak Hegemons. A Monarch or even Autarch must have imbued their regalia with their Dao like a battery. Zac swore, knowing playtime was over.

Another dozen invaders fell in less than a second, completely upending the balance on the square. The freed-up sealbearers didn’t dare to show any dissatisfaction, nor did they dare head for the gondolas. They joined the executioners on their sweep, eager to display their loyalty.

A few doppelgangers desperately fled toward the gondolas, and Zac finally saw why not a single one had given up on killing their twin. The invaders fell right through the gondolas and were swallowed by the Peregrine Ocean. Zac guessed their qualification couldn’t be ascertained while there were copies running around.

There were dozens of invaders between Zac and the growing army, but it wouldn’t take more than a minute or two before order was restored. Zac definitely wanted to be gone by then. He’d already deactivated all his skills to weaken his presence, including [Arbiter of the Abyss].

“It’s up to you now,” Zac said, adding after seeing Janos hurry past five gondolas without giving them a second look. “You’re sure you can tell which ones are safe to pick?”

“Equal danger, different time,” Janos said, pointing at the gondola they just passed. “Almost a century to reach the Mercurial Court.”

“A century?” Zac spat, recalling the opportunity given to the Joyful Gardens.

If this trial worked anything like it, then the unlucky sealbearer who picked that gondola would barely have time to get settled before being sent back home. The century spent at sea might provide valuable insights, but they had to pale before the court’s true opportunities.

Zac pointed at the dense swirl of silver on the ocean. “What about his boat?”

“Three months,” Janos said before adding a caveat. “But corrupted.”

“He’s right,” Esmeralda said, ancient patterns flickering in her eyes. “The clues are stronger now. I think I sensed a weak hint of fallen Dao in its depths of space.”

Zac felt mixed emotions about forcing Xiphos on such a dangerous journey. Whatever his reason, Xiphos had provided valuable information when Zac first arrived at the inner region. While he’d targeted Janos, it wasn’t out of malice. The young sage was simply trying to find a solution in a grave threat. If anything, he acted with more restraint than Zac would if the Atwood Empire faced a similar danger.

“Don’t worry about it too much. He’s very strong, and the taint of corruption didn’t seem very powerful. Nothing like those twisted realms,” Esmeralda comforted. “The journey might even be an opportunity for him.”

“Let’s hope so,” Zac sighed. “Let’s before more variables pop up.”

Xiphos had stopped them just before reaching their destination. Janos only continued past two more gondolas before stopping.

“One month. Probably shortest route.”

“Can’t feel any corruption,” Esmeralda added.

The toad still displayed a hesitant expression that Zac could empathize with. He’d known this would happen, but knowing that his life and death would have to depend on the rickety skipper was a hard pill to swallow. It wasn’t even one of the nicer models equipped with a sunroof.

Janos’s own boat was only a few spots over, and he jumped aboard without hesitation. The timeline ripple confirmed he accepted and locked in. Silver haze rose from the rippling waters, and Zac was shocked to see that Janos’ tool was able to absorb it just like the ambient faith.

“Remember. The journey is a month on the outside. What you’ll experience is another matter,” Janos said as the gondola set out. “Don’t follow in our footsteps. Don’t lose yourself in the dream.”
