As the large group of giants ran towards the beleaguered travelers, Ren lifted the end of the Ballista and let several shots go. They flew across the distance, and hit the ground in front of the advancing giants. Several of them stumbled and fell from the impacts in the ground in front of them; but, it was only because they had been startled. Most of them continued on as if Ren hadn't done anything. He stored the Ballista and took out the Wand of Distraction, and concentrated on the sound of screaming children. He used the wand several times on trees, rocks, and even tried it on the giants themselves. Everyone was surprised as the loud sounds of screaming children, from each object that had the spell cast on it, erupted as the giants passed. It was enough to cause confusion, and that's what Ren had hoped for.

While they were distracted, Ren took out the Wand of Slickness and shot the ground in front of the group of giants several times, and covered a large area in grease. It was only going to last two minutes; but, that was plenty of time for the battle to be decided. Once the giants realized none of them were actually causing children to scream, they started to run towards the intruders on their land again.

“Get behind the armored giant!” Ren said and ran around the giant they had already taken down. The others followed him, and Rubella only had to step over the fallen giant to join them, then knelt. The armored giant didn't provide her with any cover, but that wasn't what Ren intended anyways. He stored the other wands and took out a Fireball wand to absorb the charges from it, then filled it with Magic Mouth spells. His Mana Pool emptied after being used so many times, and he got a popup.

Stat Change!

Craft Wand Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

So loading new spells into the wands counts as crafting them. Ren thought. That's good to know. He examined the new wand and smiled.

Wand Of Ventriloquism

A Magic Mouth spell imbues the chosen object or creature with an enchanted mouth that suddenly appears and speaks its message the next time a specified event occurs. The message, which must be 10 or fewer words long, can be in any language known by you, and can be delivered over a period of 2 minutes. The mouth cannot utter verbal components, use command words, or activate magical effects. It does, however, move according to the words articulated; if it were placed upon a statue, the mouth of the statue would move and appear to speak. Of course, magic mouth can be placed upon a tree, rock, or any other object or creature.

The spell functions when specific conditions are fulfilled according to your command as set in the spell. Commands can be as general or as detailed as desired, although only visual and audible triggers can be used. Actions can serve as triggers if they are visible or audible.

The range limit of a trigger is 20 feet per wand level or ability status, so a 5th-level wand or Master spell caster can command a magic mouth to respond to triggers as far as 100 feet away. Regardless of range, the mouth can respond only to visible or audible triggers and actions in line of sight or within hearing distance.

Magic mouth can be made permanent with a Permanency (Level 5) spell.

Higher level wands or abilities increase the number of words spoken, and time needed to say those words.

Warning: Multiple Magic Mouth spells do not stack. The first must expire before another will work on the same object.

Cast Distance: Within 100 feet (Medium). Area of Effect: Object only.

Time Limit: Permanent until triggered.

Ren read the description quickly, then dismissed the popup and took out the Wand of Entanglement. The first dozen giants that approached at a run, hit the grease-covered ground and slipped. They lost their footing, fell to the ground with a crash, and slid into their fallen comrade. Their armor rattled and clanged with the sounds of metal-on-metal hits; so Ren jumped up on top of the one he had used as a barricade and shot the Wand of Entanglement at the newly fallen giants to attach them to each other. Each spell covered a circle 20 feet in area, so it didn't take much to cover them all. Ren made sure he didn't cover their faces, however; because he wanted them immobilized, not dead.

The other 24 giants tried to stop just outside the grease-covered area, and most of them succeeded; but, a few more were added to Ren's trap and the giants looked at him warily as he secured the new additions.

“I'm not here to fight!” Ren shouted. It didn't look like they could hear him, so he used the Wand of Ventriloquism and shot a boulder next to them. It repeated his phrase, much to their surprise. The closest giant picked the boulder up, and looked at it. Ren shook his head, then thought about what to have the rock say, then used another Magic Mouth spell.

“It's not the rock talking. It's the little person.” Ren used another spell. “On top of the webbed-up pile of giants.”

The giant looked over to him, and Ren waved. The giant looked back at the rock, then at Ren, then back at the rock. Ren could see his mouth moving, but couldn't hear what was being said.

Get over there, Teepo.

“Right!” Teepo said, and flew over to the giant and landed on his shoulder. “He's asking the rock why it's not answering his questions.”

Ren sighed and used another spell. “I can't hear you. I don't have ears.” The rock said, and several giants laughed.

“He wants to know what's going on.” Teepo said, and Ren used another spell.

“Little people brought giant back home.”

The giant turned and looked at Rubella. She waved, and there was no response.

“They said she was exiled over a month ago, because she caught the brain infection that makes people go mad.” Teepo said.

“It's a worm, not an infection.” The rock said. “Little people have proof.”

Ren stored the Wand of Entanglement and took out the Wand of Slickness. He covered the ground in grease again, and the giants watched him. They talked among themselves for a minute.

“They're getting the archers.” Teepo said.

“Wait!” The rock exclaimed. “No fight! Peace! We come in peace!”

Ren recharged the Wand of Ventriloquism while the giants moved aside and let two archers come to the front.

“Don't make me fight!” The rock said, and the archers pulled arrows from their quivers.

Ren sighed, shook his head, and switched the Wand of Slickness with the Wand of Distraction, then used the Ghost Sound spell once more; only this time he repeated Rubella's scream of pain that he had heard when he'd forced the grub-like thing from her head. The ear-splitting scream came from the rock, amplified to 4 times it's normal volume, and it startled the giants so much that they jumped.

The giant that held the rock dropped it. Ren stored the Wand of Distraction and took out the Ballista from inventory, then balanced it on the giant's chest. He angled it up and aimed for one of the archers, then enchanted the tip of the bolt with a double glyph (8 runes total) of Fire. The bows the giants carried were gigantic; but Ren aimed carefully anyways, then shot a single bolt at it. The giant's bow burst into flames immediately, and the giant dropped it before the fire engulfed his hand. Ren did the same with the second bow, before the archer could load an arrow into it. The second giant dropped the bow and tried to stamp the flames out; but, he broke the bow instead.

Ren aimed the Ballista with one hand and used the Wand of Ventriloquism with the other.

“Could have shot you instead.” The rock at the giant's feet said. “Can still shoot you.”

“They're wondering how many shots you have left.” Teepo said.

“About 80.” The rock said, and all of the giants stood still.

“Some of them don't believe you.” Teepo said. “Maybe a little demonstration might be needed?”

Ren switched the Ballista to full auto, aimed high, and let a dozen arrows go in quick succession as he traversed the shots over their heads. Most of the giants ducked; but several of them stared at Ren as he finished. He used the Magic Mouth spell again.

“About 70 left.” The rock said, and Ren could see the giant sigh as he slipped his sword into it's sheath on his hip.

“Are... are they surrendering?” Groggot asked as he came around the giant he was hiding behind, and saw the other giants sheath their swords.

“Yeah.” Ren said as the head giant came over to him. “If they don't want to die a flaming death today.”

“I can't believe I'm doing this.” The giant took off his helm and knelt. “First I'm talking to a rock, and now to a little person.” He shook his head and sighed. “I surrender.”

“As the overall commander of the Garrison, charged with the defense of the Dwarven Kingdom, I accept.” Ren said.

Notice!

You have defeated (and partially subdued) a platoon of the Guardians of the Land. They have reluctantly surrendered to your show of might.

Rewards: 37,000 XP (1,000 XP per giant)

Influence: + 20,000

“What are the rules for this?” Ren asked the giant, who looked at Ren with surprise on his face.

“Everyone knows the Rules of Surrender.”

“Everyone in your kingdom probably does.” Ren said. “I'm not from your kingdom, though.”

The giant sighed again. “This is a disgrace to be at the mercy of someone who doesn't even know the rules.”

“I would know them if you tell me.”

“You've captured a third of my platoon and made me surrender.” He said. “We owe you a week of wages, or the work equivalent, and a life.”

“A WHAT?!?”

“One of our lives is forfeit. It is the cost of this disgrace.”

It was Ren's turn to sigh. “I'm getting tired of having to deal with new cultures and their stupid traditions.”

The giant frowned at him. “Are you insulting our way of life?”

“I didn't mean for it to be an insult.” Ren said. “It's just the truth as I see it.”

“You should keep your opinions to yourself, then.” The giant said angrily. “If I'd heard you speak in such a way before, I wouldn't have surrendered.”

Ren looked at him. “So, instead of only letting one man die when you surrendered, you'd rather have lots of them, or all of them, die instead?”

The giant took in a breath and let it out. “Let's just get this over with.”

“Very well.” Ren said, and the giant stood up. He went around and gathered the money from his troops while Ren stored the Ballista and climbed down from the giant he was standing on. Barely a minute later, the web he'd shot at the first giant dissolved. The giant sat up and put a hand on his face.

“Ow!” He said. “I thing my dose is bwoken.”

“Sorry about that.” Ren said. “I was aiming for your chest, and jumped too high.”

“Medic!” The head giant said, and one of the giants stepped over the other webbed up giants to reach the hurt one. The medic put one hand on the giant's forehead, shoved the first two fingers of the other hand up his nostrils, and yanked hard.

“OW!” The giant yelled, there was a snap, and the giant's eyes welled up with tears. The Medic put a hand over the nose, it glowed yellow for a moment, and then the medic walked away without saying a word.

“That was neat.” Ren said as the giant that used to have a broken nose, stood up and joined his fellows. “Painful as hell, but neat.”

It only took another 6 minutes for the rest of the webs to dissolve and the rest of the money was gathered. The head giant put the money on the ground in front of Ren, and it ended up being several 4 foot high stacks of gold coins. Ren wasn't sure what to do with it at first; but, since it was supposed to be money, he took one and put it near his coin vault. It shrank to fit, and Ren added the rest of it. He looked at the giant.

“I assume everyone paid, and they don't have to work for me for the week?”

“Yes, everyone paid.” The giant said, and Groggot and Croggart winced.

“You shouldn't lie.” Ren said. “Especially in this situation.” He looked at the gathered giants. “Who didn't pay?”

One of the giants raised a hand. “I need the money to feed my family.”

Ren walked over to him and took out 5 gold coins, thought 'giant' and they popped out the same size as the ones the head giant had given him.

“I'll loan you a week's pay, and you can pay me back 1 gold coin a month for 5 months.” Ren said and handed the giant the money.

“Are you serious?” He asked, then handed Ren back the 5 gold coins. “How are you going to get it?”

“You can leave the money at the Library for the Sage of Ages.” Ren said. “I'll have her go by and pick it up.”

The giant shook his head. “You're crazy.”

“Yeah.” Ren said and walked back to where Groggot and Croggart stood. “Now, how do you decide who's life is mine to take?”

The giants turned away from them and formed a circle. Ren saw their arms moving, and about 10 minutes later, heard a loud curse. The group broke up and turned back to face him, and the giant he'd tackled at the beginning stepped forward.

“I lost.” The giant said.

“What did you lose?” Ren asked, curious.

“The ancient deciding ritual.” The giant said. “Boulder, Parchment, and Shears.”

“Hold on.” Ren said. “You were picked to forfeit your life because you lost at Rock, Paper, Scissors?”

“I'm not sure what paper and scissors are, but yes. It has always been so.”

“Now what?” Ren asked.

“Usually it would be a quick beheading, but you are too small to wield a sword properly.” The giant said. “Hopefully, you can use something to cut my jugular.” The giant made a cutting motion on the side of his neck. “That would be quickest.”

“Your life is mine to do with as I wish, correct?” Ren asked him.

“Yes.” The giant said, and laid down on the ground in front of Ren. “Please grant me a swift death.”

“I don't think that will be necessary.” Ren said, and several giants gasped.

“He's going to make it slow and painful!”

“The little people are so ruthless!”

“I think we should just step on them. They're right there.”

Ren looked at them. “I meant that I was going to spare his life.”

More gasps were heard.

“The life offered isn't worthy!”

“Oh, no! We'll be publicly shamed.”

“My wife and kids won't take that money now.”

“Should we pick another?”

Ren sighed. “Every life is worthy.”

“He wants all of our lives!”

“Boy, he's greedy. Why isn't one enough?”

“My wife definitely won't need the money if I'm dead.”

Ren waved his arms emphatically. “To be saved! Worthy to be saved! Not taken!”

“He's over-reacting a lot, isn't he?”

“Just kill him and be done with it.”

“I'm hungry.”

“Get up.” Ren said to the giant that had laid down in front of him. “You offered your life to me, and I have spared it. Your life is your own again.”

The giant didn't move.

