“What is it?” Ren asked.

“I don't know what to do now.” The giant said. “The life offered was always taken.” He sighed. “What should I do with my life now?”

“Keep being a guard. It's not like they filled your position while you laid here.”

“Actually, they did.” The giant said. “My old position now belongs to the next in line, and so on and so forth.”

“Can you join the guards again?” Ren asked.

“And do another three years of training?” The giant shook his head. “I don't think so.”

Ren sighed again. “Then go find something else to do. Geez, I'm not your mother.” He said. “Go on! Get!”

The giant nodded and got up from the ground and walked away.

“That was mean.”

“It's not his fault you didn't want to kill him.”

“If someone doesn't want to kill, you can't make them.”

Ren ignored the voices and waved to the head giant.

“What is it now?”

“Aren't you going to ask about Rubella?” Ren asked and pointed to her.

“She was exiled. She's not my concern.”

“What does exiled mean?”

“She was forcibly removed from giant lands, and isn't allowed back.”

“WHAT?!?” Rubella shouted. “I'm all better! Look at me!” She did a twirl. “I'm not crazy anymore!”

“That doesn't matter.” The head giant said. “You are outcast, and that's final.”

“But... but my baby!” Rubella cried. “I have to get back to my baby!”

“You were infected and attacked people. We removed you. End of story.”

“What about a medical representative, or government official, or something?” Ren asked. “Surely there's someone we can talk to?”

The giant shook his head. “I won't risk one of our people coming out here, just to tell you no.”

Ren looked at him sternly. “You mean to tell me, that even though we helped get that grub-like thing out of her head, and know how to get rid of the others to save everyone, you aren't going to let Rubella inside giant lands?”

The giant didn't say anything, but he did cross his arms.

“You aren't going to let us inside, either.” Ren sighed. “Are you?”

“No.” The head giant said. “The general population will panic if they discover that the little people in our fairy-tale stories are actually real.”

Ren looked at him. “Even though I defeated you, and you surrendered, you'd still fight to stop me from entering your lands?”

“Yes.”

“Well, that's just great.” Ren said. “I came all this way to help your people, and to return one of your own, and all you can do is tell me that you want me to stay away, knowing full well that the problem can be fixed.” He turned and walked away. “I hope you have fun exiling the rest of your population, you ignorant fool.”

Ren gathered up the people he'd brought to the giant lands, had Rubella pick up the pieces of the large cart, and he repaired and replaced the damaged parts of it. Once it was attached to the cart that Princess was still fastened to, he had everyone climb in.

“Just trot.” Ren said to Princess, and she trotted away from the giant lands. They traveled for about an hour that way, and Teepo told Ren that the two giants that had been following them had turned around. Ren waited another half an hour, and took a right turn.

“Hey! What are you doing?” Croggart asked. “We're supposed to be heading home!”

“We are.” Ren said. “We all are.”

They traveled for another hour, and came to a stop.

“I'm not going to like what happens next, am I?” Croggart asked him. Ren shook his head and got down from the driver's seat, then walked to the large cart that Rubella and Groggot sat in.

“This is where we part ways.” Ren said to Rubella.

“No!” Groggot exclaimed. “Ren, you can't leave her here all alone!”

“It's all right, Groggot.” Rubella said, and climbed out of the large cart, with Groggot close behind. “I'm a grown woman. I can't expect him to assume responsibility for me.”

“After spending so much time with you, I can't just leave you out here alone.” Groggot said to her, then turned to Ren. “Please, Ren! Don't abandon her!”

“I'm not.” Ren said. “As the overall commander of the Garrison, I order you to escort Rubella back to her home and see what the situation is like. If it's not the home she thought it was, or there's no home for her to go back to, or if it is her home and your job is done; leave a note at the Library for the Sage of Ages, and I'll come back here to pick you up.” Ren said. “That goes for the both of you, if necessary.”

Groggot stood there and stared at Ren in shock.

“What do you think, Rubella?” Ren asked her. “Does that sound like a good plan?”

She knelt and held out a finger for Ren, and he shook it.

“You don't have to do this, you know.” Rubella said. “I can make it on my own.”

“If it turns out that you can't stay there, gather some supplies. Pick up seeds, plants, or anything that you would need to grow your own food.”

“I... I don't have any money...”

Ren smiled and put several platinum into a coin pouch and had her equip it. It re-sized to fit her, then she looked at the contents and gasped.

“You... you...”

“I hope you do find what you're looking for.” Ren said. “Good luck, both of you.”

“It was nice meeting you, even under these circumstances.” Rubella said and smiled.

“I feel the same way.” Ren said, and then Groggot took Ren into a hug.

“I can't thank you enough.” Groggot said.

“You shouldn't have said that.” Ren said. “Now you won't have anything to say when I equip you for the journey.”

“Wh-what?”

“I'm not going to let you just go traipsing off into the giant lands without at least something to defend yourself.”

“But... but...”

Ren took out one of the crates that had a suit of armor in it. His Mana bar had refilled, so he enchanted the pieces of armor with glyphs of Warding, that reduced the chance that the armor would be seen when looked at, and dyed the pieces black.

“I've never done anything like this before, but if you wear all of the pieces, it should... should, mind you... give you a high chance of not being discovered.” Ren said and handed them to Groggot.

“Ren... you don't have to do this.” Groggot said. “I'm sure I can...”

“...take what I'm giving you.” Ren said. “Right?”

Groggot reluctantly nodded and equipped the armor.

“I can give Rubella a set of armor, too. It's for a man, so it will be uncomfortable to wear for long periods; but, it'll come in handy if you need it. Plus, it'll stay this size until you put it on.” Ren said and motioned to the empty crate.

“I... I don't know what to say.” Rubella said. “Thank you.”

Ren took out another set of armor and enchanted it as well. He drank 2 Mana potions to partially fill his practically empty Mana bar, then took out several bolts of fabric. Using Ruck's pattern as a base, Ren doubled up on the thickness of the backpack, since he couldn't use reinforced metal for the frame. He made the backpack with extra pockets and openings to the inside, then added extra padding where it would rest against Rubella's back.

“Equip this and hand it back to me, please.” Ren said to Rubella, and she did so. It re-sized to fit her, and went from 2 feet wide by 3 feet high to 5 feet wide and 7 feet high. She passed it back, and Ren added a thin wood floor and wood braces around the inside of the backpack, to hold the shape. Handholds were next, and then a small ladder.

“What are you doing?” Rubella asked.

“Making somewhere for Groggot to stay.” Ren said and added a chair, which he nailed to the floor. “I think that's everything for this.” He said, then made a thick and long hooded cloak for Rubella. He dyed it black and handed it to her. She equipped it, and it re-sized to fit. She was covered from her head to her ankles, and she pulled the hood down and smiled.

“You're amazing.” Rubella said, as she put the crate of armor he'd given her inside the backpack. “I can never repay you for all of this.”

“Don't worry about that.” Ren said. “Just get home to your family.”

“Thank you.” She said, and looked at Groggot. “Ready?”

“Just a second.” Ren said. He sewed up a small harness, hung nearly all of the special wands from it, then handed it to Groggot. They were the wands of Entanglement, Distraction, Grease, Sleep, Fireball and a Major Healing wand. “Don't use the Fireball unless it's really necessary.” He said. “Like, a last ditch 'we have to get out of here' necessary.” He smiled. “The others you know how to use.”

“You were right.” Groggot said as he put the wand harness on over the armor. “I don't know what to say now.”

“That you'll be careful, won't take too many risks, and that I'll hear from you soon.” Ren said.

“The same goes for me.” Croggart said. “I think you're an idiot for doing this.”

“Yeah, I know you do.”

“She tried to kill you.”

“Yeah.”

“She held you captive for weeks.”

“Yeah.”

“So explain it to me.” Croggart said. “Why are you doing this?”

“Even though she was crazy, and nearly completely out of her mind, she was still nice to me.” Groggot said and looked at Rubella. “Despite everything she was going through, she took care of me first.” He smiled at her. “I want... I need to return the favor.”

Croggart hugged his brother for a brief moment, then let him go. Rubella smiled and held open the top of the backpack. Groggot climbed in, she closed it, then put it on. Groggot opened one of the compartments inside and looked out over Rubella's shoulder.

“Let's go.” Groggot said.

The giant woman walked off into the night, with her lone dwarf escort on her back.

*

“You really don't have to do this.” Rubella said. “I can make it back on my own.”

“I know you can.” Groggot said. “I'm just going along for the ride.”

“You do realize it could take days, or even weeks for me to find out where I am, and how to get back home.”

“Yeah, and I'll be right here the whole time. A little voice on your shoulder that will encourage you to keep going, no matter what.”

A tear came to Rubella's eye, and she used the sleeve of the cloak to dry it.

“Thank you.” She said, took a deep breath, and walked a little faster towards the border of the giant lands.

*

“Yeah, I definitely don't like this.” Croggart said. “We came all this way to rescue him, and now he's going off into an even more dangerous place.” He shook his head. “How could you let him go like that?”

They climbed into the cart and Princess took off towards the dwarf lands.

“You heard what Groggot said.” Ren smiled. “Even if she had been allowed in and we weren't, he was going in with her anyways. I just did my best to help hide and protect him.”

Croggart huffed and sat in the back of the cart. He wasn't happy, but Ren was right. Once Groggot got an idea in his head, he was going to go through with it until it was done.

I don't have to like it, though. Croggart thought.

They traveled through the rest of the night, and stopped for food and rest occasionally. It didn't take as long this time, because they didn't have to detour to the cave to go back to the Garrison. They didn't go in a straight line by any means; since the terrain changed from sparce forests to barren areas, to rivers and hills, to tons of underbrush, and then back again.

You know, with a regular water source, those large barren areas would be just as nice as the rest of the place. Ren thought as they passed yet another gully that should have had water in it. You're keeping a good eye out for rogue giants, aren't you, Teepo?

“Nope.” Teepo chittered in laughter. “I'm just sitting here twiddling my antennae.”

Ren smiled, and nodded slightly. “Here should be good.” He said, and Princess came to a stop. He unhooked the large cart from the back, moved it away a little, then lit it on fire. Teepo flew over to land on Ren's shoulder, so he could enjoy the view of the flames up close.

“What the hell are you doing?” Croggart asked him.

“Recharging my Mana Pool.” Ren said, and started using his Absorb Fire ability to change the energy into Mana. It didn't take long for it to happen, and the cart was reduced to nearly half of it's size. Ren stored it, fed Princess some food, and he and Croggart ate breakfast themselves.

“We should be back home in a couple of hours.” Ren said, and yawned. “I need to get some sleep.”

“Me, too.” Croggart said. “We've been up since yesterday morning.”

Ren nodded slightly. “Well, it's almost over.” He said and stood up, then stretched. “I can't wait to tell Nathalia all about this.”

“It's quite the story.” Croggart said. “Why don't you let me ride up front? You can catch a bit of sleep in the back, before we hit the Garrison.”

“No, that's okay.” Ren said. “I just need to keep my mind focus-”

Croggart shot him with the Wand of Slumber, and Ren's words were cut off as he fell to the ground unconscious. Croggart had taken the wand from the harness his brother wore when they hugged. He felt bad that his brother wouldn't have access to the sleep spell; but when a giant was awake, it didn't work well on them, anyways. It worked great on normal people, though. Croggart picked Ren up and put him near the back of the cart with Stacy and Riley. The two dogs looked at him, and he smiled.

“He's really tired.” Croggart said, and went to the front of the cart. “Half-speed.” He said. “Let's go.”

Princess took off as asked, and Croggart grinned. I just have to keep shooting him with the wand every couple of minutes if he wakes up.

Little did Croggart realize that Teepo had been on Ren's shoulder, and had been caught in the Sleep spell as well. His small astral body had fallen to the ground when Croggart had picked Ren up. As the cart sped away from the spot where Teepo lay unconscious, Ren's Trouble recipe gathered the essential ingredients that it needed to make something awesome happen.
