"Yes, I do. Listen, I don't mean it that way, Gone. We wouldn't have made it out without you or Solzimort or Candles or a great many people. But do you really trust them? I barely know you. Thus far, I'm quite pleased with you as a companion due to your capabilities and your character. But how many other prisoners could you say the same about? How many other prisoners would you trust with your life? With the lives of random citizens?"

When Gone didn't say anything, Shiv knew she saw Adam's point. Furthermore, he thought back to her request, for a member of their escape party was the exact kind of prisoner Adam was worried about. Kura had murdered an entire family, down to the youngest. And doubtless she was listening, but she didn't say anything either.

"It's bad enough that we have to work with a Forgotten Ascendant," Adam scoffed. "And no, Educator, you're not getting any apologies from me. Again, we're putting up with you, and you're putting up with us. Nothing more than that. I'd also like for you to explain more of your thinking to the rest of us, instead of just pointing us around. We can provide a great deal of valuable input, you know? I, too, have deep knowledge of the city, and have lived here for a great many years. Perhaps not in this district specifically, but I know a good portion of the mid-ring, and I've toured all the grandest gates of the capital. I dare say I know a few secrets here that are even beyond you." A few moments passed. "Educator?"

No reply came. For a second, Shiv wondered if she was simply fixated on something else, or if she was too annoyed to continue trading jabs with the rest of them. But something told him that she wasn't here at all. There was an odd feeling of absence.

"She's focused on her own plans, and earlier she was pretty interested in Captain Irons," Shiv suddenly said. "Adam, I don't think she's inside your Awareness anymore. I think she took a leap into Irons."

The Gate Lord realized a moment thereafter. "Oh, godsdamn her! What's she trying to do? Did she just leave us?"

"I don't think so," Shiv said. He considered Irons and how he was drawn across the tap once more. "I think she's solving our problem for us right now. We can only be transported from the other side, right? She'll probably incapacitate everyone there before forcing whatever Hydromancer they have to do what she asks."

"We won't need to deal with any of these goblins," Adam concluded. "We'll be able to go across directly."

Just as they reached that realization, the tap that the goblin and Irons both turned began to groan as its nozzle burst apart in a spray of ringing fragments. A rush of liquor splashed down on the ground, and the foaming fluid created a steady waterfall. The goblins jerked back in startlement. Several tumbled out from their chairs; others knocked their own drinks over. Shiv, however, noticed how the waterfall of alcohol didn't puddle on the ground. It continued streaming hard against the floor, but it didn't spread. It was as if it were a pillar holding in place, or a stable portal.
