In truth, Tala actually hadn’t the slightest idea how to properly close down a hold. The complicated dimensional mechanics of unfolding the expanded space back into the superficial to prevent a void-hold from being spawned—along with a laundry list of other complications that could throw an unplanned element into the process—meant that she would be honestly entirely lost if she were forced to do it ‘properly.’

This was effectively the difference between dispersing a meal throughout a house so that no one could easily find evidence that it was ever there… and eating it.

Of course, the analogy broke down quite easily, but she still thought it apt.

Regardless, the show wasn’t quite over. She turned to regard those of the Frost Lance. “I bid you farewell as you depart Platoiri, but if your illustrious House ever wishes to return—or to work with the House of Blood elsewhere—we would welcome you with open arms.”

The white hue-folk bowed as one before moving away, following the administrator as he moved toward the traveling entrances to the Doman-Imithe.

Then, as Tala was about to dismiss the crowd, she was given a gift by the stars, themselves. Her perception snagged on an Eskau from the House of the Fated Clash.

She made an exclamatory noise to return attention to herself, and gave a shallow bow toward the woman. “Elder Eskau of the House of the Fated Clash. It must be fate indeed for you to be here, today. I have intended to extend your House an offer, and this time is as good as any. Would you come alongside the House of Blood and aid our efforts in the coming clash?” She hesitated a theatrical moment before adding. “I, of course, know that you cannot speak for your House, but I ask you to take my offer to them.” A slow, meaningful smile spreading across her features. “Please do so, and ensure it is conveyed in its entirety."

The other woman visibly swallowed, clearly unconsciously, but then she seemed to master herself, giving a bow toward Tala. “I will do so with honor, Eskau of the House of Blood.”

“That is all I can ask.”
