As he did, the expected thing happened. Stormhalt's eyes came aglow with Divination mana, and the tree he was connected to pulsated with violet energy. The Ascendant who empowered him pointed his spear down.

"Something approaches.” Halsur was an Ascendant of few words, and when he spoke, the world shivered beneath his awesome baritone.

"You think a feeble ambush like this will allow you to take us by surprise?" Stormhalt spat. Rebis waved his hands, and Shiv watched as a messy spray of incandescence expanded out from the former prisoner’s body. The light seemed fluid at first, but as it spilled out from the gaps in Adam's armor, Shiv saw what seemed to be a hexagonal grid that slipped past him. As the Deathless tried to move through, he found himself stained with Divination mana. He might have been able to slip out with his Non-Sequitur, but that didn't mean he was unaffected by the powers they infused the construct with.

Gives them an easy way to track me. Well, this is annoying, Shiv thought to himself, but this was also anticipated. Adam knew certain Ascendants had powerful Divination, and even his personal Divination skill could anticipate where Shiv was coming from. But him getting close was only part of the ambush.

As soon as Shiv was noticed by the Ascendants, Adam moved to the next part of their plan. "Before we begin, I just want you to know that I will do to you, Enoch, what the Storm Lords couldn't finish at the Pacific Islands."

In an instant, the wire-mesh construct being shaped by the Ascendant came undone. Noises like snapping steel cables sounded as the stolen matter harvested from the bridges fell, crashing down in a spill of unstable matter alongside the flowing spellstuff.

"What did you say?" Both of Enoch's voices were aligned, and Shiv could practically taste the Ascendant's dismay.

Adam sneered. "I said, why don't you tell me what happened at Aina Huna?"

And at that, Rebis jerked as if mortally wounded. The Ascendant cried out as well. For the first time, Shiv saw Enoch as he birthed himself free from Rebis's body.
