“Why don't you have one?” Hank asked. “These things are great!”

“I have an unmodified one that has more restrictions.” Ren said. “I don't want to play with it and mess it up in the middle of a quest, though.”

“We hafta go tha' way.” Clint said and motioned to the left. “Ah followed tha drag marks ta thare.”

“There's not much in that direction.” Ren said. “Not according to the map, anyways.”

“How far do we have to go?” Dillon asked.

“Ah don' rightly know.” Clint said. “Leas' not 'til we git thare.”

“Do you want more phantom horses?” Ren asked, and the guys declined. Elerlyth sighed dramatically, and Ren climbed down off of Princess. “I have a surprise for you.” He said and took out the Wand of Transport.

“Ren, I don't... I don't want another...” Elerlyth stopped talking when Ren cast the spell in front of her, and the Phantom Steed looked at her knowingly. “E-E-Etheria?”

The Phantom Steed neighed at her and licked her face.

“Etheria!” Elerlyth kissed the horse on the nose, then turned to face Ren.

“Wai-” Ren's words were cut off as she kissed him.

“I love you so much!” Elerlyth said when she broke the kiss a few seconds later, and the guys stared at them.

“Blah!” Ren said and tried to wipe off his tongue. “You taste like horse!”

Elerlyth laughed. “Come on, you still love me!”

Ren sighed dramatically. “Yes, I still love you.”

“How did you do it?” Elerlyth said and hugged her Phantom Steed.

“I read the spell.” Ren said. “When cast, it creates a steed specifically for who I choose it for.”

“Oh, Ren.” Elerlyth said and climbed up onto it. “Thank you!”

“Stay bahind us.” Clint said. “Ah don' wan' ya messin' up somethin' we migh' find.”

Ren rode Princess behind the group, with a happy Elerlyth beside him on her mount, and they followed the tracks for half an hour.

“Ren.” Teepo said. “200 feet ahead on the right.”

“200 feet ahead on the right!” Ren repeated, and everyone looked.

“Wha' is tha'?”

“It looks like a cloak.” Hank said, and the group approached it cautiously. It was a cloak, but it was also in tatters, with tears and holes in it that ran the full length of the fabric.

“Tha's blood.” Clint said and reached out for it.

“Wait!” Ren said, and Clint stopped. Ren used Enchanted Eyes to see if there were any enchantments around, and he didn't see anything. “Just a second.” He said and took out a Level 5 wand and absorbed the Web spells from it and replaced it with the Level 2 spell Detect Magic. He used it on the cloak, and nothing happened. He stored the wand and took out another and replaced it with the Level 3 spell Detect Traps. He cast that, and a cone of emanation 120 feet long covered the cloak. The ground around the cloak glowed, and it highlighted a thin line to a nearby tree and back to the cloak.

“It's a snare.” Ren said, a little surprised. “A human-sized snare.”

“Thanks.” Clint said and used a knife to cut the highlighted line, then stepped away from the cloak. “Tha' changes things a little.”

“It sure does!” Hank said and smiled. “We're gonna meet something soon!”

Ren examined the trap and frowned.

Crude Rope Snare (Large)

This snare was hastily made to catch large unsuspecting prey, and it quite effective to those not wary enough to watch out for such things.

“We need to be a lot more careful from now on.” Ren said. “Right, Dillon?”

Dillon nodded. “I got the implied warning, too.”

“Stay close, bu' no' too close.” Clint said. “Ren, how many times can you cast it?”

“As many times as you want.” Ren said, and the guys looked at him.

“Really?”

“It's a wand. I can empty it and refill it with Mana when necessary.”

“Then keep castin' it in fron' of us when we reach it's range.”

Ren nodded and cast it in front of the party, then again. They found three more snare traps, a hidden pit with several wood spikes on the bottom, and a 5 foot wide rock set to roll down a small incline when triggered. The party disabled these traps as they went along, so that no one would get caught in them. Ren, struck with inspiration, stored the large rock and then dropped it into the pit, and it almost filled it. He used his Staff of Earth to push the dirt together and the pit was no more.

“Ha, nice one.” Hank said, and they walked on.

My Lord, I smell something. Princess thought to Ren.

“Princess smells something.” Ren said. “Can you tell what direction?”

Princess lifted her nose and turned it from side to side, then stopped when she faced the right.

“That way.” Ren said and cast both Detect Magic and Detect Traps ahead of them. Nothing showed up, and when they walked through the underbrush, they saw what Princess had smelled. Graves.

Hundreds of freshly dug up graves were in the field in front of them.

“Tha's no' on tha map.” Clint said.

“It wasn't on the other one, either.” Ren said. “I would have noticed a mile wide graveyard on such a small map.”

“What do we do?” Billy asked.

“Ah los' tha drag marks a while back.” Clint said. “Bu' thare are tons of 'em here.” He said and pointed. “They go that-a-way.”

“Lead on.” Hank said. “We got your back.”

“Ah know ya do.” Clint said. “Le's go.”

The party moved off in the direction of the drag marks, and Ren kept casting Detect Magic and Detect Traps spells to make sure that they weren't in any immediate danger.
