Besides, she wasn’t so limited. She already had to track an absurd amount of information to fight alongside her images, yet even as she became greater with her ever-increasing stats, she had never truly pushed those limits alongside them. So what if she only had two eyes?! Willfully, she clawed desperately against her perceived limits.

She tried to move her eyes faster, even as they watered—and lost that moisture as quickly as it came. She struggled to track and anticipate every drop of Lava that rained down on the vicinity. She pushed her body and her images to dance faster—better—and evade. And she forced herself to endure the heat as she tried to close in.

She just needed one opening. It was an optimistic thought, but she struggled to convince herself of it, as she danced around her adversary. She never had properly studied dullahan anatomy—cursed books aside—yet if she could carve a large enough piece out of him, she was determined to use that momentum to see him dead.

Another attack came. Ranthia used the tactic she had honed against the troll twin—she deflected his heat-hazed sword with her knife and used the momentum to dance clear of his strike. The gap in the Lava that his weapon carved closed with unnatural swiftness; there was no time to even recklessly throw a knife.

With the dullahan’s next attack, a pattern emerged. Her opponent was attacking after the exact same interval of time—it was the kind of orderly foolishness that she was born to punish.

Ranthia activated [Reflections of Reality].

And the dullahan’s sword parted the Lava at the exact moment she expected it to.

Instead of evading it, Ranthia braced herself and stepped into the attack while the image that she was shifting to crouched at her side. White hot steel—held together by the weight of the dullahan’s System—met adamantium with enough force that the shockwave momentarily warped the plume of Lava and redirected the droplets that rained down throughout the vicinity.

Elven curses came in response, but Ranthia had no space to pay heed to them.

The dullahan activated the burst of flames again. The explosion of Inferno was far more potent than it had been before, and Ranthia was forced to sacrifice the stability of her footing to try and desperately shield the image she would—Xaoc willing—soon inhabit. It hurt, but she could endure that much.

She stumbled.

And her perception jumped at that exact moment. Immediately, Ranthia launched herself forward. With the dullahan’s blade (mostly) halted, there was a single, precious moment that her quarry was left vulnerable. An opening in the Lava, just large enough for her to plunge her arm—and her knife—through to reach his torso.

It was the moment of victory that she’d longed for.

The next instant, her world erupted into an ocean of pain; something far greater than she had ever endured. She had no defense against it. Her experience with agony wasn’t enough!

Ranthia’s tormented scream pierced through the din of war.
