"If the truebridge is completed—" Sternkessel began, but Naor waved a hand dismissively.

"A completed truebridge would require Grand Magic to be deployed within the dungeon," the lich said. "There are no mages capable of that remaining, the methods have long been lost to time, and it is well-known that a divine spark is necessary to perform such magic. There is no need to worry."

"I will prepare the isolation ritual," Akkau said, resigned. "This will not impact their ability to return, yes?"

"Not at all," Sternkessel said. "The danger would become real—as would the lives within—but the dungeon rules will still apply, which may provide some protection. And such a shift would be unmistakable to those within."

"Really, now," Naor said. "This is an absurd degree of posturing. I do not care how talented your students are; they will not be performing a feat of Grand Magic."

Akkau didn't bother responding. Theoretical or not, he was very familiar with the expected consequences that came with the formation of a truebridge, which meant he was busy with the most important part of the isolation ritual: radiation shielding.

Cale was brimming with music.

Whatever this spell was, it was no longer Basic Illusion. He had erased the entirety of the chalk circle and now carried the rhythm of all five arcane reagents within him; the song was one of yearning and freedom and humanity. The gelatinous residue came with a melody of Adaptability, and the grass was Resilience and Presence. The spell was on the verge of completion.

Something was missing, though. He needed something that would bring the rest of the spell together. His altered mana sense swept through the room, searching—

There.

He always did love it when he could solve two problems with a single stone. Not birds, though. He liked birds.

"Professor Graystalk," Cale said. Or sang, he supposed; it was impossible not to sing, with a song of pure creation within him. He was probably going to get crap for that later. "Could you attempt to cast a third-tier spell? It doesn't matter which. Any spell is fine."

Graystalk frowned, confused, but thankfully didn't argue. Cale wasn't sure if he would've been able to hold a full conversation and the spell inside him at the same time.

The professor began to cast, then convulsed as his curse reared its head. The scar on his core detached itself, ready to consume the spell he was casting instead.

Cale didn't let it. Instead, he surrounded it with the melody of this new spell, of this grand magic.

Like the parasite it was, the curse stuck to the melody instead, eager to suck away its power.

But even divinity was subject to the hierarchy of magic. Cale's song stole away the divine spark within the curse instead, causing it to wither and die.

And with that final piece to complete it, his cast completed, and his spell surged to life.
