“I don’t see how Li Jean is going to avoid burning out a lot of strong, hardworking young people with those requirements. Even if they don’t drop students from Elites casually, they’ve chosen to foreground the threat of doing it.”

“It’s like they’re extending the stress we put students through during the application process,” Luna mused. “We’re very hard on them in interviews and combat assessment, but then we let them get the ground beneath them as first years. Once you’re finally in, a few mistakes don’t put you out. Li Jean’s counting on instability creating stress and stress creating rapid growth. It will work to some extent, but I don’t know how it will turn out over the long term.”

“We do know they’ll be dropping people from Elites, though. Sometimes for reasons beyond a student’s control. And then they end up in a program that isn’t as good as the one we have right here,” Lesedi said. “All right. Going to Li Jean is riskier than staying at Celena North, where we’re equally committed to the success of every S-rank in our program. I think I could sell that as a strategy to the university, and it will sound good in the press releases in the morning.

“What do you all think? About this tactic and about how to handle promising our S’s more floor time than they’d be guaranteed at the other schools?”

******

******

When the meeting finally ended, Torsten Klein and Lesedi Saleh were the last two in the conference room. She stood at the window, pulling aside one of the curtains to watch the others leave the building, some of them at superhuman speed, some opting for more leisurely strolls around Celena Circle and the temporary dome village.

“Am I in trouble?” Torsten asked. He sounded unconcerned about it.

“Yes. Go run laps around the track until the crack of dawn.” She let go of the curtain and faced him. “Were our new first years really such terrors today?”

“They’re a good group. For the most part. But they’ve had more than the usual share of stress, and now this comes along. They were handling their new school, their new status, and the Submerger event well enough. This Elites business combined with some of them being disappointed they missed out on the private tutoring rewards from last week was too much. They were getting on one another’s nerves from the start. That turned into sensitive tempers. With the realism settings on the gym being so low for their class…you know how it can go.”

“I do. One of my old instructors would turn up the realism punitively. I didn’t think much of it at the time, but now that I actually work with teenagers, I’m sure he belongs on the villain side of the equation.” She took a seat in the chair across from him. “So they’ll be getting one of your famous lectures on Friday?”

“Actually, I’m thinking of letting Marion lecture them while I pull them aside one at a time to review footage from their duels today. So we can talk about whether or not they had appropriate goals for the fight and if they think they achieved them.”

“You know, they’d probably prefer an increase in the gym’s realism.”

Torsten cracked a smile.

“I’m not annoyed with you, of course,” Lesedi said. “But the timing’s awkward. You’re depriving several of our S-ranks floor time on the day Li Jean promised them as much floor time as their battle hungry little hearts could desire. Someone’s bound to complain about it tomorrow.”

“I’m not going to treat the S’s differently than the others in class just because the school has gotten nervous about them leaving.”

“I won’t ask you to…but really, Torsten. Even Vandy Carisson? I thought she might faint when we spoke to her obstacle course team about their inability to function together. What did she do to end up in the group of bad kids this time?”

A pained expression appeared on Torsten’s face. “I’m not looking forward to talking to her about it. It feels like a conversation some teacher should have had with her in elementary school. But it’s obvious by now that the pushback from her classmates isn’t getting through to her, so someone ought to address it. Maybe she’ll listen if it comes from an authority figure. ”

“What is it?”

“She won’t stop trying to make the others follow rules.”

Lesedi chuckled. “Is that actually a problem?”

“A lot of them aren’t school rules,” said Torsten. “They’re rules she invents herself. I’m not sure she even realizes…”

His brow furrowed. “She swept Olive across a block today, then spent the next eighty seconds telling her that she shouldn’t spend time in between her duels cheering for people. Vandy has decided that everyone who’s not exhausted has to be either fighting or in the practice area we’ve set aside. Which isn’t a bad idea, but it’s her own idea. If Olive was cheering too much, one of us would have told her to stop.”

“Okay. I do see how that’s a problem.”

“I don’t want Vandy to ignore her sense of right and wrong. But if she could learn to save her enforcement of it for situations that mattered more, I think everyone would appreciate it. Beating another student quickly so that you can criticize them for something they did fifteen minutes ago that had nothing to do with you is…unhelpful at best.”

“She’ll listen to you. She wants to do the right thing.”

“I’m not too worried about her. I just think it needs heading off.” He looked at her. “I am worried about this extra floor time for the S’s.”

“I know.”

“If they pull even farther ahead, even sooner, that will mean putting them in advanced classes earlier. If we lose more gym time than we expect to some politician’s pet project…. And no matter what, the A’s are going to feel cheated. They’re already upset they don’t have a rank club that gets gym time.”

“I know. We’ll try to smooth it like you suggested. Special classes that the S’s are all automatically admitted to, plus slots in them for other top performers to make it seem less like a rank-based perk than it is.” She met his eyes. “I don’t think I can get the school to swallow anything less than that.”

He grunted.

“Don’t worry yet,” she added. “Elites may fall apart in six months, and then we can switch tactics again.”

“I’ll worry anyway, if you don’t mind.”

******

******
