Erick focused on that idea, on a song fulfilled, on the perfect harmony of wanton destruction wielded at a distance.

The flying sword vanished. In its place, appeared a dagger made of white flame.

Plasma Cutter, instant, medium range, 133 MP + Variable

Create a controlled, flying weapon of flame that deals weapon damage, and leaves burns for 3x WIL damage per second, for 10 seconds. Weapon lasts until dismissed.

Erick dismissed the dagger, then recast [Plasma Cutter], creating a line of white fire in the air. Erick controlled the thread-like weapon to dance like a snake, and it did; perfectly. Erick moved the line of fire til one end held the other. He set it spinning. Motes of white plasma laced from the burning ring; a buzzsaw blade of flame.

Erick thought about Allan, of Yetta’s former team, and was conflicted. He tried to kill Jane, but he didn’t really. He would have known that Jane would have felt that invisible buzzsaw coming for her, right? It was all just an act? Whatever the case, it was hard to feel mad at a guy who knowingly sacrificed himself to kill Planter.

… Erick wasn’t strong enough to kill any Shade. Not like this.

He dismissed the thread-weapon, then pulsed another burst of sword-like [Plasma Cutter] into the air, twice, three times. Soon, seven white blades, each five foot long and flaming, hovered in front of Erick, like the bars of a jail cell. White flame transformed to yellow and orange as plasma flowed away from the blades, into the air. But the air was not overly hot; the force of the fire was constrained to the flying weapons. Erick looked back to Poi, who was suddenly standing another twenty yards away. Erick smiled.

Erick called out, “I was just about to ask you to stand back!”

Poi replied, “I could tell!”

Erick set the flaming swords around himself, handle pointed toward him, blades pointed outward, equidistant from each other. With a push, he sent the blades spinning, like the world’s most scary hula hoop. Waves of heat rolled up from the spinning, circled blades, as they spun faster and faster, whirring in the air like the sounds of a helicopter. Erick held the reins of this power, and knew that this was not his way. He would not use this weapon like this; it was too foreign.

Adding to that, the constant drain of that ‘Variable’ part of the spell had eaten away a thousand mana in under thirty seconds, even with his regeneration being as high as it was.

He stopped the spin, dismissing all but one of the blades. With [Fireshape] he pressed upon the weapon, and while the flames moved at his command, the weapon had been made; it wouldn’t budge. Erick dismissed the sword, and brought back the thread. This time, [Fireshape] flared the flames of that thread out into a blanket of controlled destruction.

Erick held that weapon in the air, and turned to the ground. [Stoneshape] pulled a curving, mini-wyrm from the ground. It was a crude sculpture, with exaggerated eyes and limbs all organized down the length; not at all the crazy jumble and decay of a real wyrm. But it would serve.

Erick wrapped the thread around the wyrm. It sizzled; a tiny char burned the stone under the flaming thread, but it was most ineffective. He dismissed the thread and summoned a length of chain, a hundred individual links, each brilliant white, each covered in fire. He wrapped it around the stone wyrm, and saw that, yes, this might work. Sort of. The extra width of the chains charred an inches-thick band of space under the chains.

… But if one of those lengths broke, the entire spell would break.

The solution, was obviously, slimes. No wonder Phagar liked the little guys. Erick smiled, as he summoned another [Plasma Cutter], imagining a cloying, moving flame, a thing that started as a ball, but splattered into a covering goo.

A white flaming orb appeared in front of Erick. He threw it at the stone.

It bounced. It landed on the ground, and rolled; a tiny line of fire licking up from the ground where it touched.

“Ah.” Erick said, “Let’s try this.”

[Fireshape]. [Plasma Cutter].

An undulating ball of white materialized, sputtering with fire, and much more liquid than the previous incarnation. Erick threw the ball of not-water at the stone wyrm. It struck, like a booger spat out. It did not move much, but the flames of the snot ball did crawl across the stone.

… This was not what Erick wanted.

He went back to chains, but combined in them the idea of sticky metal, able to meld in with itself and stick. This attempt broke apart under its own internal stresses before it touched the stone; as soon as the ‘weapon’ part of the spell broke, the spell broke.

Erick pulled Kiri’s plan out of his pocket, and read it over again.

… At this point in the combination process, Kiri was still working with a touch spell. Erick was not. But that didn’t help him.

He stuck the paper back into his pocket, and began channeling mana through [Plasma Cutter]. The sounds of a ranged strike came to him; something to cut the enemy and burn the land. But Erick needed something deeper for [Death Spiral Fire]. Something to end the threat, completely.

Shades and wyrms needed more than a blade to their throat.

Erick cast.

[Fireshape]. [Plasma Cutter].

White flames splashed across the stone wyrm, enveloping the statue, burning, crawling around limbs, joining to itself. Stone blackened. The spell held like a living flame, searching the stone for something more to burn. It wasn’t a slime. It was flame given solid existence, and meaning: to burn until nothing was left.

Plasma Wrap, instant, close range, 599 MP

Wrap a target in fire, dealing 2x WIL damage a second until the target dies.

Congratulations!

You have combined parts of the Script to create your first tier 4 spell!

May your journey into magic be wide and fruitful!

+3 ability points!

A twinge of hope flowed through Erick’s chest. This was a good spell. It was fire given form. But it could be better.

He channeled mana through the spell, and heard the idea of burning away a problem till not even ash was left. But it was an impure sound. A sound of holes in the attack, and danger left for someone else to deal with. It was chaotic destruction.

Erick needed organized destruction. Methodical.

Erick had Ophiel sing, while he listened to the clicks and pops in the music, the unbalanced… balance. There was something there, for sure, but it could be better. Smoother.

Yes. Smoother. That was it, exactly. Erick smiled to himself, happy that he had picked a winner in Kiri; she knew what she was talking about, for sure. Her story came to Erick, and one part stood out from the rest: a fire that coated completely, that burned away until it killed, leaving nothing behind.

Erick dismissed the partial white fire over the stone wyrm, and then cast.

[Mana Shaping]. [Plasma Wrap].

Flickering white covered the entire stone wyrm; a layer of fire, inches thick, and focused entirely inward. The only thing that leaked from the spell was light.

Endless Plasma Wrap, instant, close range, 1101 MP

Wrap a target in fire, dealing 3x WIL damage a second until the target dies.

Congratulations!

You have combined parts of the Script to create your first tier 5 spell!

May your journey into magic be wide and fruitful!

+4 ability points!

It was a good spell.

The stone wyrm crackled and popped, as moisture trapped in the stone violently escaped. The stone cracked; the head of the sculpture tumbled to the ground. [Endless Plasma Wrap] remained on the body of the sculpture.

The tail broke off.

This spell would leave a lot of debris, wouldn’t it?

Erick had an idea for how to improve this spell.

Erick loved [Cleanse], anyway, and clean air caused fire to burn better. Might as well keep going to tier 6, but in a slightly different way than Kiri outlined. Close range was close enough; Ophiel would be administering this spell, anyway.

Erick channeled mana through [Cleanse], and discovered something he hadn’t known. He had channeled through [Cleanse] before, of course, but today’s creation had altered Erick’s perceptions, or something else had happened, because Erick was open to the magic, right now, and it was speaking to him of deep secrets.

[Cleanse] produced a clear, brilliant fractal of light, that poured out of his hand in every direction, like complicated snow. It was an endless, recursive magic, that reflected the body of its user upon the rest of the world. It was, perhaps, the most complicated tier 1 spell Erick had ever thought to hear. [Cleanse] was an artful mess of clean perfection. A restoration of order through endless complexity, where everything could go wrong, and yet nothing did; there was something simple to this magic, and yet not.

[Cleanse] was the most gentle doctor’s scalpel, and the words of a kind matriarch. The touch of a father, holding his daughter upright for her first bike ride. [Cleanse] was both the training wheels on that bike, and the helmet on the girl’s head. It was a guidance to a nicer place, where certain dangers were guarded against.

It was the touch of a god. A guiding, divine hand, and Erick was going to use it to make a harmful spell burn brighter. It seemed wrong; it seemed to go against the very nature of the spell itself.

Erick stopped channeling mana through [Cleanse], and the snow of the spell dissipated into the manasphere.

He breathed out into the flowing air of the [Crystal Forest]. Ophiel sang a tiny song of [Cleanse]. The sun shone down from a clear sky; hot, and bright. Sweat dripped down under Erick’s loose clothes. The stone wyrm cracked and broke, finally ‘dying’; [Endless Plasma Wrap] ended, the white glow around the stone vanishing into so much ambient mana.

Erick [Stoneshape]d the wyrm back together, and after his mana came back, he went for [Death Spiral Fire]. 500 more mana journeyed through Mana Shaping, to meet [Endless Plasma Wrap], combining into a spiky sheet of crawling, tearing magic, that ripped into the stone wyrm like it was soft clay, breaking the wyrm down faster than the fire could burn it apart.

Death Spiral Plasma, instant, close range, 17,009 MP

Wrap a target in fire, dealing WIL damage a second until the target dies.

Congratulations!

You have combined parts of the Script to create your first tier 6 spell!

May your journey into magic be wide and fruitful!

+5 ability points!

Erick hummed. ‘Is this success?’ he thought to himself, as the stone wyrm churned into flaming pieces. It was certainly a kind of success, but not the best kind; not one he could ever cast himself.

Erick smiled at the sky, and opened himself up to the manasphere. He said, “Thank you for helping me to create this spell.”

The sky did not respond. But Erick had said his piece, and felt better about giving thanks where thanks were due. The wind blew across his body, and Erick relaxed into the feeling, as Meditation ticked his mana back to full.

After a while, Erick was ready to continue.

Erick had already strung his mana through all the Shaping spells, and come to one conclusion: Each of them was a piece of a puzzle. Each of them was a lens with which to view the world. The energy of Fire, the life of Water, the solidity of Stone, or the freedom of Air. The brilliance of Light, and the depth of Shadow. Each of them were sides of the same coin, a fraction of Reality.

And Erick was going to build them a home, through love and care.

Erick summoned three more Ophiel to assist, bringing his number up to six. He gave each one of them a piece of the puzzle, while holding onto the endless, mutable protectiveness of [Ward] himself.

He sang a song at the deep blue sky, his words traveling across the Crystal Forest, catching on the wind.

“Free to roam, but here to play      [Airshape]

“A protected space, free of strife      [Stoneshape]

“A hearth of flame, a place to stay      [Fireshape]

“Drink deep, and nurture gentle life       [Watershape]

“A light protects the door; a knife       [Lightshape]

“A dark to sing defensive chord       [Shadowshape]

“A home for us, [Prismatic Ward].       [Ward]

The air shifted over the Crystal Forest, like a storm brewing, as Ophiel sang his six-fold parts, and Erick sang the words to bring those parts together.

Thick air formed around Erick; a [Ward] taking shape, in small, flickers of rainbow. Light shifted. Dark swirled. Heat and moisture balanced. Then broke. The air cracked. Solidity broke against freedom. Light warred with Dark; they separated toward their own corners. Fire boiled moisture, as Water turned frosty along the edges of the angry space. The [Ward] distorted, like a sphere smushed in, dented; imperfect.

Prismatic Ward, instant, close range, 12 hours, Solid Ward, 309 MP + Variable

Create a medium, solid area that absorbs three times Variable damage before breaking.

Prismatic Ward regenerates integrity based on your Rested mana regeneration rate.

You and those you permit are able to pass through Prismatic Ward at will. You may grant or revoke this permission at will.

You may only have one Solid Ward active at a time.

Followed by another blue box.

Choose which Solid Ward to keep:

Prismatic Ward

OR

Crystalline Air

[Crystalline Air].

[Prismatic Ward] broke apart inside Erick’s mind; like friends parting til tomorrow. He breathed as the rainbow air disintegrated, like so much ambient mana. He trailed a hand through the breaking spell. Flickers of mana curled around his body as he moved, filtering through his fingers like so much rainbow air.

He had messed up somewhere. Ophiel ceased their song. Erick would go back to the drawing board tonight, and try again when he could. He relaxed.

One more spell to try for.

