Lila pointed out the problem with that concept. “Dip shit, you two are on the same side. Can you imagine the fallout of such a battle this early into the war? Wait until the end, then have it out. You know how this works. Maybe you do need to Tier up, you’ve gotten dumber the longer you lingered.”

Moe's wailing got banished by all three of them, but not before everyone had enough time to grab the evidence.

“How the hell did you get JR to make you a growth item?”

Wun asked a stupid question, so he ignored it.

Ellen was thankfully up to the task and asked the real question. "Put together the timeline and actually look at it. We know they got a strange realm that let them make something into a growth item during the Rasdale breach. The real question is how the hell he preserved it for almost five hundred years. It has to do with the liquid manastone you've been putting in your sword, doesn't it? Can you preserve strange realm rewards? Matt? Answer me!”

Finally given the chance to show up everyone else he did his best to not brag too hard at the start. That would just irritate everyone and he wanted to enjoy this. “No. I wish. I will fully claim credit for achieving it once but I’ve tried to recreate the feat. More than once in fact and I’ve failed in every attempt. I thought I had it for the friction control reward we got but I flubbed it right at the end. Damn near lost the reward. In the end capturing the original was a near inspiration moment for me and I’ve never managed it since. I’ve had to absorb the rewards just like everyone else. You have to remember that that strange realm reward was already external and something I had some level of control over. Most strange realms just give you some new ability. I can't do anything with them any more than you can.”

He wasn’t even lying. Technically, every attempt had failed, even if not for the reasons they would hopefully land on. For the strange realm rewards that did have a discrete energy, he’d actually been able to isolate the rewards fairly handily. It was just that very few rewards actually benefited from being delayed, so he just immediately absorbed them.

Sadly, he’d checked and he didn’t have that level of control over other people’s rewards. Despite all of the improvements to both his liquid mana technique and his general mana control, he couldn’t create a liquid mana stone around a foreign energy without contaminating it.

He and Zack had spent a decade practicing for a controlled hand off, only to nearly destroy a reward. That was where they’d called it quits. Not because of the failure but rather to what it revealed to them. One final reason that beat out all the rest. Most of the time there was no reason to delay taking the reward.

As such, he’d never succeeded, and could confidently say he couldn’t do it.

Sadly, no one believed him.

“That’s fucking horse shit and we know it.” Olivier’s reply was near instant.

“I concur. I shan't believe such lies. Spill.” Sien wasn’t any more on his side.

Thankfully he’d been ready for this, he dropped several short videos along with the accompanying data he’d pulled from the sensors he’d had set up outside the strange realms. They’d found more than a few when exploring with Allie, and he’d had this lie vetted by Manny himself, knowing this would eventually come up.

It wasn’t like they could hide what they were doing. As the seven of them advanced, they’d bounced through Allie’s ever expanding network of waypoints in the first and second layers of chaotic space. The waypoints she’d made during the breach had been spread far and wide as they cut through settled space and were caught in the swirl of planets outside their cozy safe zone. From there, they moved along like any other world, each going in a seemingly random direction with no rhyme or reason.

Through those waypoints, she’d added more definitive proof that the chaotic space nodes moved in a whirlpool-like cycle centered around the Great Powers. While that was noteworthy, it was far from new. Where her power differed from most was the continued awareness of them in relation to herself would let her map new breaches as they were forming. And she hadn’t rested on her laurels since then. That data was what had earned her so much leeway with Ciceron, who Matt knew was preparing a dissertation on the topic slated for release after her eventual ascension.

At the same time, Allie had expanded her network of waypoints as she trained herself by occasionally teleporting hyper long distances only possible between the first and second layers of chaotic space. While teleporting around deep chaotic space, she’d pop out into chaotic space in a one man, fully defensive ship and scan for any nearby world nodes. Most of the time she didn’t find anything, but whenever she did, she popped back, got them, and they flew directly there in a skeleton crewed Unsparing.

It was more than enough for short safe jaunts into chaotic space. With a target within sensor range, Allie would have had no problems flying the ship alone, but everyone available always went together for safety reasons. After all, it wasn't like they had to stay long.

Allie had modified her [Home] skill under the guidance of the best skill modifiers in the Realm, bouncing between most of the Great Powers with the help of the other Ascenders as she sought advice of how to safely do something that should have been nearly lethal. She’d needed to purposefully erode the barrier between the skill and her spirit, but her craziness had worked. Where once she had to forcefully imprint a location, causing spiritual damage to create a waypoint if she didn’t want to sit and wait around, now she only needed to record the location with [Home] and let her spirit slowly assimilate the saved coordinates from its structure over five or so years.

Using that tactic, they’d expanded her network, relying on the randomness of world movement in chaotic space to spread things out. While most worlds they found were low Tier, that wasn’t all they’d found. In fact, a good bit of their delving had been done in deep chaotic space, where they didn’t have to wait for rift slots and could delve with no regard to rift efficiency.

While they had top priority on delving as Ascenders, when delving public rifts they were expected to clear at least ninety percent of the rift of monsters and resources, like everyone else over Tier 30. However, such a thorough delve took far more time where they were getting correspondingly less essence per hour delved.

Matt could and did cover the gaps by using his own mana to recharge rifts, at least sometimes, but he was limited on how much he could get away with, now that they weren't delving on one of their personal worlds. He wanted people to think he only had access to so much mana, and given his other known spending habits, he could only allocate so much of his regeneration to the cause, which meant actually full clearing rifts.

Allie and him made it a lot faster than normal between her moving them between known resources nodes and his ability to keep them fighting constantly. That allowed them to clear such rifts with only a doubled length of their desired delve, but that was still far too slow for them.

Which was why they’d turned to delving rifts in chaotic space. During their exploration, they’d also come across a handful of strange realms close to their tier, which had allowed Matt to prepare his evidence.

As he expected, only two people looked at it, with everyone calling out for their verdicts. “Max? Ellen? Brian?”

Max’s answer surprised no one. “I want an at-Tier item from everyone as a consulting fee. It needs to be nice. Edible is appropriate, but not mandatory. Use your discretion, or I will apply the debt accordingly.”

She must have gotten enough agreements, because her response still came out faster than Ellen's.

“Yeah, it looks legit.”

“That’s your response? You can't give us more than that?” Wun’s question was almost immediate.

“If you want the science shit, Matt provided it already. I gave you my opinion as asked.”

Brian threw his skull in the ring with a simple, “I’d like to dig more into the theories but he was trying to stabilize it right until the end. I’d say it's true.”

Ellen finally weighed in at that point. “It's Talent tech bullshit, so I don’t know what you guys are expecting from me anyway. But if you want my two mana stones, yeah looks fine to me. Also, I expect my fees to be non-drinkable, or I’ll murder Krodag.”

“How did I get dragged into this? I was quiet!”

“And I won’t be! Maaaaatttttt come and fight meeeeeee!”

The moment Moe finally escaped his time out he was immediately thrown back in.

Matt hardly minded as the others pestered him, enjoying the levity before they reached the next battlefield.

***

Diana of Ilkos, daughter of Mercia, daughter of Halley the Poignant, hadn’t wanted to join the war effort. Her desire or lack thereof hadn’t stopped her from doing so. Nor had it stopped her from staying in after the first.

Or the second.

Or the fifth. She’d stopped counting individual wars at that point.

By now, she knew how things would play out and she was already eager for this one to end. With this war, she’d have earned enough military merits to pave her and her husband's way all the way to Tier 45, where they could ascend. They already left the independence faction once and it was nigh impossible to rejoin once they’d left. They’d made their choice not that they regretted it.

It hadn’t been too bad at Tier 5, Tier 10, or Tier 15, but by Tier 20, they were waiting a hundred years between delves. A number which would only grow worse as they advanced.

The poor bastards who hadn’t clawed their way out of the independence factions before Tier 35 would have killed for such a short delve cycle, but she hadn’t been able to swallow it.

She and her husband wanted no part of the Great Powers’ wars, but they’d also been realists. It was why they were Tier 35 and their friends who hadn’t cut ties after they’d left the faction were still lingering in the early thirties, even after a hundred thousand years. Worse yet, they only had an even slower pace to look forward to.

Those former friends were still alive, which was a marked improvement over most of the ones who’d joined with them, but she tried hard not to think about that.

It didn’t help.

The first war had been terrifying.

The former independence cultivators had a bad reputation for being used as cannon fodder, and that had been exactly what they’d expected to be their fates. The only reason they’d been willing to join was that they were past the worst battlefields, the Tier 15 ones, and in the war they’d joined, the Republic had been on the defensive against the Clans.

They’d lost that war but she, along with most others, didn’t like to think of it, given the costs they’d paid.

Anyone could die in a war. Sometimes it was a blade. Other times they were simply caught in an explosion so large there had been no hope of survival.

Her mentor had been the latter.

That was why Diana stayed as far away from the fighting as she could and why Garet had left active duty after the first war.

Diana hadn’t. Not because she didn’t want to get away, but rather because she was good at her job as a data analyst.

Really good. So good that she’d been courted by the army when her first contract ended, rather than having to grovel at their door to be seen like the first enlistment.

Diana didn’t punch things, that was her husband's role in a rift while she normally played a mix of backline damage and support. She simply analyzed. The battlefield, her opponents, her lunch, her husband's lack of properly folding his socks when he didn’t think she’d see inside his storage ring. She liked to categorize things and sort them away properly. She’d never considered that anything but an annoying, if sometimes, useful hindrance, until she’d scored well enough on her recruitment tests to be offered a non-combat contract.

She hadn’t wanted to take it, but Garet had refused to sign his own contract if she tried to follow him after being offered a less dangerous way out of the independence faction.

It had taken until near the end of her first contract for her to actually understand why she'd been singled out, but the Republic’s army was large. So unfathomably big that they didn’t have a hope to fill every position with someone with the proper Talent, or even Domain.

Most people, even in the army, were simple, regular cultivators doing their best to complete their tasks with no inherent advantages over any unawakened mortal, beyond what came from raw cultivation.

It was a matter of priorities.

The rarest people were those with a Talent and applicable Domain for a skill. Talented crafters were the most common, thanks to the obvious and well trodden path laid out before them, but even they were rare.

Finding that same combination for roles other than crafting was much, much harder.

It was only slightly more common to find someone with only a Talent for a role, but it did happen. Serving as counterpoint to that group, those with only a Domain but not an applicable Talent were far more common.

The actual status between those groups was fussy and very dependent between comparisons, given how varied Talents and Domains could be. Most of the time the individual merits determined who ranked above who.

While far less glorious, there was a demand for people like her without either such advantage to tilt the deck in her favor. That was where skill, experience, and effort came into play.

