Things she’d been honing between wars. She was now near the top of what was possible without a Talent or Domain which was what would let this be her final war.

Diana sat in a room a hair smaller than her reach, which allowed her to touch all of the walls just by rotating her seat.

The first wave of information came in as a small trickle, already initially sorted by the base’s AI and her direct reports, but it quickly became a torrent. Information from all across the Realm flooded into her, each one from what felt like a different source. Some was hacked from the other Great Powers, other information came from spies, infiltrators, and traitors, but most came from the armies themselves.

Her work wasn’t glamorous, but it was important. The Republic may not be at war with anyone but the Corporations, but the other wars impacted their own actions and helped ensure they weren’t caught off guard by a sudden betrayal. Or so they were ready to jump on an opportunity if it arose.

Information was the lifeblood of a strong Great Power, and it was her duty to sort it.

News of the Empire Gladiators didn’t surprise her, they were always going to be high priority, with entire teams of Talented people with the requisite Domains dedicated to collecting and sorting through those snippets. Still, the information itself managed to catch her musings.

A brief skim told her Gladiator Titan’s file would be undergoing a full inquiry due to the unexpected changes to his fighting style, but that had nothing to do with her. He’d become unfathomably heavy, but he wasn’t the only one to show changes, even if he took most of the investigator’s attention.

Gladiator Wraith had integrated her spirit space into her fighting style so well, it was nearly impossible to differentiate between it and the ice based spells she typically threw around. The Collective elites had paid the price in their latest few engagements to uncover that but she’d rather it was them than her side's fighters.

The same could be said for Legion, who showed signs of having far too many Natural Treasure improvements. Ones that seemed far stronger than any of the spies or combatants had expected. Nor has she exhibited any of the side effects typically seen from over-absorption.

Just from the glances, she knew important people were about to be busy. That's just how Gladiators were. If they weren’t killed, they were unfathomably strong as their powers grew with every fight. Staying ahead of such growth was a losing battle but one all of the Great Powers endeavored in.

Not her though, she already was busy.

Her only job was to forward and sort information.

Which was exactly what she did.

For hours. Days. Weeks. Months. Years.

Diana had done the job long enough that she could entertain idle thoughts between bursts of overwhelming updates where even she was fighting to shorten their queue. It was in one of those moments that she identified an actually worthwhile piece of information that caught her eye.

A piece of information she never should have received, but did because of a misfile by the reporting agent. All she needed to do was correct the mistake and forward the information to the proper person. If she wanted to, she even had enough authority to accept responsibility for the information and shift the caseload, but she hesitated, despite a small desire to do so.

It wasn’t even important, not really, given the Republic wasn’t involved with that war. She still lingered on the text all the same as indecision racked her.

In the end, she couldn’t find a good reason to say yes. As such, she didn’t overstep by taking over the case. She just sent it along to the right department’s queue where they would analyze the information, wiping her hands of it.

The Clans and the Federation’s battle lines had shifted once again. She found little surprise in that news. The Federation had been well prepared for their assault and had moved en masse at the start of the war, hoping to overwhelm the frontline. They’d succeeded in several sectors, and part of her responsibility was sifting all such information.

The Federation had found a lucky break via a close but ghastly win on an important Tier 15 node world that opened the Clans up to strikes deeper into their territories. The Clans had quickly plugged the gap, but the Federation were moving to flood the breach with fresh troops, highlighting their commitment to the offensive.

It was almost like they didn’t care about the bone eroding poison the Clans had likely stolen from the Collective’s research labs and the losses it had inflicted. Their elites sure had minded, but that wasn’t Diana’s responsibility.

Out of the twenty seven new battlefields, only three were nodes that led deeper, and the Clans had fortified them well. One particular world wasn’t any more noteworthy than the others beyond that it led to one of those nodes.

Or, it shouldn’t have been. Except, it brought up painful memories of a war long ago.

It wasn't an important world. Not any more.

Neither the Federation nor the Clans sent any noteworthy amount of combatants to the Tier 15 battlefield, nor had they sent any elites over the mid level. Despite all of that, the information still caught her eye and refused to let go.

Giving in, Diana went back in and accepted responsibility for the stream of information related to the planet formally known as Yannkin’s Cradle before another agent got to it. She accepted the fact that the additional work load would mean she wouldn’t have the time to mull over her job, even in the lulls, but that was okay.

Some things just needed to be seen through oneself.
