‘What is this hangup?’ Teressa smiled as she bent down, just a little, then vaulted five meters up, onto a fallen tree that blocked their path. She looked down at Jane. ‘What’s wrong with Furry Stalkers? Do you even know it? I assure you, it is deadly!’

Jane guided her threads to move her up the tree, like a queen on a palanquin. She rejoined Teressa, and sent, ‘I heard of them. They spread fine fur in the air that chokes and kills.’

Teressa nodded. Then she leapt off the other side of the fallen tree, landing in a mound of deadfall and sinking up to her knees. She trudged out of that like it was nothing, breaking rotten branches and making way too much noise, in Jane’s opinion.

Jane decided to try something. She expanded her threads outward, catching the air, falling much quieter than the orcol woman, but much less controlled. As her threads left the solid surfaces all around her, Jane slipped left and right in the air. She sent threads back to the tree behind her, guiding her controlled fall. She landed beside Teressa.

[Telekinetic Threads] did not mean [Air Threads], apparently.

… Maybe she should have gone for one of those Ballooning Spiders when she had the chance, but they were all underground, now.

Teressa gave words to Jane’s newest thought, seconds before Jane had it, ‘There are lots of spiders out there with lots of special abilities.’

‘Despite my fondness for deadly things, I don’t want to be a Spider Polymage,’ Jane sent, deciding that right there and then. ‘I did consider going into Ar’Kendrithyst and plundering the Weaver’s Quarters. But… No.’

She didn’t need [Air Threads], either. She might have tripled her Familiar Form slots to give her the capability to hold 33 forms, but each of those slots was precious. Another slot used on another spider? No thanks.

… And yet...

Teressa suddenly opened up, saying, ‘My old team, back when we were starting…’ She smiled behind her fullplate helmet. ‘One summer, we were finally old enough to help clear the way forward, so that the rest of the tribe could be safe as we trekked to the summer valley. That was the first year that we got to actually join the veterans out front. My brother… He was just learning how to be a Druid from the Elders.

‘Long story short, we found some Furry Stalkers, and we killed them exactly as we knew; from a distance, and with fire. As all young idiot adventurers have done long before us, we missed some.’ Teressa’s mirth came through as she sent, ‘My brother got facefuls of fragmented hair. Ahh. Ha.’ Slightly more serious. ‘Course, he could have died if we didn’t have the Elders there. That hair burned through his Health like it was nothing. I got a small exposure and even that dropped me to minimal Health. It’s just constant, small bits of damage. If we’d have gotten a Variant Furry Stalker with a Decay effect, my brother could have died. Easily.’

‘… Okay. You sold me on the idea. I need a Furry Stalker.’ Jane sent, ‘I can make the Decay effect myself.’

‘Did you see that giant spider back there, a few days ago?’ Teressa sent, ‘It hasn’t moved! Except to eat what it catches, of course. Did you think about that spider?’

‘I did, actually. It looks like a Woodshaper Hardspine, behemoth variant. The normal ones are only person-sized.’ Jane sent, ‘A lot of monsters are person-sized. You’d think that the Cult would make smaller monsters. Horde-types.’

‘They do, occasionally.’ Teressa sent, ‘Smaller monsters don’t get the same levels that larger ones do, so they’re naturally weaker. A good [Chain Lightning] from any decent mage would take out a good forty smaller monsters, and the larger monsters have abilities like that. Have you considered a Spark Skitterer?’

‘I have not even heard of that one.’ Jane asked, ‘How many spider species do you know of?’

‘Not all, but a lot.’ Teressa said, ‘I can shrug off a lot of damage as a Juggernaut, but you need to know roughly how much damage some monsters will do so that you know if you can have fun, or if you need to fight properly, or if you need to run.’ She added, ‘Spark Skitterers have electrified webs. It doesn’t do as much damage as [Chain Lightning], but it can do a lot, and it recharges. I could step on one just fine, but a mage probably couldn’t… Erick could.’

Jane laughed. The sound came out like a grating cackle and endless chittering, filling their small, insignificant part of the Forest, echoing into the darkness all around them.

Teressa said, ‘Wow, is that creepy.’

Jane laughed again—

She stopped.

Something chittered up above, and it was not an echo.

A low buzzing filled the gloom. Bits of moss and bark fell to the Forest floor.

Teressa noticed, too.

“Whelp!” Jane said, loud as she could, for there was no avoiding this monster. “Here comes a lot of things!”

Teressa hefted her shield, happily sending, ‘Forest Wasps! Just in time for your web control.’

Jane released a minor storm of webbing into the air, suddenly spreading out threads from every nearby tree, blanketing the roof of their small, shared space. And then she controlled that thread to part, like opening holes in a trap. She waited for the wasps to get closer, and when they did, that thread would wrap them tight.

As the first person-sized wasp descended they completely avoided the webs by flying fast and whipping around to attack from the sides that Jane had not covered in thread.

These were not normal wasps. Ah. Shit. They were spider hunters. Probably parasitic. Shit.

Suddenly serious, Teressa sent their prearranged ‘Oh Shit’ command, ‘[Beautification Aura].’

As Teressa bounced three wasps away and smashed another one to the ground, Jane flitted to the side, an untouchable shadow, avoiding wasps that were eager to inject their venom. She twisted her form, casting a partial [Polymorph]. Brilliant twists of crystallized light erupted out of the first joints of her long legs.

The next second, the land filled with light. Flowers sprung up from the ground. The dark Forest had transformed into a sunny spring meadow, and Jane and Teressa were nowhere to be found. Nothing was to be found. Only the meadow.

Wasps still flew through the space, though they were blinded and lost. Almost all of them crashed into each other or into the ground.

Others were not so lucky.

A wasp fell to the ground, smashed. Another tangled in webs that they couldn’t see. The main swarm arrived, diving into the meadow, vanishing from their own sights as they did, and suddenly, ten wasps were tangled in invisible webs. Another three became splatters on the ground, or against an unseen tree. The wasps attacked anything they could. Sometimes, they attacked each other. They died from unseen enemies, lurking in the light. A spider leg tipped with spears. A mace, powerful and swift. A [Fireball], unseen by all, but felt by the breeze of heat that washed, unseen across the meadow.

A few more [Fireball]s, just because they could, and the flames from the first one already destroyed all the webbing. Jane already had ideas about how she could counter that; she just hadn’t gotten to them yet. Shadow Spiders could already spin fire-immune webbing —and they also had magic-blocking webbing and magic-blocking venom which were ostensibly better options when fighting magical enemies— but, like so many monster abilities that came from their diet and biology, those options were not manifested by the standard [Polymorph] spell. Jane knew what she had to do to get that power, though.

She needed 10 points for a Class Ability Slot Increase Quest, and then she needed to get Healthy Form.

She was only level 71. All she had to do was find the right monster, then kill it, and she could get those points. Or, she could do Quests. There was more hope for the second option since she would be lucky to ever gain more levels, and her father did have that Quest Board. Jane just… had to ask him for some Quests. Yeah…

Anywho! The wasps were dead. It would have been a horrific fight, except for all of Jane’s nice little abilities. Polymage truly was awesome!

The meadow vanished.

Teressa opened her eyes again, happily saying, “Gods damn, do I love having a mana sense!” She sent, ‘Holy shit. Uh… Haha! We could have died there! Not Forest Wasps. Deep Forest Wasps! Ha! Good fight.’

‘We were fiiiiinnne. Wanna find the nest?’

‘Very much; yes. No need to search, though. It’s right there.’ Teressa pointed upward. ‘About a kilometer up. HUGE nest. I just tracked them with [Witness].’

‘Awesome.’ Jane laughed. ‘Ahh! I need a mana sense.’

Maybe she should ask her father to make a Perception necklace or something to unlock that Stat. One New Stat couldn’t hurt, right? … Truthfully, though, Jane was still torn about which New Stat was the best. Practically free spells, or practically immune to damage, or the ability to see and react to everything that came her way, or … free attacks. Okay. Dexterity was probably not worth it. Jane was on the fence between Perception and Intelligence. Both would lead to better magery, but a mana sense, according to Tenebrae, would enable an easier understanding of aura work, and aura work would lead to better spells...

Teressa smiled as she sent, ‘Time to try out this spell—’

She stepped into the air; surefooted, but unsure. And then she kept stepping into the air. She giggled. Jane followed, except she stepped on the shadows in the air.

‘What spell is that?’

Teressa sent, ‘[Personal Ward], [Force Platform], and [Force Wall], make [Force Step]. Only thing that could hold my weight! Gridwork is amazing.’

‘You should get [Lightwalk].’

‘Yeah. I talked to your father about that. We’ll head over to Oceanside, eventually.’ Teressa looked up, toward the nest, sending, ‘Lots of places to go and things to kill!’

‘World tour, wooo!’

‘World tour!’

- - - -

Erick watched as [Fireball]s tore apart a wasp nest the size of a small mansion that hung between three trees, halfway between the Forest floor and the canopy. He also watched as a meadow of flowers grew near that nest, in the middle of the air, and wasps fell out of that meadow, burning.

[Beautification Aura] seemed like it was cheating.

… Unless you had some of the many, many Sight spells, or even a mana sense, to see through it all. Wasps did not have that, though.

Erick paused in his reading.

Were there, perhaps, illusions in the [Gate] designs that Tenebrae had seen before? Erick flickered through his memory of everything he had read in the past three days—

He shot up from his chair.

“Ah. There’re illusions in the Green Labyrinth.” Erick said, “I’m sure of it.” He paused. “Or maybe that’s too simple. Poi? How would you know if you were afflicted by mind-blocking magic?”

Poi looked up from his book, taking a second to replay what he had just heard. He went back to reading, saying, “You’re not afflicted by mind magic and you’ve never been.”

“Okay. Okay. I realize now that that was a bit rude, but how do you know?”

“Mind Mage secrets.” Poi added, “Tricking the mind to miss a piece of reality is easy to check, Erick. Hiding such a trick is difficult, but also doable, except in your case. You are highly visible. I won’t let anything affect your mind. I promise.”

Erick felt a warmth in his chest at those words. “Thank you, Poi.”

Poi nodded, then said, “A much safer method of obfuscation is to make a piece of reality not be able to be seen in the first place. I can’t check for that. Jane’s [Beautification Aura] falls into this category. There’s also obfuscation through false positives.”

Erick considered all of that, then he said, “That’s all well and good, but what about memetic threats? Take, for instance, Jane’s Prismatic Octopus. She can flicker the skin to induce seizures and disorientation-like effects in prey. She told me it was called [Hypnotic Pattern]. What about physical magic effects that work in similar manners, that erase itself and other parts of itself from the brain, the second they are conceived?”

Poi looked up from his book. He frowned. “Yes. Those types of threats exist. But we do a good job of picking them out whenever they’re found. All you have to do is behold small parts of the whole and then recognize those smaller parts—” He paused. He said, “We have departments dedicated to erasing memetic threats. I regularly submit myself for decontamination to ensure I haven’t been compromised. I did so last night. Nothing is wrong with anything I have seen.”

“But what about what I have seen?”

“Okay.” Poi stood up. “Let’s do a scan.”

Erick clapped his hands together, saying, “Excellent!”

Three minutes and one longer-than-usual scan later...

Poi said, “Clear.”

Erick frowned. “Clear? Why’d it take so long?”

“Intelligence complicates scans.” Poi looked to Tenebrae’s [Gate] tomes and wardlight images, saying, “There’s no trickery, here. Or at least none that Tenebrae recorded. I doubt he would submit to a scan, though.”

“So much for that easy answer.” Erick frowned. “I just don’t see how these twists of mana and intent make [Gate] work.” With a smirk, Erick asked Poi, “But since you now know everything I know…”

“Sadly, I cannot talk to you about [Gate]. That would be violating the Mind Mage credo.”

“But it wouldn’t be divulging the secrets that other people know! Just talking to me about my own. Like a sounding board.” Erick knew he was doomed to failure, but he asked anyway. “Please?”

“Nope.”

“Bah! Fine. Then let’s go bother Tenebrae. It’s been days and he should be somewhat better, right?”

- - - -

“Absolutely not.”

