Rock came out to meet them when they approached the door to Tenebrae’s tower before they even had a chance to knock on the door. After Erick’s inquiry about a visit, Rock emphatically declared his decision.

“You will upset him and I cannot have that.” Rock said, “He is recovering.”

Erick countered, “I won’t purposefully upset him.”

“Very few people go around purposefully upsetting Tenebrae, and those that do, don’t upset him for very long.”

“… I still want to talk to him.”

“No.”

Rock shut the door in his face.

Erick went over to the cafeteria, searching for his other way to get to Tenebrae.

Palodia’s room was beyond the kitchen, beyond the dining room. Erick had been in the kitchen a few times to get a few items, which he then brought over to the guesthouse to prepare in their kitchenette since Palodia was mostly watching over Tenebrae and not cooking that much.

But he had never knocked on Palodia’s door.

He did so, now.

No answer.

… He’d try again later.

On the way back to his guestrooms, he met Palodia in the courtyard beside the tree. She had just come out of Tenebrae’s tower. She locked eyes with him the second she saw him.

“Just the man I wanted to see!” Palodia went back to Tenebrae’s tower, motioning for him to come along. “I brought him his early dinner and he asked after you. Saw you down here. Saw Rock shoo you away, too.” She re-entered the tower, saying, “Tenebrae does want to talk but his kids are overprotective.”

Erick smiled, as he walked into Tenebrae’s tower. A few floors up, he noticed Rock and Slate standing together in the room labeled for ‘Rocky’. They glared at Erick, as Erick ascended past them, up to Tenebrae’s room.

Tenebrae sat up in bed, surrounded by pillows. A covered dish sat to the side; dinner, waiting. The old archmage didn’t care for that dinner. His eyes focused on Erick as the younger archmage came into view.

“Erick!” Tenebrae demanded, “What have you made of my notes! Tell me. Sit. Speak your mind.”

Palodia had a much calmer voice. “He’s juiced up on several different potions right now—”

“I am fine, woman!”

“— so he might not be all there, but he still noticed Rock rush downstairs to shoo you away and he wanted this conversation—”

“Yes! So you can go away, now, too, woman!”

“—but I’m going to stay in case he needs more medication.” Palodia sat in a chair beside a window, saying. “Don’t mind me. Try not to upset him.”

“I am perfectly in control of my own facilities, wretched woman!” Tenebrae ignored Palodia, and locked eyes with Erick. “What do you think of my notes? Speak, dammit!”

Erick said, “How likely is it that you’re missing something in your various scans and reproductions of the Gates?”

“Extremely!” Tenebrae said, “Hundred percent! I’m missing a lot in those scans and there is degradation in the wardlights, for sure. I doubt I captured 60% of the various Gates I have seen in the Green Labyrinth, for I got chased off every time, except for once, and that once was around a twisted Gate that barely functioned as a [Gate]. It flickered off and on every few minutes. You read about that one, didn’t you?” His voice raised, “You did read what I—”

Before Tenebrae could make himself angry, Erick interrupted, “I read everything at least three times.”

Tenebrae relaxed. “Good.”

Palodia scowled at Tenebrae, but said nothing.

“Why do you think you’ve missed something, physical?” Erick said, “You have pieces of thirty seven Gates, and each of those pieces come together to form a whole. Theoretically, you should have a full Gate in your notes. So why do you not? I cannot believe that you missed this potential answer. So… What is happening there?”

Tenebrae relaxed further. “Good. We are here, then.” He said, “Yes. I have a whole map of a ‘complete Gate’, if you take the pieces of what I’ve scanned and put them together.” He held his hand out. A book flew to his hand. He held the book toward Erick. “Here.”

Erick opened the book. It reminded him of graphpaper notebooks, for it was a book of gridwork. Flipping through a few pages, he recognized that this tome was the culmination of Tenebrae’s attempts to stitch together all the individual pieces of the Gates he had found into a coherent whole. It was exactly as Erick had guessed; it was the next step to the work he had already seen.

While Erick read, Tenebrae said, “I produced two of these objects, for each side of the [Gate].” He added, “I produced one. Then I had the Headmaster [Duplicate] it. Didn’t work. Likely because I didn’t have [Gate], and the Script does not let you enchant spells that you do not have.” Like a sad story, he continued, “And then I went and helped an enchanter I trusted to get him [Gate] by him paying the 10 points, and then I helped him to learn [Duplicate] from the Book Binders. All things being equal, that should have worked. It did not.” He added, “Incidentally, that enchanter died a few years ago.”

Erick asked, “What metals did you use?”

Tenebrae waved him off. “If you are looking for small problems that we could have missed, you should spend your attention elsewhere. We did everything we could with top-quality materials, and none of it worked. Deep Sky Silver, [Duplicate]d so I would have enough to make the first Gate, made wrought-quality through the best methods. We also did gold and silver and all sorts of metals. Nothing went wrong, there.”

Erick considered speaking of using [Duplicate] in a Restful space, to automatically make metals wrought-quality… And hell. He went for it. “Did you use a Restful space? [Duplicate] your Gate inside of there?”

Tenebrae smirked. “Yup.”

“Ah.” Erick said, “Then have you considered that there were illusions on the various Gates you found?”

“Of course.” Tenebrae said, “I also considered the fact that the Green Labyrinth can confound my scans through the power of its Domain. All of that has been mitigated as much as it could have been mitigated.”

“Okay. Then. Did you ever talk to Apogee, the Wayfarer Guildmaster of Spur?”

Tenebrae scowled. “I have spoken to the Wayfarers more than you could ever know. They have a theory about how the two spaces have to be ‘perfectly similar, so you can walk from one to the other’. That’s cowshit, too. I did all that, as well. Never managed to make [Gate]. With regard to Apogee in particular: Yes, I did talk to him. At length. He never helped me, and he still—”

Erick smiled.

Tenebrae spat, “What’s with that dumb look!”

Palodia spoke up, “Don’t make me knock you out, you old bastard.”

Tenebrae sighed. He repeated, softer, “What’s with that dumb look?”

“You’ve done a lot of legwork, here. And I agree with the Wayfarer theory, but from a different angle than how you probably see the problem. So. How about this?” Erick laid out his current top-contender for ‘how [Gate] works’, saying, “Have you considered that the creation of a [Gate] is the linking of two spaces through their vibrations? That all of everything vibrates at certain frequencies and strengths, and that duplicating that same resonance in two different locations might be the secret to [Gate]? To make them resonate, and therefore make their spaces become ‘perfectly similar, so you can walk from one to the other’? Maybe the Wayfarers are onto something, but— You once told me that you believed that Force was responsible for Sound, and therefore you didn’t truly understand what ‘sound’ was, so maybe your entire approach to [Gate] is wrong, too, at a fundamental level. Maybe everyone’s approach is wrong.”

Tenebrae frowned, and then he looked away. After a moment, he turned back to Erick. “Are you talking about resonant Force? That’s an obscure field of magical study. Not much power to it. I suppose… There could be something to pursue in that direction.”

Erick was instantly dumbfounded. He wasn’t sure what he expected out of his unfounded theory on [Gate], but he did not expect Tenebrae to call ‘resonant Force’, whatever that was, an ‘obscure field of magical study, without much power’. Erick said, “Resonance should be really strong. Like. Stupidly strong.” He instantly reevaluated his idea. “Or maybe Health blocks it. That could be… Hmm.”

Tenebrae scrunched his eyebrows, disbelieving. “How much Sound magic do you have?”

“Ah. Just the one.” Erick said, “Actually. That’s a really good thing to make. I need to make a resonant sound spell. I’m going to work on that, and then come and tell you when I’m ready, if you want to watch me create the actual spell?”

Tenebrae raised a bushy white eyebrow. “I would be delighted to see that. Tomorrow?”

“Actually… I just thought of everything I needed to make the spell, right now. So? Want to go now?”

Tenebrae started laughing—

Palodia spoke up, “Nope! He’s had enough excitement for a day. He’s going to crash after he eats dinner.”

Tenebrae scowled again, saying, “I won’t leave the bed. I can [Scry] him. I can even eat while he does his cowshit singing magic! It’ll be like my own personal court clown. Everyone needs entertainment in their life, Palodia.”

Rock came up from outside, where he had been listening, saying, “Nope. Eat. Then sleep. If you don’t need potions to wake under your own strength tomorrow, then you can watch Erick make his magic tomorrow.”

Erick’s eyes widened. “It’s that bad?”

Tenebrae called out, “I am FIN—” He clutched his chest.

Two sudden, frantic minutes later, Tenebrae was awake, but barely. Rock and Palodia had moved the fastest, but now, they just looked down at Tenebrae, and said nothing. Slate organized the potions on the shelf for the third time; a nervous tic, no doubt. Obsidia stood in a corner, a curled hand nervously covering her mouth while her other hand was held tight against her chest.

With lidded eyes, Tenebrae stared at Erick. A ferocity lurked in those powerful grey depths that was not present in the rest of him. He said, “Tomorrow, Erick. I will see this magic… Tomorrow.”

Erick said, “I’ll be waiting.”

Rock turned, glanced at Erick, then turned back to Tenebrae.

Erick excused himself.
