An uncontrollable shiver passed through Shiv’s body. He closed his eyes and tried not to lose his shit. “One second. One felling second, System. Just give me one moment to take this shit in before I have to murder some other poor bastard.”

“MMARRRCCUUSS! YOU FUUUCCKKK!”

Shiv opened his eyes and saw most of the students around him looking past his shoulder. The Deathless fought to keep his rage-tremors under control as he turned to see what kind of bullshit he was going to have to deal with now. He promptly saw Magnolia walking behind three heavyset boys and one girl. The males in the group were all wearing academy robes, while the girl was wrapped in furs—but there was something else: there was a slight bulge to her abdomen.

Immediately, Shiv felt the urge to kill everyone around him or kill himself to escape the situation.

Marcus, if you knocked that girl up too, and these are her brothers about to kick the shit out of me on her behalf, I will breach the gates of the afterlife and beat you to super-death with my bare hands.

“YOU PIECE OF SHIT!” The boy at the front of the group was built like a small bear, and he sounded like one too. Shiv couldn’t tell if the guy was bigger than he was without Perfect Semblance active, but damn, it was probably close. He had some blonde peach fuzz developing on his face, and there was a bear tattoo imprinted over his right eye. The other two boys looked much like the first, and one had something like a goat tattoo, while the other got painted with a gray eagle.

“The fuck do they feed you guys in Old Brunswick?” Shiv muttered to himself. “I had to get a Skill Evolution or two before I changed.” He began to awkwardly shuffle away, deciding that he didn’t really want to deal with this annoyance right now. He had a dorm to find. “Yeah, listen, I’m not Marcus. You got the wrong guy. Happens.”

And then he started running. Straight into the crowd gathered around the grill-bot. Several students cried out in alarm as three sets of loud stomps hammered behind Shiv in close pursuit.

“Unblood! Motherless bastard! You cannot escape us! We’ll chase you to the ends of Integration! Your fortune was to die in that ambush; to live means you answer to us! To live means your life is ours for spilling your bastard seed in our sister’s woooomb!”

Every bit of pity and sorrow Shiv felt for Marcus evaporated entirely. He regretted doing that bullshit funeral thing back at the coliseum. Marcus, you felling fuck, I’m going to breach the gates of the afterlife and beat you to super-death with my bare hands.

And with that, he ducked between two students, manifested his temporal shell, and launched himself up into the air just before the wards came crashing down.

When the flow of time resumed, the four students and Magnolia were still searching through the crowd, but Shiv sprinted away deeper toward the maze of dorms where the two bands played on in the direction of Carrot—because if he had any hope of getting settled in before any more madness happened, it would need to happen quickly.

Fuck you, Marcus. And fuck you too, System. Just…  fuck you.
