It left me discontented. At the start of this whole magic overview, I had hoped to apply my skills to many fields of magic. After all, I'd developed my own unique style of magic and abilities for years now. Cross-applying all of it could've resulted in an unknown amount of potential gains. As we progressed, that latent potential was exposed, and it wasn't as awe-inspiring as I hoped it would be.

Until we discussed rituals, that is.

Targask wrote the runes onto plain paper, and I gazed at the familiar sigils. They reminded me of the cipheric carvings on my body. I pointed at them, "These are channeling spells, right?"

Targask flapped his ears, "I wouldn't conceptualize them like that, though it's a common mistake many of my students make. Regardless, that ideation neglects many aspects of what a ritual is."

I raised my brow, "Like what?"

"Channeling magic is one part, but the discharge is the other essential aspect. In essence, these spells extend a user's mana pool so they can cast larger spells, but they carry two important risks. Firstly, they can backfire in a menacing, unpredictable way. Secondly, to prevent that backfire requires precision."

I frowned, "Precision, eh? How so?"

"They misfire if their mana limit is breached."

I peered off, considering the consequences, "So, like, blowing up?" Targask shrugged, "It certainly could, though that's far from the worst consequence I've seen from a botched ritual. Hmm, it reminds me of a sinister memory, actually."

Targask peered off, "One time, I found a student experimenting in a lab room with rituals. He neglected to consider the mana-based alarm system throughout the school system. That mana pulse, subtle as it was, overloaded his ritual. When I found him, he'd fused into the stone floor and steel tables, and he begged for death."

Targask winced, "His bellowing haunts me in more ways than one. Regardless, his family had him mercifully killed afterward, but it was...An incredibly trying time."

Targask stared elsewhere, his expression wavering, "Yes...It most certainly was."

I gave him time to process his emotions, and he coughed into a hand, "Ahem. Anyways, rituals are extraordinarily dangerous. Never experiment with them at random. They are far worse than simply deadly when they backfire."

"I'll keep that in mind. Is this how they're made?"

I took my arm, wrenched a panel of dimensional fabric from it, and carved the example sigils onto the sheet. Targask raised an arm, "Wait for a second, you fool-"

The runes fed on the mana generated by my dimensional fabric, detonating like a bomb and erupting in all directions. The metal remained unscratched, but the surrounding stone beneath us cratered from the blowback. We remained unharmed as I contained the explosion by molding my body like a liquid, but I still marveled at the sheer, destructive power.

I scoffed, "Wow. This isn't a strong rune either, is it?"

Targask threw his hands at me, "Of course it isn't, you dimwit. I'd never give you something dangerous, considering how reckless you are. I just told you that story, and you ignored me entirely."

I raised a brow, "I didn't ignore you, but I was ignorant. I didn't know it would passively absorb the mana. Still, remember that I'm not easily hurt, let alone broken. This was also a small amount of mana and a weak runic combination. We were never in any danger in the first place."

Targask took a few heavy breaths before he narrowed his eyes at me, "Then think before you begin tampering with dangerous magic. Otherwise, I will not be around for you to kill us both."

I nodded,

"Alright. Understood."

Targask kept looking at me, searching for authenticity. Maybe he found some as he let out a sharp sigh of relief. He shook his head, "That's...That's good. It's just a sore spot of mine, and I would really rather not experiment with it at all. Rituals are more than just dangerous. That's why ritualists specialize in large, ornate mana constructs to contain and organize the energy flows. It prevents these issues before they happen."

I peered at the runes, "Hm, how skilled would a ritualist need to be to do something complex?"

"Exceptionally."

"What about pulling their soul out of their body and into something else?"

Targask rolled his eyes, "It can't be done. You'd need to plan out every minutia of a ritual, as controlling the mana flow outside a physical form is nearly impossible. No one can control for all those variables before doing something that complex."

He was wrong about that. It had been done and by Torix, no less. I picked up the runic sheets at my feet before transcribing them into cipheric sigils in my grimoire. I murmured, "How large can the consequences be for a ritual?"

"There's no known limit."

I raised a brow, "Why not use them like bombs?"

Targask shook his head at me, "You have a suicidal way of doing things, don't you? There are, actually, many reasons not to use rituals offensively. Unlike a bomb, anyone can set off a ritual. Pour a few units of extra mana, and boom, the ritual detonates when you least expect it."

Targask raised his hands, "Even in a controlled lab, it is difficult to control for every variable that can result in a destroyed ritual. It is a painful, difficult, and risky path that few follow for a good reason. I'm only showing you this to ensure you have a holistic understanding of magic, not because I want you to attempt to become a ritualist."

Targask crossed his arms, "Besides that, based on what I've seen, you lack the temperament or patience for this kind of magic anyways."

I analyzed the runes, "Eh, probably." I stood up before raising a hand to Targask, "That should be enough for today. I'll be working on this while you get some sleep. You have to be exhausted by now."

Targask let out a gasp, "Of course I am. You're just plowing through all of the material in hours. You're pretending to understand what I've covered, or there's a team of people in your head."

I tapped my temple, "The latter is closer to the truth than you'd think. Anyways, go get some rest. You earned it."

I walked off, and Targask pushed himself off the ground. He grabbed his papers before rubbing his back, "Gah, you'd think he'd have offered me a chair."

I shouted, "You'd think you could've just made one."

He waved me off in frustration before I stepped out of my city. While finding a quiet place, I dwelled on Targask's attitude. It was kind of fun having someone who gave me pushback like that. He didn't know who I was or what I'd done, which stopped him from revering me, something most of my guild did by now.

It let me question myself some, and I appreciated that.

Putting myself back in the present, I settled in a valley of bone before molding it over myself. As I did, the pile of rainbow bones groaned, its call sounding like a far-off quake. The colossal entity oozed out with frustration, all of the battles and activity bothering it. Letting the ominous sound pass, I flowed the bone shield over me.

With some time to myself, I experimented with the rituals. How they exploded sparked my curiosity and imagination. After all, I was almost invincible, so using an explosive weapon didn't carry the same risks for me that it did for everyone else. After detonating a few rituals, they showcased the same profound level of power.

Efficiency aside, each time I tried detonating the runes, they changed shape, size, and scale. I could never anticipate the full fallout of the explosion, regardless of what I tried. Hell, even predicting the outcome was spotty. Sometimes the blast changed in composition from elemental bombs to radioactive pulses.

That lack of consistency was the trade-off for immediate power, and it explained why no one used them as bombs. They went off with even the slightest touch and couldn't be predicted. The last part was particularly fatal; the last thing a bomber wants is to be within the bomb's radius. Most bombers, anyways.

Hoping for more oomph with the runes, I translated them into the cipher. I channeled mana into one of them, keeping my distance from it. They worked more or less as I expected, more stable but needing more charge. I kept them from exploding since the random effects might blow me apart.

After many attempts at carving out the runes, I understood them better. For instance, the overcharging caused consequences because the formula couldn't handle the magic anymore. It was like trying to flow water through a pipe. If too much passed at once, the pipe shattered.

Building off that idea, I compared the bombs to the rituals. The containment and flows were totally different. Bombs stored a certain amount of mana, keeping the magic and the mana separate. Rituals required the spell to be cast the entire time mana was channeled. Technically, rituals could be used like explosives if you planned them well enough.

Absolute organization and delineation could remedy that, and I was sure Torix had done so many times. Scratching my head, I wondered why Torix hadn't taught me all this. From what I gathered, Torix's talent far exceeded Targask's abilities, yet Torix never broke down many of these basics for me. The lich did help me gain tools to speed up my learning, but he never taught me this stuff directly. I decided to ask him when I got back.

Setting myself to the task at hand, I brainstormed for a while. I finalized my cipher runes before putting them on a panel of dimensional fabric. Getting a few miles away from my cities, I began charging them. They soaked in the mana like hungry ticks, swollen and bloodthirsty. Several minutes later and one of the panels exploded.

It blew up without any of an ordinary bomb's results. No force erupted. No fire plumed. However, for a fraction of a second, the atmosphere and ground around me wailed out in a deafening chorus. The air screamed, and the ground howled, every atom gaining sentience and pain all at once, living a short life of agony.

And then they died. I blinked at the malevolent effect, wondering what had happened. Having a chill run up my spine, I tried the same experiment several times. The rune's detonation resulted in an ensemble of terrifying effects. One bomb's eruption caused the ground to bleed out of bubbling pores. Another explosion shifted gravitation in space, altering weight there.

Yet another explosion turned the air around me into a liquid, and it writhed around me as if alive. It tried crawling into my lungs, nose, and ears, nipping at my skin like a horde of hungry beetles. When I walked out of the ritual's radius, the air died, losing this lease on life. However, returning to that spot left the atmosphere alive and starving.

I winced at what this would do to an average person. Still, none of these cipheric rituals affected me. I walked through the aftermaths without a worry in the world, and it got me thinking. Maximizing my temporal squeezing, I stood still, charging mana into a panel. Once more, it bloomed out before the effects faded.

Well, that wasn't quite right. They didn't fade - I didn't feel them. I sensed the dimension around me being warped, but it carried no consequences for me. I considered that a result of being my own dimension. I resisted Ajax's slice ages ago and many other dimensional attacks over my life. This was no different, though putting these runes onto my skin and overcharging them might have a different outcome.

I blinked away the thought, knowing it was another weakness I might have. I attempted to use the magic in a different environment. This time, I wrapped the area with my dimensional fabric. After a while, the rune exploded within the confines of the dimensional material. Checking to see if it contained the eerie effect, I melted a section and stuck my head through the liquified panel.

The screaming air sounded like soulless sirens. A part of me grimaced, but another piece remained hopeful. After pulling in various materials, I uncovered a simple fact about this magic: it shattered the physical laws within its radius. While unpredictable, it gave me a few options I lacked.

A smile crept its way onto my face I fell into thought. In a way, Targask was right about me not being suited for rituals. I wasn't a perfectionist, so completing these detail-oriented tasks didn't match my way of doing things. I could learn the skills to change that, but it might not be necessary.

If anything, I could lean into the rituals but on the opposite end. I laughed for a second as a realization popped into my head. Most ritualists would spend all of their time mastering how to perfect rituals. They'd focus on guaranteeing their success for smooth sailing. I would tread a different path.

I would spend my time learning how to break them.
