After I handled the installation, Targask tried using one of them. He frowned at it, the sight disturbing him as he murmured, "How in the hell did you create this?"

I grinned at him, "The same way I will make lots of other stuff."

Targask gave me a wary eye as I lunged to one knee, still over his eye level,

"Now then...Let's see the next set of runes, eh?"

Chapter Begin

Targask shook his head before scratching the back of his head, "You've worked quite a bit today. I'm sure you must be tired."

I scoffed, "Not even close. Let's move on to the next subject."

Targask blinked before pulling out another sheet of paper, "Well then...Let's see what you make of this then."

He began writing down a series of formulas using hieroglyphic images. They mirrored miniature monsters, each carrying a semblance of life to them. I gawked at the markings, curious how he instilled that uncanny vigor in mere pictures. Targask peered up at me, enjoying my obvious bewilderment all the while.

When he finished, he turned a palm to the drawings before crossing his arms, "What do you think these are?"

I leaned toward them, "They're some kind of formula that uses monster pictures instead of actual mathematics."

Targask tilted his head, "Hmm, close enough, I suppose. These are potion formulas that use common eldritch parts. It wasn't until a few decades ago that this became widespread knowledge. Care to hear the history?"

"Why not."

"Long story short, potions used to rely on specific species of eldritch, which are notoriously difficult to maintain the populations of. You can keep a dungeon alive by simply not taking the dungeon core, but Schema always sets up mini-quarantines in those situations whenever possible."

I remembered my first dungeon being that way. That might be why Schema moved it to a different world in the first place. If I had to guess, Schema probably had a problem with people conspiring alongside an intelligent hivemind.

Either way, Targask shrugged, "So potions tended to be very temporary. An alchemist would pay mercenaries to kill and maintain the corpses of different eldritch before experimenting on the bodies. After concocting the potion, the alchemist turned the rest of the corpses into a few batches of the brew."

I raised a brow, "So they had to make new potion formulas each time they made some?"

"Yeah, and it was awful. Quality control was abysmal since each batch was so different. Combine that with how expensive they were, and many adventurers opted against using them. Within the last few decades, that's changed since a genius released his documentation detailing an elaborate potion theory. That's what you see here."

I turned a hand, "And it lets you use common eldritch instead of specific parts from certain species?"

Targask put a hand on the pages, "That's right. For now, formulas can be made and followed. Eldritch can come from a branch of species rather than a specific one, allowing normal people to create these miraculous elixirs."

I nodded, "Huh. It sounds like that guy revolutionized the entire branch of magic. He must be loaded."

Targask scoffed, "It's the opposite. The potion master was jailed by Schema."

I facepalmed. Targask gave me a shove, "Hah, I had the same reaction when I heard. It was a real shame. I would have loved to figure out what was going through that guy's mind."

I sighed, "That's Schema for you. He wants you to run as fast as you can, but only if you're on a hamster wheel."

Targask raised a brow, so I answered him.

"A hamster wheel was an empty cylinder for small pets to run in. You get nowhere no matter how far you run."

Targask's chin jerked up, "Ahhhh, that's not nearly as stupid as it first sounded. Probably. If you ask me, I think Schema's using the potion master for whatever the AI wants, but who knows?"

I kept that note in the back of my mind for two reasons. Firstly, I might be able to find that potion master and learn from him. Secondly, Schema jailed him for releasing that information publicly, and that hinted that Schema locked down information, putting everyone in the dark. I knew Schema did that already, but this confirmed it.

I tapped the pages, "What do these symbols mean, and how did you get them to have so much life?"

"These are the basic health, fatigue, and mana potions you can make using common eldritch species. That life you're feeling is the secret to the potion master's work: he put some sentience into the runes."

I raised my brow, and Targask tapped his head, "They are somewhat alive. It's kind of like a conversation between us. When done through paper, there's a sterility that doesn't convey our full selves. While in person, we offer much more information whether we want to or not."

Targask moved his hand from his head to the paper, "This is the same. By instilling some life into the markings, the potion master allowed far more flexibility than was previously thought possible."

I leaned back, marveling at the idea, "How the hell does that even work? Why would intent change the potions?"

Targask shrugged, "I don't know. It's easy to replicate the specifics, but the overarching principle is shrouded in mystery."

Finding that potion master might improve my runes by leaps and bounds while adding sentience to runes might be crazy enough to work. I marked those ideas down in my head while scratching my cheek. Analyzing the sigils on the ground, I wrinkled my face in confusion.

They lacked any similarities with the cipher or Schema's language. To better grasp them, I had Targask tell me each symbol and what it correlated to. That took twenty minutes, so I had him create the alphabet for me to use later. A bit of practice confirmed what Targask said - the runes were easy to make.

When writing them down, I recreated the forms before intent flooded into them from the ether around us. It left me in awe because these markings guided a person's perception while they read, preventing weird interpretations. I mean, anyone could take almost anything out of any page.

It was simply how communication worked. Once a word leaves a person's lips, it can take on whatever meaning the listener desires. Words of hate could be seen as love, and the truth could be seen as a lie. These runes defied that long-standing convention. They reminded me of the memory sharing that Shalahora used earlier.

How someone achieved that in written form didn't make sense to me. Perhaps genius wasn't strong enough of a word for whoever this was, and it reminded me of Baldag-Ruhl's ritual. Some principles exceeded my grasp, and I had to accept that.

Regardless, my awe faded as the toil of work began etching itself onto us both. We fell into the flow of making the runes before moving on to other materials. Not long after, I brewed weaker potions. Targask showed me a few advanced potion types for the last part of the alchemy lesson.

These mirrored basic spells in effect, but anyone could use them without training or upkeep. With invisibility, silence, speed, and strength, the potions accomplished almost anything. Despite that upside, every brew came with a cost; their side effects ranged from meager to severe.

For instance, even the standard health potion resulted in a load of metabolic waste, which always gave people diarrhea at a minimum. If relied on too heavily, the symptoms mounted, becoming so severe that the kidneys or liver failed. Mana potions were the same deal and resulted in headaches that kept getting worse and worse the more you drank them.

If abused enough, these headaches became permanent, and there were cases of suicide due to their use. They also caused insomnia even in small doses, and the mental fog afterward felt like coming down from a massive high. This made them exceptionally addictive. That was the general trend - the more intense the potion, the lower the resulting side effect tended to be.

The more I thought about it, the more I thought about Althea. Most of her life revolved around being sedated to mute her emotions and powers. She managed that addiction behind closed doors, and after hearing about these side effects, I worried about her. She'd always handled those issues in relative silence, and that realization stung.

It was like she hid that from me, worried I might not want to help or be willing to. Before I jumped to that conclusion, I silenced my ruminations. Wanting to understand some of the potions in general, I had Targask let me try a few. Taking a bottle, I uncorked one before pouring it over my hand.

The liquid soaked into my arm like water down a drain as Targask rolled his eyes. He taunted, "You don't even drink them properly. Do you do anything normally?"

I raised my brow, "I do if it's efficient. Otherwise, what's the point?"

To further that notion, I smashed the following few bottles in my hands instead of waiting for them to pour out. Really, I was just tired of Targask's snippy attitude, and my strategy paid off. Targask lost his penchant for snide remarks.

And his potion bottles.

Anyways, no matter how many elixirs I took in, they left no effect on me. Even a dozen cocktails at once did zilch; I figured it was because my body broke them down differently than expected. The potions followed a standard, biological route for activation mixed with some mana for added oomph. The oomph was hard to even feel, and I was a living block of metal.

I needed potions designed for dimensional fabric, not blood or bone. So for me, potions were demoted from miracle elixirs to glorified water bottles. Still exciting but not as fascinating as the runes used for the brews themselves. Either way, I hadn't uncovered any big breakthroughs when discussing the topic, and Targask relished my lack of success.

I deserved some of that for smashing his bottles. Either way, I didn't mind much since I could give Althea and Kessiah a few miracle brews. Torix already gave them formal lessons on the topic, but a different perspective never hurt anything.

Moving on to the next lesson, we began healing, another subject where I lacked talent. I figured that would be the case considering some of my previous experiences, but it still grated me to uncover it hadn't changed. Since I used magic differently than most, I couldn't use it on others in most situations.

Well, I could, but it would just blow them up...Usually.

Even with the runes cleansing my mana, my personal limitations remained. In this case, I couldn't heal well because I couldn't get a tight enough grip on what was considered normal. For example, I could feel the difference between someone's bones and muscles, but the difference was subtle. To compensate, I could devote years of tireless effort to mastering surgery despite that drawback.

That would be well worth pursuing if I wanted that as a career, but that wasn't the case. I tried to heal as an extra option, not another path in life. My desire for convenience contrasted with healing itself, which didn't give a damn what I wanted. It was a complex, arduous, and demanding discipline, standing in front of me like a looming mountain.

I could not leap over this mountain. I had to take each step one at a time. Facing that journey down, I turned to a different path. I'd leave that discipline to Kessiah.

Heading towards a different mountain of study, I learned about magic contracts next. I designed several iterations of cipheric agreements before, but knowing how to make simple, low-stakes contracts was essential. I mean, I didn't want to have to warp reality every time I made an arrangement with anyone.

So, Targask gave me a few pointers based on Schema's typical contract methods. The legal lingo made me feel like a lawyer, and Targask mentioned that many Speakers specialized in this class style. These legalists helped create more nuanced and complete arrangements between Empires or individuals. It was neat info, and it carried significance to me.

I could read through documentation about this kind of thing and prevent basic con tactics in the future. It also gave me an understanding of the blowback involved with breaking an agreement. Aside from the reputation hit, breaking contracts carried literal consequences. They could hold mana bombs in your head that erupt if the terms weren't followed, sure, but that was the tip of the iceberg.

Some handled far more personal punishments, like causing decades of torture if anyone broke the terms. A few could castrate the user, cause mental regression, or remove limbs. The possibilities were endless. To my fascination, an entire branch of assassination was devoted to this kind of killing.

The killers nested malevolent terms within bland, benign contracts, ensuring they'd be failed. Anyone caught up in the impossible obligation ended up experiencing whatever consequences the agreement detailed, usually splattering across a wall or blowing up a skull.

The pen truly was mightier than the sword.

And easy to learn. Contract magic didn't take much time to go over as people honed their creation from a flimsy art to a cutting science. We went over the next branch of sorcery. This part involved handling rituals and delayed casting. I'd done something similar by saturating a spell with my mana, but that kept sorcery running after I disconnected from them.

These spells could have no effect for days, weeks, or even years before going off, meaning they worked like bombs in real life. You set up five parts: an initiator, switch, main charge, power source, and container. Though simple in practice, understanding the standard runic configurations made the bombs much more reliable.

Which was necessary to even use them at all. I couldn't have a delayed set of singularities mistimed and destroyed a city or something. Unfortunately, these runic configurations didn't carry any latent potential for me to abuse. They did what they were supposed to, leaving little room for improvement.

