There was a distinct sound of shattering glass, and suddenly the crystalline fog vanished, along with any semblance of sky. Instead, they were surrounded by complete and total darkness. Only two things remained visible in the void that now surrounded them: the shape in the sky, now hovering miles in the air as an outline of prismatic flame, and the road beneath them.

The effect was strange. The road was perfectly lit despite the lack of any real source of light, as if the sun still shone down upon it. Without the fog obfuscating their sight, it became clear that just ahead of them it split off into hundreds of smaller, sprawling paths. Then thousands, then tens of thousands, so far off into the distance that it made Flia's eyes hurt to try to take them in.

She snapped her gaze away, looking up at the... whatever it was instead. The outline alone was enough to set her heart pounding—she had only ever seen a prismatic flame like that from one other mage—but the actual shape wasn't human in the slightest.

In fact, it reminded Flia vaguely of one of the more elegant species of magical insects Professor Tarbloom had shown her. What had it been called again? A shimmerwasp queen? They resembled a tiny, armored fairy with mechanically complicated but majestic folding wings. Whatever this was, it bore a similar set of wings, though the details were obscured by the darkness.

If she looked closely, though, Flia thought she could glimpse something in those wings. What was it? More paths, perhaps, but different from the ones that stretched out in front of them; they were made from stones or vines or shadow—

The shape in the darkness spoke, shattering her grasp on those visions, and Flia abruptly realized how close she had come to losing herself in them. Another moment, and she might have stepped onto one of those impossible paths.

"Why do you travel the Roads?"

Flia took a moment to center herself, then she and Damien glanced at each other nervously. Neither of them needed to speak to realize that whatever this was, it outclassed them in every way imaginable. The power radiating from it didn't feel like mana, but it was power all the same, and it was threaded into every bit of the world around them.

And now that they could sense it, they could tell that the road beneath them was glowing with that very same power. Millions of those threads wound into a solid path beneath them. The truth was clear: it was only by this being's grace that they were able to stand in this in-between, and if they displeased it, they might very well be lost in the Fog forever.

Flia considered what the best approach was to appease such a being, then nodded to herself. "We honestly have no idea," she said. "We got here by accident, and we're trying to get back to our friends. Or to some kind of shelter, if that's possible."

"We aren't even going to try groveling?" Damien muttered.

"When has groveling ever worked?" Flia pointed out reasonably. "It's like Cale says, anything that requires you to grovel probably isn't going to let you live anyway. Better you find out sooner so you can work out a plan to run."

Damien thought about that for a moment, then grumbled to himself as he acknowledged the point. "I guess it didn't really work the last time we tried it."

There was a long, awkward silence. The shape in the sky stared down at them as if wondering how they were having a casual conversation while beholding its majesty.

Then it let out a bright, trilling laugh, and suddenly it flashed into place in front of them, color flooding in to fill the void of its outline. Flia caught a glimpse of pale chitin and prismatic membranes folding impossibly inward until the creature resembled something more passably humanoid, albeit with an extra pair of arms and—

—oh.

It didn't have any eyes. Where those eyes should have been were instead pitch-black holes that dripped with ichor, and Flia had a sudden, terrible feeling that she knew exactly what had happened to those eyes.

Okay. She knew she jumped to conclusions on these things sometimes, but she felt like this one was pretty clear.

"Dammit, Cale," she groused.

Ashvali trilled again with laughter. "Oh, don't worry, I'm not about to punish you two for that particular act of audacity," they said. "It's been so terribly long since I've had any visitors! And since I've been able to think for myself at all, I suppose, but I did bring that on myself, in a way. Goodness, these dungeons are strange things."

"Um," Damien said.

"I should change into something more comfortable," Ashvali muttered, distracted. They did a little twirl, and midway through their form blurred and shifted; Flia felt it somehow as something about Ashvali's identity changed.

Damien immediately looked away, blushing. Flia just stared, more out of confusion than anything else.

"Did I make too many?" Ashvali asked, peering down at herself. "I can never remember how many breasts human women are supposed to have."

"Yes," Flia said, rubbing her temples. "You made too many."

Great. This was like having another Cale around, except this one had apparently been isolated from society for centuries and had even less of a sense of shame.

Ah well. Hopefully they could get some answers from her.
