“Mom? Can you hear me?”

The words started as a whisper and culminated in a roar which brought Sarnai back to her senses, and she didn’t much like what she found. She was thirsty, which she immediately voiced without thinking, and hungry, tired, and uncomfortable to boot. Being the thoughtful boy he was, Rain already had a cup of warm tea in hand which he held to her lips, and she drank sparingly as he instructed while wondering why she needed his help at all. After thinking it through, she decided she didn’t actually need his help and tried to convey this without words, but he didn’t understand as he refilled her cup and brought it back to her lips with a tender smile.

It warmed her heart to see him so healthy and happy, his eyes warm and complexion glowing. Though far from fully recovered, it was a marked improvement from how he’d been before being conscripted and forced to serve in Sinuji, a frail, feeble little thing who could barely sit up straight without help. “So handsome,” she murmured, patting his face between sips, but then again, she’d always known he would turn out this way, what with how beautiful his parents had been. Wait, her hands were free, so why didn’t she just hold the teacup herself? She tried as much, but her hand continued patting Rain’s cheek, while the other held her cloak in place to ward off the morning chill.

Panic spiked as she realized she’d lost control of her limbs once again, but then cold logic swept in to put her in her place. There was nothing wrong with her arms, the proof of which lay before her very eyes, her raised hand which now hung frozen in place. She hadn’t taken the teacup because she had only thought about taking it in a hypothetical sense, rather than actually make any physical attempt.

Such were the consequences of spending too much time in her Natal Palace. She’d grown too used to doing things at the speed of thought without ever needing to lift a hand, and it was a marvellous sensation indeed. Despite devoting her entire life to the Martial Path, this was the first time she experienced Insight so deeply that she lost herself in a haze of comprehension, even forgetting to keep track of her mental surroundings or tend to corporeal needs. She’d heard tales of Martial Warriors killed whilst sitting unresponsive in their tents, or even starving to death after entering a meditative trance with no one around to care for them, but she’d never thought it would happen to her.

It was unsettling in a way, but also thrilling and addictive, a heady rush of knowledge and perception which superseded all else. She’d made such great strides along the Martial Path these last few days, especially with regards to emitting deadly shards of Chi from the tips of her fingers, but there was still so much more to learn. It was almost as if the Mother Herself demanded Sarnai’s attention, rushing to impart the important lessons needed to face the coming trials and tribulations...

Refreshed and revitalized by her brief surge of alarm, the fog lifted from Sarnai’s mind and she bolted upright in her seat. Still smiling in amusement, Rain had long since anticipated her reaction and placed the teacup aside. In its place was a steaming bowl of congee overflowing with shredded pork, salted eggs, and roasted peanuts, as well as a generous garnish of green onions sprinkled over top, just the way she liked it. Stomach rumbling in thunderous demand, she snatched the bowl out of his hand with a scowl and waved aside his silent offer to feed her, hoping Rain would mistake the flush of her cheeks as feigned indignity rather than all-too-real shame.

To think, she’d ridden out two... or was it three days ago? Hard to say, but she gone out determined to bring him home safe, only to completely abandon him in his time of need. And for what? Vague Insights she couldn’t entirely comprehend which left her in this muddle-headed state, barely able to remember how to properly hold a spoon and bring it to her lips. She had a fading impression of the bumpy rickshaw ride back, as well as having her musings interrupted by someone trying to take her hand, but otherwise, she had no idea how she ended up here. A woman her age should know better than to behave so irresponsibly, especially a mother riding to the aid of her child, but luckily Rain made it back to the citadel safe and sound.

Glancing around as she devoured her meal, she confirmed that they were, in fact, at the citadel, sitting at her dining room table with guests a plenty. Alsantset sat beside her looking tired and distracted, while her present and future in-laws were scattered around the room in similar states of disarray, all being tended to by their husbands, fathers, loved ones, or in poor Luo-Luo’s case, her handmaidens. It was strange seeing the cantankerous Du Min Gyu spoon feed the distracted Yan with such tender care, and stranger still to see the hulking Husolt do the same with scowling Mila and leave his irritable wife in dutiful Song’s hands. A smart decision, because Akanai was liable to grumble and snap even when she was in the best of moods, but would sooner cut off her own arm than utter a harsh word at sweet Song, no matter how disoriented she might be.

Which, now that she thought about it, might be why her dog-brained husband was conspicuously absent.

Her gaze lingering on Song as the girl fed her adopted mother, Sarnai mused about how the beautiful half-cat would make a good wife someday, so mindful and considerate of her friends and family. Nothing like her son’s current betrotheds, all of whom Sarnai loved dearly, but one had to admit, they were all... rather spoiled. Poor Rain was going to run himself ragged keeping up with his demanding wives each demanding different things. Sweet Mei Lin, sitting off in the corner with Taduk and Mentor, was an adorable, innocent young girl whom everyone loved to spoil, but she was also famed for her petulant temper and penchant for mischievous revenge. Nothing malicious mind you, but one might find their small-clothes doused in itching powder or their tea laced with ground bitter-thorns, so not only was Rain subject to her every whim, Sarnai feared for her poor boy’s peace of mind if he should ever upset the half-hare darling.

Then there was fiery Sumila, whom Sarnai absolutely adored. With her gruff temperament and unyielding demeanour, she was a shining example for the younger generation to admire, but as a future daughter-in-law, she left much to be desired. Mila demanded excellence from herself, which in turn pushed Rain towards the same, and it hadn’t escaped Sarnai’s notice that much of her son’s drive for success stemmed from a deep-seated desire to overtake and overcome his beloved Mila. The problem was, this cast an adversarial light over the nature of their relationship, and Sarnai worried their little contest might not end well, regardless of whether Rain failed or succeeded. Worst of all, it was clear Rain ranked third on Mila’s list of priorities, behind the dual paths of the Martial Warrior and Divine Blacksmith, ambitions which left little room for her future husband and children.

Then there was Yan, who’d once been the most promising of the three, in theory at least. Alsantset had raved about the girl and how she stuck by Rain throughout the trials and tribulations with the Society, fought by his side against the Defiled, and even tended to his needs while he was injured. Sarnai had cursed Akanai for a fool for letting a foreigner snatch up such a gem, and continued to do so daily for the last half year as she finally got to know her son’s third betrothed. Spoiled by her time in Central, the polite and conscientious Yan of yesteryear was dead and gone, and in her place was a lascivious woman with an insatiable appetite. Given the duration of her nightly visits, Sarnai feared for Rain’s ailing health once he was married in truth and had four other women to satisfy.

Then again, it would serve him right, the little lecher done in by his own greed...

Then there was the concubine, beautiful, compliant, eager to please Luo-Luo. At first, Sarnai had hoped the Imperial Servant would help balance the scales of Rain’s marital life, someone to help him with the mundane burdens of running a household, but Sarnai was left sorely disappointed. ‘Imperial Servants’ only served in the strictest sense of the word, and she likened Luo-Luo to more of an Imperial layabout. The girl’s musical talents could not be overlooked, but the rest of her ‘skills’ amounted to little more than useless frivolities, activities to enjoy during free time, of which she had plenty of since she had no useful abilities to call upon. Incapable of needle-work, leather-work, and house-work in general, Luo-Luo’s sole duties involved looking after Rain’s businesses and spending coin faster than he could earn it. From what Sarnai could tell, the girl worked on credit more often than not and took loans without a second thought to cover her soaring deficits, so while she had yet to slip up and borrow more than she could cover, in Sarnai’s mind, it was only a matter of time before the debt-collectors arrived to splatter red paint across their doors and walls and inform everyone with eyes that Falling Rain had shamefully missed a payment on his debts.

Sarnai had even started setting aside coin to help Rain pay back his loans if he should ever come to his senses and seek help, but thankfully, his ingenious ideas were enough to keep him afloat for now.

So disappointing, these four future daughter-in-laws, but since Rain had yet to complain, it was not Sarnai’s place to sow the seeds of discontent. Reaching out to pinch his cheek, she ignored his surprised and curious expression and simply handed him her empty bowl, which he promptly re-filled and handed back. “Thank you,” she said, her voice coming out quiet and strained from lack of use. “How much time until we leave for the banquet?” For the life of her, she couldn’t remember what today’s date was, or what day it’d been when she first discovered the grove and lost herself in Insight.

“Technically, negative amounts of time. We were supposed to leave an hour ago. Yuzhen and Nian Zu have been getting antsy.”

Halfway to her lips, Sarnai dropped her spoon back in the bowl and jumped to her feet. “Mule-headed boy, why wait so long to tell me? Let me pack my things and we will set out immediately. This banquet is of the utmost importance, and there are still preparations to make once we arrive at the Citadel.”

Alsantset was already out of her seat, every bit as flustered as her mother, but the other girls were still seated and watching with vacant expressions. Well, all except Mei Lin, who buried her face in Taduk’s robes to muffle her giggles. “Calm yourself, little Rose,” Mentor Sent, her comforting presence washing away Sarnai’s apprehension. “The boy has things well in hand. Your luggage is packed and readied for your departure. Finish your meal and then we will set out.”

Relieved by Mentor’s reassurances, Sarnai sat back down and motioned for Alsantset to do the same. Though not privy to their silent exchange, Rain clearly knew someone had told her that everything was fine, and his smirk said it all. Wait. “Did you say the Marshal and Colonel General are waiting on us?”

“Yea.” Shrugging, Rain added, “I told them to head out without us. We could’ve caught up in no time. Wouldn’t have even needed to commandeer a boat or anything.”

“You... you...” Taking a deep breath before she said something she regretted, Sarnai set aside her bowl and pinched Rain’s cheeks with both hands. “You should know better than to treat our comrades with such disrespect! Where’s your father, that dog-brained fool? He should have set you straight and sent you off without us.”

“He went out on patrol early this morning, before I even woke.” Rain replied, somewhat sheepishly at that, staring at his feet like a scolded child. “An unscheduled and impromptu patrol, which set out on a southern heading.”

To clear the way for their son’s convoy, no doubt, something Rain no doubt discerned on his own. “And knowing this, you still chose to delay?” Placing her finger underneath his chin, she gently raised his head so she could look him in the eyes. “Why?”

Her son wouldn’t waste his father’s efforts without good reason, but he was reluctant to say why, not-so-covertly glancing around to convey his misgivings. Too many ears apparently, though everyone present was family, even the dour Min Gyu who’d proven himself wholly dedicated to little Yan’s cause. Rolling her eyes, Sarnai looked to Mentor for confirmation before gently mashing Rain’s cheeks with one hand and trying not to smile at how soft and pliable his face was. “How many times must I tell you? The manor is safe, and you can speak freely here.”

“Well yea, but that was before the Colonel General saddled me with a nanny, and I lost track of him on the way back.” Looking around the room once more, he asked, “You’re sure it’s safe?”

Sarnai rolled her eyes, but she checked with Mentor again just to be sure, and felt a Sound Barrier spring into existence. “Yes, boy. Now speak.”

“Alright.” Placing his open palm next to his left shoulder, Rain held it there and said, “It’s okay Pong Pong. Come out and say hi.”

And just like that, the terrifying little turtle appeared, so still and colourful she wondered how she ever missed him sitting right there on Rain’s shoulder. She’d known of the creature’s existence of course, but this was the first time she laid eyes on the poorly-named turtle, or at least seen more than a green and yellow blur. A beautiful Divine Beast of unimaginable power, Pong Pong did not behave like a creature capable of killing everyone present with little more than a thought. In fact, he seemed apprehensive in her presence, sitting utterly still atop Rain’s shoulder save for his eyes, which darted around the room to take in everybody’s reactions. Checking to make sure his Selective Concealment was still effective no doubt, though how the little beast managed such a thing was beyond Sarnai’s comprehension. What she did know, however, was that little Pong Pong was nervous, and if any one of them should make the wrong move, it was easy to imagine him responding with deadly force, either in the form of a dismal Aura capable of crippling even Mentor herself, or conjuring powerful columns of Water-Chi to crush them with ease.

The situation needed to be handled with delicate care, because one wrong move and -

“Oh don’t be so dramatic.” Unceremoniously plucking the turtle from his shoulder, Rain placed Pong Pong in his cupped palms and held him up to Sarnai’s face. It took every ounce of courage and discipline she had to keep from backing away as her son pointed at her and said, “This is Mom. She’s family. Fa-mi-ly. Understand?”

For a moment, she worried Rain had finally cracked and gone mad, thinking he could truly communicate with animals, but then the turtle looked at him, looked at her, and unleashed his Aura. It wasn’t the emboldening Aura she knew and used, nor was this the dreadful, malignant Aura of the Defiled which sapped strength from those caught in its icy grasp. Instead, this Aura was shy and tentative, but warm and familiar, a safe, comforting sensation she hadn’t felt in ages. It was the same way she felt every time she moved around that familiar bend and laid eyes on the village for the first time in weeks or months, the sensation of welcome relief from a hard journey or adventure, and one she sorely missed.

It was the feeling of returning home, plain and simple, tinged with curious hope and timid trepidation, all emanating from the tiny turtle in Rain’s hands.

“Incredible,” she gasped, reaching out to pet the turtle without thinking twice. Surprised by her movement, Pong Pong retreated into his shell so quickly his body tumbled and bounced in the palm of Rain’s hands.

Stifling a laugh, she retracted her hand and looked to her son for guidance, who was equal parts surprised and amused by his little friend’s reaction. “Well, it went better than it did with Dad or Charok,” Rain said, shrugging in helpless futility. “He wouldn’t even come out to say hi, so at least we’ve got that.”

Hoping to bribe the little turtle to come out of his shell, she rummaged through her belt pouch and emerged with a bag of dried berries she kept on hand for the rabbits and bears. Dropping three into Rain’s palm, she watched and waited with bated breath, but alas, the tiny turtle was too wary of her presence and the berries remained untouched. Pursing her lips in disappointment, she turned back to her meal and asked, “So what does this have to do with your audacious disrespect towards the Marshal and Colonel General? Two powerful individuals who have proved themselves steadfast allies, I might add.” In the past year, Yuzhen put more effort into integrating with the People than Rain had in his entire life, but now was not the time to bring it up.

Or really, ever, since she dreaded the day Rain finally thought to ask about his parents and origins...

“Well, you see how nervous he is?” Oblivious to her inner thoughts, Rain pouted and stroked Pong Pong’s shell to no effect. “He’s a powerful Divine Beast, and he’s been cagey all morning.” Seeing her incredulous expression, Rain frowned and sighed. “I’m not explaining it properly. See, he does this thing where he goes on alert every now and then, like there’s some danger lurking about that I can’t perceive. It happens randomly at all times, so I taught him to perch on my shoulder when he senses danger, and it worked like a charm. He alerts me, I call for my guards, and a minute or two later, he calms down and everything goes back to normal.” Shrugging, he adds, “Well, sometimes it takes longer, and I still can’t figure out what triggers him. Yesterday, we spent the morning sitting out in the open in the restaurant by the eastern gate, so Song could go out and look for the weasel-bear, and Pong Pong was fine the whole time. Then, after a nap with Ping Ping, we headed back to the manor, and he immediately alerted me to danger. We spent the rest of the day locked in my room with a dozen Death Corps guards to keep me safe while I handled business with Yuzhen through correspondence, and he stayed on my shoulder the entire time. He only calmed down when I went to bathe before bedtime.” Knowing better than to derail Rain’s story to ask about this weasel-bear, why he was napping with Ping Ping, or what business he had with Yuzhen, Sarnai sat in silence as Rain continued, “Then, I woke up today with him already perched on my shoulder and ready to fight for his life, and he hasn’t let down his guard since. By that time, Dad was already out on patrol, so I told Charok, and we decided it’d be best if we waited for you or Grandma to make a decision.”

“So you mean to say,” Sarnai asked, just to make sure she understood her son’s thought process, “That you kept the highest ranked strategic and military commanders of the North waiting all morning, because your turtle... is nervous?” Rain nodded, and Sarnai burst into laughter. “Foolish son of mine, Divine Beast or not, Pong Pong is still a turtle. His first instinct when presented with danger is to hide until it passes. Look at him, tucked away in his shell there.” To her surprise, although the shell was still occupied, the berries were all gone, having disappeared sometime during the conversation. Dropping a few more into Rain’s hands, she continued, “He could single-handedly bring down this entire citadel and kill everyone in it, yet here he hides inside his shell, wary of a frail old woman’s hands.”

“So... he’s a cowardly turtle?”

“Just a turtle is enough, son. Such is his nature.” Looking up from her meal, she found that the berries had disappeared once again, so she dropped another three berries into Rain’s hands. Determined to see little Pong Pong in action, she Scryed on Rain’s hands before returning to her meal, but this time, the berries remained untouched. Perhaps hearing her voice would make him confident enough to come out. “How did you teach him to alert you?”

“Err, after I came back from the farm, I brought him with me to bed and accidentally ended up in his Natal Palace.” Smiling down at the turtle’s shell, Rain missed seeing her bewildered stare as he continued, “Makes for easier communication when I can borrow his Chi to use Aura and draw pictures.”

Sarnai loved her son fiercely, but she would be the first to admit he was often infuriating to the extreme. “And you only thought to bring this up now? Does your father know?”

“Yep.” Shrugging as if this news were of no consequence, he added, “It only works when I fall asleep in physical contact with either Ping Ping or Pong Pong. I tried with Dad and Charok, but nothing happened, and I even found Dagen to test it out on, which was a super uncomfortable conversation to have, followed by the worst nap I’ve ever taken to boot. Also, I’m pretty sure this means Mama Bun doesn’t have a Natal Palace yet, so she’s further from Divinity than we thought.”

Yes, that was the important lesson to take from all this, that his spoiled Mama Bun didn’t have a Natal Palace. It wasn’t that he was still capable of miracles despite his ruined Core, or that his inner self could still use Chi, albeit outside his body. “Have you tried using your new powers to probe your shattered Core? Or directing the Divine Turtle to help Heal you?” She suspected she already knew the answer, but she had to ask just to be sure.

“Yes Mother.” His tone made it clear he felt belittled by the question, and she affectionately swatted his forehead to remind him of his manners. “I tried multiple times, but as far as I can tell, when I’m in Ping Ping or Pong Pong’s Natal Palace, there’s nothing wrong with my... Soul, I guess, or Spiritual Self, or whatever it is I’m projecting in there. As for the other thing, I don’t think Pong Pong understands the concept of Cores or even Healing for that matter. He mostly just wants to play when we’re together.”

What a shame, but one could hope. Suppressing a sigh so Rain wouldn’t feel worse than he already did, she patted his cheek once more and said nothing, just letting him know she was there for him if he needed her. Sinking gratefully into her palm, he smiled and relaxed for all of a second before straightening up once again. “More congee or tea? I have buns and snacks for later, but I thought it best to give your bodies time to adjust.”

“No, no more food.” Since Pong Pong still had yet to touch his berries, she dismissed her Scrying and wiped her mouth with a handkerchief. “We cannot keep our comrades waiting any longer. Let me go check and see if you left anything vital behind, and then we will be on our way.”

“No need,” Rain said, puffing up proudly like a popinjay. “There’s zero chance I forgot to pack anything, because I packed everything.”

“...Explain.”

“Well, I didn’t know what dress or jewellery you wanted to wear to the banquet, and Dad and Charok were no help, so we just grabbed everything in your room and packed it into a wagon. Clothes, jewellery, make-up, combs, ribbons, mirrors, the whole nine yards. This way, you and sister will have everything you could possibly need when we arrive at the Central Citadel.”

“See, little rose,” Mentor Sent, every bit as proud as Rain. “I told you the boy has things well in hand. He has grown more reliable of late, and I am sure we have you to thank.”

Of course Mentor would think this a reasonable solution, she barely saw the need for more than one set of clothes, much less variation in her outfits. The worst part was, Rain also thought he’d done well, and Sarnai didn’t have the heart to ruin his minor ‘victory’. That her dog-brained husband had encouraged him was no surprise, but she could usually count on Charok to be the voice of reason, except now he was outnumbered and no match for the idiot father-son pair. Settling back into her chair, she turned her eyes skyward and thought, “Mother in Heaven, why must you burden me with so many lovable fools?”

Such were her trials and tribulations, but they were well worth it.

Chapter Meme
