In response to his opponent’s counter, Naaran adjusts course and picks a new target, causing YuGan to shift his movements to match him. This sets off a chain of adjustments and readjustments as they approach one another at break-neck speeds, and it occurs to me that they’re not really reacting to each other’s actions as they are playing out a set of moves they already planned in advance. Surely there are some on-the-fly changes and adjustments made last second, but I can’t pick them out, nor do I really understand what sort of tactics or information they’re working with. It’s like seeing two grandmaster chess players sit down and stare at each other, playing dozens of games out in their heads before ever laying hand on a single piece, except this game here has far more variables and unknowns to account for as well as a complete and utter lack of rules besides the admittedly pliable laws of nature.

Their spears cross paths without colliding, but not for a lack of trying, as Naaran’s repeated twists and turns do more than just deceive. The movement itself lends weight to his Domain Deflection as a veritable whirlwind of Chi surges out from the spearhead with an audible gust of wind. Sticking to his guns, the Mataram Patriarch continues with his sweep in an effort to barrel through the Deflections, and crude as it might seem, there’s no arguing against its effectiveness. Pure unadulterated power against pinnacle skill, and power wins out in the end as Naaran’s thrust is swept aside in an ear-splitting collision. Credit where credit is due, YuGan aims his parry perfectly to give him all the leverage in their exchange, striking the tip of his opponent’s spear with a section sitting in the top-third of his own.

A basic concept even I understand, yet seeing the Mataram Patriarch use it so effortlessly makes me feel ashamed to call myself the Number One Talent, for there is still so much I have yet to learn.

Ordinarily, you’d expect a parry like that to smash Naaran’s spear aside, but he expected the exchange to play out like this, or at least had plans in place for this very outcome. Though his Domain Deflection failed to turn aside his opponent’s active parry, Naaran repurposes those same energies to instead bind their spears together, grabbing hold of YuGan’s spear and dragging along as he sweeps his spear out to the side before bringing it back around for a horizontal strike. There’s a flash of surprise in YuGan’s eyes, so brief even I barely catch it, and I would have entirely missed it if I wasn’t able to read his emotions so well. That brief moment is more than enough for Naaran as he exhales so loudly he might as well shout, and his Honed spear is a formidable sight to behold. This Chi working is nothing particularly out of the ordinary like Dastan’s Severing Cut or Mom’s Reinforced shards of Honed Domain, elevated forms of Honing that can cut without a blade behind it. Nor is it anything beyond what I would call regular Honing, because that’s all it really is. That being said, there’s still a marked difference in Naaran’s Honing that I can’t really describe, an ease and fluidity to it that I wouldn’t be able to see with my physical eyes. I Visualize Honing like a chainsaw, a moving layer of Chi over the edge of my weapons that is filled with rotating rings of biting ‘teeth’, for lack of a better word, but Naaran’s Honing is… seamless and inseparable from the spear itself. He’s not using his Chi or Domain as an extra layer, nor is he using it to enhance the sharpness of his spear. Instead, his Honing accentuates the natural sharpness of his spear, a difference that one might think is without distinction, but I cannot deny the effectiveness of what I see and feel here.

There’s no separation between his Chi, Domain, and spear, none whatsoever. Three as one and one as three, One with the Spear, One with the World, One with the Heavens, and more, a merger of man, nature, and Heaven working together. For a moment, I’m unsure if Naaran’s spear is moving, or if it’s fixed in place, and the universe is moving around it to facilitate this one, singular attack. There’s so much more to this strike than what I can sense, so much more than I can comprehend, but even this much is enough to leave me speechless in awe. Still dragging his foe’s spear behind it, Naaran’s strike passes through the finger wide gap between helmet and pauldron and crashes into YuGan’s neck, sending a spray of sparks flying out into the air.

Pain.

Fear.

Shame.

Rage.

Mataram YuGan experiences a rollercoaster of emotion, wholly caught off-guard and unprepared for Naaran’s superlative strike, but the Demon residing within his Runic armour is not so easily deceived. Much like me, it can glean more than what the physical senses perceive, for though it is an aberration and abomination of nature, it was crafted from the Energy of the Heavens themselves, and therefore far more in tune with it than mere mortals. Chi surges out from YuGan’s Core and into the quasi-living armour through connections that go beyond the physical. Once inside the armour, YuGan’s Chi merges with the Demon’s Ichor which is the life’s blood of its existence, a perversion of Heavenly Energy made real and tainted by the wrongness of the Demon’s birth. Together, these two energies mingle to become more than the sum of their parts, only to pass back into YuGan’s Core whilst still in the Demon’s control. From the Core, it flows through YuGan’s metaphysical body like blood through his veins, billowing out in all directions rather than veering straight towards its eventual target. No idea why the Demon would move its energies in so roundabout a fashion, but it does have the added benefit of highlighting YuGan’s Spiritual ‘system’ for me to see.

Honestly… it’s pretty much like I imagined, a vascular system that exists in the immaterial yet is somehow fixed to the material, a tangled interweaving of networks that stretch all throughout YuGan’s body. There are large passages, and small ones, horizontal ones, and vertical ones, ones wrapped around organs, piercing through bones, or connected to tissue and skin, a vast system that stretches all through every last iota of the Patriarch’s body. Complex and convoluted though it might be, I note a number of blockages or inefficiencies along the way, somewhere I feel the flow would be better served if a path were opened or connected in a different manner. It’s not a matter of the shortest distance, or even the most efficient one, but my Spiritual Senses detect a wrongness in some sections that I feel would could be corrected, though I have no idea why that would be.

All this takes place in less time than it takes to blink, so much less that even fractions of a micro-second would be too large a unit to measure it by. The Demonic energies moves out in all directions, but it converges around YuGan’s neck before Naaran’s spear lands and forms an exceptionally dense barrier over, under, and all throughout the neckguard encircling his throat. Naaran’s strike lands with a crash of steel on steel, but fails to do more than leave a gash in the Demonic armour, a hair-wide, finger-length furrow that spurts out a stream of greyish-yellow Ichor, except that it’s not Ichor any longer. In merging with YuGan’s Chi, it has become something else, something both more than Ichor and less at the same time, with stronger ties to the physical than the metaphysical. It’s… spent, I guess is the best way to describe it, devoid of that which makes Heavenly Energy Heavenly in the first place, leaving only a conglomeration of detritus and contaminants it picked up along the way.

Impurities I guess, many of which have been left behind all throughout YuGan’s Spiritual System, but what that might mean in the long or short term is beyond my meagre comprehension.

This is all what’s taking place on a ‘spiritual’ level, but in reality, it’s much easier to describe. Naaran’s attack lands on YuGan’s neck, only for him to do a little cartwheel in place as if he’d anticipated it in advance and went with the flow to minimize the impact. Only Naaran and I know that the strike landed true, and only the Mataram Patriarch and I know how much this seemingly casual defense cost him. Disheartening as it might be to go to all this effort and fail, there is no emotional response from Naaran, no disappointment or frustration, anger or indignance, just… nothing. He is by far the most emotionally closed-off person I have ever seen, radiating an almost neutral cloud of emotion that is wholly unaffected by anything and everything at once. At its base level, I can sense a subtle foundation of grim… not resignation, but indifference to the world at large, as if he’s long since given up on caring about anything at all. This doesn’t mean he’s given up on winning and is ready to die, because nothing could be further from the truth. He’s still fighting the good fight and intends to win and survive, but the issue is he no longer has anything left to fight and survive for. He’s treading emotional water, doing what he does because he doesn’t know how to live life any other way, but it’s all so empty and meaningless he’s long since stopped caring. There is no anger, no regret, no fear, or passion, just an almost casual nonchalance as he fights for his life against what might well be the strongest foe he’s ever faced, yet emotionally behaves as if he’s at the market to pick up a cabbage on his way home.

Which is just sad. What made Naaran this way? What did he have to go through to become like this? This goes beyond being old, jaded, and world-weary, because this is a level of apathy comparable to what I was searching for when I escaped to the Call Centre of the Void. Though he is a living, breathing, human being, Naaran is cold and dead inside, and has been for so long that he prefers living his life this way.

Well… At least now I know why he doesn’t like me. Not because I’m not likable, but because Naaran doesn’t like anyone. Or hate anyone. Or really have any sort of strong feelings about anyone in general, besides those opinions he formed before becoming this way.

Having overtaxed my mind following this one, singular exchange, I pull back and simply watch their battle play out. Naaran holds the advantage, then loses it as YuGan and the Demon seize the upper hand, only to reverse the course of momentum once again in a staggering back and forth that takes all of a second to play out. Nine exchanges took place in that moment, nine extraordinary and superlative exchanges I could not even begin to explain, and just watching their physical movements match up with the flow of their Chi fills me with awe and apprehension. Excitement too, because it shows just how far I still have to go, because I am nothing if not a fanatic of the Martial Path. No, not the Martial Path, but the Dao itself, because it’s not the prospect of Martial strength which excites me so, but the endless possibilities of Chi and Heavenly Energy.

I’m not sure if Prime Me has even noticed, but we are so much more aware of things now. Maybe it’s because I’m a Natal Soul, but being able to feel the emotions in the air and track the flow of Chi is doing wonders for my comprehension. There’s so much to unpack in just a single thrust of Naaran’s spear, so much more than I ever realized was there, and it occurs to me that the mysteries of Heaven are no longer as ineffable as they once seemed. There is a logic to all of this, laws by which even Heavenly Energy must abide by, so once I am able to grasp those laws, I will know how to work with and around them.

Food for thought, but I shouldn’t be wasting my life on unravelling mysteries when I’ve got a real job to do. The problem is, Naaran’s barricaded emotional state is impervious to all my efforts to reach him. The easiest workaround would be to ask Prime Me to Send a message, but that runs the risk of distracting Naaran which would undoubtedly lead to his death. That’s assuming he even left himself open to Sending, which I doubt he did, because I now sense some working of Chi around him which isolates him from the world at large. Probably means I can’t use weaponized, uber-loud Sendings against prepared, skilled opponents, but then again, I knew that from the start.

So how do I get through to the emotions of a man who has closed himself off to emotion? If I can connect with Naaran and get him to accept me, then I can deliver him all this Heavenly Energy I’m made of, which won’t really win him the match outright, but could give him an edge or at least make it so they’re fighting on equal terms, more or less. How did I connect with everyone else? Love, in the case of Mila and Yan, trust for Li-Li, Dastan, Jorani, and a few others, and faith in the case of a good number of soldiers and Stormguard, both the originals and the new ones Creating their Cores here in Meng Sha even as I muse and deliberate. Then again, faith is pretty much just blind trust, so I doubt I really need to make the distinction, though I will admit that faith can be both stronger and more fragile than trust at the same time. Oh damn… what will happen to the Stormguard if they ever lose faith in me? Will their progress along the Martial Path stall or even regress? Or was faith just the jumpstart they needed to get going, and no longer necessary any longer?

Lots of questions, but now really isn’t the time.

“Yo,” Prime Me Sends, his tone annoyed and afraid, yet trying to sound calm and reassuring. “Since you seem like you’ve got nothing to do, you’re being promoted to field general. Don’t fuck it up.”

