“Executive Orders,” I Send, and they all jump to attention before realizing it’s just another Natal Soul. Not that they’d treat Prime Me any differently, but we’re a jumpy bunch by nature. “Help Yan.” Orders all three were ready to argue until they actually received them, but they are more than happy to join hands and merge with our beloved wife, which is far more palatable than doing so with some dusty old Warriors who we don’t even know or like. At the same time, I dole out orders to other Natal Souls who are in similar straits, stuck in limbo because they can’t find anyone useful to help or because their assigned targets have already died, but not all of them go to Yan. She’s got more than enough Heavenly Energy, but even if I gave her everything I had, that still wouldn’t be enough to ensure she can take down her target without dying.

An outcome I will not allow, because even though I am but a copy of my real self, my love for Yan is still real enough to matter.

A shot rings out from the battlements and it’s soon echoed by several others as my Spiritual Rifle bearing infantry all fire upon YuChun, with an extra added shot from OuYang Yuhuan who still hasn’t quite got the hang of her rifle just yet. Deadly as the weapons are, they’re not so effective against Peak Experts without the element of surprise, and YuChun has kept his guard up after losing his favourite son to those same weapons. Kinda fucked up that he had a favourite, so fuck him and fuck his son because they’re a bunch of murderous bastards. A skilled murderous bastard however, as YuChun plummets tot the battlements and slides out of the way of every bullet aimed at him. The second volley misses as well as he sets his boots to skimming across the parapets, and impressive as it is, I can sense his frustration and tell that he’s only doing this because he’s not confident he can avoid the bullets while dancing around in the sky like his father and Naaran. That makes me feel a little better about Prime Me’s lacking skills since even a Peak Expert like YuChun has room to improve, but there’s no time to celebrate minor victories as the next part of my plan comes into play.

For despite having free reign to fight anywhere he would like, Mataram YuChun has been lingering around where my retinue is stationed in the hopes of getting a clean strike on the man who killed his son, the ever-vigilant Old Bulat who keeps weaving in and out of the crowd to fire his Domain-imbued bullets.

A useful skill that, one I’ve taken, examined, and disseminated amongst a select few individuals, including one woman who has yet to really make her presence known upon the battlefield. She’s been here from the start, but she’s never been one to stand out, despite being both skilled and beautiful in her own right. Then again, part of this might well be due to her position on the battlefield, with boots in the sand alongside her comrades guarding the Irregulars, but make no mistake, Sai Chou is a talent few can match with bow or axe alike, and she showcases her talents here as she lines up her difficult shot and lets loose at a target she can barely pick out from the crowd.

And yet, her shot flies true, for she is one with the Bow, and one with the Arrow, a feat I fear will forever remain beyond my reach.

An arrow is much slower than a bullet, but much quieter as well, a sub-sonic projectile that even a regular Martial Warrior can smack out of the air. That being said, there are many, many, many more arrows flying about then there are bullets, so even though Mataram YuChun hears Sai Chou’s arrow hurtling towards him, he doesn’t register the danger until it is almost too late. A slight turn of his head, that’s all it takes to ensure the arrow strikes his helmet instead of his cheek, but unlike every other arrow flying through the air, Sai Chou’s arrowhead is encapsulated in a severed shard of her Domain. The Domain itself is not Honed, Reverberating, or Amplified, for Sai Chou lacks the skills to do such a thing, and truth be told, so do I. Aside from Mom and Dastan, I don’t really know anyone else who can imbue destructive energy into their Domain and use it to injure and kill on its own, but that’s okay. Sai Chou’s severed shard of Domain is similar to the arrow itself, merely a mechanism to deliver the true killing blow hidden inside.

A strange and unknown Chi skill Bulat developed himself, in a pique of rage over how unfair it was for the Enemy to all be clad in Runic armour.

Unlike his father, YuChun is not a half-Demon, but whole human encased in Runic steel. Probably because his talents are even greater than his father’s, with potential still yet to be tapped. It just goes to show that they’re not wholly unhinged and unaware of the consequences, but while YuGan was willing to pay the price, he was not willing to let his son to do the same. A good thing for us, because Bulat’s new working is an.. Unravelling, of sorts, as that’s what it does. I hesitate to call it a ‘dispelling’ force, because rather than unmake a Chi working, it neutralizes any ‘unnatural’ changes made in the material world by Will or Domain, hence the new and made-up term, ‘Unravel’. From what I can tell, it’s similar to what happens when two Blessings interact, resulting in a net zero effect as they cancel one another out, which is exactly what happens when the Chi skill impacts against YuChun’s Runic helmet.

As the ties binding the physical and metaphysical come apart, the Runes engraved into the steel helmet become little more than pretty carvings etched into the metal itself. A micro-second later, the full force of Sai Chou’s arrow hammers home against mundane steel, and the results are most satisfying to behold. Designed only for its looks and relying on the Runes to bestow protection, the helmet does nothing as the arrow drills through the thin metal and digs deep into soft flesh before stopping as it strikes bone, and YuChun reels in place even as his lungs fill with air for a scream he has yet to unleash.

Credit where credit is due, the Ten Thousand Spears is a survivor. Taking to the skies in search of escape, he slips away from the two Society Adherents rushing in to engage him, but I am a man who plans for the worst. As such, Yan is already in position above him and strikes before he registers her presence, her scything Wind Blades hammering home against YuChun’s exposed face. Spinning about to avoid the bulk of the damage, he hunkers down and raises his spear to cover his throat while Healing for all he’s worth, using Panacea of all things to avoid instant death as the Wind Blades almost decapitate him. Quick on her feet as ever, Yan utilizes her Wind Domain to condense a whirlwind inside an orb no larger than a grape and sends it at her foe with a beatific grin of murderous delight. I have never been more turned on in my life, which admittedly is better measured in seconds rather than minutes, but even this is not enough to kill Mataram YuChun as a watery tentacle rises up to smash Yan’s Exploding Wind out of the air in a spray of water and mist.

Fucking Pudge is back, but my enemies are out here playing checkers while I’m playing 4d chess.

Before YuChun can even heave a sigh of relief, a beam of fiery hot light smashes into him from below, proving exactly why most Warriors prefer to fight on the ground. In taking to the skies, he’s opened himself up to attacks from below, an opportunity my beloved Mila was just waiting for from her place on the beach. With a little advanced warning and a full Core recharge from a friendly Natal Soul, she’s firin’ her lazors at one of the most dangerous Peak Experts around, an attack which smashes into him and almost overloads his still working Runic Armour in one go. There’s no Unravelling there, just plain old raw power and the heat of the god-damn sun as Mila unleashes her ultimate attack once again, one powered by the lives of my brethren.

Alas, even this is not enough to kill Mataram YuChun, and I’ve no moves left to make as he Cloud-Steps away to safety over the Defiled encampment. Somehow, he was able to mount a defense against Mila’s laser, one that left him with horrific burns across the entirety of his naked, charred body, his flesh and armour all melted away and leaving him as one, giant, cauterized wound, yet doing nothing to quell his rage and fury. The pain is nothing to him compared to the injury to his pride, for he is a Warrior standing close to the peak, yet he has been done in today by two young girls who he sees as beneath even his sons. A grievous wound this is, but one he will eventually recover from, or so he believes.

Not because his pride is so weak as to crumble from a single loss. No, Mataram YuChun is a determined man and stalwart Warrior, someone who could have been the second Living Legend of his generation after Ryo Dae Jung, but alas, his Clan has led him astray. There is only anger and hatred left within his heart, most of it directed towards the Empire but no small amount pointed at Mila and Yan, which means there is no mercy in mine as I watch three mute Aspirants materialize around him and drive their swords into his crisp flesh.

A suicidal attack, one I did not order, but one all three Aspirants were all too happy to deliver the moment they saw their chance, for they find their past sins and silent existence too heavy to bear much longer. There is only pride and relief in their hearts as the Demons and Champions tear them apart, for death represents the freedom and contrition they so desperately desired. Even if they’d accepted my offer to free them from their Oaths, they each believe they would have succumbed to despair in time, but I still shed a tear for their deaths. I don’t know the full extent of their sins, or the burdens they bear, but the help and information they provided was instrumental to my continued success. I’d hoped to one day break their Oaths, learn their names, and raise a drink to their honour, but now this day will never come to pass. Such is the Path of a General, to leave a mountain of corpses in his wake, and my mountain has grown that much bigger today.

A rousing victory that comes at great cost, but the soldiers of the Empire cheer all the same, not knowing the names of the heroes who died to make it happen or the Natal Souls that gave up everything along the way.

Much as I would like to take a moment to grieve, I cannot spare anymore time, for in my distraction to take down YuChun, I have left YuGan too long unrestrained. Losing his grandson didn’t affect him much, but YuChun was his pride and joy, and the Demon with YuGan encourages his rage and feeds on it all the same. Seething with fury, denial, and dejection, YuGan erupts into a storm of destruction as his spear smashes against Naaran’s time and time again, and finally, the grizzled old man lowers his emotional barriers to let a little something of himself leak through. A massive pang of regret for so very many things, but entwined with a warm and fond farewell directed to someone below, someone here in Meng Sha who cannot hear him, but someone he loves all the same.

And like that, the answer comes to me in a burst of inspiration, nothing Heaven sent or extraordinary, because I recognize this specific kind of love, as warm and pure as any. It is not the love of family, or love of another person even, nor is it the impersonal love of duty, bloodshed, or the Empire. This is a simple love, straightforward and undemanding, one born from a lifetime of camaraderie and companionship without even a single tint of conflict or betrayal. It is a love that is dependent, yet also supportive at the same time, unyielding and eternal for as long as there is life, and I deliver said love to its intended recipient, even though Naaran never intended for his love to be known.

Yet know this, Kharuul does, the biggest heckin’ chonker of a quin I’ve ever met, and more importantly, Naaran’s loyal mount and companion. Who would’ve thunk it? Naaran is a floof lover, just like me.

Unlike his closed off master however, Kharuul is more than happy to accept my help as he utters a piercing, chittering cry and pounces through the air at the Mataram Patriarch, much to Naaran’s dismay. He knows there’s a vast disparity between a Spiritual Beast and even a normal Peak Expert that few animals could ever surpass, but what he doesn’t know is that despite having fought at his side for so many years, Kharuul has never once gone all out in battle. This means that in spite of his formidable strength, he has never once wholly exerted his Will in a do or die effort, but that’s just the way animals are. Why fight to the death when you could escape to live another day? That’s the mindset most animals live by, but in order to save the human he adopted so long ago and loves every bit as much as his pups, Kharuul the Spiritual Quin is finally ready to throw down.

So ready that he draws so much of my help that I can barely string together a coherent thought anymore, but I remember to pass the mantle of leadership to another Natal Soul along with all the tools he’ll need before embracing my ultimate fate. Terrified as I am by the prospect of imminent death, I also find it a relief in a way, because much like the silent Aspirants who gave their lives to bring down Mataram YuChun, I am now finally freed from the heavy burden of responsibility, and can go out doing what I love best.

Never once has Kharuul let me hug his floof, but now I can metaphysically snuggle him for all I’m worth. Honestly, there are far worse ways to go, and worse causes to die for, so I close my eyes and sink into the warm floof of Kharuul’s soul without a care in the world for what comes next.

That’s Prime Me’s problem now, because my work here is done.

Chapter Meme
