…You know, I can see why some people don’t like me. I can come off as real grating at times. “What happened to the last guy?” Did something stupid, I bet.

“He did something stupid, and now I have to go save his sorry ass.” Ha, knew it. “Don’t be like him. There’s only so much I can do, and I don’t like you guys much to begin with. Incoming update.”

A torrent of information and Heavenly Energy hits me like a lightning bolt, and to call it jarring would be an understatement. In total, I have been alive for all of a few minutes, but if you take that time and multiply it by the number of perspectives Prime Me has taken in, you get a metric shit-tonne of things that have happened since, all of which gets crammed into the very fibre of my being without so much as a how you do. No drink, no dinner, no foreplay, not even a bit of lube, Prime Me just slams it in, pulls out, and ghosts me like a bad booty call, a simile I hate even as I think it up. Stupid brain. No wait, I’m a Natal Soul. I don’t have a brain, so what do I blame it on? My soul? Wouldn’t surprise me if I had a stupid soul too, because it’d be par for the course. Holy shit, the Natal Soul I’m replacing must have been extra stupid. What could have possibly convinced him it was a good idea to go poking around at the metaphysical fabric of Meng Sha? He knew there was something hinky afoot, so what did he expect would happen? For some Spectres to pop out and be like, “Awww, you got me! You… you’re very good at this, you really are!”

Then again… I am kinda curious about what happened. Maybe I should go take a little peek. I’ll be more careful than the last guy, and who knows? Maybe Prime Me could use a helping hand.

Gah. All this extra Heavenly Energy has made me more… me, I guess, which is where the last guy went wrong. He let his curiosity lead him astray, so I need to be extra focused about staying on task. A quick review of all the information brings me back up to date, and I find myself disagreeing with how my predecessor went about his job. Too much focus on the lower tier troops, especially in light of the depressive Aura pervading the fortress. He even knew about the whole ‘beacon of hope’ thing, but he took that information and tried to light a bunch of candles in the middle of a category five hurricane. Five is the highest right? Or is it the lowest? Whatever, a big ass hurricane. Instead, what he should’ve done was focus on the heavy hitters, like… Well, like Naaran. Except my predecessor trusted me and others like me to do my job, which was why he chose to focus on what he did. That’s the big mistake, trusting any incarnation of Falling Rain to do their job right. Fell victim to one of the classic blunders, he did, but personal fuck-ups aside, the logic still stands. If I can’t get through to Naaran, then I’ll just hafta focus on other top-tier Warriors, like…

Situ Chi Gan, who holds the upper hand in his fight against Mataram Minzhe, but not so much that he’s the clear winner. Unfortunately, the Natal Soul assigned to him is every bit as helpless as I am, because Chi Gan is a man who believes wholeheartedly in himself and his Clan, in that order. So long as he still draws breath, the Clan is strong, a conviction upon which he has built his solid foundation of strength and confidence, but leaves little room for outside help.

Okay, okay, cool, cool, cool. No need to panic, because there are plenty of other Peak Experts around like…

OuYang YuHuan who also similarly only trusts herself, which is why her assigned Natal Soul can’t get through and teach her how to Heal her punctured lung or overload her Runic devices to output more power in one final attack. Go next.

How about Daxian, who trusts no one and nothing, not even his Mentor, Father, or half-brother? Not even worth trying, and the same can be said of the Woodsman Yelu Chi and Radiant Fist Wugang, both of whom are wandering Warriors wholly lacking in cause and conviction.

Which leaves the drunkard Lei Gong, who strikes a curious figure in his ragged robes and broken sandals as he stands tall before his Demonic foes. Behind him sits the injured Tyrant OuYang Yuhuan, struggling to breathe as Daxian tries to pull her away to safety. Three Demons converge upon them, each one emanating peril and menace enough to make Peak Experts balk¸ but the Lord of Thunder stands firm and fires off three jagged bolts of lightning. A shroud of blackness converges around a spindly, quasi-avian Demon and stretches out to cover its allies, a creature Blessed by Shadow, Darkness, Void, or something. To my Spiritual Senses, the blackness presents itself as a solid pane of Domain, yet also more than mere Domain as its dark energies flow through it like molasses. In contrast, Lei Gong’s blasts of lightning are jagged tendrils of pulsating energy, so raw and natural like true lightning as they course through the air and crash headlong into the Demon’s shadowy defenses.

Only for the lightning and darkness to dissipate upon contact, the Will and Energy holding both workings together simply coming apart at the seams as their energies blend and negate.

On the surface, it would appear as if Lei Gong traded evenly with the Demon, but there are three Demons arrayed against him and their combined mass and raw strength far outweigh his own, especially in light of the hulking, multi-limbed appearances of the two supporting Demons. A lesser man might have fled, or at least hesitated at the sight of three formidable Demons bearing down upon him, but the Lord of Thunder issues a challenging roar and brandishes his Spiritual Cane in defiance. Easy to forget given his dirty, disheveled appearance, but there was a time when Lei Gong was a Lieutenant Colonel of the Imperial Army, a young rising dragon who stood at the forefront of his peers. This is not a man who turned to a life of banditry due to greed or anger, but because he was disillusioned by the attitude of his peers and superiors. They saw their soldiers as cannon fodder and behaved as if their rank meant they were above the law, and when he tried to go above their heads to ensure they would pay for their sins, he was set up by his superiors for a crime he did not commit.

And so Lei Gong’s morals and principles derailed his career and forced him into a life on the run, but in all the years since his fall from grace, he has never once let his dispirited dejection affect his unwavering conviction. He did the right thing and paid dearly for it, but if ever given the chance, he would make the same mistake again, because that is the man he is. For this reason alone, he is receptive to the Natal Soul sent to assist him, because he sees his past self in Falling Rain. Stupid and naïve, but with a heart in the right place, and Lei Gong hopes that this young man can do what he failed to do and clear out the rotten ranks of the Imperial Army.

Empowered by the Energy of the Heavens, Lei Gong hurls his cane at the closest Demon, a four-armed, crocodile-headed beast with more teeth than I care to count. Guided by his Chi, the weapon passes through the shadowy barrier raised by the avian Demon for it was not created to block objects with mass. That being said, Lei Gong’s Spiritual Cane is a blunt tipped object incapable of piercing through the croc-Demon’s chitin, so it continues forward without fear. The cane impacts against its scaled shoulder and predictably fails to pierce its flesh, but the true attack was hidden within the Spiritual Cane. A blinding flash illuminates the world as the Lightning Chi stored within courses through the croc-Demon, sparking and electrocuting it until its innards are cooked and glowing. The burnt corpse crashes to the battlements, a smoking husk of what it once was, but the second Demon leaps over its fallen comrade unperturbed. A mistake, one the avian Demon is too slow to correct, for though it protects its remaining ally from blasts of lighting coming from the front, Lei Gong’s cane shoots out from the corpse and buries itself in the second Demon’s belly, wherein we see an encore of the Lord of Thunder’s performance as he unleashes yet another surge of high voltage into his foe.

All simple and easy enough, sure, except Lei Gong only just learned how to Guide his cane with such explosive power from afar, a lesson imparted to him by Falling Rain’s Natal Soul. It’s not just Guiding, but also Amplification and Reverberation as well, not to mention a dash of Domain and the right flow of Chi to set the weapon dancing to the user’s Will. The how is less important that the results however, which are electrifying to say the least, and the second Demon collapses atop the first in a neat little pile. The rest of the soldiers only saw a flash of light and two claps of thunder in quick succession, but once their vision is restored, the sight of two fallen Demons sets their spirits to soaring in good cheer. Never one to lose focus in the middle of a fight, Lei Gong fixates on his third and final foe, the Shadow-Blessed avian Demon which falters in place now that its allies are no more. Bellowing in fury, Lei Gong charges forward past the fallen Demons to engage the last one standing, leaving his cane behind to engage his foe with empty hands crackling with lightning ready to discharge, and the avian Demon responds with taloned fingers shrouding in darkness and shadow.

Only to realize too late that it’s been tricked as it detects the Lord of Thunder’s Spiritual Cane hurtling headlong towards it, the weapon’s movements hidden by Lei Gong’s stocky frame and flashes of lightning, yet revealed all the same by the Demon’s Spiritual Senses. Raising its arms to block the attack, it gathers the shadows and hardens it to defend against the physical attack, but Lei Gong is two steps ahead. Lightning lashes out from his palms to dispel the darkness, allowing the cane to pass through unhindered and strike true, burying itself deep in the avian Demon’s opened beak with a heavy thunk and choked-off squawk.

Only for the burly Lord of Thunder to come crashing in to drive his weapon home. Even this much isn’t enough to kill the Demon, but Lei Gong is far from done as he materializes his Domain through and beyond his weapon embedded in the avian Demon’s throat. Chi and Heavenly Energy both flow out from the cane, not in a smooth, continuous plane but in a chaotic tangle of messy lines that weave in, out, and around one another in an eruption of light and electricity. That’s how it appears to my Spiritual Senses, but the soldiers in Meng Sha see a blade of Lightning pierce clean through the avian Demon and claim its life in a single blow. This is no momentary flash of power like all the Lightning attacks before it, but a Honed, Reverberating, Domain enhanced Chi working which courses with power overwhelming. Cackling in unbridled glee and delight, Lei Gong effortlessly draws his immaterial blade from the Demon’s corpse with a resounding boom of thunder before turning it against the Mataram Clansmen gathered on the walls. Thunder rumbles like a stampede of hooves, drowning out all other sounds of battle as Lei Gong slaughters all who stand before him with his blade of lightning, one which claims life after life while leaving flesh, bone, and Runic plate untouched save for a few blackened contact burns.

And so another beacon of hope is lit as any and all who see this are emboldened and enlivened, whispering of how Lei Gong no longer qualifies as a mere ‘lord’, but deserves to be known as the veritable God of Thunder in the flesh.

That is the greatest success around, and there are several smaller victories to be found all around, but there is still the matter of Mataram YuChun and YuGan. Even as I deliberate on which one to direct Lei Gong’s efforts at, my heart seizes up in terror at the sight of my beloved Yan making a beeline over towards the former. The balls on this woman, for my sweet, headstrong wife has set the Ten-Thousand Spears in her sights, and all I can do is curse at the Natal Soul assigned to her for not keeping her ambitions in check. Then again, it’s not like I could even if I wanted to, so I can’t really blame myself for not trying, but that doesn’t absolve me of blame for just leaving Yan to her own devices. Okay, yea, she’s a boss and can do her own thing, because she don’t need no man to approve of her actions, but it is the sheer height of stupidity to take on a Peak Expert who is clearly heads and shoulders above the crowd.

Knowing there’s no convincing Yan otherwise, I set into motion a plan to at least send her some support, but alas, YuChun’s current opponents are of no help. Two headstrong Society Adherents are currently locked in bitter battle with him, their anger surging over the loss of their third comrade lying dead at Yuchun’s feet. Well, one of them is angry, the other a little pleased, because he never liked his dead ally, though he’s considerably scared of YuChun’s prowess. The Society Adherents both feel outmatched and are a hair’s breadth from fleeing in terror, but they both fear Situ Chi Gan even more, because they know what he will do to them, their families, and their factions if they were to abandon their posts. Nothing overt as destroying them outright, but the price paid would be far more costly than their meagre lives, so they stand their ground and spin their wheels in an effort to come up with some plan to ensure their survival for as long as possible.

None of which includes putting their trust in Legate Falling Rain, which is why the three Natal Souls assigned here are standing around and twiddling their thumbs like the idiots they are.

