I think Naaran hates me.

Well, hate is probably too strong a word, but he definitely doesn’t like me.

Which is totally fair. Not everyone has to like me, even though I’m funny, polite, generous, considerate, and conscientious. I get it. Some people are bothered by that. I’m not to everyone’s tastes, which is fine. To each their own. I accept this. Naaran doesn’t have to like me. It’s cool. That being said, I don’t think it’s fair that he doesn’t like me, because Naaran doesn’t even know me. He knows Falling Rain, but that’s not me. I’m just a Natal Soul assigned to help Naaran in these trying times, which means technically, this is our first time ever meeting. Okay, yea, I’m like, ninety-nine-point-nine-nine percent similar to Prime Me, but that zero-point-zero-one percent is more of a difference than you’d think. For the sake of comparison, humans and chimpanzees share almost ninety-nine percent of the same DNA, but you’d never mistake a chimp for a man or vice versa, now would you?

Now that I think about it actually, you might. Really depends on the chimp or the man, I guess.

Whatever. I’m just saying, it’s not fair to judge me by the standards Prime Me set. Besides, why doesn’t he like Prime Me? We’ve spent so much time together, Naaran has pretty much become a fixture in my life, so I figured he’d at least be lukewarm to my presence, but nope. Here I am trying to literally sacrifice my newly acquired existence so he can get a leg up in his fight against the Half-Demon Mataram Patriarch YuGan, and what do I get in return? Nadda. Nothing. Zilch. That’s what I get. Unlike Binesi, Naaran isn’t stonewalling my efforts to contact him, but so closed off he’s utterly unaware of my presence in the first place, alongside any and all efforts to open up a line of dialogue. Far as I could tell from Prime Me’s earlier efforts, Binesi at least had some inkling of someone trying to contact him, because the timing of his attacks perfectly coincided with Prime Me’s attempts to help. Granted, the outcome was completely different from what we were trying to convey, but it’s proof enough that something was getting through. With Naaran, it’s like I’m trying to teach advanced calculus to a god-damned rock, though I’m beginning to think I’m sorely underqualified to teach Naaran anything at all.

Seriously, Peak Experts are on a whole other level from us normie pleb Martial Warriors, and I never really wholly appreciated this fact until just now. The demarcating line between Expert and Peak Expert is not so easily defined, because it’s not solely a matter of jumping higher, running faster, or hitting harder. Nor is it really about Martial skill, because if it was, Lang Yi would count as a Peak Expert due to his superb mastery of the spear forms. I’ve asked before, but no one really ever told me how one becomes a Peak Expert, and seeing how I jumped through the strength rankings reach to my current undefined level in a single bound, I kinda stopped caring about getting a more specific answer. Today, as I stand and watch Naaran trade blows with Mataram YuGan, I finally understand what it means to be a Peak Expert.

In a word?

Mastery.

Whether it be Chi skills, Forms, weapon handling, or anything else you might think of, a Peak Expert is someone who has mastered the myriad intricacies of combat. That’s what it takes to be acknowledged by the world at large, a demonstration of said mastery. When Gerel declared himself a Peak Expert, he was telling everyone in the Citadel that he had mastered the various aspects of the Martial Path and possessed the qualifications to stand amongst the best of the best. Then, in a series of duels against established Peak Experts, he proved it. Not by winning against his opponents, because that’s not enough. You can be more skilled and still lose due to a number of factors. Less strength. Less stamina. Poor decision making. Slow reflexes. Whatever. Mastery gives you an edge over your less skilled opponents, but it doesn’t guarantee victory, the same way superior strength or speed doesn’t. Gerel winning his matches was just an added bonus, proving that he not only has the skills, but also the instinct, intelligence, and experience to use them, but even if he’d lost against his first opponent, no one would have dared to claim he was no Peak Expert. Fifty moves was the ‘gift’ Gerel offered his foe, Brigadier Sang Hyoon of the Seven Star Sect, fifty moves before he would retaliate, and in that short period of time, Gerel demonstrated his skills for all to see and proved that he deserved the lofty title of Peak Expert.

I remember the fight well, but I was merely a frog in a well at the time, still overly impressed by how Gerel Cloud-Stepped off the balcony and over to the stage. I remember thinking how cool it was to walk on air like that, and how jealous I was that it wasn’t me, but even though I can Cloud-Step now, I doubt I could ever match Gerel’s casual arrogance and lofty disdain. It’s just ingrained into every fibre of his being, a stubborn pride that refuses to ever back down, and while I hate to admit it, he has the talent and dedication to back his arrogance up. To think, he’d calmly offer his opponent fifty moves, then break his promise in the first exchange to show everyone that he wasn’t boasting and could really defeat a Brigadier in a single move. That’s some serious swagger that I know I could never match, and it burns me to admit it.

Seriously, if I tried something like that, my opponent would probably scream, “You dare?” and immediately try to kill me, but when Gerel does it, he earns their respect. Probably because he’s tall and muscular, plus he has a face that belongs on a heroic male lead in a superhero movie, while I’m short and ‘pretty’, as Yan would say. Life just isn’t fair.

Running through the memories of that fight in my head, I note how Gerel made sure to showcase all eight basic Chi skills throughout the duration of the match. A hop back to avoid the first swing, then another for the second, then he reversed his momentum and bent over backwards while sliding under Sang Hyoon’s maul before coming around to face him again, the movements so smooth and slick it almost seemed like Gerel was a leaf in the wind. As incredible as it looked, at the time, I never really appreciated just how difficult that series of movements must have been, because I had no frame of reference to compare it to. Gerel’s movements were quite literally inhuman, because no basic human could ever replicate them. He was only able to pull it all off through a combination of Lightening, Stability, Deflection, and Amplification, but there might be other Chi skills I missed. What’s more, despite the inhuman nature of his movements, he made them look so normal and natural I didn’t even question how he pulled it off, just accepted that it was a part and parcel of being a better Warrior.

But even now, if pressed to replicate those same movements in a safe environment, I doubt Prime Me could pull it off within a hundred tries. Or even a thousand, if I’m feeling bold, though he’d probably give up long before reaching that mark. I know how to use all the Chi skills, but you gotta do more than memorize the steps if you wanna be a professional dancer. You gotta practice the steps, then practice them some more, and again and again until they become ingrained in your body, mind, and yes, soul too, until it’s all as natural as breathing. I named four Chi Skills which Gerel used in those three exchanges, but I couldn’t count the number of times he used each one or describe the method of application, because he was almost always using more than one Chi skill at any given moment. More than that, he was also making minute adjustments to each skill on the fly, and applying them unequally across different parts of his body. Take Lightening for example. In order to bend over backwards and glide away, he had to Lighten himself enough so that he could slide across the stone stage on his Deflected Domain, yet do so in an unequal fashion to keep his boots from flying off the ground or losing too much traction and slipping, to say nothing of the core strength required to do the limbo mid-fight. I can’t even begin to wrap my head around the physics of his actions, but Gerel’s mastery of Lightening is so high he doesn’t even need to think about it. It’s the same with all his Chi skills, so ordinary and instinctive that it’s as natural as pointing at a flying bird or letting your feet follow a paved road.

Don’t get me wrong. Prime Me is strong, but he’s no Peak Expert. Stronger than one, maybe, but that’s not what the designation is all about. It’s the difference between a professional eater and a bear, wherein even though the professional loses every time, it’s still an impressive achievement to be able to compete, whereas the bear is just a bear. Cute, cuddly, and incredibly voracious, but doesn’t really do anything extraordinary from a technical perspective, which sums up my attainments in the Martial Path pretty well. Power, I have plenty of in the form of Heavenly Energy, but no real idea on how to use it, else I wouldn’t be floating here in helpless impotence while reminiscing about a fight I saw almost two years ago.

Honestly, what I should be doing is breaking down Naaran’s fight with Mataram YuGan instead and seeing what I can learn from it, except it’s a little like trying to puzzle out advanced physics while I’m still struggling to count. I can slow down my perception of time and see them jumping around and trading blows in the skies over Meng Sha, but while seeing is believing, understanding takes a fair bit more work. Even though they’re all Peak Experts, there is a vast disparity in the level of skills shown by the various Peak Experts in Meng Sha, and I believe that these two here are the most skilled, bar none. Comparatively, this means I’m even more clueless here than I was during Gerel’s inaugural fight as a Peak Expert, leaving me wholly unable to comprehend the inner workings of their actions. I mean, they’re freaking fighting in mid-air for fuck’s sake. I can Cloud-Step with the best of them, or so I thought, but Naaran and YuGan are treating gravity like a suggestion as they zip back and forth, up and down, sideways and under, all the while trading blow after blow after blow. It’s like seeing a fish and saying it swims, which is 100% correct, but also wholly lacking in any and all useful information regarding the mechanics behind aquatic motility.

It starts with Naaran soaring through the air to deliver a thrust that’s more than a thrust. I say this not because I can’t recognize the Movement he’s using, which I don’t, nor is it because I see the same signs of elevated mastery I saw from Lang Yi only dialed up to eleven, which I do. No, I believe Naaran’s thrust is more than a thrust because despite looking like a straightforward lunge of his spear, there are a myriad of forces and variables in play which I can barely perceive, much less identify. Even though he’s moving at a snail’s pace in my eyes, I can’t even track the course of his spear as it slithers like a snake through the air, oscillating at speeds so quick it doesn’t even look solid anymore. Not because his spear is special and floppy like Singing Spear Shi Yukan’s signature weapon. No, Naaran’s spear is solid steel and rigid as can be, but his movements make it look flexible using the same principle every bored student uses to make their pencils look like they’re made of rubber. An optical illusion, but one so well done that I find myself second guessing the facts as I watch the spear do more than just undulate back and forth, but also seemingly rotate and spiral as well as its Chi runs rampant to confuse my eyes and Spiritual Senses, all of which makes it nigh impossible to track Naaran’s course or make any conjecture regarding his chosen target.

For me at least, but not so for Mataram YuGan, who brings his spear downwards in a diagonal sweep to intercept Naaran’s thrust. Tiger Form, Twitching Tail, delivered as an active parry that could also double as an offensive strike, a simple and straightforward response to an infinitely complex attack. From this alone, it’s easy to see that the Mataram Patriarch’s spear skills are inferior to Naaran’s, lacking a certain je-ne-sais-quoi that I cannot describe because I myself am lacking the same, an ineffable quality that elevates a Warrior into a Weapon Master. That being said, their spear skills are but a single facet of the respective strengths of these two pinnacle Peak Experts, and YuGan is not to be underestimated, for the Sword King Ryo Dae Jung was the greatest swordsman of three generations and still fell to the Mataram Patriarch’s spear.

Which just goes to show, in a life and death battle, the stronger, faster, or even most skilled Warrior isn’t always the one who comes out on top.

