“I don’t have a choice,” she answered. Certainly, she didn’t have the time to find one. Bracing herself, she began to ink the final runes, spending every last point of Authority on her creation.

It was far worse than she ever imagined.

Pain wracked her entire body, but that was far from the worst. Nausea and disorientation hit her like a tidal wave, and the blood seeping its way through her veins was like a living parasite with a hunger for her soul. The world around her warped and shifted, tinged with red, but Ali set her jaw and wielded her needle with sharp, precise movements, linking the runes one by one.

“Sister?” Cael moaned.

Ali managed a sound that was barely a grunt in acknowledgement.

By the time she finished, the blood leaking from her arm had turned black, and each drop sizzled as it struck the ground. Her vision was pulsating with angry veins of red and black, but she pushed it all aside and linked the final rune.

With the final link, her notification chime sounded. And then the sonorous gong of the realm notification echoed it.

You have lost experience. [Realm] Aliandra Amariel [Defiance of the Meek] has created a legendary item.You have gained Reputation.+2 Authority.

Ali leaned back, gritting out a terrible groan as she tried to gather her thoughts, to focus through the pain. All she could think was, What the hell have I done?

Chaos Brand, The Corrupted Coil – level 252Forged in desperation from the bloodline of the demon god, Destraggoth, and the dragon god, Azryet, the very runes in this inscription war with each other, wreaking havoc upon the wearer.+136 Intelligence.+108 Perception.+226% spell power to Arcane skills.Grants level 252 Arcane Mana Burn skill.Aspect of the Dragon God (Damage with this item gains Holy and Void traits)Slayer (Damage with this item is increased against undead).Void Nullification (Damage with the Void trait disintegrates magical formations).Soul Burn (+85% additional damage as Soul over thirty seconds with this item. Ignores defenses).Reserve: 1008 mana, 504 health.Cursed: Cursed by the taint of the Demon God’s blood. This item cannot be removed or disabled. It continually corrupts your soul with the demonic essence of Destraggoth. Requirements: Intelligence 882.Quality: Legendary.Created by Aliandra Amariel.Hands – Runic Tattoo

“Wow!” Cael exclaimed.

“Ali! Are you ok?” Gage gasped.

Ali nodded to acknowledge Cael and Gage, struggling to make out the swimming, warping details of her creation as the ravenous consumption of the demonic curse slowly clawed its way into her disoriented mind. “I’m alive.”

That it was cursed was hardly surprising; she had felt it seeping into her the instant her needle, charged with the potent Pit Lord blood and bearing the bloodline of the demon god, had pierced her skin. But it was not just the demonic runes burning like hellfire through her mind. Nearly half of the runes inscribed on her left hand and arm were inked in Azryet’s blood and they were at war with the demonic ones. The whole construct had to be critically unstable, yet she had somehow, literally, stitched it together from juxtaposed impossibilities. Her soul creaked and groaned, struggling to bear the weight of his essence.

“I don’t think that’s something we mortals were meant to bear,” Gage whispered.

“I just hope it’s strong enough,” Ali said. With either part alone, she would have already died, consumed by powers far greater than herself. And yet, somehow, the two of them stood in near-perfect opposition, warring within her flesh for dominance. A tiny reflection of the eons-long, realm-wide war that still consumed the Abyssal Realm. It was tearing her apart from the inside, and yet maybe – just maybe – the two of them might hold each other at bay long enough for what she had to do.

In the midst of her unraveling mind, she let her thoughts cling to Naia and her selfless sacrifice. To Malika, still struggling in the bony grasp of the Blind Lich. And to Calen and Mato, striving greatly against the Crypt of Kings for the slim possibility of capturing the Phylactery and saving them all from fates worse than death. And to all her friends in the town and the guild.

Her mind skittered back from the sheer impossibility of what they were attempting, and instead, she found her center in the burning flame of defiance deep within her heart, and in the love of her friends.

This is my part, and I will do it.

“Send me back,” she managed, her voice coming out as a pitiful croak.

“Don’t do it! You’ll just be trapped in his spell the moment you return,” Gage wailed.

“I know,” Ali said. “I need to be in the mortal realm to finish this.”

“You’re fast, sister, but not that fast. You won’t even get a chance to use that horrible thing you made,” Cael observed.

“Malika will free me,” Ali said. She had witnessed her friend harnessing the ancient Ahn Khen spell – the Lich’s own magic – against him. All she needed was a moment. A sliver of opportunity.

“How will she know what you need?” Gage asked.

“She’ll figure it out. I know she will,” Ali said. She has to. “I trust her.”

“Yes, of course you do,” Cael said, worry coloring his words to a somber gray, like the Spirit Realm all around them. “Please let us know if we do anything more.”

“You have already done so much. You have given us a chance,” Ali said, and then the overwhelming surge of his mana took her, and she flickered back to the forested cavern and found herself staring out at the gray echo of the battle. Her Scion of Azryet remained frozen in place, like an impossibly lifelike sculpture captured mid-attack. Malika hung in the air, dangling from Nevyn Eld’s horrific drain, still living the moment Ali had left. Her eyes blazed, soul mana radiating from her as she struggled against the might of the Lich and somehow refused to succumb.

They’re still holding time locked, Ali realized, marveling at the power Cael and Gage wielded over the Spirit Realm. Something to discuss later over tea, once we’re all safe, she told herself firmly.

Now, it was time to return.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
