Ranthia squeezed Avyna’s hand desperately as she struggled to ground herself. They were bidding their final farewells to their closest friends and Ranthia refused to indulge in the selfishness of breaking down. This was a good thing, damn it all—Glorine and Gailla would be far, far safer back in Remus. She reminded herself of that and every other platitude she possessed, while Avyna accepted the pressure of Ranthia’s grief without complaint.

The supply convoy would, ultimately, deposit the duo back in Coalition City. From there, they planned to travel to Virinum, where a branch of Gailla’s family lived. And they were looking forward to spoiling Gailla’s grandniece relentlessly—it was sweet and good. Ranthia’s friends had adequate funds to comfortably live out the rest of their days—bad thought, don’t indulge—and would get to enjoy a quiet, safe life together.

“Don’t forget to look us up next time you’re in the area!” Glorine shouted as the convoy slowly ambled further and further away from Remera’s walls.

The well-meaning words drove another spike of guilt through Ranthia’s heart. She had briefly considered accompanying the duo to Remus, both to protect her friends and to look up the handful of people she cared about, but she ultimately decided against inflicting so much misery on herself. Could she accept the sight of Green’s store left empty or changed by the hands of strangers? Could she handle finding out what had happened to Fausteo’s Musical Theater in his absence? She wasn’t sure, but there was one thing she knew for certain: she was far too cowardly to face that damned wall of grief the Rangers kept. She wasn’t ready to face the sheer weight of so many names she knew—fellow Sentinels (Hunting and almost certainly more…), the Rangers she cherished from Ranger Team 6, the Rangers she couldn’t protect from Ranger Team 13, and (worst of all) her people from the Unbreakable Image that followed her guidance and joined the Rangers.

No matter how many letters she exchanged with the [Mind Healer] that had done so much for her, Ranthia wasn’t strong enough. She could face Black Crow when he came for her, but she couldn’t face the weight of the harvest he and his counterpart had reaped from Ranthia’s heart. It was pathetic and it proved how far she had to go.

Someday, she hoped she would find that strength.

“<My love?>” Avyna prompted in High Elvish. The convoy was practically a dusty blur in the distance and there was no point to them standing there outside Remera’s walls any longer. Neither of their friends could possibly see them.

“<We’ll never see them again.>” The bitter words passed Ranthia’s lips like a curse.

Avyna wasn’t the sort of woman to offer unrealistic platitudes. Letters from Remus had wholly stopped many years ago. If the base commander knew the reason—assuming there was a reason beyond the excessive escalation of the price to send mail into the war zone—he wasn’t telling anyone. Ranthia had meant to ask Night, but she’d been distracted by the unexpected delivery of the kid when she last saw Night. And unfortunately, she hadn’t seen a Sentinel since. Even Pierce had been reassigned over the winter.

“<Perhaps not. But we shall both remember them, my love. This is the only immortality that we have to offer those that we meet as we journey through our lives and Pallos itself. The gods saw fit to grant some of us immortality, the System enabled others, but a great many people live finite lives. When those lives shine brightly enough to catch your eye, cherish what you have and remember it. For their sake.>” Avyna finally spoke.

“<Such is the duty of the immortal, I suppose.>” Ranthia tried—and failed—to keep the bitterness out of her tone, as she allowed Avyna to lead her back into their base.

Glorine, the messenger she had never asked for. Gailla, a woman that the messenger loved. It was the merest of chances that brought the duo into her life—it was all too easy to imagine Gailla just being another [Analyst] and Glorine just being one of many messengers she encountered. Yet, in large part due to Avyna’s fondness for teasing, they had become Ranthia’s friends. And over time, they became the closest friends she had. And yet, even when she gradually lost touch with Tertia, she still took them for granted.

She had never been prepared for just how much it would hurt to see them go.

“If a general can be assassinated inside a military base every bit the equal of Remera, why should we believe that any of us are safe?!” One of the base commander’s advisors roared angrily. The man was glaring daggers at the poor legionaries that were assigned to protect the day’s command tent—a duty that they were no doubt sorely regretting.

News had arrived that one of the generals—a no-doubt detestable man, specifically because he was one of the masterminds of the ‘passively-fought prolonged war’ strategy—had died while he was inspecting the base known as Argastus—Launchpoint 12. The only reason Ranthia wasn’t throwing a small-scale party with Avyna over the death of a man that shouldered at least some of the blame for the war nearing its eightieth year was because he had been assassinated.

It seemed that the mysterious ‘shimagu assassin’ had struck again, after several years spent absent.

Most Coalition reports agreed that there were only eight shimagu twins left. They were not subtle, and their presence in the shimagu’s defensive lines was confirmed time and time again. But the possibility of unconfirmed twins lingered, and foremost among them was the alleged assassin. A solitary being that had struck Coalition leadership intermittently since—allegedly, and incredibly improbably—almost the very dawn of the unending war. The only evidence left in the being’s wake were a series of desiccated, withered husks that had once been men and women, too often Legion officers or command staff. The strange state of the corpses had [Analysts] predicting that the rumored twin had access to Water (or Ocean) and/or the Erosion element.

Either way, Ranthia personally held serious doubts about the existence of such a twin. If the rumors were true, the shimagu possessed a twin that was capable of entering Coalition fortifications unchecked—and had done so since before Ranthia even joined the war! It was ludicrous on its face, even before the fact that years could pass between victims. Honestly, if such a twin existed, they should have preyed upon dwarven [Battlemasters], Sentinels, and the prominent elven combatants. Yet the victims were always the leaders of armies and those that commanded them. This was why Ranthia’s personal theory was that it was an order of assassins, specifically one that served the emperor himself (and unfortunately, she could all-too-easily imagine that man was still alive and in power; he was the sort of person that would live just because he couldn’t possibly entrust anyone else with his vision for the future).

Not that she was going to give voice to that theory in a meeting. It was for her own amusement. After all, in many ways, it really didn’t matter. Until the day the assassin(s) came for her—or got caught—all they had were rumors. And she refused to panic over the existence of a rumor.

“We don’t even know how this assassin sneaks in, they could be in this… tent as we speak!” The same advisor insisted, having finally realized that no one else seemed to share his level of concern.

“Reminder: I’ve yet to meet a Mirage or Dark skill that I can’t see through.” Ranthia contributed.

The words were false—she absolutely had encountered examples from both elements that outstripped [Vision of the Void]’s capabilities. But if it deescalated the panic spiral before the self-important man managed to loop anyone else in, it was a lie worth telling. Ranthia already regretted accepting the invitation to attend the meeting, the last thing she needed was for it to devolve into panicked nonsense. She only came because the meeting was for the discussion of new security measures to be implemented in wake of the news of the assassination.

Instead, the only security measure that had been proffered—and was put into effect over Ranthia’s strenuous objections—was to order multiple crates of a small, shrill instrument that reminded Ranthia of an undersized flute. Worse, they were to be given to everyone on the base, including the civilians. Which meant she would have to endure nonstop panicked shrill sounds spreading across the base until someone finally came to their senses and realized that everything about the plan was a terrible idea. There were reasons why only a handful of legionaries had access to the horns that served as Remera’s alarms!

Honestly, it felt like the worst ideas that came out of the command tent were always met with unanimous approval that ignored her attempts to object. And every single time they acted like she was the one being ridiculous! The whistles promised to become as terrible of a disaster as the notion they passed sixteen or so years ago that kept the top of the walls as brightly lit as possible at night, and that nearly led to shimagu saboteurs managing to tunnel through the walls, unseen by the half-blinded personnel on duty alongside those arcanite-powered lights.

But after the group ran out of terrible ideas for so-called security measures, one man decided to panic and Ranthia was doing her best to save herself from the fruits of his paranoia. Several men and women in the tent had nodded along with Ranthia’s boastful (and untruthful) words, mollified. Yet the base commander’s advisor seemed determined to be as absurd as possible.

“Then you should guard us important officials all day long, every single place we go!” The man of moderate rank demanded of the Sentinel. He pointed his finger in her direction with such vim that his hand wobbled while the tent fell into stunned silence.

“Ew.” Ranthia made no effort to hide her revulsion. There was no way—not unless Xaoc Himself descended and demanded it of her—that she was going to stand around and watch a bunch of old men with seriously overinflated opinions about their own importance while they bathed or shat.

“Perhaps we shouldn’t tie up a Sentinel with such matters. The assassin has never before visited Remera.” The base commander mercifully offered a voice of reason.

“That is practically proof that he soon will!” The same advisor bellowed.

It seemed that he was done even with the pretense of rationality.

“There are usually many years between assassinations. I don’t think we need to be worried.” A different advisor noted.

Ranthia openly sighed while she watched the man double down on his paranoia and start accusing his peer of collusion with the enemy. She really, really should have just stayed home.

“Madam Sentinel!”

The supply convoy had arrived and Ranthia was carefully monitoring the situation while Remera’s [Healers] screened the personnel. It was unusual, to say the least, for one of the convoy’s legionaries to approach her—she wasn’t exactly Pallos’ most famous Sentinel after so many years of life in a relatively small military base. Worse, the man wasn’t familiar.

“Is there a problem?” Ranthia asked in her Sentinel Grace voice. Not that she focused her attention on the man—if anything, the oddity had her paying even more attention to the rest of the convoy.

“Not at all! My name’s Septimus. I just wanted to tell you that the pair of noncombs—non-combatants, that is—that we took with us last time we came through made it safely to Coalition City. Figured you’d like to know, since you were there to see ‘em off, ma’am.” The man saluted with a bright, cheery smile.

“I… Thank you. Sincerely, I appreciate it.” Ranthia managed to choke what she hoped was a coherent response out while she smiled at the man and her eyes threatened to mist-up beneath her blindfold.

Her friends were safe. Whatever time they had left, they would spend it together—in peace.

Remera was no longer as important as it once was. The Legions that they saw seldom stopped by, instead they moved to and from newer Launchpoint bases—bases that were positioned deeper into the wasteland. Precious space that Remus had clawed out of shimagu control, earned through unconscionable amounts of blood over the course of many eights of years. Rumor had it that even Spearpoint had been recaptured (yet again).

And yet a small force of shimagu had snuck past the Coalition’s primary lines and come to Remera. It was “just” two hundred and fifty-six or so individuals, a group that simultaneously felt both reasonable and unacceptable for the Coalition to have missed. Remera’s scouts noticed the group’s approach, but the base commander decided to let them come and to meet them just outside the base’s walls. It was a reasonable plan; it allowed their forces to be supported by those that were stationed atop the walls and by Remera’s robust artillery.

The wrinkle was that scouts had confirmed the presence of one of the eight known twins: the ogre that she had driven off with the assistance of Sentinel Steel.

Ranthia was mostly certain that she had managed to protect her darkest secret (…pun not intended), but the timing of the attack forced her to question it for the first time. Reports from the scouts suggested the shimagu force would strike just as the sun set.

It seemed they planned to strike just as Ranthia’s curse robbed her of her sight. The very night that the beautiful moons were absent from the sky, the first attack that had threatened Remera in an age came. While her blindfold made an honest woman out of her, courtesy of White Dove.

