The timing was horrifically suspect, but even with the danger, there was opportunity.

If she could just kill the twin—if she could reduce the number of the shimagu elite to a mere seven—there was a real chance that the shimagu would, at last, choose the necessity of peace. There had to be a point where they had too few powerful beings to hold the Coalition in check, at which point the shimagu needed to choose a new path for survival.

It was, in many ways, baseless optimism, but Ranthia wanted to believe that she could help to finally end the war. Sure, Remus had fought against the formorians for far longer than the eighty years the war against the shimagu had consumed, but few to no Remans that served in the Legions remembered the horror that the Republic of Remus had faced. Instead, they bemoaned the unending war that haunted their empire.

And to answer their hopes, all she needed to do was to face—and defeat—a twin that had outfought her years ago. While she was blind.

…Ranthia was left more than a bit unsettled when she convinced herself that the battle might not even make the list of the eight stupidest things she had ever done.

Avyna stood next to Ranthia on the wall, wearing colorful leather armor that invoked a vibrant forest, while she faced a rocky wasteland. They had argued, and Ranthia was suffering a mixture of guilt, annoyance, and lingering frustration. She hadn’t wanted Avyna to get involved, but her beloved was the only one that truly knew what Ranthia was risking.

And she had refused to allow Ranthia to call out Black Crow alone.

As the sun touched the horizon, the shimagu came into view. Surprisingly, it seemed that the twin hadn’t replaced the oversized sword that Ranthia had destroyed last they met—that or he had the sense to not let her destroy another. Instead, he was flanked by four ogres that were laden with a variety of swords.

Just what she needed, an enemy that actually learned from his mistakes.

But she had roughly two minutes of sight left, and Ranthia had no intention of wasting them. The arrival of the enemy was a signal. The air cracked as all three dwarven artillery installations unleashed their deadly payloads, and Remera’s ground forces roared their challenge to their approaching adversaries in the aftermath. The shimagu weren’t stupid—they had spread out to mitigate the damage Remera’s siege weaponry could inflict.

Not that it saved them from losing dozens to that opening volley alone.

The legionaries and dwarves seemed unsure of what to do about Avyna’s presence. She was a civilian and no one still stationed in Remera knew she could fight—no matter what her System tag suggested. She shouldn’t have been there, yet Ranthia—Sentinel Grace—outranked everyone on the wall, and she wasn’t saying anything. She wanted to, but even she wasn’t stupid enough to rehash an argument she had just lost—not with the seconds she had left before her curse struck.

“<I love you, my Gemheart.>” Ranthia whispered instead.

Avyna offered a brilliant smile in response, and then they leapt off the wall in unspoken unison. Avyna matched Ranthia’s speed as they raced, side-by-side, toward the incoming hoard of parasite-infected hostiles. Yet even as their enemies neared, Ranthia used the last of her sight to engrave Avyna’s smile into her heart.

The moment that her sight vanished—as though Pallos itself were plunged into an absolute darkness greater than any [Mage] could possibly conjure—Ranthia embraced her rhythm, and her charge became a flamboyant dance. Just as Hunting had sought to teach her, Ranthia focused on everything else that her body and her Skills told her about the world. She felt the metallic sand sliding across her palm as her knives formed. She sensed the tremor of chaotic footfalls from the incoming shimagu. And she focused on the subtle traces of warmth that denoted Avyna’s presence, a single step away—that warmth always meant everything to her, but then and there, it served as her guide toward the enemy that she needed to purge.

Shimagu thundered past, giving the duo a wide berth. Whatever the mass of shimagu was meant to do, they plainly weren’t there to die as ablative meat to a Sentinel and an elf. Which suited Ranthia just fine; she trusted Remera’s defenses to hold, no matter what surprise the parasites had in store. At least so long as she kept the twin away from the walls—he had dealt significant damage last time, and that was with her body and [Higher Power] dampening the attack before it ever reached the wall.

There was a reason she chose to intercept the ogre and his sword bearers well before they reached Remera.

The twang of Avyna’s bow announced their arrival. The sound of metal deflecting off metal followed, providing the range. Each step of her dance closed that gap, even as Avyna’s second and third arrow similarly failed to find flesh. Her bow’s enchantments were potent, but she was no [Warrior] or [Ranger] with combat Skills amplifying her shots—a twin was far removed from the easy prey that they had faced together long ago.

But Ranthia had no time to indulge in her fear. Avyna was capable, and she had to trust that. Besides, it was far too late to try (and fail) to send the determined elf back.

[Combat Awareness] and [Rhythmic Grace] still functioned, even without her sight. Through them, she sensed the coming sword long before she felt its approach. Ranthia danced to the side of the slash and simultaneously countered. Adamantium met Ooze-coated steel—or possibly iron, the Ooze muffled the clang too much to tell—though she activated [Void Edge] and [Echoes of Devastation] an instant too late. The sword survived her strike, and Ranthia was forced to evade his follow-up.

Another pinging noise heralded another failed shot from Avyna, which left Ranthia frustrated. The ogre had undoubtedly leveled since she had last seen him—not that she could check, [Divine-Touched Identify] was unfortunately dependent on her sight—and was unlikely to bother holding back, but even then Ranthia struggled to imagine that he could possibly threaten her and parry Avyna’s arrows at the same time. Had he grabbed a second blade to dual-wield?

She had no way to confirm—not without calling attention to her inability to see—so Ranthia focused on what she could accomplish. She was forced to dance around her opponent’s blows twice before she managed to get her own strike in. Once again, Void-wrapped adamantium found her opponent’s sword. And that time, the mundane metal failed, even with the twin’s Skills empowering it.

The brutish [Warrior] snarled and threw the remnants of the blade at Ranthia—forcing her to bend over backwards to avoid the projectile—before the battle rejoined with a fresh blade in the ogre’s grasp. How Avyna had failed to capitalize on their opponent’s (partial?) disarmament was a mystery, but they had agreed that it was too dangerous for them to speak while they fought. It was anyone’s guess if the shimagu knew of Ranthia’s curse or if the timing was a horrific coincidence, but at the very least they could try to minimize how obvious it was. It was impossible to know what languages their opponents might understand, so silence was the best option they had. Ranthia certainly was never going to master some private language that only she and Avyna shared in the time they had to prepare—not even if she hadn’t wasted much of it arguing with the woman she loved.

Unfortunately, the reverse held true as well. Their opponent wasn’t speaking either, he just snarled and grunted and bellowed meaningless noises like the beast that Remus’ propaganda claimed the shimagu were. Gods and goddesses, she wished that he had been the sort of opponent that discussed his tactics and options with his support personnel while they tossed him fresh swords.

But no amount of wishing had ever changed anything. Instead, she had to trust in her skills—as bolstered by her Skills—and the amazing elf that chose to risk her life alongside Ranthia. She fought defensively. When the twin pulled back, Ranthia stood her ground and danced (more-or-less) in place until he came to her. If she pursued him or fought too aggressively, she risked stepping into a situation she was ill-prepared for—it wasn’t like she could see danger until it came for her. It was atypical and a departure from her usual aggression in battle, but she was able to (mostly) fake her standard combat style while she fought defensively.

She focused on culling her opponent’s blades and waited patiently for a misstep that she could capitalize on. The twin had proven his proficiency when they last fought, but to err was the domain of those that walked Pallos. Especially when the most beautiful elf to ever live was firing arrows with an irregularity that embodied Xaoc Himself.

But no matter how carefully Ranthia fought, she was the first to make a mistake.

Ranthia’s knives sought her opponent’s blade, and [Void Edge] only erased empty air. Her opponent wasn’t where she thought him to be!

Her heart felt as though it skipped a beat as terror briefly overwhelmed her. It was the worst-case scenario—she was only able to fight while she had a strong grip on the rhythm of the battle, yet it had somehow escaped her. With her knives out of position, it was all too obvious that something was wrong with her, and she was left momentarily vulnerable. She didn’t even have any images up that she could escape to—she had no way to make them useful while she was blind and facing off against a twin!

Yet no blow came. Instead, a rapid volley from Avyna forced their opponent back while Ranthia recovered. Because Ranthia’s elf truly was the best, Ranthia lived through her blunder.

After she recovered and the battle continued for a time, Ranthia was ready to admit that a tiny, tiny piece of her was having fun. The rest of her barely kept a grip on the gut-wrenching terror that stalked her every move, but a subtle slice of her psyche reveled in the opportunity to truly test her blind combat capabilities. Or perhaps it had more to do with fighting alongside the woman she loved. Yet the same things that brought that perverse sense of joy also inspired her terror—she was facing a twin that had managed to outmatch her once before. While she was blind, no less! And she was endangering Avyna to do so! It was madness, but it was madness borne out of necessity.

…No matter how her traitorous mind wanted to question just how necessary it truly was, after she was already committed.

Her ears should have been her greatest tool, but her opponent was surprisingly well-trained. He never altered the pattern of his breathing, and he had enough flexibility that his attacks came at different points during the cycle of breath. His bestial sounds came only when he pulled back or in the aftermath of a failed attack. He wasn’t even consistent about which of them he targeted, though Ranthia refused to let the twin move past her—the one time he seriously tried, she inflicted the first true wound that the twin had suffered.

Not that she could see for herself how bad it was, but she knew the too-familiar sensation of her blades piercing through armor and encountering flesh.

The nerve-grating stalemate continued, until—at last—her opponent surged forward. Whatever Skill(s) enabled his driving thrust were just as dangerous as ever. But the twin had, if anything, become faster in the intervening years. Ranthia’s graceful movements were only mostly successful at getting her clear—with her senses focused, she was acutely aware of the terrible sensation of her arm’s flesh being parted by cold, Ooze-coated metal.

Instant, familiar assessments deemed the wound to be non-debilitating, so the dance continued. Ranthia and Avyna grimly pressed their attacks until the twin was forced back into his starting position. Even better, in the aftermath of their efforts there was the unmistakable scent of ogre blood in the vicinity. It seemed as though Avyna had inflicted her own wound on their target.

The battle continued and small wounds accumulated on both Ranthia and the twin. Minor missteps that were paid in blood, each insufficient to change the tide of battle. Yet the accumulation could readily spell disaster and each left Ranthia increasingly tempted to risk losing the flow of combat in order to shift into a fresh body.

The twin’s makeshift—and frequently replaced—weapons had a fraction of the reach he possessed when they last fought. Her opponent was no longer beyond her reach, yet her curse made it far more challenging to capitalize on that. She was far from helpless, but the loss of such an important sense made it difficult for her to just dance past and strike for the back of her opponent’s neck. No matter how much attention she paid to the footfalls, she only had a vague grasp of positions—to liken it to sight, it was as if the world was somewhat blurry and indistinct.

With the momentum of three classers near—or at—the level 768 class up, the battle was a maelstrom of change. And Ranthia felt as though she was left dancing half a step too slow to keep up with the chaotic rhythm of aggression. Her senses were good, but she had never truly trained her blind fighting combat style at the speeds she had grown into. They were a fraction of the way down the path toward System-inflicted divinity, yet already they moved quickly enough that it caused her issues. Sound reached her almost too late to respond. Tremors in the ground were more reliable, as was her sense of heat and proximity. But the wake left in the air was almost wholly unreliable. By the time she felt an attack’s approach on the wind, it was too late to completely avoid it.

