The Vampire Hornets were unreal, tearing through bats at a furious rate. They flew in a compact swarm that shifted and bowed around the agile bats, but they were enveloped in a permanent haze of blood as the unrelenting stings and bites ripped into the bats, distributing healing among them. With their powerful swarm bonus to their attributes, each hornet had over a thousand health, and they were tanking hellfire fireballs without flinching, healing each other back to full in seconds.

I should have made more. If they had to do the fight over, she would.

She didn’t bother with putting bleeds on her drakes this time; with that many Vampiric Nightwing bats, the Blood Contagion was going to be a far greater problem than the Frog Hex. Her attention was suddenly dragged back to the Spirit Realm by a flash of magic and the brightly colored Kir’vella appearing before her. Immediately, she summoned a protective barrier to block the drain attack and retaliated with several sharp barrier shards.

“You have some fight in you, little one,” Kir’vella said with a ghastly smirk, her voice sounding raspy and hoarse. Whether that was caused by the Spirit Realm, or her normal sound, Ali wasn’t quite certain, but the cackling laughter that followed had a disturbing ethereal echo to it and sounded more than a little unhinged. “Let’s see how you deal with this, then…”

Kir’vella raised a hand, and a bright radiant light appeared within her fist, created from the soul magic within her. She opened her hand, and the construct slowly floated to the ground where it remained, flickering and glowing.

A beacon? It reminded Ali a lot of Calen’s motes, but this one settled on the ground instead.

“Time to go! You brought me such fun toys to play with.” With those ominous words, Kir’vella vanished back into the normal world.

A menacing growl from the side thrummed through Ali’s body and she snapped around to find a blue, glowing, translucent canine form slinking out from behind the gray trees and brush, its eyes fixed upon her as it approached.

Ghost Stalker – Spirit Wolf – level 71 (Soul)

The monster vanished, suddenly appearing behind her and biting at her barrier, but her magic held, and she wasn’t particularly worried, simply feeding a little more mana to the barrier while she turned to study the beacon Kir’vella had left behind. A little later, the beacon pulsed, and another glowing form emerged from the forest. This time, a scorpion.

Ghost Piercer – Spirit Scorpion – level 68 (Soul)

It isn’t summoning them, so much as it’s calling them, she realized, tracing the delicate threads of mana and flow within the unusual spell. Could I learn something like this?

Mid-thought, Ali was yanked back to the normal realm as her banishment curse expired early again. Is my magic resistance shortening the duration? Her musings were immediately interrupted in favor of more important things. Her Blood Shamans were healing constantly, and her one remaining Kobold Acolyte lay dead on the ground. Everyone seemed to be bleeding. Bats were pouring from the cave and when she looked around, she found Calen hopping up and down, croaking in frustration.

Ali immediately dispelled his curse, wondering how he was able to emote frustration as a frog.

Still under the influence of the fried ghost mushroom, her mana sight extended partway into the spirit realm, showing her the wolf and the scorpion as insubstantial blue outlines prowling nearby. She summoned her barrier, just in case, but they both turned their gaze on her and then simply walked through her barrier. She yelped as the ghostly fangs and pincers drew very real blood.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
