“Thanks, Gus,” Rain said, slipping the Tel into the pouch he’d borrowed from Jamus. Up to 16.

“You’re a freak, you know that?”

Rain grinned. “Pleasure doing business with you.” The room was comfortably warm, the heater plates glowing merrily on the wall. A few people were starting to trickle in from outside now, taking advantage of the warmth. Third bell had just struck, which Rain translated to 3PM. Hours were mercifully the same length on this Earth as they were on his own. Weeks were eight days instead of seven, though. That was weird. It didn’t matter that much in the end, however. Adventurers didn’t really get weekends.

Right, time to deal with this slime. Still no sign of Val. I’ll see if someone else around here is willing to come with me. I know just who to ask.

Rain walked off in the direction of the training room. He’d seen the scarred man, Jaks, in there earlier when he’d gone in to charge the heater plate. He’d been whaling on one of the training dummies with a pair of crude-looking axes. If he was just training today, he might be up for joining in on a quick quest. Plus, I want to figure out if he really has a monolithic class like I do. I don’t think I need anyone to come with me, but I do want to meet some more people at the guild.

Rain paused as he approached the training room. His nose twitched as he breathed in. Is that…blood? He looked into the room. Jaks was lying on the floor in a crimson puddle, his body covered by lacerations. The cuts were evenly spaced as if they’d been inflicted by some methodical torturer.

“Shit!” Rain swore. I need to get help.

“Quiet,” came a voice from the puddle of blood. “I’m fine. I swear, if another one of you fucks goes to get that asshole Wallace, I’ll lose it.”

Rain stared at Jaks as he lifted his head to look at him. “Uhh….”

“What are you fuckin staring at?”

“I’m staring at you,” Rain said. “What happened?”

“Fuck off,” Jaks said, lying back in his puddle of blood. “I’m out of mana, and I don’t have the patience for this shit.”

“Um, you sure you’re okay? I could give you some mana if you want.”

“I ain’t paying.”

“I wasn’t asking you to. Hang on.” Rain quickly whitelisted the man and sent some mana over to him with Essence Well. Jaks’ eyes widened as the skill took effect. Rain kept it going as Jaks sat up, watching him.

After a little while, the bloody man raised his hand. “Gah, stop!”

Rain stopped. “Too much?”

“Yeah. Fucking mages and their fucking bottomless mana pools.”

All of a sudden, a strange feeling came over Rain. Huh. What’s that? It feels like…a warmth. The sun on the grass. I know what this is. He’s using Summer!

Rain pulled open his status to check. Yup. There it is. A 100% boost to health regeneration. He must not be able to maintain it. The cost would only be 10 mana an hour, but if he’s just got base regen… It must have taken him years to get it to rank 10. I wonder how long he’s been an adventurer?

Rain was still watching Jaks curiously. The cuts were starting to scab over before his eyes. Jaks got to his feet and ran his bloody hands over his bald head. “Thanks. Now, stop fucking staring.”

Rain glanced away. Well, that settles it. He’s definitely a Vivificant. Also, he’s insane and an asshole. He must have done that to himself for some kind of training. That’s…hardcore. I mean, it makes sense that you’d need to get hurt to train health regen skills, but damn. Does he even feel pain?

Rain looked back at the man. He’d collected his axes and was surveying one of the dummies. He was still a bloody mess. Rain stopped himself from using Purify. The man might need the blood for something. There was a Blood Magic tree, after all. The skills in tiers 0 and 1 were more about controlling your own blood to boost your body in various ways. He hadn’t seen anything to control blood once it had left the body, but there could be something in the higher tiers that he hadn’t unlocked yet. He’d dismissed the tree because all of the skills had costs listed in hp instead of mp. For a Vivificant, however, it would make a lot of sense.

Do I really want to go off alone with someone like this? Might as well ask… Maybe he was just grumpy because he was low on mana. Here goes.

“Hey, you’re Jaks, right? I’m Rain.”

“Fuck off.”

Okay then. The grumpiness wasn’t because he was mana starved. “I’ve got a quest that I wanted to do, and I was wondering if—”

“Did I fucking stutter?” said Jaks, glaring at him.

“Wow, okay, sorry. I’ll leave you alone.” So much for that plan. Dude’s got issues. I guess I’m on my own unless I want to go try the tavern. I think I’ll go do that.

Unfortunately, nobody in the tavern was willing to join him on the quest once he’d explained what it entailed. His guess about the quality of the reward was spot on. Whoever posted this quest would have been waiting a long time if I hadn’t come along. Val would have only taken it because he thought it might have been a blue. Where is Val, anyway? Ah, screw it. I can deal with an overgrown slime on my own. It’s not like they’re fast or anything. What’s the worst that could happen?

Rain set off from the guild, waving to Gus as he left. The portly man waved back. He’d started being much friendlier to Rain after he’d finished with the heater plates, though whether that was from gratitude or something else, Rain wasn’t sure. My mana regeneration really is kinda stupid. I might want to keep a lid on it if I don’t want a bunch of attention. He switched the IFF settings on Winter as he left the guild, shutting it down for everyone but him and his allies. As innocuous as the skill was, he intended on complying fully with Halgrave’s policy on magic use when he was out and about in the city.

It was snowing pretty heavily, and Rain was keenly aware of his lack of a cloak as he hurried along. Hopefully it would be warmer underground. Despite the weather, there were a lot of people on the streets. The city was packed. From the conversations he’d overheard earlier, it had something to do with the war between the Empire and the DKE. People were coming in from the towns and villages closer to the DKE border, not wanting to get caught up in the conflict. I need to find a damn map. I don’t even know how far that is from here.

Rain reached the entrance to the sewers and headed down the stairs. He turned when he reached the bottom and started walking along the waterway, his metal boots clicking against the stone. The darkness wasn’t bothering him in the slightest, not since he’d gotten the perception accolade. The smell was another story, but Purify took care of that easily enough. The light of the aura would have been more than sufficient for his enhanced eyes even if the torches in the tunnel hadn’t been lit.

He didn’t encounter any slimes as he walked through the tunnels, which struck him as odd. All the torches were burning brightly. Depending on when they had last been changed, it might have been that there hadn’t been any darkness deep enough for the monsters to spawn. That or some other adventurer had cleared them out earlier in the day.

He reached the passage that he remembered leading to the chamber where Val had been fighting the slime. He shrugged out of his pack and set it down on the ground. He wanted to be able to move quickly if he needed to. It would be safe enough here. There wasn’t much of value in there anyway.

He slowly moved up the tunnel, relying on the light of Purify to see as there were no torches in this direction. As he approached the barrier, he reduced the aura to the barest trickle. The dim white light flared slightly as it touched the disgusting plug blocking the tunnel. Damn it, I should have brought a torch from the intersection. I don’t particularly want to try swimming in this armor. The canal isn’t that deep, but the wall of water waiting on the other side of this crap is a different story.

Rain surveyed the barrier blocking the tunnel. A sticky substance was holding together a mass of leaves, sticks, and other debris, just as he remembered. Unlike the last time, the passage was fully sealed, not even a trickle of water making it into the channel. He retreated, not wanting to stand near the blockage much longer lest Purify start breaking through it. He needed at least some light to see, so he couldn’t drop it completely.

He stopped once he was out of range, sitting down against the wall to rest. His legs were quite tired after walking all morning. He’d been wearing the armor constantly since Tallheart had made it for him. Though it was less cumbersome than he’d originally expected armor to be, it was still taking a toll. Purify is great. I’d be so grody in here if not for that. Oh, hey. I’ve been wearing the same pair of underwear for like a month. That’s a fun thought.

Right, first things first. What’s waiting for me on the other side of the nasty wall? Rain closed his eyes and activated Detection, scanning for entities. He boosted the range to the full 108 meters, but limited the power, not wanting to overwhelm himself. He felt a bunch of signals coming from far above him, perhaps 20 or 30 meters. There was a lone signal coming from the other side of the barrier, and nothing below him, to the sides, or back the way he had come.

Humm. I can’t tell what’s what at this level of power. The signals from above are probably people, and the one ahead is probably the slime, but they feel more or less the same. What if I boost the power? He slowly increased the power he was feeding to the skill, stopping quickly as he started to feel pressure building behind his eyes. The motion of the signals was getting harder and harder to deal with the more he boosted the skill, the signals becoming more and more defined.

Well, that works I suppose. I can tell the people are people and the slime is a slime, but not much more than that. Wow, there’s a lot of them up there. I wonder, if I push it further, can I actually start to tell what they look like? Right now, it’s just a sense of…humanness? It’s not like I’m seeing, it’s more like I just know that they are there. This skill is a bit creepy. I’m literally spying on people from under the damn ground and they have no idea.

He changed the focus on Detection, asking the skill to detect only humans. The signal from the slime disappeared. He changed it again, this time only looking for monsters. The slime reappeared, and all the humans vanished. Wait a minute…there’s still something up there. A monster. In with all the humans. That’s…alarming. It must be an adventurer’s pet. Someone who took those monster subjugation skills I saw. Hopefully. The alternative is that it’s something that can blend in with humans without them noticing. Are doppelgangers a thing? Rain canceled the skill as the strange signal moved out of range. Nothing I can do about it right now. He turned his thoughts back to the slime.

Battleplan time. I can’t see a level 7 slime being worse than a pack of Kin, but I’m going to take it seriously. First problem, there’s going to be a ton of water on the other side of this wall. He let off a pulse of weak Detection. Yup. Ton of water. I’ve got to deal with that first. I guess draining it is the easiest way. Freezing it seems like it would be a bad idea. Water expands when it freezes. I don’t want to break the sewer. Plus, I’m not sure if I could freeze that much water anyway, at least not without freezing myself.

How am I gonna deal with this? Humm. Well, if I use all my mods, I can get Purify up to 108 meters in radius. I could go way down the tunnel and try to break through from there. I could probably make it back to the main channel before the water caught up to me. Even if it did and I got swept into the channel, it isn’t deep enough that I’d drown. Worth a shot.

Humm. Will I get in trouble if a bunch of toilets in the city suddenly erupt with magic smoke? It’s harmless magic, and it’s in service of a quest, so I’d technically be okay. Still…

Rain set Detection to look for air, starting at low power and boosting it slowly. He gave it up when he started tasting colors. He couldn’t get the resolution he needed to check for open paths to the surface without overloading his brain. The hard way it is.

He got to his feet and reactivated Purify. He boosted it slightly from the level he’d been using before but didn’t extend it. He only wanted it for the light at the moment. He walked all the way back to the waterway, scanning the ceiling for any gaps or pipes that would let his aura escape from the tunnel. He didn’t see anything, so he turned around and started making his way back toward the barrier.

Ok, I should be good. I guess if people have to bring their shit down here in buckets, toilets like the one in the guild can’t be common. Thus there aren’t many dedicated pipes leading down here. Also, I should be able to use Immolate and Refrigerate without breaking anything, as long as I don’t push too hard. There aren’t any pipes to burst, and I’m deep enough to not worry about the people. I must be under a hill or something.

He dropped Purify and walked back along the tunnel in complete darkness, running his hand along the wall. He used Detection to search for the barrier. The range of all his auras was identical, so he knew exactly how far away he needed to be. He sat against the wall once he felt it appear. He dropped Detection, switching to Winter to make sure he had plenty of mana. I want to be full for this. He sat against the wall to wait.

When he was ready, he got back to his feet. He took a running stance, then used a Purification Nova at full blast. Quickly, he switched to Velocity and chased the glowing wave of light down the tunnel. He almost caught up to it before he stumbled and had to reduce the speed boost. He managed to avoid falling over and kept running. The light in front of him escaped the tunnel and burst out into the torch-lit intersection. He rounded the corner and pressed himself against the wall, waiting.

Over the sound of his own heartbeat, he heard a rushing sound echoing down the tunnel. It quickly grew to a roar as a torrent of water gushed out of the tunnel, carrying the remains of the barrier with it. Purify hadn’t been able to dissolve it entirely, but it had weakened it enough for it to succumb to the pressure of the water. Rain gagged. The smell was awful. He activated Purify again to protect his sensitive nose from the onslaught. I sure hope this perception thing doesn’t end up being a curse.

