The boy returned shortly, stepping into the midst of the two groups, still swaying a little. He looked at Jin Tok, head cocked. “Well? You were so eager to fight, let's do this.” Jin Tok quivered before his stare, unwilling to speak. Spineless.

Li Song stepped in front of him, a neutral expression on her face. “I will be your opponent.”

The boy's leer caused more than one member of their party to palm their faces. Mei Lin threw a bun at his head, bouncing off the side of his face. The little miss was seeming more and more disillusioned by the boy as the days went by. He caught the bun and started eating, looking the girl up and down, like a butcher eyeing a cut of meat. “Well, well, well. Hello, pretty lady. How are you?”

Without a word, she attacked, a fierce combination. Stalking the Dragon, Swiping the Rushes, Reversing the Flow, into Fanged Clutch. True to her nature, all moves from the Tiger Forms, very well executed. The boy took the brunt of the attacks head on, too distracted and caught off guard, his bun falling to the floor. Li Song relentlessly pushed her upper hand, striking viciously, again and again, until the boy's face and arms were a mess, bleeding and swelling. It looked to be an easy victory for her, but all the same a good lesson for the boy. A little beating and light whipping should do wonders for his manners. The brigadier would die before she knelt for him, though. A shame, for the empire to lose a soldier, but all the same in the end.

The boy persevered, however, enduring the best he could. Sharpening the Claws was caught in his grasp, both of his hands wrapped around her wrists. Breaking his grip with a mid-air twist, she performed Pounces Upon the Lamb, both boots connecting squarely with his stomach, diving gracefully into a roll, landing two meters away, back turned. Akanai snorted. Beautifully performed. Incredibly idiotic. Too focused on looking pretty and graceful. She had beat that out of the boy early. A fist connected with the back of the girl's head before she could turn, sending her crashing to the floor. The boy grabbed her hair, lifting her up, his face bloodied and almost unrecognizable, eye's wild and angry. She grabbed at the hand behind her, frantic, panicking. A blow to the liver and she straightened in pain, a second causing her to cry out in anguish. He stood there, holding his opponent by the hair, twisting in his grasp, breathing heavily as his rage subsided.

“Uhh... Sorry, I'm not sure what I'm supposed to do now. Is this fight over, or are you expecting me to cripple her or something?” The boy's unfocused gazed landed on Akanai, the result of taking too many blows to the head. He would require more healing. Why would he think she wanted him to cripple a child, and a slave at that? That was almost an insult.

“That is enough.” Akanai spoke, a soft command, sipping her tea. The boy lowered Li Song to the floor, the girl writhing in pain. The boy remained standing over her, glaring around for his next opponent. “Return to your seat, boy.” He obediently walked back, footsteps unsteady. He took too many strikes while he was busy admiring his opponent. Hopefully, he would learn from this. The girl was more skilled, but simply put, the boy was an aberration, with his constant training to be beaten, as if he expected to lose. At least he kept calm enough to not injure the girl too badly.

Akanai took another sip of her tea, before she smiled at the Brigadier, asking sweetly, “Any other challengers? I have others in need of sparring. Travel is awfully dull.” Huushal could use a spar, perhaps he could regain his lost confidence.

The Brigadier's face was already scarlet with rage, and darkened even further at her provocation. After long moments, he was finally able to regain his calm, breathing out heavily. Without a word, he turned and marched down the stairs, his soldiers following along with him. Good, the Brigadier understood his limits.

“Hey! Shit for brains!” Akanai sighed. The boy would never learn at this rate, bloodied and slurring, yet still provoking. Such a temper he had. “You're forgetting something. Where are my kowtows, Bitch? And bring me a leather belt, I owe someone a whipping.” The idiot. He pushed too far. He would need to be strong to be so arrogant.

The soldiers marched back up the stairs, and Akanai stood, her Sentinels following suit. Well, this was fine too. She wasn't lying when she said travel was boring.
