Its tendency to announce a level-up after an Avowed had achieved something or learned something new about their powers was both encouraging and manipulative.

If leveling announcements came at exactly “x amount of dominion over the universe gained” it would be more honest. But then it might have had to tell Jeffy he’d leveled a month ago, at a random moment, and he’d have been depressed all of the talent options involved water.

Now it could tell him he’d gained two at once to drive home the point that success came with being helpful and aquatic.

Alden felt…

I don’t know how I feel about them affixing, he realized. But it’s not simple.

He hadn’t had to think too hard about his classmates leveling up yet. When it came to progressing as an Avowed, dealing with himself filled his plate and then some. And, when he had thought about what the others would do, it had mostly been because they were all talking about it.

They wanted it. They’d joined Talent Dev for it. Leveling the classes they’d chosen would make them proud and happy. It would make them stronger.

They would get new spells and skills. They would mold themselves into people they could never be without the System.

And it wouldn’t hurt.

And they wouldn’t ever know.

Even if they understood in the factual sense…they wouldn’t know.

He stared at the empty desks that filled the row in front of him. Vandy kept giving him a rundown of everything, but her voice faded into the background.

It’s not right. So much of it’s wrong.

He couldn’t grapple with it right now. He tuned back into Vandy. She was telling him that someone who had family in Apex was talking about moving off campus to live with them.

Just then, Olive and Reinhard walked into the room. He was carrying his bow. She was wearing pink tights and sneakers that squeaked on the floor, which would have made it easy to distinguish her from the silent illusionary Olive walking behind her even without Alden’s unique detection method.

“You’re talking about people moving off campus? I’m thinking about it, too,” Olive said. “I love the dorms, but at the moment, I just want to hug my mom and brother about ten times a day to make sure they’re safe. Family matters more than anything else, right?”

“What happened to your foot?” Reinhard asked, grabbing a desk two up from Alden.

“It’s from when you shot me during combat assessment,” said Alden. “The old wounds flare up every now and then.”

“Ha! You’re funny today. Where did you go when you left the bri—?”

[Video call from Twenty-seven Hundred and Sixty-first General Evul-art’h, Artona I. Connection fee waived.]

Alden stood up from his desk. “Sorry. I’m getting a call. I need to take it.”

He hurried out and down the hall before slipping into an open classroom and shutting the door behind him. As soon as he accepted the call, Evul-art’h appeared. She was on her window seat lounger, arms crossed over her chest.

Alden scanned the room around her for signs of Stuart. Usually he was right there to snatch the tablet from his sister.

“Are you squashing him again?” he asked in Artonan.

Both of her pink eyes were focused on him. When she didn’t answer for half a minute, Alden wondered what was up. When it went on for another half a minute, he got nervous.

“Where’s your brother?”

“In the big living room,” she said finally, “trying to force everyone else to understand something that I can already tell will only ever make sense to him.”

Well…that’s an answer.

She pointed the middle three fingers of one of her hands at him. “Stu likes you more than I realized.”

What does that mean?

She didn’t seem mad. But she did seem a lot less jokey than usual.

“He did name Alden after me,” Alden answered when he couldn’t think of anything else to say. “We do talk every week.”

“Yes. But he experiments sometimes in pursuit of personal development. He has <<phases>>.”

Alden waited.

“Questions about the <<home-wandering>> human were asked today. And he was forced to confess that he didn’t contract with you for Privacy of the House.”

Oh shit. Is he in major trouble for that?

Stuart made it sound like it wasn’t going to be a huge issue.

“I don’t mind getting a tattoo for that,” Alden said quickly. “I have no desire to share information that shouldn’t be shared.”

What kind of idiot would even want dirt on these people? It sounded hazardous for the health.

“It’s not that serious,” said Evul-art’h. “Not to me, anyway. I just wanted to look at you a little harder.”

Alden swallowed.

“And I wanted to tell you that Stu will either call you soon or never again. Depending on how the discussion in the big living room goes.”

“Why?” Alden said. “Did I do something?”

“No. He’s just fallen into the <<trap>> of a family <<negotiation>>.” She smiled. “We’ll see how it turns out.”

******
