“Only acceptable?” He spotted a couple of familiar faces on the other side of the roof near the elevator. They must have come up at the last minute. “Lucille!”

Alden waved at her. “Lucille! And you, Marsha…do you want to build a tower?”

He thought they might say no, but they put their heads together for a few seconds then headed over. Lucille was smiling shyly at Alden and Lute. Marsha was pointing a spear at people who were not yet committed to other towers and demanding to know their powers.

“I meant just the four of us,” Alden said. “Just a fun little—”

“Ours will be the tallest,” Marsha declared, dragging over some guy she’d just commandeered. “What do you do?”

“Chainer,” said Lute.

“I thought you looked familiar. You can go on top.”

“I could hold up everyone on this roof at once if I wanted to,” Lute said.

Nobody seemed to believe him except for Alden. But he did get to be the top  of the tallest human tower on Forthright a few minutes later.

Hopefully this makes up for all the times I dragged him to the bottom of the pool today, thought Alden, while he listened to Lute shouting, “Come at us, new year!” from his shoulders.

******

******

Stuart called Alden on the morning of the first. He looked terrible—pale and tired, leaning on a big wooden staff somewhere in the forest of Rapport I as night approached.

“What’s the stick for?” Alden asked from his seat at his desk. “Did something happen at school today or was it…?”

Was it my fault?

“I visited campus briefly but didn’t go to my classes. There was something else I had to do. I’m well, my friend. Don’t worry.” He smiled weakly. “I’m going to see Healer Yenu soon. For you it will be Friday. Midday. I think it would be a good time for you to meet with her, too. If that’s all right with you?”

“It is.”

“We should walk the road to the House of Healing again. I’ll have you teleported to the welcoming place at the start of it.”

“The little house there?”

“Yes. It’s a spot where people can prepare and cleanse in various ways before and after they walk the road.”

“I look forward to seeing Yenu-pezth. And you of course,” said Alden. “Get some sleep. I’ve put too much on you in the past few days.”

“It’s my honor to be trusted with it,” Stuart said, even more serious than usual. “I will try always to take actions worthy of your trust.”

It was a while after their chat had ended that Alden realized Stuart hadn’t asked about his supposedly sick cat. Or his skill.

And he never did explain the stick.

But Alden had talked to him the whole time with a spell book out on his desk and his auriad free on his wrist. That was something that still felt new and wondrous.

He blew through his skill four times that day and still asked Haoyu and Lexi, who’d both arrived late that afternoon, if they wanted to take some aggression out on a preserved object before bed.

“I want to!” Haoyu stood in the living room, looking with interest at the finger Victor had just tried to bite. The cat was hiding under the chair Lute was sitting in now, glaring at Haoyu and Lexi like he wished them both ill. “One of my goals for the year is more levels than Febri and Finlay. I still can’t believe Finlay went to Elites. He got along so well with everyone. I thought we’d get to keep him. But I’m going to beat his leveling speed, so I might need to punch you lots.”

“Yes. Good. Bring it.” Alden shoved a bag of broccoli into the microwave. He was going to miss Finlay, too.

“And I want to ask you about the rings,” said Haoyu. “What’s with the rings?”

“My elderly aunt Stuart gave them to me. They’re hand armor. Forearm, too. Sorry I can’t let you try them on. They’re supposed to be getting used to me and only me.”

“Seriously? You got magic gear for Christmas!”

“You don’t have to refer to him as your elderly aunt when it’s us,” Lexi said from behind him. “What do you need hand armor for?”

Alden turned around. “I like having hands.”

Lexi pursed his lips. “That’s harder to argue with than it should be.”

“Word chains,” said Alden. “My glorious spell impression. Music!”

He pointed at their shared guitar. Lute had hung it on the wall behind where the Bromelimas tree had previously stood.

Haoyu walked over to admire the rings more closely. “They look cool. I’d have to stick my hand in fire if I was wearing them. I’d just have to.”

“You clearly chose the correct class,” said Alden.

“Word chains and music?” Lexi looked over Alden’s shoulder pointedly.

“Yes. That’s right,” said Lute. “Alden can do…a wordchain.”

“I can do more than one! I’ve got the speed one down now, too!”

“And he strummed a guitar twice,” Lute added dryly. “The aliens were so impressed by this that they gifted his hands with protection.”

Haoyu laughed. “His new codename could be Special Fingers.”

“That’s so much worse than Cottontail, you jerk. I’ll never answer to it.”

His hourly call to another wizard who seemed determined not to answer was initiated right as he was pulling his broccoli back out of the microwave. Predictably, it went ignored.

The guys teased him a little more about having special hand protection. And about his swimming experiments, which Lute made sound more extreme than they really had been. Haoyu volunteered to be his test subject the next time he wanted to practice with a living person.

I’m glad I got to see them all again.

Only a few days ago, he’d been afraid about how much of this he was losing. But all of it was still here.

He looked down at his fingers and at the melted silver around the base of each one. Even more is here than before. Because Stuart agreed to help me have more.

The rings said his spell casting was very important to someone other than himself. The teasing said he was still a part of things on Earth. He felt horrible about the drama ahead when Stuart inevitably got tired of not getting answers about the skill, but he also felt sure about bulling forward toward the future he’d chosen.

“The Coursing class?” Lexi was saying in response to Lute filling them in on Alden’s string of rejections from obstacle course teams. “Did you talk to Kon or something? He developed a spontaneous passion for building a team a couple of days ago. He’s been nagging me to change my schedule around and join, but it’s the kind of thing that’s only worth doing if you’re serious about it. And I don’t think he is, since he had the idea at the last possible—”

Alden swallowed a mouthful of garlicky broccoli. “You should do it.”

He’d had no clue Kon was trying to put something together. But if he was looking for a way to spend more time with Lexi, Alden was going to push for it.

“It’s really the last minute,” said Lexi.

“Kon’s not going to goof off about something like this. Remember how much effort he put into his obstacle course team? And our team when it was us against Vandy’s mom and Haoyu’s parents? He tries so hard to pull his own weight for any team-related thing. It’ll be serious enough if he does it. And I can see why he wants to put together his own group. Everyone’s so picky.”

“How dare they not want the hero program’s one and only Rabbit,” said Lute.

“Exactly.” Alden looked at Lexi. “Nobody’s going to want Kon’s skill on their team either.”

“I, for one, wouldn’t mind being invited to join Team Flying Dog Crate,” said Haoyu. “Hint. Hint.”

Lexi grimaced at them both. “Our powers don’t complement each other well for something like this.”

“So? That adds to the challenge,” said Alden. “And our personalities mesh fine.”

“I’ll sleep on it.”

After dinner, Alden offered to clean all of their dishes with his skill.

“I told my elderly aunt I wanted to volunteer for some work in the future,” he said, voice calm and steady as he took a knife from Lexi, stripped it clean with careful preservation, then passed it to Haoyu. “In a baby level chaos zone. So I’m aiming toward something more like that than superhero stuff.”

Lute had already been told, in about this same way.

There was a hitch in their washing system—Haoyu freezing with the knife, Lexi failing to deliver the next fork. Alden looked between them.

“Were you just asking?” Lexi said finally. “Or are they really going to let you?”

“The second,” said Alden, motioning for the fork. He didn’t think he needed to say how soon that future would be. Or talk about the kind of work he’d volunteered for. This amount of the truth felt right as a starting place. “I don’t think I want to tell the teachers or anyone else in our class yet. Might change my mind. For now, it’s just you guys.”

He could practically feel them mental texting behind his back. But the fork landed in his hand. The dishes ended up clean. And all the roommates sat down in the living room to watch Victor rocket around doing mock battle with a temper sphere.

On Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday they had classes. But it felt more like a  revving up period than normal school. Students were still allowed to make adjustments to schedules, and teachers were busy establishing course expectations. Alden and Lute spent most of Friday morning in an etiquette session that was required for people who’d be learning from an Artonan instructor. Next week, they’d both be starting the uni class that Kelly had recommended. A traditional kind of storytelling with the visiting performance artist Warin-doyis.

The faculty member in charge of their etiquette session made it sound like they would be summoned for public torture if they ass-abused their cushions. Alden paid attention, but he was already thinking ahead to the rest of the day and the weekend.

Stuart hadn’t called. It felt odd, but maybe that was just because Alden wanted to talk to him more than usual. They’d see each other soon, and the long walk to the House of Healing would give him plenty of opportunity to say all the things he’d planned out. He wanted to buy time, avoid lies if possible, and reassure Stuart that he was sane and on top of the skill question. He thought he could manage it.

And then he’d spend a couple of days in the Rapport. Stuart would have classes, but they could hang out some.

I’ll put it all back as right as it can be for now.

He was determined not to let the Triangle of Absolute Secrecy throw a wrench in today. After changing clothes and leaving Lute back at the dorm, he headed to Matadero a bit early and waited in the teleportation area for the notification to come in. He had a bunch of grapes and a cantaloupe.

He would greet Stuart warmly to make up for the way he’d left.

If there are no wizards around, he’ll let me know with his authority greeting, and I’ll base mine on that. I can show Healer Yenu how well I’m doing. I’ll get to see the Sdyelis Branch. Maybe take some pictures of it for Kon. If I adjust to Stuart’s schedule and wake up early tomorrow, we could do some casting then.

The teleportation notice came in, and he stepped eagerly into the nearest alcove. The Systems routed him through the beautiful sky chamber in Vethedya then on to the small gray alcove in the little building that stood beside the road to the House of Healing.

He barely had time to think that this place looked much nicer, somehow, than it had on his previous trip through. Then, he noticed there were two people present. It seemed like they had been having snacks at a table just a couple of strides away. Alden was happy to see Stuart, rising from a chair with his mouth open, but that happiness was countered almost immediately by the second person in the room lunging toward Alden with a look on his heavily tattooed face that was halfway between fear and violence.

“Ro-den, you may not talk to him without m—!” Stuart shouted

Alden said, “What’s going—?”

And then Worli Ro-den’s rush knocked him a step backward, and a force like a Brute’s fist gripped some part of the reality nearby. Stuart’s words were cut off. And the room outside the alcove was cut off, too, by a barrier Alden couldn’t see but certainly felt when he tried to escape and his face bounced off it.

“What’s going on, Ro-den?!”

Stuart was picking up that new staff of his from where it rested against the table. He looked like he was going to murder someone.

“Smile and wave your most comforting wave at the Primary’s son, Alden dear,” said Ro-den. His words were smooth and utterly sure even though his face was that of a man being pursued by wolves. “You and I need to have a quick private chat about our personal business, and I don’t think Stu-art’h there intends to let us unless you reassure him. Trust me, you’ll want to hear what I have to say before he makes this situation more confusing than it needs to be.”

This alcove was too small for both of them and Alden’s suitcase. When he looked Ro-den in the eye there was hardly any distance between them.

“Trust you?”

One of the professor’s eyes flicked toward Stuart, who was stomping toward them with the staff raised.

“I don’t think you have much of a choice right now,” Ro-den said.

Alden lifted an eyebrow at him. “I think I have a choice. A couple really. This is a teleportation alcove, and I’m here willingly for medical care. The local Contract will just send me home if I ask.”

“That’s an idea!” said Ro-den. “Go home. I’ll answer your call and explain—”

“Too late,” said Alden. “I’d rather hear an explanation from the man with the stick.”

Stuart swung the end of the staff at the barrier over the alcove.

It hit like thunder.

******
