283

******

Alden wished the water were colder. If it were numbing, dark, and churning with debris, maybe he’d be able to call on that part of himself that had once preserved Zeridee-und’h without touching her. That had been a near-death moment for both of them. Painful. Terrifying.

But this pool was warm and gentle. Underwater speakers played soft music. The best he could do now to remind himself of that much worse time and place was keep his eyes closed and hold his breath until it hurt.

I am The Bearer of All Burdens. I am an Avowed, but I’m also a wizard. Sometimes I need to hold things without using my hands. That doesn’t mean I’m laying my burden down. I just want to bear it in a different way. I know it’s possible. I know the universe remembers what I sound like when I do that.

So this time…

He let the object he was protecting—a fluffy white towel—leave his grip slowly. Holding with two fingers, then with one just barely touching…then finally, as if by accident, letting the weak current of the pool pull it away from him.

He lost it immediately.

Dammit! The difference between it touching my finger and not is nothing. It’s irrelevant. It should be irrelevant.

He snatched the drifting towel and launched off the bottom of the pool, seething as he broke the surface. Two kicks had him at the edge, and he lifted the soaked towel out. It landed on creamy, gold-flecked tiles with a splat. Water from his previous attempts had made a puddle there.

[Alden: Again.]

[Lute: Entrust towel.]

Lute didn’t bother opening his eyes. They’d been doing versions of this exercise for over two and a half hours.

It had been better at the beginning. They had started in the North of North Super Olympic pool, and Lute had agreed to being preserved a generous number of times before he’d told Alden that it was his new least favorite way to go swimming and asked for a break. Alden had shifted to repeatedly drowning the towel and going off the dives with it, trying to get the hang of preserving it as he fell and using it to break his fall into the water. But then they’d had to move out to allow others who’d booked pool time to practice.

They’d come here to this much smaller, calmer spa pool instead. Every guest had a lounge chair in its own nook facing the water, but even though most of the chairs were taken, nobody seemed interested in swimming. Alden was the only person in the pool.

Everyone else was partially hidden behind sheer curtains and plants. They were baking treatments into their skin under shell-shaped rolling lamps or drinking complicated arrangements of potions from thimble-sized cups.

Lute was currently bathed in orange light with his feet wrapped in strips of seaweed to counteract the horrors of chlorine or ramen noodle toxicity or something like that.

Alden hadn’t read the menu of services or touched his own lounge chair.

He picked up the towel, concentrating on getting only cloth with as little water as possible. He did seem to be getting better at this at least. He managed to preserve a towel that was dampish instead of wet and went back under with it.

While he was trying to convince himself that preserving a towel correctly was a life or death matter, a “call rejected” notice appeared and put him in an even fouler mood.

He’d told the System to call Worli Ro-den once an hour until the man answered.

Apparently, the professor wasn’t on Earth anymore. So Alden couldn’t go to Matadero and embarrass himself by trying to pry new secrecy contract tattoo terms out of him in person.

And Ro-den obviously wasn’t taking calls from the guy he’d told to leave him alone.

A sharp break. Nothing more than empty pleasantries if we ever meet again. It would have been more convenient for him if I’d died. I wonder if he wishes I had.

Alden’s towel got wet.

He emerged from the water and slapped it onto tile.

[Alden: Again.]

“You’ve been training almost all day,” said Lute, sitting up just enough to see him this time. “It’s New Year’s Eve, man. Are you trying to level up before midnight or what?”

“That would be nice, yes,” Alden said. “Again.”

Lute sighed. “Take the towel.”

Alden did.

Lute was wrong about him training almost all day. It had been literally all day. Alden had done his casting practice before Lute woke up this morning. Then wordchain practice. Now skill.

He was trying not to wonder if he’d hurt Stuart’s feelings. And trying not to think about how much he would upset him in the future before this problem found some kind of resolution.

He won’t give up on me very soon. Even if his feelings are hurt and it seems like I’m being careless or cruel. I’ve been too clear about how serious I am. I’ve trusted him with so much.

But it’s going to suck so bad. All of these misunderstandings.

Alden felt like he’d lose his mind if he didn’t try to fix it, and the strong urge to fix it was unfortunate in its own way because it made him start thinking   about how every interaction they had might be used to clue Stuart in. Then, every idea to that effect became a firm no thanks to the tattoo.

Ro-den, if he ever answered at all, wouldn’t agree to alter anything about the secrecy contract. Alden was almost certain of it. The slim chance that he might be wrong, or that Ro-den might answer while he was drunk and therefore more susceptible to persuasion, kept him calling.

And if he didn’t answer, Alden would just continue to waste money trying. He would count the rejections and the lost argold, burning them to fuel his own anger and determination as he plowed toward the loophole Ro-den didn’t know he should be worried about yet.

Secrecy agreement can’t stop me from leveling, he thought with grim pleasure.

Lesson One was about how to level the skill the old fashioned way by taking advantage of the System, and Ro-den acknowledged if I grew powerful enough with it people would eventually notice. It’s baked in. Totally allowed.

Now he thinks I should take it easy for a few decades. He thinks that even if I don’t do that, it’ll be years before I become suspiciously powerful. But I will make this skill so fat, so fast that next week they call a special session in the Grand Senate to discuss what’s going on with me.

Next week might be a bit too soon. And the Grand Senate might be a bit the wrong group of people. But Alden was soothing himself with the vision anyway.

And maybe it’ll be like an apology gift to Stuart. When it all finally comes out, and he understands why I’ve been lying and acting like a jackass, I can at least tell him I was trying everything I could think of to close the power gap between us faster.

Not much of an apology gift, but what else could he do at this point?

Limit the hurt I cause. Maximize the leveling.

[I’m going to beat you to hyperbole, Lute,] he texted when he rose from the pool with another soaked towel.

“I’m never going to get there,” Lute said. “But that still sounds pretty bold coming from a B-rank Rabbit.”

“I mean it. Again.”

“I feel like I should refuse to entrust it for at least a minute so that you have to breathe. You’re getting crazy from lack of air.” He paused. “Crazier.”

“Again,” Alden insisted.

******

******

The first beams of the day’s light fell over the old house in Rapport I and over the person who stood on the farewell path, looking across a yard where hundreds might once have gathered to see a child of the house off. It was empty of people except him this morning, but all the tools of the ritual remained.

Stu had made his promises to the land and nourished it through the night. There was freshly turned ground by the path, and deep in the house, his footprints erased some of the dust in rooms that rarely saw visitors. Now he drank a sweet drop taken from the sap well and felt all his preparations becoming complete. The long leaves that had been laid against his inner arms and around his neck settled and bound themselves, distinct from his own skin but just as comfortable. The root bands on his ankle tightened, and the long walking stick in his hand yielded beneath his fingers to form a grip.

He was exhausted, which was surely not the way his ancestors had sent off traveling family members, but it was unavoidable since he was both the person leaving on the trip and the only one telling the land about it with blood and magic. He’d come close to fainting, but it was worth it now.

“I, Sina Stu-art’h, take your gifts with me,” he said, sending his voice far. “I will return to you soon with riches and knowledge from foreign lands. I accept your strength so that I may strengthen you.”

No living soul sent their voice back to him to wish him well on his way, but he heard something more than usual in the whisper of the wind and the creak of the branches over his head. The world was different now than the one the old house remembered, but nothing had been completely lost here in Rapport I.

Not yet.

He walked down the path, directing the timber and a few other supplies he was taking from the old house ahead of him with a wand of levitation. His walking stick dug into the ground with every step while his thoughts raced ahead of him.

His enemy was a smarter and more powerful wizard than him. He was also shameless and experienced in deceit. And he had some unknown but significant degree of control over a person Stu cared about.

There was much to do, and he couldn’t rest. The more time passed, the more likely it became that his family would discover he was up to something strange.

“Call Master Leeter-zis,” he said.

******

******

Alden was about to ring in 2041 on the roof of the Forthright Building with a plastic flute of sparkling punch, a group of students who’d chosen this little school-sponsored celebration over the vast array of options available off campus, and Lute.

Who was being really judgmental for a person who was also attending this event of his own free will.

“I bet everyone here thinks toasting bread makes it too exciting,” he grumbled at Alden from where they stood on the roof’s edge. “I bet the distant sound of a firework will scare them all back to the library.”

“Mmmm,” said Alden. He was preserving his punch and two napkins. All separately, though to anyone watching that wouldn’t be obvious. Three objects was his record, and his skill would be exhausted any second now.

“I should have brought an instrument, but I’m afraid music might be too thrilling for this group,” Lute said. He was facing Alden, but his eyes were fixed on his interface.

Emilija, Natalie, and Hadiza were posting videos from a Rabbit party where all the guests were wearing silver and gold. It was being held at a mansion owned by some person famous for cosmetics, and everyone there was putting on color-changing lipstick in preparation for midnight. Lute had explained this to Alden more than once, like it was a dire situation instead of an expected one. The girls had been hopping to luxurious parties almost daily.

“They’re starting a conga line now,” Lute said darkly. “Are you watching this?”

Alden wasn’t watching other people dance. “I’m on the course registration site. I’m trying to change some of my classes for this quarter, but one of the ones I want to swap to is full. I need someone to drop.”

Lute shook his head. “Who else is going to be working on their class schedule right now?”

“Someone with resolutions for the new year that make them want to change classes,” said Alden. He looked around the roof. “Like me. Do you think anyone here might be having second thoughts about Advanced Independent Study of Other Worlds?”

“That…sounds like a third year project course. For a third year who isn’t in the hero program.”

“I also need someone to let me on their obstacle coursing team so I can get into MPE: Coursing I, but half of the teams that say they’re looking for members have already rejected my application.”

“You want to be on a team? When did you decide to do that?”

“Today….I wonder if I could get the school to call learning wordchains with you an independent study? Maybe if I promise to master a certain number by the end of the quarter and be tested on them?”

Lute swiped his interface. “Today, you’ve been…not strange, exactly, but different. Did something happen on your trip?”

He glanced at the rings on Alden’s hands before refocusing on his face. Alden had told him what the rings were and that they were a gift from Stuart. But he’d said they were a show of support for his interest in word chaining.

Did something happen on my trip?

“I made several larger than normal decisions, and now I’m making adjustments because of that. Nothing’s wrong. It was a good trip. Actually, it was an awesome trip.”

“What kind of decisions did you make?”

“Ten!” the people on the roof around them suddenly called out. “Nine!”

“I’ll tell you some of it later,” Alden said. “Back at the room. Not here.”

“Six!”

“Fine. I wish you were Emilija.”

“You so wouldn’t be brave enough to ask her for a kiss if you were standing beside her right now.”

“There are wordchains for that!”

“ONE!” Alden and Lute both called with everyone else. Fireworks in green and white popped over the city skyline, and the people on top of Forthright clinked their plastic glasses. A girl leaped on top of one of the tables and spun, shaping punch around her waist like a tutu. A boy grabbed her ankles a minute later and lifted her up easily, and then another guy grabbed his ankles and lifted the two other laughing teenagers just as easily.

Before the fireworks had stopped, there were multiple towers of people being built. “See, they’re not that boring,” said Alden.

“I guess this is acceptable,” said Lute.

