Erick said, “I’m pretty sure you don’t actually want to be there, Shadow. I don’t want to be there.”

It was the day of the hearing between the Fae Council and Nothanganathor. It promised to be short and private. Something more public may happen later, but today it was just the Council, Yggdrasil, and Nothanganathor. Certain other people had been invited, but they had been told they were not allowed to speak unless asked to speak, with the various consequences for breaking such a rule left unspecified.

Erick had been invited by Yggdrasil. Yggdrasil had not wanted to invite Erick, but he had done it anyway, and now Erick stood in a prep room in House Benevolence, in City #1 in Tir Gael, looking over papers of facts, organizing his final thoughts. He was also preparing to have those thoughts torn asunder by whatever Nothanganathor said in the Council chambers.

Shadow had wanted to go, too, to be invited by Erick. She did not like being told ‘no’ in this instance least of all. With a dark, calm glare, she said, “I should be there.”

“Yeah. You should be there. Do you think you could honestly not speak up?”

Shadow glared a bit harder. “I could maintain decorum.”

“ ‘Could’ maintain. That’s not a ‘would’.” Erick said, “I am rather sure that he’s going to get under my skin rather well. All he has to do is bring up how he brutalized…” Erick didn’t want to say it, but he said it anyway, “How he brutalized Debby, or… or any of them. And besides that, he knows everything there is to know about me. He doesn’t know much about you. You could be in reserve for when the actual decisions are getting made. This is going to go beyond a hearing, Shadow.”

Shadow relaxed her glare. “There is logic to that, and yet, I am currently beyond logic… which means I should remain in reserve.” She took a moment, looking away, pacing for a few steps, her fancy black dress shoes clipping on the hard white floor, her court-date dress swishing as she moved. She stopped and said to Erick, “You’re not allowed to harm our chances either, and when it is over, you will report everything to me.”

“I will.”

Shadow breathed and then she stepped away, vanishing from sight as though stepping through veils made of half-invisible shadows.

Erick stepped away from the papers on his desk, to stare out the window. He looked without seeing, his thoughts not on the pastel roofs of the many apartments and buildings, but on the upcoming trial that was not a trial. It was just a hearing. Nothanganathor still had great standing within Margleknot, and of course he did. His magic was everywhere, in all of the Evil societies of this land. Slaver’s Den had had a lot of that shit; Malevolence. Malevolence was responsible for a good several percent of Margleknot’s preeminent killers of corruption out there in the greater universe.

Nothanganathor was probably going to claim that he had made Benevolence through his Malevolent actions, like a researcher prodding growth among its research subjects...

Erick frowned.

What did a good outcome of today look like? Realistically.

They certainly weren’t going to dismantle anything that Nothanganathor himself had built. Maybe they might censure him in some… not at all adequate way.

… What Erick wanted was Nothanganathor expelled from Veird and forbidden from interacting against Veird. Would that happen?

Probably not…

But if they believed he was the cause of the Sundering? Would they expel him then?

… No.

They wouldn’t act against him without proof of his malfeasance, and there was no proof, because the Painted Cosmology no longer existed. Would they act against him if he came right out and said that he had caused the Sundering?

… Erick wanted to say ‘yes’, but the answer was likely ‘no’.

Erick sighed. In truth, he had no idea what today would bring. He probably shouldn’t go to the hearing. Nothing good would come of it at all, except, perhaps, that Erick would get a heads up regarding further interaction with Nothanganathor.

“Yup,” Erick said to himself, as he finally looked out the window and saw his newest city. “The only good outcome of today is knowing what comes next.” Erick sighed. And then he prepared himself. With a flick of his aura, he poked at a pad near his desk, and then said, “Ring up Blighter of Wraithborne, please. I need to know if he’s still my lawyer, and if Wraithborne is still non-aggressive.”

Erick's secretary was the valkyrie known as Shivraa. Erick had transformed her into a dragon the other week, though, after ending the Quarantine. She was taking well to being a dragon of Benevolent Ice and something similar to a Valkyrie, and if she needed to she could return to inhabit the Valkyrie magic, and then be reincarnated back into a dragon. She was still working on all of her particular powers, and that would take a while, but she had been a secretary for many years before she was captured by slavers, so she was taking very well to being Erick’s secretary.

Shivraa spoke up from the speaker, “One moment.”

Twenty seconds of silence and thinking later—

Shivraa said, “Lawyer Blighter on the line, sir.”

“Ascended Flatt!” Blighter said, “I am glad to be taking your call.”

“Are you still my lawyer? Is Wraithborne still non-aggressive?”

“Yes, and yes.” Blighter said, “Wraithborne has been invited to today’s hearing by Nothaganathor. If you were to invite us as well, then we would be on your side as well.”

“That’s not a violation of interests?”

“I’m still the top lawyer at the firm who is not a Prime. Nothanganathor is represented by Prime Hadrago; my boss.”

“… That’s not a violation of interests?”

“No. It is not. Wraithborne plays very well with itself when it comes to bountiful outcomes for all. If both of us are there, for both sides, then we will fight till a conclusion is reached that is beneficial for both sides. If only Prime Hadrago is there, then he will fight for Nothanganathor’s exclusive rights to power.”

“… Ah.” Erick said, “My goal is Nothanganathor’s complete annihilation. That’s not on the table if you’re there, is it.”

“That honestly depends on the outcome of the hearing and the possible trial to come. It could very well be that Wraithborne wishes to abandon Nothanganathor, depending on his depravity.”

“But if he has some miracle plan for a whole new Painted Cosmology, with him as lead God of Magic, then what is Wraithborne’s position?”

“That we will try to keep Benevolence around and also argue against Nothanganathor being allowed that sort of power, considering he killed a universe to get there.” Blighter said, “Someone like that does not deserve the reins over any sort of Creation at all.”

Erick let surprise show in his voice. “That’s unexpected.”

“Ascended Flatt,” Blighter said, “I say with the full weight of Wraithborne behind me: you’re correct about the fact that Benevolence is better than Malevolence for the growth of nations. Malevolence steals and hides, all for the primacy of Nothanganathor. Benevolence is out in the open, and you’re the main user but other people are eagerly taking up the power for themselves. Your rise to power is so much faster than Nothanganathor’s ever was. If you wanted, you could take over all of Margleknot in a millennium. If you do not, then someone will, and it will be a person wielding Benevolence.”

Erick considered that. “I’ll have a different sphere to colonize and grow, Blighter, with Yggdrasil being there as well. You can tell Morbion that, if he’s not already listening in on this call.”

“I’m here, Ascended Flatt,” said a different voice. A deeper voice. It was Morbion. “Wraithborne wishes you luck with your worlds and purposes. Witch Agatha hopes that Witch Aragathara serves you well in the coming trials, and for you to know that Agatha also desires to see Nothanganathor ripped from his throne, if he deserves to be ripped from his throne.”

Erick said, “Aragathara is fitting in well, here at House Benevolence. If her sister wishes to visit, and provided she acts like a proper guest, she is welcome.”

Morbion’s voice seemed almost amused. “I’ll let her know.”

There was a click.

Blighter spoke, “Shall we meet you at the entrance?”

Erick said, “See you there.”

- - - -

Erick stepped through a swirling vortex of gold and green, onto a grand road of glitter crystal, kilometers wide, leading toward a wall of glitter crystal that was that half of the world. The Fae Enclave was massive, like a delineation in reality. At the very end of the road lay a large entrance, left open, leading into a place of trees and greenery and the land of the fae of this cosmology. It was smaller than the nail of his pinky from this distance, looking like little more than a glint of brighter light upon the wall ahead, but Erick knew it was pretty big.

Erick stepped forward—

—and moved hundreds of kilometers in that move, to stand in front of the entrance to the Fae Enclave. The entrance dominated half the world, and a land of cultivated forest lay beyond.

Blighter and Seabass, the two vampire lawyers from Wraithborne, stood there to the side, waiting for him. They bowed toward Erick.

Erick nodded, then turned to the insect-like fae woman sitting behind a glitter crystal podium, before the entrance into the Enclave. “Hello.”

“Aye. Erick Flatt. You are expected. You will remain in this lesser form and observe the proceedings. Your lawyers will abide by this as well. Do you have questions?”

“Can my lawyers and I speak to each other and not have our private conversations interrupt the proceedings?”

“Granted. You’re in the audience. You have to find your own way there. I’ll move your lawyers now.”

And then the fae clicked her fingers.

Blighter and Seabass vanished.

The insect fae gestured to the grand entrance to the Enclave beyond her podium. “You may proceed.”

Erick stepped into the air and flickered through the entrance, into the grand thoroughfare of green grass between kilometer-sized trees the size of Arbors, like at Treehome, with the orcols. This land was filled with fae, though; in houses in those trees, and on walkways, and hovering in the air here and there, going about their days without care for Erick at all. Some of them noticed Erick but he wasn’t a giant black dragon this time so they didn’t really care.

Flickering forward, Erick felt the fae-trap of the endless forest treadmill try to latch on, but he passed through that trap with a burst of his own disagreement.

Within moments, he once again stood before a much-more-reasonably-sized tower of glitter crystal that hovered above an empty crater.

The glitter crystal opened up; a door appearing, to make an entrance into the Fae Council Court.

Erick floated forward—

- - - -

Erick found himself seated on the right hand side of the audience, like he was at a football game or attending the theater. Blighter and Seabass were further right, the vampires both looking a little dazed, but then they were suddenly here, in the moment, as Erick looked to them. They nodded.

The Council room was the same as before; all dense glitter crystal.

The litigants were different.

Margleknot, as his orcol, Yggdrasil-self, stood to the right, behind a podium. On the judging side of the room, the Lords and Ladies of the Enclave sat in their chairs behind the arc of the glitter crystal judges’ table. From left to right, it was Lord Eldraki, Lady Aelorika, The Fractal Fairy, Lady Seraphaka, and Lord Dakka.

And to the left, beside the defendant’s podium, was a man.

Erick felt he should have recognized Nothanganathor, or at least his avatar. Erick had never met the man, of course. Still, Erick felt he should have recognized Nothanganathor.

Short white hair. White horns that curled up and back but which were clearly not dragon horns for they were almost slick; made for cutting through water. A leviathan’s horns. White eyes almost as white as a Shade’s, which was odd. His skin was deeply tanned. The guy was physically attractive, because once you reached a certain level of power you could decide those things about yourself. But he was also kinda tired-looking. Sleepy, almost. He didn’t look bored to be here, but he looked tired.

In any other setting Erick would have been predisposed to want to hand the guy a cup of coffee, to ask him what was bothering him, and if he needed help.

The meeting had not started yet.

Everything was still, in most ways. Sure, Lord Eldraki was messing with some illusions on the Council table, Lady Seraphaka was on a phone, Lady Aelorika was typing away at a tablet, and Lord Dakka was staring at Erick in a… Oh. Uh? A lustful, sort of way? Uh?

Lord Dakka twinkled his fingers at Erick and then made a kissy face, all silent-like.

So that was weird—

Yggdrasil was saying something to Nothanganathor, under his breath, and Nothanganathor was saying other small things under his breath, their lips barely moving. Erick probably could have understood what they were saying if he knew the language and if there wasn’t a heavily magical barrier between the stands and the court proper. That barrier read in tiny words, ‘Talking is permitted among the audience. Do not interrupt the proceedings upon pain of pain.’

There were a few other people in the audience.

Over there, in the seats behind Nothanganathor, was a man who looked human, but grey, who had a Wraithborne briefcase sitting on the bench beside him. The man saw Erick looking at him, and he nodded deeply, softly whispering, “Ascended Flatt.” He introduced himself, “Hadrago. Lawyer Prime of Wraithborne.”

Erick decided to be cordial and nodded back, and that was enough for both of them.

A few swirls of some sort of censoring magics occluded the remaining few people in the audience. One of those magics was gold and silver swirls. Another was a spherical mirror. The final one was a pixelated static cube. None of them sat near Erick at all. He was pretty sure that the gold and silver person was Lionshard; that power had that feeling to it—

Lady Aelorika put down her tablet and it disappeared. She cleared her throat, and the room came to order. “And that’s all the guests.” She intoned, “We are here today in a preliminary way to see if Nothanganathor deserves to be divested of much or all of his power here in Margleknot, or if nothing needs to happen at all. Nothanganathor. You stand accused of Sundering the Painted Cosmology through a series of networked power stations that propagated a dangerous killing magic throughout that entire universe, ripping it to pieces, and then harvesting those pieces for your own gains. What do you say to this accusation? Keep it short.”

