Shadow would probably be apoplectic right now. She would have every reason to be furious, too. Erick was furious. Showing that fury in a court of law wasn’t going to serve him well at all.

He wanted to show that fury.

He desperately wanted to.

To speak of the Sundered. To give voice to the lost. To say… so much. There was too much to say. Too much to condense down into anything small like some stupid courtroom drama.

Erick found himself skipping all of that and asking, “Why would the Darkness listen to his call to create? The Dark is chaos incarnate, and the Dark is mindless until it recognizes that it desires a mind. Shadow stuck a painting of an astronaut into a painting of the Dark, and somehow that worked. SOMEHOW, that worked. There is no guarantee that anything Nothanganathor would do with the Dark would work to create anything close to what had come before. No. What he would create would be an empire in the Dark, and then he would grow that empire as far as it could grow.”

… Erick found himself standing in the center of the courtroom, off to the side with Yggdrasil, speaking without stopping until he had arrived at his full counterpoint to Nothanganathor’s position. He had spoken out of turn, it seemed.

Erick doubled down. He puffed out his chest a little, and stood his ground.

The Fae Council was looking at him. Yggdrasil was looking at him. The Fractal Fairy might have been looking at him, or maybe not; hard to know.

Nothanganathor looked at Erick with sleepy, white eyes, and then he disregarded Erick.

Lady Aelorika turned her attentions back to Nothanganathor, asking, “Have anything to say to that?”

“The Darkness isn’t going anywhere and I have a connection to it, and all the souls I saved were from there, so it will take one or two or hundreds of tries, but it will happen,” Nothanganathor said. “I can try for a while. As long as it takes. I imagine it will take a few hundred years to get something generative going. Less time, if I have help. Once I am empowered, ascended, and godly, it would be easy. I would have Margleknot’s help in this, if he would give it. Such help would ensure a good outcome.”

Yggdrasil said, “I would rather help Erick do the same, and never see you again, Nothanganathor.” With a deep hurt in his heart and eyes, Yggdrasil said, “You betrayed me deeply. You don’t understand how deeply.”

“I do understand, Margleknot,” Nothanganathor said. “I have your Sign of the Fractal. I understand fully how much I betrayed you.”

Margleknot raged.

The glitter crystal of the courtroom fractured with gold and green that curled and exploded under Yggdrasil’s feet, expanding under the firmament of the world, reaching all corners of the space, as Margleknot declared,

“THEN GIVE ME BACK MY LIVES.”

The Fractal Fairy waved a hand, and all was silent. The glitter crystal healed. Gold and green pulled back.

Margleknot’s skin was gold, a crown of horns upon his otherwise-orcol countenance. He sighed, and looked tired, as he pulled back, and green returned to his skin, his horns retreated back to his black hair, but his eyes remained gold. Erick stepped to his side, closer, and put a hand on Margleknot’s hand. Margleknot went still, and Yggdrasil held Erick’s hand briefly, before letting go.

Yggdrasil said to Nothanganathor, “I can’t forgive you for stealing my selves. I can’t forgive you for sundering thousands of trillions of lives. Or more.” He looked truly tired now, as he said, “But I also know you have saved so very many with your Malevolence, by killing corruption out there in the greater universe. At the low estimates for the population of the Dark, when compared to the places you have saved, you’ve rescued more than you have damned. At the high estimates of the population of the Painted Cosmology, you would be labeled a Corrupter, and it doesn’t matter that you are prepared to put the Painted Cosmology back because you would be making it in your image, and Corrupters cannot be allowed images of their own.”

Yggdrasil looked like he could keep going, but he stopped there.

Lady Aelorika spoke, “Naming Nothanganthor as Corrupter seems adequate for his Sundering of a universe, no matter what outcome he was hoping to achieve with his schemes.”

Lady Seraphaka said, “I would agree to this Naming, or at least to a removal of Nothanganathor from the list of Approved Evils.”

Lord Dakka said, “I want to see them fight for dominance, but it would be one-sided and boring.”

Lord Eldraki simply gave a Cheshire grin.

… Erick truly did not like that expression on that trickster.

Lady Aelorika said, “You’ve really planned this whole thing out, eh, Nothanganathor? Did you ever imagine that we would ever name you Corrupter?”

Nothanganathor said, “Unless I am mistaken, this is a hearing and not a trial, and yes, being named Corrupter was within acceptable parameters because I have assurances that I won’t be named Corrupter. They’re not violent assurances, of course. I have been planning this for a long time and have many ways to ensure that this works out how I want it to work.”

The room was silent at those proclamations.

And then Lord Eldraki laughed. As though he already knew the answer, he asked, “How do you see this whole thing working out, Nothanganathor?”

“Best case, I win completely, with Margleknot regaining everything it lost in my subterfuge and then gaining True Communication with the Dark. Erick continues uninterrupted, and is free to pursue whatever he wishes to pursue. Having taken my Mantle from Melemizargo, I’ll undo my various curses and remake the Painted Cosmology. Do you have a name you’d like for the new universe I create in the Dark? I would hear it.” Nothanganathor said, “Worst case is the exact same thing happens, but Benevolence loses its current creator and Margleknot loses his Yggdrasil-personality. Veird is erased. The battle probably erases that well-made orb around Veird’s sun. That man who created it, Solomon, is no more, or perhaps I capture him or his Elemental Genesis and grant that power to Margleknot to make more spheres with. Perhaps the worst case would be best for all, but that is not my judgment to make. That is this Council’s judgment to make.”

Erick was there on the courtroom floor, but he wasn’t a part of the conversation at the moment.

That was probably a good thing.

Erick would have exploded like Yggdrasil had exploded, if he were allowed to speak. But from the body languages and faces of Lady Aelorika and Lady Seraphaka, Erick didn’t need to speak; they were already against Nothanganathor’s ploy, though not nearly as much as Erick would have liked. Yggdrasil still seemed hateful of Nothanganathor, so that was good.

Lord Dakka was done with this whole thing.

And then Lord Eldraki smiled devilishly, saying, “I vote for war between Malevolence and Benevolence, and we let chance and power determine the victor.”

Lord Dakka came back to the conversation, scoffing, saying, “Erick has too many weak points on Veird. Nothanganathor would decisively win any real fight between the two of them the second he allowed himself to win. He probably killed all the various Ericks who could have actually fought against him while those guys were still fiddling with basic mana! Nothanganathor doesn’t do war; he does murder.”

Lady Aelorika and Lady Seraphaka looked to each other.

Lady Aelorika said, “Then such a war simply cannot be allowed to happen on Veird—”

“Or on Veird’s sun, since that would be Nothanganathor’s base.” Lord Eldraki said, still smiling. “How convenient they have an intermediary zone, isn’t it! I think Erick named it Fenrir.”

The Ladies glared at Eldraki.

And then Lady Seraphaka said, “This is not a judgment. This is a hearing. We have heard everything we needed to hear. I move that we reconvene at a later date.”

Lord Eldraki said, “And I move that we let Nothanganathor and Erick speak to each other right here and now, and that we all get to watch to make some decisions about who to back!” He smiled at everyone. “It’s just talk!”

The Fractal Fairy waved a hand at Erick and Nothanganathor.

It was a ‘get on with it’ gesture.

The room vanished.

- -

Erick stood on one side of an oval-shaped floor made of glitter crystal. Everywhere else was lightless. It was not dark, or Dark, and it was certainly not filled with shadows. Not even sort of dim. Just a void.

Nothanganathor stood on the other side of the oval, looking tired, and yet relieved. “Help me get the Mantle and you get everything else.”

Infinity shattered the lightless void into an endless fractal, filled with images that took but moments to collect. They were consequences illuminated upon those shards of reality, like an ever-shifting stained-glass masterpiece. Each fragment held a possibility of the future.

In certain places, Erick said something devastating and won this contest, and the Enclave censured Nothanganathor. After that event, Nothanganathor ascended to godhood anyway, in a much more direct path. A path made out of the rubble and bodies of everyone on Veird.

Upon seeing that pathway the shifting Infinity transformed, for Erick was scared to confront Nothanganathor with the best possible words and cut right to apocalypse. Less paths forward won this contest for Erick. More paths showed the other way. Where the Enclave sided with Nothanganathor.

The white dragon’s countenance dominated the FENRIR system, erupting from that black surface, his face the size of the silver sphere of Veird’s outer shell. Nothanganathor took a bite out of Veird, consuming all of Melemizargo in that space, ripping the black dragon out of his prison and devouring him utterly, without disrupting anything else. And then the solar-sized leviathan went off into space, vanishing forever. Somewhere out there a portal to the Dark opened up, and Nothanganathor became a creator god. Life went on on Veird. Without the Shades. Without Melemizargo.

And Nothanganathor got away with everything evil he had ever done in pursuit of power.

He was now untouchable, a God of Darkness in a universe of his own making, there in the embrace of the Actual Darkness. The actual Darkness once again spoke with the Fractal in the ways that universes do; in the actions of people moving back and forth. All of the Painted Cosmology had become the Empire of Nothanganathor’s Shadowed Sun.

And still, Malevolence would spill forth from the New Dark, for Nothanganathor would never give up the power he had gained in his Obscurity—

Something blocked the way forward, to See more, to Know more of that Path.

Erick knew what it was.

Erick countered Nothanganathor’s hiding attempt by saying, “Would you give up pursuit of your own agendas and be a proper god to all? Or would you consume and never stop consuming? Would you never give up your mantle of power to anyone else? Or would everything always have to be your way or no way at all? Do we really want a Cosmology of the Empire of the Shadowed Sun? Empires spread.”

The block on the Fractal Future broke, revealing what Nothanganathor did not want revealed. Nothanganathor sighed in annoyance as the fractals showed a white dragon entering other universes made of mana and violently dominating all of them. Nothanganathor was going to consume every universe made of mana and remake them all in his desired image…

And then pay off Lord Eldraki with a universe of his own to add to his collection.

The other fae of the Council would get their own universes, as soon as they got over their anger at Nothanganathor’s overreach—

Nothanganathor rhetorically asked, “Do you know how many universes out there only have one or two worlds, Erick? Too many to ever count. With me at the helm of those failed, tiny places, those places would expand exponentially, and the Fractal will gain conversation partners untold. Do you know of the true natures of gods and fae? Most are ambivalent tyrants. If I were in charge, I would simply not allow those sorts of entities to exist, to lord their power over the masses, for I would hide in the shadows and eat them when they got out of line. They wouldn’t even know I existed except when I chose to make myself present, to solve this or that crisis. And so! YES. I would dominate every universe that is less than acceptably made.”

Erick glared. “Why?”

Nothanganathor glared right back, declaring, “Because every world is always falling apart because tyrants and the small-minded destroy everything, all the time, therefore they deserve nothing less than obliteration and their worlds deserve strict guidance, and I am the only one who can do that! Only through taking power away from those who cannot wield it properly can any of us ever hope to make anything better.”

“So you say a proper universe only exists with you at the head.” Erick said, “Not surprisingly, I cannot abide that. I cannot abide you. There are some things that one should not do in pursuit of power, and you have done all of them. Whoever you are when you gain more power is just going to be more of the same. You speak of tyrants? You are a tyrant, Nothanganathor.”

“I am the best possible tyrant.”

“And I must kill you.”

The fractal world reorganized along different lines.

All of them showed war, and it wasn’t a one-sided war, either.

Erick could win. That’s what the stained-glass imagery near him showed.

Nothanganathor might win. That’s what showed over on his half of this space.

Erick said, “You killed your mother to force a passing of the Mantle of Magic because you thought you could do better. You were found out then and cursed to be a leviathan. And now you have Sundered a universe and you have been found out again. You had a chance. You squandered it. You should be Sundered yourself, named Corrupter posthumously, and all your works of Malevolence broken.”

Nothanganathor raised a white eyebrow, then said, “Of course you would say that as my True Opposite.” He spoke to the world, “We’re done, here.”

The Fractal Void fell away—

- -

And Erick stood beside Yggdrasil in the courtroom once again—

Lady Aelorika said, “And that was the hearing. Everyone learned a few things. Erick. Do you wish to give your Valkyrie Spell to Lord Dakka, as well as assist Nothanganathor with the capture of that Mantle he wants?”

Erick wasn’t sure which part he was objecting to more when he instantly said, “No.”

Dakka sighed dramatically.

Lady Aelorika nodded, as though this was expected. She moved on. “Nothanganathor. Do you wish to abandon your quest for a smaller, less tumultuous existence? Or to give up your Sign of Power back to Margleknot?”

Nothanganathor said, “No.”

