Erick gazed across the decimation of a grand feast that both of them had shared while they spoke. From ‘chicken’ bones on plates to empty casserole dishes to many other empty plates and a few empty barrels of good drink, they had eaten well. Erick was ready to move on. And yet…

“Yes, but I need to talk to Yggdrasil first.”

Shadow nodded, then stood up. “I’ll be there for the lawyer meeting. Let me know when.” And then she stepped away.

Erick cleared away the dregs of their feast with a [Benevolent Cleanse]. The detritus of life misted into a white fog that rolled away, disappearing into reality. Erick stood up.

“Yggdrasil?” Erick asked, “Want to talk?”

Yggdrasil stepped into the room. The room flashed over with golden hexagons, labeled with QUARANTINE. Yggdrasil instantly said, “There is no trial. The decision has been made. We wish to purge Nothanganathor from Margleknot, but steps must be taken to ensure this happens in a positive way. Malevolence and Benevolence are both useful, so we will keep both, but their primary users must leave to avoid what we call a Grand Trial here in Margleknot, which would likely result in the deaths of trillions. That means you, too. You gotta leave. You can come back here, but when this war is over, Nothanganathor is purged.

“And so, the Grand Trial will take place on Veird.

“After visiting with your lawyers in a final attempt to amicably avoid a fight, which we doubt is possible, you will be moving back to Veird.

“From there, you will have the task of removing Nothanganathor yourself.

“We believe —that with assistance— you can defend one reality from him. If you wish to win you will have to work to defend multiple realities, and then you will have to erase the Erased One. It will not be easy. I will be helping you in my capacity as Margleknot. Nothanganathor will be drawing on his resources here in Margleknot and elsewhere, as well. The fight will be contained to Veird and the surrounding space. Anyone who is forced to flee is an automatic loser, and we will be working to ensure no one flees.

“The outcome will be something we will all have to live with.”

Erick took a moment.

Then he said, “Yup. Expected that.”

Yggdrasil waited.

Erick asked, “So why the Quarantine?”

“Because everyone and their grandmother is spying on you and Shadow right now,” Yggdrasil said, throwing his hands up in the air. “Aside from all this world-ending Nothanganathor shit— Why are you moving so fast with her? She’s going to betray you in 500 years!”

“… What?” Erick felt some whiplash right now. “Don’t people have better things to do than worry about… whatever this is?” He grinned. “It’s kinda quaint.”

Yggdrasil shook his head. He focused. “Father. Erick. Shadow will betray you.”

“Probably not, actually.” Erick said, “She seems okay.”

Yggdrasil paused. He looked at Erick. “… You’re happy right now?”

Erick smiled. “I’m going home and Nothanganathor isn’t automatically winning. I have a lot to be happy about.”

Yggdrasil frowned a little, his golden eyes sparkling with concern. “… He has some big trick. I don’t know the trick, but he’s going to try and win everything with his tricks.”

“Yup. So be ready. I suggest you dismantle the Malevolence stuff you have here in Margleknot while you can.” Erick asked, “Want me to try hooking up [Benevolent Cleanse] to an [Infinite Imaging] and simply erasing all of the Malevolence here in Margleknot?”

Yggdrasil blinked. And then he laughed. “No. That would be… a disaster.”

Erick nodded.

Yggdrasil said, “The danger isn’t coming from those Malevolence formations, anyway. We’ve prognosticated in ways you don’t even know are possible. We’re very sure that the danger is not coming from Malevolence. Or Benevolence, for that matter, just so you know.”

Erick thought for a moment… “What about the absence of Malevolence, then? Could he take back his power and fuck things up? If a [Cleanse] could fuck up everything, surely he could do the same?”

“We’ve checked that, too. We’re not sure what the trick is, but he has one, and nothing we do can find it. Just be careful, father.” Yggdrasil said, “And don’t tell anyone about this conversation until stuff happens.”

“Sure.”

Yggdrasil looked at Erick for a while longer.

… And then Yggdrasil stepped away, clearing the air and the mana history as the golden Quarantine hexagons vanished—

Shadow stepped right back into the room. “What the fuck was that?”

Erick chuckled. “Good news and bad news and I can’t tell you about any of it. I’m going to send off a message to Wraithborne about the lawyers. You ready to meet them?”

… Shadow stared for a moment. “I await the meeting with the lawyers!”

And then she huffed and stepped away through a wave of Dark veils to vanish from sight, to go wherever it was she was going— Ah. Back to her castle, it appeared. She was busy in her Observation Room now, rapidly getting Witch Aragathara and Great Mother Caa back into the room to go over a whole bunch of prognostication things.

Erick spoke to the air, down by Shivraa, his secretary, “Shivraa.”

“Yes, sir?” Shivraa said, suddenly looking up from her computer terminal.

“Set up a meeting with the lawyers and Wraithborne. They’ll probably be expecting your call.”

“At once, sir.”
