Lady Aelorika said, “Then we’ll reconvene in 3 days.” She looked to Erick. “Your contributions to this hearing were valuable, and thus we will be overlooking your transgressions for a fine of a billion resons. And we’re done!”

The Fractal Fairy snapped their fingers—

- -

Erick found himself in his offices of the king at House Benevolence in Tir Geal, in one of the big meeting rooms that was currently empty of everything, for Erick hadn’t had a need to fill it with anything yet.

Shadow appeared near-instantly, trying not to be too demanding as she asked, “What happened?!”

Erick took a moment, then he said to the air, “I’ll pay the fine with my Sun resons.”

Words appeared.

Done.

Father. I wish to speak to you later, away from Shadow. Please let me know when you can talk.

“Sure thing, Yggdrasil.” Erick turned to Shadow. “The first thing to know is that Nothanganathor’s avatar was strong, and yet not as strong as the actual leviathan, and that he was lying a lot in there without actually lying. All throughout the hearing there were sentiments about how I’m not strong enough to take him, and not a single person disbelieved that sentiment. I’m pretty sure that I couldn’t take him in a multiversal way, and yet, I am strong enough to take him in at least one slice of infinity.” Erick asked, “Have you fought him since the Sundering?”

“I wasn’t able to; the Council stopped me.” Shadow waved a dismissive hand. “Get on with the hearing.”

“I will. I just…” Erick breathed. “I just need a moment.”

Shadow understood. She waited.

And then Erick released his aura into the empty meeting room and began crafting a lightshow. “I started in the gallery, near my lawyers and a few other people, who were veiled in some way. Over there was Hadrago, the Lawyer Prime of Wraithborne…”

- - - -

Twenty minutes and a few interruptions of Shadow’s fury later, Erick dismissed the light show.

Shadow paced the room, clearing up a few lingering motes of all consuming Darkness she had left in the shadows here and there, and then wiping away the holes in the floor and walls and other places. She was silent. Thinking.

Erick had a lot of his own thoughts. He kept them to himself right now.

Shadow stopped pacing. She turned to Erick, and said, “It is for the best that I did not attend the hearing.”

Erick said nothing.

Shadow continued, “It is good that you did attend.” She paused in more thought. She said, “I will be able to contain myself when the lawyers get together, for that is the next move. We will gain a measure of where Wraithborne truly stands in such a meeting as well. It won’t accomplish anything of true worth, but Nothanganathor’s avatar will be present, so perhaps we will get a better idea of the person he is and who we have to kill.”

Erick nodded. “Returning back to the hearing: What do you say in regards to Nothanganathor’s idea that he is responsible for my self-creation through both the instigation of…” Erick’s temper flared almost out of control but he kept it in check, as he finished, “—in the instigation of Jane, and the emplacement of the Ultimate Quests which similarly drew me forward to Veird through Fate Magics? On the whole idea that this whole Sundering and the fallout of me being his True Opposite is a result of him playing up his competence for the Fae Enclave, to show them that he is in complete control?”

Shadow almost said something harsh and derogatory against Nothanganathor, but then she looked at Erick, and paused. She stated, “In this arena of cause-and-effect the wyrm only has as much Authority as you give him, so don’t give him any. You are a product of your environment but you are also your own creator, and that goes many times over as a Paradox Wizard. It would not surprise me at all if you went back in time and did something crazy to make your self yourself. Almost all truly powerful Paradoxes do that eventually.” She said, “It’s just a matter of Time.”

“… Ah.”

Silence.

Shadow moved on, “Regarding your rise to Margleknot, though… Nothanganathor is ascribing his actions to your outcomes and that’s not how responsibility works, and especially not for people like him. He could bluster all day every day about how he made you who you are, but it would only be truth for those who decide to listen to him.”

Erick made some decisions in that moment. He breathed out, then asked, “So the Fae Enclave isn’t going to accept that Nothanganathor is some ultimate mastermind?”

Shadow saw that Erick was past his moment of weakness, nodding firmly to note its passing. And then she went back to being quietly wrathful, saying, “That wyrm might get away with it because the Fractal wants to see the Dark again and it doesn’t care about who is at the helm of that visitation. If it was just a matter of getting back into the Dark then Nothanganathor would have already won, because you and your Benevolence are here to counter Nothanganathor’s excesses and Benevolence can easily track destructive influences of all sorts; especially when it comes to Malevolence. And yet, Nothanganathor has proven that he will kill universes to enact his will, and that he will not stop.

“The fact that you uncovered his greater desires to enact his will upon the Small Universes, to make them grow under his Shadowed Sun Empire, is probably going to be the tipping point where Nothanganathor does not win.

“We have likely gained countless allies and also enemies in that uncovering of desire. The Powers That Be of those Small Universes are not on this stage yet at all, but Nothanganathor is dragging them this way, and they could go either way regarding a tyrant leviathan coming in and consuming and replacing all of the tyrants they already have. Oddly enough, those Small Tyrants of those Small Universes will likely side with Benevolence a great deal, for they don’t wish to be deposed, while the Good Gods and Heroes might side with Malevolence and Nothanganathor, for the Acceptable Evil of Margleknot might be a better evil than the evils they already have.

“That truly depends on the universes.

“And yet, with any Acceptable Fate this whole event never reaches that far and we arrive at a good outcome here, in the next 3 days.

“What we need to do is present a plan for something that would outweigh Nothanganathor’s goals of growing outward into the Small Universes and remaking the Painted Cosmology in his image.” Shadow ended with, “I propose we make a plan out of the nebulous thing you have spoken of a few times in that dossier that Margleknot handed out. We make a real plan for expanding from Veird into this Fractal Cosmology.”

Erick scrunched his eyebrows. “What do we need besides a nebulous plan? It should be rather simple, right?”

“Is it, really?” Shadow asked, “If we succeed in making the Painted Cosmology again, would you come with me to the Dark? Or would you want to stay here in this universe? I haven’t met the girl, but I’m almost 100% sure that your daughter would want to go to the Painted Cosmology.”

Ah!

Sudden mirth filled Erick many times over as he imagined Jane loosed upon the universe. Erick said, “I don’t think worrying about that is necessary. She’s going to go absolutely everywhere, multiple times over, as soon as she can. I’m a little sad that I might only ever get to see her and her sisters and Evan every other century once this whole thing works out well, but I’m pretty sure I can work out how to visit her with a step of power whenever I want.”

Shadow’s mood seemed to improve as Erick’s did. She nodded. “That’s one way to do it, yes.” She sighed out, and it was a happy sort of sound. And then her eyes glittered with Darkness, and she said, “A workable plan might help the Council see us as valued, so let us plan how to make a universe, Erick, both in the Fractal, and in the Dark.”

“I have about a hundred questions about the Painted Cosmology,” Erick said, as he began moving his aura around the entirety of House Benevolence, copying some treats here and there in the various offices of the House and bringing them to this room. Big fluffy chairs and some tables and working chairs and a whole drinking cart came next. Erick poured a copy of some fresh tea that some people were drinking down in the Command Center, as they fiddled with the [Infinite Imaging] and searched all of Tir Geal for threats of many different kinds. There weren’t many threats, though. So Erick simply said to Shadow, “Primarily, what does a connection between universes even look like? Is there a reason that the galaxy containing Veird seems to be a giant [Renew] ring, with Veird in the gap?”

Shadow readily took her tea, seeming to relax even more as she said, “That’s where Nothanganathor killed several thousand lightyears’ worth of the Fractal Cosmology when he Sundered the Painted Cosmology. The destruction went far and deep, threatening to spread far in this universe as well. Margleknot contained the problem along with Nothanganathor, who was there within moments of the event. From this angle, I am told the destruction was a corruptive event. I made it through just fine, though those first days were horrific and I was furious.” She sipped her tea as she sat down in a big fluffy chair. Erick sat down across from her. Shadow continued, “The corruption of that event was a way to shield all actual Viewing into the heart of the event itself, so the question of ‘what happened’ has always been a big question. I remember the next few years vividly, but I do not wish to go over them for they paint me in a rather terrible light.”

Erick nodded.

Shadow continued, “As for what a connection between universes looks like? That is a varied topic. Sometimes it’s a single divot in the Fractal Cosmology that leads to other places… I believe you’d call it a ‘False Vacuum hole’? Anyway, I see you understand the words, even if we don’t share the same language in that way. Anywhere that is collapsed in the Fractal Cosmology can give rise to a hole into another place, or serve as a place where another universe can grow.

“Black holes can often serve as ways into other Universes. Most galaxies have one at the center that serves this function.

“Did you know that gravity is just an expression of slices of reality that are nearby each other? Oh yes. Extreme gravity, like that inside a black hole, is a result of Small Universes existing within a space. Usually the actual entrance to that Small Universe is only on one or maybe a few slices of a Layer, with all the other slices merely experiencing heavy gravity.

“Moving on: Oftentimes, the distance between Here and There is a Veil-like structure that exists strongly in certain areas. This is that Dark Matter that you’ve sometimes referenced in your dossier. So again: gravity.

“The Dark connected to the Fractal by way of Veil, most prominently existent within that Renew Galaxy, as you call it, in Layer 789. We kept the number of actual entrances down to a handful; 5 of them. We mostly had annihilating Dark in those entrances; a defensive measure. We’re probably going to have to have cities instead, when we remake it all. Gotta show how friendly we are, after all.”

Erick was having a moment.

He leaned forward a little bit. “Can you talk more about gravity as a function of slices of reality?”

“Oh sure. It’s all space time here in the Fractal Cosmology; that’s where we have to start this conversation. From there the rest of it is easy to understand. The multiverse is stuck to itself in a way which makes gravity happen due to the nearness of side-realities. Like you know that gravity strength is a function of distance from matter? That’s because the ability to draw forth side realities using resons —to pull a grain of rice out of nothing— is more easily achieved when you’re closer to side realities in which it would be physically easy to pull forth a grain of rice out of nothing, and it’s harder to do that when you’re further away from planets with rice.” Shadow said, “Everything in this universe is a function of nearness to each other in time and space, and gravity is a natural function of that nearness, but if you go too deep with gravity, you punch forth into completely new possibility, which gives rise to new universes, or at least completely new possibilities, which then gives rise to new universes.”

Erick sat thinking for a moment.

Shadow smirked, sipping her tea.

Erick said, “I’ll try to reconcile that with what I already know, but it seems… almost intuitive when you put it that way?”

Shadow smiled. “All universes are rather intuitive when you get right down to it. Here, gravity and time are a function of nearness of other matters in side realities, but in the Painted Cosmology, collective mana belief did all that, while Elemental Stone helped a lot with a foundational base. From there...”

Erick and Shadow spoke for a while, and Erick got to experience a part of Shadow he did not realize existed. Shadow knew a lot about a lot. He had known this, of course, but he hadn’t really known this. Now he knew.

When the conversation moved on to universal building plans, Erick suggested Benevolence dungeons on suitable worlds of the Renew Galaxy, with giant bubbles of [Renewing] [Hasted Shelter]s and [Terraforming]s around them to speed up development by a lot. Shadow had more nuanced ideas that showed a level of building and care that Erick was simply not willing to extend beyond ‘put some good people in charge and let them run free’. Shadow wanted tourism and garden worlds and grand societies to anchor and support the rebirth of the Painted Cosmology, which she wanted to accomplish on the Other Side of the Renew Galaxy. Erick couldn’t say that her ideas were better or worse, they were just different, and therefore easy enough to accept.

“Melemizargo wants to put dungeons everywhere and then bring people back on this side of the universe.” Erick asked, “Do you think he would want to adjust his plans toward remaking the Painted Cosmology instead, if he knew you were still around and we were doing this sort of planning here?”

“Hard to say what he would do exactly, but he will likely wish to go back to the Dark,” Shadow said. “Whatever the case, you’re not going to ask him to sacrifice himself to Nothanganathor, are you?”

“Ha! Absolutely not. Melemizargo is a friend.”

Shadow smiled softly. “Is it time to talk to some lawyers?”

