Nothanganathor nodded, then spoke as though he was reporting on the weather, “The Darkness still exists. That universe is still there. The magics I did were incapable of killing that universe, but the pieces that people inhabited no longer exist, and yes, I did that.”

He just…

He just… came out and said it.

Erick breathed deep, feeling some unfeeling, unknowing sort of way. It was halfway to giddy, and yet halfway to a rage as well. Vindication swirled around somewhere in his soul, and his heart beat hard. He breathed out.

He knew it wasn’t over at all.

The Council fae all looked unsurprised. Yggdrasil looked… sad? Yeah. Sad.

Lady Aelorika nodded. “Glad you didn’t try to lie to us. How did you kill the inhabited part of the Painted Cosmology?”

“Planted Malevolence seeds all across the land. Took a few thousand years to propagate far enough. It was a magic that was unique to the Painted Cosmology that allowed such a thing to happen at all. It couldn’t happen here due to the multi-magic nature of this uber-universe. It only worked at all because every time Melemizargo found that magic he enjoyed finding it, because he used it to draw me back to the Painted Cosmology and torment me, instead of actually erasing that magic.”

Lady Aelorika asked, “Did you deserve that torment?”

“We are enemies.”

“How did you escape that torment?”

“I had previously stolen a Sign of the Fractal from Margleknot’s avatar that he would send to the Painted Cosmology. Melemizargo only got an avatar of mine each time he drew me there.”

Yggdrasil was quietly furious.

Lady Aelorika asked, “Why couldn’t that magic be used here, in this cosmology, to Sunder this universe’s inhabited places?”

“It was a thieving sort of magic that worked on mana-made souls. Even if you sucked all the mana out of a large portion of this universe, you would still have resons and particles and all the rest. The infinite nature of this universe is truly infinite, unlike how it was in the Painted Cosmology.”

“Could this magic be transposed to work on atoms, or slices, or Infinity itself?”

“Doubtful. The Fractal takes notice of that sort of thing rather heavily.”

Erick whispered to himself, but maybe also to Blighter and anyone else nearby, “Nothanganathor already eats all the slices of infinity around Veird that aren’t the God Pact world, so that’s a fucking lie. He could eat this universe if he plotted well enough.”

Lady Aelorika frowned a little at Nothanganathor. “But you eat the slices of infinity all around Veird’s God Pact world all the time. Plus, there’s Elemental Destruction and various other forms of consuming spellwork, like that [Cleanse] magic. We’ve had quite a few demonstrations of such possibilities rather recently, with your Element’s new Opposite. I doubt that Wizard Flatt, Ascended from Veird, is better at magic than you are, so explain to the court, how, exactly, your Sundering spellwork would not do the same thing to this universe that you did to the Painted Cosmology?”

Nothanganathor easily said, “Because I have given you my Opposite. I have culled Veird in so very many different ways to prepare for this day, so you finally have something that directly opposes my Malevolence, so that you will allow me to consume Veird entirely, and remake the Painted Cosmology how it should be. You have both my weapon of Malevolence and the way to kill my weapons in your hands, with Benevolence. I even gave Margleknot another instance of himself, and a Father. I have also given Margleknot a heavy return of the Balance.” He said to Yggdrasil, “I know you can never forgive me for betraying your trust, but I know I have given back more than I have taken.” He said to the council, “And I know I will make the Painted Cosmology better than it ever was, provided I am allowed now to finally consume that world, instead of watch over it.”

Erick was stunned as Nothanganathor took credit for his own work, for his own Benevolence, as though he hadn’t been fighting Nothanganathor every step of the way, as though That Asshole wasn’t killing him every chance he got, as though—

Erick was spiraling in fury.

Everyone had told him that Nothanganathor was going to take credit. Erick hadn’t believed it until now, until here. But yeah. The guy was shameless. Taking credit for someone finally standing up against him, from successfully hiding from him all this time, from someone among millions finally making an Element to directly oppose him! Of course opposing elements happen now and then! Nothanganathor should not get credit for that!

And then to speak of consuming Veird!

“Ohhhh,” Erick whispered, raging, “I’m going to murder him so much.”

Lady Aelorika frowned at Nothanganathor’s little speech. She hummed. She sat back in her chair.

Lord Eldraki put away his tiny illusions and asked Nothanganathor, “How did you make Erick come to be?”

“I couldn’t do a direct approach, of course, because if I did that then my Opposite would not be accepted as a True Opposite. And so I prodded. I waited. Primarily, I infected their Goddess of Knowledge, eating away at her capability to do anything, and then mutating what was left. I did spawn a few avatars over the centuries, there at the beginning, but Melemizargo saw all of those and killed them or attempted to mutate them back at me. From what they call the ‘Old Demons’ to the Rage of the Orcols to even individual bad actors meant to tear them down how I needed them torn down, my various efforts at working sideways were killed here and there.

“One of my largest shaping successes and also failures was Idyrvamikor.

“In the Death of all Halves, Melemizargo’s wizard grandson was poisoned by me to do my bidding and he almost succeeded in simplifying everything when he made the orcols. If the orcols would have happened as I wanted them to, then that singular race of sapients on Veird would have simply disbelieved in Melemizargo, but he couldn’t have that simple end, so Melemizargo interfered. I managed to instead poison Elemental Dragon with a Curse that worked through his bloodline, attaching that one to his other grandson, twisting all dragons to a leviathan form, like he did to me. Quite proud of that one, really.

“From there, Kirginatharp has done a lot of my bidding over the years, but I kept a very light touch. Barely anything at all, because that seemed to work better.

“From around 75 years onward, Post Sundering, I did very little but nibble here and there, only consuming the slices of realities that got too far away from the main world of Veird; the ones that would fall to self-destruction, anyway. The main world that they call the God Pact world was carefully pruned.

“I had set up everything for success by that time, from Fate magic not being inside the Script so well, to triggering Planar visits, to easing the way forward for everyone who was remotely able to resist my Malevolence at all. It’s that last one that truly got Erick up here, at Margleknot. If I wanted to I could have killed him at any point in time, and I was about to at one of those yearly parties to Melemizargo, but then he made Yggdrasil, and from there I stepped out of the way.” Nothanganathor said, “I knew Erick would become my True Opposite by then.

“And so I went investigating him more.

“Apparently, my Malevolence gave rise to the woman Erick met in college by the name of Margaret, which gave rise to Jane, who was born with a bit of Malevolence inside of her. Erick’s almost allergic reaction to that, as a Natural Wizard, is what precipitated his entire adult life.

“Therefore, as it was my aim to cause my True Opposite all this time, I claim right of cause of the resultant Benevolence, and all the assorted benefits thereof, as well as forgiveness for the temporary loss of the Fractal’s ingress into the Darkness.” Nothanganathor said, “I’ll be setting that to rights as soon as I’m allowed.”

Erick heard a ringing in his ears, threatening to block out all the impossible things that he was hearing. He still listened, though. All of this shit he was hearing might be possible, but Erick would never take credit for something good that someone else did with Benevolence. How could Nothanganathor even begin to take credit for Malevolence in that way? It didn’t make sense—

Lady Seraphaka scoffed. “You can’t take credit for something that happened outside of your direct control on a backwater world that happened to be influenced by your Element. There are billions of Malevolence users these days and all this universe has your taint upon it.” And then, realizing she hadn’t asked a question, she said, “Give us examples of your interference that specifically drew Erick forth to Veird, Nothanganathor.”

“I set up the Fate Magics in the Script to draw forth someone to solve three Ultimate Quests.” Nothanganathor said, “Find a way back to the Old Cosmology, which is through me. Find a way to cure Melemizargo’s insanity, which I caused. And expand civilization out into this New Cosmology, with me as the direct impediment to such expansion. All of these Ultimate Quests are ones that would require a direct counter to Malevolence. I set up the field. Erick wandered into the field, and succeeded against me, every time he went up against me, until he was finally able to come here, to Margleknot.”

Lady Seraphaka frowned. She said nothing.

Lord Dakka giggled as he looked around. “My turn? My turn!” He shot up to his feet, and stared at Erick. “Give me your Valkyrie magic and agree to get Melemizargo to give his Mantle to Nothanganathor, or however you want to do it, and I’ll make you in charge of Veird and all of those lands which Nothanganathor calls his own!”

Erick heard what Lord Dakka had said, but—

Lady Aelorika said, “Erick isn’t allowed to speak right now. Ask something else please, Lord Dakka.”

Dakka rolled his eyes and said to Erick, “You think about it!” Then he asked Nothanganathor, “What does a fight between you and Erick look like? Completely one-sided, yeah?”

Nothanganathor said, “Erick is nowhere near my level of power and he won’t be for a very long time. I only let him go last time. There would be no point in having me fight him, nor would I want to, now that he has proven himself as a valued participant in this universe.”

“Yeah,” Dakka said, “That’s boring. I’ll think of... something…” He paused. He frowned a little, and then he said, “Nothanganathor Sundered his own starting universe, stole from the Fractal, betrayed Margleknot, and now pretends to be some ultimate power instead of a fuckup responsible for his own downfall. I don’t believe a shitting thing he says. He’s always been way too fucking shifty, always in on Eldraki’s tricks. Erick sided with me, though, and I trust war more than I trust tricks… You and Eldraki; you both speak too tricky. You might not be lying but you ain’t truthing!” He said, “That’s all I have to say on this crap. Who’s talking next?”

Yggdrasil demanded of Nothanganathor, “I want my piece of myself back.”

“I can give you the memories. I can’t give you the Sign. It still contains many people of the Painted Cosmology and I want to bring them back.”

Yggdrasil frowned. “What percentage of the Painted Cosmology have you saved?”

“I have 780 billion souls of the Painted Cosmology in your Sign right now. I can’t give you a percentage of the whole.”

Yggdrasil seemed to have expected much of that. He said to the Council, “I officially request the Council to judge Nothanganathor harshly in all ways in this matter, and to favorably view all other involved parties in the Painted Cosmology issue. I request the Council rescind the overall Quarantine of Veird and the surrounding lands, and to restrict Nothanganathor’s ability to regulate those lands, as well as strip him of his status as Arbiter of Veird. I request the Council officially invite the gods of Veird to Margleknot, so that they can give larger testimonies on this matter.”

Silence.

Lady Aelorika glared at Nothanganathor. “You have sundered trillions, and only saved billions. You have ended a universe’s capability to speak and to grow and to change, all for the opportunity to take over that speaking-growing-changing yourself. Do you believe yourself capable of being the creator of a universe?”

Nathanganathor solidly said, “I know I can be the creator of a universe.”

“A universe you could rescind at a moment’s notice,” Lady Aelorika countered. “After all, Malevolence is all about getting yours and damning all the rest.”

Nothanganathor said, “I will abandon Malevolence to your care as soon as I no longer need it, once I am empowered in my original power as I was before Melemizargo and his ilk cursed away my true self, once I am God of Magic of the Dark Universe.”

Silence.

Eyes wandered.

Thoughts happened behind closed minds.

The trickster Lord Eldraki paid full attention to the hearing, his eyes shining dark.

And then Lady Aelorika commanded, “State your final words of defense, if you have any against the indefensible.”

Nothanganathor asked, “Do you wish to have lands and influence in the Painted Cosmology? Or do you wish to be ignored by that land once again, if Shadow and her ilk are allowed to reclaim it? Margleknot. Do you wish to be planted and to grow within the Painted Cosmology, and not be ousted and killed every other century every time you go visiting that universe? Does the Fractal want more communication with the Darkness? Or a return to small conversations?

“I have used my Sign of Power to grab and contain as much of the Painted Cosmology as I could. It’s just disembodied souls right now and a few trinkets here and there, but it can easily become something more than that, once I can actually communicate with the Darkness at the level I know I can communicate.

“And then all will be right with reality.

“The outcome of my deception was always going to end in this way. Nothing is out of order. Everything is within acceptable parameters. All of this was planned for, and now we are here. Nothing is corruptive about my actions, and the Darkness still exists.” Nothanganathor said, “And now you have Benevolence, in addition to Malevolence. All of this is because of me, and my actions. None of your trust has ever been misplaced, though I have certainly stomped on it overly harshly. It was necessary. I would do it again.

“It takes a harsh hand to deal the death that is necessary to make civilizations flourish properly. I am that harsh hand.

“Because of my pruning, whatever comes next will be wondrous.”

Erick was glad that he had come here.

He also wished he could have stayed in Tir Geal.

