“Wh-what... what is happening to me?” Lylyth asked, then pulled down her top to look at her chest. The spider image above her breast now had a skull mark on it, just like Ren's did. Lylyth didn't feel anything new from Ren for several minutes, then she started getting hints of amusement, pleasure, and a need to do a task.

“I am going to have a talk with that man.” Lylyth said and stood up. It happened much quicker than it normally did, and she was a little surprised that she felt somewhat stronger. “Ren, what did you do?”

*

Ren had finished with the elfling and leveled her up several times, and gave his word that he would be back to feed her again. He then went around the ward and shook hands with all the male elflings. He then kissed the female elflings that wanted it, and made sure that they weren't involved with anyone first. A lot of them were, and they were sad that he would only kiss them on the cheek; but, all of them respected his decision and that he kept his word.

“I'll have a place ready for you all soon.” Ren said and walked back over to the door of the ward.

“When will you be back?” One of them asked.

“Perhaps tomorrow or tomorrow night.” Ren said. “It depends on if I can find more people to heal.”

“We'll be waiting.” Kalyn said happily. “See you soon, My Lord.”

Ren nodded to her and left the ward and went downstairs to the healer. “Thank you.” He said to her. “Thanks a lot.”

The healer chuckled. “I knew that would make you happy.”

“What took so long, anyway?” The healer's assistant asked. “I thought you healed instantly.”

“I do, but...” Ren's face flushed a little red. “I kind of kissed a couple of them, and they thought that was how I healed.”

Both women laughed. “How did you 'kind of' kiss them?” They asked at the same time, and that made them laugh harder.

“I kissed one on the cheek, then the next kissed me on the lips.” Ren said. “When they healed... well...”

“I see.” The healer said. “I bet the men weren't too happy.”

“Not at all.” Ren said and grinned.

The healer shook her head. “Does trouble follow you everywhere?”

“Yep.” Ren said. “I've asked to have it removed, or at least restrained; but, my request was flatly denied.”

The healer laughed. “You better get out of here and take it with you, then.”

“Yes, ma'am.” Ren said. “Do you need any more money?”

“No, dear boy.” The healer said. “The money you've given us already will last a long time.”

Ren walked over to her. “Ma'am? Why are you trying to distance yourself by insulting me?”

“Wh-what?”

“I can feel your emotions, and you suspected that calling me 'boy' would hurt me.” Ren said. “Why?”

“I...” The healer's face went red and she looked away from him. “I didn't mean to insult you.”

“Ma'am, lies cause me pain.” Ren said. “Please, tell the truth.”

“N-no.” She said and shook her head.

Ren looked at her assistant. “Do you know why she's trying to push me away?”

“Well, if I had to take a guess...”

“Quiet!” The healer said.

“...she wants another kiss, since you're giving them out so freely.”

“You are so grounded!” The healer said.

Her assistant, who was also her daughter, laughed. “I never go outside anyways.”

“Ma'am, it's okay to want things, and you don't have to distance yourself.” Ren said as he deactivated all of his Auras, and she relaxed. “Now that I know, I'll stay out of your way.”

“It's not that.” The healer said. “I'm angry at myself for...” She looked at her daughter. “...I shouldn't be thinking these things.”

Ren chuckled, and the healer turned around and looked at him.

“What's funny?”

“I have someone in my Adventurer life that... if I had to take a guess, is actually about your age.” Ren said.

“And?”

“She's just as playful with her husband as I am with the women in my life.” Ren said, and then smiled as he remembered Barbara and Donald playing in the pool. “Ha... she really is.”

“But...”

“Before you get upset, I'm not volunteering for anything.” Ren said “I'm just saying it's okay to think about, and want, those kinds of things.”

The healer sighed. “I can't stop thinking about that kiss.”

“Well, that's kind of my fault.” Ren said and smiled crookedly. “I knew you were a bit nervous about doing it, and I wanted you to enjoy it.”

The healer blinked her eyes a few times.

“I told Princess Diana that you conveyed her feelings quite well.” Ren said, and her face flushed red again. “If it makes you feel any better, she was jealous that I kissed you and not your daughter.”

“Wh-what?!?” The healer was shocked to hear those words. “Th-the p-princess was j-jealous of m-me?”

“She wasn't happy that I kissed an experienced woman.” Ren admitted. “So, she wanted another kiss from me.”

“B-but... I'm...” The healer looked down, and Ren reached up and stopped her from averting her gaze.

“Your kiss made the princess jealous, ma'am.” Ren said, and a tear came to the woman's eye.

“Th-thank you, My Lord.”

“No, M'lady.” Ren said and took her hand. “Thank you.” He gently kissed the back of it. “Thank you for all your hard work, for your diligence in healing those not even of the same race...” He smiled wickedly at her. “...and for a wonderful kiss.”

The healer's face burned red at the last statement, and Ren felt her embarrassment mixed with gratitude.
