They remember this feeling. Ren thought as he turned around and waited until the crazy giant cleared the group of trees, then ran towards the oncoming giant. Once Ren's Aura hit it, it stumbled, and started screaming. By the time Ren got to it, the Brain Arthropod Grub had already burrowed out and the male giant was unconscious. Ren stabbed the grub with the sharp end of the hammerpick to kill it. He opened his inventory to store the grub's body, then remembered the sack he had been using was still in the center of the pit.

Ren deactivated the Screaming Terror enchantments and let the Connections lapse, stored the shield and hammerpick, then put the grub's carcass into inventory without the sack. He used a Minor Healing wand on the giant's ear, then ran back to the giants from the pit. They stepped back from him, and he sighed. Even Laurelia looked like she was afraid of him.

“I... I remember that feeling.” Laurelia said with tears running down her face, and knelt down to be close to Ren. “I'd never been so scared in my life.” She said, and wiped the tears away. “I don't remember much of anything else that happened, but that I remember.”

“Like I said, I'm sorry.” Ren smiled sadly.

“D-don't be.” She said. “You did for us what you just did for that man, didn't you?”

Ren nodded. “He was far enough away that he couldn't attack me, though.” He said. “Unlike when I was in the pit with all of you.”

“You were in the pit when we were all like that?” One of the male giants asked, and Ren nodded again. “How did you survive?”

“Lots of luck, mostly.” Ren said. “But, I didn't survive. I died at the end when it was over.”

“You're so brave.” Laurelia said.

“Maybe.” Ren said. “But you're afraid of me now.”

She looked like she was going to protest, then changed her mind. “Yes, I am afraid.” She said. “Not of you, but of what you can do to us.”

“What do you mean?” Ren asked.

“I... I was frozen stiff.” Laurelia admitted. “I think we all were.” She sighed. “Not once did I think I had to fight, or had to run.”

Ren looked past her at the other giants, and they all shook their heads. They hadn't thought that, either.

“Then I'm more sorry than I can ever say.” Ren said, his heart deflated. “I had hoped to have the biggest friends in the world; but, it's hard to be friends with someone that can scare you like that.”

Laurelia didn't say anything in response to that, but Ren saw her response in her expression.

“We should head to the campsite you've picked out.” She said, and stood up.

“Can a few of you help carry him as well?” Ren asked the giants and pointed to the unconscious one. “I don't want to just leave him there.”

One of the giants took the curtain and a couple of trees, and made a stretcher. They put the new giant on it, and Ren led the wary group of giants out into the wilderness when Teepo, Princess, and the two dogs joined them.
