Jennifer sighed. “I guess I will tell them, just so they don't hate you forever.”

“I killed one of their friends right in front of them.” Ren said and let her hand go. “I'm pretty sure they are always going to remember that.”

“So will I.” Jennifer said. “I didn't believe it at the time, and it still seems a little surreal.” She said. “You just reached up and... snap. He was gone.”

“I'm sorry you had to see that.” Ren said and leaned forward slightly. “Can I be a little vulgar?” He asked, and she nodded. “I wanted to rip off his arms and beat him to death with them.”

Jennifer chuckled at the thought. “Why didn't you?”

“It would have taken too long.” Ren said, and she laughed.

Teepo chittered in laughter, and Jennifer stopped laughing and looked at Ren's shoulder.

“There's a beetle on your shoulder.” Jennifer said and pointed.

“Hi!” Teepo said and waved one of his front legs at her, and Jennifer's mouth fell open in surprise. That made both Ren and Teepo laugh.

“It talked!” Jennifer said. “I thought it was a clasp on your cloak or something!”

“This is Teepo, my longtime friend.” Ren said. “Thanks to some help from Lara, the Sage of Ages...”

“...and a lot of experimentation...” Teepo added.

“...we figured out how to make him solid and speak out loud.” Ren said.

“That's amazing.” Jennifer said. “Wait, longtime friend?” She asked. “Does that mean he's always been around?”

“In some form or another, yes.” Ren said.

“Even... even when you and I... when we...”

“He watched the door for threats, and not us.” Ren said. “He's always been discreet, and he has no interest in human mating rituals.”

“I really don't.” Teepo said.

“Well, that's a relief.” Jennifer said. “I think.”

Ren chuckled. “Hey, do you feel like having another go?”

“Wh-what?”

“I know you're sad about what happened, and I know you won't accept a tip unless you do something for me.” Ren said and smiled. “You'll have to put up with my disguise for a while, though.”

Jennifer thought about it. “Do you really want to do this?” She asked. “I mean, this whole situation happened because of us doing that.”

“That's true, but I want you to be happy.” Ren said. “If I can give you a bit of stress relief, too...”

Jennifer nodded. “Okay, but if you can change what you look like, why did you pick such an ugly disguise?”

“That's why.” Ren said. “No one wants to look at someone that's not appealing in some way.”

Jennifer smiled. “Your preaching to the choir.” She said and stood up. “Exotic dancer, remember?”

Ren chuckled and stored the plates, tankards, table, and chairs. “Well, since I'm here for your pleasure, what do you want me to look like?”

“Can it be anyone? Anyone at all?” Jennifer asked.

“If I know what they look like, sure.” Ren said.

Jennifer stepped close to lean down and whispered in his ear.

“You're kidding.” Ren said, and her face went to a deep red as she shook her head.

“W-w-will you do it?”

“If that's what you want.” Ren said.

“You're a great friend!” Jennifer said happily and hugged him.

“Stand back so I can work my magic.” Ren said, and she stepped back, then darted forward and gave him a quick kiss. He felt how happy she was, and he took two steps into the air and cast the Full Illusion spell again. The man Jennifer wanted him to look like formed around him, and she reached out to touch him.

“It feels so real!” Jennifer said.

“It should sound real, too.” Ren said in a deep voice.

“Oh, god!” Jennifer gasped. “Take me! Take me NOW!”

“We could do it here, but we should go to your work room instead.” Ren said.

“Yes! That's a great idea!” Jennifer grabbed Ren's hand and pulled him to the door. “I am so wet right now!”

Ren laughed the signature laugh, and Jennifer couldn't contain her excitement as she pushed the door open and ran down the stairs.

“Hurry!” Jennifer nearly yelled.

They burst through the curtain behind the main stage, and the entire club stopped what they were doing and stared as Jennifer dragged Santa Claus behind her. No one spoke while the odd sight ran across the club, then disappeared into Jennifer's work room.

********

“Dammit, I can't do it.” Max, the Head Programmer at Sid Tec said. “Everything I try always comes back and interferes with him, and that will make the boss very unhappy.” He said, and then he smiled. “Oh, that... I can't... no, that's...” He grinned and typed up a quick synopsis of the problems Ren's title was going to unleash, then sent it to the CEO of the company, Edward Torren.

“Oh, great and wise boss-man! The ball's in your court now.” Max said and sat back in his chair and crossed his arms to wait. “Tell me what I can do about this.”
