He began to tear, and things inside her broke. He couldn't hear her scream, but he knew that she was begging somewhere, knew that she was desperate not to have her skills and soul mangled by how much harder the fear-chain between them was growing. Power surged into Shiv. He grew larger, his muscles swelled, his Vitamancy went from tendrils to dense cords. And as a result, her soul came asunder, breaking down the middle as he shattered the first of her skills. It didn't feel particularly deep, so that wasn't her Cryomancy.

He moved on to the others, spreading out like a branching infection creeping under the skin, seeking every major organ he could to destroy them from within, to rip away that which made them whole, and to murder the lore that sustained her soul.

"Deathless," Cullywier said. There was a melodic quality to the fairy's voice, yet Shiv ignored it, even if he yearned to turn and hear the fae speak again.

"Deathless," Cullywier repeated, a little louder, "I must advise against this."

And that barely brought Shiv back to reality.

It didn't matter how nice the fairy sounded. This fucker tried to kill him, did kill him twice, did force a fight when it didn't need to be one, and also had no qualms threatening the lives of everyone within the academy and far beyond.

A gust of fragrant wind rushed around his form and tightened its hold upon Shiv. The Deathless's fury was forcibly incensed, and he clenched his teeth so hard his jaw began to creak. "Cullywier, if you intervene on her behalf, I swear to the System, I will do you in after."

"It is not on her behalf that I act, but yours. This is simply unwise. She is not someone you wish to kill, not without damning yourself to a lifetime of being hunted."

A bitter laugh tore out from Shiv's throat. He popped another one of her skills, and it was ever so satisfying to feel her come apart from the inside out. His anger and frustration had alchemized into hate. The System wanted this of him? Then he would feed it. He would give it the show it so desired. He would mangle, cripple, mutilate, and obliterate every single individual and monster that was forcibly sent his way, especially if they were too stupid to take up his offer of peace and see themselves spared.

"I’m already hunted," Shiv snapped. "What's a few more bastards on my ass? Just more victims-to-be, just more people to bloody my pan, to bloody—"

That made Shiv's insides recoil with even more strain. His pan was bloodied. He was killing people with implements from the kitchen. It wasn't that violence and bloodshed bothered him, but it needed to be separate. The shape of his artistry and creation shouldn't be so closely aligned to the brutality he inflicted upon his enemies.

This was wrong, but the System just—it kept forcing him and pushing him and making him more and more into a monster. Shiv sucked in a breath. It just wants me to be a monster. It gave me the pan. It just wants me to break and kill and hurt. That's all it wants. It doesn't care about anything else. It just wants me to eat, eat, eat, hurt, hurt, hurt, and there's no way out. I keep trying, but it won't let me go.

A new emotion joined the swirling vortex building inside Shiv. Exhaustion, existential exhaustion. He would never give up. He would never fold, but this was wearing on him, wearing on his mind. He didn't want to kill and fight constantly, incessantly, forever, without reason, without a chance for peace, without a chance to cook, without a chance to be a person. He wanted to be a person, his own person. That was the entire point of him seeking to be a Pathbearer. And as his thoughts grew more agitated, he began ripping more of Andra's insides apart.

A loud snap came from behind him, and in the corner of his eye, he saw a spreading fracture growing upon that dagger. Her soul is bound to it, he thought. Time to finish you off. He still hadn't found her Legendary Skills yet, but he was getting closer, and he could feel the coldness.

"I understand that your circumstances might be different from most," Cullywier said, a faint hint of indifferent whimsy to his voice. "But if you kill her, understand that the Court of the Shattered Moon will come for you. All of Jotunkind will hunt you until none are left, or until you meet your final end."

"Fuck them," Shiv snarled. “Let ‘em come. It’s a sooner or later thing by this point.”

"And if that is not enough," Cullywier continued, "know that if you slay her, you may very well find yourself at the end of Valor Thann's blade when he finally pieces himself back together."

And that stopped Shiv’s mind dead. His head snapped to the fairy. "What?"

"What?" Adam's chrono-clones echoed just before he was dragged back through the expanded bracelet.

Just behind Cullywier, Shiv saw Urri trying to get back up, but a few dozen of Kura's time-clones had returned to the fray and were actively holding him down. Most of the Vulteg's face was melted. Candles channeled his Pyromancy without any restraint, while Gone dragged scratches along the massive Vulteg's chest. Helix, Whisper, and all the other orcs attacked Urri in support as well. Despite this, he was still getting stronger. Urri's muscles swelled. His Magical Resistance flared so bright it became a literal shield around him. Shiv thought his Toughness had been good, but what the Vulteg had was absolutely absurd.

"Valor," Shiv coughed out. His Vitae twitched. He was so close to ripping Andra apart, so close to finishing her off for good. "What the hells does she have to do with Valor?" he hissed, his eyes wild, his hands shaking. He kept his strands buried deep within Andra's battered body. Once more, it was beginning to heal, but she wouldn't come back in time, not before he drained all of her vitality dry, not before he broke her final skill.

"Because she is one of Valor Thann’s disciples, and it is he who taught her the Ritual of the Dichotomous Soul." Cullywier tilted his head, observing Shiv's reaction, how his body locked up. "You didn't know this."

Shiv stopped draining. His Vitae strands twitched, and so did his left eye. "No," he muttered, his thoughts racing. "No, I did not. Cullywier, are you bullshitting me?"

"No," the fairy said. A look of genuine pity for Shiv developed on his inhuman face. "The Dragon Brokers told me that you and Young Lord Arrow are now considered Valor Thann's closest confidants, as you have been spotted with him at multiple points. They assume you two were accepted as disciples as well." The fairy’s unnaturally large eyes briefly flashed with Divination mana, and he squinted. "However, I am beginning to suspect this information might be incorrect or lacking critical details. I say this because Valor Thann has been known to be extremely honest with his actual disciples, especially due to matters such as these. And it seems he has left you entirely in the dark."
