“There was the Healer, a rough kid from four trees down who always broke other’s bones because he played too rough. Hence his duty to become a Healer. He took to it rather well. He would always say that it felt better to not need to be so careful around others.

“There was my brother, one of the best people I ever knew, but also one of the smartest, and that made him hurtful when he never meant to be. He became the main power behind our party. He focused on water and stone. He was angling to become a Druid, to seed Arbors across the Forest, and expand our tribe.

“My cousin wanted to become a Hidden Dagger. Many of us thought it odd. Girls like her don’t become Hidden Daggers. She was one of the best people you’d ever meet, always helpful, always caring, always doing the best thing for other people. It wasn’t an act, either. But when people brought up her odd adventuring choice, she’d always say that being Good was good, but not enough to make the world a better place.

“She was smart.

“Then there was the other kid. He wanted to become an archmage, but he was more like a Scribe. He had some good spells, and he ran out of mana way too fast. He was the outcast, but he tagged along, and we endured his company.

“We started our journey in the Forest around the tribe, after Wyrm Season was over. We wanted to be fully prepared for the next one, so we went out into the world, and got prepared. Before we knew it, we’d finished our Rookie Year, killing wyrms and otherwise. We were not as successful as we would have liked. We were all level 48.

“But Wyrm Season was over. If we wanted to break 50, and get a Class, we needed to wait another year, or, there was another option.

“We did not wait.

“We were at the perfect level to start our journey into Ar’Kendrithyst. So we came to Spur.

“We were excited. We had heard so much about the Dead City. We thought we knew what we were getting into, so we filled out the paperwork and passed the tests, and we were in.

“We got to the Dead City, and it was magnificent. We even greeted Fallopolis in an appropriate manner. She gave us some pointers. The only thing we trusted from her, was her advice to not go near the Spire, or too far down. Those were all known truths of the Dead City, but Spur had prepared us better than that. Everyone in town said not to go near the Spire, but they also said that as soon as you meet a monster that gives experience enough to count, you’re already dead, you just don’t know it yet, so get out if you can.

“We met and killed a nesting pair of Vampiric Krakens. They were about as dangerous as wyrms. But we killed them. For the first time in half a year, we leveled.

“Level 49. All of us, all at the same time.

“You can probably guess what happened. It’s a tale told a thousand times, that we had heard a thousand times before. But we were stupid kids. We decided we were invincible.”

“We were not."

Teressa forced her next words to come. “Cursed Babblers. If you don’t know what they are, they’re slime variants birthed in shadow and raised on curses. What they do, and how they spread, is to infect a person with a progressive disease. This disease first cuts off your sense of smell and annoyance at traveling conditions, along with making everything taste really good. It does this so that you do not feel the need to [Cleanse] yourself, which would disrupt the progression of the curse. [Cleanse] won’t cure you, but it will deny progression to stage 2.

“Stage two is when you start talking and you can’t stop. This is where the name of the monster comes from.” For a long moment, Teressa was silent. Then she said, “This is the longest I’ve ever spoke about this and it just makes me… Kinda itchy. So.” She threw a [Cleanse] into the room. As minuscule threads of thick air seeped from her body, and the rest of the room, she breathed easier. She said, “At the time, we failed to notice what was happening.

“We talked about everything any of us could possibly think to say. That lasted a few hours. Stage three led to hard arguments and joyful tears and spilled blood, but we came out of it okay. Then came stage 4. We made camp for the night, inside Ar’Kendrithyst, right there in the middle of a skyroad. We all decided that laying right down where we were was good enough, even though shadows were watching, and laughing.

“I was the only one who woke up. The Witch, the one who makes the Cursed Babblers, she had done that on purpose.

“Everyone else was dead.

“But they woke up, too. Their eyes were black hollows and their voices were full of hate and lies.

“I spent three weeks running around the Dead City, trying to get back to Forward Base, to safety, while my family harried me, trying to kill me at every turn. When I got the upper hand on them, they devolved into hurtful truths, or hateful lies, in order to stay my sword. They pretended to be real. They pretended to be the people I loved.

“If the Witch had attacked me directly, I would have failed to escape. But she didn’t. She sent my family after me, forcing me to kill them to survive, while she watched and kept me in her [Teleport Lock]. The worst part, at the time, was when they tried to convince me that if I let them kill me, then they’d be set free. That they could go home.

“None of them had the same abilities they had in life. Each only had the power of their physical self, and some minor magics to them. But don’t discount the power of [Shadowblend], or [Conjure Weapon], or even a well-made, simple illusion [Ward].

“The easiest one to kill was the Scribe. Emotionally, I mean. Physically, it was tough. There were four of them and one of me, and they knew every way I fought. I didn’t even have time to recognize that I had killed the Scribe before the other three used that opening to lunge in for the kill.

“The Dagger was a difficult killing. I loved her like a sister. A day or three after I killed the Scribe, the Dagger had come at me all alone, asking for help to get out from under the Witch’s power. But I knew what was happening. I had seen her do the same thing to some bandits, one time.” Teressa said, “Looking back on it, I think she might have come at me like that, just so I could end her. Maybe a part of her was her. She pulled her dagger at the last moment, and mine kept going.

“Killing my brother was easy, at the time. I focused on some awful, stupid things he had done while we were both young, in those stupid years before either of us knew how to be decent people to each other. Before he became the almost-Druid who wanted to throw his sword into the ring, to decide who would become the next leader of the tribe.

“Killing the Healer… Killing him was the hardest thing I had ever done. He loved me, and I loved him. He had really nice hands. Loving. Gentle. Strong.

Tears fell down Teressa’s face, as she said, “It wasn’t till I had killed the last one that I found out I had been circling Forward Base this whole time. Either the Witch’s illusion [Ward]s had faded, or she had planned it, but I found my way across the line that declared me ‘safe’, with her floating right behind me.

“She huffed at me, like I had touched an artpiece at a museum. It was a disdainful sort of noise.

“The Army took me in and took me back to Spur. At the time, I had not noticed that they were unusually quiet.

“Back in Spur, Silverite immediately grilled me about my time in there. I was an emotional wreck, but all she could talk about was my tribe.

“Two days later, when I finally crawled out of my fugue long enough to talk to other people and comprehend what was being said, I discovered that Silverite had employed a Mind Mage to pry me open. I was offended at first, but then I found out why she had done what she did, and why the Mind Mage had agreed. But it was already too late.

“My tribe had been reduced to shadelings and survivors, by the time Spur showed up to help.

“The Witch had not failed to kill me. She had let me go on purpose, because that was a part of her plan. She leafed through our party like a noble picking out paintings, deciding who would be the most fun to torment.” Teressa said, “I was the Anvil. I was happy. During stage 2 of the curse, I held the party together, like I always did. I beat down hard feelings with easy words. ‘We’re a family. We’re a tribe. So what if this or that happened. We’ll hammer it out and get through this, together.’ So she picked me to break.

“And then she broke me.”

The cookies sat uneaten. Coftea had gone cold. Delia looked down at her mug and would not raise her head. But she was not crying.

Erick’s own emotions were all over the place, but he kept an even facade.

“Say something, please,” Teressa asked.

Erick immediately said, “The Witch targeted you because she is evil. Don’t blame yourself. It had nothing to do with you. I never used to believe that ‘evil’ was real before I came to Veird, but what she did to you… That was Evil. I’m sorry that happened.”

Teressa faintly smiled, then said, “She told me, in detail, why she picked me.” She said, “We had killed her latest generation of Vampiric Krakens.”

Erick said, “She was just making excuses for her actions, as all narcissists do.”

Teressa’s smiled widened, then fell. “Yeah. It took me a long time to realize that.” She added, “Many years of trying for revenge and failing at every turn, taunted and harmed and then dumped back off at Forward Base. Years more in the Army, looking for ways to kill her and failing. Finally, more years just accepting what had happened.” She said, “And now we’re here, where the shadelings of Candlepoint are taking the forms of our friends and family, claiming— They’ve claimed that they could become real people, again.”

Poi said, “I’m sorry, Teressa. I could have broken that news better—”

“No. Poi.” Teressa said, “It’s my fault I fell to the Rage. That’s completely on me. You shouldn’t have to worry about upsetting an orcol.” She sighed. She stood up from her chair. She stepped away from the table. She turned to Erick saying, “You shouldn’t have to worry. We take a lot of steps as a people to ensure that the Rage does not happen… It should not have happened. But it did. I apologize, sir, but I am a liability right now. I could Rage again. I cannot remain here. I resign. I apologize.”

Erick frowned. “No.” He rapidly added, “Take some time if you need it, but I don’t want you to quit over this.” He controlled himself before he shouted, and said, “Why does everyone do that! The first sign of trouble, and you bail! Poi tried to do it. Rats succeeded because that jerk just left without telling me. And now you! No. I won’t have it.”

“Thank you, but I am a liability right now.” Teressa steadfastly said, “Aloethag has given me a million Health quest to complete. If I don’t, she might not help me the next time I Rage.”

Erick noticed Kiri’s eyes going wide, as Delia finally lifted her face, only to show disbelief. Erick said, “I seem to be the only one who doesn’t know what that means.”

Teressa said, “It means I must kill a thousand Crystal Mimics in her name.”

Erick said, “Look. I am dealing with a lot of stuff right now, but it seems like your Rage is something I can actually help you with. What do you need? A percentage on a kill? If that’s the case, then you can do like, a buff or a heal on me and I can throw a few [Withering Slime]s out into the Crystal Forest. Simple!”

Teressa smiled. “Doesn’t work that way. The million Health is a measure of the degree to which I Raged. It’s the amount of power I took from my heritage; that I took from her, and must return, ritually.” She said, “I don’t want to leave, but I must.”

Erick tried, “So is this Quest based on percentage of Participation? Or not?”He added, “And a ‘million’ seems rather damn arbitrary. It’s way too round of a number.”

Poi said, “She could help you and get Quest credit.”

“Fuck, Poi!” Teressa briefly turned to Poi. “Stop helping.”

Poi shrugged.

Teressa said, “If I don’t do it right, then she’ll make it two million. She’s a lot of a dick, like that.”

“So it is possible for me to do this quest for you.” Erick stood from the table, saying, “We’re going to do that, then. Right now.”

A blue box appeared.

Divine Quest!

Spill 10,000,000 Health worth of monsters in Aloethag’s name!

<And Teressa must help in some fundamental way. Good luck!>

Teressa blinked red glints out of her eyes. “Damned Goddess. Now it says ten million!”

Erick said, “I got the same box.” He asked, “So what kind of enhancing spells do you know? Rifts? If not, I can give you a rundown on how to make one. I still haven’t made one myself, but we can work on that together.”

Teressa clenched her jaw, then said, “I don’t know any.” She said, “I mean… I can take monster aggression from you?” She shook her head, and said, “Sir. None of that matters right now. We have much bigger problems. You have bigger problems.” She looked to Delia, then back to Erick. “Now you know the score, and how I’m probably going to be used against you too—”

Poi interrupted. “Any person who the Army sent in to take your place would face a slightly different scenario of hurt and spreading harm. You are not special in this regard, Teressa.” He added, “The Shades are very good at this level of perversion and torture.”

Erick briefly pointed at Poi, adding, “What he said.”

Delia, who had been silently watching this whole time, finally spoke up. “Sir.”

Erick turned to the young girl. “Yes?”

