Erick laid upon a fluffy white cloud in the middle of an endless sky. The air was cool. Calm breezes tickled across his legs and arms. Iridescent scales flickered through the soft expanse.

- - - -

A hard stone surface pressed against his back, while cold air touched his body. Pain was a distant fog, filled with a few unknown voices, until suddenly the world cleared, and Erick saw from his eyes, and felt from his body, and heard with his ears. Pain flowed everywhere, like a rapid tide.

“Pain response,” said a woman.

Ophiel trilled in nervous flutes.

Another woman, older, said, “Upping [Numb].”

“He’s coming around!” said a man. “My gods, what’s his Health Regen?”

“Classified,” said Poi, ever professional.

Blood and flickering magics clouded his vision, red, silver, and a slightly different silver, but the red vanished in curls of thick air, and the magic soaked in. Pain vanished, but light still clouded his sight.

Erick tried to ask where he was, but his voice was broken.

Poi said, “Don’t try to speak, or cast. I can relay your worries for now. We’re in the Church Hospital. High Priestess Darenka is here with the doctors—”

The older woman spoke, and this time Erick recognized her voice as Darenka’s, “Pain is vanishing. I’m guessing his Regen is higher than 10,000.” She said, “Tell me so I can do my job right.”

Poi said, “Higher than that.”

“Good. He’s fine, then.” Darenka’s voice turned to him. “You did some stupid shit again. The Storm Goddess is awaiting your response.”

A male voice said, “He doesn’t look fine.”

Erick tried to speak again, but nothing worked. He still couldn’t see—

Poi said, “His eyes are blind. His voice is broken.”

Darenka said, “[Greater Treat Wounds].”

Silver light flickered through his eyeballs, briefly blinding him, but the light died, and sight returned. Erick was on a stone surface in a white room, with his shirt removed. Darenka, the silverscale Head Priestess of the Interfaith Church glared down at him. She wore her usual silver, priestly robes. The doctors, Erick assumed, stood further down, wearing their white robes. There was a person behind him, but Erick couldn’t tell who it was. He couldn’t move. He tried to speak.

Behind him, Poi said, “Your voice should come back.” He said to the others, “He still can’t move.”

“It’ll come back. [Greater Treat Wounds] takes a desert minute.” Darenka said to Erick, “Try [Prestidigitation]. If you can cast that, then you should be good to return home.”

Right now, Erick couldn’t think to cast anything. He felt his mana inside of him, but it was a sluggish, weak thing. But [Prestidigitation] was one of the easiest spells he knew. Erick used it mainly for speaking through Ophiel, so he was well versed in this particular use of the spell.

He cast. Ten mana twisted into the air, leaving Erick like a bee stinging his heart, leaving pins and needles in its wake all across his chest. He conjured, “Oww.”

One of the doctors said, “He’s fine. Minor soul damage. Should heal up in a few days. Until then, no major spellwork. Don’t do whatever you did for at least another month. A week, at the minimum.”

Erick almost laughed, but that hurt, like a casual stomp to his chest from an overeager sparring partner. The doctor’s words were correct, though. He would try not to ever purposefully sing a song like that at the sky again—

He rapidly said, “Don’t tell Jane.” Tingles briefly stretched through his legs and hands.

Ophiel, who had been floating to the side of the room and as tiny as a parakeet, slipped down onto Erick’s bare chest. Erick smiled at the little guy, while everyone else glanced at him, then ignored the [Familiar].

Poi said, “Jane has not been alerted. You’ve only been out for ten minutes. Maybe twelve.”

Darenka reached over and tapped his chest with a glowing finger. Warmth spread across his body. He felt better than before, but only marginally. Good enough to sit up, though. Mostly. Erick struggled to get up while pain and needles spiked off in random parts of his body, but he managed to get partially vertical. He smiled, and sweated, as he sat there, on the edge of the stone surgery table.

Poi had to help him to stay vertical, but that was fine. And oh, hey! There’s Kiri, by the door. Erick smiled at her, and she just looked at him; worried.

Darenka looked at him with a frown. She said, “Normally, I try to leave enthusiastic adventurers to a few days of pain. Reminds people that they’re mortal.” She touched him again with a glowing finger. He felt marginally better, again. She continued, “But I ain’t stupid enough to do that in times like these.” She got up in Erick’s face. Worried eyes bored into him, as she said, “Expect a big bill.”

Erick smiled, feeling the nerves in his body tingle as he did. He spoke, with his actual voice this time, “Suurre-k.” He coughed a little. He managed to speak on his own, but his voice was a ragged mess, “Sure. Thank you.”

Darenka leaned back. She glanced to the doctors, and the two of them quickly exited the room. She turned back to Erick, asking, “So what’d you make? Sininindi is demanding you give that spell to her. She is saying that she will go to war, this time, if you either misuse that magic, or interfere with her people.”

“I had hope-ekK—” Erick coughed again.

Darenka pulsed with thick air.

Whatever was clogging Erick’s throat, vanished. He breathed easier. He said, “Thank you.”

She nodded, waiting.

Erick had hoped that he had proven himself as capable of leaving Sininindi’s interests alone. He had almost said that, too. But he changed his tactic. He asked, “Is Sininindi a good goddess?”

Darenka said, “She’s about as neutral as the rest of ‘em, and as much of a twit when she gets her sails in a twist.” She added, “But Sininindi will sink your ship if you piss her off, and you’re at the edge of the storm, Erick.”

Erick sighed. He spoke to the air, “Dear Sininindi. I ask for your assistance with keeping Candlepoint from going out of control. In exchange, I will cast the spell I made in an appropriate location or two of your choosing, once per year, for as long as friendly relations last. I will also accept gold or whatever, for more castings, as I can fit into my schedule. Or, I will accept your help in making a single artifact of the spell in question, and then deliver it to your people.” He added, “In all cases you are not getting the spell I made. No one is. But it’s already locked to Particle Mage only, and I’m sure you know how difficult that will be for others to acquire.”

A blue prompt appeared.

Special Quest!

Create an artifact of [Control Weather], and deliver it to the Priestesses of the Storm.

Reward: ???

Erick stared at the box. He looked up, asking, “What? No help to make it?”

Darenka looked away from the air, saying, “She says that she’ll give you time, and that’s it.”

Erick wondered if Sininindi thought to make him use Koyabez’s artifact creation magic in order to complete her quest. He almost added that he would not use Koyabez’s magic to fulfill Sininindi’s demands, but… Oh. But wouldn’t that be fun? Make an artifact of ‘Calm Storm’? Heh.

Eh. He wouldn’t do that. Sininindi seemed alright, according to everything he knew. A lot of sailors prayed to her to guide them safely home, and she did.

… The more Erick learned about the gods, the more they seemed like really strong, distant spellcasters, and less like ‘gods’.

Or maybe his knowledge of the world was vastly behind the curve, and he was ascribing his own notions to beings that were inherently unknowable. They seemed helpful most of the time, and all the ‘Dark Gods’ were gone, so maybe he shouldn’t think so poorly about goddesses looking out for their flock?

If people stopped praying to them for help, or something, they would turn ‘dark’, like what had almost happened to Atunir at the beginning of the fall of Quintlan, when [Create Food and Water] was a part of the Open Script—

“Ah.” Erick asked, “Controlling the weather would be a direct attack against Sininindi’s domain, and thus her, wouldn’t it?”

Darenka smiled a little. “No. You have that wrong. One man, no matter how strong, cannot ever hope to surmount a god.”

Erick did not disagree, but only to avoid an argument.

According to everything he knew, you could attack a god. You just had to attack their worshipers, or their worship itself. But since that was something that Erick would never do, except against maybe Melemizargo, there was no need to further pursue that thought with High Priestess Darenka.

He said, “Thanks for the help, Darenka.”

Darenka further helped Erick off of the stone table, keeping him upright as she said, “Steady now.” She added, “You’ll be okay.”

Erick smiled, as he managed to stand under his own power. He said, “So this is a good time to solve another problem I was looking to solve.”

Darenka asked, “What’s on your mind?”

“I want to help Spur’s Care Services. Do you have a suggested donation size?”

“We do.” She turned slightly business-like, saying, “It’s a sliding scale based on income, but adventurers can give anything they want. We suggest a single percent of whatever you take in every month, tithed to the whole Church. That’s more than enough to cover everything from Spur’s Care Service, to childcare for working parents, to healing for the less fortunate, and all the rest of our community upkeep. You won’t get bills for most healing services, either.” She added, “But if you wish to give directly to the Care Service, then a half a percent is good enough. You can get that all worked out at the Mage Guild Bank; they do that sort of thing all the time.”

Erick smiled, saying, “That works, too. I’ll do 1-point-5 percent, and get it worked out at the bank.”

She added, “It’s tax deductible, too!”

“Good to know.”

Erick did not mention that he still had about 5 months tax free, thanks to an ultraviolet lightward he wrapped around a stone and gave to Silverite. Darenka’s words jolted loose a bit of concern in that direction, though. How bad were his taxes going to be?

- - - -

Erick frowned a little as he sat down in his chair, in the library.

The tax rate for an adventurer was 50 percent.

It wasn’t a tax on everything made after a certain amount, either. It was straight-up, half of what you made. Erick wasn’t exactly mad at that. He saw Spur growing all around him, and he knew that the money was probably going to end up spent on the war effort, or on keeping people alive, or on normal infrastructure. He was also absolutely sure that he was fabulously wealthy.

And besides that, according to Kiri, a 50% rate on adventurers was pretty low, and there were a lot of ways to get around that requirement. The Adventurer’s Guild knew all of the monsters she killed at the behest of Mog, so those were the only ones she was officially taxed on, because it was easier to fall in line with the system than to try and avoid payments. Apparently, avoiding taxes is one of the largest ways that people got exiled from Spur, or worse, had their guild cards taken away from them. As long as you played along with the law, to the letter of the law, then you were fine—

Teressa tapped on the open door of the library. Ophiel perked up, on Erick’s shoulder.

Erick looked up. “What’s up?”

“I heard about what happened, and so did Merit, but Merit is still asking for imaging.”

“Oh, damn!” Erick got to his feet, disturbing Ophiel into flute sounds, as he said, “I forgot.” He almost summoned another Ophiel and sent him blipping over to Merit, but he could already tell that spending that amount of mana was going to hurt. As he touched upon his mana pool, his nerves and stomach fluttered around like butterflies caught in a blizzard. He said, “I’ll be better tomorrow. It’ll have to be tomorrow.” He looked to the window, and saw twilight spreading across the sky. He frowned. “I can’t even get my shipments out to Candlepoint, tonight.”

“No problem, Boss. I’ll let her know.” She added, “Dinner is ready, too.”

Erick smiled. “I could eat.”

After dinner, came bed. Maybe he could get his Candlepoint shipment out at sunrise.

The rice and beans were stacked and packaged and fully exposed, out there in the open air outside the house. There was little danger in anything happening to them, but there was a ‘Blighter’ on the loose, and word about the purpose of those goods had to have gotten around by now. So Erick had Ophiel blip out there and spend almost his entire self putting up a [Prismatic Ward] around the goods. When the little guy came back inside he was tattered and winded, but he recovered fast enough in the Restful air of the house.

- - - -

Erick woke while the sky was still purple and stars faintly twinkled in the west. It was the perfect time to get up. Ophiel fluttered up from the bed, squawking in annoyed flute sounds as Erick got up for the day.

A quick trip to the bathroom and a quick change of clothes happened first, then came coftea down in the kitchen. By that time, Erick was awake enough to try casting and making breakfast, and Kiri had joined him.

“Good morning, Kiri,” Erick said, cracking eggs into a bowl with his Handy Aura, while also flipping potatoes and onions on the flat top, and grabbing flour from the pantry a few meters away. He sipped the coftea in his normal hands, adding, “Looks like I’m all better.”

Kiri nodded. She sipped her coftea, then asked, “So what spell did you make? Sininindi seemed rather interested.”

