“I would like to accept your offer of Oceanside enrollment. I cannot be here, and I will not face that. Not yet.” She looked up to Teressa, and said, “Thank you. I’m out of my depth. I need to not be here, or involved in this.” She looked to Erick. “When whatever happens, happens… Please let me know… If … If... Valok—” She said, “If that man turns out to be something other than a trap.”

Erick said, “Of course.” He summoned a few Ophiel and said, “I’ll make a [Teleporting Platform] for you just outside, and have you there in thirteen [Teleport]s. I’ll work out the details with you later, but I want you to enroll normally. Try for the scholarship, first, and I’ll make up the difference in tuition and board.” He added, “I’ll check up on you occasionally, okay?”

Delia got up from the table and bowed to Erick. “Thank you, sir.” She stood up. She nodded. She turned around, and walked quickly out of the kitchen, out of the house, and onto a platform Erick had already made with Ophiel.

She was eager to be gone.

Erick turned to Kiri and Teressa, and said, “Figure out a buffing spell, while I take care of this.”

Kiri started talking. After a minute, Teressa reluctantly started talking, too.

Erick spent a minute getting his Ophiel and Delia ready for the short, long flight. In another minute, Delia stepped off of the stone platform, onto the main intake zone for all people blipping into the great Oceanside Academy, where the sun was already setting, painting cream colored towers in oranges, reds, yellows, and shadows. People milled everywhere, of all sorts, some with goods for sale, others wearing student robes.

While Delia stared at everything happening around her, at people flying on carpets and floating platforms and in the sky, Erick had Ophiel point at a large building down a short road.

He sent, ‘That’s the intake office. Apply for your scholarship there. You might not get one and that’s okay. It’s a thousand gold a month in your first year, and that’s easy, but if you fail that first year, the cost goes up by the amount you fail. But that shouldn’t matter.’ Erick added, ‘A little bit of failure is fine, and good for growth, but you’re here to learn how to be the person you want to be, to hunt those who took your father. You’re here to learn how to succeed despite profound horror.’

Delia’s eyes welled up, but she did not cry. She just nodded. ‘Thank you, archmage, sir.’

‘Just a warning: they’re gonna give you a real hard time about not having the full suite of magic you’re expected to have before enrollment.’ Erick sent, ‘I encountered some of that, too, but I was only there for two months and as an archmage.’

Delia’s eyes hardened. ‘I can learn. That’s why I’m here.’

‘Good.’ Erick sent, ‘I’ll open an account for you on my end after I get through with this business, here. There shouldn’t be any problems with you actually getting enrolled, though. If there are, let me know.’

‘I can rough it for now, sir. Thank you.’

‘You won’t have to rough it, but good on you.’ Erick sent, ‘Talk to you later. Oh. And I’m telling my daughter you’re there. Good luck with that!’

Delia nodded, and walked forward, into the city of magic.

Erick cut their mental connection, as he blipped Ophiel over to Windy Manor.

Erick briefly turned his attention to Jane, but got no response. That had happened a few times in the last few days, but Erick already knew the problem, and it was not a matter of life and death. Jane was probably just a slime at the moment, as she usually was. That girl needed to make a [Familiar], to get around this issue. Erick said as much in a quickly jotted note he left on the kitchen table of Windy Manor, along with a brief mention of Delia’s current plans to enroll in Oceanside, and Erick’s sponsorship of her tuition. When the letter was done and placed, Erick dismissed the furthest Ophiel and ordered the closest ones to come back home, as he came back to himself.

“Thank all the gods and angels and demons; a problem has been solved before it turned into cancer.” He turned to Poi, “She wasn’t a secret sleeper agent of the Shades already, right?”

“She was not,” Poi said.

“Good.” Erick turned to Kiri and Teressa. “Got a solution for this Aloethag problem?”

“Maybe,” Kiri said.

“Great!” Erick said, “Lay it on me!”

Teressa said, “I was on the track for it… years ago. But I kinda… stopped trying.” She just came out and said, “It’s shouting magic. [Warcry]. But it’s not who I am anymore. And it never did much, anyway. I don’t think I can do this.” She turned away, muttering, “This is dumb. I shouldn’t be here anymore.”

“Stop talking like that.” Erick said, “Treat yourself better, Teressa, because you’re the only one who can treat yourself the way you deserve to be treated.”

Teressa kept her back turned to Erick. Her shoulder sagged, and then solidified. She lifted her head, and said, “Yeah.” She turned to Erick, “Sorry.”

“Not your fault! It’s the Witch’s fault. It’s the Shades’ fault.” Erick said, “So let’s go out and ritually kill a plague species for a goddess to get you back into her good graces. And then I don’t know about you, but I’m gonna get piss drunk. So how’s that sound? A night on the town! Because I don’t know about you! But I need a FUCKING break from THIS SHIT and these constant problems! Let’s solve some more fucking goddamned problems!”

Teressa smiled wide. “Okay.”

Erick injected as much enthusiasm and joy into his voice as he could, as he said, “I can’t hear you!”

Teressa chuckled, and said, “Okay!”

Kiri smiled, while Poi looked on.

“Okay! Just okay!? Can I get a [Shout], or something!”

“OKAY!”

Erick chided, “That didn’t seem very magical! Or Health-ful. What’s a [Shout] cost anyway?”

Teressa breathed deep, then thrummed the entire house, shouting, “OKAY!”

Grey light flickered from her body, spreading out in a flash, washing over Erick, Poi, and Kiri. Erick suddenly felt very, very awake, and at that same moment, a minor notification appeared to the side of his vision. It was a simple up-arrow, but as his heart beat hard and he focused on the arrow, a blue box appeared. It was already counting down.

Warcry!

+2% Damage done.

-2% Damage taken.

12 seconds remaining.

Erick laughed. “Holy shit! That’s a good buff, right?”

Poi looked away from the air, saying, “That’s not really a buff—”

Teressa smiled, as she said, “I can do a lot better than that, Poi!”

“—but you’re gonna come down hard from that, anyway.” Poi finished, “Buffs of any kind should only be used sparingly.”

Erick sent his nearest Ophiel, who had been hanging out on the roof of the house, regaining Mana, out into the Crystal Forest, each in a different direction. He had them all cast a [Cascade Imaging] into the air, searching for people. None of the searches overlapped.

While he was doing that, he said to Teressa, “We’re gonna get this solved in the next few hours. Okay?”

Teressa nodded, saying, “Okay.”

And they did.

Erick cast [Withering Slime]s out into the Crystal Forest, along paths that would not meet any people, while Teressa Shouted for power and prestige. She called out to Aloethag, telling the Goddess to accept her bounty, while Erick followed her script, and her words.

Erick’s Quest chimed done, first. Because of course it did. Teressa was buffing him, but he was doing all the damage.

Divine Quest Complete!

10,000,000/10,000,000 Health worth of monsters slain in Aloethag’s name!

Reward: ? ? ?

<Well aren’t you just so industrious! I’ll figure out the reward later.>

Teressa was Shouting for +21% power, so she took almost five times as long him. But five times Erick’s five minutes of spellwork, was still only 25 minutes.

His plan worked. Faster than he would have thought it could work, too.

And then, just like Poi predicted, coming down from Teressa’s Shout sucked, hardcore.

But beer and hard liquor in orcol bars made everything better.

Oh! Those orcol bars! Where the men had arms as big as Erick’s whole torso and the women’s assets were large and in charge and bouncing oh so well on the dance floor.

Erick cheered with a huge stein of beer at Teressa, “To problems solved, and worries set to rest!”

Teressa crashed her mug against Erick’s, saying, “To foes laid deep in stone!”

An afternoon of drinking turned into an evening of drinking. Somewhere along the way, Erick drunkenly visited the bank, and got Delia a 5000 gold line of credit to draw upon at Oceanside. And then there was more drinking.

And the orcols started losing their shirts. Erick’s shirt went away, too. So that was fun.

Al and Mog got involved, somehow. Erick wasn’t sure on the details, but Erick saw the Adventurer’s Guildhouse all around him, for sure. They had probably blipped into the fourth floor of the Adventurer's Guildhouse, and that led to a whole mess of fun. Probably too much fun. There were some moments in there that felt like giving into pleasure and joy. Was it sex? Possibly. Erick recalled jokes about expertly crafted [Cleanse]s and the liberal use of slippery plants, and moments way too fun and reminiscent of his college years. Erick was certainly in control of himself, but his decisions? Maybe not 100%, but certainly 85%, and that was good enough for him.

It was a good night, and though Erick and Teressa participated in rather different parts of it, she certainly seemed better, which made it all the worse when she wasn’t home when Erick made breakfast the next morning.

Erick almost blew up something, but Poi said that Teressa had just gone to the Guardhouse, to get an early start on the day.

Erick found himself giggling a little, as relief spread throughout his body. He sipped his coftea.

Today was going to be a good day.
