She tried to play it cool, but Erick saw the emerald glint in her eyes. She was excited and terrified and worried, all at once. Erick had dodged every opportunity to divulge what he had made yesterday, and no one had directly asked him, but now that Kiri had directly asked him...

Erick played it cool, too, as he said, “Just a little spell called [Control Weather].”

Kiri flinched. “Oh?” Her voice pitched up. “Okay.” She returned to normal, saying, “That’s… interesting.”

Erick popped the blue box for [Control Weather] into the air, and directed it to Kiri. She almost snatched it up, but she restrained herself at the last moment. She just let the box hang there, in the air, as she read.

She said, “That could change a lot of lives.”

“Yeah.” Erick said, “But now I need to make an artifact of [Control Weather] for Sininindi to keep her off of my back, and I have no idea how.”

“You could make a large structure, like a Grand [Prestidigitation] Stove, but I don’t think a Goddess would appreciate something breakable and fixed in location like that.”

Erick paused. He could do that. But maybe he shouldn’t? He said, “I haven’t even made one of those stoves, yet. Didn’t get that far.”

Kiri nodded. “I sent Sunny out to the spot where you created the spell. I didn’t see much besides clouds, and I don’t think she wants simple clouds.”

“Oh! I haven’t done that yet.” Erick summoned an Ophiel—

His hand twitched, sending tingling across the outside of his arm as mana left his body and coalesced into another Ophiel. The Ophiel turned out fine, and the tingling went away, but Erick was not fully recovered. He flexed his hand a little. Nothing else happened. With a wordless command, Erick sent the second Ophiel blipping out to the casting site.

The sun was just barely beginning to peek over the horizon, sending gold into the sky to chase away the night, but the results of [Control Weather] were rather visible. Erick laughed a little. Clouds hung in the air, taking up half of the sky. They were not the wispy, barely existent clouds common to Crystal Forest mornings. They were strong, fluffy things, cutting sunlight into ribbons. The kind that made you wonder if they were going to open up to flood your part of the world.

Ophiel looked down, to the spot where Erick had stood when he created [Control Weather].

Dunes expanded outward in concentric circles, becoming swirls and curls after the first several indistinct circles, like a god had touched down and made a Zen garden for a good kilometer in every direction. This sandy ‘garden’ was also perfectly dry.

For all the clouds in the sky, there had been no rain.

Erick came back to himself, saying, “Big clouds! But no rain.”

“No rain,” Kiri agreed.

Breakfast was a quick affair for Erick. He just had some toast and eggs, while Kiri took over and finished what he had started.

Erick went to the library and sat down in his chair; he had to bring his supplies to Candlepoint before sunrise got too far away from him. After a quick check on his supplies, a [Cleanse] over them just to be safe, and the conjuring of his entire team of Ophiel, along with the barest bit of pain at drawing out that much mana, Erick blipped his shipment to Candlepoint.

- - - -

Candlepoint was a dark blot of walls and buildings separating the purple sky from the wavy blue dunes of the Crystal Forest.

Erick’s Ophiels had not appeared where they were supposed to appear. He had to be three, maybe four kilometers from the city. He moved the lead Ophiel forward, and discovered the problem. The air was full of buzzy, itching mana. It wasn’t entirely unpleasant, but it was a background problem; like drying out after going for a swim in the salty ocean. The sky seemed to cling to Ophiel. There was only one explanation: it had to be Bulgan’s [Teleport Lock].

… Erick really needed to invent that spell, too. If not that, then maybe a smaller version, that he can use to tag individuals. [Force Bolt] plus [Teleport] plus [Dispel]? Maybe stick an ‘aura’ around a person that blocked a set amount of [Teleport]s? What was ‘Aurify’, really?

Ophiels flew forward to the gate of Candlepoint, deep into the [Teleport Lock]—

The Lock faded, for whatever reason, as Erick’s nine Ophiel, flying in formation, got within a hundred meters of the gate. The guards had seen him coming for a while. As the lead Ophiel got off of his platform and floated forward, the guards inside the gate stepped to attention.

Justine appeared behind them, quickly moving out into the street, her grey and white robes fluttering around her arms and feet as she took her position near the front. She glanced behind Ophiel, and her cloudy grey eyes were full of hope, but she quickly reoriented onto the feathered [Familiar].

She was not the only one to give quiet reverence to the platforms of stone boxes floating in formation behind the first Ophiel. Justine bowed, and the other guards bowed with her.

She stood up, saying, “Welcome back, Archmage Flatt.”

“Yes yes. I don’t trust you yet. But I’m willing to try.” Erick said, “I’ve got 42 tons of bulk rice and beans here for you. I don’t know how long it will last, but I’m sure you can tell me when you get low.” He gestured with his lead Ophiel to the others. The other Ophiel each cast a few [Cleanse]s into their nearby goods. “Cleaned and dried and ready for boiling or whatever you want to do with them.” He asked, “Do you all have [Stoneshape]? Or some way to take them? Or should I drop them off somewhere inside the city?”

Justine said, “Thank you, archmage. We can take them from here. We have [Telekinesis] and [Stoneshape].” She glanced behind her at the guards.

The four guards behind Justine and another four guards from the other side of the gate, moved out, as Erick guided the floating platforms closer. It wasn’t long till every box on every platform floated into the guardhouses, disappearing into the shadows. When the last one went inside, one of the guards returned, carrying a small, cloth bag. He handed the bag off to Justine.

She frowned at the small thing, then looked at the guard. The guard mouthed ‘Sorry’ in Inferni, the language of the incani. Erick had gotten pretty good at both Inferni and Karstar, the language of human nobility and the angels, recently, but aside from an orcol and a blackscale dragonkin, every guard by the gate was incani. With all his eyes in the area, he saw that some of the shadeling guards were not able to hold back the shame in their eyes, as they spotted the tiny sack in Justine’s hand.

Justine turned to Erick saying, “It appears that we are accepting a little under 2 tons of foodstuffs as the equivalent of 1000 mana in rads. Meaning…” She rushed, saying, “Meaning that we have decided to pay you 21 darkchips for the whole of your foodstuffs.” She blinked, as though remembering something, and quickly rushed to pull a thick letter from the folds of her robe. “And! And we have a letter from Mephistopheles, regarding the bargain you made with him.” She held out the letter and the sack to Ophiel.

Erick brushed over their exchange rate of food to darkchips —he would calculate that all out later to see how much they screwed him— and accepted both the bag and the letter, saying, “Acceptable.” He turned a few eyes upward, to look at the large crystal in the center of Candlepoint. “So what happened with the [Teleport Lock]?”

Justine followed his gaze. “I’m not sure, but Master Shadoweater usually only spreads his Blessing for when there’s an attack on the Crystal.” She turned to Ophiel, asking. “Would you like to see the Crystal? That’s where people go to exchange the darkchips for items.”

“Nope.” Erick said, “I’m not comfortable with any of this.”

Justine straightened her back. Her white horns glinted in the early morning light, as she bowed her head, saying, “We understand. Thank you for participating in the growth of Candlepoint.” She raised her head. “Your food will help to save a lot of lives from degradation and misery.”

Erick paused. He almost offered them more help. But then he stopped, and redirected his words. “Were you waiting for me, Justine?” He asked, “How did that happen? How does this work, with you?”

“I volunteered to be assigned to host a single archmage, and when you appeared, I was assigned to you.” She said, “I will continue to be here for when you appear, if it pleases you. I live in a small house just past the guardhouse.” She pointed to the left of the gate. “Over there.”

“You have a life outside of running when I come, don’t you? It seems like you’re forcing yourself to serve my needs and I don’t like that. I’m not sure how comfortable I am with this arrangement.”

“I am active most during sunset and sunrise, like most of my people.” Justine said, “But besides that, I work with others to help people into homes and such. Please do not worry over my arrangements. I am happy with my life.”

“Moving on, then:” Erick asked, “Can I expect the same amount of darkchips for the next batch?”

Justine turned solemn, saying, “I will try to increase the payment for next time.”

“Sure.” Erick offered, “I was thinking of also giving you a hand up, instead of a handout. Do you want rain?”

Two of the guards beside the gate instantly gave a tiny, happy laugh, while others shushed them and the rest displayed open joy.

Justine’s eyes sparkled with hope, ignoring the tiny commotion around her, as she said, “It will be difficult to get others to accept, but, yes! I would like to try. Would you be willing to talk to—”

The sky shifted.

A plume of shadows swirled down next to Justine, rapidly resolving into black horned, dark haired Bulgan. He smiled. Bright white teeth flickered out of the shadows covering his body. Erick felt a chill, followed almost instantly by a radiant anger, but he kept that emotion inside.

Justine stepped to the side, as pure training overtook everyone in the area.

Erick said, “What do you want.”

“I want to see what this is.” Bulgan held up his hand, holding the bulky letter Justine had given Erick. “Seems important.”

Ophiel squawked, as the [Familiar] picked up on Erick’s indignation and disgust. How had Bulgan gotten the letter from him? Ophiel had a good grip on that letter!

Erick watched, as Bulgan opened the letter. He unfolded out five sheets of coarse paper from the interior, and flipped through. His smile got wider. He flicked the papers into the air where dark fire consumed them, turning parchment to dust and ash, as he turned his attention to Justine.

Justine’s facade was impeccable. She showed no remorse, or weakness, or anger, or anything, as Bulgan looked her over. Whatever he was looking for, he must not have found it. He turned to Ophiel.

“That should not have happened.” Bulgan said, “The price of knowing how magic works, at all, is 100,000 darkchips. Looks like at least two people need to be taught a lesson!”

Bulgan vanished in a flicker of darkness, before Erick could speak otherwise. The Shade instantly returned with his hands upon the necks of two people.

As darkness resolved, and recognition of one of the two people took hold, all rational thought fled Erick’s mind. Bulgan’s left hand was wrapped around the neck of the sequined, red-horned Mephistopheles; the operator of the Garrison, and the one who had given Erick a bit of spellwork that he never got a chance to read. Mephistopheles wasn’t the important person here, though.

In Bulgan’s other hand was the neck of a redscale man. Where Mephistopheles winced under the iron grip of his master, trying not to move, this other man stood straight and tall. Proud. Defiant. He accepted his fate with stiff shoulders and loose hands. He looked different than Erick remembered; shadows flickered around the edges of his bright grey eyes, collected in the folds of his dirty clothes, and across his shoeless feet. But the face, and the posture, and the voice, were the same.

The man said, “Just kill me already.”

Bulgan laughed loud, then released his grip on his ‘hostages’. He said, “I can kill you with a thought, so don’t even think of moving a finger.”

The man lifted his pointer finger and his middle finger toward Bulgan. “I must not be thinking.” He asked Erick, “Is my daughter okay?”

Bulgan stepped forward and with a casual, harsh push, laid both Mephistopheles and the man who was certainly not who he looked like, onto the ground.

It was a trick of some sort. It had to be, because Valok was dead.

Bulgan demanded, “A punishment game! For giving away the secrets of the Clergy for free—”

“I’m paying in rads, asshole,” Erick said, ignoring the trauma sprawled out on the sands near the gate. “If the spell works.”

“Nope!” Bulgan said, “That’s not how this works.” He gestured to the two men, saying, “Choose a man to die for the crimes of Mephistopheles.”

“I choose you, Bulgan.” Erick said, “Die for the crimes of your underlings.”

Bulgan laughed. “Do you want to play by Perfect Speech Rules?” He said, “Because I can do that.”

“Do you want me to say ‘yes’, so that you can hold off on the sentencing, indefinitely?”

“Choose anything at all, or nothing, so that whatever you say, I can twist to my benefit.”

Erick stared at Bulgan with all of Ophiel’s eyes. He glanced several eyes toward ‘Valok’. “Delia is probably fine.” As the probable impostor tensed, and clearly wanted to know more, Erick ignored the redscale man, and said, “I still pick you, Bulgan, because with the way you treat them, I don’t understand how every single Shadeling hasn’t been struck with the Slave Class.”

