In my frantic struggle for freedom, I reach out to the familiar sensation, silently pleading for aid. My fingers close around a cold, rounded hilt, the weapon fitting perfectly in my grip as if I’d been born with the blade in hand. In a burst of brilliant light, the Spectres explode away as I find my bearings, my feet planted and sword raised.

Peace, my Spiritual Weapon. Of course it’s here in this spiritual world. The metal pulses in my hand, eagerly greeting me for the first time, ready to fight at my side and I dare not disappoint. With a wordless scream, I charge the Spectres and lay about, scything through them with ease as they flee and scream. “Noooooo,” they wail, the harsh tones now music to my ears. “How can this be? This is not your domain, we claimed this for our own!”

Unwilling to answer, I follow the Spectres on their grand exodus, crossing vast distances in a single stride, my sword light striking down dozens if not hundreds of Spectres with every slash and thrust. “Where is Baledagh?” The question erupts from my lips, the world shrinking as I continue my slaughter. “Where is my brother?”

The Spectres are too busy fleeing to respond, but Peace hums in my grasp, turning me towards my destination. Arriving in a single step, I stand over Baledagh, sitting lifelessly on the plains, untouched and unharmed, eyes open yet wholly oblivious to his surroundings. Tucked between his arms is Tranquility, my little brother hugging the shield to his chest, cradling it like a favoured pet. Unresponsive no matter what I say or do, he sits and stares into the distance, eyes devoid of any emotion or reaction, a lifeless husk.

My heart wrenches at the sight and I lift Peace, thinking to end his miserable existence. The blade shudders in my grasp, displaying opposition to my actions, and after a long pause, I lower Peace with a sigh. Sitting beside him, I follow his gaze into the distance, spotting a younger Baledagh strolling through the village, barely older than Tali and Tate. Holding his hands, Baatar and Sarnai walk beside him, turning to glance back at Alsantset and Charok who lag behind. Adopted by the older couple, Sarnai often praises the Mother for guiding Baatar to the orphaned Baledagh.

Time passes and he grows into a splendid warrior beneath Baatar’s dedicated tutelage, far more talented than I could ever hope to be. His family chants his name from the crowd as he’s crowned Champion of the Contests, the young man filled with pride over his victory. Riding home with his Officer’s token on full display, he convinces Baatar to let him travel on his own, using the safety afforded by his new rank to explore the province before heading home. With a retinue of Sentinels to guard him, he heads off into the world to see the Sacred Groves of Sanshu and maybe do a little bandit hunting, but nothing too overboard.

Riding past the lake, he catches a glimpse of a young woman, hard at work digging for clams. Enamoured with a single glance, Baledagh approaches and asks for her name. The young woman smiles shyly, both frightened and curious, giving an awkward curtsy before answering. Ai-Qing. After a few questions, Baledagh leaves, but it isn’t long before he returns, asking to taste a meal of the strange-looking shellfish. In the end, he dislikes the taste and texture, but thoroughly enjoys her company.

Days turn to weeks as he whiles away the time with Ai-Qing, until Baatar sends someone to fetch him. Unwilling to leave her behind, Baledagh asks for her hand in marriage, and she agrees readily, the two head over heels in love. With his betrothed in hand, he returns home and takes up a blessed existence, spending half the year with his beloved and the other half defending the mountain passes from Defiled. He grows older and wiser, and at the tender age of twenty-two, Ai-Qing, his one and only wife, gives birth to their first child during a beautiful spring shower. Holding his son for the first time, Baledagh chooses the boy’s name on a whim: Falling Rain.

Choking back my tears, I turn to Baledagh, the real Baledagh sitting next to me, lost in his delusions. He’s given up on this existence, surrendered completely, because it seems like the Spectres gave him everything he wanted: his very own life. Gathering him into my arms, I lift him out of the desolate landscape and back to the void, carefully bringing the dream with me before closing everything left behind with a thought, the Spectres entrapped once more. Laying Baledagh gently in bed, I leave him to dream his dreams, undisturbed by the Spectres or myself, wishing I had the power to make his dreams a reality.

It would be kinder to let him dream for now, at least until we’re home safe and sound where I can look after him.

Unfortunately, that might be a while. There’s still a war to be fought.

Sitting down in the void, I close my eyes and channel my Chi, healing my body’s injuries in preparation of the journey ahead. Only now do I truly realize the stakes at hand.

The Defiled must be stopped, no matter the cost.

Chapter Meme
