“Let’s use more diplomatic language,” Casper smiled. “I would instead say that the dungeon has certain questionable design choices. We don’t want to hurt Minaga’s feelings more than we have to.”

“I feel like Minaga would be more insulted by us using flowery and diplomatic language to criticize rather than just call it shit,” Jake shrugged.

“Oh, most certainly,” Casper didn’t disagree at all as he gave a mischievous smile.

“You aren’t doing a good job of making the Risen appear less like an evil faction,” Jake shook his head.

“Says the Chosen of the Malefic Viper,” Casper shot back. “Now, enough bickering; through the portal we go! We still have three more Formation Masters and then a final boss.”

Jake just agreed, and seeing as they were both recovered, they didn’t hesitate further to activate the teleportation circle. Space magic wrapped around them, and a moment later, they found themselves standing on a raised stone platform right in the middle of yet another massive hallway with the ground below and the sky above – though a barrier did create a ceiling a few kilometers up.

Their plan for the dungeon was simple, just as Casper had said. From here on out, it was just about killing the rest of the Formation Masters while going through the Grand Labyrinth, all the while, the average levels of their enemies should be increasing.

“So, which way?” Casper asked, since they had the option to go left or right.

Jake had already released a Pulse of Perception, which gave him the answer right away as his eyes opened wide.

“Left... and run,” Jake said.

“Why the rus-“

Right then, something peeked around the bend in the hallway to the right, a familiar glow illuminating the black metal walls as the object rolled toward them with great speed, consuming everything in its path.

The massive orb filled the entire hallway, and as the two started running for their lives, a shadow chased after them on the ground below, cast by the five letters engraved upon the orb:

Jones
