en stupid. He had the place watched. People arrived and yet no one left. He followed trails and found… no recruiter… people just woke up one day and went to Durence.Not any old beggars but dangerous people. All mail from Durence, slow as it was, was checked… read… and sealed. There was no magic! No hidden code. But people still kept coming.It was maddening.Lorsa has been in charge of tracking the progress of this migration but their many duties left this secondary. In Lorsa’s words… let them gather into a spot. The Grey would end them all.He trusted Lorsa to do what was needed.Lendious closed his eyes.“This Noland, he is to return with a scribe who will act as his apprentice. With him… I want two Knights to escort him. I want complete reports. I want to know strengths… I want to know numbers, and I want to know viable plans if an invasion is needed. Is that clear?” he said to Lorsa and his own scribe who was writing down his every word.“Who shall go?” Lorsa calmly asked as if Lendious hadn't just stated he was sending two of his most deadly warriors on a tax run.“Zane… and Perhal,” he said and the woman—busy snacking on something burned to a crisp—blinked.“Me? Oh I’ll bring Al for some hands-on training,” she beamed. Lorsa tilted their head.A sign of extreme agitation for Lorsa, he knew that well.“Usually we pair different mindsets to make sure all thoughts and avenues are covered,” Lorsa said logically. Lendious leaned his head into his hand.“Sometimes a battle-axe with two blades will stir things faster than a sword and shield,” he stated. Lorsa bowed.“I shall inform Zane of his duty. Perhal… I doubt we’ll need to chase you down tomorrow,” Lorsa was gone before the woman could answer.“Oh poo. I hate when the leader does a vanishing trick. Can’t even invite them for tea,” she told the blank faced Al.Lendious dismissed the unneeded and four Knights remained in the corners of the throne room.Three of them were absolute masters in their area… the fourth was just blessed with the ability that made him too perfect for Lendious to ignore.“Knight,” he said quietly. The man clenched one fist and from his feet a ripple of white energy scoured the floor. Removing traces of germs… dirt from boots… and the smell of cheese.Minutes of blissful clean air.It was a blessing.He nodded his thanks to the man as the room was cleansed of Mana. He wasn’t strong enough to remove the curse of Haldi but his natural gift to break Mana down and repel it was good enough to earn him a spot on Lendious Royal Knights.In a way. All his Knights served one purpose very well.It wasn’t like the old days of his forefathers where any criminal scum was branded with the loyalty mark.Now, he could read lists of applicants… judge people on their power and actions. Decide if it was better to let these beasts—most of them anyway—stand behind him with weapons or loose on the street with innocent people.Zane was such a person.The world was darker if he was free but somehow just as bad with him being a Knight. Growing stronger with access to the Dungeon.The deal.A proper deal.Loyalty with the promise of blood.Besides, Zane had a history with a man in Durence if he remembered right. Why not throw a bone to the Knight watching over his youngest daughter?Perhal?Honestly, Lendious just wanted her gone for a short while. At least in Durence, it might be left untouched after she left.Maybe.He sat there and waited.Waited for the fear in his heart to release its control over his feet.Even to this day… Haldi had left more than a bad smell in his home.---Lorsa walked out of the wall - well… not the wall. Just the hair-thin space afterwards that made it look like they did.“That’s bloody annoying,” the woman hunched over her desk said as she skinned a red rabbit.“First words you say to me in almost thirty years and it was that?” Lorsa complained. Mila snorted.“I got a few more if you want them? You’re the first decent target I’ve had since my kid finished school,” the woman buried her knife into table and stood.“Oh, Ruli actually went back? Aw, how is the little demon princess?” Lorsa helped herself to the hidden bottle of cheap wine hidden in the roof rafters. Exactly where it had been left all those years ago.“She’s annoying, rude, pissed off at the world, and makes friends with monsters and Dungeons. I can’t believe she grew up so wild,” Mila complained.“Oh gee. I can’t believe it either,” Lorsa drank from the bottle, her hood dropping to reveal the silvery hair.“Where did you get that one?” Mila grunted. Lorsa smiled.“Yal built it. I had to fetch him bloody rare books on statues and art! The snob has gone artsy,” Lorsa said before she lowered her bottle.“I always wanted to ask… well visit, but with the Grey, I couldn’t afford to shut down. The letters, the tricking, the bribes… I hoped you knew I was still helping where I could,” she added. Mila nodded.“With each creep that showed up. Had your smug little fingerprints all over it,” she agreed. “How’s your princess? I heard she’s finally breaking out of her shell,” Mila asked politely.“Serma? Good girl but she is more like her mother than she knows. Her father…” Lorsa winced but Mila waved it off.“-is an idiot who let things get as bad as they did. I’ve had a lot of time to be pissed about it but I’m old and care less than I do about the fact that you’re drinking my wine,” she held her hand out.Amused, Lorsa passed it over.“How is Hae,” Mila said and Lorsa blinked.“Oh… you were out for a few years. You might want to brace yourself for this. Hae ran off,” Lorsa said bluntly. Mila gulped, eyes wide.“No fucking way. She wouldn’t leave her brats,” Mila denied Lorsa’s words instantly.“Well, with Lendious as a husband, I could see her giving up but she didn’t leave. I said ran off,” Lorsa waggled a finger.“Queen Hearah… long way from little mousy pickpocket Hae. So where did she go? Church? Thieves guild in her fancy gown?” Mila snorted at the image. Lorsa’s tone was flat when she spoke.“Currently? She’s a contract on floor 100 of Yal’s Dungeon.”The wine bottle cracked and shattered.---Delta stared at the garden that used to hold that weird gazebo.The fountain was gone. It was replaced by something… quite odd.A statue of Nu was on a round stone platform. On his stone screen were a few lines but it had been covered in moss and the fact that it was a little cracked was making it hard to read.The two floating hands were splayed open as if taunting people to read.“The well of wisdom is deep but you’re all up the creek without a bucket?” Delta read aloud, but let her mind space out a little to take the room in.She blinked and stared at the bubbling well hidden under the hollow statue. The glowing orange liquid was still like glass.Delta let the numbers appear and her garden became still digesting room of information covered in her Mana to her eyes. The well was barely a few drinking glasses full but someone would have to climb down to reach it.She brought up a menu and watched as Mana drew together,information flowing from her core and imprinting on the Mana, shaping it and making it real. So that was how a menu looked in progress…Neat.She came back to human sight and her eyes almost went backwards as she blinked hard at the words.

Delta pursed her lips.“If I find out that the stealing-eyeball thing is real, I am going to make you wash your hands before we talk again,” she warned but the Menu simply vanished.Delta let out a sigh and she stretched, looking up.She froze.“We’ve been noticed.”“Perhaps she doesn’t see us? We could be that well hidden?”“No… she’s seen us if the rising keening noise is any indication.”“… Quiet. This is our first impression.”A nearby hill moved and Gnashly woke up. She yawned and looked around.“Where’s the chicken? What’s screaming?” she demanded. She looked over and paused.“Oh… well, Nu’s in the dog house,” she mumbled. Delta stared up at four looming figures and her vision flickered under her shock, causing their forms to flash as if orange lightning was in the background.Four faces. Only one of them close to human.One peered down in the most hideous bat like snout Delta has seen. The next one she thought was a bird until she saw the wide dark eye sockets.A doctor… a plague doctor stone face. The last of the monstrous visages was something like a dragon but deformed.The leader, as the rest looked up to him, crossed his arms. His hair was wavy and dark… his chest defined… his eyes deep and… brooding.“We’re thinking of the ‘Stoned Four’!” the bat one sounded pleased. The rest all made noises of disgust.Delta closed her eyes. Opened them. Breathed.Then spoke.“I am so getting sued,” she declared.
