Pouting adorably, GangShu rests his cheek on his fist, grumbling beneath his breath. “Bah, it ain’t fair. I’ve been looking fer the Tear of the Mother for decades and it ends up with a brat who calls it ‘Blobby’.”

Hmm... Now that I think about it, ‘Blobby’ might come off a little... sacrilegious. “I’m open to naming suggestions.”

Chuckling, GangShu smiles again, this time more naturally. “Well, at least ye’ve got balls. I thought ye’d be like my boy there, stutterin’ an’ stammerin’ fer hours before he got a word out.” Sighing, he shakes his head. “A damn shame. Thought I’d found another son who made it big like Daxian here, but ‘Hangman’ Jorani ain’t nothin’ but a sham.”

Neither confirming nor denying anything, I glance at Jorani in sympathy, seeing the anger and hurt in his eyes. Absentee father or not, it can’t be easy to hear that, but something tells me GangShu isn’t exactly father-of-the-year material. There are plenty of rat-eared bastards hanging around Sanshu, and after seeing their progenitor, I can’t blame the ladies. GangShu is so dreamy, even I want to cuddle him. It’s like there’s some primal urge telling me to submit to him in every way, his power and beauty beyond human standards.

So no homo.

After a long silence, GangShu clears his throat. “Well, if ye can’t bring it out fer a look, then that’s that. Time to pack up and head elsewhere.” Standing to stretch, he nods at me. “I’m leavin’ my boy in yer hands. He’s a little cowardly, but he’s got promise, so do what ye can. Don’t matter if he croaks, I’ve plenty of others runnin’ around. I’m sure one of em’ll take after their Pa. Best of luck now, and give em hell.”

Blinking in confusion, I turn in my seat as he strolls to the doors. “Wait,” I say, against my better judgment. “You’re leaving Sanshu?”

“Mhmm... more like the province. Heard stories about Heavenly Water in the south and always wanted to visit.” Pausing at the door, he turns to frown. “I shouldn’t have told ye, so keep it between us, ya?”

“...But Sanshu could use your help. The North could use your help.”

The other Ascendants ignore me as they file out the door, though Lei Gong shrugs in apology. Chuckling, GangShu shakes his head. “Why should I help?”

“Because the Defiled will slaughter and torture millions. Because you can save lives. You cared enough to come save Sanshu right?”

“That’s got nothing to do with me. I'm here cuz a couple o' sneaky bastards tried to take what’s mine, so I swung by to warn em off.” Baring his teeth in his fearsome ‘smile’, he adds, “This is my territory, and I wasn’t ready to let them northern bastards waltz in and take it.”

“But won’t they take it after you leave?” I don’t understand him.

“Mebbe, but who cares. Ye’ve got the only thing I stayed fer.”

“What about all the people who’ll die?”

With a patronizing look, GangShu asks, “What about em? I might look human, but that don’t mean I am. Why should I care if ye slaughter each other? That’s life. How many chickens and cows ye think were slaughtered fer yesterday’s feast? To them animals, ye’re just as bad as the Defiled, if not worse. Should I stand on their side and slaughter all humans? Just be thankful I ain’t seeking justice for all the rats in the world.” Laughing as he turns to leave, he adds, “Besides, you've plenty of help beside ye, won't be needing me.”

Chasing after him to ask more questions, the hall stands empty as my words catch in my throat. Why was he looking for Blobby? What was he gonna do with it? Why did it choose me instead of the powerful ancestral beast? My first meeting with an ancestral beast was rather disappointing, though I’m curious if they’re all equally attractive. There was something about GangShu that made me like him, despite his callous attitude towards humans.

Awkwardly standing beside me, Jorani shuffles his feet and says, “So like I sed, it’s kind of ye to offer, but I’d like to sign with ye. The others’ll probably come along too, plenty of tough bastards in the Militia.”

His shy, hopeful smile almost breaks my heart, the cowardly half-rat terrified of being thrown away. This is the 'plenty of help' GangShu mentioned? Well... beggars and choosers and whatnot. Clapping Jorani on the shoulder, I say, “I could always use more tough bastards. Happy to have you on board.” Sizing him up, I ask, “You still have that Runic Armour?” We’re totally the same size, I’m sure it’ll fit me.

“Nah, the stingy old bastard took it back, said ‘treasuring jade is a crime’, whatever that means. He gave me this fancy lookin’ rod tho, might come in handy.”

The iron rod seems wholly lacking compared to a full suit of Runic armour, and I fight to hold back my tears.

Dammit. So close.

Chapter Meme (I'm so sorry)
