“That’s right. I got back, in a new body. And I found the inn was surrounded by [Guards] and blood and corpses where my team should have been. I thought it was an attack at first. Or—or one of our enemies had hired an assassin. Or worse, the items we’d recovered had been cursed. But it was none of those things. The [Innkeeper] told us that he’d seen a Goblin running out of our private rooms with a bloody sword. And then he’d found the bodies.”
Garen was silent. Jelaqua shook her head as Moore bit back a sound.
“Seborn came running as soon as he heard and got Moore. We had to figure out what had happened. None of us wanted to believe it. But there were eyewitnesses and nothing else could have happened. None of the items were cursed. They were all there, except for one small thing you’d taken. So we figured it out.”
Moore interrupted. He looked up at Garen, eyes wet.
“You killed them. You killed them and stole that key and ran. In cold blood. With no warning.”
Garen didn’t reply. He stood there, face pale. Jelaqua spoke quietly.
“You filthy traitor. We welcomed you into our team. We fought with you, side-by-side for years. And you killed your friends in a moment. For what? A key? We would have given it to you!”
“I did not betray.”
Garen repeated the words like a mantra. Jelaqua spat. She looked at the other Redfangs.
“False words, Garen. Do they know what you did? Did you tell them? Or are they just tools for you to throw away, like we were?”
The Goblins stirred. Garen started and then stared down at Jelaqua. He seemed to realize what she was doing at last. A note of heat entered his tone.
“They are not! They are my tribe! I did not betray my team! I—it was not like that. It did not happen that way. I was betrayed.”
“Liar!”
The word came from all three Halfseekers. Garen recoiled, and then he shouted back.
“You were not there! You did not hear! Only I was there!”
“Then tell us! What happened?”
Jelaqua hurled it at Garen. She strained against the ropes, not able to act. Garen hesitated. He looked from face to face. And then he nodded. He looked around at the watching Redfangs. At Spiderslicer, at the five returned warriors. He raised his voice.
“You want to know? Fine. This is what happened. This. This is how I was betrayed.”
The Halfseekers stared up at Garen. He saw them exchange glances, strain against their bindings, and then, slowly, relax.
For a second, their anger faded, and Garen saw a burning hole. A yearning to know. He turned away. The memories rose in him until he could remember the smell of the room, how he’d felt, even the smallest details, like the way his heart started to jump as they unpacked the treasure, and he knew he was right.
Garen’s voice was hollow in his ears. He looked at Jelaqua. She had not been a female Drake, then. She had been a male Human, a castoff body, the only one she’d been able to find.
“Do you remember that day? Before the adventure?”
“Yes.”
Jelaqua closed her eyes. She spoke hollowly, replaying the memories in her own mind as they flashed before Garen’s eyes.
“Back then, I remember it was you that told us there was treasure at the bottom of the roach caverns. Other adventurers had cleared the caverns before, but given up. The place was—is—disgusting. No one ever wanted to go near the place. But you insisted. You told us you were certain. And when I asked, you said you’d learned it from another Goblin. A Chieftain. I remember thinking it was curious how a Goblin would know about the treasure, but I didn’t ask then.”
Seborn nodded.
“We thought we knew the depths, but you kept insisting we go deeper. Farther down. You could drown amid the insects down there. But those were only the ones who lived near the surface. The ones who ate the roaches and other bugs lived deeper. And we had to fight through them.”
The Selphid’s voice was soft. Now, all three—all four were in a sort of trance. The Goblins listened as the Halfseekers recalled that day and night. Jelaqua stared at another sight, and Garen heard the clicking, moving sounds, the shouting of voices, crunching.
“Walls of vines while we recovered. Halassia and Keilam had to burn us a path. If we hadn’t been at our best, we would have been overwhelmed. And when we got to the bottom and those things began crawling towards us—Seborn nearly died grabbing the chest. But he tossed it into the bag of holding, and we ran for it.”
“We had the treasure.”
Garen spoke quietly. Jelaqua smiled without mirth.
“We did. We checked the treasure the moment we got out of the cave. Good stuff, but we decided to unpack it at the inn. We headed for the nearest city. Celebrating. We were happy.”
“We were.”
Moore hunched over. He looked up, his voice hollow.
“I remember I was so happy that day. For all I was as sick as a dog. And it was all thanks to you, Garen. A Goblin’s tipoff. A fortune, or at least, we hoped. It was a fortune, a small one at least. It paid for the funerals. For money to the families of Thornst, Keilam, and Halassia. Ukrina’s kin wanted nothing to do with her.”
“We left you in a private room we’d rented. That was the last time we were together.”
Yes. Garen closed his eyes. He looked up—
And dodged. Just in time. Moore spewed onto the table again. Halassia made a horrified sound, and Jelaqua groaned.
“Aw, Moore!”
“Sorry.”
The half-Giant wiped his mouth. Something crawled out of what he’d puked up, and the half-Giant was immediately sick again. All of the adventurers had swallowed bugs in the caverns, but he’d been the biggest target. Garen patted him on the back as Ukrina went for another bucket and cloths. The [Innkeeper] had not been happy about them trooping into his inn covered in filth and insects, but they’d paid him enough. Well, probably enough.
“I think Moore’s done in, guys. And my body’s shot.”
Jelaqua looked tired. She gestured at her body—with her left arm. She’d left the right one behind, and her current body was not only bitten in a thousand places, but—infested. Moore avoided looking at her as he wiped his mouth. He looked pale and green. Garen silently plucked a wiggling bug off of Moore’s ear and popped it into his mouth.
“Ew, Garen!”
Halassia covered her eyes. Moore looked at Garen and then covered his mouth. Ukrina sighed.
“Moore, please don’t throw up or that [Innkeeper] will kick us out. At least he’s giving us enough soap and water and hot towels.”
Jelaqua shook her head.
“They’d better, with what we’re paying them. Moore, get yourself to your room. And, uh, let’s get him a few basins. And a cleansing spell?”
“I’ll do it. I need to see if my dagger can be repaired.”
Seborn volunteered, lifting the broken acid dagger he’d sacrificed to distract one of the insects at the bottom of the caverns. Jelaqua nodded.
“Then I’ll haul myself off to the local crypt. I think the [Gravedigger] told me they’ve got a body that’s not too rotten…anything’s better than this. You lot think you can hold down the fort?”
Thornst, the half-Elf and newest member of their group, looked up hopefully. He was the oldest among them save for Jelaqua, but he acted like the youngest at times, younger than even Garen.
“If we can check the treasure—”
“Be our guests. But no fighting over the items until I get back, okay, kids?”
“Deal.”
Ukrina rubbed her claws together in delight. Keilam, who had stayed out of range of Moore’s vomiting, leapt to the ground as the other three departed. He peered at the moldy, worn treasure chest that had been sitting at the bottom of the caverns. Garen eyed another bug that crawled from the edge of the chest, but decided he was full. Keilam prowled around the chest.
“Tell me what we got. If there’s a spellbook, I’d like—”
“No dibs, Keilam! Jelaqua just said! Hold on, let’s open it. Garen, do you want to do the honors? You did give us the lead on this one.”
Halassia smiled at Garen. Her dark, ashy scales were flaking off, and red, distressed skin showed in places where her scales had fallen off. But it was a familiar sight, and Garen admired his teammate. He nodded, heart pounding.
“I will. It was good secret, right?”
“Right!”
The others chorused. Ukrina laughed. She slapped Garen on the back.
“A Goblin’s secrets! Every team should have a Goblin in it, right Garen? What other treasures does your kind know about? I should have been shaking down Goblins left and right instead of—uh, never mind.”
She trailed off awkwardly. Garen just shook his head.
“Goblins have few secrets. Just…a few. This one, and some others. But this is important. Think so, anyways.”
He shrugged uncomfortably. He was afraid, terribly afraid that he was wrong. But if he was right—his claws trembled as he reached for the lid of the chest. The others held their breaths. They’d done a quick inventory already, but this was different. Garen opened the chest, and they sighed as a glitter shone from within.
“Well, would you look at that.”
Keilam prowled around the chest, reaching into it. Halassia slapped his paws away.
“Hands off! Let Garen pull them out.”
“Should we be careful of traps?”
Thornst asked the question a bit too late. Halassia shook her head.
“Seborn checked it already. Besides, it would have gone off when he grabbed it anyways, right? Go on, Garen.”
The Hobgoblin nodded and began pulling items out. Ukrina whistled as he lifted a large, golden yellow orb, translucent and set on a small bronze stand.
“Looks like a scrying orb. Nice size. And this—this is a fine set of gemstones.”
She eyed the handful of sparkling gems Garen pulled out. The next item made Keilam reach for it and earn another swat. His tail wagged back and forth as he peered at a studded silver gauntlet, shaped for a Drake’s claws rather than a Human’s hand.
“A gauntlet! I wonder what its enchantment is? And look, a wand! I call it!”
“Keilam! I told you no!”
Halassia sprayed a bit of water from the tip of her staff at Keilam. The half-Gnoll yowled and backed up, raising his paws. Halassia sighed, but then her face burst into a smile as Garen kept pulling out item after item.
“Would you look at this? Potions and gems and magical artifacts! We’re rich! This is twice as good as the treasure we got in Meribeth’s Sanctum!”
The others nodded. Halassia paused, a frown crossing her face.
“An odd collection, though. All of this stuff’s expensive, but who just packs this randomly into a chest? And leaves it at the bottom of a cavern full of bugs?”
Garen had reached the bottom of the chest. His breath caught as, at last, he found what he was looking for. He answered Halassia with a trembling voice.
“A distraction. Small treasure. Reward for getting chest. But this—”
He reached into the chest and came up with something. A small key, iron, or so it seemed. The other Halfseekers stared at it, perplexed.
“What? Are you serious, Garen? There’s no way that this is a distraction. You’re telling me that’s the treasure? How did you know about it?”
Ukrina looked skeptically at the key. Keilam’s ears perked up. Halassia blinked, and Thornst leaned forwards.
“What’s that key for, Garen? What does it unlock? Is this another Goblin secret?”
Garen smiled at them. He hesitated and looked down at the key. This was it. Every part of him knew it was the key. It was the same as the one he had seen in his memories. But should he tell them?
Yes. Every part of him said yes. Garen had debated this very question for months now, ever since he had taken a leave of absence from the Halfseekers and discovered his brother had given his soul away. But now even that memory couldn’t dampen his spirits.
Yes, tell them! His brother was wrong. His strange master couldn’t be trusted. Undead couldn’t be trusted. But Garen knew his team. He looked around and held the key up proudly. It shone dully in the light. It looked just like iron, and it didn’t seem enchanted, not on first inspection. But Garen felt the power in it. He looked at the others, practically trembling with joy.
“This is the true treasure. The one I knew of. It was hidden in caverns. Rest of the treasure is a distraction a…”
“Decoy?”
Halassia offered. Garen nodded.
“Yes. Decoy. But this. This is valuable. It is—it is the key of the Goblin King.”
The others felt silent. Their eyes went wide. Fixed on Garen and the key. He looked around, smiling at them. His friends. He waved the key.
“This is his key. I know it from memory. All Goblins who remember do. This is Velan’s key. One of two. And it unlocks a great, great treasure in the High Passes. The treasure of Goblins. Our hope. Our legacy. Will you help me find it?”
He waited for them to say yes. To smile and congratulate him. To agree. He waited and waited. But that was not what they said. Instead, they broke Garen’s heart.
 
——
 
“The key of the Goblin King.”
Garen held it up. The little iron key was dull, worn. Small. But it had never broken, and he could still feel the power within. The Halfseekers, the living ones, stared at him.
“And that was it? You killed them for that?”
Jelaqua whispered through bloodless lips. Garen jerked. He twisted and looked at her.
“No! I told them what it was! I told you—”
“And then what? It makes no sense! Did you try and keep the key and they stopped you? Did you ask for it? We didn’t even divide the loot yet! Why did you steal it and run?”
Jelaqua cried out, frustrated. Garen clenched the key in his fist, feeling the teeth dig into his palm.
“I did not steal it! You didn’t listen! I told them exactly what I told you! I told them everything! I told them this key was the key of Velan. One of two! And it unlocked a greater treasure.”
Garen stared down at the key. Such a precious thing. Such a terrible weight. He had debated throwing it away a thousand times. It was a reminder. He put it in the pouch at his belt, closed it, looked around. His tribe stared at him. The Halfseekers stared at him. Did they not see it yet? Garen spoke quietly.
“I told them. Our hope. A treasure for my kind. The only thing Goblins have ever been left besides death. I thought they would be happy. But they weren’t. They tried to take the key from me. They said I should never have it.”
“No.”
“Yes.”
Garen didn’t look up. He stared down at his hands.
“That was what Halassia said. She looked at me. And Ukrina told me to give her the key or bleed. But Halassia said—she said—”
He swallowed. The words came back to him, burning, unforgettable. Garen looked up and stared into her eyes as she pointed a wand at his chest.
