Garen’s smile faded. He turned away as memory became reality. The past had caught up, and it was time. To put an end to it for good.
 
——
 
They were the Redfang tribe. Where they were didn’t really matter. It was who they were that mattered, how they fought. They had fought another battle and won. There was glory in that. But death, too. There was always death.
Many Redfangs had died fighting the adventurers. Over a hundred, and most to the Halfseekers. The adventurers at the door had been contained fairly well—it was only the half-Elf [Mage]’s spells and the [Scout] and his cursed enchanted arrows that had done a lot of damage. And the Garuda had killed a half dozen.
Too many. It was to be expected when one fought Gold-ranks, but it hurt. The Redfangs mourned their dead, even as they became food or were stripped of their gear. But unlike other Goblins, they had a different sort of culture. As the dead were laid to rest, Redfangs, the closest friends of the fallen, would bend down and collect blood from the fallen. Barring that, they would cut themselves and add markings to their body.
A stripe of blood on a cheek. An added bit of blood on an arm, or ear. The location didn’t matter, or the length of the marking. But the blood would stay. And when it faded, it would be replaced by paint. Forever. So long as the Redfang in question had access to war paints, he or she would decorate their body with their individual set of markings.
And they would never forget where they were, even if circumstances dictated that they be clean or prohibited them from using their war paints. The red stripes would always be there. Reminders of failure. Of the fallen. It was a promise not to fail next time.
The new Redfangs earned their first stripes that day. It was a mark of shame and honor. They had survived a battle. The veterans had red paint all over their body. But they did not revel in the markings, like the young Goblins. It was a symbol, that was all. It made them unique. Stronger.
Five Hobgoblins sat in the center of the Redfang tribe. Unlike the others, they didn’t need to bandage their wounds or tend to their mounts. They hadn’t fought. Rather, they’d come through the magic door as soon as they’d heard what was going on. The Redfang Warriors—that was to say, the five Hobgoblins who stayed at Erin’s inn—sat uneasily, just across from their Chieftain. Or their former Chieftain?
Garen Redfang grinned at them, not put out one bit that Headscratcher had attacked him. He had even let Erin go. He was…just as they’d remembered. Larger than life. Glorious. And his famous blade hung by his side. He couldn’t stop looking at the five. Garen faced them and deliberately did not look behind him. He didn’t listen to the three adventurers, who had been unceremoniously carried to the same spot and were under heavy guard.
Jelaqua could barely move, and the broken weapons in her body protruded from her flesh. Seborn’s bleeding had stopped, but Moore was still injured from dozens upon dozens of wounds. Their voices were low.
“Can’t move my right arm. Ripped almost all my muscle fibers there. I’m torn up everywhere else too.”
“I’m bleeding, but I managed to heal up before they got me. I don’t have any weapons. They found all of my daggers.”
“Moore…?”
“He needs a healing potion.”
The half-Giant was breathing laboriously. Jelaqua looked up. She bit her lip.
“Think we’ll get him to let us use one before he axes us?”
Seborn stared at Garen’s back.
“Don’t count on it. If you can give me an opening—”
“Forget it. He’s expecting it. Let’s just…wait. Damn it. It’ll be over soon.”
“I’m sorry.”
“For what? I had the best shot. Damn arm gave out. I should have—”
Garen ignored them. He looked around instead, focusing on the Goblins who were sitting just outside the circle of his Redfang tribe. They were curious. Small, many of them smaller than even the average Goblin. They had greyer skin, but besides that they were identical to regular Goblins. He spotted what looked like emerging Hobgoblins among them. But what really stood out was their numbers.
The Cave Goblins of the dungeon sat, watching the Redfangs with awe. They had followed their five leaders north, not bothering with the door but streaming across the Floodplains, much to the horror of the Drakes in Liscor.
Garen didn’t know all the details of what had happened to have so many Cave Goblins following his warriors, but he had gotten the details, at least a broad outline from Numbtongue. Pressed, the Hobgoblin had given a quick summary, and Garen had gotten the basics.
So, his warriors had gone into a dungeon and liberated the Cave Goblins there? They’d fought strange primordial Gnolls—Raskghar—and triumphed. They’d become Hobs, all of them. Hobs!
He could remember them before they’d left. Tiny, regular-sized Goblins. Good warriors, some of his best, but infantry. Not his prized Carn Wolf [Riders], and not his few Hobs. Garen’s heart hurt. He remembered he’d sent Grunter to lead them, Grunter and seven more. He’d asked, but the silence had been enough of an answer.
Thirteen had left, five remained. As outcomes went, that was good for Goblins. And they were Hobs.
Garen couldn’t get over that fact. Hobgoblins only emerged as a result of great strength or triumph. Each of the Redfangs had a unique class. The other members of his tribe were glancing at them in awe, especially after they’d heard what their classes were.
“[Berserker]. [Weapon Expert]. [Sniper]. [Bard]. And [Champion]!”
Garen spoke loudly, looking from face to face with overwhelming pride. Each of the Redfangs ducked their heads. Garen looked at Rabbiteater last, twice as amazed. Rabbiteater—now there was a shock. He was a good fighter, decent at most things, but a [Champion]? Those who knew him were beside themselves with surprise.
“And these…Cave Goblins? You taught them how to fight?”
“Small bit, Chieftain.”
Shorthilt answered for the others. He played with his sword, an action that was familiar to Garen, but with a different body. Shorthilt gestured, and Garen saw a group of Goblins with sharp weapons raise them over their heads and cheer.
“Taught to fight like Redfangs. By a Redfang.”
Spiderslicer grumbled, seemingly unsure if this was a good thing or a bad thing. But Garen knew it was a good thing. He looked at the Cave Goblins.
Twenty thousand new Redfangs. That was what they were. Twenty thousand warriors—or the makings of them. He couldn’t help smiling.
“Tell me what happened. From the start. Not a summary. Tell me—all of it!”
He urged Headscratcher. The Goblin was bashful, embarrassed. He looked at the others and then hesitated. He had smiled with pure joy to see Garen, but now he was concerned.
“Chieft…”
He trailed off. Garen waited, smiling. Headscratcher looked at him. What was it? He looked so worried. And then Headscratcher said it.
“Where is Chieftain? Where is Rags?”
Garen—froze. So did the other Redfangs. For a beat, Garen stared at Headscratcher, wondering what had possessed him to ask that? Chieftain? He was Chieftain! Why would Headscratcher—
He hadn’t been here. He didn’t know. None of them did. The rest of the tribe realized that and sat still, an army of statues. The five Hobs looked around, confused. They focused on Garen, and he realized he had to say something. He spoke haltingly.
“Rags is…gone. Maybe dead. Her tribe split from Redfangs. Betrayed us.”
“Betrayed? How?”
The five reacted in shock. The other Redfangs avoided looking at them. Garen ignored the question as well.
“They did. And then they were attacked by Reiss—by the Goblin Lord. He betrayed them, too. Rags disappeared in fighting. May be dead. Rest of her tribe is broken. Fleeing this way. We left too.”
The five stared at Garen, jaws agape, full of horror. They began to ask questions all at once, but Garen didn’t want to answer them. He shook his head, then raised his voice.
“No. No! It is in the past! They betrayed us. Rags is gone. The Redfangs are the Redfangs. Same as before.”
Badarrow stared at Garen. The Chieftain avoided his gaze. It was true. He turned, seeking another topic. Three pairs of eyes stared at him. He froze.
“Chieftain. Who are they? Should we kill?”
Spiderslicer stared at the Halfseekers with hatred in his eyes. He fingered the handle of the falchion. The other Redfangs murmured agreement. Headscratcher and the other four Hobs looked uneasy. Rabbiteater opened his mouth, and the others elbowed him quickly. Garen ignored that and shook his head slowly.
“I will deal with them. Myself.”
“Chieftain knows them?”
Garen nodded slowly. He couldn’t avoid it after all. He got up and looked at the Halfseekers.
“Yes. I do know them. And so do you.”
The Redfang tribe looked at each other. He couldn’t mean—they had all heard the old stories. They turned as one and focused on the Halfseekers, and Garen walked over to them. He studied each face. Moore tried to sit up and groaned as blood ran from his wounds.
“They are my old team. The Halfseekers. Half Freaks. A Gold-rank team. The ones who betrayed me.”
An awed silence fell over the Redfang tribe. They stared at the Halfseekers, not with anger, but with amazement now. Garen’s original team. They all knew the story—or a version of the tale. They had heard how his team betrayed him, how he had retreated, formed a tribe in the High Passes. But to see them in real life was different. Garen stared down at his old comrades and then heard a strangled laugh.
“We betrayed you? You damn liar.”
Jelaqua sat up. Her eyes focused unsteadily on Garen, one drifting slightly. But her voice was strong. Furious.
“You betrayed us. Don’t lie!”
The accusation made Garen freeze in place. He felt a hot flash of shame and then fury go through him. He snapped back at Jelaqua.
“I did not! The others did!”
“Liar.”
The voice came from Moore. He hauled himself upright. The Redfangs guarding him stirred uneasily. The half-Giant’s voice rose. He boomed, and the Redfangs instinctively flinched as he shouted Garen.
“You lie! You killed them! In cold blood! You murderer! You—”
He tried to break the ropes holding him, but failed. He sat back, face white as a sheet. Garen looked away from him. He clenched his claw into a fist.
“I did not betray. They did.”
“Liar.”
This time, Garen whirled and nearly kicked Seborn. The Drowned Man looked up at him. His voice echoed, quieter than the other two. But it was no less furious.
“We know what we saw. You ran, and we’ve been waiting for this day for years. If you had any courage, you’d fight me. Give me a dagger, Garen. And we’ll end this.”
“No. You are my prisoners. I beat you.”
Garen clenched his fists. Seborn looked away.
“With numbers. Coward.”
The Redfangs rumbled. Garen roared.
“I am not a coward!”
He strode up to Seborn and grabbed the [Rogue]. Quick as a flash, Seborn lunged at him. He’d untied himself! Garen saw the claw go for his throat, threw Seborn back. The Redfangs tackled him. There was a brief scuffle, then Seborn was back in his bindings, worse for the wear.
“You are the coward. You—”
Garen was still breathing heavily. Seborn looked up at him, speaking around a bloody lip.
“No less than you deserve. Team killer.”
“Monster.”
The whisper came from Moore. Garen howled in fury.
“I am not! They were! They were!”
He strode back and forth, trembling, unable to speak straight. His tribe watched, uncertain. They had never seen their Chieftain like this. They watched, and so did the Cave Goblins. They were all witness to the argument. But they had not been there.
Jelaqua looked up at Garen, silent, letting him vent his fury at the other two. She tugged at her bindings, but her right arm was torn. And Garen was quick. She looked around for anything, but there were hundreds of eyes on her. And yet—Jelaqua looked straight at Numbtongue, at Headscratcher.
They were watching her. All five of the Redfangs. Uncertainly, nervously eying their Chieftain, whom they’d just reunited with. Or was he their Chieftain? Jelaqua’s eyes narrowed slightly. She looked up as Garen rounded on Moore and spoke, her dead voice rasping, the broken body she was wearing slowly deteriorating every time she moved.
“You’re a filthy liar, Garen. Does your tribe know you’ve been lying to them all this time? Or have you told them your story of what happened?”
He turned on her, full of wrath. Just like she remembered in some ways. The same face, the same body. But not the same person. Selphids counted personality more than physical appearance, and this Garen was nothing like the one Jelaqua knew. He was uncontrolled, raging. Guilty.
“I told them the truth! The truth! I was betrayed!”
“Oh yeah? That’s not how we remember it. And we were there. Right, Moore? Seborn? You guys remember what went down.”
Jelaqua looked sideways at Moore and Seborn, hoping they’d understand what she wanted. The other two looked at her and caught on. As always. They glanced around and abandoned their fury for one second. Seborn nodded.
“I remember. So does Moore.”
“In my dreams. Every night.”
The half-Giant rasped. Blood ran from his hand, his side. Jelaqua was worried. He’d bleed out soon. But Garen wasn’t about to heal him. So the Selphid spoke as quickly as she could. She looked up at Garen and raised her voice so everyone, all the Goblins both Redfang and Cave Goblin, could hear.
“Tell me, Garen. Did you tell your tribe what happened before we ‘betrayed’ you? Did you give them all the details? Because I remember that night very well. We’d just cleared that damn cavern. Gone deeper than anyone had ever gone before. Past the roaches and the other crawling monsters. Into the heart of the caves. I thought we’d die when we fought the things down there, but somehow our team made it out, in one piece no less.”
She looked around. The Redfang warriors were staring at her, listening to her words. Jelaqua nodded. Of course, they’d listen to any story about their Chieftain. She looked at Garen and saw the Hob had stopped raging. Cold memory flickered in his eyes, the same one in Jelaqua’s own mind as she went on.
“Of course there were costs. We’d blown all our healing potions—and we took over a hundred bottles—wasted more alchemist brews than I could count. My body was almost destroyed, Seborn had broken one of his enchanted daggers, and Moore was throwing up all the bugs he ate.”
“I was sick. I remember being in my room until Seborn came to get me.”
Moore spoke guiltily. Seborn nodded.
“I was speaking to a [Blacksmith]. Jelaqua was the first to return.”
The Selphid shifted. She had perfect control over her body. But she still wanted to shake, to clench her hands.
