Ashlock stared at the system message floating in his mind. Despite somewhat expecting it, he was still in disbelief. Him? At the Monarch Realm? Was this a dream?

However, he was merely at the threshold, and if his ascension to the Nascent Soul Realm was anything to go by, his system would want him to complete a list of tasks. As he expected, the dreaded system message appeared.

[Monarch Realm ascension requirements:

Possess an Inner World: 1/1

Comprehend Desolation Law: 63%

Devour the souls of nine Monarch Realm beings: 0/9]

The list was far shorter than he expected, and he already possessed the first of the three. However, comprehending the law of Desolation Qi was no easy feat, as he required intimate knowledge of dozens of different affinities. "Thankfully, the Eternal Realm can help me with that, but I also have to devour nine Monarch Realm souls? Doesn't that basically set me on a warpath with the Celestial Empire, no matter what? I doubt there are nine other Monarch Realms on this layer of creation... unless I resort to eating my own sect members?"

On that morbid thought, the system message changed to one that lifted his mood.

[Rewards:

Ascend to Monarch Realm

Unlock a suitable Monarch Domain

Initiate the Era of Ascension]

Ashlock focused on that third reward—the Era of Ascension. The event that was orchestrated by the previous World Trees to link the layers of creation and rise toward the heavens.

Except this time, it would be a demonic tree doing the honors. But didn’t the World Tree have to be at the peak of the Monarch Realm to pull that off? How come he could initiate it so soon?

The answer was no doubt system fuckery. He had an Inner World as Nascent Soul Realm after all.

Ashlock dismissed the system messages and left his Inner World. While looking at the distant horizon, he mused to himself.

"All is going to plan. My roots are rapidly expanding along the leyline toward the Celestial Empire. It won't be long until they make contact with the outermost territories of the Celestial Empire, and the citizens begin to grow aware of my encroaching presence. While their leaders find their precious golden sap rotten, chaos will ensue, as the Empire faces a threat it cannot understand."

Ashlock chuckled.

"After all, nobody will expect the culprit toppling an Empire to be a tree."

= End of Book 8 =
