“Tee-one, this is Teepo.” Ren said and motioned to his shoulder. “Can you see him?”

“I can.” Tee-one said. “Hello, Teepo.”

“Hello.” Teepo said. “It's nice to meet you.”

“It's nice to meet you, too.” Tee-one said, and looked at Ren. “What do you want me to make first?”

“You were just born.” Ren said. “I'd like for you to meet some more people first.”

“Of course.” Tee-one said. “Do you want to add me to your party as well?”

Ren grinned. “You're already anticipating what I want.” He said, and sent the party invite. Tee-one accepted, and Ren got a popup.

Notice!

Your party, Virtual Survivors, has reached the limit of available members (7).

“We need to wait for a few minutes.” Ren said and motioned to his hand in the hardened metal. “I kind of got it stuck making you.” He took out the stone brick that he had enchanted with a single Wind rune and 7 Fire runes, that he'd used to heat up and cut the chute in half. He used it to blast the metal around his hand and used his Fire Manipulation ability to distribute the heat down to his fingers. It took about 5 minutes for it to soften enough for Ren to pull his hand out. Ren set the brick on the top of the smelter and left it to melt the metal. He was glad he hadn't touched the bottom of the smelter, so there was still molten metal underneath the cooled portion. It was just going to take a while to smelt it again.

“Come with me.” Ren said, opened the door to the forge room, and stepped out. Tee-one followed him and a woman gasped when she saw him. “It's okay.” Ren said. “Everyone, this is Tee-one. He's going to be working here from now on.”

“Oh!” The gasping woman said. “He's as tall as you, and all metal!”

Tee-one walked over to her and took her hand. “It's nice to meet you.” He said and bent over it. She gasped again, and several women chuckled. He repeated this for each woman, and then knelt by Ruck. “Hello, brother Ruck.” They gave each other a hug, and Tee-one went back to where Ren stood.

“Over here is Dorcot.” Ren said and walked into Dorcot's section. “Dorcot, this is Tee-one.”

Dorcot held out a hand and Tee-one shook it. “I really have to stop being amazed at what you do.” He said, then shook his head. “No, even if I knew you could do something like this... I'd still be amazed.”

“It's nice to meet you.” Tee-one said.

“Likewise.” Dorcot said.

“He's going to be working here, and helping me with everything.” Ren said. “Which reminds me.” He said. “Dorcot? Where's your brother-in-law?”

“What do you mean?”

“I went out to the mines and there's a new foreman.”

“No!” Dorcot's eyes widened. “They couldn't!” He stood up. “They didn't!”

Ren nodded slightly. “The new foreman is the fat dwarf from the Hole.”

Dorcot frowned. “I have to go.”

“Of course.” Ren said. “When you find him, tell him to come and see me.”

Dorcot looked at him. “Why?”

“For a job, of course.”

“He's an administrator, Ren.” Dorcot said. “He can't do general labor.”

Ren chuckled. “I'd planned on him keeping the same job he already had, actually.”

“W-what?”

“I own a whole string of mountains up along the coast.” Ren said. “They're just sitting there. I'm sure he should know how to find out if there something inside them.”

Dorcot grabbed Ren's shoulders and held on tightly. “I'll tell him as soon as I find him!”

“You better get going then.” Ren smiled. “Don't run the whole way, though.”

Dorcot laughed and let go, then left the workshop. Ren motioned for Tee-one to follow, and they left the workshop as well. He led his new familiar down to the house and stopped at the guard.

“Golir, this is Tee-one.” Ren said. “He'll be working here from now on.”

“Of course, sir.” Golir said. “I'll let the other guards know.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and went through the gate. Tee-one went in and followed Ren into the stable.

...who... this...

“Princess, this is Tee-one.” Ren said. “Tee-one, this is Princess.”

Tee-one knelt in front of her and picked up a hoof. “It is an honor to meet you.”

...good... manners...

“Thank you.” Tee-one said.

Ren looked at him. “You can hear her?”

Tee-one shook his head as he let Princess' hoof go. “You can, and I can hear her through you.”

“Oh, right.” Ren said. “I forgot that my familiars have a mental connection with me.”

Tee-one nodded slightly. “We can keep our thoughts separate, even though we are only extensions of you.”

Ren put a hand on his shoulder. “You're not 'only' an extension of me. You are your own separate identity.”

Tee-one smiled. “It's nice to think so.”

“You'll see.” Ren chuckled. “There's 2 more people you need to meet.” He led Tee-one out of the stable and into the house. He noticed the stone pen, and cut up a few more squares of Spider Silk Cloth for the baby fire elemental. Tee-one looked into the pen and watched as the elemental tried to eat. He picked up one of the squares, and crumpled it a little bit, then dropped it into the pen. The baby grabbed it and shoved it inside of itself and then it changed color slightly.

“That's a great idea.” Ren said and crumpled up the other squares. “It's been having a hard time eating them.”

“It's probably delicious, but a little too hardy for one so young.” Tee-one said. “Removing some of the Durability seemed like the right thing to do.”

Ren put a hand on his shoulder. “See? You are separate. I didn't think of that.” He smiled and turned around. “Nathalia?”

“In here.” She said from the kitchen. “Can you guess what we're doing?”

Ren walked into the kitchen and gave her a hug from behind. “Being beautiful?” He asked, and she laughed.

“No, silly.” She said and turned her head to kiss him. “We're baking bread.”

Ren smiled and looked over her shoulder and saw that she was kneading a huge pile of dough. “Do you need a hand?”

Nathalia shook her head. “Thanks to being a part of your party, my stats have jumped higher than I ever imagined they could be.”

“Speaking of my party, I'd like to introduce a new member.” Ren let her out of the hug, and she turned around to see the metal figure standing behind Ren. “This is Tee-one.”

“Hello.” Tee-one said, and bowed slightly.

Ren walked over to Narhilda. “Tee-one, this is Lady Neram, Head of House Neram.”

“My Lady.”

Ren walked back to Nathalia. “This is her daughter, my fiance, Nathalia.”

“It's nice to meet you.”

“Ren.” Narhilda said. “Where did he come from?”

“I made him.” Ren said. “You reminded me that I could make more help. He's my familiar.”

“This was what you meant?”

Ren nodded slightly. “I'm not done, though.” He said. “I've got two more constructs I can make, but they'll only be semi-sentient.” He looked at the recipe. “Actually, according to the recipes, I can make a 2 foot tall humanoid, or a 3 foot tall metal dog.”

“Dog.” Narhilda and Nathalia said at the same time.

“A dog would be nice.” Tee-one offered. “An extra pair of hands wouldn't hurt, but a dog can guard you.”

“I didn't actually put it to a vote, but...” Ren chucked. “...I guess I'm outvoted anyways.”

The two women laughed and Tee-one smiled.

“We better get to it.” Ren said, and kissed Nathalia before leaving the kitchen. He left the house and Tee-one followed closely behind him.

*

“That was kind of scary.” Narhilda said.

Nathalia nodded slightly. “Did you vote for the dog just because it was better than the chance of having another one of... that... walking around?”

Narhilda nodded.

“Me, too.”

*

Ren went back to the workshop and into the forge room. “I don't have to show you how to work these, do I?”

Tee-one shook his head. “You gave me the necessary knowledge when you made me.” He said and tapped his temple. “Dedicated Servant Crafter.”

“It's easy, anyways.” Ren said. “It was harder when I only had the one forge; but with three going, I've always got a constant flow of metal going.”

“What shall I make?”

“I need 10 suits of full plate armor.” Ren said and took out his portable dye station. “Dyed a mottled gray.”

“For the Garrison.” Tee-one said.

Ren nodded slightly. “I need to have something ready for when I go and visit.” He said. “I'm tempted to only cast the pieces, but that wouldn't be fair. Fold each piece three times before making them.”

“It shall be done.”

“How many slots do you have in inventory?” Ren asked.

“100, with double capacity.”

“Nice.” Ren grinned. “Pop outside to the pile of iron ore and fill half of your inventory. You can keep the smelters full while using them.” He said. “I've had them simmering since yesterday, so the steel content is really high.” He knocked on Tee-one's armor. “As you can see.”

“Yes, you did an excellent job.”

“That reminds me.” Ren said, and concentrated on the Minor Healing spell he now had access to. He put a hand on Tee-one's chest, and poured some Mana into him. “There you go.”

Tee-one closed his eyes for a moment, then opened them. “You gave me Minor Healing?”

Ren nodded slightly. “It's only one use, but you can cast it yourself.” Ren said. “I'll be making some wands with it, so you won't have to worry about being damaged and not getting fixed.”

“Thank you.” Tee-one said. “That's a relief.”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, even though I know the spell, I can't cast it. That's why I need wands.”

Tee-one nodded slightly, and went outside to gather the ore. Ren checked the smelter he'd left all that hardened steel in, and it was almost melted again. Thanks to his 100% Fire immunity and affinity, he reached into the smelter and lifted out the chunks of metal that hadn't melted yet. He put them into the forge itself and let it sit there, then stirred the molten metal while he waited. Ren checked the pieces, and they were like jello, so he put them back into the smelter and they broke up easily.

Tee-one came back in and Ren stepped aside for him to get to work, and Tee-one refilled the first forge's smelter with ore. Ren took out another paving stone and used his Stonemasonry ability to carve 1 inch deep, 1 inch wide, 11 inch long troughs in the stone. He actually made 40 troughs in the 2 foot by 2 foot paving stone by the time he was done, and smiled at his handiwork. Ren opened the Wand recipe, and saw that he needed something for the tips to hold the Store Spell rune, and went to Dorcot's area. He took out the crate of odd-sized diamonds and searched for as many 1 inch wide diamonds as he could find. It didn't matter about the shape, as long as it had a flat surface for the rune to sit in. He found 40 of them eventually, and used his Appraisal skill on each one. They were worth anywhere from 1 platinum to 5 platinum.

“Wow.” Ren said and chuckled. “No one will be able to afford these wands.” He went back into the forge room and poured some molten metal out of the third forge into his new wand mold. He ran his hand over it and absorbed most of the heat from one of the wands, leaving the tip a bright reddish yellow. Ren popped it out of the mold, and then took a diamond that he had chosen, and dipped it into the smelter full of molten metal. He quickly placed the diamond onto the tip of the wand and it fit perfectly. He used his finger to move some of the molten metal to ensure the diamond was held securely, then absorbed the heat. He enchanted the flat edge of the diamond with the Store Spell rune, and added the Minor Healing spell to it. It took about a tenth of his Mana Pool to do it, but when it was done, he examined it.

Superior Wand of Minor Healing

This wand was created by the artisan blacksmith, Ren the First.

Number of Charges: 50

Durability: 200/200

Ren used Appraisal on it, and saw it was worth 3 platinum coins. He stored it and repeated the process, refilling his Mana by absorbing the heat from the metal of each wand. Ren made 19 more wands of Minor Healing, then switched to making Fireball wands for the other 20. Since it didn't cost him Mana for fire-based spells anymore, he refilled his Mana Pool with the excess heat. He turned around and watched Tee-one work for a few minutes, and liked what he saw. It was efficient, fast, and well done. When Tee-one completed the first set of armor, Ren interrupted him.

“That's great, Tee-one.” Ren said. “I've got the wands ready.” Ren said and gave him 2 Minor Healing wands, and 2 Fireball ones.

“Thank you, Ren.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said. “Can I ask you a question?”

Tee-one nodded.

“My skill 'Improved Homunculi' says that you have weapon proficiency. Do you want a sword and a shield, or 2 swords?”

“2 swords.” Tee-one said without having to think about it. Ren nodded slightly and handed him 2 swords. Tee-one stored them and Ren smiled.

“I'll figure out how you can practice with them later.”

“I have no doubt about that.” Tee-one said. “You are always thinking.”

Ren laughed. “Yeah, I'm definitely guilty of that.”

Tee-one looked down at Ren's hand. “You are also guilty of forgetting to take care of yourself.”

Ren looked down at the wrapped hand and smiled. He took out one of the Minor Healing wands and used a charge on his hand. He took off the bandage and there wasn't a mark.

“Well, now we know it works.” He said and put a hand on the wand and put a little more Mana into it, to replace the charge and stored the wand again.

“You didn't have to empty the wand before you can recharge it?”

Ren shook his head. “I'm not casting the spell, only adding it to the wand.”

“That's an odd distinction.”

“Tell me about it.” Ren snorted a laugh. “I have the ability to learn spells, but can't use them unless I have a wand.”

“Yes, quite odd.”

“It's how my class works, I think.” Ren said. “If I could cast spells, I wouldn't build things to cast them for me.”

“You don't know for sure?”

Ren shook his head. “There's no information available for my special class.” He clapped Tee-one on the shoulder. “I'm not going to complain.” He said. “I'd have been trying to rush through everything to get access to making you as fast as I could; and it wouldn't have worked. If I hadn't gone through everything I've gone through...”

Tee-one nodded. “I understand.”

“Well, I've got a stable to build, and a track to make for Princess to run on.” Ren said. “I'll see you later.”

“Bye, Ren.” Tee-one said, and got back to work.

Ren went out to the main room, and stored all of the cement powder sacks the women had filled.

