“You're all doing a fantastic job.” Ren praised them. “I've never seen so many sacks done at once.” He said. “Thank you.”

Several women blushed at his praise, and Dorathy chuckled.

“You're going a little overboard with the flattery, your highness.” She said. “It's just grunt work.”

“That may be true, but I couldn't do anywhere near this amount by myself.” Ren smiled. “I just hope you are going to accept your normal pay, and not deny yourselves like last time.”

“It's still too much money, sir.” One woman said. “A silver a sack? For each of us? We've done nearly 300 so far, and the day is only half-gone!”

Ren chuckled. “I can honestly say that you're the first group of people I've ever met that didn't want to get paid for the work they do.”

Several women blushed, and Dorathy laughed.

“It's because we think the work is too easy.” She said. “Much easier than tending house, or the cows, or even our children.”

Ren grinned. “What's the world coming to, if shoveling silt is easier than raising a child?”

She snorted a laugh and a few of the women laughed, too. Ren looked at them.

“Please, accept the proper payment; or I'll give you that toy I promised.”

“A toy?” One woman asked. “Can we see it?”

Ren shook his head. “It's a parting gift.” He said. “Once I give it to you, I'll probably never see you again.”

“You... you want to... see us again?” She asked, a little flustered.

Ren nodded slightly. “I enjoy having good people work for me. If they enjoy the work, they work more; and the more they do, the more they get paid.”

“So that's why you're paying a silver coin for a sack.” Another woman said. “You want us to work harder.”

Ren shook his head. “No, I want you to work better.” He said. “You're already doing twice what you did before, only because I split the chute; but you've doubled that because you're enjoying yourselves.”

“You're right.” Dorathy said. “We've just been talking about things, and enjoying the company. Working is just... something we're doing.”

Ren walked over to her and knelt. “That's it exactly.” He said and took her hand and bent over it. “When you enjoy yourself, it's not work anymore.”

Dorathy blushed slightly as Ren let her hand go, then he stood up.

“I'll be back in to gather everyone in a few hours, so I can get you home in time to make supper.”

“T-thank you.” She said. Ren left the workshop and went outside. He saw the large wall he'd made to put over the hole in the side of the Keep to block out the spiders.

“I really have to get down there and do that.” Ren said.

“You need that stable built.” Teepo said.

“Right.” Ren said, then ran down to the road, and then over half a mile. “This looks like a good spot.” He said, as it was well away from the Keep, and Dorcot's house, but close enough to the both of those and the housing development, that it was only a couple of minutes to walk. Ren opened the stable plans, and didn't change anything. He reproduced it exactly as the plans said, and set out all of the wood he needed for the frame, after clearing and digging out the lot. Since he didn't have an extra set of hands to help hold things, he made it in sections on the ground, and added braces so when he stood the pieces up, they would be straight and he would only have to nail them together. It took a little longer that way, but he wasn't going to bother anyone else with it; because they were just as busy as he was. Ren heard several carts approaching on the road an hour later, and he stopped working to look around and see who it was.

“Barnar!” Ren said and ran to the road. “I figured you were too busy to come out this early.”

“I took a break.” He said and climbed down out of the cart, and told the driver to keep going to drop off the stone bricks. “I wanted to see what it was that you made.”

“You already passed it.” Ren chuckled and pointed down the road. “The Main House is a mile and a half back that way.”

“The Main House?” Barnar asked. “I saw a big building, and felt something when I passed by.” He said. “But it didn't look like a Main House.”

“I really should get a sign made.”

“It would help.” Barnar said and motioned at the pieces of wall ready to be stood up. “What are you doing here?”

“Making a stable.”

“You don't have any horses.”

“Not yet, no.”

Barnar shook his head. “You're really building your own town out here?”

Ren laughed. “No. It's just the things people need to live. Houses. Transportation. A Church.”

“A Church?” Barnar asked. “Where?”

“Across the road from the Main House.” Ren said. “I'll show you.” He led Barnar back down the road and to the Main House. The outer frame of the Church was almost completely up, and Ren grinned. “That's the Church.”

“You're kidding!” Barnar said. “It's huge!”

“It didn't start out that way.” Ren said. “But once I started changing things, it became a big deal.”

Barnar chuckled and turned around. “Now tell me what this is.”

“That is the Main House.” Ren said and walked over to it. “Go ahead and feel it.”

“Why is it dark gray?” He asked, then ran his hand over it. “It feels like mortar, but not as rough.”

Ren nodded slightly. “That's because there's not much sand in this.”

“What is it?”

“It's called cement.”

“How did you cut pieces this big?” Barnar motioned to the mold lines, misunderstanding their meaning.

“I didn't cut anything.” Ren said. “This was poured into a mold right where it stands.”

Barnar's hand froze on the wall and he stared at Ren. “W-w-what did you say?”

“I made a mold for the wall, about 4 inches thick, put in metal bars, and then filled it with a mortar like putty.”

Barnar's mouth fell open.

“I told you it would change your world.” Ren laughed. “I had to make the first floor, let it set for a day, then made the second level with a floor.” He looked up. “The roof is wood, though.”

“The prince's design...”

Ren nodded. “Easily made if you use metal bars inside the walls as reinforcement, and made from a mold.”

“By the gods, Ren!” Barnar looked at the building.

“Have a look around.” Ren said. “I've got to ask the Head Assistant about a couple of things.” He left Barnar outside and went into the Main House. Ereka's office door was open, and Ren went to it. He saw 2 healers standing next to Ereka, who was sitting on the couch. He rushed over to her, and she felt his deep concern for her welfare.

“What happened?” Ren asked the healers as he knelt beside her and took her hand. “Is she okay?”

“I... I'm fine.” Ereka said, and blushed at the intensity of his emotions.

“We came in a short while ago, and found her passed out on the couch.” One of the women said. “She apparently fainted.”

“This was my fault, wasn't it?” Ren asked, and Ereka felt his deep regret.

“No!” She exclaimed. “I just...”

Ren felt her embarrassment and he smiled. “It's okay.” He said and turned to the healers. “Are you bound by oaths to not divulge information?”

They both nodded slightly. “We're not a part of the guild yet, so we haven't taken the final Oath of Devotion.” One said. “All of our other oaths are in full effect.”

Ren turned back to Ereka. “Go ahead. Tell me what happened.”

She tried a few times to tell him what happened, and he felt her exasperation. He squeezed her hand and smiled.

“I promise to not judge you, or anything that you say.” Ren said. “Or hold it against you.”

Ereka sighed. “After you left here this morning, I...” She looked at the two healers for a second, then back at Ren. “...I thought about sharing the Aura, and... and sleeping with you.”

Ren's eyes widened for a moment, then he tilted his head slightly. “That's a neat idea.” He said, and she felt his curiosity and that he was intrigued. “Sharing feelings like that, and then sleeping with someone...”

Ereka nodded. “I... ah... fainted thinking about it.” She felt his surprise; then Ren remembered she was only 22 and hadn't had her training yet, and she felt his understanding flow into her. She blinked at him a few times.

“You're not angry.” She said, surprised.

“Why would I be angry that a woman was fantasizing about sleeping with me?” Ren chuckled, and Ereka felt he was really flattered. “I'm actually really flattered.”

“I... I know.”

Ren felt her surprise, and smiled. “Coming here to the Dwarf Kingdom has been the best thing I've ever done.” He explained. “Where I come from, people usually look down on me, because I'm so short.”

Ereka let her shock flow out without trying to stop it. “How can they do that?!?”

He laughed. “In this land, I'm one of the tallest people here; there, I'm one of the shortest.”

“But... but... you're a Lord!”

“Only here.” He said. “Influence and Honor means very little to anyone else.”

Ereka clamped her mouth shut to stop her hot retort, but Ren felt her anger.

“Thank you.” Ren said, and bent over her hand. “You'd defend me, even though we've only just recently come to know each other better.”

“Y-you're welcome.” She said, flustered. Ren let her hand go and stood up.

“Can I assume you're here at her request?” He said to the healers. Both healers nodded slightly.

“The messenger arrived this morning at the Keep. They sent word to the medical wing for anyone willing to join a House, and that they were welcome to come here to House Neram.”

“I assume she asked for one, or both, of you by name.”

One healer smiled. “We're old friends.”

Ereka nodded slightly. “I've known Artrude since we were kids on neighboring farms.”

“By the gods, I hate raising sheep.” She said, and grinned when Ereka laughed.

“You and me both.” Ereka said and stood up. “I was so glad to get a job that didn't involve climbing part of a mountain looking for lost sheep.” She rolled her eyes. “Every. Single. Day.”

Artrude chuckled. “I was right there beside you.”

Ereka nodded slightly. “When I found out they wanted a healer full time, I thought of you immediately.”

“Thank you.”

“And your associate?”

“This is Malenka.”

“Artrude! You can't give my name away like that!” Malenka said.

“It's okay.” Artrude gave her friend a one-armed hug. “Not only will he be our Lord, his fiance is the daughter of Lady Neram.”

Malenka's eyes widened as she stared at Ren.

“You'll understand once we're sworn into the House.”

Ren nodded slightly. “Speaking of that, you aren't leaving another House to come here, are you?”

“And if we are?” Artrude asked.

“If you are, we'll send a messenger over to your old House with enough money to cover the one year wage penalty, and then you can be sworn in.”

Malenka's mouth dropped open. “He's crazy!”

“Malenka!” Ereka and Artrude said together.

“Didn't I tell you, Ereka?” Ren laughed, as she looked at him in surprise. “Everyone sees me as crazy.”

“You seem to be quite accepting at the insult.” Artrude said, and shook her head as Ereka nodded slightly.

“I don't consider it an insult.” Ren said. “I wear it as a badge of honor.”

The three women gasped, and Ren smiled.

“I usually get that response, too.” He said, and looked at Artrude. “I want you to tell Ereka what requirements you'll need for a fully stocked medical building.”

Her mouth dropped open and Ren chuckled.

“Yeah, I get that one a lot, too.” He said. “I'm serious, though. Anything at all that you need, I'll either provide, or buy for you.” Ren said, and took out a handful of platinum coins to give to Ereka.

“I haven't spent everything you gave me the last time yet.”

“You will.” Ren said. “Send a messenger to the stables in the city in 2 hours, and tell the woman in the office that the stable is built.”

“You've built a stable?”

“Mostly.” Ren said. “I just have to stand the pieces up and nail them together.”

“And what is it for?”

“Horses and carts, obviously.” Ren chuckled. “They'll be available for House Neram residents to use, with certain ones reserved for people I designate.” He said. “The first one is for Dorcot and his wife, Angeilin. The second is for the Main House. The third is for the medical staff. The rest can be first come first served for now.”

“How... how many?”

“Only a dozen to start. I think.” Ren said. “Rentals of the horses, buying the supplies, stuff like that. The staff will be full hires; but, I don't think they'll be joining House Neram. They will only be working for us.”

“How much?”

“I have no idea.” Ren shrugged. “You can ask when you send the messenger.”

Ereka looked at him and didn't say anything.

“She's going to hire them in my stead, so you don't have to worry about any of that.” Ren said. “She wants to make sure the horses get treated well, and taken care of. I figured letting her deal with it would be okay.”

“It is.”

Ren smiled and turned to Artrude. “When you decide what size building you'll need, and what to put in it; like living space, apartments, or anything at all... let Ereka know. She can contact the house and they'll let me know. I can't promise I'll get to it today, and the work crews are busy building the Church across the road; but, it will get done as soon as possible.”

The women stared at him.

“Or you can go and pick a house. There's half a dozen empty ones in the sub-division, so you've got a bit of a choice. I'm having more built after a few days, once the crews are available.”

Ren turned back to Ereka. “Any word about the armory?”

She shook her head. “Not yet. I told the messenger to stay for a response.” Ereka said. “It might be a while.”

Ren nodded slightly and looked at Artrude. “What's a healer's pay, by the way?”

“Paid?” She snorted a laugh. “Healers get free room and board, and provide healing when needed.”

“No pay?” Ren frowned. “That's not how I do things here.” He said. “I'm tempted to pay you the same as a guard.” He looked at Ereka. “What do you think? 10 gold a week, with a day off?”

“That sounds good.” She said.

Ren smiled. “You know, maybe a cafeteria or a restaurant might be a good idea.” He said. “I'll have to talk with my fiance and her mother about it.” He stepped back and bowed slightly to the three of them. “If you'll excuse me, I have work I need to do.”

“O-o-of course.” Ereka stammered.

“See you later.” Ren said, and left the office, then out the lobby door.

*

“By the gods.” Artrude said and sat down on the couch. “Is he really crazy?”

