Ereka shook her head and sat down next to her friend. “I think... I think it's just everyone's reaction to him... and his ideas.”

“Imagine! Paying a healer!” Artrude chuckled and rubbed her hand over the couch. “This is a really comfy couch.”

“Ren made it.” Ereka said.

“Really?” Artrude asked. “He's got talent then.”

“He made this, too.” Ereka said and pointed to the brooch. “And before you ask; yes, it's real and not fake.”

“Will we get one, too?” Malenka asked and sat down in the comfy chair in front of the desk. “This is a nice chair!”

“He made that, too. And the desk. And the building we're in.” Ereka said, and the two healers looked at her in surprise. “You'll probably get a brooch, too.” Even though I don't want you to. She thought, selfishly.

*

Ren met Barnar out behind the House as he marveled at the entire structure.

“You have got to tell me how you did it!” Barnar exclaimed as he finally noticed Ren standing beside him.

“Sure.” Ren said, and explained making the rebar, the wooden mold, then pouring the cement into the mold.

“Then you did the upper floor?” He asked, and Ren nodded. “Amazing!”

“It takes longer than building with wood at first.” Ren said. “Once the mold is done, you can take it apart and use it to do the next floor. It takes a day to harden enough to stand on, and a week or so for it to set completely.”

“You've put me out of business.” Barnar said. “I'm ruined.”

“Barnar.” Ren laughed. “Would I have shared so many things with you, if what I wanted was to run you out of business?”

Barnar opened his mouth to speak, and stared at Ren. “What do you want?”

“To help, of course.” Ren said. “I had intended to keep this secret to myself.”

“Why didn't you?” Barnar asked.

“You need it.” Ren said. “I won't leave your Influence or Honor suffer, if I can help it.”

“Ren, I can't build this.” Barnar said. “I don't have rebar, whatever that is. I don't have wood to make the mold. By the gods, I can't even mix huge amounts of cement like you can!” He sighed. “I'm turning the job down.”

“Barnar, don't!” Ren said. “I'll give you everything you need!”

“No, Ren.” Barnar said. “You've shown me that my profession is now obsolete.”

“I HAVE NOT!” Ren yelled, and Barnar's eyes widened. “Do you see any other buildings around here that looks like this?”

Barnar looked around. “No.”

“That's because it's a pain in the butt to make it this way.” Ren said. “And I don't have that much cement powder. I'm using it to repair House Neram's Keep. I really can't take the time to do another job.”

“You can't do the job yourself, but you can make the parts to give to me?”

Ren sighed. “I can make the parts needed between some of the other things that I'm doing, but I can't dedicate time to it exclusively.”

Barnar nodded. “Then I'm going to refuse your generous offer, and the job.”

“Barnar.”

“Ren, I can't do what you do.” He said. “Even if I could do what you do, I wouldn't do what you do.”

“You looked inside through the windows, didn't you?”

Barnar nodded.

“Did you see any stone brick fireplaces? Stone figures? Pillars?”

He shook his head.

“Do you really think I could do what you and your crew did to the top of the Keep?” Ren asked. “What about picking out the right stones? What about assembling them to build all of the things you make?” Ren shook his head. “I don't know how to do any of that!”

Barnar looked at him.

“I thought you'd be happy to learn about this; not be devastated.” Ren said. “I'm sorry I didn't keep it a secret.”

“It's not a secret anymore.” Barnar said. “What are you going to do about it?”

“Nothing.” Ren said. “You can tell anyone you want. People are going to notice the building is different when they see it up close; or care what it's made of. I won't be building anything like this for anyone else.”

“Why not?”

“Because if everyone had it, it wouldn't be unique.” Ren said and turned away. “I'll check to see if your delivery cart left already, and if it did, I'll give you a ride home myself.”

Barnar didn't say anything, and Ren ran up the road to the house. The delivery cart was coming down the road from the workshop, and he told them to pick Barnar up at the Main House. Ren ran down the road to where he had the stable pieces laid out, stood them up in the right spots, and nailed them all together. He went inside and built the stalls for the horses, then the office walls, and a desk and chair. There was a knock on the door and Ren opened it to see several workers.

“That was fast.” Ren commented. “Take look around and find out what you need, then order it at the Main House.” He said. “If you've got the horses with you, get the hay and things you need in the stalls first.”

“We know how to do our jobs.” A male dwarf in the group said, indignantly.

Ren concentrated on his Command Aura and frowned. “I didn't say you didn't.” He said. “I merely stated what to do IF you had the horses with you.” Ren looked at the dwarf. “Do you have the horses with you?”

“No.”

“Then why did you comment?” Ren held up a hand. “Never mind. I don't want to know.” He said. “If you have an attitude like that around the normal residents here, you won't have a job if I find out about it.”

“That's a little harsh.” He said. “I thought you were supposed to be nice, and a bit of a pushover.”

Ren closed his eyes, used his Connection ability, and activated his Screaming Terror ring.

“I'm not going to ask you where you heard that.” Ren said and opened his eyes. “I'm not in a good mood, because I had a fight with a friend over something stupid. Do not piss me off right now.”

The male dwarf nodded, and Ren deactivated the Screaming Terror ring, then ran his hands through his own hair.

“My apologies to you all.” Ren said. “If you do your jobs, and do them well, you'll get paid more than a fair wage. There will be residents using the carts and horses daily; sometimes several times a day. You will be courteous to them, and give them the respect they deserve. If they don't give you the same respect, tell me, or someone at the Main House; they will tell me and I'll talk to any offenders.” Ren looked at the male dwarf that commented earlier. “Do not talk back to them indignantly or dismissively, or argue, or the gods forbid, raise a hand to them. For that matter, that goes for the horses, too. No one but you, or the drivers, touches the horses without supervision or direction. If they ask to visit the animals, or want to pat them, allow it... after telling them, nicely, what to do and not to do.”

The group stared at him, and Ren smiled.

“Also, if any of you mistreat or hurt the horses in your care, you'd better hope I don't find out about it.” Ren walked past them and then turned around. “Is there a manager here as well?”

A female dwarf raised her hand. “That would be me, sir.”

Ren switched to his personal Aura and walked over to her. He took her hand, and bent over it. “I leave this building and it's contents, to your care.”

She blushed deeply at the Honor gain, and nodded slightly. “T-thank you, sir.”

“Take good care of it.” Ren said, and let her hand go.

“Sir.” She said. “What about the carts?”

“I'll have several made by tomorrow morning.” Ren smiled. “Right now, I have to take some workers home, so they can make supper for their families.”

“That's... really nice of you.” She said. Ren looked at her, and then at the other workers. “How many of you need to, or would like to, do the same?”

Three of the women raised their hands, including the new manager.

“I'll pick you up on the way by.” Ren said. “In about 10 minutes.”

“Thank you, sir!” The manager said.

Ren chuckled. “One of the first things I agreed to before hiring anyone, was if they needed time to spend breakfast at home before coming to work, and time to go home to make supper for their families, then rides will be provided.” He motioned to the stables. “Welcome to your job.”

“Does that mean we can all leave early?” The male dwarf asked.

“Quiet!” Someone said to him, and he shrugged.

“It's a good question.”

Ren sighed. “Is your job finished? Are the horses in their stalls? Are they fed and watered?”

“No.” The male dwarf said. “We just got here.”

“If you can get that done in the next 10 minutes without making a mess, then yes; you can go home with the women that need to leave to tend to their families.”

The male dwarf frowned. “So we have to do their work for them.”

Ren turned to him. “No. You don't have to do their work. It's just work that has to be done. You don't have to work here at all.”

“Are you firing me?” The male dwarf puffed out his chest.

“By the gods, Ogshorn! Shut UP!” Another male dwarf said. “He beat House Lodur's Champion, you fool!”

“I'm not firing you.” Ren said. “But if you don't drop the attitude, you won't be welcome anywhere on House Neram lands.”

“You can't do that.” Ogshorn said. “Only the Head of a House can.”

Ren smiled and held up his fist and thought of Nathalia. Everyone backed away, and Ogshorn put up his fists to fight.

“Darling.” Ren said, as his ring glowed. The gathered dwarves froze in shock as Ren had called Ogshorn 'darling'. “Can you ask your mother to ban Ogshorn...” He turned to the manager. “What's his last name?”

It took her a moment to recover from the shock. “Flatchen, sir.”

“Ogshorn Flatchen.” Ren said.

“Of course, My Love.” Nathalia's voice said from the ring, and Ren watched the reactions as all the dwarves realized he was using something they'd never seen before; a Sending Ring. Their mouths dropped open and they stared at him. No one gasped, however.

I think I'm losing my touch. Ren thought. They didn't gasp.

Teepo chittered in laughter, and Ren waited for a minute.

“She's doing it now.” Nathalia said.

“You're not going to ask why?” Ren asked her, and everyone gasped. There we go.

“Why?” Nathalia said. “Do you want me to?”

“I'll tell you about it later, when I get home for supper.”

“See you then.” She said, and the glow faded.

Ren unclenched his fist and smiled. “Any moment now.”

“What's this?” Ogshorn asked.

“I'd say it's a popup saying you have to leave, or you'll lose all your Honor.”

“You... you...”

“You did this.” Ren said. “Causing trouble for no reason. Delaying these women from getting home to feed their families.” He shook his head. “You should also know that when your Honor is gone, you'll be forcibly removed.”

“You and what army?” He spat.

Ren chuckled, and stepped aside. “You obviously have no idea.”

A few moments later, the dwarf's eyes widened as House Neram's magic protection picked him up off the ground, and he was carried gently to the road.

“What the hell is this?” Ogshorn asked as he was dumped onto the paving stones. He tried to walk back to the stable and hit the invisible barrier. “Hey! What did you do?”

“I told you that you wouldn't be welcome on House Neram lands.” Ren said, and turned to the crowd. “Does anyone know why he was trying to provoke me?”

The male dwarf that told Ogshorn to shut up, stepped forward. “His brother was one of the soldiers that came here. After hearing what happened... he hasn't been the same.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I felt really bad that it happened.” He sighed. “The Council forced my hand, and the battalion was caught in the middle.”

“So you didn't want to massacre them like that?”

Ren shook his head. “I didn't massacre anyone. No one was killed. Unfortunately, I had to show them what things could be like, and scare the hell out of them.”

The male dwarf chuckled. “You definitely did that.” He said. “Almost all of the recruits that were there, quit.”

“I'm sorry to hear that.” Ren said.

“You really are, aren't you?” The female manager asked.

Ren nodded slightly. “That wasn't my goal. I wanted them to see what it could be like to come up against a House on their own land, and violate their rights.”

“So that's why!” She exclaimed.

Ren looked at her. “What are they telling people?”

“That you were a criminal and they were taking you in legally.”

“Even after they rescinded their illegal orders?” Ren asked.

“What illegal orders?”

“So, no one besides the people in the Council chamber know what happened.” Ren sighed. “I'll have to fix that.”

“What are you going to do?”

“I'm going to tell everyone what really happened.” Ren said. “Right after I get you home.”

“Yes, I forgot.” She said. “We'll get the horses settled right away.”

“Thank you.” Ren said and turned to the male dwarf. “Can you deal with him?” He pointed at Ogshorn, who was still yelling at the barrier. “I don't want to humiliate him any more than he already has been.”

The male dwarf nodded slightly, and ran out to his friend.

“I'll be back soon.” Ren left them standing there, then ran up the road to House Neram. He went inside and hooked Princess up to the cart, and then attached the large cart. Ren made some cushions for the benches, and led Princess out to the road and then up to the workshop.

“Okay, time to go.” Ren said to the women shoveling, and he went inside to tell the women baging the cement powder the same thing. They all gathered together, and Ren turned to the woman who had spoken earlier. “How many sacks?”

“625!” She said automatically, then covered her mouth. Everyone chuckled, as they had no way to downplay how many sacks they'd done, like they'd planned. Ren gave each of them 6 gold and 25 silver coins, and a couple of them a coin pouch to put the money in.

“I really couldn't have done that many alone. Thank you.” Ren said, then repaired all of their clothing and equipment. “Load up.” He went out with them and helped the women climb into the back of the large cart. “I'm picking up a couple passengers down at the stable.”

“There's a stable?” A woman asked. Ren nodded slightly and walked around to get in the driver's seat.

“Slowly. We have to stop soon.”

Princess huffed and trotted down the road easily and then half a mile down the main road to the stable. Ren climbed down to gather the last three passengers, helped them get in the back, and asked them their addresses. He told everyone to hold on, and climbed back into the driver's seat.

“A good pace this time.”

