“Let me worry about that.” Ren said. “The one thing I will insist on, is that no elflings are to be treated as a lower class.” He said and looked at the High Elves around him. They all averted their eyes, and he smiled. “I also won't restrict who can live inside the city.”

The female High Elf took in a sharp breath.

“That's right.” Ren said. “Instead of wanting to be a part of an influential family and have the same benefits, you can be the influential family and give those benefits to who you want.”

“It will never be approved.” The female High Elf said.

“It's a no man's land between two kingdoms.” Ren said and smiled. “Who's approval do I need?”

The female High Elf opened her mouth to say the Central Council, then closed it. Her automatic response wasn't valid in this case. Neither she, nor the other High Elves, were under the Central Council's authority anymore, especially if they were going to kill them all.

Ren turned to Allynna. “Can you contact your mother, and ask her to arrange for me to go into the Library, or maybe the central records in her city?”

“I can, but for what purpose?” Allynna asked.

“I need building plans.” Ren said. “None of the designs I have are even close to High Elf architecture.”

“But...”

“I can fake it, since I've seen a few buildings so far.” Ren said. “But then it would just be a facade, and I know they won't be happy living inside fake High Elven buildings.”

Allynna did the same chant and gestures her mother had done and clapped her hands, and a bird materialized in front of her. She asked it to go to her mother and make the arrangements, and the bird took off immediately and disappeared from sight.

“It can fly almost as fast as Princess can run.” Ren said absently, and the High Elves around him blinked their eyes at him.

“Princess?” Allynna asked.

“My mount.” Ren said and motioned to the giant Ram everyone was trying to politely ignore. “She's so fast that even I can't catch her.”

Princess brayed her amusement, and Teepo chittered in laughter.

“You've got another hour before you have to go to the capital city and check on the healers.” Teepo said.

Ren took out the All-Seeing Mirror and asked it to show Yllana Arthion, and her image appeared in the mirror's surface. She was half-reclined on her couch in a relaxing pose, with an old book in her hands. She wore a thin white chiffon dress that clung to her in the right places, and when she turned the page, the light caught her just right and highlighted her svelte form. The bird flew in through her open window and she held her hand out for it.

Yllana jumped up and the book flew out of her hand and tumbled onto the floor. Ren chuckled at her near comical reaction to what the bird told her about him wanting to come and visit, then the bird dissolved. Yllana did the same motions to cast the same spell, and it left her. She did it again and that bird flew away, then she looked down at herself. She lifted the loose dress off her shoulders and let it go, and it dropped to the floor to leave her completely nude.

Ren quickly asked the mirror to go back to normal and put it away. His face was a little red, because he hadn't intended to peep on her changing clothes, just to see her receiving the message. Allynna saw his reaction and smiled, and then a little bird flew over to them and she held her hand out.

“Chirp chirp. Chirp. Chirp chirp, chirp chirp chirp. Chirp, chirp chirp chirp chirp.” The bird said.

“Thank you.” Allynna said, and the bird disappeared.

“Okay, I didn't expect that.” Ren said.

“Did you think it would talk in our language?” Allynna laughed. “That's just ridiculous.”

“Is it?” Ren waved Princess over. She trotted around everyone and stopped beside him, and he climbed up into her saddle. “What was the message?”

“She'll be ready to receive you at her apartment in a few minutes.” Allynna said. “She'll take you to the best architect available.”

“Thank you, M'lady.” Ren said. “Princess, I'd like you to meet the unnamed elfling princess.”

“It's nice to meet another princess.” Princess said. “That makes two of you I know.”

Allynna and the High Elves all gasped as she spoke without speaking, and Ren felt their shock. Once again, he didn't try to use his Emotion Siphon ability.

“I should introduce you to Princess Diana, too.” Ren said. “Then you'll have met 3 princesses from 3 different kingdoms.”

“I would like that.” Princess said.

Ren looked at the female High Elf. “Remember, no one can go into the city, and if they start to turn and get violent, deal with them.”

“I... it will be done.”

Ren nodded, and looked at Allynna. “Thank you for your help, and I'll probably see you again at the next city.”

“Y-yes, M'lord.” Allynna said without looking at him, and kept her eyes on his mount, Princess. “I look forward to it.”

“As do I.” Ren said and gave her a regal bow from the saddle, and the Honor gain caught her attention and she looked at him. “Good day, M'lady.”

“Good day.” Allynna said, and Ren rode Princess up into the air a little, then disappeared from their sight.
