“You should get rid of the crab smell before anything else,” said Haoyu.

“Really?” Alden sniffed the front of his shirt. His hand smelled so much like truffle that he couldn’t detect the crab. “You might be right.”

On his way back to his bedroom, he noticed that Kon had actually succeeded in making a noticeable carpet angel.

******

******

The rest of the afternoon was bonkers.

Alden felt like he’d volunteered to juggle a few balls to brighten up a party, only to realize too late that all the guests had taken that as an invitation to throw everything they had at him. He dropped a lot. He got hit in the face a few times. And there was nothing left to do but keep juggling as much as he could.

“I’m sorry but I don’t have time to answer questions,” he said to a woman who’d just called. She ran some local interest site that Alden had never heard of. He rolled over the back of the sofa, which had been re-positioned to block the hallway that led to their bedrooms. Lexi, who was sitting on the sofa with Writher, looked resigned. “Not today. My only statement about the potluck is already up on my Trime account. Yes, I do think, ‘Happy Thanksgiving. I appreciate all the help so much. We have enough food now,’ covers it.”

Not that it’s working.

“Bye.”

“Who was that?” Haoyu asked, passing a cordless slow cooker—not his own—out the window to Lucille. They were in charge of loading the nonagon. Alden was trying not to look because the sight of the growing pile was adding to his anxiety.

“Someone from some website the System translated as ‘Star Eyes,’” said Alden. “I don’t know.”

Mr. Zhang-Demir, Astrid, and Njeri were at the kitchen table performing final quality checks and making sure everything was labeled and sealed for travel. Alden had some concerns about the amount of tape Haoyu’s dad was using. The dishes definitely wouldn’t leak, but he thought he and Kabir might need an axe to get them open again.

He’d been an awesome help though. Not for the “taste testing,” but for the intimidation factor. Before he’d shown up, other people living in the dorms who’d gotten wind of the fact that Alden was present had started appearing to ask questions about Matadero and the attack, like he was going to be able to personally answer everything the President of the Anesidoran High Council couldn’t.

Alden had told them he knew nothing more than they did, that he was tattooed to secrecy, and that he was busy. But even when they left, they didn’t really leave. For a while, there had been a throng hanging out in the hall outside their door like it was the new, must-be place for anyone who wanted to talk conspiracy theories about the Submerger boat and its passengers. A few uni students had even shown up.

Haoyu had asked his dad to get rid of them as soon as he’d arrived. Since then, people who entered the apartment had developed the ability to politely drop off their food and leave if they weren’t helping out.

Most of them anyway.  Mr. Zhang-Demir only gave off no-nonsense adult vibes to people who hadn’t grown up with Haoyu. Whenever Kon flitted by for a few minutes, the level of goofing off skyrocketed. Earlier, Alden had chased Bobby downstairs to thank her for the cucumber salad in person and ask what was up with their training schedule now that everything was out of whack. When he’d gotten back to the room, Kon, Haoyu, and his dad were all making mustaches for themselves out of licorice ropes that had fallen out of a package.

What’s left to do? he asked himself now.

He had to make at least one trip down to F to deliver everything he could to the TC before going to Natalie’s.

Fridge, he decided.

He opened it. “Did someone bring a pitcher of milk? That’s not going to happen. A pitcher of milk will be a pain to carry and it’s not specia—”

“But it’s so good!”

“You have to take that!”

“It’s not plain milk.”

The chorus of objections from all the girls was so sudden and so loud that Alden felt like he’d accidentally committed a crime. He turned to see even Lucille leaning back through the window like she was afraid the milk needed to be protected.

“Uh…I’ll take it. Don’t panic, anybody.”

“Marsha brought that while you were in the bathroom,” Lexi reported. He was currently keeping the master list of who had given what.

“Marsha?”

“It goes with this,” Astrid said, running over to join him by the fridge. She pulled out a huge glass jar full of something red and goopy.

The blood of Marsha's enemies.

“It’s fresh strawberry syrup with strawberry pieces,” Astrid said. “The milk is more like melted vanilla ice cream. You mix them.”

“Marsha drinks it for breakfast every day,” said Njeri. “And she shares. It’s our favorite thing about her.”

“Okay. But can we put the melted ice cream in something with a lid? Even if I preserved it on the flight, it would be annoying for anyone else to handle afterwards.”

Njeri ran off in search of a container.

Alden emptied the fridge into styrofoam coolers. Rahul, the president of the B-list, had come over to check on him after hearing all the buzz around campus. Then he’d left and returned with all the tape, the coolers, adhesive labels, markers, and more useful organizational things before heading to the MPE building for a class.

What a hero, thought Alden while he taped the coolers. What an intellectual giant. Imagine stopping by to see what we actually needed instead of just bringing whatever you found in the back of a closet. I hope some day people pay him millions for firing garden gnomes out of his cannons.

Someone had delivered folding tables and chairs. So many unnecessary folding tables and chairs. They were all stacked against a wall downstairs, getting in everybody’s way. And there was no name on them other than Alden’s own, so they looked like his space-hogging tables and chairs now.

He kept up a string of texts with Kabir. He packaged food. He shoved food out the window. He managed to keep his clothes clean.

He ran what felt like ten laps around the dorms, suggesting that the people in his class who were still trying to make things should either finish up or give up as kindly as he could. He told them all that there would only be one more food flight leaving the dorms tonight, and it would not be as frighteningly huge as this one. Then he headed to the grill to check on Jeffy.

Jeffy had been at the grill for a really long time, receiving occasional deliveries of groceries.

Alden assumed the Brute had decided he was cooking something better than jerky for the wizards, and he had committed himself to being enthusiastic about it no matter what it looked like because Jeffy had been the only redeeming part of Winston’s stream.

As he approached the grill, he found Everly Kim watching Jeffy’s back with fascination.

“I think he might be a genius,” she whispered. “I loaned him my camera.”

That explained why the drone pointed at Jeffy was a white glitter model that looked like a snowball with a lens.

“What’s he doing?” Alden whispered since she had.

Everly air typed, and a link appeared:

[My Grandpa Shows Us How To Grill Right (live)]

Alden opened it to see Jeffy tandem streaming with a wiry, middle-aged man who was wrapping an ear of corn in foil with one hand while he sipped on a drink in a rocks glass with the other.

“All right, Jeffy,” he said. “How are those chicken thighs looking on your end? You ready to cut into one?”

Alden blinked. Then he saw the number of viewers and had to blink again. Then he saw the comments, and felt like he’d entered a new dimension:

“Sharkpa is the best. I wish I had a Sharkpa.”

“Sharkpa, do you miss Jeffy?”

“I’m crying. My dad never taught me how to grill.”

“Where’s SharkNana? Has she gotten back from the store with our Arfdogs yet?”

“Are these…mostly Winston’s fans?” Alden asked quietly.

Everly nodded. She hadn’t taken her eyes off Jeffy. “And some of mine. We’re going to grill the Arfdogs together when SharkNana gets back. We have to wait so long because the store is very far away, and it’s night, and she drives slow. We’re all a little worried because once she hit a deer. But we’ve learned three different ways to light charcoal.”

Alden almost wanted to stay and watch it himself.

******

******

At 5:30 p.m., Alden perched on the Nine-edged Son outside the TC, having flown in winds so strong and sudden that he almost suspected there was an evil Shaper of Sky with a grudge against him. The nonagon itself had been unaffected, but rest in peace to that one bag that had caught a gust, billowed like a sail, and fallen into the Pacific. It had held someone’s beautiful homemade bread loaves, and Alden was trying to convince himself that he wasn’t a failure for not being able to catch it without risking his life and the rest of the load.

Upon arrival, his interface had directed him to aerial vehicle parking. He decided not to obey it. Instead, he headed for the main entrance, intending to fly right toward the teleshipping area the easy way, only to find that the nonagon wouldn’t fit through the doors. It was too wide.

All right, just juggle another ball then. We carry everything through in batches. Hustle.

He looked around. The nearest human in sight was too far away to make shouting for assistance anything but rude. Why was there nobody around to entrust you with things when you needed them?

Hustle and muscle, then.

He loaded his arms with bags, grabbed the largest stack of coolers he could manage, and headed for the door with a lot of styrofoam blocking his view.

“Pizzzzaaa pie is Anesidora’s favorite!” said a familiar voice as he passed into the slightly warmer interior of the building. “Pizzzzzaaa pie makes everyone smile!”

That’s the Post Drop I used to send my letter to the Velras. They must have it singing advertisements now.

As he continued on, a toilet flushed freakishly loudly.

They have got to get that plumbing problem fixed.

He speed walked, ignoring the feeling he had that people were probably noticing him and pointing, until someone shouted his name.

“Alden! Mr. Alden Thorn!”

He stopped and shifted to look to the side to find the woman who worked at the customer service desk smiling at him.

“You’re him aren’t you? The one who planned Matadero Thanksgiving?”

“That’s me.”

“Do you need any help? I’m not supposed to leave the desk since I’m the only one here right now, but I could call someone.”

“That would be great. I tried to bring The Nine-edged…General Esh-erdi’s flying vehicle inside with a bunch of packages on it, but it wouldn’t quite fit through the doors.”

“We have a larger entrance for things like that! You could drive a bus through sideways if you wanted.”

“Thanks. That would make things a lot faster. I’ll drop this off and then go back for the rest.”

“I can also give you a NesiCard if you need one today!”

So she remembers me.

“I’ll grab one before I leave. Where’s the guy who’s usually here? Is he all right?”

Normally, Alden wouldn’t have asked about the NesiCard man’s welfare. But given what had happened recently…

“He’s fine,” she said. “Decided the customer service desk wasn’t for him.”

Definitely for the best, thought Alden. That jerk was a sour welcome to Anesidora. He should have a job in some place where he doesn’t have to talk to people.

When he reached teleshipping, he tried to pretend that the puddle of cranberry sauce he found on the floor in front of the drop-offs counter had nothing to do with him while he filled the counter with everything he’d brought. Since he’d been shipping his cat last time, he’d accompanied Victor through a whole security process, but he should just be able to leave the food.

Where is the person I leave it with?

As soon as he’d had the thought, that person stepped out of the back. Before his eyes turned to Alden, they fixed on the stack of coolers and the forest of bags.

He looked very angry to see them there. “Listen,” he said, “I don’t know what restaurant you’re from, but this is too much! Teleportation services are a limited Anesidoran resource, and even though something stupid is going on at the cube, that doesn’t mean you can get away with—”

“So this is where you work now!” Alden said, beaming at the NesiCard man’s familiar scowl. “I’m really glad you’re safe after everything that’s happened.”

The NesiCard man’s face went slack.

“I’m Alden. This is for Matadero. I’m going to go get the rest of it. There’s a lot.”

“You…why is it you?”

“I’ll be back later this evening with even more,” Alden said. “Happy Thanksgiving!”

******

******
