When the Beacon fell, it turned into blue wisps of energy alongside all the surrounding structures, soon leaving the entire area blank. If not for the remnants of battle and the fact that a significant portion of the Territory had become a winter landscape, it would have been difficult to guess a Beacon had ever even been there.

Looking at this widespread destruction, Jake asked himself a rather pertinent question:

If he had been on the receiving end of that Dragon’s Breath, how would he have fared? Should he try to block or defend against it... probably not very well. It was night and day compared to Yrelstromoz’s, and while Jake could probably block it for half a second using his cloak and all his barriers, they would quickly be destroyed, and he doubted his Scales would buy him more than another half a second before he had to bear the brunt of the frost. Would he die? Probably not, but only because the main function of the breath was to freeze, not to kill. He would definitely be left in a state where continuing to fight wouldn’t go very well.

As for dodging the breath, Jake was more than confident. Sure, when charging, movement got limited, but it wasn’t as if space was fully restricted. One Step would be harder, but not impossible to pull off, and even without it, Jake was pretty fast and also had means like Eternal Shadow to avoid getting hit.

Tramon flew victoriously up towards Jake, his wounds more or less already healed by now. At least they were all covered with ice that seemed to have some kind of mending effect.

“Chosen,” the dragon said, stopping right in front of Jake, who had already gotten rid of his arcane barrier. “I hope my judgment in dealing with the Altmar Empire was an acceptable decision. They do not appear to know I was related to the Milky Way Galaxy, and if they did, I would more than gladly take the blame. Truthfully, the only thing they can blame is their own weakness.”

“Oh, it’s all good,” Jake waved off the True Dragon. “We’re not in this system event to make friends, and they just got unlucky being placed this close to our Territory. Even if they find out where you’re from, it doesn’t matter. We would have gotten into conflict with them eventually, anyway. The only faction we’re allied with is the Pantheon of Life, though I would want a more careful approach with factions that we have allies in positions of leadership within.”

Jake didn’t know anyone from the Altmar Empire besides Meira’s friend, who Jake wasn’t even sure took part in this event, and even if she did, she wouldn’t be in any kind of position of leadership. As for Meira herself, while she had a good relationship with the Altmar Empire, she was part of this event on the Order’s side. It really couldn’t be any other way, seeing as she was Duskleaf’s Chosen.

“I shall keep that in mind,” Tramon nodded. “Though I do hope that these factions would not blame an initially heavy-clawed approach. We are at war, after all.”

“Eh, it should be fine. I doubt a faction like Valhal would even get mad if you killed a few of their members before fully realizing where they’re from,” Jake shrugged. “And if you are in doubt, reach out to Miranda and the others back at the Beacon.”

The dragon nodded, having already read Jake’s intent for them to split once more. He didn’t ask about Jake’s assessment of his performance either. Perhaps because he was a little embarrassed at his initial display of magic, or perhaps because he was confident that it had been awesome.

“Anyway, I think I’ll be heading in that direction,” Jake said, pointing toward the horizon where another Territory to conquer would no doubt be. “Then you can continue circling the other way.”

As before, they were moving in a spiral-like pattern around their own square Territory, expanding and making sure they conquered everything in the way.

Once more, the dragon nodded, and with that, Jake set off and was on his own again.

It would take some time to reach the next Territory, and Jake really hoped that the next time they encountered a major faction, it would be him doing it... and as if on cue, after only flying for a few hours after splitting with Tramon, Miranda reached out.

“William’s team encountered heavy resistance and needs your help.”
