Now, Seraphel understood why the Order of Seasons was here, as well as so many warriors. Erribathe’s folk were looking to their [Prince], who seemed patently interested, although he was harder to read.
Might and glory and nostalgia. Humanity in its multitudes, looking southwards. A single Goblin, hearing everyone talk of his home and the new part of it with eagerness. What Rabbiteater thought was impossible to tell behind his helmet, but even had he the purest inclination to stop this, he wouldn’t have made a dent in the combined ego.
Dead gods, it might have been a match for Jecaina, Raelt, Flos, and Fetohep’s combined egos. Here it was, and the [Princess]’s head lowered minute by minute as the banquet dragged on. She did not care.
 
——
 
It was now. Now, in this moment, that the timing was right.
Now.
You didn’t act when everything was reaching the zenith. It was when all the players were present that you made your biggest move.
So if you were waiting—now was when you arrived.
Think of the stories. If you knew stories—this was how it went. A great conflagration of noble folk, knights, all gathered together.
Then, out of nowhere, came the interloper. The foreigner. The challenger, who pushed open the double doors and set everything to chaos.
Of course—it was one thing to see that or read in storybooks, quite another to set it up.
For instance, when you pushed open the doors to the banquet hall, you really had to ask—what about the guards? They were going to stop you at the gates, and you couldn’t just walk in unless you had a really old-fashioned castle. You had to know when the moment was right, and if a servant came in right after you had made your grand entrance and announced the 5th course, well, you were done.
That was why you had a team. A team, possibly even a plant or two in the staff. Hell, you bought off a Thronebearer, and you had a bunch of plans and the willingness to wing it. Then, if you were the best in the world, you might actually burglarize even the Eternal Throne and their guests and get away with it.
The [Thief] was an interesting character. Not many people had even seen her. She went from disguise to disguise, evading even the Thronebearers and spies of Calanfer. Which was amazing, because it was hard to disguise…her.
Not her features, maybe. Brownish skin was not the most uncommon, especially with so many guests. She had a clever face, sharp eyes, but acting went a long way, and the highlights of azure in her hair were easily fixed with dye. Wigs existed.
…But the artificial leg was a trick. It was some kind of glassy sandstone, possibly a type of crystal, yet it moved and acted like the real thing. She managed to hide it with long trousers and shoes, but it was still notable.
Anyways, she was about to go for it. And by ‘it’, that meant her big entrance. Which was to head in as a serving girl, and, while waiting the tables, snatch the Prince of Erribathe’s crown straight off his head.
Also, the Goblin Slayer’s helmet. If she could wing it, the Summer Champion’s blades and a number of other valuable items she’d hand-picked. The Thronebearers at the doors were checking the servants, but there was a queue and they were slipping up. Some of the Thronebearers were investigating a lot of their number who had fallen foul of the laxatives.
Yes, the entire moment was ripe for a [Thief]. A suitable moment, and if the young woman had made any mistake as she held a serving platter at the ready, it was this:
She thought of herself like the principal actor of the scene. Everyone did. But sometimes—
Someone had the exact same idea as you.
The first sign that something was up was the shouts of surprise at the gates. But they were done with so fast that the Thronebearers hesitated before one reached for a speaking stone. However, they too realized something was up when someone began striding down the corridor.
“Banquet hall. Someone’s coming—”
A Thronebearer turned as the servants froze, and a figure walked down the hallway. A cold wind blew, and the [Thief] shivered.
What the—was that snow?
Actual snow? Yes, it was coming down the hallway, and it heralded a single figure walking forwards, fur-lined armor as ancient as the name.
The Winter’s Watcher. The Order of Seasons’ champion of Winter had come, and frozen Thronebearers were trying to block eight [Knights of Winter] who were helping set up their big moment.
The [Thief] did not like this one bit. However, she was already shrinking against a wall, plotting how to use this. The Thronebearers were talking with Queen Ielane, but they were striding forwards to stop the Winter’s Watcher. They drew swords, and the Winter’s Watcher was fast.
He—she—put a hand on their sword as four Thronebearers advanced and drew their blade so quick—
The first Thronebearer collapsed, eyes rolling up in her head. She fell to the floor, and even one of the Winter Knights murmured softly.
“A blow faster than mine eyes can see?”
“No.”
Another looked around. Then the helmeted figure fell forwards, and one of Winter’s sons hit the ground. The other seven reacted in moments. They spread out, and half of them were asleep before they hit the ground.
The Winter’s Watcher and the [Thief] both paused, staring at the slumbering people. Servants, Thronebearers, [Winter Knights]. The Winter’s Watcher spun—and their sword pointed at a third figure.
He halted in place. Teriarch, Lord of Flames, in disguise, obviously, stared at the only two people his spell hadn’t worked on.
“Hm? Aren’t you the Winter’s Watcher? And that [Thief]. What are you doing?”
He pointed, and unconscious bodies began sliding to one side. He raised two claws, formed a square, checked behind him, and opened a window with a sigh.
Setup. Then he spun back and frowned as the Winter’s Watcher stared at him.
“Wait a second. Were you about to enter that banquet hall?”
Slowly, the helmeted figure nodded. The [Thief] was frozen in place, debating running for it, hitting the alarm trigger for her team in her pocket. The Dragon stared at the [Knight].
“Wh—you can’t do that. Are you, perchance, invoking the legend of the Green Knight? Or some such? I didn’t even think they told that story here.”
What story? The Winter’s Watcher folded their arms. It wasn’t like there was just one tale of the last-minute visitor. Teriarch frowned. He glanced at the [Thief].
“We can’t have this. This is my moment—clear out.”
The Winter’s Watcher and the [Thief] stared at the Dragon as he made vague shooing motions. He certainly looked the part, but—ego was a terrible thing.
The three stood outside the banquet hall, while the guests, oblivious to the standoff just outside, toasted each other and ate. Perhaps only the [Queen] realized something was wrong, but even if she was trying to fix the issue—people who just fell unconscious when they entered the [Field of Deepest Slumber] weren’t going to solve the problem anytime soon.
The real green knight, Rabbiteater, was oblivious to all of this as well. Behind the closed doors, Teriarch was arguing in loud whispers with the Winter’s Watcher.
“How about this? You can do tomorrow. I’ll do today. This is entirely fair. Why? Because I am giving you this moment to walk away, and I’ll say nothing more about it. Or you can enter, sit down, and watch, then have your moment. Listen to me. Just because your helmet is blocking a Tier 5 spell, you and I are not on the same quote-unquote ‘level’. I’m busy calculating a trajectory. But I will happily spare a moment for—oh, what now?”
He turned with the Winter’s Watcher, and the fourth person strode down the hallway. A figure in a masked visor, not unlike Teriarch—although he had a more open helm—and the Winter’s Watcher.
Someone had really gone for the Green Knight aesthetic here. Vines twisted up the legs of the armored figure—a minor green spell, and they had a cape of flowers. Their voice boomed beneath a helmet as they raised a single, plain sword.
“I am the People’s Knight. You, who feast here, face me first.”
He had made his way into the palace from another route. And the fifteen Thronebearers he’d left behind him were a testament to his abilities. Each one felled with a single strike.
He was fairly confident—right up until he saw the Winter’s Watcher. Then he hesitated.
“Ah.”
“Go. Away.”
Teriarch growled at him and then did a double-take.
“People’s Knight? What kind of a stupid name is that? Why are you invoking the Green Knight? That’s my tale.”
He cupped one claw to his earhole and frowned. The Dragon could distinctly hear a female voice asking what was going on. The People’s Knight took a moment to mutter in his helmet.
“Cara—something’s gone amiss.”
Four people, each with a grand entrance in mind, stood there in a classic standoff. Teriarch swished his fake and real tail in vexation as he looked around.
Then the [Thief] ran for it. The [Servant] leapt away from the door to the banquet hall, and all three [Knights] moved.
The two fake ones, Teriarch and the People’s Knight, as well as the Winter’s Watcher, all drew a sword. The [Thief] froze—
A sword was at her neck. The People’s Knight actually moved it as she came to a standstill, so close it kissed her throat. The Winter’s Watcher had a blade against the back of the fake leg, and Teriarch had stepped to one side and idly pointed his sword at the [Thief]’s chest.
All four stopped, then. The [Thief] because if she so much as sneezed, she was the next course. But Teriarch was glancing sideways, brows raised, and the Winter’s Watcher was turning their head left and right.
Because the way each one had moved!
Teriarch was no [Knight]. Not in class, but he had dabbled in the art of swinging sticks about. Dabbled, lost interest, forgotten—he had had a few acclaimed matches. So perhaps he had some grace.
Just a touch. The Winter’s Watcher was one of the great [Knights] of their era. They had fought alone on many battlefields. With Skills, they had eclipsed Teriarch’s draw, if not the pure form of his movements.
But the People’s Knight? He had drawn his sword and placed it at the [Thief]’s throat before the other two had even cleared their sheaths. The move had no wasted space. It was beautiful, quicksilver, and the Winter’s Watcher and Teriarch saw it. The Dragon turned his head, and his teeth bared in a pointed smile.
“Well now. That was fascinating. Are you a friend of this…Singer?”
The Winter’s Watcher’s helm turned to him. The People’s Knight froze—Teriarch had a hold of their communication spell? The [Thief] was frozen, but she was fast enough in her own way.
She saw the blade leave her throat and slash. Teriarch—or, rather, the strange [Knight]—deflected the blade.
But it almost reached his chest. The Dragon wearing a mortal’s body stepped back and waited, but the second stroke never came. The People’s Knight looked astonished, even masked by the helm.
“No one has ever done that. Not when I was rested.”
He blurted out in less ringing tones than before. Teriarch glanced at the way the other [Knight] stood.
“Indeed not? It doesn’t surprise me. But meeting a true swordmaster in this age is something. Do you not have a followup?”
The People’s Knight hesitated and ducked his head.
“…No.”
Teriarch patted him on the shoulder.
“You may wish to spend a few decades working on it. That was a [Blademaster]’s draw, though. Pure artistry. Unfortunately—”
He grinned, and his slitted eyes flashed. Crimson scales twisted as he adjusted his neck, and dark black spines flexed across his neck and the unique armor built for this species. The Drake’s eyes flashed, and the People’s Knight backed up.
“—I have seen it before. This is not your moment. Agreed?”
“Agreed. Agreed.”
The People’s Knight had decided this was not their moment to make a grand entrance. Teriarch saw them back off and called out.
“You would have lost to some of the people within. Anyone wearing armor so fine you couldn’t kill them in a stroke. Although, if it were humiliation—well, well. That’s one sensible fellow. And you?”
He turned his gaze to the Winter’s Watcher. The figure hesitated. Ancient, frozen gauntlets tightened on the frozen blade. Teriarch eyed the figure idly.
“Believe me, young lady. You don’t know who I am. Would it be that hard to sit down? Because I will use you as an object lesson.”
The Winter’s Watcher froze, in a literal sense, and the [Thief] tensed. At last, she spoke. She knew it was a risk, but a desperate, defiant grin graced the [Thief]’s lips. She raised her hands.
“Hey—hey. Did one of the other contenders hire you? I know it’s a contest, but this feels like cheating. Don’t make me hurt you.”
She tensed, despite the sword at her leg. Then the Winter’s Watcher was stepping back, raising her blade on guard. Two of them faced Teriarch, realizing that was their only option. So that Drake opened his mouth wide, and his teeth glinted.
“I suppose it would be. Silly me. I’ve forgotten how it felt to be young and prideful. Let’s jog a few memories, shall we?”
 
——
 
The banquet hall was calming down as [Titanguard] Etrogaer leapt to his feet, demanding attention for another speech. Rabbiteater was just about to hurl a piece of bread at him, and Ser Greysten was getting up to challenge the Thousand Lance’s representative, Ser Gorethem.
Princess Seraphel was waiting for the final proclamation from Reclis that they had an agreement, whereupon she was going to get stinking drunk and embarrass the crown. Petty payback.
Lady Menrise was staring at a donut and wondering if she should take another chance. This one was from, funnily enough, Erribathe. And this one had sprinkles.
Then the doors to the banquet hall opened. Or rather—they were thrown open. A figure appeared in the doorway as everyone whirled.
Winter blew in. A blizzard like no other, provoking screams and cries of astonishment. But people probably assumed it was the Eternal Throne showing off something new. Only Queen Ielane’s frozen face revealed to Seraphel it was not. She kept still, though. Sometimes, the disaster was staring you in the face and all you could do was smile at the falling axe with dignity.
Ser Greysten turned with a grin of expectation on his face. Right up until he saw not the Winter’s Watcher in the doorway, but a stranger. Then—he heard the crash and the sound, the terrible screech of metal on metal. And with the influx of wind and snow came the Winter’s Watcher.
On her front. The figure threw her through the banquet hall like a frozen cannonball. With such force that the Winter’s Watcher crashed past the high table, leaving a trail of sparks drifting down through the air.
