Mouths were already open in astonishment, and Earl Altestiel was on his feet, drawing his sword. He didn’t need to guess something had gone wrong.
Where were the Thronebearers? He looked for Rabbiteater, and the [Knight] was getting up with others who sensed an issue, but the figure bellowed.
“HAIL.”
One word blew through the room, and Duchess Greina’s aura winked out with all the others. Like a physical storm, wind blew, and pastries and candles went out. The figure stood, backlit by only the light from outside. Even the fireplace had gone still, and it was hard to see at first who it was.
Then someone else ran into the banquet hall, fleeing the mysterious intruder. A young woman, her dress torn, a flashing, crystal leg pumping as she ran for the balcony where Seraphel, Aielef, and Ellet sat. At this, the Thronebearers who were present, including Vensha, rose.
“The [Thief]! Catch her!”
They leapt for the young woman, and Rabbiteater threw a plate like a discus. Etrogaer reached out, and his hand closed and gravity shifted, dragging everything around into a grip. Faced with Thronebearers and guests using their Skills, the [Thief]’s eyes opened wide.
And her leg exploded into lightning. Rabbiteater barely saw her move. She blasted past him, up a wall, and across the wall. She was so fast gravity only caught up when she slowed—with Iradoren’s half-Elf consort’s circlet in one hand.
“Erribathe, to arms!”
Iradoren leapt up. A cry went up from the guests who knew their history. It was none other than Lady Menrise herself who pointed and shouted.
“The Lightning Thief! His Skill!”
“Who?”
Rabbiteater looked at the thief, who had stopped on a table, standing over the [Princesses] being shielded by their Thronebearers. The most famous [Thief], hero of the world-renowned book series—was not someone who Rabbiteater had ever read about.
But even Seraphel gasped, eyes wide, as the young woman turned. Yet Altestiel calmly spoke, eyes on her.
“That is not the Lightning Thief. He’s dead.”
“He is?”
Several fans of the series were horrified. Which was sort of besides the point, but the young woman turned. Her eyes flashed, and she pointed at Altestiel.
“He’s not. The great game begins—now.”
Then she leapt off the balcony, followed by half a dozen spells and even two Thronebearers.
Rabbiteater had no idea what was going on. But he turned, because while that was all very interesting and whatnot—
His back was exposed to the intruder. And if the [Thief] could make his skin crawl interestingly, this person was making Rabbiteater’s [Dangersense] ring louder than Greydath of Blades had.
He had waited for the [Thief] to have her moment. Once she’d taken the limelight, he acceded with some grace.
After all—you had to admire initiative like that. And it was a good warmup to his act. The balcony doors swung shut as the [Princesses] hurried away from the pursuit of the [Thief].
The room was dark, fires blown out by the Winter’s Watcher’s entrance. Now—several began to flicker back to life of their own accord.
The light from the hallway beyond illuminated the figure once more. Voices rose in confusion, for a knight stood in the doorway.
But not a knight that you would expect. No Human stood in the doorway, garbed in ancient armor that shone like bright brass and gold, but another figure.
A Drake. His scales were perfect crimson and his eyes heliotrope and cerulean. Black neck spines stood out from his armor, perfectly tailored to accommodate him.
Drake armor. Those here had never seen armor meant for a Drake to wear like a [Knight]. It didn’t look the same. Even the way the figure stood, back slightly hunched, was different than the erect posture of a Human [Knight]. His head was slightly lowered, not chin raised, and his smile was full of teeth.
That was how he looked. His presence was far more than that. The Drake [Knight] stood there, looking at them all.
Each nation, each diplomat and noble or royal figure. With knowing eyes. With a gaze that burned like fire. A distant ember, reigniting itself. After all—he was the center of attention.
Someone had to break the silence. It was Prince Iradoren, rising from his seat. The [Prince of Men] called out in a level, wary tone.
“Who are you, stranger? Why do you disturb the Eternal Throne and this company of Terandria’s Hundred Families? You were neither invited nor wanted.”
In reply, the Drake chuckled. His voice boomed, loud despite his calm tone. It filled the room as he stepped forwards, and Rabbiteater felt a nervous sweat on his brow. He looked for Meisa, Seraphel, and the others and saw Altestiel wavering. They should have been spreading out, but something was almost literally holding them in place.
“Invited? Wanted? Hail, son of Erribathe. Firstblooded, proof of pact between half-Elf and man. Hail to the Hundred Heroes and Erribathe the Peacemaker, who drove a hundred feuding blades into stone and settled the Kingdom of Myth as a bridge between countless peoples. You remember customs more than most. So why do you embarrass your history so? I have always had a seat at your tables. My invitation is older than your royal line.”
Another step, and he was into the room. Iradoren wavered, and it was uncertainty that flashed across a dozen faces, but some people were poor listeners.
Lord Etrogaer drew a hammer that could have flattened a pig’s entire skull in a single blow. He had the strength of Giants in his class. With effort, he approached the figure.
“Name yourself, Drake, or leave. This is Terandria’s soil. Which Walled City sent you?”
For answer, the stranger stopped and looked up at the eight-foot tall man. Even his neck spines didn’t reach Etrogaer’s chin, but the [Titanguard] felt uneasy looking down at the Drake. He glanced up and felt…as though he was being looked down upon in turn.
“No Walled City can command me. I have come before those gathered here to speak. To speak of the revelations of last month and the future. Stand aside, little son of the tall. You forget your place. When you were a dream of your first forefathers, they entreated the kindly Giants for safety and aid. Golaen has forgotten the vows it swore. Even so. The kindness of Giants is in your blood and bones. I would not want to hurt you.”
“And I will throw you out far less gently.”
Etrogaer’s face flushed pure red. He reached down, and the Drake caught his wrist. His clawed hand could not even encircle Etrogaer’s wrist—but the [Titanguard] froze. He strained, and Rabbiteater saw his muscled arm bulge. Then Lord Etrogaer whispered.
“—[Gravitas of the Monuments].”
The air twisted around him, and every loose object in ten feet went scattering in every direction. A fork threw itself with such force that it embedded itself in the arm that Dame Vensha threw out. Seraphel stared at the fork stabbed into the armor and swallowed hard.
And not once did the Drake’s arm move. Etrogaer lifted the hammer, and the Drake looked up. The [Titanguard]’s pouring brow was a mask of uncertainty. He froze—and the Drake let him go.
“Ah. Now that brings me back.”
As Etrogaer stumbled backwards, the scaled head turned. Left, right, and he smiled once more. Fondly.
“Here stands a knight who names himself not. He comes before a great banquet of mighty warriors on an auspicious day and lays a challenge before all and sundry. ‘Strike me. Strike me, and I shall answer your blow with mine. Let the victor be the one last to fall.’ In front of Terandria’s children, have any the courage to take up this old challenge?”
He looked right and left, and Rabbiteater felt a hand on his shoulder.
“Rabbit. Don’t…”
The Goblin turned his head. He looked at Dame Meisa’s worried face and whispered back.
“Do I look stupid? I don’t stick my head in a trap.”
And it was a trap. Everyone knew this kind of story. Oh yes. Even if they didn’t know the exact parable—who wanted to trade blows with someone who had just held Etrogaer’s hand like an adult held a child?
Even so. A single figure didn’t flinch when the Drake looked his way.
The Thousand Lance’s great [Knight], Ser Gorethem, a former Named Adventurer, could not run even if he wanted to. The man had a mane of hair almost as impressive as a lion’s, and it was impossible to read his face as he slowly rose and put on his helmet.
“You have the better of me, stranger. In the name of the Thousand Lances of Kaaz, you must know I cannot decline a challenge made before Terandria’s royal bloodlines. How shall it be done?”
The Drake paced forwards another few steps. Then he spread his arms. He had a single, plain sword at his side. Ser Gorethem had a wicked greatsword strapped to his back.
“By blade or spell or even teeth or claw, strike me. Then I shall return the favor if I am still standing. Tell you what. I shall give you three blows for one of mine.”
The sheer arrogance of the statement enraged some of the watchers out of their silence.
“Ser Gorethem, do not hold back on account of our sensibilities. Strike this interloper, and if they play any tricks, let us have done with this.”
Hundredlord Cortese shouted, accompanied by a dozen of Kaaz’s voices and some of Taimaguros’ and Avel’s.
Even so—Gorethem hesitated. Because he didn’t know his opponent. Whatever he expected—killing a Drake might be entirely possible. Or maybe it was a trick. He turned.
“Summer’s Champion. Offer me your blade, I pray.”
Instantly, Greysten drew his smaller axe on his right side and handed it over. The Drake watched with an air of resigned patience.
“Are you called a great warrior of men, Ser Gorethem? If you are of the Thousand Lances, you should be.”
The old man tested the blade in the air and faced the Drake with an air of resignation.
“I was known as a Named-rank Adventurer. Gorethem Krakenblood. I drove one back from Cenidau’s shores in my youth. Will you not relent?”
The Drake’s only reply was a low laugh.
“No. Strike hard and waste your first blow. There is an order to folly, after all.”
The [Knight] hesitated—but then he drew the axe back. Everyone waited and watched as he judged his blow.
The first one was indeed kind. He swung for the Drake’s shoulder, which was relaxed as the patient intruder waited.
Not lightly. Not a ‘wasted’ blow in Rabbiteater’s eyes. Gorethem had already used a Skill, and so the blow was so quick that Seraphel blinked and the crash and flash of magical light as blade met armor was still crackling through the dim banquet hall, deafening and blinding all for a moment.
Yet the Drake just stood there, dusting off his shoulder with a claw.
“Next?”
“Your sword, Ser Gorethem.”
Greysten offered. But the Named-rank Adventurer was still unwilling to draw it. He set himself again, glanced at the Drake, and, more sure he wouldn’t cut his opponent in twain, spoke.
“[Blade Art: Twin Curves of the Moon].”
This time, Rabbiteater saw a crescent draw itself out of the air and an exact duplicate swung the other way. This time—he thought that if he had been struck like that, he would have broken bones and the blade might have cut through his armor and flesh and bone.
The impact was like thunder, and Rabbiteater squinted through it. Ser Gorethem staggered—and the Summer’s Champion’s axe skidded across the floor until the Winter’s Watcher stopped it with one foot.
The Drake was standing there. His mismatched eyes were glowing with impatience, and Ser Gorethem backed up. A voice came from the Winter’s Watcher’s helmet.
Muffled, almost guttural. Neither immediately male nor female.
“Draw your sword, knight.”
Gorethem looked at the Winter’s Watcher, then slowly drew his greatsword. It was ivory. And Rabbiteater realized the stories about Gorethem were probably great.
Because he carried a Kraken’s tooth or claw—carved into a greatsword. The air even smelled like salt and blood, and when he held it with both his hands, Rabbiteater muttered.
“Whoa. Whoa—”
He steadied Meisa—then both backed up as Rabbiteater ducked. A raging wave had engulfed the length of the greatsword. When held behind Gorethem, it was threatening to tap Rabbiteater on the helmet. And he stood fourteen feet behind the man.
“Better, stranger?”
For answer, the Drake spread his arms.
“Do you know how this story always ends, Ser Gorethem? Why do we repeat such stories? Why did you?”
The [Knight] paused as he raised his blade.
“I will not swing lightly.”
He refused to answer the question. So the Drake did for him as the blade drew back and Rabbiteater decided to stand behind Ser Greysten. Just in case.
“We tell these stories because we want to see them undone. Or see if they were true. Every villain meets their end. Every [Prince] rides off into a sunset. Then they forget. Again and again. Whenever I stand here, you say, you think—it cannot be true.”
The sword drew back. Ser Gorethem hesitated one last time. But the Dragon just looked at him, and the trembling blade steadied. Then the Thousand Lances’ [Knight] swung his greatsword down with a howl.
“[Sword Art: The Kraken Bleeds].”
The banquet hall quaked. Rabbiteater felt an explosion of mist and rain strike him like a slap to his face. He held his ground, tensing, as people ducked and the remnants of two tables went crashing into the far wall.
It was like a tidal wave striking a beach. When Rabbiteater saw the water stop falling, he expected to see a dead Drake. If you knew the story, like the Earthers, they expected to see a headless figure, kept alive by mysterious magic, vowing to return the blow in a month’s time.
What they saw was—a Drake. His scales were wet. His eyes were looking down at the greatsword, trembling, the edge of that krakenbone blade resting against his armguard.
It was unscratched. He looked up and with a delicate claw, pushed the greatsword down. Then his eyes began to glow.
“In another time, boy, I would have been cut. Sometimes. The story is the lesson.”
Ser Gorethem’s arms were shaking from the backlash. He stepped back, and someone—Cortese—made a strangled sound.
No one spoke as Ser Gorethem, panting, lowered his greatsword. He just dropped it. Then he stood as the Drake paced around him. This time, he faced Ser Gorethem so his back was to the audience in the banquet hall. Angling, as if choosing the exact spot.
“Strike your worst, stranger. I have taken your challenge, and I will not flinch.”
Gorethem looked pained, like a man facing…what? Perhaps he did hope this was a game, a story from out of legend now.
In reply, the Drake neither took out a sword nor spoke. He held up two claws, made a square, stepped just a hair left, and then nodded. He reached out—and poked the man in the chest with a claw.
Dink.
