“No, and no. In fact, I invite you there. Not just armies. Not just colonists. Come, brave [Knights]. I am sure many of you have already pledged your swords for your kingdoms. Then—beg leave for a quest beyond your shores. You have heard the <Quest> posted for the Crossroads of Izril?”
Murmurs. His eyes glinted as a Brass Dragon, scales like metal, rested his head on his claws. His wings fanned, refracting rays of light for the wondering Humans. The Dragon laughed.
“More will come. Seek out these old sites. Explore the lands yet untamed, and surely—some of you will meet a stranger on the roads. They might be Drakes of good or ill repute. They may be Gnolls upon their own stories. One of them, at least, will be me. Come to Izril. Challenge or learn from me, or teach me a lesson I have not yet heard of in all my years. But do not expect silence from me. If you threaten war, expect a Dragon and those who have slain Dragons to stand against you. Perhaps the might of Terandria is more than that of Rhir, Baleros, Chandrar, and Izril combined, eh? Or perhaps you might come more humbly.”
A cerulean eye winked like mischief and amusement at the others. The voice rumbled.
“But come. Come and see. And learn. That is my invitation to you all, and I apologize for dragging this moment out. Call it playfulness. Dance far from your shores once more, sons and daughters of Humans. I would have you found better kingdoms on the new lands. But also—uncover every old secret. Find the City of Stars. And for those worthy—rise far beyond the [Knight] who struck me. I do not crave death. But I seek those who could slay me and rise above even that dream. For you will be needed. Do you understand?”
Then Prince Iradoren exhaled, and Earl Altestiel looked up. The Dragon didn’t change forms, just looked down at them all.
“You would have us level?”
“I would have every kingdom level. Each kingdom grow and break the traditions that have grown like weeds. Keep the most beautiful things about what you have made—and prepare for a storm like no other. Were you blind? Did you not all see and hear the warnings? Hence my invitation. It is a poor thanks for the greatest of Gnolls, to use their lands like a great training ground. But they have always been the most generous of species. And little has my kind repaid them that.”
Teriarch hissed, and his voice grew sad. Then his head rose once more.
“That is for now. I will not give you orders. I will not stop you from making war on each other or other species. But bear in mind the consequences. And allow me to give you…a longer goal than your self-interest. After all, you must find your own heroes and leaders to rival Marquin. She was a woman who I saluted on the bloody fields where the last of the great Crelers died.”
His audience shivered, breaking into goosebumps. Seraphel could barely breathe. Now, she thought she knew the name. One of three. But Teriarch was going on.
“I seek a hundred Marquins. A hundred, a hundred thousand. Retemper yourselves, each nation. Try…please try to find that elusive path. I have seen you reach it and go astray. I will be there, taking sides, meddling, all for a day not long in the future.”
“And then? What happens on that day?”
Someone had to ask it. Of all the people, it was Rabbiteater. He sat up, and the Dragon looked at him. Now they came to it, he exhaled.
“There is a foe. There is a foe I found worthy after all this time. Yes. Even I. I, who once swore an oath against almost every nation here. I, who gave up vengeance, for the bones of my foes and those who committed the crimes were dust. Some deeds and monsters are worse than Crelers. When you are ready, that is the foe I hope we will all stand against.”
“Who?”
Now there was a dangerous question. The Dragon peered down at Altestiel. Once again, he spread his wings and vanished.
The Drake stood where he had been, and a shadow spoke on the wall. Mocking the Earl of Rains.
“Come now. Once more—is there no one you cannot name?”
“Crelers.”
Lord Etrogaer spoke it like an oath, and someone else whispered a second name.
“Demons.”
The Drake’s disapproving glare found a single man standing in the back, and the Blighted King’s representative hesitated—and began to tremble, though they did not know what he might say next. Instead, Teriarch spoke.
“This is my promise to you. A day will come when this world must be purged of that which is intolerable. All swords raised, no matter the odds. You may disagree with nations and crowns. My people have always been both foe and friend. Some foes are beyond question. On that day—the true enemies will reveal themselves.”
Rabbiteater’s hand was trembling because even he was listening. That mismatched stare swept the room, and the voice rose.
“If need be, the fleet to end all fleets shall cross The Last Tide and seek truth at the end of the world. But I promise you this: Rhir. Perhaps the innocent shall flee. But a day will come when the sons and daughters of Terandria will sail to that blasted continent and put an end to Rhir’s nightmare for good. A long dream for a sin older than Rhir. The coming war will burn nations to ash. It will break all chains. Horrors lying buried in the sands shall be put to sleep for good. On that day…”
He closed his eyes, and a terrible smile crossed his face. Gentle enough to make Ellet burst into tears, and sharp enough to cut the Summer Champion’s heart.
“I swear to you on that day, the Dragonward Bells shall ring. One last time.”
The promise rang through the Eternal Throne and the banquet hall, and there were no words to follow it. The Dragon’s shadow grew larger—then it flickered out. Leaving only a tired Drake and a promise.
But like the ghosts and visions—they believed. Rabbiteater thought no moment could surpass that, and probably none could. The Drake drew his sword and planted it in the table in front of him. King Reclis leaned back as Teriarch looked down at him.
“So. Calanfer proposes a journey to new lands, eh?”
“Eh. Indeed.”
Reclis managed. Teriarch’s eyes were kinder, now, his vow said. Almost relaxed. But in a sense—he felt more of himself now. For his great promise was spoken—but there was always more for a Dragon. So he chose these words with as much care as the others.
“Then I shall have you back your promises with more than casual effort, esteemed guests. If you are to do this, know the secret to levelling. Passion. Throw yourselves across the ocean by sheer will of it.”
The mortal guests of the banquet hall looked at him. Powerful nations, all. Being invited to Izril by a legend as old as their thrones? Who could be upset?
Well—how about the Naga from Baleros? How about the Five Families? Because, at this, Lady Cosoi Reinhart had to break in. She was very pale as she called out because her family did not have a good relationship with Dragons historically.
Oh, how little she knew. But she did speak.
“I say—I say! Are we, the children of Izril, supposed to take this lightly?”
Teriarch swung his head to her, and she hesitated, but the Five Families were nodding, so Cosoi looked around.
“It is our home! No continent has a better claim than those who have lived and died on Izril.”
“Barely a mayfly’s time compared to the Drakes and Gnolls.”
One of Kaaz’s nobles snorted, and Cosoi resolved to give him a bowel movement that he would never forget if the chance arose. However, her eyes were on Teriarch.
“What is our reward, pray, noble Dragon, for being invaded?”
She meant the Five Families, not the Drakes or Gnolls. But in answer, the Drake just bared his teeth.
“Who said there is nothing for you? I will see you back on Izril. Give Terandria its moment now, Lady of House Reinhart.”
She started, compressed her lips, then bowed as graciously as possible. Well, now, that changed a lot.
The Dragon turned back to the crowd. His head found the guests, Iradoren, Etrogaer, and the representatives of Avel, Noelictus, Desonis, and more. Duchess Greina, Princess Telleis—and he called out.
“So I ask before all here: who will go to Izril and seek the Crossroads? Who will dare to meet every species in peace and strife and reach out across Terandria’s shores?”
He turned and looked around. Now, he was waiting. He did not have to wait long. Hundredlord Cortese leapt to his feet.
“By Kaaz, I swear I shall not spend the end of this month on Terandrian soil! I have been called, and I will go!”
Reclis’ head swung left, and Ielane’s eyes opened wide. This…this was everything they wanted. Surely? So why did all her Skills and instincts start blaring a warning?
But more people were calling out. Lord Etrogaer was hesitating, but members of his congregation were swearing it. Greysten wrestled with his own duties—and Dame Voost and the Winter’s Watcher’s hands—as he tried to shout out.
Teriarch turned, and it seemed as though the Drake were staring into every eye. But he really wasn’t. He looked and waited. That kindly old man.
 
——
 
A [Princess] stood frozen. She felt like she were walking through the Eternal Throne. On daises of light, but ones she had seen a thousand times.
And while she despaired, while she wept inside, a door and a garden, full of strange roads and paths forwards, opened. A terrifying sight compared to the well-worn palace around her.
Her mouth trembled at the thought. It wouldn’t work. But she thought she heard Queen Marquin’s voices and the other [Ladies].
“If you wait, that day will never come. Better to weep and gnash your teeth now than to do it forever later.”
Which of them had said that? Not Marquin. She had looked Seraphel in the eyes and laughed.
“My grandchildren are timid. You looked better terrified, riding with life and death in your mouth. The vomit on your tongue and terror in your veins is how you know you were alive.”
…As inspirational quotes went, it wasn’t the best. She had said more—but Seraphel got the meaning.
She was clasping her hands together so hard her nails dug into her palms. More and more people were standing up.
“Desonis shall go. And I swear it in the Sleeping Queen’s name.”
Earl Altestiel. Altestiel and Cortese, and now—Seraphel was almost afraid to look around. For two heads were seeking hers. And it was—it was just a fancy. It was not something you should make life choices around.
It was a bathroom encounter. Yet—that silly Menrise stood up.
“Tourvecall shall send at least one [Lady]! Mother—”
She actually turned to Lady Ficombe. The goldfish bowl-wearing [Lady] almost had an apoplexy before everyone, and the Dragon actually chuckled. But then Menrise was bowing, and that just left two.
Rabbiteater, who glanced around and laughed in his own way.
“Of course I’m going home.”
He tilted his head, and Seraphel thought he was looking at her out of the corner of his eye. She closed her eyes, and her heart was beating out of its chest. Just like it had, once, when she saw a [Singer] appear in Afiele. Just like all the best and worst moments of her life.
It did not feel like that piece of lead when she stood before a wedding altar three times. Her head rose, and she thought she could hear Cara’s song. It and every part of Seraphel were pushing her forwards.
The only thing that held her back was her fear. So the [Princess] opened her mouth and called out.
“I—”
She coughed. She actually coughed, and heads turned to her. Prince Iradoren, Rabbiteater—Seraphel coughed and turned beet red. She fumbled for her words as Aielef and Ellet turned to her.
“That is—I promise that Calanfer will not forge this pact lightly. As a sign of our intent, our goodwill—the Eternal Throne will send one of its daughters to Izril. Me. By the Eternal Throne, I, Princess Seraphel du Marquin, will join this great expedition, for better or worse.”
She felt dizzy. Light-headed. Ebullient. And she couldn’t wait, secretly, to see how much of a punishment she would get.
There. I said it. Now, I’ll never make it. But at least I can say I tried. 
Tears ran down her cheeks. Because she just knew what was coming next.
Queen Ielane and King Reclis had realized what she was trying to do in that moment. Ielane couldn’t well stop Seraphel so obviously by holding her mouth shut—but she could still salvage a bad situation.
Which was with an apologetic laugh. A distressed one, to indicate that Seraphel was swept up and making promises that, obviously, she didn’t have the authority for. Reclis would, in turn, promise the Eternal Throne would put its support behind the effort but that Seraphel was spoken for, hinting at a marriage.
Before rumors spread, they took a loss to avoid this blunder. Ielane raised a hand to her mouth to crush her daughter’s dreams. She opened her mouth—and nothing came out.
“——”
The [Queen] blinked. She tried again, but her mouth didn’t move, and no one noticed her amidst all the cheers and exclamations. Reclis was giving her the urgent side-eye—now was the moment. She knew that. But why…?
Ielane’s mouth moved again, then she tried to rise urgently. But she couldn’t. Someone was holding her down. Ever-so-gently. Just like he held her mouth closed, or rather, the words inside.
She looked up, and a single eye of heliotrope found her. A Dragon nodded to Seraphel, and Reclis tried to speak. To rise. But the Dragon innocently blocked the words from coming out. It wasn’t much, he liked to lie.
Just a few words. A bit of hope for a girl. He looked at Seraphel, staring at her immobile parents, and remembered why he liked to wake up in the mornings. A tearstained face swung towards him, and he bowed. Time he was off.
Perhaps they would never remember this day. Perhaps, in the years to come, they would forget him as surely as he might forget some of them, no matter how hard he tried. But for now—[Princess] Seraphel du Marquin shed a bunch of tears as Rabbiteater and her friends approached and began to tease her gently.
A Dragon came to Calanfer’s Eternal Throne. Gently, as he set everything aflurry and aflame as he was wont to do, he pried a few bars loose. Then he left, and a [Princess] followed thereafter, looking around and blinking in the light.
As for the Goblin? He just laughed and laughed, because in the end?
He really was going home.
