That was the funny thing. These arrogant kingdoms, the Restful Three, pretended to superiority. But their people gobbled down gelato like everyone else. They still hungered for the most worldly goods—including the attention of the scrying orbs denied to them.
Lady Cosoi Reinhart didn’t mind going abroad, even if her House were given the cold shoulder. It was entertaining, and she had flirted outrageously with Lord Altestiel in front of the scrying orb. The Goblin Slayer was an intriguing issue, and Calanfer entertained her.
Besides—it was always good to have Magnolia in her debt. So the [Lady] strolled back to her rooms, set up a privacy ward, and took the single-use scroll out of her bag of holding. She wrote, watched the words and scroll dissolve, and reflected that even the Thronebearers wouldn’t detect that.
Magnolia used to come to Calanfer to sharpen her wits against the Eternal Throne. A number of Reinharts had, actually. As for what she’d written—well, Cosoi had no idea why it mattered. But she was interested.
 
To Magnolia: 
The Restful Three are all after your sulfur, my dear. At least, Kaaz is, and the other two are poking about. That’s most likely it. Inquire with your servants. Polite kisses,
—Cosoi.
 
As for the reason sulfur was so easy to identify as a clue, well. If Cosoi had access to Magnolia’s own logic, she might have realized that a commonality between Earthers was that they were sort of stupid.
Stupid in the sense that not a lot knew how to make gunpowder, but everyone ‘knew’ sulfur was part of it. And bat crap. Probably because they’d all heard variations on the same recipe. Whether it worked or not didn’t matter.
They asked about oil, aluminum, and other common words. All you had to do was look for which nations were suddenly, passionately interested in importing such materials. The smart ones never made a sound and never gave you a clue something had changed.
 
——
 
Trade was one of the things the Restful Three were angling for. But subtly. And they were still guests of the Eternal Throne. Seraphel du Marquin was present for the luncheon, and her outing with her friends had been cut short.
But then—Cortese, Menrise, and Altestiel had all begged off because they had to attend. Only Rabbiteater seemed bored by the lot. The politics reminded Seraphel they were still from different nations, and it made her sad.
Because their friendship was ending sooner than she thought. Already, her thoughts had turned maudlin. If Ielane could arrange it, there were worse things than being married to Cortese or Altestiel. Not that they were likely to accept. Altestiel would be a victory without question…
It was arrogance she saw in the Restful Three. They really weren’t a match for Calanfer’s politics. They had a good show of power, but what they lacked was, well, what the Eternal Throne lived in.
Uncertainty. The Eternal Throne survived by playing diplomacy for real stakes. The Restful Three were powerful nations that, if not utopias, had the power to be the model for Terandrian kingdoms. They were why people said Terandria was so safe; their citizens benefited from the power of the kingdoms and lack of wars.
The southlands, exposed to the sea, were often under far more threat. But what was interesting about the Restful Three now was that, even if Seraphel didn’t know of the Earthers—she could tell they were upset.
Something had rattled their complacency around and made them realize they might be the classic fish in a small pond. Or—maybe a big fish in this pond, but they’d just heard there was another pond that was close to them. And the fish there had guns.
So they had come to the table. But they were hardly going to stick out a hand to help the Dawn Concordat unless they had something they felt they could gain, even if Ailendamus were on the back foot. They would rather take pieces out of Ailendamus if they felt it were worth it.
No, Reclis and Ielane had to have a plan to force or coerce some aid from the other nations here. And Seraphel saw the plan ahead of time.
It was easy. All you had to do was look around. Like, for instance, while you were sneaking cream puffs out of the third kitchen for Aielef. And Ellet. Cultivating disobedience in her sister from an early age seemed like a worthwhile use of a cream puff.
The three [Princesses] nibbled on cream puffs under the disapproving gaze of Ellet’s Thronebearers. Seraphel didn’t care how mad Ielane was. The sight of Ellet’s round gaze as she tried to make the cream puff last was so adorable. But she’d also seen Ielane’s trick.
“Have you seen the cake they’re about to bring out, Aielef?”
“No, and I dearly hope you haven’t touched the cakes or the [Royal Baker] will behead you.”
Aielef was serious. The cakes were being made with some unique powder and a recipe from Izril. Ielane’s fury over pilfered desserts would turn into wrath and ruin if the cake for the lunch were interrupted.
“Bah. Not at all. But guess what it is?”
Aielef glanced up from the balcony where they were observing the rest of the banquet hall.
“Oh…just tell me. What’s the plan?”
Seraphel lifted a finger, and Ellet’s trusting head turned between her two big sisters, as if she were admiring their adult intelligence and foresight. It made Seraphel feel so…uncomfortable. And slightly fuzzy. So yes, maybe she was showing off.
“It is a quite lovely cake. Of a certain landmass. Not at all buttocks-shaped. Only if you look very closely.”
Aielef’s stare was blank for a second, then she snorted.
“Oh, Izril.”
“Oh!”
Ellet clapped her hands and stifled a giggle with delight. Even she got it. Seraphel glanced out with a knowing look as a cake was brought out to much ceremony.
It took fifteen servants to bring the damn thing out. She suspected it had been made out of many parts that were then connected by the [Royal Baker] into one huge, frosted piece. It even had frosted High Passes and an artistic version of the new lands.
The new lands. Obvious, but sometimes you had to just throw it in people’s faces. Plus, the grandeur of such a rare and expensive dessert had all the guests on their feet, admiring the Magnolia-type monstrosity. Ellet’s eyes grew round as she imagined her slice of cake.
Seraphel, knowing perfectly well that she would not get any, just watched people’s reactions. Then she saw one of the servants carrying out the cake wobble as they stepped on some drool from one of Erribathe’s dogs.
Oh no. The foot slipped, and the grand cake was in danger of falling—
Ielane’s finger twitched, and the foot amazingly, improbably, stabilized. The guests gasped, then applauded as the servant caught the falling piece of cake.
“[Elegant Save]. She can throw her Skill to any servant she wants, Ellet.”
“Mother did that?”
The applause grew louder as a knife was presented and the cake was about to be sliced. But there was Father with his trick. He took the knife from the servant—and the woman pretended to be surprised before bowing deeply.
“I should like to show you all the magnificence of this new development in Izril. Ah, but then, I believe the honor of the first slice should go to Prince Iradoren, who has journeyed far to reach us. Your Highness, do you have a preference?”
With a teasing smile, he held the knife, looking to Iradoren as to what cut he might prefer. Then, Reclis handed him the knife. And the [Prince]? Seraphel rolled her eyes.
Of course he took a piece of the new lands. And [Historians] wrote down this kind of thing as clever. It was pure ego and presentation. She didn’t miss how Lord Etrogaer was handed the knife—and now Reclis was letting people serve themselves. The [Titanguard] took a chunk out of the new lands twice as large as Iradoren’s.
“Seraphel?”
Aielef broke in. The 4th Princess looked up at the 3rd, and Aielef watched the furor and murmurs rise in dismay.
“Yes, Aielef?”
“Do you ever get the feeling that we are, in our own way, as straightforwards and predictable as Ser Solstice?”
“All the time, Aielef. All the time.”
 
——
 
The luncheon was going to last until dinner. It was less a single banquet, more like an ongoing discussion with food.
Rabbiteater had no idea why it suddenly turned to the new lands of Izril. Suddenly, everyone was discussing attempts at colonies, the existing half-Elven and Drowned Folk cities, logistics, and an ‘agreement’.
Suddenly, the topic had come up, and it felt spontaneous. In that way, Rabbiteater was below even Ser Markus for points on politics. To be fair, he was distracted.
…Mostly with trying to slowly squeeze his cake through slits in his visor. Meisa and Lady Menrise were watching the maneuver with silent horror. But then Rabbiteater heard and saw the Eternal Throne’s real army enter the room.
Their [Diplomats] and Thronebearers. They were all on the same page, and even Lady Menrise began speaking to another woman.
“The new lands? Yes, Tourvecall is interested…but we hardly have an army to spare even if we intended to enter the land-grab. Touchy Drakes and trouble at sea. I heard a famous [Pirate] of some kind has been attacking ships. Even the half-Elves aren’t safe.”
“Of course, Lady Menrise. Calanfer is not immune to troubles at sea, and few nations have a standing armada. Not least—any convoy would either have to leave a more northern port, say Taimaguros’, or travel to one of the southern kingdoms to make exit.”
“True…”
“—and that would mean paying tariffs or Taimaguros interfering or just the hassle of sending so many so far. You can’t build a new city without [Crafters]. All the while, you may be dealing with magical misfortune, monsters, and, frankly, competitors.”
Hundredlord Cortese and Altestiel were speaking to Duchess Greina, who had been talking Noelictus’ own royalty out of the maneuver. Yet one of the Princes, Lothen, spoke with a half-smile that didn’t look quite real.
“Indeed, Duchess. On the topic of competition, have we not seen enough bloodshed in Terandria?”
The question was so poorly phrased and delivered as to make Ielane close one eye in a wince, but Lothen went on.
“Calanfer has a proposition to render to however many countries are interested.”
“We will not enter your war with Ailendamus—or Taimaguros, even if Kaaz has shed enough blood with them.”
Hundredlord Cortese looked blatantly amused by the [Prince], but he was surprised by Lothen’s shake of the head.
“Not at all, Hundredlord. Rather, this would be far simpler than a sworn contract. Given the countless nations and issues of each ruler signing a magical contract, say rather an agreement between gentlemen of the same species and culture.”
“And ladies?”
Greina raised her brows, and Lothen bowed.
“Absolutely, from the Sleeping Queen to any other, Duchess. A simple agreement—not to make war on another Terandrian kingdom. To, perhaps, form a unified front and common entry point. So, perhaps, if Tourvecall wanted for laborers…”
“Aha.”
Altestiel muttered. He glanced around, gave Queen Ielane a slight bow, and went back to listening. Not necessarily in appreciation, but he got it.
“Every nation present would agree to a ceasefire. In the interests of avoiding needless further bloodshed.”
The [Diplomat of Envy], Corek, was relaying this to Ailendamus in real-time. The Kingdom of Glass and Glory was moving to interject and stop this if it could—or at least, insert itself into this agreement.
But therein lay the problem. Every nation invited was, carefully, not at war with any of the others. They might have historical rifts, but even Taimaguros was there. And a venture overseas that could be so appealing?
New land. It was like an aphrodisiac, sweeter than cake and more tantalizing than toilet paper in a bathroom stall of agony. If they agreed to—even temporarily—a unified front abroad…were you going to jeopardize it at home?
Not for a bit. And if Taimaguros agreed…Ailendamus stood alone, now watching every side. Of course it could just stop fighting.
The only cost was getting everyone on board with the idea. The only cost was the new lands that Gnolls had raised for Gnolls.
But the Humans weren’t really considering that. Some were already visibly excited like Etrogaer and Cortese. As for the others, they were taking the temperature of the assembly and wondering quite frankly if they could afford to miss this opportunity. So if you were Altestiel, of course you bowed to Calanfer’s politics. You had to admire the play even if you hated the game.
 
——
 
The irony of it was that Reclis was entirely cynical about this affair. Seraphel just knew it. Her father was not a man who prized land except in how it mattered. She just bet that he didn’t care if this worked. He did not necessarily dream of Calanfer gaining a colony. Perhaps he factored it into the equation, but he might not even care if they got nothing more than this agreement.
Because this was what mattered. She wondered how much Calanfer was going to send to the new world. How many Thronebearers, experienced in how you held a teacup to check for poison, were going to try and settle land no one had explored?
Whatever the case, she was sure it would be far less than the benefits to Calanfer. And that was good politics. At least, as Reclis saw it.
It was also going to work. Probably. Etrogaer had all but committed, and once you got one voice saying that Golaen was definitely on board, you got more. By the time the banquet was in swing, Calanfer had brought out the good wine, and they were toasting and giving speeches about glory.
“Ere the last of Giants walked across the sea, they stood by Golaen’s men/the horrors of the Children and the Adults thrown back and back time now and again!”
A [Bard] was singing a song of how, in ages past, Golaen’s mighty warriors had held the line against another threat. They were reciting, very plainly, each nation’s history of military might. Why not go to Izril and prove it? Which nation could stand against Kaaz’s Golden Bells?
Or their Thousand Lances?
The famous [Knight] from the Thousand Lances, a former Named-rank Adventurer, had arrived late, like Prince Iradoren. He was currently speaking to the Kaazian nobility, perhaps the voice of reason as they argued passionately. He would represent Kaaz’s crown and the Thousand Lances itself—but he was not immune to the plays.
Soon, someone was going to challenge him to a duel. And it might just be Rabbiteater. Or Ser Greysten. Or Dame Voost or half a dozen others. It was not every day you got to see the ‘best [Knight] Order’ in the world. And everyone liked to challenge that idea.
