Not even the Dragon could know. But…Teriarch’s heart pounded a bit painfully, and it did beat louder than it had in his cave. As if reminding him how weary it was.
But look. See there. See how he stands. Whether or not he made it, Ser Solstice stood like men and women who had followed that insane dream. A naive dream, in another reality. A dream only possible with machines and armies.
Here? A precious few like that had once gone on to challenge Giants and Dragons. Even then, they lost, facing foes as old as time with all the cunning and pride equal to their enemies.
But they kept coming. So the old Dragon thought he saw a spark. Like someone striking flint to steel. It was a burning piece of an aura, a bright flame like bravery.
It grew upon a memory of home. Hearth and bravery, and in the Goblin’s mind, one could not exist without the other. A [Knight], a [Champion], had to have a cause. And—Rabbiteater’s head rose.
If you could not protect it, you would lose that home. Someday.
His control over his aura was improving faster than anyone could imagine. Two auras, feeding off each other, began to burn brighter. Was he grinning behind that helmet? Of course he was. The Dragon didn’t have to cast a spell to see through the helmet to see that smile.
It was the same as the one mirroring him. The Summer’s Champion drew an axe, and the Goblin Slayer stepped forwards. Their auras began to clash, and the heat of summer pressed around Rabbiteater.
He knew what to do, even if he didn’t know how. Challenge himself. The two figures turned slightly, and the roaring heat of Ser Greysten’s aura ran into a storm. Rather than turn to steam or clash—it just made Earl Altestiel’s own aura into a summer tempest, like a hot, tropical monsoon at sea. He had one hand raised, and water ran down his sword arm, trickled around his boots, as if an unseen rainstorm were already falling. Soon—it would become a treacherous current.
Altestiel had put on armor for this moment. He was focused and no longer laughing, the eye of his own storm.
Pitted in the far corner, the fourth contender, the [Princess] Telleis swallowed. Her own aura, made up of impossible barriers and piercing insights—lock and key—flickered. Rabbiteater and Ser Greysten, flanking her on either side, saw the weakness. Both of them went for her as Altestiel raised an arm. A tidal wave swept across the room. Ser Greysten turned, and then there was an explosion of steam.
“Eternal Throne! Your Highness!”
A Thronebearer shielded the [Princesses], Seraphel and Aielef, and the spectators threw up their hands. However—neither [Princess] would leave. Nor did Dame Vensha have the means to compel them, not in this hour between dusk and midnight. There was something so fervent in the eyes. Even—Aielef learning how to swing a sword properly.
Perhaps it was reflected in Beacle’s gaze or even some of the Thronebearers. Beyond the adoration for their [Princesses], more than love of nation. A bit of respect for someone chasing that dream.
Still, Seraphel du Marquin sat there and watched the [Knights] charging forth. Presently, she rose and accepted a wand from Lady Menrise to show her the few spells a [Princess] learned. She looked around, triumphantly unhappy, because she had to know that Dame Vensha was speaking with her parents. This oasis of rebellion would not last.
As for Teriarch? He stood there awhile, watching. Wondering, perhaps, how long ago it had been since these emotions had run through his blood.
“I am old. And mighty. I have seen it all before and given lifespans even as my people know it, only to see it all fall apart.”
He whispered, like a confession only to himself. Only—it sounded like an excuse, even to his ears. He was reminded of the raging Wyrm, arrogant and selfish and young. The curious mix of Lucifen and Agelum, clinging together at the end of myth.
What was wrong with him? He touched his chest and felt more than a weariness from his ages of sleep. He truly was missing something. Part of Teriarch had gone out and set fire to Wistram. In contempt for what they had forgotten, in passion for a better world.
It had never come back. Though magic had restored his heart—what was left in the Dragon? Regrets and memories. But he had to fulfill his promises.
He had to fly. So, like a long-lost traveller seeking the road back, Teriarch watched the Goblin and the mortals on the start of their long road. Plotting his great journey.
 
——
 
That night, a figure slipped through the palace, hunting for items to be stolen. The Thief. She was flitting from balcony to balcony, performing leaps as long as thirty feet, then stealthing out of sight, waiting until no one could see her before she continued.
She had a list, and even though she had revealed herself once, her reign of terror over the rich was not over. She was just creeping over to a room in the Mercuous Suite and listening to the sound of snoring from within.
Aha. Not everything she wanted was an artifact. This was about prestige. And there was nothing more prestigious than learning who this ‘Ser Solstice’ was. Information was a type of currency in her markets, and this would net her a tidy profit.
She heard two breaths from within. But both were tired out from their training, and she made not a sound as she slowly unlatched the balcony doors. Rabbiteater’s suite looked out onto the gardens, and a pair of drapes blew as the [Thief] put her hand to the window.
She was good. A Dragon was eating chips he’d stolen from the kitchens as he peered up at her from the gardens. He shuffled sideways a bit to make room for everyone.
Good enough to have a Skill that let her remotely manipulate the door latch through the window. A low-grade telekinesis. Someone had trained this [Thief].
…But she was still in Calanfer. So what was interesting to him was not so much her theft of the Goblin’s helmet, which he might have objected to. He was really curious how she was going to get out of this one.
The [Thief] had just raised the latch when the blowing curtains on the balcony shifted. She looked sideways, and Dame Vensha swung.
The blade would have beheaded the [Thief]. She didn’t react fast enough, but even as her eyes were widening, she ducked. It was an automatic reaction. Teriarch saw the [Thief] roll out of the way as Vensha lifted the blade and prepared for a thrust, but she was already running for the balcony.
Nor was that her Skill. [Plan: Emergency Dodge]. 
Interesting. There were no less than six people in the gardens who’d been watching the [Thief]. Minders. Her team saw the Thronebearer appear and then a dozen others leap out of the shrubbery.
“Thronebearers! We’re made! Get to the escape route!”
A worried voice called out, muffled by a hood. Instantly, a pair of figures drew enchanted blades and began fighting with the Thronebearers coming at them. They fell back instantly; the Thronebearers weren’t the best fighters, but these were anti-criminal specialists.
[Preferred Enemy: Rogues]. But whomever this [Mastermind] or [Plotter] was, they’d hired good backup. Teriarch cast [Appraisal], and it failed.
“[Greater Appraisal]. Whoops.”
He shuffled sideways, fanning his wings, as Dame Vensha leapt from the balcony after the [Thief]. She was fleeing with her escort. Teriarch’s eyes narrowed.
“Aha. [Storm Sailors]. No, wait. What does that mean? ”
He eyed the cloaked figures holding off the Thronebearers. Then the [Thief].
“Interesting leg. Interesting Skill.”
Now it all made sense. She was good, but Dame Vensha nearly had her—until the [Thief]’s escape turned into a blaze of speed and crackling light. She blasted past the Thronebearers, who gave chase. No wonder they couldn’t catch her. She might not be on the level she needed to be—but that Skill was. He wondered how she’d gotten it.
Five minutes later, a sleepy Goblin stumbled to the balcony in full armor and looked around. He stared at the empty garden, back at Meisa, and grumbled.
“Weird.”
He could have sworn he heard something.
 
——
 
The following day, Calanfer was abuzz with gossip. Not just because the Eternal Throne was going to announce a proposition for the gathered nations, but because word had spread about the passionate duels going on in secret.
“‘Duels’ is a fine word for it. I should like to see Kaaz’s nobles have a sack put over their head and be beat about with sticks!”
Ser Markus rubbed at his copious bruises as he scarfed down food. Redfang training left you with a tremendous appetite. Rabbiteater nodded as he grumpily sucked soup through a straw. He could and did ask for food in his rooms, but he missed the social aspect of it.
Altestiel just chuckled as he rubbed at one shoulder. He felt his older age and was envious of the younger men and women.
“I believe they would enjoy that.”
“Earl! I object!”
Cortese began to stand up, and Altestiel threw a breakfast bun at him. It bounced off Lady Menrise’s helmet, and the lion, Baeris, chased after it. Altestiel instantly flushed, but Lady Menrise put her hands to her helmet’s sides as if they were cheeks.
“Oh dear, Earl Altestiel. You flirt so directly. Is all of Desonis like that?”
Some of the soup came out of Rabbiteater’s visor. Greysten began choking on his own mouthful of food. The breakfast table was as merry as could be.
How Seraphel wanted to sit with them. Instead, she was dining with Aielef, Vernoue, and the rest of the [Princesses] present as well as Ielane and Reclis. The royal family was waiting for their final guests to arrive.
Also—Aielef and Seraphel were in hot water, and Ielane was speaking in the privacy spells set up while appearing to be amused, casual, and relaxed.
“—Now that you have countermanded Vensha, you will return to this nonsense of training. And if you are so insistent upon fitness—a rarity for both of you, which we wish you had pursued while you were younger—you may forgo dessert and the snacks you are so fond of, Aielef. To better guide your growth.”
Aielef was silent, chewing on her food as her two daughters looked at the matriarch of the family and poked at their plates. Seraphel chomped down on her own brioche bun, laden with more food than usual. Exercising really did produce a lot of muscle pain—everywhere.
She barely reacted to the ban on sweets and desserts. That tended to work on [Princesses] who were not close to thirty or older. Well…if Ielane banned Dreamleaf, it would probably work on Shardele.
The [Queen] seemed displeased by the lack of reaction, but then, this ‘public’ dressing down had a lot of targets as usual. An anxious voice interrupted the [Queen] on Reclis’ left side.
“Mother, sister Seraphel and Aielef are trying very hard. Shouldn’t they get one or two sweets? None at all sounds—m-mean.”
Seraphel turned, and even she and Aielef smiled at the girl sitting and nibbling on grapes. Ellet du Marquin, the 7th Princess of Calanfer, was young, cute, and earnest. Even her sisters didn’t bully her since she was in the innocent phase. Ielane, however, just turned to Ellet and smiled…ish.
“A [Princess] must perform her duties to enjoy all the luxuries of her station, Ellet. Your older sisters have been—naughty.”
The childish phrasing sounded awkward in her mouth. Shardele, Vernoue, both were silent as they ate, though Vernoue looked sympathetic, and Shardele seemed to be enjoying this. Aielef muttered to Seraphel out of the corner of her mouth, using a [Discrete Murmur] Skill.
“I believe I shall have Kaliv go after Shardele’s contraband [Smuggler].”
Seraphel lifted her cup and twitched her pinkie slightly, which made Aielef hide her own lift of the lips.
Anyways, Ellet seeing Ielane dressing down her older sisters was fairly rare. But even rarer was the straight-backed young man sitting next to Vernoue.
Prince Lothen, the 2nd Prince of Calanfer and, technically, 4th oldest just after Menisi, spoke with a curt voice.
“Do try not to emulate your older sisters, especially Lyonette, Ellet. Their affection towards the kingdom waxes and wanes unbefitting of their station.”
“Lothen.”
Reclis reproved him with a word, and the [Prince] ducked his head instantly as the nervous [Princess] looked at her rarely-seen brother. Reclis changed the subject directly. He spoke candidly since this was not a public moment.
“It is not the poorest thing to inspire a nation via valorous conduct. I’ve often regretted my failure to earn a Silver-bell or distinguish myself martially. However, the personal attributes of a ruler shapes the rule unduly…”
He was musing about the personal nuance of a class that a [King] could have. Any second, his son and daughters knew, he was going to bring up the King of Destruction. Or the Blighted King. Or the King of Duels. However, Lothen seemed to take this as a critique.
“—I have made some displays in Avel, Father. However, they value the bow more than the sword.”
“Hm? No, of course you have. How does fair Avel?”
Lothen cut another square of food away. He had excellent posture. But then, the good [Prince] often did.
Three [Princes] for the seven princesses. They were seen far more seldom than their sisters, and two were among the oldest of the siblings. That was for a good reason. You could say that, ah, Ielane’s methods of teaching her children had been a work in progress. She’d had a harder time with Shardele, Agenote, Menisi, and Lothen.
It showed. Lothen was the good son. He had four children and a tie to one of Avel’s own earldoms. He was so straight-backed that Seraphel had wondered if she pushed him too hard if he’d snap like poor Agenote.
Gaiil-Drome. The half-Elven kingdom of the forests. He seemed happy. As for Kanmis, the youngest, just older than Lyonette? Well, he’d taken the lessons better than his older brothers.
Even so, Taimaguros had eaten him. Metaphorically. Lothen replied to Reclis directly and in the most unsatisfying of manners.
“The [King] is—entertaining as always. It is hard to gain his attention, but I have made several inroads in court. I delivered a missive.”
“Yes, yes, and you are quite thorough. But how do you feel King Itreimedes views the war in Ailendamus?”
“Negatively. Avel did declare war as I successfully convinced him after the battle—”
“No, no, philosophically. He has his views on the strength of the coastline. Did, mm, Pheislant’s involvement seem to adjust his temperament or was it more of seeing…?”
Seraphel had introduced none of her siblings to Rabbiteater and her newfound friends, but she might introduce Ellet to them if she had the chance. Certainly not Lothen. Knowing him, he might try just because it would behoove him to meet Ser Solstice. Maybe he’d even make the mistake of asking for a duel, in which case Rabbiteater might oblige.
