Well, Ser Solstice was in the crown and public’s favor, and those two did not always align. Since he had both, he was a fine guest of the Eternal Throne, milling about as Thronebearers personally served food off platters.
It was all a life-changing moment, a memorable occasion to dine and speak in the Eternal Throne. Unless you’d done it before. Seraphel noted some of the noble guests were slightly immune to the grandeur. At least, the [Earl] who peered at a simple caprese salad offered to him as a refreshment.
“And is this going to give me another date with the privy?”
The Thronebearer, a woman half Altestiel’s age, gave him a perfect bow. They were graceful and adept at their jobs, the Thronebearers. Just not so good on the battlefield. This Thronebearer, despite being new to her class, was every match for Altestiel’s grace. She offered him an apologetic and reassuring smile.
“The food and drink have all been personally vetted and sampled today, Earl Altestiel. The unfortunate incident of last night will not happen again, I assure you.”
The Earl helped himself to a small bowl and nodded as Seraphel walked over.
“And has anyone found the missing items the [Thieves] took?”
“I am afraid I cannot speak of matters of state, Earl Altestiel.”
The reply was very smooth, and the Earl grunted.
“Naturally. I suppose I should ask—ah, Princess Seraphel. Your Highness.”
He gave her a bow, and Seraphel eyed the salad. She took a bowl as the Thronebearer bowed deeply.
“Earl Altestiel. I am glad you attended today’s gathering.”
“I wouldn’t have missed it, to see Ser Solstice awarded the Dawnguard medal. I imagine one only sees a sight like that once in his lifetime. And the Eternal Throne is, in and of itself, a wonder, as always.”
The [Earl]’s eyes twinkled as he took a huge bite of his salad. Seraphel kept her face polite, but she felt interested as she took a bite of some tomato and mozzarella. Not too spiced or fancy; sometimes you could just enjoy a fresh bite of food.
Why would Ser Solstice be interesting? The Earl had been to Calanfer enough that it might not be as appealing. But that moment of mischief…he was a good statesman, but a bit obvious. A quirk of the lips, a subtle shift in his aura, like a spring shower overhead as you were walking—
Then again, Ser Solstice was interesting to Seraphel too. And she smiled, because Altestiel was a friend.
…Right? Seraphel’s warnings from her mother and all her history warred with the fact that Umbral Throne diplomacy was not something even Calanfer stooped to. In fact, Altestiel seemed to be thinking the same thing.
“I wondered, when I saw you, whether it was appropriate to approach, Your Highness.”
“I should be delighted, Altestiel!”
“Ah, myself included! But it is a funny thing to, ah, be—”
“Friends bound in strife?”
The [Earl] snorted.
“I would have said, ‘companions of porcelain’.”
Seraphel had to cover her mouth to hide a laugh. She looked around for Ser Solstice, but he was being mobbed—in a refined way—by Calanfer’s court. She sighed, and Altestiel followed her gaze.
“I imagine that we shall be getting down to proper talks today. Our last guests of Erribathe are set to arrive today. You wouldn’t…be kind enough as to hint what’s going on, would you?”
Ah, there it was. The favors. Seraphel’s elation ended—until she looked up at Altestiel’s smile. He was just teasing her. Or asking without expecting her to give away crown secrets. Right? She smiled cautiously.
“The Kingdom of Myth’s representatives are arriving today. That is all I know, Earl.”
“Ah, well. I shall amuse myself until then.”
He nodded lightly, and she was left wondering whether she was wrong for thinking he was probing. Or whether he was a better actor than she thought.
She hated that. And now, she wanted to find the helmeted man with the cloak. Ser Solstice was too genuine to distrust that way. Mostly because…
 
——
 
He was a Goblin. Earl Altestiel kept staring at him.
The [Earl of Rains] knew that Rabbiteater was a Goblin. He had already known. Even if he hadn’t visited the inn, the name ‘Rabbiteater’ would have tipped off anyone who knew Goblin culture. Which no one did.
But he had asked Rabbiteater outright, and the Goblin had pretended like he didn’t know what Altestiel was talking about. Which was fair—and Altestiel had gotten the feeling Rabbiteater was plotting to toss him off his balcony when he called The Wandering Inn.
Kiish had left some speaking stones, and even if it wasn’t the Titan’s ostentatious chessboard of himself, Altestiel had roused the inn at the late hour and gotten…Ishkr.
Which really hadn’t helped since he wanted Erin. But between Ishkr and a sleepy Selys vouching for him, Rabbiteater had declined to try and silence Altestiel. The [Earl] knew that Erin was on vacation, but he had thought she’d be back by now. Well, maybe something had happened. Even on vacation, you got bad weather. Hadn’t a river begun to flood or something around where she was staying?
At any rate—the Hobgoblin was wary, but Altestiel assured him he was an ally. And frankly—if he trusted the Order of Seasons, he could add an earl to the list.
He was currently the center of attention. Even Princess Seraphel seemed to like him, and Altestiel understood why.
If you knew he was a Goblin, it all made sense. You see—Calanfer’s people, from nobles to the crown, were quite good at social environments.
There were expert grifters and [Diplomats] who could pretend to friendship or any range of emotions and personalities. There were crazy, genuine people from Taimaguros and Hundredlord Cortese of Kaaz. But they still fit a range of options.
No one had ever met a Goblin. Only a Goblin would begin chatting in the middle of a bathroom dilemma. Even if you had met people like him—his reactions were genuine and different enough that he was like a speckled, colorful stone in a riverbed full of grey rocks.
And that was why he was a target of interest. But the Goblin clearly wasn’t happy with a lot of the nobility. He was looking around, that helmeted head craning because he, like Seraphel, craved a certain type of person.
He’d found them. At least, four of them. They were bound by blood and toilet paper and other stuff. Whether by chance or luck or design—Rabbiteater’s new acquaintances were interesting people too.
 
——
 
Princess Seraphel had found Lady Menrise of Tourvecall but had hesitated over approaching her. Altestiel was one thing, but would the lady of the reclusive, masked and helmeted Kingdom of Incantations really want to associate with Seraphel afterwards?
She was the Cursed Princess, after all. And Tourvecall was a hard nation even for Calanfer to get a read on. The helmets really didn’t help.
For instance, a [Lady] who was speaking to Menrise had a fishbowl on her head. No, that wasn’t a joke. The inside was closed off, but there was a glass exterior section where several fish were swimming about. This was the largest helmet of Tourvecall’s folk to contain the entire aquarium, and by that metric, Rabbiteater assumed she was in charge. The [Lady] even fed the fish with little sprinkles of food now and then via a hatch on the top of the tank.
The [Lady] was also lecturing Menrise, who was looking at the shimmering dais below her, gloved hands held in front of her. Seraphel winced as she heard the conversation.
“—the most shameful display, Menrise. Jumping off the Skybridge? Nevermind your acquaintanceship—the decorum of Tourvecall rests on us.”
“I’m sorry.”
Seraphel wanted to interject, to protest, but she knew it might make things worse. The [Lady] continued haughtily.
“Much less talking about any—issues—in the bathrooms—it is not to be brought up. Calanfer is already embarrassed; do not compound the issue, is that clear?”
“Yes, Mother. I understand, Mother.”
The fishbowl [Lady] paused, and Seraphel looked at Menrise. She had seen—for a second—the woman’s face after they’d emerged from their brown caves.
A pale face, so translucent you could see her veins in detail. If she had been a [Princess] of Calanfer, Ielane would have made her wear illusion spells. Eyes a bit too wide to be natural. A crooked tooth in a smile. But her eyes flashed with magic that moved even when her pupils did not, like a nimbus of green sparks.
Another prisoner of a cage, only hers was actual enchanted metal. For all that—she had jumped off the Skybridge after Rabbiteater and Altestiel! She had something Seraphel wanted.
Something Rabbiteater had told her—then her great ancestor, Marquin.
Do something. Anything.
But had she actually seen the ghosts? Standing in the Eternal Throne was a wonder, but not of the same kind as a thousand [Kings] of Terandria taking the field. Even now, Seraphel wondered…and she had been there. It was the folly of Humans to doubt their own sanity. Or maybe that protected them from the things creeping up in their head.
That day had changed everything. Khelt had declared a war to end things. And yet…here she was, back home, waiting for her next marriage.
Seraphel supposed she had hoped, privately, that the Eternal Throne had exploded or something would have changed it all for her. Because belief was harder without constant proof and vindication.
As for Menrise—the older [Lady] went on after a moment.
“I expect you to at least mingle with your newfound acquaintances.”
She hadn’t spotted Seraphel, and the [Princess] was happy to bail Menrise out. The [Spellbound Lady] bowed lower, and a few servants, Thronebearers, and even other nobility were watching out of the corners of their eyes.
“I’ll do that, Mother. I promise.”
The second time, the [Lady] paused—and then she leaned forwards and hissed. The fish swam about, agitated, as the water in her fishbowl head turned ochre-red.
“Would you stop calling me ‘mother’? People are getting the entirely wrong impression, Menrise!”
“Sorry, Mom.”
Menrise’s helmeted head rose, and Seraphel’s jaw dropped. The [Lady] turned and—impishly—walked over to the man with the completely circular head. He was talking with a Noelictus nobleman, and Menrise touched his arm.
“Father, do excuse me. I would like to circulate among the guests, if I may?”
The man stared at her with—Seraphel realized—not outrage, but a kind of confused dismay. As for the nobleman, he blinked, then bowed.
“Ah, your daughter is Lady Menrise, Lord Ostevar?”
“She is not my—that is to say—”
Menrise strolled away as the first [Lady] tried to pursue her. She was lying! Blatantly, too! Seraphel saw Menrise appear next to a group of Kaazian nobility, which included Lord Cortese.
“Ah, Lady Menrise. This is the Tourvecall [Lady] I mentioned.”
Their cats were freaking out in the Eternal Throne, but Menrise happily took Cortese’s hand as he bowed. Even Kaaz’s nobility were clearly fascinated by Tourvecall, and they introduced themselves, eyes on Menrise’s helmet.
“You, ah, must forgive our interest, Lady Menrise. We seldom see your queer visages abroad.”
That was a Kaazian [Lady] for you. A direct insult that she clearly hoped might result in a challenge. But Menrise just chuckled behind her helmet.
“I’m quite familiar with the stares, thank you, Lady Ruusa. You are delightfully strange yourself. I have the honor of visiting Calanfer for this grand occasion—you see my mother, the Lady Ficombe, and Lord Ostevar? My father.”
“My. How interesting.”
Lady Ruusa lied, politely nodding their way. Menrise nodded happily.
“I am so glad to be here. You see—I haven’t seen my mother, Ruusa, ever since she bore me out of wedlock. It has been thirty-one years, and Lord Ostevar has finally returned to court.”
Every head swung back to Menrise. The Kaazian nobility stirred, and Seraphel choked on a lettuce piece.
“…Could you say that again, Lady Menrise?”
The [Lady] flapped a hand as the two nobles turned to stare at her. They couldn’t have heard, but she spoke quickly and airily.
“It is one of those classic Tourvecall stories. A tumble in a pigsty in a barn—disgrace, no marriage—they look lovely for sixty years of age, don’t they? Lots of preservative charms. But Lord Cortese, there’s Seraphel! Would you mind if I stole you…?”
And she was off. Leaving behind the frantic two nobles from her kingdom, who—if Seraphel’s perfect memory didn’t fail her—were almost exactly Menrise’s age.
Cortese seemed to understand Menrise was playing some kind of prank, although even he wasn’t sure how much of what she was saying was true. The [Lady] and he bowed quite gracefully before Seraphel, and the [Princess] was lost for words.
“Lady Menrise—I am sure Tourvecall is quite playful, but are you certain you don’t go a bit far?”
That was all she managed. If she had done that to Ielane…! But Menrise just giggled like a girl behind her helmet.
“They’ll live. And I am far too old to be lectured, Your Highness. Nor do I regret any part of yesterday. Which reminds me—who are all these interesting visitors, Lord Cortese, Princess Seraphel?”
She pointed discreetly, and Seraphel glanced to one side distractedly. The Eternal Throne had everyone from [Mercenary] company representatives from Baleros to dignitaries from the Five Families. And further envoys still.
“Oh, the usual run of diplomats.”
“You must have over a thousand!”
Cortese was astonished, and Seraphel recalled that most nations were not nearly as worldly as Calanfer. Kaaz was land-locked, further north, and while they got adventurers, they seldom offered much.
By contrast, Calanfer meddled, so Seraphel found herself pointing out people, not by face, but by clues like their dress or species.
“Ah—then you don’t have a diplomat from the Blighted Kingdom?”
“Never. How can you tell?”
Menrise peered at a serious nobleman, and Cortese checked his sword, but Seraphel nodded to the two serious, plain-looking [Bodyguards]. Unarmed, but highly competent.
“The Blighted Kingdom never goes without guards, even in the Eternal Throne. You can also see the Blighted Kingdom’s crest on a pin on his lapel, there. See? An iconic shape.”
Cortese squinted, but even the faint outline of the Blighted Kingdom—a bastion wall, like the rook chess piece—was a familiar symbol. Menrise nodded.
“And there?”
“A diplomat of…Manus. They don’t tend to fare well, especially in the current climate, but you can find a few Drakes.”
The sullen-looking Drake was scowling as someone upbraided him, possibly about the Meeting of Tribes. Fissival hadn’t even dared send a representative.
From Nerrhavia’s Fallen, when they deigned to show up, to the Great Companies of Baleros. A Centaur trotted over to shake the hand of…Seraphel frowned.
