Here was all you needed to know about Lothen. As part of his class, he had gained—after his marriage to Avel’s [Countess]—the Skill called [Hints of Affection]. Which was probably the only reason why his marriage was still in good order. He could play his part well so long as someone held up cue cards.
Anyways. Seraphel saw Rabbiteater getting up and stretching, and she began to eat faster. Ielane stared at her, then Ser Solstice, and spoke.
“The emissary of Erribathe is arriving, Seraphel. We shall see you at the reception.”
There was no need to say ‘or else’ in front of Ellet. Seraphel patted her lips with a napkin and smiled. Politely. So long as Rabbiteater and the Order of Seasons were here and the banquet continued, she could have actual fun.
And when they left? What then? Marriage or being sent on tour? Perhaps Cara would come and sing her away. Or perhaps she should do something rather than wait. But that was the thing.
Lyonette had run away successfully because her servants had disliked her so much they’d covered her escape. She had also, frankly, done a great job at hiding her plans and organizing her exit.
Seraphel? She turned her head and saw Dame Vensha stepping out of the line of Thronebearers. Aielef looked at Seraphel as a red-haired ‘[Princess]’ looked up.
“Farewell, Seraphel. I trust you’ll have a fine day with Ser Solstice!”
Lyonette’s body-double smiled demurely as Seraphel rolled her eyes. But she looked back and saw Reclis and Ielane glancing her way.
No, the 4th Princess of Calanfer could not run so easily. They would bring her back if she tried. So how else? Seraphel walked, head turning as if trying to escape a cage. But this was Calanfer.
The very walls were made of ancient stone and magic. Unbreakable.
 
——
 
Rabbiteater was of a mind to have fun today. You had fun in the day, beat each other with sticks at night. If he must be stuck in Calanfer, he would rather see Seraphel laugh.
She was the gloomiest of the Shitty Five.
“Don’t call us that.”
Earl Altestiel looked askance at the name. Rabbiteater tried again as they walked out of the palace into the city.
“How about—the Crappy Five?”
“Do we need a name that refers to that incident, Ser Solstice?”
Cortese muttered. Rabbiteater just thought it sounded good. He had a…nostalgia for the number five. But it was also true that Seraphel was the gloomy one.
“Gloomy? I fair think the [Princess] is far more outgoing than Kaaz’s own royal family.”
Cortese was blind. He was the dupe, the innocent one. When Rabbiteater told him that, the Hundredlord reached for his longsword in outrage. But Lady Menrise stopped him.
“You’re the direct fellow, Cortese. I get that. Who am I in your list, Ser Rabbit?”
She teased him, and Rabbiteater grinned.
“You’re the funny one.”
“Aha! Well and truly spoken! So Seraphel is Miss Gloom, or at least, the one who needs most cheering. And you would be…?”
“The mysterious one.”
“Fair enough.”
Altestiel grunted. He waited, smiling expectantly.
“Which would leave me as the handsome heartbreaker? The experienced leader? The romantic strategist?”
Rabbiteater snorted.
“No. You’re the emotional one. I heard you cried when Erin rejected you.”
The Earl of Rains froze up—then his face turned into a thunderhead. Rabbiteater and Menrise high-fived and skipped ahead as Cortese laughed. Then Seraphel hurried over.
“What have I missed?”
“Altestiel crying.”
She gave him an astonished look, and the [Earl] was protesting the entire walk out of the palace. Of course, there was Ser Markus and Meisa, Talia and Greysten, and the others they knew, but the Ivory Five made it a point to meet up.
Mind you, it wasn’t five. That was just how it felt. There were people on the street bowing to Seraphel and asking for autographs—and probably no less than two dozen Thronebearers and servants, including Beacle, but Cortese and Seraphel barely noticed them.
Even Altestiel and Menrise were at home, as all of them were used to having staff around them, but it weirded Rabbiteater out. And he was a Goblin growing up in a tribe! He supposed that the difference was that he was used to being surrounded—but the Goblins had opinions and wants.
Seraphel and the other four Humans sometimes seemed to forget the security and other people existed. They only had eyes and laughter for their friends, and it was a fair obsession that drew them together.
Because—probably—they wouldn’t have this moment again, and it seemed all of them knew it.
“What is the most interesting thing in Calanfer at this moment, Your Highness? Something even the Earl would call new. I don’t often visit the ports, so I am well entertained, but Tourvecall does keep up with the curios, and Ser Solstice is widely-travelled.”
Cortese challenged Seraphel, and the [Princess] pursed her lips.
“What am I, a [Bard] tour guide, Hundredlord?”
He hesitated, and Rabbiteater nudged Menrise.
“See? She’s also the sassy one.”
Instantly, Seraphel poked him, and he jumped a good foot in the air, much to Altestiel’s delight. She was the only one who could do that and so countered his flippancy. He grumbled, wishing he were inured to poking. Goblins did it all the time, but wearing armor had made him soft. However, Seraphel did have an answer.
“There are those plays from Izril, but we have no Players of Celum—just every [Bard] and [Troubadour] in the world. Fanciful, but we could simply watch those recordings if we had a mind to it.”
She wounded the local performers airily, but Rabbiteater nodded.
“Yeah. You see the Players of Celum once and the other ones are bad.”
Altestiel didn’t look surprised, but the other three gave Rabbiteater an astonished look. He sighed. Everyone was always astonished that he’d ‘seen the Players of Celum at the start’. He wished that he’d seen them later. The start hadn’t been that great!
“Then—what about in lieu of our training, we visit an Adventure Room™?”
Seraphel pronounced the word in such a way that instantly, everyone was curious. She pointed to a rather flashy building, even by Calanfer’s standards. It had…what looked like a mural of a furious monster? Some kind of thing with lots of heads and eyeballs fighting a generic-looking warrior, impractically bare-chested, holding a greatsword while a [Mage] that looked suspiciously like Telim cast a fireball behind him. Rabbiteater stared blankly at it—then when he heard what it was about, he practically dragged everyone there.
 
——
 
The Adventure Room was a giant warehouse converted into, well, a magical reality zone. Like virtual reality, but you didn’t wear a headset, and it was illusion magic, not technological achievement that provided the dungeon you would enter and monsters you would vanquish.
Mind you, there was a lot of technology in it. This was a new trial, but Calanfer was one of the places Wistram thought they’d find a lot of varied clients, and they were right. There was a huge queue, and Seraphel skipped it for the five.
Rabbiteater was excited to see the Adventure Room—right up until he realized he couldn’t use his axe. He instead was given an enchanted, blunt sword, which was way too light, and an enthusiastic [Mage] told him he had 70 HP. And 50 SP for special attacks since he’d chosen a [Berserker] build.
“We could give Her Highness an unlimited class-set…”
One of the supervisors offered, but Seraphel decided to be a [Knight]. Altestiel got a bow, but no arrows—the [Mage] showed him how to fire it.
“You’ll just loose arrows by pulling the string back and releasing, Earl. This is all—illusory, so please, don’t damage the walls.”
“Fake monsters? Fake weapons? I hardly know if I shall enjoy this.”
Cortese looked offended. Menrise? She was delightedly raising a staff. She got to play as a [Mage], complete with a list of spells you could read off a scroll. Rabbiteater was about to agree with Cortese, but the five lined up.
“You are entering the Dungeon of Thorut-Vergash. The great tomb of the Horrific Thorut himself. His minions will assail you, and his traps guard bounties of treasure. Each time you descend, you will level up and gain more abilities. If you are cunning, you will find Relic-class weapons to defeat Thorut. Beware though—few have ever made it to him and triumphed. Current conquerors of Thorut: 15.”
A [Mage] was reading from a notecard, making his voice sound spooky and echoey. Then they motioned the group into the warehouse proper, and the door closed behind them. Rabbiteater sighed.
“This is stupid.”
“I daresay you’re right, Ser Solstice. They gave me less HP than Princess Seraphel!”
“You’re a [Fencer], Cortese.”
“And am I a pushover? No! How entertaining is it to swing this badly-balanced weapon around?”
He meant the actual balance of his fake, silver-painted rapier. Cortese sneered around at the blank stone walls that had appeared around him. They looked mossy, run-down, with water leaking from the ceiling—the most dungeon-like dungeon ever. It even smelled vaguely cave-like. Although, as an expert, Rabbiteater had to point out that the smells were mostly sanitized to give people the impression of a cave.
Anyways, Rabbiteater didn’t have high hopes for this whatever-it-was—until the first ‘Mothbear’ appeared in front of him.
….It looked exactly like a Mothbear. A huge, roaring monstrosity appeared, and Rabbiteater shouted in horror.
“Bear! Kill it! Kill—”
He launched into a flying kick and bounced off the illusion. Instantly, he felt a tingling ‘pain’ as the bear swiped at him, and something flashed up. It looked like a red bar that he saw at the top of his vision if he looked up.
It had just gone down by a bit. Rabbiteater tried punching the bear, and his fist bounced off something hard. He drew back his fist, and Menrise shouted.
“Ser Solstice, your weapon! Your weapon!”
She threw a ball of fire, and Rabbiteater rolled away. He lifted his ‘axe’—and saw to his astonishment it was a huge, double-handed greataxe! As light as a feather and with all kinds of ornate designs that would suck if you had to wipe blood off it all the time.
Indeed, he looked back, and Princess Seraphel, wearing a full knight’s plate armor that looked more impressive than his, charged forwards, swinging her sword wildly. The bear howled as her sword cut into its body. Rabbiteater began to grin. Hey. Maybe this would be fun after all.
 
——
 
Twenty minutes later, Rabbiteater kicked his way out of the Adventure Rooms, fuming mad. Seraphel, Menrise, and even Altestiel were chuckling and waving at the [Mages]. Cortese and Rabbiteater had huge scowls on their faces.
There wasn’t much pain in the simulations. Just the simulation of it. You got to feel like you were actually fighting monsters, if you didn’t account for the feedback of hitting the illusions or the weight of your weapons.
Unfortunately for Cortese and Rabbiteater—they were slow learners to the fact that this was a game, not reality. Altestiel was good enough to fight with his ‘Skills’, but Rabbiteater kept punching monsters, and forgetting to use his axe.
He also kept forgetting that his character had HP and his armor wasn’t armor. So when he thought a Goblin was sneaking up on him with a knife and tried to yank it out of the Goblin’s hand, he lost 20 HP from being repeatedly stabbed in his shins. Which had armor on them!
Only, his character did not. And even when Rabbiteater learned the rules and tried to play—he died.
When you died, you became a ghost who had to wait for the others to find a way to bring back the body. You got to do bits of damage and scout ahead…and Rabbiteater had died 5 times. In twenty minutes.
Cortese had died 3 times. Their reflexes, battle-honed senses, and own ability in combat had not availed them. Whereas Seraphel, because she could remember to shout ‘Impenetrable Guard’, got to activate what was probably a Level 50 Skill, and Menrise got to shoot chain lightning every ten seconds.
“It’s not even realistic.”
“No indeed. No balance for the proper levels one would have. Would this team of ‘Gold-rank adventurers’ really be fighting eight Trolls in twenty minutes? No!”
Cortese and Rabbiteater were complaining loudly, which proved they really weren’t the target audience. The [Lord] who had gone on actual adventures in a dungeon and Rabbiteater, the Goblin, were mad as hell.
By contrast, Altestiel was urbanely amused—mostly by their fury—and Seraphel and Menrise were delighted.
“I think it’s very entertaining, Ser Solstice. Come now. I thought you were the mysterious loner, not the emotional one.”
Menrise teased him. Rabbiteater tried to throw her off the Skybridge. They were headed back to the inner city, and the [Lady] skipped ahead, laughing as he chased after her. Seraphel was about to suggest they now visit a shop selling the Singer of Terandria’s songs when she heard it.
Her head turned as a great cheer came from the gates. It was still a festival in the capital, but Seraphel and her friends had not seen the crowds at the gates and had avoided the plazas. Yet she felt a stir in the air, and in an instant—knew what was happening. The Hundredlord Cortese himself raised his head.
“I knew Erribathe was sending someone. But him?”
Rabbiteater felt the air change. The very air changed, but not in the way of hostility or bloodlust in the air. It was an actual shift in nature. All five turned, but only his reaction was different. Then he saw it, heard it.
The Kingdom of Myth, Erribathe, had finally arrived. It began as a dignified blowing of trumpets, heralding some great visitor at the gates. Applause, cheers, manufactured by the impressive Thronebearers and [Bards] riling up the crowds.
Then—something peculiar happened. Rabbiteater could not see, from the Skybridge, who or what was coming. But he did see and hear—the silence fall at the gates.
Silence. For a good two minutes, the horns stopped and the cheers ended. He thought, possibly, someone had tripped or a horse had thrown a rider or something silly. Then there was a roar, and wild, spontaneous cheering rose from the gates once more.
Rabbiteater jumped. What was that? He looked at Cortese, and the Hundredlord was craning for a view.
“Who is Erribathe? I mean—what kingdom are they?”
“Golaen’s neighbor. Third of the Restful Three.”
Seraphel supplied, and Cortese nodded distractedly.
“That is what you southlanders call us. As if any of our kingdoms are alike! Age, perhaps. All three nations hail back to the founding of Terandria’s Kingdoms. Our Thousand Lances are an ancient tradition, and Golaen’s city was built by Giants. As for Erribathe, they are an original founding. Somewhat—unique.”
