Silence. Then, someone began laughing. Ser Markus laughed as the Drake stood back. Everyone’s head turned his way, and then a chuckle rose uncertainly. But the Drake just sighed. Ser Gorethem stared at him.
“That was surely not your blow, stranger.”
The Drake raised a brow. He looked at Markus pointedly, and the man fell silent. The Drake snapped his claws.
“Of course not. [Body of Diamond]. That was for you.”
“For…?”
The Drake drew back a claw and made a fist. Rabbiteater saw the windup, lazy, like the swing, but it came faster and faster, and when it hit—
He didn’t think it was the Drake who hit Ser Gorethem. There was the briefest of moments between the impact and the fist appearing to strike the chest. Almost like that was an illusion.
But Rabbiteater really didn’t think on that for a while. Because he was trying to find Ser Gorethem. He tottered forwards on unsteady legs, his ears ringing. The rest of the banquet hall was silent or picking themselves up. But Rabbiteater?
He walked out of the corridor, following the hole in the banquet doors that had swung shut behind the Drake. The enchanted wood was smashed inwards, and one hung ajar. Rabbiteater saw the unconscious servants and [Knights], neatly piled up away from the trail of—
Destruction. Smashed stone. And still—the Goblin started running—
He didn’t see a sign of…
Rabbiteater came to an open window. Well, an open section of the corridor. Bits of stone were falling out the hole in the walls. He stared out the window.
There was an almost perfect shot to the Skybridge, he realized. And down the main street of Calanfer’s city. If you went through this wall. And that building. And that ground floor.
Amazingly, all of them had been evacuated. Almost like someone had calculated the exact path a bouncing body would go flying. Rabbiteater stared across Calanfer.
The street was torn up, shredded in a line, even the magical tiles scattered against the neat [Walls of Stone] that had been placed like an exit ramp on either side to stop the debris from shredding houses or hitting pedestrians. Rabbiteater ran down the street. Halfway to the gates of the city, he found a [Knight].
Well…his armor was ruined. It looked like someone had ground the entire set of Ser Gorethem’s armor against a whetstone for hours. There was a huge dent in his chest, but the man was breathing.
Rabbiteater made sure of that. The Thousand Lances’ [Knight] stared at the sky and made not a sound even when Rabbiteater waved in his face and snapped his fingers in front of Gorethem’s helmet a few times.
He left the man there, surrounded by speechless citizens. They stared back the way Rabbiteater ran towards the Eternal Throne and the trail of destruction left in Gorethem’s wake.
When he got back to the banquet hall, the fires were relit. Thronebearers, servants, and soldiers stared through the broken doors, and a single figure stood in the room as the grand fireplace relit itself.
Perhaps no one had spoken in the entire time Rabbiteater was gone. The Restful Three—the kingdoms of Terandria—were they truly taken hostage by a single stranger? If so, they did not care for this part of the story.
Ellet was hiding behind Seraphel and Aielef. Reclis and Ielane had not moved. They were watching the Drake, assessing. But the stranger saw.
He saw it all. For all hundreds of eyes fell upon him, he gazed upon the rest and saw something else.
Fear and anger were a close-run thing in the strained voice of Prince Iradoren. A flame slowly grew brighter, eating at the logs in the fireplace against the far wall. Little light came through the shuttered curtains on the balcony.
“Stranger. You invoke stories, and you are mighty indeed. Might alone will not bend any knee here. If you come to threaten and intimidate, you will find no victims. If you have come for blood, name the power you invoke. For the Hundred Families of Terandria will answer any insult.”
A cracking sound made the last words fall silent from Iradoren’s lips. But the Drake was not making any hostile gesture. A pair of wings slowly unfurled.
Wings? Rabbiteater hadn’t seen wings on his armor. But they opened, a thin membrane flexing. And the light that had gone from this room was growing brighter. As was the voice.
“I have not come to wet this soil with more blood. Nor have I come in wrath. Insult? Do not play games with me, Prince of Erribathe. Feuds and insults are a never-ending tale, a serpent that consumes itself and leaves only more grief to continue the wheel. Kaaz Dorem Laegriser should know that. I ask, and again you forget. Look at you. Do you fear me? Me?”
He stooped slightly and peered at the little [Princess] hiding behind Seraphel’s robes. Aielef and Seraphel both moved to shield her, but the Drake gave Ellet a toothy smile. She peeked at him, for his tone was not that harsh, and he chuckled.
“Do even Calanfer’s children not know how other species smile? Come now. Terandria, you continent of kingdoms. You Humans who claim to such tradition, as if the Hundred Heroes were the first who ever set foot here. Do you not remember anything? Guess. I have many names. I have many guises. Even if it were not me—think of my brothers and sisters. Who might be here?”
No one said a word, but now, Altestiel was shivering like he was a man drenched by a sudden downpour. He wasn’t willing to say it. Nor did many believe or even understand.
Teriarch knew that well. He walked forwards, and they drew back, a vast semicircle of faces as the firelight grew ever brighter. From one side of the room, the illumination rose, and then the Drake crossed a point across the banquet hall and something rose behind him.
Just a trick of the light. The Goblin saw it rise on the far wall. Everyone saw it, spreading out from the Drake’s shadow. Only…it was no Drake which rested there, nor did that great mouth move on a Drake’s body.
The firelight revealed the truth. As it so often did with forgetful creatures who cast [Invisibility] and the like.
The shadow of the Dragon smiled and laughed as every head rose, and tongues turned to lead in mouths open like clams upon a beach. He chuckled, and one magical eye winked at Ellet, the only child in the room, staring up.
“My. Have Humans such short memories you cannot think of one name for me?”
“You…”
Reclis du Marquin was choking on his words. Even he could not have expected this. Rabbiteater stared at the giant shadow. He slowly snuck over, tracing where it lay—and reached out. To what seemed like pure space behind the Drake.
A wing buffeted him in the face—gently, but with all the force of—
Rabbiteater fell on the ground and lay there for a while.
Now, Teriarch, the Lord of Flame, had their wonder as well as fear. Reclis du Marquin looked around. Then he bowed. Bowed, as few bows exist between [Kings]. But they had one for magical beings.
“Stranger. I have not yet welcomed you to the Eternal Throne. I am Reclis du Marquin, King of Calanfer. Do you come as herald of our righteous intent or this great hour in the world’s changing of eras?”
Even now, he tried to spin things. Not realizing that he stood upon a chunk of earth slowly rotating in space at a Dragon’s whim. Once again, Teriarch chuckled.
“Hail, King of Calanfer. Forgive my amusement. With our long histories, it always tickles my fancy that Humans come to my kind for reassurance their cause is just and correct. I did not come here to lend credence to any morality or justice of your deeds. Rather, I came to remind myself of this land I once called home. And see how it has changed and failed to change, even as the rulers have shifted.”
He looked again, and two emotions ran through the Humans. One was born of admiration and fear. A kind of wonder for a legend thought no longer to exist. The other was the knowledge buried in the roots of so many kingdoms.
Blood and fire. An old foe and ally stood here, and both were…impossible. But which? And why?
“If you are here, Drag—stranger. Then tell us. Is this due to the events of last month at Ailendamus’ gates and around the world? Come, lend some understanding to all present.”
Earl Altestiel called out urgently. He had the craziest urge to challenge the Dragon to a game of chess. And imagine being able to tell the others that! For a reply, Teriarch fixed the [Earl] with such a stare that Altestiel gulped.
“What you saw. What you heard on that day was real. Can I say anything more than the ghosts that came before you, your ancestors of old? Of course. Yet if you will not listen to them, my words shall surely fall upon deaf ears. I say again: I did not come here to endorse the Kingdoms of Terandria more than any other species. I have long been both friend and sworn enemy of your peoples, and many remember that.”
He nodded again at Prince Iradoren, who much looked like he regretted that fact. Yet his consort now raised her head, throwing back her hood and speaking.
“If not those days behind us, then surely the days to come. It must be Izril’s new lands, then, and this pact. You have watched us, great stranger. Are you one of the Forestheralds, an old friend whose name still remains in our tomes and books? Tell us, please, that we might honor you.”
Her voice was inviting, even friendly. The shadow of Teriarch snorted gently, and a gust ran through the room, hot air tinged with a laugh.
“Oh, that you might mark my exact name and nature and how to best use me in your interminable squabbles? I think not, little Rootfriend. I am here to challenge and upset, not give you any gifts. After all, I am not your friend. Or surely I would be one of your Thousand Lances, honored with such titles like the Dragonknights of old. Here is your hint: I have never sworn service as a knight to any crown.”
Another susurration. The half-Elf lowered herself back into her seat, but Ser Greysten approached next. Boldly, he planted his feet.
“Then, Ser Stranger. Make your claim. Challenge, but not threaten. Reassure us what we saw was real, but not explain. I am a simple [Knight] of the Summer. All this playing with shadows and words is slightly too much for my mind. Please tell us openly what you wish.”
He was right, of course. Teriarch was dragging it out, and the Dragon had to admit, he was enjoying it. He felt alive. Alive and sad and oh—the nightmares.
The Kingdoms of Terandria. He knew many forms they could take and many ways any nation could change. But to rise to the occasion he knew they must?
There was a horror in his chest. And it was the twin of glory and, yes, memory. 
He hesitated just once. It was so easy to play the mysterious wizard, the stranger who left clues and hoped that someone found the true path. Because the mysterious wizard was somewhat of a jerk. It was far harder to trust, to follow and let someone else lead.
So—the shadow on the wall paused, and then it vanished. The Summer’s Champion recoiled slightly, and the Drake who stood there looked at Ser Greysten.
Then he flickered out of existence.
“Summer’s Champion, you prat. You chased him off—”
Hundredlord Cortese burst out. Then he suddenly felt a breath on his back. He turned, and a Dragon stood behind him.
But not Teriarch. Not quite. Oh, he had the form of a Dragon, but his scales were pale white. He was trimmer than he might actually be, and a single armguard was on a shoulder. Etched with the oldest symbol of Cenidau.
“Do you see me now, Summer’s Champion?”
The Dragon turned, and Hundredlord Cortese was in sudden need of the bathroom. The Wisdom, Hellei, and the Hearthlords rose as one. The Dragon looked down at them. Then a claw touched at his face. Two eyes like winter, one the frost that covered the land until all was death, the other like the buds of green through the snow, regarded them. He touched that face of a dead comrade and turned.
Turn—a vast Dragon with scales scarred a hundred thousand times lay restless against the balcony, blotting out the light. Her mane was like stone, calcified, but still flowing like the bedrock of the very firmament. The Dragon exhaled.
“Do you recognize Cenidau’s champion? The last Dragonlord of War? Which one I am does not truly matter, does it? What form should I take?”
Suddenly, a half-Elf was sitting at a table. His hair was white—and now—he looked all too familiar. His brows rose as suddenly—everyone recognized the face—
And a Gnoll with fur like molten bronze leaned against the fireplace. He looked older, tired. And he clung to the stone as if the entire Eternal Throne should support him.
“…yes. Names are such dangerous things. The consequences of revealing myself do not come to mind lightly. Forgive me, those gathered here. I am old, now. If I give you no names nor titles, it is because they have no point. I did not come to be lauded. Nor to rule or seek authority. I came simply to show you that this world has not yet worn the last of us from this earth.”
Greysten’s voice was shaking.
“I invite you to Pheislant, Ser. Rest your bones in the Order of Seasons’ keep or wherever you please. Even if you seek no leadership, your very words are wisdom enough.”
“Are they?”
Flicker. A third Dragon folded his wings, his scales not just dark but voids of light. Xarkouth, his image, looked down at those who had inherited his people’s Dragonthrone. Grand and small. He prowled left and right restlessly, a perfect copy of how the real Dragon had moved.
For one person remembered his names and deeds. Teriarch shook his head restlessly.
“I should hope you are all wise enough. But if you were, surely, you all know your…expedition to the new lands of Izril will end in bloodshed. Every nation upon this world grabs, even if they hold a fortune in their claws. Even now, as I roamed the Eternal Throne, I heard a hundred plots for Humans to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with naught but their own kind.”
The emissaries shifted. Ielane spoke, sounding pleading.
“We are a nation of Terandrians, Ser Dragon. Dwarves and half-Elves were not lost from our minds, I promise you that.”
“But did you intend to go to Izril with Drakes as your foes?”
The Dragon challenged her, and Ielane hesitated.
“No one owns the new lands of Izril. If we were attacked, we might defend ourselves. Is that not fair?”
Teriarch grinned like Xarkouth.
“Of course it is fair. By all means, defend yourselves. I expect nothing less of proud nations. Perhaps those armies that ‘defend’ will march against a Walled City. In the name of safety. Then, if we speak of old stories, you shall see one upon the battlefield, Queen of Calanfer.”
Ser Markus gulped loudly. Seraphel caught her breath. Did the Dragon just say what she thought he did…?
“Then are you warning us away from Izril, Ser?”
Greysten pursued the question, and Teriarch shook his head once more.
