Menrise exchanged a glance with Rabbiteater. If Cortese said unique, what did that mean? Altestiel was frowning into the distance.
“I have visited Erribathe. You might like it, Rabbiteater. It is the third-largest nation in Terandria after Taimaguros and Ailendamus, now. It used to be first. It is a wild land full of old magic and disparate groups. But their leader…that’s not an aura.”
A strange phenomenon was sweeping through the city. It began with the dignified cheers—which would go silent. Then, they would explode into wild shouting and cheers in the wake of…something. Someone, moving through the city.
They were coming this way. Of course they were; the Skybridge was on a direct route to the palace. So the five waited. And again, something was changing the air.
Rabbiteater felt a nervous feeling in his stomach. He didn’t know why. He looked right and left, and Altestiel was frowning slightly, but he didn’t look afraid. Seraphel, Menrise, Cortese? They seemed the opposite of nervous. Their heads craned. And then, coming down the main street, Rabbiteater saw the representative of Erribathe.
They had sent the heir of their nation. A [Prince], but an older one. A man in his mid-thirties. That was all Seraphel knew aside from his name.
Prince Iradoren, Heir Apparent to the throne. She had a list of the royal genealogy, cities in her mind developed for courtly greetings, but she had not met him. Nor did she recall in her lessons what made the Kingdom of Myth unique. Perhaps she had thought it wasn’t interesting.
Seeing it was enough.
Pale petals like snow were still falling from the rooftops. A fanciful image that fit the splendid streets covered with magical tiles from bygone ages. The wind stirred the ground, sending a gust into the air.
Like a storm of pale pink and green, a figure emerged into view. He was not Prince Iradoren. In fact, he was so strangely garbed that Seraphel started.
She had seen, plastered on the Adventure Rooms and superimposed on Rabbiteater’s armor, the look of a [Berserker], a wild savage class from the antiquity of Terandria. But that was the imagination of people who had little grounding in reality aside from stereotypes.
A true nomad of older times did not go bare-chested. Nor was he poor in cloth; if anything, his clothing would have made him a noble as House Veltras reckoned it. There was little metal on his person, but he wore a travelling cloak of hide and footwraps of cut leather. His armor spoke of some beast’s pelt, pale silver in fur. A wolf? Or something else.
He carried a staff in one hand, to walk with, and his hair was kept from his eyes with a band across his forehead. A strange man. If he were not here, perhaps some of Calanfer’s noble would have called him a [Savage] of untamed places.
He was one of perhaps a dozen who walked down the street. Next came a woman with blue paint drawn into a sign on one cheek. A kind of cross between tattoo and face-paint that made Rabbiteater start and his heart beat faster.
Shamanic magic. He had never seen a Human [Shaman] in all his travels. Yet here came a warrior armed with what was clearly that kind of magic. Women and men, wearing the attire of nature, akin to [Druids].
They were a sight to stun Calanfer’s folk and completely unlike any other visitors from the other nations. Even Cenidau’s Hearthlords had their frozen kingdom.
But this? This was…like a tribe of Gnolls, only Humans. And they were the first. For while Seraphel then expected more of their kind and the [Prince] to look the same, the next group caught her equally off-guard.
After came a clatter of hooves, and riding after the straight-backed wild folk were soldiers, bearing proud standards and garbed in armor.
Mithril armor. They looked like [Knights], so well-armed were the [Soldiers] that rode past with a captain with his sword sheathed. Fearsomely armed; they slowly followed the folk on foot in perfect formation, their armor gleaming, passed down from generation to generation.
Yet this group was together; the nomads and soldiers had a place, and though they were distinct, it was the same procession. When the third group appeared, Seraphel began to understand.
After the soldiers came robed [Mages]. Humans and half-Elves, striding along, carrying tomes and staves. They had enough magic that Menrise murmured in astonishment. And like the soldiers—they stood apart.
Representatives of a different group. Now, Seraphel saw the subtle insignias that varied on the [Soldiers]’ armor and the [Mages]’ robes. She could not pick them out, nor did she have time to.
Another faction had emerged, unlike the other three. Here came Briganda’s folk, if Rabbiteater had known the [Shieldmaiden] and from where her class emerged. He saw helms and armor akin to Cenidau’s garb and shielded warriors on foot, carrying long axes. They were followed by giant dogs, not as large as Carn Wolves, but armored and padding along, sniffing the air.
Dogs, not wolves. Then Rabbiteater saw the heart of the procession arriving, and his heart skipped a beat. For, flanking the Humans who walked bare-headed, carrying long spears and tower shields despite the weight, were light-footed folk with pointed ears.
Half-Elves. Like the nation of Gaiil-Drome. Then—Rabbiteater looked up and saw a figure riding under a bough of leaves, held aloft to protect him from the sun. Two figures.
The [Prince], Iradoren, his hair blowing in the wind. Light, auburn brown crossed with the red that Terandria called royal. His eyes were faintly golden, but what was really golden was his companion’s hair.
The Human man rode with his wife. A half-Elven woman, staring ahead, eyes finding Seraphel and the company on the bridge. They rode on a pair of white horses, stallion and mare.
Perhaps now you saw it. Certainly, you felt it. The company of different Humans was marching through the city, and the polite cheers spurred by Thronebearers fell silent as they passed. Men and women looked up as they lined the streets. Children gazed up, and babies fell silent.
Then they knelt.
Not all of them. Some held their ground, like Seraphel, Altestiel, Menrise, and Cortese. But the urge was there. Rabbiteater did not, but he had not the feeling the Humans did. Even Thronebearers knelt—and the gaze of the [Prince] swept over the crowd like crackling energy. Only after he passed did people get up and that cheer began again, spontaneous and wild.
That was how it felt. A surge in the bones. Inspiration in the mind. And that company was vast. No wonder the palace had to be emptied!
Here came a cluster of Dwarves, walking proudly behind masked strangers armed in cloth, garb smelling faintly of mist and strange, mountainous homes. Yet beneath those masks they were Human.
On the [Prince] rode, and now—now it was a realization pressing at Rabbiteater’s mind. He alone, out of his company, felt it.
Perhaps the Naga did—and the Gnolls and Drakes and other species in the city. Of a surety, the Dragon knew.
Whether you were half-Elf or Dwarf, you would know this [Prince] and his kingdom, the Kingdom of Myth, by his sheer presence. His class was as old as the founding of his kingdom. A promise that unified the different tribes and factions behind the royal line.
Tradition, which Terandria loved. Like the marriage between half-Elf and Human. That was so old that even when half-Elves had made their kingdoms of old, Erribathe had been spared their wrath. They were Dwarf friends, and while they married half-Elves—the royal line was still Human.
Practically unheard of anywhere in this world. But that was the nature of the class. Just like their rulers shared a bit of immortality with the half-Elves by that old pact—that was why the Goblin shuddered.
He felt no great gift of courage and hope. He felt no desire to kneel. He had only experienced this horror once, and that was feeling Elia Arcsinger’s presence from afar in Tyrion Veltras’ army.
For Iradoren’s class was the unifier of allies of Terandria. Anathema and enemy to all the species his nation had ever vanquished from Terandria’s shores.
Here came Iradoren, Heir Apparent of Erribathe, leader of the unified lands which had first formed a place for Humans when the Hundred Heroes had emerged and taken Terandria piece by piece. Here was the bloodline that had spoken to and slain Dragons. Even now, he bore that class:
[Prince of Men].
A class for Humans. That gaze passed over each person, and Iradoren nodded to Princess Seraphel as she gave him the reply of state, knees trembling. Even she felt the urge, though she was the master of it. Those eyes stopped on Rabbiteater, and Iradoren recognized him.
If not the species—he recognized that Rabbiteater was no Human. And the Goblin was doing everything in his power not to reach for his axe or flee. The Dragon exhaled.
“Now.”
Kaaz, Golaen, and Erribathe had come with many other nations to Calanfer. Now…if there were aught to happen, it should. He watched the [Prince] ride towards the capital, followed by the adoring crowds. He did not look twice. It was a familiar sight. He was sure that if he slept, for many nights thereafter, he would dream of Dragons dying.
 
——
 
Prince Iradoren had some notion of state. In that way, he was no [Titanguard] like Lord Etrogaer, nor the many nobles of Kaaz like touchy Hundredlord Cortese.
He carried himself with the same dignity that Reclis du Marquin met him with. And with his arrival, the summit truly began.
Yes, it was a banquet, a meeting, a social event on paper. But Iradoren had not come just for the sight of the Eternal Throne. As Rhisveri had predicted, the Restful Three wanted something.
“This war has taxed the southlands greatly, Your Majesty. Erribathe has grieved the loss of life and sent what small tokens it could to the Dawn Concordat. My father wished to express his relief that Calanfer’s Eternal Throne continues to shine. I shall assure him it was a sight to be cherished until my dying days.”
And my dying days will be hundreds of years, not a mere hundred unaided. King Reclis du Marquin smiled and inclined his head. Just so.
Of his opponents—Iradoren was one of the better ones. He had a presence and a carefulness with words that Reclis returned as they dined at a luncheon. Formal informality; Lord Etrogaer was on his best behavior, and Hundredlord Cortese was among those lightly speaking, but mostly listening.
Even if the giant Etrogaer did not want to admit it, Iradoren outranked everyone here in influence. Likely Reclis as well given the relative strengths of their kingdoms. But Reclis was equal to Iradoren.
He did not mention how sparse that aid from Erribathe had been. Nor that Erribathe was largely aloof at most times. Instead, Reclis honed in on Iradoren’s statement.
Reclis was the statesman, not Iradoren. The [Prince of Men] was someone who could lead armies and conduct affairs of state. Reclis was the [King of Intrigue]. Any opening Iradoren gave him might well have been a door.
“The war has disrupted much of Terandria’s south, not just the Dawn Concordat. I fear that is the nature of war, Your Highness. Even now, brave Wellfar sails with Pheislant and Calanfer’s own small navy.”
He nodded to the [Lady] of House Wellfar, who looked gratified at the acknowledgement. Iradoren smiled politely.
“Perhaps Ailendamus had not considered the effects it might have on us all. I note Taimaguros has held itself in check. Which is well; given the portents all saw at the final battle, escalation is undesirable.”
He turned, and a [Lady] of Taima hesitated before answering stiffly.
“By Taimaguros united, we have not been asked by the Kingdom of Glass and Glory either way, Your Excellencies. I note Ailendamus has battled many nations alone.”
“Yet your war interferes with us all. No less than twelve nations have declared hostility towards the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. If you think your entry will shift the odds, perhaps you should remind yourselves how our wars have always gone—”
Avel was, as always, hotheaded. Their [Emissary] fell silent. Reclis hid a smile, watching the myriad folks of Erribathe eating. Many picked at the various delicacies or were exploring the palace. They seldom left the Kingdom of Myth. Reclis chuckled as the Lady of Taima bristled and reached for a dagger.
“Ah, well, Ailendamus has always done as it pleased. As befits the largest nation of Terandria. King Itorin II may well consider that Ailendamus’ state of affairs are the affairs of Terandria, at least, the south. Taimaguros, with respect to Taima’s pride, is often likewise self-absorbed. As befits the second-largest nation.”
The [Lady] smiled in response to that and sat back, practically preening. The other emissaries scowled or held their tongues; the two powers were closely allied, and that alliance had, unfortunately, helped both remain on top.
But it was also a careful sniping shot, and it hit its mark. Prince Iradoren’s own complacent smile slipped slightly.
He did not like being reminded that his kingdom was third-largest. He had some pride. Which Reclis would happily use against him; pride was a wonderful thing and a huge weakness in a [King].
“Yes, Ailendamus is large. But the rules of war demand trade be held sacrosanct. Of all their actions, the blockade which stopped all ships at sea annoyed the [Titan King]. Golaen objects. Loudly.”
Lord Etrogaer broke in, and Reclis sighed. If Iradoren were not the best person that could have been sent, he was at least good. Etrogaer was not.
Interesting. Reclis held his face straight and rubbed a hand on the inside of the table against a ring. It buzzed—and Queen Ielane smiled as her ring gently vibrated as well.
“Lord Etrogaer, it is the crown’s intent that we should come to an amicable agreement here. We are all Terandrian. This war? Unfortunate, but yes, trade should flow despite strife. You find no argument here.”
The [Titanguard] nodded, looking smugly mollified. Ielane’s gaze never wavered, but Reclis was sure she’d look into it. She was probably sending an invisible [Memo] to their Thronebearers already.
He didn’t know why, but he had heard Kaaz was seeking out Pheislant and Nadel’s representatives. They were quiet, but Calanfer had ears everywhere, and Cortese was no great master of subterfuge. Desonis and the stormy Altestiel were far better at the game of games—mostly because the Sleeping Queen’s court was hard to infiltrate if she was always napping.
 
——
 
It would have been easy for most people to simply see this was Golaen wanting to import brie or something. However, if you knew what to look for—it was easier still.
Wellfar oversaw a lot of trade. And while they were not always friendly, at least here, the Izrilians banded together. So, a [Lady] excused herself from the table after helping herself to all the gelato she wanted.
