“Oh. Now, how interesting. That must be a rising star. Shardele would not be speaking to her otherwise. What kingdom is that?”
She eyed a woman who she took to be Human at first—until she spotted the telltale stitch-marks up one arm. Flaunted, not hidden. Seraphel crooked a finger, and the Thronebearer with the salads appeared.
“Your Highness?”
“For our guests—which nations does yonder emissary come from?”
The Thronebearer glanced over and replied instantly.
“The Empire of Sands, Your Highness. They control trade and most of Chandrar’s northwestern ports.”
“They do? When did that happen?”
“This year.”
Cortese tapped his lips, looking impressed.
“I barely knew. Not that we do much more than trade goods with Chandrar—but the King of Destruction is most of what I know from Chandrar. Him, and—have you seen that, ah, documentary about the Antinium?”
“Ksmvr of Chandrar?”
Both Seraphel and Menrise were eager to talk about that video series. And yet—Cortese used an interesting word, there.
“Did you say ‘documentary’, Lord Cortese? What might that be?”
Menrise tilted her head left and right. The Hundredlord hesitated, then smiled much the same way Altestiel had and looked about.
“Oh, just a term. But while we are here—why don’t I introduce you two to some fascinating guests? I think they’re…aha! [Swordservant].”
Like Seraphel, he raised his voice, and a scarred man appeared and bowed. He had a sword—or at least, a scabbard, since no blades were allowed in here.
“Hundredlord?”
“Bring forth our honored guests. Show the [Princess] and [Lady] Menrise their trinkets.”
The [Swordservant] hesitated.
“My orders are…”
Cortese’s eyes flashed, and his hand strayed towards his sword, again missing.
“It will hardly do to insult Calanfer’s hosts! Besides, look at Lord Etrogaer!”
He growled, and Seraphel looked left. The [Titanguard], eight feet tall, a giant among Humans, was laughing amidst his own hangers-on and company. And then Seraphel spotted what she had taken to be three servants.
Only—if they were Golaen’s servants, they were too short. Because they were ‘only’ around regular height and looked like actual children compared to Golaen’s stock. They were covered in the Kingdom of Giants’ livery.
It marked them as…what? Inducted nobility? Seraphel thought it was like fostering children, but Cortese saw something else. So the [Swordservant] bowed.
There was an interesting contrast to the six young men and women he brought back and Golaen’s group. The Kingdom of Giants’ three looked rather overwhelmed, hanging back and quiet unless Etrogaer turned to them and asked a question.
However, the six that bowed before Seraphel were a bit bolder. And the reason was clear when Cortese introduced them.
“I have the pleasure of introducing you to Silver-rank Adventurers, Cassy, Lan, and Bronze-rank Adventurers Fabrice, Hallbera…”
Seraphel saw the most interesting group of young men and women who looked to each be from a different country from skin tone alone!
Fabrice was closer to Cortese’s skin, but tall and lanky. Hallbera could have perhaps fit in with Cenidau’s Hearthlords, and Lan was Drathian.
And yet he was not Drathian, because his accent was all wrong. As for being adventurers, Cortese looked indulgently proud.
“Of the—group of them, these six are the only ones who have gone into the dungeon and slain a few monsters. Visiting the Eternal Throne was a reward.”
Indeed, the six children seemed as amazed as any guest, but what Seraphel found fascinating was that one of them was holding up a brick.
No, wait, it was thin. Some kind of artifact? It kept flashing, and Lan kept tugging down Cassy’s arm, but when she saw Menrise, the girl spoke.
“Oh my god. You’re so cool! Is that a helmet? I have to take a picture. With my—scrying device!”
Cortese looked indulgent, but the [Swordservant] looked so nervous that Seraphel and every Thronebearer in earshot instantly noticed. Menrise peered at the device.
“That’s not magical. Oh! It’s me!”
“A new artifact recovered from the Infinite Dungeon, Lady Menrise. Nevermind how it works—look! You can take a mage-picture in fine quality! Cassy—show them a picture of Kaaz’s nobility.”
Indeed, there were dozens, perhaps hundreds of mage-pictures on…Seraphel’s brows rose higher and higher.
Was this made by an [Archmage] of old? She glanced at the Thronebearer, whose blink told her this would be going to Ielane and Reclis immediately. But then she noticed the nobles of Kaaz posing.
“Oh, what’s this?”
“A peace sign. Just do this—”
And Lady Menrise was standing with her back to Calanfer’s Eternal Throne, both hands each holding two fingers up in a ‘v’. She waited, then clapped her hands in delight at how it looked.
She was so free, it disconcerted Seraphel. So much so that even in between trying to ask Cortese who these children were—she turned to Menrise.
“You don’t seem to be much shackled by your helmet, Menrise. I—I quite confess, I envy your freedom.”
The [Spellbound Lady] of Tourvecall looked at Seraphel in astonishment, then she touched the helmet on her head.
“Oh, this? It’s for safety so I don’t vent mana. It is hardly a helmet. Yes, it’s customary not to take it off, but I can if I wish. Only—I find people are more allured by wondering what lies beneath.”
Seraphel could have sworn the [Lady] winked at her beneath the helmet. Menrise touched it gently.
“It’s a choice. It’s stylish. But freedom? We are the scions of the Hundred Families. If we aren’t free, who in this world is?”
“Here’s to that!”
Hundredlord Cortese laughed, and Baeris, his lion, threw up over the edge of one of the daises and watched the vomit float away through space. Seraphel looked between the two and didn’t have the ability to join them, nor the heart to protest.
As for Altestiel—his gaze was sympathetic as he joined the company. And sharp as he glanced at the Earthers. Cortese never noticed; he was locking gazes with Lord Etrogaer.
So that was why they’d come to Calanfer. At least—part of the reason. Seraphel smiled politely in response to Menrise’s words.
Inside—she was screaming. But the person to whom she needed to truly speak to—
Well.
The words never quite came out.
 
——
 
Queen Ielane looked up, and Princess Seraphel froze. Her mother spoke briskly.
“Your father is waiting for you.”
“I know, but I was hoping I could—”
“Talk?”
The [Queen] was distracted. Outside of the Eternal Throneroom, after the guest reception, she had three veteran Thronebearers and several of Calanfer’s staff, including a [Bard], gathered around a plan of the palace. Ielane was patently impatient as she replied.
“Later, Seraphel. We must investigate this [Thief].”
“The one who stole Aielef’s tiara? You haven’t gotten them yet?”
Ielane sighed, and one of the Thronebearers bowed to the [Princess].
“Not just the tiara. Golaen and several others of the nobility were burgled in the same evening during the poisoning incident, Your Highness. Please keep this information to yourself.”
“Seraphel is an adult. Although the warning is not lost. You have some…capital, Seraphel, after your actions in the war, advisable or not. Your father will speak to you, but remember, you speak with Calanfer’s authority.”
“Y-yes, Mother. But how has a [Thief] escaped our Thronebearers?”
They might not be warriors, but against [Assassins] and [Thieves]? They were practically ten levels higher! For answer, one of the [Bards] spoke.
“We are dealing with a [Thief] on the level of one of the most famous in the continent. Perhaps it is one of them; we are investigating. For instance, the ‘poison’ that passed all detection came from stale confections Golaen stored improperly. But it was also coated in an alchemical aid.”
“Not a poison?”
A Thronebearer looked embarrassed and coughed into his hand.
“It has the same effects as one, Your Highness. It, ah, provokes—”
Ielane broke in without turning her head to Seraphel.
“We believe you should be going. As for the thief, they have some ability. Thank you for mentioning Kaaz’s strange guests, Seraphel. We had quite noticed, but it is good one of our daughters picked up on it. Shardele did not, nor did Aielef, though her distress is quite understandable. As for Vernoue…she overslept. Your father?”
Seraphel had to go. Her father was someone she could speak to, in theory—but Reclis du Marquin was also hard to approach.
For different reasons than Ielane. He sat in a personal study, and like the Queen of Calanfer, his public persona and private one were—
“Seraphel. Sit down. Ielane gave me some time. I wanted to speak to you—here, take a cup of this and drink. Tell me your thoughts, then speak to me about your thoughts on Tyrion Veltras and the Goblin Slayer. In order—we have to get to your newfound authority or your mother will be upset, but I am passionate about all the underlined subjects.”
Reclis du Marquin was often as short of time as Ielane, but he made up for his lack by a few things. Firstly—in private, he spoke quickly, without the regal pauses and intonation he worked hard on.
Secondly, he had a cup of some black liquid he proffered to Seraphel, and he was watching a scrying orb on low volume while she sat. His daughter saw Reclis glance up and saw a familiar Drake she liked on the orb.
“I would like to be free of my duties as a [Princess].”
…Was what Seraphel thought. What she said was—
“You watch Drassi and Wistram News Network, Father?”
“How could I not? Have you watched this latest development…? No? Ah, you were riding. Well, to summarize—Reporter Drassi has brought up an inequity in her pay compared to Ser Relz and Noass. Literally half their fee. A lot of the coverage is finding who dictated the terms. Whether it is Wistram or Pallass—Pallass being likely.”
“And you find it interesting because…?”
Seraphel was not fooled by her father’s attention as she sipped the drink. She made a face and pushed it back. Reclis glanced up.
“Not to your taste? ‘Coffee’. These events matter, Seraphel. Each one, from the drink to the discussions of pay between men and women—matter. They will ripple out from Izril to the world, and I would be a fool not to listen.”
“Of course. But—how exactly?”
Reclis du Marquin had on a pair of spectacles. He took them off and used vision spells when he was on the throne. When he spoke, it was absently.
“…Statistically, women do not serve in Drake hierarchies on the same ranking as most male Drakes. The same can be said of [Knights] at times, and a [Lady] can lead a battle, but rarely. In my reign, I have encouraged the Thronebearers of Calanfer to induct more female applicants. In preparation for a scandal and revolution. Perhaps it will come in my time. Perhaps not. The fact of the matter is that Calanfer should be poised to lead by example as well as words. If the upheaval is great enough. I take my clues from large reforms like [Peasant] rebellions and Golem uprisings as well as the landed revolt that formed the Five Families. If an entire gender is up in arms—Calanfer should come out the better.”
Did he think that was likely? Or was this just a low-chance idea? Either way, it dovetailed with Reclis’ belief, and it was his mission: let Calanfer endure.
Seraphel was used to these conversations, and her father was used to talking. He waved his spectacles as he polished them, again, looking at the scrying orb.
“Scrying orbs. They will have a profound impact on the world. We see it already, but I have devoted our [Bards] and [Mages] to perfecting what Wistram has begun.”
“Our own scrying network, Father? I hardly think that we can make one. It is beyond complex.”
Seraphel was amused, but Reclis shook his head.
“Not the system, Seraphel. How it is used. What people see—and how we present ourselves. Observe—Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Captured in an interview with Drassi, quite unfortunately. Observe—Jecaina of Jecrass. Transformed her nation from a casualty of the King of Destruction’s war into a political powerhouse via her poise. However, I take an even longer view. The crown—this crown must be simultaneously within this view of the public and yet carefully make sure the public sees only what we want to show. Nothing ‘live’. Calanferians should not see the Eternal Throne, but the city? Yes. Scrying orbs must not overturn the mystique or dignity of monarchy.”
He leaned on his chair, pinching the bridge of his nose, like a [Scholar] trying to unravel a secret. Or a puzzle-master attempting a difficult box of tricks. Seraphel looked at Reclis.
“If we did look poorly on camera, Father?”
He glanced up, serious. With all the passion in the world.
“…Then part of what makes a monarchy a monarchy unravels. Perhaps it endures, nevertheless. But monarchy should be stronger than whatever a scrying spell can unravel, Seraphel. A kingdom must be. So. If I found scrying orbs intolerable to the rule of [Kings], I would try to unite public opinion against them, at least in Terandria. Instead, I find them a worthy tool, but one that must be mastered before holding.”
His eyes were firm, and unlike the authority he had on the throne, Seraphel believed him. Reclis du Marquin was a man who believed in ideas. And one idea he had devoted his life to. He went back to the orb, jotting notes down in a private journal.
“The peasantry will be another issue. Nothing breeds jealousy like witnessing first-hand Khelt’s largesse. No…no, Khelt’s citizens are as rich as to be foreign. Other nations at their finest—we should temper any discontent with holidays, perhaps laws to uplift.”
“Why not do it anyways?”
Reclis glanced up. Seraphel stared at Drassi, who was arguing with Noass.
“What, Seraphel?”
“Why not announce the Thronebearers will have as many women as men or pass those laws for the peasants now, Father?”
He smiled fondly at her, indulgently, and rose.
“Ah, I can see why Ielane wanted me to speak with you. That is a fine question to ask here, Seraphel. Be cautious, from now on, when speaking of Calanfer. You are a war hero—and your opinions have too much weight. Which is good! Ielane believes she might be able to use that, but make no promises on behalf of the throne.”
Seraphel bit her tongue. Her newfound fame? Her parents approved of it, amazingly! And told her—
“What about the laws, Father?”
He turned back to her sympathetically.
“Ah, Seraphel. The answer is simple. We are not Khelt. Nor do I need to lower taxes or declaim a holiday to keep Calanfer running as it is.”
“If it would make them feel better…I was in Afiele in Noelictus, Father.”
