“Fault? Were you training or playing? If you were training—I will teach you how to hold a sword. You painted a picture of me at the keep. Good trade.”
Seraphel blinked. Aielef still painted in her keep? She had thought her sister had given up that hobby long ago.
Aielef hesitated. She shook her head as the old Thronebearer motioned her sideways subtly.
“I wouldn’t want to disrupt your training, Ser Knights, guests, with my fanciful nonsense. It behooves you all to practice even as guests of Calanfer. Excuse me.”
Head bowed, she began to walk left, flanked by Calanfer’s staff. Seraphel vibrated—but she didn’t know what to say, and one look from her old nanny made her go quiet.
Until someone spoke up.
“Begging your pardon, Princess Aielef. But if you would like to hold a sword, you are never too old. I was twenty-three when I picked up a blade. Nor can I claim I am that diligent at practice and training. Say, rather, I was inspired. Inspired and humbled by the last great event of the war I participated in.”
The ranks of watchers parted, and a woman strode forth. Younger than the white-haired Thronebearer, but older than most [Summer Knights] in her company.
Dame Voost. She was the great expert of the Summer Knights—and that was about all Seraphel knew of her since she hadn’t arrived at the keep during the siege.
And yet.
And yet, the woman stood there, and something caught Seraphel’s gaze. Dame Voost had hair that had no product to make it glossy. It looked like hazel turning slowly to iron. She had a scar on one cheek, and yet, she hardly seemed like an iron maiden. She blazed with a youth that was so well-remembered it still was reality.
Summer’s child. A woman for blazing days and great deeds. And she spoke to those congregated here.
“I do not know, friends, if you saw or witnessed the last great battle at Ailendamus’ gates. I was there, but few speak of it directly.”
“How could we not have seen it, Dame Knight?”
Hundredlord Cortese spoke, sounding fascinated. Dame Voost sketched a bow towards him.
“Then perhaps you saw the apparitions which came to us.”
“Naturally. [Historians] and [Bards] and the like still argue over whether or not the spirits were…accurate to form. And what it might mean, of course. Their like has not been seen again, but I would wager every kingdom had seen—something. One hears stories. A fantastical day. A mystery.”
The Hundredlord hesitated as he replied, and that great doubt entered his voice. Seraphel had met ghosts before then. Even she wondered if it had been real.
She had known great ghosts of old—but the ones who had come to the battlefield were too real. They had been the first [Kings] and [Queens] of old. So many legends that it beggared belief. If one had come and spoken omens, that would have been more believable.
In this mundane event, as Seraphel’s left buttock itched—it did not seem to be the same reality as the one Queen Marquin had inhabited. However, Dame Voost’s voice was steady as she replied.
“Do you say so, Hundredlord? For I would swear upon Summer’s heat and my very class and soul that they were those great legends. Each and every one. I locked blades with a swordmaster whose name I did not know. And while his sword cut me in naught but spirit—I have begrudged every passing moment, even visiting the Eternal Throne, that has kept me away from what I must do. Which is practice. Practice for the greatest war to ever come, for a battle my entire Order is not ready for. Like a [Squire] standing before one of the Thousand Lances, I was ashamed. And I still am. If Princess Aielef feels the need to train—with respect to the Eternal Throne, I say let her.”
The company of people fell silent. Seraphel herself caught her voice at Voost’s tone. Polite, as careful and considered as Ser Solstice was not—and because of that, even more of a brick smashing through half a dozen windows.
“Dame Knight. Your words were direct and inspirational. I shall convey them to their Majesties, but I have my orders.”
The older Thronebearer replied so fast that Seraphel wondered if she’d heard—but then, maybe it was to stop everyone from considering Dame Voost’s statement. She motioned Aielef away, and Seraphel nudged her arm.
Just a bit, and she froze when the Thronebearer looked at her. But that was enough. One of the Spring Knights, Dame Meisa, spoke.
“Dame Voost is correct. Though I do not know of Calanfer’s affairs, I was there, and I felt helpless before the battle I saw waged unseen. With respect, Dame Thronebearer.”
She bowed, and the old Thronebearer’s smile was…pained.
“This is all true, and I do not doubt what you saw. However, Princess Aielef was not at the battle. What she saw was merely on a scrying orb, and this entire matter is overblown. I believe we shall all laugh of it later. What, pray, is the concern?”
She turned and ran right into a smile. The Thronebearer bounced off Duchess Greina’s aura and stepped back before catching herself. The [Duchess] spoke calmly.
“That would be—whether or not Princess Aielef has a mind to practice swordplay. For if she does, I too have seen the great ghosts of old. I stood in Noelictus’ throneroom as a Tombwarden warned us of a terrible battle. Neither I nor any there spoke of it. We felt ashamed, as though repeating fever dreams. Now? I am twice shamed.”
There was a murmur from others. Altestiel, Cortese—Seraphel saw, even in her growing feeling of—something, that more than one person had seen something that day.
Yet the Thronebearer was good at her job. She stepped forwards, took Aielef’s shoulder, and, ignoring Greina’s aura, pushed away.
“Your pardon, guests.”
Aielef was hesitating. Until someone glanced right, glanced left, and started for Aielef.
Rabbiteater. Five Thronebearers blocked his path, and the [Champion] tried to walk through them. They had to struggle—politely—to stop him. But Aielef was being led away, right until the Thronebearer Vensha felt a hand on her shoulder.
She stopped, turned, and looked into the Summer Champion’s gaze. Ser Greysten smiled like summer’s fire.
“Ser Greysten. Will the Summer’s Champion interfere in Calanfer’s will like he did against Ailendamus? That would be a poor precedent.”
Dame Vensha spoke softly. But Ser Greysten just dipped his head without looking at her. Aielef looked back, and the Summer’s Champion called out.
“Just so long as you, Dame Knight, do not deny that Queen Marquin the Radiant stood with Princess Seraphel against Ailendamus. So long as you do not say you didn’t see Lord Veltras himself ride against his descendant of ages! Say it is not so, Dame Knight! Or I would take you and every man or woman here to a duel as bloody as any Kaaz could imagine. For I do not doubt it.”
He turned, and Seraphel remembered looking up at a giant of a woman staring down at her. She found her hands were trembling.
“I would not deny it, Ser Greysten! But perhaps only the Order of Seasons was so convinced? I thought all who were present witnessed the same thing!”
Ser Markus volunteered. The other Order of Seasons murmured agreement, and then someone spoke up. One of the Thronebearers blocking Rabbiteater abruptly stepped back. And with a shaking voice, the man spoke.
“I was there. And if that is the question asked, Summer’s Champion—I would never deny I saw Queen Marquin. I would sooner deny the Eternal Throne’s existence. It was her.”
Seraphel felt a chill in her veins. She turned, and Seraphel’s eyes sought out the young man’s. He had blonde hair and tears in his wintergreen eyes.
“I would have gone after her. If only I could. I would have followed her wherever she went. She looked at me but once. I thought I was mad and held that moment inside me, even to my sworn comrades in arms. Because I cannot reconcile that day with now. I feel the mountains should have cracked.”
“They did. But only on Izril.”
Altestiel murmured. Then someone else spoke up.
“I stood next to a boy in Pheislant’s army. A warrior wearing a stag’s helm sought him out and told him he looked like his son. He told him of a long-lost keep, buried, and I was never the more jealous of any man or woman. That was but one of the things I saw—and I witnessed Dame Voost dueling with a ghost. I wish to believe it was real—but can I? If so, why have I stayed here, admiring the Eternal Throne and hoping to court the [Duchess] Greina and Princess Telleis?”
Seraphel turned. It was Ser Lorell, who scrubbed his hands through his hair. He looked up, saw Greina and Telleis looking at him, and went on, without even really seeing them.
“I should have thrown myself off a cliff. Not to die, but to learn to fly! Journeyed to Rhir and thrown myself against Demons that I might be half the level they ask of me. But was it real?”
“Yes.”
Ser Greysten, Voost, and the Thronebearer chorused. Seraphel looked around and then spoke in a tremulous voice, though Vensha’s eyes dared her not to.
“I saw Queen Marquin.”
The words didn’t come out. Like before, she tried to say them, but this time, it was not fear that held her tongue. It was a hand.
Vensha. The words struggled in her mouth, and, outraged, Seraphel tried to speak them. But the old Thronebearer had Skills all to one purpose. Seraphel struggled—and Aielef looked at her sister. She stared at Vensha and then glanced down.
The Thronebearer wore all armor. So Aielef gave up on stamping on her foot and pointed.
“The thief! My tiara!”
Vensha’s head swung around despite herself. Seraphel spoke.
“I saw Queen Marquin. But what—what am I supposed to do?”
Every head turned to her. Seraphel spoke her confession aloud, almost in tears.
“I was there, like you all. But if it was true—I sympathize with Ser Lorell. How is that day real if the most mundane of moments like being trapped on a privy for two hours is also real?”
Dame Talia’s mouth was open. Even Ser Greysten’s lips twitched. Yet that was the folly of Humans.
That day, even remembering that day made Seraphel’s heart race. It felt like fire, racing through your veins. A calling. It sounded like the Dragonward bells ringing a hundred times in your ears and Khelt screaming war a world across.
It was the most alive Seraphel had ever felt, like riding with the flag of Calanfer in her hands as she saw Rabbiteater fighting ahead of her. Life and death.
A hundred ghosts kneeling in repose before the Lord and Lady of Afiele and a [Singer].
But could you believe it in mundanity? How did you believe in the impossible without faith? And faith was such a hard concept in this world of dead gods.
The Goblin knew. He looked around, and Rabbiteater’s gaze found such familiar, silly faces. Doubt and wonder and disbelief, until it threatened to draw tears from your eyes. So he gave them this: a Goblin’s wisdom for those catching up to what he knew.
“It was real.”
Every head turned to him. The [Princesses], Dame Voost, Talia, and the others. The Goblin smiled and looked back at memories. More than one. It was unbelievable—that day. Oh yes, he had not expected the ghosts, nor could he reconcile the [Princess] who had knighted him. Or all the rest.
But he had gone through such days before. Days as strange as a handful of Goblins, monsters, fighting for a Human. Someone welcoming him into the inn. The sky falling.
Dueling a Goblin Lord. So he looked around and met Altestiel’s gaze, Cortese’s, and Seraphel’s.
“You’ll believe next time.”
How they stirred at that. Then they began to understand. Rabbiteater went on urgently, pointing at Aielef, hesitating.
“You’ll believe next time. But you’ll miss it. Again and again, unless you’re ready. So be ready. Someday, your time will be all out. And then what? Do something, anything. Stupid.”
He looked right at Seraphel as he said that. But like a good brawler, his swing went wide and hit everyone. From the Humans listening, the [Knights], the [Princesses], he even hit the Dragon.
Everyone fell silent as they thought of this. Aielef slowly pushed down Vensha’s arm, and it was that simple. After all—the Thronebearer could not drag her off by force. But that little gesture…
Someone spoke challengingly. Of all the people, it was Hundredlord Cortese. He gave Rabbiteater a suspicious look.
“Then—if you did believe, Ser Solstice. How has that day not changed you?”
He pointed accusatorially at Rabbiteater, who had been doing everything normally. The Goblin looked at him. Then he threw back his head.
How he laughed.
 
——
 
Each and every night began the same for Rabbiteater and his friends. Ser Markus and Dame Meisa stood in a practice court at midnight—like they did before dawn as well. Exhaustion was in their bones, and their bones were doubtless cracked. For no one had been drinking healing potions.
This was not because the Goblin understood how potions limited the growth of a body. Nor was it any masterful plan worked up by a master [Trainer] or [Instructor]. He was fumbling, if not in the way he carefully showed them how to exchange hand-to-hand blows in the Redfang style or took on both in a fistfight—then mentally. Spiritually.
Fumbling forwards, like a man grasping in the dark for something he thought was there. The next level. The next step in a long journey as wildly ambitious and arrogant as any dream mortals had ever conceived.
To the Dragon—who watched, unseen, among the three [Princesses], the nobility, and other [Knights]—the Goblin’s journey was, again, familiar.
Again and again, they rose. What marked Rabbiteater apart from the other [Knights] was that his fumbling, his search in the dark was urgent. Some, like Ser Lorell, barely believed in what they had seen. Others, like Dame Voost, had a goal. She practiced the same forms again and again, straining to replicate the moves of a true master.
But Rabbiteater? He let Meisa take on Duchess Greina barehanded, left the younger [Knights] of the Season of Spring to perfect fighting with different weapons against dirty tricks. Ser Markus swung wildly, then remembered to control himself, putting his back against the wall. He was blindfolded.
Even Hundredlord Cortese felt the need to take it easy on Markus as he played the role of an attacker. Rabbiteater? He walked past Markus and booted him in the back as hard as he could. No one took it easy on you when an adventurer cast [Blindness] on a Redfang.
Then he stood silent for a while. The Hobgoblin stared at something he had seen. A [Princess] with fangs longer than his, perhaps. A war unseen. The first [Queen] of Calanfer. Or perhaps just a half-Giantess’ smile. The Great General of Ailendamus.
He could take his pick. Perhaps it was Tyrion Veltras riding across the Floodplains or the Goblin Lord. Did he listen to a [General]’s voice?
