Tegwen looked at Ren. “Are you accusing me of something?”

Ren shook his head. “No, I'm just stating facts.”

The spectators watched the exchange like a tennis match. First Ren, then Tegwen, then Ren, then Tegwen.

“I'll repair it again if it needs it.” Tegwen said.

“You're kidding me, right? I just said you did a poor job.” Ren chuckled. “Plus, I took care of it myself.” He looked at Nathalia and smiled. “It won't need to be repaired ever again.”

Once again, gasps could be heard from the growing crowd.

Yeah, that's definitely a default response. Ren thought.

“He's joking right?”

“That can't be true, can it?”

“He wins one fight and he thinks we'll believe anything he says.”

“He's pulling our legs.”

Ren tuned it all out as the captain of the boat came over. His companion was still being attended to by one of the waitresses.

“Can you show us this locket?” The captain asked Nathalia.

She looked at Ren, and he nodded. “You don't have to see it open, though.” Ren said to the captain. “It's Na... the Lady's secret to keep and share if she wishes.”

More gasps and mutters from the crowd were heard. The waitress taking care of the captain's companion nearly fainted herself. She already has the title of Lady! She thought. It was also the same thought that everyone else there had.

Nathalia blushed at Ren's words, publicly confirming her title, and hooked the gold chain with her thumb and pulled the locket out from the front of her dress. The captain had to blink a few times from the brightness of the gleaming golden locket, then leaned in to examine it closely.

“He's right.” The captain said, standing up straight. “It's flawless.”

Of course I'm right. Ren thought. I saw the Durability stat when I repaired it. It's N/A, or Not Available. It will never wear out.

At the captain's declaration, everyone wanted to see it. Nathalia looked both uncomfortable and pleased with all of the attention. No one dared reach out to touch it, though. During this little exchange, Tegwen had slipped away, unnoticed. Once everyone else had seen it up close, Ren got another popup.

Notice!

Word of the first Treasure of The House of Ememay has spread.

Influence +50

Ren leaned in close to Nathalia. “I really am in a relationship with someone right now.” Ren said.

Nathalia nodded. “I heard you the first time you told me.”

Ren raised a single eyebrow. Nathalia reached up and rubbed it, and made Ren laugh.

Nathalia smiled. “Men are expected to have fun before the marriage ceremony.”

“M-m-marriage ceremony?” Ren stammered.

Nathalia nodded. “Of course.” She said. “A year of courting, a year of engagement, and then the marriage ceremony.”

Ren stared at her.

“I know! It's so sudden, isn't it? We don't have much time to get ready!” Nathalia said and beamed a huge smile at Ren.

She... she's serious! Ren thought.

“Of course she is.” Teepo said from over by the hole Ren had made in the floor. “It really is kind of a rush. Normally, she'd have to prepare for a year first to get ready to be courted by a man.”

No way!

Teepo chittered in laughter. “It's true. You've skipped a whole year of her training... that's why she didn't know how to handle your advances.”

But... I didn't know they were advances at the time! Ren thought.

“That doesn't matter.” Teepo said. “You're in it for the long haul now.” Teepo chittered in laughter.

Lucy is going to kill me when she finds out.

Ren sighed as he looked over at the captain surveying the damage done to the floor. “I have to go help the captain.”

Nathalia looked up and him. “I'll come, too.”

Ren nodded and led her over to the large dent and rippled planks he'd left in the floor. Another dwarf was there, talking to the captain.

“It's a good thing we reinforced this room.” He said and tapped the floor with his boot. “Otherwise, we'd have lost the floor. At least.”

“Sorry about that.” Ren said. “I held back as much as I could.”

They both looked at Ren with wide eyes. “I thought you said you weren't going to hold back.” The captain said.

“Against my opponent.” Ren said. “The ship didn't do anything to me.”

Ren knelt down and looked at the indent in the floor. Most of the crossbow was still wedged into the metal underfloor, and Teepo crawled up onto Ren's shoulder.

“What can we do about this, Hevaz?” The captain said to the dwarf.

“I'm not sure how we're going to get that out of there.” Hevaz said. “We could build-” He stopped talking when Ren reached out to grab the crossbow.

“What are you doing?” Hevaz asked.

“Helping.” Ren grabbed the crossbow with both hands, as close to the floor as he could and enchanted it with Smoothness. He braced himself, used Iron Grip, and pulled. There was a sound of grinding metal for a moment, the wood of the crossbow started to splinter, then it popped out of the floor. The captain, Hevaz, and Nathalia stared at him.

“How did you do that?” Hevaz asked. “Even Groggot couldn't pull it out.” He said and thumbed over his shoulder to a slightly hunched over dwarf that was all muscles.

“He must have loosened it.” Ren said and nodded to Groggot, and Groggot nodded back. Ren absorbed the enchantment and handed the damaged crossbow to Hevaz. Ren took out his blacksmith hammer and felt around the indent and saw where it needed to be fixed. He couldn't detect any other flaws, besides the ones he had added. “Did you install this floor?” He asked Hevaz, who nodded. “It's really nice work.”

The dwarf preened at the compliment and Ren held his hammer against the metal. “Repair.”

The metal glowed in the area that Ren had felt out and was concentrating on, and it reformed itself into it's proper form a minute later.

Stat Change!

Repair Level 4 (Intermediate 0%)

“My Lord!” Nathalia yelled in delight and gave Ren a quick hug, then let go. “You're amazing!”

“You're just saying that because you like my cooking.” Ren said and she laughed.

“Of course I do!” She said and then blushed a little. “That's not all I like, though.”

Hevaz went over and stomped on the floor where the hole had been. “It's like it never happened!”

Ren smiled. “Those are the best repairs.”

Hevaz nodded in agreement and then looked at Ren. “I've heard of Adventurers doing things like this... but seeing it in person is something else.”

“I hear that a lot.” Ren said and smiled. He looked at the rippled wood around the hole and frowned. He saw how far out it went and shook his head. “I really am sorry I ruined this nice floor.”

“That's what it's here for.” The captain said. “You gave it a great christening!”

Ren chuckled. “I'm glad I've done at least one thing right so far.”

The captain laughed. “At least we won't be using this room again for a while.”

“What do you mean?” Ren asked.

“All the other House representatives have withdrawn their protests.”

Ren had a surprised look on his face as he stared at the captain.

“Did you expect to have more fights like this one?” The captain said and waved at the damaged room. Water still sloshed around from his Water Spray ring, and several dwarves were pushing it with mops into drains on the sides of the room.

“Actually, I did.” Ren said.

The captain laughed again. “You shouldn't.” He said. “Some of them were knocked out with your shocking water trick. When they woke up, all the House representatives agreed that since you are the sole representative for your House, you have the right to sit at the main table.”

“Oh.” Ren said. “Thank you for telling me.”

“You're welcome.” The captain said and laughed again. “You definitely gave us all something to talk about!”
