“I see it,” Tabitha nods in understanding and changes direction.

The forest became brighter the closer we got to the break in the tree line, but what I thought was a slight detour turned out to be a longer trek than I expected. We walked for over thirty minutes, and the hole in the sky leaking sunshine only got bigger and bigger. What I thought was a small hole in the canopy turned out to be a massive opening. And it didn’t take long for us to see why.

Laying on its side was one of the massive trees. It was covered in moss, vines, and other plants, all of which were slowly devouring it, turning the slowly rotting skyscraper into nourishment.

Tabitha and I followed the downed tree to a clearing in the forest, where we could find the rotting remains of the tree’s stump, and it was massive. Measurement put it at a massive forty-two feet and seven inches in diameter.

The downed tree had left a gaping hole overhead, but one look around the clearing and it was apparent it wouldn't stay open for long. Dozens of smaller trees had already sprung up around the stump and were racing each other to reach the top. Even with all this mana around them, the trees weren’t immortal.

How long would it take these new trees to reach the same height as the one that previously stood here?

100 years? 200? Who knew? Would I live long enough to see it?

Time would only tell, but it was better to focus on the present. "I'm going to look for any interesting plants nearby; care to join me?" I ask Tabitha.

"No, I'll rest a moment." Tabitha sat down on the massive stump. "Be mindful of your surroundings.”

“Will do,” I tell her as I start exploring the wide-open area. With the tree gone, plants that usually had to fight for the sunlight were growing rapidly. I wasn’t a herbologist by any means, and I was just looking for anything that had a higher than usual mana signature.

The most eye-catching plants in the clearing were some nearby ferns, the tips of which were purple. Rubbing the leaves left my fingers covered in tiny spores. Luckily, Mana Skin kept any of it from touching my actual skin. Judging by how tightly they clung to my mana, I’d say the spores were covered in microscopic hooks. Whether the spores were poisons or not didn't matter to me, I was interested in the plant for another reason.

I grab a small trowel out of my bag and use it to dig at the base of the fern, where I uncover its red roots, the part of the plant that contained the most mana. I didn’t care what properties they had; all I knew was that I could probably sell them to Kervin for some extra money.

Smiling to myself, I cycle Mana skin to remove any spores attached to me and pocket the cluster of roots in my bag.

That was when I heard it, rustling in the distance. I move to draw my hammer and turn to warn Tabitha. But it turns out I didn’t need to because she was already moving next to me with her sword drawn. “Don’t take your eyes off your target,” she quietly berates me.

By this point, the rustling had turned into rumbling. Whatever was approaching was a lot bigger than a dog or cat.

And here I thought we would go the whole day without fighting anything. Luckily, I was wrong.
