“That’s a longer answer than I can explain right now. The easiest way to put it is that no god wishes to put their life and virtue on the line, not when a mortal could in their place.”

“Okay, so you all just hide behind others rather than risk anything. Got it.”

“It’s not that simple,” Serena said, shaking her head. “Losing a Champion is a powerful blow to a god’s spirit. They’re an extension of a god itself. More expendable to some than others, but important either way.”

She looked at him, her eyes serious. “Each Firrelian Champion is slated to lose every tournament that occurs. They only exist to enforce their gods’ desires on Firrelia and sometimes to be used on other worlds. They make the whole world here as terrible as you’ve known it to be. Evil, self-serving, greedy, impetuous… and those who don’t actively participate in the carnage actively enable it.”

This was a lot… an interplanetary conspiracy to control every world beneath the highest one and lock them in a cycle of evil and tyranny… “And what happens if someone tries to fight back against that?”

“They’re cast down. The other gods turn on them. Their powers are stripped away…”

Serena stood, then, and started to pull down the front of her dress.

Markus averted his eyes by instinct, but she stopped right above the collar, revealing what looked to be something between a tattoo and a dark, discoloured scar. “I tried to stop things once already. I confronted the ones who started this shit, demanded to know why. When it came to it, I fought. I lost. I’ve been down here in Firrelia, laying low, trying to rebuild my strength ever since.”

“Because you wanna change things?”

“Because I wanna tear down the fucking heavens,” Serena spat. She sighed, pulling up her dress. “That said, change starts at home. I wanna carve out a new Firrelia, one that can challenge the higher worlds. I think the people of this world deserve it, and they could use a change in management.

“And that,” she finished, “is why I want you. Be my Champion. Help me tear this place down. Rend the filth and corruption from this world.”

“...why me?”

“I don’t understand the question.” Serena scratched her head. She squinted at him. “You know what you are, don’t you?”

“Yes, I’m a Mana Manipulator, I’m very aware of that,” Markus growled. “But why me? Why am I the solution to everyone’s problems, the thing that everyone wants to badly? What makes my powers so special, and why the fuck do I even have them?”

“All life came from Firrelia. Some of the earliest forms of life were crafted by gods themselves. It’s thought that those with the highest attunements to mana are descendants of those created by gods. I can’t say. I wasn’t there.”

She threw her hands up. “All I know is that mana is like the source code of the universe. Those who can fully wield it can all but rewrite reality. They have the potential to become godlike in their own right. What you are is extremely rare, Markus. It’s a gift. A gift that will allow you to become a legend. An agent of change, of justice.”

“And you want me to make a deal with you… how would that even work?”

Serena smiled. “You’re open to the idea, then?”

Markus frowned. “Don’t get ahead of yourself. You’ve thrown a lot of shit at me in the last five minutes, and I’m still trying to wrap my head around it. I’m not even sure if I believe you.”

“Well, for better or worse, it’d work like this.” Serena extended her hand, a glowing circle beginning to appear on her palm, filled with intricate texts of an ancient script that Markus couldn’t quite understand, though he intrinsically felt as if he almost recognised.

“As my Champion, I’d require that you serve my cause. I can’t buy out your contract. However, I would give you a small portion of my power. With my control of the system, I’d be able to grant you quests. Completing those quests would grant you rewards, which would in turn strengthen us both. The more of my agendas you managed to fulfill, the more power I could grant you, and the further the two of us might grow.”

“Hmm…” Markus almost liked the sound of it. He wasn’t supposed to make a deal with a god. He was supposed to finish his fights and leave, feeling like a pendulum was hanging over him the entire time as he definitely didn’t think that was how things were slated to work out.

Markus agreed that this world was fucked up, at least for what little he’d seen of it. But what Serena was talking about was fucking insane. She wanted him to be a weapon on such a massive scale that it’d change the fate of entire worlds.

And Markus just wanted his freedom. Not to be bound to another cause. Not to fight gods and die trying to change things that likely couldn’t be changed. Not to travel the path that had almost gotten her, a literal god, killed in the process when she’d tried to change it…

If what she was saying was even true. She could be just like Maxen. Or any of them. Gilded words and silver tongues, just for them to reveal a nastier, uglier side of themselves the second they were no longer satisfied.

Did he really want to bind himself to someone who could give and take from him on a whim, someone who would expect him to follow their cause, someone he didn’t know and didn’t trust, and wasn’t even offering him freedom from his own contract? Even the asshole gods from before had been able to at least give him that. What would he gain from allying himself with Serena? Even more enemies? Hope that he wouldn’t be fucked over yet again?

Markus grumbled to himself. “Is this deal conditional on me agreeing to help you with your conflicts? Will you order me around? Tell me what to do and when to do it?”

“Working to complete your quests will be mandatory.” She nodded, her face stern. “As of now, yes, that’s the deal I’m willing to offer.”

“...okay. No deal.”

“I promise not to abuse your trust,” Serena said. “We want the same things.”

Markus could feel a lump forming in his throat. He hated this. “A promise from a god doesn’t cut it. If you’re gonna tie me to mandatory quests, then no deal. I don’t wanna owe you anything.”

“...I understand.” She sighed. Rested her head in her hand. “Fucking sucks, but I get it. You have unlimited potential. I’m not sure if I can trust you either. So no, I’m not willing to budge on this.”

“I wanted to,” Markus said. The wind whistled against the trees. The birds were silent and still. “I almost said okay.”

She didn’t respond for a while. Just allowed the pair of them to sit in the garden. The tranquility was overshadowed by consequence, by anticipation.

“I have to put you back soon,” Serena said. “Your contract will compel you to appear at your next fight. You’d walk until your legs stopped working.”

Markus sniffled. “Yeah… I’ve gotten bored of this place. We can go whenever you’re ready.”

In a flash, Markus was returned to his dark, dingy, torchlit cell. Ember was nowhere to be seen.

“I hope you can save yourself, Markus,” Serena said, squeezing his hand for but a moment as the teleportation faded. “If you do change your mind, I’ll be here.”

With that, Serena turned to leave, only to heel face turn at the last possible second.

“Oh! One thing.”

Markus was once again splashed with cold, rejuvenating water that cleansed his entire body and dried before he could even feel shivery, his body immediately warming back up as any blood or dirt on his body completely evaporated.

“That’s all. See ya.”

And like that, Serena teleported away, leaving Markus shaking, trembling, and clutching at the empty space where her hand had once been.

For a full minute, Markus didn’t move. He barely breathed. His heart thundered against his chest.

Then, Markus sighed, steeled himself, clenched his fist, and marched over to Cyrus’ cell, knocking on the bars with the handle of his glaive.

“Hey. You need something?” Cyrus asked.

Markus needed a lot of things right now. Unfortunately, despite the many answers that came to mind, he pushed all else away, and only one word came out of his mouth.

“Training.”
