“Hey, why are you here? Answer me.”

“Come in and I’ll tell you,” Serena said, tapping the bedpost, eyes a bright amethyst. “You’re not just going to stand out there all day until I leave, are you?”

“Grr…” Markus sauntered back into his cell, slumping to the floor, back against the wall. He didn’t look at her. “I’m having a pretty rough day. If you’ve got good news, open with that. I don’t wanna do the twenty questions routine.”

“Alright, fine…” Serena sighed, lifting Ember off of her like she weighed almost nothing and placing the massive canine down beside her. She stood, crossing the distance between her and Markus in a blink. “I’m here for you. I made a decision, and I think we can help each other.”

“Didn’t you hear?” Markus said, not looking all the way up at her, his eyes trained on the gold stitching around the hem of her white dress. “I had my contract bought out. I’m meant to just fight my fights and leave, apparently.”

“Hah, what a load of shit.” Serena snickered, laughed. “You believed that?”

“Fuck no. I don’t believe anything Drathok says to me.” He glowered, recent memories assailing him. He felt his nails digging into his palm. “You’re all fucked up in some way or another. Gods, demons. None of you give a shit about anything but yourselves. I’ve seen it over and over.”

Serena nodded. “Yeah, you’re right.”

Markus’ head tilted; he looked up at her.

“What? You thought I’d get mad at you for tarring me with the same brush?” She shrugged, completely uncaring. “You’re right. Gods and devils have their own desires, and who gets dragged into their whims and conflicts? You.” She waved a hand in his direction, as if she were swatting a fly. “Not just you. All of you people. You’re the ones who suffer for it, the ones who fight for us, die for us. It’s selfish.”

“And yet, even knowing that, you’re here to try and recruit me anyways?”

Serena nodded, clasping her hands together. “Bingo.”

“Fuck you.”

He’d said it before his brain could even compute the words. He didn’t feel bad about it after.

Serena blinked, then blinked again, then laughed. “You know what? With the week you’re likely having, fair enough. I’d prefer you hear me out first, but if you really just wanna rot in here with no recourse, then I’ll leave. I can respect when someone’s given up.”

“I haven’t given up shit. I just don’t wanna work for you.” Markus pushed his palms against the floor, sitting up. “Why should I believe that you’re any different than the rest of the assholes I’ve had to deal with? I don’t know anything about you, and you’re not exactly doing a great job of defending yourself, either.”

“Fine. Ask away.”

“What kind of god are you? Why do you want me?”

“Change. Transformation,” she shifted the hue of her eyes from amethyst to gold as she spoke, then black, then back to purple. “And I want you to be my Champion. An agent of my virtue.”

Markus squinted at her. “The fuck does that mean, change? What even is that?”

“All things within the construct shift and move, waxing, waning… velocity, motion, growth, entropy, order, and even the passage of time coalesce to form patterns, both repeating and wondrously new…” she tapered off, then clicked her tongue. “Some things move faster than others, faster than they should, and then yet others get fucked up and stagnate for longer than they ever should.”

Markus felt his eyebrows knit as he attempted to keep up with the sudden shift, suddenly feeling as if he were talking to someone entirely new.

“The universe requires change. It affords stability, renewal, and allows for once tarnished things to become great, for once perfect things to be replaced as the need arises.”

Markus intervened before his mind split in half. “Okay, stop speaking in Old Testament. I never took a philosophy class and I don’t know what ‘coalesce’ means. Just tell me what you want. Plain English. Keep it simple.”

“If you want answers, you’ll have to trust me,” Serena said, raising her hand out for Markus to grab.

Markus looked up at her, and with a measure of strain to his knees, climbed back to his own two feet, ignoring her delicate hand in the process. He stared at her, looking down, their positions reversed, but still she held her hand out to him. Still he felt like the smaller one here.

“I don’t trust you,” he said, hesitating, staring at her hand like it was a snake.

“If I wanted to hurt you, I wouldn’t need to touch you first. I’m a god. You’re F Grade. Think about that before you refuse.”

Markus gulped. He felt sweat beginning to bead on his forehead. He knew it was true. For all of their tricks, gods weren’t exactly secretive about the immense powers they held. He was in no less danger accepting her gesture than he was refusing it.

And she was offering knowledge, information. Maybe he’d touch her hand and learn something new. He could only hope as much.

He reached out and accepted, brushing against her soft fingers as the floor began to slip away beneath him, reality fading to black.

…

Markus gasped as he found himself touching ground somewhere completely different, stumbling forwards and falling towards the ground.

He was caught in a sheen of protective magic, which moved him about and returned him to his feet, grass brushing against his shoes.

He was stood at the top of a large hill, overlooking a landscape that might almost look human if it weren’t for the pink sky in the horizon, the floating towers in the near distance, and the hundred foot two-legged behemoth wandering the forests below, looking like some kind of tree-animal hybrid that towered above its own landscape.

“Where are we?” Markus breathed, taking in the sights all around him, the sheer vastness of the scene that unfurled before him. With each second that passed, he found a new detail to marvel at. Snowy mountaintops in the distance, a lake that looked to cover an area the size of an entire town, paths that ran and wound up into the distance, gently swerving until they forked at the bridge of massive magical barriers that seemed to divide the magnificent landscape into precise segments.

“This is Firrelia.”

That took a second for Markus to take in. For all the time he’d spent in this world, he’d seen barely any of it.

It was beautiful. It was breathtaking.

It was terrifying.

“Specifically, we’re at the edge of the Malar Zone, an F Grade area claimed by—hey, are you okay?”

Markus snapped out of his own head, catching himself as he realised his hands were shaking. He tore his eyes away from the floating towers, centreing himself. “Yeah. Yeah, I’m fine.”

“Didn’t feel real until you got out here for a second, did it?”

“It’s not just that,” Markus admitted. “It’s…”

He didn’t know how to say it. That he still felt lingering trauma from his experience with Randall, and being whisked out of that place reminded him of that same whiplash? That how little he knew about this world horrified him? That a massive part of him still just wanted to go home, and was horrified at the prospect of being dumped back into that arena once more?

It’d been easy to rationalise his hell when he was stuck in it. Taking even a single step outside felt…

“It’s nothing. Go on.”

Serena held his gaze for a moment, then continued, pointing her finger. “This zone is controlled by Farros, God of Temperance, and within it lies a kingdom ruled by a king named Magul.” She narrowed her eyes. “His family took the throne six hundred years ago, which is around the same time Farros took control of this region.” She pointed a finger behind Markus. “Look.”

Markus turned, walked a few paces, and over the top of the hill, he saw the beginnings of a desert sprawling down in the opposite direction, a clear white barrier that bled away around the roads separating this land from a giant sprawling city, a city which stood against a vast mountain, overlooking the entire area. It was bronze and gold and above all, grandiose.

Flying zeppelins so huge they could be seen from miles floated in the sky, anchored in the city’s far end. At the head of it all stood a building that looked to be some cross between a castle and a temple, its reach extending far and wide, its architecture ancient and magnificent, polished and wondrous, a vast trapezium that could serve accommodation for thousands.

“Magul’s kingdom bleeds into that zone, Materia, D Grade. There, sat at its centre, lies the jewel amidst the desert, Sun City.”

Sun City… then that.

“I hear your heart going. Yeah, that’s where you’re kept.”

She grabbed him, and in a flash of motion, they were both stood atop a tall tower in the centre of the city. Markus gasped, wobbled, but once again, didn’t fall, his body held up by strange magic that served to keep him perfectly balanced.

“There, specifically.” She pointed to a large circular building that might’ve resembled Earth’s Colosseum if not for both its increased size and the fact that it sat partially embedded in the mountain, only two thirds of its circular shape visible from the outside.

Markus gulped. “It’s so fucking huge…”

“Yeah, and you’re one of the main attractions right now. Funny, because you’re so small.”

“Last I checked, you were smaller,” Markus muttered, retaining his autonomy as best he could as he was pulled further from rationality with each passing second.

Serena glanced down at herself, as if she was just noticing. “I guess you’re right. Anyways… gotten a good look?”

Markus nodded. He could already anticipate what was coming next. He braced himself for the next jump…

…he hadn’t anticipated this at all.

Markus’ feet fought to find purchase on the ground, but there was no ground to hold him. He was floating, his body so far above that he could scarcely breathe, wisps of cloud billowing around him as he fought and struggled against the hold of ethereal, mind-bending magic.

Serena touched his shoulder. “Relax. You’re fine. You look like a fish out of water.”

Markus realised he was trying to literally swim through the air and attempted to relax his body. It was more than difficult.

“Try breathing. Try walking around.” She smiled. “Just forget what makes sense for a moment. I find that’s the best way to get accustomed to this.”

Markus attempted to do as suggested, but it was too hard. He managed to breathe, just about, but the prospect of walking on air seemed to escape him entirely. Any attempt he made to do so ended in him flailing and falling in place, even when he tried to incorporate [Meditation] to calm his motions. This was simply too much. Too alien for his brain to conceive of.

Eventually, Markus settled for sitting cross-legged, floating in place, and his mind seemed to be satisfied enough with this that the vertigo stopped.

He stared out, his eyes bugging as he began to realise just what he saw.

The entire world within his sight was separated in the same way he’d seen from the hill, endless zones spilling out into the distance with barriers sat around them of purple, red, green, orange, yellow, white, and brown, all of them of varying shapes and sizes, overlapping in places, but mainly used to segregate different regions below, from greenland to savannah to desert to rocky krags and even the seas and isles beyond.

“It never used to be like this,” Serena said, sitting in the air beside Markus. “Each of these areas now represents a god, a virtue, a ruler they’ve imposed, and another part of their grand, collective agenda, imposed by the worlds above.”

“What does any of that mean?” Markus asked, staring out at the kaleidoscope before him, pushing down nausea. “The world never used to be ruled by gods before?”

“Gods always played a part here.” She sighed. “They worked in conjunction with mortals. They fought for their own agendas, their own truths, their own place on the cosmic scale that ranks and decides everything.” She paused. “There are eleven worlds here, Markus. I could take you to the edge of the atmosphere and show you, if you’d like.”

“I think I’ll pass for now,” Markus said, almost retching at the thought of being thrust into space. “What good would showing me do, anyways?”

“I just wanna give you perspective. Firrelia is the lowest ranked world of them all, but this wasn’t always the case. In the tournaments that decide the rankings of planets, that decide their value on the cosmic scale, Firrelia has had the worst showing of any planet for centuries. That result is by these gods’ designs. Do you understand what I’m saying to you, Markus?”

Markus needed a minute to piece all of it together. “Rankings…” He thought hard about what she was saying. Really tried to visualise it. “You’re saying that Firrelia’s one of eleven worlds, and all these worlds get ranked by some kind of tournament. Only… Firrelia intentionally throws during every tournament?”

“Precisely that,” Serena nodded. “If Firrelia never places above last, they never advance. The gods that rule this planet continue to rule unopposed, and the higher powers that put them in those positions continue to control Firrelia from above. Hence, Firrelia continues to be a horrible, disgusting shithole filled with corruption, vice, death, and destruction, unchanging, for now and forevermore.”

“Right…” Markus thought he understood. Somehow, these tournaments dictated the power structure of the worlds. Because they never shifted, the same gods remained in charge down here. Because no one else could oppose them, the status quo remained, and the issues for the planet’s residents only became worse.

Markus blinked, and he found himself touching grass once more, though this time from the seat of a wooden chair. He was sat in a garden, a table before him, a large tree standing sentinel over the pair of them as birds chattered and argued about the branches above.

“Sorry. You looked like you were going to be sick.”

“I still might be,” Markus admitted. He rubbed his head. This was a lot to suddenly take in…

“So, these tournaments. What even are they?”

“Gods use Champions to fight in their tournaments. Champions are more than disciples or servants. They’re beings chosen to exemplify the might and virtue of a god, gifted with divine benefit, though that benefit is limited to the strength of the being and the strength and connection they hold to their god.”

“Why don’t the gods just fight each other?” Markus asked. “Would everything be wiped out?”

