omplimentary beats of a song did, enhancing each other beautifully.Delta wanted them, she needed them, she had to have them-"Deo, Mas, no touching or posing. You give out waves of emotion that make me want to skip or sing and that makes me want to vomit," Grim warned, pulling the boys apart and Delta felt the feral urge settle down, leaving her bewildered."Why don't you pose with me Grim?" Deo asked excitedly."I am posing, I'm posing as a horrible real reality that rains on your parade." Grim reminded him and Deo looked thoughtful."If you can't...that's okay," he said and Grim turned to him with shock."Did you just 'doubt'? That's not an emotion you possess!" he said and Delta was excited."Hello again." Yattina whispered, her gifted eye seeing Delta hovering nearby but she purposely didn't let the others know."What's going on?" Delta spoke back and Yattina looked at her colorful team."Science and training myself not to weep when surrounded by teenagers," she admitted.Delta knew that feeling."Team, form up!" Grim announced and Yattina turned to him and they had a staring match."I regret giving up team leader power for extra looting right now," he grunted and crossed his arms in annoyance."You regret it 'now'," the unnamed girl said with a shrug.Something about her was irking Delta like a name she had forgotten or a face she knew but couldn't place."Team, let us challenge the Dungeon so Serma Verluan can become queen or something, I wasn't quite paying attention. Let us test these suits!" Yattina said, pointing dramatically forward.Delta began to take in their ambient seeds and general skills with what she knew, leaving this Mas and Serma as unknown variables.Her system hinted at a much higher difficulty run, but Delta decided to just nudge it up slightly. This was just good fun, right?It was just her truth priestess with a questionable staff, the woman whose blood was more coffee than iron, a boy obsessed with winning, Deo, a boy with an eager attitude, Deo, a princess of all things, and Deo.They began to take steps towards the donation tables and something deep orange clung to Serma's back shivered and quivered.---On the Third Floor, Jellagon quivered and shiveredA challenger approaches.His excitement made the entire dungeon rise in difficulty as a reaction.---Delta froze as something occurred to her.Serma was a princess."Where's Numb? Where's Alpha?!" she cried out, eyes going wide with terror."Oh, she met Alpha. They get on... like a person on fire," Yattina said when Delta asked and that helped one problem but not the other.She sent an emergency goblin mission out to protect Numb from the approaching Princess.Now Delta just had to-"My tribute is my awesome homework that got passing marks!" Deo said and Mas beamed at him, the two shoulder to shoulder.Need. She would have them. Her idiots! Contract idiots. Delta grunted and followed behind them with interest.
