All he could do, for now, was trust to known experiments and hope he’d have methods of identifying toxic gases and keeping himself safe in the future. Rhaldon had already envisioned a fume hood…but for testing the dangers of the gases existing to begin with, he had a sinking suspicion that the only way he could do it short of a Skill was by using a canary or other animal like [Miners] had once done.
He didn’t want to do that, and in this case, the reaction just looked like heat. So Rhaldon moved onto his final step after stirring briskly for five minutes, as the recipe indicated.
This was a very simple potion even a Level 1 [Alchemist] could make. Some idiots, apparently, could still mess it up, and Rhaldon bet it was from not keeping a clean work environment or failing to bring things up to a proper heat.
But the Sage’s Water…that annoyed him.
 
——
 
Sage’s Water was the commonly used term to refer to Sage’s Grass…soaked in water so the magic permeated into the water itself. You didn’t have to even use heat, apparently—if you submerged cut Sage’s Grass into water for a week, it would lose its magic as the magic-less water absorbed it.
Rhaldon was fascinated to learn that according to most [Alchemists], the Sage’s Grass lost all of its magic after dying, which suggested to him that it wasn’t a process identical to diffusion because then you would get an equal concentration of magic in the water and the Sage’s Grass.
At any rate, he had prepared the jar well in advance by chopping up some cheap Sage’s Grass he’d bought from the Strongheart Farm and putting it into his water.
But it was the way that [Alchemists] measured Sage’s Water that was so confusing.
You see, on Earth, there were multiple ways of assessing the potency of a liquid or substance. If it was an acid, the pH-level would be appropriate. Grams were easy—why not say ‘fifteen grams of Sage’s Grass in water’?
The answer was magic. Magic was…difficult to measure by non-magic users.
Magirite was a unit that [Mages] used based on magicore, the molten magical rock.
[Alchemists] didn’t have easy ways to measure based on magirite, as most didn’t actually have mana, much less the ability to finely sense the magical power in the liquid. So they used a very, very bad system that Rhaldon hated.
“Candle’s glow.”
He held up the glowing Sage’s Water next to a candle and compared the brightness. The red Sage’s Water was…about as bright as a candle.
“I hate this so much.”
Apparently, the visible light that Sage’s Water gave off was indicative of the magical strength. And also apparently—even a tiny bit of ancient Sage’s Grass would do more than a full stalk of a year-old plant. Wailant had explained it to Rhaldon, which told him why volume was useless.
Even so, there had to be a better method! Rhaldon wondered if there was some simple reaction he could use to get a quantifiable number. Then you’d be able to measure a tiny bit of Sage’s Water out, check the magical value, and know what you were working with. Well, if he had a photometer, this would be more precise either way.
This glowing water was what the other [Alchemists] would call the ‘Booster’. The base of salamander skin, the reactor of marigolds—and the Sage’s Water to give the mixture power.
Rhaldon stirred the water in and saw the entire orange mixture deepen and, to his relief, grow more liquid and less like a slurry. As he increased the heat and stirred, he saw that the nasty gunk he’d feared would make drinking it a horror was generally mostly liquid.
It still wasn’t fully soluble, though, and when Rhaldon took his mixture off the heating rune and eyed it, he could already see the salamander essence trying to solidify a bit.
“That…and I’m done. I wonder how it tastes? This is now done, and it says it’s drinkable as soon as it cools or even before that.”
Flowers and salamander skin boiled in water. Er…gross.
Rhaldon had drunk healing potions and stamina potions, and if Octavia’s insects were any standard to what went into potions—you could eat bugs, but no wonder people complained about the taste. Rhaldon hesitated, because this went against most of his instincts as a research assistant to consume something he’d made, but he had seen everything that went into the Potion of Warmth.
Just in case, though, he walked out of Stitchworks and into the common room of the inn. Who should be there but—
Erin Solstice.
“Oh, hey…you…”
She pointed her fingers at him, and he was relieved that she clearly didn’t know who he was. Rhaldon waved.
“Hi. I, um—I was just practicing alchemy.”
“Right, right! Termin’s apprentice, Rhaldon! Whoa, is that your first potion? Is it…a Potion of Warmth? Looks like it? Octavia sells a lot of ‘em, but she gets mad at me because I also have my magical food.”
Her what? Rhaldon hesitated, then pointed to a window.
“Could I—step outside and drink this? I was sort of hoping someone would make sure I didn’t get sick. I should be fine.”
“I can do that! Hey, Lyonette! I’m going outside! Keep them smiths happy! Don’t let them cause earthquakes with their hammer games!”
Rhaldon had no idea what that meant either, but Erin pointed, and a door opened that led, to his great shock, straight outside!
He shivered at once because he’d taken off his coat in the warm inn, and Erin did likewise.
“Brr. Okay, this good?”
Rhaldon stepped into the snow, wishing it wasn’t Erin with him. But she didn’t know who he was…he hesitated as the hot flask steamed in one hand, but he was already freezing—so he took a quick sip.
The liquid was hot, not just physically, but carried the feel of heat itself when it went into his mouth! It also tasted like—
Half came out of Rhaldon’s mouth, and Erin winced.
“Oooh. Yep. That’s nasty as heck, right? Potions of Warmth taste like…”
Dead lizard. If you ever wanted to know what dead lizard tasted like, dragging your tongue down the inside of your boot after you’d been walking around in it in the summer sun and sweating into it might give you a good idea. If you had a foot fungus.
Rhaldon tried to swallow and got half down. Then he waited for the warmth. After a second, he began to shiver.
“It, uh—d-doesn’t seem to be—?”
He grew embarrassed and felt like the liquid was magical. Erin eyed the flask.
“You might wanna take down half the bottle. That’s what I’ve found you need.”
Half the—it was a good soda can’s worth! Rhaldon could normally shotgun even a can of coke, but—he raised the flask and tried to get that much down.
The freezing cold was what helped—and drinking it so fast he didn’t taste it. But Rhaldon’s stomach still churned afterwards. Yet the feeling of warmth that spread in him was refreshing. Erin noticed his shaking abate and grinned.
“W-wow! That worked? How do you f—hey, it’s cold out here. I’ll be right back!”
Erin ran back into her inn as guests complained of the chill winds coming in, and Rhaldon stood there, feeling warm.
Warm…not exactly happy in this weather. He felt like if he was in the midst of a cool, chilly fall day, he’d be able to walk around in a t-shirt and shorts.
In the dead of winter with snow howling down around him—he was still cold. He was just not shaking uncontrollably, but his teeth were chattering.
“I guess it is warmth. But does that mean…?”
Rhaldon stared at the rest of his potion. Then closed his eyes.
 
——
 
Mercifully, Erin only came back after Rhaldon had gotten the rest down, but a very unhappy young [Alchemist] was standing in the cold. Still shivering.
“I drank the entire thing, but it’s not working. Shouldn’t I be warmer…?”
Erin eyed Rhaldon, then his empty flask. She scratched her head.
“Hmm. That’s odd. Maybe you’re only as warm as the effect? I bet that’s it. You probably already got the full effect, and the rest is just making it last longer.”
“Wait, what? So I won’t get any warmer?”
Erin shrugged sympathetically as she chomped on something. It looked like a bowl of hearty, thick soup, and he wondered if she was hungry.
“Duration and potency is the stuff Octavia talks about. I guess it wasn’t that strong. I mean, it’s great you made a potion on your first try! How d’you feel?”
Like he wanted to vomit. Rhaldon felt…hurt that he’d failed to surpass the basic Potion of Warmth. True, he hadn’t done much, but it still rubbed against his pride.
Worse still was when he noticed Erin stop shivering, exhale, then stand, beaming, knee-deep in the snow. Steam was rising off her!
“Wait, what did you do?”
“This? Heat soup. That’s my thing. [Wondrous Fare]. Magical cooking. You want some?”
The Level 49 [Innkeeper]’s abilities were a world apart from a Level 1 [Alchemist]. Erin’s food tasted better, and she stood, hot and happy, in the snow while he shivered away.
No wonder Octavia got mad at her. Rhaldon was crestfallen, and Erin patted him on the shoulder.
“Hey, buddy, sorry! I didn’t mean to—listen, I’m a jerk, and the scale of stuff is off around here completely. Your potion keeps a lot longer than my stuff! Plus, you were working with cheap ingredients. I bet you that you’ll level, though. Why don’t we head inside? You want a breath mint? I can get mint tea or leaves.”
 
——
 
It took twenty minutes for Rhaldon to warm back up and his stomach to settle. In that time, he came to several conclusions.
Firstly, the alchemical process was full of inconsistencies when it came to standardization. That needed to change.
Secondly, one of the key problems in their alchemy was indeed a lack of purity in the substances they were using.
And thirdly—he was going to have a hard time rectifying both issues until he developed methods to both quantify and isolate what he was working with. However, he had hope that this would still put him above most [Alchemists] for one main reason:
He’d gone back and tested a theory.
The theory was this: if drinking half the Potion of Warmth had merely prolonged the effects of the weak draught and if the Sage’s Water was a unit of magical power…was the isolation of magical parts really necessary?
If it wasn’t, then who cared—aside from the taste—if you drank salamander skins? Who cared if you had too much water or a bit of crap in your drink if it didn’t react? Yet Saliss cared. Yet Zeomtoril seemed to care, and so, if your goal was efficiency, then Rhaldon suspected it mattered.
For his second Potion of Warmth, he did the exact same thing. He actually cut up his salamander skins to get the exact same amount of grams. He took five Morning Marigolds and another batch of Sage’s Water. But this time—he made two changes.
Rhaldon, with a pair of tweezers, extracted the glowing pistils from the marigolds. It was not easy, and he had to sort through the wizened, dried petals and avoid breaking the glowing, magical parts of the plant. He felt like he lost a few bits, but most of it went into a tiny bowl where he crushed it up.
Next time I’ll make a Design of Experiment table to measure everything out.
Second, he took the same amount of Sage’s Grass—but put it in less water than last time. Instead of a jar, he squeezed it into half a jar and waited while he did the same thing to the salamander skins.
“Aha. Well, that’s no good.”
The Sage’s Water glowed brighter in less water. Not markedly so, but it was clear that he had created a more potent liquid by reducing how much water there was to absorb the magic. Rhaldon actually poured more water in until it was the same glow as last time.
He only wanted one variable—and that was the marigolds. He had a theory—and it bore out the instant he tossed the tiny amount of powder into his flask.
This time, the Potion of Warmth’s sudden increase in temperature made the bubbling turn into a burp. Liquid splashed up the tube, hit him in the safety glasses, and he recoiled and nearly fell over.
“Whoa! Careful! Looks like you needed a bigger flask! Hey, I heard you made a potion, Rhaldon!”
Octavia steadied him as she came by to unsubtly check on whether or not he was burning down her shop. But the instant she spied his Potion of Warmth, her brows knitted together.
“Whoa, whoa! What are you doing? How many marigolds did you put in there?”
“F-five.”
“Five? But it doesn’t get that hot when I—what did you do?”
Rhaldon was smiling. Octavia had noticed the increased level of heat in the reaction, and she stared at him. Only to realize as she saw the petals…
“You took the pistils out? Clever!”
Rhaldon sat up as he reached for the Sage’s Water, and before he poured it in and completed the mixture, he had a hypothesis that he had latched onto something a lot of [Alchemists] knew.
The effect of his first potion was still on him, so Octavia trudged into the snow in between a break from her beach and, shivering, drank down half his potion.
“Gah, it tastes pretty okay given some of them. You can really tell when they’re moldy.”
Amazingly, she got half the flask down without even shuddering more than once. Rhaldon didn’t want to know how many bad things Octavia had tried to be that tough…
…Until he noticed her sewing her nose back on. The Stitch-girl grinned at him.
“Hey, if I can’t smell it, I can’t taste it. I take my tongue out if it’s really bad. And—whew!”
She stopped shivering and, to Rhaldon’s intense gratification, felt at her body.
“Hey! What in the name of Rhir?”
She glowered, and his stomach lurched.
“What? Is it not…”
“This is a Level 10 [Alchemist]’s potion! You didn’t overboil it, you got the pistils—and there aren’t even flecks of Sage’s Grass in here! What are you doing?”
Then she stepped over and hugged him, and he noticed she was warmer than he was by a fair bit! Octavia was still visibly cold, but she gave him a huge, exasperated smile.
“Master Xif! We’re going to lose a [Driver]! Look at this.”
The [Alchemist] had just appeared for his own date with the beach. When he saw Rhaldon’s new potion, the [Master Alchemist] of Pallass was more critical.
“Interesting. So, young Rhaldon has already learned that you should isolate the actual effects of your alchemy. The less, the better.”
“So it is about how much is reacting there. If there were less water in the mix? When I boiled the Ember Salamander skins, I thought I could scrape off that excess.”
“Don’t do that.”
Octavia and Xif chorused, and the Gnoll folded his arms.
