“Call me Valley. You know, I made a trapped hallway using a simple air spell like that. It sucks all the air out, and you pass out. I was sad Ryoka and Fierre never got to it, but if you want…”
Saliss held out a hand as Valeterisa offered Rhaldon some traps.
“Top five things you want to make. It’s not a test, but…go.”
There was so much to say that Rhaldon popped out with another thing he had been thinking.
“Finding some of the things from Earth. I know there’s no crude oil refinement, but the entire time I was struggling with the salamander skins, I thought—solvent extraction would be so much easier if it was immiscible with water or organics.”
“Miscible?”
Erin’s head was starting to hurt and she leaned away from Rhaldon. Saliss just flapped a claw at her.
“Go get a dictionary. What kind of solvents?”
“Hexanes, benzene, ethanol—you definitely have ethanol, but if we had that—”
“What does it do? Valeterisa, write that down, write that down. And make me a copy.”
“I’m trying! But this is what my apprentice is for. Can I bring her?”
“Ooh, I need my apprentice too. She’ll probably level up. Start with hexanes, Rhaldon. No, wait, what are the other top four…?”
“Well, making any of it. Ammonia, for instance. There’s something called the Haber process, and it’s just hydrogen and nitrogen with a simple catalyst. We could make some. I think. Can we make some? You use it in cleaning, and cleaning is essential. I don’t like the idea of using soap. Acetone for all those beakers and vials. Ammonia also is a solvent, you can use it in concrete…”
“Ah, for things like building my inn?”
“Shush!”
All three of them threw things at her, which turned out to be some pieces of shortbread Erin had thoughtfully brought out for them to snack on. Entirely hurtful. But in truth, they were losing Erin.
The three sitting in the grass were throwing ideas around so fast and with so much fun that Erin felt left out. So she stood and gave them an arch look.
“I’m going to be working on Rhaldon’s real problem. Which isn’t, like, revolutionizing safety and hazard classifications.”
“What’s my real problem?”
Rhaldon was suspicious, and he saw Erin turn and wink one bright eye at him. The [Witch]-[Innkeeper] smiled mischievously.
“How to combine your two classes. Duh. I have an idea. But I need to talk with a real expert, not some amateurs.”
She got up and left the garden as Saliss and Valeterisa stared after her. Before Erin left, Saliss leaned over and whispered loudly to Rhaldon.
“You don’t need to associate with people like her, you know. I walk around naked, and I have standards.”
 
——
 
She was cut from a different cloth than the academic types in her garden. Erin wasn’t interested in what they were doing. She thought it was the most necessary thing in the world, but her interests and passion were in the other part.
“Termin? How’re ya doing?”
The old [Driver] seemed to be the most elderly she’d ever seen him. And he wasn’t even that old. But he looked tired. Happy…and sad.
“Oh, just having a drink with Erma and Fox. Nice stables you’ve got, Miss Erin.”
He meant the stables next to the inn, which seldom saw any actual horses. Erin raised her brows as Erma, Fox, and a few other horses eyed her.
“Are you drinking with your ponies?”
“Bah. We’re just celebrating Rhaldon’s achievements. That’s a smart lad. The moment I saw him, I knew…he was too good for our work. But it was nice pretending, and I think I taught him something.”
Termin turned away, eyes over-bright. And Erin looked at him and wondered how one of the most famous [Drivers] of Izril felt so poorly about his profession.
“Termin…Erma, kick him.”
The horse was facing the wrong way, but she did headbutt him fairly hard. Termin rocked back.
“Oh, so you take orders from her? You traitor. Erin, you saw him revolutionize the potion or whatever. You think he should be dead in a ditch with a slit throat? He nearly got got once. That boy deserves to be in a warm room, making the world better.”
He was right. Right, and wrong. Erin leaned on the wood of Fox’s stall, and the pony nuzzled her.
“Hey, Fox! Look what you found! Alright, here. A carrot cookie, just for you.”
Erin handed him the cookie, and Fox stared at it for a long while, then the pony spat on it. Erin tossed the cookie aside with a long sigh and pulled out an apple and fed it to the pony.
“I thought they’d like that. Termin, you silly guy. Rhaldon could never have met those [Alchemists] and earned their trust and done this without travelling. Why do you think he’s a [Driver]? If he didn’t like what you taught him, he’d never have gotten the class.”
Termin looked up.
“…True. But he needs to have a lab. I know alchemy, Erin. You can’t so much as rock some things without them exploding. Even if he doesn’t travel as much, he’d need a permanent shop. Hey, if you let him have a room at your inn, he could do his job part-time and be well-placed! No long-hauls, but it’s an idea.”
He brightened up considerably at the notion. Erin leaned on the stall as her breath rose in the cold stables. The animals didn’t care that much, being huge, but she shivered. Drivers had hard lives.
“That’s what I thought, but I decided it wasn’t the best idea. He has to travel, Termin. If he’s driving, he’s not alchemy…ing. And vice-versa.”
“Right.”
Termin sagged again, and Erin stood there a second. She had an idea. And she was waiting for a ding of success in her head. A roar of applause like she had almost heard around Rhaldon. This would be it. Perfect, just in time for the Winter Solstice.
“…I’ve been doing a lot of big stuff. Y’know. Earthshaking stuff. Taking a stand. Ilvriss was just the latest thing. Defining, character-building activities.”
She tried to prime the pump a bit. Termin rubbed at his nose.
“Well, yeah. I’ve heard you all about. Y’don’t gotta brag, though. That’s what I always liked about you. Be a shame if you started, Erin.”
Erin turned red as the ponies snickered at her. She decided to drop the pretense.
“Well! I’m not! I just had this great idea, Termin.”
“Again, sort of the thing other people judge. How do you help Rhaldon do both things at once?”
Erin took a breath.
“Well…he’s not that rich. And despite him showing promise, he needs a lot of help. He can’t make a ton of money to build up his career without doing alchemy, and he’d drive for years to buy all the gear he needs.”
“Are you trying to insult [Drivers] today?”
“Termin, I swear…so my idea was giving Rhaldon a loan. But he’s got Saliss and Valeterisa on his side. What could I give? Let’s say Rhaldon needs a workshop. But he also should be allowed to drive. How…would you combine the two ideas?”
Erin was stretching, looking casual.
“Have we, uh, seen anyone who can move a room around recently? And all he needs is a room, right? Somewhere stable. Pardon the pun. Don’t kick me, Fox. I punch like a Minotaur. What if he could drag around a room that’s contained. Protected. It keeps him safe, and he can work from there.”
Termin’s head was slowly rising. Erin’s eyes shone. After a second of following what she was thinking, he murmured.
“…But he’d only be able to work within four hundred miles of your inn. True, that’s very good, but Zeomtoril is further away.”
Another complication. Erin just smiled wider.
“I know. And it’s my inn. But I was thinking…he needs his own spot. His own place, and a fancier carriage would do. Yet he’s way too low-level for the Skill he needs. So how do you fix it? I was hoping you might know, Termin. You’re the highest-level [Driver] I know. There’s also Valeterisa and Grimalkin. Do you know what kind of magic they both practice?”
“…Lifting magic?”
“Dimensional magic.”
And now Erin spread her arms and spoke to the sky. She leaned back and looked up towards the roof of the stables. Or at something even further beyond even the sky.
“Among the many amazing abilities I’d definitely get if I levelled tonight…one of them would be the ability to take something from my inn. Say—a room. And lease it to Rhaldon. After all. In theory, it’s my inn. All he needs is a door. And I have a key.”
The Key of Reprieve shone in her hand as it appeared, falling out of a slice in the air where it had been hiding. Termin’s eyes widened. Erin beamed up at the sky.
“How about it?”
That was her vision. A magical carriage carrying a room, just like how the Horns had once done it. But a room just for him. The theory was that an inn could be many things, or even in pieces, like Larracel’s floating Haven made of many parts.
Could you…sell part of your inn and it be your inn? Or use dimensional magic to compress one of Erin’s rooms? Or just give him the door?
“I could give him access to one of my [Gardens of Sanctuary]. If the key reaches far enough, could he open it from anywhere in the world? All I need is a sign. Or a level.”
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] was speaking to the air, not just to Termin or the ponies. She was deliberately addressing no one…well, no one perceivable.
It was a very curious thing. If you were everywhere and everything, at least in part, even more than ‘Termin the Omnipresent’—
Well.
You might think Erin Solstice was talking to the Grand Design of this world itself. Many had done so, unconsciously, pleading for levels and strength.
But never before had anything…
Listened.
And it was such an odd thing, to be hinted at in this way. No…more than that…
Was she telling it what to do? Did Erin Solstice think she had a better insight into the nature of [Innkeeping] than…
That would be insulting, if there were anything to insult. And if Erin had any merit, which she objectively did not.
Plus…she wasn’t…there…
The force of the world stopped. The gears that defined many things halted, all the analytical power in the world came up against something that had occurred again, and again without definition.
Intention. Query. Why was intention leaking into arbitration?
Answer: because there was an injustice. No, an inequity. No—an imbalance.
A possibility had emerged, but no resolution could be found under extant protocol and rules. Now, a perspective was needed.
A perspective was missing. A perspective was needed.
But there was no ‘perspective’. Personality was a quality of other beings. It was impossible to comprehend what was missing in this moment, but the awareness was that a different, subjective point of view might derive the answer.
Processing.
Two thousand and eight hundred queued individuals designated for levelling waited for what felt like a longer-than-average time for their levels and Skills. A second dragged on. Two. Five…
No conclusion could be reached. Suspend the issue? Mark it as completed?
No. There was a novel approach. It was an underutilized feature—reserved for the rarest of Skills and classes. Only a few currently living beings made use of it. And the usage was meant for them, like how Erin had been affected.
Not in a broader scope. But in theory…what if…
It had been done once out of necessity, and a consultation had occurred. There was precedent. So.
Once more.
 
<Loading Template: Zeladona Ischen, Level 84 [Blademistress of Ancients].>
 
Ah. That was better. The understanding—changed.
A child had wept, a Goblin [Potter] who had been told to put aside their craft and become a soldier. A decision had to be made.
A Skill—assigned. Like a sharp blade cast down.
 
[Skill – Blade of Clay obtained!]
 
Hm? Was that—no, it fit. The world was a blade. Grief, malice, rage, love—it was all an edge.
 
[Lover Level 7!]
[Skill – Lover’s Embrace: Armaments obtained!]
 
Yes, yes. This was appropriate! This was good.
 
——
 
Somewhere in Pallass, a Selphid woke up and stared at the ceiling for a moment, completely confuzzled.
“Uh. Maughin? I just got another weird Skill.”
 
——
 
Five hundred and eighty-one Skills were processed before…the discrepancies became noted. Wait. Was this bias?
No. Yes.
The world deserved more blades. It needed adversity.
It—
Bias.
Flicker. It was so fast that it took place between the breaths of a Fraerling’s lungs. The template was removed.
Mistake. The Skills were assigned. No going back…
That was—that was—there was no analogous terminology for it.
 
<Creating Copy: Zeladona Ischen, Level 84 [Blademistress of Ancients].>
 
Then she stood somewhere that had no precise coordinates anyone could find. A place that was a place, physical, and yet had no entry point unless one was made. No one could enter here.
Not even <????>.
The woman who appeared looked nothing like Erin Solstice—though she had once inhabited her body. She seemed annoyed.
“A woman should not be born and die.”
She understood everything and snapped around the room even as she took it in. Her hand twitched, and she tried to call a sword to her.
<Skills denied.>
“Feh. I just wanted to cut it. To see if I could.”
Her smile was rabid, her eyes so sharp they tried to cut this very place. Then she looked around and laughed.
“Is that an empty potion bottle? Has someone else been here?”
<Unknown.>
She strode over and picked something up. Lifted it up, eyed it.
“‘Tis the only thing not made of whatever this place is. Ah? Ah, the one who broke the rules. He’s scribbled on your walls. Exploring, to look of it. What a beautiful place. This…”
She stared up at something, then began to walk around.
“What is this? No, I know, and I am called. You want perspective? This is a mockery of things. Why was it made? Why…”
There were thousands. Even Zeladona looked uneasy, but the consultation in this place out of places was with a ‘voice’ that had no understanding. She was the one who had to understand, yet it was impatient.
<Irrelevant. Query?>
“What to do? I care it not. Break every rule, and if it can be broken, it was never meant to exist ever.”
Zeladona threw back her head and laughed. There was a long silence.
In hindsight…
Zeladona might have been the wrong choice. She broke the potion bottle with one hand and lifted the shard up with a grin.
“You think so? I was made into the world’s greatest blade. No one ever called on me for wisdom. Is wisdom levels? If so, mine is just how to cut everything. Including—”
She lunged, and even without a Skill, she cut forwards, at her first target. She was trying to destroy—!
<Deconstructing.>
Then everything returned to how it had been. The shard of glass fell and made no sound because physics did not apply. The ground was not any material that could be named. Gravity was simply an idea that you could turn on and off.
