“Baking soda, they call it. I brought some north and sold it right off. Paid for some high-quality liniment for Fox’s back leg, so it did. It came from Erin—hah, so much does.”
“She invented baking soda? That’s—great!”
Rhaldon stared at the bread, and his heart leapt at the notion that someone had…no, she had done that. Termin smiled—then frowned again at the meat.
“Yep. If only it made more bread, there wouldn’t be this problem. Not many [Hunters]? You can always find a Corusdeer, though. And there’s wild boars, foraging for winter crops…why’s meat so hard to get?”
Another odd question. Rhaldon just assumed there weren’t many animals around Reizmelt, but Termin knew the landscape. He fished out a Driver’s Map and pointed at it.
“Reizmelt is loved for foragers and travel, Rhaldon. See that swamp north? Highlands here…it’s got everything from Wailer Toads, the bastards, to forests where the val Lischelles lived. Master herders. If you’re hungry, you can eat toad.”
“Eugh. How big are they?”
“Biggest frog legs you’ve ever seen. Some settlements up north eat and sell…well, they’re a taste. Why can’t the [Hunters] go after them? It’s dangerous, but if there are fifteen [Hunters] sitting around without a Corusdeer, they’ll shoot a frog, and that’s still income. You fancy a stop at the Hunter’s Guild first?”
 
——
 
They called him ‘Termin the Omnipresent’, but Rhaldon had also heard ‘Termin the Omniscient’ used because people forgot the difference between the two and because the old [Wagon Driver] had an extensive knowledge of, well, how the world worked.
He had seen enough cities and towns to have a ‘sense’ whether they had secrets, higher-than-average crime, or other oddities to them, and he was curious.
So curious that the two stopped at the local Hunter’s Guild, another fixture of cities. Not that many people, even Erin Solstice, had made use of them.
They weren’t Adventurer’s Guilds. Some were even just lodges outside of cities where people talked shop, traded tips on where herds were moving, and bought and sold animal parts.
Not monster parts. [Hunters] liked setting up false ‘blinds’, which hid them or made animals think another of their kind was around. They worked on fishing lures or birdcalls—and stayed the hell away from monsters.
A few [Hunters] eventually got sick of running from local monsters and thus began to hunt them, but in general, [Hunters] were lower-level and procured meat, hides, and lived safer lives.
However. A difference had emerged between them and another famous [Hunter], Mad Madain, and it was the reason why only his inn had hot, fresh meat that wasn’t sourced from a farm animal.
“Hunting? Are you mad? We can’t go afield! Anything not in a day’s travel from Reizmelt has been caught. It’s barely worth the effort of getting frostbite traveling to a village to stake out and hunt from there!”
A snappish [Hunter] nearly bit their heads off when Termin went to investigate. Rhaldon noticed the [Hunter] was shivering, covered in snow, and back from a failed hunt.
“You’re not camping out?”
“We can’t. Mad Madain’s the only one who can afford to do it. Not that he has a problem—the crazy bastard’s Gold-rank, and he could walk naked in the cold with his javelins.”
The [Bush Hunter] was a camouflage expert, used to lying in wait, and he still had some branches tied to the cloak he wore that looked like an actual bush if you stood too far back. He was doubtless fairly good at what he did—but he couldn’t get out there and do his job.
The problem was potions.
“You’re Drivers. Is there a shortage of Potions of Warmth or something? The prices are threefold, and we’ll lose money unless we bag an animal each time!”
Termin stopped sharing around some dry cookies he’d brought from Liscor, and his eyes slid over to Rhaldon. The younger [Wagon Driver] gulped.
“Garbichugs ruined a shipment of ‘em. There’s been issues with supply. Salamander skins are expensive, so it’s driving the price up. But they’re not the worst to buy…are prices that high?”
Another cold [Hunter] glared over from the fire.
“Maybe it’s cheaper where you go, Mister Driver, but we don’t drown in alchemists. Plus, there was a run on them earlier this winter. Everyone who went to the New Lands bought them up. I tell you what. You want meat in your stews? Bring us some Warmth Potions, and Reizmelt’ll fill your bowl every time you visit!”
The challenge just made Termin casually adjust his cap.
“I may do just that. It’s not that dear from Pallass, though I can see you lot would eat through them.”
“One potion lasts eight hours. It’s too expensive to chug them, but sleeping in the cold’s hellish. If we had better potions, it wouldn’t be so bad, but you can taste the dirt in the cheap ones locally. I know one of the [Alchemists], and he doesn’t wash anything he boils up…”
Rhaldon listened to the complaining and Termin’s questions about the mysterious farm burnings. And he could do nothing about that, and nor was he a good driver. But as he sat there, a longing came over him.
Perhaps…
It was time.
 
——
 
“Hey, Rhaldon! You made it! I am so sorry about Liska—I was at work and—here, come in, come in! I, uh, let me get you something.”
Octavia Cotton was the first [Alchemist] that Rhaldon had known. He was still shivering after nearly two hours—getting his wagon through the gates, past inspection, took time. Signing into the Driver’s Guild and getting the horses tended to? More time.
Then there was a damn line at the inn, and the Gnoll girl had given him a hard time asking if he was trying to get into the beach until he showed her his Driver’s badge. Octavia had had to come out, so he’d stood out in the snow by the door next to the checkpoint for twenty minutes.
“It’s f-fine, Octavia. I just hope nothing’s frozen. I tried to stand in the warmth.”
Octavia rushed him into Stitchworks, her laboratory-shop, and he put down a big crate of her goods at last. She rushed around anxiously as he unpacked the items out of the straw where they were being held.
“I hope not! Uh—uh—here!”
She came back with a mug of hot coffee and what turned out to be a spicy tart, still steaming from the kitchens. Rhaldon took both greedily, but he and Octavia checked on the delivery first.
“Let’s see…oh, is that my sand? Thanks. And the cotton?”
“Pure and fresh. I’ve actually got a bunch for Pallass, too.”
Octavia snapped her fingers as Rhaldon took the less-valuable stuff out of a second, less-well-packed box. There was actual sand, too, and he had to go back for a heavy bag of it.
“Actually, er…we have a lot of sand around. I’m sorry! Erin got some nice beach sand, but she’ll probably get mad if I steal it, and this is far purer. Hers has probably got cat poo and stuff in it.”
“Sand?”
Rhaldon had heard about the beach but not seen it, and Octavia caught him up as they checked on his delivery. There was always something new in the inn, and he imagined the beach and sighed.
“I could—try to get you a ticket. You’ve done me a huge favor.”
“No, no. I have to deliver the rest to Pallass and—”
“You sure? Erin might even give you a room. It’s cold out, and you’re my best driver.”
He was hugely tempted, but Rhaldon was keeping out of Erin’s sight as much as possible. He wasn’t exactly afraid of her…
He was just a tiny bit terrified, that was all.
Erin Solstice, one of the first people to vanish. He’d seen her name on the list of missing people; there were master lists as well as ones by state and country. She was one of the more famous originals—these days, the list was updated with people who’d been reported missing but shown up or run afoul of more mundane, if often tragic, accidents.
But Erin Solstice was one of the ‘confirmed’ cases, like the Melbourne Students, who had disappeared live on camera. She had vanished from her home while both her parents were there, her father downstairs, and while she could have, in theory, gone out her bedroom or bathroom window, why would she?
She was a famous chess player, a former National Master in chess at the age of 13 who’d quit and had been working her way back up the rankings when she vanished. He had no idea what it meant, but she was a chess prodigy, and she had been spotlighted in news reports when the Spirited Generation had been first reported on.
Now, she was here, an [Innkeeper], and she looked too young for someone who would have been twenty-five—and too old, as well. Time had changed her. She had a flaming hat, and she was intense.
He’d seen her playing chess against the world, and even if it had been an illusion—she scared him. So he declined Octavia’s offer, and the [Alchemist] let it drop.
But she did get him a bowl of hot Corusdeer soup and an entire baguette, which he thanked her for. Octavia grinned at him.
“Us foreigners have to stick together. And like I said, I had to hire City Runners or [Drivers] who jostled everything around and treated everything like it’d explode—even the cotton! Looks like nothing’s frozen.”
What Octavia ordered from Rhaldon was fascinating. She got a lot of what he would term ‘normal alchemy stuff’, which was what even laypeople understood as salamander skins, Eir Gel—when it was available—Sage’s Grass, purified water, real purified water, which was different from Earth’s distilled water, and so on. Clearly magical things.
But there was also just…beach sand—carefully sieved—cotton, high-quality charcoal, and glassware, things Rhaldon recognized as tools of chemistry. That made him hopeful he could copy alchemist techniques because he saw what alchemists were trying.
And the last stuff was just the foundation of chemistry in his world. Certain kinds of alcohol, like the jars he’d brought from a brewery in the north. They were a bit cold, but nothing had cracked, and Octavia reviewed the other ingredients with a huge sigh of relief.
“Rhaldon, you are a lifesaver. Let me get you your seal—and a tip! I know you’ve got to go to Pallass—careful, it’s slippery. Do, uh, the other [Alchemists] treat you well? I hope they tip.”
She looked slightly awkward as she asked, and Rhaldon paused before answering.
“They mostly tip, Octavia. Though a few are prickly. A lot tell me I’m reliable, and I’m earning their trust.”
She smiled and nodded as she placed a gold coin down as a tip.
“Well, just don’t work exclusively for them, please? We all need a good driver, and you’re not grumpy, and you actually store ingredients for travel. I won’t keep you waiting—unless you want something more to eat?”
 
——
 
Rhaldon had eight clients so far, but three were more just cities he went to where a number of [Alchemists] wanted his products. He had five [Alchemists] he regularly visited and knew by name.
They were:
 
-Octavia in The Wandering Inn, an up-and-coming [Alchemist] closely tied to Erin. She was most friendly and often gave him tips.
-Saliss and Xif of Pallass, both top-level masters who had gotten to know Rhaldon through Octavia. Both appreciated him doing deliveries, and while they relied on Couriers, they too liked using his services.
-Alchemist Itimen in the town of Feindel, close to Invrisil. He was known as a radical experimenter, but he was the top master in his region.
-Zeomtoril, a [Genius Polymath] and the northernmost client that Rhaldon visited along the road from Invrisil, heading east. He was prickly, arrogant, and didn’t tip, but he paid a lot for someone to deliver to the mansion of Lord Calidus Reinhart.
 
All five were Rhaldon’s contacts, and they had latched onto him as the only real driver in the field. Mostly because Rhaldon understood basic storage procedures from Earth.
“I don’t know how you do it, Rhaldon. I tried to run a delivery for that bastard, Zeomtoril, and he cursed me out for three hours for delivering his goods frozen. Frozen? It’s winter, and he wanted some pieces of broken up ore! What’s the problem?”
One of the younger [Drivers] confessed one time at the Driver’s Guild. Rhaldon could just imagine how bad it’d been. He paused as the sandy-haired [Driver] complained.
“Was it all broken up into pieces?”
“Yes! I got a bag from some [Miners] who said it was quality stuff. Well, it was a [Sifter] who did it. I didn’t even know that was a class.”
“How’d you take it?”
“Big bag. One per each kinda ore.”
“Hemp? What kind of bag?”
The other [Driver] scratched at his head.
“What kind of…did it matter?”
Rhaldon spoke to him and a few [Drivers] who had also gathered to complain about the alchemy run.
“I don’t think Zeomtoril said it, but next time, you should get a big glass jar and fill it with cotton. Keep it packed in straw and airtight. He was probably mad because water got into the ore dust, and he’ll have to dry it out. Same with anything else, really. Edibles, anything that was alive—everything should be in a dry container so mold and rot doesn’t get into it.”
“What, everything in damn glass jars? I’ll break half even with straw!”
The other [Drivers] complained, and Rhaldon nodded. It was hellishly hard to get good glassware, and Termin had advised him to invest in enchanted glass soon as he could if he had to transport that kind of stuff. But then Rhaldon would have to wash each glass jar for each new sample, and cotton?
“Why cotton?”
“It absorbs the moisture. Rice would work too, but I don’t think they want that in their reagents.”
“Rice and cotton? I’d rather transport pottery. No wonder they call on you, Rhaldon. Anything explode yet?”
Everyone laughed, and Rhaldon smiled, but privately, he thought that a lot of the issues with drivers was a lack of [Alchemists] telling them procedure.
 
——
 
Some things did go boom or were volatile, but the truth was that if you packed most things in airtight containers and took care with them, you saved yourself the trouble. Then again, Rhaldon had handled his first dangerous reagent for Itimen the other day, and the [Alchemist] had taken the time to lecture him on what to do.
“You are importing Corusdeer horns for me, Driver Rhaldon. And before you say ‘it’s just horns’ or ‘I’ll have them tomorrow’, listen to me!”
He was white-haired, a Human man with huge eyes and spectacles flecked with dirt, and he was probably the closest to the ‘crazy scientist’ look. But he was insistent, and Rhaldon nodded.
“What do I do, Alchemist?”
