[Skill – Fast Travel Locations (2) obtained!]
 
——
 
In the midst of suffering or trials, there was always a reward. There wasn’t on Earth, but it was a strange feeling to wake up excited, despite still being shaken and sleepless from being mugged and thinking of the dead [Bandits].
Rhaldon didn’t know what his new Skill did, but he was intensely excited, and the moment Termin heard of his new Skill, he had half the Guild up and was buying a celebratory breakfast.
“A genius! That’ll cut down your roll from that Lord Calidus’ lands to Invrisil from four days to two! [Faster Rolling] and [Fast Travel Locations]?”
“Someone wants to get places fast. You’re raisin’ a real racer, Termin.”
The Guildmaster himself looked slightly envious. Rhaldon was quickly turning into a speed-specialist. Some [Drivers] liked safety, but Rhaldon needed to get places in a hurry, especially with perishable alchemy ingredients.
“Two days?”
“Yep. And you’ve only got two spots? I’d put one down up north—the other in Invrisil. What it means, y’see, Rhaldon, is that you can go between the two spots really fast.”
“I don’t teleport?”
Everyone laughed heartily, then Termin waggled a finger.
“Not yet. Maybe when you hit Level 60! Ah, that’d be a sight. Someone with a Skill to copy Miss Erin’s?”
It turned out the Skill wasn’t as cool as video games, but it did accelerate Rhaldon’s journey. He drove at regular speeds, but somehow, he ended up getting a lot farther than he should have. Like Termin’s ability, you didn’t see Rhaldon zipping past you. But the moment he rolled past and you took your eyes off him…he was a blip in the distance.
That was the good thing. The bad part was the fact that Rhaldon didn’t have a wagon to drive…much less any cargo, and the cost of that he reckoned with over the next few days, especially as he informed his client of what had happened.
The cost of losing a wagon with that much cargo wasn’t all on Rhaldon. The Driver’s Guild knew [Bandits] were a threat and actually offered a kind of insurance if you could prove it was a legitimate monster or [Bandit] attack.
It was part of the dues you paid, and in this case, Termin assured Rhaldon there wouldn’t be any trouble.
The cost to the client though, well, that was personal. They had to eat two-thirds of the costs, which was the peril of hiring anyone to deliver things, but Rhaldon did have to tell Zeomtoril himself.
Termin had offered to go with him to explain, but Rhaldon had told him he’d go alone. Nevertheless, Termin had escorted Rhaldon to the mansion, and would have gone inside but for Rhaldon insisting he was fine and had to do this by himself.
He felt like Termin might be too overprotective, and so the [Genius Polymath] came striding out of his tower—only to find Rhaldon with his driver’s cap in hand.
“Bandits? Those miserable—which gang? Where? I’ll kill them! I’ll—Calidus! Calidus, keep your roads safe!”
He didn’t go for Rhaldon, but rather went screaming down from his tower to find the [Lord] of the manor. Calidus Reinhart, an important [Lord]—or at least a rich one—was drinking in his banquet halls.
For all the alcohol he was imbibing, he looked miserable.
“Argh! Zeomtoril, what is it? I’m trying to regain my old Skill, and this isn’t helping!”
He clutched at his head, and Zeomtoril pointed at Rhaldon.
“My [Driver] has been mugged. All my reagents—stolen! I want the perpetrators found! Killed! Do you know how much it cost? Send your associates to—”
Calidus held up a hand.
“Zeomtoril! Shut up! What’s this about? What [Driver]?”
He peered at Rhaldon, and the chemist held his breath as he noticed Zeomtoril hesitate. Calidus had sounded very serious for a second, and Rhaldon noticed the [Genius Polymath] look a tiny bit worried.
He didn’t ask questions on his deliveries, and right now, he didn’t want to. Rhaldon explained a bit of what had happened to Calidus, glad the man didn’t have him bow, and Calidus groaned.
“[Bandits]. What was their group’s name? I have an arrangement, but those sound like desperate idiots, not a gang.”
“I can’t have it happen. Not for my work, Calidus. Your associates want my best products? Tell them to mind the only [Driver] who can deliver alchemy items this side of the High Passes!”
Zeomtoril pointed at Rhaldon, much to the young man’s gratification. Calidus eyed Rhaldon, and now the [Driver] broke in.
“That won’t be necessary, er, Lord Calidus. Zeomtoril. I was trying to say the bandit group is dealt with.”
“By local Watch? The Driver’s Guild?”
“No. They, er—exploded when they opened Zeomtoril’s delivery.”
The [Genius Polymath] and Calidus paused—then the two looked at each other, and Zeomtoril’s outrage turned into mirth. Both started laughing, and Zeomtoril snatched a cup from the table.
“Hah! Those idiotic plebians opened the—what was the explosion like?”
“Bright. With…spirals?”
“They did! They opened the damn magicore! Light magicore, straight from Salazsar! And I bet it hit the other reagents! They got a faceful of light, and it probably hit the other reagents and set it ablaze.”
“This calls for a drink! Hey, someone get a drink for the [Driver]! What happened, then?”
Calidus chuckled, not bothered by the death at all. Zeomtoril was looking around for his list of delivery items. He scanned it.
“That’s not combustible, that’s not…oh, I see. What blew up had to be the salamander skins. Everyone wants them, and I was making Cold Resistance potions too—so it was the explosion. Now, you, Rhaldon, tell me. Was there smoke afterwards? I’d guess…”
“Yes. Green?”
“Ah, that would be the arsenic.”
Rhaldon twitched as he realized what some of his delivery had been. Calidus just snorted.
“Poisoning me, Zeomtoril?”
“As if I’d use arsenic. I’d just buy you more drinks. No, and no—well, it might be a loss, but at least I got my revenge. Let that be a lesson!”
Vengeance seemed to mollify Zeomtoril’s rage over his delivery. In fact, Rhaldon had to stand several drinks with Calidus, who seemed bored, and had even his servants drinking with him. There were several figures dressed all in black, though, who came, eyed the [Lord], and actually had some of his food and drinks before vanishing.
They gave Rhaldon prickles, but it seemed like even they needed [Drivers], because Zeomtoril summoned Rhaldon to his tower.
“This is a list of replacement items and more. Since the Driver’s Guild doesn’t reimburse me, I suppose I shall eat the costs. And this is, annoyingly, a second list of goods you shall pick up in Invrisil.”
He didn’t seem to think that Rhaldon needed a break, and the two-day, all-day drive back—and another two days to get here again—was going to be fun. Even with Rhaldon’s Skills, two of which were [Faster Rolling] and [Slipless Wheels]…he eyed the second piece of paper, which was just a stamped seal.
“What’s this?”
“Lord Calidus’ other guests want a trustworthy driver. Just pick it up, deliver it, and don’t ask questions. Pack everything in straw or something.”
Great. Now he was involved with…someone. Termin had experience there, and Rhaldon would consult with him. He’d said that the best thing to do was play dumb and don’t ask questions.
Rhaldon was ready to go, but Zeomtoril was just eying him.
“Well, I trust you will keep working for me. Accidents in Calidus’ lands or nearby are rare. I require someone to deliver my goods to me, and whereas I would think any ham-fisted clod could do it, I’ve met only a few reliable drivers, and Couriers are too damn expensive. Here.”
He actually went around his laboratory, then placed something in Rhaldon’s hands.
“A Potion of Invisibility for the next time. A master’s work, so don’t sell it for cheap.”
“Thank you, Alchemist Zeomtoril.”
Rhaldon was surprised; it was the most handsome tip he’d gotten. The [Genius Polymath] just waved it off.
“I invest in worthwhile things. And so? Did you ask other [Alchemists] what alchemy is? I assume some humored you.”
He had remembered the question? Rhaldon was surprised, but repeated a few anecdotes, leaving out names. But when he got to Itimen’s theories on experimentation, Zeomtoril whirled.
“Who said that? No—it was Alchemist Itimen, wasn’t it? Only he would say something that insanely stupid.”
“Er…”
Zeomtoril waved a ringed finger at Rhaldon as he paced over.
“Don’t lie. I know every [Alchemist] worth their salt in Izril, and I could guess who made the other comments. This mind of mine is unparalleled.”
He tapped a finger to his head. Zeomtoril folded his fingers together, and his lips, thin, bloodless, and his entire complexion, that of a thin savant in his tower, turned thoughtful.
“Itimen is a madman. One day you’ll find him dead in his workshop. It’s just like him to claim alchemy is unpredictable. What is his workshop like? Does he still have roaches?”
“He had a lot of…products in his vials. I think he reuses his glassware without washing them.”
Zeomtoril and Rhaldon shuddered. But the [Polymath], seeming to appreciate that his audience understood, raised a finger.
“Madness. But therein lies a kind of genius. Because, you see, he is the one pushing the eternal scope of alchemy. Yet he cannot replicate what he does. You would think he is, then, useless to us, but even Saliss minds his discoveries carefully. I have thought on the question of alchemy, and a key distillation has occurred to me. Do you know why Itimen is useful, boy?”
“No? Is it because you follow his recipes?”
“What recipes?”
Zeomtoril shook his head.
“No, and no. He does write them down when he finds a winning formula, but consider his workspace.”
“Oh. You can’t reproduce something if it was the detritus that caused the effect or if he mixed it with an older creation. Cross contamination.”
The [Polymath] hesitated, mouth open.
“Yes, well, that’s obvious. Well done. Cross contamination? Good word for it…good…is that a new term Drakes are using? Yet his creations are inherently valuable, as are their recipes. He did create the first Potion of Youth. But do you know who bought it from him?”
Now, it was like a test, and Rhaldon answered before he needed to think.
“Saliss of Lights?”
“Yes. Again. Because Saliss, unlike Itimen, practices the other half of alchemy. And it is this.”
Zeomtoril pulled something from a shelf and showed it to Rhaldon. It was a vial of red…powder. It glowed and looked familiar, but many objects were red and glowing.
“What is this? If I told you it was the most common reagent in alchemy, you would say—”
“Sage’s Grass.”
“Correct again.”
Even the [Polymath] seemed pleased by the answers. They weren’t hard, but he seemed isolated, and but for Calidus, no one really talked to him, Rhaldon guessed. Zeomtoril stalked around his workplace, pulling more vials of powder out.
“Salamander skin. Eir Gel—no longer in stock, so this is valuable—do you know what Saliss did to find out what the Potion of Youth was? He distilled Itimen’s discovery back into workable reagents. Then synthesized a reliable—hah, well, mostly reliable—version of it. He could do better. I hear he fails eight in ten times because it’s so difficult. But the heart of alchemy, my alchemy, is this.”
Each vial Zeomtoril spread on his counter, and each was just…powder. But so finely granulated that it looked familiar like nothing else had been to Rhaldon. But one vial contained what looked like liquid crystal. Rhaldon’s eyes were drawn to it; a clear, beautiful liquid like gelled water. He glanced up and spoke.
“This is…magicore, isn’t it? Highly pure, without impurities. What percentage?”
And again, Zeomtoril stopped, and this time looked at Rhaldon as if he’d seen a ghost. He answered slowly.
“99.4%. But who are you to even know how to calculate—are you a spy? A—no, you’re just a [Driver].”
He snatched up a magnifying glass, stared at Rhaldon through it, then tossed it aside. Rhaldon tried to reassure the man.
“I just, uh—heard people talking about that. And I like math.”
Zeomtoril stared at him, then his eyes lit up, he snapped his fingers, and relaxed.
“Oh, of course. Yelroan the [Mathematician]. Hardly a feat of ingenuity to understand who’s taught you. Very good.”
He must have leapt to some conclusion that Rhaldon couldn’t follow. Zeomtoril nodded at the vials.
“Yes, this is pure. Unlike Magicore mined filthy from the rock. Understand this, boy. Saliss tries, but most [Alchemists] do not. Itimen is a disgusting pig on one end, but even the ‘good’ ones? They have so much…impurity in what they make. They boil roots raw. They stir in slop, salamander skins and boil it up and put everything in their damn potions like a [Witch] making a brew. This is pure. This is reliable. I purify my magicore and ingredients—each one is in powdered form, not some disgusting, mashed up mess. Do you understand?”
More than you know. Rhaldon thought of Octavia mashing up the roaches when she claimed it was their blood she needed. He saw in Zeomtoril’s alchemy a truth that gave him hope. He glanced up, and the [Polymath] met his gaze.
“If only I had all the time to work myself. But I am constantly forced to adhere to the wishes of lesser men. Like Calidus, as he so readily admits. Ah, well. I shall await you in a week’s time. Do make sure not to be mugged this time, would you?”
 
——
 
The key was in Zeomtoril’s methods. Well, each alchemist and their lab had something Rhaldon wanted to learn from, but that was the basis for his attempt.
You see—chemistry knew what the geniuses of his age had discovered: variables sucked. The act of extracting compounds so they could reliably be transmuted from one form to another?
That was chemistry. Alchemy, to Rhaldon, was the unpredictable method that had to exist because there wasn’t any molecular-level characterization techniques—the ability to analyze things on a chemical level. There was no mass spectrometry or the ability to measure composition and size.
Alchemists could observe reactions and theorize about chemical compounds, but their ability to prove and confirm what they had done was lacking. That was why alchemy was so imprecise. People used salamander skins, not the exact substance that they required, devoid of said skin because to many, they were one and the same. Their understanding of the world was incomplete.
He would have loved to pick Zeomtoril’s brain about how he performed his own purification, but the [Polymath] was guarded and private. So Rhaldon decided he was ready.
