“Every other young apprentice thinks they’ll remove it and make the mix better, but that nasty slurry isn’t valuable without the solid matter. I know what you’re thinking, and as a young, Level 24 [Alchemist], I spent three months trying to isolate whatever’s in the salamander skins out. I thought oils…but then I looked up how hot it needed to be to mix and then cool out, and I gave up. After putting two of my master’s best enchanted beakers in one of Pallass’ steel furnaces.”
Octavia clapped her hands to her mouth in delight, and Xif sighed as Rhaldon glanced up.
“What…happened?”
“I opened the furnaces to find that I’d melted all the water out—the glassware was glowing hot, I’d ruined the enchantments, and yes, maybe I had mixed the salamander skins into the water. I couldn’t tell—it was fused to the glass. I was scrubbing everything up for the next three weeks for that stunt.”
Octavia glared as she groused about her own struggle back in the day.
“Isolating the salamander skins is impossible. You can’t boil them, and no one can slice them up and get the—scales? Skin?”
“I suspect it’s something else entirely. I’ve tried different parts, and it only works as the entire skin. If only Saliss were here. But he’s too good for the beach. Onieva’s not.”
He scowled and then began to talk about the parts you could control.
“Yes, the Morning Marigolds are only valuable for the pistils. The rest of the flower? Slightly magical, but not for a Potion of Warmth, and the less matter you can use to react with, the better.”
“Would it make sense to have the smallest vial of water you can, Master Xif, and then react in that?”
The Gnoll’s eyes twinkled.
“I can see you’re thinking like an [Alchemist] already, Rhaldon. And to that—no. The water may dilute the effects, but so what? Just boil it off if you want to concentrate the result. Add a bit more if you want to stretch what you’ve got. There are only a few cases where the amount that goes in needs to be regulated. No, it’s the rest of it.”
The slush. Given that he was working with three ingredients and low-stakes magic, Rhaldon knew there was probably nothing besides the salamander skins he could ‘upgrade’ about the process. But that was something his mind was latching onto.
Given the amount of ingredients in another potion like even a Potion of the Warrior, which Rhaldon had seen on display in the Guild of Alchemists—with the exact ingredients redacted to encourage you to buy it for a cheap seven gold and sixteen silver—he just bet that the inefficiencies in purity were exactly what plagued most [Alchemists].
But Rhaldon smiled as Xif praised the potion, while leaving room for improvement.
“It’s a good adherence to procedure. As Octavia said, no Sage’s Grass inside, which would tell me you’ve wasted the effects. I can say you didn’t cut the salamanders up enough or mash them and the pistils. You can see how it’s not as well-mixed, even given the skins. That means the effect is uneven, as is the consistency. No Skills…and no other additives. You’ll learn to improve the effect, but it’s a fine first potion!”
He was clearly alternating between encouragement and trying to stop Rhaldon from getting a fat head. Rhaldon appreciated it and gesticulated at Stitchworks.
“I actually have more time, and I was going to try for a Potion of Flares next.”
“Oh?”
Both [Alchemists] paused, and Octavia and Xif exchanged a glance. That was…a step well beyond this Potion of Warmth.
A Level 20 [Alchemist] was usually called on to make a Potion of Flares, a reactive substance that you uncorked or just tossed and let explode in a shower of light. Adventurers and people in the wilderness like to use them for emergency light, distress signals, or to confuse foes.
It could easily recoup him all the costs so far, and Rhaldon was ready to give it a try.
“If you want to try, Rhaldon…but, er, it’s not easy. Mind your hands when you transfer in the magicore.”
“Fast hands. Oh, and eye protection. Borrow some of those sunglasses from Yelroan. They tend to work.”
Xif agreed. Rhaldon noted their looks of skepticism, and as they went back to the beach, he distinctly heard Xif mutter.
“Everyone’s got to stumble once. Back in my day, we’d kick them down a floor early so they didn’t blow us all up…”
Rhaldon ignored that as best he could. He knew procedure, and so long as the instructions were clear, he’d do it. Safely, efficiently—
Five hours later, Octavia walked into her shop, saw Rhaldon staring at six burnt-out flasks filled with soot, and patted him on the shoulder. Without a word, she got him a drink, and Rhaldon realized that alchemy…
Alchemy wasn’t that easy to overcome.
 
——
 
That night, Rhaldon broke down why he’d failed at the Potion of Flares in simple detail: he was not fast enough.
Well, that and a few other elements like being unable to separate the magicore into pure enough samples, arrogance that he could simply ‘follow instructions’ and get it done, and an inability to perceive when the inflection point occurred.
Here was the Potion of Flares’ general makeup: you took a variety of gemstone dusts and mixed them together with what Rhaldon felt was actually analogous to this world’s version of gunpowder.
A lot of explosive potions could go ‘bang’ in a mild sense if you mixed several monster products together. He’d chosen the most basic stuff, just to let the glowing flare-liquid explode outwards.
A better version would just be having it react, but he’d gotten the glow—what he’d failed at was making sure the potion didn’t explode before he corked it.
The problem was…he had to mix a glowing igniter into some magicore, which would then become light magicore and begin glowing like crazy. Which is what they were supposed to do when the Potion of Flares activated, but he wanted to keep that from happening until the bottle was activated!
To stop the reaction, Rhaldon had to submerge the entire stuff in infused slime gunk, which suppressed and absorbed the magic. Then he needed a way to re-trigger the Potion of Flares when it was exposed to air.
Rhaldon’s easy solution to that had been a straw that he planned on inserting into the magicore, which would allow air to seep in once the flask was breached. His error lay in the fact that the recipe had not said how fast the light reaction occurred.
He’d thought he’d have about ten seconds to dump the magicore in the slime gel to encase it. Three seconds at worst. And failing that, why not mix the light magicore in the slime gel?
Reality was that the light magicore changed into the searing bright light so fast that Rhaldon’s reflexes couldn’t even give him a shot. Even when he’d mixed it in the gel—in the microseconds in which he’d inserted the light dust, before the gel covered the magicore—it already reacted. It glowed, flared in light but thankfully no heat, and then went dead after three minutes.
Not the strongest light effect, not the longest-lasting…but someone would have paid good money for it regardless. Any [Driver] would want a cheap version of the potion.
The problem was—Rhaldon thought that even if he were the most agile person in the world, he couldn’t make this potion without luck on his side.
He’d tried six times, then run out of ingredients. That night, as he sat around a table, Erin quizzed Octavia, who was trying to cheer him up. Xif was there, and so was Numbtongue, who gave Rhaldon a blank look.
“So it didn’t work? Why did the recipe say that, then? Alchemists lie like they breathe?”
“Hey! We lie all the time, but never about recipes. Not in the Alchemist’s Guild!”
Octavia banged a fist on the table, and Xif nodded.
“We’re the most untrustworthy, cowardly, superstitious lot you could ask for. But we don’t lie about recipes.”
“…What does that other stuff have to do with…okay. What did Rhaldon do wrong?”
Erin was waiting tables, and Octavia shrugged.
“Nothing, I bet. I didn’t see because I’m no spy, but I’ve tried making the potion, and I just gave up. Master Xif can do it. Master Xif?”
The Gnoll visibly hesitated, and Erin crossed her arms.
“Oh come on, Xif. Give him a hint?”
“It’s my method. Learning your own way is how any [Alchemist] grows! I wouldn’t want to take away his levels—and he’ll already level tonight.”
The Gnoll whined, and Rhaldon’s head rose slightly. He’d forgotten the rule of [Alchemists]: don’t share, get lost, and don’t borrow my magicore.
It made him depressed, but Erin Solstice glanced down at Rhaldon—then marched over and pulled at Xif’s ear.
“I’m Gnolling you, Xif! That’s right! I’m Gnolling you. Don’t share? Are you a Drake? What happened to working together? What about my beach? Am I gonna not share that?”
“Ow! Ow! Miss Solstice!”
She tugged harder, then glowered.
“Give Rhaldon a hint. And I’ll give you…one Faerie Flower! Deal?”
Xif’s ears perked up.
“One? But we’re growing—they’re very finicky. How about three?”
Erin raised a fist.
“One! And you can order the fanciest dish on my menu for free. Deal?”
He thought it over and then seemed to come to the conclusion that he was making out on this. So he leaned over, and Octavia and Rhaldon bent forward as Xif twisted a ring on his paw.
“Oh—just because I have a soft spot for new [Apprentices]. Young man, the key as I think Octavia noted is that it’s almost impossible to perform the reaction, even if you use tools and try to submerge the damn magicore in gel. You can suspend the dust so it’s just touching the magicore and then if the glass breaks, it mixes, but that’s a sideways solution. The real key is mixing the magicore up, then separating it and neutralizing it before it fully reacts.”
“Right, but that’s impossible.”
Rhaldon muttered. He could do that in…ten seconds. But he first had to start the reaction of the magicore then divide it up before it reacted. And it needed to be a big enough blob to react—and then be pulled apart into pieces at the speed of, well, chemistry.
A machine specifically designed for that task could do it. Or—Xif’s eyes glinted and he coughed dramatically into one paw.
“Ahem. Not with [Delayed Reaction]. Or another Skill. There are many paths to the solution.”
Octavia’s eyes lit up, and she nodded, and Rhaldon’s head rose. And here came the area where chemistry pointed at alchemy and said ‘that’s impossible’. The closest thing Rhaldon could imagine was a negative catalyst, but this was a Skill, a power you could turn on and off.
“Delayed…?”
Nothing would do but for Xif to show off. He did it by producing a match his own shop had created that was popular across Pallass, Liscor, and more places.
A match. Octavia glared as she saw the Xif-branded product, but the clean match struck on the side of the box, and Rhaldon saw the spark.
But then Xif held the match up and counted.
“One, two, three…four…well, we could do this for a minute. End Skill.”
The match burst into flame. He gave everyone a smug smile as Erin blinked and Rhaldon’s eyes widened.
Here came the impossible. This was where countless scientists from Earth began making sacrifices and drawing ritual circles—or they would, if they had the power to stop reality and observe or manipulate.
Consider how useful something like that would be in, say, manipulating the Large Hadron Collider, to name the most famous scientific experiment in the modern age. And Xif treated the Skill like a basic bar to measure competency. An ability any [Alchemist] would get in time or be able to replicate.
“You see, Rhaldon, the Alchemist’s Guild sells recipes that work. So long as another [Alchemist] can reproduce the results, the recipe goes in. But they don’t always list Skills or methodology. I would suspect a more comprehensive guide is available for more gold.”
Octavia grimaced, and Rhaldon recalled that he’d been offered the chance to get mentorship on the potion. His heart sank.
This really was like a nightmare of science. Money triumphing over progress. Xif tried to reassure him that it wasn’t all that bad as Erin snorted.
“It’s not easy vetting all the ingredients and guides. If Rhaldon rises higher in the guild, his dues would pay for a wealth of basic information. All the knowledge on ingredients? Open to him. It’s just…you can’t expect someone to share a goldmine like Sage’s Grass, can you?”
He looked around, his multicolored fur rippling in the breeze coming from the beach door, clearly feeling as though he was the reasonable one. That was when Rhaldon’s head rose, and the chemist stared at Xif until the Gnoll grew uncertain.
“Yes. Why would they hoard it?”
“…How would they get rich otherwise?”
“What about the thousands of fellow scient—alchemists? What about progress? We’re all on the same side.”
“Hah. I mean…no, we’re not. The north and south—young man, you sound idealistic, and I get your perspective. I know more [Alchemists] across the continent than most professions, but when it comes to war, I won’t be accused of being a traitor. Octavia, you understand, don’t you?”
“Hm? I’m from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. We just steal and fight.”
“What about loyalty to your homeland?”
Xif protested as Erin smiled slightly and, whistling, brought over a big sundae. Octavia scratched her chin.
“We had that. It was called Nerrhavia. Then we killed her. Sorry, Xif.”
“So that’s where Saliss got his attitude from.”
The Gnoll put his head in his paws and groaned. Then he smiled as he saw his reward coming his way. Erin put the bowl onto his plate.
“Okay, Xif. And there’s some syrup or honey if you want to have a heart-attack. Just say the word and I’ve got you. Whipped cream? Chocolate’s still not in full production.”
“Wh—then why do I see those little chocolate chips in Rhaldon’s bowl?”
Erin put a heaping sundae in front of Rhaldon too, and he perked up a bit.
Food from home. He saw Erin wink.
“Cheer up. There’s always another try. That’s because he did his first alchemy, Xif. Geeze. What are you, Ekirra’s age?”
The support of Erin Solstice made Rhaldon feel better, and he almost said, in his first bite of sweet ice cream, that he was from Earth. But he didn’t. He wanted to tell her when he had made something worthwhile. Yet he was now resolved.
This would never have been easy. He had been arrogant, assuming techniques from Earth could let him replicate high-level alchemy. Now, he faced the more honest, true, engaging challenge of taking the aspects of chemistry into alchemy to advance in one area. 
