The memory of his last bandit encounter made transporting the chest very difficult. In fact, Rhaldon was so nervous about it all that he left early in the morning and drove his horses fast and hard, switching them out twice.
He ended up making his delivery to Zeomtoril in one day—a twenty-six hour all-day drive that left him hellishly tired. Coffee, two entire thermoses of it, kept him alive on the road along with Octavia’s stamina potions. But he also did some business on the side along the way.
Lady Bethal had apparently convinced the Driver’s Guild to take them, and the Driver’s Guild was selling them along with the Runner’s Guild.
The value of the ‘postcards’ was, uh—debatable. Some people went green with envy at seeing the fun on the beach.
Itimen took one long look at Lyonette, Pryde, and Lady Bethal posing on the beach in swimwear and dug around in his money pouch.
“How many do you have? I’ll take them.”
Rhaldon decided he would refrain from selling the postcards in the future, but the suddenly happy [Alchemist] decided to talk about his methods of purification.
“Oh—only for you, my boy. You see, I don’t faff around with all that stuff Saliss does. I just do this. [Remove Impurities]! Hah!”
He laughed and danced around as Rhaldon saw him point at a batch of mulched bug parts and saw the slimy batch eject so much crap at such velocity it hit the ceiling. Itimen stretched, then posed.
“And that is how a real [Alchemist] gets it done!”
 
——
 
Rhaldon repeated Itimen’s statement to Zeomtoril a few days later, but the [Polymath] didn’t hear him at first.
Zeomtoril and Calidus were staring at the postcards. Rhaldon hadn’t mentioned them, but Calidus had known, somehow, about their existence and demanded to see them. The [Lord] was staring at the beach.
He was crying.
“This is the most beautiful thing…I have lived in First Landing, a coastal city, for all my life! And I see Wellfar [Ladies] striding around with their glorious bare feet, but there’s no tradition of this. We must become beach people! The masses deserve to see it! Nobles, to the beaches! And they put what on each other’s bodies?”
“S-sunscreen.”
Calidus closed his eyes, and his hands writhed.
“My lady, let me put this upon your back! No, no, don’t stir yourself. Allow me to cover you from head to toe in this sunscreen. They do that. Tell me they do that. I would do that.”
Rhaldon edged back as the [Lord] caught himself and stared at Rhaldon. This time, he seemed less drunk, almost as if he’d been waiting for Rhaldon to arrive.
Zeomtoril tore himself away from staring at the pictures and coughed.
“Wait, what did Itimen say? He thinks he’s purifying his ingredients like I do? That idiot!”
He laughed. Then threw his head back and laughed louder. Then leaned back and laughed—before stomping up to his laboratory.
“Come here and look at this. He just showed you how he ‘purified’ his ingredients, eh? Well, tell me. If you used [Remove Impurities] on this, what would you get?”
He came back with a piece of bark in his hands. Just bark—and Calidus pointed.
“Bark. It’d probably take off the moss, so you get bark.”
“Yes. And what is the impurity? The outer bark or this soft inner part I use to hand-craft my own papyrus?”
Rhaldon raised his brows as he got what Zeomtoril was getting at.
“Oh, of course. If it’s not isolated into the most basic component—”
“It’s useless. The barest minimum before doing anything. Come here. Let me at least show you how I prepare my ingredients. Calidus, if you’re so eager to learn, why don’t you join us for once?”
“I, uh, have a date with the restroom. Thank you for the pictures, Driver Rhaldon. Pay him, Zeomtoril.”
Calidus ran off—with the pictures. Rhaldon covered his eyes, and even the [Genius Polymath] looked askance.
“…Ignore him. Here.”
And once more, he showed Rhaldon his collection of ingredients. This time, a vial of salamander skin, powdered up fine. But unlike last time, Rhaldon’s own chemist senses began tingling.
Hold on. If Itimen is wrong about his methodology—could it be that Zeomtoril, a genius, is also wrong? He stared down at the powder, then up at the [Savant]’s smug expression.
 
——
 
Calidus was disappointed that Rhaldon had already set up a workspot. He snapped his fingers before waving the young man off with a sigh.
“Beaten to the punch. Well, it’s a pleasant feeling. Come back later by all means and, uh, bring more pictures! In fact, tell me more about this ‘Erin Solstice’ woman. How…no, I should say, I’ve seen her in her inn. But is she unhappily married? How open-minded is she towards a rapscallious imp? And then how open-minded is she towards a pathetic slob of a drunk? And how open-minded would she be to a troublemaking letch harassing half the women on—actually, you know what? I know the answer to that.”
 
——
 
Zeomtoril had the neatest, most organized system for his ingredients and reagents compared to even Saliss. He had sorted them into little vials of powder he could hydrate, and he even hand-made his own papyrus.
A true Leonardo da Vinci of his time—he could paint, knew mathematics, and had a huge collection of books that Calidus apparently raided now and then. However, he was not an educated [Alchemist], and Rhaldon thought it showed for the first time.
Zeomtoril’s powders and his genius with poisons as well as cunning ways to disguise a knife, or even make a folding crossbow, were very, very popular with his…housemates. But the [Polymath]’s widespread knowledge had tripped him up in one area: the powdered salamander skins were useless.
“He just desiccated them, didn’t he?”
Saliss of Lights knew what Zeomtoril had done, and Rhaldon confirmed it with a nod. The Drake snorted.
“Yep. And you know why that’s useless?”
“Removing the water doesn’t change the fact that it’s still filled with a bunch of useless impurities. It just…turns it into a powder.”
Saliss tapped his head rapidly.
“Exactly! And that’s where you and I go ahead of Zeomtoril. His cute, tidy mind likes powders he can color-code and store in racks. You know what it is. He’s form over function, sometimes. Now—I have what you want, and I’m willing to give you a copy. But if you break it, I’ll throw you off the walls.”
He had a gift for Rhaldon, and he was only half-joking. Because Rhaldon saw, to his delight—Saliss had a working distillation set.
The glassware that was required to distill liquids was far beyond ‘put beaker on burner’. What it looked like was the mad science tools you’d see in movies, but all to a reason.
This is what it seemed like. First, you had a flask that you put over a burner. Simple enough—but you had a tube attached to a cork that would seal the vial off. Therefore, when you heated the liquid within, the gas would flow out—through a condenser that cooled the vapor into a liquid—and then collect in a second vial on the other side.
Saliss’ condenser had a simple cooling rune to make the process work. He even had multiple tubes in case he needed to siphon off more than one liquid, but the reason why he was so insistent and only he had multiple distilling sets to give out was because of a lack of a certain thing in this world: advanced glassware.
His tube was glass, pre-blown into the simple loops. It had to be hard to make, and that clear tubing was one of the hardest things to get for medicine and alchemy. And while it was analogous to Earth’s glassware, Rhaldon had to wonder if a [Glassblower] with the right Skills or magic was required to get the same effects as borosilicate glass, which was resistant to thermal shock.
If not, then even glass in this world was below Earth’s standards, let alone plastic, rubber, and other useful materials. And yet, Saliss managed. He patted the condenser fondly.
“This is how I get liquid out of a lot of mixtures. Gas is harder. Sometimes, I have things that are so reactive to air that they’ll blow up or start whatever I don’t want. Then I have to literally fill the air with something else or suck all the air out. Either way, I need a mask. It’s expensive, takes a long time to make sure nothing’s in there—have you got any idea how annoying it is? You wouldn’t happen to know how to fix that, would you?”
Saliss cracked one eye open as he complained. Rhaldon hesitated. Because he did know how to fix that. Small wonder Saliss hadn’t thought of everything.
Maybe he should keep that to himself? Then if he needed to make something reactive, he could get ahead of—
Rhaldon had that thought for about five seconds before he almost slapped himself. What was he doing? That was pure [Alchemist] thinking! He looked up at Saliss, who was offering him an entire set of glassware for free, and instantly felt ashamed.
“Wh—I actually heard of something like that.”
“Oh, really? How’d you do it?”
Saliss’ eyes sharpened, and Rhaldon hurried over to the chalkboard, embarrassed by his thoughts.
“Can I borrow some chalk? You’d just need a three-way flask, here. Two tubes on either side, and one goes up.”
“Right, right. There are flasks like that. Not exactly, but how does that create a vacuum? The air’s in there, and before you say anything, it rises and even if you suck it out—air rushes in, so I’d blow up that flask if I suck the air out. Even enchanted, with a suction spell…”
“It’s a valve, here.”
Rhaldon circled the top-most valve. He had done this before.
“You put a valve here, which allows you to control the flow of gas. Then you’d have a ball—a second flask on top. But what’s up here?”
He circled a balloon or second flask on top of the first. Saliss scratched his head.
“…More air? No, wait. If there’s air here—”
He shaded the lower flask, stared at the higher one, and saw Rhaldon adding a tube to the side.
“Here’s your suction spell. You use that to facilitate the transfer, but if you’re in a situation where air causes this liquid below to explode, well, all you have to do is fill the flask with not-air.”
“…A vacuum isn’t a gas, kid.”
Saliss raised his brow, unimpressed with Rhaldon’s logic. But Rhaldon couldn’t help but tease him.
“Who said it was a vacuum? Say, how much argon do you have lying around? Noble gases don’t actually like doing much. And argon…is heavier than regular air.”
Suddenly, Saliss’ brows snapped together. He stared at the diagram, then made a few simple arrow signs.
“Wait a second. Shitty, combustible air rises. If it’s lighter than your argon stuff, the argon sinks. So I am, invisibly, swapping the contents of these two jars. Like how oil floats through water. And then I don’t need a vacuum—because I’ve just got a gas in there that won’t explode and turn into acid! Here I’ve been buying Hedault-class enchanted vials and suctioning the air out—and half of the time the enchanted cork has a leak—when I could have just—”
He threw up his claws, turned to Rhaldon, and the young man realized he might have just thrown something on Saliss that revealed all. He tensed—but the Drake just paused before solemnly putting a clawed hand on Rhaldon’s shoulder.
“That…bastard…Zeomtoril. Don’t tell him he’s a genius. But I guess he is.”
He gave Rhaldon a pained smile, and the young man relaxed. Saliss glanced at Rhaldon again and shook his head.
“…What else do you know about?”
Electrolysis. That was one of the things that Rhaldon postulated most [Alchemists] didn’t know about. They did all kinds of stuff—but Itimen was the kind to zap any potion to see what happened. He didn’t realize that he needed a conductive liquid.
Yet Rhaldon felt like the salamander skins were calling to him. They were simple, not nearly as flammable as Corusdeer horns, and this distillation set would work.
“Well, distillation is what I was really focused on, Master Saliss. I’m going to drain the liquid out of the salamander skins. Then—”
Saliss coughed into one claw apologetically.
“…It’s the mushy stuff.”
Rhaldon paused, and his heart sank.
“No.”
“Yep. Liquid’s worthless. Otherwise, Xif would have sucked it out with a straw himself, or we’d just separate it out via a funnel. All that muck? That’s what’s wasting a lot of the alchemical reaction with the pistils. You can’t do more than just add mana or complementary effects to the potions. One of the Skills you’ll gain is [Remove Effect], [Neutralize Element], or something. That lets someone like Xif toss in Corusdeer powder without getting the boom or making a client sick. The base recipe cannot be improved unless you want to melt the salamander skins. And believe me, even I don’t think it’s cost-effective.”
Not at thirty-four hundred degrees Fahrenheit. Even if Saliss had the glassware to take to the blast furnace, as Xif had pointed out, you’d lose the water from that heat. Let’s assume you stoppered it up, could heat it that high—
It was just a waste of effort. Ergo, Rhaldon abandoned this line of thought, and he moved to the next method. But here came something he really, really didn’t want to try. Yet he felt like it was the only other option.
“Well then. I think I might still need the distiller, and I’ve got a separatory funnel…I only need two things. Master Saliss—do you know where I could get a cheap, effective acid?”
Saliss’ brows rose, and then he began to grin.
“Now you’re speaking my language. And as it so happens—I have the perfect dealer for you.”
 
——
 
Acid.
Or rather, the method that even [Alchemists] thought was stupid to use for edible products was Rhaldon’s next resort. He was going to dissolve the salamander skins…in acid.
Acid. He was not crazy. This was an established thing in lab procedures. Mind you, it was to facilitate chemical changes, and you would be crazy to randomly imbibe what you made—but he knew the theory.
If you had something you couldn’t easily isolate, like the salamander skins, you had to render it into a helpful form somehow. Liquids were the best way to do that. And acids were better still.
This was the method that Rhaldon was going to try to separate the necessary elements from the salamander skins. It was not his preferred solution, but the two that had occurred to him first—well, three—were all out.
Solvent extraction required things he didn’t have, like good, quality hexanes. It was reliant on a lot of materials that were out of his reach and required extensive testing to make sure it worked like he knew it did on Earth. He was most familiar with that method, actually, but the other two were simpler but had problems.
