Someone should be studying this. Not just me. But Rhaldon had to start with what alchemy was, so he just nodded in response to Octavia’s comment about the most efficient way to get to a solution.
“Reliability also matters, right? Reproducing the recipe each time? That’s what Alchemist Xif said.”
Octavia put her chin on her hand and frowned.
“I guess for him it’s reliability, yeah. But for me, it’s—listen, I think you can make anything in this world. There’s this super-potion I want to make, that’s [Haste]. Not [Speed], but haste.”
“Are you sure it’s okay to tell me?”
The Stitch-girl laughed and waved it off.
“It’s not like I can make it! And besides, I like you. Listen—I can’t make it, but I know it’s possible. Master Saliss is actually helping me make it. I’m just afraid that the only way to make it is with a Unicorn Horn or something, and I don’t think any more are left. Maybe in some dungeon in a vault or something, but that’s what I mean. Healing Potions? Stamina and healing potions used to require Phoenix Feathers and magical cheetah claws and such. And you know, we can still make them that way. But the reason there’s a shortage of healing potions is because the common, useful ingredient is missing.”
“Eir Gel.”
Rhaldon had heard all about that. Octavia pointed her mortar and pestle at him.
“Exactly. These bugs? Hate them or love them, but you’d pay me forty gold pieces for a stamina potion back in the day and not haggle. True, it’d be more powerful probably, but now anyone can sip one for silver. That’s what real alchemy is, to me. Yes, it’s about doing it reliably. Yes, it’s about knowing what things do—but if you can’t afford the potion, what’s the point? Uh…hey, where’d the other roach go?”
 
——
 
All of this struck home with Rhaldon, and he was grateful for Octavia’s point, even if he did find the roach in his clothing two days later.
It was close to chemistry of his world, in that a lot of what people did was transmuting one thing into another using the most efficient processes. The main difference was that he could buy isopropyl alcohol in vast quantities and generally trust it was what he wanted, even if he needed to make sure some ingredients had the right quality.
The fact that here you were buying Corusdeer horns and grinding them up, or hoping your salamander skins weren’t moldy, complicated alchemical processes, and the inability to look at things on a molecular level and isolate reactions meant that no one had a bible for how things worked.
Rhaldon wasn’t nearly good enough to take things to a microscopic level, so he treated alchemy, at least the kind he was going to practice, like a dangerous experiment. Even if you thought you knew what two things did, when you combined them with the third…
Well, he thought there were ways to mitigate the experimentation risk, and he had observed how each [Alchemist] practiced safety and lab procedure. But the key to how he was going to make his mark was in the final [Alchemist]’s answer. Or rather, the answer and the reply.
 
——
 
Itimen was, unlike the rest, a rather messy [Experimenter Alchemist]. He had dirty workplace methods, and even his beakers weren’t clean.
It was horrifying to Rhaldon, who had seen fairly neat cleaning of beakers from Xif, Saliss, and Octavia. Especially because Saliss taught Octavia. Apparently, she hadn’t been the most studious before, but Pallass’ Alchemy Guild drilled it into their apprentices.
“You were talking to Pallassian [Alchemists]! Hah! Those idiots don’t create new things. I…I, Rhaldon, create new things! Even Saliss of Lights is just a copycat.”
“Really, Master Itimen?”
The man was swirling around a mixture in a beaker, taking it on and off a burner—no propane-fueled torch, but an actual, tiny fire he was using to bubble it. He eyed the liquid.
“This…this is either going to explode or be a dud, so stand back.”
Rhaldon moved back further to the doorway and noted how chaotic the [Alchemist]’s workshop was. Some were like this, old experiments still in their containers, ingredients strewn around—for all Itimen cared about Rhaldon’s safety with the horns, he was careless himself.
“Do you know what I’m making, Rhaldon?”
“No, sir.”
“Neither do I! And that is alchemy! We never know! Oh, you can copy a Potion of Blast a thousand times like Saliss, but new things are this!”
He held up the frothing bottle and, to Rhaldon’s horror, tasted it. Itimen swished it around his mouth, then looked disappointed and spat it into the fire.
“Ah, tastes like nothing. I had hoped it would be a new healing potion, but—well, the sore in my mouth isn’t clearing.”
“Is that—safe, Alchemist?”
The man laughed as he turned to Rhaldon with a gleam in his eyes.
“No. Of course not. But will it move forwards alchemy? Yes. Do you know who discovered the Potion of Youth?”
“…Saliss of Lights?”
Itimen’s eyes bulged. Then he turned red.
“Saliss of—it was me!”
“What?”
The [Experimenter Alchemist] danced in place, waving his vial around then placing it to cool, laughing.
“Oh, the look on your face! But it’s no joke! Me, yes! I did it! At least, I made a Potion of Youthfulness. It didn’t last long, and it took only a few years off. He bought it from me. Every [Alchemist] was bidding on it, and he paid for this entire shop! Well, the last shop and this one. They kicked me out of Invrisil over the last incident.”
Rhaldon just stared. So this was the man who had invented one of the ‘legendary potions’ of the modern age. He gazed around…and jumped as a roach tried to drink from the new vial.
“Aha! And this is one of the damn roaches that invades my shop! I’ll turn you into my next brew!”
It scuttled off, and Rhaldon saw it was slightly multi-colored. He wondered if the magical monsters were byproducts of alchemists like Itimen. But the man just turned, panting, to Rhaldon, and he smiled.
“Young man. If you have an interest in alchemy, heed my advice. You can follow procedure all day, but one day you will have to push forwards. And alchemy is always experimentation. Close your eyes and spin around, would you? Yes, yes…now, point.”
He made Rhaldon do that, then hurried over to the shelf. Then he did it two more times and found an ingredient in each.
“I have never mixed these three together. Young man—what will happen when I do? That is adventure. That is why I am Level 47 and why my competitors laugh at me—yet listen whenever I find something new. Remember that. Saliss of Lights is a battle-[Alchemist]. He levelled from fighting, and he is a Named-rank adventurer. I won’t deny it. Xif? Also Level 41, but he got it from being an [Alchemist of the Guild], a respected, mercantile [Alchemist] who sells the most in his huge city. How is he doing now?”
“He’s…renting a shop and rebuilding his clientele, Master Itimen.”
The [Alchemist] looked sympathetic; one of the reasons why Xif had been so inclined to give Rhaldon the lecture was because he was teaching a lot of apprentices, mass-producing potions. His shop had apparently been destroyed due to some controversy, and so he was taking on as much paying work as possible.
“Ah, well, I wish him luck rebuilding! Maybe I’ll send him a recipe or…you’re headed his way? Just know I appreciate the Gnoll; I’ve had drinks with him once. But he got his levels by being a commercial success. I got my levels from pushing us forwards. I’ve discovered more useless potions, more interesting things, than anyone else. And it may kill me. It will kill me, but look.”
His teeth were dark, he was balding, marked by bad potions, and had a scar down one withered cheek, but he grinned as he raised his arms.
“…Do I look old to you?”
 
——
 
By this point, Rhaldon had been working for a month and a half, and he was seriously considering whether or not he wanted to try alchemy.
He was half-tempted to keep doing deliveries. Oh, the road life didn’t call to him. He imagined this was what it felt to drive a truck across the United States constantly. You were in a specific community that not a lot of other people respected, but it could pay, and it was a lifestyle that let you see places and meet new people at the best of times.
This specific lane he was in paid very well, and maybe he could keep doing it? But then—Rhaldon had forgotten what this job was in the worst of times.
“Halt!”
The [Bandits] appeared out of the snow in a moment. They didn’t charge in on horses; they just stood up by the side of the road, and what he had taken for a large snowdrift turned into nine people—followed by nearly ten more in the distance.
Half had bows or slings, and a spear was aimed at his stomach.
“Hey, I’m not going to fight. I’m just a [Driver].”
“Shut up. Anyone’s [Dangersenses] rumbling? He looked like an [Easy Mark] to me.”
The [Bandits] were low-level, cold, despite their thick coats, and surrounded his wagon. One yanked him off, grabbed his money pouch, and when they found he had nothing more interesting, shoved him into the snow.
“What’ve you got?”
“A delivery.”
“We know that, idiot; we can see your sigil. For who?”
One of them stepped on his back, aimed a spear at him, and Rhaldon, terrified and pressed into the snow, decided driving wasn’t for him.
If only Termin were here! But the [Driver] had a knack for evading danger, and he’d been letting Rhaldon do more and more deliveries.
“It’s just—Corusdeer powder! And a bunch of other stuff for Alchemist Zeomtoril!”
“What? Alchemy shit?”
The leader of the bandits was disappointed and almost took it out on Rhaldon, but another whispered.
“Hey, wait! That’s valuable, boss! It might be hard to sell, but I know a guy in the black market, and you know alchemists have good stuff.”
“That’s true.”
One of the figures with a black scarf wound around his face turned, and suddenly they were all over the wagon. Rhaldon got up, slowly, and saw his horses being cut loose.
“Wait, at least let me keep the horses. I’ll freeze out here!”
“Shut up.”
Another [Bandit] aimed a bow at him, and he backed up a step, but Rhaldon had his eyes on the covered goods in their jars. This was a priority delivery for Zeomtoril, and two things concerned him.
One was being killed or left in the cold where exposure might do him in. The second was that this was a priority delivery to Zeomtoril.
One of those jars was magically sealed, and he had been entrusted with it after the Corusdeer horns and told not to open it. Did he warn the [Bandits]?
The leader glanced at Rhaldon and grinned.
“Should we feather him with arrows? Could be a level up.”
Rhaldon’s blood froze, and his shoulder ached. If he ran into the snow—but the one who thought they could sell the stuff raised a hand.
“Boss, boss. The Driver’s Guild posts bounties if their own gets killed.”
“You think I’m scared of a few adventurers or a [Bounty Hunter]?”
Their leader sneered, but he visibly hesitated, and the tiny group was no Bloodfeast Raiders. After a whispered conversation, he snapped.
“Cut them horses loose. Let him go.”
“Both?”
“Sure. I hear they’ll just go back to one of the horse handlers if they whistle. Bastards know their mounts. This is the real haul. Come on, get over here and start packing it up before someone comes down the road! This is going to set us up!”
Suddenly, the [Bandits] were all over the wagons, and Rhaldon was grateful he’d leased his horses from the Guild of Hostlers. He whistled, and they trotted towards him.
“Easy, easy…let’s just get out of here. Hey, thanks for not killing me.”
His voice wobbled, and the bandits barely paid attention to him. Rhaldon turned, back still prickling because they had bows, and grabbed both horse’s reins.
“Easy, guys. Let’s just walk off nice and slow. Nice and slow…”
He walked forwards as their excited shouting grew louder. They were tearing at his canvas coverings, and he wondered if anything would happen. He walked down the road faster, slowly reaching for one of his horse’s backs. He should be only about forty minutes from the next city. If he—
Whumph.
The sound was also an impact, and it pressed him forwards. Rhaldon fell against the horse, turned—and saw a blinding flash of spiraling light. Something exploded in such light and ferocity that he went blind—and then the horse was taking off as something else ignited in his wagons.
Rhaldon didn’t see or hear the bandits. His ears rang—he was deaf and blind, and the horses were bolting. He fell over, then got up, nose bloodied, and ran. He ran and ran, then shouted for the horses, pulled himself up onto one’s back and—
 
——
 
“Rhaldon!”
Termin found him that night. The man barged into the local Driver’s Guild, and Rhaldon sat up, still wrapped in a blanket and bandaged up.
He had cuts all over him from falling and being knocked down, and he felt shaken. He knew he looked shaken; the Driver’s Guild had said he looked like a ghost when he came in.
“Lad, lad, are you alright? Where are the bastards who did that to him?”
“Termin, calm down! I thought you were miles away!”
“I raced Emma and Fox over. Did they beat you? You didn’t get hurt, did you?”
The old man was full of concern, and Rhaldon got up a bit unsteadily. One of the things a [Driver] got after a mugging was a drink.
“They didn’t get me—I surrendered, and they were more interested in the wagon. I even got the horses.”
“Did you? Smart lad! Is there a bounty on them? I’ll double it.”
Termin the Omnipresent was furious. But the [Drivers] told him there was no need for that.
“The Watch was already out there, Termin.”
“The Watch? This isn’t Drake lands. Those lazy bastards are probably tipping the [Bandits] off themselves! Who’s—”
“Half’re dead, Termin. All of ‘em might be. The Watch found twelve bodies, and that was only the ones in one piece. Your boy was carrying alchemy goods. One of them popped the lid and blew the rest sky-high. Didn’t you see the smoke on the way in? It’s green, and no one’s to get near it.”
Termin halted, and the other [Drivers] glanced at Rhaldon, who looked slightly unnerved himself. He’d personally visited the crater and seen how much damage had been done.
“Dead gods. They robbed the wrong wagon.”
One of the [Drivers] murmured, and Termin smiled and spat.
“Serves ‘em right. Come here, Rhaldon. And let’s take a look at you. How’re you feeling?”
“I, uh—shaken.”
“My first holdup was like that too. You’re doing just fine. Come on, let’s show you to Erma and Fox or they’ll kick the door down. Come on, lad. Don’t worry about the cargo—you made it. Tell me what they said…”
 
[Driver Level 15!]
