The mugging on the road had shaken him and told him, again, that he didn’t want to be a [Driver]. He wondered how he’d break the news to Termin and decided the older [Driver] didn’t have to know unless it was working for Rhaldon.
He’d just take a vacation after this delivery, a very understandable thing to do, and put his plan into action.
There was just one problem with his idea, and it was that Rhaldon, for all he thought he was good at playing dumb and keeping out of sight—
He didn’t realize that at least a few people had noticed him.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart was drunk.
But not dead-drunk.
Not stupid-drunk.
He was just drunk, and his mind could not stop moving, even when he was staggering around. Sometimes he lay, physically incapable of moving, but thinking.
Thinking, damn him, of everything and anything.
Zeomtoril was one of those people who was a genius in a few hyper-specific things. He absorbed alchemy information, studied metallurgy, the body, and seemingly unrelated fields and found the connections therein. He had no social graces, had all the cunning of a mouse tap-dancing on a trap—he thought he was a sneaky fellow, but Calidus had had to bail him out of trouble more than once.
That was still an enviable kind of genius that had earned him [Genius Polymath] as a class. But the thing was, despite being a [Polymath], the name still implied mastery of a wide variety of fields. Yet Zeomtoril could also still be banned from most gatherings in First Landing because he couldn’t stop staring at an unlaced bodice and commenting about his knowledge of the female anatomy. Wild intellectual genius. Zero social awareness.
Calidus Reinhart, by contrast, was a kind of thinking idiot. He was no genius who could make a Potion of Invisibility or engineer a warship out of toilet paper—but he could understand both if he thought hard enough about it.
He was a man who observed that the clandestine stare was actually less acceptable socially than the ribald, open look, and the self-important comments about a [Lady]’s anatomy did not get you into bed. Worshiping her from head to toe without caring who saw you grovel?
That sometimes worked. In the same way, Calidus thought about things he couldn’t help. He noticed things, and it annoyed him because the world had taken away his [Drunken Oblivion] condition.
 
——
 
The next day, Zeomtoril went downstairs to help himself to the pantry and found Calidus sitting in the banquet hall, drawing on his table with an eating knife.
“So? Who was he?”
“Who?”
The [Genius Polymath] saw the [Lord] look up. Calidus sighed.
“I’m drunk and not drunk enough. Let’s skip the part where you don’t know. I’ve seen him eight times; you change [Drivers] like I change bed partners. You were discussing alchemy yesterday and postulating your ‘theories of purity’—which sounds bad, by the way, you’ll want to change that—and you had him up there for the last hour and a half.”
“So?”
“You chase everyone out of your workshop but me, women, and people who fascinate you. Who was he?”
Zeomtoril looked displeased at being read, despite his longing for someone who could keep up. He poured himself some wine.
“I don’t know. But he’s been educated. He understands the percentage and decimal point where all but [Merchants] and a few others regard it as a mistake.”
“Math? Oh, dead gods, shut up! You’re reminding me of math!”
Calidus put his head in his hands and groaned. Zeomtoril actually tossed his drink at the [Lord].
“Why are you bothering?”
“Because I’m curious, and the thought won’t go away. Even if you douse me in wine! Even if you threw me in a tub of wine with some lovely…no, wait. That would work. I’ll try that later, but I think I’d die.”
“Wh—from the sex?”
Calidus spoke glumly.
“No, because the wine would go through my skin. We had those damn [Assassins] talking about skin contact poison, remember? It follows that if poison seeps through, so does wine. So I might well die of the fumes. I knew a [Drunkard] who used to inhale vapors. He died.”
Zeomtoril paused, his wineglass raised to his mouth. That was an example of how Calidus’ brain worked. Ordinarily, he would have happily passed away in the vat of wine with several unfortunate women, and that would have been the end of him.
“Damn! Damn you, granter of Skills and levels! What a way to go!”
The man hammered his fists on the table. His glorious end! Even his family would have thought it was a stupid death! He slumped in his chair, squeezed his eyes shut, then stared at the ceiling.
“Facts. My ‘spy network’ won’t shut up. They looked into the [Bandits], and they’re likely dead. Just hungry fools.”
“Well, good—”
“For them. Because Termin, a veteran [Driver], is furious, and that was his apprentice.”
Zeomtoril turned to the door Rhaldon had left through.
“He was? Then—”
“Who. Was. He? Termin the Omnipresent is one of the best drivers in Izril and that was his first apprentice.”
“That’s a name? Dead gods, those [Drivers] think much of themselves.”
Zeomtoril snorted, but Calidus was not amused. Termin had been waiting for Rhaldon to escort him back south—you didn’t laugh at good [Drivers]. He could get from First Landing to Invrisil in two days. He could probably have Rhaldon back in Invrisil in a day or less. Calidus spoke darkly.
“[Drivers] have won wars, Zeomtoril. Literal and economic. Anyone over Level 40 puts their fingers on the scales. That fellow could bankrupt a city if he wanted to. And he’s just ‘happening’ to take in Rhaldon? Why? What does he have that’s valuable? Who is he, really?”
The [Polymath] played with his cup, unable to get away from Calidus’ inquiries. He answered reluctantly.
“…An aspiring [Alchemist]. I believe he’s asking other [Alchemists] our craft. Which means I’ll need another damn [Driver].”
That was Zeomtoril. So damn selfish. He didn’t see—Calidus poured more wine over his brows. He ripped his shirt off his head, tossed it to the floor, and off went his pants.
 
——
 
An [Assassin] walking back from whatever clandestine task he’d been about stopped as he saw Calidus put his feet up. A buck naked [Lord], dripping in so much wine he looked like a murder victim, reclining in a chair.
Dead gods, and he’d thought the Assassin’s Guild had been crazy. Word was, the [Lord] had even seduced some colleagues. No one admitted to anything, but everyone was curious how—and how he’d survived.
Or had he spread the rumor to get in bed with the [Assassins]? If so—it was working.
What a strange man. Almost frightening.
 
——
 
“Zeomtoril, next time he comes by, offer him a workspace. Or have one cleared. Or just rent one.”
“Rhaldon? Why? He’s just a [Driver]—”
“Who is the most suspicious man I’ve met. Just do it. Or aren’t you curious to see how he’d do?”
Calidus drank more, wishing a report would come in from the New Lands. Or, frankly, that the [Innkeeper] would do something hilarious or stupid again.
Anything to distract him.
“I want to visit an inn. But it’s too much work to travel, and Aunt Magnolia’s banned us from being prats. Zeomtoril, E4.”
The [Polymath] paused.
“Go fuck yourself.”
“Is the pawn diddling on C4? B6? Do I sense a [Knight] removing her codpiece to…ooh. That’s a lovely image.”
Zeomtoril left as Calidus groaned. But the [Lord] did remember Rhaldon, and he saw something that his mind connected to. He almost, inadvertently, was successful despite his best efforts not to be. However—he was too late.
 
——
 
“I’m just about done. Thanks, Octavia.”
Rhaldon had finished his soup, which he’d been dunking the bread into. There was even butter, and he really should be getting to Pallass.
The beach was gaining even more popularity day after day in The Wandering Inn, so her shop was a rare oasis—and even here, Octavia was working on more sunscreen and itching to get out there. But Rhaldon didn’t really pay attention. He had a sort of wind-blown look that [Drivers] got after driving like hell—and following Termin south at the older driver’s speed had left Rhaldon dizzy. Octavia was considerate, though, and was actually concerned enough not to be running around on the beach.
“No problem. I’m so sorry I kept you busy, but I was just doing a bit of work and, uh—how’s things? I think Termin passed through, and he was saying you got attacked on the road!”
Rhaldon related the story of his assault and the exploding wagon as Octavia put away his supplies. She winced, then looked over her shoulder.
“You sure you don’t want to stay at the beach? It’s really fun, I mean it. Actually—I’ve sort of been out of the shop. At the beach.”
She had sand on what he realized was a kind of swimsuit. Rhaldon hesitated, but he jerked a thumb at the boxes he’d taken into the inn’s hallway outside her shop.
“I have to get this to Xif and Saliss. Unless they’re in the beach?”
“Nope. I’ve seen both, but work does call—after that?”
Rhaldon gulped down his meal slowly. The inn was mostly quiet, but there were a few people about. Everyone must have been in the beach.
“After that…I’m actually free. But I was, uh, going to, um, rent a workspace in Pallass. You can do that, right? To practice a bit of alchemy.”
Octavia turned, and her eyes lit up.
“Rhaldon! Are you serious?”
“A bit.”
“You want to—why didn’t you tell me? I gave you a few lessons, but I could have actually shown you what’s what! You want to rent a space? But I bet you don’t have any equipment or ingredients. It’s not easy—do you want to be an [Alchemist]?”
She grew visibly excited, and Rhaldon muttered.
“Sort of. I’ve actually bought some of the glassware since I go to the vendors, and I have a stock of ingredients. I stored it at the Driver’s Guild in Invrisil…”
Her eyes grew round.
“Wait, so you’ve planned it out? Well—what are you going to make?”
“I’m just going to see if I can do anything. I thought maybe something basic like a stamina potion or—if I have questions, could I ask you?”
“Sure! Absolutely! You know, I bet Xif would give you a discount if you wanted to get lessons from him, or even work in his shop. You’re careful, and he’d just get sad he’s losing a reliable [Driver]. But if you want me to put in a word to him—and the Alchemist’s Guild doesn’t like renting to unknown people—if you get a signed note from him, they’ll waive some of the fees.”
That sounded good, and Rhaldon was just leaving Stitchworks to begin hauling things through the door when he almost bumped into someone. His heart thundered as someone came strolling down the corridor.
“Do, doo, doo𝄞…. Oh, hey, Octavia, and you! What’s up? I was just gonna talk to you, Octavia. And, uh—this is your [Driver], right? The one who brings ingredients without them blowing up.”
A young woman waved at Rhaldon, and he waved back, trying not to visibly hide behind Octavia. But the [Innkeeper] focused on the Stitch-girl, who grinned.
“Hey, Erin! What do you need? This is Rhaldon, by the way. Have you met? Rhaldon…Erin. Don’t be afraid, she doesn’t spit blood.”
Erin scowled at Octavia and flapped her hands, then held out a hand.
“Hey. How’re things? I’m Erin. Sorry if Liska gave you a hard time. Octavia was at the beach, and Liska’s got orders not to let everyone through. She’s like a security guard.”
Octavia turned bright red, and Rhaldon guessed where she’d actually been while he’d been waiting outside the door in Invrisil. He shook Erin’s hand gently, trying to appear…normal.
“I’m Termin’s apprentice-driver, hello. He’s said a lot about you. You have a lovely inn.”
“Thanks! Do you want to stay at the beach? I heard you got mugged, and if anyone deserves a bed, bath, and whatever’s beyond, it’d be you.”
He grinned, but shook his head quickly.
“Thank you, Miss Solstice, but I’m fine.”
“Rhaldon was actually telling me about the [Bandits] getting blown up after robbing his wagon. Which is mildly horrifying…who’s getting that much explosive stuff?”
“Driver-Client confidentiality.”
“Darn. Anyways! He’s going to try his hand at alchemy. In Pallass.”
“Whoa. Cool!”
Erin gave Rhaldon a big smile and looked him up and down. He was relieved she didn’t ask more details. But she did turn to Octavia after a second.
“That’s like when I tried my hand at alchemy. Actually…Octavia, you’re now a beach-person. Why don’t you rent your shop to Rhaldon? He can use it, and I bet it’s warmer here than stupid Pallass. Heck, he can get food from the kitchen. Any friend of Termin’s is a friend of mine. Except Chaoisa. She’s sort of a jerk.”
Erin must have met the Contempt of Man, and her scowl turned into a smile as Octavia visibly hesitated.
“Oh, geez, Erin—I dunno. I mean, you were a nightmare. You melted a hole in my cauldron and floor, and…”
“Don’t talk about me! I sorta went in all guns blazing, Rhaldon. I bet you’re not as crazy as me.”
The [Innkeeper] flapped her hands at Octavia, and Rhaldon flinched, his shoulder twinging. But he kept a straight face as he thought quickly.
“I wouldn’t want to disturb Octavia’s shop…”
“Oh, no, I’ve seen you work. You’re careful, and if you have your own glassware…it’s a thought. I mean, I am sort of busy with Numbtongue…and other things!”
Octavia flushed, and Erin shrugged.
“Just a thought. Hey, don’t overcharge him if you do! But I’ll throw in food and even a room. Again. Mugging sort of sucks, and I owe the Driver’s Guild for—Zanze.”
Her smile vanished, and Rhaldon exhaled. So that was why she was doing it! The [Innkeeper] paused, then gave him finger-guns. The smile didn’t quite return, but she gave the ghost of one.
“Don’t feel pressured, Rhaldon. I’m just crazy. Hasta luego and stuff!”
“Oh, see you.”
She walked off, and Octavia stood there, shaking her head. Then she ran into her shop.
“Erin! Sunscreen! I swear we had enough, anyways—I’ll put it with the rest! That Human is crazy. Even for her species…um, well, she’s right! You could use my shop, Rhaldon.”
“Are you sure?”
She was already opening the door and eying it.
“Of course! There—see that counter there? It’s all cleared. If you wanted to work in the shop for a few days and you cleaned up—I could show you some procedures and make sure you know how things work. Honestly, I’d be happier than you working in some Pallassian alchemy lab with no one to mind you. Can I see you, uh, make a stamina potion? I’ll walk you through it.”
