The skins went into the water, sank into the clear liquid, and sat there. Rhaldon waited, checked his notes, and sighed.
“Here comes the fun part. Stirring.”
Back home, he would have used a stir-bar, which was a tiny little magnet you’d toss into the bottom of a flask. It looked like a little cylinder that was fat in the middle that was made of something non-reactive. The trick that someone had come up with was that since it was a magnet, if there was a second magnet below it—the stir-bar would spin around in the flask.
You could twist a knob, and it’d keep everything moving as long as you had power. It had been very cool to a younger Rhaldon. Now, he longed for one after the first ten minutes of stirring the hot, steaming flask with a glass rod.
The issue of stirring, actually, was another good case-study of how [Alchemists] weren’t up to a universal standard.
 
——
 
Rhaldon had used heavy flasks and clamped things down to prevent the dangers of knocking anything over, and Octavia did the same.
Saliss was an old-fashioned Drake. He stirred by hand.
“[Quickened Mixture]. Another basic time-saving Skill. You’ll get a lot if you go into the job, kid.”
He winked at Rhaldon, who had to stand behind some safety-glass that Saliss had recently installed into his private lab. He let no one in, and as Rhaldon had observed, Saliss was the most safety-conscious [Alchemist].
“So you stir a mixture for…?”
The Drake waved a claw, yawning. And he was holding the flask in his hand.
“Hours. I can do it in my sleep. Or read a book. I need to. The stuff I make? It blows up. I have to watch for the unexpected, and if it’s a high-level potion, the odds of something going wrong midway through? You want to eat a thousand gold pieces of ingredients? Don’t worry about me holding it. Never copy me; I’m burn proof, and I like to feel the temperature changes if this thing isn’t clamped down.”
He waved the tube he was holding as he stirred, and Rhaldon stared. So he actually stirred the entire time. He was a madman.
 
——
 
Xif, by contrast, was another kind of old-fashioned [Alchemist] who had eliminated the need to stir with an unlimited, theoretically tireless resource: apprentices.
“Saliss would stir everything by claw. He hates making apprentices do it—I think he was given too much menial work. But it’s a traditional job for young [Alchemists] to do grunt work. Speaking of which—keep your paws moving!”
He barked left, and the [Apprentices] kept mixing various tonics under his charge. He was making Potions of Warmth too, though his were higher grade. So they were, in fact, called Potions of Cold Resistance.
“So these are the same recipes as the one I have, but they’re called ‘Cold Resistance’ because they’re better?”
Xif chuckled as he subtly blocked Rhaldon’s view of his ingredients. He waggled a finger.
“Sorry, young man, but even for my best delivery driver…my potions are the best-sellers in Pallass. Saliss doesn’t even have better.”
“Because he doesn’t sell his potions to anyone.”
Someone muttered, and Xif’s head snapped around with a glare, but he couldn’t tell who’d said it. He cleared his throat meaningfully.
“A lot of potions are the same effect—but scaled up. You know Potions of Speed? Well, a Potion of Haste is a cut above. [Speed]. [Haste]. Just like the spells and Skills. We have a grading system too…it’s all rough measurements like adventurers love, but there’s a more in-depth way to measure a potion’s magical power.”
“Can you tell me more?”
Rhaldon’s eyes lit up, and Xif indulgently turned from inspecting his materials.
“Oh, of course. Keep working, all of you! Don’t make me look bad in front of my guest…”
 
——
 
Poor hands. Poor apprentices. Octavia was a manual-stirrer too, but Itimen and Zeomtoril had tried to replicate ways to stir without having to do it themselves.
Itimen, that mad fellow, had enacted his method by creating an odd contraption out of wood. It was a system of cranks such that if you ran water into a primitive waterwheel, it would spin—and move a bunch of wooden arms in a circular motion. He had attached it to a river running close by his shop, and the crazy contraption broke down all the time and constantly got stuck.
“I learned it from Pallass! Damn things…but I have new ‘gearies’ coming, and those Dwarves say they can make it better. Anything to save my poor wrist.”
Decades of manual-stirring had given him what Rhaldon suspected was carpal tunnel, and the old man winced when he moved it in the motion. Rhaldon instantly asked if he’d ever done any stretches, and Itimen gamely tried to stretch out his arms.
“Stretching? You young people with your notions. Why would that—aaah, aah, that’s stiff. A massage will do me right. I haven’t had one of those in eight years. I should go, but—my mixture!”
 
——
 
As for Zeomtoril, he had the most logical, if costly, solution. When Rhaldon came back to him on one of his trips and casually brought up the bane of hands, the [Genius Polymath] smirked.
“Ah, southern [Alchemists]. The poor and, dare I suggest, unwashed masses. Let me show you, Driver, why the north can produce enough alchemy…even if I admit quality is sometimes not up to par.”
That was the first time he’d let Rhaldon in his laboratory, and Rhaldon instantly saw how someone with means could do it.
Golems.
Or rather, Golem arms. There were three mounted to plaques on the wall. All they did was stir. Rhaldon stared at the wooden arm nearest him in a kind of horrified fascination.
“It takes some people like that. The horror of dispossessed limbs. Dullahans find it quite aesthetically pleasing. In truth, the arm is not necessary, but House Terland refuses to make a more functional, streamlined limb. I postulated that if the circle-motion is all that’s necessary…well, as you can see, three are quite expensive.”
Even he could only afford three Golem stirring-arms, though that was because more were frankly a waste. Zeomtoril did admit that he’d had more help.
“I, ah, had a Golem assistant. Very handy, if incompetent at anything complex. Keeping them away from delicate work was mandatory, but there are some variants that can be trusted even in a high-level [Alchemist]’s shop. Mine, ah, I had to, er, pawn off owing to financial troubles before I met Calidus. I doubt Saliss would trust one in his laboratory, though.”
“Why?”
Zeomtoril snacked on some old, old shortbread as he replied.
“Oh, some will spy, and he wouldn’t trust a Terland Golem as far as he could throw them. That’s why I don’t compete. There are…unpleasantries in any competition. Back in the day, I heard some idiots tried to off Saliss. These days, only a few [Alchemists] would try. But that would be nothing compared to old feuds. Golems spying for their masters? That’s nothing. They used to slip in fake ingredients, mislabel each other’s works, hire [Assassins]…and that was the uncreative stuff.”
Rhaldon shuddered and made a note not to start a fight. But he had to ask.
“What’s the…what’s the creative stuff?”
Zeomtoril’s eyes gleamed with excitement, and he went over to show Rhaldon a book of old [Alchemists]. Including the Sage of a Hundred Thousand Secrets, his personal spiritual mentor.
“This is the tale of Velzimri, one of the greatest [Sages]—a man of multiple competencies like myself, you understand? He was apparently so wroth with one of his competitors stealing seeds of his Sage’s Grass—he invented the stuff!—that he developed a hunter-killer liquid. It would mimic the look and even reactions of another, innocuous ingredient. Then when you mixed it into something volatile, it would change and—boom!”
“Dead gods.”
“Dead men! And women! What a genius. I’ve tried to make whatever he did, but it was the product of multiple, multiple Skills I have to imagine. Nevermind that. No one has an appreciation for interesting poisons anymore. They just want efficiency, no style or creativity…”
 
——
 
While he thought of stirring, Rhaldon realized the ember salamander skins had finally rendered down.
But, er…
“What a mess.”
Rhaldon stared at the resulting mix in his flask. It was orange, unpleasantly thick, and about as pure as sewer water. He was used to byproducts, but the salamander skins were, well, organic.
They hadn’t perfectly dissolved, so Rhaldon hesitated as he eyed a clump of viscous matter in his flask. His notes said that it was a waste of time to try and do more than dissolve them. Apparently, the fiery salamanders didn’t really render down with more time than this.
And here Rhaldon came to an inflection point in his first project. Because this was the part where he thought that chemistry could pass alchemy.
Every [Alchemist] just took this slurry and moved on to their next step. A few, like Zeomtoril, found ways to isolate the salamanders into a more purified product, but this mixture?
He was staring at dead skin, oils, and probably dirt and other stuff swirling around in the container. Rhaldon stopped stirring, took it off the heat, and stared at it.
If it was me in a lab…I’d want to isolate whatever element of this is actually necessary and chuck the rest. Not just for the efficacity, but because someone was going to drink this.
He decided he should at least try. Fortunately, Rhaldon could and had bought entries from the Guild of Alchemists about his ingredients as well.
 
——
 
The Drake [Clerk] who ran the guild had given him a dirty look, possibly for being Human, possibly for not being Pallassian, possibly because the Drake was just an asshole, but he’d ducked when Xif came strolling by and recognized Rhaldon.
Gnoll or not, Xif was like a celebrity, and so was Saliss, though the other Drake never actually deigned to appear in the Alchemist’s Guild. They were Pallassians before anything else, and the lesser [Alchemists] worshiped the ground under which they walked.
 
——
 
There were multiple ways for a chemist to isolate something they needed, but lacking any kind of knowledge of the compounds he was working with, Rhaldon was also limited by his tools.
He thought there were a few methods. Distillation might work, but he didn’t have the right glassware—that kind of quality work was way beyond his budget. Even though you could hire a [Glassblower] to make almost any tube you wanted, mass-production and thus cheap, easily-accessible glassware was not common.
Like gears for engineering work, Rhaldon supposed. His first attempt was, uh, just to double-check the notes he’d been given.
“Ember Salamander skins have a melting point of 3401º F. As discovered by the [Alchemist of the Ancestors], Loleith Somberwing, in the year of…well, fuck.”
That…was high. So high he was amazed anyone had ever recorded it. They must have used enchanted glass. His beakers would melt before they got that high. Or a ceramic?
Even so, maybe he could purify this into component parts with enough heat? All he needed was a way to separate it, and here alchemy did have what he wanted.
A separatory funnel was a simple teardrop-shaped piece of glass that narrowed to a tiny point at the bottom. If he had two kinds of liquids of different density, like water and oil, he could open a valve on the flask and then pour out the liquid he wanted.
This, again, assumed he could get two different liquids, and Rhaldon’s conclusion after he cranked up the heat was…
He could not.
 
——
 
The salamander slurry refused to separate out at a lower temperature. Rhaldon needed rendered fats and oils, water, and solids, but he didn’t even get that much. It all just…stayed together unhelpfully. What Rhaldon could do was reduce the water content, but that didn’t help. He also managed to get a lot of what he suspected was oil, dirt, and other detritus on top.
“Well, at least I can take that out.”
Rhaldon used a simple spoon, wishing he had a fine sieve or something, to scrape the very clear contaminants out of the mixture. He put them aside, because if for some reason his Potion of Warmth didn’t work—he’d know at least what was actually causing the effect.
“That would be funny if it was all in the fatty oils. I doubt it. Okay.”
Defeated, he moved onto step two, which was his Morning Marigolds. He was a bit sad that he didn’t have an immediate way to fix the salamander skins issue, but knowing it was there was crucial.
Distillation? There were two clear components of the slurry, the liquids and the solid…skin itself. If, in theory, the water was actually the part that was magical, Rhaldon wanted to isolate it, but boiling it away would just make it a gas, and he needed to capture the gas.
That just took more money and specific glassware that he didn’t have. So. Rhaldon moved on, making notes to try it later.
The Morning Marigolds were interesting because they were literal…marigolds. As far as Rhaldon knew, marigolds from his world weren’t magical, though they were useful for skin conditions if he remembered a fact from his mother correctly. She had often competed with her chemist son for knowledge about the world.
The vibrantly fire-orange flowers were beautiful, and doubtless some [Alchemist] had thought that if it looked red, it would warm you up. But they’d been right, because Morning Marigolds were a magical variety that popped up in the plant. About one in every ten thousand marigolds could turn into one if it was exposed to magic.
The key was the glowing pistils in each, and the expensive plants were magical, stem to root to flower.
In his case, he wanted the flower, and Rhaldon had already crushed the dried marigolds into powder after checking for the faint glow.
He felt like this was the least-useful place he could help, and when he added it to the mixture, he saw the steam rising from his flask increased noticeably.
“So there is already a reaction happening. I really wish I could tell if any of this steam is toxic.”
For safety, Rhaldon, of course, had on some big, glass goggles for eye-protection. He’d been glad to know he could get some; [Alchemists] were aware of the dangers, but he would have loved some more PPE, personal protective equipment like a mask.
No, even better, a fume hood. He could probably make one with a bit of help, but it was another feature he had to pay for and design, and he could barely afford all this. So he had to rely on Octavia’s methods. A lot of which involved ducking behind Octavia’s primitive blast shield.
