The [Alchemist] was visibly concerned for Rhaldon’s health, but once she saw him being careful and that he knew how the basics worked, she chewed on her lip and then nodded.
“How about four silver to rent it for each day? That includes food, using my magical burner, and any glassware? If you note what you use, I’ll add it into the price. And Erin can put on four more silver for her rooms and food. Breakfast and dinner.”
That sounded…incredibly reasonable. Rhaldon had saved up six gold coins, and he’d been nervous about the rental fee and registering with Pallass’ guild. If he needed a passport, he’d been afraid he’d have to rush and try to do everything in a day.
“That would be—great, Octavia. Are you sure? Are you not charging me enough?”
She gave him a thumbs up as she pulled at the thread along her neck, embarrassed.
“I’m usually too aggressive on prices. Besides, you’re my best [Driver]. It’s a deal. Let’s call it six days. Six days, and I’ll be on the beach. Erin told me she’s making…another new beach soon, with Ulvama’s help, so I think I’ll be busy. If I nip in, it’ll just be to do a few things like sunscreen, nothing big. Oh—and keep the door closed. Reagen, the cat, is about, and he’s a hassle.”
That was how, despite his best efforts, Rhaldon found himself working in Octavia’s shop for his first alchemy experiments. But he was still confident Erin didn’t know who he was. Definitely. He’d said and done nothing to tip her off, and to her, he was just Termin’s apprentice.
Safe in his anonymity, Rhaldon delivered the rest of his load, then hurried to bring in his equipment and set up for this first real attempt. It might be an amateur’s job, but he set up everything on the stations that Octavia had assigned and ate dinner at the inn.
 
——
 
The night’s meal was dumplings. Hot, with sauces galore to dip in. A beach-crowd was eating ravenously, and Erin was muttering about her new beach, which was going to have a diving platform and be on stilts.
But her guests were still eating here, and Peggy tapped Erin on the shoulder as she looked around.
“Psst, Erin. Who that? He on the list? Also, there’s another stupid person there.”
The Hob was making sure people weren’t sneaking in. Erin glanced at the young man seated in a corner, writing down notes, and at the window.
“Oh, that? That’s Rhaldon. He’s allowed in. Be nice to him.”
“Sure thing. He some driver? Guest?”
“He’s from E—yes. A driver.”
Erin caught herself and then glanced out the window.
“And that’s the poor clam-dude who keeps spying on the inn. Hold on, can you fill a plate with dumplings? Actually, make it four plates. I think I saw a few other [Spies].”
“You should stop feeding them. They come back. Like rats.”
“Well, I hear rats make great pets. Thanks, Peggy.”
Erin twiddled her thumbs innocently, then got back to work. And Rhaldon, who went to sleep that night ready for a full day tomorrow, got the surprise of his life.
 
[Alchemist Level 1!]
[Skill – Basic Alchemy obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Identification (Alchemy) obtained!]
…
[Skill – Advanced Alchemy obtained!]
…
[Skill – Expert Alchemy obtained!]
 
[Skill – Rapid Reaction obtained!]
 
——
 
Huh? What happened yesterday?
When Rhaldon sat up in bed, he was certain he’d never heard a Skill get…erased like that. And he was an [Alchemist]?
Already?
Even if he was Level 1, it was like something had been waiting for him to begin work. It had decided, somehow, that Rhaldon’s expertise meant he was already gifted with [Expert Alchemy]—and two other Skills!
[Basic Identification] wasn’t much use. Most [Alchemists] got it, and it told Rhaldon things about the world that were debatably useful.
Like…he stared at his cup in the morning and realized it was made of glass. And the water in it was water.
Amazing. On the other hand, it would be invaluable if he had two white powders and couldn’t tell them apart. Not that you ever wanted to be in that situation, but Rhaldon saw the benefit.
But Rhaldon tried the Skill on a pile of dirt he scraped up from under the snow and got ‘dirt’. So it probably meant that he needed a higher level of the Skill before it told him more helpful stuff. Dirt could encompass clay, various ashes, and more.
As for [Rapid Reaction]…he hoped he could turn that one on and off. Or he might get some weird, and potentially dangerous, reactions happening due to the chemical kinetics. Regulating pressure by regulating ‘speed’ would be useful in a very controlled experiment. Conversely, he bet it would be most useful in shortening a long procedure.
Octavia was mildly impressed that Rhaldon had the class when he told her, though he pretended he’d just been trying his hand at alchemy before this.
“Well, now I know you’re serious. [Rapid Reaction]’s nice. [Basic Alchemy] means you’ll know your way around the shop. I’m getting out of your hair! I know what it’s like…aah, my hair!”
She hurried off and then ran back for a new hairstyle she was going to change into. Rhaldon still wasn’t quite over Stitch-peoples’ ability to replace body parts, but he began to wish for it now as he looked around the laboratory.
“Okay. Here I am. I’m ready. I’m all alone, and…it’s time to do this. I’m not doing anything crazy. Just breathe and follow what you know. Okay.”
He felt weirdly nervous his first time doing this, and he’d been a research assistant! But the nerves were a good sign. It meant he was taking this seriously. In fact, Rhaldon was going to take copious notes, and he only wished his smartphone had juice. If it did, he’d record himself working so he could critique himself and contrast.
He wondered how the laptop seemed to always be charged. At any rate, Rhaldon was building himself a lab procedure, and he was working so hard that even a certain Goblin took pity on him.
Gothica kicked open a cupboard, and Rhaldon screamed. She crawled out, waving at him.
“Sorry. Don’t is scared. Was going to scare Ishkr. Have fun.”
She walked out, and Rhaldon stood there, heart pounding out of his chest for a few minutes. Only when he heard Ishkr screaming in the basement did he come back to himself.
Okay. Back to it. The best way for Rhaldon, a chemist, to enter into the world of alchemy was to contrast what it was like doing a lab procedure back home. His goal for today?
Make a Potion of Warmth.
It was one of the simplest potions an [Alchemist] could make, and yet it was highly useful to prove whether he could do this. And crucially…it was drinkable, so he had better get it right.
Now was, perhaps, a good time for Rhaldon to appreciate the fact that this world had a precursor to Earth’s chemistry glassware.
The first thing he set up was an Erlenmeyer flask and burner, which were essentially the workhorses of modern alchemy. No one called it an Erlenmeyer flask—or volumetric flask. They had their own names, although some [Alchemists] had distressing terms like ‘that triangle one’ or ‘the tube thing’. But that was Rhaldon’s setup. Well, that and a mortar and pestle.
As a research assistant, processing ingredients wasn’t something he was unfamiliar with, but [Alchemists] would actually skin animals, grind bones up, and extract what they needed by hand if they had to. Functionally, they hired dedicated [Butchers] or other specialists to get most of their ingredients.
However, it was when he switched on the burner that the magic began, literally. Because Octavia was no longer the poor [Alchemist] who had to rely on a very small, contained flame in what was essentially a lantern.
She had upgraded to…heating runes. Heating runes, which you could toggle by pressing your finger against the spell circuit worked into the wood counter. Rhaldon admired the beautiful, almost horseshoe-like design and put that one on Earth’s level.
Hot plates. Arguably—even more compact than his world’s. Although, he noted as he passed his hand over the surface—
Heats slower. Plus, Octavia had told him that if he needed to get something to a really hot boil, he should use an actual flame and charcoal.
So it seemed that Earth won against magic, at least the kind Octavia would have, in output. Nevertheless, this was how most potions were made. You heated water up—then you tossed your first ingredient in.
Next, Rhaldon consulted his recipe, his legitimate, Guild of Alchemists in Pallass-bought recipe. And he stared at it for a long time.
 
Warming Potion (Low-Grade)
-3 Adult Ember Salamander Skins (bones and organs unnecessary)
-A ‘flask’ of water (freshwater)
-5+ Morning Marigolds (check for magical, glowing pistils. Add more for effect.)
-Sage’s Water, candle’s glow of magic.
 
He’d added the parts in parentheses. This was a single slip of paper where you could buy an actual book’s worth of recipes, notes on alchemy ingredients; essentially, you paid for all the available, public knowledge of [Alchemists].
But it, uh.
Wow.
The problem was this was apparently so standard that Xif and Octavia had both said it was a bit vague, but appropriate for any [Alchemist] to use.
Saliss had just laughed at it, which said that he probably understood why Rhaldon grimaced.
The problem was—impreciseness. There were no units of measurement, or if there were—
Three adult salamander skins? That didn’t tell Rhaldon how much. Every [Alchemist] would have a different amount, and maybe it didn’t matter, sure, and you got the result. But it was wasteful, and the fact that the water was just ‘freshwater’ was crazy to Rhaldon.
Did you want distilled water? Was there an actual difference between some kinds of water? Chemists tried to even make sure their water was constant—every single well might give you wildly different results. They used deionized water, but Rhaldon could imagine there was even more nuance here.
He wasn’t going to even address the Sage’s Water thing; he’d have to see it when he came to it.
“So this is why alchemy is where it is. Even if they want to share things—and there are worse recipes out there?”
Rhaldon got to work with a sigh. He opened a jar and began to pull out several long, orange-and-red pieces of dried skin. Salamanders, harvested from the town of Romswicht, where natural hot springs and volcanic activity attracted the precious things.
He felt vaguely bad for them, since thousands were killed and harvested each month. Was the harvesting sustainable, especially in the winter?
Well, he had three, and now Rhaldon came to his first problem.
Measurements. He consulted his notes and grimaced again—because he had noticed this world adopted the imperial, US system of measurements except in one place.
 
 
——
 
“Grams? Yep. We use those. Why?”
Rhaldon stopped writing down terms as he looked at Xif.
“Grams? But grams are…”
Metric. He was exceptionally grateful, because he’d feared that he’d be converting—if he even could remember the damn formula—ounces and other bullshit into formulas he recognized. But Xif seemed to think it was normal.
“Oh, you must think we’re talking about ounces. That’s for [Drivers] and people who work with, uh, water and such, actually. Not that they generally measure things, but it’s ounces, pounds, stones, and hundredweight.”
Horrifying. But it seemed [Alchemists] did know how to talk Rhaldon’s language.
“So you know grams? What about…moles?”
“I’ve never used one in alchemy! Hah! Er…was that an actual measurement?”
Xif laughed, and Rhaldon’s heart sank, but the Gnoll reassured him.
“Oh, we know liters. My, you do know [Alchemist] measurements. Which is good. To your point about salamander skins being imprecise language…it’s happened. Generally, we mark deliveries as ‘Alchemist-only’, but there have been bad incidents. Someone sends a Jar of Lightning to some poor damn [Builders] because they forgot the ‘n’.”
He shook his head as Rhaldon shuddered. But it happened on Earth, too. He knew a story about someone delivering germanium gas to a local garden center because they thought it was geraniums. Caution was essential. And the measurements this world used?
Confusing! Rhaldon scratched his head and realized something was off instantly. These metric units that chemists used were SI Units, standardized units that even the United States used because, well, it would be stupid for them to stick to their system of measurement in this case.
So why did [Alchemists] use this system if the world used the very rare imperial system only common in a few countries, including the USA? And why do they use Fahrenheit over Celsius if they switched over everything else?
Something was up. It was, to Rhaldon, as if someone had imported laws from America straight into this world. And realized quickly that it didn’t work with alchemy. Almost…his back crawled as Xif found a little sheet for him to use as a reference guide…
Almost as if someone had been observing Earth.
 
——
 
“…Looks like 156 grams. Give or take.”
One of Rhaldon’s purchases was a very primitive scale he was using to weigh the salamander skins. But it was imprecise, and he was just moving a little slider around to balance the scales. He didn’t like it, but lacking anything better…
The water was boiling by now, and he had a choice to make. The recipe just said huck the salamander skins into the water, and some [Alchemists]—like Itimen—didn’t even wash their ingredients.
Rhaldon did wash the salamander skins. In fact, he even cleaned them of dirt and diced the salamanders up with a knife to make sure they’d render down.
Now, Rhaldon was not someone who liked handling dead things. He was not into that area of chemistry, and while he’d done dissections before…he should have been fat-fingering the knife.
Instead, he was so smooth and fast that he caught himself and realized he was navigating an unfamiliar laboratory—Octavia’s workstation—as if he had been here a month. He almost knew where she kept all the things he needed. Instead of wasting time hunting around for something like a wayward soul in someone else’s kitchen, Rhaldon felt like he owned this space.
That was [Expert Alchemy], and it gave him a huge surge of confidence. He even felt like he was ‘checking’ the beakers and put one aside to tell Octavia it had a hairline crack in it. Rhaldon might not have realized it, but one Skill was already putting him far ahead of what any junior [Alchemist] could manage.
And yet, he was still a novice at the actual process itself. So while Rhaldon cleaned and diced the skins, he was nervous that he might take out a necessary oil in the process if he scrubbed, so he decided that was the most he’d do. His job was to compare the alchemical method to his own.
