Centrifuges or filtration. Both were low-tech, efficient ways of separating things out. The problem was…Rhaldon had no idea how to build a centrifuge. He had the notion you could probably make one out of a dryer or jerry-rig a version on Earth. If he had access to any modern home, he’d give it a shot.
He did not have access to a modern home. Nor did Rhaldon have the support or know-how in engineering or magic to give it a try. He would rather go for a solution he could effect immediately before delving into building contraptions.
As for filtration…a coffee filter or anything that close should work. Rhaldon bought some thin gauze used in bandages, the closest he could get to a filter, and layed it up a bit. Then he tried to filter the salamander slush he always got.
The simplest method didn’t work. Nor, privately, had Rhaldon really expected it to. If filtration could ‘solve’ salamander skins, he imagined someone like Octavia would have come up with the solution long ago. However, Acid-Base neutralization was an advanced concept for this world that only someone like Saliss knew about. That was Rhaldon’s chance, in his mind. The laws of chemistry were simple: nothing ‘vanished’. Whatever was there, was always there.
If he dissolved the ingredients in acid, either the resulting gas or the liquid from the mixture would contain the essence of warmth he needed.
The issue was just that the essence may be mixed with, uh—acid.
But here was the thing! Where [Alchemists] said, ‘yep, that’s stupid, let’s find another way’, chemists said ‘ooh, an acid? Just neutralize it’.
You could neutralize acids. Even Saliss thought it was stupid, but he readily admitted that he was on the melting side of things, although a strong base was as dangerous as acid, really.
Saliss regarded them as the same thing, not really understanding the pH-scale. He knew bases and acids were different and did damage in different ways, but not always why or the scale that Earth had.
Rhaldon hoped it was the same, because he was about to try some very unsafe potion making. Not that he’d drink it without a lot of checks, but he was also handling acid.
He was afraid it would cost a lot, afraid he wouldn’t find out how to neutralize it, and frankly, afraid he’d spill it even though he was used to the correct procedures. He could use any number of bases from Earth, from wood ash to carbonates, but this wasn’t like acids from home. The lab conditions were dicier…and what if magical acid refused to play the same way?
Fortunately or unfortunately—there was a huge supply of cheap acid nearby, and Saliss directed Rhaldon to his ‘dealer’.
The figure wore a black hood, and it half-shadowed their face. Their voice was low, gravelly, and they coughed twice.
“Hey. You the person looking for acid? I got some here. You never saw me, understood?”
Rhaldon stared at Erin Solstice as she sat with her feet up on a table. She produced a green jar of very acid-looking acid.
“Whatsamatter, huh?”
“H-how do you have acid?”
Erin Solstice glanced up, and her face fell when she saw Rhaldon wasn’t getting into the spirit of things.
“Aw, come on. I had to borrow this black hood and everything! It’s a long story. Ever seen an Acid Fly?”
“A—what?”
There were acid-spitting ants on Earth, but Rhaldon had never heard of the non-winter pest that had an abdomen filled with acid. He was worried it was therefore impure, but it was definitely dangerous.
“It’ll eat through tons of stuff until it goes away. Metal, glass…that’s what doesn’t get eaten. Everything else? You drop this on your foot, your leg’s gone before you know it. Are you sure you need it?”
Why was she waving it around? Why was she—Erin Solstice saw Rhaldon’s look of concern and stopped.
“I don’t even like selling it to adventurers, though some people do ask for it. Whatcha making?”
“I’m trying to upgrade my Potion of Warmth.”
Erin paused, and a genuine look of concern spread over her face.
“Right. Interesting. Now, hear me out, Rhaldon. This is acid. You drink Potions of Warmth or you put them over your skin. I’m not saying I want to tell you how you want to do things…”
He grew a tiny bit exasperated as she gave him a hard time. Rhaldon cleared his throat, flushing.
“I know what I’m doing, Miss Solstice. I—I do know.”
He expected her to object, but Erin just paused a long moment, then looked Rhaldon up and down. After a second, she pushed the jar slowly across the table.
“I guess you do. Okay, but Octavia’s going to get nervous herself, and I do want to make sure you know what’s up. Are you borrowing her shop?”
This time, even Rhaldon paused, because Erin was being a bit too helpful. He tried to read her face for…anything. Did she know who he was?
Erin gave Rhaldon a blank look, and he hesitated. Maybe she was just this nice to everyone? He couldn’t read her face, and after a second, she winked.
“What are we sitting around for? Let’s go do some acid! But not literally. Again, that stuff is scary.”
“Erin, I, um…”
Rhaldon began, and the [Innkeeper] looked back at him.
“Let’s go through the garden. My back hurts.”
A door opened, closed, and Rhaldon followed her through as she bustled around her beach. The spies lost track of Erin, and Rhaldon, Termin’s apprentice, stared as they traveled through part of the inn. He stopped for a second, and Erin turned her head.
“What’s that? Oh, don’t mind that. That’s just a blackboard with some things on it.”
Like…a huge picture of Earth. Like a periodic table, mostly unfilled. Rhaldon’s heart began to pound. Then he saw Erin put a finger to her lips.
“Everyone’s got their reasons, Rhaldon. I’d stay quiet. They’re watching, and if they don’t know you—keep it that way. Got it? Only talk to me in my garden. You’ve done a good job, and frankly, I think they expect me to shout out every Earther I find. Termin also helped, whether he knows or not. No one looks at [Drivers].”
She patted him on the arm. Then winked.
“Well, except me.”
 
——
 
Rhaldon bought two things in preparation for his next trials.
Acid from Erin Solstice and an entry from the Guild of Alchemists on everything they knew about Acid Fly acid—and how to neutralize it.
Unfortunately, even though Rhaldon shelled out an entire gold piece for full access, the records were very, very sparse. He came away with two methods to neutralize the acid that he could afford, though neither of which he liked.
According to the Alchemist’s Guild, there were several fairly mid- to high-level substances you could manufacture that neutralized Acid Fly acid.
Which sucked because the least expensive would cost him seventeen silver pieces for a tiny bottle, took two days to make, and would require him traveling around to get some fairly annoying bases that required mixing together to form an anti-acid substance.
He wanted a cheaper solution if this acid became a stand-to in isolating a valuable reagent in alchemy. And the guild did have two methods that both used a single ingredient.
He tried both.
First, Rhaldon placed the salamander skins in water and boiled them. Unlike last time, he had connected the flask he was using into the distiller, and the glass tube ran into a second flask, trapping water vapor.
He then poured as little acid as possible into the mixture, before he felt like it had completely dissolved the salamander skins.
Now, at this point, he had either collected the essence of warmth in the acidic mixture or the resultant gas, which had formed a slightly yellow residue in the second flask.
Rhaldon hoped it was the residue. He mixed it into a Potion of Warmth, following the other steps, then took the mixture to Xif, who had agreed to help him.
The Gnoll was lying on the beach, trying to flirt with a few passing Gnolls and falling flat on his face. Half of them just sniffed at the rather alchemically pungent Xif and walked on. Others were spoken for.
“Krshia! It’s lovely weather! Would you care to sit? Or play some volleying of the ball?”
“I’m sorry, Alchemist Xif, another time, yes?”
The grey-furred Gnoll grinned and nodded as Krshia trotted by, then sagged in his beach chair.
“It’s always another time. Oh, Rhaldon. Hello. Is that the Potion of Warmth? [Detect Poison]. [Detect Acid]. It’s not either.”
He lay there, dead, and Rhaldon hesitated. He doubted the runoff from the acid was going to kill him, then, but it might still make him sick even if it wasn’t poison. He gingerly did a skin-test, saw nothing happened after five minutes, and then, hearing all his safety instructors screaming as one, took a sip. Instantly, Rhaldon sighed.
“No good?”
“…Lizardwater.”
It was weak, had no warming powers, and tasted like burnt lizardwater and flowers. Better than the actual Potion of Warmth—but it was clear that Rhaldon knew where the magic was.
In the acid.
 
——
 
It was a brown color now, thanks to the green acid meeting the orange salamander skins. Not muddy-brown—that would be a sign he needed more acid to dissolve the salamander skins.
Well, now came the part Rhaldon feared. He re-donned his protective gear, put on some leather gloves that would give him a second to get the acid off him if he spilled it, and stared grimly at the acid.
“You and me. I’ve separated a thousand acids before this. I’ll do it in this world.”
He didn’t realize he had an audience. Nerry the Sariant Lamb and Shaestrel were idly watching him in one corner of the lab, and they were more interested in the chemist’s methods than the beach.
Rhaldon had to trust to the Guild of Alchemists in Pallass, first. They had vouchsafed that the most reliable way to neutralize an acid, if least immediate and cost-effective, was to absorb the qualities of acid.
That wasn’t a chemical term. They meant literally absorb it.
How Rhaldon did this was by taking a glob of magicore, the expensive stuff that came from Salazsar, Orefell, and places like Yolden, and dunking it into the mixture.
It instantly began to take on the properties of the acid, turning bright green, and Rhaldon noticed the metal tongs began to melt after a second.
“Oh, shit! The notes didn’t mention—!”
The pure magicore was more acidic than the acid itself! A tiny bit turned bright green, and Rhaldon dunked it in a bowl of glass filled with water.
This time, the magicore didn’t release acid into the water. It just sank through the bowl…and began melting through the glass.
Acid magicore could etch metal. It only stopped when it burnt out and turned black—or ran into enchanted material or Mithril. By the time Rhaldon stopped it with one of Octavia’s special jars, it had burned a hole straight through the edge of her table.
That made him sit there and cover his face until his heart stopped pounding. The instructions from the Alchemist’s Guild had not indicated that. He furiously marked that down in his own notes and began to wonder just how good Pallass’ Guild was.
Both Zeomtoril and Itimen weren’t part of Guilds, being renegades or experimenters, but Saliss and Xif were members in good standing, and even Octavia had joined Pallass’ Guild. But that?
Highly suspect.
At any rate, the resultant mixture might have been neutralized of acid, but—unfortunately—the acid magicore had eaten a hole in the flask. Rhaldon hadn’t noticed in trying to stop it from burning a hole through Erin’s inn, but when he came back after taking a break, the liquid had spilled onto the floor, and Nerry was beating up Reagen, who was trying to lap it up.
The Sariant Lamb might have saved the silly cat’s life, and Rhaldon cleaned it up, then apologized to Octavia, who forgave him—mostly because she was shouting at Numbtongue about keeping his cat out of Stitchworks.
 
——
 
The magicore was not going to work. Even a glob smaller than his palm had cost four gold coins! The entire bonus for doing Zeomtoril’s delivery and selling the postcards. Apparently, pure magicore that would completely neutralize something and absorb it, becoming fire magicore or even light magicore, was expensive the purer it got.
He could buy ‘cheap’ magicore, but it’d still leave the mixture fairly acidic. Rhaldon wrote that idea off. The issue was that this was meant to be drunk.
So—move two, and that was simply to feed the acid until it burnt out. To do that, he took the most simple thing that the Guild recommended: charcoal.
Charcoal was a known quantity to Rhaldon. He wondered if it might be too effective, but he had to trust alchemy and the Guild recommended it, so he’d use it. His background in geology made Rhaldon wonder if slaked lime would work. But finding limestone to make quicklime and soda ash was too much work, especially in the winter. For now, charcoal.
Charcoal was a [Smith]’s tool, so there was plenty in Esthelm that came via Invrisil and Pallass. Rhaldon had to buy the highest-grade stuff, then smash it up and wash it, again and again, sieving it until it was the fine powder that he wanted.
It took hours, and he reflected that [Remove Impurities], Itimen’s Skill, was very useful despite its flaws. Then—Rhaldon did the only thing he needed to do.
He poured charcoal into the mix, watched it bubble and be consumed, poured more in, and more—until he could insert a hotdog and it didn’t start to melt. Then he poured more in just to be sure.
The problem with this method was that the amount of charcoal to neutralize the acid was about three times the amount of acid used, so Rhaldon got another damn slurry that he had to add water to, or it would cease being a liquid. When he was done, the gritty, foul substance needed draining.
The method was, again, simple in theory but not execution. On Earth, Rhaldon would have used a rotary evaporator to suck all the liquid out and thus have his product.
In this world, he knocked on Saliss’ door, but the Drake was gone, and his cousin, Onieva, had no idea where he was.
“Evaporating a bunch of wet charcoal? There are spells for that, but you’d need an [Enchanter]. Something tells me you need a lower-level solution.”
She winked at him, and he went away, sighing.
 
——
 
The lower-level solution was for Rhaldon to take a funnel, fill it with cotton and sand, dump all the coal-salamander-acid crap in a huge jar, and start draining it with more water.
This was why he’d delivered mundanities like cotton and sand to Octavia; they, like charcoal, were filtration vehicles. In this case, Rhaldon just sat there, staring as water dripped out of the funnel, slowly passing through the sand, which caught and filtered the liquid.
