She tossed it, and Rhaldon watched it skip across the water in huge arcs. Then he heard a smack, and it went ricocheting back across the water as it hit the far wall of the garden in the distance. Erin looked extremely pleased with herself.
“What was that?”
“Oh, [Witch] magic. I’ve been training a bit, but I’m mostly using the power of gardens. I don’t have time to do things the [Witch]-way. Their craft takes time, and the Winter Solstice is coming up. On that day, I want you and Termin to be somewhere far away, got it?”
She hadn’t asked him to stay. He was guilty…and surprised.
“But what about a laboratory?”
“Do you want one? Are you making one?”
“I need one. But—I was thinking that Itimen, Zeomtoril—even Octavia talking to Xif and Saliss as much? It wouldn’t have happened without me. I mean—that sounds arrogant, but this was still a collaboration of them giving me ideas. And I showed them all what I did. What I meant was…”
Erin nodded encouragingly.
“No, no, I get it. That mattered. If you become an [Alchemist], sitting by yourself and not talking to them would be hard. What about speaking stones?”
Rhaldon shook his head, not to deny them outright, but because he was formulating a kind of idea.
“…I think I need to visit them. It’s more than just knowing them. I noticed the lack of Potions of Warmth on the road, and the food problems. You know, it’s really bad because so many armies are buying up food north and south of Izril.”
“What food problems? Potions of Warmth?”
Erin lost her smile. Rhaldon realized she didn’t know.
“[Drivers] have been buying grain and bringing it to Liscor, Erin. There’s at least one or two armies in the area.”
“Liscor. Pallass. More. We’re making the food shortage worse. The New Lands…what do you mean, farms were burned? Who did it? Not the idiots chasing Vampires. That sounds too old.”
Rhaldon stared at Erin.
“Vampires?”
She waved a hand vaguely.
“Don’t worry about them too much. They’re not the worst thing by far. You’re right, Rhaldon. I had no idea what was going on. You should keep mobile. But how? No, nevermind that. The point is that Saliss needs to talk to you. Do you agree he’s one of the best [Alchemists] in the world? I trust him. Morally, even though he is Named-rank. I trust him to do the right thing.”
Rhaldon thought of Saliss giving him advice and watching out for him.
“So do I. He’s talented. I don’t even know how he managed to capture argon without modern technology.”
Erin’s poise faded a second, and she raised a hand as if she were back in class.
“Capture what?”
“Argon.”
“Is that…what’s argon?”
“A noble gas.”
“Aah. Chemistry. You know, I memorized the periodic table for class, but it went totally out of my head. Why would argon be useful? As opposed to, I dunno, hydrogen for flying and stuff?”
Rhaldon had distinct opinions about using hydrogen for flying, but he did elaborate.
“Argon’s a non-reactive gas, Erin. Unlike oxygen. I was doing some thinking—some of the troubles [Drivers] have with Corusdeer horns? It could be mitigated if the horns were in the middle of an argon-filled canister.”
“Because…”
“Because oxygen is reactive. Argon isn’t.”
“Oh! Wait, that’s so smart. And chemists do that…wait, is that how a lot of chemists do things?”
“Yep. You can do more with argon too. Sputter coating…well, I don’t know why I’d want to try that, but I know it’s a possibility. Someone else would have to tell me how it’s useful, though.”
Erin nodded a few times and then shook her head, trying to process everything.
“Yes. Saliss is the person to talk to about stuff like this. Argon-based transport? Smart. Back to your future because I feel totally out of my depth. So you should be mobile. Practicing alchemy, which means a workshop, and combining this with talking with Saliss and other [Alchemists]. What’s the end-goal?”
Rhaldon didn’t have to think.
“Overturning how alchemy works. Collaborating. Building an institution, or at least, a habit of sharing accurate data. For example, writing up a manual for Drivers to understand how dangerous an item is. Not just how to handle each one, but there’s an idea from Earth—the NFPA’s codes and standards.”
Erin already had a hand in the air. Rhaldon answered for her.
“That’s the National Fire Protection Association. You’ve probably seen their work. You color-code materials based on whether they’re flammable, reactive, need protective equipment…”
The [Innkeeper] was nodding.
“Standards and guidelines. I get it. I’ll help fund that. I have a [Mathematician] and connections. You need it, you’ll get it. We’ll have to keep you secret. You’ll be a cool [Driver] I know. If these lines increase—we have a problem. Hey. Why the heck are all these little grey ones here?”
She noticed new ones sprouting from Rhaldon and waved at them.
“Shoo, shoo—see? Word spreads. They don’t look that hostile, though. Lucky you.”
Rhaldon tried not to worry about it too hard.
“I also want to meet with Geneva Scala. I want to go across Izril or maybe even farther, Erin. I like seeing places. But I want to be safe.”
She tilted her head.
“So you wanna be safe, travel and connect with other [Alchemists]. You need a lot of money for a lab…but you can’t be in the lab.”
Rhaldon’s smile was nervous. Even for Saliss, paying for all the things Rhaldon needed might be a lot. He could improvise all the things he’d thought of with effort. A fume hood, a centrifuge, altering traditional alchemy equipment, and definitely trying known formulas from his world and creating ethanol and whatnot…but it required money.
So much money he was nervous. But Erin just clapped him on the shoulder.
“Okay. Let’s do it. I’ve got some ideas on how we can secure funding.”
“You do? And you’re willing to help? But how can I repay…?”
He was envisioning a contract or something with Erin, but she just took his shoulder. When she stared into his eyes, he realized she was…intent. Serious. Desperate?
“Rhaldon. Let me help. We don’t have much time. I might not be able to help after the Winter Solstice. You haven’t survived a Solstice, have you?”
His heart leapt in fear. Erin nodded. She searched him up and down.
“…Somewhere safe. I’ll tell you—no, I’ll get Ryoka to tell you what to watch out for. You don’t have to be part of this. You shouldn’t. But we need to get you a start. Let’s talk to Saliss.”
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights sat with Rhaldon, and the secret of Earth was in the open now. It had been uncomfortable to talk about, like something hidden that you should whisper over and keep to quiet places.
But the times were changing, and now, Felkhr was openly showcasing flying machines. If he still felt possessive and secretive and protective, that was the Walled Cities, the Drake in him talking. Erin was cautious for Rhaldon’s sake.
There was a fourth collaborator in this room, a third ally and sponsor of Rhaldon’s, who understood what he was. Who saw what he might be. And who approved and endorsed him wholeheartedly.
Valeterisa, the Archmage of Wistram, had never believed in secrecy or hiding. In fact, she was reading his notes as she spoke.
“Of course, he should have everything he wants. Where were you at Wistram? Why didn’t you come first? They were busy making cakes when you would have standardized alchemy.”
She gave Rhaldon a vaguely accusatory look as if it were his fault for not being chosen by whatever system was selecting Earthers. Perhaps it couldn’t tell the difference between other types of achievement and his.
But she saw it. And her hands trembled over his notes.
“Magirite.”
“That’s a measuring system, but no one knew how to do it. Can you show me how to…?”
“Yes. Of course. [Mages] refuse to keep to it, to write things down. As if we’re [Sorcerers]. I can show you how to measure it.”
“So can I.”
Saliss of Lights sat with arms folded, and Valeterisa glanced at him. The [Alchemist] raised his brows as Erin swiveled in her seat.
“You can, Saliss?”
“I measure my explosions. How else do I tell whether or not a formula is getting all the magic I want out of it? I want Rhaldon to count all the things I’ve never dreamed of. Everything he makes, I want a copy of. He’ll push alchemy forwards and revolutionize the guilds with their hidebound thinking. But I’ll always be ahead of them, no matter what. I need to balance the old alchemy of Albez with chemistry of Earth. At last. I see my path forwards.”
The Drake leaned forwards, and they were shouting at him like a storm. Valeterisa turned frankly envious eyes upon Saliss, because she could almost see it, as they sat in Erin’s personal garden where she’d put some chairs around the Sage’s Grass and Faerie Flowers Valeterisa kept stealing samples of.
Like a sea of dedicated fans, an audience cheering on a hero. Saliss stood between the two worlds who called his name. He had found the principles of chemistry by himself, mastered alchemy in its modern incarnation.
Take us further. If only Valeterisa had been so nakedly chosen as the Drake. So badly needed, with such a clear path. And if only she had been loved…
Erin’s eyes were sad while Valeterisa’s were envious.
If only Saliss had been allowed to be the pure innovator. What a waste Chaldion had been towards those two worlds.
The Archmage turned back to Rhaldon, and she saw the same force she envied. She held up his plans.
“Glasswork. Gardening. Superior identification in mineralogy, mining. Teaching standards. Enforcing and defining them. This requires systems of learning beyond what Izril, nay, Wistram knows. It will be the work of a lifetime. I wish I could devote all my energy towards it, but magic needs me.”
It was the first time she’d ever said something like that. Valeterisa was searching for something too. She had seen the need for magic to be beautiful, understood the art in what she considered a science.
“You won’t be alone. There are teachers. People like Yelroan. [Mathematicians]. Teachers. Have you met Agratha? I only wish I could help.”
“You could.”
Saliss, Rhaldon, and Valeterisa chorused. Rhaldon’s head was spinning with ideas, but even he agreed.
“You could start learning, teach yourself—”
“No.”
Erin shook her head. Not even that sadly.
“I’m too busy. It’s not my passion. And standards and that kind of thing suck.”
They gave her such a flat look that the [Innkeeper] put up her hands.
“Listen to me. This will take a long time. It’s Rhaldon’s adventure, not mine. I’m just the connector. The glue that holds things together.”
“The Sage’s Grass in every potion? Boring as shit, but there.”
Saliss smiled, and Valeterisa nodded. Erin hesitated.
“…That’s not how I wanna be described. Listen. Plan your fancy schmancy ways of keeping in touch and standardizing and stuff. I bet Laken will want to be in on it. I bet Chaldion has room in his budget for this. Be secretive—you can do that, Valeterisa?”
She was most worried about the Archmage, but Valeterisa looked insulted as she fiddled with her glasses.
“Of course I can. Rival mages steal everything. But what are you doing? Saliss, we should have Erin followed in case she tries to sell our secrets. Wait, did I not whisper that quietly enough?”
She leaned over, and Saliss grinned. Erin just snorted and rolled her eyes. Rhaldon was laying out why he wanted such precise measurements.
“I want a laboratory. An amazing one.”
“Your first laboratory. What’s it going to have, kid?”
Saliss and Valeterisa sighed with the nostalgia of two apprentices who had also gotten their first laboratory, their own domain. Rhaldon gestured at his wildest dreams as they leaned in.
“Obviously all kinds of protective gear. Fume hoods, blast shields—Saliss has a lot of good versions of that. But I want to test even more theories. Like—what about a custom-made room that you can seal, not just for safety, but make a magic-free zone. Or magic-filled?”
“Why would you do—?”
Erin interrupted, and Saliss’ eyes lit up.
“Magic-free? To completely isolate magic from your alchemy? Wait, are we getting magical bleed from all our other ingredients? I’ve thought of that, but nullifying magic is a pain! If we just cast [Anti-Magic Ward], it’d kill our alchemy. Neutralizing it…”
Valeterisa was thinking.
“Maybe magicore in all the walls and floor. But the magicore would need cleansing. I have not thought to erase magic, only amplify it.”
Rhaldon pointed out the obvious.
“Amplifying it comes after establishing a baseline.”
“Of course.”
“Obviously.”
Saliss sat back as if he suddenly felt stupid and naïve. Valeterisa was muttering about altering her own work environment. Erin…had nothing to add so she waved a hand.
“Hey, y’know, Drevish talked about magicore in my new inn. That’s sorta cool…”
They looked at her. Saliss leaned over.
“Let’s steal her design plans for your new lab, Rhaldon.”
“Hey. Well, actually, I do want to lay out my lab differently. There are things [Alchemists] do in this world that aren’t perfect. In an ideal situation…”
Saliss took a breath and braced himself, as if waiting for a blow and being determined not to get defensive. But the blow never landed like he expected. The arrogance of Earth he feared from chefs, snooty chess players, and everything else…Rhaldon was just explaining.
“I want to reorganize how a laboratory is laid out in my lab. I’m mostly worried about how I saw Zeomtoril and especially Itimen storing ingredients. They need to keep reactive materials away from each other for safety reasons.”
“Oh, Zeomtoril probably has an obsessive categorization system, Itimen’s just crazy. Makes sense…and Zeomtoril uses his useless powdering method.”
Rhaldon nodded.
“Freeze-drying isn’t always better. But you know where it’d be invaluable? Roaches. Imagine not having to crush them up.”
“Or let them get loose, multiply, and turn into a magical species you get blamed for.”
Valeterisa muttered longingly. Saliss half-nodded, looked at her, and imagined a world in which someone delivered powder instead of roaches. Dead gods, Zeomtoril was onto something. And you could measure it out instead of having to weigh roaches on a scale. Rhaldon kept going.
“And remember that suction spell you used for the dust, Master Saliss? You could make a far-easier vacuum for air with it, right? Any simple suction spell would work for freeze-drying.”
Saliss raised a claw to interrupt Rhaldon.
“Kid, just call me Saliss. No one’s a master right now. And call our Archmage…just Valeterisa.”
His grin bounced off the wall of Valeterisa’s obliviousness as she nodded.
