“Don’t be like that. It’s obvious. I’m sorry, but it is. Did you think you ever mattered to him? Aunt Magnolia valued you more; that’s why she kept you all locked up. If you wanted to live, you shouldn’t have tested her.”
“You…cannot prove any of this.”
The [Infiltrator] was their acting leader and spoke slowly, wrestling with the words. Calidus smiled.
“I can’t prove anything. But I know that Rhaldon is the same kind of being as Erin Solstice. I can think that they’re tied up in whatever happened with the ritual that killed all those children. Solstices. I think they have knowledge of things we can’t dream of. I think there’s a second world out there, and Aunt Magnolia, Regis, and every power with eyes is gearing up for a war that will make the Creler Wars look cute.”
He closed his eyes a second.
“I think dear Grandfather Regis isn’t able to get Earthers, but he probably knows enough that he doesn’t care. He doesn’t respect what’s new. His allies in Roshal probably told him. Oh—and I think there are dead ghosts rising across the world because something chased them out of wherever they were. Something so nasty that [Shamans], [Witches], [Warlocks], and every spirit-based class has lost their powers slowly over millennia. A dimension-crossing super-Seamwalker that made Khelt shit itself.”
He took another sip of wine with a grimace as the unbelievable statements kept pouring from his mouth.
“The only thing I can’t figure out is how anyone stopped it. And why <Quests> appeared suddenly, and why Erin Solstice can channel a dead woman’s spirit. Maybe they’re following her around. The Skill ran out before I got that far. But Rhaldon? He’s an Earther. He’s one of them.”
The [Assassins] didn’t know what to say. Calidus sat there, and they realized Rhaldon was a target. A target in a game they were part of that had stakes so high it would be like the war with House Veltras and the north all over again.
Would any of them make it, indeed? And still, they underestimated Calidus. Because he opened one eye, and his insight of three hours had taken him far past these conclusions he presented them. That was just the state of the world. The [Genius] muttered into the long silence.
“The real question is this: what are you going to do about it? How do lowly [Assassins] fight their way through serving Regis, being part of a bloodbath with another world, and all the rest? They can’t rebel. Regis Reinhart can’t be killed by mere mortals. They can’t run; they’ll be hunted down. Even if they ally, with who? Magnolia? Do they put on [Maid] outfits even if she’ll have them? And if they ask for help from some idiot with only a brain and a drinking problem, how does he help such that everyone, including me, isn’t dead with a crossbow bolt in the back of their head in three months?”
Someone twitched. Calidus eyed one of the innocent-looking [Assassins] who appeared far too young and was probably far too old for her job. He nodded.
“And how does Calidus avoid getting strapped to a chair and tortured and instead becomes a valuable, nay, invaluable asset to his new friends? I did a lot of hard thinking. And I also might have drunk a blood thinner. You try torturing me, and I’ll bleed out like a leaky sieve.”
He waggled the wine bottle at them, and at this point, someone began smiling. He really had thought of everything. The [Assassins] looked at each other, and then one of them, the Medusa, slithered into a chair.
“If you know everything, what comes next?”
Calidus brightened up. He loved being right, or at least, right so far. That was the thing. He could think all day, but he still had to prove the maddening things in his head—and most people didn’t let him prove he was right.
“Well, assuming I wasn’t being tortured, at this point, the thing was that you didn’t capture Rhaldon. You let him be.”
“Your grandfather—”
“Doesn’t have to know he’s an Earther. Plus, you have no proof. Just me talking. You don’t betray him because that’s a bad idea. The Circle is nasty as hell, and you need him. But you forget something. While you exist, he needs you. And Regis can either replace you or use you, but not both.”
Hm? All the [Assassins] were listening now, and Calidus, despite himself, was smiling. Oh, it was fun. His eyes glittered like a Reinhart.
“Do you know what gets you everything you need? A bit more funding, a bit more time, and a bit more allies? It’s not taking a stand. It’s not running or being clever. It’s called a tiny drop of what grandfather believes more than anything else: incompetence. He hates it. He throws money and people at it because he knows it exists. That’s step one.”
“What’s step two?”
Calidus stood and swayed unsteadily.
“Why—the moment when your glorious, helpful [Lord] finds you not only a base to train recruits from, but proves the Guild can be better! It starts with the part where you stop relying on Chandrarian slave-recruits from Roshal, like over half of you are, and start training Izrilians. After all—”
He turned theatrically.
“You can’t bite the hand that feeds you without sharp damn teeth.”
He winked, and he’d thought of that too, before it even occurred to them to plot. And the [Assassins] realized they had to listen. They couldn’t hear it, but Calidus did as he sensed their dangerous intentions towards him vanish, and they reached a decision. He exhaled, and the sweat running down his back dried a bit.
Oh dead gods, it worked.
[Move Reality Like Chess]. Convince the Guild of Assassins to work with you?
Checkmate. They had no arguments or anywhere else to go. He wiped at his brow—then wondered how you could promote a pawn.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice, sometimes, remembered the past. And she did know how to promote a Pawn. She just wondered, betimes, whether or not she had forgotten what it was like to be one.
It had been a long time since she was first an [Innkeeper] in a little run-down inn, afraid of monsters.
Well, she was still an [Innkeeper], and sometimes her inn had holes in it. And she was afraid of monsters still.
But she was not where Rhaldon was at. And that was why he had avoided her so long.
They stood in a new garden. This one wasn’t like the others. Erin had hoped, mildly, that she would find an [Alchemist]’s lab full of wonders and ancient secrets.
Then she’d realized that if she had a [Garden of Sanctuary] from a famous alchemist, it would not be a workshop. These had been made to reveal something of the person who made them. Or sometimes—just to be safe.
“This one’s from someone who was afraid to be found. Look. See?”
Erin pointed up, and a thousand strings of light glowed from her hand and twined upwards in a pattern on the ceiling. She plucked at them—and some vanished, but others refused to go out.
Rhaldon stared down at the ground, and the water lapping over the stones in the darkness reminded him of some zen garden. It was disturbed by them walking into this place. Soon—the room went still.
Sanctuary. Two larger strings ran from his back, a number of smaller ones from his hands. One was bright and pale, the other a twisted line of bright genius. Erin traced both.
“This one’s Termin.”
“How do you know?”
She just smiled at the chemist.
“It feels like him. The other one…is someone smart. North of here.”
“Oh. Calidus? Zeomtoril?”
Erin shrugged, eying him and the glowing line.
“One or the other. Between the [Alchemist] and the [Lord], which one is more powerful?”
“…Calidus.”
“Then that’s him. See, there’s another one here? And I’ll bet this is your other [Alchemist] to the north. Each line is someone you know as far as I can tell. Someone who’s monitoring you.”
Then the thousands of strings…Erin Solstice looked like a great butterfly made of countless colors hung in the sky above her. She waved at them, and when she did, a number of the ‘weaker’ strings vanished. Or snapped and faded, replaced by thinner lines of intent.
“Spells. See? But the interest’s still there. It’s sort of flattering. You have less strings than most people. Not that I can bring the garden out. But I can use the door and see people through it. I haven’t told anyone about this one. I thought your concern meant I should show you.”
She turned, giving him a guilty smile, and Rhaldon didn’t know what to say. He’d known they had to talk…but he hadn’t expected this.
If chemistry and alchemy were worlds of grand discovery, Erin Solstice was simply a magician. And her hat of wonders had little end. Rhaldon shook his head as he looked around.
“Termin should have been here. He didn’t want to come, though. He said I should get to know you on my own. He seemed—depressed.”
“I invited Saliss, but after we talked. Do you know why Termin’s sad?”
The young man did not. But Erin, in her way, read people like Calidus divined ideas. She walked along the pathway of stones. The air was dark, like they were in some nighttime garden, water and a stone pathway the only features on the ground. Above? A hanging tapestry of connections and intent.
Who had lived here that had wanted to see it all and know who was watching them? Perhaps sitting here, gazing up at their foes and allies?
Erin knew, but she didn’t tell Rhaldon, or she’d spook him more.
This garden had been a curse as much as a blessing. Empress Sheta had meant her Skill to be inherited, but had she known how heavy it was? Erin thought of the messages and decided…yes, yes, the Harpy had. The [Innkeeper] paused a second…in the center of this room. Where she had found the owner’s bones.
A pile of bones and ancient fabric that fell to dust at a touch. Erin had thought they looked Human, or humanoid. Someone had died here, staring up at what was waiting for them outside.
Had it been great evil they’d done? A sin? Or worse, a triumph they couldn’t live up to?
Erin had buried them in the Drathian garden. This place was too somber, too gloomy for anyone to be happy. It was beautiful, but it had been made fearful, and it was where the weight of choices hung over you.
Perfect for Rhaldon. She turned and smiled at him as he gazed upwards.
“He thinks you’ll quit being a [Driver]. He’s seen how good you are at your true talent, alchemy. He’s afraid you’re going to leave him, and he knows—he thinks he knows—it’s for the best.”
Rhaldon jerked, looked at her, and his cheeks flushed.
“I didn’t mean to lead him on.”
“I know. He knows. He said he found you with a hole in your shoulder. He never asked you why?”
“Not…really.”
“Then he knew all along, Rhaldon. Termin’s a smart guy. But he gets lonely.”
Erin thought she knew Termin, but maybe she was wrong. It was just an educated guess, like she’d had about Rhaldon. The young man looked at her, then down at his feet.
“I don’t want to give up knowing him. I didn’t just become a [Driver] because I wanted to make him happy or find work. It’s not the worst job. I’m just—also a fan of chemistry. But a [Driver] matters.”
He said that with conviction, and Erin smiled.
“So tell him that. You didn’t come to me for help. You could have said something, and you didn’t. I didn’t notice you until you started doing deliveries for Octavia.”
This time, Rhaldon hesitated and ducked his head.
“I was afraid. I still am. Of you. Sorry, Erin. But…you scare me. I wasn’t sure you were real. Your name is everywhere on Earth, and you…”
He hesitated. He still wasn’t sure Erin was entirely real. She stood there, hat aglow with fire in a room filled with magic. How was that a Human being from Earth?
“I changed a lot. You might too. Be careful.”
That was her only explanation. Rhaldon shuddered, and his skin crawled, but she wasn’t hostile. Like Inkar had once said, Erin reminded the [Traveller] of a hill. A friendly hill.
To Rhaldon, who viewed the world as a chemist, she was like some element, some reactive force that warped and transmuted everything she came into contact with. A Philosopher’s Stone of a person.
But he saw, in her eyes, in the way she limped sometimes, the story that ran in every one of her guests, the cost.
“I’m afraid of you, Erin. Sorry. I don’t know how else to say it. I…I was protesting back home when someone shot me. I think it was another mass shooter. It might have been the police. I wish I could say I was being brave, but the world’s gone crazy. I’m afraid of that happening twice, and you?”
You have a target on your chest. He didn’t want to say that, but Erin just stared at the thin string connecting him and her. She touched it, and Rhaldon thought he could see the red and black line pulsing with his fear and uncertainty. Erin looked up, and her smile was understanding.
“Yeah. That’s fair. I wish you’d been there, Rhaldon. Or not. They were—tough times. I wish everyone I knew had been there, and I’m glad they weren’t. Because they might have helped, and less people would have suffered if they’d been there. But they…you…might not have survived. Ryoka’s like me. It was hard. It would have changed you, too. I think you would have made a difference. But I’m still glad you came later. Everything you fear is fair.”
“Thanks for saying that. I feel like a coward.”
Her hazel eyes were reflecting the light from above. Erin shook her head slightly.
“No. No, don’t say that. I get so afraid and nervous all the time. I could never look all the things I did in the eye and do them. Only feel like a coward if you had a chance—and you regret it forever. When it’s your turn, I won’t blame you for running if you have to. Living with it…that’s the hard thing.”
She spoke so…now Rhaldon understood why everyone was angry about Ilvriss. He had just gotten back, and the Wall Lord and the discussion of north and south had reached him. Rhaldon had opinions, but he didn’t know this world’s long history. He just wished the parts he saw didn’t make him feel so depressed and tired.
He certainly appreciated the similarities. And he understood how Erin was a hardliner poking people in the eyes and refusing to budge. She spoke like that.
Good or ill, at least she was honest about being that. The [Innkeeper] paused and looked around.
“Hm. The stones are dry. But I’d hate to sit here. You want to skip stones?”
She picked one up, hurled it into the shallow water, and it bounced twice. Rhaldon found a better stone and managed six skips. After his third try, he was up to twenty-eight.
“Oh, great. You’re one of those people.”
Erin grumbled. Then flipped a stone up and caught it. She winked.
“[Magic Stone]. Hiyah!”
