No curative uses. No uses in any known alchemical formulas. Reduced efficaciousness in Tripvine Bags as a supplemental component—see notes on replacement. Produces an itchy rash on the scales if handled without proper gloves.
 
“Are you sure? The [Shaman] said—”
The [Clerk] knew Rhaldon by face now and was clearly exasperated as he closed the book he’d copied the entry from.
“Look, Human. I know you heard it’s ‘magic grass’ from the [Shamans], but this is Pallass. Everything in the encyclopedia gets fact-checked, and see who did this one? Guildmaster Resevn. Current Guildmaster. Huh, he must have done this as a [Journeyman Alchemist]. He’s a contemporary of Saliss of Lights. Do you want the weed or not?”
Rhaldon hesitated. He hadn’t heard either Xif or Saliss mention Resevn, but after some dithering, he paid a few silver coins for the stuff. Maybe the [Shaman] could elaborate more on the uses; she’d promised to ask the Gaarh Marsh tribe.
 
——
 
Later that day, Rhaldon glumly began to test the acid on other substances, hoping he might find a substitute for the problem of neutralizing it.
He didn’t have high hopes. The Guild’s methods had failed, but he gamely mixed acid into water with each material he had, including the stuff from Gaarh Marsh, then measured the remaining acidity by doing a drop-test on a hotdog.
In most cases, the results were predictable. The acid-infused water ate up whatever was there, and even if the acidity reduced, it was only by quantity. In fact, after he melted some Rock Crab chitin, Razorbeak scales, bone, meat, and a boiled egg into the liquid, Rhaldon suspected few things could slow down this acid. It wasn’t as potent as some acids on Earth—but damn did it dissolve things fast.
Then he put in the Shield Spider carapace, and the entire mixture began to froth. Rhaldon leapt away, but the hissing, bubbling mix didn’t boil over—it just turned dark, and when he inspected his flask, it was ruined.
A thick, black tar was sticking to the sides, and the instant Rhaldon took a strand out, it actually solidified in the air. It was tough—hardened fast—and when Rhaldon had to actually break his glass jar, cursing at the waste, he found the Acid Fly-Shield Spider chitin had formed a solid base.
“What the heck is that, Rhaldon?”
“Polymerized goo.”
“Whuh?”
He hesitated.
“Shield Spider goo. It’s not acidic. But it’s tough. Can I borrow a knife to cut it with?”
Erin handed him a spare kitchen knife, claiming hers was too tough. To Rhaldon’s fascination, the knife didn’t cut well, and the material actually flexed a bit when he tried to tear it.
Wait a second. This isn’t just like tar. This is more like…glue! Or a tough resin!
It was clear that the acid didn’t really work on the Shield Spider chitin; they had evolved to partially mitigate the effects, and Rhaldon bet that a living spider would hate having its armor dissolved—but it would fuse back together.
And he realized—this was the stuff the [Chitin Crafter] had been talking about. Imagine pasting this together with Shield Spider chitin!
“Hey, I bet you could use that as glue. Gross glue. Who knew?”
Something in Rhaldon’s head lit up as he put the material to one side. Had he just found…? But surely Pallass would know about that, right?
Pallass, who was so close to Liscor without the magical door? Who paid little attention to this border city? But—well, there was no listing in the encyclopedia. And there was a bounty for new interactions. Rhaldon would have to test the material for toxicity and uses, but he was onto something.
Still, it wasn’t what he wanted. Which was a neutralizer. He feared he didn’t have anything…until he checked on the other jars and saw something striking.
The Gaarhweed, the green grass, had dissolved into the acid like everything else—but unlike everything else, it was spitting steam.
“Oh—hell!”
Rhaldon ran over and saw particulates spraying up. Never leave something unattended! But it hadn’t reacted for the first few—
Wait a second. As he covered the top and redirected the spray from getting everywhere, Rhaldon stared at the flask. Wait a second—
The Gaarhweed was eating up the acid! A single stalk had taken the liquid down immensely, and the grass-kelp even seemed to be resisting breaking down! Indeed, when he added another piece in—
He saw the outer rind slowly dissolving before it began to react so vividly with the acid.
It was…neutralizing the acid! Then, Rhaldon stared at the remaining liquid in the jar and at the particulate spray. And he felt his heart surge. He scrambled to write down how much he’d used, and to get more snow—the reaction was extremely exothermic, and he needed to cool down the steaming beaker! And a covering…
Purifying the salamander skins round two—suddenly had a lot more momentum.
 
——
 
“Gaarhweed? They call it—it’s not a weed!”
The [Shaman] of the Silverfangs was completely outraged to hear that Pallass had termed it that, and when he showed her the entry, she went around furiously to all the Silverfangs, asking if they’d been cured by this medicine or this salve, all of which owed Gaarhweed thanks.
“Whoever wrote that is a fool! A fool! It ate up your acid, yes? I asked, and a [Shaman] had an old story about a brave young Gnoll who rescued her brother from a Hydra by making a shield to stop its acid out of that very kelp!”
“—In that case—”
Rhaldon went racing back up to Octavia’s shop and began a new process. This time, he repeated the dissolving of three salamander skins into water, then added acid to water. Never the other way around. And just in case, he ran outside and got some snow to cool the entire mixture first in case the reaction heated up dramatically.
Then he added the Gaarhweed instead of charcoal, and the results were dramatic.
The Gaarhweed spat so much crap up the distillation tube that it actually clogged it twice, and it left a green film everywhere that turned out to be insanely hard to clean. But when Rhaldon dealt with that, he found that he’d gotten a lot of watery steam down one end…and a lot of very green-yellow residue. But the slush was the inner stalk of the Gaarhweed mixed with a far different substance than Rhaldon had ever seen before.
“No. Way.”
The Gaarhweed was an amazing neutralizer. That yellow stuff—
No, no. Don’t get ahead of yourself.
This time, Rhaldon tried to filter the aftereffects of his reaction. Either what he wanted had been ejected into a greenish film that clung to the ceiling and surfaces he had to scrub, vaporized—or it was now waiting for him to filter it out.
And this time, the simple act of filtering the plant residue and yellow stuff through a cotton filter worked. After cleaning out as much of the big plant stuff in the filter as he could, Rhaldon began running the yellow liquid through the cotton, flushing it with water again and again. It still had a lot of gunk in it, and he strained it three times until he had a very pure, albeit watery, jar.
He almost began to boil the water off when it occurred to him that he could see a faint film of the yellow stuff on top of the water.
Perhaps it’s refusing to mix, just like the salamander skins! In which case…he transferred it all over to a separatory funnel and waited.
Twenty minutes and the two liquids had once again separated, with the lighter, yellow oil rising to the top. Rhaldon twisted the valve, gently dribbling the water out into a flask, then closed the funnel quickly when he saw it turn yellow with the oil.
Then he heated it up and boiled the rest of the water off, and then he had a very thick, yellow oil. And that…Rhaldon stared at that, and his heart sang.
He only had about three grams of this stuff as opposed to the far more generous fourteen from all his labors with the charcoal. But if Rhaldon was right…
That Acid Fly acid was an amazing eater of almost all regular materials. Given how it worked, he was beginning to think of it less as an ‘acid’, and more as a Piranha solution—an even faster and nastier version of it.
Terrifying, but if the Gaarhweed could remove it with water, then you could isolate an amazing number of compounds you normally couldn’t! In alchemy, the purer two substances were, the more dramatic the react—
“Wait a second.”
Rhaldon halted as he found the marigolds with their glowing pistils. Last time, even five had made a mixture of the salamander skins spit and bubble. What would happen if he put this in with…
Had he just made something highly combustible? Rhaldon stopped celebrating and had to think. He was not going to drop a bit of that pollen into the vial. But nor did he want to wait for Saliss—he swiftly strode over to a flask and poured more water in.
“According to Master Saliss, the water can be boiled away. So this will act as a shield for the two parts reacting.”
Nerry was already taking cover behind Erek, who fearlessly watched with his summoned body as Rhaldon poured the vial in, then tossed in the first bit of pollen.
The frothing reaction made him jump behind a metal shield Octavia sometimes used, but the mixture frothed and frothed—then went down. He added in another pistil’s worth, and the mixture doubled its height from the boiling…came back down…
Good thing I didn’t put all five in.
Slowly, Rhaldon finished adding in the pistils and wondered what he’d made. The resultant liquid was bright red, only growing deeper in color when the Sage’s Grass went in. When Rhaldon took the flask out, casually, and stood in the snow, he took a single sip—and spoke.
“Whoooh!”
Steam rushed out of his mouth. A passing Gnoll kid trudging up to the inn, Ekirra, turned with delight as Rhaldon began spitting steam—literally.
“Mister, mister, it’s coming out your ears! Is that a Warming Potion?”
It was more than that! Rhaldon felt like this wasn’t just a Cold Resistance Potion—this was a Cold Aggression potion! He actually began to emit steam, but that wasn’t what took him off-guard. He stared at the potion and felt his body come aflame. Including parts he felt were entirely inappropriate to being in public.
“No. No way—”
 
[Alchemist Level 11!]
[Skill – Clean Glassware (Daily) obtained!]
[Skill – Change Viscosity (Oil) obtained!]
[Skill – Inert Stirring Rod obtained!]
 
——
 
Rhaldon gained three impressive Skills for a Level 11 [Alchemist]. He hit Level 11 in six days, which was incredible.
But what was really incredible was the idea that he could clean all of his glassware! It was perfect, simplified his work immensely, and every chemist from home would have loved to have that ability.
[Change Viscosity (Oil)] and [Inert Stirring Rod] were less powerful. One just meant he could pour oil out like water, and the other meant that any rod he chose he could stir a mixture with, even using a hot dog to stir acid.
But you’d better not try to eat the hot dog afterwards.
That was incredible, a cause for celebration, and Rhaldon’s improved Potion of Warming—was not going on the market for a few reasons.
Firstly, Gaarhweed, as it was known, wasn’t something he had a lot of. Secondly, a Potion of Warming of that caliber made you too warm—steam literally rose from him, and he imagined it would be useful in a blizzard, but it was more niche.
Saliss and Xif had both bought the recipe off him, which he’d protested against—they’d helped so much, and he didn’t want to feed into the [Alchemist] mindset. But they’d insisted he needed some reward, and Saliss himself had said it would be a tool for blizzards and adventurers more than laypeople.
Besides, traditional alchemy had taken a blow that day. A literal blow. Because when the two [Alchemists] had appeared—Mirn had found Saliss—they had stared at the ember salamander oil and listened to Rhaldon’s account of how he’d made it.
“Gaarhweed. Now I hear the name…I visited Gaarh Marsh, but I couldn’t catalog a tenth of what they had, and I do get shipments from there. But I buy the Guild’s encyclopedia. You do too, Xif?”
“Of course. I contribute to it. Oh. Here it is.”
Both had their own personal guild books out and found the entry on Gaarhweed.
“No known uses. Huh. You know, that is often double-checked by an [Alchemist]. Not a [Journeyman]. But I see here that was Journeyman Alchemist Resevn. Isn’t that Pallass’ current Guildmaster?”
Saliss’ voice was light. Too light. Octavia was sitting there, looking from Gnoll to Drake and leaning back in her chair as Rhaldon kept shaking with excitement. Xif raised his brows.
“You don’t know him?”
“Is he over Level 40? Even if he is—”
“I heard he was a contemporary of yours, Master Saliss. The [Clerk] mentioned it.”
Rhaldon’s excitement had suddenly turned into another feeling, and Saliss glanced up very slowly.
“Really now? Well, he must be good because the Gaarhweed—hah, he must have named it himself—that I’ve been using? He’s certified his own entry that it’s useless. Or maybe he dove into the old books, and that was what they said. But I told the Guild to check everything the Gnolls sent me. Because they’re the best tribe in Izril for reagents, and I spent four years off and on gaining their trust. But clearly, Rhaldon’s the liar.”
“What? Master—”
Octavia protested until Saliss, blank-faced, produced some of the Acid Fly acid. He popped a stem into the jar and watched it begin to bubble.
“Nothing’s going to happen. Because if it did—”
A bit of the mixture boiled outwards and landed in Xif’s fur. Saliss stoppered the bottle, halting the oxygen-based reaction, and Xif spoke levelly.
“Your eyes must have deceived you, Saliss. Try again.”
The Drake did. They both stared at the bubbling liquid, then Saliss stood up.
“Apprentice, I’m going back to Pallass. Urgent business. Xif, do you want to stop at your shop?”
“I think so. Give me five seconds to nip in—oh, no. Wait. My apprentices. Some are at the beach—”
Saliss paused, claw on the doorframe, and turned theatrically as he began to walk down the common room of the inn.
“Good point. Rhaldon, Octavia, you had better come with us. I know you’re both on holiday, or should be, but you have to see how professional [Alchemists] settle things professionally.”
Erin Solstice, in her wheelchair, began to roll after Rhaldon and Octavia as they stood up, but Saliss stopped her with one foot. He wagged a finger.
“[Alchemists] only, Erin.”
“Aw.”
 
——
 
Professional [Alchemists] milled about in the Alchemist’s Guild, muttering about the beach and Xif’s apprentices and being very professional in the things they did.
Some were turning in potions or taking orders, others were reading from the expensive guild books, which were very expensive and, oh yes, trustworthy.
