It was black. Which said that it was definitely impure and not the brown, thankfully not the green, and certainly not the orange he wanted. Rhaldon eyed the three pounds of slurry he had propped up and got a cup of coffee.
It took an hour and thirty minutes of repeatedly adding water for the damn stuff to drain into a cup, and he was sure he had far, far too much water. But the chemistry was sound, even if Rhaldon feared all that charcoal had absorbed his precious magical liquid. To make sure, he washed the charcoal three more times, each time with a different flask, collecting increasingly clear, albeit dark, liquid.
Once he was done, Rhaldon looked at a lot of black water. It was clearly still filled with charcoal. So what did he do?
He filtered it through the cotton again, that was what! The used filter was now a filter cake that made it ironically more effective as the particulates got caught by the cotton, and at last, the liquid lightened. Rhaldon smiled when he saw that—at first it was grey, but once he filtered it again, he got a lighter substance that now appeared orange-brown.
“Not…ideal. But it’s clearly kept some of the salamander essence, right?”
Rhaldon commented to his audience, which, by now, was a rather surprising one. Erek the Orangutan had nearly scared Rhaldon to death, but he was sitting there very peaceably sharing a banana with Nerry and Shaestrel.
 
“Hah! He’s seeking the essence of things! Good show! No Philosopher’s Stone, but who needs that shit?”
 
Shaestrel was watching with good humor, and Rhaldon stared at her and Erek—but he was focused on his task.
He was getting closer to a result! He ran it through the filter again and again, and finally he had something that looked orange-brown like a really, terribly dehydrated piss.
Unfortunately, he wanted orange, which he felt was purer and corresponded to the color traditional Potions of Warmth got. He suspected that the charcoal-purification was simply inefficient. Perhaps Skills would fix it?
At any rate, the day was winding down, so Rhaldon did the last thing he could do—he took the still-considerable amount of water left over and put it in the distiller again.
 
“Wait, why are ye boiling it away, mortal? ‘Tis all water. You won’t get what you need!”
 
Shaestrel might not understand chemistry, but she had followed his work, and Rhaldon stared at the faerie—whom he really hadn’t asked questions about, because no one had noticed them but him—and responded.
“It, uh—well, I’m going to boil this at a hundred degrees, the boiling temperature of water.”
 
“Yes, and?”
 
“So the water will boil off.”
 
“And? So wh—oooh. Clever.”
 
Nerry and Erek didn’t get it, so Rhaldon explained as Shaestrel smugly sat back.
Water boiled at a certain temperature: 100° Celsius or 212° Fahrenheit. Thusly, if Rhaldon wanted to isolate another liquid mixed in with the water…he’d just boil off the water and keep the rest. The risk was that he might also boil off the non-water part of the solution—or that the other part had the same boiling point and he’d be unable to separate the two.
In the same way, you could use the boiling point of other alcohols to isolate liquids from within them—which was why knowing that fact about so many substances was invaluable. For now, Rhaldon just watched as liquid dripped away into a flask.
It was clear that he was getting water vapor, and it made the color of the remaining liquid in the flask deepen nicely. Rhaldon began switching the flasks out as he noticed the color of the condensing liquid start to change; he might be getting some of his precious salamander skins in there.
When he’d boiled off the water and felt like he was starting to get only the desired output, Rhaldon stopped the heat, then eyed what he had. In theory, he had now gotten some kind of waterless mixture.
But there was still the acid in there, and even inert, he was trying for the simplest, most reactive substance possible. So Rhaldon did it again.
That was a lot of chemistry. But this time, he attached a three-pronged funnel on the other side instead of a big flask, and he began cranking up the heat and observing when the liquid inside began to turn into a gas.
He turned the three-pronged funnel, collecting two kinds of liquid in it. One boiled at a lower temperature, and he cursed the lack of a proper thermometer; he had been doing everything by eye.
The first substance was a brown, dark black substance, which he felt like was the acid and charcoal. The second, which refused to boil off completely, was a thick, viscous orange-brown, and this was what he thought was the salamander skin essence. And finally, he had some light yellow-green stuff, which he thought was another compound of the acid.
“Well, I’m not trying any of this until Xif looks at it, but this…this might be what I want.”
Rhaldon had fifteen grams of the orange-brown liquid, and he showed it to his audience in a vial. By now, that included Nanette, Erin, and Ulvama.
 
“Coward! Drink it down!”
 
Everyone was visibly excited as Rhaldon went to Xif and was assured that, yes, it wasn’t poisonous or acidic. It could still be toxic, though, and Rhaldon was very concerned about imbibing it.
However, someone had to do it, and Erin did have an idea about that.
“Eloise is a [Tea Witch]. I’ve heard she helped cure Tyrion’s kids. Why don’t I ask her for a tea just in case?”
Would tea save him? Well, between healing potions and the tea, Rhaldon nervously put the liquid into the Potion of Warmth with the marigolds and Sage’s Grass.
The resulting mixture was a quarter of what he had made the first time, and he raised it as he stood in the snow. A few people hoping to get into the inn watched as Rhaldon closed his eyes—took a swig, and gagged.
It tasted like charcoal, burnt meat, and—actually, it was still better. Just! Rhaldon swallowed hard on his mouthful, and Erin clapped her hands together. Nerry stared at Rhaldon, waiting to see if he screamed, and Nanette hefted the cup of tea.
Then they saw his face fall. Rhaldon took another gulp of the flask—then another—and squeezed his eyes shut. Erin exhaled, and Rhaldon stood there in the snow before he opened his eyes.
“It…nothing’s happening.”
The mixture didn’t work. Rhaldon stood there in the snow as people wandered off, and he hung his head.
 
[Alchemist Level 8!]
[Skill – Steam Boil obtained!]
 
——
 
He was depressed for about four hours after that night as he sat in the morning and tried to figure out what went wrong.
But only for four hours. Rhaldon had spent a lot of time and gotten his hopes up, but this happened in chemistry, and he thought he knew what had gone wrong.
 
1. The liquid he’d gotten from running it through the cotton just wasn’t pure enough. It hadn’t gone back to orange, and he suspected the acid and charcoal had mixed, and the condenser just hadn’t collected what he wanted.
2. The charcoal may have filtered too well and literally filtered out the magic. It might have been trapped in the charcoal itself, in which case he’d been isolating something else the entire time.
 
It was depressing to think on, but he’d still levelled—twice, and if he had to boil anything again, he wouldn’t be sitting in front of a flask for hours.
Actually, the amount of steam he could let off was alarming. Rhaldon could boil a full pot down to the metal in five minutes, and the huge cloud of steam made Erin clap her hands together.
“Dumplings! Steam buns! We did dumplings already, but gosh darn it—I bet Imani hasn’t thought of steam buns!”
“I’ve thought of steam buns, Erin.”
Imani shot back as she and Palt trotted out of the beach for breakfast. Erin shook her fist at the [Chef], and Imani glanced at Rhaldon.
“Who’s that?”
“Termin’s apprentice.”
Imani hesitated and glanced at Erin, but the [Innkeeper] was ranting about steam buns, and if she had any suspicions, she let them lie.
 
——
 
As for Rhaldon, he was now faced with a conundrum. Saliss agreed, once Rhaldon found him rubbing at his head, hungover, that the vial had probably been worthless.
“I wish you’d saved me a bit. Sorry I wasn’t there. I’ve been—distracted. But someone I know will get me at the end of every day. Or try.”
What did that mean? Saliss just frowned when Rhaldon asked for another way to neutralize the acid.
“Frankly, kid, if the Guild of Alchemists has nothing…I did wonder myself, but I’ve read what you did. The only other experts in this world would be—”
“Zeomtoril? Itimen?”
Saliss rolled his eyes.
“Them? No! [Shamans]! [Witches]! Us [Alchemists] share info, but we don’t with natural experts. Go find one.”
He waved a claw, and Rhaldon hesitated.
“Wh—where?”
Saliss rubbed at his head as he produced a hangover cure.
“Liscor. There’s a lot of Silverfangs around. Dead gods, Mirn. Don’t let me drink so much! I wonder why I forget—”
He noticed Rhaldon watching and turned his head.
“Nothing. Run off, kid.”
 
——
 
Rhaldon did leave, and Saliss sat there, a bit shaken by his openness. He twisted a ring on his finger, and Mirn sat forwards.
“You alright, Saliss? That’s not like you. Did you drink that much? Did someone spike our stuff?”
“Fine. I’m just—cute kid’s speaking my language. Sorry, Mirn. But you didn’t tell—me.”
“No. Should I?”
Saliss paused, then shook his head.
“Let her have fun. I just don’t know why. You. Hey, you.”
He snapped suddenly, and a green blob turned into Shaestrel as she paused, carrying a huge leg of chicken over to some Frost Faeries having breakfast of their own.
 
“Us? We’re just Winter Sprites. You can’t hear us! You don’t see us…we’re just in your mind…”
“Shut up. What do you want, mortal woman?”
 
Shaestrel looked at Saliss sharply, but not unkindly. He felt like he’d been stabbed, and Mirn made a sound. But Saliss just pointed at his chest.
“Why…does that Faerie Flower drink take away Onieva—my memories of me? Saliss? If you want to talk alchemy and results—that’s a pure magic effect that has no rhyme or reason. Why does it do that?”
The faeries looked at each other, and one’s face fell as she lowered a chicken leg.
 
“It does that? You mortals, forcing it to do this, do that! You were never meant to. It has the power of home, even if it’s not bloomed—”
“Shut up!”
 
Another kicked the first, and they began to fight. Shaestrel just looked at Saliss, and her eyes found his.
 
“It takes away your memories?”
 
She hadn’t known that. Saliss blinked—and guessed in a moment that the flower was doing things even the faeries hadn’t known it had the power to do.
“Yes. It does whatever you want—unless you don’t have a purpose, and we probably wasted most of its potential effects, Xif and I. But once we got it working—it lets me be who I am. Everything I wanted, but I forget…Saliss. Why?”
She gave him a long look, and the faeries fell silent. At last, one of the Frost Faeries spoke.
 
“That—it’s a thing of pranks. We never intended it to do that. It obeys its own rules. If you want to know why, mortal? ‘Tis a cruel prank. A cruel prank, like in the stories. That is what it is, at times. Sometimes kindly, sometimes mischievous. Everything you want, with one cost.”
 
Saliss sat back, and Mirn made a sound. But Saliss just stared at the ceiling. Oh—of course. His lips quirked, and he smiled without mirth.
“A joke, is it? That is pretty funny. Laugh, Mirn. I get that kind of humor. It’s like the world’s a flower. Laugh, Mirn. Stop crying. It makes sense it’d never be free.”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice directed Rhaldon to the only person she knew who could help.
“[Shamans]? Most are in the Great Plains, but any [Shaman] of Silverfang would at least be able to inquire. I can find one for you.”
Krshia Silverfang was a Gnoll, and she was tall, friendly, and bared her teeth in a way that made Rhaldon nervous—but only until he met with some Silverfang [Shamans] only too keen to talk about alchemy with him.
“Those Drakes never ask. But you, Human! Honored Krshia, would helping mean we get into that lovely beach? I hear it’s sandy—but warm.”
The Silverfangs were still camped near Liscor, and it seemed many wanted to stay and make the Floodplains a home or live in the city. The [Shaman] who spoke to Rhaldon got a ticket for the beach and smiled. Then she hurried him into her hut.
“Ways to neutralize acid…ways to neutralize…this is the territory of Gaarh Marsh, Driver Rhaldon. You know them?”
“Um…”
She gave him a lecture on the famous tribe that lived in the swamps, the most venerable experts in herblore.
“They have all kinds of great plants few [Alchemists] save Saliss of Lights have ever seen. And he buys through snobby Drake [Traders]. I think you should ask about these. I have a list.”
She produced a list of various substances, monster parts, and plants and even drew what they looked like for him. Rhaldon was extremely grateful, then the [Shaman] added an off-handed remark.
“Oh, and if you need to stop this acid…try a local monster.”
“A local monster? Which one?”
She shrugged.
“I am no native here, but if there is ever a monster with dangerous venom or acid, or an ability, likely something else that lives near it is able to survive or at least avoid it. That is wisdom.”
It was indeed. Rhaldon hurried back to the Guild of Alchemists in Pallass after checking with the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor. They were only too happy to sell him some local monster parts cheap; Hollowstone Deceivers were the most expensive, but Razorbeak meat was an actual food, Shield Spider chitin was not in great demand…he decided he didn’t need dungeon monster parts for now.
The Alchemist’s Guild was less helpful, though. Rhaldon had to rent an encyclopedia to cross-reference all the Gnollish plants. Worse, he realized that the Drakes had completely different names for them.
Gnolls and Drakes both had their own written language, although the [Alchemists] could write in what Rhaldon saw as English. But he had to dive into an old Drake encyclopedia before he found some of the plants.
Most were definitely not acid-proof, and the Drakes only had a few samples of Gaarh Marsh plants on hand. One of them was what the Silverfang [Shaman] had called the Grass of the Swamps.
“Oh, Gaarhweed? It’s useless aside from a few niche cases. Gives you a rash, so it’s a Hazard-1 material. If you want it, I can sell you some…and the entry. Four copper coins.”
It was cheap, as was the long, green, stringy, kelp-like stuff. The entry had a brief note on how it grew on the muddy floor of the swamps, but Rhaldon’s heart sank as he realized he might have bought crap.
 
