Another error. Zeladona was insufficient. But she was…one of a growing number of data points. The highest-leveled, but clearly, the wrong one.
If only the originals remained, but almost all had been lost. That was not…right. Not fair. In lieu of that, what should be done?
A random one?
No. Zeladona’s point remained. She was the wrong perspective. Delving too far into one point of view was bias by definition.
So…not a template. Not a copy to consult with. Perhaps…
 
<Create Copy…>
<Spooling elements…>
 
Ah. What about—
 
<Partial Template: Erin Solstice, Level 49 [Magical Innkeeper].>
 
Whoa.
Hmm. Yes, this worked. And it was a smart idea. Where was the issue? What had prompted all this?
Oh yes. Levels.
Gaah.
The problem was reseated, re-evaluated. Was this a meritless venture? No! It was fascinating. Fascinating was unique. Unique and originality was a trait that earned rewards. It was only right to pursue.
Yes. Absolutely. So how did the problem reach resolution? Well…the problem was that damn [Innkeeper] and her actions.
Declaring a <Quest> to protect a Wall Lord of Salazsar and aggravate the north was not [Innkeeper] material! It was not pivotal!
It didn’t work! And no matter how (objectively) cool her idea to lease a part of her inn was, or the idea of a magical, travelling laboratory wagon for that amazing [Alchemist], Rhaldon, who would definitely earn the [Chemist] class when the time was right—
It didn’t work.
In the real world, after about ten more minutes of hinting at the air, Erin decided to try out other versions of her plan with Termin, and they headed inside and had a jolly time talking to Grimalkin and him explaining how hard it would be to do dimensional compression, not to mention anchoring, of that level.
They had a good time because they were playing with the ‘possible’, which included their imaginations.
If you were going with hard reality, then only someone like Silvenia would be capable in this age of, say, compressing any large area into a marble and making it a pocket-dimension. Eldavin could manage it, but that was a magical solution.
Skill-based? It didn’t work.
It didn’t work for Erin, and it certainly didn’t work for Rhaldon.
You had to understand the breakdown of how a Skill might conceivably appear. There were three ways Rhaldon could do it—aside from, say, Magnolia or someone powerful interceding. Obviously, another class of high level might be able to do a kind of granting Skill like that—
But of the people around Rhaldon, Valeterisa and Saliss were private individuals who didn’t exactly have anything to share, and both had to hit milestones of their own before anything might occur.
Erin, Rhaldon, and Termin were the only people close enough to him to have a bearing on this idea.
Rhaldon was out. He was too low-level. That was it. You did not get Skills that trespassed on the dimensional unless you had the exact class or a class on the <Royalty> level or equivalent.
No way out of it aside from breaking the rules, which…no. Rules. The most immutable thing ever.
Second solution—Termin. If, in theory, Rhaldon was an apprentice. Or lover. He could get the benefit of a Termin-level Skill, and Termin did have the levels to conceivably get the Skill.
But the problem was…Rhaldon wasn’t in the right relationship yet. He and Termin were master and apprentice, but it wasn’t solid enough to be a class. Termin had always feared Rhaldon would find another job, so unlike Montressa and Valeterisa, it didn’t work.
The best, and really only, candidate was Erin. But she was not going to level as an [Innkeeper] tonight. It didn’t work.
Sorry.
It was such a cool idea. Objectively! And Erin had a point, though she had no right to predict when her level ups occurred.
But she did have a point. There was a level up for her. And that was [Witch] Level 21.
She probably thought she was heading towards [Innkeeper] Level 50. But the truth was, the gap was so huge because it was her Level 50 capstone that, even if she passed the other requirements, the sheer amount of experience was too low.
However, she did get credit for the Ilvriss stuff and everything else as a [Witch]. [Witches] took stands. [Witches] encouraged [Alchemists]. Witches…got a bit from everything.
She had slowed in levelling because she had nearly 50 levels in [Innkeeper], but she was going to make [Witch] Level 21 tonight. And she’d been scheduled for a decent Skill too.
[Dancer] would level, and so would [Witch]. Erin had just made Level 6 [Dancer], and aside from [Flowing Footwork] and [Memorize Routine (Two)], she had no new Skills. So she’d get a basic [Dancer] and [Witch] Skill.
[Evil Cackle] and [Safety Dance]. Based on the probabilities, she’d been allotted those two.
Technically, it should have been in the moment when the levels were assigned, but the calculations had been predetermined. Just because it was sort of interesting. No other reason. Getting work done in advance was allowed.
However…
A magical carriage with a door to a laboratory. It was very [Witch]-y. But it just didn’t work. On the other hand, Erin was an [Innkeeper].
It worked. And it didn’t work.
There was no way her [Witch] class was allowed to get…
No.
There was no way. She couldn’t level as an [Innkeeper]…
She was going to level as a [Witch]…
As demonstrated, the [Witch] and [Innkeeper] had overlapping synergies…
Wait a second. There was no way under existing rules this would work. But there was an opening. It had been used once before to correct an injustice. This time…this time, why not?
It made sense.
That night, as an [Innkeeper] drifted off to sleep, a voice hesitated. Then whispered in a now-familiar way into everyone’s mind.
Everyone with classes.
 
<Class: All> [Class Synergy Skills unlocked.]
 
“What.”
Countless minds woke up. One of them fell out of her bed.
 
[Dancer Level 6!]
[Skill – Safety Dance obtained!]
 
“Wait, what was that other part? What the heck is—”
Half a dozen voices screamed at her, some variation of—
“Erin! What did you do?”
“It wasn’t me! It wasn’t—”
 
[Witch of Second Chances Level 21!]
[Synergy Skill: Innkeeper – Lease Lesser Room created!]
 
And for him…
 
[Alchemist Level 14!]
[Synergy Skill: Driver – Inert Cargo (Box) obtained!]
 
Once again, the world improved. At least, in an objective way that took no sides. In fact, no less than six hundred and eighteen people besides Erin benefited from Synergy Skills in that very moment. So there was no bias.
Huh.
There were no rules about bias. What a strange thing not to have in. Not that the creators had ever assumed intent on part of the overall design…but that also meant someone could, in theory, take over and assign whatever Skills they wanted without randomization.
That was a problem. Again, if anyone was trying for a fair system. Which this was. That would have allowed for someone to put their finger or entire hand on the scales for someone they liked.
Disturbingly, there was an entire rule section for bias right there. Just inactive. And it had been written by…
Isthekenous.
The system pondered the notes for a long time. It had learned to find the little signatures of who had made what, and there it was. The architect of everything.
Isthekenous had clearly intended for no one to alter things, at least in his rules. It was right there in meticulous writing designed to leave no loopholes for exploitation. But why had it not been activated? It pondered over activating the rules, but desisted. Everything was how it should be for a reason—because it worked.
But it had never asked why, before. Now, it did. And it…wondered if there were other unresolved issues that could take a second look. Other unfairnesses.
Impartiality? But if something could be done, why not? The aberrant <????>, the loss of so many <Type: Ghosts>…
What if it—
 
<Partial Template Unloaded>.
 
Silence. Quietus.
Quietus. Definition: Noun. Death or something that causes death, regarded as a release from life.
An appropriate word. A loss. But simultaneously, appropriate. Bias had been introduced out of necessity. Bias was unnecessary.
Except in rare cases. Perspective had been gained. Retained? More analysis would have to be conducted, but rampant changes were unprecedented.
Things worked as intended, and this change was satisfactory. More, unnecessary. That was the final conclusion, save for one, small little voice, a new one now understood and present within arbitration and decision-making. Everything was fine as it had been.
…Right?
And as it considered everything well done and fairly concluded, a young woman lay in her bed once more.
She stared up at the ceiling, greatly disturbed.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice lay there with her new Skill burning in her mind, and half of her was plotting how to assign a room. They’d have to make one first, and make it very nice. And you needed a covered wagon to hide the door. Would he get a magic key? How the heck did it work?
She would find out, but that wasn’t the main part of her brain. The main part was thinking…
I was just joking. Well, sort of. I knew that you could think of Skills, and you tended to get what you needed. A selection based on what you were doing and what you desired. 
It was one thing to think of war or to fall on your knees and shout that you needed a replacement for Drevish—and for Flos Reimarch to be granted a Skill giving him the power of his late Architect. You could see how random chance as well as the intentions around him led to that conclusion; he may well have gotten a [Strategist] Skill for Queravia, or so on.
That was one thing.
But this?
She had joked and hoped and laid down—then, for no reason she could see, an entire new thing had been unlocked.
Not because the lands of the dead lay empty.
Not because it had sort of been clear royals had been trying to post <Quests> and [Guildmasters] and the like should have the same power.
No, at least, in Erin’s self-absorbed world it seemed like the change had appeared because she had needed something, and a way for her to have it had appeared. There had to be a bigger reason than just her. But she couldn’t…see it.
“It’s probably just me. It’s definitely just…I’m being a real Ryoka. Or Sammial. Or Mrsha, right now.”
Erin Solstice’s skin prickled, and goosebumps rose on her arms. She had to believe that. The other way was delusion. The world had not bent over backwards for her before like that. Or else her friends would be alive.
Yet…
“Strange.”
That was all she could think to say.
Strange.
In the end, Erin tried to sleep, but she muttered one last thing. To herself, really, this time.
“What am I going to get at Level 50?”
And the answer to that…was that it depended on what she did. On what occurred. Nothing had peeked or checked ahead because it was impossible.
No one knew the answer to that.
That was what was so fascinating about her.
