He could be an above-average [Alchemist]; Xif and Octavia had both said he acted like a far more experienced apprentice. But Rhaldon was now staring at a far more distant horizon. By science, he was going to push it.
 
[Alchemist Level 6!]
[Skill – Perceive Noble Gases obtained!]
[Skill – Thick Glass (Alchemy) obtained!]
[Skill – Adept Haggler (Alchemy) obtained!]
 
“What!?”
Someone threw a boot at the wall and shouted ‘shut up’ in the night. Rhaldon lay back in bed as a very grumpy Dame Ushar went back to sleep.
 
——
 
[Perceive Noble Gases].
Someone was having fun in the world. Someone was aware, perhaps, that something was up.
After his disastrous attempts at making the Potions of Flares, Rhaldon was out of money. He did work up several more Potions of Warmth and sold them to the Alchemist’s Guild in Liscor for a whopping eight silver.
It was still a victory…but two silvers per Potion of Warmth was terrible. The Drake at the desk actually apologized.
“I’m sorry, Mister Human. It’s the other cities. We were never a big city for alchemy, but the local [Alchemists] did a decent business. You’d get triple this normally—but that damn Stitch-girl and that Gnoll are driving prices down.”
The Alchemist’s Guild in Liscor was the only one who’d take his low-grade potions, and Octavia had advised him to sell here. The implication was, sadly, that his stuff was too low-grade for her, and given Erin’s food, Rhaldon had readily agreed.
At least he got money for the glass bottles. Rhaldon exhaled, then frowned.
“Wait, do you mean Octavia and Xif?”
One glower told him he was right. The two were far too high-level for any normal city, and Pallass’ Guild of Alchemists—the City of Inventions was famous for its alchemy—was replacing a lot of local talent.
“Well, at least they help with other potions. We need the boost, frankly. Everyone’s coming here to build, but what about other jobs? Say, are you an adventurer? One of those alchemists hunting for your ingredients?”
“No. [Driver]. Why?”
The Drake sighed.
“Darn. I was going to sell you some Shield Spider armor. We’re making it again. A bunch got killed, and the [Farmers] keep digging up their bodies—or the Watch and army clear nests. It’s cheap! You [Drivers] want some decent protection on the road?”
Spider armor. Rhaldon had to go check it out, and on the way, he admired his ability to see the argon in one of the bottles sitting on a shelf. It looked like a funky violet. He turned and wondered what was in the sewers; looked like some nasty gases coming out of there. Helium? Something blue. No, if it was coming from decomposition…
He saw traces of violet now and then, a haze in the world, and that had to be argon, the most plentiful of the noble gases. Still only 1% of Earth’s atmosphere, but he could sometimes notice it coloring things.
This Skill sucked. Aside from Rhaldon’s ability to see radon, which he never wanted to see or encounter, it was a very useless Skill given that you couldn’t harvest noble gases by running around with a jar.
Why the heck did he have this Skill, anyways?
It was green. And green meant unique, according to Termin. The old man had been aghast by Rhaldon ‘messing around with the exploding stuff’, but he’d perked up when he heard Rhaldon say the Skill had a ‘color’.
But it had taken Rhaldon two hours to explain what noble gases were to the old man, and he felt like Erma and Fox had understood more of it. As to why Rhaldon was annoyed…it wasn’t really what he wanted.
Noble gases were not all air particulates. Not by a long shot. Not even the common ones. Not oxygen. Not hydrogen.
Six damn gases. Helium, neon, argon, krypton, xenon, and radon, all fairly non-reactive and not useful in chemistry, especially the kind he was practicing right now!
Someone was laughing at him. Or possibly blind to how chemistry worked. Rhaldon walked along, hands in his pockets, groaning as he saw a few occasional swirls of color in the air and wondered if he could use any of the gases…but how could he isolate them even if he found a tiny bit?
Wonderful. He felt like he’d been given a Skill that was essentially the middle-school version of a science experiment.
One thing did make Rhaldon’s hair stand on end when he thought of it, though. Argon was violet. He assumed the stuff in the sewers might be xenon, which had been blue. If he found reddish helium, then…
Then the noble gases’ colors in his vision were looking like their spectral signatures. That wasn’t a coincidence. Was he being given the ability to see spectral signatures? Or was his Skill based on his knowledge? It didn’t seem like a coincidence. Perhaps, despite its uselessness, more thought had gone into this Skill than he assumed at first.
Anyways, he stared at a suit of Shield Spider armor and got a lecture from a local [Chitin Crafter] that it was stronger than leather, if less flexible, and Shield Spiders had once armed Liscor’s army.
“That was the old days before them Gnolls and Antinium. Not that I mind! Cheaper than steel, but harder to mend, and the army was smaller back then. Bunch of troublemaker [Mercenaries], and my entire family made this armor. Shame, though; it’s not popular because it’s made of spider parts, but it used to be better. I got back into it, but…”
He gestured helplessly at the suit, which was made of big parts of chitin worked decently well into cloth and leather. The problem was, he could only use the big Shield Spiders, and the old [Crafter] was scratching his head.
“I was just a lad, but I swear we had another way to make it. It wasn’t all big parts like this. Why, we glued it all together like a puzzle. And it was more—flexible.”
Rhaldon was still fascinated by the armor and would have bought some but for the fact that he was counting coins. He had to get back to deliveries, not least because he wanted to figure out if his theory on what he could do was correct.
 
——
 
“You can see six gases? And they’re all—you can’t even see oxygen?”
Saliss of Lights laughed at Rhaldon for five minutes and had to hold onto one of his steel tables. The young man patiently stood there as Saliss howled with laughter. He was supposed to be getting another list of delivery ingredients.
Saliss was in a good mood for some reason, though Rhaldon hadn’t seen him at the beach. When he got up, the Drake gave Rhaldon a second look.
“Oho. But you do see them. Alright, alright. I’ll get your list. Stop scowling. But come over here a sec. And be happy. Getting [Gas-Sight], or whatever the Skill is, is a Level 30 plus [Alchemist] Skill at least.”
“Wait—that’s a Skill?”
Saliss was pulling bottles off his shelf, ones that were clearly magical. They were empty…until Rhaldon squinted, used his Skill, and saw each light up a different color. Then his eyes widened, and Saliss waved them at him.
“Well? Which ones are noble? I’ll tell you which ones kill you.”
He had eighteen bottles, and four of them held noble gases. Rhaldon pointed them out and stared.
“Wait, you can harvest gases?”
“Sure, I burn up all kinds of useful stuff. It’s annoying as hell to trap this one. It’s the ‘squirmiest’. Gets through even glass and magic in time unless you know how to enchant it.”
He pointed at what Rhaldon guessed was helium. Some small particles that he was dying to ask Saliss about. But he had to play it cool.
Unfortunately, the Drake just gave Rhaldon a second look.
“Noble gases, you said? Six?”
“Y-yes. Do [Alchemists] know about them?”
Saliss paused as he got some chalk out and began to write them down.
“Sure do. List them out.”
Rhaldon did, and Saliss waved a claw.
“Oh, argon. Duh. I know of it. Yep. Another one.”
“Another what?”
“Nothing, nothing. You doing this all in Octavia’s shop? Well, I suppose if even Xif the Miser will give you a hand, I’ll listen to your woes. How’d your first potion-making go?”
Saliss laughed when he heard about Rhaldon’s disastrous Potion of Flares, but he actually put his gear aside and seemed to give Rhaldon more attention than before. He kept shaking his head.
“My oh my. I feel stupid. I mean—it brings me back to when I was a little Drake running around and screaming about damn salamander skins. So, you got rewarded with a semi-useless Skill? Cheer up. I’m sure you’ll see more than just the ‘noble’ gases later. That’s how Skills work.”
He grinned, and that did cheer Rhaldon up.
“So you can’t see them? How do you manage?”
Saliss shrugged.
“Alchemists specialize. I’m a boom-alchemist, so my Skills go to combat—or enhancing effects. Or making sure I don’t melt myself with acid. I suppose, just for you, I’ll show you what I do if I think I’m going to produce something nasty. Or I think I have a leak.”
Safety protocols! Rhaldon was all over this, and he scrambled into Saliss’ work-rooms. The Drake handed him something.
It was a primitive mask with a glass bottle on one end.
“Jar of Air. People use it to dive. Full-mask covering. Make sure it’s secure. We’re not dealing with anything dangerous—and I’d have you in a full suit if I thought we were. It’s just a pain to clean.”
He had actual safety equipment! Smart stuff, too! It was clearly hand-made, but Saliss put it on, then inserted a key into a steel drawer.
“I’m just going to get a bit of invisible gas in this one. Got it? Know what this is?”
“L-liquid air?”
The drawer was freezing, and the cooled vial of liquid air glowed yellow. Rhaldon guessed instantly that it was xenon he was seeing floating around. Saliss might not have known how to extract it, but he grinned as the air warmed up.
“Yep. And oh no! My precious air is evaporating, but it’s actually Creler gas! We’re dead! We’re dead!”
He waved the vial around—then stepped backwards, tossed something down, and shouted.
“Panic mode! [Vial: Spore Explosion].”
The puff of something bright pink blew across the entire lab and coated Rhaldon’s entire world in pink. He recoiled—then saw the air was filled with particulates. When he saw again, Saliss was standing in a hazy workroom as dust of some kind hung in the air, floating without falling. Then the Drake held up the vial, and Rhaldon saw a patch of clear air around the opening.
Gas. Saliss waved it around, and the smoke-bomb he’d deployed captured the leaking gas. The [Alchemist] chuckled.
“Dead gods, this is going to suck to clean up. But the look on your face was worth it. So, that impresses even a…even Termin’s apprentice, huh?”
It did indeed. Rhaldon looked at Saliss with genuine respect. Even without the ability to see or monitor harmful gases, Saliss had multiple, multiple ways to isolate it. Not only that—the Drake was in fact the closest living [Alchemist] to the methods of chemistry that Rhaldon had met.
Saliss of Lights was no wild experimenter, and aside from the seith—which had blown up despite him using micrograms and the least-reactive compounds possible—he had entire contingencies to avoid endangering everyone.
His steel lab was one method, but he seemed so…impressed? Taken? With Rhaldon’s new Skills that he showed Rhaldon his emergency procedure.
Rhaldon helped him clean up the dust via a spell that just sucked up the dust into a bag of holding, another smart trick. Saliss walked over.
“Alright, kid. Before I talk about your salamander skin theory…let’s say I was making my newest acid deathcloud, and it’s about to go. What do I do? Toss it out the window and let it drift down nine floors?”
Rhaldon shuddered at the thought. Let the lab take it? The answer was no. Saliss showed him something.
“This is a Scroll of [Rapid Teleportation], and it’s my emergency-button. I’m the only [Alchemist] in Pallass who won’t get blocked from teleporting—they shut that kind of thing down for security. But if I think I’m about to destroy everything, I grab this, teleport whatever I have—and we say goodbye to a lovely patch of dirt two miles east. No one’s allowed to build on it, and it’s far away from anything useful.”
Clever! Even if that might do a lot of damage to the ground, it beat damaging the city. Saliss waved a claw as he pointed to the other [Alchemists].
“That’s only because I’m so dangerous. Most [Alchemists], even the ones who make literal poison, just adopt Octavia’s approach. Which is chuck it in a bag of holding—or just hurl it out the window if you haven’t already gone for cover. Xif’s a bit smarter.”
“What does he have?”
Saliss grinned crookedly.
“He calls it the ‘death tube’. It’s this metal beam—it looks like a beam, but it has a hatch. You yank it open, throw whatever’s inside into it, and it blows up in there. If he thinks it’s not deadly, he vents it. It’s reinforced—like one of my steel drawers. All his apprentices have to learn to use it.”
“The death tube name…”
“Sometimes they don’t make it. It’s rare. I think he’s lost only three apprentices, which is crazy for a Gnoll his age. But it’s a killer class. What, not that common where you come from?”
Rhaldon was shuddering. If three dead apprentices was good…there were accidents in chemistry. Terrible stuff that kept him up at night like getting something under your skin that reacted with the water in your blood, or acid in the eyes…
But safety regulations, if followed correctly, were well above this world, and he liked Saliss’ shop for this reason. Saliss nodded as he glanced at Rhaldon.
“Well, good. Keep thinking like that and you’ll live longer. Now, tell me your theory about the salamander skins.”
 
——
 
Rhaldon had a theory that he could purify the salamander skins, thereby increasing the efficacy of his potions. If proven, or if he found a method beyond most [Alchemists], he could rapidly advance.
To chemistry, the world was made up of compounds. You could, with effort, turn seemingly unrelated things into each other through reactions.
Like, say, turning a nasty, deadly chemical into food flavoring. Alchemists did that with the purest expression of heat and water, but Rhaldon wanted to know if the salamander skins could be rendered purer, and if so—how they were doing it.
Saliss was busy and claimed he needed a holiday at the beach, but he promised to speak to Rhaldon after his next delivery across Izril’s north. So Rhaldon drove north to Itimen and Zeomtoril to get their input.
 
——
 
Along with their regular deliveries, Rhaldon hand-delivered a few other goods. Not only did he get the suspiciously plain Chest of Holding meant for Calidus’ associates—and did not touch it at all—he had a bunch of pictures from the beach.
