The Guildmaster was, in fact, in the main room, nodding as he spoke to lesser [Alchemists], chastising them on mistakes, promising to improve their work, when someone kicked the doors in.
“Who’s kicking—oh, Master Saliss.”
The [Clerk] roared, then sat back down and tried to beam. Because Saliss of Lights seldom came here, and the other [Alchemists] turned as the greatest mind of their city entered. A figure of dismay because he made them look bad. Of awe, because he could create a Potion of Youth and could fight. Of fear, because he was Saliss.
But there was also Xif, who was the best [Alchemist] who people wanted to work with. The Gnoll was normally gruff at worst, friendly, who’d check over your work and maybe give you pointers. He knew how to make money, and right now—
His face was blank. And he was flanked by all eight of his current apprentices, Garuda, Dullahan, Drakes, and Gnolls.
And he was holding a club.
The professional alchemists paused as they saw the mark of extreme professionalism in Xif’s paws. For, no matter where or who they were, [Alchemists] settled things directly. If they stole from each other, if they quarreled—
Xif spoke into the sudden silence, and his voice was loud, carrying, and he looked straight at Guildmaster Resevn.
“Gaarhweed is not useless.”
You could have heard a pin drop. Xif raised the Guide to Alchemy, published by the Guild of Alchemists in Pallass and sold across Izril. Saliss held up a match. The book slowly began to burn as the [Clerk] slowly tried to sink under the desk. Xif continued, voice deadpan. Then it rose in a shout.
“Everything in this book written by Resevn is suspect. Every book, recipe—Gaarhweed. Is not. Useless!”
Then he roared, and the [Alchemists] of professionalism leapt up, screaming, shouting, and the first one swung a chair into the Drakes who surged to protect Resevn. A Garuda tried to kick him in the face as he ran for it, and the Guild of Alchemist’s brawl engulfed a hundred [Alchemists] in the first ten minutes—then spilled into the street, and three entire floors were cordoned off by the Watch before it was done.
 
——
 
Rhaldon’s head still hurt from getting hit with a chair. But he had hit at least eight idiots, and he’d watched Xif pick up and throw the Guildmaster off the third floor.
Here was the thing about alchemists. When he told that to Itimen, the old [Alchemist] just nodded.
“And is he dead?”
“No.”
“Pity. Because I’m going to mail him an exploding something. Later, later. I wouldn’t use you, Rhaldon. That idiot set back alchemy…how long? Over what, Drake pride? Or was it incompetence? How many people defended him?”
Very few, actually. It turned out [Alchemists] were a bit like people from Earth. They might fight each other and gouge on prices, but they understood that if one person ruined it for them, everyone suffered.
The knowledge that ‘Gaarhweed’ had been renamed and had such a huge value wasn’t the only thing that Rhaldon had discovered. It called into question—everything—the Guildmaster had overseen, and the irony was that few people understood Rhaldon’s acid-based distillation.
Itimen did, and the old [Experimenter Alchemist] stared at Rhaldon hard when the young man gave him a neat report and suggestions on how to add units to his recipes.
“Young man. I would ask if you’re some spy with a knife to your throat, but I don’t think you are. I’m more curious as to why you gave me this. Assuming it doesn’t explode…”
“I’m a new kind of [Alchemist], Master Itimen.”
The old man sat there, reading Rhaldon’s notes, and when he looked up, his eyes were misty a second.
“No. An old kind, perhaps, but whatever you are—thank you. Here. Take this.”
He offered Rhaldon a sheaf of his own notes in return, and Rhaldon tried to refuse—then he accepted it because this was the start of something.
 
[Alchemist Level 13!]
[Skill – Panic Dodge obtained!]
 
——
 
There was more to [Alchemists] than alchemy. Zeomtoril just listened to Rhaldon’s story, then stared at the yellow vial that the young man offered him.
“So this is salamander essence—distilled. If you have it, I take it there are more effects than just…warmth? Or you would simply say it.”
“It, uh—it has an interesting effect.”
The [Polymath] inspected the vial, but before he could take it, another hand snatched it, and Calidus Reinhart eyed the yellow liquid.
“Hmm. Well, it cannot be dangerous since it’s a component of a Potion of Warmth. So—bottoms up.”
He popped the lid, took down the entire vial, and grimaced.
“Whew! It tastes horrible!”
Rhaldon recoiled—then stepped back further as Calidus felt his stomach, and Zeomtoril cursed at him.
“Calidus, you madman—”
“Take notes, Zeomtoril. Life should be fun—and this is more fun than drinking. Strange, I’m not feeling hot. But I am feeling. Whew. Wheeeeew—I am feeling something!”
Calidus flushed, and then he exhaled, and while he didn’t blow out steam, he suddenly ripped at his clothes.
“Dead gods, I feel invigorated! No, wait, that’s not it.”
He glanced at Rhaldon, and the young man covered his face. Calidus looked down and exclaimed.
“My great, only friend! Zeomtoril, Calidus Reinhart the Second rises valiantly! So that’s—”
He started laughing. Zeomtoril looked down, then grimaced.
“Wh—dead gods.”
Calidus turned and beamed.
“This is the greatest discovery of a lifetime. I would hug you, Rhaldon, but you are not the young lady I need to proposition. I will take everything you can make! Work for me!”
But he was already turning and charging down the corridors.
“All the men of Izril of a certain age will thank you! This is the greatest—”
And that was how Rhaldon made his first name for himself. The worst part was Calidus wanting to name it ‘Rhaldon’s Superior Tonic of Virility’. But it was a start. While Rhaldon began with silly experiments and games—Calidus Reinhart had put his eyes on the [Alchemist] who had discovered something new with new methods.
What might he achieve? Nothing could stop the [Lord]’s mind from churning, and he could not let an opportunity like that pass. But then again—if all Rhaldon needed was a shop, say, a partnership or his own lab? A hand?
Erin Solstice had two. And that great Drake, Saliss of Lights—
He began to turn and see that world of chemistry waiting for him.
 
——
 
Everyone threw Rhaldon a party. From Calidus’ ragers and [Assassins] coming over to ask Rhaldon for samples, to Itimen firing off alchemical explosions before the Watch came to chase him and Rhaldon and the lesser [Alchemists].
Octavia, Xif, and members of the Guild of Alchemists still shaken up by everything, all accoladed him in their own way.
But the person whose congratulations meant the most to Rhaldon was the highest-level [Alchemist] of them all, Saliss of Lights.
Saliss didn’t have a party. He just invited Rhaldon into his home.
By which he meant his real home. Rhaldon sat in a surprisingly neat living room and stared around at the place that so few people had ever seen.
It looked…nice to live in. Neat. Tidy. There were mage-pictures on the walls, and Saliss even had old hand-me-downs from the family. It was so ordinary that Rhaldon suspected there was something magical about the house, hidden further beyond the living room connected to the entrance.
And there was. But Saliss just sat down in pants, no less, and some casual clothing with spiderweb elements embroidered on the back and handed Rhaldon a cup of spicy something.
“Yellat tea. Like the clothing?”
Rhaldon had been staring.
“Where’s it from?”
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Everything here is from there—or from my family. Lots of stuff that belongs to a Walled Family. We technically got made one when my old man, Chaldion, became [Grand Strategist].”
“Oh. So they’re heirlooms?”
Saliss paused and laughed a bit.
“Hah. Well, yes. If anyone was going to succeed me. It’s not all rare. I inherited this place after my parents passed on. My father died in one of our stupid wars—which is all of them—and my mother followed him.”
“I’m sorry.”
Saliss stretched out, shaking his head.
“They were soldiers. Anyways, this isn’t really all my stuff. I just live here, now and then. When I’m gone…I’ll make the old man deal with it.”
He looked around. There was no one else.
“What about Onieva? I thought I heard she was a cousin of yours?”
Again, the Named-rank [Alchemist] paused, then smiled.
“Oh, right. I’ll give it to her. Or not. I wouldn’t want her to inherit all this.”
He gestured around at a flag hanging on the walls, books hand-written by his family, a picture of a Guild in Nerrhavia’s Fallen with a waving Drake and a bunch of [Alchemists]…
Rhaldon stared at it until he noticed Saliss’ eyes. He jerked away, but everywhere he looked revealed something. Saliss didn’t seem to mind. He just sat there a second, and Rhaldon looked at him.
Saliss of Lights, the greatest adventurer-alchemist living. He was a strange person. He seemed both casual and knowing. What Rhaldon had forgotten while consulting Saliss for advice was that he was like Xif, a master of his field, someone for even Earth’s professionals to listen to and respect—and beyond Xif.
“You really do have promise, kid. Don’t let them tell you you’re perfect. Don’t let them manipulate you. It’s a hard thing to figure out, and I bet you’ll mess up. But you’re talented. Promising. Not many people could do what you did, even with all your knowledge of Earth.”
He knew. Rhaldon flushed. Erin had known, and so had Saliss. But the Drake winked softly, and Rhaldon felt the weight of his stare.
“I won’t—”
“You will. Just remember that as proud as you feel, it will humble you. Humble you, and rip pieces off your face if you make a mistake or take it lightly. Respect it. We play around with magic and Sage’s Grass, but someday you will touch things that can melt the Walled Cities themselves. When you do—if you have a fat head, you’ll die.”
He wasn’t saying it like a warning. Just a kind of taking Rhaldon aside to have a quiet word with him as Saliss found a tin of crackers and gave Rhaldon a treat with the Yellat tea. And somehow, that made Rhaldon get chills all over.
Because Saliss was looking at him. And the [Alchemist] didn’t play with his enemies. Sometimes he annoyed his allies, but that was often because he didn’t always respect them.
When he made war, or a point, he was direct. So the [Alchemist] just pulled something out and put it on the table.
“Your chemistry. Does it reach this far? I just made this. Don’t tell anyone I can do it.”
A glowing, viridian potion lit up the room, and Rhaldon’s heart began beating a thousand beats a minute. He couldn’t have said why, only that something in him knew what it was before Saliss told him.
“A Potion of Reverse Time. A Potion of De-Aging. Call it what you want. It’s not a Potion of Youth; it’s the real thing. Have you made it yet?”
“Th—you can make it?”
Saliss sat back, and somehow, he seemed like he was trying to look as normal as possible. He wore old silk clothing, carefully maintained, from the days when a young Pallassian Drake had gone to Nerrhavia’s Fallen to learn from the masters.
He looked different than most people in his Walled City of Inventions, but it wasn’t the same as being naked. He had Rhaldon in his home, not his workshop filled with modern chemistry and alchemy joining hands and powerful magic.
Yet here, Rhaldon was reminded of Saliss’ own wonders. The Drake who had done what no science of Earth had come close to. He closed his eyes as Rhaldon inspected the potion with shaking hands.
“Don’t worry about dropping it. It’s in a good container. Do what you want with it.”
His hands were slippery with sweat. He felt like he was about to have a panic attack. The potion was stoppered behind magic, and yet when he touched it, Rhaldon swore he felt like he was sixteen again. He felt like he remembered all the energy that had ever been in his body.
And simultaneously—he felt old, as if the remaining life force in his veins was reacting to the small ampule of liquid. Saying—the very essence of it was in that potion.
“Do you want to try a drop?”
Then Saliss scared him more than anything else. Rhaldon hesitated.
“N-no.”
“Okay. I wasn’t sure you’d believe me. So Earth hasn’t made this.”
“No one has. You can make this.”
Saliss just sat there, arms resting on his knees, as he hunched over, looking at Rhaldon. His eyes opened wider.
“It is my Great Discovery. In Nerrhavia’s Fallen, they used to say that any [Alchemist] worthy of greatness would discover one new, true, or glorious thing. When I found out how to make this potion, I reached Level 50. Because I wanted to reverse time. I can only manage two years. It costs a fortune. It is impractical, unscalable, and selfish. I could have tried to make a panacea or another Sage’s Grass. But all I wanted was to reverse time once and get a moment of peace and victory.”
He looked sad, then, regretful, and guilty. Rhaldon had to take his hands away from the vial and rest them, still shaking, on the table. The liquid in the teacups slopped around.
“Did you?”
“Not yet.”
That said it all. The Drake picked up the vial, and tucked it away.
“Not yet. But I have time. Time enough to make another, or get my ending. If not, I’ll just buy more time, eh? All I have to do is brew a potion every two years.”
He smiled lightly at the joke. Then he looked at Rhaldon.
“…If only I wasn’t a soldier, I could have done more. But I am. You practice a purer, more innocent form of my madness, Rhaldon. I have faith in you. If you ever stand at a crossroads, think carefully into what you use your talents for. For it will change you. Forever. If you ever want to talk, my door is open.”
He met Rhaldon’s eyes, and the young man beheld this world’s great alchemy and shivered. With delight. With intoxication.
With fear. He wanted to see more. More, and more—and he wondered what was holding Saliss back. Then he remembered the racks of potions brewing that exploded or conjured acid clouds or lightning. And it seemed so paltry and worthless compared to that vial.
That was Saliss of Lights. Then he rose, and when Rhaldon tried to be respectful, Saliss just shoved him and laughed. Rhaldon never forgot what he saw.
 
——
 
In the end, Rhaldon had failed, completely and utterly, at his main task. Which was keeping hidden.
He had done so well, or at least, done enough at the start to fool almost everyone. But the moment he had begun work, within a week, he had done what Earthers did.
