Rhaldon Flemmens had decided he liked this other world for three reasons.
One. This world didn’t have people shooting him for attending a protest rally. He still woke up, remembering that flash and explosion as he was shot in public.
Two. This world was filled with magic, other species, and opened up a thousand possibilities. If this world existed, how many others? Could there be true aliens? Was this all part of some…larger design or sci-fi-esque plan? It made him feel like a boy again, dreaming of the impossible without a sense of painful, mundane reality.
And three—this world had alchemy, and alchemy called to him. No…chemistry called to him. Yet in this world, there was no chemistry, only alchemy.
He had resolved himself, at last, in these months of winter, to be the one to marry chemistry to alchemy. At last, he felt like he was ready to even attempt this. It might kill him, but if it did, it would be because he made a mistake. Alchemy was unpredictable. Chemistry was…
Okay, it could get unpredictable too. But he thought he knew more rules than any [Alchemist] living. And finding out whether his knowledge held true?
That was going to be a lot of fun.
 
——
 
Rhaldon was a chemist. Not a [Chemist]…the world had not seen fit to reward him for his knowledge from Earth.
Yet he was one. He had graduated with a Bachelor of Science from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor for chemistry, minoring in geology, and had been taking post-grad courses in Applied Chemistry while working as a research assistant. The University of Michigan hadn’t offered the course for a long time, though they had a great equality and diversity program that Rhaldon had taken advantage of.
The Applied Chemistry courses started getting offered when two other major universities shut down due to the Spirited Generation event gaining traction, and they were singled out as ‘hotspots’ or worse, being ‘part of it’. That had been a safety concern—they had still shut down the entire terminal in the Melbourne airport.
He’d been doing undergraduate research in a laboratory throughout getting his bachelor’s, and he had been working on a Master of Science degree, which meant he had enough experience in actual application of the scientific method. Rhaldon suspected that few people had that kind of background if the other Earthers were around his age.
He was not qualified to call himself an expert by any means, but Rhaldon would have bet all the money he’d earned working as a [Wagon Driver] that his knowledge of actual lab procedures and chemical knowledge exceeded that of anyone else from home.
Not that he knew how many there were or where they were. Rhaldon’s only clue was that thousands of young people his age or younger had been going missing back home. Conspiracy theories had actually been right…well, the handful of them that had suggested this was some kind of interdimensional travel.
Home was tough. He often thought about marching up to Erin Solstice, or more likely Kevin or Joseph or Imani, telling them he was from Earth, and asking to talk. But Rhaldon couldn’t quite be sure if they would welcome him, and he didn’t want to do it, if he was honest.
Multiple reasons. He’d been making lists, and the [Wagon Driver] scribbled on one as he hunched over in the snow, driving a very tightly packed wagon down one of the trade roads heading south towards Invrisil.
It was cold and wet, and his horses grumbled, but he’d patted them down well, and they had a thick winter coat. Rhaldon was only a Level 15 [Wagon Driver], but since he’d reached that level in one year, Termin called him a prodigy.
Lists. Rhaldon had three notepads he’d bought with his first paychecks, and writing with a quill and inkpot sucked, but he’d learned. First, he had personal notes, thoughts, a way of organizing his world’s history and this one’s. Second, he had a list of all the ingredients he bought for his clientele, notes of stores, prices, so he could haggle, understand where things came from, and know how much he had paid historically. He obsessively updated the lists, and Termin himself had said that keeping a notepad was a wise move if Rhaldon became a specialist driver for [Alchemists].
Not all [Drivers] could read and write at a high level, so Rhaldon had kept his lists to himself. Driving was another world entirely with feuds and territory, and he might have gotten himself in trouble if he made enemies.
Being Termin’s apprentice already made him stand out, but he had lucked into the alchemy-driving job. No one wanted it, and he’d actually gotten some approval for taking on the job that was exceptionally risky and arguably unprofitable.
You could have your wagon explode if you took volatile ingredients, the margins weren’t that high all the time, [Alchemists] were unpleasant to work with, oh, and if you made a mistake, an explosion was the worst case scenario, but having a bunch of ruined ingredients due to rot or something else also made it miserable. Rhaldon realized it was so unpleasant that he’d actually made a name for himself just by doing decent deliveries for two months.
He had eight clients already who knew him by name, and Rhaldon actually got to ask them questions, which helped his third list:
Alchemy. Or was it chemistry? Rhaldon decided to call it alchemy, because he didn’t have enough knowledge to break down any of his observations into compounds or formulas that would be useful on Earth. Everything [Alchemists] did was more imprecise, more volatile, and frankly, more powerful than stuff back home.
Magic meant that, while you could blow a laboratory to shreds if you were insanely stupid back home, you could level a city block here. You could create mustard gas on Earth. Here? You could, apparently, create an acid cloud that wouldn’t disperse and would float around until it was diluted by rain or water magic.
In short, alchemy got scary, but it was just a matter of magnitude; invisible gas killing you was just as real in this world as Earth, and Rhaldon was making notes of all the alchemical formulas he learned as well as what ingredients did—and wracking his brain to write down every single compound, note, and more in his third journal.
He’d already done the basics like the periodic table, and he’d given up trying to verify how many divergences it had from this world. Magic, again, messed with the very nature of things.
But back to lists. Rhaldon’s first list had his reasons why he didn’t want to tell Erin he was from her world.
 
1. Is it safe? Her inn has been blown up 2 3 times. Attacked by Crelers. There are spies everywhere, and at least one famous [Grand Strategist] (Chaldion) attends her inn. Risks of kidnapping, attacks, etc.
2. What am I offering? I don’t have any levels in my actual field of expertise yet. It would be good to be valuable. 
3. What are the sides? Thinking on it, are there sides? Wistram, Cara the Singer, Erin…I should be careful about introducing concepts. Like gas-warfare, which is apparently in use already.
 
Izril was an oddly feudal society mixed with modern-style culture. There were [Lords] and [Ladies], and Walled Cities with their military-style organizations that Rhaldon had observed.
History told him that a valuable engineer could often be co-opted by someone to build, oh, trebuchets and that being too useful might make him a target. Rhaldon’s game plan was to fly under the radar, and Erin Solstice’s inn would not help with that.
Establishing himself as a simple [Alchemist] without outside help wouldn’t attract much attention, and while it was true he could have used gold and a building—he didn’t know how alchemy worked. Working as a [Driver] had allowed him to observe procedure and get multiple perspectives, and so Rhaldon had kept undercover for now.
But there was a fourth reason, and Rhaldon guiltily wrote it down, brushing snow from the crude paper of his journal as he saw lights in the distance. Invrisil approached, and the two-day ride had been harsh, unpleasant, and cold…but he stuck to it, saving coins, marking what to buy, compiling lists, and writing up procedures and ideas for his first big attempt at alchemy for the final reason.
 
4. I want to do it myself. I want to make a magic potion with knowledge from home and make it better than anyone from this world. It’s—fun.
(If I die, this was a bad idea.)
 
He stared at that last part and smiled. Well, he was preparing first. And again, he had a perfect window into alchemy. But the impetus that thrust him forwards actually came at the start of the month, when Termin took him on a dual-drive through the north.
 
——
 
The chemist in him rejoiced. But the Rhaldon of this world, the [Driver], sometimes appreciated the fact that he was a [Driver]. No matter how humble. Because it made him reconsider his optimism sometimes, his wild wonders and excitement. This was not bad. It was realism. Sometimes you had to look and see things from another perspective, and in hindsight?
A world of possibilities awaited. Yet if only the world could be more of a fantasy story. Rhaldon was not a huge reader at the moment, but he had read some of the ‘classics’. He had also gotten into the popular stories of the time, and he wished, in hindsight, he’d entered into a story closer to Lord of the Rings rather than what he took to be more of a ‘Game of Thrones’.
Or maybe Narnia. He tended to forget that terrible things happened in Narnia too, but at the end of the day, these were stories with vivid good and evil.
The hit television show that had swept his nation had been different. For one thing, sex was had in Game of Thrones. It was political, gritty. People starved to death, and the suffering was different. In Lord of the Rings, armies of evil Orcs swept Middle Earth, and it seemed like the end times, yes.
In Game of Thrones, people pushed children out windows.
If this world were a fantasy, it had that kind of realism to Rhaldon. When a kindly [Driver] had hopped down from the wagon and healed him with a potion as he lay bleeding from a gunshot wound, he’d mistaken this world for a better one.
As it turned out—he was wrong. It was just like home. People were, currently, freezing to death in the winter. Or starving. Or both.
It wasn’t obvious around Liscor or the bigger cities. But there was this feeling, as Rhaldon and Termin stopped along their journeys, especially when they drove together, of a pinch in the air.
The city of Reizmelt was a prosperous one. Rhaldon knew it as a destination on his map—it hadn’t been that popular, but the ‘Wind Runner’s city’ got tourists and had a bunch of colorful sails, and the people were even wearing variations of Ryoka’s windsuit.
No one had managed the gliders yet, but they were trying. It had that spirit of invention, and more than one person had asked how far to Invrisil—but their real goal was Pallass where Felkhr, the [Visionary of Flight], was.
Termin had actually arranged for a few passengers to head south. He had an eye for people, and whereas Rhaldon was just doing alchemy runs, he varied his work.
But he paused as he bought them food at one of the inns. Rhaldon hadn’t said anything, but Termin stared at a loaded soup that’d come for six copper coins for the two of them and began to pick at it with his spoon.
“Strange. The prices have skyrocketed. It shouldn’t be this bad. This is Reizmelt. ‘Scuse me, miss. There ain’t much meat in here.”
It was a bit of an aggressive statement to the embarrassed [Barmaid], but Termin had found just a few slivers of meat. And it was a mostly corn-based soup. Chopped up corn, barley…and virtually no meat.
“I’m so sorry, sir, but there’s not much to be had. Unless you want to risk Mad Madain’s inn—he’s the only person who can hunt game regularly.”
“What about farm animals?”
She paused as Termin frowned. Any city had good farmers, but in this case…
“We used to get some nice ones from the val Lischelles. You know them? Well, they’re gone, the Bakhearts are out of business—their barn burned—and the [Hunters] can’t get out there half as much. Most’ve our corn is from Farmer Lupp, and it’s only ‘cause he’s selling it cheap despite it being fancy. Try the soup. It’s good.”
It was indeed. Savory and sweet, and Termin’s discontent faded—but his palpable unease grew.
“I know them val Lischelles. They’re down at Liscor. What’s this about a burned farm? Seems like a lot of fires have been going around.”
He’d been listening in each village, and it seemed like they couldn’t reach a city without hearing about an arson attempt. Or sickness in the animals.
Lack of quality meat was a symptom of that, or sparse food for good coin. Six copper could get you a fat bowl with enough to fill you up or two cheap bowls. In this case, Rhaldon suspected they might have to pay for some bread to fill their stomachs or snack on their rations.
“You think this is bad? At least we’ve got farms. People depended on the Bakhearts and val Lischelles. It’ll be lean until someone high-level replaces them. Farmer Lupp and his amazing corn has to feed a lotta people.”
High-level. It was weird for someone to describe the issue like that, but Rhaldon equated it to a major company back home. Only, a single [Farmer] could produce the output of a dozen fields for every one of his. It sort of balanced out given the lack of mechanization, but this world had a fragility to it.
If someone high-level died or moved, an area suffered. Termin thanked the [Barmaid] and bought them some pumpernickel bread with butter. He frowned at the one copper charge for the butter, but tipped her with four coppers anyways, which got them a smile and the bread in moments. Then he frowned and whispered to Rhaldon.
“…That ain’t good. If a bigger city like Reizmelt starts tightening its belt, someone’s dying in another village. I’ll put a word into the Driver’s Guild.”
“To do what? Put more offers out to sell grain or transport it around?”
Termin gave Rhaldon a blink of surprise, then a morose look. He adjusted his warm cap over his white hair.
“…Yeah. That’s a good job. Chaoisa runs them through snow, and that [Emperor] fellow’s taking care of his area. But I meant…keep [Drivers] away from outlying villages. Poor, desperate folk? They turn to [Bandits] in a blink of an eye. You stay clear when you’re doing your deliveries. If they think you’re carrying riches, they’ll mug you.”
Rhaldon didn’t know how to respond to that. Termin chewed on his corn, then smiled at the bread.
“At least this fluffs up nice, hey? That baking stuff from Liscor’s even gone here.”
“Baking stuff?”
Rhaldon blinked and sat up, and Termin waved a hand.
