“Do not—do not let them rub together! Listen to me, they are Corusdeer horns. Do you understand? I know you’ve seen them roaming around. You know they ignite their horns? Well, the horns can—and will—ignite if they rub up against anything. You may get dust—dust can catch fire too. Keep them away from flammable material, including your wagon. Do not tell me it is snowing and wet! I have seen them turn a water-doused wagon into a match, and no amount of water will douse them. If they are already pre-powdered, seal them in a pot! Dead gods above and below, I will take them filled with water if it means the Driver’s Guild does not complain about another burning wagon! Driver Rhaldon, that powder will burn without going out. Do you understand me? Do not smoke near it. Do not let it get out. Are we clear?”
He was ranting, a foot from Rhaldon’s face, and the [Driver] only got in a word edgewise when Itimen stopped to breathe. He was writing everything down and actually showed Itimen his notes.
“Yes, Alchemist. I was thinking to wrap each Corusdeer horn in waxed paper I could buy. Would that work? Or I could do something else?”
“No paper! It will—oh.”
The angry [Alchemist] stopped, and he finally looked at Rhaldon. The [Driver] had done five deliveries, but this time, Itimen paused and seemed to actually recognize him.
“I recognize you. The dark skin—Chandrarian? No, never mind. I had thought my deliveries were better than usual. Wax paper? Well, now, you’ve thought about this.”
He tapped his mouth thoughtfully.
“It will melt and catch fire, but it is slick. I see the idea. No, no…the other drivers who have transported the horns before have used other methods. Dunking them in water, bags of holding—but they can rub together even in water. Do you have a bag of holding?”
He was hopeful, but Rhaldon shook his head. They were expensive, costing dozens of gold coins for the smallest. It was one of the things he wanted, and Termin was rich enough to have one, but the [Driver], his mentor, couldn’t pay for everything Rhaldon needed.
“Paper it is. I would, ideally, have you suspend them in the air. Dangling from a fishing line. Could you do that?”
Rhaldon imagined the contraption and shook his head.
“No, [Alchemist], but if it’s all about friction…would soapy paper do?”
“Soap? Hmm. That’s…but it’d get over my horns. Then again, if it’s just surface-level, I could clean it off. Soapy paper. And how are you going to keep them from jostling around?”
“I normally put things in straw, Alchemist, in a box. But in this case, should I try water? It’d be heavy and difficult.”
The [Alchemist] paced back and forth, muttering.
“The dust is damned difficult. You were told it was dangerous?”
Rhaldon had actually been offered a chance to turn this one down. One of the ‘big rollers’ like Termin or Chaoisa could do it, or a Courier or City Runner stupid enough to transport Corusdeer horn dust.
“How…explodable is a vial of dust? Alchemist?”
Itimen shot him a dark look.
“If you shake it, the dust within will begin to get hot. If it keeps shaking, it combusts, and as I said, water cannot put it out. There’s a woman in Reizmelt brave enough to grind it down—but getting it to us is difficult. Any method of keeping it from moving is acceptable. Even…”
He sighed.
“…Submerging it in water. But even then, it can clump up! Perhaps you should leave this for a Courier with a bag of holding. Although it’s been known to explode even inside them…”
Rhaldon was very nervous, but an idea occurred to him as he thought about the issue of transporting the horns and dust.
“Alchemist. What if I submerged it in water and, uh…delivered you a block of ice?”
“Hm? A block of—”
Itimen’s eyes lit up as he stared out his window and saw the snow falling. He clapped his hands to his head in delight.
“Dead gods, is it winter already? Of course! A block of ice works! Even for the horns! Do that! Don’t mind breaking it into pieces—though be careful in the breaking! I just need it in dust, so the fewer parts the better…”
That was one of the methods via which Rhaldon avoided immolation. Acid, other combustibles, it was all just knowing what each thing did. He had to transport a sealed jar that would explode if you opened it to the air, and while it gave him newfound respect for people transporting such goods on Earth—it was doable. And again, it earned him the respect of his clients. Enough so he could begin to question them and learn their processes.
 
——
 
Alchemy, according to [Alchemists], was a simple process. To a chemist, it was…interesting how they described things.
“Alchemy? You want lessons? Am I paying you in gold as well as tips?”
Alchemist Zeomtoril was visibly annoyed when Rhaldon asked, and the [Driver] tried to placate him.
“I was just curious, [Alchemist]. I didn’t mean to interrupt—”
“Didn’t mean? I have a bunch of prickly, annoying spies around wanting me to perform my genius just because they’re friendly with the [Lord] of this mansion, and now I have to explain my craft to a [Driver]? Fah. You wouldn’t even understand it.”
Rhaldon ducked his head, and Zeomtoril glared and made a point of double-checking that everything he’d ordered was intact and properly sealed. But as he watched Rhaldon unpack his deliveries, he eventually, grudgingly, delivered a variation on the lecture Rhaldon had gotten from every [Alchemist] he’d asked.
“Alchemy is made of three things, boy. Any [Alchemist] knows the spiel. You have a ‘Base’, a ‘Reactor’, and sometimes a ‘Booster’. All those fancy vials of liquid you imagine me pouring powders into and exploding? That’s how you do it. Of course, proper alchemy is more than that, but every idiot you meet and work for besides me will think of it like that.”
Those three terms, Base, Booster, and Reactor, were equivalent to Earth’s understanding of catalysts and reagents, and emulated the old mad-science of the past. Actually, alchemy was that crazy science, only it worked.
Zeomtoril pointed out a bubbling vial in a huge glass box of all things. Rhaldon guessed it was highly toxic, because a second forcefield surrounded the box itself.
It gave him prickles, because the [Genius Polymath] was watching the vial like a hawk, and that gas had to be dangerous.
“That is a pure example of it, boy. I put in a very distilled venom for…well, never you mind. But I have added the Reactor, the thing that’s making it bubble. Once it’s no longer that hot, I will add a tiny Booster for efficacy and voilà.”
He kissed his fingers.
“Something unparalleled, if so deadly I shall have to throw away the brush. It’s not all explosions, and you would do well to remember that. But it is always taking one thing and improving or transmuting it. Understand?”
 
——
 
Alchemists knew that they were always pursuing some kind of chemical reaction, but they didn’t understand how things worked on a molecular level. They were intelligent; Alchemist Xif of Pallass was far friendlier and gave Rhaldon a practiced speech that he often laid on [Apprentice Alchemists] in his guild.
“Alchemy, young Rhaldon, is about a steady result. Some would tell you it’s about discovery—but what is the point of making a miracle tonic that you cannot reproduce? Alchemy is not just fun experimentation…that’s actually only a tenth of the work you do. Mostly, it’s refining a method to reliably acquire what you want, be it a potion, reaction, or anything else. We are constantly plagued by that: reliability.”
Rhaldon liked that explanation because it cut to the heart of something he’d noticed in alchemy as opposed to his world’s chemistry: they had no standardization. 
Procedures were shared online and in scientific journals in his world, and they were peer-reviewed so that other labs could reproduce techniques or experiments. That was the power of information sharing and a treasured tenet in science—even if pharmaceutical companies loved hiding their stuff and charging people for life-saving medication.
Or patenting the hell out of it. But patents didn’t exist in this world, so secrecy and theft of ideas ruled.
Alchemists took that kind of greed to another level. They openly hid recipes from one another, sabotaged rivals, and hoarded rare ingredients. Even in the Alchemist’s Guild, you had to pay to access their recipes, and all the best ones were kept by top-level [Alchemists] so they’d have a monopoly on their product.
This all meant that there were few recipes that everyone knew, and even then, Rhaldon had been told you could make a healing potion eight different ways with varying results.
This lack of shared knowledge meant that each [Alchemist] could produce incredibly varied results. For a buyer, you were taking a risk and trusting to each individual’s reputation that they’d deliver quality, and levels were often used to benchmark reliability.
Saliss of Lights offered a final word on alchemy for Rhaldon. He laughed when Rhaldon told him he’d been asking around, and the Drake stopped making a battle potion and turned to Rhaldon. He waved the vial around.
“Alchemy. Xif would do the reliability speech, and you talked to someone who did the three components? Cute. That’s what we tell new [Alchemists] and clients, but the truth is far simpler, Rhaldon. Want to know?”
“Yes.”
Saliss paused, and the naked Drake, wearing only an apron, leaned over.
“It’s super-secret, but I’ll tell you. Come closer.”
Rhaldon leaned over, and Saliss whispered.
“You really want to know?”
“Yes, please, Alchemist Saliss.”
“You sure?”
“Absolutely.”
“Are you certain?”
This went on for about a minute, and then Saliss got bored. He went back to adding little crystal grains to his vial, smiling.
“It’s not about reliability, Rhaldon. Or even ‘toss three things together and get a reaction’. It’s about…understanding. Don’t let them fool you. We’re all idiots who don’t know what a single ingredient does. But we’re trying.”
“Understanding, Alchemist Saliss?”
Saliss nodded and tinged the vial with one claw. The red liquid within roiled alarmingly, and he pointed to it.
“Nasty, isn’t it? Guess what’s in there.”
“Uh—”
“Salamander skins. The same stuff you deliver to Octavia for heating potions? It also explodes if you add the right stuff to it. The venom of a spider can kill—or cure. Sometimes it seems like it’s all magic, but the truth is, each ingredient we have does something. And the more uses I find for salamander skin, or Sage’s Grass, the more I understand it. I understand this stuff is hot, reacts well, and does not like being pressurized.”
This time, Saliss flipped the vial up and down and caught it, and Rhaldon flinched—but the Drake was teasing him. Rhaldon had known that the vials were all enchanted, so he doubted it was possible to break them even if Saliss threw the vial at a wall. Yet the Drake’s annoying humor turned serious again, and he held the vial of red liquid up.
“If I knew what any one ingredient did, fully, any one—I would be happy and Level 60. Because we are combining two things, or eleven things, and praying and wishing it does what we think it’ll do…but the truth is, we’re constantly figuring out what that one thing did. We think we know, and then we put together something innocent like salamander skins into a vial of water, compress it, and whoa, there goes your face! I knew a poor [Alchemist] who did that.”
He gave Rhaldon a grin—and the chemist gulped. But Saliss then just sighed.
“Knowledge. It always surprises me, again and again. That’s why alchemy doesn’t advance. We don’t share data, and because we don’t, someone always finds out something new—and everyone else stares at the smoking crater of their shop and wonders what the hell they found. Ah, well. That’s our job for you. Alchemy is all about not sneezing at the wrong time.”
 
——
 
Three answers, and the latter two spoke to the actual challenges of alchemy itself. Now, here was where Rhaldon got a funny answer from Octavia.
“Oh, someone did the three components lecture? I did that to Numbtongue. You, uh, have you seen him? He’s not dangerous, you know.”
The Hobgoblin? Rhaldon had met him, and the guitar-toting green guy with his cat seemed less dangerous than all the [Alchemists] he’d met, but he just nodded.
People had a thing about Goblins in this world. Rhaldon, who was from Earth, thought it was pretty telling. Skin color was not remarked on much here, but as a black man…he did notice the ‘Chandrarian’ comment now and then.
But the fact that it was Goblins who were apparently the ‘bad species’ made him predisposed to like them. So Octavia looked relieved. She herself was one of the Stitch-folk and shook her head as she showed him her workstation.
She was mixing up a stamina potion, and it was a bunch of roots, roaches—three glowing Sweetberries, and Sage’s Water.
“This is a basic formula, Rhaldon. Er—don’t mind the bugs. They’re dead.”
Rhaldon was not keen on bugs, but each component of the Stamina Potion was apparently vital.
“None of it’s super-magical. I told Numbtongue one time that it was all Booster, Base, and Reactor. But the truth is…sometimes you can’t see what’s going on. So we’re close to herbcraft, or even cooking. You know Erin? She treats alchemy sort of like a cooking recipe. The worst part is—it works.”
Octavia shuddered. She gestured at her potion, which she was making by mixing the entire substance and heating it up.
“But it’s true. This is just really—flavored soup. Magic makes it more colorful, but basic potions like these? I just get some dry roach—aaaah!”
One moved, and she smashed it with her beaker as Rhaldon nearly leapt into a second table. Octavia eyed the mess and began to scrape it into a bowl, groaning.
“…And that’s something I hope no one puts in food, but it’s sorta edible. Don’t tell anyone we put this stuff in.”
“Are you sure it’s, uh—needed?”
Octavia nodded gloomily.
“You can do it without the roaches, but then everyone complains it’s weaker. See the blue insides? It’s their blood; the blood is what has the magic. They’re fast as heck, and some people gather them…listen, if we can omit something, we do. Alchemy’s all about finding the cheapest way to do something.”
The roach’s blood was the magic? The question then was…what part of the blood? But Octavia couldn’t answer that. Just like the Corusdeer horns, if you could isolate what part of the blood was the useful element, like platelets or cartilage in the horns…
