Those who came here with talents stood under spotlights. No…they were like lighthouses on a dark sea. Burning beacons of knowledge, of alternate ideas. They might not know how it was all done, but they understood where it could go.
To those at the top of their craft, like Saliss, or even masters like Pelt, Valeterisa, they shone a fierce, sometimes painfully obvious lantern at a path forwards.
It was not always the most correct one, and sometimes these shortcuts were embarrassing to tread, and people like Felkhr refused to run down them. Earthers were like that. Exasperating. Valuable as gems.
After Rhaldon’s reinvention of his potion, they saw it. After returning from a successful proposition, Calidus Reinhart practically chased Rhaldon down, trying to get the young man to commit to working in his mansion or domain. He was offering to set Rhaldon up with a laboratory equivalent to Zeomtoril’s—free, so long as he let Calidus market his ideas.
The [Lord] was sitting in his banquet hall, at the long table, thinking. He thought because he was bored. There was nothing for him to do and all his passions had become grey and empty. And not much to pursue, at the moment. The beach was no good. He’d checked, and worming his way in there wouldn’t be easy—plus, it was too far. But imagine hot sun, sex on the beach…
That was because Calidus listened to the intrusive thoughts, the voice in his head that told him Rhaldon was something. Something so odd that Calidus saw the young man off—then turned and went to find an [Assassin].
“Hey. Do you have a leader? I assume it’s the fellow with that gold half-mask? I require a meeting with the Assassin’s Guild or whomever you are.”
One of the relaxing [Assassins] glanced up as they read a book from Calidus’ library. They had happily infested his mansion, and the [Lord], aside from his attempts to flirt with every female [Assassin] running, was a useful host.
Their mistake was thinking him a naïve fool.
“We are not a Guild. I will find our current leader and ask him to see you tonight.”
Calidus Reinhart saw the loafing figure, who had a vest filled with knives on and had divested their black outfit while in safety, go back to reading. The [Lord] clasped his hands together with a huge smile.
“Excellent. Thank you. Go get him now.”
The [Assassin] paused. They debated whether it was smart to ignore that and continue reading. Then they slowly closed the book with a loud sigh. They were making a show of being slow—when Calidus reached down and picked them up with both hands. The figure jerked. Then stared up into the [Genius of Sloth]’s gaze.
“I am going. Unhand me.”
“I know. Run.”
The [Lord] had no aura. He was not physically impressive, any more than a man his size was. He was certainly no killer. But he was a Reinhart. The [Assassin] hesitated, and Calidus screamed at him with a huge smile on his face.
“Run!”
No fear. Just an intensity bordering on madness. When the annoyed leader of the [Assassins] and a few more figures found Calidus, he was striding around his banquet hall.
“Find out who he is. Find out who he is and who Aunt Magnolia’s guests were. I want a report now. Don’t do it via the underworld. Don’t get caught. No, no…I heard you lot muttering about ‘young men and women in Wistram’. Why. Who are they? They’re someone. Aunt Magnolia won’t tell me. Find out.”
He was striding around, and the leader wondered if Calidus had taken drugs. He tried for diplomacy.
“Lord Calidus. We are here to aid you in certain endeavors, but we report to…your grandfather. To our mutual associates. We are not under—”
Calidus was pacing around, trying to drink his way out of thinking. When he heard that, he bull-rushed the [Assassin Leader]. The others stepped away, but the leader didn’t. He caught Calidus’ grip, but the [Lord] just stood there, looming over him.
His eyes were wild with unmatched intellect.
“You’re going to complain to my grandfather and rein me in. You want an idiot. I wish I were an idiot. But Regis doesn’t know who Rhaldon is. If he did, he’d send you after him in a heartbeat. Go complain. Then, when he tells you to investigate, he’ll put you against Rhaldon’s friends like an idiot. And that includes Saliss of Lights. So, when you complain to Regis, let me know so I can watch Assassins versus Saliss round two. But don’t do it near my lands. I don’t need another lake.”
“What? What are you talking—?”
The leader of the [Assassins]’ heart leapt in fear at the thought of fighting the Named-rank who had killed more [Assassins] than anyone since the Creler Wars in a single moment. He couldn’t even understand what Calidus was saying.
The [Lord] looked so impatient at having to explain.
“Ask Zeomtoril! No—just figure it out. My grandfather knows about whatever Rhaldon and those young people at Wistram are.”
“Earthers.”
Another [Assassin] muttered it. The other figures turned to him.
“I heard the name. They’re called ‘Earthers’. They’re a valuable commodity.”
“As what? Slaves?”
Calidus’ eyes were flickering.
“Not [Slaves]. They’re not members of a paradise like Khelt. Or Samal. That’s stupid. Samal isn’t that advanced. But they know things. Erin Solstice is one. So is that amazing Singer. I want her to spit in my face. They’re everywhere. Magnolia had some, and she got rid of them. They are from somewhere else. The future? That also sounds stupid. Another dimension?”
His head was splitting, and he couldn’t stop. He held his head and began screaming.
“Zeomtoril! Someone get Zeomtoril!”
An [Assassin] edged out of the room. The others tried to keep up.
“But Regis Reinhart knows? Or doesn’t know?”
“He knows they exist. But he has no hands. He’s always worked through the family head, and Magnolia hates him. He doesn’t know about Rhaldon, or he’d have you grab him. It’s obvious!”
“Oh. That makes sense.”
“Of course it does. Then he’ll say, because he must know, ‘go get this Rhaldon’. To you. And you might say ‘he has friends’, but Grandfather doesn’t care. He’s a Reinhart! And that leads to the part where Saliss ponders where his Driver is—because Rhaldon is a genius [Alchemist]—and he comes looking. Then I watch him melt you into puddles, and it’s a waste of damn time! But Grandfather won’t care. If he has Rhaldon, he’ll war with Saliss and Pallass. Either way, you’re a stain on my carpets! Zeomtoril! Where are you?”
The [Polymath] finally came running. By now, the [Assassins] were nervous. Everything Calidus said—made sense.
They had always been agents of the nobility of Izril, and dying in a feud with a Walled City sounded right up their alley. Regis didn’t care that the Assassin’s Guild had been decimated with the Circle of Thorns falling. He wouldn’t care if they got killed making an enemy of Rhaldon’s friends.
He could literally buy more [Assassins]—they were rebuilding the guild right now. They were expendable, that was the point, and only Calidus saw it. He saw the board, he saw all the strange happenings lining up and the Earthers—
His head was killing him. The [Lord] was thinking so hard and fast he was about to get a nosebleed. He turned to Zeomtoril, and another side of their relationship unveiled itself to their guests.
“Zeomtoril. That young man—”
“I know he’s gone.”
“No. Damn him. Damn the entire game of chess—I can’t stop thinking. I need you to use your Skill.”
“Now? But I was saving it for—”
Calidus shook the slimmer [Polymath] so hard Zeomtoril’s head rattled.
“Help me out or I’ll go crazy! Do it!”
The [Polymath] froze, realized Calidus was in a state that might drive him to madness or a self-harm beyond regular, and gave in. He turned to the [Assassins].
“Get the servants. We’ll both be out of it. Dead gods, I wish Rhaldon were here.”
“The servants? To do what?”
The [Assassins] were getting weirded out, and that was saying something, for them. By now, three dozen figures were watching Calidus drinking—water? Zeomtoril just shouted.
“They know. Calidus—[Blinding Insight of the Madman]!”
His eyes shone an unhealthy yellow, a too-bright light, and Calidus’ own gaze lit up. They swept the room, the two of them, like they were possessed. Like something was exploding out of their heads. Ideas in such profusion it leaked out their eyes. Then—
The two went insane.
 
——
 
When Calidus Reinhart lost himself, the servants knew to do three things. One, give him everything he wanted, be it paper and utensils, things to draw on or tinker with, and so on.
Two, give him food and water.
Three—stay out of the way.
Calidus had always had difficulties, but he was a Reinhart. That came with the territory. Nosebleeds and wild fits where his mind raced ahead of his body or anyone’s ability to keep up? It had propelled him into drinking—and then meeting Zeomtoril.
The [Polymath]’s Skill affected both of them, an odd effect of one of Calidus’ Skills.
[Genius of Sloth]. One of his Skills was [Calculable Insight: Copy Skill (Intellect)]. It meant that any intellect-based Skill used in his presence activated on him. If he wanted it to.
To the two of them, it was like the rest of the world hung in slow motion and their minds exploded into possibilities. They extrapolated, reached leaps of logic in moments, and spoke so fast that it became gibberish even to each other, and the two raved and waved their arms at each other as they tried to communicate what they were thinking.
This was a bad…or good one. It lasted nearly three hours, and in that span of time, the silent [Assassins] observed everything from Calidus drawing on the walls with ink, to Zeomtoril screaming for every single newspaper that had ever been printed and rifling through them, eyes blurring with movement.
Afterwards, they collapsed, and someone had to literally save Calidus from drowning in a soup bowl. They went comatose, and the [Lord] seemed peaceful for the first time, unconscious, spent.
When he woke up, six hours later, he entertained a group of [Assassins] in his private sitting room. He had a block of crushed snow on his head, looked hungover, and barely opened his eyes.
For their part, the most high-level [Assassins] regarded him with more respect and interest than before. Especially because they had heard some of what Calidus had screamed.
“Lord Reinhart. Was what you said accurate?”
“…What part? When I was thinking like crazy? Or when I said I would make one of those old-fashioned altars and worship your body on it like the old texts? Because I meant the latter. The former? I’m not always right. I just think hard.”
The other [Assassins] turned and stared silently at the Medusa, who folded her arms defensively.
“…The former.”
Calidus smiled darkly.
“I like being wrong and proven to be stupid. I would love to know that I am an idiot who thinks much of himself and all my ideas are worthless.”
That was an answer in and of itself. The [Assassins] looked at each other, then one raised a hand.
“Lord Reinhart. Will you elaborate on what you—uncovered? The Guild of Assassins, what remains of it, has a great interest in what you might have to say. What do you mean when you said, ‘he meant for this to happen?’ Your ancestor, Regis Reinhart?”
Calidus just closed his eyes as he let the snow melt on his head. When he opened one bloodshot eye a crack, he croaked.
“I want to see your faces. And your classes.”
The [Assassins] stiffened. Calidus glared at them.
“I’m. Curious. You’ll kill me if I reveal who you are.”
“We just want to know if you are telling us the truth. Nothing you say can be proven. It’s just thought.”
One of the [Assassins] argued weakly. Now, both of Calidus’ eyes opened, and his stare turned to actual malice.
“I am Calidus Reinhart, you handsome bastard. I can tell you’re an infiltration expert. I won that damn chess game against Erin Solstice, and I lost the ability to turn my brain off. I have been using [Store Intellect] until I ran out of room. Zeomtoril had to give me an outlet. I haven’t even tried my rewarded new Skill for fear it’ll be so damn fascinating I won’t sleep again. I used to stay up for weeks at a time! Do you want me to prove it? [Brilliant Insight]!”
He barked, and the [Assassins] saw his face contort—smooth—then Calidus sat back. He rubbed at his face.
“You…Regis told you all that one of the reasons he was going to rebuild the Guild of Assassins was to take in the children of all the Faces and Ranks who died, didn’t he? He offered you all families. Stability. Intuition just said that he offered the best of you a chance at becoming flowers of Izril yourselves.”
The second intellect Skill of Calidus Reinhart made the room go quiet as a grave. There was absolutely no way he could have known that. No one would have leaked it. No one had trusted Regis’ fool of a nephew, but Calidus looked—tired. He put his head in his hands.
“I’m right? Tell me I’m right or wrong. Please. I have to know.”
Then the uncertainty came out. The group looked at each other, then the [Infiltrator of Masks] pulled his own mask back and revealed, yes, a rather handsome man’s face. The others hesitated—then copied him, revealing scars or sometimes oddly innocuous features.
Medusa. Humans. A half-Elf—the remaining members of the Assassin’s Guild worthy of the name.
“He promised us that, Calidus Reinhart. Did he lie? Why did you say he planned it?”
Calidus just sat there. He spoke into his hands.
“He didn’t lie to you. Grandfather could make every living [Assassin] in the north nobility within the year. He doesn’t have to lie. But how many of you think you’ll survive long enough to claim his bounty? He’ll fill Izril with more people who owe loyalty to him. [Assassins] who do what he needs and rebuild the guild. But he’ll throw you into a grinder worse than fighting the Deaths first. Do you think any of you will make it? The survivors will be over Level 60. Who here can do that?”
None of them raised their hands, but Calidus looked up with a huge, twisted, sad grin.
“That’s hope for you. And he killed your Guild the exact same way. He doesn’t care. He wants levels and loyalty and artifacts. If you beat Tyrion, he’d be happy. If you lost—well, now he gets to make the remnants struggle and level. If you all die, he’ll buy a thousand [Assassins] from Roshal or hire overseas experts and try again. He’s never cared.”
Calidus reached over, poured himself a glass of wine, and sensed the bloodthirst in the air. He just offered the bottle around at the suddenly silent, blank-faced [Assassins].
