The entire central domain starts to blend and clash with flowing auras that fight for dominance.

"I do not care what power the Creator's Legacy has granted you! For my own path does not have to be bound by the laws of the system like yours. I will let chaos destroy the order you wish to create!" he yells down at us.

This does not only echo into our minds with the words he says, but the High Royal Vibrations bound to the growing chaotic Advanced Primordial Aura allow his intentions to become crystal clear. His words are just for show.

Every fiber of his being is letting go, and he is no longer holding back.

Marcellus Imperial does not care if he lives or dies; he only wishes to destroy the Legacy holders below him.

I can feel waves of the system being filtered through his aura, but even they are being consumed by this orange sea of madness.

It's like a virus, eating up everything it touches.

Yet, there is a red and blue pool of energy clashing with it, forcing it to bend its path.

The crimson glyphs in my sword grow hotter and hotter as the chaotic glyphs in this demon's dagger spin and pulse.

At their contact points, the Primordial Aura becomes so dense and compressed that the only thing my senses pick up is a fuzzy black bend in space. It does not have any width to it—it is infinitely small, like a single line bending to the whims of gravity in the air.

The pressure is absurd, sending shockwave after shockwave into the atmosphere as he pushes down further and we stand our ground.

Maria and I both shift our stances and explode upward with all the force we have.

My sword's bloodlust grows hotter and more alive with every passing moment, and I feel billions more soul energy cores stacking into Maria's Origin Body.

We become stronger and stronger, but the hatred and will to destroy and disrupt everything in its path crushing down on us only react more to the aura it feels.

Every increase in our power triggers its chaos to grow brighter orange.

There are strong veins of purple demonic energy that start to pour out from the center of his body, and it holds the figure of a demon in place in its center.

Without this structure, I can feel that he would explode into an unrecognizable glob of power.

This is what allows him to think with logic and hold his blades, but it is also what holds him back. There is enough of a slight error to his perfection, leaving small glitches and gaps in his aura. This is where I still see glimpses of the system peeking through.

It gives me enough edge to twist my blade and escape from the downward pin he's trying to hold us in.

Maria takes advantage of this too, bursting out with another extremely bright wave of rainbow ice when her stacked cores surpass 10 billion.

We split off in separate directions and immediately go in for counters of our own.

When I swing my blade, many of its latent abilities automatically activate.

A bright crimson eye opens up at the sword's base, right above my grip, and the blade multiplies into over a million perfect copies.

They all appear surrounding my head and covering my back. Each of them gives off its own deep crimson Advanced Primordial Aura, giving my already spectacular Origin Body a second outer glow, like there is a red shadow following behind me.

When I swing the real core sword across my body, a horrific black and red metallic wave of fire comes pouring out of it. Imbued inside, surrounding, and following the wave, hundreds of thousands of these sword copies ride within it.

Even during this swing, I feel more and more blood-red glyphs floating to the surface of my blade. It feels like it is just yawning, beginning to wake up, and this attack that shakes the entire central domain is nothing more than it stretching out its body and taking in the morning sun.

The wave of fire expands and grows, getting hotter the longer it flies. It collides with the enormous bubble-like mass of chaotic aura and burns right through.

From the other side, an equally massive slash of icy crystals sparkles and reflects colors that have never appeared in the spectrum of light in the Lower Realm.

When it collides with the bubble from the other side, it appears as though the chaos is frozen and cracking apart while the wave of ice breaks through.

The closer we get to his true body, the slower our attacks fly.

The outer layers of Advanced Primordial Aura even begin to be taken over by waves of chaos. It eats away at the weaker flames and disconnected ice crystals, separating them from their system connections and absorbing them into raw Primordial Aura that the demon can use for himself.

However, it is not strong enough to stop them entirely.

The dark fire and light icy auras hit Marcellus in the back and in the chest from opposite sides, pinning him in the air just like he did to us moments earlier.

There is another explosion that rattles the entire central domain, sending out aura flying in trillions of directions while they cannibalize each other and wrestle for dominance in the sky.

The only thing different about this clash is that I feel my many blades cutting into the strands of primordial demonic essence holding his physical body together deep down. The waves of black corruption-infused glyphs I produce devour this energy too, and connect to its source every time.

I can feel that this pool of power is tied to the physical plane, and is not infinite. It cannot just be summoned from thought and willpower alone like this chaotic aura.

When Maria's ice shatters some of these deep purple veins of aura, her source resin devours the pure high-quality ether inside them too. This knowledge instantly bounces through both of our minds, and we confirm that we've found this Demon's weakness.

He lets out a murderous roar that echoes through our souls, and the bright orange flooding out of him becomes stronger again. Without any target to aim at, this would be a horrifying sight, but seeing the glints of demonic essence tied to the system he still has to hold onto are the only thing my tunnel vision hones in on.

Marcellus throws both of his daggers out of his hands.

They glide through the air in a beautiful and graceful pattern, but my crimson blade swings across my body with an awe-inspiring aura about it too.

Both of them have wills that do not fear the other.

The blades collide in the air and create another shockwave while the Demon destroys and sacrifices more pieces of his soul to grasp at more chaotic power.

Another collision echoes through the dome moments later as Maria's blade stops his other dagger.

The tree stump beneath all of this madness cracks more and more.

Even the silver threads holding the central domain together begin to bend and stretch from the overwhelming pressure.

Ember sits atop the dome in his Hybrid form, watching the battle play out with a wide grin.

"It appears you two will be just fine. I can now rank up without having to worry."

He closes his eyes, and his entire body starts to shine with a bright white, blinding light.
