The thing with Cantonese people, Eppie realised once the main dishes finally started arriving, was that they took their banquets very seriously.

The conversation around William flowed freely.

What he had fed to Jimmu to give poor Jimmu a stutter. The bullshit he had tried to pull on Kitty when he was younger, before he started frequenting the Lantern Club. Edson finally said, “Fuck it!” and swore for a good five minutes about those damn photos he kept buried like a cursed tome.

Simone then joined in and said that William made her pay for a Birkin Bag she didn’t lose. Valorie turned deep scarlet—until Lim raised a hand… and told them what had happened.

The girls stared at Lim… aghast…

After a minute of internal turmoil, Valorie sighed and asked for forgiveness. Simone bit her lips hard enough to draw blood, then cried on Valorie’s arm until the lobster arrived.

While de-shelling for Simone, Lim said the bag paid for the Stray Cat Society’s heating, food and vet bills, and Valorie asked him if he needed more.

By the time the crab hit the table, the banquet had turned into a full-blown Mao-era Criticism Session with William at the centre.

Then uncle “Bao” Bu came in, placed two boxes on the table, and told them that they were on the house.

Eppie recognised the red and white boxes at once.

Mao-tai.

Delicious, expensive, Mao-tai, the smoothest, most fragrant baijiu on the planet.

While the crew shared their tale of their Senior, from Valorie’s sordid tales of William cheating on her, to Kitty’s childhood trauma, to Jimmu’s ongoing trauma, to Lim’s tales of William pussy-footing during JKD practice…

Eppie stole a sip.

Found herself growing happier and warmer.

Then stole another sip.

And another.

And another

And another.

Then the [System] started firing off notices. Notices like [Your actions have immensely reaped the Usurper’s Causality] and [Would you like to restore Stamina Y/N?]; only her vision was blurring, the room was tilting, the people’s voices were very loud, and she suddenly felt like a tipsy woman on a yacht, losing her balance.

The last thing she remembered was Kitty Meng laughing at something, Lim screaming in Cantonese, Valorie grabbing her by the waist—then both sight and sound started smearing sideways into the lacquer on the walls and—

Eppie woke up in her own bedroom.

“You’re finally awake…”

Josefina was standing in the doorway with her arms crossed and the specific expression of a housemother who had signed for a girl at one in the morning, a girl who came home smelling like a distillery.

“Do you have any idea…”  Josefina began. Eppie slumped back into bed.Too much had happened, and whatever came next, she would face it after a full day of blissful Sunday sleep.
