That feeling chewing at you? The burn? That tiredness in your head? The way your body wants you to stop—practically begs you to chuck your uniform so you can take a nicer job? One where people don’t treat you like shit, where a red-faced bastard of a head chef doesn’t call you a stupid shit thrice every hour, where you think you can matter?

That’s the grind. The grind is here to kill your heart. The grind is here to wear you down. Don’t embrace the grind. Survive it. Deal with it. Understand what the fuck it is. There are a lot of chefs that like to lie to themselves. They lie so hard that eventually they manage to convince themselves they enjoy the taste of shit. They enjoy eating shit. They are people who love shit.

We are not those chefs. We do not enjoy eating shit. We do not love the grind. The grind is a signal, okay? It's a sign. It's a symbol that something's going wrong.

Do you feel the grind when you're peeling something successfully and the skin is coming all off at the same time? Do you feel the grind when dish after dish, meal after meal, plate after plate is filled and placed on the table and we get no feedback? Which, somehow, is the best fucking feedback of all? No!

We feel the grind when there's too much to do and not enough of us to do it! We feel the grind when we're fucking up too many times. Because we fuck up doing one thing, we fuck up doing the next thing. Sooner or later, we become a chain of fucking useless wankers instead of bloody competent chefs. The grind is an overload of mistakes. It's too many flaws. It's too many faults.

And it's something you need to learn how to fix. Don't become a chain of fuck ups. Resist the urge to drown and become a useless wanker. Everyone at the grill, go out—smoke break now. Fuck the order; the fat cunt can wait a little while longer. Go out and think about how you burned the last one, before you spray your piss all over the next.

Shiv, take over. And if you need help this time, bloody ask for it instead of trying to deal with everything yourself. You are not one person here; we are a kitchen. Until we do this right, we're all eating shit together.

So help me help you stop shuffling mouthfuls of shit. It might take a while, but I think we can godsdamn do it if we just try…

—Georges Archambault

329

The Grind

Shiv was no stranger to seaweed soup. He'd prepared over ten different variations of the dish in the past. Most had beef chunks or rounded steaks, sliced into smaller pieces before being dipped in the soup. The dried seaweed the Swan-Eating Toad used was sourced from some eastern nation of Integrated Earth. At least that's what Georges claimed. It was far softer and usually dissolved into messy clouds of debris if the water's temperatures spiked too high, too fast. With a fourth of a tablespoon of sea salt, a few cracks of black pepper, perhaps a bit of sesame oil or, circumstantially, soy sauce and minced garlic, the finished meal provided a comforting sensation when imbibed.

Such as why certain people requested the soup when they were sick or when celebrating lonely birthdays for themselves.

“No one else in the world might bloody care for you, but at least a soup still feels like it does.” Georges had said that when staring at a lonely old swordsman sitting in a booth. Shiv still remembered that Pathbearer. Too many scars on his face, only wisps of hair left over from his badly burned scalp, armor that looked worse than the man's flesh, and an old greatsword with far too many nicks leaning against his table. “You keep a close eye on that one, Shiv. That's what you'll be if you decide to go full martial. If you ever manage to get that Path of yours, get this into your head: somewhere down the line, you're probably going to be like him, not whatever enviable hero shit they write about in the papers.”

If the old swordsman heard Georges back then, he didn't react. It took him far too long to finish that soup, but ultimately Shiv didn't see him leave; he only collected the pieces of mithril left on the table. Like that, the old swordsman was gone like a ghost.

Something told Shiv he was probably long dead now.

Shaking off the haunting memory, Shiv proceeded with his preparations. With the kelp being more durable than he'd expected and the organisms living within the aquatic forest as the weak links for the soup, he adjusted his meal and made it simpler. Creating three different sectors for the aquatic forest and partitioning them by heat was too pointlessly complicated. It likely wouldn't provide any additional flavor or create an elevated experience for the Princess.

I think I should start by cutting up all the kelp first, Shiv thought. Having them connected to the bottom is probably not going to feel that good when she bites down on it.

He tried to imagine her tearing those long ladders of seaweed out from the soil, plucking them free with her teeth and catching a bit of soil in her gums. Yeah, that won't work. That'll ruin the texture. It'll probably feel like swallowing sand. Can't have that. But wait, I'm rushing again. I'm always in a hurry. It's like I can hear Georges calling me a fucking idiot, telling me to slow down and think things through.

And he really could. Echoes from his past continued to linger. He could practically feel the Head Chef shouting beside his ear, pointing out a mistake he'd made: a bit of potato left over, a piece of eggshell dropped in the mix. Mistakes demanded consequences and corrections; mistakes were made when desperate fools with no plans at all tried to make something happen with sheer passion and stupidity, or they were born of a perfectionist who thought they could account for every little detail—especially the stupidity of the clients.

Ultimately, stupidity was the unifying problem here, and Shiv could only control one person's stupidity: his own.

And the forest… Alright, we definitely need to cut that up, but before that, I need to deal with all the fish and all the jelly crabs.

The moment he voiced that problem to himself, he began feeling the grind take hold. And that caused his Sage of the Enkindled Heart to react.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: You've also discovered a flaw in your methods as a chef—and in your personality. You were about to shred through everything because it felt like doing something. It would have been doing something, technically. However, that's not the first thing to do when preparing this meal. Frankly, the way you proceeded was solving the problems you knew how to solve and letting the ones you couldn't resolve linger. You are doing things for the sake of feeling productive, but also doing things as a means of procrastinating problems that require greater thought.

A flicker of mental burnout kindled as Shiv tried to solve his problem. I'm not lazy. I don't have any problem working. It's just that…

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: No point being defensive with yourself. You know what you're like. These are obvious flaws. You are afflicted with a specific kind of laziness, an intellectual laziness that requires you to think for yourself. Your education as a chef wasn't yet complete when you were thrown off Blackedge. If you don't have experience or instinct to draw on for a problem, you usually deal with something else first. That might be wise in active combat, but now it's become a growing weakness in your artistry. It's partially why you got outdone by the Gourmet.

The mention of his great adversary made Shiv grind his teeth together. So I should just know everything? Is that it?

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Do not be childish with yourself. You won't know everything. You will make mistakes. You will run into unforeseen problems, but that is no excuse for not having an overall plan. You should understand, or at least have a theory about what you're going to do with the fish and the jelly crabs before you begin. The water is boiling now. You've given yourself a timer. The standard order of operations does not apply here—you've already done things in the wrong order. The soup is not unsalvageable, but now it's far more difficult. Use your Chronomancy. Give yourself some time and just think. Even though it feels horrible to do so.

The cold truth offered by the Psychology Skill felt like a lethargic venom creeping through Shiv's body. He didn't want to do this. He reflexively wanted to act to try and make things simpler—the soup would taste fine with the life forms anyway.

But he couldn't accept "just fine." He didn't do things to be mediocre. He did things to find the borders and go beyond them. If unspeakable agony didn't dissuade him from being a warrior, then a little mental strain wouldn't turn him away from acting as a proper chef.

Alright, time to use that brain of ours.

The first thing he did was form a simple shell. It manifested around him as a golden anchor pinning the flow of time. While he did that, the crushing presence emanating from the Princess's pocket watch ground at him, chipping away at his Chronomancy field. It wasn't even near him, but he could feel the beams of passive mana slice upon his magics. He wouldn't get a whole chunk of allotted time. He needed to make do with what he had.

Right, so Pyromancy's out for the creatures. Let's see here: if they stay inside here, they're going to break apart. They'll be ruined by the temperature, but I need to keep the temperature going; otherwise, the kelp and the soup wouldn't be ready… Ah, godsdammit. Sage’s right. I should have planned ahead, taken the fish out and salted them, and added the right condiments beforehand. I was so staggered by the size of this meal that I wasn't thinking right.

Shiv started moving again. He used his Atlas to detect all the lifeforms within the aquatic forest, then began plucking them into the grasp of his Biomancy. Healing their wounds all at once induced massive strain, but it was necessary. He needed them prepared separately—properly preserved too, since he wanted this to be done right. What followed was a mad sprint across the bowl. Shiv exploded from point to point, causing brutal turbulence within the waters. The waves he cast and the gaps he created from sheer velocity alone were tremendous. Thankfully, he was doing things via his Severed Shadow, and the disturbance that came was far diminished compared to the kinetic bomb that was his physical form. Every few minutes, when the temperature dropped and the boil threatened to stop, he'd swap places between his two bodies to keep the ecosystem simmering.

His mind went vacant as his duties took hold. He shot from one place to another, cutting through certain stalks of kelp along the way. The damage was contained and acceptable. He would have to dice them anyway. But another imperfection he needed to accept was the fact that he wouldn't be able to secure all the fish or the jelly crabs. There were simply too many, and he didn't have the luxury of time to hunt each and every one. By now, he'd been working for half an hour or more. It was hard to tell without a clock, and the Princess was to finish with her pre-appetizers before the end of the day.

Mistakes and stupidity have consequences, Shiv reminded himself. Soup's not going to be as good as it could have. That left a sour taste in his mouth and an ugly feeling in his chest. But he refused to let demoralization take hold. This might not be a great meal, but he could still make sure it was a good one.

He didn't know how long he shot to and fro through the aquatic forest, but by the time he surfaced, it must have been hours, as the Bread-Knights had gone missing and the Princess was distracted with something else. She was shoving her mouth full of a massive, dripping blueberry pancake, so wide that it would have dwarfed an entire town—and not even a small one like Blackedge.

With his great customer distracted, Shiv decided he would rather beg for forgiveness than ask for permission as he made use of an empty cup. An incredible strain afflicted his Biomancy, but he managed to drop the vast amounts of flopping fish and jelly crabs into the glass container. A loud clattering noise followed, but the Princess didn't notice. Shiv, meanwhile, took a moment to right himself.

Alright, what's next? Oh, shit—gotta keep it boiling.

Once more, he dove back into the aquatic forest and swapped his physical body into position. A near minute later, his Severed Shadow exploded out from the surface again to deal with his fish and crab problem.

Shiv looked at the small mountain of seafood he had piled up inside the cup and sighed. “System, what am I supposed to do with all of you? How do I get you prepared without ruining you?”

Once more, he triggered his Chronomancy to buy himself more time for thought. His brain was tired, but Shiv cleaved his way through the dense fog and forced himself to consider all possibilities. Pyromancy had been eliminated. He couldn't simply vibrate the creatures until they were well-cooked. He didn't have that kind of control or Awareness, even though his Shapeless Tides were practically surgical compared to a monster's Physicality. Frankly, there were a lot of other things that needed to be done too. He needed to prepare the fish, peel their skins, expose their inside, remove the filth, gut them properly. The jelly crabs also needed to be—

Wait. A thought wormed its way into Shiv's head. A strange one. Maybe I could use them to solve each other or something. The fish are more resilient than the jelly crabs, but the exoskeletons endure the heat pretty good. What if I stick the jelly inside the fish, and then I wrap them all in the shells… Ahhh, what the fucking hells am I thinking? I wish Georges was here to tell me what to do.

