That stopped him dead altogether. He really wished Georges was here to tell him what to do. In fact, he was lost without Georges in some way. Shiv hadn't felt helpless after he was dropped in the Abyss, but he'd truly believed that reuniting with Georges would only be a matter of time back then. Now, even though all his years of experience, all his maniac energy, and the Skill Evolutions he'd gained through struggle had accelerated his cooking dramatically, he felt lost. Just like Jessica could pick him apart as a fighter, Georges would have dismantled Shiv as a chef. Would.

He called me a pillar because I was reliable, because whatever he instructed me, I would do without fail. The Chef Unwavering is about not making mistakes and having a cooking instinct so finely honed that I don't need to think about things. But it's not about thinking, or planning, or creativity. I still need to do something with that. I still need to understand what I'm trying to make…

An uncharacteristic despair washed over Shiv. He wasn't going to give up, but he didn't think he had a strategy to achieve what he wanted. The aquatic forest was too big. Shiv's skills were too limited. His understanding and his initial concept were unstable. This might not even be a good soup anymore. It might just be mediocre. At best.

With that realization came another echo from his past.

“The fuck you frowning for? What's that face you're making? Huh? Why are you sad? Why do you think you get to be sad? Why do you think you get to be unhappy? Mediocre is what you are right now, not shit. Mediocre, average. You want to know how good that is? You have any idea how many cunts would kill to be a mediocre cook?”

Georges had scoffed at Shiv’s egg and tomato mix. The Omenborn child he'd been had thought he'd made something special with that, that he would finally get a nod of appreciation or some form of affection from the bitter-faced Head Chef.

That didn't happen. What he'd gotten was worse than criticism. It was near apathy—indifference.

Shiv hadn't known why at the time, but part of him had wanted to curl into a ball, while the rest of him had struggled not to resign in disgrace.

And as always, Georges had read what Shiv was feeling from his face and tore into his stupid commis. “Alright, wipe that stupid fucking look off your face. No crying. If you cry, I'm gonna make you peel potatoes for the next year. I didn't hire you to be some crybaby. I hired you to serve as my commis. Now, I'm going to fix a few other things for you. Number one: too much fucking salt. My mouth is drier than a virgin's asshole after a bite of this. It's too much, it's too much, it's too much. Number two: Never, and I mean never, let your customer decide how you should feel. Never let the Head Chef decide how you should feel. Never let someone else decide how you should feel. I know it's unreasonable, but you have to be unreasonable against other people and with yourself.”

“I don't understand,” Shiv had murmured at the time.

The Head Chef's eyes had rolled in response. “Look, you're not going to cook great meals all the time. You're going to have fuck-ups. You're going to be a fuck-up. None of us wants to be, but that's how we turn out sometimes. However, if you're going to be a proper Pathbearer at any point at all in your life, let alone a proper chef, you're going to have to understand one thing. You're not a mistake, and you're not your victory. I say that again for you so you can get that through your thick little head: you are not your worst failure. You are not your most mediocre attempt. You are also not your greatest triumph. You are all these things all the time, and you will only be some of these things for the people who know you. If you feel like shit because I didn't pat you on the head, then I'm sorry, son. You came to the wrong place, and you're not gonna have a good life.”

But for the first time in Shiv’s life, Georges’ expression had softened as he spoke those words. “Don't let what people feel about you decide how you should feel about yourself. You're going to sell yourself like a whore, and you're not even going to get any sex out of it. Not any kind of sex you might want, anyway. A real piece of shit will notice, and they will fuck you, and definitely not in any way you like. Trust me, Shiv. Do something because you want to do it. Do something because it means something. Do something because you're making something for someone else. Don't do it to make them like you, and to make you finally like yourself. Doesn't work that way. I'm not your missing father. I'm not someone who's gonna pick you up and cradle you and fill that little broken heart of yours with everything the world took. I am the Head Chef at The Swan-Eating Toad, and you are someone who's working for me, under me. Hopefully, someday you'll be able to make some place of your own, be a decent chef of your own, and, in my infinite amounts of hope, be able to cook a mediocre meal every day rather than one good one and ten shit ones.”

Somehow, that did make Shiv feel better. “Yes, Chef. Sorry, Chef.”

“Don’t fucking apologize to me, you knob. I’m not trying to make you feel bad either. This is just how it is. It's not a bad meal. It's too fucking salty, but it's not bad; it's mediocre. A lot of idiot cunts would gobble this up without a second thought. It's far away from shit, so again, you should be happy about that. But I'm not going to clap you on the shoulder for just being mediocre. You'll do better next time, I hope. I wish for it. But don't kick yourself in the bollocks for being only good enough. Most people will never be good enough because most people fucking quit before they get past being shit. To think of all the meals you made badly, think of all the piles of shit you made before we got to this point, yeah? That's already further than most cunts will ever get. Because before the toad ate the swan, the fucking thing needed to learn how to jump.”

Back in the present, Shiv didn't feel so ground down anymore. “Thanks, Chef.”

But there was no one to wave him off, no one to reply.

Georges wasn't just distant.

Georges was dead.

Shiv remained. And Shiv breathed out. “Alright. Let's make of this what we can. Go for mediocre.”

He let his chef's instincts guide him. The first thing he did was prepare the fish. He flayed them, removed the nasty stuff inside them, plucked their flesh free from their bones, and cast those needle-thin bits free in a large pile on the table. At least it was a large pile to him; he doubted the Princess would even notice. Not until the Fae started cleaning things up after that did he knead the fish flesh into massive balls. They were glistening white and unprepared, but soon he would see one burned to test its heat tolerance.

A pounding ache speared at his head. His Bifurcated Processing and his weary Biomancy were working in tandem; however, the latter was recovering fast now that he had offloaded all the biological constructs stored within his Aegis. He gave himself an added moment of respite as he returned to the aquatic forest and kept it boiling once more. When he returned, he was enthused with an experimental vigour. He plucked the first of the fish balls and dipped it into the surface of the soup. It burned in half a second, turning charred black from the heat. Then he experimented. He coated the fish balls with the crab exoskeletons. He didn't even think much about it. All he knew was that he needed insulation, and he didn't have any means of fixing the damage, other than using his Biomancy to rip the harm away. But doing that ruined the flavor; he needed a more effective solution.

Stuffing the fish balls with jellied flesh and sticking them both within the crab crusts granted some protection. When he dipped them back inside the boiling waters, he observed the burn with his Atlas and counted the seconds. It took twenty for it to fully char, fifteen for the taste to be burned out, and ten before the flavor got butchered. Naturally, he added more pieces to the exoskeleton, and with that, the time he got went up exponentially. However, it took longer to heat up the insides as well, and eventually the heat just couldn't reach the core where the jelly was, leaving cold bits of tissue lingering inside a partially cooked spheroid of meat.

I need to simplify this entire process. She just needs to bite into it. Maybe if I just mixed it all together… Maybe if there was just one big ball of fish and jelly crab meat, crusted by a dense exoskeleton, and I left it in the middle… Yeah, if that might work. It wouldn't be as good, but…

And he knew that. He could see The Chef Unwavering’s glow dimming slightly. The texture and satisfaction would be reduced, but it could still work.

“Princess!" Shiv called out with all his might.

His voice carried across the table, and Plum Blossom casually tore the colossal pancake she was holding in both hands in half to smile at him. Her face was a mess of glistening syrup and smeared berries. “Yes, my little undying dessert?”

“I'm gonna ask if you have some salt, a bit of black pepper, some sesame oil, soy sauce, and minced garlic.”

Her smile somehow grew even wider. The way her lips curved defied a human's musculature, becoming inverted arcs that pointed downward. Reaching out with a single hand, she drew a series of condiments into her hand from somewhere Shiv couldn't see, and they hovered over Shiv like ominous mountains, mainly because they were just as big. The ingredients he'd requested were stored within containers and bottles. The Deathless almost swallowed as he was entirely engulfed. “Oh, thank—”

“You're welcome,” Plum Blossom sang, and then she dropped them all on him.

Legendary Physicality allowed Pathbearers to do incredible things, overcome impossible odds. Shiv could crush a town, could bear the weight of a city on his back, and pitch a monster the size of a Tarrasque over the horizon.

Spending all his overflow tides barely allowed him to catch the plunging condiments.

Things were pretty different in the Fairwoods.

Even so, he managed to catch them before they crashed down. Though it made his body shake and caused him to crack a molar from clenching his teeth, Shiv dragged a truly immense load of weight that would have crushed a portion of the Republic’s seaboard between his shaking hands. And then, almost to his own disbelief, he somehow managed to apply the proper doses to his meat.

Moulding the colossal ball of fish in jelly crab flesh pushed Shiv's Biomancy hard. He was also starting to suffer waking fever dreams as his Bifurcated Processing was driven to the brink. Guided by his Cooking Skill, he applied the salt first, shaking the huge, towering bottle over his shoulders gently and wrapping every colossal droplet of salt into the enormous orb of meat.

Big. Everything here is just too godsdamned big…

Then he had to do the soy sauce, the black pepper, which took a considerable amount of twisting and a brief rest before he had enough overflow tides—a bit of sesame oil after that, and finally a few thousand tons of minced garlic.

The sheer exertion that the task demanded of him made minutes seem like hours, and he already worked for hours, regardless. By the end, he was bone tired, on the level he hadn't felt since he was still a Master. Every part of him ached; his mind, most of all. But he still wasn't done. He still needed to encase all that stuff in a layer of exoskeletal protection.

By now, the aquatic forest had gone cold again. It was stupid heating it up so early, but winning that bet was a pleasurable thing regardless. Heating it again took a might Shiv didn't know he still had—but it was an effort he managed, even if he briefly cramped up in the water toward the end. As the bowl of soup was bubbling with scalding water once more, Shiv hugged his new crab-crusted fish jelly meatball into the midst as he began tearing through the kelp forest. The final part of his misadventure lasted approximately three hours longer. It was a series of careful temperature adjustments and a final attempt at deforestation—with a bit more flavoring applied via the humongous bottle of salt directly into the water itself.

By the end, Shiv didn't shoot out of the water. No, he crawled. He barely clambered over the edge, and he didn't even have the strength to fling himself through the air anymore. Instead, he fell, crashing against the ground as he heaved for breath. He gave himself three seconds, recovered enough of his innate tides to move again, and then plucked himself up into the air once more to call out for the Princess.

“Plum Blossom?” His voice was hoarse, his lungs were sore—had been worked hard as he groaned and growled his way through the labor. “Princess, it's done. I managed… I managed…” He couldn't even finish his sentence. It was hard to think; it was hard to move. It was hard to stay suspended in mid-air.

A titanic shadow spilled over him. Two sets of gleaming bright eyes glittered like stars. “Oh, you actually managed to do it. You are far stronger and more formidable than I expected, my little juicy delight!” She nudged him with something and nearly swatted him out of the air. He thought it was her finger, but he wasn't sure and didn't care.

As he briefly closed his eyes, he worried that unconsciousness might sneak up on him. Instead, his mind whirled, thinking of everything he'd just gone through, recounting his mistakes. Damn. I think I just remade a larger version of my orc meatball. Maybe even a stupider, simpler version, basically defaulting to what I did before. Not very creative. But I got it done…

