And that was something he couldn't take away from himself. He did get things done. He did finish the soup. He did tackle a meal that was large enough to feed a small nation. Maybe for a decade. Despite it all, regardless of his mistakes, Shiv doubted there were many Legendary Pathbearers who could do what he'd just done, and practically no chefs that might be able to match his feat back on Integrated Earth.

“Might not be the… best thing I’ve made, but I think this is… going down in my legend for effort alone…”

Forcing his eyes open was a struggle, but he managed it. And he did it just in time to see Plum Blossom dunking the contents of the entire bowl down her throat in less than a half second. There was barely a slurp before she was done. Suddenly, the emptied basin of soup slammed down behind him—and Shiv gawked as he realized she ate the fucking soil too.

“Broken… felling Moon…”

The Princess, meanwhile, barely looked phased and briefly smacked her lips together. “Hm.” Her eyes rolled to the left and the right. Then, her lips curved into a frown. “You are… not nearly as bad as Ser Appetius claimed. Not remarkable. Just… mediocre. Average. How… disappointing. I feel… fooled, somehow.”

And despite that middling review, the Deathless let out a near-whimper of victory. “I’ll… I’ll take average. This time. You… still planning on eating me?”

“Of course,” the Princess said, clapping her fingers together. A shockwave shook the world. “Can I?”

“Well. You’re going to do it anyway, so…” Shiv swallowed. He was so spent it was hard to think. “Hey, listen, I’m going to try to drive my physical body down your throat and blow you up. You mind if I make an attempt?”

“Ah! A defiant little meal! No, no! Have at me! And Good luck!”

“You too, thanks,” Shiv slurred. And with that, he burned the last of his strength as he pitched his physical body at the Princess with full force. Her mouth opened wide in a mountain-range-swallowing black maw. His Severed Shadow settled into a silhouette-like state, and what followed became hard to remember for Shiv as he found himself accelerated by the dragging winds of her inhale and slammed against her pendulous uvula before he discharged his Inertial Overdrive.

The Chef Unwavering 82 > 98

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 523 > 530

Inertial Overdrive 281 > 290

Aegis of Assimilation 140 > 145

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 128 > 130

Bifurcated Processing 89 > 100 (Skill Evolution Imminent)
