“That’s all we need to do. It just needs to be the right people. Butchers, bakers—well, a [Chef]—and potion-makers. And a [Smith]. Throw in a few more high-leveled shopkeepers and artisans and we can cause a fuss. By sundown, the Assembly will have to issue an explanation for why we’re cutting trade with Liscor, and they might throw the Protectorate entirely under the wagon.”
Rufelt smiled happily to himself. Lasica nodded. They passed by a huge stairway, one of the four leading straight down all nine floors. Erin saw a crowd coming up the steps, some looking winded from the climb. She was passing along the walkways around the stairs when she heard another voice.
“Excuse me! Street Runner, coming through!”
This time, she looked and saw the Gnoll hurtling past her in time. He leapt—not towards the busy stairs, the right side of which was going up, the left travelling down—but towards the ramp separating the two. Erin watched as the Gnoll charged down the incline and wished, for a second, that she had a piece of cardboard so she could sled down.
She saw the Gnoll pass by a Drake girl kicking her feet while sitting on one of the guardrails, perilously teetering on the abyss. She looked up and, to Erin’s horror, stood up on the guardrail and pointed at the Street Runner.
“Race you!”
She leapt. Erin jerked, but then she saw the young Drake’s wings unfold. The Gnoll racing down the steps grunted as the Oldblood Drake girl dived past him, laughing merrily. The Street Runner didn’t look too pleased; Erin saw him turn abruptly and the girl Drake turn clumsily, crying out as she fell behind.
“Foul, foul!”
Rufelt and Lasica laughed at the young woman’s reaction. The Drake reassured Erin there was no danger.
“And if there was, it’s her parent’s fault for not getting her flying lessons. We’ve got enough Garuda, and they’re natural-born fliers. Don’t worry. Some of the scaly brats love to race Street Runners. More often than not, they lose; many of them don’t exercise their wings enough.”
“I’ve never seen—okay, I’ve seen a few other people—but Drakes with wings are still new to me! Not common in Liscor at all! I know a Drake who breathes stuff, though. Mostly smoke.”
Lasica nodded.
“Oldblood Drakes are rare. Liscor doesn’t have…? Well, I suppose it’s a smaller city, isn’t it? What kind of breath is it? Just smoke? Acid? Frost? Lightning?”
“Fire.”
“Ah, generic. Well, that’s still rare enough. And speaking of rare…I have no proper segue. Here we are.”
She was leading them to the house with the chimney belching smoke. Rufelt coughed as they approached, then sneezed repeatedly.
“Another place I’d stay back from. This is why I hate the ninth. Lasica, mind if I…?”
Lasica nodded. Erin, who’d already caught a strange whiff in this section of the ninth floor, realized they were along a street filled with houses or studios that had the same weird scent emanating from them. A few had blown-out windows. One looked recently vacated. And burned.
The house in front of them looked normal except for the smoke. Lasica waited and Erin blinked as the door opened and revealed a Gnoll with shaggy tan fur—stained every color imaginable and singed in two places.
He smelled like eight things at once, none particularly good, and all nose-searingly strong. Rufelt refused to even go near him and left Erin and Lasica, whose noses weren’t nearly so good, to talk to the [Alchemist].
“I can barely smell at all these days. A byproduct of my work. So you are the [Innkeeper] one hears so much about? I am Xif, [Alchemist] of…”
He glanced over his shoulder quickly at the sign over his shop.
“…the Cunning Crafts. No, Cunning Crafts is my shop. My apologies, yes? Oh, and I am a City Gnoll, if anyone asks.”
“I’m very pleased to meet you.”
“And I you! Very kind of Lasica to bring you to meet me. Why, I saw the events at Liscor—a terrible thing, what those Humans were about to do. But you stopped them! Only, I doubt that’s the only reason you’re here?”
He was nothing like Octavia from his pleasant, if befuddled, demeanor and the way he gave Erin the impression he was thinking of five things at once, like some chess players she’d met. Always thinking ahead and around her. He nodded when Erin pointed out the difference.
“Why, some [Alchemists] create potions in number to make money. But I, like others in Pallass, live only to create that which no one has ever seen. Or to rediscover and recreate lost recipes of old. It means I do not earn as much as some—”
Lasica rolled her eyes and twitched her tail irritably.
“—But he’s the most reliable [Alchemist] in the city. The best for actual commissions. At least, when he’s not endangering the rest of it with his experiments. There’s a reason why we put the [Alchemists] on the top floors.”
“To deal with the smoke and other stuff floating up?”
Erin pointed at the chimneys. Lasica shook her head.
“No. To make it easier to throw [Alchemists] off the walls if they cause trouble.”
“Sadly, true. I’ve lost many a good friend who incurred the wrath of the city.”
Xif’s ears lowered. Erin stared in horror at him. That couldn’t be true. Could it? But his face—
She saw Lasica’s grin and Xif’s smile, then. Erin stared at them in astonishment as the old Gnoll and Drake woman chuckled.
“You’re teasing me?”
She heard a laugh from Rufelt, who’d also listened to the joke. Xif leaned over, chuckling. He didn’t smell that bad, actually. Once your nose shut down, that was.
“Drake humor. It always involves someone suffering, yes? Pleased to meet you, Miss Solstice. It was a brave thing you did. I hope to see at least one Gnoll pass through from Liscor if Lasica has her way. Which she will, of course. Naturally, I’ll agitate my fellows. They’d love nothing better than to harvest acid flies around Liscor, but none of them have thought of it yet I’ll wager. They’ll cause a stink, quite literally if you want it, Lasica.”
“A metaphorical one does for us. Good day, Xif. Stop by this evening if you’re free. We miss you at the bar. But do remember—”
“To wash. Ah, yes.”
The Gnoll bid them farewell. Lasica nodded, smiling a bit at the door, and Erin thought Lasica liked the old Gnoll more than Maughin. But the next moment she was all business.
“Onwards, then. We’ll stop at that damn—the scaly tease who—we’ll stop by the fourth floor, and then I can let you relax at our place.”
“And what exactly is that place?”
“You’ll see once we get there. But I think you should know already.”
Lasica walked on. And Erin couldn’t help but follow. She stared at the Drake as Rufelt followed them, sneezing and complaining about [Alchemists]. Erin was getting a funny feeling. The oddest sense of déjà vu. Only, it was coming from Lasica’s back as she led them to an elevator.
Down five floors at a dizzying pace. This floor was filled with fewer people than Erin expected and more large, warehouse-like buildings and workers hauling goods. In fact, warehouses were the right word for it. For, at the next stop, Lasica rapped on a small building connected to a very large warehouse. The sign read ‘Melinni’s Meats’. Well, that was straightforward enough.
“Rufelt! How wonderful it is to see you! And you. Lasica.”
The Drake had nearly perfect white scales, spotted only by a few pink dots along her tail. She and Lasica greeted each other like old enemies, and Rufelt hugged Melinni as she was introduced to Erin and given the rundown. The Drake [Butcher] clucked her tongue after she’d heard the story.
“The Protectorate’s afraid we’ll visit Liscor?”
“Maybe they just wanted to make it seem like only Liscorians would want to visit Pallass and not the other way around. Or devalue the door. Or do any number of things. The point is, we’re causing a fuss. Can you get the other [Butchers] in on this?”
“For you, Lasica? No. For Rufelt’s sake? I suppose so.”
Melinni sighed, and Lasica glared, but Erin had been watching the two Drake’s tails, and she suspected half of their animosity was staged. Melinni did insist on showing Erin her ‘shop’ before they left, though, and it turned out her butcher’s shop was more of a storehouse for all the meat you could ever want.
“That’s…a lot of meat.”
Erin stared inside the disturbingly room-temperature storehouse at the racks of fresh meat, sausages, cuts of animals, fowl, fair, and still bloody. Melinni dealt in all kinds of meat. From Wyvern to rabbit. The Drake spread her arms wide, showing Erin the glowing preservation runes on the floor.
“More meat preserved here than you could eat in ten years, Human. But still, it is only a fraction of Pallass’ stockpiles. Come and see if you would like—but mind the floor runes!”
She led them down the main section where buyers could point out what they wanted. But access beyond there was strictly forbidden; only the workers could pick out the meat and cut it.
“Slippers only if you walk past this point. Each section is double-warded, but we must take care not to scratch the protective runes.”
Melinni was the richest [Butcher] Erin had or possibly would ever meet. She could separate every bit of fat from a bit of meat with ease, but she’d found her real fortune in preserving meat long enough for it to be used. Her store house was one of the biggest on the fourth floor—Erin was slowly realizing that everyone Lasica and Rufelt knew were the big cheeses of their floor. She had to tell the Drake about the runes she’d accidentally damaged in her inn. The Drake was beside herself with the pain of Erin’s recollection.
“Oh, darling. You should have stayed away from that! But, rotten as it was? I’m surprised it was still going. Don’t beat yourself up too hard. Any good [Enchanter] could have spelled the wood against that sort of thing, but do they bother?”
“No.”
Rufelt and Lasica chorused with Melinni. Erin looked from face to face.
“You have problems with [Enchanters] too? I was trying to get some work done, but I hear they’re hard to hire.”
Melinni shuddered.
“Oh, the worst. Good [Enchanters] are hard to come by. I speak of the ones who work without asking for more coin or slacking off on the job or arguing about design. Pallass has some, and I hate them all to some degree. I tend to work with generalist [Mages], but their knowledge is often not so specialized…”
Rufelt nodded.
“The bar has several enchantments, but upgrading is very difficult. I’ve been waiting for a good Wistram [Mage] to stop by for months now. There’s a fault in the seal of one of our preservation runes, or so I think.”
Bar. Erin stared at the Gnoll, and Lasica elbowed him, but it was too late and Melinni didn’t care. The Drake led them out, talking animatedly with him about the magical equivalent of home fixes.
“The trick is to apply a tiny bit of silver powder combined with crushed mana stones—any will do—and a tiny bit of glue. If the rune is working, it sometimes connects the…the gap? I’m no [Enchanter], but we’ve done that for two faulty runes, and it’s worked both times. I only store the daily cuts there, though. One can never be sure…”
“You have a bar?”
Lasica looked put out as they bade farewell to Melinni, or rather, her husband did.
“That was a secret. Rufelt has a bar. I own the kitchen. We’re a partnership. Or did you think two random strangers had sought you out?”
“Well…I’ve had weirder encounters.”
Rufelt chuckled.
“I somehow don’t doubt that. But we are in the same business as you, Erin. And we always check out the competition. We’re headed to our bar now. We’d be delighted if you joined us. We didn’t mean to drag you about.”
“I didn’t mind. But are you sure? Don’t you have a business to run?”
Lasica waved that away.
“We make our money at night. And we have preservation runes of our own. We’ll stop by there. And we have to treat you, not just for the news about the door—”
She stopped as they neared the steps leading up to the fifth, which was their floor. A loud, chanting voice had risen above the general noise of the crowd. Erin saw the Drakes and Gnolls on the stairs look over their shoulders and clear a path on the left side. Then she saw a huge, muscular Drake wearing tight-fitting clothing charge up the stairs. He was followed by six Drakes and a Gnoll.
“One, two, three, four! Move those legs, you slugs!”
The Drake turned and roared at the seven following him as he jogged in place at the top of the stairs. He began running their way, exhorting the exhausted Drakes to keep moving. The Gnoll ran after him as the Drake’s voice echoed past them.
“You call yourself proper apprentices? I’ve had bowel movements faster than you! Pump those legs! Do you want to be [Mages] or not!?”
“[Mages]?”
Erin stared at the Drake. His clothes looked almost like something she’d see in a gym on earth, albeit missing logos or the flashier artificial fabrics. And he looked nothing like any [Mage] she’d ever seen. Moore was strong, and Pisces was, despite appearances, rather fit, but this Drake had muscles.
He had—there were bunches of muscles standing out that—put it this way, if Erin was testing a group of bodybuilders for drugs, she’d skip the line and start with this Drake instead.
He looked like a weight lifter from her world, but he’d stopped before his muscles got comically huge. Not that there was much funny about a Drake who looked like he breathed protein shakes and bench pressed in his sleep.
Really, there was something unnatural about him. The biggest and burliest Drake that Erin had met was Relc, but this Drake’s body showed that he was someone who deliberately worked out on a regular basis, totally different from a soldier’s muscles. He had abs. And he was a [Mage].
“Rufelt? Lasica? Who is that?”
The Drake sighed.
“And here I thought we’d get her back to the bar without showing her one of the crazies. Erin, meet one of the people that makes Pallass famous. Here’s Grimalkin, the famed master of…I don’t know, what does he call it again, Rufelt?”
“Physical magic. His personal school.”
“Yes, that. And those dying Drakes and that poor Gnoll girl are his latest batch of apprentices.”
Erin stared at the Drakes trying to keep up. Half had simply collapsed after getting to the fourth floor, and Grimalkin was jogging around them, bellowing insults.
“You lot are a disgrace! You call that exercise? I call it a warm up! If you can’t do two laps up and down the stairs by the end of the month, you can forget ever mastering magic! Stop whining about your lungs! Breathe in, suck it up, and run! You think just because you can throw fireballs that you deserve a break? On your feet!”
