There was some commonality between Grimalkin and Erin’s middle school gym teacher that was eerie. She walked towards him as Lasica and Rufelt both urged her to the stairs leading up. The Drake [Mage] was pausing to bellow again when Erin raised a hand.
“Uh, excuse me—”
“No stamina potions! And no giving them a claw up! They get up and run or they can resign right now, Miss—”
The Drake shouted and then glanced at Erin. He stopped dead in his tracks and looked her up and down.
“Are you from Liscor? No, wait—are you that Human from Liscor? The [Innkeeper]?”
Erin saw heads turn. Grimalkin wasn’t quiet. She saw Lasica sigh.
“That’s right, Grimalkin. This is Erin Solstice. From Liscor. And please, don’t make a scene—”
Too late. Grimalkin looked Erin up and down and strode over to her. She got a whiff of sweat and then stared up at a bulging pectoral. She looked up as Grimalkin eyed her.
“So. You’re the Human who led that Goblin army against the Goblin Lord, are you? Charged into battle with nothing but a flag and dared, dared the Goblin Lord to a fight?”
Part of Erin quailed at remembering. But Grimalkin was so loud he was even drowning out her sorrow.
“It wasn’t just me. It was the Goblins. They sacrificed their lives so—”
“But you led them. You were there. And you’re, what, an [Innkeeper]? Any combat classes? Any at all? Magical artifacts?”
“No. No, none. I got some after—I mean, I’m a Level 2 [Warrior] if that counts, but—”
“Testicles!”
Grimalkin bellowed the word over Erin’s head. She jumped. Everybody in earshot, from elderly Drake ladies on the stairs to a Street Runner passing by, turned to stare. The muscular [Mage] turned and shouted back at his apprentices, who were still trying to stand back up.
“Do you hear that? She charged an army of monsters herself! Testicles! You lot can barely get up a flight of stairs!”
The muscle-bound Drake glared at the male Drakes, all of whom were sweating and gulping for breath.
“While this Human—”
He slapped Erin on the shoulder so hard she nearly fell down.
“—has more balls than all of you lot put together! And more of whatever you two have—”
He pointed at the panting female Drake and Gnoll.
“—in her testicles! I’m assured Humans have testicles of some kind.”
He turned back to Erin for a moment as if asking for confirmation. Erin staggered upright.
“I don’t have…testicles.”
Grimalkin digested this for a moment and then turned his head.
“Gonads, then! The point is if an [Innkeeper] can fight with only her brawn and wits against a Goblin Lord and his army, no true [Mage] should do anything less!”
He pointed at the female Gnoll, who was definitely the odd one out.
“You there. You want to become a [Mage]? Prove it! And the rest of you, if this Human can fight a hundred thousand Goblins—”
“It really wasn’t like that—”
“—then you can all do five laps! On me! Miss Human, it was an honor.”
He turned and, gasping, his six Drake and Gnoll apprentices lurched into motion behind him. Grimalkin seemed so pumped up by meeting Erin that he left the others in the dust in a moment. The unfortunate Street Runner who was doing a delivery in the area found the [Mage] running neck-and-neck with him, as if challenging him to a race.
Erin watched Grimalkin disappear behind a building with her mouth open. She only looked around when she heard a wheezing sound. Rufelt was doubled over laughing.
“Don’t be rude, Rufelt.”
But even Lasica was smiling. She took Erin by the shoulder and led her up the stairs. Erin could still hear Grimalkin’s voice echoing back towards them, but it faded as they climbed to the fifth floor. And there, just off the main stairwell, was a large bar. No, a tavern. Erin stared up at the sign.
“Tails and Scales, the best bar in all of Pallass!”
Rufelt pushed the door open. Lasica followed him.
“And the best tavern thanks to me. Ignore Rufelt. He’s only good for serving drinks. Have a seat, and…”
And before she knew it, Erin had a cold drink in one hand, Lasica was in the kitchen cooking something up, and Rufelt was leaning across from her, whipping up a second drink from the many, many kegs and containers scattered across his bar. Erin had about six types of alcohol. He had over a hundred liquids to mix from, and more substances besides.
“Anything you want, ask for it and I’ll mix it up. My [Bartender] senses tell me you don’t get drunk, so I’ll take that as a challenge.”
He winked at her. Erin stared at him and then at Lasica as she came out of the kitchen with a bowl of…Erin stared.
“Pork bits on sweet maple-glazed breaded chicken. Disgustingly unhealthy, but that’s what makes a smile appear on Rufelt’s face. If you have a dish, order it up. I can make anything you want, or close enough. Fancy some Wyvern meat? It’s very good fried thin and crispy.”
Lasica was busy slapping Rufelt’s paws away from the toothpicks holding the little steaming bites together. Erin looked from face to face.
“I—I’m so grateful. But I don’t want to impose.”
“Nonsense!”
Both husband and wife chorused. Rufelt snagged one of the chicken bites and swung himself back to his cup. He poured something that looked to Erin like an ale into the see-through glass and then a deep blue liquid which pooled at the bottom. Rufelt swirled the glass, and the blue tornadoed up, somehow staying separate from the rest of the alcohol. He presented it to Erin, and the glass was ice-cold as she touched it.
“A drink and food. For you. You are, after all, a guest.”
“But I’m an [Innkeeper]! I mean, I serve food and drinks all the time. It’s…”
Erin closed her mouth. It felt weird to be someone else’s guest. Rufelt’s eyes twinkled.
“Ah, but that’s Liscor, yes? Here you’re just Erin Solstice, a poor Human girl dragged about by a strange [Bartender] and his [Chef] of a wife.”
Lasica tapped him gently on the brow.
“Besides, even an [Innkeeper] needs a break. And as a rookie to the business, we thought we’d help out.”
Erin looked from smiling face to face. And then, suddenly, she understood. All day she’d been following a crazy Gnoll and Drake about, listening to them convince people to go along with their plan. It seemed like everyone knew Lasica and Rufelt, even if they didn’t say it. And here they were, in their apparently famous bar, tavern, whatever. Offering Erin a drink and food on the house.
That wasn’t the crazy part. The crazy part was…it was exactly like something Erin would have done. Find someone crying on the street and offer them something to eat. And with that thought, Erin looked up and met Lasica’s eyes. She saw the Drake smile, watching her, and Rufelt’s open grin. Erin stared down at the spinning drink in her hand. She didn’t even know she’d picked it up. She took a sip, and the blue tasted like ice and sugar mixed with the strong rum.
And part of the spinning, part of that drink shot down Erin’s throat, making her cough and burn. But as it did, the blue liquid lit up. And something in Erin’s chest began to rise. She took another sip and felt a smile spread across her face.
“That was a happy drink, wasn’t it?”
Lasica leaned across the bar to look at her husband. He raised an eyebrow.
“And that’s [Comfort Food], isn’t it? Go on, take a bite.”
Erin did. And while her taste buds raved and ranted, she felt warmth spread through her like a hug. She looked up, and the Drake and Gnoll couple were smiling at her.
“You’re no ordinary [Bartender] and [Chef], are you?”
“Some call us magical. But I prefer amazing.”
Lasica winked. And Rufelt poured a drink for himself that foamed up straight out of his mug but never overflowed over the sides, a perfect cylinder of foam. He grinned, and Lasica swept around Erin.
“We’ll have the help in later, but right now you’re all ours. Take a seat. Tell us what’s wrong. And have a snack. This one’s a unique little something I came up with from Baleros. The Gnolls love it. I call them mud bites.”
“Mud—”
Erin saw the little ball of peanut butter mixed with chocolate and ate one before she could help it. Then Lasica produced some walnuts—because not everything had to be cooked, Rufelt—and they were sitting with Erin. She looked at them and wondered if this was how her guests felt. She could only hope so.
The Gnoll leaned over a counter, mug ready to be polished with a cloth because [Bartenders] just had to do something with their hands, and the Drake smiled, asking Erin about dishes she knew and had come up with. Erin looked around the bar and felt it welcoming her in.
She closed her eyes and smiled. And then opened one suddenly as something the two had said struck her.
“Wait, rookie?”
