Pallass was a Walled City, but it more closely resembled an inverted pyramid of sorts. It had long, flat floors that stretched around the walls. The top floors were narrowest, still wide enough to hold a massive amount of room, but the floors grew in size before reaching the bottom. Connecting each floor, which all held vast populations of shops, homes, and so on, were the stairs. Pallass had four grand stairways that ran from the bottom of the city to the top. But what was also unique were—
“There!”
Erin pointed. The Drake, who’d been leaning against the door she’d come in, started. He stared suspiciously at Erin and where she pointed. She was following a small shape with her finger. He squinted at it.
“What? The lifting platforms? Oh.”
Erin stared at the elevator as it carried a group of Drakes and Gnolls upwards. It stopped at a floor above her, and she watched as the people inside got out. Yes, elevators. Pallass had them, at least, a strange magical version of them. She could see the pulleys moving as the elevator descended. Apparently, Pallass fueled their elevators not with steam or some other device, but with mana stones. It was for that reason and others that it was given its nickname.
The City of Invention.
“More like the City of Jerks. Hey, is your Watch Captain Venim here yet? I’ve got places to be.”
Erin turned and glared at the Drake. He glared back, clearly not impressed by her.
“Watch Captain Venim is a busy Drake. And he’s one of the Watch Captains who serves Pallass. If he’s not available, then you’ll have to…”
“There he is! Over here!”
Erin cut him off and waved at a familiar Drake making his way through the crowd. Watch Captain Venim wasn’t taller than the other Drakes, and his scales were a fairly common grass green, but he wore bright yellow armor that stood out, and he had the businesslike stride that carried him through the crowd. The spear-Drake was following him.
“Watch Captain!”
The Drake snapped to attention and saluted Venim, as if he hadn’t been slouching against the door for the last ten minutes. Erin glared triumphantly at the Drake with the spear. She waved at Venim, who was eying her as if uncertain why she was here.
“Hey! It’s Watch Captain Venim, right? It’s me! Erin Solstice? You remember me, right? Can you tell these jerks I can come here?”
Rather than reply immediately to her, Venim turned to the two Drakes.
“At ease, [Guardsmen]. This Human is the proprietor of the inn in question. Give us a moment to talk, and I’ll sort this out.”
“Yes, Watch Captain.”
Erin was slightly disappointed he didn’t immediately reprimand the Drakes. Both saluted and stood back a few paces. She looked at Venim, half-relieved, half-annoyed still.
“Sorry about this. I totally forgot about the daily lists thing.”
Venim coughed. He looked much as Erin remembered—straight-backed, rather formal. Sort of like a male Zevara, in other words. She didn’t know him too well, but in her mind, he was one of the ‘good’ Drakes from Pallass. Although she really only knew one other person—that jerk Gnoll [Senator].
“It was an unfortunate mistake, Miss Solstice. We neglected to ask for the daily lists from Liscor after the door was reinstated. In truth, we’d mostly overlooked it, what with travel being nonexistent between Liscor and Pallass…”
“Because of the Goblin Lord’s army. And the door being stolen. Yeah.”
“Yes. That.”
Venim studied his feet. Erin remembered that the fact that Pallass hadn’t sent a massive army through the door was a sore point with Liscor.
“So. I don’t have a list, but it’s my door and I thought I’d come through. I can go now, right?”
“Not just yet. Miss Solstice—”
“Erin.”
“—Miss Erin, why did you come through to Pallass? Is this a business trip? A social visit or…?”
“Um. I thought I’d look around. I don’t think I’ll stay overnight. I’ll just wander about, head on back through before it gets dark. Maybe see the sights. It’s a big city, right?”
“Wander about?”
Venim stared at Erin. She nodded.
“Yeah. Why?”
She heard a strangled noise from the spear-Drake, who she’d already classified as ‘angry and uptight’ in her head. He glared at her.
“You can’t just wander through that door! It’s a gateway between Liscor and Pallass, not—”
“Guardsman Kel.”
Venim raised a hand, and the Drake fell silent. Erin stared at Kel challengingly.
“It’s my door. I can go through when I want. And I can send through anyone I want. That’s the deal.”
“If they’re approved. You are supposed to clear a list with Watch Captain Zevara—”
“Next time I’ll write my name on that list, happy? And I might bring over my [Barmaid]. And her, uh, adopted Gnoll kid. Is that a problem?”
Venim stared at Erin. She stared back. She could tell he clearly wanted to snap at her, but he didn’t. Instead, he took a deep breath.
“We’ll send a [Message] to Liscor and work out an approved list of names. For now, let’s consider this an unfortunate misunderstanding. You’re free to go, Miss Solstice.”
“Thanks.”
Erin smiled at Venim. He tried to smile back, but clearly his face wasn’t in it. Erin took two steps to the side as all three Drakes watched her and then spun casually back to face Venim.
“Oh, and I might be coming through with a Goblin someday. Got a problem with that?”
The Watch Captain was turning to face the two Drakes, both of whom looked uneasy, as if they feared a reprimand. His head snapped back around so fast Erin heard something crick.
“What did you just say?”
Erin stared innocently at Venim. Inside, her heart was pounding. So much for slipping that by him.
“Uh. A Goblin. He’s a friend and an employee at my inn. And I think he’d like to see Pallass, so…”
“A Goblin.”
Venim’s voice was flat and, suddenly, without patience. Erin nodded slowly.
“That’s right. A Hobgoblin, to be exact. His name’s—”
“You mean, a monster.”
Erin’s breath caught. She looked at Venim.
“No. I mean a Goblin. He’s allowed in Liscor.”
“What?”
The chorus came from three Drakes and a passing Gnoll woman. She looked around as all three Drakes stared at her. Venim covered his eyes.
“Miss—”
“Excuse me! Didn’t mean to pry, yes?”
The Gnoll hurried down the street. Venim raised a hand as if to stop her and then whirled on Erin.
“A Goblin is not allowed in a Drake city, Miss Solstice!”
She folded her arms.
“Why not? He’s an adventurer, and he has a pass from Wall Lord Ilvriss, the Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild, several Gold-rank team leaders, and Pisces—”
Venim stepped forwards, cutting the rest of Erin’s words off. He pointed at the door, meeting Erin’s eyes with a contained glare.
“I’m not sure what Watch Captain Zevara is thinking. But let me make this clear, Miss Solstice. If a Goblin enters the city, we will kill it. That is standing Pallassian law. Is that understood? As for entering and leaving, please fill out the correct paperwork from now on. We will begin asking for the daily lists in the morning.”
Erin froze. Venim glared at her. She said nothing. She knew he was expecting something. After the silence dragged on too long, Venim stepped back. He still looked angry, but she caught a brief feeling of awkwardness from him. She wasn’t sure if that was her Skill or just her learning to read Drakes. It was the slight curl in the end of his tail.
“I am pleased that Liscor stays standing. I understand you had a great deal to do with that, and for that, Pallass’ City Watch offers you our thanks. But the law is the law, Miss Solstice. It must be incorruptible. Please, understand me. Your…Goblin worker is free to work in your inn, but it must never step foot into Pallass. I trust you understand that. And I do apologize for the inconvenience.”
So saying, he held out his claw for her to shake. Erin stared at Venim. Then she stared at his extended claw. Hand. Erin reached out slowly and then, instead of shaking his hand, poked a finger at Venim’s snout. He recoiled.
“Oh yeah? Well, I’ve got two words for you, buddy. ‘No way.’”
The two Drakes standing beside Venim stirred as Erin treated them all to a glare. She pointed at the door.
“This isn’t over. I’ll be back. And if you ever hurt Numbtongue—that’s the name of the ‘monster’ by the way—I will kick your scaly butt. Have a nice day.”
She turned and began to stomp down the street. Venim was staring at her back. She heard an exclamation from the spear Drake, Kel.
“You can’t just threaten—”
Erin pushed past him, ignoring his spear. He uttered a hiss, but she was walking fast down the street. Kel, Venim, and the third Drake whose name no one had mentioned—it was Nevvim—stood, staring at Erin’s back as she stalked away from them.
“Watch Captain Venim? That was clearly a threat. Do you want us to go after her and arrest her?”
Nevvim spoke quietly. Watch Captain Venim stared at Erin’s back. She was staring at a passing Dullahan. He felt a moment of heat, the famed Drakeish temper rising within him, and struggled to contain it.
For a second, Watch Captain Venim hesitated. And the chances of him having a good day teetered on the brink of chaos. After a moment, the Drake slowly shook his head.
“Leave her. Pallass owes that Human some kind of debt, and Liscor too. She’s not likely to cause trouble, and if she persists in this Goblin thing—I’ll send a [Message] to Watch Captain Zevara asking about it.”
He shook his head and turned away, banishing Erin from his immediate list of concerns. He was allowed to, and his chances of a good day skyrocketed from there. If he had arrested Erin, things might have turned out far more eventful for him. But that was a story for another timeline. Erin Solstice walked away from the [Guards] and into Pallass.
“Lousy, no good, stupid jerks—”
She stomped for about a minute, and then her feet began to hurt. Erin stopped in the street, turned to look back, and realized she was in Pallass again. Drakes and Gnolls walked past her, moving around her and giving her odd looks.
Noise. And sight. Erin was overwhelmed by both for a moment. It felt like she was standing in any big city, watching pedestrians go past her. Some were city-dwellers, going to work, others clearly tourists from the way they pointed and stopped to stare at things. Gnolls, Drakes, a few Garuda, and then a passing Human.
She was wearing armor. Erin stared at her as she passed. Strange. She’d thought few Humans lived south of Liscor. Well, a Walled City had to have some Humans, surely? This woman was wearing armor. So maybe she was an adventurer? It comforted Erin to think she wasn’t the only Human in the city. Then she heard a shout.
“Street Runner, coming through! Watch your tails!”
Erin turned her head. She saw a Drake with bright white-pink scales running down the left side of the street, near to Erin. She was young, probably fifteen if she’d been Human. She had a full satchel pressed against her chest, and she was running at near full-tilt. Erin saw people stepping casually aside and then realized she was in the way.
“Whoops!”
Erin leapt back as the Street Runner dashed past her. The Drake twisted to avoid Erin and keep her satchel from striking her.
“Sorry, Miss! Street Runner on delivery!”
She was already a dozen feet away. Erin stared at her back and then looked around. She’d seen Street Runners in Liscor before, but never been close to being run over by one. She wondered where the Runner was going. Then she wondered where she was going. She hadn’t come here with a plan.
Someone interrupted Erin’s musings. A loud, flat voice called out to her.
“You, Human. You need knives.”
Erin turned. A man was standing in front of a small shop. It was more of a stall built into a building, like Krshia’s stall, but permanent. He was one of the [Shopkeepers] selling his wares on the street. Only, he was Human.
And wearing armor. Erin blinked as she saw the man was wearing a full-body set of iron armor. She assumed it was iron; it wasn’t bright enough to match her image of steel. But it had been polished quite finely. She wondered why he was wearing it though—wasn’t it hot? Still, she had to admit he was impressive. The man gestured to Erin. She looked around and then took a few steps closer.
“Me? Did you say I need a knife?”
Erin wasn’t in the mood to shop, but the novelty of meeting another Human was enough to bring her over. The man nodded. He had a very dour, expressionless face. And his voice was just as flat.
“You’re looking for a sharp knife. Everyone needs knives.”
The strange, armored man said this as if it were indisputable fact. Erin opened her mouth, thought, and had to agree that he had a point.
“I could use a knife for my kitchen, maybe. Er—are you selling them?”
The man nodded slowly.
“That’s right. I sell knives. Sharpest, finest, crafted by Maughin himself. You could skin a Wyvern with the blades. You looking for a cooking knife? Something that can cut through tough materials? A skinning knife? All-purpose?”
“Uh, actually, I’ve got a really sharp knife. Believe me, it can cut through…hands…really well. But I suppose I could browse…what’s it like living here? As a fellow Human, I mean?”
Erin edged closer to the shop. The man gave her a very odd look.
“I wouldn’t know about that.”
“Oh. You’re new here too? I just came to Pallass. Hi. Erin Solstice.”
The man stared at Erin. He held out his hand. It was gauntleted and unpleasant to shake, but Erin had resolved to make that her fourth question going into this conversation. He eyed Erin.
“Lorent. I’ve lived here all my life. A Pallassian native.”
“But you said—er. Never mind. So, uh, knives. You sell just knives?”
Lorent nodded and then shrugged. He performed the nod somewhat awkwardly, while the shrug was natural.
“That’s correct. I’m a [Sharpener]. I take knives and give them an edge that will last. Beyond what the metal is shaped for. You buy my knives, you get a lifetime guarantee—bring them here and I’ll give them their edge again.”
“Hey, I get that! And that is a good deal!”
Something like a smile appeared on Lorent’s face.
“Ah. You understand. Not everyone does. But you see these knives? Watch.”
He showed Erin a few of the knives on his shop counter. All looked wickedly sharp, and they had a little logo emblazoned on the hilt. A knife and grindstone.
“Custom-made. And watch.”
