Here would be the point where a suspicious person might wonder if he was trying to approach her with some kind of ulterior motive. If not strictly kidnapping, then something else. But Erin didn’t get that sense from this Gnoll. He had a terrible, terrible way of approaching anyone from Earth, but he couldn’t know that.
“Thank you. I’m Erin Solstice.”
The Gnoll transferred the remaining nali-sticks to his other paw and shook her hand gently.
“Rufelt. City Gnoll.”
“City Gnoll?”
It was an odd way of introducing himself. Erin knew there was a difference of course; Mrsha was a Plains Gnoll, and she didn’t let anyone forget it. But it seemed to matter here. Rufelt grinned sheepishly.
“Ah. Apologies. That’s a habit from meeting other Gnolls. It helps avoid confusion, you see. Do you know the difference between a City Gnoll and a Plains Gnoll?”
“One lives in tribes, the other lives in cities?”
Rufelt nodded. He tucked the nali­-sticks into his belt pouch as he spoke.
“Correct. But the difference is more…hm, let’s say serious than that, shall we? By saying I am a City Gnoll, I avoid confusion. Which can happen if a Plains Gnoll assumes I’m one of them.”
“How so?”
He grinned wider but, Erin thought, with a slight edge.
“Well, to hear them say it, a City Gnoll is a domesticated fool without tribe or loyalty. But I would say that being a City Gnoll means I don’t roll over and bow to tribe loyalty. I am free, not born into a family of hundreds or thousands who all have connections to me.”
“…There’s a lot to unpack there.”
“Indeed. But that is a difference I would not trouble you with at the moment. In truth, I hoped to speak with you, Erin Solstice. I know your name—”
“From Liscor?”
Erin was suddenly weary and much less happy with meeting Rufelt. He tilted his head.
“Mm. Yes. But not just from there. I heard you were in Pallass, or rather, word spread that someone came through the door. So I wished to find out who. And I am pleased I met you, yes? And I think my wife will also be. She is coming and not pleased I found you first.”
He pointed. Erin turned, expecting to see…but what she saw was a female Drake, her scales bright purple, striding down the street. She was around the same age as Rufelt. And, Erin realized, she was one of the first middle-aged Drake women that she’d met. She knew younger Drakes like Embria and Selys, and older ones like Tekshia, but Zevara was around two decades younger than this Drake.
“Ah. There you are, Rufelt. And this is the Human? Erin Solstice? Lasica Feltail. You’ve met my husband.”
“I told you a Gnoll could find a Human faster than any number of Street Runners you paid.”
Lasica turned and gave Rufelt a look that Erin read in two ways. Exasperated, annoyed at his gentle needling. And below it, affection. A complex look that didn’t stop her from turning to slap his shins with her tail.
“Bragging becomes a Drake, not a Gnoll. Anyways, Miss Erin? I will call you Erin, if you don’t mind.”
She held out a hand, and Erin found herself shaking it before she knew what she was doing.
“Uh, no. But, um, why did you both want to see me?”
Lasica exchanged a glance with Rufelt.
“You mean, why did we want to meet the first person from Liscor since the siege ended?”
“Or why we wanted to meet someone willing to pay Pallass’ fee for entry?”
“Or the fact that it was the Crazy Human Innkeeper from Liscor herself who entered?”
“Wait—hold on. Fee? And wait—do they really call me that?”
Erin looked from Lasica to Rufelt. The Drake tapped her foot, staring at Erin with raised brows.
“Hm. Are you being serious? Yes, they call you that. Do you think you can lead an army of Goblins without earning a name? Let alone the stories I’ve heard of your little inn. Rivers of blood, skeletons as guests, serving Crelers for breakfast—”
“I think she means the fee, dear.”
Rufelt muttered to Lasica. The Drake glanced at him and then turned back to Erin.
“Ah. They didn’t make you pay to enter Pallass?”
“No.”
“Hmf. Well, I suppose a hero of Liscor deserves free entry. But that doesn’t change the fact that we want a word with you about that—”
The Drake woman’s impatient tone was quelled by Rufelt, who put a paw on her shoulder. He murmured as she glanced at him.
“Lasica. I think this is not the time for confrontation. Miss Erin was distraught when I met her.”
For a beat, the Drake locked eyes with her husband, and Erin saw something invisible pass between them. A thought, perhaps. Then the Drake turned back to Erin.
“Not the time, then. But for later. In truth, we wanted to welcome you to Pallass. From what I heard, Venim and the Assembly gave you a poor welcome last time—and this time as well from the sounds of it.”
“I had a [Greeter] show me around. But about this fee—”
Erin protested weakly. Lasica rode over her, like the tide over a sandcastle at the beach.
“A [Greeter]? Then you’ve barely seen the sights. Come back with us, and we’ll work on you—first your mood. From what I see, that’s Rufelt’s job. And then—”
“I didn’t know there was a fee to enter Pallass at all. No one told me. How much was I supposed to pay?”
Lasica paused. Rufelt raised his eyebrows.
“No one told you about the fee?”
“No…”
Erin was wondering if it was something else she’d missed with Watch Captain Venim or if he had waived it for her. Rufelt scratched at his neck.
“Hm. Interesting.”
“Intriguing. Tell me, Erin. Does five gold coins to use the door to Liscor ring a bell?”
Lasica folded her arms. Erin’s eyes widened.
“Five gold coins? That’s robbery! No one told me about that—and wait, five coins? Do I get paid some of that? I never set a price on the door. But I should. Shouldn’t I? But I’m sure no one pays to go to Pallass, or if they do, Zevara never said!”
“I see.”
Lasica’s eyes narrowed. She glanced at Rufelt. He was blinking and running a hand down his furry chin, staring at Erin.
“Rufelt, do you think this is another gambit by…?”
“The Protectorate? I do indeed, my dear. And one that Liscor might not even be aware of. Worth a mention, do you think?”
“Absolutely.”
Lasica nodded as if she were declaring war. She swung around to face Erin, who was blinking at the two of them. It had been a long time since she heard people half-finish each other’s sentences. Her parents used to do that all the—
“Well, I had intended something else, but I’ll change my schedule. Come on, we’d better muster the troops. The Protectorate’s not getting away this time. Erin, if you’ll come with me, we can do some good.”
She turned, gesturing at Erin. The young woman nearly fell into step behind Lasica before she knew what she was doing. The older Drake was imperious. She looked at Rufelt, who was walking next to her, looking cheerful and relaxed.
“Wait, but I—sorry, we’ve just met. And I appreciate, the uh, stick, but I have things to do.”
She didn’t, really, but the sudden turn of events was startling. Lasica turned and gave Erin a long stare, condensed into a moment.
“And you were planning on doing what, exactly?”
“Um. Wandering about and crying some more?”
Lasica gave Rufelt another look, this time a glare. Erin practically read the ‘you didn’t say that’, and his apologetic look of ‘you didn’t give me a chance, my dear’. Lasica turned back to Erin.
“All the more reason to come with us.”
“We’ll show you the city as we walk.”
They urged her on, and Erin found herself somehow walking without them touching her. Lasica was on her right, talking briskly, Rufelt on the left, adding little asides.
“You see, we were looking for you, but this news about the door changes things. I don’t want to intrude, but it really is important. I know you might think it’s just Pallassian politics—”
“And minor ones at that.”
“—But it does matter. You know—actually, you might not—that Pallass is a democracy? Well, we have yearly elections, and we’re a week away from ours. And so any edge is needed.”
“We didn’t come to you expecting to hear there was no fee on Liscor’s side. And in truth, we’re pleased to simply meet you, Erin. May I call you that? But Lasica’s on the warpath, and I’d like to support her on this.”
Erin’s head swiveled back from Lasica to Rufelt, blinking as they made their way towards the elevator. She settled on Rufelt.
“I thought you were a City Gnoll who answered to no leader.”
He turned and gave her a toothy grin.
“Ah, you’ve not ever been in a relationship then. One where you give and take.”
Erin was wondering what he got from Lasica. She looked at the Drake, at Rufelt, and blurted out something boiling on the tip of her tongue. She couldn’t help it.
“I’ve never met a Gnoll and Drake couple before.”
The said Drake and Gnoll stopped in front of the elevator. Lasica pulled a cord absently, and a bell rang. Then she turned to look at Rufelt. He met her gaze and then both turned back to Erin.
“Well, now you have. Have you ridden the floor lifts before, Erin?”
“Uh, yes?”
“You don’t get nervous about heights, do you? There’s no fear of the cables breaking—and if they do, there’s a feather fall enchantment. We use the stairs usually because the lifts do terrible things for the stomach, but we’re in a hurry and I don’t fancy going three floors up on foot.”
“Oh, I’m fine. But where are we going?”
“To visit the blacksmithing section.”
Rufelt smiled at Erin as the elevator came back up. The Drake with the pink neck spines sighed when she saw Erin. Lasica stepped into the elevator.
“Nine.”
The Drake looked at Erin.
“Which floor, Human?”
Her voice was audibly impatient. Lasica’s head turned slowly. She narrowed her eyes at the elevator attendant, and her tail lashed a bit.
“She is with us. Nine.”
The attendant looked at Lasica, and Erin saw her quail a bit.
“My apologies. Going up to the ninth floor…”
Erin felt the elevator shoot up and braced herself. The other occupants were steady on their feet. Rufelt smiled again at Erin and gestured to their rapid ascent.
“Fascinating things, aren’t they? So recent as well! Imagine if we could build a spire or something straight up like the [Architects] are suggesting? True, it would go over the walls, but could anyone hit such a building if we placed it in the center of the city? And we could use the floor lifts to make a journey from the top to bottom a matter of minutes!”
“It’s a splendid idea. But who’s going to pay for that much stone and enchantments?”
Lasica folded her arms. Rufelt shook his head, but not exactly to disagree.
“It need not be a work of years. It may take decades—”
“Why bother, then? You know it will be fought over for ages by each new assembly. If you do something, do it fast.”
“You just said there’s no money—”
“I asked where the money would come from, not that there wasn’t any to be had.”
“Of course, Lassi.”
Rufelt smiled at Erin. So did Lasica, after a second. The elevator stopped, and Lasica marched out.
“A difference of opinion. We often argue about politics.”
“That was a fight?”
Erin stared between Drake and Gnoll. Lasica shook her head.
“Not a very good one. This way. This is the smithing floor, by the way. Ninth. If you ever come looking for someone to forge anything, this is your stop. But that’s not really your line of work, or ours, is it? The finished products are on seventh along with a lot of shops—”
Erin stepped forwards out of the elevator with Rufelt by her side. Her eyes widened as she felt herself on the top floor of Pallass other than the battlements. She looked around.
“Whoa.”
The ninth floor was the smallest. At least, in width. It was a narrow band running around each wall compared to, say, the second floor, but that narrow band was still large enough to support a very large space. So large, in fact, that the first thing Erin saw outside the elevator was a row of outdoor forges. And she could hear a rhythmic clanging of metal on metal coming from one.
“Behold! The smiths of Pallass!”
Rufelt had to shout to make himself heard as Erin followed Lasica towards the third forge. The [Blacksmiths] of Pallass had been given their own quarter near the top of the city, and their work spaces had been placed right next to each other. They were sprawling complexes with anvils, multiple forge fires depending on how big each forging studio was, and rightly so.
Erin could feel the heat of one of the furnaces from here, and she saw a sweating Drake pounding on an orange-white piece of steel. A blade? It was cooling fast despite the heat, and she saw him shove it in a furnace filled with coals—and fire—and begin working a pair of bellows.
“Hot steel!”
Someone bellowed. Erin jumped, but she was well clear of the voice. A Drake passed her by, carrying what was indeed a very hot piece of steel. She noticed Rufelt crossing to her other side as he did.
“This is incredible. Look at all those furnaces.”
Erin hadn’t ever seen a [Blacksmith] at work, let alone the dozens within view. Rufelt shuddered.
“Incredible? Yes. But dangerous as well. There’s a reason most of the [Blacksmiths], [Armorers], and apprentices and so on you see are species other than Gnoll.”
He gestured at his fur. Erin eyed him and thought of how fast you could burn yourself when your entire body was covered by hair.
“Yeah I get that. But, uh, why are we up here?”
She was still caught up in the flow. Lasica was walking ahead of them, peering at the forges as if looking for someone. She slowed down a bit to explain.
“It’s about the Protectorate.”
“Start from the beginning, dear.”
“Of course. Actually—can you explain it, Rufelt? I don’t know how I would to someone who’s not a Drake.”
“Hm. Yes, allow me. Erin, I believe my wife spoke to you of Pallass’ democracy, right? Are you familiar with the term?”
“Oh, a little bit. Yeah.”
“Good. That saves me much explaining. Well, we elect our ruling body, the Assembly of Crafts, by district. There are hundreds who fill the assembly, but they are not all individuals, yes? You see, there are factions. There are always factions. We elect Senators, but each tends to belong to a party. An affiliation of ideas.”
“Different parties. Different groups. Totally with you.”
Rufelt raised his brows as if to say, ‘really’? But one look at Erin’s face convinced him. Lasica broke in.
