“Okay. I’m going to Pallass.”
Erin said it for the sixth time that morning. Lyonette looked at her. The young woman was feeding Mrsha eggs as the Gnoll grabbed for the fork, trying to feed herself thank-you-very-much. It was morning in Erin’s inn, and Erin Solstice had decided. She was going to Pallass. Today was the day.
“Are you sure?”
The determination filling Erin’s chest wavered. The young woman hesitated. She paused, fork full of egg, and hesitated.
“Yeah. I mean, I said I would. Why? Do you think I shouldn’t?”
Lyonette gave her a long look.
“No. I was just asking.”
“Oh.”
Erin exhaled slowly. She looked around the table. Four people sat there, including herself. Erin, Lyonette, Mrsha, and Numbtongue. The Goblin was examining his palm, poking the red, newly-healed skin.
“How’s the hand, Numbtongue?”
The Hobgoblin looked up. He moved to shrug, then reconsidered.
“Fine. Thank you.”
The act of verbally replying was clearly new to him. But he’d done it rather than give a taciturn shrug as he might have before. Erin gave Numbtongue an encouraging smile and then looked at his right hand. This morning, Numbtongue had come down with a nasty sting in his palm, courtesy of Apista. Apparently, he’d grabbed her and she’d stung him.
“Good, good. Well. You’re going into the mountains, and you’ve got your mana stone…”
This time, Numbtongue did reply nonverbally with a roll of the eyes. He plucked the mana stone from his pocket and showed Erin for the eighth time that morning. She knew she deserved that, but she did worry. Numbtongue had been building his strength since emerging from the basement, and he’d announced his intention to go mining in the mountains. It had something to do with the memories of the dead Goblin in his head. He wanted to find gemstones or something up there, and Erin couldn’t forbid him. Well, she wanted to, but he’d insisted.
“Great. Awesome. Just remember…”
“Use the magic door. It will be set to my mana stone. Adventurers in the inn I can call for help. Bring potions. Be very careful.”
Numbtongue sighed and ticked off Erin’s points on his fingers, effectively shutting her up. While he was doing it, Mrsha leaned over and forked a good portion of his eggs up with her fork. The Hobgoblin’s head snapped up, and Mrsha froze. She stared at him, and he stared at her, eggy fork in hand. Then Mrsha stuffed it into her face.
“Mrsha, you are incorrigible.”
Erin smiled at the white Gnoll. Happily, Mrsha wagged her tail and raised her hands. She drew a smile on her face to match the one already there and then did a curious thing. She made two fists of her paws and placed one on the top of the other in quick succession.
“Now, what does that mean?”
Lyonette frowned. So did Erin. Mrsha had recently begun creating her own sign language, an activity that had warmed Erin’s heart to no end. She’d encouraged the Gnoll child and tried to learn every word Mrsha came up with. And she thought she knew them all. But this?
“Mrsha, what’s that word mea—”
Erin began to ask, but to her astonishment, the little Gnoll wasn’t looking at her, but Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin was scowling at her. He clearly knew what the word meant. He replied back with an expressive glare. Erin and Lyonette stared at him, and then Lyonette cleared her throat.
“Numbtongue? What did Mrsha just say?”
The Hobgoblin blinked. He stared at them and then shrugged.
“Goblin sign. Sort of. It means…I’m better than you. Ha ha. Ha.”
He looked at Mrsha. The Gnoll gave Numbtongue a big grin. Erin’s jaw dropped in astonishment. Mrsha had used a Goblin sign? But then she saw Numbtongue’s lips twitch. And Mrsha had just stolen food from him, hadn’t she? She’d grown so much more at ease around the Hobgoblin of late. After the battle. What a mixed blessing that was.
Filled with confusing thoughts, Erin ignored Lyonette exclaiming over the new words and getting Mrsha to teach it to her directly. Her thoughts drifted. Today she was going to Pallass. Yes. Because…well, because she had no other reason. Anyone could have talked Erin out of it. A hole in the roof, a runaway Rock Crab, Octavia’s shop lighting on fire…if Erin had a reason, she wouldn’t go. But there was no reason, and no one to stop her. Her inn was empty.
Oh, not completely empty. The Horns and Halfseekers would be downstairs in a bit, and some other adventuring teams, most notably the Silver Swords and Griffon Hunt, would be along shortly. They were bringing the magic door north, and the Silver Swords were talking about finding a new adventure every day. But besides them and a few other teams, no one came to Erin’s inn. Especially not her friends.
She hadn’t gone back to Liscor after her dramatic day with Numbtongue. Erin hadn’t really felt up to it, and none of her old regulars were coming in. Selys, Olesm, Ilvriss…even the Antinium were staying away. Well, the Antinium were probably busy doing Antinium things. But the others?
Erin had stopped blocking them from coming to her inn. But she still didn’t know if she wanted to see them. Some of them, like Selys, Erin was only too glad to see. Krshia was part of that list, but Olesm? Relc?
Relc. Erin closed her eyes. She’d heard about him defending Embria and killing Garen Redfang. Him aside—she didn’t know what to say to Olesm if she saw him on the street. She’d seen him before, in the city, but she hadn’t spoken a word to him. And she didn’t know if, when she saw his face, if she saw Zevara now, what she’d…
…
So, Pallass. It felt like a year since Erin had last entered the city, and then she’d only had, what, an hour or so of being led around? Ilvriss had suggested she see the Walled Cities, and so Erin had decided she would. By herself to begin with. Lyonette was managing the inn, Mrsha was a bit too excitable for Erin’s tastes in a foreign city, and…
She looked at Numbtongue. The Goblin was still flexing his hand that had been stung as he deftly snatched some bacon from Mrsha’s plate with the other. The Gnoll looked up, eyes wide as the Goblin casually bit the hot bacon and gave her a challenging look. That was clearly payback for the eggs. The two stared at each other, and then both began to fight over the last of Mrsha’s bacon.
It brought a smile to Erin’s face to see. Yes, she’d go alone. And if she could, she’d take the others to Pallass. Although her door still had that problem where it couldn’t take more than two or three people through before needing to be recharged. But maybe Erin would stay in Pallass someday. Or visit the other Walled Cities. But to do that, Erin had to visit Pallass. The city that had given Liscor little aid, that hadn’t done anything. While Goblins had died…
Lyonette didn’t notice Erin turning away from the table and walking back. She was busy calling out to Apista, who was obliviously feeding on the Faerie Flowers. Erin stared at the open windows, at Liscor in the distance.
“Time to go away for a bit.”
That was all she said. And that was the only reason, really. Erin bade farewell to the others. Lyonette had charge of the inn, Mrsha was waving to Moore with a greasy paw as he came downstairs, and Numbtongue was stretching, preparing for his journey into the mountains. Erin stopped at the magic door and adjusted the little dial on it. The mana stones moved until the yellow stone for Pallass was fixed and shining on the door.
“Well. Here I go. Lyonette—”
“Just come back if you need anything. I’ll be in and out. And I’ll check on the Players of Celum for you. It’s all sorted, Erin.”
The young woman smiled at her. Erin nodded. She looked at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin rolled his eyes and held up the mana stone again, but he nodded to her.
“See you tonight.”
Mrsha waved, a universal sign. Erin turned. She saw the adventurers looking up at her. Familiar faces. She saw dead Goblins sitting around a table with Numbtongue. Even now, two weeks afterwards. It wasn’t something that went away. And Erin feared, she hoped, it never would. But it still hurt. Too much.
Ceria was opening her mouth and hesitating. But Erin didn’t want to be here. So she made up her mind. She opened her mouth and spoke brightly.
“I’m going to Pallass for a bit! Maybe to look around. I’ll see you all later!”
And then she opened the door and stepped into Pallass, the City of Inventions.
 
——
 
The sun shone down on Pallass. It was always sunny when Erin visited Pallass. Perhaps it was the location of the door. But the walls, tall as they were, only obstructed part of Erin’s view. And while Liscor was likewise encircled by high mountains that blocked the sun, Pallass felt more open. Erin stared up at the blue and cloudy sky as she walked through the door.
Into another city. Onto smooth slabs of stone. Even into different air; it felt fresher, more open than Erin’s inn air. The sun touched Erin’s skin. She heard background noise envelop her. Hundreds of voices. She stared around the street and saw Drakes and Gnolls and even a few Humans on the street! Erin’s spirits lifted. She took two steps—
And a Drake with a spear stepped forwards and pointed it at her gut. Erin froze. The Drake was wearing a steel breastplate and leather armor underneath. On his arms was a bright yellow shield, but Erin didn’t get a chance to investigate further. She backed up as the Drake [Guardsman] with the spear aimed it at her stomach. He glared at her, body tense as another Drake appeared behind Erin with a sword.
“Human! Don’t move a muscle! Your arrival was not cleared with Pallass.”
“What? Cleared? I just walked through here!”
Erin’s hands shot up. The Drake glared at her and then looked at his companion.
“Some kind of mistake with that teleporting door?”
“Maybe. Hell of a mistake, though. Think we should frisk and send to lockup or check with the inn?”
Erin heard the Drake behind her growl. She saw several Drakes on the street turn to stare at her. The Drake with the spear hesitated.
“Let’s call it in. First we make a report and then—hey, I said hands up!”
Erin had lowered her hands. She glared at the Drake, eyed the very pointy spear, and then slapped it. Or tried to. The spear barely budged as Erin tried to knock it away from her stomach.
“Stop pointing that at me. What have I done wrong? I’m allowed to go to Pallass! Anyone is! That’s the point of a magic door!”
“You weren’t cleared. We have a list of allowed visitors per day, and you aren’t on it.”
Erin’s face went blank. Then she remembered. Hadn’t Zevara said…? She sighed.
“No one uses that stupid thing. I never did. Look, I own the magic door. That means I can go through, okay?”
She pointed at the door behind her. The two Drakes eyed her dubiously.
“Anyone could say that.”
“Anyone? Hello? I’m the [Innkeeper]! Don’t you recognize me? Erin? Erin Solstice? Okay, what about this? I had Hawk the Courier put it back just three days ago.”
“So? Everyone knows that.”
Erin stared at the [Guardsman] with the spear. She exhaled slowly and then decided to inhale before the tip of the spear tickled her stomach.
“Well—well, okay. But I am who I say I am! Anyone can tell you! In Liscor, I mean. You can open that door and ask—well, okay, it’s dead because someone else is using it, but in a bit it’ll probably be—if you want proof, get…Watch Captain Venim! He knows me.”
The two Drakes hesitated. But Erin had remembered the one name of someone she knew in Pallass. Watch Captain Venim. They exchanged a glance, and the one breathing down Erin’s neck muttered.
“I mean, we’re calling this in, right? Couldn’t hurt.”
“Right. I’ll, uh—get a Street Runner?”
“Think it’s worth the paperwork?”
Apparently, the spear-wielding Drake didn’t think it was. He hesitated, gave Erin another look—she was giving him a dirty glare—and then lowered his spear and legged it down the street at a brisk pace. Erin turned to face the other [Guardsman]. He had either sheathed his sword or hadn’t drawn it to begin with.
“I don’t have to keep raising my hands, do I?”
He had yellow scales, which went well with the patch on his armor. He was wearing all leather and shrugged.
“I don’t think so. But stay where you are.”
Erin turned to look at the Drakes, some of whom were pointing at her. This wasn’t how she had envisioned returning to Pallass, but, she had to admit, it was consistent with last time. She folded her arms grumpily.
“And if I don’t?”
“I’ll be forced to draw this sword and stab you.”
Erin eyed the sword in its sheath. She decided to stay put. She stood there with the Drake as the passersby generally lost interest. All, that was, except for a couple of Drakes, young, in their teens, who came up.
“Guardsman, who’s the Human? Did she come through from Liscor?”
The Drake [Guardsman] looked embarrassed.
“Watch business. Move along.”
“Aw. But she is from Liscor, right? Are people coming through?”
“Just me for now.”
Erin turned to the Drakes. They blinked at her, looking her up and down as if she was an oddity. But Erin had seen otherHumans on the street. Wearing armor, sure, but…the [Guardsman] with the sword sighed.
“Ladies…”
“Oh, alright. Spoilsport. Who’re you, Miss Human?”
“Erin!”
Erin called after them. One of the Drakes turned. She was tall and had red and black scales running in stripes down her body.
“I’m Frasi! This is Oza! Don’t get arrested, Miss Erin! Welcome to Pallass!”
“Thanks! I’ll try! And I’ve been here before!”
Erin waved at their backs. The Drake [Guardsman] made a grumbling sound.
“Please keep quiet.”
“Is that an order?”
She heard him sigh. But no more Drakes approached as now Erin and the Drake were just standing awkwardly by the door. Erin looked about.
The street was wide and flat. Unnaturally so to Erin, who was used to Liscor’s cobblestones and dirt roads. But Pallass’ floors were smooth, made of huge squares of stone, like those Erin would see in modern cities. The stone was a light beige, and houses and other buildings lined the open street.
A few things set Pallass apart from Liscor. The first were the walls. They stretched up above the roofs of the houses, four walls in four directions. They were huge and filled part of the sky, a solid mass of stone. Solid, but not plain. Because Erin could see, far off in the distance, another ‘floor’ of buildings built into the side of Pallass. That was what she remembered.
