“Indeed. Well, of the major groups, there is one that concerns us. The Protectorate has been growing lately. Excuse me—they call themselves the Protectors of the Walls and take a hard stance on immigration, trade, and so forth. They’ve been popular because their tariffs favor local businesses, but they go too far, at least in some of our opinions.”
She turned and gave a passing Drake a glare, as if to suggest that he was one of the complicit ones. Rufelt chuckled as the accused Drake gave Lasica an odd look and hurried past. She went on calmly.
“We don’t like them, Rufelt and I. But happily, their party took a large blow to their influence after Liscor. Too many people saw them as tail-dragging cowards who could have done more to aid the city. Instead, we cut ties, and the entire world saw how few soldiers we sent while every other Walled City and lesser city-state was marching armies north.”
“Wow. So Liscor’s siege had more of an effect on Pallass than I thought.”
Erin looked at the married couple and saw Lasica smile. Rufelt grinned again.
“Not just Liscor. A certain [Innkeeper] had as much to do with the Protectorate’s misfortune as well. Had Liscor fallen, the Protectorate might have claimed it was all sensible precautions they took. Instead, they look like fools and will lose ground in the yearly elections. Or so I think. And this soon-to-be scandal will only fuel that flame, don’t you think, Lasica?”
“Oh, definitely. As if we needed another reason to like you.”
“Wait, you like me? You barely even know me!”
“Well, give it time. We just have to pop in to visit—hey! Is this Maughin’s forge for the day?”
Lasica shouted as she came to a large and very busy forge. Erin saw a Gnoll—covered in a protective apron and patches of missing fur—look up as he worked a grindstone and sent sparks flying on a blade. He shouted an affirmative. Lasica bellowed at him.
“I’m looking for Maughin! Is he available?”
Rather than shout, he pointed. The Drake turned and walked around the forge. Erin followed, and Rufelt stayed behind the two.
“Don’t get too close! They’re running about with steel in there and sparks go flying! You stay back too, Rufelt!”
Erin saw Lasica approach the main section of the forge. And there she saw two people working on anvils, both with their own dedicated forge. One was a Drake, younger, and the second was another of those not-Human people in armor. The Drake—it was a she beneath the soot, Erin thought—was brushing at some very hot metal while a huge man in armor, twice her size, was shouting orders at her.
“Faster! Remove the scaling in one stroke or you’re wasting heat! You don’t need a Skill, just move your hands!”
His voice was clearly audible over the sound of the other forges. The female…armor girl nodded and brushed faster. She apparently did it right, because he pointed, and she was on the piece of metal, hitting one spot, and, from what Erin could see, making it longer, stretching it out.
“Maughin!”
The word made the armored man look up. He scowled at first, but when he saw Lasica waving at him, his face changed. Not exactly to happiness, but at least the scowl dissipated a little. He shouted at one of the other armored folk waiting in the wings and got a nod. The other apprentice or worker took over supervising as Maughin strode towards them.
He was another person in armor, like Lorent. But this fellow, Maughin, was huge. A proper giant! Not as tall as Moore, but certainly nearly as broad-shouldered. His armor was metal, finely engraved, but, Erin had to notice, light plates of steel rather than the heavier armor Lorent had worn. Even so, he was very sweaty and red in the face. As he walked over, he reached up and—Erin was ready for it, but she still gasped—took off his head and carried it in one arm.
“Lasica. Rufelt. And who is this?”
Maughin’s voice came from his head as he held it out, away from his body. Erin didn’t know if it was an insult or to keep him cool—until she realized he was holding it down, at head-height. Lasica nodded to him.
“Maughin, meet the Human from Liscor. Erin Solstice. Do you recognize the name?”
The huge man paused. He wiped a bit of sweat from his forehead, carefully patting his head with a bit of cloth. Erin didn’t know whether to stare at the head or the body.
“The name strikes a bell. From Liscor?”
“The very same. And guess where she just came from? The doorway that costs five gold coins. Which, as it turns out, was free for her and apparently anyone coming through from Liscor. What do you think about that?”
The armored giant thought for a second. Then he turned his head to spit.
“Politics. Why are you bringing this onto my forge floor?”
Erin kept staring at him. Maughin eyed her and Lasica. The Drake was cool and addressed his head calmly.
“We only want you to bring it up with the other [Smiths]. Say, by sundown? You can just send an apprentice over. But you know this is bad for trade.”
“I do. On the other hand, trade flows north regardless of a single door.”
“But through the Blood Fields? You must admit you have few clients as far north as Liscor, and none in Human lands. And here’s a door, only we’ve apparently been deincentivized to use it. Did I mention that no one on Liscor’s side knew of the charge? At least, not the [Innkeeper] herself.”
Maughin’s head turned towards Erin. She froze up. The giant’s head frowned at her.
“Is this true?”
“I—I—how do you do that with your head?”
The man blinked. Lasica stared. And Rufelt, who’d been hanging back, barked with laughter.
“Maughin, you might be the first Dullahan she’s met! Don’t frown so!”
The armored man—no, the Dullahan stared at Erin. Then, slowly, he placed his head back on his shoulders. He spoke slowly.
“Apologies. I did not realize that there were Humans who didn’t recognize Dullahans on sight. Was this…offensive to you?”
Erin noted the small frown and the nudge Lasica quickly gave her. She waved her hands.
“No! Not at all! But I’ve never seen—I mean, I’ve seen people without heads, but they’re normally dead when that happens. I had no idea there were people like…uh. Hi! I’m Erin Solstice.”
She held out a hand. Maughin took it and gave her the lightest of squeezes. Lasica smiled, looking amused.
“Maughin is a Dullahan. From Baleros.”
“Oh.”
Erin finally remembered where she’d heard the word Dullahan before. But she’d never seen a Dullahan or quite understood what a Dullahan was until now. Rufelt and Lasica gave her the condensed version.
“So you can remove heads and limbs? And you wear armor, but you can decorate it? That’s so…so…”
Erin pondered for words. Hermit crab-like? Robot-ish? She settled for a safe bet.
“…cool! I bet there’s all kinds of stuff you can do! Like—do your work and put your head down and read a book! Wait, you can’t flip pages that way. Or…or go swimming with your head above water! But you can’t see that way…”
“Dullahans can sense the area around their bodies. But it is not so convenient. Nevertheless, I am pleased you speak so highly of our abilities. Not all Humans do.”
Maughin was a slow, deliberate speaker. And like Lorent, his face didn’t change as visibly as another species’ might. Erin got the sense that he was quite formal outside of the forge. Lasica jumped into the conversation then.
“As I was saying, you had no idea of the fee levied on visitors from Pallass, did you, Erin?”
“What? Oh, no. Not at all. And I wouldn’t charge a thing! I only agreed not to ship Runner’s goods through the door. You know, so they wouldn’t go out of work? And merchant’s goods. But visitors are welcome!”
Maughin pondered this. He looked at Lasica.
“So this is a Protectorate bill?”
“Or, at least something the Assembly did under wartime powers that they didn’t inform us about. All perfectly legal, but not exactly fair. This is hardly a measure to save lives, is it?”
“No.”
Maughin looked displeased, but he didn’t spit again. He looked at Lasica and sighed.
“Are you going to bring other guilds into this?”
“At least the [Alchemists] and some of the other businesses. We do good work inside the city, but these tariffs are hurting us all, Maughin. If this needs to be our sticking point to get more support, so be it. What do you say?”
The Dullahan chewed this over. At last, he grudgingly nodded. But he turned to Erin as he did.
“You have my support on one condition. [Innkeeper] Solstice. Will you swear that Liscor had no knowledge of these fines?”
He bent down to look at Erin. She gulped but met his eyes.
“Absolutely. I didn’t know, and Watch Captain Zevara didn’t either. Or she would tell me.”
Erin thought she would, at any rate. She hoped Zevara would. Maughin nodded.
“Then I will speak to the others and reach an accord. Although I’m uneasy about opening a door fully to another city, even so.”
Lasica sighed.
“It’s not a full connection, Maughin. That door can barely handle a few travelers per day. After the [Mages] moved the soldiers back from Liscor, they were half-dead, and the Assembly requisitioned everyone in the city. Come on, you know this is a good deal. Even if they only let people through, you could get orders from Liscor. The City Watch at least will want to bulk up after the siege.”
The Dullahan was nodding reluctantly.
“True. That might open up business. But I was more concerned about—”
“Done!”
Every head turned as a shout came from the forge beside Maughin’s. Erin heard a low, bass voice and an accent that was half-familiar. Then she saw a short, bearded fellow stumble out of his forge, holding a breastplate. The metal didn’t gleam; it was black with soot or something else, and bits of it flaked off as the Dwarf hurled the breastplate on the ground. But from the pure sound Erin heard as it struck the stone and the way it only flexed a bit at the impact, she was sure it was a sturdy breastplate.
“Pelt.”
Maughin looked over disapprovingly at the Dwarf. The other [Smith], who was shouting back into the forge, looked over. He blinked at the Dullahan.
“Maughin. Taking a break? Good for you. I’m done as well.”
Erin glanced at the sky. It was barely past morning! Maughin seemed to share the same opinion. He stared at the breastplate lying on the ground.
“You finished your suit of armor?”
The Dwarf, Pelt, shrugged.
“Breastplate. Good enough for me. I’m done for the day. Armor looks good. So we’re done. One of the apprentices can do the engraving and inlays.”
“And if they err?”
There could be no greater sin, clearly. But Pelt shrugged.
“It’s adornment. It doesn’t matter. The steel is sturdy. And I don’t feel like making more. Who’s the Human?”
He pointed a finger at Erin. She smiled, and Lasica began to explain. Pelt cut her off with a rude sound.
“I don’t care. Vote whomever you want into your damn seats. So long as the walls don’t come crashing down, leave me out of it.”
Affronted, the Drake glared at him. Rufelt looked resigned. Pelt stomped past them as a Drake hurried out to collect the breastplate from the ground. Erin stared at the Dwarf’s back as Maughin shook his head and turned, quite deliberately, to talk to Lasica with his back to the Dwarf.
“Who was that?”
Rufelt sighed and shrugged.
“Pelt. A brilliant [Smith], but a lousy worker. An odd combination in someone with high levels. But Maughin probably wishes Pelt would drink himself senseless all the time or sober up and take him on as an apprentice.”
“He’s that good?”
Erin blinked at the Dwarf, who was shouting for an elevator as he rang the bell. He looked unsteady. As if he was already drunk or, alternatively, hadn’t bothered to stop while forging. The Gnoll frowned.
“Good enough that he can work for a fraction of the time as our good Dullahan and still be competitive. There’s a saying of the two of them. You’ll always go to Maughin for good, high-quality work. But you hope Pelt has a good day, and if he does, you buy from him.”
Erin glanced back at Maughin. From what she could see, his forge was the largest, and his apprentices were working very hard alongside the journeymen. Meanwhile, in Pelt’s forge, a single Drake was cleaning up and working on the breastplate.
“It doesn’t seem quite fair.”
Rufelt nodded.
“Levels dictate much. And despite Maughin’s skill, he cannot yet match Pelt. But in a few years? Perhaps.”
“I had no idea there were…Dullahans in Pallass. Or Izril, to be honest. Are they common, just not in Liscor?”
The Gnoll frowned, but it was Maughin who approached and answered for him.
“There are few Dullahans on the continent, but we have a community in Pallass. After all, it is a city that offers [Smiths] a chance to work. We supply the southern half of the continent with much of the armor and weapons from these forges. If you so desire, Erin Solstice, I will take a commission from you. I shall remember your name.”
That had a ritualistic sound to it. Erin smiled and bowed to Maughin slightly.
“And I will, uh, remember yours. Maughin, right?”
He nodded. Erin waved goodbye as the Dullahan walked back to his forge, already calling for an apprentice. Lasica shook her head.
“Well, that was simple, but I could have done without Pelt. You’re lucky he didn’t spot you, Rufelt. He’s still sore at you for cutting him off.”
“Then all is well, Lasica. Where to next? Let’s not drag about our guest more than we have to.”
“I’m fine.”
Erin was actually enjoying this a bit. Meeting Maughin had been fun. And she had a sense—even if she was hazy on the particulars—that she was doing something that was going to bug Pallass’ Assembly of Crafts. So she was all in. Lasica smiled.
“Hm. Well, we don’t need to go far. We’ll visit Xif, the [Alchemist], so he can send word along through his guild. And…stop by Melinni’s storehouses?”
“If you can bear it.”
The Drake lashed her tail.
“To tweak the Protectorate’s noses? Yes.”
“A noble sacrifice. Lead on, then.”
To Erin, Rufelt pointed across the ninth floor to the other side.
“We’re headed to the [Alchemist]’s section next. The other side, you see the colored smoke coming from that roof? That’s our destination. It is a bit of a walk—the [Engineers] haven’t developed a floor lift that goes sideways, yet.”
“Or at least, one that doesn’t take up too much space.”
The two marched across the floor, Erin walking between them. By this point, her curiosity was fully stoked.
“Okay, I get that Maughin’s a good [Smith], but what’s the plan here? Get people angry at the Assembly and then what?”
