The dwarf thought about Ren, and all of the girls started to cry. Princess brayed her sorrow as she watched Ren be covered over in tons of dirt.

*

I'm really glad I was wrong about needing both hands to use the Move Earth spell. Ren thought as he looked around the small area he was in. The spell's description said that he wasn't allowed to dig tunnels with it; but, it didn't say anything about not being able to keep a large air pocket around him as the dirt flowed and covered where he was.

“You should keep it up for another 10 minutes at least.” Teepo said. “You don't know how long that High Elf woman can hold her breath.”

Ren nodded slightly and stayed where he was. Surprisingly, with him and the staff completely underground, he could actually feel the 'current' of the dirt as it moved. The best thing was, the dirt had disabled the Lightning trap, and he was no longer held captive.

That's both scary and cool. Ren thought and kept the dirt flowing for 15 minutes more, just in case. Once that self-imposed time limit was done, he received a popup.

Stat Change!

Knowledge Of Earth Level 1 (Intermediate 0%) - Earth affinity and resistance increased to 25%

“Thank you for accepting my apology.” Ren said to the Earth, then stored his shield and used the disguise wand again. He stored it, put the Staff of Earth Moving in his other hand, and took out his mining pick. He took his time and moved carefully, and dug his away across the space to where the High Elf woman was.

Ren dug out the packed in dirt and exposed her face. The dirt was in her eyes, nose and mouth, and from what he could tell, there was no life in the body.

I guess I didn't need to disguise myself. Ren thought and looted her body, and gained a High Elf bracelet, several platinum coins, and three shadow markers. The dirt filled in the spot where her body was, and Ren turned towards where he knew the bodies of the dwarves that had attacked him rested. He found them quickly, looted them, and only found 5 more shadow markers. Then he found the body of the dwarf that ran the Thieves Guild.

When Ren looted it, he found a pile of platinum coins, an unidentified ring, and surprisingly, another small wooden box. Inside it were 15 shadow markers; but there was space for 30.

Thank the gods. Ren thought and took out the one he had looted from Lord Lodur. When he opened both boxes and compared them, the shadow markers in one would fit in the empty spaces in the other. They were transferring them back and forth to each other. He thought and shook his head. Just think, one of the richest dwarves that ran pretty much everything, was also responsible for stealing everything, too.

Ren stored everything he'd found and started to dig up at an angle.

Let's get out of here, Teepo. Ren thought to his friend. I've got some Adventurer's business to take care of.

“What about the rest of them?” Teepo asked. “There's probably a lot of dwarves trapped inside. They could dig out, just like you are.”

Dammit. Ren thought, and changed the direction he dug. You're right. I can't leave them alive after saying I'd kill them.

“The closest spot anyone could be in, is right over there about 30 feet.” Teepo said. “You've got the staff to hold the dirt back, so dig faster.”

I'm only using one arm! Ren said to defend his slow progress.

“That's no excuse!” Teepo chittered in laughter. “Swing faster!”

Ren shook his head and did as Teepo said.
