“Did something happen to you, Krshia? Did you—did you ever go to Wistram?”
“I?”
Krshia sniffed dismissively and shook her head.
“I would not visit such a place. Nor would any of my kind, even to trade and earn money. We do not deal with those fools.”
“Fools?”
Krshia shook her head.
“It is an old story. I would not trouble you with it, Erin.”
“No, tell me. Please. I’m interested.”
The Gnoll hesitated, but Erin was openly earnest. And because it was clearly upsetting her, Krshia told the story.
“Wistram is a place of magic. It is the place for mages to go and learn, yes? Other cities have their own guilds and even schools, and some nations pay for mages to learn and serve. But Wistram is nationless and a nation unto itself. They have never bowed to any ruler and never shall. So they are thought of well by all who practice magic. But they are fools.”
Her fingers clenched on her tea cup and relaxed before they could shatter the delicate porcelain.
“Nearly forty years ago, the Gnoll tribes gathered to talk and forge alliances and plans for the future. It is done every twenty years, and it is an important time. At that time, we had heard much of Wistram, and many among us wished for Gnolls to learn such secrets as the Academy teaches. It is said that Gnolls cannot be [Mages]—well, why not test that theory? No Gnoll had ever taught themselves magic, but tribe Weatherfur suggested we ask the greatest teachers in the world if there is even a chance it could be done. Sensible, yes?”
Erin sat in her chair, listening to Krshia’s rumbling voice and thinking. She already thought she knew how the story ended, but she wondered other things. Had Krshia been there? How old was she? And—what did the Gnolls want? But Krshia went on, and Erin was sucked into her story.
“It was decided that the tribes would send one of our finest young [Shamans] to Wistram to ask admission. We chose one who was young but was talented beyond his years and gave him magical artifacts from each tribe and much coin to make the journey. Our warriors took him to a port city, and he took a ship to Wistram, braving storms and pirates on his long journey.”
If it was possible, Krshia’s expression turned even angrier. Her hackles raised. Erin watched as the hair on the back of Krshia’s neck stood upright, fascinated.
“The mages at Wistram gave the Gnoll a test when he asked to be entered into the Academy. They did not believe him when he claimed to be a spellcaster as they were. They asked him to cast spells, but he was alone, yes? Alone, and without any to draw on. Without any others, there is no magic to cast for [Shamans]. That is why he asked to be taught as a normal student. But the mages, they did not listen. They cast him out and declared all Gnolls to be magic-deficient. Talentless.”
Krshia growled and spat. Erin stared at the glob of spit dripping from one of the Gnoll’s dressers and wondered if she were going to clean that up later.
“That is why to this day [Mages] from Wistram are not welcome among the tribes and why we do not trade with their island. And that is why even if you go, you must not trust them, Erin Solstice. The mages of Wistram do not trust any who do not have magic they recognize.”
Erin nodded. Krshia’s story sounded like a case of good old-fashioned racism or maybe just ignorance. Either way, she understood the Gnoll’s ire. But it didn’t change things.
“I’d still like to talk to a mage. Or—a mage besides Pisces, at least.”
Krshia shrugged, tired from telling her story.
“There are several in the city. But Drake mages, the strong ones, fight with their army, yes? And magic is not as widely practiced in these lands. Perhaps you would find one wise enough to help you, but you would search long.”
“So Wistram’s my only option? I mean, I’m not saying I’d just get up and head over there but—”
“If you wish to return home, that may be your best choice.”
Erin sat still for a while, staring into her tea cup. She raised it to her lips and took a long drink of the bitter and now cold tea.
“Okay. Okay. That’s—that’s something to aim for, at least.”
“It is good to have a goal. And perhaps that is something we may assist you with.”
“Really? I mean, why? And how? Is it that hard to get to Wistram?”
Krshia shrugged.
“Perhaps not hard for one with much coin, but it is a long ways away and dangerous for a lone Human female who is not a warrior, and even one who is, yes? Anyone may attempt the journey to Wistram, but it is another thing to make the journey and survive.”
That didn’t sound good. At all. Erin frowned.
“What’s so hard about it? You hire a carriage, get to a port city, jump on a boat, and you’re nearly there, right?”
Krshia laughed quietly and tapped Erin on the shoulder. Again, Gnolls had a heavy tap that was more like a shove.
“It is good to be young and eager. But it is not good to stop thinking, yes? Wistram is protected by more than mages. The seas around the college are calm at times, but at other times, they devour ships and sink fleets. Especially in the winter.”
She shook her head at Erin.
“Even if you left now, winter would freeze you at sea as you travelled west, and the storms would crack the hull of any ship foolish enough to brave the oceans. And there is the cost to consider as well.”
“Oh, right. Hiring a ship would be really expensive, right?”
“You would seek passage on a ship to Wistram. That would not be as expensive, but I talk of the cost of the journey. To travel north to the port cities safely would require joining a caravan that hires adventurers. That costs coin. A good place on a good ship with an able captain requires coin. A bodyguard or one who would protect you costs coin. And seeking lodging in Wistram—”
“I get it. It costs a lot of coin, right?”
Krshia sniffed at Erin and flicked her forehead lightly like one would a child. Only in this case it really hurt.
“Ow! Stop that! Your claws are sharp!”
“Apologies. But you are still not thinking. Say you reach Wistram after travelling so far. Tell me, Erin Solstice, how do you plan on finding a mage to bring you home?”
“Well…”
Erin paused and blinked.
“I, uh, hadn’t thought of that. I guess I’d just go to their headmaster and ask for help?”
Krshia laughed hard and long.
“That would be a sight to see. Yes, and talking to such a leader among mages would be an achievement in itself if he even existed! Wistram has a Council and its Archmages. You might find many influential persons, but why would they listen? You are just a child speaking of other worlds. Even if you could prove your truth, which is simple enough, how would you convince them to help you?”
“Well—I’m from another world. Isn’t that enough?”
“Perhaps to some. But while I believe you—how would you prove it to them? And even assuming they wished to help—do you think Wistram does anything for free?”
Erin’s heart sank.
“So you’re saying I’d need to pay a mage to help me?”
Krshia nodded. Well, she nodded, shrugged, and seemed unclear.
“I am not one to make idle promises, Erin Solstice. Many might help you for free, but you would not like me if you had gone to Wistram only to find no one willing to hear you unless you had gold to pay them, eh? To be certain, either have the funds to buy a mage to assist you or to find a mage worthy and willing to help you. That is the real cost I speak of.”
Things were never so simple as they were in books. It was Erin’s turn to rub at her head with her hands. If this were Harry Potter, she’d be able to walk up to Diagon Alley and—well, she was a muggle and she’d forgotten the password, so they wouldn’t let her in, and even if she did walk around asking people if they were wizards—
“This sucks. You’re telling me I have to pay to go home?”
“Is it not always so?”
Erin scowled at Krshia, but the Gnoll just smiled back. Erin reluctantly began to think, counting off on her fingers.
“Okay. Say that is my goal. How much money would I need, do you think? A hundred gold pieces for the journey? And then maybe another hundred pieces to find a place to stay? And—um, let’s call it six hundred for finding a mage willing to help me? That’s…a lot.”
“Too much, I think.”
Krshia shook her head at Erin.
“You have no idea of pricing, yes? For sixty pieces perhaps I could bring you to Wistram. It would be a longer journey, and you would need to find one to guard you. But it could be done. And a hundred gold pieces would last you several years even in Wistram. But the real price is in the mage.”
Erin’s heart sunk even lower.
“Six hundred gold pieces not enough?”
“It is not about money. Mages have much money, and offering to pay them may work or it may not. Your money would be of little interest to all but the lowest-level ones. They are not what you want, I am thinking.”
“No, definitely not.”
“We spoke of archmages, yes? They are the ones you seek. Finding an audience with them through wit or bribery—that is your challenge. For that, I would take as much money as I could bring and something to attract their attention.”
Erin sat back in her chair, overwhelmed at the idea—not to mention the cost. Krshia laughed again.
“Do not despair. These things seem large, but they are not overwhelming, yes? Sit. Drink. And let me talk to you of what the Gnolls might do. And what you may do for us.”
Erin sat back in her chair as Krshia stood up. She let the Gnoll bustle around her home, refilling Erin’s cup with more tea, offering her more food and thought. She thought about the journey, what Krshia was proposing, and the danger and difficulty involved at every step. But she also thought of something else.
She remembered a quiet home, two people she knew she could go to with every worry. She thought of her bed, her friends. She thought of home and realized that was where she really wanted to go.
 
——
 
When Erin walked out of Krshia’s home, it was nearly nightfall. The Gnoll insisted she walk Erin back to the gates, and it was only with some convincing that Erin told her she’d be fine on the way back. She’d spotted a shiny, bald…head with no hair or even skin attached hiding on a nearby hillside, and she didn’t want the Gnoll to freak out.
It would have taken a lot for Krshia to freak out at this stage anyways, even if she’d known how to freak out properly. It had been a long conversation Erin and Krshia had had, ranging from the logistics of how one might travel from Liscor all the way to Wistram Academy, hundreds—perhaps thousands of miles away. Erin had forgotten to ask the exact distances, probably because she was too afraid to.
But between talk of money and the journey, Krshia had talked with Erin about her world and extracted a promise for the Human girl to tell her more at another time. That had been what had set the Gnoll’s stomach jumping and was the main reason she didn’t pick up on the dead smell of bones, magic, and marrow blowing her way.
She watched Erin disappear into the night, ignoring the gate guard until the Human had crested a hill. She could hear Erin shouting something, but she was too far away at that point even for the Gnoll’s ears to pick up what she was saying.
Only then did Krshia turn to the guard at the gates who was deliberately ignoring her and nudge him.
“There is no one watching. You can drop the act, Tkrn. You are a terrible pretender of things in any case.”
Tkrn, the Gnoll guardsman who had been assigned to the gates for the last few days in a row, grinned toothily at Krshia.
“Aunt, finally! I was wondering if you were going to stab Erin or call for help. If she really was a [Spy] from Terandria or something.”
Krshia scowled at the other Gnoll and jabbed him in the ribs. Hard. Even though the other Gnoll was wearing chainmail, he still winced.
“I told you it would not come to that. And you and the others are fools for suggesting it and dreaming her disappearance would not be noticed. Kill a lost child?”
Tkrn scowled and rubbed at his side sulkily. But he didn’t dare talk back. Instead, he cast his eyes to where Erin had disappeared.
“I just—it was a joke! Anyways, she’s really what she seems to be?”
Krshia snorted.
“As I have said, so it is. She is no threat; merely a lost one seeking to return home.”
Tkrn shook his head.
“So it is true? She is from another world?”
“I sense the truth of it. Yes, she is one who came here by mistake.”
Again, the other Gnoll shook his head in disbelief.
“When I first smelled her, she stank of a place full of oil and metal and burning. Is her world like that?”
Krshia paused, thinking.
“From what she said—and did not say—it is a world of Humans. They alone live in it. Whether that is a better one than this I do not know.”
“But it is different.”
“Yes. Very. In ways that are disturbing and grand. But she did not speak much of these differences, and I understood less. But she is—useful. She is important.”
“But she wants to go home, too. So we’re the only ones who can help her. Which means we get to ask favors of her, right? Maybe even present her to the Meeting of Tribes for Silverfang’s honor?”
Krshia gave Tkrn a baleful look, and he wilted.
“You were supposed to be looking out for other listeners, not eavesdropping, fool. What point is there hearing what I will tell the others anyways?”
“But it doesn’t matter, does it? No one was listening that I saw.”
Tkrn whined at Krshia, but the other Gnoll didn’t relent. She shook her head.
“We need Erin Solstice more than she needs us, yes? And we do not want her speaking with others who would know her value.”
Krshia prodded Tkrn none-too-gently in the chest.
“So be more alert! When she comes back, I wish to know. And tonight, ask one of the Runners. Lv or Tshana. They must send a message to the tribes.”
Tkrn looked up. That was serious. He listened carefully as Krshia spoke.
“They must send more of our people here. Wise ones. I ask for counsel as well, of all I have learned. I will speak with all those in the city as soon as all can be gathered and send a second Runner. But this first one must go at once.”
“Will you ask anything else of them?”
“Ask them if they have found others such as Erin. And if they have not found them, tell them to search! Tell them to look among Humans for ones who stand out and speak and act differently.”
Tkrn straightened and nodded. He had a sword at his waist and a shield buckled to one arm. But he would have been dangerous without either weapon. Well. Moderately dangerous. His eyes glinted in the moonlight.
