“Do you want me to gather some others to watch over her inn? We could set up camp a few miles away in secret. Watch Captain Zevara will notice if I’m off-duty, but the others could work in shifts.”
Again, for his trouble, Tkrn earned another elbow that made him wince. Krshia flattened her ears and glared at him.
“You are foolish, Tkrn. Just like a cub on his first hunt. If we place others around her inn, she will notice, yes? But before she does, others will notice and ask questions. And we have few warriors in the city as it is.”
Tkrn whined. He didn’t like speaking to Krshia, especially because the punishment for making mistakes was so painful.
“How can we protect her if we cannot be seen near her?”
Krshia didn’t turn as she strode away. She spoke briskly over her shoulder as she went to talk with other Gnolls.
“How else? We give her the means to protect herself.”
 
——
 
Toren was being chastised. Or rather, Toren was being yelled at. It was pretty much the same thing, but volume was the key difference here.
Erin walked through the grass back towards her inn, snapping at the skeleton as it meekly followed her, fish in hand.
“Why did you come all the way out here? Do you know what would have happened if the guard had seen you? He would have smashed you to bits, and I would have probably gotten in trouble. Somehow.”
Toren the skeleton didn’t say anything. It couldn’t, but it wouldn’t even if it could. It felt bad, but also good, which was a confusing feeling. Bad because Erin was mad at it, but good because it had a name.
Toren. No last name. Although why the skeleton would want two names was beyond it. But Erin had told it that was its name. Toren. It meant rook in another language, but what a rook was Toren had no idea. It was just a piece of carved stone on the board Erin liked to stare at so much.
Erin stormed through the grass, Toren meekly following in her wake. Her anger at the skeleton was rapidly dissipating, mainly because it was just taking all of her abuse. But her temper flared every time she looked back and saw the skeleton carrying the massive, and very dead, flat fish.
“And what were you thinking? Were you even thinking? Can you even think? Why would you think grabbing one of those stupid fish was a good idea?”
Toren bowed its head meekly and made no reply. The dead fish he carried in both his arms flopped around as he followed her.
Really, the skeleton hadn’t intended to kill the fish. It had leapt out at him while he’d been filling the buckets with water. But by dragging it away from its watery home, Toren had learned an important lesson: fish couldn’t breathe without water.
It hadn’t been sure if the flat fish were truly dangerous, but the skeleton was aware of their crushing strength and lethally sharp teeth. Moreover the skeleton now known as Toren had felt there was something valuable to be gained. It was—yes, it was Level 2 already from battling the adventurers. Perhaps it could gain another level by killing fish?
After all, a level wasn’t much, especially at lower-levels. But the skeleton had felt the slight shift in its overall coordination, strength, endurance, and overall fighting ability. The connection was simple in its mind. Levels were strength. So too was the [Basic Weapon Proficiency: Swords] Skill it had acquired.
It had orders. Do something productive. That could mean kill fish. So the skeleton had stuck its arm into the water and moved it around enticingly. Killing things was easy. Not like cleaning.
Thus, it had killed several of the large fish and taken them back to the inn. And it had brought one for Erin as something ‘useful’. Clearly, it had failed.
“Look, it’s not that I don’t like fish. I like fish. Dead fish that have a bit of lemon juice squeezed over the top after they’ve been roasted nicely. And maybe a bit of salt and pepper. I like those kinds of fish. But this fish is bad news. I tried cutting its scales off once and nearly sliced my hand off.”
That sounded like a problem, but Toren wasn’t sure what it was expected to do about it.
Erin kicked the door to her inn open, stopped as her nose registered the fishy smell, and turned to glare at Toren. The skeleton flinched back from her. Erin stormed into the kitchen, and her exclamation nearly rattled the floorboards.
“What is this?”
Fish were easy to catch, especially since Toren didn’t mind if they latched onto its arm. But they were hard to get off, so Toren had to hack at them with its sword. Thus, the fish in Erin’s kitchen weren’t so much dead as…
Disassembled.
The fish Toren was holding was the only one that was even close to intact. The other…bits Toren had carefully collected, washed to remove dirt and blood, and then deposited in a neat heaping pile on one of the cutting boards in the kitchen.
The fish guts dripped onto the floor. Toren automatically put down its fish on the counter and went to clean up the puddle of bloody water.
“Stop that.”
The skeleton paused with the rag in its hand as Erin rubbed at her face and tried not to scream. It could sense Erin was angry, but it clearly had no idea why. Erin sighed and pointed at the dead fish.
“You did this.”
The skeleton nodded.
“I think I get it. You wanted to be helpful. This is food. Which is…helpful, right?”
Another nod. Erin sighed.
“But look—I can’t eat this. No one can. Not even the G—well, maybe the Goblins. But we don’t eat food like…”
She waved at the mess of fish. Toren appeared confused.
“It’s the scales. See these?”
Erin pointed to the sharp, glittering scales lying all over the counter.
“They’re not tasty. And these ones are sharp. If we want to eat the fish, you have to get rid of the scales. And I—I can’t do it. Seriously. Like I said, last time…”
Erin broke off. The skeleton—she kept forgetting she’d named him Toren—was nodding. It dropped the rag, walked over, and grabbed a knife. Then it grabbed the fish it had taken and raised the knife.
It had no cooking skills and probably no idea what cooking even was. It hacked energetically and completely ineffectually at the fish with the knife. Scales and guts went flying everywhere. Erin covered her face and yelped as the skeleton cut, pried, and generally ripped the scales and much of the flesh right off the fish.
“Stop, stop!”
Toren paused and looked over at her. Erin pointed.
“Outside. Do that outside, on a table or something. And after that, clean up—no, nevermind. I’ll clean up this mess, you start getting rid of those scales, okay?”
The skeleton nodded. It carefully stuck the kitchen knife between its ribs to hold it in place, lifted the huge fish with both hands, and walked out of the kitchen with it. Erin stared until she heard the screech of wood on wood as the skeleton began dragging a table towards the door.
“I—don’t even know. I just don’t know.”
She stared down at the mess of scales and blood on the kitchen floor, then at the pile of eviscerated fish parts. It was a mess.
But—was it because they were disassembled? Somehow, Erin could tell what she could do with the fish guts now that they were in manageable pieces. Without the scales, she could fry them, use them in soups, bake them after breading them…
“I guess [Basic Cooking] doesn’t include scale removal. Or—scale removal on killer fish.”
That reminded Erin. She walked back to the entrance of the kitchen and called outside.
“Get rid of the teeth, bones, and fins too!”
She heard no response, but she was beginning to not expect one. With a sigh, Erin walked back into her kitchen and stared at the mess.
It really wasn’t that hard to clean up. And the skeleton had found a new food source. Or rather, it had transformed an old food source into an actual source of food. For her. It had done it for her.
That was nice. And Erin had finally thought of a name for it thanks to all the online chess games and conversations she’d had with foreign players. The Dutch had some pretty cool names.
It was all fine. Even her conversation with Krshia—
“Wasn’t that weird?”
Erin murmured to herself as she began separating the obviously unusable parts of the fish on the cutting board. The guts squelched horribly, but her mind was elsewhere.
Home. She really had tried not to think of it. But now that she had, it called to her. And it was still so far away. A mage? An archmage? Where the hell was she going to find one of those? But it was also something to focus on. A goal.
And that was good. It was all good. Except that now Erin was back in the inn, she’d remembered something. Or someones. Rags and Pisces were gone. Well, obviously they’d both left once they realized she wasn’t getting back in time for dinner. And that was good too. Erin didn’t think she could face them right now.
The fish guts were all separated, and Erin had the teeth, bones, and miscellaneous bits ready for Toren to take out and dispose of. Far away. She’d have to tell him that. He could toss them back in the stream.
She stared down at the mostly descaled bits of fish. The blood and guts stared up at her. She could cook them, though. She could turn them into something useful. It was a valuable Skill, and one she’d gotten without even having to practice. It was practically like magic.
Erin’s fist hit the pile of fish guts.
“Damnit.”
She hit the fish again. Bits of blood splattered her face, but Erin punched harder.
“Dammit. Dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit.”
She punched the flayed fish, ignoring the squishing and the splatters of blood. She kicked the counter, hit the fish until her hands were raw and tingling, and then stopped.
“Fuck. Stupid, stupid—”
There were no right words. And all the ones she knew sounded so hollow and pitiful. Erin put her hands over her face and took them away instantly. Bits of fish clung to her skin. She looked around.
The counter and floor were even more of a mess than they’d been before. So were Erin’s clothes and her hair. She reeked of the smell of dead fish now. It would take a long time to clean up, even with Toren’s help
If she were a mage, she’d be able to clean it all up with a spell or a wave of her wand. If she were a mage, she’d be able to cook everything and relax without having to worry about a thing. If she were a mage, she might even learn how to bring herself back home.
If she could use magic…
But she couldn’t.
A few tears ran down Erin’s face. She would have wiped at her eyes, but her hands were dirty. She was dirty. And she had no magic to make it all go away. She couldn’t even dream of magic. Because she had none. And knowing that made it all so much worse.
Her tears fell onto the cutting board and mixed with the blood and death below her. Erin didn’t care. She let her tears fall and heard the sound of an owl’s wings flapping and heard the high pitched tones of a celeste, and far off in the distance, horns and violins.
For a moment, she wore robes and held a wand that sparked and glowed. In that instant, she could fly, albeit with a broom, and there was nothing that she couldn’t solve with a few latin words and a spell. For a moment.
But the magic was gone. And only Erin was left, covered in dead fish and lost.
Alone, and dreaming of home.
“…Damn it.”
