When Krshia came round, she did so dramatically. Erin had fussed over her for a few minutes before realizing there was no way she was going to be able to pick the Gnoll woman up. She was twice Erin’s weight, and her fur made her look even bigger. So Erin just sat and scrutinized her.
She really was sort of a woman of the tribes, right? For all she was a [Shopkeeper], Krshia apparently knew how to shoot a bow, and she had lived most her life outside the walls of a city. Gnolls had light, sparse clothing mostly, and they seemed to like hunting and such.
Perhaps Gnolls weren’t as—as civilized as other races. But of course that was the wrong thing for Erin to think. It was more that Gnolls still lived in close proximity to monsters, even more so than Drakes did. They had to be ready to defend themselves in case one attacked their villages. That was probably why when Krshia sat up gasping, her claws popped out of her paws and she nearly took Erin’s head off.
It was an accident. Erin was nearly 100% sure of that. And Krshia had apologized several times.
After they’d patched up Erin’s cheek and poured a tiny bit of healing potion on the cut to make it heal faster, the Gnoll and Human cleaned up the broken table and spilled tea. Then they began the tea party again, only with less party and very cold tea.
Krshia had some lovely cheese that Erin didn’t mind snacking on. It was wonderfully sharp, and the tea wasn’t half bad, even after it had cooled.
“Apologies again, Erin.”
The large Gnoll sighed as she lowered herself back into her chair and kicked the remnants of her coffee table aside. The replacement she’d brought was a footstool, which she balanced the platter of cheese on.
“It was nothing. Really. But why did you faint?”
“Mm. I was merely surprised. Forgive me.”
Krshia took a drink from her tea and shuddered for a second.
“The Humans on your planet—I was not prepared for such a number.”
“What? Oh, you mean eight billion? I guess that’s a lot.”
“It is.”
“Ah. Um. Was it that surprising?”
Erin’s complete incomprehension gave Krshia a gentle urge to smack her. But Humans were fragile, so though her paw twitched, she kept her voice pleasant.
“It may have been shock or perhaps it was something I ate, yes?”
The young woman glanced at the bowl of meats she still hadn’t finished.
“I sure hope not.”
“That was a joke.”
Krshia shook her head. Humans really had no sense of humor. They could never tell when she was being ironic, sardonic, sarcastic, or just teasing them. Their faces were easy to read on, the other paw.
“Let us put the interruption behind us. You were telling me about your world. It has many people—this I now realize. But what else is different?”
Erin frowned, scratched at her ear with one finger, and shrugged helplessly.
“Uh, everything? I mean, most things. We’ve got mountains and water and stuff like you guys, but in terms of technology or buildings or…everything’s different.”
Krshia leaned forwards.
“I would like to know details of these differences. Can you give me a few important changes between our worlds? Besides the lack of Levels and Classes.”
“Well—there’s a lot to say. I mean, we’ve got such different cultures. Ours is more adv—more different in many ways. Like—we have weapons and you have weapons, but ours are more shooty.”
“Shooty?”
“Yeah. Like ‘blam’.”
Erin made a gun with her fingers and pointed while making the sound. Krshia blinked at her, uncomprehending.
“What I mean is, we don’t use swords. Or axes. We have guns. They’re, uh, sort of like crossbows but better? Do you know what crossbows are?”
“I…see. Yes, I have heard of crossbows. I know them decently well, though bows—I am familiar with in their many forms. Crossbows. Hrr. And you have many of these weapons? They are powerful, yes?”
“Yeah. But we don’t use them on monsters. We just kill each other with them. And we don’t use horses—well we do use horses, but we also have other ways to travel. Like cars.”
In some ways, fainting had been more relaxing for Krshia than talking to Erin. Her head was beginning to hurt.
“Cars? What are these creatures?”
“They’re not animals. They’re, uh, moving, metal boxes. On wheels.”
“You—push them around, yes?”
“No…it’s more like they move because we burn stuff inside them. Combustion. They drive themselves. Well I mean, they don’t drive themselves. You need a Human in one to drive it. But some of the newer cars can drive themselves. But most can’t. And they need fuel. Gasoline. That’s a type of oil, I think.”
Erin looked helplessly at Krshia. The Gnoll was massaging her temples.
“Um. Did any of that make sense?”
 
——
 
They tried for another half hour before they gave up. Erin did her best, but she really didn’t know how half of the things in her world worked. Her best explanation of cars was that they had some kind of engine-creature in its stomach that ate oil and made the car move faster than a horse. And she had no idea how planes actually flew, especially when Krshia kept asking her how something that was made of metal could ever fly without magic.
It wasn’t as if Erin had failed science class or didn’t know how things worked. But she hadn’t exactly taken Engineering 101 either. In fact, she hadn’t gone into college, preferring to work as a chess tutor and tournament contender to save up money before she enrolled.
All of that meant—well, it just meant that while Erin could tell Krshia a lot of fantastical things, it sounded like she was making everything up. And Krshia was clearly distracted. She kept rubbing at her head for one thing. Erin guessed she’d hit it pretty hard when she fell over.
“Enough, enough. I am weary, and you are thirsty. Drink, and let us talk of other things for the moment.”
Erin nodded and accepted a refill of the new batch of tea Krshia had brewed while they spoke. She eyed the Gnoll.
“Well, I guess I can’t really explain my world that well. But your world is equally strange to me. Stuff like magic—that’s just fairy tales in my world.”
“Ah, you have…Winter Sprites? I have heard a few call them ‘faeries’.”
“No, I…you know what? Forget it. I’m just saying we don’t have magic. So when I came here, I had no idea how anything worked.”
“Hmm. I remember. You were lost and very afraid, then. But you have done well since, yes?”
“I guess.”
“There is no guessing. I have seen how you have improved and made this land your home. We have witnessed your triumphs. We have seen your victories. They are to be proud of, Erin Solstice.”
Erin sighed and shook her head in denial. Then, suddenly, she looked up at Krshia. A flicker of suspicion crossed her face.
“Krshia? Why did you want to talk with me about my world?”
Krshia thought fast while keeping her face straight. She answered carefully.
“I was simply curious. It is natural to question such statements, is it not?”
“I guess. But you just said you’d been watching me. And you said ‘we’. Is that why I keep seeing a bunch of Gnolls wherever I go?”
For a Human, Erin was surprisingly perceptive at times. Krshia cursed her slip of the tongue and kept a straight face. But Erin had played too many games of chess. She could see when someone had on a poker face. Her eyes narrowed.
“Right. I guess it’s time for my questions. Krshia, what do the Gnolls want with me?”
Krshia tapped her claw against her teacup. Again, she chose her next sentence with extreme care, as if she were negotiating a sale worth hundreds of gold pieces.
“The Gnolls who live in Liscor have many desires. We hoped—that there might be some things that one such as you could help us with. But that is only part of the reason I asked you here. The other part was to ask a question. What does Erin Solstice want?”
Erin blinked as the question came straight back at her.
“What do I want?”
“Everything is give and take, yes? We would give much for knowledge. Items of worth. Things that could help our people. But all things have a price. We would help you grant your desires if you had something to offer in exchange.”
“I don’t have anything to give you. Besides food. But I buy that from you.”
“It may be you do not realize your own worth. A stranger from a far-off land has many secrets, many skills of worth she does not know she possesses, yes?”
“Maybe. I doubt it, though.”
“Regardless. I asked you a question. What is it you wish? If possible, we would help you. Or if my tribe disagrees, I would help you not as one seeking a bargain but as a friend.”
Erin smiled at Krshia.
“Well, when you put it like that—I still don’t know.”
Krshia frowned.
“There are many things Humans want. Surely you have the same wishes, yes? Do you want money?”
“What would I use it on? Repairing the inn? I guess money’d be nice, but I’m okay.”
“Hrm. Then do you wish for more levels? Better weapons? These things many Humans desire. Or—an attractive mate? A fertile one?”
“No, no, no, and definitely no. I’m not interested in any of that. Really. I already have a lot of those adventurers chatting me up in the street.”
“Hrrm.”
This was tricky. Krshia had already run through all the things she would have wanted. Erin didn’t exactly seem like she was too interested in mating at the moment, and she was no warrior—at least, she didn’t like fighting. But neither was she happy.
“Then what is it you wish?”
Erin shrugged. She stared at her half-empty tea cup, at the ceiling, around Krshia’s room—and then she seemed to realize what she was missing. She looked at Krshia.
“I want to go home.”
It was a simple sentence, delivered casually. But the wave of emotion Krshia smelled coming off of Erin told an entirely different story. The Gnoll shopkeeper had a strong desire to wrinkle her nose or rub at it, but that would have given her away.
“I see. But if you have not returned already, you do not know the way back, yes?”
“Yes—I mean, no. I don’t.”
Erin shook her head, distracted. Now that she’d said what was in her heart, her entire demeanor had changed. Her body language was shifting, and the turmoil of emotions within her was making Krshia’s nose twitch.
“This desire of yours. You wish for it strongly, yes?”
“No.”
Erin lied and then corrected her lie as Krshia raised one eyebrow.
“Maybe. Yes. I don’t want to insult this place. It’s a beautiful world you have here, Krshia. It really is more amazing than anything from my world. And I’ve made friends. Selys, Pawn, you…even Pisces. All that’s good, but—”
She paused and then looked down into her cup. Erin’s voice was quiet.
“I have family back home. My mom and my dad. I can’t believe I don’t think of them more often, but I guess I’m just trying to stay sane here. And I had friends. It’s not like I miss them most of the time—I try not to think about it. But…I didn’t even get to say goodbye, y’know?”
For two seconds, it looked as if she would break. Erin blinked rapidly and brushed at her eyes. But the tears never fell. She sighed, and the moment was past.
“Sorry. It’s just—I’d really like to go home. If I could. I know it might be impossible. I don’t even know if it was some kind of spell or a…a cosmic accident that brought me here. But if I could, I want to go home.”
Krshia stared at Erin, her dark eyes unblinking. She said nothing out loud, but she was thinking. For a second, the bright, cheerful nature of Erin had broken. It was a mask, a layer of protection around her heart. She was strong, but fragile, like the Antinium were underneath their shells. Her hide was tough. But it would all break down if Krshia pushed just a tiny bit—
The Gnoll pretended nothing had happened and went on talking until Erin’s emotions were fully back under her control. Now was not the time for such things.
“It may have been magic. Perhaps. I do not know such things. I am merely a [Shopkeeper]. But I have never heard of one crossing from other worlds through a spell. That is the stuff of legends, creating magical dimensions and crossing betwixt them. But there are many magics that teleport. Perhaps a truly great [Mage] may have used such a spell by accident or mistake.”
Erin frowned speculatively.
“Maybe. It didn’t feel like magic back then. But I’ve never been teleported, so maybe it was magic and I just didn’t notice. It really felt like an accident.”
“Accident or not, you are here. And perhaps the cause is irrelevant, yes? You are here. The question is not what brought you here, but how you may return.”
“And is magic the answer?”
“Most likely. I would not know of any other way. But as I have said, it would take a [Mage], no—an [Archmage] to cast such a spell, if it can be done.”
“Right. You wouldn’t happen to have one of those lying around, would you?”
Krshia shook her head.
“They are the rarest of spellcasters. I know of only a few, and none live on this continent. Nor are they [Archmages] proper…but they are the best you could ask for, for magical help.”
“Great.”
Erin shook her head. Krshia smiled.
“Do not despair before even hearing of them, yes? Listen. There are several archmages. One on the Human continent to the north. Two more on other continents. But at least three have homes in Wistram, the Isle of Mages.”
Erin perked up at that.
“Really? Three?”
“They come and go. But Wistram is their home. If you waited there for a month, you would surely see at least one, yes? And perhaps it is not an Archmage you need but the right spell.”
“So what you’re saying is that Wistram is the place I would want to go if I wanted to find out about getting home, right?”
“Mm. Perhaps.”
Erin frowned because Krshia was frowning.
“What’s wrong?”
“It is nothing. I am sure if you travelled to Wistram they would allow you entry. But it is not such a good place that I would tell you to travel alone, yes?”
“Really? But I thought it was like Hogw—a, uh, school for mages. Wouldn’t it be safe and full of cool spells and stuff?”
Krshia flicked her fingers dismissively.
“Perhaps some may call it so. But your Pisces, he graduated from Wistram did he not? And he is a [Necromancer] and a thief and gravedigger.”
“Well, when you put it that way…”
“And Wistram is made up of many Humans, yes? They are petty and squabble as many of your kind do. Non-humans live among them, of course, but it is no haven. Wistram is no friend to the magicless.”
A dark frown crossed Krshia’s face. Erin sat still, remembering to breathe. She’d forgotten how scary Gnolls could be. On one hand, they were like giant teddy bears, but on the other hand, they greatly resembled giant teddy bears, complete with razor-sharp claws.
