Rain tensed, but the Mage with the staff grabbed the weapon and hauled it aside. “Put that down, idiot!”

“They’re stealing our Tel!” the archer protested, struggling.

“Do you have a hole in your brain?” one of the sword-wielders asked, looking at the archer over his shoulder as he pointed blindly with his weapon. “Look at that magic! What even is that?”

“We can take them,” the dagger wielder said, moving to support the archer. “There are only two.”

“Two alone? In full plate? With no visible weapons or backup, strolling around a rank twelve zone, vaporizing Kin like leaves in a bonfire? Gods, you’re both morons. El must not have spent much time on you.”

“All of you, hush!” the leader barked, shielding his face from the heat. He raised his voice. “Please, honored silvers, if you could dampen your flames so we might come to an understanding.”

“What’s to understand?” Ameliah asked, crossing her arms. She was walking beside Rain within the bubble, the glowing mist streaming around her. “This is our hunting ground now. Clear off and find yourself a new one.”

Or we’ll make you, her tone said, in perfect alignment with the surface of her soul.

Rain suppressed a shiver. She’s good at this. All that Nine Dice is paying off. He shifted his course closer to the Guild party, and the last of the Kin vanished in a curl of flame as he homed in on the densest egg cluster. The physical intimidation underlined Ameliah’s words, sending all but the leader stumbling back.

“Please, just listen for a moment,” the leader said, coughing and holding out his hands as he stood his ground. His voice sounded dry as the temperature in the tunnel continued to soar. “We’ve got an arrangement with other teams in the area and a salve that turns the Kin passive. If you join us, we can sustainably farm this place for months. We’re making a fortune, and the Entente can’t do a thing about it.”

Major points for courage, Rain thought as he walked relentlessly closer.

“Do we look that patient?” Ameliah asked, lightly slapping Rain on the back. “Hey, did you hear that? The nice man just told us they’ve been farming. That means there are more clusters nearby. I want to get them all before we get back to our mission.”

“Sounds like a plan,” Rain said, taking a step. “You should move,” he continued, taking another. The third would have brought the leader inside the bubble had the man not cursed and dodged away. Little did he know he would have been in no danger beyond getting an even drier throat.

“Assholes!” the archer called from the mouth of a side tunnel where the rest of the party had retreated.

Ameliah gave him a flat look as the leader retreated. “Do you want us to notice that you’ve got sacks of Tel on you? Calling us names is a good way for that to happen.”

“Come on,” the leader said, laying a heavy hand on the archer’s shoulder as he passed. “It was nice while it lasted, but might rules the deep.” He coughed. “Depths, it’s hot in here. I need a drink.”

“Smart man,” Ameliah said coldly, crossing her arms.

Rain smiled, listening to the party bicker as they retreated down the tunnel. He finished scouring the egg clusters, occasionally pausing to dump handfuls of Tel into his belt pouch. By the time he finished, the other party was well out of hearing.

“How was that?” Ameliah asked as Rain returned Purify to a more normal level. “Too mean? That felt too mean.”

“Nah,” Rain said. “Just the right level of mean.” They shouldn’t question why we bullied them. Mora’s secret quest is still secret. Already completely relaxed again, he smiled. “Do you think they’ll warn the others?”

“Probably not,” Ameliah said, looking speculatively down the tunnel. “Not like it makes a difference if they do. I didn’t expect them to be so weak. Kin aren’t a joke in these numbers. Whatever that stuff was that they were wearing, they’re putting a lot of faith in it.”

“Mmm,” Rain said. “What level did you make them to be?”

“Ten?” Ameliah asked, then wiggled a hand. “Eleven?”

“Eleven was my read,” Rain said, grinning. He pointed. “Detection says there are more eggs that way. Let’s clean up and get paid.”

“Let’s,” Ameliah said with a laugh. “Oh, since the hard part’s over, here.” She summoned her bow—except it wasn’t her bow. It was a normal one. Made of wood. And she was holding it out to him. “Something to play with. I grabbed it from the armory before we left. Be careful. It’s not enchanted.”

“One of Shena’s?” Rain asked as he eagerly accepted the weapon.

“Mmhmm,” Ameliah said. “It’s stronger than it should be, but if you pull too hard, you’ll break the string. Here. Arrow.”

“This is pointless, you know,” Rain said, taking the wooden projectile with a grin. “I’m never going to get decent damage numbers.”

“I did say play,” Ameliah said with amusement.

Rain laughed. “You know me too well.”

She smiled. “That’s a real arrow, not a copy, so you should be able to duplicate it.”

“Awesome,” Rain said, doing exactly that. “Have I mentioned I love you?”

“Once or twice.”
