One of the benefits of being short was the Unpunchability Principle. It was one of Rags’ theories on the world: tall people felt a bit bad about hitting you. This applied even if you were at war; enemies tended to seek out the big and imposing types first. If they did go for you, it was because they thought you were small and, therefore, weak.
The entire world was heightist. Just like it was also rightist and, possibly, racist. People tended to favor right-handed things and liked tall and attractive people. This generally worked as a rule of thumb across species, though Rags would own that she had no insight into Selphids and a few other races.
All this to say that the Unpunchability Principle had worked well in Rags’ relatively short life. Until it didn’t.
The Great Chieftain of the Flooded Waters cartwheeled through the air, rocks and water spinning around her. The roar of Goblins filled her ears; she tried to curl up—hit a patch of rocks, and went bouncing as her side exploded in pain.
Her chest was one big lump of agony. She didn’t think she’d broken anything; the punch had launched her like a stone across the ground. Rags bounced again, hit the surf, and caught herself before she rolled into the sea. She got up, the surf stinging her back, checking her Wyvernhide armor.
It was, amazingly, unbroken. The tough leather lined with red Carn Wolf fur was fine. Rags pulled at her back instinctively, reaching for her prized weapon.
The huge, Dwarfsteel crossbow that had defined her rise to power. Snarling, she looked up as she saw Redscar lifting his swords, slashing carefully at the Goblins surrounding him. He wore similar armor to hers; his attackers were bare-chested, male and female, wearing only loincloths. A gigantic figure pushed them aside as he ran at her; he had to be twelve feet tall, and he looked like Grimalkin—green, huge, and smarter than Rags had thought.
Chieftain Naumel had a fist raised and more scars on one arm than Rags had ever taken in her life. He had an expression she’d never seen on a Goblin: the pure kind of smile that she associated with Mrsha or children. Enjoyment. But also—he whipped to one side, dodging her as she raised her crossbow and pulled the trigger—the look of a Gold-rank adventurer. That casual knowledge he could kill anything and anyone he wanted to.
Monster. The thought popped into Rags’ mind, and she discarded it at once as unworthy of her. She shifted her aim from his face to his right kneecap and pulled the trigger.
The Kraken Eater’s Chieftain dodged again in another burst of speed, but Rags didn’t hear the satisfying click and feel the thud of the giant crossbow fire. Instead, she heard a wretched creaking sound, looked down, and saw one limb of the crossbow was bent. The taut string was going t—
The Chieftain of the Kraken Eaters ran at Rags as the crossbow exploded and kicked her off her feet and into the surf. Rags, struggling to get out of the water, had a moment to look up and see him leaping into the air like a green comet of war.
She used her famously intelligent brain to come up with a thought:
This sucks.
 
——
 
The Kraken Eaters were a famous Goblin tribe known to Izril’s north as the most dangerous Goblin tribe still at large. They had, in fact, survived so many attacks that they were classified as a Named-rank threat. And they’d beaten Named-rank teams like Orchestra.
Part of the problem was that they were hard to track; armies coming after them found no Goblins. The Kraken Eaters stuck to the coastline, mostly, hitting villages or even towns with amazing ferocity, then retreating into the sea. The secret the Humans had yet to learn was that the Goblins swam like fish, even the huge ‘Great Goblins’ unique to this tribe.
Fomirelin; giants who could be over ten feet tall. Like Tremborag had been—but permanently huge. The Kraken Eaters were, thusly, a terror much like the Bloodfeast Raiders. One the Five Families might have eradicated, should have, arguably. But since the Kraken Eaters found easier targets away from Five Family lands most times, they were a lower priority. When they did hit a Terland settlement and the outraged Terlands sent a Golem Reprisal Force after them…the Kraken Eaters made cairns out of Golem heads and looted the bodies for metal for their armor.
They were led by Chieftain Naumel, a Fomirelin [Great Chieftain], who was a ‘battle maniac’ according to Anazurhe, the Goblin Witch Chieftain of the Molten Stone tribe. Naumel had resisted calls to join Tremborag’s Mountain City tribe, and he had been described as the sort who might have refused the Goblin King himself if he’d been alive when Velan had rampaged across Izril.
His warriors had once been captured and taken to Invrisil as part of a menagerie; Nolocks and a number of other warriors of the Kraken Eaters tribe had broken out of confinement and used hostages to escape the city. The Goblin [Skulker] had been content to murder anyone in his way, children or adults, and had refused to run when given an ultimatum at The Wandering Inn: he had chosen to fight and die.
The Kraken Eaters got their name from, of course, eating part of a Kraken they fought. Which sort of set the stage for their martial prowess. They loved close-combat, eschewing martial expertise like the Redfangs in favor of sheer strength and toughness. They subsisted off of what they raided and stole and replenished their losses by absorbing local Goblin tribes wherever they roamed.
Also, their leader was a piece of Creler crap.
That was the information that Rags had on the Kraken Eaters tribe. She had that kind of analytical breakdown about…everyone and everything. She could have written books on Erin. A one-page essay on Mrsha.
Okay, that wasn’t fair about Mrsha…Rags’ mind was organized like a filing cabinet, which she had in her office in Goblinhome. It did her a lot of good as she was picked up by her legs, spitting out seawater, and Naumel punched her again—then dunked her in the water.
“Give up? Give?”
Rags made the mistake of trying to spit out water, and she was half-drowned again by the time she emerged, flailing. She saw a huge grin on Naumel’s face. He raised a fist, and faced with the prospect of more punches to her face—Rags gasped a single word in Goblin.
“Give!”
He dropped her. Rags landed in the water again and hit her head on the stone shelf. This was no nice beach like she’d been led to expect all beaches to be. It was just a bunch of rocks that led out to sea on a coastline filled with seaweed and seagull poop.
When she surfaced, warily, ready to cast a [Fireball] in that bastard’s face if he tried to grab her again, Naumel was gone. He was striding back, fists raised, and his tribe was cheering. Rags swam after him and saw Redscar was down.
The two Frost Wyverns were snapping at the Goblins trying to climb on them, but all the Flooded Waters Goblins were pinned. A few Kraken Eaters had light cuts, but Redscar was being sat on by a Fomirelin. Rags saw him grimace and stare at her; the Fomirelin had five light slashes on her arms, which she was carefully applying spit to.
“New tribe! Kraken Eaters get Wyverns!”
Naumel roared in delight. His Goblins whooped and cheered and let their ‘comrades’ up. One offered Redscar a hand as the Fomirelin got off him. He slapped the smiling Goblin’s claw down.
Puzzled, the Goblin backed away. A Hob, bare-chested and grinning, threw an arm around Redscar. Or tried to; Redscar knocked the arm down. When the other Goblin spread his arms in a ‘what did I do?’ gesture, Redscar sheathed his swords.
The Kraken Eater Hob tried to grab his shoulder in a friendly way. Instead, he got a slap to the face. He blinked, then his eyes crossed, and he snarled. He raised a hand to grab Redscar in the ‘what are you doing, buddy’ kind of way, and Redscar punched him in the face.
The other Goblins stopped cheering as the Hob fell on his back. Redscar turned to Rags, who was poking at her ruined crossbow. It was further bent; the explosion had really damaged it and snapped the wire. Plus, that idiot had stepped on it! She gave Redscar a gloomy look, and he rolled his eyes and folded his arms. Naumel gave both him and Rags a curious stare.
Rags flipped the Great Chieftain of the Kraken Eaters off. Then she stowed her crossbow in her bag of holding and felt at her ribs. She hoped they weren’t cracked.
“This is a bad first meeting.”
She knew she should have tried the south instead.
 
——
 
Two Goblins sat in the spray of waves breaking on the stone shelf of the Taurrel Coast. A long and uninspiring curve of rocky frontage to the waves stretching across Izril’s northernmost edge, about midway through the continent. It ran up towards an outcropping of land jutting out to the sea; to the south, the barren rock gave way to a grudging beach and, beyond that, far more fertile land.
Terland lands. However, even the Golem-loving rulers of the north had little use for an expanse this barren. Not even fishing villages found the limpets and prospect of fishing against the ceaseless crashing waves appealing.
Indeed, as the two Goblins sat and argued, another wave hit a shelf of rocks fifty feet distant; the spray still wet both. The larger one didn’t move; he was like a boulder, bare-chested, covered with salt and weathered like the rocks around him, albeit with scars instead of barnacles and moss.
The smaller Goblin was rubbing at her chest. Her armor was wet. She was still drenched, and a broken crossbow sat in front of her as she fiddled with it, a glare written all over her face. When the water spray hit her, she glared across the entire ‘beach’ with the suggestion that she would personally not mind if this entire shelf fell into the sea.
The big Chieftain, Naumel, pointed at a bunch of Goblins skipping stones into the sea and prizing molluscs off the rocks for a snack. Some were roasting food on fires sheltered from the water by the press of bodies, but his finger aimed at a group of surly Goblins sitting next to two Wyverns, wings folded up miserably against the spray of water.
“I win. Your tribe joins mine.”
“No. Eat seagull poo.”
Naumel’s brows crossed. He was basking in his victory as he devoured day-old steaks. Rags didn’t eat hers. Firstly, they were a day old; no refrigeration or preservation spells on them. Gross, despite them being charred.
The other Kraken Eaters clearly thought it was a feast, but the Redfang and Flooded Waters Goblins were barely picking at theirs, and even the two Frost Wyverns were giving each other dubious looks.
Also, they had no spicing. Someone had done something with…salt? But Rags was used to preparation with her food these days. Would it kill them to have a side-dish of Yellats? A fork? The ‘plates’ were a mismatch of pieces of bark and what looked like fine china fit for nobles.
A Goblin child broke one of those expensive plates with a crash. Instead of a scolding, a Hob just picked up the shards, tossed them into the sea, and gave the child a piece of bark to continue eating off of. The entire tribe was feasting, eating from the ruined wagons they’d hauled to this camp. They were burning parts of it to fry up food and for warmth, and the rest were dividing up the loot.
Rags saw a Hobgoblin warrior trying on a brocaded silk shirt, eying the golden buttons and tearing them off and pocketing them before ripping the shirt off. He tossed it at a female Goblin, who began slicing it into pieces; she was making an extra-large toga for a Fomirelin, and the red strips of silk were being woven into the multi-colored, multi-cloth design in a way that wasn’t unpleasant.
But it was, for lack of a better word, crude. Like the entire Kraken Eaters tribe, they had no real technology. Half of them had weapons that looked enchanted in some way. There were needles and even healing potions, but the gold buttons were being shared out like they were gemstones. Goblins were arguing and bartering for them so they could add them to coats or use them as fasteners.
Rags saw a Goblin turn over a set of empty wine bottles in exchange for the buttons; the wine bottles were also important because they were useful liquid containers. A little Goblin was tasked with filling them up with good water and putting them in a Chest of Holding.
This was a real Goblin tribe. An old-fashioned, traditional, raid-as-you-go group. Nomadic. Living off of whatever they could steal or pillage. Even the Redfangs had been more advanced than this.
A huge finger poked Rags again, and she turned to Naumel, who was chewing on two steaks at once. He was a huge Goblin. He had a broad, flat face, very like a shark’s, but his wits still reminded her of Grimalkin, not Relc. Untidy dreadlocks reminded her of the seaweed he had emerged from when she’d seen him attacking the caravan; a colossus rising from the deep.
His fist was as big as her head, and he delicately picked up the steak and waved it at her.
“Is good. Steak. You eat and smile. Your tribe…joins mine. When they come?”
He was still stuck on the issue between them. Rags folded her arm and refused to touch the steak.
“No.”
“I beat you. You are Chieftain. You join my tribe. This is common sense. Everyone heard you give up.”
The logic, to the Great Chieftain, was impeccable. Rags knew this logic; she’d absorbed many tribes using it.
Goblin tribes who met and quarreled had two choices. Part ways or fight. If they fought, the winning tribe absorbed the other. Goblins who really couldn’t stand the confederation would leave, but by and large, most Goblins just adapted.
It explained why Rags had gotten five minutes into introducing herself before Naumel had punched her. The Goblin rubbed at her chest, and Naumel’s brows crossed.
“You lost. Want to bring all your tribe and try again? Is…cheaty, but I’ll win.”
He sounded dismissive, and Rags snapped back. In the common tongue, because she was tired of the cruder Goblin. He had a weird ‘accent’ too; his body language and some of his words were hard to read.
“No. I did not lose, fool. We didn’t fight! If we had fought, your Goblins would be dead. Redscar and my Goblin warriors didn’t kill them. I did not come here to fight and waste lives! If I wanted you dead, I would have cast [Fireball]. That was no fight, and I am not joining your tribe!”
The other Goblins sitting around their Chieftain looked up, askance, and Naumel recoiled from Rags. He stared down at her.
“But I won.”
“You punched me without warning! If our tribes fought, we’d kill each other. I came to make an alliance! To speak!”
