The [Gearhead Cyclist] had a different set of notes for his wedding. His vows began normally. He vowed to always help Dyeda put her inks away, to get her snackies if she was hungry…silly things that meant things to them and their friends. But what made Rags suddenly focus on the moment was when Rianchi turned to the audience.
The aisles were filled with Goblins closest to the two, but the front rows of both Goblins’ seats had gaps in them. Rags assumed that was for people like Fightipilota, who couldn’t make it, but she realized there were namecards there.
Empty chairs. Rianchi stepped down the altar and walked over to the first one. When Rags saw the card on the seat, she understood.
“Kevin. You’re dead, but it’s me. Rianchi. I got tall when you died. See?”
The Goblin broke from the traditions of Human weddings as they knew them, and Rags leaned forwards. She saw the Goblin speaking to the empty chair and realized what the Goblin was doing. He was smiling and pointing at Dyeda, who was wiping her eyes. But this was a Goblin wedding.
Many of the ones that should have been here wouldn’t be able to attend. So Rianchi spoke.
“And you, Chieftain Garen. And…and Ivywhip and Longsword. Orangepoo—all of you—”
His voice broke slightly, but he stepped back and pointed.
“Look. I found someone who likes me. Kevin, you knew her. Chieftain Garen, you always said I was bad at everything, and you were right.”
The Redfangs laughed, but they were listening, and Redscar had closed his eyes. Rianchi spread his hands and showed the empty chairs his stained palms.
“I make things now. Not important things, Chieftain Garen, maybe. Not real weapons. But I do it. I’m in a good tribe. I have Chieftain Rags—”
He glanced at her, and this time, Rags felt like someone hit her with a miniature bolt of lightning. Rianchi went on softly.
“I am going to make Dyeda happy. Promise, Kevin, my dude. When we have a baby, we’ll name them after you. But if they’re a girl, we’ll call them Kevina. Okay?”
“Maybe we work on the name, Kevin.”
Dyeda called out to more laughter. Rianchi stepped back, and his eyes were overfull. Then he turned and lifted a fist high into the air. The Redfangs drew their weapons and stood, pumping them into the sky.
Then, Rags felt it was a Goblin wedding in her bones. She turned, and Taganchiel spoke.
“Good. Now, by the power of [Shamans], I promise Goblins will remember this. Dyeda, Rianchi—kiss and be married!”
Rianchi and Dyeda turned to each other. He bent down; Dyeda pivoted and swung him around. They spun once, twice—and then she was leaning back in for a kiss.
Goblins started applauding. Rags saw the couple part after a few seconds and turn—and she wondered what the point of all of it was. She decided there was some point, some meaning. If only because of their silly smiles.
 
——
 
The sound of Goblins playing on drums and wailing on horns in the banquet hall was deafening. Too loud for Rags, but she wasn’t a partier anyways.
She sat, nursing a drink with a plate of food, at the head table as the bride and groom circulated the room. Rianchi and Dyeda were talking to all their friends, taking a few minutes for each conversation, but it seemed like a lot of work.
The Goblins not part of the wedding crew seemed like they were having more fun. They were tearing up the dance floor, which Rags suspected was why a lot of Goblins were on the wedding train to begin with.
Free food, an excuse to dance, and music? She watched more than one Goblin demonstrate that, in this field, they had never lost anything to the other races. For every Goblin doing the ‘wedding bounce’, there was another pair swinging each other around and laughing. Little Goblin children were performing a synchronized dance that Rags swore they must have mastered over the last few days. Then she saw a pair of Redfangs dancing, leaning on each other, back to back, shimmying outwards until they fell flat on their backs, laughing.
Snapjaw cleared the entire dance court by having Icecube lumber around, tail sweeping dangerously; missing Badarrow, Snapjaw was dead drunk already, swinging around her pet until Redscar pulled her off the floor.
Even Prixall and Taganchiel could dance; the Mountain City Goblin could apparently boogie or whatever the Goblins called it. Prixall had a traditional Goblin dance she was teaching all the bridesmaids—it was some kind of elegant walk and hand gestures that Rags suspected were both ornamental and magical in nature.
“Chieftain. Are you going to dance?”
More than one Goblin ran up to her, hoping for Rags to jump into the action, but the Goblin just glowered back.
“No.”
She was making a list of things to bring back to the Kraken Eaters tribe and trying to calculate her schedule. If Magnolia Reinhart had more people in the New Lands to save…well, Fightipilota was leading one of the teams on that mission.
Visit the inn now or after the Kraken Eaters? Rags had a tribe to protect. She alternated between that, picking at her food, and studying her speech.
She had thought she’d give it during the ceremony, but apparently, when everyone was eating and dancing, there’d come a time for her to speak. In fact, Redscar, Taganchiel, and a number of other Goblins each had a speech, so Rags was glad hers was short.
She was waiting…and not nervous. It was just a silly wedding. And she was the Chieftain. But when she stood—her head went blank a bit.
“I am Chieftain Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe. You know me.”
There was laughter from her audience, but they were mostly quiet; one of the Ogres was hiccuping in the back, but he muffled his mouth. Rags looked at Rianchi and Dyeda. Say something nice?
She didn’t know them. But that was fine. Rags was a prodigy. A genius.
She also knew how to lie.
“When Taganchiel told me about the wedding, I thought it was a silly idea. Weddings? Why do we need that? I was going to say ‘no’, but he convinced me it would be a ‘small thing’. Hmph.”
Rags glanced around pointedly at the huge celebration, and the audience laughed. But she turned back to Rianchi and Dyeda. They were somewhat nervous, but they smiled as she nodded to them.
“Now I understand. Weddings are not about just getting married. They’re about this—”
She waved a hand at the crowd, the food and drinks and the Goblins chatting with each other. Rags kept speaking, not using her notes.
“Dyeda is one of the most important Goblins to Redfangs, to hear them complain about having to wait for her services. I think she’ll be very good for Rianchi—but him? He’s the weakest Redfang, so they say.”
Rianchi ducked his head to more laughter, but Rags went on.
“—The weakest Redfang, but who cares? He’s building the crossbows and traps and tools for Goblinhome. He knew Kevin, and he was friends with him. Rianchi is a Goblin who fits Goblinhome. Maybe not the tribe he came from, but here, I hope, as your Chieftain, he’ll be needed even more than Dyeda.”
She paused.
“…But I’m not letting him tattoo me.”
Laughter again. Rags smiled despite herself.
“I…wish they have the best life together. My gift to them is a special room they can share. Far from mine so they don’t bother me. And—”
She hesitated. This last one was a spur-of-the-moment decision she’d come to as she’d seen them being married, but she heaved a huge sigh. No helping it.
“—I hear there is something else the two forgot. Another tradition of weddings.”
Something else? Dyeda and Rianchi sat up, and Rags turned to them.
“It’s called a ‘honeymoon’. I have no idea why. It’s where the couple goes on a trip, probably to get away from their friends and family. Goblins can’t do that. We’re a tribe, and it’s not safe.”
Everyone sombered, and the two nodded, unsurprised; they’d probably expected this. Rags let the mood cool a bit, then quirked one eyebrow.
“But we are no normal tribe. So. Rianchi and Dyeda will get their honeymoon. If they don’t mind flying—I’ll take them on a trip of Izril. If they want t—”
“Yes!”
Rianchi leapt to his feet and high-fived Dyeda with both hands. Inwardly, Rags sighed. What have I gotten myself into? But she smiled and then finished her speech.
“Then have a wonderful life, you two. That’s an order.”
 
——
 
She didn’t really remember the other speeches. Rags sat down, took a long drink of water, and finally relaxed.
She supposed she must have done an okay job, because Rianchi and Dyeda came up to thank her, and the other guests told her she had done a good job. But inwardly, Rags concluded that weddings were more work than she’d thought.
Do I…have to do this each time a Goblin gets married from now on? She decided she had to delegate.
It was fine. Rags went back to her food with an actual appetite after the speeches, and the dancing began again. She did not participate in the dancing.
Rags had a date.
 
——
 
The date was with her pillows and her soft, luxurious bed after so many days of travel. She flopped into it and tried to sleep—but the entire fortress was echoing with so much merriment and sound that even her relatively soundproof rooms kept her awake.
Or maybe it was the unexpected moment. Either way, after a few hours of intermittent sleep, Rags rose and prowled the keep just past midnight.
Goblins were awake night and day, but it was more deserted, and she had just emerged from the kitchen with a gigantic cake slice when she realized the banquet hall had a number of passed-out Goblins. Rags avoided the slumbering body of one of the Ogres and tip-toed out of the keep.
It didn’t have balconies, but it did have a roof you could use for relatively lovely views if it wasn’t under attack. It was still chilly outside, but Rags’ armor was very warm, and she found a seat on a rock. She had the first huge bite of cake raised to her mouth when she realized she wasn’t alone.
Rags stopped—turned her head, and lit a finger up with fire magic. Rianchi and Dyeda were embracing, watching the moons rise as they stood on the top of Goblinhome.
“Uh. Hi. I’ll just—eat this in my rooms.”
Rags stood up, but the couple grinned.
“Is okay, Chieftain. We’re glad we found you. Thank you for the speech, again.”
Dyeda sat down, and Rags lowered her fork.
“It was nothing. Sorry it wasn’t better.”
“It was a good speech, Chieftain. No Chieftain ever said nice things about me. I’ll do good things for the Flooded Waters tribe, promise.”
Suddenly, they were sitting next to her, and Rags didn’t know what to say. The two of them were still filled with emotions; Rags felt guilty as she ate some cake. What did you say? They all watched the stars come out, and after a moment, Dyeda spoke.
“Chieftain. I didn’t say this to you. Maybe…maybe it’s bad to say, because we don’t know you as well as others. But can I say?”
“Mhm. Sure.”
Dyeda looked at Rags, then smiled.
“Then—Chieftain. You’re the best Chieftain we’ve had. Better than Tremborag or Garen or Reiss.”
Rags blinked. She sat there, nonplussed. That was a bold statement. Especially since Dyeda hadn’t known…
No, she had known Tremborag. As for Rianchi? He waved a claw.
“I knew Garen and Reiss, Chieftain. Back when he and Chieftain Garen knew each other, before he became Goblin Lord.”
Rianchi was older than he looked! Rags’ surprise aside, it was still an objectionable statement. She was still smarting from her beating up north and shook her head.
“I’m not better than they were.”
Dyeda shook her head insistently.
“Maybe not stronger, Chieftain. And maybe we not safer in Goblinhome. Can’t tell. Maybe—maybe we’re not even happier.”
She had a troubled look in her eyes, and Rags hunched her shoulders. Great. She hadn’t even passed the Mountain City tribe’s standards of living? But Rianchi patted Dyeda’s arm, and she went on.
“But you have something else, Chieftain.”
“Like what?”
The half-eaten cake was suddenly less appealing than Dyeda’s words. The smaller Goblin looked at the couple, and Dyeda struggled to explain.
“You…the tribe here…Goblinhome. It makes us feel like there’s a tomorrow for little Goblins. Not just ours. But for Goblins. Maybe we die. Maybe bad things happen. But maybe tomorrow is there.”
Rags thought for a second to give name to the feeling Dyeda described.
“You mean hope?”
The [Tattooist] made a dismissive, scornful sound.
“Psh! Nah, Chieftain. Not that silly thing. Something better. You—you have a good dream.”
Rianchi nodded his head up and down; Rags saw he’d removed his suit. He sat there, a button-up white shirt open as wide as it would go, and she realized he was actually hugely uncomfortable in the suit. He was normally in the outfit he used to ride bikes. Dyeda was in her dark clothing, hair wild with colors.
So Rags remembered how they looked today even as she tried to understand what they meant.
“A dream?”
Rianchi nodded. He grinned as he looked across the wild High Passes at their little fortress.
“A good one. If I wake, I’ll smile for a long time about it.”
If I wake. Rags’ gloom and her worries resurfaced all at once. It was why she’d gone north, why she had tried to make an alliance with other tribes.
“I don’t know if I’m that Chieftain, you two. The Flooded Waters tribe is good…”
But there was no other way up. No way, short of joining with another tribe or finding a relic somewhere, to make sure her tribe survived what might be coming. Named-rankers or Pallass or a city deciding to wipe her home out. Or…
The Solstice.
It always came back to the Solstice. To Erin…Solstice. Rags sat there.
“How am I supposed to slay her? That? What is she? I need to know the truth. If it was just making everyone safe and happy, I could rest easy. Something’s coming. I want you two to get old and fat and have lots of annoying babies. I will try, Rianchi, Dyeda. I don’t want to fail you.”
The Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe sat, morose, uncertain, and the married bride and groom looked at each other. Then they hugged her.
“Chieftain—”
“Get. Off.”
Rags pushed at them, and they laughed at her, and she sat there as they shook their heads. Dyeda patted Rags’ shoulder anxiously.
“No one knows, Chieftain. But you are the best. We promise we’ll help—and go on the honeymoon, okay? But no one knows the truth or what to do about anything.”
No one had answers. That was…fair. Ish. Rags thought of that woman—Kasigna—and the instinctive hatred she’d felt. She thought of the statue in Erin’s gardens. Then she shook her head.
“No.”
They looked at her quizzically, and Rags sat up. Her eyes roamed the High Passes and narrowed as they fixed on a point far lower, where she knew someone else was dancing. She felt a spark in her mind, and her eyes narrowed.
