Drinks should be handed out at the wedding. Do not mention their various flaws. The other [Guards] added a few notes, and Rags thanked them. She went back to her Wyvern, and they were off again.
Weddings.
She just…didn’t see why Dyeda and Rianchi wanted it so bad. Goblins didn’t have weddings. They didn’t even have ceremonies; Snapjaw and Badarrow started sleeping in the same room and that was it, and that was arguably fancier than most.
But the two wanted a real wedding, a Human one. Rags blamed Dyeda for that. She was a former Mountain City Goblin.
Something nice about the two of them…Rags sighed.
“I don’t know them that well.”
They weren’t warriors, and they weren’t officers she worked with often. They were two…Goblins. Albeit with somewhat unique classes, she granted. But neither one had even been to The Wandering Inn.
Though Rianchi had been friends with Kevin.
 
——
 
Flying back to Goblinhome took four days in total. You could do it in three, or even two if you were willing to exhaust the Wyverns. To cross all of the north that fast—from the High Passes to literally the tip of the continent—was insanely fast, even with a flying Wyvern. But Rags had a Skill, again.
[Tribe: Fast Travellers]. Another reward for her trials at the Solstice. Instead of the ability to avoid Naumel punches or reply in kind, Rags got a Skill she knew was more useful: she could head from destination to destination at great speed, though if she were exploring, her flight speed reduced by a third.
Even so, it took a lot of precious energy and time, so she was well aware of how fast things could happen in her absence. Like how Goblinhome looked as she arrived just in time for the wedding.
The mountain fortress was bedecked in color, even from above. Goblinhome had flowers stuffed out the arrowslits, hanging banners of cloth—colored bedsheets, mostly—and someone had a huge carpet they’d put down in the entryway. Half the Goblins had on fancy clothing, and Rags found a group of Redfangs, male and female, nervously adjusting suits with ties on them.
When they saw her and her expression, all the Goblins hurried away.
“Where are the flowers from? And all this clothing?”
This had to cost money! The Goblins here had a fortress set into the mountain, a camouflaged, trapped-out structure that any adventurers would have to pass through multiple killzones to get to. It had withstood Wyvern attacks—but it wasn’t rich.
Goblins mined the mountains, and they had furnaces and even a small amount of gemstones thanks to Pyrite’s old tribe—and they did hunt monsters, but there was only one way to get all this stuff.
Either someone had flown to Liscor or they’d used their black market connections to get the goods. Either way, Rags was pissed.
“Prixall!”
The new [Head Witch], Anazurhe’s daughter from the Molten Stone tribe, was already walking forward. She was an old-fashioned Goblin with elegant speech in Goblin and a lot of magical power. She saw Rags’ expression, halted, and pointed.
“It wasn’t my idea. It was Gothica’s.”
“Gothica. Bring her here. Now.”
Of all the Goblins in Goblinhome…the troublemaking [Goth] was one of the few new additions to the tribe. She did still visit The Wandering Inn from time to time, but as a contact; she was now a Goblin of Goblinhome.
She was also, unfortunately, a former resident of The Wandering Inn with all the baggage that entailed, and came sauntering down the hallway.
“Sup.”
“Sup, Chieftain.”
That came from the Goblin who’d fetched her, Leapwolf, the second-in-command of the Redfangs. Gothica gave Rags an insolent smile. She had on makeup that made the lines around her eyes even darker, hair dyed even blacker than normal, a weird, dark, maid-like uniform and even an umbrella that emitted shade, lined with bits of metal.
She loved sneaking up on people, being insolent, causing trouble—all things she claimed were important for her class, [Goth]. One of those things was also ‘sticking it to the man’, or in this case, Rags.
The Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe was used to troublemakers, and she was in a bad mood.
“What did you do?”
Gothica sneered at Rags.
“Don’t gotta tell you nothing, the fuzz.”
She seemed uncertain about this line, probably because she got most of her ‘class’ from the Earthers. Including…
Rags shrugged. She made a gesture, and Snapjaw and Redscar grabbed Gothica by both arms.
“Uh. Wait. Waitwaitwait—”
 
——
 
Rags had taken off her boots, stretched, and had a bath by the time she came back and found Gothica. The two Goblins had hauled her off, dunked her head in a bucket of water, and then held her down on a mat.
The ‘torture’ involved several Goblins applying the most cheerful, brightly colored paints to Gothica’s face as she thrashed and cursed. Rags saw her sit up, behold her colorful expression, and shriek.
“Next time, we paint your umbrella yellow.”
Cowed, the [Goth] scrubbed at her face as Rags strode over.
“Where did the clothes come from?”
If Gothica had used up their precious funds…Rags would burn all Gothica’s clothing and replace it with the most cheerful wardrobe she could find. Nervously, the [Goth] replied.
“Lyonette! Wedding wasn’t that fancy, so I went to her and said…she bought everything! She says she has lots of gold. Calescent even sent cakes!”
Lyonette did all that? Penny-pinching Lyonette? Rags raised her brows. Something was up at the inn.
“I should visit soon. Fine. Where are the…married people?”
“Bride and groom, Chieftain. Everyone’s waiting for you. We gonna do the wedding now?”
Rags sighed.
“Sure.”
 
——
 
Much to her chagrin, they’d given her the choice of a dress or suit, either white or black, respectively. Rags told the Goblins to get bent and wore her armor instead.
A scowling Goblin folded her arms as she watched the banquet hall be set up with a wide aisle under an arch waiting for the two Goblins. It was a facsimile of a wedding; Rags had asked a number of people on the way south what a wedding should be, and the Goblins here had cobbled together this wedding with much the same understanding.
Goblins sat, muttering to each other in rows, Redfangs on one side near the front, Mountain City Goblins on the other.
Rianchi was a former Redfang; Dyeda, a Mountain City Goblin. Her closest family and friends looked nervous and tearful as they glanced at Rags; Rags just eyed Taganchiel, who had found some important robes and was standing in front of the altar.
“Where’s Dyeda?”
“Hiding in her rooms, Chieftain.”
“Why? There’s Rianchi.”
He was a tall Goblin, thinner than most Redfangs, without many scars and with long hair he’d combed flat for today. His hair was also purple thanks to Dyeda, something the Redfangs had gotten mad at him about.
He looked like you could knock him flat with a feather most days, let alone today, as he nervously laughed and joked around with Redscar and some of his old tribemates. He was…
Well, let’s put it like this. Even the Redfangs had Goblins who weren’t exactly as warlike as Garen or Redscar. If the ‘Redfang Five’ of Headscratcher, Shorthilt, Numbtongue, Rabbiteater, and Badarrow had been classic, even excellent Redfangs…Rianchi was the one who was relegated to cleaning Carn Wolf poo after raids.
He had a negative combat score when being assigned to combat groups. As in, when Redscar was formulating fighting teams, they thought they’d do worse if they took him along.
To be fair, in Goblinhome, Rianchi was more useful. Rags was surreptitiously reviewing her file as she scribbled her speech out.
“Dearly…beloved…wait, that’s not me. Uh…uh…Rianchi is a member of the Tinkering Squad in Goblinhome. He has no…he has few complaints about slacking on the job. He…likes…bicycles…damn.”
He was a…what was this class? [Gearhead]? Rags sighed. She just didn’t know him. The Redfangs clearly liked their wayward member; they were giving him good-luck punches, which seemed like they hurt.
He even had an older Goblin relative, an uncle, an old Goblin of twenty-four years, who was already drunk and kept coming over to embrace him. Goblins…didn’t have families. Rags had no siblings she could name.
She knew her parents were dead. Rags sighed as she walked out of the wedding hall. There were a bunch of Goblins on drums getting ready for the moment, and at least the food was good. Calescent had sent a lot back with Gothica.
“Dyeda? You ready?”
A bunch of Goblins, all female, threw things at Rags until they realized she wasn’t the groom or his ‘best people’ and relaxed. Rags saw they were all wearing white dresses, though the bridesmaids had each colored their head…veil…thing a different color. It wasn’t a bad look, but Rags blinked when she saw Dyeda.
Dyeda she did know, even if Rags had never used her services. She was an important Goblin in Goblinhome—again, not as a leader, but as an…important craftswoman. If any Goblin could be rich in this largely necessity-driven barter economy, she was rich.
Dyeda had a white veil and dress, which didn’t look bad, but what Rags was drawn to were her arms and upper chest, exposed by the dress. As always, you had to admire the work.
Dyeda was a [Tattooist]. In fact, this very moment she was tattooing something onto the arm of one of her younger bridesmaids. She had a long stick she dipped in black ink, and then she pricked it through the skin. She could use needles, but she had first learned how to do this in the Mountain City tribe, and naturally, the Redfangs loved her.
“Chieftain! Do I look good?”
Rags glanced at a long, feathered snake running up Dyeda’s arm and curling around her shoulder. That was one of about…fourteen tattoos that Rags could see? They were very good, but Rags had abstained from any despite Dyeda’s offers.
“Looks good. You ready? I think it’s almost time.”
“Yah!”
Dyeda and Rianchi. Now Rags remembered why she didn’t know Rianchi that well. The idiot had changed his name. Hadn’t he been called Rockmaul or something like that? Redscar had kicked up a huge fuss when Rianchi wanted his new name…
Before Rags could ask Dyeda anything, she heard music coming from the wedding hall. All the bridesmaids leapt to their feet and shooed Rags away. She saw Dyeda freeze and look so—nervous. Then Rags was striding back to the wedding hall, shaking her head.
 
——
 
It wasn’t that she hated weddings. It was just…that she didn’t see the point of this one. Yes, it was a ceremony, and she got Goblins wanting it. But it was a Human, a non-Goblin, thing. Why did they have to pretend it mattered?
—Or perhaps she didn’t quite get what it was like to love someone like that. Maybe she didn’t want to admit there was something there. She wasn’t sure if she envied the way Rianchi froze. His eyes flicked to the hallway as the Goblins lined up, ready to walk down the aisle.
As the Chieftain, Rags had a position behind Taganchiel. She saw the [Shaman] smiling as she stood, shifting from foot to foot, hoping no one noticed how much her legs hurt. When Dyeda emerged, all the Goblins cheered.
Rianchi stared at her as he stood in front of the altar. Rags saw his smile, hovering on his face as he fidgeted, and wondered…why he seemed so afraid. Then Taganchiel leaned over and whispered to her.
“Take a good look, Chieftain. It might be the most scared he’s ever been.”
He had been at the battle with Tyrion Veltras. Yet—Rags had to admit that Taganchiel might be right. She kept watching as the Goblins proceeded down the aisle to music. Then Taganchiel spoke.
“Welcome to everyone. I am Taganchiel. Today, I will be marrying Dyeda and Rianchi. If you have any objections—”
Rags saw the Redfangs half-rising, gripping their weapons, and heard a rattling sound. She looked right and left and realized the bridesmaids and best men—and one woman—were all armed.
That wasn’t customary, perhaps, but it was definitely Goblin. Taganchiel grinned as no one spoke; someone had a hand over Gothica’s mouth.
“Then I will marry them! After I say what a wedding is. A wedding is…a thing where two people get together forever. And pay taxes together. Making babies is optional. Today, these two will get married and make promises to each other. If they decide it isn’t working, they get divorced, but I don’t know what that is—”
The Goblins listened intently, some of them taking notes about this entire event. Rags, who knew all this, just tried to watch Rianchi’s and Dyeda’s faces. They kept smiling at each other, but they peeked at the audience, Taganchiel, and Rags. Searching for…approval?
Rags gave them her best smile, and they relaxed. She listened as Taganchiel ran through the customary things. Will you love each other? Say your vows…
They were odd vows. Rags had expected something more formal, but Dyeda opened a piece of paper.
“Rianchi, I promise never to tattoo a penis on your face unless you make me mad.”
Every Goblin started laughing at that, including Rianchi. Rags just scratched the back of her head.
Okay, so it’s not like a magical contract. She kept listening as Dyeda spoke.
“I promise to go out with you whenever you want to go riding and to always eat your fish if someone gives us fishies.”
Rianchi didn’t like fish? Rags glanced at Dyeda’s face, and the Goblin’s voice broke a bit.
“I promise not to be mad when we argue and to talk things nicely. And…to love you. Yah. That’s it.”
He was smiling, and Rags saw his eyes glistening. She glanced at the two of them as he almost went for a kiss, then broke off as Taganchiel chopped a hand between them.
“Ah! No kissing yet! Now you do it, Rianchi.”
She was sure his name had been Bonemace or something like that. Where had…Rags frowned at the taller Rianchi. He was a Hob…they both were. She was beginning to understand that Hobs might be grown Goblins in some way. Not an option, but what Goblins became when they were ready or needed.
He’d been small a while ago, just like her. What had changed? In his black suit, he looked lanky still, for all it fit him, and Rags saw his hands, as he held Dyeda’s, were stained black in places, despite his best efforts.
At first, she thought it was ink, but then she realized it had to be grease or oil stains. His name…ah. Now Rags remembered.
He’d changed his name when he met Kevin. The Goblin had been one of the ones always hanging around Kevin when the [Engineer] was showing off his skateboard or talking with them.
Rianchi. That wasn’t a Goblin name. That was…an Earth name.
Rianchi, named after Bianchi. Which was some kind of company that made bicycles on Earth. Rags checked her notes.
