She jumped to her feet; he was so tall it barely made up for the height difference. Rags was five foot something these days, but Naumel was too big to countenance. She’d never met a Goblin like him. Tremborag didn’t count. He’d been able to turn into a giant, one even bigger than Naumel, actually. But he’d had to revert back to the fat Hob after only a few minutes of fighting.
Naumel was like this…permanently. He wasn’t all muscle; he had fat aplenty, but that just made him like Pyrite. His face was a huge frown, mouth open as he chewed on his steak. Then he swallowed.
“You’re…strange. Strange Goblin. Bad loser.”
“I am not. I did not come here to fight!”
Rags stressed that. Naumel just glanced at one of his Fomirelin; there were over two dozen of the huge Goblins, and one of them tapped the side of his head meaningfully. Then made an expansive gesture around his stomach and slapped his groin hard. He winced; Rags didn’t know what that meant, but it wasn’t complimentary. Naumel nodded and turned to Rags.
“You is like that one. Tremborag. Strange not-Goblin. I don’t like you.”
He folded his arms and sat there, scowling. Rags bristled a moment, then exhaled in a controlled manner.
“I am not Tremborag.”
“You is.”
“I am the Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe in the High Passes.”
“Don’t know what that is. Don’t care.”
“The High Passes—there?”
She whirled and pointed, but they’d gone so far north via the Wyverns that the High Passes…Rags’ finger wavered, and Naumel smirked.
“Is not that high or I see them. Some warriors go south as…Adventurer City. They say is just mountains. They say Redfangs good fighters. Those ones not.”
He jerked a chin at Redscar, who was sitting in a wide circle of isolation, a cutting insult among Goblins. The glowering [Blademaster] didn’t rise to the jibe, but Rags did.
“They did not want to kill your warriors. He could kill any Goblin in your tribe. Even your Fomirelin.”
She pronounced the word a bit awkwardly. It sounded right and Goblin-y, but she hadn’t known it until recently. Naumel’s eyes lit up with interest.
“Show. Cazmaw!”
His second-in-command leapt to his feet, another Fomirelin who had a huge, two-handed plank of wood studded with teeth. The axe looked dangerous, and it was definitely enchanted; Rags shouted as Redscar put a hand on Garen’s sword.
“Stop! No one is going to fight! You and I don’t need to lose our best warriors.”
Was Naumel mad? The Great Chieftain eyed Rags with disappointment.
“Whomever wins is second-best. After our tribes join.”
“They are not going to—I came to you for an alliance!”
“…What? Like Ogres and Goblins? You is like Tremborag. Blegh. Go away.”
He began throwing steaks from his platter at her. Rags shielded her face.
How bad could his tribe be? I should see if I can forge a pact with him. He can’t be worse than Ogres, I said. Tremborag’s a boor, I said.
After the third steak bounced off her arm, Redscar got up. Naumel paused a moment as the Hobgoblin strode towards him; Redscar was also shorter-than-average for a Hob, having recently become one, like Rags. But he had a hand on the hilt of one of the two swords at his side.
The Great Chieftain of the Kraken Eaters paused—then flicked a greenish steak at Rags’ chest. She didn’t move.
Redscar drew his sword and cut the steak in two. Or Rags assumed; she heard a gasp, but when she turned her head, he just had a hand on his sheathed sword hilt.
Show-off. She huffed at him, but maybe this would work. Naumel’s eyes certainly lit up. She expected him to applaud like some of the other Goblins were doing, but instead, he spoke, and his voice changed from the straightforwards, simplistic Goblin dialogue to something more…
“Ooh. Iai-Skill. Is that [Lightning Draw]? No…no flashy magic. Is that without a Skill? Can’t be; a passive Skill. [Blademasters] move their swords so fast it’s hard to see.”
Rags and Redscar blinked as Naumel switched back to a rather fluent form of the common tongue. Inwardly, she groaned.
Great. He’s a battle maniac. 
Of course, she’d known that.
Naumel caught himself, then turned to Rags and adopted what she realized was formality for him.
“He good. Why he not fight like that? He stronger than you.”
Redscar bristled again. He barked at Naumel.
“Strength in weapons is not strength of Chieftains, goat-brains!”
That was definitely a Redfang insult. Rags tried to kick Redscar, but Naumel bellowed with laughter. He slapped his chest, raising a layer of salt dust that had accumulated on him from the breeze.
“Goat-brains! Hah! Strength is strength. Even Molten Stone’s Chieftain is strong in magic. Great Chieftain Rags…where is your strength?”
He eyed her dismissively, and Rags replied in a level, steely tone.
“Strategy. Building things. Taming Wyverns. Having pillows that aren’t moldy. Preservation spells so I’m not eating green meat.”
The other Goblins’ heads swung to her, most in confusion, but her Flooded Waters warriors nodded. Naumel opened his mouth and stared at his steaks.
“You don’t eat green meat? All meat turns green. Stupid.”
“Green meat is bad for you, idiot. You’ll get sick.”
“Not with [Scavenger’s Stomach] or [Barbarian Constitution]! Hah!”
From the way his people laughed…Rags looked around incredulously. Then she regretted taking a single bite of her steak out of politeness. She shook her head, trying to drag them on topic.
“Chieftain Naumel. My tribe is far from yours. Even if we wanted to join yours—which we do not—it would take months of travel to get here. My tribe has a home in the High Passes. I came here to see if our tribes could be friendly towards one another. In hopes of an alliance. You work with the Molten Stone tribe.”
“She does magic. I do not ‘alliance’ with Goblins. This wrong. You not Ogres. Nor Dorhmin. You say our tribes friendly…you don’t eat our food. You don’t fight us.”
“I brought gifts.”
Rags pointed at the small crate of spices, the healing potions, and even weapons she’d prepared as gifts. Unfortunately, what had been curated as a good gift for other tribes…Naumel glanced at dismissively.
“Food and weapons. Is easy to get. Potions nice.”
He seemed grudging about that, especially because Rags saw one of the Fomirelin jabbing him with a long stick. It was one of the female ones; she had, Rags, realized, the glimmer of magic about her.
A [Shaman] Fomirelin? She nodded as Naumel waved a hand.
“We take potions. I don’t like you. I beat you. If you are strong tribe, prove it.”
He had a glint in his eyes that said he wouldn’t give this one up, and Rags just stared at the smile, then turned to Redscar.
“Can you take Cazmaw?”
Every Goblin stirred. Naumel’s second-in-command rose eagerly to his feet as Redscar sized him up. The other Goblin set himself, hands on the hilts of his swords. He gave Rags a confident nod, but one without much joy to it.
He was still grieving Thunderfur. He would have ridden here on his friend and companion’s back if not for the Solstice. The joy he normally took in fighting…Naumel looked at Rags, and she met Redscar’s gaze.
[Silent Order]—Rags nodded at him, and he jerked his head. Cazmaw lifted his axe high with a roar of delight and, like Naumel, charged forwards, swinging so fast that Rags had to dive aside. Naumel rolled out of the way with a bellow of laughter. The Goblins surged forwards with a roar of delight to form a ring—Rags saw the bodies join together, then halt, dismayed.
It was so fast that Rags was barely upright before she heard a shout of dismay from Cazmaw and telling silence. She had to push forwards in the crowd of Goblins to see what Naumel clearly could view from his height. Then she grunted in satisfaction.
Redscar stood in a ring of bodies, sunlight streaming down on him and the huge Fomirelin. However, the light failed to touch Redscar; where it should have landed on him, there was only shade and patches of light.
His shadow; the shadows around him were scattered, like slowly-drifting leaves flurrying around him in a storm.
[He Walked and Shadows Split]. Rags still had no idea what that did. But she could guess from the cut marks running across the sand and up the haft of Cazmaw’s axe.
There were faint slashes on his arm, just now bleeding red—but the Fomirelin didn’t seem to feel the pain. Instead, he was staring down in dismay at the hilt of his axe; the other half was on the ground, cut in twain.
Redscar pointed a sword at Cazmaw’s stomach; the other he kept low to the ground. Rags grinned as she saw him nod at her.
“See?”
She turned to Naumel as Redscar sheathed his blades. Cazmaw picked up his axe head and showed it to the [Shaman], who threw up her hands and groaned. Naumel glanced at his lieutenant’s ruined weapon, at Redscar, and then turned to Rags.
“He didn’t stab Cazmaw.”
“Battle was over.”
“Cazmaw has his hands.”
“Do you want him to die?”
Rags snapped back, and Naumel half shook his head. He gave Rags a mystified, exasperated look, the exact replica of the one she wore.
“You…both you and Redscar are bad Goblins. Not-Goblins, like Tremborag. I don’t like you. And your name is bad.”
Rags rubbed at her face wearily. And what was she supposed to say to that?
What would Erin say? Rags had a moment of guilt. A flash of regret—for being here when she should have been trying to cross the sea. When she should have been there. And knew damned well why she wasn’t ready and why she’d only lead more Goblins to their deaths following Erin.
What would Erin do? Wave a white flag? Charm Naumel somehow with her zany antics and then ask him to fight and die against something that couldn’t die in a war Rags didn’t understand? Or maybe…
“—No, you’re a bad Goblin. And your name is stupid.”
Rags snapped back at Naumel. She had the satisfaction of watching his face go slack—then his eyes narrowed, and his ears twitched. Rags took two steps back and tried to dodge.
This time, she went flying so high one of the Wyverns looked up and caught her in its mouth. Which was, in theory, a good move…except that its intrusive thoughts won and it tried to taste her until its rider made it spit her out. Then Rags got up, shaking her head, as she saw Redscar stab Naumel—then go flying as well.
“I hate this tribe. [Mark Target]. Snapjaw—icebreath on him.”
The Hobgoblin nodded, and her mount, Icecube, inhaled. Rags had the briefest moment of satisfaction of seeing Naumel turn and his brows cross in confusion.
He’s never seen an elemental Wyvern before. When he saw the ice breath coming, she heard a very loud oath, and he tried to dodge as his tribe scattered. Rags staggered upright, snapped her fingers, and produced a huge orb of fire. She pointed at the Fomirelin [Shaman], who groaned and raised her staff.
“[Fast Fireball].”
The explosion made all the Kraken Eaters leap out of the way with honed reflexes; they knew a [Fireball] when they saw one, but the speed of Rags’ projectile made them keep backing away warily. They scrambled for their armor and weapons, and Rags turned to Naumel, fingers pointed. Then hesitated.
—A furious Fomirelin [Shaman] came roaring out of the cloud of ash and sand, staff raised, and Rags, Icecube, and Snapjaw decided it was time to go. The Frost Wyvern took a bite at the Fomirelin, and Rags saw the angry [Shaman] punch the Wyvern so hard he went reeling.
Aw. Naumel leapt into the air, and Rags groaned as she saw him coming at her.
…Maybe his tribe was better than hers. She wondered if you could lose brain power by getting hit in the head too many times. All this—and she had a wedding to get to.
She didn’t even have a speech ready.
——
 
In some many countless ways, Rags was a poncy Goblin. She forgot how other Goblins lived and behaved. So, by the contrarian laws of diplomacy, her fireballing the Kraken Eaters and ordering Snapjaw to blast Naumel was the best move she could have made.
Snapjaw got to see Naumel hugging Rags one-armed while her boots kicked a good four feet off the ground. She didn’t look happy. However, the Kraken Eaters were impressed by her magic, and it reset their relationship.
“Cold Wyverns. Is very nice. And you do magic! [Mage] and Chieftain. Why you not blast me first?”
Naumel seemed hurt, and Rags gave him a blank stare, which went to show Snapjaw just how different the two leaders were. She observed two interesting things, actually. The first was that Naumel was using Goblin to speak with Rags, as a Chieftain to Chieftain. But when he spoke, he said…
“Wivernan kumis. He pan smak. To óvan o selan-mil! [Mage] to Ulmanal. Menti uro zech o va tilin?”
The key part being ‘[Mage]’. That was in the normal tongue, or rather, English, as Rags kept referring to it. Goblins had no word for ‘[Mage]’.
Or rather…they did. It was ‘Ovanai’ according to Anazurhe. But you didn’t say that when you said [Mage]. Naumel had said [Mage], and the brackets were implied in how he said it. Snapjaw could almost see ‘[Mage]’ as opposed to ‘mage’.
…She had never thought about that before. It annoyed her, vaguely, because she knew it was Rags’ fault. Rags, as a Chieftain, influenced her tribe, and Snapjaw had these thoughts now and then. Which related to her second point—Rags wasn’t that good at diplomacy.
Reiss, the Goblin Lord who had recruited Snapjaw from her Big Eats tribe, had been far better at uniting Goblins. He would have approached Naumel ready for a fight and thrown down with the Kraken Eaters and chowed down on the steaks, whatever color they might have been. He understood Goblins of all kinds; Rags did not.
She was younger, weaker, even now, yet Snapjaw liked her more. Reiss had been a force that had called Snapjaw to war. Rags’ tribe was more peaceful. It was…a hard thing to think of the dead, especially since Snapjaw remembered how much she had loved Reiss. But it was true.
Anyways, the Kraken Eaters were all ready to try a second round of negotiations with the Flooded Waters tribe, but they were cut short; Rags held up a claw.
“Something’s coming. My [Advanced Dangersense] has gone off. [Risk Calculation] says the likelihood of discovery has risen from 11% to 85% in the next ten minutes.”
The Kraken Eater tribe stirred. Naumel glanced at the skies and grunted.
“Terlands. We beat Golems. They find us. Good Skill. We go. You coming?”
Rags glanced at Snapjaw, and the [Eater] tapped one wrist significantly. Rags shook her head.
“I have a wedding to go to.”
“What that? Eh—you go, go. Come back later.”
