Rags strode towards the Wyverns as the Kraken Eaters began to pack. Not in a panic, but purposefully. Snapjaw wondered what was coming and adjusted the sword at her belt. It was a small group that had gone with Rags.
Redscar, Rags, Snapjaw, Cliffdiver, the other Wyvern’s [Beast Tamer], and six warriors plus Taganchiel, their second-best [Shaman]. A high-level party, if, perhaps, not the best diplomatically.
They’d left plenty of good leaders at Goblinhome if the worst came to it, but they weren’t in favor of fighting Gold-rankers or anything after the Kraken Eaters. So the Frost Wyverns grumbled, then rose into the air with laborious wingbeats as Rags lifted a hand in farewell.
“Keep eyes out. I’m calculating what’s coming for us.”
Rags was glancing at the sky; it seemed to be where the Kraken Eaters feared attack, but did Terlands have [Griffin Riders]? They’d seen one on the way north…but Snapjaw was no expert. She just urged Icecube to rise overhead as the Kraken Eaters prepared to head into the sea, their preferred escape route.
“I’m surprised the Wellfars don’t attack them, Chieftain.”
Taganchiel commented to Rags. Normally, he’d be in Goblinhome, but as Prixall had joined them…he was now no longer the best [Shaman]. He seemed pleased about it; the former Mountain City [Shaman] no longer had to bear the magical responsibility of the tribe. He’d often told Rags that Ulvama really was better than he was.
“Wellfars don’t want a bunch of angry Goblins climbing their ships, Taganchiel. Hold on. [Risk Calculation] isn’t showing me anything from the water. Let me reset.”
Rags slapped the side of her head and winced. Then she frowned.
“[Risk Calculation]. Aerial surveillance of the Kraken Eaters—96% by air. Hm.”
Rags had interesting Skills. Reiss had always been an amazing copier of anything he wanted. He had once out-eaten Snapjaw to recruit her to his tribe, and he could copy magic or swordplay—maybe not as well as his targets, but he remembered what he learned. Rags? Rags was all smarts.
She was, after all, a Level 39 [Great Chieftain] now. Even if she refused to tell Snapjaw her exact class. The Winter Solstice had levelled them all. Soon, she’d be on Reiss’ level.
[Risk Calculation] was an old Skill, but Rags had turned it into a huge asset. Her new ones—
Well, the Frost Wyverns and their Goblin passengers flew up lazily, and it was Taganchiel who saw the threat coming.
“Chieftain. That’s no ordinary bird.”
Rags and everyone else spun and saw something fly past them. It was a five-foot-long…Snapjaw’s mouth opened in horror and amazement.
“Golem Bird?”
Yes! If you made a bird out of ceramic or something, gave it green gemstone eyes, and let it ‘fly’ by what looked like powerful wind spells—it seemed to hover as it soared overhead, staring down at the Kraken Eaters. One look and Snapjaw got that uneasy prickling all over.
That’s how the Five Families spy on you? She’d never heard of a Golem that advanced. There were old tales in the south of Drakes with super-Golems when Zelkyr had lived…
The Kraken Eaters had clearly anticipated the bird because they were throwing things into the air, well short of it. Naumel actually managed to heave a stone straight up three hundred feet—but the bird was well clear of his shot. It circled a few times, and Snapjaw imagined every single Goblin present was being marked for an attacking force.
It definitely saw Rags and her party. However, unlike what you might expect, Snapjaw didn’t panic or try to hide her face or something. Instead, as the bird reacted to them by flying around the Wyverns now well clear of the Kraken Eaters, Snapjaw let go of her reins and raised two middle fingers.
The bird’s eyes were weird. Like Kevin’s phone, they had…inner and outer ‘lenses’, which seemed to focus on her. Rags slapped Snapjaw’s back.
“Stop that.”
She lifted a hand as Snapjaw folded her arms, giving the bird a slow nod. Snapjaw held her breath—but then the bird dipped its head, banked one wing, and continued surveilling the Kraken Eaters.
It nodded to her and flew off. Which was frankly amazing because if Snapjaw were a Terland agent watching through the Golem’s eyes, she would have instantly focused on the new Goblins with Frost Wyverns and raised all kinds of alarms. But none came; the bird kept flying over the Kraken Eaters, who were now mooning it—and the Flooded Water Goblins flew south.
 
——
 
No reprisal came from the army of Golems stumping across the ground or the Humans they passed over twenty minutes later. The Humans definitely saw the fliers; they looked up warily, then raised their hands and waved.
“Hello! Good to see you!”
Taganchiel shouted down, and after a moment, there was a distant shout.
“Hoi there!”
“Best of luck hunting the nasty Goblins!”
“Thank…you!”
Redscar slapped the back of Taganchiel’s head, and the [Shaman] stopped, but he was grinning giddily. So were the other Goblins; well, Rags had that expression like she was sucking on plums, but she always looked like that. The Humans continued on their way, despite the several Golems armed with giant greatbows that Snapjaw was sure could have hit Icecube in the air.
The Wyvern was the most confused by all this. He kept giving Snapjaw tentative looks as he flew, as if to ask, ‘huh? What’s going on?’.
She patted him on the neck, and he kept flying. No one had given the Frost Wyvern the memo. He probably thought he still looked like a handsome Dragon without forelegs, a pale-white mane blowing along his serpentine neck, azure blue wings spread as sun shone down the sapphire scales on his back and tail.
If he knew he looked like a tawny Griffin bearing a bunch of Humans on his back, he’d probably be very offended—and confused. But that was the power of a [Great Chieftain] like Rags.
Her new Skill. [Tribe: Guise of Neutrality].
So long as they didn’t attack, they’d look like Humans, Drakes, or anyone else. Everyone would perceive them as non-Goblins of some kind, usually the predominant species in the area, but they could deliberately adopt the same guise.
If they did attack, the Skill would instantly reveal them to whomever they were fighting against. But it wouldn’t break for more than one or two people unless the Goblins were continuing to take hostile actions. There were some things you could do with that, though the risks were naturally high. And if you were fighting on the side of someone, say, against Sword Crabs, no one would be the wiser.
It was a great Skill. It was a powerful Skill.
Rags was still sulking about being used as a punching bag by Naumel. Snapjaw nudged her.
“Big Naumel doesn’t have this Skill, eh, Chieftain? Now we’re able to go anywhere safe. Even Anazurhe was jelly.”
“Chieftain Naumel ripped off Kraken tentacle with his bare hands.”
“Eh. That his thing. Yours is tasty food and nice pillows.”
Rags gave Snapjaw a sour look, and the [Eater] sighed and dropped it. Rags was in one of her ‘I’m not good enough’ moods. Snapjaw wished Badarrow were here. He’d say something Erin-related, which would cheer Rags up or at least get her talking. Snapjaw missed Badarrow. She hoped…he was okay.
Swallowing the lump in her throat, she raised her voice cheerfully.
“Hey, Chieftain, you ready for the wedding yet?”
Everyone turned to Rags, and her plum look intensified. She folded her arms.
“I’m working on my speech. What…should I say?”
Snapjaw gave Rags a round-eyed look.
“I dunno. I’ve never been to a wedding thing. I have a nice gift, though.”
She’d bought this lovely set of needles in a city for the bride. The groom…eh. You only had to do one wedding gift. Snapjaw was sure someone would have gotten him something. A wedding. Oh boy! Everyone was looking forwards to it, even Redscar.
“That idiot is getting married to a good Goblin. A great Goblin. Rianchi doesn’t deserve her.”
All the Redfangs nodded sagely at this, but one of the others chirped up as she rubbed at a bruise she’d gotten from the Kraken Eaters.
“Is good for him, though, Chieftain. He is worst Redfang ever.”
“Nah. Don’t be mean, Festerwound. He’s…”
Redscar stopped. He stared over the Frost Wyvern’s side, counting the remaining Redfangs and the new ones inducted into their elite warrior group, still named in honor of Garen Redfang. After a moment, he scratched at his head.
“If you count dead…”
Silence. The other Redfangs coughed into their fists as Rags and Snapjaw turned to them. Redscar hesitated, then put his best smile on the matter.
“Good thing he gets married.”
“Yah.”
“Definitely.”
“Poor Dyeda. Why she marry him?”
“When we do wedding thing, maybe we object for her?”
“But he not going to do better…”
“Good point. When someone objects, let’s beat them up.”
All the Redfangs nodded. Snapjaw wanted to protest that Rianchi wasn’t that bad. But then she remembered the one and only time she’d seen him training with the Redfangs. Rags sat back.
“What do you say in a wedding speech?”
“Nice things? Dunno. Let’s ask a Human, maybe? Let’s ask Kev—”
Then everyone fell silent.
Kevin was dead. Snapjaw took a long, deep breath, wishing she could eat the cold spring air to fill that hole in her heart. After a moment, she forced herself to smile again.
The wedding was still a good thing.
 
——
 
The wedding, the wedding. Oh, yes, the wedding. Rags knew it was in full swing even before she was close enough to see the High Passes as more than a distant speck.
How, you may ask? New Skills! The next day, Rags sent a [Message] after breakfast while she was in the air.
“[Memo: Fightipilota]. Fighti, are you able to return to the wedding? Status update: Magnolia Reinhart’s tasks. Kraken Eater tribe first meeting unsuccessful. Will return.”
She had a twenty-five word limit on the [Memo] Skill, but it let her encode [Messages] to her tribe across the world. In this case, given that Fightipilota was well into the New Lands…even by Wyvern, she’d be a week or more away.
Travel via Wyvernback was tedious, but Rags used her Skill to give orders and used the time to think. The Goblins with her were having lunch when she got a response.
“Chieftain, still searching for Humans. Not going to wedding. Don’t wanna. Kraken Eaters suck? Lotsa weird stuff. Will get samples. Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious, supercalifragilisticexpialidocious, supercalifragilisticexpialidocious, supercalifragilisticexpialidocious, supercalifragilisticexpialidocious.”
…Technically, that was twenty-five words. Rags decided to limit Fightipilota’s inn-visiting privileges. That was a luxury reward for Goblins in her tribe, and Fightipilota loved using the [World’s Eye Theatre] to watch movies. Most of them involving planes.
It was a strange life being a Flooded Waters Goblin these days. They were packing up lunch when they found [Traders] on the road, passing by their camp in an open field. Instantly, every Goblin raised their weapons and then had to remember—they were camouflaged.
Rags was still waiting for someone to see through her Skill, but most normal people couldn’t. Magnolia Reinhart and her servants in the High Passes had done it, but she was the highest-level [Lady] Rags knew of. Still…caution was advised, yet she couldn’t help but stride over as the [Merchant] greeted them.
“I never thought to see so many Griffin Riders of late! Hello, good folks! Where are you from? Might I interest you in a few of my goods?”
He had [Guards], who eyed Redscar and the Redfangs warily, but not with abject fear like they would if they could see the Goblins. And the Goblins…all shuffled behind Rags, suddenly shy, and she had to speak for them.
“I’m afraid we’re going to be in the air shortly. But perhaps we could see a few of your wares?”
The [Merchant] opened up his caravan slightly, and Rags learned he was someone who did the commutes coast-to-coast to import goods from overseas like Ailendamus glassware. He had stocked up on southern goods; an abundance of furs, gemstones from Salazsar, even a few crates of salt.
Nothing much appealed to Rags, but she bought some handsome fox pelts just to be…well, social. It made him smile, and Rags found herself chatting with him.
“An eye for commerce and the willingness to go a hundred miles is all I need for a guaranteed profit most times. Mind you, the sea’s messed with shipping so much all my goods quadrupled in price. I’d smile, but restocking them is going to be just as bad for me. Not every [Merchant] luxuriates in having to raise prices, you know. Pardon me—did you see anything from above? I do have to keep an eye on dangers. The Bloodfeast Raiders struck again. Well east of here. Poor village. They broadcast the entire thing, though no news channel would air it, thankfully.”
Rags shook her head, remembering Normen, and then had a thought.
“We did see something to watch out for. A day back—the Kraken Eaters tribe were on the coast.”
“The what?”
“Uh—the Goblin tribe? The big ones?”
Instantly, the [Merchant] and all his [Guards] looked alarmed. He grabbed a map.
“W-where? How close?”
Rags indicated the spot.
“We saw a bunch of Terlands chasing them too. But it looked like the Goblins were going into the sea. I’d…stay away from the entire coastline. They might come back, and you don’t want to be there when they do.”
The [Merchant] wiped at his brow as he hurriedly changed his planned course well inland.
“That’s…I shall do that at once. Thank you, Miss. In fact, I’ll send an alert to the Merchant’s Guild. Knowing the Terlands, they might not have…it might save lives if we tell the Mage’s and Runner’s Guilds. Thank you again! I never even caught your name, Miss—”
“Er—”
Rags floundered for a second, because ‘Rags’ was a suspicious name that might connect her with The Wandering Inn. Redscar cleared his throat.
“Chieft—Little Boss, we should be on our way.”
“Agh. I have to go.”
Rags pretended to be distracted, and the [Merchant] recognized the cue and shook her hand.
“Well, thank you again. Do look me up if you ever care for a travelling [Merchant]. Homeswey’s the name—farewell!”
Rags smiled at him and stepped back—then had a thought. She hurried back from the Wyverns waiting to go, and Homeswey turned back.
“Can I help you, Miss?”
“Er—yes. I’m actually, uh, going to a wedding. Do you…what’s customary to speak at a wedding? I have to give a speech of some kind.”
To her surprise, the [Merchant] blinked and looked uncertainly at his [Guards]. One of them, a woman, tugged down a face-covering and grinned as the rest laughed.
“Ach, first one? Just don’t mention how shite the two were together! Say something nice! And wait till everyone’s drunk.”
