Eclavorn grinned as his attacks stopped, but it wasn’t a friendly expression. “Obviously. And all were boosted, so it was more like sixty. What do you fear, Alpha Titan?”

The combination of the spells still bearing down on him, as well as Eclavorn’s dragon fear, was palpable and almost made Matt lash back out. But instead, he concentrated inward.

His entire being was in resonance, perfectly in sync, but as he tried to amplify a part of the whole, Matt felt himself start to fall out of his harmonized state. It was a stumbling block that most people never figured out how to cross, but one he felt he was close to grasping, so long as he could make an iota of progress.

Still, if this wasn't an actual fight, but a test, Matt knew what he needed to do. “I sure as shit don't fear you, Eclavorn. I am the Master of My Own Destiny. Not yours, nor anyone else's.”

Eclavorn took in a deep breath before nodding slightly. “I can taste the Truth on you. I don’t like it, but I can admit that it's sufficiently self-focused to be different from Charl’s. But do know, I’ll be watching.”

Matt’s patience had run its course and he spat right back, “Fuck you. I owe you nothing.”

Instead of getting angry, Eclavorn seemed mollified. “So be it. I hardly mind being the bad guy to protect what I consider important.”

That just made Matt even angrier as the dragon was reasonable in his desire, even if not his method of finding out the truth.

Matt debated saying something else, but instead cast a [Portal] back to Max’s already-repaired room, letting it close before Eclavorn could follow him. They hadn't made it that far, but he was being petty and the slight it felt good.

Max clapped. “Well done, E. Nearly half a million people could have died thanks to your little stunt.”

Eclavorn seemed unbothered. “There is no one here lower than Tier 5, so a simple rapid decompression wouldn’t instantly kill them. And even if they were unawakened mortals, I would have protected them if one of you hadn’t stepped in. I had everything under control. Send me the bill. Then don’t lecture me about things you don’t even care about yourself.”

Aster and Liz, however, weren’t so easily mollified. Each was in full battle gear and looked ready for a fight. So were Allie, Zack, Susanne, and Rah in fact.

Gideon, however, stepped forward to play peacemaker. “Okay, let’s calm down slightly and talk this through. We really don’t need more fighting. And if we are going to fight, we might as well do it properly.”

Phoenix Liz screeched at Gideon, but Eclavorn replied, “I won’t apologize, don't waste your breath.”

Matt held up a hand. “It's over. I have enough empathy that I get why everyone is wary. But let's put this to rest here. I’m nothing like Charl. I don’t want anyone treated like he treated people. That's why I’ve worked so hard to help the lower Tiers. With more resources at their disposal, they are less able to be taken advantage of. Not because I want to gloat or lord my status over them.”

Eclavorn looked unconvinced, but Gideon nodded and moved to clap Matt on the shoulder. “I like it. Let's have a drink and put this all behind us. Besides, we have interesting news to share. News that will make everyone forget about this and has the opportunity to make us all even stronger.”

It wasn't over. Not yet and not fully, but Matt allowed the others to play peacemaker, not wanting to reignite things. He was, however, perfectly willing to escalate them if they kicked back off, but he doubted that would happen so soon.

And if he was being honest with himself, he wanted to know what Gideon had to say that was so important that he felt the need to bring all of them and their friends along.
