Looking over the final battle lines, Matt quickly reviewed the advances and retreats.

The Federation actually had less of its territories occupied than the Empire had in their war. All he could see was how they were about to collapse and lose thousands of worlds before the armistice went into effect. He couldn’t help but wonder what the real reason for the peace deal was, and hoped Gideon knew.

His musings were interrupted by them arriving at Minkalla.

Tur'stal appeared inside of Lila’s ship the moment they did so, rising out of the sand with a blooming desert flower that mimicked her movements. “Listen up, the Emperor is not here to bail you out, so do not go around making trouble. We're keeping our heads down this meeting. Remember that.”

Matt nodded, not wanting to get caught up in whatever the others were going to inevitably get mixed up in, but still earned a hard glare from Tur'stal.

He was mildly offended, but she left, her plant withering into dust as quickly as it had arrived, before he could defend himself.

Allie tutted. “Look, now mom’s mad at us. I told you guys to clean your rooms before we arrived.”

Lila stood up to her full height, her head nearly brushing the ceiling as she looked down on Matt. “Okay Matt, portal us to the Corporations’ Minkalla base.”

Matt didn’t mind helping where he could, given that Allie couldn't teleport with Aiden or Lila, but he wasn’t sure why they had to teleport at all. The duo were higher Tier and could run there just as fast as any [Portal] taken at Tier 28 speeds.

As his gaze went to a grinning Aiden, Matt felt a sinking feeling that he was being used to set up a larger play.

He briefly considered refusing to see what would happen, but instead cast the spell with the other end appearing in Max’s room on the space station.

They quickly filed through with Matt coming face to face with Max, who stared at him unblinkingly for a moment just inches away.

“Hello?”

Max continued to stare for another moment before she snorted and sent him a private [AI] message. “I’m annoyed with you right now.”

Matt raised a silent eyebrow even as he closed his [Portal]. He didn’t feel any danger, and with Lila right next to him, he was safe, unless one of the Realm’s Royals decided to act personally.

Instead of getting annoyed, Max nodded continuously. “Keeping myself from realizing your Talent is costing me almost 0.01% of my total minds. It's quite annoying. Mind telling me what it is so I can open them up.”

A shiver went down Matt’s spine, but he didn’t let it show. He had always known, or at least heavily suspected, that Max had already figured out his Talent, but he knew she had been paid by Manny to not reveal any information to anyone, not even herself. Still, hearing it said so bluntly made him uncomfortable.

What he hadn’t known was that she was shutting down her minds. Given what he saw of her mind space, 0.01% could be dozens, if not hundreds, of minds, and the thought made him shudder.

How many times had she put things together?

Or no. Matt corrected himself.

How many times did Max think she had figured out Matt’s Talent?

While she was probably correct at least once, she wasn’t necessarily always correct.

That was a minor relief, and Matt tried his best to play the comment off, even as none of the other Ascenders said anything about their silent communication.

“Not today,” he eventually replied, and felt the playful annoyance from Max. It wasn’t serious though, he could also feel the bit of excitement that came from her being excited by an increased challenge.

Max snorted lightly even as she leaned away. “Gah. Fine. You’re lucky I’ve got my principles. Also that I like you. Because I don’t get it. I was only paid to erase the minds’ last few seconds of thought process but, instead of following that procedure, the minds are fully shutting down and putting themselves on cold storage. That's only short of a self deletion, and I don’t sell either of those levels of security to anyone. So what is your Talent that made almost a dozen minds shut themselves down as soon as I saw you [Portal] inside?”

“Why are they doing that? Seems strange,” Matt deflected.

Max leaned in even closer, her fractal pulsating. “I don’t know. That's why I’m asking. None of my main minds figured anything out. It was all subroutines, information processing minds, and extrapolation minds that did so. I simply can’t figure out why they are choosing to go that far. I like you, but I’m not sure I like you that much, ya know.”

Matt inextricably felt slightly better at hearing that, though he couldn’t put his finger on why. It might have been her cold reading him and playing up her helplessness, but given their time together with the mental training, Matt believed he had a pretty good understanding of Max and it didn’t feel like she was doing that.

She was making some friendly complaints, like he would when Allie demanded a snack or when Zack needed help processing a complicated problem on Matt’s [AI].

Finally, Wun got tired of the silent communication and leaned in and blinked at Matt’s face. “What are we looking at? Oh. I see it. You missed a spot when you trimmed your beard.”

Thoroughly insulted, Matt lost his train of thought. He most certainly hadn’t.

Max, however, laughed as she backed away. “Oh nothing. I was just looking at Matt’s efforts of getting his [AI] ready for a full integration. Slightly behind schedule, but enough is done we can start cutting into his brain shortly.”

A small stutter passed through their connection, and a new chat log regarding some details about Matt’s [AI] integration backfilled in his messages, complete with accurate responses from him as part of his side of the conversation.

“But yeah, it looks good,” the last message came through, then she piped up vocally, “Let me know when you’re ready for the brain surgery to start!”

Oliver snorted. “That's bullshit. However, I hear you guys are working on Powers. That's fun. My rates for lessons aren’t cheap, so do pay up.”

Sien glided over, nodding. “Speaking of payments, I hear you brought a sample. Let me see.”

Liz was about to bring out the sample bottle when Matt met Eclavorn’s gaze and decided to get the unpleasantness out of the way first.

“Oh. I want to share this now, while everyone is here. My Truth shares a passing resemblance to Charl’s Truth in wording, but they are polar opposites.”

“I can vouch that it's different.” Max’s comment went unnoticed as Matt’s words caught everyone's attention.

The only people who didn’t react were those who had already known, being the Empire group, the five Clans Ascenders, and Max.

Even the Maya clone looked taken aback and ready to fight.

Eclavorn, however, reacted exactly as Max expected.

Plasma started leaking from his maw as he growled, “Explain.”

Matt didn’t back down even an inch, letting his gaze meet and hold the dragon’s.

It wasn't easy.

Eclavorn was Tier 40 and a Rank 3 bloodline, making him an Elder Dragon with the corresponding ability known as dragon fear.

It was similar to the Sects’ general domain ability to spread and manifest their emotions, but it was stronger and more insidious.

The air trembled under Eclavorn’s building rage, making a part of Matt want to quiver in instinctual fear.

However, Eclavorn wasn’t the only one watching with their full attention locked onto Matt. Even Sien looked like she was ready to react should his explanation not be good enough.

“I said I discovered my Truth and it apparently shares a surface similarity to Master of All’s in Empire standard. I am the Master of My Own Destiny.” Seeing the anger of the group build even higher, Matt started cycling languages as he repeated his Truth.

It was only once he said his Truth in three different Sects dialects that everyone except Eclavorn relaxed.

Even Eclavorn’s bond, Gideon, stopped looking so hostile, but the dragon seemed unphased by Matt’s explanation.

“I don’t like it.”

Sien waved the dragon's concern away. “It's fine. Worse in Empire, I do agree, but it's radically different in Sect, so furl up your wings there, you big baby.”

Eclavorn didn’t relent. “There is only one way to really know if it's real or a fabrication. I won’t have the only place I can truly relax in tainted by another Charl.”

Feeling the rising tension, Matt was ready when Eclavorn jumped at him.

Bringing out his blade, Matt slammed a [Tribulation Strike] on the dragon’s snout, evaporating half of the room they were in.

Together, they plowed through the Tier 0 Corporations space station as if it didn’t exist, metal tearing like tissue paper.

The fact that Matt could react at all to the Tier 40’s attack showed he wasn’t actually aiming for a kill, but rather some form of test.

If he wanted a fight, Matt was more than willing to give him one, though he felt it was childish to settle things like that.

Seeing that their surroundings were clear of people, Matt slammed a fist into Eclavorn’s nose and cast [Mana Beam], trying to burrow a cut through his skull to his brain. It wouldn't have done much, given their Tier gap, but Eclavorn had lowered his cultivation to match Matt’s.

Sadly, the other Ascender had long since removed such a weakness, and Matt’s spell splashed off a bone and scattered everywhere. That lance of mana would have caused untold devastation if Lila hadn’t stopped the beams a few feet away from their fight.

He wasn’t sure who had moved all of the people out of their way, but when they finally pierced the outer end of the space station, both of them stopped holding back.

Matt cast a quickly powered up [Breach] the moment they had gotten some distance, but the skill harmless splashed on the twenty copies of magical armor Eclavorn summoned.

Despite being a bond, Eclavorn wasn’t born as a rift-dropped bond egg, but instead chose to bond with Gideon of his own free will, which meant he didn’t have the typical dragon Talent set. The Federation had long outlawed any method which could increase a bloodline’s average strength, including the potions that could guarantee a bloodline's default Talent. It had simply backfired in Eclavorn’s case.

Instead of getting a weaker Talent, he got something far more powerful, as evidenced by his shields.

When he cast a spell, he was able to create copies of the cast up to half his Tier, making every one of his skills incredibly strong.

And that was when he wasn’t abusing his Talent.

Instead of twenty [Meteor Swarm]s of compressed plasma, Matt found himself facing sixty, as Eclavorn [Barrage]d the spell, his Talent amplifying the already multiplied spell.

Matt found it interesting being on the other side of such a tactic, given he was usually the one throwing around spells like they cost nothing, but his anger prevented him from really enjoying the moment.

Flooding [Cracked Phantom Armor] with plasma mana to aspect it, Matt easily pushed through the wave of attacks to swing at Eclavorn with his blade.

The dragon was entirely unafraid of such a collision and met sword with claw, blocking Matt’s attack but still earning several cracked and damaged scales as the layered attack spells washed over him.

“Is this really necessary?”

Matt sent the message not really expecting an answer, but to his surprise, Eclavorn responded immediately.

“Yes! I refuse to allow another Charl. You may seem different, but this is the second major similarity. I wasn’t able to test you when we first met, but I’ll taste your measure today or die trying.”

Part of Matt understood, but he was irritated at the repeated accusations.

Even as they exchanged another round of attacks, Matt said, “That's bullshit and you know it. I’m no more similar to him than Allie or Zack.”

As Eclavorn spoke, Matt felt a rising tide of fear. “If that was true, then why do you act so much like him? Secrecy beyond the norm for your Talent might be understandable, but we know what it is well enough that it shouldn’t be a sore spot, yet it is. Your actions to the mortals also resonate with him. You demand mortals respect you, which is exactly like him, always requiring obeisance and taking it as a personal slight when he didn’t get it.”

As he finished, a flurry of what looked like [Fireball]s arched out at Matt in parabolic trajectories that followed him even as he dodged.

It was [Wrath of Eclavorn] and a fairly famous Tier 38 homing spell in the Monster Collective.

An original of Eclavorn’s, he had designed the spell to not only contain simple fire, but for each projectile to hold a core of plasma that grew stronger the farther the spell traveled.

[Cracked Phantom Armor] struggled against the dual energy attacks, as whilst fire and plasma’s elemental composition was similar, aspecting it to either still allowed too much of the other through. Matt was pierced dozens of times, only managing to protect his head from the onslaught, ensuring nothing was even close to lethal.

It might be a spar with no one else intervening, but Matt was angry and felt a trace of fear that only seemed to grow as they fought.

“I demand nothing from the mortals. I’m simply trying to help them. And yeah, it pisses me off when people take my inventions or try to steal them. Who wouldn’t be angry at that? Even if I’m giving the stuff away, it's still mine to do so. Calling me out for that is hypocritical as shit. If someone stole something of yours you’d fight back just like me. As for my Talent. Obviously, it's my secret. I won’t share the details any more than you would. I—”

Matt realized his growing fear was unusual as his entire being started to resonate against the outside influence.

“You hit me with a fear spell?”

