Fetohep’s companions. Then came the armies of Khelt. Tens of thousands of undead armored in ancient metal. Glowing eyes. Undead.
Khelt had come to Izril to end this war of Drake aggression and Gnollish infighting. The Walled Cities saw the great army of the undead come to their land. Six Walled Cities beheld Khelt.
What did you think they did next? The Drakes focused on Khelt and the army led by Fetohep, who had ridden from his kingdom in this dire hour, to right all wrongs and save what could be saved. They did not see the ghosts who fought onto Izril’s shores, hounded by Seamwalkers. They did not see Khelta, screaming at Fetohep to activate the ritual.
“Your Majesty. The ritual is not working.”
[Mages] were desperately trying to complete the magical incantation, searching over the thousand compartmentalized spells for an error, a break in logic they barely understood. Fetohep just nodded as he strode forwards. The Drakes were arrayed in front of him. But all the King of Khelt did was look up.
“I am Khelt. So Khelt…with me.”
He looked up and saw the sky turning bright. He had frightened the Humans of Terandria with the [Arrows of Razzimir]. Now he looked up and saw a burning rainbow crisscrossing the sky. Comets from Valeterisa, the Archmage who had called Fissival her home. Even—yes, even stone meteors flying from Oteslia. A bright rain of deadly arrows.
 
——
 
Undead have landed on the Great Plains. Army is tens of thousands strong and growing. Zeres is calling for combined bombardment.
Manus agrees. Activate the Tidebreaker Contingency!
Pallass denies. DENIES. They are on our side. Gnolls will never forget this. The Antinium are still the greater threat. Grand Strategist Chaldion—
Overruled. Fissival—firing.
Oteslia agrees. Undead taint. Firing.
Zeres—bombardment commencing.
Salazsar activating matrices.
Manus attacking.
 
——
 
“Those…damn Drakes.”
That was all he could say. Pisces Jealnet, standing on the railing of the Illuminary, looked up and saw the Walled Cities unleash a wrath they had not used since the Antinium Wars. Every Walled City save Pallass…no, Pallass was firing too.
The Drakes, the Assembly of Crafts, launched their bombardment upon Khelt’s forces the instant they disembarked. The air flashed so hot his skin blistered, and Hecrelunn had to shield them all. The Revenants, even Salui and the half-Giants, the living…
Rasea and the [Pirates] watched in horror as Fetohep of Khelt walked into the firestorm he had known he couldn’t stop. The pettiness of Drakes.
The army he had so painstakingly brought across the ocean looked up, undead without fear in their gazes. Magic melted their bones and set their armor on fire. It blew them apart, and amidst it all, the King of Khelt walked forwards.
His companions raised shields and stood with him. Fetohep lifted a hand as his robes caught fire. The magic tore at his ancient flesh, and he looked up and around.
“I am Khelt.”
Pisces thought he could hear Fetohep whispering. That note of anger and despair at mortals’ foolishness. The King of Destruction rested his hands on the railing, cracking the Illuminary’s wood, eyes burning.
It took five minutes. Five minutes, and so much destruction even Belavierr was taken aback. Five minutes…and the land was glass, the river rushing into a second lake. And where was Khelt’s army?
Dust and scattered bones. A single undead had survived. A skeleton, which crumbled slightly as it dragged itself up. One leg was disintegrated, so it knelt next to Fetohep of Khelt.
The King of Khelt stumbled forwards, his crown askew. His robes almost destroyed despite the royal enchantments. He looked up and around, and the Drakes jeered him as they cheered their own cities. The King of Khelt stood there a moment and looked back at his forces.
My army. He reached back and looked for his companions. One last battle. One last…they lay at the bottom of that lake. Fetohep bowed his head as arrows began to fly. The last skeletal warrior tried to rise again…but Fetohep took the skull from the head, and the bones fell.
“Look how wretched they are. Rest…rest brave warrior. You have fought for me, and they have destroyed your body. Khelt asked all in death that it would not in life. Now—”
Alone, the King of Khelt turned and looked at the army of Drakes. He gently tossed the skull into the waters.
“—You have expended your worthless little spells. Allow me to remind you why the Walled Cities fell. Did you not hear me? Are you deaf? I said, I am Khelt. My armies know no end.”
The notes of despair fell away from Fetohep’s body. He adjusted the crown on his head. His golden eyes grew again.
Foolish Drakes. The cheering stopped as Fetohep lifted one hand.
“Come to me, Khelt.”
Then Pisces saw it. The genius of the King of Khelt. Why he had striven so hard to take the army with him across the sea. Because he had surely read history books in his long life. He knew exactly what the Drakes would do, so he forbade the living to join him.
An army destroyed in an instant. An army…of undead. Pisces looked into the crater of magic and wondered how much power the Walled Cities had just thrown at Fetohep. And all of the magic in that army of the undead? Enough to keep them moving, to generate more undead by their presence?
How much had those idiots just unleashed? Pisces felt the answer.
His bones began to shake.
Ceria Springwalker looked down at her skeletal hand.
“Uh—Pisces? What’s happening?”
It was twitching, the fingers writhing against her control. She gripped it with her other hand as the Revenants sighed. Their glowing eyes shone brighter, like little stars. For answer—Pisces just pointed.
“Dead gods. He’s making it. I thought they were just legends.”
Vizir Hecrelunn sneered down at Pisces.
“They were legends. We wrote them. Gaze, mortals, at the magic of true necromancy. King Fetohep of Khelt is opening…the Graven Passage.”
Then it rose from the ground. From the ashes and bones of the army. Pisces saw a twisting arm of bone rise in a single arch—then another. Then dozens more, criss-crossing each other. He beheld an ancient structure that traced itself out of ivory.
Rising higher. Higher. A thousand paces wide. A dais of bone. Behind Fetohep of Khelt, the Graven Passage rose. A…copy of one across the world.
How much magic, how many undead were sacrificed to make it? An army’s worth. Tens of thousands. But what—what did it do? The Walled Cities were panicking. But they had already used their trump card.
The Graven Passage opened. Pisces saw a deep, lurid green portal open, a magic connection linking two continents. Something that only undead could pass through without harm.
Then…then he heard the triumphant horn.
As the Necromancer of Terandria sat back in his chair, trying to find his jaw from where it was probably lying on the floor.
As those arrogant Drakes stopped, the self-indulgent cheering catching in their throats—
Then came the true armies of Khelt.
A thousand undead skeletons armored in plate and burnished gold came marching through the portal and struck their shields like thunder. They passed by the King of Khelt, then another thousand. Then riders, streaming through the doorway without end. A skeletal horse stopped, and Fetohep of Khelt mounted it and raised his halberd. The army of Zeres wilted as the undead poured out of the Graven Passage.
Fetohep of Khelt spoke.
“Now, Walled Cities. I shall answer your every insult a hundredfold. Khelt—bring death to Izril!”
His army surged forwards, ignoring the arrows and javelins that struck their bodies. For every one that fell, there were a hundred more. Rasea Zecrew laughed as she took the Illuminary forwards. Then Pisces realized:
This was the last battle.
He looked for Erin Solstice or whomever it was who had stolen her body. Ksmvr drew his blades.
“I see Klbkch is here. I would prefer not to meet him. Where are we going, Captain Ceria?”
The half-Elf’s head rose. She clenched a fist.
“Where else? Straight towards the [Innkeeper]. Try not to kill her twice.”
 
——
 
Shaman Theikha of Gaarh Marsh had been weeping for Khoteizetrough. When she felt the Walled Cities activate their magic, she looked up and saw all the lies stripped away.
Just like the Plain’s Eye tribe, the Walled Cities showed who they were. They activated a weapon meant for the Third Antinium War. They launched it at the army of Khelt.
And at the Gnolls.
A firestorm rained down from the heavens, and the Great Shaman of the Gnolls felt her heart stop as she looked at the spells aiming for the tribes. Without mercy or care.
The enemy of the Drakes died.
“Not today or ever.”
Theikha vowed. Her heart burned painfully in her chest with every beat. She had known this would be her last battle. She had thought one magic would be her end. Or the next. When she had cast the spell to show the [Chieftains] a vision of Earth, she had wondered if it would be her end and she would feel that beating heart stop.
Now—she asked it one more time to defy age and weariness. The magic of the Tribes of Izril burned in Theikha’s chest as she raised her arms.
Once more. One more miracle. She looked down at the Gnolls gazing up at her. Children of Gaarh Marsh. Warriors of every tribe.
Looking to her. Theikha’s head lifted higher, and she saw the first burning ray of light stab down. She lifted a paw—and blocked it.
High overhead, a pillar of fire like a lesser version of the Death of Magic’s own spells burned across a ripple in the air. The soldiers below looked up and saw a strange limb tracing itself out of the air and light.
A paw. A Giant’s paw. But the hand that blocked the painful spell was Theikha’s own. She lifted her arms, and the spells rained down upon her fur like a thousand tiny gnats of magic.
Her heart—
Khelt had no protections, and she watched them burn as the ships on the river rocked from the magic. The great river Soieln was overflowing as it passed through the Great Plains. The army of Zeres marched with the sea, overflowing the banks and muddying the ground with saltwater and carnage.
The skies split with the magic of countless [Mages], but Theikha drew her arm across the heavens and waited.
Her heart beat in her chest, slowly, slowly, as the magic filled her beyond any limit. The [Shaman] waited and heard it falter. She fell, as the destruction passed her tribes by.
The greatest living [Shaman] of the Meeting of Tribes fell and lay under Khoteizetrough’s corpse. She stared up at the Earth Elemental, and at last—
Her heart did cease. She stared up at the Earth Elemental and thought it was fitting. Theikha closed her eyes.
Then she heard it. A pulse that made her frail body tremble. A quake in the earth.
“Khoteizetrough?”
The weeping Gnolls of Gaarh Marsh that were surrounding Theikha backed away as the old [Shaman]’s body rose. A hand of green lifted her up, flowers and thorns, rot and rebirth. It placed her on the ground, and the [Shaman] opened her eyes. She turned, staggering—and the Earth Elemental did not move.
The hand collapsed. Theikha looked up and thought she saw a smile on that ancient face. A hill smiled at her, and she heard that sound again.
A pulse like the earth shaking. A heartbeat as vast as…the Great Shaman of Gaarh Marsh put a paw to her chest and realized it was coming from her. She looked around and realized what it meant.
“Not yet. A thousand more times, then. If you could do it, so can I.”
She put one hand on Khoteizetrough’s side, then turned. Theikha lifted her staff. One more miracle. Until the earth itself stopped living. She felt young again. She was a young [Shaman], and the endless wonders called to her.
She would never stop learning.
 
——
 
This was it. Khelta laughed as Fetohep of Khelt unveiled an old trick of Khelt. She and the ghosts fought on Izril’s shores. Not against the living…the bewildered dead Gnolls and Drakes were in service to a greater war.
Seamwalkers. The [Necromancer] of Khelt raised a sword and staff in either hand, watching this final struggle.
The last Giants rampaged through the ocean. A warrior with an axe tore a Seamwalker’s head apart, howling, laying about her, the Ash Giant breaking body after body.
The Seamwalkers lay across every continent, bleeding into the water. So many dead—and some fled over The Last Tide rather than die.
The last ones preyed upon the ghosts, and the dead gods…Khelta did not know where Erin Solstice was. But she waited, hoping the ritual they had laid in Khelt would work. If not? If not…she walked across the Great Plains.
If not, she would rest knowing she had done all she could. The [Necromancer] touched the side of a Seamwalker made of bone and cracked the behemoth in two, exposing its insides. She saw the [Witches], the last great coven of them, led by Califor, waiting.
Waiting…for a spark in the darkness.
