Wyverns fell burning from the skies as precisely calculated showers of magic began to strike down. Valeterisa did not dodge or move. She just stood there, casting spells down. A [Mage] entrenched behind barrier spells. A classic Wistram move…three thousand feet up. The skies were suddenly a firefight as [Mages] flew higher, fighting against the Archmage of Izril.
 
——
 
The skies. They were contested. The Gnolls realized that the Drakes had stopped bombarding them. This was a chance.
A Drake was riding through their lines. He was hunting for someone. No—the Gnolls blinked and rubbed their eyes.
A Human woman? But he was searching for someone.
A little white Gnoll, being pursued by Plain’s Eye. Even now. A [Thief] was racing after her, and the tribe of Doomslayers had abandoned their part of the battle to chase after her. Az’muzarre followed, and the [General] cursed.
“I thought you were blowing smoke out your tail, Relc. Relc?”
He turned and realized even the Gecko was left behind. Sserys whirled back as he charged the Gnolls. A [General] alone.
“Can’t have that. Someone protect the brat. I have a date with the Dragonspeaker where I kick her teeth in and she pulls Manus out. Get me the bravest bastards. A group with punching power.”
Who was he speaking to? Not to Relc, who was pushing into Manus with Liscor’s army. General Sserys pointed, and his eyes lit up with joy. He breathed.
“[Company, On Me]. You’re on babysitting duty.”
His voice echoed across the ground, and the Gnolls, the fighting Drakes—all looked around as the air charged and then split. It wasn’t teleportation—it was as if a group suddenly raced onto the battlefield around Sserys, as if they had been there all along but around a corner in the air. A company of Liscor’s finest marched onto the grass and looked around wildly.
“Where are we? Prognugator Dekass?”
“Where is Commander Olesm? Liscor’s gone. Where are—?”
General Sserys heard a babble of voices and the Drake’s triumphant grin—slipped. He stared in disbelief at the hundred soldiers he’d summoned. His eyes passed not over Gnolls. Nor Drakes.
He stared at Battalion 1, Squads 1-10 of Liscor’s army. Liscor’s…
Army. The Antinium looked around, and Squad 5 turned as they saw a young woman sitting on horseback.
“What the fuck.”
That was what she said. What the angry Worker with the zweihander, Crusader 57, said was…
“Erin?”
The [Crusaders] of Liscor looked at Erin Solstice a second before she swung her sword at them. Crusader 53 blocked the swing with a mace on reflex. The Human woman recoiled. The Drake [General] stared at the Antinium.
“My army…?”
His eyes flicked back to Liscor’s forces. Then to the north as he realized who he’d summoned by accident. His Skill had never had to worry about two armies serving Liscor before.
Meanwhile—Olesm had just watched one of his best battalions vanish in front of his eyes as he raced back to Liscor.
“Erin? Erin—”
Artur waved the banner wildly as he fought to get to the young woman. But she was recoiling, and the look of horror and disgust on her face made the Antinium hesitate.
Was this the sky? Was this her?
No—who was this? The [General] rode back. He wavered, looking at the Antinium. The Plain’s Eye Gnolls had turned in horror. Sserys shook his head. He kicked his horse into motion.
“Forget this.”
He abandoned 1st Battalion in the middle of the battlefield. The bewildered Antinium had no idea where they were. But suddenly—they were the biggest target in the world.
“Antinium!”
Gnolls screamed as everyone saw a hundred Antinium appear in the middle of nowhere. It was their [Banner Leader], Artur, who rallied the Antinium. He was looking around.
“Someone find our speaking stones. Call for Prognugator Dekass or Olesm or Belgrade!”
But they were way too far away for the local speaking stones to work. The Antinium stared after the young woman riding away from them. Then—Crusader 53 saw something.
A little white Gnoll girl ran past them, being pursued by howling Gnolls. Every single Antinium in the crusade had heard stories of the fluffy, white Gnoll who might be at the inn. She was part of the stories.
Some knew her face. Squad 5 hesitated. Crusader 53 looked at Crusader 57. The Gnolls were trying to kill Mrsha. Artur pointed.
“Mrsha…? Charge! Battalion 1—charge those Gnolls!”
Without a word, the [Crusaders] turned. They saw the enemy and charged as Mrsha came skidding to a halt. The hundred Antinium ran straight into a mix of Plain’s Eye and…
Az’muzarre. The Gnolls with artifacts taken from the body of Muzarre, the Dragonlord of Gems, had won every single encounter. Now, they howled as they saw an unexpected enemy. A Gnoll carrying a Dragonbone spear leapt into the air. Another held a mace of Dragonbone and whirled it down as the Antinium charged at them.
The relic that could break Demas Metal armor and shatter bone at a touch met Crusader 53’s iron mace. The Az’muzarre [Relicbearer] was already maneuvering for another blow when he felt something unexpected.
The second mace met the Dragonbone artifact and knocked it back. The Gnoll stumbled backwards, and Crusader 53 followed the first blow up with a second mace-strike.
“Impossible.”
The Az’muzarre Gnoll found themselves blocking the [Weapon of Faith] as Crusader 53 rained down blows on the magical artifact. The Antinium swung the mace up and clipped the Gnoll’s face. With a snarl, the Gnoll struck back, but his mace was just…a mace. When Crusader 53 parried it, none of the magics worked. It should have shattered every bone in his body. It should have—
Chieftain Reizet’s famous tribe ran into Battalion 1 of Liscor’s army. The Antinium who had fought Hectval and Manus for over a month charged into Gnolls with relics.
Faith met magic, and Az’muzarre watched their [Relicbearers] struggle…and begin to fall. The Gnolls, who were used to fighting alone, twenty-to-one with their relics, ran into Antinium who treated the blades like ordinary metal.
“Trickery! Fall back! Fall—”
“eAt ShiT.”
Crusader 57 tripped up the Gnoll with the Dragonbone mace as the warrior tried to fall back from Crusader 53’s attack. He did this by swinging his zweihander into the Gnoll’s legs from the rear. With a cry, the Gnoll fell.
Crusader 53’s mace fell one more time. Then the Antinium regarded the glowing mace.
“Magic weapon? Better loot it.”
Crusader 57 leaned on the zweihander. Everyone knew you stole magic weapons. Slowly, Crusader 53 picked up the mace. He swung it experimentally—then shrugged. Squad 5 turned to face another group of Gnolls. They were surrounded. They were probably going to die—but they were fighting for that little Gnoll. So Crusader 53 charged like he’d seen Crusader 51 do. He raised the new mace.
[Mace Art: Big Hammer].
Crusader 57, charging after Crusader 53, was blown off his feet. He waved all four arms as he found himself on his back shell.
“geT ME uP! geT—”
Crusader 50 and 59 helped him up. When the Worker got up, he saw a hole in the ranks of the enemy. Crusader 53 was still frozen with the Dragonbone mace in his hand.
Did I do that?
He looked around, and the Antinium gazed at the mace. The Gnoll with the relic-class spear struck Crusader 21 with a howl—then stared in disbelief at the dented armor.
[Armor of Faith]. The Antninium cut one arm off. Then seized the spear. Az’muzarre fled backwards, howling in dismay. The little Gnoll ran, howling for the Antinium as they encircled her. But then the Thief of Clouds grabbed her.
“No! Come back!”
Artur screamed, but Vetn was wild-eyed, running in terror from the Black Tide. Mrsha punched at him.
Stop! Stop! They’re Antinium from Liscor!
 
——
 
Battalion 1 was making its stand behind Sserys. He knew it. He felt them fighting. They were…his [Soldiers]?
“Ridiculous. They’re Ants.”
He kept looking behind him. Why was he certain some of them had officer classes? One…
One had a banner of Liscor. They’d come when he called. The [General] was more rattled by that moment than anything else in the battle.
But then he saw Zeres was on the attack. They’d ignored Liscor versus Manus and were rampaging towards the Gnolls from the rear.
“You salt-soaked idiots!”
They were charging. And Sserys knew their Skills. They were chanting as they marched. The air felt…wet. Like the precursor to the storm, and those storm clouds overhead were intensifying. It was beginning to rain.
They were summoning the First Tide. Sserys whirled. He saw more Gnolls forming a battle line, but they’d never make it.
A line in the sand. Sserys stared into the distance. Was that a sail he saw…? He whispered, calculating.
“Ten minutes. Ten minutes—get me the most defensive bastards who won’t flee when—”
He hesitated, a hand raised. Sserys stared at Erin’s hand and then looked at the Antinium. He amended his statement.
“No. No—get me the most honorable group to hold the line. There. [Company, On Me].”
He pointed—and another company marched out of the air. Sserys knew what he had said. He stared in disbelief as a line of Antinium marched into position. One raised a two-handed maul.
“Orders?”
“What is going on?”
The Drake screamed. He looked at the Antinium, and that sword rose…but they looked at him.
“Commander. What are our orders?”
Sserys gazed at an Antinium with an odd helmet and hesitated. Then he pointed.
“Zeres is coming at us! Hold this ground for ten minutes!”
A hundred Antinium looked at the City of Waves charging their position. Sserys heard them speaking. One saluted him.
“It will be done, Commander.”
He looked into an insect’s eyes for too long. At that horned helmet…a steel helm for Antinium that someone had added crude horns onto.
The Beriad of the Antinium, 6th Battalion, looked at the General of Liscor, and Sserys whispered.
“Good job, [Soldiers].”
He stared at his hands as the Antinium turned.
“Ah, I see it now. I really don’t fit in this world anymore.”
Ruefully, he turned. The [General] readied his sword and focused. He saluted the [Soldiers] once. Then he pointed ahead.
“Dragonspeaker!”
Sserys charged straight into Manus’ front lines as the Antinium turned. They didn’t know where they were. But if Erin Solstice were here—
They were dead. This was Heaven, and apparently it was filled with Drakes. Or maybe they were just needed.
Their Minotaur leader wasn’t here…but they saw the enemy. Zeres had spotted Battalion 6, but that just made the [Marines] advance faster. They were screaming hatred at the Antinium.
Thousands of Drakes. But that wasn’t the sight to terrify Antinium. It was…
The water. Admiral of the Land, Horsthe, had unleashed a Skill of Zeres.
“[The First Tide Covered Land]/[We Marched Amidst the Surf]/[The Ocean At Our Backs].”
A Skill from Zeres. Drakes marched through water as if it didn’t bother them, but it was knee-high and rising for everyone else. A sea upon land.
The Antinium’s worst nightmare. 6th Battalion wavered as they saw the odds. So many Drakes. No quarter and only water if they fell.
“We…we…”
A hundred Soldiers and Workers in armor stood there. Holding two-handed weapons. No shields. They each had a curious helmet on their heads.
One of the Armored Antinium’s helms—but they’d added something. It was made out of pieces of wood, even twigs or leaves. Pieces of metal bent and clumsily attached. Not antennae, like you might first think.
They were…horns. As the Drakes marched on them, one of the Antinium of 6th Battalion looked around. There was no Calruz. He wasn’t part of their army.
Very well. The Antinium strode forwards and faced the ninety-nine warriors. He raised a maul—and the army of waves reacted.
“Officer. Loose!”
Arrows struck the Antinium from behind. They pierced the metal armor, and the Antinium fell. Green blood colored the surf around the Antinium, but the body never reappeared.
In silence, 6th Battalion stared down. Then another Soldier stepped forwards. They turned their backs to Zeres and raised a greatsword. They began to speak.
“We—”
A lance of fire burned through their backs. The second Antinium fell, tried to stand—and six more spells struck them. In silence, they fell into the waters.
So 6th Battalion stood. They had no leader. They gazed into the distance at a foe a hundred times as large as them. Slowly, the Antinium began to stomp in the waters. They lifted their blades.
A battleaxe, a pair of swords. A hammer.
They began to sing.
 
——
 
Venaz of Hammerad was racing through the battlefield to pit Wild Wastes against Zeres. So many angles of battle—he had lost Berr. This—they were losing.
Then he saw them. Antinium. That hated foe. There were two hundred—one group fighting Az’muzarre, the second facing Zeres, who had summoned the waters.
How had they gotten there? Venaz snarled as he hefted the Diamond Greatsword of Serept. He charged, a blur under a permanent [Haste] spell.
Then he heard something. It sounded like…voices. But the Antinium were Soldiers. They had no voices! Yet he still heard it. An echo in his soul. The voices of [Crusaders]. And the words—
He knew those words.
 
“From days of war and wrath we ran
Exiled from every land
Searching for our honor lost
And found the House of Minos’ sands.”
 
The Minotaur slowed. His eyes opened wide with disbelief. 6th Battalion stood there, facing the Drakes, stomping and singing in the surf as it rose around them. The waters dark with mud, white with froth—but the Antinium never wavered.
Their armor gleamed where it met dark carapace. They had no eyes that Venaz could see. They were identical insects, alien to everything he knew.
But they faced the Drakes, stomping as one, a single line in front of one of the greatest Drake cities in the world. The [Marines] slowed as they heard that chanting.
The most honorable force in Liscor’s army stood reflected in a thousand scrying orbs. Across the House of Minos. In the eyes of a Minotaur [Prisoner].
They could have run. They never would. Ninety-eight [Crusaders] dared Zeres to charge them, ignoring the spells and arrows striking the water around them.
A Minotaur stopped as they turned. Half the Antinium raised their weapons, but…they hesitated.
A Minotaur? He was no Calruz, one-armed and glorious. The [Strategist] hesitated as he looked at them. Then Venaz roared, his voice carrying above the roar of waters, the army facing them.
“I see your honor as plain as the foe that assails us. I am Venaz of Hammerad! I would be honored to join you!”
