The Ashfire Bee woke up on the ground. The [Shaman] was fleeing, his magics torn in half, arrows buried in his flesh. All because of her. She had been hit. She felt…pain.
But she got him alright. The Ashfire Bee scrambled up. She fanned her wings. Too many people around her. Too many feet. She took off—
And fell. Huh? Apista slammed into the ground rather than taking off. She crawled around, but she couldn’t turn her head. Something…she felt scorched. She fanned her wings and felt movement on only one side.
One of her wings was burnt off. And her legs…Apista tried to move her right side and realized that was why she couldn’t crawl.
Dimly, the bee realized what had happened. Oh. Oh…I got hit. She looked around for her boon companions, but they were fighting somewhere else. All she saw were Gnolls, feet…
One smashed the ground in front of Apista. The Ashfire Bee realized she wasn’t going anywhere. A body fell, bleeding next to her in the mud.
She thought she’d lost her stinger too. Apista could have used a cigar for the pain. She crawled forwards and stopped. No—no. Weakly, one antenna rose and flicked in a salute. She felt satisfied. The little white cute girl was safe. Mrsha was safe.
I did it. Mission accomplished, boys and girls. Bring her home.
She collapsed into the darkness as a Gnoll’s foot descended. Then someone stabbed the foot, and the Gnoll screamed. Blood rained down on Apista, but a pair of little grey hands grabbed her up.
“Rasktooth, danger, danger!”
Infinitypear loomed over Apista as a little Cave Goblin grabbed the bee up. Bewildered, Apista saw a grinning face. Crimson eyes and grey-green skin.
Only a Cave Goblin would have noticed something so small as her in the fighting. Rasktooth snatched Apista up and ran as Infinitypear jabbed with his spear, trying to keep the Gnolls back.
“Got bug! Infinitypear, run, run!”
The two scampered for it, the [Adventurer] and amateur [Cook]. A duo made in…Apista felt Rasktooth feeling at her urgently.
“Bad hurt. Give potion.”
The Antinium helped pour a vial over the bee, and the two looked around. The Fellowship of the Inn was in chaos.
“Where do we go, Rasktooth? I cannot see Revalantor Bird. We must run with Mrsha. Where is she?”
The Worker, Infinitypear, looked around as Rasktooth’s head whirled. What the Cave Goblin saw was a mess. Gnolls fighting Drakes. Drakes fighting Drakes. And he, a Goblin, and Infinitypear, an Antinium, were targets for everything. And that damn scary [Witch]?
“We run away! We have bee—we go! Come, come!”
Rasktooth made the most sensible decision and grabbed the Worker’s arm. Infinitypear hesitated, but then ran with Rasktooth towards the closest break in the fighting. They had Apista…that was what they could do. The bee was wriggling in Rasktooth’s grip as the Cave Goblin ran, but that was a good sign. He was grinning desperately, but laughing. She’d poked the Gnoll’s eye out! She’d—
He broke out of the Gnolls and onto the grass. Rasktooth looked up as he nearly slammed into a second line of bodies. He recoiled as he stared up at an armored breastplate, burnished with some kind of magical copper alloy melded with steel, but tougher than either. He saw a sword—no, a city made of swords and blades.
The crest of a Walled City on that armor. The scales of a Drake, dusky green. The Cave Goblin looked up as the Drake [Lieutenant] raised a sword.
Calmly, the officer of Manus ran Rasktooth through his belly and kicked him onto the ground. He stomped once on the Goblin’s back as Infinitypear raised his spear. The [Adventurer] looked down. Rasktooth? He jabbed—
A second Drake severed the spear. Two more stabbed the Antinium Worker, but not fatally. The [Lieutenant] raised a speaking stone.
“Lieutenant, 6th Advance Spears. Goblin and Antinium. Worker. Apprehend or execute?”
“Apprehend Worker for questioning.”
A [Tactician] snapped back. The Drake nodded as Manus advanced straight into the Meeting of Tribes. Around him, Drakes charged into Gnolls, spears lowered. They had targets. Steelfur, Woven Bladegrass…Dragonspeaker Luciva and the Security Council didn’t want the end of Gnolls.
Just some of them. The Drake snapped to his detachment.
“Apprehend the Worker.”
He noticed the Goblin was still alive. It was curled up, but it couldn’t stand. Holding something in its grip. The [Lieutenant] aimed his sword down as the Worker tried to fight. He was looking for the real enemy.
Someone tapped him on the shoulder. The [Lieutenant] twitched—he turned and saw a short Gnoll, old and grey-furred, standing there. Not a [Soldier].
“Civilians? Where’s my battle line?”
The [Lieutenant] put his blade up, turning, and the old Gnoll spoke.
“My son is dead.”
His [Dangersense] was going off. The [Lieutenant] wavered, blade in hand. He pivoted, a Skill burning in his mind. The Gnoll stared at him.
“My son is—”
 
——
 
A [Tactician] of Manus was monitoring his area when his Skill pinged him. He raised a claw.
“Major. My [Casualty Report] just updated. Eighteen dead.”
“Where? Spell?”
“No, sir. Direct contact. In seconds.”
The [Major] whirled, and Berr the [Berserker] howled. A ripple went through Manus’ lines as the Gnoll tore through them.
“What is that?” 
“[Berserker]! [Berserker]! Fall—”
A line of Drakes disappeared as the Gnoll charged. The fire in the [Major]’s heart, the battle-fury—went out. He felt the anger of conflict vanish, leaving only fear.
The Gnoll was eating it. He was a center, a locus of rage. His son was dead. The Drakes saw the [Berserker] coming for them, bare-handed. Behind him, an Antinium shook a little Cave Goblin.
“Rasktooth? Rasktooth. Get up. You must get up.”
A little bee was buzzing as the Cave Goblin lay there. Rasktooth blinked as Infinitypear poured the potion over him. He grinned.
“Scary Gnoll saved us?”
“Yes. Get up.”
The Antinium tried to help Rasktooth to his feet. The Cave Goblin pushed with one arm, then made a puzzled face.
“Can’t.”
He stared down at his legs. The Antinium looked down at Rasktooth as the Cave Goblin stared at the scar in his belly and felt…nothing. So the [Adventurer] picked up his friend and ran. Ran, as Manus focused on Berr.
 
——
 
“[Spearmaster]. Berr the Berserker is rampaging through 6th Advance Spears. Permission to engage?”
“Get me six headhunters. I’ll go myself.”
Spearmaster Lulv was not smiling. He looked at his people and lifted his spear. This was not Liscor. He was watching the tribes falling.
“Stay, Lulv. Send eight headhunters. Manus—push into the center. I will have those tribes surrender. Take out the Chieftains. Any civilians not offering combat—separate and cordon them off.”
Dragonspeaker Luciva was leading their advance, but her eyes were locked on Belavierr. Belavierr, that Daemon. Belavierr, and the fighting between Fissival and Salazsar.
“I want that thing contained as well. Not destroyed. If it really is a fount of luck—get me every [Mage] on it.”
Luciva spoke, pointing at the Daemon. Distasteful as her expression was, that was Manus. Targets. Goals. Lulv ground his teeth together. If only every group were as direct as theirs they wouldn’t be fighting each other, letting so many good Gnolls and Drakes die.
Wasted lives. Now the Gnolls were fighting with Drakes on the east and western sides. One more army would collapse them. The sooner the better. They had to surrender.
For here came Zeres.
 
——
 
The Drakes were entering the battle one army at a time. But for Ilvriss, Fissival would have been tearing the tribes apart. However—another Walled City was racing towards the fighting.
And Zeres had sent three of the Admiralty.
Admiral of the Land, Horsthe.
Admiral of Supply, Asale.
And the Sharkcaptain of Zeres, Femar.
They marched with hundreds of thousands of marines, although over half were clashing with Oteslia, trying to stop the First Gardener from reaching the Gnolls. However, Zeres had a secret weapon, which they intended to use to draw this battle to a close. It was a far smaller army, but a famous one with tactics that had won the First Antinium Wars.
Liscor’s mercenary army. They were marching with Zeres’ vanguard, and if any one force could be that spear to pierce any lines—it was them. Although—the Admiral of the Land was aware there were issues.
“[General] Axter. Are your forces positioned to engage?”
He heard silence as Liscor’s High Command waited a beat, then a response. Unlike a Walled City, Liscor’s army was more direct.
“Our Gnoll forces are about to riot. Tell me again we’re not going to wipe out the Gnolls.”
“We are supporting Manus’ push. We will consider an attack on Salazsar’s rear. Those gem-addled idiots need to be stopped. Just prepare your forces to take out the center of the fighting.”
“Acknowledged. We’re not entering into a slaughter with the tribes no matter how the battle plan changes. Consider that non-negotiable in our contract.”
Horsthe rolled his eyes as he stowed the speaking stone. Liscor’s touchy army…but they would be a decisive part of taking Oteslia to heel. Their officer charges could take the [Chieftains] or the First Gardener and her son captive.
Besides, it didn’t matter. Zeres’ army was a riotous march as Femar raised his spear, leading them forwards. Asale was silent. His glare spoke volumes about how he felt, but they were committed.
It was the [Admiral] of the Land who spoke.
“I intend to use the First Tide Skill on approach, Asale. No games. We finish this and take on Khelt.”
“Khelt is heading upriver. We may run into them. That makes it three forces—Oteslia, Gnolls, and Khelt we’re fighting. How much more, Horsthe?”
“As many enemies as the waves, Asale. We are Zeres.”
The Admiral of Supply, levelless, the Drake who had risen to his post by virtue of ability, gave Horsthe a bleak look.
“If there is an end of the world coming, that will be a fine inscription on our tombs.”
There was nothing the Admiral of the Land could say to that. Ahead of him, he saw flashes in the sky. Wyverns from Fissival were raining down magic on the Gnolls. Manus was on the western flank; Fissival was getting torn up on the right.
“Femar, I need you to support Manus. Zeres might have to pivot to save the City of Magic. Like usual. Asale, keep a force in case Khelt moves on us. Liscor gets to charge the Gnolls and take out those [Chieftains].”
Cooly, Horsthe reaffirmed his battle-plan. He eyed Oteslia in the distance, but they were being held back by a line of skirmishing troops. They’d have to work through Fissival or Zeres first. Deploy a double defensive line to delay them, and they’d think twice with Manus, Zeres, and Fissival telling them to stand down and shut up.
The sky was so thunderous it didn’t look like day. But no water fell from the sky. Just fire. Fire and magic. Liscor’s mercenary army halted as Zeres slowly caught up.
“Contact! Something in the skies—unfriendlies? Pallass?”
Admiral Horsthe frowned as he saw a brief skirmish and a report from one of Liscor’s officers.
“What did you see?”
“Pair of Pegasi. One’s sniped.”
“Pegasi? Oteslia? No…they’re too far north. The Oldblood of Feathers?”
Horsthe frowned at the sky. He saw Liscor’s army pause a second, probably to collect information. And—like any good [Admiral], Horsthe had a spyglass. He focused the enchanted glass and saw a single Pegasus descending, bows trained on it. A second figure was plummeting from the sky. Horsthe winced and lowered the spyglass.
A terrible way to die.
 
——
 
A single figure fell out of the skies. They had been hit; a screaming Pegasus was dropping, and the rider was in free-fall. The second Pegasus descended, blaring voices from below warning the rider that they would be killed if they did not descend—slowly.
No.
After so long. After so far—the rider reached out, but he was far too removed. Even so, he urged the Pegasus to dive, ignoring the warnings.
That familiar face. That…person that so many had come for. The wrong person. The right body. He saw a wild grin. Heard the cursing.
The bright gaze of General Sserys of Liscor in Erin Solstice’s body as she fell out of the sky.
“Sserys!”
Relc Grasstongue shouted. He lunged across the Pegasus, but he was dozens of feet away, and the Pegasus couldn’t dive fast enough. Valeterisa was too far above, doing her part. Relc screamed.
“Erin!”
They had arrived too late for the fighting and had gone for Liscor’s army. Liscor—had shot Sserys out of the sky. The Pegasus, arrows buried in its wing, caught itself, but nothing could stop the young woman.
She fell. Three hundred feet straight down. There was no Skill. No magic gear.
Relc saw the body hit the ground and bounce. It made such a soft sound he didn’t hear. The Drake slammed into the ground as the Pegasus landed hard, and he fell off.
“Stay down or die!”
Someone was shouting at him. Relc felt the prickle of spells and arrows trained on him, but he ran for the figure. He saw two empty eyes staring up at the sky. He saw Erin Solstice’s body lying there…
Then Sserys wiped at his mouth as he lowered the bottle, and he spat.
“Damn it, that hurt. I’m not Zel. You bastards.”
He stood up, checking his sword, and Relc’s jaw fell open. Sserys got up, a bit shakily even for him. He winked at Relc.
“Don’t worry. She’s okay. Looks like the lads didn’t skimp on anti-flier training. Well, well, well.”
Then Relc Grasstongue raised his head, and they were there. He looked at the [Marines] marching in good order in Zeres’ forces. Salt and sea…and Relc ignored them.
There they were. Drakes with axes propped on their shoulders. Companies neatly divided into groups led by [Wing Commanders]. The main army of new recruits and the countless, countless officers.
More officers than even some Walled Cities had in their army. Hundreds of [Lieutenants]. More [Sergeants] than you could count. Even [Captains] and [Majors] standing in rows.
Rough and ready. The mercenaries of Izril, pointing at the young woman in confusion. Liscor’s army halted, because even they were taken aback by seeing someone survive a fall like that.
And perhaps—they felt it. A sudden, familiar presence. Relc saw a group of officers. Each one scarred, tails—furred or scaled—curled up, scrutinizing this threat.
High Command. He felt weak. Liscor’s army looked at the Pegasus, the Drake and Human who’d suddenly arrived, and slowed. [Wing Commanders] held up their hands, and veterans in the ranks pointed.
“Pallass getting their tails in the soup?”
“Nah. Can’t be. Wait. Who’s that ugly bastard? That can’t be—I’d recognize that meathead anywhere. Is that—”
“Sergeant Relc? The Gecko?”
