Voices rose in disbelief, and some of the officers turned to the old guard for confirmation. Of all the Drakes…people fixed on Relc with a mix of incredulity and hostility.
After all—he was someone who had quit the army. What was he doing here? And who was that damn Human? No one knew her face…although some thought they had maybe seen her on the scrying orb?
But what was that—feeling? A few of the oldest Drakes and Gnolls were looking around. One [Veteran] growled at their [Wing Commander]
“Feels as though someone is walking on my grave. Wing Commander—tell High Command something’s making my fur stand on end.”
The [Wing Commander] hesitated, but a hunch like that wasn’t something you ignored. The army slowed, but Zeres was already shouting at them to hurry up and throw themselves into the fighting. Typical of a cowardly big city.
The Drake was helping the young woman up. She put her hands on her hips as a squad trotted forwards to apprehend and question the odd duo. But the Human put up her hand, and the patrol…wavered. They came to a stop, and one of the [Strategists] cursed them out.
“What is going on? Apprehend those two! Are you deaf or blind or do I need to knock you two down to [Recruits], you slow-as-shit idiots?”
Liscor’s officers had a way with words. But the patrol called back.
“Something’s wrong. We can’t move! Something’s…who is that Human?”
The [Strategist] checked his [Appraisal] enchantment, but the Human must have been warded. The class wasn’t showing up. He thought he saw a flicker, but…
“Be advised, all officers. Gecko—confirmed, Relc Grasstongue is present with an unknown quantity. Possibly some kind of high-level irregular.”
Liscor was assessing the situation, and bows were trained on both. One order and they’d fill the air with death. Relc might survive, but he needed to do the right thing and toss his spear down and explain what was going on. Liscor’s army didn’t kill their own, even traitors.
So why did that young woman look on at one of the most dangerous armies of Izril, Drakes and Gnolls ready for a fight, and seem so…unimpressed? She was close enough that almost all of the army had a good look at her as she strutted back and forth.
Something…made High Command hesitate. One of the older [Strategists] kept feeling at her neck.
“No. No, it can’t be.”
A shudder ran through Liscor’s army. A strange sensation rose in the chests of the [Soldiers], even those far too young to feel that nostalgia. It was…a longing.
As if they could feel a void being filled that they hadn’t known had been there until now. A hole in their chests that was being closed. They hesitated, looking at each other, calling out, and then the young woman spoke.
She had a [Loud Voice] Skill. Or maybe she was just that loud. She turned to the Drake—Relc—and said something. Relc jerked in surprise, and then the two were facing Liscor’s army. The young woman strutted forwards as the Gecko’s tail curled for a second, and Relc hurried over next to her.
He was taller than she was—but she drew the eye. Just…a young woman with some decent armor and a sword on her hip. Armor worn over…what, an innkeeper’s clothing? A bloodsoaked apron?
She didn’t seem impressive, even for a Human. But her eyes. They were odd. Almost slitted like a Drake’s, but it was a trick of light. And her voice, when it spoke, was a rasping drawl, elongated ‘s’ like Drakes. A bark of laughter. Then she said:
“Well, well. I have never seen such a worthless lot of rookies in my life. I came here looking for an army. I should have gone to Pallass’ nurseries for some [Soldiers] with better backbone than the soft bastards I see here.”
Liscor’s army stood there, completely silent for a moment. What did she just say? The young woman went on.
“I’ve seen Lizardfolk with better discipline and tougher [Lords] in the Five Families. Did you have a good time powdering your scales and primping your fur? You must have—or you stopped for a dozen tea parties if you just reached the hottest fight in Izril.”
Okay, their ears were working. The Drakes and Gnolls nodded at each other. That Human was dead. The Gecko was looking uncertainly at the Human, as if aware he were watching her kill herself. Zeres was slowing, and the Drake kept twitching his tail and glancing at the fighting.
But that Human just went on.
“So this is Liscor’s army? I’d rather take the crap I just passed into battle. But you’ll do. Some of you are tough bastards. Most of you are as stupid as rocks. But you’ll do. Mind you—I could take half of you on in my bed and use the other half to wipe my tail. What are you doing? Working for Zeres when the Gnolls are about to kill each other? If you’re done stroking each other’s tails—I have a real battle for you.”
It was incredible no one had shot her yet, orders or not. This many insults coming at them? But…one of the [Majors] was muttering.
“I could take half of you in bed…how does she know…?”
That style of insults. The casual allusions to wanting sex. The way she spoke. No—it was that feeling in the back of the mind.
There was no way. But the veterans of the army were looking at each other. They felt it. One [Soldier] nudged her superior, and the older Drake snapped back.
“That’s impossible. He’s dead.”
“Who? Captain, what’s going on?”
The squad looked at their [Captain], and the survivor of the First Antinium Wars just stared at the Human. That unnaturally wide grin on the young woman’s face. The strut.
It could not be. But it was. The army of Liscor was now locked onto the young woman, but they noticed something else. The Drake behind her was Relc.
The Gecko. One of their best officer headhunters—a pure idiot, but one of their best. A [Spearmaster] who had broken every tie with the army. He should have been in the city kissing Ants. But…
“What’s he doing? He can’t be—”
As the Human lit up the army with insults, the Drake was doing something. He turned left, and his tail…slapped the ground twice. Then it traced a circle and pointed. Every eye followed that tail and what it was pointing at.
“No fucking way.”
They all watched Relc and the young woman. Of course—she was a Human. She didn’t have a tail, so there was no way she could communicate with one. Especially if she wanted to say something with that semi-secret code.
Liscor’s army knew tail-signs. It was a favorite tactic of their [Generals]—at least, one in recent history. He’d shout all kinds of unrelated things before a battle and then launch them forwards, having told them everything he needed with his tail.
But was this really happening? Everyone was looking at High Command, but they were frozen. They saw it more clearly than the soldiers. And what they saw was…
His aura. His presence. Relc Grasstongue, tail repeating the commands, looked down at the Human. And though it was Erin’s voice and her face and body…
General Sserys of Liscor stood there on the grassy field and bellowed at his army. The [Spear of the Drakes] shouted with a huge smile as he cursed them out.
His people. His sons and daughters, his comrades in arms. They had changed, and he let them have it.
“We were the greatest army two decades ago! Now—what are you doing? Did you hang up your spears and forget what we were supposed to be doing? Or are you just that incompetent without me? You left your city behind, and you think you’re tough little boys and girls playing in the mud with a damn dungeon underneath home? You think you’re getting paid well to follow Zeres and kill Gnolls? If I had time, I’d spend all day slapping you idiots, but I don’t. So shut up and follow my tail!”
It was too much. At last, one of the younger officers, looking at the paralyzed seniors, shouted furiously at Sserys.
“Who are you? What gives you the right to give us orders you—you—Human?”
“Human? Human? ARE YOU BLIND OR ARE YOU AS STUPID AS YOU LOOK?”
Sserys screamed back. He struck his chest.
“Don’t you know me? Don’t you remember me? I led you against the Black Tide. I was there when we fell. I was with you idiots since I was a boy. Who am I? Give me the right answer or I’ll come over there and shove this sword up your ass.”
He pointed at the [Lieutenant], and the Drake stuttered. But that name…Sserys heard a whisper.
“Sserys.”
His wild smile grew wider on his face.
“That’s right. Now—I came all the way back here for one last battle. Because it matters. Are you going to leave me hanging? Who am I? Who are you?”
He raised his arms, the sky behind him thundering with fire, armies fighting on the Great Plains. Now it was undeniable. Soldiers began to call out.
“Sserys!”
The forces of Zeres had no idea what was happening. They just saw a Human and a Drake stopping Liscor’s army. Then they heard a distant shout.
“Shout it louder!”
“Sserys! Sserys of Liscor!”
“I said shout, not whisper!”
The Admiralty, the [Marines], slowed. A Human tore a sword from its sheath and raised it overhead. Now came that final roar. A relieved, joyous, disbelieving bellow from every voice.
“General Sserys!”
Admiral Asale’s head rose. Admiral Horsthe rubbed at one earhole. They could not be hearing…the Sharkcaptain looked disbelievingly at the young woman. He was already striding forwards, snarling, to get Liscor moving.
He saw that brown hair toss as the young woman turned. The Sharkcaptain slowed. Femar had the distinct feeling that he was approaching a…a [General]. But that was impossible. He narrowed his eyes as the young woman pointed that sword.
“Liscor—forwards!”
The disbelieving army of Zeres, the people watching, heard that name. Then they saw the Human, the [Innkeeper], leap onto the back of a horse. She kicked it forwards as the Gecko of Liscor ran after her.
And Liscor’s mercenary army broke from their target. They ignored Zeres’ demands to come back. They ran across the ground, screaming like the terrors of the battlefield they had been.
The mercenaries of Liscor. The army followed Sserys across the plains—but not towards the Gnolls. They shot westwards. And they were aiming at—
“Manus?”
The City of War looked up from their neat and tidy advance as Liscor rampaged towards them. What—had they taken leave of their senses? Who would attack them? They were the City of War!
One Drake had clashed with them without fear. Sserys had surveyed the battle at the Meeting of Tribes and seen how the Gnolls were in danger of being overrun. So he had told Relc to give Liscor’s army the tail-signs to hit the western flank.
Now, the Drake was charging at Manus. Sserys gazed down at ranks and ranks of armored helmets and fanciful, stupid plumes of feathers gazing up at him. The Drake’s voice was a roar, to himself and them all. Once more, he ordered them to stop, to turn back.
But they only hesitated a moment and ignored the voice in their ears. Their better nature. The Admiralty, Dragial, Luciva—they ignored Chaldion’s wild claims and his orders. They always had, when they saw something they wanted. Like stupid, inbred children who thought they’d always get their way.
Sserys just laughed. If I had lived—would they have really listened to me more than Zel? Especially once they knew who he was, not his legend?
It didn’t matter. He looked back, and Liscor’s army gazed back at him for one moment. They saw their [General], and he pointed ahead.
“This is the Gnolls’ war. Even I can’t order the Walled Cities around. But I will be the Spear of Drakes to save us from our own folly. If you want to fight someone—fight us. Luciva, I’m coming for you.”
Faster, the Drake rode across the Great Plains. Sserys shot ahead of the army screaming his name. Even the Gecko struggled to keep up as the [Spear of the Drakes] rode. This was what he had missed. A sword raised in one hand, the other clutching the reins, Sserys charged into Manus’ lines.
“I am Liscor. I am General Sserys! To arms, Izril!”
Laughing, he carved his way into Manus as Liscor’s army spread out. They were loosing arrows at Zeres! They were—fighting for the tribes.
The first Drakes who saw Sserys tried to stop him. He trampled one, blocked a spear-thrust, severed the spear, and cut down the Drake holding it. He rode through the Drakes, sword flashing left and right. A Human who lanced into Manus’ side, forcing the City of War to turn as Liscor hit them.
Not blindly, though. Drakes killing Drakes…Sserys’ head turned. He was on the hunt for targets. He was the greatest [General] of Izril in this moment, and this was his war to lose. Above, the Wyverns were swooping down for another pass at the Gnolls, threatening to bombard them, civilians, warriors—
Until the sky lit up.
 
——
 
Snapjaw was half-frozen to her saddle. Icecube’s frost breath had struck her as well as everything else. She didn’t have any potions left. And the Drakes were heading down for another pass. The Goblin flew past a woman standing idly in the air and chanting spells.
“Oh, a Goblin.”
Valeterisa broke off to stare at Snapjaw with idle curiosity. Snapjaw nearly fell out of her saddle. Valeterisa shrugged. Then she looked down at the young woman trying not to fall off the floating platform of magic carrying them thousands of feet above the battlefield.
“Don’t fall, Montressa. Attention, Fissival [Mages]. I am Valeterisa, Archmage of Wistram. If you do not wish to be killed, kindly descend and refrain from casting magic.”
Drakes jerked and looked up at the hither-to cloaked [Mage] in the skies. They called out warnings and redirected their spells at her. Valeterisa blinked as a bolt of lightning struck upwards. It sizzled out on one of Montressa’s barrier spells, not even Valeterisa’s wards.
“They never listen. I told Sserys that. And I also told Fissival that Wyverns are not good vehicles for [Mage] combat. All you have to do is cast [Frozen Winds] and enhance it with a wide area effect, and the ice drags their wings down and…”
Valeterisa watched as the Wyverns began to scream as their wings froze up, taking them into nosedives. The [Mages] desperately tried to warm the wings, and more spells lanced upwards. Valeterisa idly watched [Fireballs], [Acid Orbs], [Lightning Bolts]…
“Tier 3-5 magic. All direct area attack spells. [Battle Mages]. Montressa du Valeros—this is magic. [Hurricane of Darkness].”
She lifted her arms, and the skies turned black. Now the Wyverns were frozen and blind. Except…Valeterisa could see. She saw their body heat, the magic trails they left.
“[One Thousand Arrows of Fire]. No. That was most certainly overkill. How about a hundred…? No. [Sixty Arrows of Fire]? Now—copy that spell eight times. Montressa, copy this magic. [Mages] of Fissival. Descend or die.”
