He was shaking with uncertainty. But—the Minotaur’s eyes were wide as he looked at them. He had to believe. If there were any place on the battlefield that had ever demanded him—it was here. In silence, the 6th Battalion raised their weapons and the Minotaur stepped into line. He turned to face them, and an arrow tried to take his life—but his amulet made it swerve away.
“Who are you? Name yourselves, Antinium!”
“The Beriad. We are the Beriad of the Antinium!”
Venaz recoiled. But—he looked at them, and they knew what the word meant. The Minotaur’s eyes stung as he lifted the greatsword.
“Beriad! Bear your arms!”
Then he turned and joined their ranks. Ninety-nine warriors of the Beriad stood there. They were only missing one more.
He came striding through the waters, fearless. Even the forces of Zeres hesitated, for he seemed drenched in blood. But if it were blood—it was the blood of his foes, and it would never leave him.
The Crimson Soldier walked down the line of Beriad as they turned in awe towards him. Venaz looked at the greatest veteran of the Free Antinium’s Hive, and The Crimson Soldier spoke.
“We are the first of the new Antinium.”
He spread all four arms as the Drakes faltered. A Prognugator? He had to be.
Something was happening. The battlefield—the Antinium of 1st and 6th Battalion looked up. They felt it running from The Crimson Soldier. The [Archers] lowered their bows, gazing around and finding a single [Hunter] on the wagon.
Bird shot down the sixty-eighth Oldblood Drake.
“I am killing them. But they are not birds. I am…a bit sad.”
He lifted his bow. The [Thief] holding Mrsha reeled back as a group of Drakes turned, and a [Mage] aimed a staff at Mrsha.
Bird’s arrow hit the Drake in the throat.
Not sad about that. Just—how many? His hands were a blur. Arrow, arrow, arrow…in as many seconds.
Three people died. How many? He gazed at Mrsha. Then looked around.
“Bird the Hunter! Kill it.”
Manus had seen him. A [Sniper] drew an arrow to the bow and Bird leaned out of the way of an arrow that blew apart the remnants of the wagon he was using as cover. He loosed an arrow back, and the Drake cursed as an arrow thunked into the tower they were standing on. Bird loosed a trio of arrows one after another, and an arrow flashed past him—then turned towards him.
“Ow.”
He stared down at the arrow in his side. Then Bird yanked it out a moment before it exploded.
Bleeding, the [Hunter] looked around.
[Revalantor]. [Hunter]. [Liar]. He shot arrows back at the Drake. One, two, three, four, five, six—the Drake took cover, but now other [Archers] had his position.
“Ow. Ow. That one didn’t hurt.”
Bird was struck by three more arrows. He looked up as one of his arrows struck a Drake in the throat. Bird loosed one more arrow, then dove as another enchanted arrow blew apart his position. The Drakes grabbed enchanted arrows as the Antinium got up groggily. One more—
“Incoming!”
A scream. The lead [Sniper] looked around—then straight up. A Wyvern, an arrow through one eye, crashed down on her position. The Drake leapt out of the way, scrambled up, and Bird shot her through the neck.
Then he put a hand to his side.
“I’m hurt.”
A Gnoll of Az’muzarre put a Dragonbone bow up, and Bird loosed an arrow at the Gnoll. He saw the reply coming his way; an arrow that spiraled through the air, but with such force it left a trail of wind. It blew past him and hit Weatherfur [Archers].
“Uh oh.”
Bird and the Gnoll drew an arrow at the same time—then an arrow sprouted from the Gnoll’s arm. The Gnoll cursed, and Bird loosed a second arrow. The Gnoll skipped out of the way—straight into a third arrow that went through the side of their head.
Perfect shooting. How…? It was as if Bird’s thoughts were being mirrored. He had just thought he needed to shoot the Gnoll in the arm, but he only had one arrow. Someone had…
Heard him.
Bird looked around. The Crimson Soldier’s antennae were twitching wildly as he turned to Bird. 1st Battalion looked around, and one of the [Archers] gazed at Bird. That shot had almost been as perfect as his. Of course—Bird saw how easy it was to calculate wind, distance, movement—but he had never been able to explain that.
It was almost like…
Bird heard a voice in his head. Then he heard a babble of voices.
 
“We are the Beriad. Stand and fight…”
“We will not return home.”
“Protect Mrsha. Save the sky.”
“Spells from the sky. Dodge—dodge!”
 
As if each voice were right next to him. As if he could tell there was a [Fireball]…Bird looked around. And it was all centered on him. As if he were thinking too loud. Or coordinating it. Or…
The [Revalantor] heard a soft voice in his head. Something Erin Solstice had once heard.
 
[Skill – Unitasis Network learned.]
 
“Uh oh.”
The Antinium reacted as one to the Skill. Suddenly—Crusader 53 felt as though he had a dozen eyes which told him when someone was attacking him. A Worker lifted a bow and shot an arrow two hundred feet and hit an Oldblood on the wing.
The Beriad looked at The Crimson Soldier and suddenly knew exactly how to hit their opponents. They…were linked.
They were True Antinium?
The thought was so surprising that everyone looked up. Then the Antinium saw a figure descend as [Soldiers] of Zeres pointed up. A mouth spat acid, another poison. Half a dozen limbs scythed through the Drakes.
Wrymvr the Deathless landed in Zeres’ army, and a second Centenium leapt off his back. They fell out of a portal in the sky, and a Centenium, jerking, half her head missing, watched them leap across Izril.
Xrn, the Small Queen, threw Klbkch and Wrymvr into the battle. The two Antinium descended into the fighting, one screaming and singing with joy.
The other silent, blades flashing a silver trail through Drakes. Klbkch the Slayer landed in front of Bird. The Worker wavered as Klbkch appeared.
“What is that thing? Aaah! Aaaaah! I can hear it thinking!”
He pointed at Wrymvr, and Klbkch gazed down at Bird.
“You can create a Unitasis Network?”
Both he and Wrymvr gazed at Bird. The Worker hesitated.
“N-no? I can’t hear people thinking and never have been able to. No. Not at all.”
Klbkch wavered a moment, then he vanished. He slashed through a Drake aiming a wand at Bird and almost seemed to teleport back.
“Antinium. Rally to me. Queens—we are in combat. Unitasis Network activated. My Queens—”
And then a voice spoke in Bird’s head. He felt an invisible presence reach out wonderingly and touch him.
“We are present. This is impossible—we must investigate—”
A babble of voices. Bird caught an image of an unfamiliar Queen—but he knew her now. The Grand Queen, frightened, angry that the three Centenium had defied her orders. Fearing this might mean that she was irrev—
Then a presence as steady as a rock, filled with hope and determination, permeated through his being. Bird saw the battlefield change in front of him, and he understood—the Drakes were threatening to overrun 1st Battalion. They had to move—
And they did. As one, the Antinium surged left, and a hundred warriors found themselves heading back, linking up to support 6th Battalion. Sharing their thoughts. Sharing…
Skills?
“Armored Queen. Joining the Unitasis Network. [Linked Skill: Massed Strikes] activated.”
“Silent Queen. Providing stealth. Irregulars moving. [Linked Skill: Combat Vanish] activated.”
And then he heard the other voices, taking command, directing them to fight together. The Flying Queen, rejoicing in awe, the Grand Queen sulkily adding her abilities, and the Twisted Queen laughing in her mind. And the Free Queen was whispering in his mind.
“That Drake.”
Bird turned and saw her mark one. The incredulous Drakes saw the two battalions turn. Then the individual [Crusaders] were fighting with faith on their side like one force. Like a vision…
Of True Antinium.
Klbkch focused on that moment only for a second. The dream he had waited two decades to achieve was becoming a reality before his eyes at last, but he looked around for someone else. The Gecko of Liscor stopped on the battlefield and called out, and Klbkch raised one blade high. The two friends looked for her, and Relc pointed. Klbkch whispered quietly.
“Erin.”
Then he plunged into the battlefield, blades whirling. The Slayer, to remind the Drakes of Izril why they knew his name.
 
——
 
Chaos. That was what Belavierr was drawing upon. She was giggling, but also speaking. Negotiating with the rasping Raskghar.
However—even she could see that danger was coming her way. The Gnolls were one thing. The Drake with the alchemy bottles another.
But who was that?
“A…ghost?”
The [Witch] turned as a ghost possessing a body raced through the army. She flicked her fingers to block a shower of spells.
“Belavierr, enough!”
Az’kerash raged in her ears, but the [Witch] saw no reason to relent. She was gaining what she desired.
“Sacrifice. Pay me my fee, Raskghar. I have been the enemy of Roshal. There is no chain I cannot break. Pay me and I will give you what you want.”
She breathed, and in her cage, beaten, but grinning with dreadful hope, Nokha growled.
“Safe place. For me. My Raskghar. Take payment from them.”
“Interesting. Then give me eight. Willingly. For eight years. Or give me your gift. Or give me something else.”
A grin on Belavierr’s face. Gnolls heard her speaking and tried to stop her, but she was proof against lesser weapons. Nokha growled.
“Not me. Eight…eight. You!”
They were arguing. Belavierr rolled her eyes as she listened to the Raskghar arguing. She ignored the arrows striking her. The [Witch] frowned only when she sensed…something coming for her. A real foe. She glanced around then gazed at a strange being.
“What is…that?”
Wrymvr the Deathless roared as he rampaged through the Drakes. As odd as…Belavierr twisted her neck left, right, unnaturally far, and then halfway around. The cracking of her bones and tendons made the air pop.
“Eight! Eight! Do now!”
“Ah, we have an accord.”
The [Witch] went back to business. She beamed as she snapped her fingers.
“Stop her! Don’t let her free the Raskghar!”
A howling Gnoll screamed. Chieftain Torishi was burning with the radiance of the sun. She lifted an axe as Belavierr turned. Just weather magic. But the light…Belavierr threw up a hand, shading her eyes. Maviola, clinging to her dress, moaned.
“Mother, the light hurts.”
“It is a stronger Gnoll. Don’t worry. Raskghar. Be free.”
She smiled. The Stitch Witch lifted a hand, and the caged Raskghar howled. Gnolls charged towards them, but a pit opened in the ground.
They fell. Straight down. Through earth and stone, their cages vanishing. Down, down, down…
Towards a city in the deep. Belavierr smiled. Then the smile vanished as a ray of light struck her in the chest. It seared a brand across her face, and she recoiled.
Pain, real pain, struck her. The Stitch Witch looked up, and Chieftain Torishi howled. The air exploded as Saliss tossed more potions, and Belavierr gathered Maviola to her dress.
“This…is growing dangerous. Maviola, go home.”
She pressed her daughter against her dress, and the undead child vanished. Then Belavierr’s head rose. Her eyes fixed on Torishi, and the Chieftain looked at the Witch of Webs. Belavierr pointed once.
“Begone, Gnoll.”
“Torishi!”
Garsine Wallbreaker lunged for Torishi, but too late. Fast as a thought, the ground opened up into a circle ten feet across, and Torishi and her bodyguard dropped. Straight down. The Gnoll cried out once. And then she was falling…falling.
Torishi Weatherfur dropped into the earth as Feshi screamed. Belavierr laughed and laughed as the air exploded with magic. She looked for the little white Gnoll.
Do you regret it now? She spread her arms. The [Witch] waited as Gnolls fell back, howling. Daring them to slay her. Xherw stood in her shadow, the Daemon bound. Only when she heard the curious call from afar and smelled salt, felt the dry winds of another continent on her face did Belavierr hesitate. She looked up and saw a ship sailing up a river in the distance. Belavierr hesitated. Spoke one word.
“Khelt?”
 
——
 
An age to ride across Chandrar. An age to cross the sea. Lastly, an age to sail as far up the river inlets as possible.
The King of Khelt had covered the distance by magic and Skill and desperation. Still he whispered as he stood on the decks of Sand at Sea.
“I am sorry for taking so long.”
Eighteen warships were running ashore on the Great Plains; some had already been grounded despite Rasea’s wave and the waters they were conjuring to sail upriver. Undead poured from the vessels, leaping to the ground, as Serept’s half-Giants, the other Revenants, and the living held back.
The ground they landed on was filled with ruined grass. Across from them, Fetohep could see the army of Zeres marching on the Gnolls.
The ships should have run aground long ago, but they had sailed closer to the Meeting of Tribes than even Rasea thought possible.
The tide had come in. Armored boots and skeletons splashed down into shallow water as the First Tide ran from Zeres, carried by their army. The waters lapped against the line of Antinium. A wave of Drakes, but not an unbreakable one.
“We must halt their advance or they will engulf the Gnolls.”
Doubte took one look at the battlefield and saw the Antinium and Gnolls holding back that army like sand before a tidal wave. Oteslia was skirmishing on Zeres’ side, but they were poised to break the entire Meeting of Tribes from the south.
Each second counted, but Fetohep’s knowledge of the Drakes made him hold off on a charge. Indeed, even on the warship, Fetohep raised a hand as the King of Destruction made ready to be the first to charge Zeres.
The City of Waves and the City of War were turning to this new threat, but Fetohep called out.
“Hold! The undead of Khelt shall first go onto Izril’s shores!”
“There is no time to waste! The Gnolls are almost overrun, and I see the [Witch] of Webs in the distance! Your Majesty—”
It was the Herald of the Forests, Ierwyn, who protested with the [Knights], eyes ablaze with sympathy. She knew what it was like to see a people at their end. But Fetohep snapped back.
“The living will join the Illuminary! This—this is a moment for only the dead. My companions. Rise.”
All the living he had gathered wavered. Who did…? Then they saw a ragged group of skeletons and torn flesh. So ancient they were almost dust. As old as Fetohep. He descended onto the ground next to an archer whose eyes burned scarlet. Strode onto Izril’s grass with a warrior who carried a sword in a sheath with only one edge.
