"Gate Lord Adam is respected, but he has only been Gate Lord for a short period of time. His ascent also came during a desperate moment. The survivors have come out of a great calamity, traumatized and worried about the future. They're still worried about the future, even now, for many of them wish to depart the Gate either through the Abyssal or surface gateways. But they didn't dare. We didn't need to watch them that closely. There have been no true rebellions during your absence."

"It's all because of one thing," Nunha added. "You. The leaders of the mercenaries and former soldiers have kept themselves in control and disciplined. And apparently, any time someone thinks about doing something unwise, your name comes up. The Deathless."

Shiv's pride swelled just a little more. "So, what, I'm some kind of nightmare for these people now? You're saying that the Gate remained under our control because they were afraid of me?"

"It's a mix between how much they fear you and how you're still willing to listen to them," Tyn answered. "The fact that you cooked for them helped substantially as well. They know you're capable of terrible things, but that you're still reasonable. There's still a way to be spared under you. And they didn't want to risk it. Perhaps if you stayed absent for longer, they might have tried a breakout or something. But for now, their weapons lie far from their hands. We let them keep their armor, and we kept a close eye on their mages, but so far they remain under control. Though I do think you should make a visit to the Prisoner's Compound. A great many of them still wish to leave."

"I'll do that in a while, when all my other stuff is dealt with," Shiv grunted. "I think I'm gonna go inside and see what Adam and the others are up to now."

"They should be up at the top of the tower," Tyn said. "Null Mont is there too."

"Even though she shouldn't be," Nunha muttered.

Shiv eyed both of the guards once more, and his Gardener of Doubt Skill triggered. There was something they didn't want to tell him. Something that was being withheld.

Gardener of Doubt: Don't say anything for a second. Just stare at them. See if they crack and offer you any more information.

He did just that. He folded his arms and focused his gaze on Nunha. Both of the Umbral Guards swallowed several times and began to visibly sweat as they tried not to meet his eyes. Nunha held up surprisingly well under the pressure, so he moved on to Tyn instead. They both pulsed with doubt at the same time.

The more anxious of the two guards folded. "Is… is there a problem, Cherished Deathless?" Tyn muttered.

Shiv nodded. "There might be. Anything else you want to tell me? If so, I'm all ears. I won't bite your head off."

"Just ask him," Nunha hissed.

Gardener of Doubt 67 > 68

Tyn cringed and glared at her fellow guard. "Then why don't you ask him? You're the one that has that doll."

"It's not a doll! It's a limited edition statuette of a Legendary icon," Nunha shot back. "Dolls are for children. I am a collector. I—"

She trailed off, and her pale face turned several shades of red as she realized Shiv was looking at her with a wide smirk. "Oh, Composer… Alright. Please forgive me if I am overstepping, but rumors have made their way here from Weave and all across the Abyss. It is said that Sir Marikos Valdemar returned from his excursion to the surface, and that he was placed under confinement by the Semper Paragon due to ignoring superior orders, breaking the laws of the Accord, breaching the Treaty of Light and Dark, and leading numerous Lances to their deaths. But despite this, he has told many a tale regarding his battle against the Vicar's rogue army.”

Nunha’s expression turned dreamy. “He claims to have fought beneath a shrouded sun—defied by the haze of war and destruction—and that the Vicar used his foul magic to conjure a Tarrasque of all things—the Undying Tarrasque that appeared in the World Quest. And he claims that he could not have bested the Tarrasque without your aid, that you are unyielding and unceasing, more monstrous than the monster, a Dragon-Knight in all but title and form."

With every sentence she spoke, the smirk on Shiv's face grew wider. He was glad to hear that Marikos had survived the battle on the surface, though he'd had his suspicions. Shiv remembered how the Legendary Dragon-Knight had appeared to have met a brutal end at the Tarrasque's hands at several points during the battle, yet returned to the fray as if uninjured shortly after each time. Apparently, even being wrung out like a wet towel and emptied of most of his insides wasn't enough to ensure his demise.

As for his current state… Yeah, no surprises there. He told me about all the rules and orders he ignored during the battle himself. Definitely appreciated his help, but it probably wasn't the smartest course of action on his side.

The Vicar had ultimately been killed as a result of the battle that took place across Lost Angeles, if only indirectly, but now Marikos was facing his own form of punishment for breaking both the Accord of the Five Faiths and the treaty between them and the surface by going up to the surface without authorization.

Though it also seemed like Marikos wasn't in dour spirits, seeing how he'd decided to spread boasts of their victory over the Tarrasque—something that didn't actually happen—and also elevate Shiv's name and legend along with it.

Nunha swallowed. "He says you fought so fiercely that even the System itself grew fearful of you, and that the surfacer Gods decided to Curse you as a union, creating the Hidden World Quest to see you destroyed before you surpassed them all in power."
