Princess huffed, and he climbed up in the saddle.

“Let's go!” Ren said, she took off at her fastest speed with him riding her, and Teepo chittered in delight.

*

There he goes. Nathalia thought as she felt Ren pass by. I wonder if I should tell them he's coming? She handed another cooked dish to one of the servers, and smiled. No, I think I'll let it be a surprise.

*

It took Ren just under and hour to ride Princess to the warehouse, and Princess gobbled up most of the french toast and syrup during the trip.

“You don't have to stop so much, you know.” Ren said with a grin when he climbed down from her saddle at the warehouse. “I know you can last longer than that.”

Heavy weight today...

Ren felt her trying to hide her amusement. “I've still got a couple of slices left for you; but you aren't getting them until I come back, all right?”

Princess huffed, and he led her inside the warehouse.

“I shouldn't be too long; but, you know how these things go. I could be ten minutes, or I could be 2 hours.”

Will wait... Princess thought to him. Tasty food worth it...

Ren laughed, pat her neck, and ran up the stairs.

“See you on the other side.” Teepo said, and dissolved into the ring. Ren opened the cabinet that surrounded the portal, then thought of something he'd forgotten. He took out one of the brooches he'd made a while ago, enchanted it with the Spider Aura, then stored it and stepped through the portal. He opened the cabinet on the other side, stepped out, and secured it.

“Finally.” A woman's voice said, and Ren grinned as he turned around to see Elerlyth standing in the bedroom doorway. She still wore armor bodysuit he'd made for her; but it was tattered and torn from the attack she had suffered. Elerlyth had her arms crossed and leaned on the door jamb. “I thought you'd never get here.”

“Hello to you, too.” Ren said. “Long time no see.”

Elerlyth uncrossed her arms, took two steps forward, and punched him as hard as she could in the face.

“How could you scare me like that?” She asked him, then gripped her hand. “Ow.”

“I didn't really have much choice.” Ren said and took out a Major Healing wand. He'd lost about 5% of his Health with that shot, but otherwise didn't show any outward sign that he'd been hit at all. “I was unconscious, after all.” He said, took her hand, and healed it.

“I couldn't log in all week!” Elerlyth raised her arms in frustration. “If my ability activated, you couldn't help me with it, goddammit!”

“I can only say that I'm sorry.” Ren said, used the wand on himself to recharge his depleted Mana Pool, then stored it. “You know I'd never leave you to deal with it alone. Not on purpose, anyways.”

Elerlyth looked like she was going to try and punch him again, then her face crumbled as tears formed in her eyes, and she threw her arms around him to hug him tightly.

“Oh, Ren!” She said, loosened the hug a little, and kissed him. It was kind of awkward at first, with her a foot taller than him; but he held onto her waist and she wrapped her legs around him. With their faces close to the same height now, he stood there and held her in his arms while they kissed. A few minutes later, he had to stop their make out session.

“What... what is it?” Elerlyth asked, a little breathless. That was intense... and delicious!

“I have an appointment at the Library.” Ren said. “I need to have the Sage of Ages deliver my new book.”

Elerlyth took a breath, and let it out slowly. “All right.” She got her legs under her, and knelt. Ren let her go, and touched the side of her face.

“I'll be quick.” Ren said, and took out one of the books. “You can read some of it while I'm busy.”

Elerlyth looked at the cover, and her eyes widened. “Is... is this... you?!?”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah. Mental pictures come out really well, apparently. Even on copies.”

“H-h-hurry back.” Elerlyth said to him, but she only had eyes for the book. Ren kissed her cheek, and left the apartment. He was tempted to stop in to see Anabelle, and ask how the shop was getting along; but, he was going to be late if he didn't get to the Library within the next few minutes. Ren went down the stairs to the second level and left through the back door. Once outside, he summoned Teepo; who then appeared at his feet.

“Let's go.” Teepo said, and flew up into the air to scout ahead.
