The time passes quickly and I’m unable to convince Mila or Lin to wait behind, the former too stubborn and adventurous while the latter claims she’s safer than I am, able to leap to shore. She probably could too, she’s light as a feather when she wants to be. After warning everyone to hang tight, Jester Wang guides our barge out onto the current, the ship lurching forward with a burst of ass-clenching speed. Standing with one foot on the prow, he directs the rudder man with hand signals as he stares out over the water, while behind him, the other boats follow in our wake, this former bandit all that stands between us and death.

Sheltered from the harsh winds, Roc’s flock rides out the trip in relative safety, covered in canvas and tied down to the deck. Their harsh call is all I hear as we skip over the water at breakneck speeds, a chorus of derisive laughter heralding my incoming doom. Beneath the decks, the quins and wildcats chitter and yowl, unhappy in their cramped confines though I’d trade places with them in a heartbeat. My poor babies, I’m so sorry. I should have stayed down there with you, but Lin wanted to ride up here and I couldn’t refuse.

Fearless and ecstatic, my sweet wifey leans over the side rails with a massive grin, arms outstretched and braids flapping in the wind as I hold onto the scarf wrapped around her waist and shoulders. Nearby, her guards stand in bored relaxation, giving the impression of waiting on solid ground instead of this jarring vehicle of death and disaster. Holding my free arm, the only outward signs of Mila’s nervousness are the bruises forming on my bicep as her fingers dig deep into my flesh, her mouth set in a grim, determined line. Heart racing and legs quivering, I sit on deck with a rope tied around my waist, cringing every time the barge jolts or shudders while praying this oversized wooden bucket holds together.

No wonder no one ever found the Butcher Bay hideout. You’d have to be fucking suicidal to come here in the first place.

Trading places with Baledagh only buys me a few seconds of peace before he flees in terror, locking himself in the void and ignoring my pleas. Fighting back tears, I suffer in silence as our journey continues, the shore fading into the fog and erasing all frame of reference, only solid grey mist and churning white waters visible in every direction. Minute after minute, hour after hour, I ride this roller-coaster from hell as it cuts through the waves, twisting and turning through the rapids, sometimes even circling around before shooting ever deeper into the lake.

I want off this wild ride...

As if in response to my prayers, I hear a rumbling crash as the bottom of the barge scrapes across something hard. Everything comes to a grinding halt, and barely able to keep my seat, I pull Lin in close to keep her safe. Unable to speak, I hug my two loves one last time, cursing my greed and stupidity for consigning us all to a cold, watery grave.

Giving me a peck on the cheek, Lin’s cheery voice sounds. “Hubby, lets go. I wanna see the island.”

It takes a few seconds for her words to register, and I stand up to see solid land all around me. Nearby, the other barges appear out of the mist as the former Butchers pull them onto the beach, securing them with practised efficiency. Chuckling madly, Jester Wang raises his head high, thumps his chest and says, “See, boss? Ain’t nothing to it.”

With my shirt drenched in sweat and head dizzy with relief, it’s all I can do to keep from from strangling the smug bastard to death. ‘Ain’t nothing to it’ my ass, but I still need him for the ride back.

Then again, I could always take up a life of banditry and live here forever.

It’d almost be worth it.

Chapter Meme
