The steam from their opened shells floated upward, intermingling with the spatial fog. I walked out of the pit, my body soaking in the gore that landed on my skin. After cracking my neck, I peered around. One last insect jumped at me, and I wrenched its skull from its body in a practiced motion. I dropped the body and walked forward.

A wall of spatial fog kept the hive from expanding into the city. Walking through the mist, I held the insect's skull in my hand. As I traveled out of the haze, I found a crowded street, one that crowded near me. My large, looming form cast a shadow over many of them. They let out whispers as the evergrowing crowd evolved into a horde.

"The Harbinger."

"Marcella couldn't stop him."

"He's come."

I walked up to a manifestation of Marcella. She bit her cheek.

"You're an annoying enemy."

I smashed the skull in my hand, blood erupting in every direction. Marcella flinched. I glared at her.

"Surely your research told you that much?"

She sighed.

"Maybe, but I still have a few surefire ways of getting rid of you."

I peered around.

"And they can be used in your territory? Anything that can hurt me will wipe everyone here."

She took a breath.

"That's just it."

Marcella pulled a detonator from her hand.

"I'm not someone who gives away something I've earned. I'd rather smash it all to pieces and watch it burn than see it stolen."

A quick gravity well verified she wasn't really there. She was projecting a hologram to me. Either way, my stomach sank.

"No...You wouldn't."

An unhinged smile crept over her face.

"I would. There are thirteen nuclear bombs spread throughout Central Park. I'm sure you could run and maybe even live, but everyone here will die if you do."

I gazed at the crowd, and I wondered if this, too, was an illusion. A telepathic checkup dispelled all doubt. These people held normal thoughts and aspirations. I shook my hands in desperation.

"Are you insane? This isn't even me taking your territory. I'm asking for you to stop colluding with an enemy. Our enemy."

She furrowed her brow.

"It's only your cross that you've chosen to bear. I need my connection to Eonoth to achieve what I want, and you're getting in my way."

I peered at tens of thousands of people. Flashes from the bombings on Giess passed over my eyes.

"Alright, you win. I'll leave, and I won't come back."

She scoffed.

"If I were you, I wouldn't. I'd disable the bombs before killing me. I'm far too much of a threat to be left in power if I'm willing to do something like this. That's why I'm sorry, but I can't let that happen."

Her thumb pressed pressed the detonator. Without anytime to react, I crushed my dimension far smaller than my physical self. Portions of my body slackened, and the runes across my skin ceased glowing. All around me, several flashes erupted in all directions. Their light consumed the world, my slowed time not affecting how quickly the flashes passed over everything around me.

They carried intense, searing heat that set the forest and grass ablaze for miles in all directions. The wave of radiation scorched concrete, ignited cars, and evaporated the blood in nearby people's bodies. They exploded as paint combusted on streetlights. Glass amplified the radiance, beaming the burning rays with even greater intensity into nearby buildings.

Out of desperation, I shoved every bit of my attention and mana into creating singularities at the epicenters of the thirteen detonations. In far less than a second, thirty singularities erupted within the epicenter of the explosions, siphoning enormous amounts of the erupting forces into a dark void.

From the kinetic energy to even the outpouring of radiation, nothing escaped the singularities' event horizons. At the same time, my body melted as mana exploded through me in a heated burst. I overextended my elemental furnaces, ramping their production to their absolute extents.

They burned into mush, and even with some of the nuclear detonations devoured, portions of their explosions escaped the singularities. My attempt to protect the city wasn't enough. All would still die. To lessen the remaining energies, I generated tiny, isolated gravitational panels that diverted the kinetic force of each bomb upward.

The volumes of mana burned through the rest of my active elemental furnaces, and my body smelted down to slag. The gravitational panels siphoned portions of the erupting nuclear and singularity forces upward, along with huge bursts of air and debris. As my entire body glowed a bright, blinding blue, Marcella's eyes opened wide in slow motion.

My speed and energy output overwhelmed her imagination. I turned into a glowing molten body, like a star. Even the byproduct of my mana production caused the pavement beneath me to melt. In the end, my efforts did little. The shockwave from the nuclear bombs passed over me.

Though fragmented in certain places, they carried utter devastation in their wake. Their pulses cut through my body like blades made of absolute kinetic energy. My singularities left the explosions in a fractured state. The outward forces mirrored Swiss cheese, some of each blast eaten.

My actions never mattered. The remaining forces overlapped, leaving nothing remaining. All crumbled into a powder as a shockwave enveloped the Shattered Spires. Every skyscraper fell to the kinetic rupture as if a comet collided in the city's center. The collapse took seconds, and I disintegrated alongside the town.

As the last pieces of the buildings collapsed in the distance, the enormity of the genocide left me stunned. A paralyzing dread coursed through me. Regret, shame, and anguish bloomed in my chest. I mentally shivered as everything turned to ash around me. As if reliving my worst nightmares, all perished while only I remained.

In that absolute destruction, I become nothing, but I returned from the ether before finding buildings collapsed in the distance. My expression was as hollow as an insect caught in a spider's web. My hands quivered in shock, and I blinked as I struggled to comprehend what just happened.

Marcella did the same. She remained unharmed, and she gawked at me, her expression holding the same dread as mine. I seethed at her through a clenched jaw.

"Was it worth it? To kill so many for nothing?"

Her hands trembled before I set my gaze on her. I howled.

"Say something."

She pointed at me.

"H-How did you survive? You...You disappeared?"

Around me, I gazed at the destruction.

"That's what you care about? Not the city you destroyed? Not the people you killed?"

I howled my last words. I pointed at her and shouted.

"I'm steel surrounded by glass. If you knew anything about me, you would already know I cannot die to physical forces. Despite that, you were willing to kill hundreds of thousands. Maybe millions."

Marcella crushed the detonator in her hand.

"The times your body dropped, and you came back from the air...It wasn't teleportation or an illusion? You...You really came back from nothing?"

I shook my hands at her.

"I don't know anything about illusion magic. Gah, you are one of the most confidently stupid people I've ever met. And the destruction you sowed. This is...Huh."

I peered at the devastation around me. I found no more bodies. In the distance, certain details didn't line up. The clouds never parted from the immense explosions. After several miles, the city was unharmed. After a few more seconds of inspection, a palpable wave of relief passed over me.

My head dropped back like someone slit my throat. I let out a gasp and shook my head.

"Hah. You faked this, too, huh? Thank god. Thank Schema. Hell, thank the Old Ones."

She gulped, her trump cards running thin. I sighed.

"How did you fake the crowd's minds?"

All around me, her illusion began fading. An enormous, subterranean world came into view. Above me, the spatial mist separated this alternate space from the Shattered Spires. Beside me, a set of circular doorways stood beside a devastated cavern. The doorway defied physics. By all accounts, it should've been left as a smoldering ember, yet it withstood nuclear hellfire.

When facing the insects earlier, I had been inside a dungeon. This was a dungeon within a dungeon.

Around me, huge portions of the cavern collapsed from the detonated bombs. Everything glowed with the warmth of radiation and heat, and the dust clouds hadn't settled. A horde of insects twitched, all of them either killed or covered in flash burns. Outside of the cracking, burnt stone, the bugs let out their sounds of anguish.

Buzzing in the distance, they echoed their agony alongside their sizzling flesh. The sounds blended into a cicada-like drone, and a few rolled around in despair while letting out gurgles of pain. Before anything else, I expanded Event Horizon over them. Their suffering ended. By now, Marcella had earned a pound and a half of malice.

I glared down at her.

"So you set up a fake crowd under the Shattered Spires. If I had to guess, those entities you planted in people's heads...They pretended to be people? That's got to be a power from the Old One. And this place is a dungeon within another dungeon?"

Marcella blinked, and her hands stopped shaking. She calmed her breathing before she mouthed.

"You survived nuclear explosions. You're not human."

I smacked my forehead.

"Ugh, and you call me a simpleton. What gave it away? The fact I'm fifty feet tall or that I'm made of metal?"

Marcella stood before she chewed her lip. She seethed.

"I see you tried to save the people. How noble of you."

I raised my brow.

"And you put other people here to hold me down so that I wouldn't get outside the blast radius of nukes. You played on my empathy. Smart, though a bit ruthless for my taste. Honestly, this entire plan of yours is pretty convoluted, but it was effective."

I held up a hand.

"You had many portals layered together to disguise that single one I walked through. You then layered the portals so that I would walk from one preconstructed illusion to the next. Clever. Very clever. I can see how you stopped that mindless Seer and turned it into a bodyguard for your territory."

All around me, the last of the dying insects evaporated from Event Horizon. It stripped them of their lives and bodies alike, yet it was a mercy as the destroyed corpses coalesced into my body. I breathed out the mana like red smoke.

"But I'm not mindless. Quite the opposite, actually."

Marcella nodded.

"It would seem so."

I stood over her.

"Is this why you goaded me so much from the beginning? You distracted me so that I wouldn't have time to question your illusions. Another ploy."

Her lips quivered. I cupped my chin.

"Is this another scheme within a scheme, or are you out of tricks?"

She chewed her lip.

"So then you're immortal? Eonoth never mentioned that part in your dossier."

I burst into laughter.

"That's because I'm not."

Marcella shook her head.

"They told me you'd die if I played my cards right. I can't help but feel lied to."

I furrowed my brow.

"What? The Old Ones lied? Woah. I would never have guessed that."

Marcella rolled her fingers in her hand.

"Who are you to say I don't have extra bombs planted at different spots around New York? Maybe even Mt. Verner?"

I scoffed.

"We run checkups on nearby terrain to ensure no one sets up traps like that near my capital. Plazia's been running that operation for a while now. Aside from that, you wouldn't detonate the bombs in New York while knowing they wouldn't even slow me down. Being that insane was a bluff."

She snarled.

"You don't know me."

I nodded.

"You're right. But if you were willing to blow up New York, you wouldn't have set up this elaborate trap in the first place. In fact, this whole ruse wasn't just to trick me. It was to save the Shattered Spires if we did have a battle."

I smiled at her.

"Even though you pretend to be made of ice, it looks like you don't want to become a mass murdering, genocidal maniac. And you know what? You did destroy fifty of my elemental furnaces in the meantime, so this wasn't all meaningless. For me, that's a pretty hefty loss."

Her left eye twitched.

"Elemental Furnace?"

I frowned.

"They convert matter into energy. It's a lot like nuclear fission, actually."

She took a moment, calming herself down. After taking a deep breath, she stared at me, defiance spreading back on her face.

"Then they're how you're able to make so much mana. We'll see how many you have left."

My armor grinned, a jagged smile of metal meeting her gaze.

"They're supplementary. I produce the mana I wield on my own."

She grimaced, flashing her teeth.

"Then what? You can survive nukes, and you have limitless energy? How in the hell does that make any sense?"

I floated off the ground, stones swirling around me.

"It doesn't, but neither do your illusions. Also, don't forget that despite not knowing what I was capable of, you've chosen an all-or-nothing war against me. It's your fault now that the outcome has become certain."

Rage sparked over her face.

"Nothing is certain in this life. Nothing."

She snarled her last word. I met her eye, and I couldn't help but respect her fury. She needed to be stopped, but that didn't mean every word out of her mouth was poison. I nodded.

"That's true, but enough of this. Let's see how you handle a real fight, shall we?"

I bolted out of the dungeon, unleashing a physical calamity onto the cave and ripping past the pooling mist. Insects flattened themselves against the edge of the cavern. They kept away out of fear, having learned what facing me meant. Either that or they mistook me as the source of the nuclear explosions.

