Either way, it didn't matter the reason; they didn't get in my way as I crossed out of the cavern. I stopped my ascent, finding the walls of the spatial fog covering Central Park. The wind from my flight plumed out of the cave, billowing the mist in the distance. Finally able to orient myself, I found where I was using my minimap.

I bolted forward toward the Infinity Plaza, and I pierced the spatial fog encompassing the dungeon. Gray clouds enveloped my vision, and my skin prickled before I pierced the vale. Seconds later, I crossed several floating skyscrapers before smashing into the pavement in front of The Infinity Plaza.

When I arrived, a shockwave erupted, shattering the nearby glass on a few floating spires. People cried out as falling shards of glass fell. I raised a hand and suspended the fragments in a gravitational panel. The translucent pieces flickered about like sharpened snow. I siphoned them all together, creating a pile of broken glass that I melted. A second later, I flash-froze the pile.

I set it down, a giant sphere of cloudy glass resting in front of the old Empire State Building. Around me, people gawked in awe, terror, and annoyance. I inspected the minds here, finding them more individualized. Even their surface memories carried depth to them, something Marcella's psionic entities hadn't had.

I would've uncovered the lie in a few seconds, but Marcella hadn't given me any time to consider that possibility. She rushed me so that I made mistakes. Dwelling on those blunders, I walked forward, passing the lines of people. They made way for me as I found the entrance of the Infinity Plaza unguarded.

I flowed into the entrance and through its winding hallways. After rushing past the emptied office space, I reconstituted at the center of the Infinity Plaza's dungeon hall. An army of soldiers waited for me. They amassed an armada of weaponry, from repurposed cannons to artillery carrying crystallized mana bombs.

Many of them wore my rings or gear, likely having traded a wealth of supplies for my equipment. Their odd swords glinted in the subdued torchlight, and portals swirled behind each group of soldiers. They were open for a rapid escape. It looked like they wanted to wage a war of attrition by using guerilla tactics.

Marcella stood three floors up, her aura smothering the entire expanse. Like Lehesion's aura, Marcella's prevented my magic from piercing its viel. I still wondered how the aura did that. She held her strange blade in her hand, and unlike our previous exchanges, there was no fear or indecision in her eyes.

This was the true Marcella, and she glared like a resolved warrior. She frowned.

"We'll fight until we die, monster."

Before I could reply, the Seer crashed through the Infinity Plaza's entrance. The avatar of Etorhma brushed off bits of rock before forming a spear of his strange mana. He pointed the weapon at me.

"You walk into the lion's den willingly, Harbinger."

I glowed, the stone melting beneath me as mana stormed into my palms. The aura of Marcella shivered as my wake pressed against the force. I won the war waged under the surface, and a tint of red overcame all present. My armor smiled, and my runes shimmered. Several soldiers fell to their knees as I brandished a fist.

"I've been looking forward to a real fight."

A plume of mana from my body poisoned the air.

"Now let's have one."
