“He'll be out for a while.” Stella said. “You might as well get some sleep.”

“What if it happens again?” Elise asked.

“I'll come running again.”

Elise shook her head. “I didn't let it show, but I was so scared when he woke up screaming.” She said. “Please stay.”

“But...”

“This is a huge bed.” Elise said and put the pillows back. “There's lots of room for the both of us to watch over him.”

“Elise...”

“He'll be happy if you're close by.” Elise said and pat the bed on the other side of Ren. “Especially when he wakes up and knows you've been watching over him.”

Stella nodded and climbed onto the bed, and laid down beside Ren. Elise grabbed the blanket and slid it up to cover the three of them.

“Stella?”

“Yes?”

“I'm really glad that you were here for this.”

“So am I.” Stella said, and ran a hand through Ren's hair. “So am I.”

*

“Okay, I think I got it.” Gloria said as she finished writing up a proper simulation for fluid dynamics. She'd used her remote connection to the micro-server at Stella's place, and set up a small test area. She sent over the files she needed, since the medical simulation only had a rudimentary fluid system installed. She made sure that nothing she did would affect any of the data Stella recorded for her experiments, and laid down on her recliner with her VR headset on.

“Admin Login Start.”

********

Gloria appeared in the white loading space for administration use, and opened the operating menu. She loaded her advanced fluid dynamics system, and several mechanisms and experiments appeared in front of her.

“That jerk-off professor won't know what hit him!” Gloria said and got to work.

*

Selene, the Mistress of Dance, had worked hard during the quest her party was involved in. She'd killed more demon minions than all of the other party members combined, and had kept the Minor Demon's attention when it had finally appeared.

“My Stamina's almost gone!” Selene said as she dodged the Minor Demon's latest attempt to spear her with it's 30 foot long poleaxe. “I can't believe this is classed as a Minor Demon!”

The 40 foot tall dark red creature had 2 legs, 4 arms, 6 horns (2 of which were on it's head), and a 20 foot long tail covered in poisonous spikes. Selene couldn't describe its face, because it was shrouded in a dark mist.

“I can only imagine what a Major Demon looks like!” The brute fighter said as he ran by the Minor Demon and took a swipe at its leg, then rolled over to avoid the tail as it tried to crush him. A large sword swung down to attack the annoyance, and several arrows hit the hand that held the sword. The arrows had been enchanted with Light, or Holy magic, and the Minor Demon roared as its swing missed the brute fighter and hooked its own tail. It lost several tail spikes and hopped around in pain.

“Watch its feet!” The healer / cleric said to the brute fighter as Selene slid out of the line of fire and made her way over to him. “This is my last Energize spell for the day.” He told her, and put his hand on her forehead.

“That's all I'll need.” Selene said.

“You know, this would work a lot better if...”

“I'm not going to pray to one of the gods.” Selene said. “I don't believe in them, and I don't think they'll work any better than they do now.”

“It was just a thought.” The healer / cleric said and finished casting the spell. “Okay, go!”

Selene didn't waste any time and ran right back into the fray. “Get that scroll ready!” She said. “It's almost down to the required Health!”

“It's ready!” One of the magic users said. “Lure it over here!”

“Ha!” Selene barked a laugh. “I don't have to lure it! I just have to stop keeping it away!”

Selene had been right. As soon as they stopped distracting the Minor Demon, it ran right over towards the two magic users because it knew they were the dangerous ones that it had to get rid of. It hit the Shield spell the other magic user had cast, dropped its weapons, and stood there as it pounded its 4 fists into the Mana barrier.

“Ah, dammit!” The magic user said. “It's sucking out my Mana reserves!”

“Drink a Mana potion!” The other magic user said, then started the chant on the scroll. The containment circle they had set up started to glow, and more Light arrows hit the Minor Demon.

“Almost!” The brute fighter said. “Just a bit more!”

“Give me a boost!” Selene said to the brute fighter, who stored his sword and knelt as he held out his cupped hands. She did a small pirouette as she leaped up into the air, hit his cupped hands with a single foot, and the brute used all of his Strength to throw her into the air and stood up at the same time. Selene used the extra momentum to flip forward in the air to add extra strength to her strike, and drove both blades into the Minor Demon's eyes. It howled in pain as it pulled its head back, and it took her swords with it. Selene couldn't kick off from the Minor Demon like she had wanted to, and she fell towards the ground, helpless.

The brute fighter jumped up and caught her before she hit the Shield spell, and he landed on the ground on the other side with Selene cradled in his arms. The Minor Demon grabbed one of Selene's swords and yanked it out of its eye, and caused itself more damage. When it tried to grab the other one, the sword broke in half and the broken end stayed lodged in the mangled eye. Its clawed hand tried to dig out the the broken piece, and it slashed and clawed at its own face.

The party all received the popup that they'd achieved the desired Health loss for the containment spell to work, and the Shield spell dropped. One of the magic users tossed the small metal box into the middle of the containment circle, and when it hit the ground, the spell snapped into place. The metal box opened up, and a mystical black hole appeared inside.

The Minor Demon couldn't see; but, it howled anyways when it was caught in the black hole's pull. Its manifested body started to dissolve and be sucked into the containment spell, and it scrambled to grab onto anything that could stop its capture... to no avail. Once it was caught, there was nothing it could do to escape. After about 30 seconds, there was nothing left to the Minor Demon except for a small magically-sealed metal box.

“Yeah!” The two archers said.

“Whoo-hoooo!” One of the magic users said.

“Yes!” The other magic user said.

“Good work everyone.” The healer / cleric said.

The brute fighter and Selene hadn't said anything, and the group looked over at them. The cat-calls and whistles started soon after because they saw Selene and the brute fighter making out like there was no tomorrow.

*

Nathalia tossed and turned in bed, and couldn't get to sleep. She was tempted to use her Sleep ability on herself; but if anything came up, she wanted to be awake for it. She was pretty sure that nothing would happen, since nearly everything had settled down after Ren had left.

Both Ren and Teepo had joked that things only happened when Ren was around. Nathalia thought. It seems like they were right.

*

Tristan, the Fallen Prince, had finally managed to complete the elaborate quest he'd received months before. With the loot he'd recovered from the various assassinations and planting evidence to frame others for the crimes, he was much better off than he was before. He always enjoyed it when he could milk a quest for double or even triple the XP and monetary bonuses.

Tristan arrived at the prearranged meeting point and stood in front of an unremarkable market stall in Bore-Reale, the major city that was the capital of the Human Kingdom, where King Alamast's castle was directly in the center of. He wasn't sure why the game designers would put the castle right in the middle of the city, considering it made entry into that castle easier than entering this market stall undetected.

When the coast was clear, Tristan slipped over the counter and through the trap door, and walked through the underground tunnel to the spot he was instructed to go to.

“There you are.” A hooded figure said. His face was covered in a dark mist, so Tristan couldn't see his face; but Tristan didn't care who the guy was. He gave out the best missions with the biggest payouts, and Tristan's Infamy bonuses have boosted his level ups considerably.

“I was starting to get worried that you wouldn't complete it.”

Tristan shrugged. “If I'd known a main quest could have 8 parts to it, I might have declined your generous offer.” He said, then smiled. “It's a good thing I enjoyed it, or I'd be pissed right now.”

The hooded figure laughed. “Yes, that's why I chose you for that quest.” The voice said. “Do you have it?”

“Of course.” Tristan said, took out the shadow marker he'd recovered from Ren, and handed it over.

“Thank you.” The hooded figure said. “I declare the quest complete.”

“Thank fuck!” Tristan said and sat down to read the popups of the things he'd gained. “What a huge pain in the ass that was!” He said, then grinned at the huge increase in several of his stats and abilities.

“Here's your 5 platinum reward.” The hooded figure said and handed him the money. “I have some minor quests if you want them.”

“Sure.” Tristan said. “I'm in the main city now. I might as well have some fun while I'm here.”

The hooded figure laughed again. He didn't even have to try to convince the idiot to do his dirty work.
