Stella had called Barbara and told her where Ren was and what he was doing, and let her know that she could come there if she wanted, or she could have the night off. Barbara, surprisingly enough, decided to take the night off because Ren wasn't going to need her to watch over him.

“Are you sure?” Stella asked. “This will be the first time...”

“I'm sure.” Barbara said. “With both you and Elise there, I'm pretty sure I won't be needed.”

“Barbara, he'll always need you.” Stella said. “But, you're right. You won't have anything to watch over tonight. We didn't even bring his VR headset.”

“I assumed that.” Barbara said and chuckled. “I wonder what he'll do instead?”

Stella laughed. “Goodnight, Barbara.”

“Goodnight.” Barbara said.

Stella hung up the phone and changed into a pair of jogging pants and an over-sized t-shirt, and went to bed.

*

Ren and Elise made out for a while after having sex, and Ren felt a wave of tiredness.

“I can't believe I'm going to say this.” Ren said and smiled. “Elise, stop kissing me and go to sleep.”

Elise laughed, and kissed him again. “I guess that's a reasonable request.” She said. “It's pretty late.”

Ren stroked the side of her face. “I am so glad you chose me.”

“I'm so glad you let me.” Elise said and ran her hand through his hair. They kissed once more, and Elise pulled the blanket up to cover them. She laid back and Ren cuddled in, and she wrapped an arm around him.

“Goodnight, beautiful.” Ren said.

“Goodnight, handsome.” Elise said.

“I love you.” Ren said, his heart and mind at ease.

“I love you, too.” Elise said. Her heart full of joy and happiness and eventually Ren drifted off to sleep as he held onto someone that he loved. He didn't really understand that Elise's initial love, her blind obsession over him, had changed because of something she never thought she'd ever experience. The object of her obsession actually loved her back. A tear came to her eye, and she wiped it away.

“I really do love you.” Elise whispered, and gently kissed his forehead.

*

Max, the head programmer, was ecstatic when his boss Edward Torren, told him that the players themselves couldn't access the portals to the pocket realms. Once he knew that, it had been child's play to add a few lines of code to ensure that Ren wouldn't be trapped inside another one. He went home with his mind at ease, that there wouldn't be another incident like this.

*

Gloria had just come home after a long shift at the garage, and took a shower. When she came out, she had to keep working on her class project for that idiot professor that always picked on her. He'd assigned her the worst fluid dynamics problem that he could think of, then told her that when she solved it, she was to build it for him.

“Ugh!” Gloria said as she sat down to try and work out the math again. “This is the stupidest problem I've ever seen! This would never come up in real life!”

Gloria stopped ranting because she had thought of something. She looked over at her VR headset and smiled.

*

Sera Loris, or Selene, the Mistress of Dance in the game, sat in her room and stared at the large screen. She'd finally made herself watch the show that she believed was stolen from her. There were 3 episodes so far, and she watched each of them direct from the television station's website. She'd paid the member fee to skip the commercials, and didn't speak at all as she watched Onscreen Ren struggle and fight to complete his tasks.

When the third episode finished, Sera went to her bar fridge and grabbed a sport drink. She guzzled it down and finished it, and tossed the empty bottle into the recycle bin beside the fridge. She dabbed her mouth with a napkin and tossed it into the trash, then went back and sat down again. She picked up the piece of paper she'd received from her contact at the television station, and looked at the viewership breakdown for all three episodes.

“Damn.” Sera said, finally. “I have to agree with it.” She sighed. “I fit right into their target demographic, and I liked the show.” She admitted. “I liked it a lot.”

She turned everything off and went into her VR room. She looked at the setup she had, and wondered what Ren used to make such a great show.

“I don't know how he did it.” Sera said as she picked up her VR headset and laid down on her custom-made recliner and put it on. “If I knew the secret, maybe... just maybe... I'll be able to become famous, too.”

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Selene woke up in her house, and got off the bed. She'd spent a lot of gold to have one of the nicest houses in the large port city of Braddock. She'd left the starter city of Aurora, believing if she had a different background for her filming, it would drum up more interest from the television studio. She had worked her way across the Human Kingdom, did all of the quests she could along the way, and ended up staying in Braddock after the most difficult quest she'd ever had.

Her party had changed several times since the Aurora fire, and she thought she had the best mix of fighters and underlings. She had watched her last attempt at making a pilot episode, and thought it had the right balance of excitement and story; but, she'd not received any kind of response after sending it in.

Selene left her house and walked over to her new party's meeting place, and everyone was there. They had a brute fighter, her for finesse and precise strikes, two archers with both crossbows and long bows for short and long range, two magic users, and a dedicated healer / cleric.

“There she is.” The brute fighter said. “You're lucky. We were just going to leave without you.”

Selene smiled sweetly at him. “Don't kid yourself. You'd never survive without me to back you up.”

“I did just fine without you before.” The brute fighter said.

“That's because you kept yourself limited to the minor quests until I came along.” Selene said and equipped the two swords Ren had given her. They were still sharp, despite not having them repaired in so long; but their durability was down to about half, and she wasn't sure if she wanted to take the chance of having someone else fix them or take them back to Aurora and have Ren fix them. I really should message him about it.

“How many major quests have we done now? 6? 8?” One of the archers asked.

“12.” The healer / cleric said. “I am so glad they become available every week. We'll have another chance at that minor demon tonight.”

“Hey, it's not my fault the containment spell scroll failed.” One of the magic users said. “I've already got the replacement scroll from the guy.” He said. “He was gonna charge me for it, too!”

The other magic user laughed. “After we threatened to give him permanent boils, he apologized for giving us a bad scroll and changed his mind.”

“So, is that it?” The other archer said. “We've got all the things we need?”

They all agreed and left the meeting place to head out to the site of the quest and activated it.

“It's time to rock and roll!” The brute fighter said as the portal opened, and the first 10 of the 100 demonic minions leaped out of it to attack them.

*

Lara, the Sage of Ages, wondered where Ren was. She'd sent him a message as soon as she got into the game that night; but he didn't respond, so she knew he was offline. She sat in the Aurora Library and read another one of the thousands of books she had access to.

I wonder what he's doing? Lara thought. It's strange that he'd be offline like this at night. She sighed and regretted that she couldn't call him on the All-Seeing Mirror.

*

Clint and his party had arrived at the first stop, spent a bit of time relaxing and taking care of the horses, and left it soon after. At the moment, they were at the second stop and were about halfway to their destination. Billy was putting his gold coin to good use with his guilty pleasure, Jennifer.

The other members of the party enjoyed the girly show, and spent a bit more than they had intended. The girls had gotten a few new outfits, and the novelty of seeing real lingerie in the game, was too tempting for them to resist. Their brief stopover had turned into an all night thing.

*

Talon, the Shadow Weaver, was working. Lord Eddlemere had once again decided to scheme and try to undercut King Alamast's power over the Human Kingdom. It was a heavy ideal for him to try, and he'd attempted it several times already; but, now he was determined to make the King look as foolish as possible.

Word had been sent that an important dignitary would be coming to the Human Kingdom, and Lord Eddlemere wanted the King to look as incompetent as Lord Eddlemere knew he was.

“I need this to be delivered to the Ambassador's office in three days.” Talon said to the messenger. “Here's the holding and delivery fee.”

“Thank you.” The messenger said and accepted the package and the payment. “You won't regret using our service.”

Talon nodded and walked out of the business. I won't regret it, but you will. He thought, and slid into the closest shadow and disappeared.

********

Ren felt something poke him in the back and winced. He'd gotten used to the feel of the spinal tap needle, and as long as he didn't see it beforehand, he could pretend it was something else.

Like a molten hot poker. Ren thought as the needle dug into the bone. He'd suffered this enough that he expected it to hurt a lot less; but, it almost always felt just as bad or worse. I swear, they are trying to intentionally hurt me. He thought after one particularly strong jab.

“He's not reacting like he's supposed to.” A male voice said. “I thought you said he would...”

“He's developed a high pain tolerance.” Ren's mother said. “It takes a lot to cause him real pain.”

“Then hurry up and do it.” The male voice said. “I'm not paying to see mediocre results.”

Ren's mother nodded, and switched from the needle to the drill. She pulled the trigger a couple of times, and Ren's whole body twitched at the sounds.

“That's better.” The male voice said. “Proceed.”

The drill dug into Ren's bone and he probably could have taken it; but, the edge of the drill bit snagged the edge of the incision. It tore into his skin and he screamed loudly from the pain.

*

“AahhhhHHH!” Ren yelled as he woke up, and gripped the closed thing to him. Elise. She woke up instantly at his yell and held onto him.

“Shh! It's okay.” Elise said. His grip is so strong! She thought as she consoled him. “It was just a nightmare. It wasn't real.”

Tears were in Ren's eyes as he sobbed. “It wasn't a dream.” He said, because he could still feel his back as it spasmed. “It was a memory.”

“Oh, Ren.” Elise said, and wiped off his face. Stella ran into the room and came over to the bed.

“What happened?”

“M-m-memory.” Ren said, and took shallow breaths. “My... my back...”

Stella pulled the blanket off of them and checked his back, and saw a small muscle there was knotted up pretty bad. “You've got a severely contracted muscle here.” She said. “Elise, move the pillows out of the way.”

Elise moved them, and Stella turned Ren onto his stomach.

“This is going to hurt.” Stella said to Ren.

“I don't care.” Ren said. “Just do it.”

Stella nodded and started to massage the muscles around the affected muscle and she could feel Ren trying to stay still. When she thought she had relaxed the surrounding area, she dug her thumbs into the contracted muscle.

“AahhhHH!” Ren yelled. “Goddammit!”

Stella kept working the muscle out and it eventually relaxed, then Ren gave a long sigh.

“By the gods.” Ren said. “Stella, please tell me you've got...”

“I do.” Stella said and went to the bathroom, and came back with some muscle cream and some painkillers. “Elise, can you rub this on him while I prep his medication?”

“Sure.” Elise said and took the tube of cream, put some on the tips of her fingers, and rubbed the spot where the muscle was. Stella made a small supplement shake and added the painkillers. It was only a small dose, but it was strong and had to be administered carefully.

“How much of this should I...” Elise started to say.

“Cover the area and rub it in gently.” Stella said and put a straw in the cup. “Ren, drink this.”

“Thanks.” Ren took a sip and sighed. “Both of you.” He said and took another sip. “Oh, that... that's good.” He said as Elise rubbed his back. “Uhhhhh.” He moaned as Elise got a good rhythm going.

“Keep drinking.” Stella said.

“R-right.” Ren said and took a sip. The muscles in his back relaxed a few minutes later, and Ren's whole body went limp as he finished the supplement and Stella took the cup from him.

“If it didn't hurt so much at first, I could probably get used to this treatment.” Ren said and chuckled.

“Can you tell us what happened?” Elise asked.

“Well, it was like this...” Ren said and explained what he remembered.

“Oh, Ren.” Elise said. “I'm so sorry you went through that.”

“Me, too.” Ren said, then looked at her and then Stella. “On the bright side, if I didn't go through that, I never would have met either of you.”

Stella shook her head. “I'm not going to ask you if it was worth it.”

“That's because you know what... the answer... is.” Ren said and smiled sleepily. “I'm... really tired.” He said and closed his eyes, then fell asleep.

“Is he okay?” Elise asked. “That was a strong memory to go through.”

Stella sighed. “I don't know.” She said. “He hasn't had something like this happen in a while.”

“You keep track?”

“We have to.” Stella said and took out her phone, and wrote out a note to add it and the details to the chart. “It lets us gauge when the next one might occur, and possibly how severe it'll be.” She looked at Ren. “This was the first time for one like this, though.”

“Do you think it was...”

“All the time that his mind spent playing the game?” Stella asked.

Elise nodded.

“It's possible that was the trigger.”

“What can we do?” Elise asked.

“What we just did.” Stella said. “The other nurses and I tried a few other things before, but...”

“You didn't want to bring too much attention to it.” Elise said.

Stella nodded. “If we treat it like it's a normal everyday occurrence, it becomes a normal everyday occurrence.”

“You mean that it stops him from worrying about it?”

“Exactly.” Stella said. “Our job is to take care of him. Removing his worries and making his life easier keeps him emotionally healthy.”

Elise ran her hand through Ren's hair and listened to his breathing. It was nice and even, and she placed a kiss on his cheek.

