“He guessed the problem correctly, so talking in front of the Royal Consort shouldn't bother you.” Lylyth said. “Plus, in case you hadn't noticed, he didn't kill you immediately for corrupting the High Elves.”

The three Dark Elves looked at Ren and saw his slightly amused expression, then looked back at their Queen.

“He is an Adventurer.”

“Yes, he is.”

“But... shouldn't he...”

“...try to stop you?” Ren asked, and everyone looked at him. “I've decided to try and not interfere when I'm not needed.” He explained. “I've done it a few times already and messed things up, so now I'm kind of an observer... until I do see something that I need to interfere in.”

The Dark Elf sighed. “I don't want to discuss corrupting the females-URK!”

Ren had instantly appeared in mid-air in front of the Dark Elf, grabbed him by the throat, and lifted him up. “I will strip the flesh from your bones if you violated them.” He growled in the Dark Elf's face.

“Royal Consort.” Lylyth said sternly. Ren turned to look at her, and his eyes were blood red. She shivered internally from pleasure at the sight. “If you mean sexually and without their permission, they did not.”

Ren's eyes went back to their normal silvery-blue color and he let the Dark Elf go. “Then what does he mean?”

“We use various spells to corrupt and change them, to make them more receptive to our ways, then use both visual and physical stimuli to reinforce their conversion.” One of the other Dark Elves said. The one Ren had choked was still coughing and rubbing his neck. “When we are so far along, we introduce some sexual stimuli; but, they must choose it, or the conversion won't work.”

Ren turned and looked at him. “Has anyone done that when the spells wouldn't work?”

The Dark Elf glanced at the one Ren had choked, and Ren picked him up again.

“Have you groped and played with one of the High Elves without asking her permission first?” Ren asked.

The Dark Elf looked at his Queen, then back at Ren. “I don't see how-URK!”

“Take me to her, now.” Ren said as he squeezed the Dark Elf's throat.

“Ren.” Lylyth said, just as sternly.

“I won't kill him.” Ren said and cast Minor Healing on him. “I'll leave that for his victim.”

The two remaining Dark Elves looked at each other and at their Queen. She shrugged and motioned to the door. The Dark Elves walked around Ren and their fruitlessly struggling fellow and opened the door, then they all left the room to go to the place the captives were being held.
