Shapers often flew around campus at heights that he now knew were low enough to keep them from getting in trouble for flying without a license. This one was drifting past on a compressed disc of soil, with a passenger. Alden recognized them after only a couple of seconds.

Maricel. And Marsha?

He hadn’t caught more than a glimpse of Maricel Alcantara over the past days, not in person at least. He’d seen more of her on the news, though, usually accompanied by Fragment and doing clean-up work. When he’d passed through the Garden Hall common area earlier, the television had been turned to a channel that was showing a clip of her meeting with her whole family at a magic conference table that made it look like they were all sitting together in the same room instead of being a world apart.

He’d watched briefly while they talked about how proud they were of her. It had looked like a heart-warming, happy meeting, but the careful orchestration of it made it feel just a little off. Now there she was, focused on her shaping to keep her dirt compressed and aloft, both hands in motion while Marsha stood beside her chatting cheerfully. Alden thought he caught the phrase, “more like Superlatives finally!”

But whatever it was Marsha was comparing to the school’s S-rank club, he didn’t know.

Thinking it might be good to catch up to Maricel and talk to her for a minute, just to resolve lingering worries for both of them, he sped up. He intended to catch her before she went into the dorm. Hopefully apart from Marsha.

She’d probably like to know that I’m not going to contradict the image that’s being built for her, right? And I’d like to make sure my name doesn’t come up in some half-truth connected to Jacob and the other people on that boat.

Even Maricel saying something honest like, ‘And when I found out Jacob was running away, the only person I told other than the teachers and SkySea was Alden Thorn,’ in an interview could land him somewhere even weirder than he was now. He seriously disliked the idea of being rebranded as a model globie who encouraged other new Avowed to love Anesidora as much as he did, for the good of humanity, superhumanity, and peace on Earth. That seemed to be the direction they were going with Maricel’s protective, or corrective, new image.

It doesn’t seem that likely to happen since nobody has pushed me that way yet. Being Thanksgiving Guy and General Esh-erdi’s Favorite Commended Moon Rabbit probably makes it hard to slap another label on me, right?

But being Mr. Good and Lawful Globie Citizen would be a problem. Mainly because he didn’t think the right way to fit into that mold.

Lying about it would be…and not lying about it would land trouble on me.

He didn’t get a chance to talk to Maricel, though. He arrived in time to see Marsha jump off the dirt disc from two stories up and land easily on the sidewalk that led into her dorm. Before her feet hit the ground, Maricel had risen, picked up speed, and headed for Celena Circle.

Alden glanced at the nonagon parked on the roof above his room. He started to lift the finger with the ring on it, then stopped. Chasing her down wouldn’t be subtle.

He shot her a text instead, saying he’d like to talk when she wasn’t too busy. When she didn’t text back right away, he turned and went through the automatic doors. In the common area, a first year student from one of the other acceptance cycles waved at him from a table, beaming like they knew each other. Maybe we do? I met like a hundred new people during the Thanksgiving madness. They’ve blurred together.

Before he could be captured and socialized with, he waved back, leaped toward the staircase, and hurried up to his apartment. He seemed to have the place to himself, and this time block before gym was supposed to be his study hall.

During study hall, he thought, slurping the bright, acidic tea through the straw and then raising his cup to acknowledge the polar bear watching him from the end of the hall, we get to study magic.

He stepped into his room and closed the door behind him.

Alden couldn’t yet hold an enchantment and give his undivided attention to a spell he was trying to figure out, especially not if he wore the earring or if there was a risk of setting the building on fire. And his skill was pretty fatigued already. So he let the temper sphere invisibility enchantment go, by pulling it off his arm and laying it on top of his cup.

Which disappeared.

Oh. It’s better than I expected, he thought, blinking in surprise. He’d guessed it would be a very weak camouflaging effect. Definitely something worse than he’d gotten when he’d tried it out on Victor’s fuzzy ball cat toy, because that had been an appropriately-sized sphere.

But this was an improvement. The cup and the tea inside it were invisible except for the place where the words Cafe Forthright were stamped on the side. The words looked like they were floating there, and so did the top half of the yellow straw where it stuck out of the cup lid. He pulled the straw out curiously, and found that he could see his drink through the hole left in the invisible lid.

Fascinated and more excited than he had been during previous similar experiments, he watched the seconds on his interface clock tick by. At fifty, there was a discernible cup-shaped something in his hand, and by fifty-two, it was back to normal.

He stuck the straw back in and took a victory sip, thinking about why it had worked better.

He swallowed. “Transparency,” he said to the smiling wombat that stood on the cheaper of the two learning cushions in the room. “Possibly transparent containers specifically? That’s what the cup has in common with a temper sphere.”

Glassish ball that held glitter sand. Plastic cup that held tea.

“My ponchos are clear plastic. Clear plastic body containers.” A lot bigger  than a cup, though. “I wonder if temper spheres come in sizes.”

He set his cup on the desk and dropped his bag on the rolling chair. Then, he changed out of his uniform and into a t-shirt for comfort.

A System request had his spell book appearing beside the tea at the same time as his auriad slipped down his biceps, over his elbow, and across his forearm into his fingers.

“The nights on Thegund last forever,” he said, taking his place beside the stuffed animal that was the first toy his parents had bought him in Chicago, and the last.

He opened Whan-tel’s Art to his living leaf bookmark, wondered for the dozenth time if he should try rooting it in a cup of water or a pot of dirt instead of using it as a page marker, and looked down at the flashlight spell he’d modified the other night when he woke from the dream about going to fetch the car. “Bokabvs have this bioluminescent drool that helps them see each other and everything else just well enough to get by. Very weird. Good for them. I don’t have that, so …”

He held the auriad up and wove his fingers into it in the starting position. Around him, reality felt almost attentive. He thought he was imagining that, but he liked imagining it.

He, himself, stretched in a way. It was as if after a day of being quiet and staying in his spot and playing only within the rules that formed the folds and corners of his skill, he was finally moving to claim something new.

Call the memory of light toward the symbol of the lantern…carefully this time. Controlled. Focused.

“Let’s do some magic.”

******
