Aulia stared at him. “All of them. Anyone who we know was involved. At the rate this is going, I’ll have little choice but to cast blame on SAL—”

“You have the choice not to do that. After all, you’re not sure they’re to blame.”

“They’re not innocent. That was a sizable bomb they had with them.”

He fixed his attention on his cake.

“I think some of our old friends are still around,” she continued, “waiting to see if the latest generation is going to be useful enough to them for them to kick off a war between humans and Avowed.”

“So you’re going to poke them in the eye? Make sure you get the first strike in?” Elias shook his head. “I wish I could persuade you to slow down, Aulia.”

“You’re one to talk. I remember when—”

“It’s been half a lifetime and then some,” he interrupted, “since I learned to let go of ambitions that might destroy what I’ve already built and what I love.”

She looked away from him and stood, going over to peer through a gap in the curtains toward the square.

After a while, she said, “I hear them all effervescing about what you’ve built here. ‘Oh, the Informant is someone even the Artonans turn to for help! His Infogear came through for us even when the System couldn’t.’”

“I’m getting more credit than I should for that. Cutting nonessential communication was such an exciting decision for it to make. It threw an unexpected wrench in the works for any schemes that might have relied on its services, altered everyone’s behavior, reduced the number of authority figures trying to weigh in…”

“And forced everyone to feed you more words about the trouble.” Aulia’s eyes were on the fountain.

Behind her, still on the sofa, Elias shrugged. “Violating the privacy of millions of humans and Avowed to help the Artonans investigate would have been very expensive for the System. If it had to do it by itself. So it created a scenario that provided plenty of intel to a much cheaper source. Do you know how many times someone said the word Matadero within reach of one of my keys that night? How many people specifically asked what had happened there through Infogear? I’ve never gotten such crystal clear reception for a targeted question before. Just between the two of us, I’ve got a complete recording of what was said in the Oval Office during the first ten minutes I spent scanning.”

“Good for you.”

“Thank you. But I still haven’t found satisfactory answers, and the information grows more muddled every day.”

Aulia walked back over to join him. “Use your skill. Let me talk to some members of SAL—whoever was in contact with the captain. I know you must know who that was by now.”

“That’s a waste of my time and yours,” Elias replied. “I activate the keys. I make a phantasm of some unregistered Avowed for you to talk to…and whatever they tell you might be true or not. The flip of a coin. Remember, I’m not widespread beyond Anesidora. Any unregistered smart enough to arrange for your own great-grandson to steal from you is smart enough not to be around Infogear unless they’re trying to get my attention or send misinformation.”

“Then let me speak to the captain of the boat and the one who killed him. The teenagers. All of them who were onboard.”

He blinked at her. “How many keys with unadulterated records of those people do you think I have left? And it’s not necessary. The Artonans interviewed the phantasms of all of them in the aftermath. And I did my own investigating. I’m much too close to burning out the keys I’ve set aside, and I might want to ask my own questions of them in the future. You can speak to the versions of them I’ve stored in M—”

“I don’t want to talk to a machine that thinks it knows how a person would behave. I want to speak to your skill, your gift, to magic.”

He set aside his half-drunk coffee and rubbed a hand over his chin, like he was considering something. Aulia’s lips tipped upwards.

“No,” Elias said.

She started to protest.

“No,” he said, “because I have very methodical approaches to talking to the phantasms. Questions are carefully planned in advance so not a single moment is wasted. You’ll ask them whatever your gut instinct and your…faith…tells you to in the moment.”

“I know you think I’m some kind of woo-woo woman,” she said after a beat.

“Yes, but you’re my favorite woo-woo woman.”

“However, I haven’t been doing badly blazing my own path forward. I’m sure you’ll agree.”

“The past year hasn’t been your finest,” he said delicately.

“Growing pains from a few family members proving more of a bother than expected. In a few years, they’ll all—”

“Laugh about it?” His voice was dry.

“Make peace with it and learn that most of their dissatisfactions are their own faults, not mine,” she said. “At least let me talk to the one who bought the Submerger. Jacob Moore. My connection to Orpheus may prompt the universe to reveal something.”

“No. And this time it’s not just because I’m saving keys for my own future use. I can tell what kind of mood you’re in, and I know you’re not asking me to use my skill through MBF—”

“I still can’t believe you changed its name.”

He shrugged. “MBF decided it didn’t like being called The All-seeker…or anything else I came up with. And unless I’m mistaken and you came today to ask me to use my skill in the normal way, then you and I have no path to an agreement about this.”

Aulia crossed her arms over her chest and sat back, staring him down. Her neutral expression was marred only by the rapid tapping of an index finger against her own elbow.

“I’m more patient than you are now,” Elias said eventually. “You might as well say what you want to instead of having a staring contest with me.”

“If you were as patient as you think, you wouldn’t have spoken first,” she said, her voice turning irritable. “Elias, that skill has been costly for you. I know that. But you used to revel in it anyway. This new ‘normal’ way isn’t normal at all. If you don’t want to be the mouthpiece, I’ll get you someone else. A human being, not a Wrightwork thing you cooked up with the help of however many Avowed it took—all of whom are too young to have ever seen you use your own keys correctly.”

“Now you’re being sadly purist. I’ve had just a few summoners in the past three decades who insisted on the original, less informative method, and they were so ancient and boring that I think you’d be embarrassed to be in their company.”

“Filter the spirits of the dead—”

“They’re not spirits.”

“—through me, then,” said Aulia, exasperated. “I consent. I will be magic’s vessel, its outlet, your muse. Surely that’s not immoral to you?”

For the first time since her arrival, he looked shocked. “It is actually. And what do you think that will gain you? How will you interview the dead if you’re the one speaking for them?”

“I’ll get a feel for who they really were. Like you used to! I’m confident in my ability to remain uninfluenced. I think I know myself well en—”

He crossed his own arms and smiled at her, but something in his eyes stopped her from continuing her attempt to convince him.

“Ask again,” he said, “and I’ll refuse to answer every information request you send my way for…I think until the newest Velra S-rank agrees to have his eye replaced. Based on what MBF has observed of him, that should be between 2054 and the end of time.”

“Lute isn’t that stubborn,” she said slowly. “He’s young. And unprepared for the reality of his position thanks to his mother.”

“Let’s see if my friend’s guess is better than your natural gut instinct about your own family. We only have to wait fourteen years. A bump on our timelines.”

The tension in the room increased until the dog whined and rose to lay his head on Elias’s knee.

Aulia watched the two of them with her jaw clenched for a minute longer, then groaned and slumped, a hand coming up to cover her eyes. “I didn’t come here to annoy you, Elias. Really, I didn’t.”

“That’s a shame,” he said, giving the dog a thorough scratch behind the ears before reaching over for his coffee cup again. “If anyone was bold enough to annoy me just for the sake of it, it would be you.”

“Some other time maybe. Today, I hoped you’d give me the answers I wanted, and then we’d sneak into a closet to screw each other silly and plot against the guards and talk about learning everything there is to know about magic.”

He laughed so explosively that the last sip of his drink almost escaped from the cup.

“Don’t laugh at me. I’ve had a couple of bad weeks.”

“Just when I’m about to tell you again to slow down and be reasonable, you remind me that I’d miss you if you did,” he said.

She let her hand slide off her face and hit the cushion she sat on. “I know it’s been a while. But you’d tell me, wouldn’t you? If you’d solved the riddle and found the way to the next stage.”

“About wizardry, I know the same things you do,” he said, “unless you’re hiding wonderful secrets.”

She shook her head.

“Then we know almost everything there is to know, Aulia. And at the same time, absolutely nothing. I prefer to focus on a subject where I have the advantage these days. Avowed talents are such fantastic things; a good skill in the hands of a good user has potential that even the Artonans can’t always anticipate. Isn’t that worth studying?”

“Yes,” she muttered. “After I’ve found a way to talk to the universe like they do.”

“You might have been born without a voice. A voice might not even be the thing you’re searching for. If the Artonans looked like foxes, mantis shrimp, or puddles of slime would you be so eager to find a sense within yourself that matched one of theirs?”

“If it would give me access to all that magic can do, I would.” She was staring up at the light fixture again. “I’ve always thought it was meant to be me. My rank, of course. My sense for magic even more so. And my position within the Palace—”

“Most knowledgeable people would consider that one a major handicap.”

“I did once. You remember. But I’ve worked my way in, and our place at the Palace will protect me when the time comes. When I finally cross the threshold. It all lines up. I’m always almost there.”

“I won’t argue with you about this. I learned better last time.”

“Who else could do it?” she asked. “My willingness to make sacrifices. All my years of striving…even if someone is out there with natural talent and power, how likely are they to have chased this as ardently as me? I’ll find it. Nobody else could be so close.”

******

******

Alden thanked Cappuccino Girl—who kept looking around the crowded coffee shop like she suspected a certain knight might have come along with him this afternoon—and accepted the iced hibiscus tea he’d ordered.

“He’s not here today,” he said as she passed him a straw. “As far as I know.”

She laughed. “Sorry. He was nice though, right. Isn’t he?”

She was speaking quietly.

“Very,” Alden agreed.

“If he comes back, I was thinking yuenyeung might be good for him. I make a great one.”

“Should I tell him you hope he comes back?”

<<No!>> God. Of course not. I meant just in case.”

“Okay.”

“Take your tea. Next customer! Not you, Rosalind, I can tell you’re just going to stare at the menu for five more minutes. Guy who always orders oat milk with caramel and hazelnut, it’s your turn.”

Alden got out of the way and headed to Garden Hall, noticing how more eyes than usual turned toward him and more whispers seemed to follow in his wake.

Nobody’s talking about my radish drop anymore, he thought. But Thanksgiving is catching a lot of mentions.

More than it should have been maybe. He’d left the nonagon parked at the dorm, hoping that walking around with everyone else would be a blendy thing to do. Especially since the campus was a sea of school uniforms now.

But people he didn’t recognize at all kept coming up to him to say, “Hey, it’s you! How about that…Thanksgiving? Great holiday. Welcome to Celena North!”

Most of them didn’t mention the commendation at all. The few who did, inevitably said something that made him mildly uncomfortable, but it wasn’t like they were being terrible. Nobody’s been too rude. There’s just a lot of badly disguised curiosity. Maybe I should stop being surprised most people have self-control in person. Real life isn’t as bad as the internet, thankfully.

To keep himself from watching all the people who were watching him, he focused on his preserved burden.

Sorry, Vandy, he thought, peeking at the edge of a golden spiral of enchantment that was just visible to him if he looked under the cuff of his jacket sleeve. He’d pulled it from a temper sphere he’d gotten Bobby to entrust to him before leaving North of North. This isn’t one you could have spotted no matter how thoroughly you check my pockets.

He’d caught her studying him more than once during Intro to Other Worlds.

The good thing about carrying around the invisibility enchantment for the afternoon was that he could tire his skill by an appropriate amount before the start of gym class. The double preservation practice he usually did was effective, but it was too tempting, sometimes, to drop it and push for just a little more when gym was exciting. And since he’d been forewarned by Principal Saleh that they had something interesting going on today…

A shadow passing over him made him look up to see a flying platform of a different, slower kind than the nonagon.

Ground Shaper.

