Mistress Veilshade remained silent for a long moment, and right as Stella was debating throwing a dagger near her face to show she was serious, she finally answered. "There are others. Seven in total."

"What are their names?" Stella insisted.

Mistress Veilshade didn't answer straight away. Instead, she crossed her legs and eyed Stella from behind that mask of hers. "After the Crowned One's appearance, I had my Shadows dig deeply into old archives. Each one's name was mentioned in passing before a pivotal event in the Celestial Empire's history—mostly purges."

"Purges?"

"Large civil wars that resulted in most Monarchs perishing, with the reigning Chairman stepping in to pick up the broken Empire and bring it into a new age, each one different from the last," she paused. "These archives were always hunted down and burned by Empyrea agents, so many details are missing. But one constant is that the Chairman always disappeared before a purge, and one of his supposed ancestors would reappear at the end of the Civil War to pick up the pieces and reforge the Empire."

"Their names," Stella said, pointing her dagger at Mistress Veilshade. "What are they?"

"We only know four of their names," she admitted. "The Crowned One, The Burning One, The Gilded One, and finally The Hollowed One. The Mirrored One you mentioned wasn't in any of the texts, and I can only begin to guess what their names mean."

"So two are still missing," Stella said, lowering the dagger. "Next question. Where is the ball being held?"

"The location hasn't been confirmed by The Crowned One yet," Mistress Veilshade admitted. "However, we believe it will be hosted in the Grand Hall below the World Tree."

"Below?" Stella questioned. She hadn't thought to look there.

She nodded. "Besides it being the largest and grandest of the halls in Empyrea, it is also heavily warded and safe from that desolation beam the All-Seeing Eye fired to kill Faelorian."

"I see," Stella said, her jaw tightening in annoyance. Such a guarded place in enemy territory was less than ideal to stand up to her maker. "Then, my final question," she said, and Mistress Veilshade stiffened ever so slightly as Stella subtly released her bloodlust. "Will you betray this failing Empire and join the All-Seeing Eye?"

Mistress Veilshade went surprisingly silent.

Stella summoned a vial of Ashlock's cursed blood from her spatial ring, floated it over, and deposited it in Mistress Veilshade's lap. She stared down at the glass vial of black liquid as if it were a death sentence.

"You said it yourself," Stella said as she stepped away from the wall, "upon the appearance of an Ancestor, a purge of Monarchs soon follows. While your death during such a purge wouldn't be guaranteed, I can say with certainty that if you do not drink from that vial, you will be a corpse by morning."

She walked past Mistress Veilshade and paused with her back to her. She glanced over her shoulder and offered some parting words.

"Drink our god's blood, and you will be welcomed under the All-Seeing Eye not as a slave, but as a treasured Monarch. You will have access to immortality, resources beyond your wildest dreams, and stand among the strongest beings this layer of creation has ever seen. But if you don't," she shook her head and let the words hang.

"You have until sunrise, Monarch of Shadows," Stella said before vanishing into the aether.

She had an infant soul to retrieve and an underground Grand Hall to investigate.
