According to the Uniter’s information, the Rat Divinity Gang Shu was also lurking nearby, but he was even younger and more cowardly than Niu Mowang. There were plans in place to deal with him should he choose to interfere, but the truth was, no one wanted this to devolve into a battle between Divinities, least of all Hideo himself. Even he wouldn’t survive such a calamitous clash, and it would also rob him of the chance to kill Falling Rain with his own two hands, so he waited in silence until the Uniter signalled that the opposing Divinities did not intend to act. Only then did Hideo dare approach, but he did so with a smile etched across his face, for not only did he spot Dastan, Li Song, Sumila, and Du Min Yan making their way over towards his position from all across the fortress, even the dainty little half-hare Mei Lin was here, standing with hands on her hips in front of the comatose Falling Rain as if she intended to defend him.

Such a precious little thing, this adorable half-hare, with her large brown eyes and round, soft cheeks, girlish features on a woman in the springtime of her youth. Even her outfit was fetching to behold, wearing a blue silk tunic with matching trousers that were neither too tight nor overly modest in cut. A lengthy white-silk scarf sat draped about her shoulders, a vestige of outdated northern fashion no doubt, but the stark contrast in colour did much to accentuate the honeyed hue of her skin. Even more charming was how she’d wrapped the ends of her scarf around her hands and wrists, like a pugilist in a blood-sport match playing her role to darling perfection. This would make breaking her that much more delightful, but such a shame Rain wasn’t awake, else Hideo would be tempted to amuse himself with the savage runt’s wife here and now. Then again, given her uncharacteristically close relation to her powerful Divinity of a father, perhaps it wasn’t in Hideo’s best interest to test exactly how strong their familial bonds were just yet.

Pleasure would have to wait however, for there was work to be done yet. Step by step, Hideo slowly savoured the seconds as he made his way closer and closer to Falling Rain’s side, envisioning just how he would kill the runt with his bare hands. Tear him limb from limb perhaps, or rip him open from belly to chest. No, there was no point in anything so visceral, since he wasn’t even awake and wouldn’t scream, so might as well make it quick. A twist and a tug to rip his head from his spine, that would be most satisfying indeed, and Hideo would drink deep of his blood before holding the trophy up high to show everyone how their precious Legate had died.

“You’re really stupid, ya?” So upbeat and cheery in delivery, Hideo almost couldn’t believe his ears as the waifish half-hare pursed her lips in what could only be described as pity. “Didn’t even stop to think about why we’re still here, instead of out on a boat sailing back West.”

A good point, but her father be damned, for Hideo would not be spoken to in such a tone. Surging forward with a burst of Chi, he delivered a gentle backhand at the half-hare bitch, one meant to hurt, not to kill. He intended to keep her as a plaything, spoiled goods though she might be, so he couldn’t be too rough during their first meeting. That was his greatest regret, letting his excitement get the better of him and being too rough with Eri-Hime, for now he could never enjoy her a second time. This Mei Lin was similar to Eri-Hime in so many ways, with her youthful appearance and bright, bubbly personality, so she would do much to make up for past mistakes, but only if he remembered to treat her gently.

A discordant chime rang out in the silence, so cacophonous and jarring it set Hideo reeling in place and left him no choice but to abandon his strike. This chime was similar to the Uniter’s grating Sendings, an attack aimed not at the body, but at the soul itself, and he had not been prepared to receive it. Throwing up his defenses in time to counteract the second dissonant chord, he sent his Spiritual Senses out in search of the source, only to gasp in surprise as he found a hidden armada of ships drifting into the harbour under a cloak of Concealment. Even as they revealed themselves to his physical senses, Hideo already found the source of the melody, and his rage and lust soared in equal measures as he gazed upon the true prize his heart desired.

There she was, looking beautiful as the day he met her, and defiant as the day she humiliated him beyond all measure. Secretary of Office and Imperial Consort Zheng Luo had come to Meng Sha with an army of Imperial Warriors at her side, strumming her zither like a furious goddess of war and beauty. Well, well, perhaps Meng Sha would not fall so easily, but no matter. Sumila, Li Song, Du Min Yan, Mei Lin, and Zheng Luo, Hideo would capture them all and let them spend the rest of their days in disgrace and humiliation, right after killing Falling Rain.

Abandoning his plans to discipline the half-hare, Hideo set his Will to shape his Domain and strike the savage runt down. Again, Chi flowed out of his Core but this time to his Yang Ming meridian before continuing onwards through his right arm and out the Xia Lian acupoint on the blade of his hand. Instead of blossoming out like before, this time his Domain compressed down into an invisible blade that shot out with a wave of his hand, a Honed shard that would cut clean through an entire forest so long as Hideo continued feeding the working with Chi. That being said, even mundane steel could blunt the edge of his Honed Domain, but it was still more than enough to separate Falling Rain’s head from his shoulders, and more importantly, so fast even the Cloud Divinity might not be fast enough to move him out of the way, not stood far back as he was with three opposing Divinities to keep him in check. Regrettable as it was to give up on killing the savage with his bare hands, Hideo’s humility warned him against leaving anything up to chance, for surely Zheng Luo had brought enough Peak Experts to turn the tide against the Mataram Clan. Better to just kill the runt now and –

For the second time in as many seconds, Hideo gasped in surprise and shock as the willowy wisp of a half-hare reached out and shattered his Honed Domain aside with a casual backhanded slap. “Definitely stooopid,” she articulated, her childish and exasperated eye-roll so out of sorts after such an incredible display of nigh-inhuman reaction speed, to say nothing of the formidable manner with which she crushed his attack and left him no room for recourse. “And not just regular stupid either. Hubby would say you’re a really special kinda stupid, ya? Even in a coma, he managed to figure out your plans and call for reinforcements, but I think we could have won without them.”

A taunt to which Hideo had no response for as Mei Lin circulated her Chi and revealed the hidden depths of her strength. If Falling Rain was an ocean, calm and fathomless, then Mei Lin was dark, roiling thundercloud drifting over the horizon, one moving unmistakably towards him, a deceptively light and airy existence that contained the fury of the Heavens within, one eager and enthusiastic to bend itself to her Will.

Damn the Uniter for his incompetence, and damn Falling Rain for his luck. This little waif was no half-hare, but a second Ancestral Hare, one in the springtime of her youth. Such ignorance, such sin, but all was not yet lost, for Ancestral Beast though she might be, Mei Lin was not necessarily stronger than he was, for she was too young and unpracticed to have come into her full strength, and her movements contained not even the barest hint of the Forms.

Not to say this battle would be an easy one, but there was no reward without risk, and this revelation just made her all the more tempting a prize, one Hideo was determined to win at all costs.

Chapter Meme
