I sense a great disturbance in the Void, as if millions of Spectres cried out in terror and were suddenly silenced.

The darkness swells to engulf everything before me, as Zhen Shi, my Natal Soul, and the living Rune of Spectres all vanish in the blink of an eye, leaving only the silent stillness of the vacuous Void stretching out in all directions. The warm, illuminating glow I sensed earlier draws even closer, yet somehow still sits at the edge of my perception, close enough to sense it is there, yet too far to pinpoint a specific direction. The same can be said of the wrong and ugly presence emanating darkness in the distance, though it too seems closer when I rediscover its existence. Other than that, nothing else registers to my perceptions, though I have a gut feeling there’s more out there, only it’s all too well hidden for me to find. This isn’t the case with my Natal Soul however, for my connection with him has up and disappeared. One moment he was out there trading blows with Zhen Shi in the Void, and the next, he dove into the mass of writhing Spectres and just…

Died.

What in fuck just happened? I was a bee’s dick away from stepping out into the Void to launch an attack on Zhen Shi when my Natal Soul contacted me and told me to stay safe. This guy was literally caught in the clutches of our most fearsome foe and telling me to back off, like I’m the impulsive idiot who got us into this mess in the first place. The nerve of some people, but I can’t even be all that angry, because the next thing I know, he’s spewing memes while breaking free from Zhen Shi’s grasp in a veritable explosion of light and energy. I don’t know how else to describe it, or have any inkling as to how he accomplished it, being a Natal Soul with only a limited amount of Heavenly Energy at his disposal. Also, how in the hell did he manifest Peace, Tranquility, and Unity? Those are my weapons, yet I felt no connection to them as my Natal Soul took up his sword, shield, and glaive before enlarging into a gargantuan giant to do battle with the golden-robed Zhen Shi. The weapons weren’t the only thing he crafted either, for my Natal Soul was clad from head-to-toe in golden Runic Armour, ones bearing the same modifications I made during my one-on-one meeting with Gen Shi shortly after I took office. Bears on the pauldrons, a snapping turtle head on the belt, and all manner of wildcats, rabbits, laughing birds, and a single hare etched into the golden chest plate, that was how I envisioned my Runic Armour, but my Natal Soul’s armour also bore a weasel-bear, red panda, snake, and octopus to boot, meaning he intentionally added those extra details while locked in battle against an eight-hundred-year-old monster in the Void.

Brief and short-lived though their clash might have been, it was one unbound by the laws of physics, time, and space, for in the Void, it is Will which reigns supreme. That’s why Zhen Shi loves playing his little power games to foster a sense of inferiority in his foes, because it gives him an edge in a clash of pure Will, but my Natal Soul was having none of it. While I’m not the most confrontational guy around, I’ve also never been one to back down before authority, because I’m just that sort of asshole who doesn’t like being told what he can and can’t do. My Natal Soul inherited my rebellious ways, as well as my love of memes. “Unlimited Power,” was his dying declaration, and from the looks of things, he wasn’t joking around as he took the fight to his foe and forced Zhen Shi onto the defensive. Their battle took place in the blink of an eye, one in which they traded blows at the speed of thought within an arena outlined by a thin film of nothingness which somehow separated them from the writhing Spectres nearby. From my vantage point within my Natal Palace, I was barely able to perceive even one-one-thousandth of what took place during this titanic battle of Wills, but even this minute fractions of their epic struggle showcased more of the Dao than I have witnessed in the rest of my life here in this world.

So of course, me being me, I opted not to do everything I could to learn from this experience and instead felt compelled to do something, anything at all, because in my mind, I am the only one who can solve every problem ever, even when another me is already on the case.

It’s a real problem, my growing hero complex, but in my defense, it’s a sickness, one which has most of the Empire enabling it, so who’s really at fault here?

My well-meant advice has led us here, with me and Buddy standing stock still in my Natal Palace to stare out into the empty desolation of the dark Void. Though I can sense that we are not alone, I know beyond the shadow of a doubt that my Natal Soul General is dead and gone as his final Sending hits me like tonne of bricks and leaves me seeing stars. A deluge of thoughts and emotions flood through my mind and soul, similar to what I experienced earlier, only this time, the overwhelming torrent of information is all coming from one perspective. Excruciating doesn’t begin to describe it as my mind buckles beneath the pressure, as if the very fibre of my being is being stretched thin and crushed by a colossal, metaphysical weight, but the pain is the least of it. This Sending encapsulates everything my Natal Soul learned and experienced over the course of his short life, and though it will take time to process it all, what little I can glean from it sends me spiralling into a pit of shame and self-contempt.

Because the truth is, I am a coward who refuses to do what needs to be done.

So much of what my Natal Soul wanted to pass on is not new to either of us. No, these were all lessons I’d long since learned, lessons I ignored out of pride, ignorance, or fear. Everything he did out there, I could have done myself, because I’ve long since had all the pieces of this puzzle laid out before me, but I’ve been too afraid to brave the unknown and take the next step. A realization I came across some time ago, but one I did nothing about, because that would mean facing my fears head-on, something I’ve avoided doing all my life. I knew what I needed to see what comes next, and I even brought Buddy in as my Natal Guardian to help me navigate through the trials and tribulations ahead, but then I put off figuring out what that next pivotal step was because…

Well, because I was hoping I wouldn’t have to take it.

The moment I rejected the Heavens and seized authority for myself, was the moment I strayed from the Martial Path, meaning I lack even a general framework to work by. In JiangHu, I guided Rustram to follow along in my footsteps, while Li-Li has taken a step in the same general direction yet still walks her own Path. That being said, neither one of them are far enough along to offer any clues as to what awaits me next, as I, through a series of happy accidents and fortuitous circumstances, have made my way to the Peak. Not the Martial Peak, but the Peak of where my Path can take me as a mortal man, for what comes next touches upon the secrets of Divinity.

A fact which terrifies me to no end.

Guan Suo. Gang Shu. The Abbot. Mahakala. Guard Leader Hua Lie. Pong Pong. Each and every one of them shares something in common, something so many Divinities experience first-hand. They’ve all lived for centuries, possibly millennia even, and all they have to show for it is pain and regret. How many loved ones did they each leave behind? How many friends and comrades did they lose along the way? Though I fear death, it is not my death which I fear most. No, I fear losing my loved ones far more, whether it be my supportive parents, doting sister and brother-in-law, loving wives, adorable floofs, or the close friends and stalwart comrades I’ve made along the way. Guan Suo’s experience resonated with me deeply, because what use is Divinity if I just end up like him? I know what it’s like to forget the parents who raised you, because I’ve forgotten the faces of my parents from my past life, a loss which pains me in a way I am unable to describe. How can you miss that which you cannot remember? Easily enough it would seem, and the not knowing makes it just so much worse. This is a suffering you can never understand until you experience it yourself, a yearning for something you know was wonderful and fulfilling, but can’t remember at all. Imagine looking at someone and knowing you love them with all your heart, but you can’t remember their name or why they mean so much to you. Love is empty without the memories to go along with it, all the smiles and tears, hugs and arguments, and everything else in between, so the not knowing eats away at you as you close your eyes and try to remember their face, because how can you express your love to someone you don’t even recognize? No matter how well you acclimate to this pain and loss, it will always find new ways to creep up on you and present itself in new and heart-wrenching ways.

So how much worse will this pain be when I lose everyone I hold dear in this life, and live on as a Divinity without them? Exponentially, I’d imagine, which is not something I wish to experience first-hand. This is why I keep telling myself I’m ready to take the next step, only to back off with a wise-crack and pretend like it’s all too complicated for me to understand. It is, but that doesn’t mean can’t at least try to puzzle it out, yet I keep acting like it’s beyond my meagre comprehension without even really trying. All I’m doing is using my lacking understanding as an excuse to tread water while waiting for others to catch up, but I fear I can no longer put off the inevitable. They say the journey to the Martial Peak is a lonely one, because you will leave most of your friends and loved ones behind. Not physically, as you can still be with them, but as a Peak Expert, the world will set you apart from everyone else. For a Divinity, the divide is about a thousand times worse, to the point where most live out their lives under a Cloak of Concealment to hide from enemies and rivals seeking to kill them for the power contained within their flesh. That’s why those Divinities were there to see Guan Suo off, not because they wanted to pay their last respects, but because they wanted a piece of him. Literally. Whether it be to consume for Heavenly Energy, like how Mahakala strayed, or to use his corpse in other ways, like forging a Spiritual Weapon, nourishing a Spiritual Beast, or cultivating a Spiritual Plant. Maybe there are other ways to use a dead Divinity, but Ping Ping and I ruined their plans to desecrate Guan Suo’s corpse.

Which is also how Guai-Guai came into existence, created from the power contained in Guan Suo’s earthly remains and the imprint of his soul left in Ping Ping’s Natal Palace, alongside a liberal helping of Heavenly Energy and some other stuff I’m not entirely sure of. The only takeaway from that entire experience was a vague notion that Panacea was important and something about nuclear acid, which I don’t even think is a real thing. What part I played in Ping-Ping’s ascension is still a complete mystery, and I doubt I could replicate my success even if I tried a thousand times again, but even if I could, there’s something to be said about the ethics of turning dead loved ones into floofs, or even rebuilding a new body for someone I love. Guai-Guai isn’t Guan Suo, the same way Buddy isn’t really my dog from my past life. They’re cut from the same cloth, but a new and unique entity all on their own, so even if I do become powerful enough to house all my family and loved ones in my Natal Palace and create new bodies for them to inhabit, they won’t be the same people I knew in life.

The same can be said for my Natal Souls. They’re like me in almost every way imaginable, but at the end of the day, they are not me. However, this doesn’t mean their deaths don’t matter. Mahakala told me Baledagh wasn’t real, but he was wrong. Baledagh was real to me, which makes him real enough. My General, the valiant hero who battled Zhen Shi in the Void, was real, and he died to keep me safe. The smart-ass Natal Soul quoting ‘Gladiator’ was real, and he died helping Li-Li along her Path. The Natal Souls who died helping Yan, Mila, and so many of the soldiers in Meng Sha are real, and there are many more of my Natal Souls still out there, my brothers and comrades in arms, valiant Warriors one and all who are ready and willing to give up their lives in order to help secure a victory here today.

All while I sit here in my Natal Palace watching it all unfold from behind my PC, because it makes all the death and sacrifice less… real.

I know why my Natal Souls are so eager to give their lives. Because they’ve all acknowledged one simple truth, something I myself knew all along. Death is easy, because after death, your part is done. Where there is life, there is hope, but life is never easy, and I have long since grown tired of the trials and tribulations of this world. Only the love and support of my family, friends, and floofs have kept me here this long, else I would have long since re-rolled the dice and consigned myself to the next life, as evidenced by my actions in JiangHu. Without my support network, I am nothing and no one, and that, more than anything, terrifies me to no end. What use is Divinity and near-immortality if I can’t bring my loved ones along for the journey? That’s why I can’t bring myself to take the next step, because I know it is the first step on a new path which will bring me away from everyone I love and hold dear.

