And so I fight this war by proxy, taking a pound of my flesh and soul to distribute out among the Warriors of Meng Sha, not just in hopes of victory here today, but in hopes that my actions here will guide some of them closer to my side. I don’t want to live in a world without Mila, Yan, Lin-Lin, or so many other people whom I hold dear, and so I put off taking the next step until I know I’ll have someone to keep me company on my journey to the Peak. Alas, we each must walk our own Path, and it is long past time I continued along mine, a conclusion each and every one of my Natal Souls has arrived at in the moment of their deaths, which is why they all believe it is vital that they impart their experiences back to me en masse.

My Natal General, who identified so strongly with my brother Baledagh, he showed me the way forward, an option I’ve always known I’ve had but was always too afraid to take. I’m still afraid, terrified even, because I know this world is a cruel and unforgiving one even at the best of times, but I sense the Enemy stirring in the wake of Zhen Shi’s failure to utilize a living Rune of Spectres to bring down Meng Sha. There’s no more time for half-measures anymore, so now I must embark upon my Path, and embrace the consequences that come with it. Perhaps things will not turn out the way I envision, and life will find a way, but while I fear this will not be the case, I can no longer allow fear to guide my steps.

Something Charok told me so many years ago, when I was still struggling to find Balance, but this is easier said than done.

As I come to my senses after parsing through my Natal Soul’s parting messages, I find Buddy watching over me with his woeful, concerned expression, so sweet and adorable my heart melts just to see it. “At least I’ll always have you,” I whisper, hugging my dog tight while mourning losses, both ones already sustained and others which still have yet to come, because even the thought of losing someone I love is almost too painful to bear. “Alright Buddy,” I continue, pushing myself to my feet. “Don’t be surprised by what happens next, okay?” There’s no answer from Buddy, but he turns himself around and readies to flee or fight, pressed right up against my ankle and calf just to let me know he’s there with me. “Good dog.”

And so, with my Natal Guardian at my side, I set aside my fears and reach out into the Void, ready to finally do what needs to be done.

“Blobby,” I call out, and I sense him beeline towards me, expression an emotion that is… not contented, not excited, not relieved, or even satisfied, just one of general certainty as if he knew this would happen all along. In his eyes, this is the way things should be, the two of us reunited again after I cast him out in fear. Our merging is not something new, but something inevitable, a righting of that which was wrong all along and as natural as nature can be.

A completeness of sorts, a Oneness, if you will, for now I am finally ready to become One.

One with what? I’m not entirely sure exactly, nor do I know what the end result will be. Probably not a Divinity, or at least not one by Imperial standards, and definitely not an all-powerful God, but whatever it is that comes next, I’ll find out first-hand soon enough.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Void shuddered and stretched before snapping back into place, and Hideo knew the Uniter’s plan had failed.

Good. In spite of Hideo’s grand success in pursuit of the Dao, the Uniter still valued Falling Rain more, a mistake the old man would now have no choice but to accept. For all his posturing about dealing with their ‘greatest threat’ and killing the runt as quickly as possible, the Uniter had still gone to great lengths to try and capture Falling Rain alive. The mysterious working to drive the Imperials to despair was supposedly a means to take Meng Sha at minimal cost, but if that were his true objective, then the Uniter would not have left Hideo standing idle in back lines and instead sent him out in the vanguard instead. No, this ploy had been meant to keep him out of the way so that the Uniter could attempt to sway Falling Rain over to their side, because he still found Hideo lacking in some way.

Fool. Though he helped Hideo find his way to the Truth, his gratitude was not without limits. If the Uniter did not soon correct the errors of his ways and give Hideo his due respect, then he would teach the old man the true meaning of regret.

All in good time however, for humility cautioned him against acting too soon. Having sensed a little of what transpired within the Void, Hideo knew the Uniter was too formidable to overcome just yet, nor was he too proud to admit that the runt was shockingly powerful as well. Being able to match the Uniter blow for blow in the Void was a feat beyond his comprehension, but Falling Rain’s strengths most certainly were focused in matters of the Soul, while Hideo excelled in matters of the Body and Mind. There in the Void, Falling Rain would win as easily as turning a hand, but here in the physical world, Hideo would certainly reign supreme.

Already setting out even as the Uniter’s Sending arrived, Hideo fought the urge to sneer at the old man’s apparent lack of control. “Kill him now!” the Uniter demanded, utterly enraged by his failure to capture Falling Rain. “Waste no time and strike him down, before –” The Uniter cut himself off before continuing, and for good reason, as Hideo could almost hear the panic and desperation exuding from his every word, shaken by the battle which took place in the Void. A hint of hesitation crept into Hideo’s mind as he considered the implications, because even though he'd sensed the magnitude of power they exhibited within the Void, he thought it had all merely been the runt’s desperate struggle to escape. Now though, it almost sounded like the Uniter had lost the match outright, which was almost downright unthinkable given the disparity in age and experience. The Uniter was an ancient Warrior who conquered the Defiled, a hero even more powerful than Bai Qi himself, so how could a mere savage child surpass him in strength of Will?

Confidence.

The scroll he wrote flashed in Hideo’s mind as he scorned his own weakness, for he was no longer the same coward he once was. It didn’t matter if Falling Rain’s Soul was unfathomably strong, for surely this meant he had to sacrifice the tempering of his Body and Mind in order to attain such lofty achievements. Nothing came without a cost, but while Falling Rain was merely a rebel usurper seeking to overthrow the natural order of the world, Hideo had become a calamity to the Heavens themselves. There would be justice served today, with Hideo acting as judge, jury, and executioner, and not even the Heavens would stop him.

“Kill Falling Rain,” the Uniter Sent, his emotions in check as if he’d never slipped in the first place, and Hideo gave him face out of consideration for his valued guidance. “This Sovereign will assist you in opening a path to his side, and our allies will keep his guardians in check. You only need strike the savage runt down as quickly as possible, lest all our efforts be spent in vain. Even if Meng Sha falls here today, it would mean nothing if Falling Rain survives, for then he will have the time he needs to transform from pawn to participant in the games we play.”

Now that was most interesting, because it meant Falling Rain was on the cusp of finding the true Dao and embarking on his journey only a step or two behind Hideo. This he would not allow. Just as two tigers cannot hold a mountain, there was no room in this world for Hideo and Falling Rain both, so he would kill the runt before he even had a chance to catch up in strength. Striding through the sands with head held high, Hideo readied himself to show the Empire just how powerful he’d become, but they would have to make their way through his formidable cadre of guards first.

On his right was none other than the Sanguine Confessor, a hulking, six-legged, six-armed monstrosity with three faces twisted in unholy expression. Hatred on the right, despair on the left, and unnerving emptiness in the centre, Hideo couldn’t quite put into words why he found the Confessor’s newfangled appearance so unsettling to behold. It was almost entirely human in form, save for the addition of two bloodied human heads and eight monstrously oversized limbs cast in fluid obsidian, a colouration which made them wholly distinct from the rest of him. This was far from the most monstrous or horrific Transcendent Hideo had ever come across, but there was something wholly disconcerting regarding its near-flawless and almost pious blood-red appearance standing in stark contrast to the inhuman features supporting it. As it stood there with heads bowed and palms pressed together, it almost seemed human and divine, yet wholly anathema to everything human and divine at the same time, and Hideo was not sure which aspect of the Bloody Confessor rattled him more.

Thankfully, Hideo had long since conquered his inner heart’s devil and no longer had to hear it’s insidious, incisive whispers, which enabled him to stomach the Transcendent’s presence so long as it stayed out of direct sight. Though newly formed and still yet to acclimate to its newfangled existence, none could deny its power. The Sanguine Confessor himself had been but a half-step shy of matching Hideo’s achievements in the Dao, meaning his Transcendent form was similarly a half-step short as well. This made it less than a Divinity, but more than most other Transcendents and Peak Experts, which was why the Sanguine Confessor had quickly become the Uniter’s favoured vessel.

Though their hosts lacked the Sanguine Confessor’s achievements in life, the pair of Transcendents on Hideo’s left were no less formidable. The more conspicuous of the pair was a hulking, Water-Blessed behemoth with skin the texture of soggy rotten flesh and a gaping, cavernous maw that stretched from sternum to belly which opened horizontally in atypical fashion. In contrast to its monstrous appearance, the Transcendent’s eyes were still shockingly human, sat atop seal nostrils and a mouth that would never open again, yet radiating a blazing hot hatred that left it with a penetrating, wide-eyed stare. Its martial strength was middling at best, but its Blessing of Water made it indispensable in terms of support, able to not only shield its allies from harm, but also break down the bodies of the dead in quick fashion and utilize this matter to Heal any injury short of death, as it exhibited by Healing the Transcendent Gen which limped back after an ignoble defeat to suckle on a fat, water-logged finger and mend its wounds.

As worthless and contemptible in death as he was in life, Gen the pretender, but Hideo allowed the Transcendent a place at his side since he enjoyed looking down on the peasant he’d surpassed as easily as turning a hand.

As for the Water-Blessed Transcendent, its value was incalculable, as it was much easier to attack than defend, which meant its presence at Hideo’s side would all but guarantee his life. Of course, this meant it was sorely lacking in offense, which was why there was yet another Transcendent perched atop its shoulder. The Imperials had taken to calling it the ‘Dark Child’ for obvious reasons, but despite its diminutive and almost innocent onyx appearance, it was an ancient and formidable being the Uniter claimed was over eight-hundred years old. A reminder of his humble beginnings, or so he said, one of his earliest successes which he referred to as Subject Six-One-Six. Why that might be, Hideo could only imagine, and he idly wondered what subject number he himself bore in the Uniter’s twisted mind.

Monk Eyebrows and Wisdom Vyakhya were also a part of Hideo’s cadre, the former seething with rage over Yuanyin’s contemptible death at the hands of a half-cat pleasure slave, the same one who dealt Gen a killing blow. To think, the Wisdom saw more potential in both those fools than in Hideo himself, so surely his intestines were now green with regret. Alas, the old Wisdom was too disciplined to show it, and instead spent his time consoling Monk Eyebrows over Yuanyin’s loss, uttering a stream of banal platitudes that sounded empty to everyone who heard them.

There were other Divinities lurking about, though Hideo was not privy to their identities other than the Ancestral Mammoth the Uniter called the Behemoth. The feral and barbaric Divinity’s shroud of Concealment was the only one Hideo could pierce through, but he sensed at least four others lurking in the periphery, one of which was no doubt the Mataram Ancestor, Mataram YuKon. Hideo only knew it was him through inference, as there was no way he would allow his Clan to move out in such great force without being nearby to protect them, but also because YuKon slipped up and let his anger shine through when his descendent YuKong died before even setting foot on the battlements. This was not to say the Mataram Ancestor was mourning the loss of his descendent, but more outraged by the fact that someone so useless not only shared his blood, but even had the audacity to bear a similar name and bring such disgrace to the Clan.

