In contrast, YuKon let none of his anger show when Mataram YuChun died, the victim of hubris and carelessness as he fought too long and too hard on the battlements alone. Even a cornered rat would dare attack a hungry cat, and such was the fate of the Ten Thousand spears, falling to the combined efforts of a bunch of peasants, two half-beast women, and a trio of suicidal assassins. Mataram YuGan did not share his ancestor’s lack of affection for his son, but he was every bit the fool as YuChun. The Mataram Patriarch had a place in Hideo’s cadre of guardians, but he was rethinking his generosity as he watched him struggle against an old, nameless spearman and his feral, slavering Spiritual Beast of a mount. YuGan’s conceit was his greatest weakness, overly prideful of his strength despite having borrowed it from external sources, namely the Transcendent trapped inside his Runic Armour which had long since merged with his flesh. A crutch meant to make up for his shortcomings, but one that would forever deny him a chance to set foot upon the True Path, a trade only a talentless hack would ever accept. So weak, yet still so proud, which was why he felt the need to trample on the nameless Bekhai spearman who dared to look down on his ‘talented’ son.

Their match should’ve long since ended, before the Spiritual Roosequin ever joined the fray, but now that rider and mount were fighting in concert, it was clear the Mataram Patriarch was struggling to maintain the upper hand. A curious anomaly, this Bekhai elder and his beast, for if you added their individual strength together, they should not have been YuGan’s match, yet when they fought as rider and mount, their strength multiplied in a way Hideo had only ever seen from highly coordinated Peak Experts who’d trained together from birth. The Uniter’s Wraiths embodied this best, Concealed assassins who worked in concert to kill Peak Experts far beyond their individual strengths, but from what little Hideo could see of the Bekhai spearman and his roosequin, their coordinated efforts went beyond what mere teamwork could describe.

Individually, they were weak, but together, they were like tiger given wings as they ran circles around YuGan and struck him from all sides, utilizing some form of Man and Beast unity to coordinate their efforts without speaking. What surprised Hideo the most was that it wasn’t the rider controlling the pace of the battle, but the Spiritual Roosequin calling the shots, and its tactical cunning was far beyond anything a human could match. Not because it was particularly intelligent and calculating, but because the beast’s mindset was so strange and unfamiliar there was no way for YuGan to predict its next move with any conceivable accuracy. It retreated when it should advance, attacked when it should defend, feinted when it should strike, and went after the most nonsensical of targets. All the while choosing angles of movement which afforded its rider to attack with impunity mind you, leaving YuGan to choose between blocking thrusts aimed at his exposed vitals or the Spiritual Roosequin’s grasping talons or crushing fangs.

To others, the choice to take the thrusts headlong in order to avoid the beast might seem foolish to the extreme, but powerful though the spearman might be, it was the roosequin which was the true threat. In the beast’s frenzied attacks, Hideo could sense a thread of Will which so few Peak Experts understood, something that elevated its fangs and talons to something more than even a Spiritual Weapon could match. Should the roosequin successfully grab hold of a Runic Boot or even YuGan’s Spiritual Spear, Hideo suspected the beast’s Will might well be strong enough to break both with only a modicum of effort, which was almost downright absurd.

A suspicion the Patriarch obviously shared however, for he was doing everything in his power to keep the weasel-like behemoth from grabbing hold of him, which was easier said than done. Though Hideo could step in to save him, he knew the Patriarch would not thank him for his ‘interference’ and only see it as a grievous loss of face, so Hideo paid no mind to their duel and headed straight for the main gates, where he hoped to come across a few familiar faces on his way to kill Falling Rain.

Dastan Zhandos. Du Min Yan. Li Song. Sumila. Hideo yearned to exchange moves with these four above all others, so he kept an eye on each of them as he approached. The two slaves were closest, fighting on the parapets right beside the main gates, but it would be beneath Hideo’s dignity to approach them for a match. Du Min Yan was similarly protected by circumstance, while Sumila was fighting on the northern beach, which would take him away from the closest route towards Falling Rain. No matter though, for Hideo could always find them after he killed the runt, as there would be time aplenty. So long as his cadre of guards kept Peak Experts and Divinities away, then there was no one capable of standing in Hideo’s way.

“Death comes to Meng Sha,” he intoned for all to hear, dropping his shroud of Concealment as he strode up to the heavy, reinforced gates with both hands folded behind his back. “And his name is Heroic Heavenly Guardian Hideo.”

Unceremoniously lifting his right foot, he lashed out and kicked the towering gates. Chi flowed from his Golden Core in a stream of power which travelled into his Tai Yang meridian before surging down through his leg in a mystical, undulating pattern he recognized all too well. Not by sight, but by feel, for he’d practiced this Chi working for months without rest in misguided desire for an old fool’s recognition. Building momentum at every chakra point along the way, the stream of Chi Amplified again and again until it grew into a raging torrent which burst out from the Zuqiaoyin acupoint on the palm of his foot. His Domain blossomed in all directions to evenly distribute the force of his Mountain Collapsing Strike across the entirety of the gate, which broke free from the walls with a heavy groan of wood and piercing shriek of metal. Toppling over with a crash, it crushed no small number of the waiting defenders braced behind it, but Hideo paid their deaths no mind as he strolled into the fortress with hands still held behind his back. A hush fell over all of Meng Sha as the din of battle died in an instant, and all eyes turned towards him to see him step over the gates without a care in the world, a solitary pillar of the Chosen of Heaven daring his foes to come test his might while allowing time for prudent soldiers to flee before his awe-inspiring figure. As a cultivator of the Dao, dirtying his hands with the blood of these lowly soldiers was wholly beneath him, so if they were foolish enough to reject his unspoken mercy to stand in his way, then his cadre would deal with them easily enough.

The Transcendent Gen was first to act, still possessed of the same contemptible instincts he bore in life, always quick to posture before the weak while kowtowing to the strong. No doubt it hoped to win Hideo’s approval with its prompt actions as it set the courtyard ablaze, but in his eyes, the Transcendent’s pillars of burning flame erupting amidst the screaming Imperial soldiers was a textbook example of using a spear to kill a fly. There were pitifully few Demon Slayers in the crowd, and no Peak Experts whatsoever, for the defenders of Meng Sha had long since been stretched thin defending against the Mataram Clan’s all-out assault. Gen could have simply charged into the crowd with impunity to carve his foes apart with his talons, but the little coward always did love to posture about his Blessing of Earth’s Fire. What a fool. Talented though he might have been in life, he’d set foot upon the Martial Path late in life, and still thought he could surpass a true dragon with so broad a focus on his progress. A frog in a well who knew not how high the Heavens truly were, one who died before ever learning the Truth. A Blessing was powerful, there was no denying this, but it only offered a Warrior more options rather than strength outright, so it was only a matter of time before Gen fell.

In contrast, the Dark Child was far more pragmatic as it set itself upon the hapless Imperial defenders with fury and talon, and the screams were most pleasing to the ear. Step by step, Hideo made his way into the fortress, moving neither quickly nor slowly while taking in the sights, yet he encountered no resistance at all save for the odd corpse in his path, corpses which were quickly swept away and converted into useable energy by the Water-Blessed Transcendent at his side. As for Monk Eyebrows and Wisdom Vyakhya, they merely followed on Hideo’s heels, disdaining to even lift a single finger to help the two Transcendents running amok.

Strange, too strange, Hideo thought, as he drew closer and closer to the docks. Aside from the defenders stationed inside the courtyard, no other Imperial forces had seen fit to move in to try and stop him from reaching his goal. Scrying on their movements from above, Hideo saw that the Imperial soldiers were actually moving out of his way and allowing him an uncontested path to Falling Rain, whose body even now was hidden by a Divinity’s Concealment, but clearly waiting by the docks for a quick escape. Perhaps he was even being rushed aboard the ship getting ready to set sail, but the Imperial commander was clearly using Rain as bait to draw Hideo and his cadre in deeper. How did the commander know that Hideo knew where his target lay? How’d he even known he would take this bait? Too strange, this decision to pull back, as if the Imperial defenders had long since known about Hideo’s formidable prowess and prepared accordingly.

No matter. These tricks were of little consequence. All tactics were useless in the face of overwhelming strength, and Hideo had more than enough to deal with anything Meng Sha had waiting for him. Even a regular Peak Expert would fall before him, for his newfangled Spiritual Senses enabled him to do so much more with his Chi than he ever thought possible, while his Refined Body and Mind gave him the strength, speed, and reactions needed to dominate his foes. Though he dared not claim himself strong enough to take on the likes of Akanai, Nian Zu, Du Min Gyu, or even lesser Warriors like Han BoHai or Gao Changgong, all of those pinnacle Peak Experts were absent and accounted for, either trapped in Shi Bei by Bai Qi’s forces or guarding their new precious Citadels which would fall as easily as Meng Sha in time.

Intent on making a big show of Falling Rain’s cowardice as he arrived upon the docks, Hideo’s plans were immediately ruined when the opposing Divinity dropped their Concealment to reveal Falling Rain laying fast asleep on the ground. Not just asleep even, but strapped to a cot like the comatose invalid that he was, which made it all the more difficult for Hideo to claim any glory from killing him. Granted this was only because most Imperials were unable to perceive what Hideo could, for even in his current state, Falling Rain emanated a wild and ponderous pressure, something akin to a dark and fathomless ocean concealing all manners of unknown dangers within its unseen depths. There was no sense of Purity here, no fast-flowing currents of Chi that even a commoner could perceive, but Hideo could sense the power hidden inside Falling Rain’s compact frame all the same, a power which dwarfed anything any Martial Warrior could match and was fast approaching that of a Divinity.

What was it that made Falling Rain so special? What right did he have to such power? None, so Hideo would kill him here and now, alongside the rest of his pets and wives.

Glancing over the runt’s protectors, Hideo couldn’t even be bothered to hide his disdain. Three Ancestral Beasts, a bull, a rabbit, and a hare, they were the only ones to be wary of. Especially the hare, the Cloud Divinity who even the Uniter dare not underestimate, the fabled Medical Saint Taduk who hid himself in plain sight. To keep him in check, Wisdom Vyakhya, Ancestral Badger Shih Yah, and the creature the Uniter claimed was the progenitor of all Wraiths, the Phantom Divinity would join hands, the first two revealing themselves without a word while the latter lurked in Concealment so strong he was hidden even from Hideo’s senses.

As for the Rabbit Divinity, she was strong of body, but sorely lacking in mind and soul, yet even this would not save Hideo should she set her sights upon him. To keep her in check, the Mammoth Divinity was more than enough, and Hideo could sense the hairy barbarian’s barely restrained lust as he set himself across from her. Last and least of all was the Bull Divinity, the Devil King Niu MoWang. A laughable name for such a weak Divinity, young by such standards though still older than any half-beast alive. Clad from head to toe in Runic Armour, his trappings were glorious to behold, but they reeked of fear and uncertainty since a Divinity should hold himself above such mundane trappings. Even Nian Zu’s famed Shooting Star had barely injured the Bristleboar Divinity in Sinuji, and this Runic Armour told Hideo that Niu Mowang lacked the confidence to survive even that, so the Bull Divinity had no hope at all of defeating the Mataram Ancestor, YuKon.

