The clothes lacked any defensive or offensive features. They did, however, have a surprisingly practical trait. They were essentially indestructible. The clothes were actually semi-illusory in nature, and their true core was safely stashed inside a Spatial Ring. Zac could fight to his heart’s content without worrying about damaging them. So long as he kept his ring safe, the clothes would reappear with a thought.

There were skills that could mimic that effect, and cultivators highly skilled in energy manipulations could directly fashion robes from pure energy. Zac had tried that a few times, and he was far from reaching that state. This time, Esmeralda retreated to [Shrine of Kanba] to better allow Zac to blend in.

The two spent an hour exploring Explorer’s Cove, listening in on gossip and looking for hints of corruption or cultivators acting off. As their perimeter expanded, they eventually reached the outer quarters of the small city. Zac couldn’t see it now that he was inside the memory domain, but he estimated they were coming up on the border to the wall of corruption.

Not so coincidentally, it was at the edge of the memory domain that the settled part of the island ended. Beyond was a complex jungle that veritably reeked of adventure and possibility. The Daos imbued into the environment were far more profound than those on Monkey Island, making it the perfect breeding ground for Natural Treasures. And yet, Zac didn’t hear the calls of beasts in the slightest.

There was only one thing that stood out in Zac’s view. An hour’s journey away, a patterned stone pillar rose at least a dozen miles into the air. It didn’t look like a natural formation. It rather resembled a skyscraper made of stone, sporting a smooth, rounded top. Zac didn’t want to leave the memory domain’s borders, so he flashed over to a Servant Disciple lounging nearby.

“Excuse me, what’s that thing over there?”

“Oh, that’s the beehive,” the attendant explained. “It’s actually a wasp nest cleared out by our alumni, but ‘beehive’ has a better ring to it. The nest is located right above the island’s most powerful Dragon Vein and is equipped with extremely potent Natural Formations, so it was repurposed into a cultivation manor. There are 17 top-tier cultivation chambers in the depths and another 108 high-quality chambers in the outer hexagons. It’s also connected to the underground.”

“This island also has a subterranean level?” Zac asked curiously.

“Yes, and a big one,” the disciple nodded. “In fact, it’s why the Guild chose this island for its headquarters. The Endless Caves is a pseudo-illusory realm with very real rewards. It changes and replenishes its riches every decade or so, providing the guild with both wealth and experience. Some even consider the Endless Caves the archipelago’s Seventh Miracle.”

“Hm,” Zac said. “When did it reset last?”

“Just over a year ago, I think?”

“So, it’s cleared out?”

“Not at all; there are still mysteries left to unearth, and certain resources can be harvested in intervals. Of course, the more easily accessed treasures have already been plucked clean. You’ll have to take some risks and delve deeper if you want to make a large profit now.”

“Is it dangerous?”

“Not too bad. In fact, the current version seems safer than usual. There have only been two deaths right when it opened. Since then, there hasn’t been a single one. I hear there would usually be over a dozen casualties in the first year after a reset. During that time, the routes still aren’t explored, and there’s a lot more activity.”

‘No casualties?’ Esmeralda sneered within the shrine. ‘More like no exposed casualties. I wonder how many have entered the depths only to be replaced by a doppelganger.’

‘It looks like we’ve found our infiltration point,’ Zac agreed. ‘The question is, should we barge down there right away, or should we hold back until the hunt?’
