The royal trial concluded with the swift, brutal finality of a guillotine blade. The subsequent banquet held in the sprawling halls of the castle was supposed to be a celebration of justice.

Ren found it unbearable.

He had slipped away from the crowded tables, the clinking of silver goblets, and the overly loud, nervous laughter of the nobility. He retreated to a high, secluded balcony overlooking the rear courtyard.

The night air was cool. A massive, perfectly round full moon hung low over the ocean, casting a stark, silver light that turned the stone of the castle into bleached bone.

Ren stood leaning against the heavy stone balustrade. He stared out into the courtyard, his shoulders hunched, his jaw clenched tight.

[Ana: Is it the fact that we are holding a lavish banquet immediately after a trial that has you feeling so uncomfortable? Or is it the fate of the branch families currently being processed below?]

Ren didn't look away from the courtyard. Both, in a way. I wasn't expecting this feudal society to have such rigid, uncompromising laws.

I followed his gaze overlooking the back courtyard, the logistics of royal justice were unfolding under the moonlight.

House Greenwood and all of their associated branch families were quite sizable. The total number of people being processed was several thousand. This was a family almost as old as the kingdom itself, suddenly ripped from their estates and stripped of their titles.

Ren watched children crying, being dragged toward heavy, iron-barred carriages by royal guards. Some mothers were already bound in chains, struggling desperately to hold their infants in their restricted arms. All of them were being hauled into the transports. The laws in this kingdom were quite cruel. The sins of the patriarch damned the entire bloodline to the mines.

This whole banquet was designed to be equally cruel. Everyone inside the hall was feasting, drinking, and actively enjoying the view of the wrongdoers being dragged away. The condemned could clearly see the sparkling, festive lights from the castle windows as they were loaded into the dark carriages.

[Ana: Well, such is the culture of this kingdom. Don't think for a second Greenwood didn't do the exact same thing, probably drinking finer wine, when someone else was being punished.]

Ren sighed, his breath pluming in the cool air. I know. I can't put my finger on why this stings so much. Maybe I am just coming to terms with the fact that if I slip up, if I break any of these laws, Lily would have to bear the burden of that crime.

I couldn't argue with that logic. Both Ren and I originated from another world, carrying another mentality. Generally, I would also feel terrible about the grim fate of those people in the courtyard. But watching a slime entity un-install an entire planet for spreading some kind of conceptual corruption really sets a new baseline. Once you experience something truly disturbing and terrifying on a cosmic scale, lesser, mundane tragedies no longer affect you the same way.

Still, Ren looked awful. His eyes were hollow, reflecting the pale moonlight. He looked incredibly tired, staring at the sky as if looking for an escape hatch.

I needed to pull his attention away from the courtyard and the depressing thoughts spiraling in his head. Thankfully, I found the perfect opportunity currently toddling down the hallway.

A very cute toddler in a fluffy white dress with blue lace was making a beeline toward the balcony.

[Ana: Ren. Look behind you.]

Ren turned his head. His eyes landed on Lily.

She was toddling toward her Papa enthusiastically, her arms wide open. Her fingers were spread, coming in for a tackle-hug against his leg.

Suddenly, she clenched her fingers. She came to a dead, skidding stop on the polished stone floor.

Without missing a beat, she quickly spun around, running in the opposite direction. She headed straight back down the hallway toward the safety of Mira's skirts, her little leather shoes slapping against the floor.

Ren blinked. He was just recovering from the heavy gloom, and that sight was completely unexpected. This was sure to dampen his mood even more. What was going on here? Why did she run away?

We got our answer just a moment later. A heavy, armored hand landed squarely on Ren’s shoulder from behind.

It was Parisa. She looked incredibly excited. "Did you see that? She is finally warming up to me, but she is simply too shy to show it."

Parisa looked smug, completely misreading the situation.

I analyzed the recent events, tracking Lily's micro-expressions leading up to the hasty retreat. She first had her 'happy-it's-Papa' face locked in. Then, she saw Parisa stepping out of the shadows right behind Ren. The expression seized immediately. It morphed into an 'oh-no-it's-the-scary-lady-run' face. Now, she was currently peeking out from behind Mira’s apron down the hall, looking worried about her Papa being captured by the scary lady.

That is not Lily's shy look, I realized. That is Lily's 'how do I save my Papa' look.

Parisa noticed Ren was awfully quiet. His attention drifted back toward the departing carriages full of weeping people in the courtyard below.

Parisa gently removed her hand from his shoulder. "Do you feel bad for them? I mean the branch families."

Ren leaned his forearms on the cold stone balustrade. "I don't know what to feel."

Parisa stepped up to the railing, standing next to him under the moonlight. "Don't feel bad. This is not on you. Each one of them was fully aware of what was going on in the main Greenwood estate. Each one of them helped report the wrong numbers in the census. They profited directly from others' sufferings. Most of them stayed entirely silent to keep their allowances flowing."

Parisa's hands clenched tightly, her leather gloves creaking. "If only, rather than stay silent, they had brought this up to the Crown. Only the main family would be punished right now. The rest would face minor charges and fines. Heck, one of them would have inherited the Greenwood name and lands to keep the supply lines running. Fools, all of them. Their momentary greed has doomed their children. They instead chose to stay silent and help in the suffering of those elves. In my book, they are just as guilty."

That seemed to put Ren slightly at ease, knowing at least he helped put a decisive stop to the atrocities being committed against those elves. He hadn't condemned innocent people; he had exposed a rotten system.

Parisa changed the topic, her tone shifting to something more practical. "Speaking of which, the elven village next to your property is far too small to hold so many of them coming. What do you plan to do?"

Ren looked baffled. He turned to face her. "I was thinking of keeping them in their current villages. Why move them here?"

Parisa sighed, shaking her head slowly. "My young, naive little brother. Don't you know how to read between the lines of royal jargon yet?"

Ren's confusion deepened. "I was confused about receiving such a huge interest payment and two extra villages."

Parisa smirked, a sad, bitter expression. "Let me translate the King's decree for you. You are receiving the people from those five villages. Neither the land nor the houses on those lands will be given to you. For your inconvenience, as payment, you are receiving more elves as 'interest'. The land reverts to the Crown to be sold to a new, loyal noble."

Reality hit me and Ren at the exact same time.

Now that I think about it, I realized, replaying the incident and the exact wording of the decree in my logs. We were talking about it being unfair for the people to have to repay Greenwood's debt. The land and the houses were free gain for the King to sell. The King saddled us with a massive refugee situation.

Ren realized the massive spike he had just been impaled upon. Now he had to house all those people. He had to feed all those people. He was legally responsible for thousands of displaced, traumatized elves. The King had saddled him with the entire aftermath. There was no monetary compensation or tangible reward. This was practically a pro-bono rescue mission.

Ren asked hesitantly, dread creeping into his voice. "How many elves am I getting?"

Parisa looked away, her gaze fixing on the dark ocean.

Ren repeated the question, his tone hardening. "How many am I exactly getting, Parisa? I need a number to prepare for their arrival. I need to buy tents. Food. Medicine."

Parisa, no longer able to handle the scrutiny of his stare, looked at Ren. "We don't know the exact number yet. The more we look into the Greenwood ledgers, the more underground cellars we find. A census in this state is impossible. The final headcount will occur at your estate, under your and my supervision as they arrive."

Poor Ren. I felt genuinely bad for his wallet and his sanity at this moment. He was going to have to feed an army with zero warning.

Ren swallowed hard. "When will they arrive?"

Parisa looked back toward the bright lights of the banquet hall. She took a step toward the doors. "I think Lily is calling me. I mean, I am hungry. I haven't eaten anything all morning."

Ren grabbed her wrist, stopping her escape. "When are they coming?"

Parisa, refusing to look him in the eye, replied softly. "The first batch will arrive tomorrow morning. Consisting mainly of the attendants that were held in the main Greenwood estate."

Ren let go of Parisa’s wrist. "And let me guess. You have no idea about how many batches there will be, or when the rest will arrive from the outer provinces."

Parisa nodded, keeping her gaze fixed firmly on the ground. "I know this is asking a lot of you, Ren. But you are the only one I can trust with these people. Any other noble would just exploit them again. Put them right back in the fields."

There was a deep, resonating pain and a terrible softness in Parisa's voice. She hated the system that allowed this. She hated that she couldn't fix it herself.

Ren didn't push the issue. He understood. He leaned heavily on the balcony railing, tipping his head back to stare up at the pale, full moon.

"Will you help me shop for the goods?" Ren asked quietly, his eyes hollow. "The merchants in the capital are not very fond of me at the moment. Trying to procure supplies for thousands of people is going to be tough."

Many of the local merchants were still furious at Ren for artificially crashing the grain market. Procuring emergency supplies at reasonable prices was going to require leverage.

This request seemed to pull Parisa out of her gloom. She stepped up and stood next to Ren by the railing.

"Only if you also let me buy an 'Auntie and Niece' shopping spree package," Parisa negotiated, a spark returning to her eyes. "We will need at least one hundred pairs of matching outfits."

Ren managed a faint, tired smile. "A Lily fashion show is exactly what the doctor ordered to lift my mood."

He stared at the moon. The silver light cast deep, tired shadows under his eyes. He wasn't smiling anymore. He looked devastated.

I know why he looks like that, I thought, my core programming aching. He's trying to act tough. He's focusing on the refugees, the logistics, the shopping. He's using the crisis to mask the real problem. He's mourning.

The countdown timer sitting in the corner of my vision read: [2 DAY, 11 HOURS, 31 MINUTES]

He was terrified of losing me. He was trying to hide his devastation by throwing himself into the tragedy of the Greenwood elves. He was avoiding the subject entirely because speaking it out loud made it real.

Speaking of Lily, she arrived back at the balcony.

She was carrying a small, silver plate of food. Ren and Parisa watched the situation unfold with silent fascination.

Lily toddled cautiously onto the balcony. She didn't approach Ren. She walked directly toward Parisa.

She stopped a few feet away. She set the small plate—loaded with a single, massive piece of steaming meat—on the stone floor. She slowly backed away, keeping her eyes fixed on the battlemage.

Parisa was over the moon. She beamed, stepping forward to receive the plate from her adorable niece.

The moment Parisa bent down to pick up the plate, Lily bolted. She ran straight to her Papa, wrapping her arms tightly around his leg, trying desperately to save him from being taken by the scary lady.