I glanced into the portal, seeing an old room. Assortments of books, glassware, ink, and gemstones littered desks. A fireplace burned behind rows of shelves, oddities, and knick-knacks. Scrolls and maps spread over the mantle. Torix pointed inside,

"Allow me."

He stepped within, wooden floorboards creaking. I walked in right after. The room shifted, dust falling. Torix gasped,

"By Baldowah you are heavy."

I lifted some of my weight with a small gravity well. Dust floated upwards, the air funneling up towards the well. The room unshifted, and Torix stood back up straight,

"Thank you."

I looked around, "What do you need on an intergalactic scale anyways?"

Torix raised a hand, "Well that depends on the person asking. In your case, I'd recommend a few things."

Torix pulled out a transparent disk, "This is a series of downloadable maps for Giess and Feontis, their capital. We'll be heading there as it has the highest density in population. There we'll find the most trouble and make the most allies."

I grabbed the disk. Torix handed me packages of his tasteless rations,

"These shall serve as a backup in case you run out of food." Torix pulled out a few bottles, "These are essential nutrients for your survival based on studies from your previous society."

I took the objects as Torix pulled them out, "Of course you'll need basic hygienic supplies, a few silver rings for enchanting, gemstones, data discs for extra memory in your obelisk, water and air is a must, a scent neutralizing cologne, a guide for immigrants of Giess..."

He went on and on. I dropped each item into my personal dimensional storage as he handed the stuff to me. I didn't even need my actual ring since my armor could store literal tons of mass.

After an entire catalog's worth of equipment, Torix turned towards me,

"That's the trifle I imagined you'd need."

I laughed a bit,

"Are you shitting me? You just gave me a whole store's worth of, er, things."

Torix put his hands on his hips, "I'm glad I overdid it. Here I believed I'd skimped you out on the necessities."

We walked out his mental projection and back into his office. Torix grinned at me,

"You know, this reminds me of sending Alfred off to school many, many years ago."

I pursed my lips, "Isn't that hard to remember?"

Torix shook his head, "The sting of his passing has long since passed. Now I cherish any moment that brings back his memory. That is my greatest regret. With loved ones, I took them for granted until after they'd left me."

Torix reached up and put his hands on my shoulders, "I won't make the same mistake twice, I assure you."

I gave Torix a bearhug, lifting him up off the ground,

"You're just a big old softie."

I set him down, "But I appreciate it, master."

Torix laughed, "As you should, disciple."

We said our goodbyes, each of us waving towards the other. As I walked out of his office, I remembered why I called him master. The reason changed over time.

At first, I did so out of fear. After a while, it was out of awe. At this point, calling him master was more a sign of respect. I could probably beat Torix down in a fight, but I wouldn't. I was his old apprentice, and I wanted him to enjoy the title. I wanted him to take pride in the student he helped make.

Those ideas dashed around in my head while I walked down towards the eatery. I put about several hundred pounds of random foodstuffs into storage. Vegetables, grains, oils, meat, seasonings, you name it, and it went into storage. I didn't want to go for two years without a burger ever again.

Never again.

It took several hours to do all that though since I needed to heal. I also filled up a ring with water and air. It sounds strange, but it might save me from dying later on.

After I finished packing, the sun rose up. Torix sent everyone messages, and we met up on the third floor. Inside a room on the third floor, Torix created a teleportation ritual.

As I walked in, runic glyphs met my eye. They smothered the walls with a few charged gemstones placed at varying points. They shimmered with dormant mana. Althea and Kessiah already arrived, a variety of packs idling by.

We were almost ready. As I walked up without any gear, Kessiah frowned at me, "Why don't you have anything with you...wait, let me guess, you plan on roughing it for training?"

I rolled my eyes, "Oh haha, very funny." I showed her my hand, five silver rings on them reflecting the room's light, "Everything I need is in these. Since I weigh so much, I don't have to actually carry anything."

Kessiah stood up, walking over. I dwarfed her now. She banged my chest, a metallic ring echoing through the room. She shook her hand, "You're heavy alright. How about you carry all of my stuff too?"

I tapped my chin, "Hmmm. I could carry anything you don't use every day. Otherwise, I'll be constantly giving you whatever you need."

Althea walked up, "Oooh, would you hold my stuff too?"

I grinned at her, "Of course."

Kessiah stuck her tongue out and looked away, "Bleck. Gross."

I pointed at her, "In the immortal words of Hod, you're just peanut butter and jealous."

Kessiah raised her arms up, "He spoke those words in a sentence? Damn is he dumb."

I shook my head, "He got Torix pretty good with those exact words."

Kessiah smiled, "Oh yeah, I'm sure it took awhile for that bag of bones to wrap his head around that one."

Torix walked up, looking at us, "I see I'm a popular subject of discussion. Of what may I ask you?"

Kessiah propped her weight on one leg, "Don't worry about it."

I grabbed Althea's packs and put them in storage as Torix and Kessiah exchanged witty banter. Each time I put a gun or some armor into the repository, a chunk of my body disintegrated. It took a few seconds for it to regenerate.

Kessiah looked at it, then back up at me, "What the fuck is that?"

I raised an eyebrow, "What do you mean? I'm regenerating."

She narrowed her eyes at me, "It looks so gross."

Althea leaned towards me and whispered, "Poor her. She's being so defensive."

I leaned towards Althea, "Yeah, tell me about it."

Kessiah shrugged, "Just pointing out the obvious. Still, what is your regeneration now? It looks higher than 400,000 a minute."

I scoffed, "Uh, yeah. It's a little bit higher than that."

Torix nudged Kessiah with his elbow, "While you've been training soldiers, my disciple helped kill Yawm of Flesh, the avatar of the world eater. He's improved more than a bit."

Kessiah spread out her arms, "Can you just tell me how much it is?"

Torix's grin turned vicious, "Oh, somewhere in the realm of 9 million. I believe it's even higher now."

Kessiah took a step back, her knees shaking a little. Her jaw went slack. She blinked a few times. She looked at Torix then back at me. She waved her hands,

"Show me your status."

Torix pointed upstairs, "Before all that, we need to deal with Ajax."

I sighed, "Damn. I almost forgot about him."

Kessiah's eyes turned into slits, "I heard you guys decided to just kill him."

I nodded. The slightest smile ran up Kessiah's lips, "Good. That asshole deserves it."

Kessiah looked sideways, hiding her new scar. Right before it went out of view, the old wound reflected light. It cast a glossy sheen. I grimaced,

"God...I'm surprised he did that to you."

Kessiah glared at me, "You and me both. All I did was ask the guy out. Before you know it, he's shouting crazy stuff. 'I won't let my guard down around anyone again. I know we're enemies, be glad Yawm is an even greater one.' Blah blah."

Kessiah shook her head, "Then I put a hand on his shoulder while saying sorry. Bam. Slices off half my face. Thank god mister bones over there spies on everybody, or else I'd be dead."

Torix crossed his arms, "I do not."

I pointed outside, "Where's Ajax? Let's finish this."

Torix opened a portal. A purple ring of mana radiated from a starry, black center. Within it, many eyes stared back at me. Torix put his hand into the portal, and he pulled out Ajax in his green sphere. Frozen in stasis, he looked both elated and full of anger at the same time.

The sphere held him in place at the moment right before he killed his greatest foe. His eyes were wide with rage. He wanted Yawm dead. I'm sure when Yawm froze him in stasis, his heart sank. All that satisfaction transformed into a bitter disappointment. Now he's been stuck for months, unable to move.

I felt for the guy. I really did. At the same time, letting loose ends live already bit me in the ass more than once. The sniper nearly killed Althea and me. Way back at the start of Yawm's plague, Michael and Kelsy almost destroyed Althea and me too.

It wasn't a fun decision, but it was a necessary one. I wasn't going to make the same mistake as Yawm did. His arrogance killed him off because he didn't think he needed to fear anyone. I was afraid of Ajax alright, and I listened to what it told me.

Kill or be killed.

I turned towards Torix, "Let's go somewhere more open."

We all walked outside of the base. Torix kept a shield of mana over the sphere of green. I told him too. I didn't want the sniper to burst the bubble before we killed him. That was a can of worms I was going to leave unopened.

We reached the entrance Althea showed me after we first arrived. After walking through the waterfall, we paced several hundred yards into the forest. Surrounded by evergreens, I pulled Ajax's sphere away from everyone.

I wasted no time. I charged mana, the sensation no longer foreign after months of training. I spoke out to the porytian,

"I'm sorry. If you hadn't attacked Hod and Kessiah, then we wouldn't be doing this. You also nearly killed us against Yawm. I can't say you won't do something worse in the future man. That's why I'm doing this."

Mana radiated from my hands, "Goodbye."

From within the green sphere, I generated a singularity. The green shell cracked under pressure. The black hole feasted on Ajax, eating his legs and lower torso. After reaching critical mass, it blew.

The sphere vaporized as did Ajax. A notification appeared in my inbox, It told me that Ajax died. The only thing remaining of him was a delicate, yellow mist of his blood. No bones, no other mess stayed.

For some reason, this death stuck with me. It reminded me of suffocating that other guy when I first met Ajax. A sense of disillusion washed over me. For a second, it felt like I was in someone else's body.

I rationalized both these murders in my head. That's the thing though, they were murders, through and through. Ajax didn't attack me. That nameless man didn't strike me down either. I killed them both for my own safety. I leaned over, hitting myself in the head.

At least with the nameless man, I didn't have any time for an alternate solution. I had plenty of time to dwell on this though. There were no excuses. I killed Ajax for me, that's it - nothing noble about it.

I shook my head, crushing down a swell of nausea. I covered my face with my hands, and I dragged them down my nose and mouth. I shook my hands as if they were covered in blood.

The discomfort passed. I opened my status. I gained 121 levels. The boost left a bitter aftertaste, reminding me of what I did to get them. I turned towards the others,

"I'm not fit to be an executioner. It isn't in me."

I closed my eyes, wind blowing against me. The yellow mist pulling towards me. It seeped into my skin, my armor devouring it. I stepped towards the base,

"Let's go."
