They watched a soap opera. Klee-pak and the purple daisies again. Then they both ate and drank as much as they could stand, and they headed out. Before they exited the main lab, Alden examined Kibby’s handiwork. He couldn’t understand most of it, but in addition to all the stuff she’d arranged herself, she’d had him dolly in some heavy plastic drums and random pieces of still-functional enchanted equipment for her.

The bomb, still in its protective case, looked like a glass football full of swirling silver mist with three deep depressions in the top. Kibby had set it right at the edge of one of the floor tiles she had told Alden he must never, ever touch.

She bent over it.

“You're sure?” he asked.

“I will not die in the vault like a grasshopper.” She stuck her three middle fingers into the depressions and held them there for a while. Then, she removed them. “We have a human hour and fourteen hour fractions now.”

Seventy-four minutes.

To calm his nerves, he ran his fingers over the auriad. He was wearing it around his neck, triple looped and easy to hide under the collar of one of his turtlenecks or the Hawaiian shirt he was wearing over them.

They headed across the chilly compound as they had so many times before. Kibby hopped over the evil vine without looking at it, but Alden had to pause and admire his handiwork. His new spell had squashed it nicely, and he’d been able to practice his aim.

It hit things with a perfectly square-shaped hammer of force. Approximately sixteen inches across on the diagonal.

They weren’t crushing blows, but they were certainly harder than Alden could physically punch or kick. And if they didn’t hit anything, they traveled pretty far before they faded. He’d been able to throw up piles of gravel from about thirty yards away.

They entered the garage and climbed into the car. Alden took the driver’s seat and pressed the buttons that would take them to the coordinates marked on the homemade map they’d glued to the car’s ceiling.

If nobody came to check on the explosion, the map was Plan 3.

Please, somebody come, he thought. Plan 3 is the worst.

The car started and began to roll. To cover his sigh of relief, he smiled at Kibby. “We need driving music.”

She winced. “Do not sing, Alden. You are not good at it.”
