Viv considered buttering him up and decided against it. She would not prey on Rakan, merely try to convince him rationally. He seemed to like rational approaches to problems.

“You know what I mean. I would not treat you like an outsider, but there is no rush. You should consider all your options.”

“Are you trying to recruit me or to push me away?”

“I don’t want you to regret your decision.”

“I’ll keep this in mind.”

Just then, a shimmering blue dome appeared over the arena with a low hum. Water drifted on it in rivulets and free droplets that trailed down to the other side of the rafters. A warm light surged from the roof, warming and drying the students. The hubbub of conversation turned to expressions of delight while the students stood and stretched, ready to resume class.

“See you in the finals,” Rakan jested.

“Yeah yeah.”

Viv did some shaping exercises and waited for her turn, then she was called together with a gangly lad who moaned audibly when he heard they were pitched together.

“Come on, Tarid, let’s see your improved bolts,” she teased.

“Don’t cast your sound thing when you’ve breached my shield please. I don’t want to throw up my breakfast.”

The duelists had protective gear but sound seemed to bypass some of it. The issue was that it was exceptionally inefficient at blocking the nauseating sound spell Viv used. On the other side, the nauseating effect could not even pierce the weakest shield.

The pair climbed up to the elevated platform and took their respective positions. A signal, and the duel was on.

Viv ignored an opening fire bolt that missed her by a meter and cast her own, which was blocked by an earth wall. Tarid then tried to lift the earth from under Viv so she flooded the ground with veins of black mana.

“Eldritch wall.”

Her own spell messed with his defenses and forced him to fall back, blocking another bolt on a hastily raised shield. Viv walked away from another fire bolt, physically ducked under another to Tarid’s frustrating curses and pulled on an exposed boot with telekinesis. The young man yelped and fell, still managing to cast one last bolt Viv had to stop with her own shield.

“Not too bad!” professor Dirge said from the side.

The dueling master brushed his dark curls and invited both duelists to climb down. He approached Tarid to advise him, noting that the accuracy was still problematic. As usual, he only nodded at Viv in passing.

“Good show. It is you and Rakan again. Be nice.”

Viv returned to the starting position to find a nervous Halurian smoothing his defensive robe. Rakan was always stressed at the beginning of a duel, at least when facing her.

Until he started casting, at least.

Professor Dirge used a spell to return the arena to its undamaged self and on signal, they opened on each other.

The duel was on an entirely other level than the game of kind cat and furious mouse she had played with Tarid.

“Hive Shield.”

“Javelin. Rock tide.”

Viv flooded the area in front of her. In answer, Rakan interrupted the spell, causing it to explode and pelt the both of them with debris. While they did nothing to Rakan’s earth barrier, they drained Viv’s reserves by forcing her to disintegrate every piece of rock, but she used the distraction to attack his shield through the wall with a powerful spear of her own. Rakan cursed and shored his defenses, then he attacked her again in the same manner, exploding his spell once again, This time, Viv raised an eldritch wall of her own, then used telekinesis to lob a large rock at her friend at an unfavorable angle. He blocked it and lowered the barrier. Viv did not need line of sight to know where Rakan was. He burnt with mana in her perception like a beacon, a multicolored torch that shone bright even in this mana-saturated place.

Rakan was never more alive than when he was using magic. Even his posture would change from slightly stooped to straight and proud. Their eyes met. He was focused. Viv used sound and black mana in tandem to open breaches in his shield then try to stun him, but he would rotate spells too fast for it to succeed. Sometimes red, sometimes brown, more rarely gray and blue shields alternated to block the worst of her aggression while he tried to corner her as she moved across the arena. Viv threw a dart at a forming fireball, destabilizing the construct and making it blow up but Rakan managed to recover some of the heat through a supreme effort of will and threw it her way. It was loaded with intent, a persistent fire that could not be drenched. He covered an entire quarter of the area with it. Viv was caught.

Rakan did not hesitate. He started another spell, a gray construct that would blow her out of the arena. In answer, Viv raised yet another eldritch wall in front of her.

She climbed it using a burst of power and jumped over the high fire, coating herself in black mana to fend off the worst of the fumes. The appearance of an obsidian-clad aerial Viv surprised Rakan enough to make him hesitate. Viv did not.

The sound spell caught him square on the head. He winced and faltered.

“Stooooop!” Dirge bellowed.

“Nice one. If a little unorthodox. Take a break while I repair the arena.”

Viv and Rakan saluted and the young Hallurian ribbed her for using ‘underhanded tricks’, then Viv teased him for moving like an old man.

As she walked back to her seat, Viv considered that the dueling class was reaching the limit of its usefulness. By rule, she could not challenge upperclassmen until her second semester here but it had become clear that no one except Rakan was a match for her. It had been fun facing different kinds of spells carrying different colors of mana. Unfortunately, at their level and without preparation, the diversity of spells was very limited. Spells could come in the form of bolts, clouds, spheres, spears, and even in one case ribbons. They could affect the air or the ground or her directly. Some froze or slowed, some set the world on a fire that would not stop. It was all fancy and interesting but it never got really weird. There were no spells to turn someone into a newt, for example. A limited number of shields and area denials were enough for Viv to stop pretty much everything anyone threw at her, then she would grind down her foe’s defenses and hit them with a sound attack that left them a little nauseous for five minutes and claim victory. She would have dropped the class if she didn’t want the certification and held some hope it would grow more challenging later.

“We could find a private tutor, maybe.”

“Are you not already too busy?” Rakan asked as he sat by her side.

“A project of mine should be completed very soon. I’ll have a little more time later.”

“If the medicine faculty doesn’t get to you first.”

“Limb regrowth is seldom urgent. Besides, it’s important.”

Viv shelved the idea of getting specialized training later. There were bound to be duelist mages around eager to pad their pockets with her healthcare money. Rakan was right though. She didn’t have the time right now.

***

The last of the students had left for the day, some more excited than others. The black mana class was at the stage where most of the remaining attendees were perfecting simple black mana shields. Those were small and difficult to use for most of them but it did stop every kind of spell. The next step would be proper bolts and other offensive tools. One step at a time.

Ashra settled with Viv in the middle of the training room. The sun pierced through the windows and shone on dancing motes of dust. It was quiet now. The air smelled faintly of ozone. Volutes of dark energy whorled in the teacher’s black eyes as she spoke.

“You are almost here. Let us practice more.”

Viv closed her eyes. The shadows at the corners of the room extended and, for a short while, the light of the late summer receded. The varnished wood lost its luster. It was as if the world stood still. Darkness was not an absence but a denial, her denial. She would rob others of visions and the other senses they had come to rely on, and then there would be just them, the dark, and her. Tendrils of black mana snaked out, diffuse and vaporous, questing. Subverting. It was colder now.

And Viv lost her focus.

“I think I need to do it by night.”

“I am counting on you to practice then. You are almost there.”

“Yes.”

Viv left the class and returned to her shared room to find a letter from Solfis. It was to the point as usual.

Meet me at dusk.

Bring everything.

It was time to take out the assassin’s guild.
