What followed next was Erick searching for DNA, finding none that was not contaminated by multiple sources —this was a highly active museum, after all— Kiri growing ever more despondent, and Jane wondering, privately, what was for dinner. The museum staff got involved when Erick started casting spells inside the museum, but their sudden worry turned to sudden acquiescence once more than just museum security got involved. An hour later, Kiri’s despondency had become something less depression-like. It wasn’t long till Jane saw the exact moment when the woman decided on some hard choice.

Good for her, Jane thought. This sort of thing was never easy.

Kiri stood taller. Her eyes focused.

Ten minutes later, after ‘one more [Witness] attempt’ from Erick to see if he could see what Teressa had seen so easily, Kiri called it off.

“We’re done.” Kiri said, “Thanks for trying, Teressa. Erick.” She looked to Poi, and seemed to solidify her decision from earlier. “I’m taking that Ability, Poi.”

Poi frowned, then nodded. “There will be consequences, but you probably should.”

Jane didn’t know what that was about, and she’d likely never know. Kiri and Poi switched to telepathic conversation after that. Sending messages between themselves was a rather rude thing to do, considering they were in a group setting, but no one blamed them. Jane guessed Kiri was talking about some Mind Mage Ability that had shown up when Kiri got her Class. Kiri had a history with the Mind Mages, after all, but Jane didn’t know much more than that.

She said her guesses to her father, later, when they were mostly alone and killing time while Poi and Kiri went off somewhere else. Teressa was in her room, cleaning up her stuff.

Erick agreed with Jane’s guess, but he wouldn’t get involved with that. “She probably has to give up something if she’s taking a mental Class Ability.”

“But what, though?” Jane said, “I don’t really understand how they enforce their Mind Mage society, either. You know anything about that?”

“Nope.” Erick said, “But I can guess that they don’t enforce it with much mental controls. Otherwise there’d be no rogue Mind Mage users at all, out there.”

“Maybe there are, but then there aren’t.”

“… Erasing mental abilities from a person if they cross a line? That seems… That seems reasonable. Much easier to wipe the offending memories of a few than the existence of a person.”

“Maybe it’s easy to erase people.” Jane said, “I want to say this whole Mind Mage faction thing seems very 1984 to me, but I don’t know enough about the Mind Mages to say that.”

“What’s that book about, again?”

Jane recounted what she remembered about ‘Unpersons’ and ‘Thought Police’ and the systematic denouncement of anyone who was not of ‘The Party’.

Teressa had joined them somewhere around the beginning of Jane’s recounting. When Jane was done, Teressa said, “The Mind Mages aren’t like that, at all. They’re always the Solid Man in the plays and books I’ve read. Poi is the perfect example of a normal Mind Mage.”

“That’s a look they purposefully cultivate,” Jane said. “You’ve heard Poi talk about propaganda in books and such before. There’s absolutely no way he doesn’t know the image he puts out there into the world.”

“Everyone wears a mask,” Erick said. “To me, the Mind Mages seem more like a persecuted people who turned hard. They project the image of strong and secure, but in the background, they are ruthless toward those who would make them appear as anything less than honorable. This is their survival strategy, and it only seems suspicious because they can communicate with each other to ensure compliance. This seems fine to me. I’d rather not deal with people messing with my mind.”

Jane looked at her father. He was holding something back. She said, “You know something else.”

Erick sighed. “No I don’t.”

Teressa looked at Erick. “Yes you do.”

“Okay. Yes. I do.” Erick said, “But I doubt either of you two would ever have to deal with what I know, so I’m not going to put those bad thoughts out there. I’m sure if I was Poi I would literally be itching from all the bad thoughts I know must be out there.”

Jane said, “Okay. Fine. I’m going to speculate, and you stay right there dad, so I can read your face.”

Erick forced his face and his shoulders to go slack. His voice was so even-keeled and forcefully pitched deep that it was almost comical. “Give me your best shot.”

Jane smirked, then she narrowed her eyes, playing her part, too, as she tried, “They’re all secretly cannibals who get their Mind Mage powers from eating the brains of children.”

“What the fuck, Jane,” Erick said, his mask readily breaking.

Jane laughed. She had won!

Teressa eyed Jane, then chuckled. “What the fuck.”

“I’m spitballing, here.” Jane said, “And that one was mostly a joke, but Unicorns and Moon Reachers get their powers from eating brains. So. How about this: They control the minds of everyone to make them believe that they’re harmless.”

“I’m pretty sure that’s the exact opposite of what they do,” Erick said.

“Okay. But they have to erase people, for sure.” Jane said, “Teressa?”

“I don’t know about that.” Teressa said, “But I’ve heard that as soon as a Mind Mage puts a [Mind Control] on a person, the controller gets labeled a Slaver and the controlee gets the Kill Quest for that Slaver.” She asked, “Is that what you’re talking about?”

“No. But… Go on.”

Erick’s eyes went a bit wide. “No. That’s not what I was thinking… That happens with Mind Magic? The Slaver and Slave sub-Classes?”

“Really rare; but yeah.” Teressa said, “I’ve read those case files. Rogue Mind Mages that try to control people usually end up dead when the controllee gets the automatic rescue from Slavery. Those automatically-rescued people are readily found by other Mind Mages, and then the actual Mind Mages come down hard on any mind controllers. People don’t always rescue themselves, though. Any middling Mind Mage will know enough to have their controlled person deny that Quest.” She said, “Guardmaster Merit had me read some of those case files as part of the oddities I needed to look out for, but they were under the ‘almost never happens’ part of that workload. I was told the Mind Mages try to keep that sort of thing quiet, but you can try asking Poi if he’s ever caught any people like that. I doubt he’d tell you, but I’m pretty sure that one of the things he routinely ‘listens’ for is for the presence of the Class: Slave.”

“Well that’s interesting.” Jane listened, filed away those thoughts, then changed the subject, “So. Teressa. How much have you done with [Future Sight]’s combat applications?”

The large woman shrugged, saying, “A lot. But also not nearly enough. I’ve no teacher for that sort of thing, and I’m more focused on viewing the past, anyway. [Future Sight] isn’t much use for detective work.”

“Oh reeaaaally?” Jane said, “But what about scanning the future for a time when you solve the murder, say ten days from then, but then you use that scan to solve the murder on that very same day? Does that work?”

“Doesn’t work.” Teressa said, “Looking at the future changes the future. Looking at your own future changes that future more than most other glances. And like… This has been my experience with [Future Sight]: I’m lucky to see an hour ahead of time, and only if I really try, and only if I don’t interact with that timeline at all. As soon as I touch that timeline with any sort of actual force, then it moves. Most every future teller I have ever met always speaks in riddles because of this reason. I have literally no idea how Redarrow was able to do what he did, but even he got it wrong. And man! That meeting… That was a revelation on so many levels. A lot of things make sense, now.” She smirked, adding, “Now I know why I could never get any good reading on Erick. No one can.”

Jane smiled at that.

… And then she wondered if the same was true for her.

“His paper list had a few riddles on it… I was wondering why the riddles.” Erick said, “So. Back to [Future Sight]. There is this Shade that survived the Feast. Her name is Goldie. The Shade of Assassination. I told you about her, yeah? She does what I think you’re thinking of, Jane, and that ties into what you’re talking about Teressa. Goldie can see the near future, rather perfectly, for five minutes out. She got the drop on Tania because of it. Of course, Tania shrugged that blow off, but Goldie was still able to strike her through her core. This means that Goldie is both able to see her own near-future and then plan around that future.

“Goldie can also casually read the far-future. She told me that Yggdrasil will be able to plant roots on other planets, eventually. My other source confirmed this as well.” Erick asked, “But can you see that? A hundred years out? Seems like a massive, massive event. It should be visible in the manasphere. Theoretically.”

Jane sat back in her chair, stunned. And then she smiled. She had heard of Goldie from her father, of course, but maybe she hadn’t listened. Well Jane was certainly listening now! Apparently, you could warp [Future Sight] into some sort of [Prescience]! That was almost even more awesome than a winged dragonkin that was actually a tree.

… Winged dragonkin were rather awesome, though.

There were so many awesome things about this Worldly Path! Sure, there might have been some deaths, and Kiri was having a bad day, but there was also a lot of good, too! And her father was actually out of the house and exploring, and Jane was there with him! All good things.

Teressa brought Jane back to the moment, smiling, and saying, “I’m glad you think so much of me, sir, but I am not that good at this. The most I’ve ever noticed about what you’re describing are certain inevitable things that ‘color’ the background of a [Witness], like the sun rising or falling; you can’t ever see the sun, but you can see its effects on everything else. Eclipses are rather powerful events, too. There’s one coming up, I think. But… If I were a guessing person, I’d guess that you’d need some sort of far, far ranging [Witness] in order to see an event like Yggdrasil becoming a real being. Or you’d at least have to be on-location.” She added, “Even then, you’d need a wide sight in order to see the larger events.”

“Oh. That’s a very good point. If it doesn’t happen in the mana, then you can’t see it happen.” Erick decided something, then nodded. “My soul is almost healed, so I’m going to try and figure out all of those spells as soon as I can. Maybe do that before traipsing into the Forest.”

“Let’s not have another week of down-time.” Jane said, “You can make magic in the Forest, too.”

“Yeah. But… What if I need it before then?”

Jane shrugged. “How much need is there for new magic when you can blast out fifty [Shadow Beam]s and a hundred [Shadow Bolt]s all at once?”

“But that’s so… Crude. I’m right, right? That’s crude.”

Teressa smirked. “Yes. That is crude.”

“It works!” Jane said.

“Doesn’t get you any closer to a Domain,” Erick countered.

“… Fair.”

Teressa spoke up, “So. Sir. I would like to take you up on that offer of [Lightwalk] from the Headmaster’s dungeon.” As Erick brightened, Teressa went ahead, saying, “Eventually. Not right now, and maybe not for a while. But. Eventually.”

“Of course, Teressa!” Erick said, “Of course.”

- - - -

Dinner was great.

Erick made it a whole big thing to see Kiri off, but she was having none of it. She kept the evening subdued, saying that she’d be back if he needed her; all he had to do was send the word. Erick nodded politely, and knew that he wouldn’t be calling her back.

She had been flustered, quite a lot, by the revelation that she had been mind-warped by some oversized power, all while directly under Redarrow. She didn’t say so, but Erick got the distinct impression that her opinion of the Arbors of Treehome had soured, quite a lot. It didn’t help that Redarrow didn’t seem broken up about what had happened.

Jane unhelpfully suggested that maybe Redarrow had done something to Kiri, and that by letting them know that something had been done, he was throwing out ‘red herrings’ for them to chase.

It was a poor joke. Kiri didn’t get it. All she got was fire-spitting angry.

Jane apologized as soon as she could, but the damage had been done.

Kiri accepted the apology, but Erick knew she didn’t really.

Erick saw Kiri off right as the sun was beginning to set. He held her tight for a long moment, and said, “I’m sorry this happened to you. I’m always here if you want to talk.”

Kiri hugged him a bit tighter, then let go. She smiled, even though tears had rolled down her face. “Thank you, Erick. Good luck with the trip into the Forest.”

Kiri blipped away.

Erick sent an Ophiel ahead to Spur, to watch as Kiri arrived. She didn’t arrive till twenty minutes later. She did not look as if she had been crying, and that was likely why she took so long to get back to Spur. She was only 20, but she was professional, through and through, as she walked up the tall Courthouse steps, to meet with whoever she was meeting. Silverite, probably.

- - - -

Late at night, and unable to sleep, Erick sat up in his bed.

