He couldn’t do anything for Kiri that he hadn’t already done. She would be fine, in time. They would find out who did that to her, and why, and what, exactly, had been done. From the [Witness]es Teressa had taken, it seemed as though all Kiri and the Mystery Person did was talk.

...Kiri was fine.

Erick couldn’t sleep, though, so he decided to try out a spell. He held up his hand and listened to the sound of [Healing Word]. It was a staccato beat overlaid and an ethereal romance for the body; a love born of wholeness and purpose. Erick easily separated that beat from the whole.

A blue box appeared.

Quick Spell, instant, self, 10 mana

You may cast your next Quick Spell right away.

He smiled, as he compared [Quick Spell] to [Healing Word].

Healing Word X, instant, medium range, 10 MP

Speak, and heal a target for 25 + ½ WIL.

You may cast your next Healing Word right away.

That second line was the same in both spells. His first attempt at [Quick Spell] had different, and probably lesser, wording.

He channeled mana through [Quick Spell], and to make sure he was hearing what he was hearing, he had Ophiel repeat the sounds coming out of his mana. Ophiel twittered in a ‘Pip-pip-pip-pip-pip’ like a machine-gun, firing almost too fast to hear, but this was exactly what Erick was already hearing.

He smiled, again.

Erick combined [Quick Spell] with [Force Wall], producing a new spell.

Quick Wall, instant, medium range, 50 mana

Create a stable, stationary wall of hardened mana. Absorbs 500 damage before breaking. Lasts 10 minutes.

You may cast your next Quick Wall right away.

Erick’s eyes went wide. Except for the duration, which was 1/10th of the original, his [Quick Wall] was just as good as [Force Wall].

Force Wall X, instant, medium range, 50 MP

Create a stable, stationary wall of hardened mana. Absorbs 500 damage before breaking. Lasts 10 minutes per level.

Erick wondered…

He flicked his lightform through the air, manually casting [Force Wall] after [Force Wall], one right after the other, only half a Script Second apart. They were small, thin things, and Erick stopped after four walls. He didn’t put too much effort into making any of them, so they would probably collapse under their own metaphysical stresses in under 10 minutes.

Ah. So.

[Quick Spell] was an inherent part of an Elemental Bodies’ ability to cast as fast as the user could shape their magic.

Apart from that minor revelation, Erick looked at himself with Ophiel’s [Soul Sight].

His soul was healed.

He dismissed the walls of light hanging in the air and laid back in bed. Today had been a day of trials, but none of them were what he had expected. He had expected nuclear bombs and other horrors, even if Atomic Magic had been Banned; he still expected it. There had been no eruptions of Particle Spells, anywhere. No stray [Call Lightning]s over Candlepoint. No odd weather patterns that he, himself, had not put in the sky over Spur. No [Withering]s, but for non-monsters, rolling through Treehome, or Portal, or Kal’Duresh, or Frontier. No [Red Dot]s, or similar magics.

No reports from Caizoa about the Converter Angel.

No… Nothing.

No major tragedies at all.

… There had been one major, minor tragedy, but Kiri would be okay.

Eventually.

Erick closed his eyes, and hoped tomorrow would be more of the same, or even easier. If it was calm, then he’d seek out Tenebrae, maybe talk to Syllea about some Gates, do some magic, and then? It was off to the Forest, to hunt through what might have been a grand civilization at the dawn of the New Cosmology, but which fell to the Death of all Halves only 25 years into Veird’s new existence.

From what he had seen already, he’d likely have to dig through mountains of trees and canyons of monsters to reach anywhere near any old, forgotten Gates. Everyone talked like there were ruins sitting out in the open out there, but throughout all his Imaging of the Forest of the last two weeks, Erick hadn’t seen any old buildings or otherwise.

Just… Thousands upon thousands of kilometers of green.
