He wondered if Undine had survived. Only nine illusionary worlds remained up above. Only nine Shades were left.

Erick looked down into the bowl of the Brightwater, where most of the people of Ar’Kendrithyst lived. The ever present light down there was fading. Erick couldn’t make out much of the devastation down there, but Ophiel could. Erick felt his heart sink again, but also buoy, for while there were people walking around in dazes with blood trickling from ears, there were also people helping other people.

Farix, Goldie, Lapis, and Fallopolis had all managed to regain their stance in the air. Lapis took down the bubble barrier around them; it was already broken in almost every direction, anyway. Fallopolis’s shadow barrier was gone; destroyed by the shockwave. All this time, Erick had been resummoning his Ophiel as necessary and gearing up for another conflict when they weren’t out scouting. Each Ophiel now held a rock with their own [Prismatic Ward] attached to that rock, while they were all in their sunforms, with [Pure Reflection Ward], [Hunter’s Instincts], and a few different Sights active.

Erick asked, “Does Tania still live? The Barrier is still up.”

No one seemed to want to answer Erick, which told him as much as he needed to know.

He asked a different question, “I see people walking around in the Brightwater. Are they going to be okay?”

That seemed to open the floodgates.

Farix rapidly said, “Maybe. I told my people to get to cover in the secondary bunkers.”

Goldie said, “They’re not okay. Not many people survived that.”

“I didn’t know…” Lapis said, “I didn’t know they set the Aerie to do that. Who did that?”

Fallopolis said, “I don’t know. That was news to me.”

Goldie said, “I’m guessing Rodel was involved. Not sure why.”

“Probably everyone there was involved in some way. Rodel. Spinner. Skyhook. Natis.” Fallopolis guessed, “They probably gave Tania an ultimatum and she said ‘no’.”

Farix asked, “Rodel? The Shade of Whispers? He wasn’t on Tania’s side?”

“He was human.” Fallopolis asked, “Did you not know that?”

Farix looked toward where the Aerie had been. “No. I did not.”

Erick finally spoke, “That was Evil.” He turned to the Shades, and pointed at where the Aerie had been. “That is why the higher magics should be further restricted. No one should be able to do that. Not even when there are more worlds, and more places to escape to. That should not be allowed to exist. Surely you have seen shit just as bad as that before!”

Goldie frowned. Lapis absentmindedly nodded.

Farix said, “We can argue the Script another time.”

Erick asked, “Who else has set up bombs for when they die?”

Lapis was the only one who gave away the game; she looked to the other three Shades, while nervously shifting on her feet.

Erick snapped, “WHAT THE FUCK.” He demanded of anyone who could answer, “WHO?!”

“No time to talk!” Fallopolis said, holding her staff up high. “Here they come!”

Seconds stretched unfathomably long.

Goldie vanished. Farix stepped far away. Lapis panicked, froze, then thawed out half a moment later, a calm descending over her entire body. She turned to shadows as several trinkets cracked and broke from her fingers, her neck, and around one of her ankles.

Bulgan released a blast of air that mirrored the explosion of the Aerie, but much smaller, and completely aimed at the four of them. Mostly at Erick. Erick hadn’t even seen him arrive.

- - - -

For all of Bulgan’s bluster, his attack had moved Erick backward a hundred meters, and nothing more.

Ah.

And then Erick saw the purpose of the attack. It was to scatter their lines; to move Ophiels all around. The sunform [Familiar]s had been pushed back and out, much, much further than Erick had been. Lapis remained behind, as though she had been purposefully missed. Bulgan went for her next, possibly because she was the closest, but more likely because his attack was the orchestration of a martial mind. Lapis had been human at one point in time, after all, and that seemed to be all Bulgan really cared about; killing humans. Bulgan shot forward, directing his fist up into the enchanter’s chest—

Time seemed slowed, even further. Erick wasn’t quite sure how, or why. Perhaps it was the metaphysical equivalent of adrenaline? Whatever the case, his mind was certainly making use of the current vibrancy running through his entire soul and sunform body. Offhandedly, he recognized that his Ophiel had taken some hits. They were all down to half stability, though their reflective shells and their inner [Prismatic Ward] cores had remained; only their sunforms had been damaged.

With a directed thought, Erick had an Ophiel lightstep forward. The feathered ball of sun gleefully stepped between Bulgan and Lapis, right as Bulgan’s fist turned to bright shadows, right before he would have driven his unfurled, claw-like hand into the woman’s chest. Ophiel took the attack meant for Lapis, shoving the woman out of the way at the same time.

Ah. This was a Skill, wasn’t it?

Erick barely registered that he had gotten a new blue box for recreating the Skill, [Interception]. Jane had this Skill. All it did was move the user into the line of attack meant for another.

Ophiel popped, as Bulgan’s fist tore through his center, exploding the air beyond with a concentrated blast of shadows and light. Only Ophiel perished. Lapis was outside of the attack, completely. She countered by reaching out and flexing the manasphere, pinching the space around Bulgan.

Bulgan winced, flipping away like a cockroach from the light, as the air around his previous location turned in on itself with an implosion. Neither of them won the exchange, and Lapis had likely lost, simply because she used up a few trinkets to make her attack.

Others had been moving all this time, of course. Erick glanced at them, comprehending the mishmash of strategies they were already carrying out, as he made his own. Two Ophiel manually cast a pair of [Force Beam]s at Bulgan, avoiding the use of their global cooldown, but they cut those spells out almost instantly when Bulgan soaked up that light like a happy visitor to a sunny beach.

Erick was in the midst of enacting his own magics and using his Ophiel’s global cooldowns, when another Shade appeared.

Queen. In all her radiant, iridescent self, she touched the sky, and the sky responded with a thousand bolts of power, in every color of the deadly rainbow, her spells flowing like a flock of a million birds toward all of them. Most of her working was a weak, widespread attack, meant to hide the larger spells, but Erick saw those hidden threats in the brilliance of their mana signatures; sharks hiding among the school of fish.

Fallopolis rushed Queen, staff held behind her, none of the calm joy of their previous fight on her features.

Erick almost tried a dangerous tactic. He almost stepped right into the path of one of those brilliant bolts. He almost turned himself fully human, to experience a bit of pain, to cause a deviation in Queen’s core. But he had eyes on the whole sky. He saw Bulgan, waiting. The man’s bright white eyes might not have given a true indication of where he was looking, but Erick didn’t need a specific look to know that Bulgan’s only true target this fight was him.

So he did not walk into their trap.

When he decided that, he saw Tania’s plan fall apart. Bulgan hadn’t moved in moments. Queen continued her area assault. But all the Shades on Erick’s side were moving to encircle. And then it was Erick’s move.

One Ophiel released a 10,000 point [Harmonic Blood Ooze] at Queen. Another released the same spell at Bulgan. Two vibrant red oozes, ethereal and deadly, zipped through the sky like to red laser blasts. Bulgan and Queen both dodged. Bulgan’s face split into a massive smile, as he looked to Queen. Queen did not look at him, and yet, acknowledgement passed between them.

Queen stepped backward, into the ooze. She did not have to step as far back as she thought she needed to step. That was the first indication that they had underestimated Erick. Those blood oozes were a step up from ‘Unerring’, they were ‘inexorable’. They were also ethereal. The ooze aimed at Bulgan curved harder than he would have thought, too. It struck him on the forearm, then whipped around and enveloped the rest of him.

Queen tried to turn to shadows to escape. It didn’t work. She tried again. It worked. The ooze slipped away, but it was a persistent bloody booger. It came right back at Queen, slicing through her shadows with ethereal tendrils. Her third attempt at ridding herself of the monster went a lot better. The ooze slipped away, through the sky, before coming right back. All of that took place in two seconds. Bulgan had much the same experience.

Erick realized something fundamental he had gotten wrong in his thinking of his [Harmonic Blood Ooze]. They were subject to the global cooldown, too. Ah. This was but a small mistake, when it came right down to it. They were still ethereal. They still caused constant damage. This was good.

Queen’s prismatic rainstorm continued to flow around the whole of the sky, pelting Erick’s sunform, and everyone else, with constant tiny explosions of power. A larger explosion rocked against Lapis’s body, and then another struck Farix, all the way to the left, seeming to be out of the fight. Maybe he was waiting for the right attack to come, to counter that?

As if responding to Erick’s thoughts, and only four seconds since the battle had been joined, Farix released the seals on several of his blood orbs. They became blood beams, thin as razors, but looking like lines of radiance to Erick’s mana sense, as they struck—

At Lapis.

Bulgan laughed as he fully tore the ooze off of him.

His laugh ended when Lapis turned to something resembling glass, or perhaps illusion, or some other esoteric element, or power. Perhaps it was merely the result of a few different single-use trinkets that Lapis had been saving for a rainy day, and today’s prismatic rain seemed worthy of the sacrifice. Farix’s blood beams struck her, soaking into her glass-like form, becoming something more, something darker and brighter at the same time, as Lapis lifted her own arm out, pointing at Queen.

Blood beams became blood columns, erupting from every part of Lapis’s see-through body, in every direction, only to catch on some illusionary force in the air, to redirect toward Queen. Every flow of power converged on the prismatic Shade.

Queen raised several shields, the blood ooze not working nearly as well against a Shade as Erick would have liked. Ah. He had made a mistake. How could he miss such an obvious mistake? Of course the oozes could only counterspell every 20 seconds. Oh well.

All in all, Erick’s miscalculation wasn’t the worst mistake he could have made.

Lapis’s redirected blood columns struck, breaking through all of Queen’s shields, striking her body like an industrial water-cutter, carving flesh. The columns of blood did not so much cut, as simply vanish parts of Queen.

Queen did not die, though the ooze was certainly gone, now.

Farix’s spells cut out first.

Some of Queen’s prismatic storms still rained on Lapis, catching in her body, transforming into something stronger. With a calm redirection of her glass-like arm, she lensed that rainbow rain stronger, taking in the larger bolts in the storm, turning all of that into further power. Power she directed at Bulgan.

Bulgan was forced to defend. Mostly, he slipped back and forth, putting up shadows in the air to catch and diffuse the bolts as they swung around for another hit. Tiny shields exploded with rainbow force, while Bulgan remained unaffected. But he was distracted for long enough for someone else to move into position.

Fallopolis, who had been waiting for the right moment, stepped next to Queen’s destroyed body, and swiped her staff through what remained. Erick was sure he saw Queen’s face turn panicked right before her body vanished into the black orb. Instantly, Fallopolis channeled darkness through her staff, flipping the power she imbued inside into something else, into brightest light, before it flooded the [Luminous Trap] at the end.

A notification for Queen’s death rolled across Erick’s vision.

Bulgan was still dealing with Lapis’s counter, but he frowned when he saw what Fallopolis had done.

A large, hateful part of Erick was overjoyed to see Bulgan suffer.

Several seconds had passed since the start of the fight. Tania had yet to show. And then she did. Her pale violet skin was unmarred, and her dark leathers, that mirrored Bulgan’s, were untouched by war. She held nothing, but she didn’t need to. Divine fire licked across the edge of her form, looking much the same as Yetta had looked all those months ago. Back then, Erick thought the sight of divine fire was rather nice.

Now, that divine fire was worrying. Tania had stepped into the air right beside Fallopolis. She had been late. The Champion of Melemizargo arrived half a second after the Culler of Melemizargo had already killed Queen.

With a clawed hand, empowered by divine fire to magnify her strikes into something resembling those of her patron, Tania struck at Fallopolis, carving through the staff, obliterating the [Luminous Trap]. Fallopolis stepped away, abandoning the staff to its fate. It had done a decent job.

There were 8 worlds in the sky, now. Only 8 Shades left.

Goldie, Fallopolis, Farix, and Lapis were near Erick. And then there was Tania and Bulgan against them, while Hollowsaur was still at the beach. Probably. That left one Shade unaccounted for. Who was it? Where were they?

