“You have lost! I have won!” Tania spoke, “[Pure Reflection Ward] for most of your magics, [Weather Ward] for others, [Lightmask] for all the rest, [Dispel] for all the rest, and my own power reinforcing all of those! And no Script Seconds holding me back!” She smiled, viciously, as she said, “Whereas Bulgan was built to take you down, he does not compare to I who was empowered to murder anyone and everyone who relies on the Script by using their own magics against them! You have prepared counters for all your own skills while I have no Script Seconds to hold me down. You literally cannot win.” She pointed to the space where Goldie’s body had been. “Even the Shade of Assassination was not enough! And her [Strike]s are fatal on most everything she hits.” Tania smiled. “Mostly.” She said, “If only she had gotten two shots in, maybe she could have killed me, but My God has declared all the Shades must die, and so I work to bring about this future. Even Bulgan needed to be sacrificed to the greater good, for there was no other way to make Goldie come out of the ambient mana.” Tania faked a mournful sigh, and said, “He was a good lay, but I’ll get over it. I will simply have to raise up another to fill my needs.”

Fallopolis said, “You’re talking a lot about Bulgan for someone who didn’t care about him.”

Tania breathed in happiness as she lifted her hand away from her chest. Though her blood remained upon her like thick, black paint, her wound was gone. “I was, wasn’t I.” She said, “Apologies for the amateur gloating. I’ve never done this before. I usually just kill everyone I need to kill, but we’re at the end, and some words must be said if only for the depth of the history forming around us at this very moment.”

“Pompous!” Fallopolis asked, “What now?”

“After I kill you and fulfill my needs?” Tania nodded, saying, “After that.” She spread her hands to her sides, indicating the Dead City below, saying, “Ar’Kendrithyst is to be abandoned to the rest of the world.” She looked to Erick, and lied straight to his face, “You get to live. Hollowsaur too, oddly enough. That curse you put on him is exactly what will enable Melemizargo to transition into the fold as a proper Relevant Entity of the Script.”

Just for the hell of it, Erick asked, “And what if I gave my Blessing to Lapis and Fallopolis? Would they, too, be allowed to live?”

He felt Lapis and Fallopolis look at him, even though they didn’t take their white eyes off of Tania.

“Oh? No no no.” Tania said, “They’re dead.” She stood straighter, as if she had remembered that she left on the stove at home. “Ah. This one has to die, too. Can’t forget him!” She pointed down and to the east. A spot of light and shadow spilled from her hand, radiating as much magic as the Red Dot, before flitting down through the sky like a dangerous, impossibly fast snowflake.

The coruscating dot touched the center of the Garden. The plateau of wooded, green space, just north of the Spire, became a sphere of flickering shadows and brilliant light, ten kilometers across. Shockwaves pulsed the sky. The spell took ten seconds to end. When it was done, Treant’s Garden was gone, reduced to molten slag that spilled over the edges of crystal pillars like melted candle wax.

Up above, another illusionary world vanished. Only four were left.

“Treant was always way too passive.” Tania shook her head. “Not a good look for the future of My God.” She raised a flat palm toward Lapis. “I am SO GLAD I saved the humans for last. One final treat! Three final murders! A culmination of all my time in this city!” Light gathered in her hand.

Lapis almost flinched. She almost ran. But then she stopped herself. She stared up at Tania, and waited with her eyes wide, and her shoulders squared, facing her end head-on. She said nothing. She stood strong.

The light in Tania’s hand faltered. She frowned. “What is it? You’re taking this way too calmly.”

Lapis said, “If Melemizargo decrees it, then I must die. It was foolish of me to expect otherwise.”

“… No.” Tania said, “That’s not it. You have something else prepared.” She smirked. She said, “Let me guess. You have a backup-soul somewhere? Is that it? I’ll just find and kill that one, too, but besides that! A copy isn’t even you! What a stupid backup plan. I thought you were better than that, Lapis.”

Lapis’s breath hitched.

“And besides even that! You’re a worse actor than I am. Should have panicked properly, then I never would have known.” Tania twisted her hand, and the light in her palm turned into a shimmering, invisible force. “This here is [Chaining Soul Destruction], stolen from my time watching Quilatalap. Thanks for telling me I needed to use it.”

Tania fired her spell before she finished speaking. A pulse of divinely-empowered soul magic struck Lapis, touching her core, ripping her apart from the inside, turning her body to ash. The spell reconstituted from the leftovers half a second later and shot off to the far west to disappear into the crystals towers near the southwest wall of Ar’Kendrithyst.

Tania made a spectacle of watching the spell go, saying, “Look at that thing move!”

Fallopolis said, “Such a shame. I kinda liked her, there at the end. Very honorable way to die.”

Tania turned to Fallopolis. “Her copy isn’t her, old woman.”

“Exactly. Which is why it was honorable for her to meet her end like that.” Fallopolis asked, “So? What are you waiting for? Kill me already. I won’t be giving up quite like Lapis, so watch out for the counter attack.”

Erick interrupted Tania’s answer, demanding to know, “Why would you lie about letting Hollowsaur go? Or not killing me?”

“… Ah.” Tania nodded. “So yeah. You’re going to die, too… I might as well just tell you: The reason is your Stats. They’re going away, and I can’t let you live with them. Can’t let those get out into the rest of the world. You could call your death a side-Quest.” She brightened, as she said, “But you’re not the only side-Quest. When I’m finally done with all of you stragglers, I’m killing every single person in this place, along with destroying every magical item, and then gathering every soul to myself, to ensure none of the riches of this land fall into anyone’s hands but my own. Towers to rubble! Rubble to sand! Can’t leave anything to chance, and we especially can’t leave behind the cultures we’ve created in the Brightwater. That’s a bomb just waiting to go off. Those people down there will do more harm to Melemizargo’s return than anything else I could do.” Tania said, “Even more harm than will happen after tonight is over, when I kill every human in this world. My people will strut about for centuries, politicking about how much ‘evil’ I do in the coming months, but they’ll still be alive to strut, and that’s good enough for me.”

“Terrible.” Fallopolis said, “Bad gloating. Bad master plan. You fucked up, because you spoke about it before the end, just like how you fucked up with waking and taunting Jane before we managed to complete the Rite of Ascension with Yetta.”

Tania frowned. She almost spoke to defend herself—

“After all I tried to teach you! After all the guidance I tried to give you!” Fallopolis spoke louder, “Don’t you lie to me, young lady! Not at the end! Not about My God’s Plan! You fucked up then, and you’re fucking up now.” She spat, “None of the real players on this stage are dead yet, for Melemizargo’s Sake! And you give in to the main hero’s taunt and then you reveal your master plan? WHAT SORT OF FOOL ARE YOU?!”

“Yeah… Well? Your opinion doesn’t matter to me.” Tania’s left arm bulged and then briefly turned to black gore before it reformed into two pristine, violet-skinned arms. Her right arm did the same, splashing dark blood into the air, as her dark leathers snapped away like broken shadows. Her entire body flexed out into that of a giant, furry-white shadow spider; an illusion removed, revealing the true kilometers-wide monster underneath. Her [Avatar of Melemizargo]. Fangs gnashed and venom flowed, as shadows and countless smaller spiders appeared and spread through the battlefield, preparing to strike from Tania’s domain of webbing and power. Her transformation took two seconds. The enormous white spider snapped, “Time to die, and to let me fulfill the promise of your name, Fallopolis!”

“The only one destroying this city is me, you lackey!” Fallopolis reacted by transforming into her eldritch abomination form; a mass of shadows and teeth and eyes and abyss, larger than her brief reveal before, and then suddenly becoming larger than Erick would have ever guessed. Where she ended and the shadow web around them began, Erick could not tell. Smaller spiders were already dying as fanged shadows bit and ripped at all of Tania and her brood at once.

They clashed. The world shook under their power. Erick was back up to all his cooldowns, but that didn’t matter.

Ophiels erected defenses but popped anyway, as shockwaves and shadows and gnashing teeth and spider threads similar to Erick’s [Hermetic Shredder] sundered and severed sky. Erick spent his global cooldown on a [Withering Slime], cast into the sky as the force of the battle brushed him aside like a child’s toy. He cast that spell in order to kill all the spiders Tania had summoned, to help Fallopolis, but his assistance didn’t last long. A casual [Dispel] from one of the many combatants dispersed Erick’s attempt at war, and then another clash of power cracked through Erick’s sunform, breaking him like an egg.

- - - -

Erick recovered his sense of self mid-air, far from the fight. The hazy light of the Brightwater held all around. He must have been tossed a good 25 kilometers. Luckily, his sunform was still active.

Caizoa showed up; coming out of nowhere as she stepped right into Erick’s sunform. Her sword glowed with awesome power as she struck true, right through the center of his incorporeal body while he was already low on mana, and shield. Something crucial broke as Caizoa’s [Strike] was different from all of her others. It had been lined in shadows. It had been a [Dispelling Strike], of some sort, or maybe something more profound than that. Erick’s [Personal Ward] was gone. No. Wait. Not just that. His sunform ended; having suffered too much damage, too fast. Erick might have had a thousand mana left, but Caizoa had broken his sunform. He tried to recast his [Greater Lightwalk], but he could not. It was too soon. He could not [Greater Lightwalk] for another ten seconds. He could not raise his [Lodestar] for another 30.

Erick began to fall through the sky, headed straight for the dim waters down below.

He did not fall far. Caizoa spun around, fast as a blink, whipping her sword through the air. She sliced the sharpened end of her conjured plank of force through his chest. Or. She tried to.

Her sword carved into his clothes, then into his armor, but failed to draw a line of blood deeper than an inch. For all her prodigious Strength, all she managed to do was send his falling body flying through the hazy white air like he was a ball and she had been at bat.

Erick instantly realized what had happened. He almost laughed, but all he could do was cough under the surprising force of her attack. Constitution finally managed to do something! All that damage reduction didn’t work versus [Personal Ward]s, but it worked for Health! Erick almost cried. He was still fucked. Even if he used that big spell of Phagar’s he had been saving, the [Death’s Approach], he was still locked to one cast every 20 seconds. All the mana in the world wouldn’t matter if he couldn’t spend it. That was why he didn’t use it earlier.

Erick’s mind stretched, searching for more time, trying to find answers he might have missed—

Ah. There was a simple solution, wasn’t there? He just had to become Phagar’s Champion. That would probably be enough.

He sent a plea out into the manasphere.

Time paused.
