Training Overview

Skill Experience Earned

Mana Manipulation: 1932 [Rank Up]

Dark Revenant’s Armor [Bound]

Durability: 4,101/1,309

Hardness: 207

Material: Dark Steel

Mana Conversion: 99.9%

Mana Saturation: 0/13,202 mp

Mana Dissipation: 92 mp/s

Mana Capacitance Rune

0/14,209 mp

Import Efficiency: 1%

Export Efficiency: 0%

Enhanced Durability Rune [Inactive]

+12,029 durability, 20 mp/day

Enhanced Hardness Rune [Inactive]

+597 hardness, 25 mp/day

Enhanced Dark Resistance Rune [Inactive]

+50 dark resistance, 20 mp/day

Dark Regeneration Rune [Inactive]

+1 durability/s, 0.8 mp/s

Rain scribbled in the dirt with the long stick that he was using as a stylus. He’d started the day by charging up his armor to reactivate the enchantments, then melting off all of the fresh snow in the clearing with Immolate. Now, he was working on his next project while he waited for Tallheart to return from the river. Rain had been worried about him last night, but Detection had revealed that he hadn’t gone far. Absently, he activated the skill again.

Oh, good. He’s coming back.

Rain turned back to his drawing. He wanted Tallheart’s input, so he hurried to finish sketching out the outline and some of the interior walls. Ameliah was tending the fire, searing some of the remaining crawler vine pieces on a rock as they had left the griddle behind at the mine. Rain was holding off on breakfast. He’d had a ration bar last night, and though his sense of taste was boosted, zero flavor times two was still zero. At least Force Ward let him bite into the things as hard as he wanted to without the risk of shattering his jaw. That skill is weird. I bit my tongue as hard as I could just to test it out. All I lost was a few points of mana. I felt it, but it didn’t hurt. So strange.

He was just finishing the final section of his drawing when a deep voice spoke behind him. “What is that?”

Rain smiled. Ha. He must be feeling better if he’s playing his sneak-up-on-Rain game. He set the stick aside and turned to look up at Tallheart. His armor was frosted with condensation, the cold metal from his night by the river reacting to the warm, humid air in the clearing. Rain hadn’t kept Immolate going long enough to dry the air out, preferring the slightly muddy ground for his drawing. “Good morning, Tallheart. Look, about last night. Thanks for telling us all of that. I’m really sorry. What happened to you was terrible.”

Tallheart closed his eyes and nodded slowly. “Yes. Thank you for your sympathy. If not for the rare humans such as you, I do not think Lilly and I would have ever stopped…” He paused. “It was good for me to speak, even though it hurt to do so.” He shook his head slightly then opened his eyes. “Enough. The past is gone.” He motioned to Rain’s drawing. “Is that supposed to be a building?”

“Yeah,” Rain said. “I figured, since you don’t want to run from this noble, we might as well build you a better place to live. That,” he nodded at the pitiful shack, “is an embarrassment.” He pointed at the drawing. “Entrance, kitchen, fireplace, living and dining area, three bedrooms, bathroom, the works. I don’t think I’m brave enough to try for a second floor, but I think we could manage a cellar. Hey, have you ever heard of people using ground-up stone powder to build? You add water and it sets, hardening until it’s solid. It’s more than just ground up stone. In my language, the word is cement, and when you add in a bunch of sand and gravel and stuff it’s called concrete. There’s different kinds. I never had to actually make it, though, we had these trucks with spinning barrels on the back…”

Ameliah’s voice spoke from near the fire. Clearly, she’d been listening to the conversation. “The words you are looking for are <something> for the building material, and <something> for the binder. And yes, it exists. We’re not primitives.”

Rain looked over at her. “Right, of course you’re not. I never meant that you were. For all I know, magic makes the stuff irrelevant. Could you repeat those two words?”

“Concrete and cement,” Ameliah said, Rain quickly memorizing them.

“Any idea where I can get some?”

“You should be able to find a few chemists in Fel Sadanis that might have a supply of cement,” Ameliah replied. “I know there are a few around. There is an awakened chemist who has a shop near the south wall, but you just need a regular one for this. Try around the market square. You might find someone selling concrete premixed, but I doubt you will want to carry it out here. There is plenty of sand by the river. Just get cement and we can mix it ourselves.”

“Thanks,” Rain said, turning back to Tallheart. “So that’s good. Step one is digging a hole. Step two is getting the concrete and pouring the slab. I need to get you some metal so we can reinforce it, too. Rebar is the word. Any idea how much metal costs in bulk if I buy it in the city?”

“It is not expensive,” Tallheart said. “I have enough pure iron here to make a new crucible, so any scrap will do. However…I do not think it would be wise for you to make too many trips to the city to bring it here. You will bring attention to me. I have warned Jamus about this in the past when he has suggested similar plans.”

“Oh,” Rain said. “That’s…a good point.”

“It should be fine,” Ameliah said. “I’ll go to the Watch and get a permit for building something in the forest. They’ll think it is for me. People won’t bother us if I make it clear that I don’t want visitors.”

Rain nodded. “Building permits, huh? Some stuff is just universal, isn’t it?”

Ameliah smiled. “Still, you will want to be at least a little discreet about it. Curiosity is a powerful force. If people see an armored adventurer carrying armloads of scrap metal out into the forest, it will raise a few eyebrows. If we’re doing this, the best way would be to hire some laborers to do the work for us, or at least to bring us the materials. Hide it in plain sight. The less out of the ordinary we make it seem, the better.”

Tallheart frowned. “I do not want the Watch to know I am here. If you hire laborers—”

“They already know,” Ameliah said. “I guarantee it. It might not be common knowledge, but there is no way they don’t know about everything that goes on within a dozen leagues of the city. They know, and either they don’t care, or are actually protecting you by hiding the secret. The Watch is many things, but an ally of the Empire, it is not.”

“Humm,” Tallheart said. “I suspected, but…” he shook his head. “It is difficult for me to trust humans that I do not know.”

Ameliah nodded. “The only difficulty will be getting them to let us build something out here. The city doesn’t want people just cutting down all the trees nearby. They only open this forest for a few months every few years. I should be able to convince them, though. I’m a silverplate, and that comes with certain privileges.”

“How do you know all this?” Rain asked. “I thought you wandered around. How long have you been in Fel Sadanis?”

Ameliah shrugged. “A few months, all told. The forest was open the last time I was here, about four years ago.”

“What you say makes sense,” Tallheart said. “I had to hide farther in last summer. There were humans everywhere.”

“Tallheart,” Rain said, looking back at his plans, then up at the antlered smith. “You’re sure you don’t want to run? This noble seems like she could be bad news.”

Tallheart shook his head. “I will not run from this. I will make what she wants, provided that she will respect my conditions, and that she will get me what I want.”

“Okay, well, if you’re sure,” Rain said with a shrug. “What do you want her to get you? Anything we could get on our own?”

Tallheart shook his head. “My armor…is damaged,” he said. He raised his left hand and looked at it, flexing the fingers before dropping it to his side again. “The materials that I need to repair it are rare and expensive.”

“How expensive?” Rain asked.

Tallheart sighed. “Hundreds of GranTel, though past a certain point, prices become…arbitrary. It is difficult to put a price on things that are that rare.”

Rain blinked. Hundreds of…holy shit. If there’s 1,000 Tel to the GranTel, and 1 Tel is 14 copper, and 2 copper gets me a bowl of soup… Call a Tel around $30, that works out to…millions of dollars. Holy shit. Holy. Shit. “Umm, is that as expensive as I think it is?”

“Yes, it is,” Ameliah said. “Do not sound so surprised.” She turned to Tallheart. “What would you say the armor that you made for Rain would sell for?”

Tallheart tilted his head, considering. “It is unlikely that someone else would value the enchantment. For the metalwork alone? Perhaps a single GranTel. Forgive me if I am not an expert on the economics of human cities.”

“Sounds about right,” Ameliah said.

“Tallheart, if what you’re saying is right, we could make out like bandits,” Rain said, starting to get excited. “We could make, like, all of the money! I can bring you metal and you can make…” Rain trailed off as he noticed Tallheart shaking his head.

“No,” the smith said.

“Why not?” Rain asked.

“I will not make things that could be used by people that I do not know. I will build…restrictions into the item I create for this noble. It will be one of my conditions. Even then…”

Rain paused. Huh. That…is a fair point. I get where he’s coming from. He wouldn’t want to make weapons and armor for people who might use them to…yeah. I get it. I totally get it. Maybe I could convince him to make some innocuous stuff, like heater plates and whatnot. Now’s…not the time for that discussion. I’ll save disrupting the entire world economy for another day. I should get going. I’ve got a lot to do in the city.

Rain nodded to himself. “Right, well, I need to meet up with Jamus and I want to get some shopping done before then. Do you need anything in the city, Tallheart? What do you like to eat?”

“Anything will be fine,” Tallheart said. “Do not concern yourself. Snow has fallen, so I will be able to gather iceberries. They are plentiful.”

“Ice…berries? Okay, sure, but come on, Tallheart, there must be some things you like. Potatoes? Can you eat bread? Milk? Cheese?”

“I can eat bread and milk. Cheese is…abhorrent,” Tallheart said.

“Oh, come on,” Rain said. “Cheese is great!” Fortunately for my reputation, that’s not a pun in Common. Cheese is ‘grate’, ha. Wow, that’s so…cheesy. Damn, I’m a horrible person.

“Okay, so I’ve gotta get the bread and milk.” They said snow! Damn it, Rain, be serious. You can reminisce about the internet later. “Anything else? Eggs?”

“No.” Tallheart shook his head.

“Okay, well, I’ll get some basics. Anything you can’t eat, I will. I’m so done with ration bars. Anything else you need right now, besides food and metal?”

“That will be fine,” Tallheart said. “Do not worry about me. Jamus and Carten already brought me a few things.”

Rain nodded. I’ll look and see if there’s anything else that he might like. I don’t have a lot of money, but finding a gift for someone who lives alone in the woods with nothing shouldn’t be hard. Not like shopping for my grandparents. Finding gifts for them was impossible.

“Okay, I’ll be back tonight, probably. I’m going now. Tallheart, think about what you want your house to look like. I promise I can do better than our first attempt. I’ve never built a house before, I mostly worked on big office buildings and the like, but we should be able to figure it out. Now that we’ve got metal, we can make the tools we need.”

“Rain,” Ameliah said, halting him as he turned to go. “I’ve got something to tell you. I’m leaving.”

Rain froze. No…

She laughed at his stricken expression and held up a hand. “Don’t make that face. I’m not going to be gone forever. I’m going to go north and see what I can find out about this noble. I’ll take care of the building permit this morning and meet you and Jamus at the guild. If I miss you, I’ll leave it with Gus. If he opens the envelope, you’re allowed to punish him however you see fit. I should be back by the time Velika gets here. After that…we’ll see.”

She walked up to him and offered him her hand. “If I don’t see you, good luck.” Rain took her hand and shook it. He wished he wasn’t wearing his gauntlet, even if it meant his fingers might have gotten crushed.

I don’t want her to go… “Ameliah…Thank you. For everything.”

“You’re welcome. Don’t mess it up. I’m going to take care of a few things before I go to the city. Go ahead without me.”

Rain reluctantly let go of her hand. “Okay. Be…safe. I know you’re really strong, but if anything happened to you…” He shook his head. Damn it.

“Thanks,” Ameliah said with a smile. “I’ll be fine. Go on.”

Rain closed his eyes. So be it. He turned silently and started walking in the direction of the city. He closed the visor of his helmet. He didn’t want anyone to see his face right now. He waved to them over his shoulder. Damn it, why is this getting to me so badly? I…don’t want to be alone again. Carten left the group, Val’s MIA, and now Ameliah is leaving… Come on, Rain, keep it together. Be strong and independent, not clingy. They’re not leaving you. They’ve got their own lives, and so do you.

He caught his thoughts spiraling as he walked through the snow. It really wasn’t that long since he’d been living alone in his apartment, struggling to free himself from a well of depression. By all accounts, his life had improved immeasurably since he’d woken up in that forest. I’ve got friends again. Real friends. And I can use magic for crying out loud. I’ve got no damn reason to be like this. He forced himself to stop thinking about it, focusing on his breathing as he made his way to the city.

He walked slowly. By the time he reached the gates, he had pulled himself together somewhat. The guards stopped him and he was forced to dig his plate out from his pack before they would let him in. Despite the fact that one of the guards had been there the day before and recognized him, there was a protocol. He’d only made it through the gate yesterday without his plate because Jamus and Carten had been there to vouch for him.

