your game plan. Sir Fran will take you seriously as he can and that is nothing to laugh off," Fera said and Grim shuddered."The scary goblin lady is right. The boss of this floor is unpredictable in his power. I've had amateurs with minorly good teamwork win while experts that teamed up for the first time get destroyed. A lot of the tales come back to that Sir Fran only ever feels 'slightly tougher' than any given adventurer," he commented as he wandered off to a table with his face heavy with thought and planning."Maybe we could weaken ourselves and go into the fight with some sort of healing strategy? For the boss to remain weak?" Serma instantly suggested and Deo blinked at her."But why?" he asked and she gestured to the hallway containing the boss door, the aura of sheer intimidation and pressure felt even this far down the hall and in the pub."Scary monster, tough boss, a fight that could take hours, no chance we can succeed, and maybe a load of mental trauma to boot?" she offered. Deo blinked at her again."But why?" he repeated, still confused."Wouldn't bank on it. Trying to loophole Delta causes you to get loopholed back, usually with your foot in your mouth creating an endless circle of shame," Grim said bluntly."Abusing weaknesses is not a loophole, it's how adventurers stay alive," Serma argued and Kemy was resting her head in her arms, sighing in tingly pleasure of a buzz."I'm telling you how to win. Fran is a boss designed to test teamwork. Alone we're always overpowered but together we can stack our strength in a way he can't match... last time I checked," Grim said, adding that last part with a shrug."Delta wants us to rise above her challenge so we can all be better for it. I think Fran would be honorable and we should match that!" Kemy said, beaming as she swayed a little, only for Yattina to push her back into a sitting position without looking."What do you think?" Grim asked Yattina who was sipping a cup of what looked like coffee but it was a dark blue. Fera pocketed some copper with a satisfied look as she got back to cleaning her impeccably clean bar.There was a pause as she sipped the drink and smiled to herself."I'm just wondering why you're all acting like it's do or fail forever. Even if you lose, Delta will let you try again and again... and again... and again. She's willing to let you keep trying as long as you're learning, long as you're growing," she pointed out and smiled, her tongue now blue as she drank the coffee."I think we should do it the forward way. Give it our all and see what data is returned. If we fail, we shall study and dissect our errors and Fran's successes until we turn the experiment in our favor," she declared."Manachondria is the powerhouse of the cell!" Deo said suddenly as if reacting to the word 'experiment'."Correct, take an invisible gold star," Yattina said and passed nothing to Deo who looked pleased as ever."It's not really there, there is no star," Grim said with irritation. Deo held out his empty hand and smiled at his friend"Want it?" he offered and Grim stared then tried to snatch the air only for Deo to pull it back with a delighted laugh.Kemy sighed with contentment but behind her, the truth was growing clearer.A boss fight was upon them.
