After that, the lake it sat within enlarged, allowing for even more Qi to flow in. The new emptiness was about half the size of my total Qi capacity, which once filled up, would give me more progress in one realm than I’d made in two.

Of course, besides the stats and increased Qi capacity granted by the system, advancing also has other benefits. Increased strength, increased resistance, the ability to see the environmental Qi, Divine Sense and many other superhuman abilities would be unlocked.

The Qi would also reform my body, preparing it for the next large realm. There were certain techniques that actually changed the structure of the bones, muscles, tendons and even meridians.

Those techniques were of a higher grade than my current Ghost Qi Technique, even in the mortal grade. However I had no way of remembering any of them, and I should count myself lucky I had some way to cultivate at least.

With the Ghost Qi Technique reforming my body at the same time as the evolution, though, I couldn’t help but be curious about the result.

I guessed I’d find out soon enough.

As the Qi from the lake dripped, it began to freeze. The temperature inside my dantian dropped to a chilling degree, and were it not for my Phoenix constitution, I would have already frozen over.

If that had happened, the only way to escape was by using external warmth or by heating up one’s insides. For that reason, people with Yang constitutions would avoid this technique, as it clashed with their nature. That would be me.

However, people with Yin constitutions would prefer to use this technique as it matched well with their nature.

But there were better techniques than the Ghost Qi Technique for either type, and even for those with no particular constitution.

Overall, the Ghost Qi Technique was simply an awful technique created by a villain.

And I was now using it to advance my cultivation.

I concentrated some warmth around the dantian, the firey Qi from my innate Phoenix nature melting the icy surface. When it de-solidified, it took on a bright luster, and I could somewhat feel that the Qi didn’t use as much space as before.

What? I never knew this could happen. The same amount of Qi but… less space? I could store so much more Qi this way!

After figuring that out, I took my time, and didn’t rush. Who would have guessed that the Ghost Qi Technique would have such a secret?

If one ignored the fact I would turn into a ghost by the time I reached Nascent Soul, this technique was incredible!

However, there had to be some way to undo it!

***

Time passed, and I took advantage of the freezing-heating cycle to consolidate my foundation even further. Normally, I would have forcefully compressed the Qi, however the Ghost Qi Technique already compressed it as much as possible by freezing it.

Therefore, my foundation couldn’t be more stable! If before I was working toward building an oak tree, big, stable and flourishing, then now I was working on a Spreadroot Fig.

A huge canopy, deep and thick roots, growing in soft, yet sturdy earth, with a wide trunk and limitless potential.

Slowly but surely, the lake filled up. All the Qi inside froze as I squeezed in the very last drop, and then flooded my dantian once it melted down.

[Cultivation Increased! Qi Condensation V has become Qi Condensation VI!]

A huge amount of Qi and strength flowed through my aching body. The pain from the evolution pulsing through my flesh with newly awakened vigor.

My senses sharpened as well, and I’d earned a better grasp on the changes happening in my body. My talons, wings and neck grew longer, while my body had turned the faintest bit thinner.

At the same time, my wings, which once held a tiny bit of ethereal quality, glowed with a ghost-like light. They seemed to phase in and out of reality, and while that worried me a little, it felt right.

Was I wrong about the Ghost Qi Technique? The scroll clearly stated I would turn into a ghost, but is this really what being a ghost feels like?

The air around me condensed as well, dripping with water as Yin Qi seeped out of my flesh.

The Yin and Yang clashed, however neither had dominion over the other. They were in balance.

The Dao gives birth to One. One gives birth to Two. Two gives birth to Three. Three gives birth to all things. All things carry Yin and embrace Yang. Through the blending of these energies, harmony is achieved.

“I see.”

It was then that I heard a voice— no, multiple voices. I couldn’t tell if they were Spirit Beasts or humans, but either of them spelled trouble.
