Mistress Elnea sighed, shaking her head through the projected image. “There are other social implications as well, but if we offer this option, it could be with a lower reward to the convicts. Then, the desperate would simply take the option, while we still incentivize the convicts as well.”

Tala still didn’t like it as it was effectively taking advantage of people’s desperation, but that’s how many dangerous ventures worked. Rust, her own time working the caravans had been her putting herself in danger for greater pay in a sort of desperation. There were other options, so it wouldn’t be a purely nominal choice…

The Revered City Lord cleared his throat drawing focus. “All of this is interesting in theory, but how many condemned criminals do you really have? What is the largest number we could expect from this?”

The Archon grimaced. “Maybe, ten thousand over the next few years.”

The arcane closed his eyes in an obvious attempt to master himself before he opened them again with a fire of irritation plain to see. “Then this is a pointless discussion. We need solutions, not social experiments with no hope of being sufficient. We lost the magical throughput of more than twenty-thousand vestiges, per city, and we need to address that shortfall.”

Silence fell then.

Mistress Jenna cleared her throat. “If the high-level goal is gates giving their throughput, and we want it to be sustainable and voluntary…” She stared hard at all the arcanes within her purview. “What about a hold that is specifically designed to capture expelled magic and release it at the anchor point. We could then put a teleportation circle in it and pay mundane gated to spend time within it?”

Master Grediv gave a slow shake of his head, but grinned. “No, that could get a fair amount of interest, but not enough, at least not consistently.” He gave her an encouraging smile across the Archive connection. “That could still be a part of it, and it might even be the lion’s share, but what if we also make a part of the hold a resort of sorts? We could then put those ‘paid’ gated to work as staff, and the wealthier mundane gated could vacation there?”

Tala frowned, feeling confused. “Are we forgetting about the degradation of holds under the influence of gated? There are holds here and in the Wandering Wilds with far more people within, but not gated.”

Mistress Jenna shook her head, clearly picking up a bit of steam. “At worst, the hold should still be able to last a year, and if we start by building two, and switch over as soon as the first starts showing wear? That would let us know how quickly we should have the following ones up and ready. Hopefully, the war will be over before even that first change out is required.” She smiled, clearly getting a bit excited. “It would be more like the caravan cargo wagons than a House’s hold. We’d make them to be disposable in a sense.”

The Revered City Lord grimaced, but also slowly nodded. “If I’m understanding the plan, it would be fiscally wasteful in the extreme but possibly less so than other options…”

The gnome rolled her eyes. “So, instead of putting gated where they belong, locked down to remove their selfishness and put the power to good use, we’re spending war-resources to make them comfortable, to give them a place of leisure?”

Tala turned on the Pillar, of the House of the Under-Night if she remembered correctly. “Would you like the Houses to fight this war alone? Would you like to take a two sided war that we have a chance to win into a three sided conflict where we can be defeated in detail?”

The Pillar opened her mouth, but Tala wasn’t done.

“The Black Legion hasn’t stagnated, and now they have hundreds of thousands of vestiges prepped and ready for them to attempt making new legionnaires with.” She explicitly did not add that it was arcane society and structures that had served up those resources to them on a silver platter. Such would alienate more than it would help. “We must stand together, and we must use our resources to best effect. Is this an expensive idea? Absolutely. Is it odd on the face of it?” She laughed. “Yes, and no. Is it improper for a soldier to keep their gear in as good a condition as possible? To eat tasty meals when possible? Of course not. It is understood that supporting all parts is a part of the war effort, and this is no different. It is not an idea I’d have thought of, but it’s the best one we’ve found so far that could not only solve the issue facing ten of our cities, but strengthen our ties to the primary ally available to us in this conflict on a societal level. It’s possible that you’re right, and this will be seen as inefficient in retrospect, but at the moment? It should work. I don’t know about you, but I’d rather not have our society collapsing into infighting due to a lack of power in ten of our cities. Would you? If you have a real idea, we’ll hear it.”

The gnome grimaced, but finally shook her head, crossing her arms and leaning back in silence.

In that silence, everyone present turned to regard Tala, and she realized that they were curious as to her thinking, curious if she had anything else to say. Though, by the mirth in Master Grediv’s eyes, they weren’t planning on following her, come rust or ruin. She sighed. “I said what I have to say. This is as good a short term solution as we have, while we hunt for the stolen columns and look for other fixes. In the leadup to this, we discussed the creation of a war council for the big picture once the war began. It’s begun. Get that going. I’m the Eskau of War, not the Pillar of War. There’s a reason there is no such position. I’m going to be on the front lines as much as I am able, and that does not lend itself to good leadership and strategy. I know my strengths, and by this point most of you should too. I’ll make the choices I think best where I am, and I’ll rusting weld you all together for this effort no matter the heat or pressure it takes, but I won’t be in charge of the large scale.”

There were no objections and even many looks of overt approval.

She would be glad when the Council was in place…

Regardless, there was a quick, preliminary vote by those present, and thus, they had a stabilizer chosen for their currently teetering situation. The united alliance of Cycling Cities, the settlements of the Wandering Wilds, and the arcane cities would build resorts to entice gated to visit from across the alliance.

…For the good of the war effort. She sighed, feeling a bit resigned. Out-of-the-box enemy actions required out-of-the-box responses if they hoped to win. This is going to be a very, very novel war… isn’t it.

-Oh, undoubtedly.-

Joy.
