Yuan gritted his teeth. Clearly, he didn't like the look of my upgraded whip, which I was still expertly manipulating—it was part of my body, after all. But his fiery spirit refused to waver, and I knew I'd need to break his emotions down even more.

These cultivators say that the battle can be won in the mind; let's see how Yuan deals with this.

Withdrawing more slime and sending it to my whip, I had it split into three from its singular tendril! The crowd went ballistic while Yuan's face began to visibly pale.

I ensured that the whips behaved in as monstrous of a manner as possible, making it look like I was holding onto a horror of the depths rather than a Qi weapon. The effect was undoubtedly dramatic, as I could sense fluctuations in Yuan's Qi due to his deteriorating confidence.

This is my chance!

I burst forward using Qi, focused on my legs, and sent out my weapon to attack. Yuan panicked and tried to defend himself. He blocked the first tendril but lacked the limbs to stop the other two, which I manipulated with deft precision.

The second tendril struck his solid flame, but his spirit was broken, and when the third hit, it penetrated straight through and landed a horrific cutting blow as it racked across his body.

Yuan yelled out in pain, and almost instantly, his fiery aura vanished on the spot. He fell to the floor, gasping and writhing in pain, as where the bladed whip had cut into his flesh was now rapidly forming frostbite and necrosis.

"Young Master!" one of his cronies shouted as they rushed to his aid.

Immediately, all attention was on him as people rushed to help him. I sighed and retracted my whip, disappointed that I wouldn't get the proper recognition for my victory.

"You fiend, you intentionally tried to cripple him!" someone accused me.

"What? I barely touched him and immediately retracted my weapon after striking him!" I refused.

"You've clearly gone too far! This is not the way of the Azure Dragon Sect!"

"You used truly demonic techniques! Trying to corrupt his blood with ice!"

The accusations kept coming, I couldn't believe how quickly everyone was turning against me. Wang tried to defend me, citing Yuan's higher cultivation and use of his phoenix bloodline, but he was drowned out as the majority seemed to deem that I was the one who went too far.

I caught a glimpse of the little shit smirking, even through the pain he was experiencing.

You bastard! You plotted this so you'd win no matter what!

Then, the air trembled, and everyone went silent. A deathly aura filled the air, suppressing everyone present. Appearing from nowhere was Senior Wu, who had initially brought Yuan.

"My boy, what have they done to you?" he asked.

"That vile peasant tried to contaminate my noble blood! She tried to cripple me, if not assassinate me!" Yuan spat.

His cronies immediately agreed with him.

"What? I didn't!" I denied it immediately. "He sought me out. He challenged me. He—"

"Enough!" Wu shouted, like a thunderous boom.

Wu then appeared before me with an oppressive aura that froze me on the spot.

"For attempting to cripple someone of the noble Wu bloodline, I will shatter your cultivation in return!" Wu declared.

I tried to say something but felt paralyzed by his killing intent.

"Be thankful that I'm merciful and not crippling you! You can atone by starting over!" He declared and thrust his hand forward.

His hand penetrated through me like nothing, and he immediately grasped my core! Terror struck me; he was literally holding onto my very being!

"Such a solid dantian," he whispered, almost sounding regretful. "Properly atone by losing all this progress!"

He squeezed, and I instantly felt my core shatter! The entire world began drowning in darkness. I felt disconnected from all my slime, no longer connected to it or anything.

"Elder Wu, what did you do!?" someone shouted in horror.

"What?" Wu shouted.

Darkness took me.

***

I woke up with a gasp as I looked around the room frantically. I looked around in a panic, feeling like I'd just had the worst night terror ever.

"Have a bad dream?" Vee asked, sounding tired as if she'd just woken up.

"I-I'm not sure…" I whispered in response.

Was it really all just a bad dream?
