I floated in an endless void for what felt like an eternity until a simple wooden stool appeared. I stared at it briefly and then suddenly found myself sitting in it.

Oh no, why am I here again!? Did I die in my sleep?

"Syl, Syl, Syl…" Gramps's voice echoed in my head. He sounded tired. "You've really done it now."

What did I do? I'm innocent!

"I wish that were the case, but unfortunately, my hands are tied," Gramps continued. "I've received endless complaints about you, and now I'm unfortunately forced to punish you."

I shuddered.

So I'm dead? Just like that? All my hard work gone?

"Well, I have some good news in that regard. I've pulled some strings with an old friend, and he said he's willing to take you. Unless you'd rather die and start from scratch?"

Do I get to keep living my slimy life? Sign me up!

"I thought that might be the case," Gramps chuckled. "I will warn you, though, that his world is quite different from our own, and you won't receive help from the system."

Does that mean I'll lose all my slime powers? My traits? My skills?

"Not exactly," Gramps reassured me. "You'll lose the system's assistance, so you won't receive automatic help or installed knowledge. However, you've grown so close to most of your natural abilities that I'm confident you'll figure it out."

Great. I'm always up for a challenge!

"Excellent. Well, good luck, Syl," Gramps said.

As always, my chair vanished, and I found myself plummeting into the void below.

"—Oh, I almost forgot, there's no Mana in this new world!" Gramps added as an afterthought.

What!? I'm a Mana Slime! How do you expect me to—

My protest halted as the darkness consumed me.

***

I awoke to the sound of rustling leaves and grass. I immediately surveyed my surroundings cautiously and found myself in an unfamiliar forest.

Well… This is a bit nostalgic, starting in a forest. Better this than in a bucket on a slime farm!

I examined myself and was in my usually blobby slime form rather than my elven disguise. I quickly tried to withdraw additional slime but found my [Core Storage] oddly empty.

Wait… Do I even call it that anymore? Status! Profile!

There was nothing. No text boxes and no notifications—it felt eerie and isolating.

Gramps said there was no system, so I have to do everything myself now. Considering I could still access my storage, I guess I was familiar enough with using it.

With a rather lackluster amount of slime, I would typically fall back on my magical repertoire, but nothing happened when I tried to conjure a spell. I went through every element and affinity I had, but not even a spark of magic and Mana was produced.

Well, shit.

I spent the next moments examining what slime abilities I was familiar enough with. I could form pseudopods without any issue and morph my slime quickly; likewise, changing my slime density was still very natural.

I started cycling through some of my slime traits, and while it looked like I hadn't lost any of them, their effects seemed somewhat diminished from my approximation.

Okay, this sucks. Even my [Acid Slime] has been reduced, which is something I use all the time. Surely the system wasn't helping me that much? Or was the system help that I wasn't supposed to be an acid slime to begin with?

Unfortunately, my questions were met with more eerie silence, and I had to give up on that thought. I had one final thing to check: my sub-cores.

I had six in total, including my own core. This is quite a downgrade from what I was sitting on previously, but I suppose I should have been grateful to have any.

Can I make more? Do I know how to make more? Uh… Probably not.

I tried giving them a few instructions to test them out and was horrified at how poorly they performed. Gone were my loyal and active helpers; instead, I had some lobotomized drones that could perform a single instruction at best.

I guess their self-thinking and order interpretation was entirely handled by the system. I'm not sure what I'm going to use them for now.

My thoughts were interrupted by a savage roar as a massive fanged beast emerged from the treeline. It was orange with stripes and looked ferocious. The creature looked like it might have been trying to escape from something, but I had one thought on my mind.

Food!

Gathering what slime I had, I fired out a tendril of slime, attempting to latch onto the beast. The creature was entirely caught by surprise, and I pulled my entire slimy body toward it and tried to smother it with as much slime as possible.

The beast tried to get rid of me but failed. Using my tendrils, I hardened their edges into blades of metallic slime and began cutting into it. It didn't take long for me to defeat the beast, and I didn't even need to use my old suffocation tactic!

No experience gained, no level-ups, to think I'd miss those little pings.

I began eating away at my meal and felt immense relief when I saw I was generating slime mass as usual. While my acid slime was diminished, I still finished the corpse in almost no time, but when I got to the creature's center, I was shocked—it had a core!

Is this a slime monster? No, that can't be… That was definitely meat that I was eating!

I tried examining the strange core I had found, but it wasn't like any slime core I could recognize. Even without the system's help, I didn't feel the same kinship with this core.

Do monsters in this world all have cores? That would be interesting! I guess I'll need to hunt some more to find out.

Next, I tried to eat it to see if I would gain anything from it. What shocked me the most was that unlike my own cores, it was actually quite solid and hardly fragile—I was immensely jealous as I had to go through so much effort to reinforce my own core to a fraction of this durability.

Still, with enough pressure and acid, I managed to eat the core, but I hadn't gotten any system notification or a new power. I did feel a rush of… something, but whatever this strange energy was, clearly, it was beyond my current understanding.

Well, whatever. I've got slime mass now. Let's get a more humanoid form in case I run into anyone!

Immediately, I started trying to craft my old form, and while it was a little bit of a struggle, I succeeded. Unfortunately, I didn't have my armor, so I'd need to make clothes. That was where I finally found a use for my dumbed-down sub-cores, as I had one of them maintain the form of the robe I had created.

I'll upgrade to better defenses when I get more slime. Guess I better start hunting.

I was about to leave when a group of men suddenly entered the clearing, holding spears and swords. They looked startled to see me, and the leader of their group spoke up.

"Girl! Have you seen the tiger beast that was running this way?" he questioned.

Oh, I can understand them!

"I defeated it!" I proudly declared.

The hunters seemed shocked by my revelation.

"How? Aren't you a mortal? Yet I see no injuries on you."

"Don't lie to us, girl! You haven't even reached Foundation Building," another hunter spoke.

"I definitely defeated it," I reiterated.

"Then where's your proof? Where's its pelt, its fangs, or its beast core?"

"I… ate the core," I answered.

The hunters were shocked and looked at me in horror.

"The demonic path has touched one so young? What will the elders say…"

"That explains the lack of a body…"

"Little one, you must not give in to the demonic path!"

I frowned, "I'm not sure what this demonic path is. I was just hungry."

Sadly, that didn't alleviate their concern; if anything, they looked more tense. One of the older men with greying hair closed his eyes and held out the palm of his hand toward me.

"I don't sense the demonic taint on you; perhaps there is still hope," the older hunter said. "But there is definitely the Qi circulating on you. We must take you to the elders; perhaps you can be saved."

I nodded happily, "Sure!"

I followed the men, who were keeping me at arm's length and with weapons drawn as if I were a hostile animal. I wasn't sure if they were strong or not, but considering they were such a large group hunting only a single tiger that I defeated easily, I felt confident.

When we reached the village, I saw many others looking in curiosity or pointing fingers in my direction. Eventually, the elder was called and came outside to meet me.

"This one defeated the tiger beast," the lead hunter explained.

"Truly?" the elder questioned. "This junior must have quite some latent talent!"

"Yes, but she ate the beast's core," the hunter confirmed.

The bystanders gasped, and whispers of "demonic" were on the lips of everyone present. The elder's expression grew firm, and he reached into his robe to pull out something; it looked like a paper rectangle with painted symbols.

Some form of enchantment?

"Banishment!" the elder cried out as the talisman exploded into a burst of light. Before I could even react, the light struck me and passed straight through me. But... nothing happened, and I was fine.

Was that magic?

I tilted my head curiously at the old man, who looked much more relieved.

"There is no demonic possession!" the elder declared, and the rest of the village began easing up and smiling.

"Junior, you are young and clearly have talent. To take down a tiger beast by yourself, you must not succumb to the temptations of the demonic path!" the elder declared. "Why ruin a bright future with quick gains? That way leads to shaky foundations and ruin."

"I… understand," I replied with some doubt. "What do you recommend?"

"Good!" the village elder said. "I'll write to the Sect and mention your good deeds. That tiger beast threatened our village; they will want one like you as a disciple."

"With your talent, maybe you can even qualify as an inner disciple!" the lead hunter said. "But even an outer disciple would be fortuitous! A far better life than toiling as a mortal."

I nodded, deciding to go along with the flow. Soon after, I was offered room and board with one of the hunters who had a spare room, and a feast was even prepared in celebration of the tigers' defeat.

To my disappointment, most of the meal was rice, providing me with almost no slime mass. Perhaps sensing my disappointment, one of the villagers mentioned that I'd be able to eat spirit rice if I joined the Sect.

Okay, so is the Sect like a guild? I'm really going along with the flow here, but it's certainly better than the alternatives. This way, at least, I can try to get some more information.

***

The next day, I was awoken and told to freshen up and make myself presentable. As a slime, that was no trouble as I could instantly clean myself, so it was mostly for show on their part. Then, I was to wait at the elder's house until the Sect representative arrived.

The elder was excited but also anxious and repeatedly warned me not to be rude and to follow any instructions closely. I immediately compared the times I dealt with nobles and agreed to be on my best behavior.

"Looks like the Sect has sent someone!" the elder said proudly as he pointed out his window to something approaching in the distance.

I squinted and tried to use my [Eagle Vision] from before, but sadly, it appeared I was stuck with normal vision for now. The flying dot drew closer, and eventually, I saw a man in a white robe flying through the sky. I'd seen flying before, but what shocked me was that he was doing it by standing atop a sword!

Okay… That's got to be magic, right?

The elder rushed me outside to greet the elder. He bowed deeply and pushed my head to copy his actions.

"This one greets you," the elder said.

"You spoke of a found hidden talent?" the robed man asked. He looked extremely young, almost ageless, and I found it strange that the village elder was showing such reverence.

"Yes, Senior. This girl was found in the forest having defeated the rank two tiger beast that was plaguing our village," the elder explained.

"I do recall there was a mission posted asking for aid in its extermination," the man muttered, stroking his chin. "And you say this one defeated it? A rank two beast?"

The elder nudged me.

"Yes. Senior," I replied, finding the phrasing a bit confusing. "I defeated the tiger beast."

"Do you have the beast core as proof?" the man asked.

"I do not," I replied hesitantly. "I… ate it."

Something in the air tensed, and I felt like my life was suddenly in danger despite the man's face remaining as serene as a lake.

"A demonic cultivator!?" the man demanded.

"Senior!" the old village elder pleaded. "I used a banishment talisman on her; she is not possessed! Only misguided! One of our hunters also mentioned that he sensed no taint on her; she has yet to succumb to the demonic ways!"

"Having tasted it already, she should be slain on the spot," the man declared.

Oh shit.

I prepared to get ready to fight and wondered if I could take him.

"However, to defeat a rank two tiger beast before even Foundation Establishment shows talent. Perhaps we should invest in this one."

"Y-yes Senior! You are most wise!" the old man said.

I bowed my head as well, mimicking the village elders' actions.

"Very well, I shall take her," he said, handing the old man a small pouch.

The village elder smiled and bowed multiple times, thanking him profusely before scuttering away, leaving me alone with the Sect man.

"I am Senior Lei. Do you have a name, Junior?" he asked.

"Syl… Senior Lei," I replied cautiously.

"Syl… A strange name," he snorted before pulling out his sword.

He released the sword, and it floated parallel to the ground. He then gave a tiny hop before landing on it.

"Get on, junior," he ordered, pointing to the open spot in front of him.

I jumped on and, to my surprise, found it relatively easy to stand on. Lei snorted again at my reaction, and abruptly, the sword took off into the air without warning.

