I was given a Sect token, which showed my status and cultivation rank and would also store my contribution points. I found it eerily similar to my Guild tag and was quite horrified when I learned that it would allow others to see my location within the Sect—this world clearly didn't respect privacy!

Even though I was an Inner Disciple, I was at the bottom of the barrel regarding hierarchy and was still in the Qi Refining stage. Qi was this world's equivalent to Mana, and its usage directly empowered every living being, human or monster.

I had thought that meant everyone in this world was a spellcaster. However, unlike Mana, Qi had plenty of other uses and could be used to create magical effects, bodily enhancements, and other spectacular results. It was like Magic, Traits, and Skills all combined into one resource!

My first few days were spent learning how to feel Qi so I could start absorbing it, as this was a crucial step to reaching the next stage of cultivation. It took far longer than I'd liked, and I had to question whether my old [Prodigy] trait failed to be transferred to this new world.

Once I could sense Qi, I had to learn how to meditate and absorb it, but that wasn't enough; I'd have to slowly refine it into my own personal resource.

When I wasn't doing chores for the Sect, I spent most of my days meditating near significant water sources. These were abundant in Water Qi, and they wanted me to focus on that and abandon my other four elements.

Of course, I wouldn't take that lightly, so I immediately started experimenting with my [Sub-Cores] to see if I could convince them to absorb Qi for me. I assigned each core to a different Qi element, and after some trial and error, I managed to coax them to do it!

If I have five elements, I'm going to use five elements! I wasn't an Elementalist for nothing, you know!

I learned sadly that at this stage, even if I had gathered Qi, I could only use it internally, as external Qi usage was the hallmark of being in the Foundation Establishment stage. That meant that Yuan was an entire stage above me, and yet he still challenged me!

If I had free time, I spent it with Brother Wang, as he was still routinely in contact with me and likely my only friend until I had more achievements to my name. Senior Lei had swiftly abandoned me after getting his contribution points, although Wang defended him, saying that he was likely worried about repercussions with the Wu family.

Being able to gather five times more Qi than I should have meant that I soon found my body fully saturated in it. The speed of my growth raised suspicions, and my dark past of eating a beast's core was revealed.

Demonic Cultivators would eat beast cores to hasten their cultivation, growing directly in power through kills. However, the Qi was apparently tainted that way, and while it was rapid, it was building unsteady foundations. It was highly frowned upon and often outlawed entirely, so many accusations were thrown my way.

Thankfully, on further investigation, I was cleared of not having any demonic Qi within me after a Sect Elder thoroughly examined my Qi. My fast progress was then attributed to my Ice Physique and pure spiritual roots.

I did eat a beast core… I wonder if my slime nature prevented it from contaminating me?

It was certainly something I was tempted to try again in the future when I didn't have so many eyes on me.

Learning techniques was interesting and very reminiscent of how skills were installed with the system. The Sect had techniques stored within jade slips, and when you injected them with Qi, it would perform the technique for you in your mind and give you an idea of how to control and manipulate the Qi.

However, just because it was instilled into your mind did not mean you could use it instantly. Depending on the difficulty, rank or grade, and compatibility with the individual were all factors in being able to interpret and master a technique.

Qi Refining techniques were all body-based, which made me nostalgic for my [Thunder Step] or [Wind Step] skills. While most were movement-based, some allowed the user to use Qi to reinforce muscles or skin, enhance vision, or even forcefully imbue their blows.

The Sect gave me three techniques for free, one in each category: movement, offensive and defensive. If I wanted more, I'd need to use Sect contribution points to buy them. I was just happy to finally be able to use this mysterious new resource known as Qi and start empowering myself!

Shortly after that, I finally reached a point where my body would no longer accept Qi, and I was told that I had reached my bottleneck and would need to breakthrough into Foundation Establishment!

While it sounded impressive, it was a relatively minor achievement at this early stage. It simply required me to refine all of my Qi, which was described as gaseous, into liquid Qi. Once all my Qi was refined, I would be officially in the next stage of cultivation!

As an Inner Disciple, I was actually provided with a pill to help this process. It would boost my Qi gathering and allow me to increase the pressure more swiftly, enhancing my breakthrough.

I hesitantly swallowed the pill and prayed to Gramps that I'd still benefit from it despite being a slime. My worries were thankfully unfounded; when I started the process, it felt like the Qi was flying towards me!

I calmly meditated in my house and attempted to breakthrough, the pressure of all the Qi gathered by my multiple cores building and building to a crescendo. I had plenty of experience compressing slime mass, so I tried to create a parallel in this process.

Once it officially began, I was so excited that I compressed my first drop of liquid Qi, which seemed to float in a strange void within my core. I kept pulling and pulling until I could pull no more, and after what must have been hours flew by, I no longer had any traces of gaseous Qi.

"Success!" I cried out happily.

***

Upon confirmation of my new cultivation rank, I was immediately awarded a new technique, an external Qi water move—Water Crescent!

The Sect was grooming me to be a water cultivator, and had no idea that I still wanted to dabble in all elements. But if I wanted to do so, I'd either need to discover the techniques for myself or earn many more contribution points to buy them.

The Water Crescent move was highly compatible with me, forming crescent moon-shaped blades out of Water and shooting them. It was far more impressive than the old [Water Orb] I had first learned as a Mage, and I was eager to master it.

While meditating at the creek, Yuan and his gang of cronies approached me. He immediately sneered at my "lackluster progress" and boasted that he was already at the Late Foundation Establishment, the peak of this rank, and about to enter Core Formation!

"I challenge you to a duel!" Yuan cried out.

"I'd rather not," I rejected, taking the advice given to me by Wang. "I need to focus on my cultivation and earning sect points."

"Oh? I forgot how poor you were," he snickered. "How about this? We can each bet 100 sect points! I'll even give you 2 to 1 odds!"

That tempted me. I'd get 200 points just like that? I doubted he'd be able to overcome my slime nature even if he was at the peak of this cultivation rank.

"Alright," I agreed.

After arriving at the dueling arena again, it looked like a crowd had already gathered. No doubt Yuan wanted to publicly humiliate me and had set this up beforehand. I sighed in regret, feeling like I'd fallen for a trap.

Lei had told me to take a fall in any future duels, but I had hastily agreed to a wager. No way I was going to lose my 100 points to this cocky bastard—consequences be damned!

We each took our respective fighting spots while he continued to snicker and taunt me. It was clear that while he achieved growth in strength, his personality still left much to be desired. His cronies also happily joined in on the jeering and were attempting to turn the crowd against me—an easy feat thanks to my lackluster reputation.

I really should have focused on gaining more face; other than Wang, I don't have any allies.

"As your senior and superior, I'll even grant you the first move!" Yuan boasted confidently.

"Sure," I agreed, hiding my smile.

With a swift motion, I gathered my Qi and activated my Water Crescent technique, sending the blade of Water soaring at him.

While some of the crowd praised my quick and clean execution of the technique, Yuan had no doubt on his face. That was when a fiery aura erupted from him, and my blade of Water struck it, evaporating in a near instant.

"Flame Shroud!" someone in the crowd shouted.

"That's an advanced technique!" another exclaimed.

Well, shit. Looks like he isn't all talk this time.

"Come, Junior, let's exchange pointers!" Yuan taunted before exploding towards me with a fiery movement technique.

He already has elemental techniques for movement, defense, and offense; how much more biased can you get!?

I activated my defensive technique, Qi Shell, to strengthen my arms and block his blow. At the same time, I triggered [Cryo Slime] to start rapidly cooling down my body, as I was still terrified of being boiled alive again.

His blow struck with a resounding punch, but I'd blocked all its impact. I likely didn't even need to use my defensive technique because my slime constitution is exceptionally good at blocking blunt damage, but I wanted to keep up appearances. However, now that he was close, I could certainly feel the heat radiating from his Flame Shroud technique.

"Hope it's not too hot for you, Junior," he taunted.

"I'm feeling rather chilly myself," I retorted before striking out with a leg kick.

He managed to block it in time, but unlike before, his exposed flesh didn't have frostbite. Yuan showed a fiendish grin as if this was the outcome he hoped for.

"Your Ice Physique is nothing compared to my mighty Phoenix Bloodline!" he declared to the excited roar of the crowd.

We continued our melee brawl, each trying to combat the other with our elemental auras—frost versus flame! Although while he was burning Qi to utilize his, mine was all-natural, and I knew I'd eventually outlast him.

In an attempt to break our stalemate, he breathed out a torrent of fire that easily dwarfed his display on that fateful day. The fire washed over me, and I ensured I kept [Cryo Slime] at its limit, so I escaped unscratched, causing Yuan to become highly agitated.

He kept taunting and insulting me, which only further fueled my desire to defeat him. But I had only basic techniques, while he was given advanced ones and even the Water Crescent I was so proud of paled in comparison.

But I'm a slime!

I circulated Qi as if activating a technique, causing Yuan to immediately use his movement technique to leap backward in a fiery explosion. He then cautiously eyed me, waiting to see what I was doing.

I withdrew slime from my [Core Storage] and began expelling it from my palm, ensuring it came out in the appearance of Water until I had a long flowing tendril that I flourished around the arena.

"Is that a water whip technique!?" one onlooker shouted.

"To form such a technique in Early Foundation Establishment, this Junior Sister must be extremely gifted with Water!"

Yuan was gritting his teeth as he glared at me.

"Your water whip will meet the same fate as your crescents! Or did you forget that they were burnt to the crisp!?"

"Evaporated, not burnt," I corrected him. "But you'll find this is a much more advanced technique."

"You dare!?" he snarled and burst forward in another fiery explosion.

I couldn't help but grin at how easy he was to taunt as I manipulated my slime whip to strike him. He made no effort to dodge or block, having complete confidence in his Flame Shroud technique, and so he was utterly defenseless when it hit him and sent him careening off course.

"Syl struck him!" Wang cried out in joy. "Junior Sister Syl has clearly produced a masterful technique!"

The crowd was immediately whipped up into a frenzy; nobody had expected this outcome, especially not Yuan.

"How!?" he demanded through bloody teeth.

"Did you forget my Ice Physique?" I teased. "I simply chilled my water as it's in contact with my body."

Yuan laughed darkly, making me wonder if he'd lost it.

"I see… Yes, I should have expected as much! Then I'll bring the full force of my bloodline to this fight as well!"

He then spat out a mouthful of blood, which seemed to instantly feed the flames surrounding him. What was once bright glowing flames became a sickeningly crimson color that screamed danger to me.

"Phoenix flame!" a spectator cried.

"Junior Sister, watch out!" Wang screamed.

But Yuan exploded back into the fight with intense ferocity. I manipulated my slime whip to strike him, and while the whip didn't burn away, it actually seemed to hit a solid barrier when it collided with the flame.

"What!?" I shouted in disbelief.

"This is no ordinary flame peasant!" Yuan mocked as we traded blows. "The phoenix bloodline allows me to give flames substance! No longer ethereal!"

To demonstrate his point, he swiped at me, but at the end of his hand was an aura of flame claws, and they began to cut into me. I quickly activated my defensive technique, causing a clanging sound as the claws ricocheted off just in time.

If I don't end this now, I'll be revealed! I haven't practiced creating fake wounds enough since my arrival! Never did I think he would be able to pierce me like that!

"Ready to surrender?" Yuan taunted.

"Never!" I rejected and flexed my slime whip, causing jagged edges to form along it, looking like icy crystals.

"Yuan turned up the heat, but Syl has brought winter!" a spectator cried out.

"It's cold enough to form ice shards! That looks horrifying!"

