This has got to be magic. It's flying so effortlessly it puts even my old flying traits to shame, and those came from magical monsters like the pegasus!

Senior Lei did not make small talk, so I was left to cautiously observe the surroundings and try to get the lay of the land; it appeared we were heading towards a mountain.

As we approached the mountain, I saw that buildings had been built all along it, growing in opulence the closer they were to the peak. But we didn't head to the peak and instead stopped about a quarter of the way up.

"Senior Lei, what can I do for you!" a chubby man said, coming out from the building.

"Junior Wang, I have a potential recruit for the Sect," Lei said.

"Oh, splendid!" Wang replied with a cheerful smile. "Junior sister, you will love the Azure Dragon Sect! We are the best of the best! Hopefully, you pass the evaluation!"

I bowed politely while wondering what the evaluation would be.

"I would hope so; she appears to have some heritage based on her strange ears," Lei replied. "That mortal village fool didn't even realize it, and I only had to give him spirit stone scraps for the recruitment."

Oh… I left my elf ears. Well, it sounds like it's gotten me some favorable treatment.

"Senior Lei is most wise!" Wang replied. "I'll fetch the Spirit Crystal for you."

Wang hurried back into the building while Lei stood around looking imposing. I glanced around at my surroundings, trying to take it all in, but I felt hopelessly out of place.

"Assuming you get a good evaluation, it will look favorably on me for recruiting you," Lei said.

"What do you get out of it?" I asked curiously.

"Contribution points are worth much more than some measly spirit stones. With enough contribution points, you can buy cultivation resources that would otherwise be unattainable even with a fortune," Lei explained.

I suppose it's like how the Guilds had their own craftsmen and gave discounts and preferential treatment to members. I have no idea what these cultivation resources are, but hopefully, they will still benefit me as a slime!

While we were waiting, another person on a flying sword arrived. Unlike Lei, he looked older, and atop his sword was an extremely young boy.

"Senior Wu, it's good to see you," Wei said, giving a tiny bow.

"Uncle Wu, when can I get tested?" the boy impatiently asked before the man could respond.

"Patience Yuan," Senior Wu said to the energetic boy. "Junior Lei, I'm surprised to see you here."

"I found a prospective student for our Sect," he replied, gesturing to me.

I gave a tiny bow in return. It seemed everyone did a lot of bowing in these parts, and I didn't want to offend.

"Ha! What a shame you'll be evaluated on the same day as me!" the boy boasted. "You'll look like an ant next to a mountain!"

This brat… I'll have you know I've eaten worms bigger than you!

Wang came back holding an ornate box, nearly stumbling and tripping as he arrived. He presented the box, but Wu took it rather than Lei.

Wu opened the box, revealing a crystal in the shape of a five-pointed star. He gestured for Yuan to approach.

"Watch this!" Yuan boasted, rubbing his hands together.

He placed his hand on the crystal, which began to emit a soft glow before one of the pointed tips started to glow with a fiery red. At the center of the crystal, a strange symbol also appeared, although I had no idea what it meant.

Oh! This is like the affinity tests I did with the Adventurers Guild.

"Such intensity!" Wang exclaimed.

"As expected of the Wu family, your fire cultivation knows no bounds," Lei said.

Yuan sneered at me, clearly delighted with his results.

Lei took the box from Wu, who wanted to leave, but the Yuan boy refused to go until he saw my result.

"This will evaluate your spirit roots and see what we are working with," Lei explained.

I nodded and touched the crystal myself, wondering if my previous affinities would transfer to this. To my relief, the crystal began to glow shortly after I felt it, and then, one by one, each tip started to shine in a unique color—green, red, brown, silver, and finally blue.

"This…" Lei whispered.

"All five elements! Wood, Fire, Earth, Metal and Water!" Wang exclaimed.

"That's good, right?" I asked and couldn't help glancing at the boy.

"Good?" Wei repeated. "It's—"

"Terrible!" Yuan blurted out before laughing hysterically.

"Isn't more better?" I asked, not understanding.

"Spoken like a know-nothing commoner," Yuan taunted.

Lei looked visibly upset.

"The more elements you have, the worse the chance for Qi contamination," Wang explained. "A pure single element is much more favorable. Dual elements are sometimes also sought after, but it requires a lot of commitment to split your cultivation in two like that!"

"Her roots are exceptionally pure, though, despite all five elements," Wu mentioned to our surprise. "And the evaluation hints that she might have the Ice Physique as well as some partiality to Space-Time."

I guess that's my [Cryo Slime] doing it, and I can only assume my [Core Storage] or latent Dimension affinity is the result of the Space-Time result. So, in this world, are Dimension and Time combined into one?

"Senior Wu is very right!" Wang replied joyfully. "An Ice Physique is extremely rare! I'm sure the Azure Dragon Sect will be happy to have such a rarity!"

"How does it compare to my Phoenix bloodline!?" Yuan demanded.

"You can't really compare a bloodline and a physique," Wang tried to explain.

"There's no way it's better than my bloodline!" Yuan shouted.

I tried to ignore the brat and turned to Wang, who seemed more than happy to explain things.

"What does this Ice and Space-Time mean for my evaluation?"

"Junior Sister is eager to learn!" Wang replied joyfully. "I suggest you abandon your other four elements and focus only on Water as your gains there will interlink with your Ice Physique. You'd benefit from one and a half paths through one!"

"What about Space-Time? Could I also do another element if I'm gaining one and a half through Water?"

"Foolish," Lei spat.

"Senior Lei is right," Wang nodded. "You can only cultivate one element at a time when absorbing Qi into your Dantian, and you only have so much time. Better to focus on one to maximize your benefits; otherwise, you will be stuck in lesser realms while everyone else around you surpasses you. As for Space-Time... that is a tricky one to cultivate and not something you should touch until you have at least broken through Foundation Establishment into Core Formation!"

I nodded as Wang spoke, digesting his words as best I could. What he said made sense, but I couldn't help but want to feed my nature of having it all. I had five elements; shouldn't I cultivate them all?

My Sub-Cores are dumbed down, but I wonder if I could have them gather this Qi for me for each element? It would be like when I was aligning them and having them specialize—I even have the exact right number as if Gramps was preparing me for this!

"I challenge you!" Yuan shouted; his patience had snapped from being ignored.

"Young Master, is that wise? You might be seen as picking on an outer disciple," Wang said diplomatically.

"Shut up, fatty!" Yuan shouted. "I want to prove the Wu Phoenix Bloodline cannot be matched by some stupid Ice Physique!"

Wow… Even in different worlds, nobles are a bunch of assholes. I really want to slap this kid.

"Young Master, she hasn't even received training yet. Would that really be considered fair?" Wang tried again.

"One's upbringing is part of their own strength! As is luck. Her misfortune of being born ill-fated is her own fault!" he replied.

What nonsense!? I could barely hide my shock at his arrogance.

"It's alright, Wang, let the duel happen," Lei said. "As long as Young Master Yuan promises not to cripple or kill my recruit, it should be fine."

"Are you sure, Senior Lei?" Wang asked.

"The villagers claim she killed a rank two tiger beast single-handedly," Lei said. "I believe she should be able to survive the duel, and it might even allow her to join as an Inner Disciple instead of an Outer Disciple."

"Truly? A rank two tiger beast!?" Wang cried out and looked at me.

I nodded in response.

Yuan was grinding his teeth in frustration until Wu patted him on the shoulder. He visibly eased up and seemed to downgrade to silently simmering.

I ended up agreeing to the duel, and we headed over to what looked like a slightly elevated stone platform that had been made into an arena. The rules explained that there was no intentional killing, and it was only until surrender, knocking out of the arena, or being unable to continue fighting.

I considered taking a fall after putting up a fight but decided against it when he kept sneering and smirking at me. I wanted to teach this kid a lesson and always wanted to punch a noble in the face.

"Begin!" Wu shouted as he chopped the air.

"I'll teach you to respect your betters!" Yuan yelled.

Then he took in a deep breath, and the crowd gasped.

"He hasn't even joined the Sect and can already mold Qi?"

"As expected of the noble Wu family."

"So much Fire Qi! Does he have a bloodline?"

Oh… is he doing magic? I used to be effectively immune to fire, but I'm not sure if that's the case anymore. My body is as reinforced as I can make it, but I don't want to get boiled alive, so let me try to use [Cryo Slime] and lower my temperature!

The boy belched out a torrent of flame from his mouth. It was unlike any spell I had ever seen before. I tried to dodge, but it was in such a sweeping, wide arc that I could not escape unless I revealed my slimy nature.

The flames crashed against me, and the boy laughed mockingly while the crowd gasped. I sighed with relief when I felt like my slime wasn't being destroyed by the flames and was, in fact, being somewhat suppressed by my icy temperature.

"What happened to non-lethal!" Lei cried out in frustration.

"Forgive Young Master Yuan," Wu said in a mocking tone. "You know how youth struggle to hold back."

But at that moment, I leaped out of the flames, unharmed and directly in the face of Yuan. I'd never really fought with fists, so I threw out a clumsy punch, which landed only due to his shock and surprise.

He cried out and took my punch directly to his face. My strength left a lot to be desired since I couldn't reinforce my body with Mana, but I still managed to send him tumbling across the arena floor, thanks to some slime decompression in my arm.

Really feels like the old days. I haven't had to use my slime like this in ages!

The crowd murmured and gasped at my unharmed state, and when Yuan kept screaming and crying on the floor, they were shocked.

I didn't even hit him that hard?

"Healers!" Wu shouted, and two individuals rushed over.

"His face has been almost entirely frostbitten!" one of the women shouted and touched his face.

"We need to thaw it and heal it simultaneously, or the flesh will die and leave a permanent scar," the other healer explained.

Both healers released a green and red magical glow, respectively, which seemed to soothe Yuan's wound. Shortly after, he stopped screaming.

Wang rushed up to me to congratulate me.

"Junior sister, well done!" he shouted and patted me on the shoulder before letting out a cry and clutching his hand.

"Junior, you must calm yourself, or you'll freeze yourself," Lei shouted at me. "While the Ice Physique is powerful, you will eventually succumb to it without proper training and forever encase yourself in permafrost!"

Whispers of "Ice Physique" went around the arena.

I nodded and pretended to calm down when, in reality, I just stopped using my [Cryo Slime] ability. This seemed to relieve both Wang and Lei greatly.

"To think the Ice Physique can stop even flame techniques!" one spectator shouted.

"And just touching her is dangerous, truly a formidable blessing! I'd hate to exchange pointers with her."

During this commotion, both Wu and Yuan seemed to have snuck away. I wanted to rub my victory in the brat's face, but I would have to settle with the fact that he had slinked away with his tail between his legs.

"How did I do, Senior Lei, Senior Wang?" I asked.

"You did amazing!" Wang replied, still shaking and blowing on his hand to warm it up. "To directly take on a fire technique with no Qi of your own was outstanding. You must have unconsciously done some body cultivating despite having no cultivation background—a natural savant!"

Lei, however, was more reserved, "You exceeded my expectations. You will undoubtedly earn a place as an Inner Disciple after defeating a Core Disciple in such a manner."

"Young Master Yuan is to be a Core Disciple!?" Wang cried out in horror.

Lei nodded, "Unfortunately. So, while your accomplishment is good, you've no doubt made a powerful enemy. I'd advise in the future, if you fight him, to perhaps take a fall or risk further escalations."

Ugh… Politics… Even dying twice, I can't get away from it!

"Come, Junior Sister, don't look so glum! I'll get you properly registered and treat you to a good meal!" Wang replied cheerfully.

"Thank you, Senior Wang, and thank you for the advice, Senior Lei," I said and gave a curt bow.

"Junior Sister, you can just call me Brother Wang!" he laughed. "I don't like having Seniority attached to me; it comes with far too much responsibility."

I nodded and followed after them both.

***

As an Inner Disciple of the clan, I was given quite a lot of privilege and even had my own tiny house! Apparently, Outer Disciples had to live in large dorms or tents if they were truly unfortunate. Meanwhile, Core Disciples even had their own tiny mansions in the Sect!

The best I'd ever stayed at were inns, so getting a small house to myself was a blessing, in my opinion, and it certainly beat living inside hollowed-out trees.

