With practiced motions from a lifetime of diverse hobbies, Staavo blew a heavy bulb of glass on the end of the pipe, spinning it to keep it from becoming too lopsided. Then, he carefully inserted the wooden plug into the pipe, threading the wires in after it. He fed it through carefully with a stick, such that the short end of the wires and the tungsten filament ended up inside the slowly cooling bulb of glass. This ticklish feat accomplished, he used a pair of tongs, also made by Tallheart, to pinch off the bulb, leaving the trailing ends of the two copper wires exposed when he took the pipe away. He made sure to completely seal off the wooden plug, blocking the third hole and making sure that there were no gaps around the wires. This done, he carefully hung the completed bulb upside down by the wires from a wooden rack set up next to the glassworks. With much protest from his back, he stretched, arching his spine to work out the kinks.

“You are getting quite good at that,” said Jamus.

“Thanks, kid,” Staavo said, grinning at the annoyed expression that this caused on Jamus’s face. “Now, go get Ameliah so I can prove you wrong.”

“I’m right here,” Ameliah said.

“Gah!” Staavo shouted, almost falling over as he whirled to face her. “How long have you been there?”

Ameliah smiled as Tallheart rumbled in amusement. “Not long. I was waiting for you to put down the molten glass before I said hello.”

Staavo snapped his gaze to Jamus angrily. “You could have warned me she was there.”

“Where would have been the fun in that?” Jamus said, raising a bushy eyebrow.

“Bah, whatever happened to respecting your elders?” Staavo grumped as he removed the second blowpipe from the glassworks. As he worked, he considered once more whether he’d need to build the void pump that Rain had described. It seemed like a lifetime ago when they’d had the conversation about light bulbs back in his tower. They’d discussed the topic further when Rain had come to the barrier the night before the Shift, but Staavo hadn’t had time to ask all of the questions he’d wanted. He had picked up many things in his travels, but a grasp of hand code—beyond the basic combat signs, anyway—wasn’t one of them. Ameliah had shown admirable patience in translating the strange concepts Rain had been attempting to describe, but she’d eventually grown annoyed by the back-and-forth.

“Are you going to try Purify again?” Tallheart asked Ameliah, clearly thinking about the same issue.

Ameliah shook her head. “No. I have a different idea that I’d like to try. I don’t think I’ll be able to do what Rain suggested with Purify. I’ve never seen a real light bulb, and I can’t picture one well enough. I tried both pure void, and the nitrogen thing, and there was no difference.”

Staavo nodded along as she spoke. The copper-filament bulbs that Ameliah had treated with Purify the day before had all burned out just as quickly as the untreated ones.

“It didn’t work because the void doesn’t exist,” Jamus said. “You can’t have nothing!” He waved his hands through the air. “And air is just air. None of this invisible nitrogen or oxywhatever.”

Staavo opened his mouth to call Jamus an idiot, but an angry grunt from Tallheart cut him off.

“Cease,” the smith said. “I will not allow you two to start that argument again. Whether or not the void exists, you would fill it with your childish noise and ruin the experiment.”

Ameliah snorted loudly, covering her mouth to hide her amusement. “Nice one, Tallheart.”

Staavo bit off his reply about how Rain had said there was no sound in the void. He knew when he’d been beaten.

“Anyway, my idea should work,” Ameliah said, still smiling. “I might not be able to picture a void inside that bulb, but I can try something like the experiment with mercury that Rain mentioned.”

“But we don’t have any mercury,” Jamus said. “Tallheart couldn’t find enough around here. We’re lucky he found the tungsten.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled.

“I don’t actually need the mercury,” Ameliah said. “You’ll see.”

Staavo finished inflating the bulb as before and inserted the filament. Instead of sealing it, he looked up at Ameliah, then passed the pipe to her when she gestured for it. She grabbed the hot metal with her bare hands, then flipped it vertically, so the bulb hung toward the ground. Then she took one hand off the pipe and held it to the side. After a moment, a trickle of water appeared, dripping from her finger.

“Since when can you cast Aquifer?” Jamus asked. “Isn’t that tier three? Is there anything you can’t do?”

Ameliah smiled but didn’t reply. Staavo didn’t miss the fact that steam was rising from the conjured water, meaning that it was boiling hot. Metamagic of some kind? And Channel Mastery, too, or she’d have drowned us by now. Depths-cursed silverplates.

Ameliah raised her finger to the pipe, letting the barest trickle of water drip down through it and into the bulb through the empty hole in the wooden plug. Fortunately, the bulb didn’t immediately shatter, but there was still a hissing plume of steam as hot water met even hotter glass.

“Wait a minute, how did that make it through the pipe?” Jamus said. “It’s made of metal. Aquifer makes conjured water, right?”

Staavo tilted his head. Huh. He’s right, that is odd.

Ameliah just smiled and continued filling the bulb. It was taking a while for the magical water to displace the air through the tiny hole, especially with the bubbles of steam fighting against the flow.

“Oh. Ohhhh,” Jamus said after a long silence, hitting himself in the forehead. “Of course. Mana Manipulation. You saturated the pipe.”

Ah, of course. I should have thought of that.

“Yes,” Ameliah said, nodding to him. “The metal can’t break down the water magic because it is already full of mana. And speaking of full…” she took her hand away, shaking off the last droplets of water. A flame flickered into existence between her fingers, and she reached down, carefully reheating the glass and sealing off the bulb. She held it up to show them.

And some sort of fire spell. Of course.

“And now, the metal in there should take care of the rest,” Ameliah said, smiling. Staavo peered at the bulb and saw that it was true. The water level was slowly draining before his eyes as the tiny metal wires broke down the magic.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “If you did this without the metal, could you trap pure mana when the spell expired?”

“No,” Ameliah said. “Mana passes straight through stuff like glass. I can see it doing it right now. Perhaps if you used Arcane glass, you could do it, but what would be the point? Nobody can use environmental mana, at least, not with any efficiency.”

Staavo forced himself not to react to this. She has Mana Sight too? How many skills does this woman have?! And from how many trees? Bloody fucking depths-cursed silverplate bullshit.

“I still don’t believe it,” Jamus said, taking the bulb from Ameliah carefully with a handkerchief and peering at it. The water was almost completely gone. He shook it lightly. “It just looks like air to me. Ah, getting hot! Take it back! Take it back!”

Ameliah took it from him and hung it next to the first. Staavo frowned, wishing for a proper annealing furnace, not that he would have had the patience to wait that long. Despite all of the fires burning in the Lee, it was still quite cold, and there was a serious risk of the glass cracking, no matter what he did. It wasn’t like he was working with proper equipment here. Further, Rain had gone on and on about the pressure of the air as opposed to the void. Staavo didn’t understand quite what the aura mage had been getting at, but nevertheless, he’d left the glass of both bulbs nice and thick to compensate for the supposed issue. It seemed to have worked, at least this time.

Staavo nodded. “Now then, these should be cool enough. No sense waiting for the glass to break.”

He picked up both bulbs gingerly, then twisted the protruding copper wires together in parallel, as Rain had called the configuration. Then, he connected them up to the generator and placed them carefully back on the rack. Incidentally, the generator had been rebuilt completely, using Tallheart’s copper wire instead of the steel greatbow cables that he’d purchased from a shop in Fel Sadanis. Unwrapping and rewrapping all that wire had not been fun, but the results spoke for themselves.

Staavo motioned to the crank with his free hand, steadying the hanging bulbs carefully with the other and using his fingers to keep the wires separate. He was still wearing his gloves, of course. The rebuilt generator was significantly more powerful, and touching the bare wires wasn’t a mistake he was going to make more than once. “Jamus, old friend, you may now prove yourself wrong.”

Jamus grinned, grabbing the crank and starting to turn it slowly. With each crank, both bulbs pulsed with amber light, growing stronger as Jamus increased his speed.

Staavo smiled as the light increased, passing the point at which the copper bulbs had failed. Jamus cranked faster still, and Staavo’s smile widened into a grin.

Tallheart hummed appreciatively. “Tungsten. Hmm. Wonderful metal. Faster, Jamus.”

Jamus stopped holding back, cranking as fast as he could without damaging the generator. Suddenly, the brightness from the bulbs, which had grown to rival an oil lamp, dropped by half. Jamus stopped cranking, looking at his hand with a surprised expression. One of the bulbs was blackened inside with soot, the filament broken. The other, the one that Ameliah had filled with water, looked completely unharmed.

“Ha!” Staavo shouted. “I win!”

“Not yet you don’t,” Jamus growled. He went back at the crank like a madman, abandoning all concern for the generator. His orange hat fell to the ground, and the bulb glowed with a fierce, pure white light. He kept going until finally, something gave. With a crack of splintering wood, the heavy core of the generator slipped out of the frame, and the whole thing went crashing to the ground.

“Damn it!” Jamus swore, staring at the undamaged bulb. “The Mana must have strengthened…” he trailed off, then muttered something under his breath. “No, damn it. I can admit my mistake. I’d like to run a few more tests, but I think...I think I was wrong.”

“Ha!” Staavo shouted, jumping in the air. His wooden foot came loose, and he found himself hopping, but he didn’t care. “Someone write that down. Jamus admitted I’m smarter than him.”

“I never said that!” Jamus said indignantly, bending to retrieve his hat.

Any further argument was cut off as a steely voice spoke from behind them. A woman’s voice. “But what good is it?”

Staavo gasped. He recognized the speaker. He fell to the ground next to his foot and looked up at Lavarro, the silent, deadly killer.

“Is a torch not enough?” The terrifying Force Mage asked, a skeptical expression on her face. She looked away from Staavo, fixing her gaze on Ameliah instead.

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled, and Lavarro narrowed her eyes as she shifted her focus to him. Unconcernedly, Tallheart bent to retrieve the generator. “You are right, of course. On its own, it is...a curiosity. But this is only a beginning.”

Lavarro seemed to consider this but didn’t comment. Instead, she just shook her head, the haunted expression returning to her face. Something was clearly bothering the woman, but Staavo wasn’t about to ask her what it was. She’d arrived during the Shift, and though she was sleeping in the Lee with the rest of them, she wasn’t really with them.

“It is your turn on the barricade,” the older woman said to Ameliah. “I am going to sleep. Don’t expect me to save you.”

Ameliah nodded. “I’ll be fine,” she said coldly. Staavo shivered. He wanted no part of whatever issue the two silverplates had with each other.

Lavarro didn’t respond. She spun on her heel and headed toward her secluded sleeping area.

“Well, I have to go,” Ameliah said, with a sigh, gesturing vaguely at the barricade. “Tallheart, don’t get too wrapped up. I’m not Rain; I’ll eventually run out of mana, even against monsters like these.”

“I will relieve you before nightfall,” Tallheart said, shaking his head slowly. “Call if you need assistance before then.”

“But how can we make more bulbs without—” Staavo began.

“Later,” Tallheart said, pointing at the generator. “We will work on that. It seems someone has broken it.” He looked at Jamus, then back at Staavo. “I am not wrapping the wire.”
