Two days after the Shift, Val found himself dangling from the edge of the roof of the Watch administration building in their southern stronghold. This was by design, rather than as a result of some accident. The Watch used the building itself as their headquarters, but Rain seemed to have some agreement with them. He was the only one they let up here.

Silently, Val pulled himself up over the edge. Thanks to Transparency, no one would see him, but the slightest sound could still give him away. His target came into view as his head cleared the lip. Rain was standing at the opposite edge of the roof and staring out at the city, wearing his battered armor with his helmet hanging from his waist. He’d yet to replace his cloak, and the dented and torn metal stood testament to the beating that he’d endured. A scrap of canvas had been lashed over his right shoulder to hold the damaged pauldron in place, and a large rent in the left side of the breastplate revealed the ripped fabric padding beneath.

Val frowned, the twinge of pain that the motion caused serving as a forcible reminder of his own damage from the battle. As if I could forget.

Silently, he stood, bringing the city into view over the walls of the stronghold. Many buildings had been deliberately demolished, and others lost to fire or to Stumpers. Those that still stood were looking the worse for wear, blackened by soot and under attack by the toxic moss that had started growing everywhere. The city as a whole was oppressively hot, and it smelled more like a swamp every day. The air on the top of this roof in particular, however, was cold and fresh. Rain’s doing.

Slowly, carefully, Val padded across the bricks until he was standing invisibly beside his armored friend. A grin formed on his face, painful thanks to his injury, but he ignored it as he dropped Transparency. “What are you doing?”

“I’m brooding,” Rain said, without missing a beat.

Val’s grin faltered. Damn it, he’s impossible to sneak up on. Is he using that Detection skill all the time or something?

“It is difficult, without eyebrows,” Rain continued, turning his head. “Want to help?”

Val snorted, then winced. “Ow.”

As if the missing eyebrows weren’t enough, Rain also looked a bit like a raccoon. He had a reddish patch of tender skin surrounding his eyes where he’d been injured. Val resisted the urge to raise a hand to his own injury, looking away.

“How is it?” Rain asked.

“What?”

Rain motioned to the bandage covering Val’s cheek. “What does Wallace say?”

“I’m going to have some scars,” Val said, reaching up to lightly touch the bandage. “I don’t know how bad yet. The acid burned really deep, and I didn’t get to a healer in time.” He shook his head. “It’s fine,” he lied.

“Damn, Val, I’m sorry,” Rain said. “I thought the potions would—”

“I said it’s fine.” It’s my own damn fault. I wasn’t strong enough.

Rain’s face bore a pained expression, and it looked like he was struggling to think of what to say.

“How about you?” Val asked to change the subject, wiggling his eyebrows pointedly.

Rain gave a half-smile. “Wallace says they’ll grow back on their own. I told him to save his mana for people who need it more.”

Val shook his head. “You would.”

Rain shrugged, staring back out at the city. Val stood beside him in silence as they surveyed the devastation. After a while, Rain shook his head and punched Val in the shoulder lightly. “If it makes you feel any better, chicks dig a man with scars.”

“What?” Val looked at him. “Is this another one of your sayings?”

Rain paused, then translated. “Women like a man with scars.”

“Oh,” Val said, laughing. “Yeah, they do. Depending on the scars, anyway. I’ll have to wait and see how mine turn out.” He paused. “Why are women baby chickens?”

“Honestly, I have no idea,” Rain said. Then he looked back at the city, his smile vanishing as he sighed. “This is a catastrophe.”

Val nodded. “Yeah.”

In the Shift, as the first night was being called, over a third of the city’s population had been killed. The following day had been chaos, with the Watch trying to clear the city of danger and working to bring people to their strongholds. It was a fool’s hope that the monsters would just disappear with the rising of the sun. No, they lingered, hiding from the light, but not damaged by it. Navigating through the city was fraught with danger outside of the Watch’s perimeter.

Razorspines, thankfully, were rare. Only two or three had been reported, and as long as they had the numbers, the Watch was capable of dealing with them. It helped that the deadly reaper-class monsters weren’t stupid and avoided large groups of awakened. Still, the death toll during the first day hadn’t been insignificant. The Guild and the bathhouse had been abandoned, as had the holdouts of the various nobles. Other than the Watch strongholds, only the Bank remained as an area of relative safety, though their enforcer, whatever his name was, wasn’t allowing anyone inside.

The second night was rough, but nothing compared to the first. More people had died thanks to unexpected spawns, but nothing stronger than a Razorspine had appeared. Other than one or two incidents, the southern stronghold made it through mostly unscathed. In preparation for the second night, the commander had ordered a large barricade constructed outside the walls, sealing off a semi-circle of the city that included the south gate and a segment of the river. The barrier extended right down into the water, and Rain had Purified and chilled the slapdash reservoir after it had been cleared of aquatic monsters. That provided the people with much-needed water and relief from the heat. During the day, that had been enough, but at night, Monsters had kept spawning beneath the surface despite their best efforts.

The second day didn’t go as well as the first, thanks to a large fire that had broken out in the hill district. The northern and western strongholds had been abandoned in response. To accommodate the refugees, the barricades around the two remaining strongholds had been extended and joined, sealing off the city’s south-east quadrant. There were plenty of free hands to help with the work, and Earth mages for when hands weren’t enough. Outside of the barricade, the only remaining building of note was the Bank, which had been sealed. The enforcer, it appeared, had made the vault his number one priority. He’d destroyed the nearby buildings to stop the fire. Val hadn’t seen the man do it, but as a rubyplate—the Bank’s silverplate equivalent—it shouldn’t have been that hard for him.

As for the Citizen, Velika had been a catastrophe on the scale of the Shift itself, but one that was nominally on their side. She wasn’t interested in saving people or working with the Watch, but nevertheless, she probably killed more monsters than anyone else. On the first day, she’d made a game of throwing Stumpers through the air— ‘going for distance,’ she’d said. Mercifully, she had constrained this activity to the area outside of the city walls.

On the second night, Velika had tired of her Stumper-throwing game and really let loose, killing every last monster outside the walls in the space of ten minutes, it had felt like. She’d repeated this performance periodically all night, waiting for the monsters to respawn, then obliterating them in a whirlwind of destruction. Then, once the sun rose on the second day, she had disappeared, leaving the ground outside the walls almost as shattered as the battlefield where the Empire and DKE had clashed. Nobody Val had talked to had seen her since.

Now, on the dawn of the third day, people were working on clearing out the wreckage inside the barricade. Scavenging parties would soon be sent out into the destroyed city to retrieve food and supplies, and Val was planning to join one of them. Rain was tied down here, of course. His mana-generating and cleaning abilities were vital for ongoing operations.

Val shook his head, clearing his throat. “Rain.” He paused. “I wanted to tell you… I’m sorry. For making you save me again.”

Rain looked over at him, a complicated expression on his face. “Don’t worry about it,” he said after a moment. “I made plenty of mistakes too.”

Val shook his head. “No, you really didn’t. Remember when you froze up against those Kin? That was, what, a month ago?”

“Thirty-five days,” Rain said.

It is ridiculous that he knows that to the day. Val sighed. “I don’t mean the fight specifically. Look, Rain, against something like a Dissolver, I thought, well… I thought I needed to distract it. I was going to stay invisible, hit it from range, I don’t know. I knew we didn’t really have a hope, I just thought that I could…do…something.” He looked away. And then Rain went and killed it. Seventy-one percent fucking contribution. How did he get so strong? It’s not fair. I’m the one who should be saving him, not the other way around.

“It’s okay, Val, you made a mistake. It happens,” Rain said.

“No, it’s not okay,” Val replied, looking back at him. “You saved me from that damn snake, too. Did you know that thing was only level eight? That’s the same level as me, and I almost fucking died. The thing could see me through Transparency somehow. How was I supposed to know that?”

“What were you doing in there, anyway, Val?” Rain said, looking at him. “What did you think would happen when Velika found out?”

“She wasn’t going to find out,” Val said. “If I hadn’t gotten half-eaten by a damn snake, I’d have been out of there before she could do a thing.”

Rain shook his head. “It was a stupid risk.”

“I’m fucking capped, Rain,” Val snapped, glaring at him. “If I don’t take risks, I’ll never be able to fix that. Not everybody gets a fucking level eighteen blue dropped in their lap.”

Rain looked away. “Yeah…” He shook his head. “You don’t have to do it alone, Val. I can help you, will help you. Even then, you could just save up some money and—”

Val slashed his hand, cutting Rain off. I didn’t come up here to defend my actions. I came to apologize and…fuck. “It isn’t that easy, and you know it.” Except it is. For him.

“Val,” Rain said, laying a hand on his shoulder.

Val whirled, pushing his hand away. The compassionate expression on Rain’s face struck him, and something inside him snapped.

“You don’t get it, do you?” he hissed. “How hard it was to just watch you fight something like that? I saw the whole damn thing! Saw how many times you went down, and then just got back up again. You and your lucky blue and your ridiculous armor. I mean, do you have any idea what something like that is worth?”

Rain looked like he wanted to respond, but Val rode right over him, shouting now.

“Just save up? Do you have any idea how ridiculous you sound?” He clenched his fists. “I’ve been training since I was four! FOUR! Since before Fecht took my father away! And here you come, blowing past me in less than a season! It should have been me, standing up to that thing. Being the hero. Not you.”

“Val, I don’t know what—”

“Shut up!” Val shouted, closing his eyes, panting. After a moment, a murmur of voices from the ground caught his attention, and he looked down to see a crowd of faces staring up at them. The sudden reality of what he was saying hit him, and he flushed with embarrassment. “Shit.”

“Val, it’s okay,” Rain said. “Calm do— no, telling someone to calm down never works. Um.”

Val stared at him, still breathing hard. “You are ridiculous, you know that?”

Rain looked confused and a little hurt. Val sighed, turning away from the edge and walking to the center of the roof. He heard Rain following him, and he spoke without looking back. “Here I am throwing a tantrum like a spoiled child, and you’re still trying to make me feel better. Stop it. You’re acting like my mother.”

Val stopped, staring down at his feet. He could feel Rain standing behind him.

Fuck. Life isn’t fair, Val, grow the fuck up. Stop being envious, and just apologize to your friend and thank him for saving your damn life.

Val shook his head, still not looking at Rain. “Sorry.”

“You want to talk about it?” Rain asked.

Val sighed deeply, turning around to look at him. “I’m just… I keep screwing up. You’ve had to save me, shit, four, five times now? A person as weak as me should just die.”

Rain looked appalled, but he controlled the expression quickly. Still, he was clearly at a loss for what to say to that. He slumped down, sitting on the roof.

Val joined him, and the next few minutes passed in awkward silence. When Rain finally looked up and spoke, his face bore a serious expression.

“Have you tried getting good?”

It was Val’s turn to be taken aback. Did he just…? Oh. He’s messing with me, isn’t he? Damn it.

Val looked away from Rain’s increasingly strained mask of seriousness. “Ha-ha, very funny,” he said halfheartedly. Strangely, he felt a little better. After a moment, he snorted and looked up.

“Just get good, huh? I’m trying, but it isn’t as easy for me as it is for you. It’s not fair, but that’s just the way of the world.”

Rain nodded. “I know.” He gestured to the city. “You’re right, it isn’t fair. None of this is fair. We’re the lucky ones, and I’m not just talking about being awakened. Lots of people weren’t so lucky in the past few days.”

Val nodded. “Yeah.”

Rain got back to his feet, turning to look once more at the city. “I need to be stronger. So I can change it.”

Val scoffed, watching him. “You and your hero bullshit.”

“It isn’t bullshit,” Rain said, whirling on him. “And you are a hero too, idiot. Vanna is alive because of you.”

Val looked away. “Yeah, I guess. Nothing like what you did. You led like a hundred people out of that damn sewer.”

Rain shook his head. “It isn’t about numbers. I saved a lot of people, so what? Even more died that I couldn’t do anything about. Hell, more might be dying right now, and I’m just hiding up here so I don’t go insane from overwork. I need a break, but I feel horrible for taking one. Just saving people isn’t going to cut it, Val, and it never will be.” He gestured to the city. “Stuff like this shouldn’t happen. People should be able to protect themselves, but they can’t, not without the system. Did you know that there hasn’t even been a single blue yet? I mean, seriously? What the hell?”

“It isn’t your responsibility,” Val said.

