“I know,” Rain sighed. “I just want people to be able to protect themselves. Until I can figure out how to awaken everyone, all I can do is save as many people as I can. And to do that, I need to be stronger.”

“I can respect that, at least,” Val said. “I just need to be strong enough to kill that bastard Fecht. That will be enough for me.”

“Is it because of your father?” Rain asked.

Val looked away, raising a hand to touch his jacket. “My father is dead.”

“But I thought…”

“Lightbreaker is not my father,” Val said, not looking back. “Fecht killed my father. His body might still be moving, but the man who raised me is gone.”

Rain tilted his head. “Did Fecht use a skill or something? Mind control? Wait, you mentioned your mother… Does Fecht have her? Is she…”

“She’s dead,” Val said, softly. “And I don’t know if it was a skill Fecht used, or just…” He took a ragged breath. “With the things Lightbreaker has done, it doesn’t matter. I know you probably haven’t heard the stories, but…” he shook his head, closing his mouth.

I didn’t want to talk about this. Fuck.

“You don’t have to tell me if you don’t want to, Val, but I’m here if you need me to be. That’s what friends are for.”

Val shook his head. Friends, huh? He’d tried doing it alone, and that hadn’t exactly worked so well, but what else was he supposed to do? The only person you could really count on was yourself when it came down to it. This was his battle, his demon to kill. He shook his head again, closing his eyes. Maybe I should…ask him to help me. Tell him everything….

He sighed. I need to think…

“Don’t tell anyone I’m his son. It could cause problems,” he said, finally.

“I won’t,” Rain said. “But it’s kinda obvious. There aren’t a lot of Osaran Light Mages around.”

“Just tell them I’m a failed Illuminator,” Val said with a sigh, getting to his feet. I should go…

Rain replied with a flowing sentence of vaguely familiar syllables.

Val paused. “Was that supposed to be Zeelada?”

“My point exactly,” Rain said. “You won’t fool anyone.”

Val snorted. “Neither will you, with an accent like that. I might not speak Zeelada, but that sure as hells wasn’t even close to right.”

Rain grinned. “In my defense, I did learn from a book.”

“Of course you did,” Val said. “How long did it take you, like a day?”

Rain shrugged. “I can teach you, though we should probably get Mlem to teach us both instead. I’ve heard him speak Zeelada before, and Winter should work for more than just me, you know. That’s kinda the point of an aura.”

Val scoffed. “As if we have time to even worry about something like that.” He looked up at the sky, watching the smoke from the fires swirl, trapped by the dome. “We need to get out.”

“Yeah,” Rain said.

The silence stretched on for a few moments, then Rain shrugged. “So if you’re not an Illuminator, what are you? You’ve got some secret legendary class, don’t you?”

“No,” Val said, hesitating. “And not here. Ask me again if...when we get out of here. It isn’t like it will matter if I can’t raise my cap. My father left me everything he knew, and you heard for yourself what he…what Lightbreaker can do. It isn’t an easy path to follow, thank the gods. Imagine what the Empire could do if they could make more…” He shook his head. “Anyway, it is still dangerous. Someone could be listening. I did kind of make a scene.”

“Yes, you did,” Rain said. “It was very dramatic. I could really taste the angst.”

Val snorted. “Shut up, Rain.”

“Well?”

Reason thought quickly, stroking his chin and wishing that a beard wasn’t a liability in his profession. “The mystery of nature defies the knowledge of man.”

“So you don’t know,” said the Watch officer.

“Unfortunately, no, we do not,” Myth said, placing a clump of the strange moss in a deep glass bowl, which he then lifted and began swirling gently. Reason cringed. The bowl contained a powerful acid, and Myth wasn’t wearing gloves.

“We haven’t had the time to do many experiments. We’re working on it,” Myth continued.

Reason turned away, directing his attention to the steaming vat of oil sitting next to the fire. He spread his arms wide, using Fume Control to coax the vapor into a swirling vortex around him and up into the air. This was completely pointless, of course, but the officer wouldn’t know that. “Time cares not for the soul of humanity.”

“Seriously, what in the depths is that supposed to mean?” said the officer, annoyance clear in his tone.

Reason smiled.

“We have been busy,” said Myth. “Now that Reason has finished dissolving the Crysts in the oil, we just need to wait for the mixture to cool slightly. Then I’ll be able to Stabilize it. You’ll have your evertorches like we promised. Once they are complete, Reason can assist me in investigating the moss further.”

Reason redoubled his efforts, trying to get the smoke to form a helix pattern. “Crystals of green, the harvest of nature defies. We stand needfully of neighbors’ bounty.”

There was an exasperated noise from the officer, but Reason didn’t look back. He was focused on the steam, making sure to direct it away from his nose as he sent it swirling around his head.

“We need more Chem-Crysts,” said Myth. “We’d like to start another batch as soon as we can.”

“We’ve given you all that we have,” the officer said. “The monsters are too fresh. They haven’t had the time to collect any essence, chemical or otherwise.”

Reason frowned at this. If they couldn’t get more Crysts on a reliable schedule, then things were going to get bad. This one batch of mage oil should be good for thousands of evertorches, but they had half a city to light.

“Fate frowns upon us in our time of want,” Myth said.

Reason almost lost control of the smoke in response to the beautiful noise that this drew from the officer. “Oh, gods, don’t you start too,” the man growled. “One of you is bad enough. Look, we’ll bring you any that we find. Just keep working on that moss, okay? Commander Bartum wants to know what will happen if we start burning it.”

“The smoke would be toxic, I can tell you that already,” said Myth. “Reason thinks he might be able to break it down and extract the toxins so he can use the rest. For what end, he did not say. These things take time. Until we know more, just make sure no one eats any.”

“We already figured that one out,” said the officer, sighing. “Let us know as soon as you learn anything more. We need to get ahead of this before it spreads any further.”

“Of course, Officer,” Myth said.

The officer’s footsteps retreated, and Reason turned to look at his partner, then released the smoke when he saw the serious expression on his face.

“I think we’re in trouble,” Myth said, holding up the bowl filled with the mixture of moss and acid. Reason peered into it and frowned. The moss hadn’t withered at all, and that was the most potent acid that he had. To make anything stronger, he’d need more Chem-Crysts, which they obviously didn’t have.

“Hmm,” he said. “We will just have to keep trying. Meloni should be back soon with the things we sent her for. There is hope yet. Perhaps it is not an issue of the strength of the acid. We can try other chemicals. Also, gloves, please. How many times must I tell you?”

“Oh hush,” said Myth, setting the bowl down gently. “I have Nonreactivity, same as you, and this isn’t magical at all.” He turned, and Reason followed his gaze to the weary faces of the citizens huddled around the numerous bonfires in the courtyard. “Do you think we’ll be able to get the torches done by nightfall?” he asked.

“Time cares not for the soul of humanity,” Reason replied, forcing himself not to smile.

Myth laughed. “Okay, I’ll admit, that was a good one. Even I have no idea what that means. The reaction was marvelous. Did you see his face?”

“I did not,” Reason said, giving a slight bow, “but I can imagine.” He gestured to the steaming vat of oil. “Now, come on, it is almost cool enough. Let’s get this done so the workers can commence with the dipping.”

Myth nodded. “I am so glad we’re not going to have to do that ourselves.”

Staavo looked up as he heard a deep rumble, realizing after a moment that it was just Tallheart clearing his throat.

“It is ready,” the cervidian smith said, offering him a coil of thin, dark wire, wrapped around a twig of all things.

“Ah, good. Thank you,” Staavo said, setting down the hot metal pipe he was holding. He took the makeshift spool of wire from Tallheart with a leather-gloved hand to inspect it. “It took you long enough.”

“Be nice, Staavo,” Jamus said from where he was working the bellows. The three of them were standing next to a small makeshift glassworks, situated near the edge of the Lee.

“What?” Staavo said indignantly, glaring at the orange-robed mage. “I said thank you.”

“It is fine, Jamus,” Tallheart said. “I am not bothered by the bleating of a goat.”

Jamus barked out a laugh, and Staavo frowned, conscious of the scraggly white hair on his chin. He hadn’t had a chance to shave since he’d gotten trapped out here. “Don’t you have somewhere to be?” he said, glaring at Tallheart.

“I want to see how it works,” said Tallheart, gesturing to the wire. “That was difficult to make.” He tilted his head, “A very quarrelsome metal. Difficult to draw into wire. Worse than iron. Much harder to melt.”

“And you’re sure it’s the stuff Rain was talking about?” said Jamus. “Tungsten?”

Belatedly, Staavo realized that Jamus was clean-shaven, meaning that he had a razor somewhere in that ridiculous robe of his. He’d have to ask to borrow it later.

“Yes,” said Tallheart, nodding to Jamus. “He described it well. I did not know it would become so workable once the contaminants were removed. I would like to talk to him about other metals.”

“Well, since you’re here, make yourself useful and bind these,” Staavo said, setting down the spool of wire on his workbench and pointing to what he’d been working on. While Tallheart had been speaking, Staavo had removed his gloves and twisted off a small length of the tungsten filament to wrap it around two thicker copper wires. These were threaded through holes in a wooden plug, which kept them from touching each other. The relative thickness of the tungsten filament made it look like a tiny clothesline that had been strung between two trees, with the wooden plug as the ground. The copper wires ran straight through the plug, protruding much further from the other side. There was another hole drilled through the wood as well, but this was for a different purpose and didn’t have a wire threaded through it.

Wordlessly, Tallheart picked up the assembly and used an armored finger to bind the tungsten to the copper.

Staavo shook his head. He’d asked the smith to explain how his metalworking skills functioned before, but Tallheart had just grunted and walked away from him. Cervidians hated questions, apparently.

Staavo sighed deeply. “I have to admit, you sure are handy to have around, even if you won’t indulge an old scholar’s curiosity.” He started stringing together a second pair of wires. “Shouldn’t the filament be all coiled-up like a spring like Rain said, though?”

Tallheart shrugged. “Tedious. Also, Rain said that it is best to test one thing at a time when you are doing science.”

Staavo grumbled at him. Once he finished with the second assembly, he passed it to Tallheart for binding and donned his leather gloves once more. Two metal pipes were sticking out of the glassworks, one of which he grabbed, pulling it out slowly. There was a glowing glob of molten glass on the end. Pure glass. The clearest he had ever seen, once it cooled. Staavo frowned, glancing at the smith, then back to the molten glass. Then, he sighed, mumbling as he shifted his grip on the pipe. “I’m sorry I called you a deer.”

“Apology accepted,” Tallheart said evenly.

“See, there you go, Tallheart,” Jamus said, still working the bellows. “He apologized all on his own. I told you he wasn’t so bad.”

Staavo grunted, then turned his back to them in a huff. He had his irascible image to maintain. He wouldn’t even admit it to himself, but he was starting to grow fond of the cervidian. Tallheart had used that smelter of his to melt some sand, then used filter refining to separate the glass from the mess of molten rock and metal that he kept simmering in there at all times. With the number of filters that the smith had made at this point, he could pour off metals as easily as a barman could tap a keg. Staavo was familiar with filter refining as a concept, but the removable and interchangeable filters that Tallheart used really took it to a different level. He hadn’t even known that it was possible to make one for glass.

Tallheart had been busy these past few days, hardly seeming to sleep. He had fetched a ridiculous amount of firewood, helped to construct the barricade while fighting off the unending horde of monsters, set up his forge, and made basic swords to arm the merchants and farmers that were sheltering with them. He had also made the steel blowpipes for the glassworks, the copper wire, and a whole bunch of other things besides. Seeing the high-level craftsman at work had Staavo feeling inferior, and a little redundant.

Other than collecting firewood, however, Tallheart couldn’t do anything about the light situation. Light enchantments required Light-Crysts, of which they had none. Ameliah’s Lunar Orb helped, but bonfires were their main weapon against the darkness. What they needed was a bunch of evertorches, but they didn’t have Chem-Crysts either, let alone anyone to refine them. Keeping the entire Lee lit at all times was no small task, and that was what had motivated Staavo to construct the glassworks. It wasn’t like there was much else for him to do.

