She was not killed, but a primal fear surged in her chest as the laws surrounding her dispersed. I swiped my hand, singularities encompassing us both. As I strode out of nothing, I was alone once more. I smiled. Unlike most other foes, I wouldn't forget Firamnia. Whether we agreed or disagreed on how we lived, we were aligned in how we would die.

In all regards, she was a warrior worthy of respect, and she would be remembered. I raised a hand and squeezed it into a fist.

For the phoenix who wouldn't quit, even in death.

Chapter Begin

Having paid my respects, I headed towards my city as a richer man, my quest now complete.

Quest: The Death of the Firelands Ruler | Rank: S- | Description: Whenever you killed Firamnia, the Holder of Sacrifices, you not only eliminated a solar tier threat, but you freed a portion of the populace of [Rebirth.] This was a feat of courage and bravery, giving you ample awards, Sovereign.

Awards: +10 blue cores, +100 red cores, +100 million credits, +The Firelands territory for your guild, The Harbinger's Legion.

Chain Quest Updated!

The Death of a Planetary Pillar | Rank: S | Description: On this planet, there exists other planetary-scaled eldritch, all vying for control. The ones you know are Balsht, Firamnia, and Emeralga. There exist five of these lords, each carrying causality-disrupting powers. They have achieved a delicate power balance since the inception of this planet, and with Ghelid slain, they are no longer bound to that previous status quo.

The first part of this quest will be to gain ownership of the Icelands/Firelands. Establish cities, clear out the eldritch, and seize your territory! After earning your rule of this area, you must dismantle the other planetary pillars of [Rebirth]. Once killed, you will gain ownership of Rebirth along with any bonuses that may entail.

Quest Progress:

Ghelid Slain | 1 out of 1

Firamnia Slain | 1 out of 1

Balsht Slain | 0 out of 1

Emeralga Slain | 0 out of 1

??? Slain | 0 out of 1

Bonus Objectives: Uncover the hidden secrets of [Rebirth.]

??? | 0 out of 1

??? | 0 out of 1

??? | 0 out of 1

It was good to know that Schema didn't put any detriment to completing the quest in a different order.

I also pocketed quite the hefty profit from cores and credits. While not my primary goal, it left me with a solid understanding of how much money and experience quests gave. Aside from that, I allocated my status points and checked out my status.

The Living Multiverse | Level 43,813 (Cap: 45,000) | Current Influence: The Rise of Eden | Class: Sovereign

Strength – 852,360 | Constitution – 855,723 | Endurance - 1,321,308

Dexterity – 573,893 | Willpower – 1,618,256 | Intelligence – 1,190,190

Charisma – 632,960 | Luck – 803,495 | Perception – 461,980 |Awe - 69,001

Health: 44.14 Billion/44.14 Billion | Health Regen: 11.6 Trillion/min or 199.45 Billion/sec

Stamina: Infinite +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ | Ambient Mana: 141,029Trillion

Mass: 34.79 Billion Pounds( 15.81 Billion Kilos~)

Height: 64'07 |19.68 meters | Damage Res - 99.861% | Actual: 99.861% | Dimensional Res - 100%

Phys Dam Bonus – 1.506 Trillion% | Damage Bonus – 40%

The Rise of Eden - enhances base stats by 30%, increased to 40% to allies within aura's radius.

Mana Conversion(Elemental Furnace Count: 14) - 651.02 Billion mana/min siphoned into runes and armor.

Unlike my last checkup, my levels and stats rose more this time. If i had to guess, it was the harvest from going berserk across the Firelands. The ambient mana amassed somewhat as well, meaning my primordial rune ate well as I destroyed swaths of the eldritch. Clasping a hand, I also pondered my physical strength.

I felt unbeatable, but I hadn't actually assessed how much damage a punch could do. Taking a moment to sate my curiosity, I punched the ground. It detonated in all directions, a cataclysmic shockwave pluming. After the physical burst, a cloud of heated dust and glowing coals rested beneath me.

I spread my arms, dispersing the cloud. I floated over a crater etched into the landscape, one that could swallow a skyscraper. Standing with my chest puffed out, I flexed my arms.

"Superman has nothing on me. Hell yeah."

I took a breath, glad no one heard that. Flying back for a while, I reached my city. It held up fine, which bolstered my growing sense of security. During my battle, Firamnia and I crossed over my immaculate center of civilization, but the barriers remained firm. My Maker of Empires tree did its thing along with the radiant cores I collected on L-7.

Speaking of, I'd be running low by the time I finished taking this world over. Thinking it over, it didn't matter too much. I had a steady supply of blue cores from the Infinity Plaza, and this planet had quite a few blue cores on it as well. After a quick check of my status, I had a few months before heading out to L-7 for my yearly check-up there as well.

It was one of my most valuable assets. If I had to guess, radiant cores were around four to five times stronger than normal blue cores, but more importantly, they held greater potential. They allowed the golems to learn, grow, and evolve. In most ways, I'd argue the highest-tier golems were as human as anyone, and they carried potent personalities.

The executive and vanguards were examples of that. Even beyond their radiant core's benefits, I wanted what was best for them. Remembering Alpha and his hunger for knowledge reinforced that desire. I entered the capital of Rebirth as those thoughts, memories, and experiences drifted through my head.

Waiting for me, Chrona, Hod, and Opal waited around with the vanguard golem making an appearance. I floated to them.

"What are you all doing here?"

The vanguard golem gestured to Hod, who showed him a simple game done with shadows. The vanguard clenched his hand into a fist,

"One of your followers has commissioned, nay, demanded my attention for this task of utter importance. If I had failed in this, the entire fate of the guild could've been at risk."

Hod gestured to three upside-down cups on the ground.

"Hod play game."

The vanguard stared at Hod, its attention consumed.

"I still fail to fully comprehend the majesty of the codes you're sending, but know that one day, I will decipher them. Why? Because I'm a loyal follower of our lord and savior, Daniel Hillside."

Hod nodded knowingly.

"Hod understand, and Hod agree. It bad last name."

The vanguard raised his palms.

"As one of his loyal followers, even I must admit-"

I shook my hands back and forth.

"Enough of that. Come on, guys, let's focus."

Hod stood upright.

"Hod only focus."

Amara hissed, mocking his voice.

"Hod like old-world phone cameras. Always blurry."

Amara turned a palm to me.

"I say that, but I never used a phone. I have heard legends of their ability to remain unfocused despite advanced technologies."

Chrona nodded.

"It was an apt and well-made jest. In fact, I admire you for it. You see, the seers and illusionists of the old earth would often need to manually assist their devices. This occurred despite their technologies' advanced algorithms trying to correct themselves. Amazingly enough, a skilled handler was necessary even whenever AIs were involved to facilitate the focusing of their devices."

Amara scoffed.

"AIs? Schema could easily focus a camera."

Chrona narrowed her eyes.

"Ah, you say that, yet have you ever seen Schema focus one?"

I raised my hands.

"Perhaps we could focus this conversation?"

Chrona stood tall.

"See? It's more difficult than one would imagine. Even a guildleader can struggle with it."

I pinched the bridge of my nose in frustration, yet smiling all the while.

"Ok, I've taken out two of the pillars so far. We need to establish some territories and cities. Opal told me it would require quite a while to clear this colossal planet, should we choose to do so."

Opal hopped over.

"Ooh, but this isn't a colossal class. This is a massive class planet. It's a tier below the absolute apex of a planet, but yeah, it's pretty huge, all things considered."

Chrona's eyes widened.

"What are the tiers of planets?"

Opal counted on her hands.

"There are five. Dwarf, normal, large, massive, and colossal. They tend to rise by orders of magnitude. Earth is a normal planet that's turning into a large one. This planet is a massive tier world. A colossal world is almost a theoretical concept more than a reality, though I've visited one planet that was the size of your solar system's Jupiter."

Hod moved a few of the cups he played with.

"Did shiny lady clear big planet?"

Opal waved her arm.

"Oh, absolutely not. I was on a team of over a hundred Fringe Walkers. We'd need that kind of force to clear this planet out within any kind of respectable timeframe."

I let out a sigh.

"Well, I'm going to need a lot of golems then. Thousands and thousands of them."

Amara stepped up to me.

"You will create your pack of wolves. Simple enough. However, have you read my missives?"

"Give me a few seconds."

I began reading them, having thirty minds dedicated to the task. They each read a paragraph as I let a moment of silence stretch on. When I finished, I swung my hand as if i just remembered.

"Yeah, the ones about leylines and their potential use cases, right?"

Amara took a breath.

"I have analyzed several of the leylines you left here. They shift mana and tame it, somewhat. They still harbor the ability to overwhelm one's mind, but the effect on the growth of creatures is far more...Sensible. When used with animals, this mana may make them able to evolve into elementally imbued versions of themselves instead of eldritch. Volatile, yes, but virulent? Not in the slightest."

I nodded, remembering how I frolicked with the ice foxes in the snow of the Frostlands. I spent several days getting them to warm up to me, and it had been totally worth the investment in time. I should've taken a few with me, actually. I gazed down at Amara,

"I figured as much. How are the runes coming along?"

Amara turned one palm to a status screen in front of her.

"I despise being a bearer of good news, but the systemization has proceeded better than I anticipated. These system updates...I detest admitting it, but they have altered my perspective in many ways. These leylines will be a key innovation for both the eldritch and sentient species. For your kind, it will help to stabilize and reduce the chances of rampant, cancerous eldritch from forming."

Amara moved her other hand to face me.

"It will help my kin as well. If we tie these leylines to pocket spaces, we can prevent interdimensional energies from infesting the eldritch whenever they traverse the cosmic distances between our clashing dimensions."

I furrowed my brow.

"You're saying that leylines work on interdimensional energy?"

Amara cackled.

"As of yet, they are far from perfect, but initial tests have been promising. They could be the key to saving us and them."

I smirked.

"Wouldn't your wolves become lambs then?"

Amara smiled, the expression a display of pure joy.

"We would, wouldn't we?"

A wholesome moment passed over us before Hod ran over and hugged her.

"Hod love pretty lady."

The smile died as quickly as it spawned, and Amara shoved Hod away from herself.

"Get away from me, you fool."

Opal puffed her chest out and whipped her hair back.

"Ahem. I also have made remarkable gains since we last met."

I furrowed my brow.

"That was like ten hours ago?"

Opal swung a hand back, completing the pose.

"I know. My pace of progression surprises even me. Heh, ok, actually, I figured out where to get my inspiration from. You know how I thought the heat mana was way too much?"

I gave her a curt nod.

"Yeah."

Opal raised her hands with excitement.

"I looked into the cold mana instead, and I found it just as meh."

I frowned.

"Uh-huh...How is this helpful?"

She gestured to our surroundings.

"Because we live in the life-attuned mana section of this world. I thought that the inspiration for my next step would come from exploring the far reaches of Rebirth, but no, that wasn't it at all. Instead, I should've opened my eyes to everything around me."

She put her hands on her hips.

"It's like I said. Light gives life. Well, I'll channel that mana and turn myself into what I believe stars are instead of what the eldritch seem to think they are."

I frowned.

"I mean, I've felt a star up close before, and they're not really these giant light bulbs in the sky. That's just how we experience them. The reality is, they're gravitational furnaces. I mean that as literally as I possibly can. They use friction between matter and gravity to create the greatest bursts of energy this universe has ever known."

Opal let out a laugh.

"Hah. Good one. Everybody knows that even quasars are nothing compared to the Old Ones."

I paled, remembering my contract with Shalahora.

"I'll ask you about it later."

Chrona put a tail on my shoulder, patting it.

"Be calm, little one. You've come far, and you have farther to go still. There is much to learn, but we will achieve it. Make no mistake on that."

I grinned.

"Eh, I'll be doing my best. It's also good to see everybody taking this trip seriously. Things are coming together."

Amara frowned, returning to her normal expression.

"I was afraid to ask you. What have you learned of my origin?"

I took a breath.

"Honestly? Very little. From what I've gathered, this planet has been here for a long time. We're talking, at the bare minimum, ten to twenty thousand years. Hell, Firamnia talked about pre-system times, so who knows how long the planet has had to weather all signs of your culture."

The light in Amara waned.

"Ah...I see."

I raised a hand.

"However, I've only tackled two of the rulers of this planet. I haven't actually explored much. That's why I'm going to be taking a while to grind out my golems and clear some dungeons. Speaking of-"

