I spread my hands.

"I'll be going into my workshop and making a few thousand golems. Does anyone need anything in the meantime?"

Chrona tilted her head.

"Do you even have that many cores?"

I shook my head.

"Actually, you're right. Scratch that schedule. I'll be harvesting part of what I need from the lands here. After all, there are plenty of dungeons at the right grade for blue cores. I'll just swing by and pick those up real quick."

Hod stood up.

"Hod help Harbinger?"

I furrowed my brow.

"Huh...You know what? That'd be great. I could use the cover to sneak in and sneak out of the dungeons since I don't want to spend years clearing the damn things. You can do that, right?"

Hod saluted me.

"Hod yes. Hod like awkward memory. Hod in background, and strike when least expect it."

I smiled before frowning. I peered at Opal.

"We can just take the cores without clearing all the dungeon, right?"

Opal rocked back and forth on her feet.

"Hm. Yeah. You should be able to, especially in a world like this where the dungeons aren't in enclosed spaces. In fact, stealing dungeon cores is a perfectly viable path of progress that Schema recognizes with a multitude of classes. They're called thieves, and they often work with empires and other, shadier organizations."

Amara hissed.

"They sound like leeches."

Opal weighed her hands back and forth.

"Compared to a Fringe Walker, sure, but the crux of what thieves do is steal from the eldritch. That's because those cores are part of how an eldritch gets strong in the first place. If you take the source of their power, then the boss monsters lose the primary source of their strength. At that point, it will languish in its lower-energy environment."

Chrona leaned closer.

"Wouldn't that leave the eldritch to break the walls of their prison and destroy the realm in due time?"

Opal shook her head.

"At that point, the boss eldritch are much easier to eliminate. Instead of being empowered by the second, they weaken. By the time they break out, they usually lose a few hundred levels and aren't as difficult to take out."

Chrona leaned down, resting her head on her paws.

"Wouldn't the rampaging eldritch still be a problem?"

Opal nodded, her hair frolicking about.

"Oh yeah, but that's why it's important to scout out the dungeons beforehand. If you have knowledge of what they'll be like, then you'll know if they're a good candidate to steal from. Some eldritch bosses are quite perceptive, and they'll kill a thief no problem. Other bosses are as aware as Hod over here, and that makes them easy pickings."

Hod lifted an empty cup.

"Shiny lady not know what Hod really like. Hod have dark side."

Opal guffawed.

"I've seen Other Hod before."

Hod turned, his voice turning into a sinister squawking,

"Hod have other dark side. It even darker. Like shadow of shadow."

Opal put her hands on her hips.

"And what might that be?"

A wave of yellow mana coursed over him, flowing like glistening silk.

"Hod see the world as it is. Hod know someone find this world soon. We not ready. It too strong."

We all turned to him. Hod's eyes turned blank.

"Hod think maybe true, but could be Hod have bad food lately."

Part of Hod enveloped in shadow. Other Hod murmured.

"You need to watch what you eat."

Hod grabbed his neck and began strangling himself.

"Hod never."

They fell to their side, rolling away. Opal shook her head.

"So uh, anyway, that's why there are lots of scouting classes in Schema's system. They help people choose the right dungeons to clear."

I grabbed my chin.

"Hm, I intend to do as those thieves would. If the eldritch are easy to kill and aggressive, I'll kill them. Otherwise, I'll leave them be. Hod, when can you leave?"

Hod lifted himself from the ground while making a dancer yoga pose. He cawed.

"Hod always ready. Always."

I smiled.

"Then let's head out."

We bid our fellows goodbye before racing across the icy North. My dimensional wake helped shield Hod from the tundral energies, and we found blue cores all over the place. Well, that was a bit of an exaggeration. In general, we could find one every ten thousand square kilometers. While that sounded like one every blue moon, it was worth remembering how expansive these territories were.

It would've taken forever to find the damn things as well, but I abused the system's mechanics a bit. Flying high, I molded my head to stare in two different directions. I did, in fact, look like a total freak while doing so. Anyway, I did that to get a larger view as I traveled. Schema marked dungeon spots as I did, and Other Hod charted paths to those dungeons. Hod was moral support.

Like a lawn mower, we flew back and forth, stealing core after core. Hod's shadow magic made the entire process far less violent, and I only needed to kill one-fourth of the dungeon leaders. The reality was I killed every one of them if they looked remotely aggressive. Hod's stealth made that much easier since the boss eldritch didn't dematerialize before I hit them with a swarm of singularities.

The sheer speed of our clearing made me rethink the whole stealth sucks thing I had going on. After all, clearing in secrecy was about three times faster than fighting the eldritch outright. It took on a repetitious air over time, but I occupied myself aplenty by channeling runes and whatnot. Either way, all the eldritch murder resulted in sizeable experience gains for both of us.

Schema recognized our efforts for stemming the endless tide of eldritchification after three weeks of taking the blue, spherical bounty.

Quest: Conquering a Desolate Land | Rank: S- | Description: As a Sovereign, your path is to rule. To do so, you must conquer, and conquer you have. You've taken over five hundred cores from the domain of the Frostlands. This has reduced the eldritch presence while showcasing a dedication to your cause.

By stopping this tide, your people can continue to breathe.

That stemmed tide has given a reprieve to any citizens living in the Frostlands. All that is left is to kill the weakened eldritch after watching them wane. This is noble work, and you will be aptly rewarded for your efforts.

Awards: +100 blue cores

Schema was definitely doing this on purpose. The quest reward was exactly what I needed and when I needed it. Instead of pondering Schema's deeper machinations this time, I took a moment and thanked him for once. He was actually helping me stop the eldritch menace after all, and that was a true blessing.

Hell, if this was what the system was like for most people, it made a lot of sense why most held the AI in high regard. At the very least, my personal opinion of him was rising by the day. Having handled the supply of cores, we rode back. It was a peaceful three weeks, and Hod talked about all he'd done.

I listened all the while, making sure to appreciate him for who he was. Yeah, Hod could be a bit much, but the guy was genuine. He didn't lie, and he was a good friend. You know, the kind you wish you had but know you didn't deserve. Either way, we got back to the capital, which I really needed to name.

I kept the cores in tow, and I got to work forging as soon as I arrived. I read a few missives from Amara as I did, keeping up to date this time. A pile of reports had also flooded in from my guild, but they weren't in absolute chaos like last time.

I would need to clear out a few dimensional tears, a few avatars, and apparently, Kriiyah had sent out a few agents to the planet's outskirts. They sowed chaos in less-known areas according to my executive golem, but a wave of relief washed over me when I read no reports of end-state eldritch. I'd have to return if that were the case.

The guild also took charge of handling many of those threats. Shalahora and Plazia, in particular, took out several warlords and malicious actors, though the avatars skulked in the wilderness of Earth. Other than that, there was a limit to what I could do. I bolstered Earth's defenses and gave them thousands of golem-empowered agents, hundreds of cities, and an economic headstart.

The fact of the matter was that forces from across the galaxy and beyond were bearing down on Earth. I couldn't keep everything running smoothly by myself, and most newly initiated worlds would've already been crushed like a melon under a hydraulic press if in the same situation. A few quick conversations with Opal verified that, and she was amazed we'd even offered this much resistance.

It turns out that not many planets handled rampant outbreaks from avatars and intergalactic horrors bursting out of the gaps between dimensions. It was also worth mentioning that I would be crushed alongside my planet if I didn't amass some personal strength and find some long-term solutions. These leylines seemed promising, and getting Amara into tip-top shape would help my rune refinement.

Getting my levels sorted, harvesting cores, and maybe even assimilating them would be nice, too. According to my status, I had only taken in red cores for around 4,500 levels. I had so many status points sitting there, unused and wasting away because I ran around putting out fires. I still lacked a Sovereign skill, hadn't unlocked a new tree in a while, and hadn't completed Shalahora's training.

It fell to the wayside as everything turned chaotic.

However, not every planet was a total shitshow. Blegara had evolved into a veritable paradise since we incorporated the spirits. They cleared out many of the eldritch hotspots, waging a planetary war to revitalize the environment. The reduced density of eldritch took away the fringe status from Blegara, and the Vagni were taken into the system fully, helping them gain levels.

Many gialgathens relocated there, and quite a few humans followed suit. A few even talked about how it would be a backup world for humanity, and I couldn't blame them. The universe had designated Earth's fate as one of a wasteland where cosmic horrors came out to play. Against those odds, not many people maintained morale.

Oh, ho ho, but I did. They thought that this would stop me? That I'd throw some pity party for humanity in another world? Absolutely not. The universe would be damned before it took my blue mudball away from me. They'd have to pry it from my cold, dead hands. Or dimensional wake. Maybe my pocket dimension?

I didn't know or care. The point was, I'd go down fighting. However, I wasn't about to make humanity face this crisis with me, so I set up alternatives for our home. That backup planet evoked an intense appreciation for my war against Elysium. While Obolis dragged me into the conflict, it gave me a way out of an otherwise insurmountable position.

To make it more surmountable, I took a few days to experiement using new techniques. I wielded my dimensional wakes and alternated their presence as I had to save Torix. In this case, it was the Rise of Eden and Perfection's Providence. It took several hours before I implanted my will into the area. It took several days after that to recover from the sheer effort.

Despite the struggle, I could assemble the strange dominion over reality at will. As I did, I studied the effects. As was the case with Torix's new body, I could use multiple-dimensional wakes in tandem. I already used that to save Torix, but it was good to verify that it was a repeatable boon. In this case, I gained the stat boosts of the Rise of Eden alongside the rigor of Perfection's Providence.

To my surprise, Event Horizon couldn't be summoned in this duality. It turned out that the wakes I could use were dependent on what I cleared the dimensional space with. Other quirks of the cleared area involved a greater fluidity in my runes and my mana channeling. Everything bent under my will just a tad, and that resulted in far better gains when trying to change the laws of nature.

That included my nature, which was what I tried doing when channeling runes. Even better, I could change the difficulty of certain magical techniques. That was where the biggest boon came from - comfortable time magic. Up until now, time magic had been the most debilitating magic I'd ever used.

I normally had to saturate my wake, and that painful process allowed me to compress my dimension. When in dominated space, I didn't need to do all that. I could bend the time that took place here and face no unease or discomfort. It bolstered my morale by leaps and bounds. After all, I had already relegated myself to an eternity of suffering, but that was no longer necessary.

As if I relinquished an enormous burden, I could handle mana channeling while experiencing a normal, human experience. Even better, by having more comfort, I could put far more minds into other tasks, and the golem crafting was a great example of that. Within the first week after implanting my will onto space, I made all six hundred of the cored golems alongside three thousand uncored ones.

They were better models too, carrying superior mental faculties and combat effectiveness. Quite a bit of that improved productivity came from accessing two dimensional wakes at once, but it also helped to be comfortable. I also incorporated a few leylines for the sacrifice mana. While channeling it, I thought faster, clearer, and without as much hesitation.

All of these factors resulted in a rapid creation process for the golems, and since no people were out there, I could just send my golems out to clear different areas. Once finished, I decided to be selfish for once. Before moving out of my conquered area, I spent a week channeling my mana to experience mental rejuvenation.

Man, I needed it, too. Spending months on end in such a twisted mental state left me tired down to my bones. It wasn't from a lack of stats or attributes, either. It was an existential dread that had soaked into me from all sides. I mean, who would want to live the way I had forever? Not me, but it seemed so necessary.

