“How does it look, Ali?” Calen asked, his wings billowing like soft sheets of pure luminous radiance that somehow held his body aloft.

“We’re definitely getting closer to the core,” she confirmed, although how much more there might be to the dungeon was anyone’s guess. “The mana is growing much denser.” Regardless of what remained, Ali was certain the ultimate prize lay at the core of this dungeon: the Phylactery of the Blind Lich.

Eliminating Nevyn Eld had always been so unthinkable to her that she had only ever considered it in her dreams, but even there, any dreams of the Lich had invariably been nightmares. Horrific stories conjured from the worst of her fears and insecurities, her grief and her pain. In them, she broke his Phylactery a thousand times, and always he returned somehow. It was either an illusion or a fake. Or she had been deceived. Or betrayed.

This, however, was no dream. She was finally here, in his domain for real. And she was one hundred percent certain they had not even seen the half of the Blind Lich’s defenses. Still, they must look and see for themselves. All it might take would be killing whatever guardian they found in this last chamber, something they had become very good at, and when she finally laid hands on his Phylactery, she was going to end him, once and for all, freeing her to save Lira.

The tunnel twisted and wound its way deeper, always filled with the crunching of ice under the feet of her trolls. The noise echoed, eerily warped and distorted by the faceted, hard-edged ice. She slowed her monsters’ progress through the tunnel in an effort to quieten their approach, but there was little she could do to silence the noise of battle every time a Frozen Skull Sentry floated into view. Or Tol’brekk’s heavy footsteps that sometimes caused even rock to creak and splinter.

Instead, she contented herself with the focus and diligence to disrupt any escape via teleportation spells every time a sentry appeared. She was grateful her mind felt nearly back to normal, presumably due to Malika’s newly advanced healing spell.

“Sentry,” Mato warned.

“I see it,” Ali whispered, knowing his ears were sensitive enough that she would be heard. With a gesture, she flicked out a flight of golden needles, shredding the teleportation forming within the latest patrolling skull and watched with satisfaction as her berserker’s great swing batted it into the wall where it shattered with a satisfying crunching pop, and the slushy sound of crushed ice flowing down the wall to collect in a wet pile upon the floor.

The chime of her notifications told her everything she needed to know about their interruption, and she simply flew on past the remains. She had already committed that variant to her elemental imprint.

The space around her widened, and Ali suddenly sensed a vast and powerful magic lurking deep within the darkness. Far ahead, somewhere in the depths of a vast cavern, she saw a shard of black and red, shifting and shimmering like a huge pane of magic that tore a gaping hole in the fabric of reality.

“A rift,” she said, her voice a low whisper. The rift was not nearly the only thing out there. “And… something else.”

“Let’s take a look,” Calen whispered.

“Carefully,” Malika cautioned, unnecessarily.

A half-dozen motes of light floated out, soaring high overhead, casting their light into the vast space and slowly revealing the sheer expanse of the enormous ice cavern. Down below, small figures struggled at the foot of the rift, and now Ali could catch the distant sounds of battle carrying over the blood-stained ice.

“Dragonkin,” Calen said, squinting his eyes while his magic flickered within, greatly enhancing his sight. “From the rift. They’re fighting Death Knights.”

Ali shifted her perceptions to the eyes of her void dragons and sentinel demons, taking advantage of their vastly more powerful vision. What she saw down there at the foot of the rift was chaos beyond the simple words Calen had spoken.

Broken bodies lay strewn across the ice. Hundreds of dragonkin warriors and mages, sliced to ribbons, their blood running out onto the ice, forming rivulets and dark red pools that rippled and shivered to the tune of the heavy crashing of battle. Rivulets that rapidly congealed and froze upon the glacial ground.

It was not all one-sided. As she studied the melee, three dragonkin warriors swarmed a Death Knight. The first was sliced in half by a rune-covered mithril blade. The second, frozen in mid-leap to shatter upon the ground. But the third buried a curved sword deep in the heart of the Death Knight, and it slowly crumpled to the ground with its dying magic arcing chaotically around it as it perished.

“Should we help them?” Ali whispered. The thought came to her as she regarded the active incursion. Dragonkin were desperately trying to overwhelm the Death Knights of the Crypt of Kings. Surely any enemy of Nevyn Eld would be an ally of theirs, regardless of how their race was perceived by the mortal kingdoms.

“Something doesn’t feel right here,” Calen whispered.

Ali was about to disagree, but then she paused. One incredible fact stood out in her mind. How are they still actively fighting after so many years? Thousands of years in fact, and the battle was still raging. She was left with only a few explanations, none of which settled her mind, and she understood Calen’s uncharacteristic reticence to rush to their aid. Either these Dragonkin were bred for this war, or they were being summoned continually, minions of another creature, or worse, a larger dungeon.

A vast rumbling tremor shook the entire cavern, interrupting her conflicted thoughts and knocking the fighting dragonkin and death knights off their feet. The trolls standing beside Ali swayed and stumbled, even at such a great distance.

“Arise! Rejoice! You serve the Master, now!”

Ali clapped a hand over her mouth to stifle a yelp.

A vast surge of mana rippled through the chamber, igniting a previously invisible array of runes that filled the entire space above the rift with the dark pulsing of death and the power of the domain. Bolts of necromantic energy shot down, clawing and ripping at the corpses, tearing screaming wraiths from each and transforming them with a corrupted magic. The tormented wraiths writhed and thrashed against the shackles that bound them to the domain and slowly sank back into their corpses.

Then, they all stood as one. Dark and ominous energy flickered and flashed across the newly created undead, as the dungeon’s mana rippled to gird them with mithril plate armor. Runic blades formed from dark knots of domain mana, and each corpse reached out a gauntleted hand to grasp one.

In moments, Ali found herself staring at nearly a hundred newly minted Devastation Knights.

“Report to Haverron for your assignments. Leave the intruders to me.”

“Can’t imagine that’s anything good,” Mato grunted.

Even as far away as they stood, the ground trembled under the thunderous impact of the ancient, grating voice. Up close, it was an entirely different story. Boulders of ice shattered into pulverized plumes that danced to the deafening noise. Devastation Knights stumbled and staggered, but as the sound subsided, they all turned as one and began to march toward the doorway. But Ali barely saw them, her eyes fixed on the apparition manifesting behind the rift.

A vast winged shape slowly emerged from the darkness as the bitter cold of ice magic suffused its gaunt, bony hide. Twin glowing points of intense cobalt-blue suddenly kindled high above the rift, glaring down with haughty contempt at where she stood across the cavern.

Kryostria [The Frozen Scourge] – Dracolich – level ??? (Ice)

Dark, withered wings unfurled, revealing holes and rips and the remnants of dragon scales that might once have been sapphire. But there was nothing withered and gaunt about the immense, palpable intensity of the mana crystallized within her undead body. Ice began to grow, rapidly coalescing around her vast form, freezing everything even remotely nearby. Icicles sprouted from the rift itself, and a thick layer of rime crept out over the blood-soaked expanse, filling the air with a deafening cracking and popping.

Several Dragonkin warriors leapt into the cavern through the rift and were instantly frozen solid, falling to the ground and shattering into a spray of shards.

“Champion class boss. Easily past the second evolution,” Calen said quietly. “It’s higher than two-fifty.”

A chilling laughter shook the chamber as the Dracolich opened its vast maw.

“Come now, it is useless to hide. My ice will find you wherever you run.”

“I think we might need to leave,” Malika said.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
