As soon as I bring my suspicions to Monk Happy, his brow furrows in palpable uncertainty. Not the reassurance I was hoping to get, but he merely says he will look into it and leaves to do just that. With dinner time fast approaching, I head home with a belly full of worry and back bent with unseen burdens, wondering if I should rethink my plans to take the fight to our foe. Maybe it would be better to stick to tried and true tactics, to gather my strength and wait for the Enemy to come fight on our terms where we hold the advantage. Am I in too much of a rush? What if our offensive fails? Then the outer provinces will be doomed and I will be forever known as the man who lost an Empire. Is that how I want to be remembered? A legacy of folly and defeat? Falling Rain, the man who led the Azure Empire to their ultimate defeat, that is how the history books will remember me.

...

I can’t tell if these are my own doubts, or ones whispered into my ears by Zhen Shi, but as I return home to find Yan and Lin-Lin waiting to greet me, my worries melt away in their warm embrace, for the moment at least. I made my choice, but if the plans put forth by the Colonel Generals are not up to snuff, then there’s no harm in rethinking my position. No man is an island, so I’ll rely on my allies and take things one step at a time, advice Mila would no doubt share with me if she were here at my side. Glancing at the bathroom as if I could see through those walls, I idly wonder how my beloved wife is faring only to notice a powerful convergence of Chi gathering within those closed walls. Still deep in the throes of Insight, Mila channels the Energy of the Heavens on a scale unlike anything she’s ever managed before, and the entire family stops to watch as her presence is made known to their senses. Not one of the five major senses, but to our Spiritual Sense, an intangible impression that emanates from our very souls, one that warns me and everyone else to take shelter mere microseconds before the roof of my borrowed bathroom explodes in a burst of splinters and shards.

A beam of concentrated light shoots up into the heavens themselves, illuminating the dark clouds hanging overhead and piercing through to reveal a small patch of clear skies. Disappearing in the blink of an eye, the radiating pillar leaves behind an afterimage of light, one that is seared into my retinas for the next few seconds as I rush over to check on Mila. Unable to move too quickly due to my inability to see clearly, I arrive long after the Peak Experts and arrive to find my wife staring up at the destruction she has wrought while her parents escort her out of the now unsafe structure, her mouth opened wide in bewildered amazement as if she were not the one who destroyed it.

“What happened? Are you alright?”

At the sound of my voice, Mila’s gaze snaps onto me, her wide eyes filled with excited confusion. “How did you do that?” she whispers, stroking the edge of her shield as she tries to put her thoughts into words. “We were sitting there talking, and then you fell silent, but I could... see your thoughts almost, perceive what you perceived, and then...” Idly gesturing at the roof, she rapidly blinks as she finally comes out of her fugue state and sags into her father’s arms, drained and exhausted like I’ve never seen her before, leaving me to ponder the implications of what she just said.

Did I really share my thoughts with her and teach her how to fire a laser? How? Can I use this to my advantage?

...I sense many migraines and sleepless nights ahead, because I simply cannot wait to test this out.

Chapter Meme
