Essentially I am the Core, and the Core is me. Thus, any damage to me, in turn will damage my Core, which as I’ve long since established is either a part of or made up of my Soul. All of this means that every scrape, bruise, fracture, or puncture will also damage my Core and my Soul, the ramifications of which I have yet to wholly explore or understand, because I only just figured it out last night and haven’t had a chance to speak with any Divinities. Taddy and Monk Bones have been busy Healing Imperial soldiers all night, while the Abbot has yet to wake from his coma and recuperating in the monastery, though he should be back on his feet soon enough. I thought about looking for Guard Leader to bounce my questions off of, but given her... err, aversion to critical thinking, I figured asking her for guidance would be barking up the wrong tree. All I really know is that even though I am stronger and tougher than before, I’m far from invulnerable or impervious to attacks. A dagger will still cut me and a mace still concuss me, though it takes a little more effort to do so than before. The downside is that it now takes an inordinate amount of Chi to Heal my wounds through Panacea, and I don’t even know where to begin Healing using traditional methods, because my body is more than just the physical now. While I lack any ability to accurately measure my expenditure, it feels like I’m using anywhere from five to fifty times the Chi depending on the severity of the injury when Healing with Panacea, which I suppose gives me a general idea of how much more complex my body has become. Even though I have the ability to Devour Chi and have access to as much as I need, refining my body into a Spiritual Heart has not made me immune to the side effects of using too much Chi either, hence my throbbing migraine and minor bout with insomnia, as well as my decision to leave my injuries to Heal on their own, albeit at an accelerated rate compared to your average Martial Warrior.

Sharing all of this with Mila in as much detail as I dare, I hold back on any practical details as I would hate for her to try and replicate my success with what might well be flawed or incomplete information. I have no idea how I succeeded in refining a Spiritual Heart, and I suspect I would have failed if I didn’t have access to usable Heavenly Energy, which I no longer have. I’m not even sure if Human Divinities or Ancestral Beasts even have Spiritual Hearts, but I assume they do and it has something to do with Shattering the Void. “All this means I need to rethink my approach to close combat,” I Send, pursing my lips with a sigh as I reluctantly exit the hot water and come face to face with the searing hot blaze hidden behind Mila’s expressive and appreciative eyes. “Which sucks, considering how Gerel just proved how outmatched I am against a readied opponent. Give flesh and break bone was like, my whole shtick, so now I gotta come up with something new, fresh, and exciting.”

“Idiot.” Rolling her eyes at my statement, Mila sits me down on the stool and proceeds to lather my back, a service I would enjoy much more if she would remove her robes again. “Just learn to fight properly and avoid injuries like everyone else. Is that so difficult?”

“Well... yes.” Making the most of this rare indulgence, I bask in my beloved wife’s ministrations while Sending my thoughts as they come to me. “Killing unsuspecting foes in the chaos of battle is one thing, but going toe to toe with a Peak Expert is an entirely different kettle of fish, and it’s clear I’m sorely lacking in both foundation and experience. Being a prime target means I’ll be facing stronger and stronger opponents, which becomes problematic if I can’t protect myself, especially now that I need Pong Pong to keep tabs on Rakshasa and can’t count on his Turtley intervention to save my ass. Sure, I survived a clash with Gongsun Qi, but our exchange lasted for less than a full second before your mother arrived to save me, which means I still have a long way to go before I can call myself a Peak Expert.”

And the Abbot wants me to just Shatter the Void, like it’s that easy and I’m an idiot for not seeing it sooner...

“Yes, how terrible for you,” Mila retorts, unceremoniously dumping a basin of water over my head. “Twenty two years old and still not a match for a Peak Expert in single combat. How will you ever live with the shame?” Grabbing my chin to kiss me forcefully, she pushes me away when I try to escalate things once more, her scowl not at all a match for her blazing red cheeks. “Your issues are just all the more reason for you to rest and avoid injury, idiot. There are other things you could do as well, like practice more, show your face around the Citadel to raise morale, or arrange a banquet to recognize heroes deserving of a reward.” Scowling as she upends another basin of water over my head, she gives my heated ardour a pointed look and adds, “Even if you believe you don’t have anything better to do, I most certainly have other matters to attend to. While you struggle against Peak Experts, my Martial strength is still lacking compared even to my sane and rational peers, so I must work hard and persevere in order to progress further along my Path.”

Her repeated attempts to cool my passions has no effect, for the heart wants what the heart wants. The same goes for the penis, and I have about as much control over one as I do the other, namely none whatsoever. That being said, there is no doubt in my mind that this woman is deeply in love with me, and I in love with her, knowledge that would fill me with warmth and joy on even the coldest, most desolate of nights. Ignoring Mila’s amused smile and quiet refusal to indulge my lacking self-control, I take a deep breath and think unsexy thoughts while trying to also hold a conversation. “Well, I don’t have any general advice regarding the Martial Path, but is there something in particular that you’re stuck on?”

Ready with an answer on hand, Mila throws my bathrobe at me and says, “The Mountain Collapsing Stomp. You, Luo-Luo, Mother-in-Law Sarnai, and Yan have all found some success with it in vastly different manners, while I have yet to grasp even the basic concept behind it.” Tying my robes so tightly I might have to cut myself out of them, my beloved wife deems it safe to take a seat on my lap once more, wiggling about in devilish delight as she flutter kicks her feet in the air. It turns out my strong and dynamic wife enjoys being cradled in my arms, especially now that I’m strong enough to carry her weight without straining. Stealing a quick kiss, she leans against my shoulder and I marvel how her wet hair frames her freckled face oh-so-perfectly as she contemplates how to best give voice to her question. “I suppose my biggest issue is that I don’t understand how to both contain and build-up momentum at the same time.”

“Mm...” Rather than tell her how to direct her Chi, I feel it would be better to demonstrate how the concept works instead, and let her figure out the rest from there. Turning about so I’m sitting next to the tub while Mila is facing it, I gesture at the water and try to put my thoughts into words, a task made all the more difficult as she takes advantage of my distraction to slip her hand into my robes and stroke my bare chest. Unfair. When she does it, it’s just normal and natural, but when I try to do the same, I’m an incorrigible pervert.

Though to be fair, in spite of all the accusations she throws around, it’s not like she’s ever stopped me...

“Imagine your Chi is the water,” I begin, at which point Mila’s glassy-eyed gaze turns to razor-sharp focus, eager to learn and progress as ever. “And the basin is you or your weapon.” Tapping the water’s surface, I send a ripple through the tub emanating outwards in all directions, though the effect is somewhat ruined by the small receptacle. Central is big on personal bathtubs, which are barely big enough to fit two, and this demonstration would work much better in a larger bath like the one I had built in my Northern Citadel manor. “See how the ripples move? That is the transference of force from my hand to the water’s surface. That force then travels through the water until it reaches the sides of the bathtub, at which point the force is reflected back in the other direction.” Tapping a few more times in steady rhythm, I set the bath water to roiling in turbulent agitation, with the ripples growing larger and larger as time moves on. “This right here is a representation of the basic concept in a nutshell, building waves of energy up through timing and repetition without allowing it to escape. Granted, a lot of momentum is lost to the sides of the tub, and the shape is not ideal for reflection of forces in equal distribution, but overall, it takes much less effort to agitate the waters than if I were to stick my arm in and manually stir it about. I’m sure it’s a game every kid plays when they’re young, scooting up and down the bathtub to make waves and splash water all about, and it takes a lot out of them to get the water to roiling.”

“Maybe here in Central.” Her tone rife with amusement while watching me play, she explains, “People tend to frown upon children splashing in the communal baths back home.”

“Right, right.” Weird though, because I totally remember splashing about and having a grand old time, especially when challenged to see who could splash more. Maybe that was from my past life then, since the memory is so vague it might as well be imagined. “Regardless, the concept remains the same.”

Though Mila has nothing to say, I can tell she’s unsatisfied with my explanation, one I’ve given before. I’ve also likened it to using a swing, but that didn’t help her either. A thought occurs to me and I try a different tack, gesturing at the ceiling overhead and the sun hidden behind it. “You know, light behaves in a similar fashion.”

“How so?”

“Well, imagine a steady source of light, one suspended in mid-air with nothing around it. No candle, no torch, no lantern, just light itself, no other objects whatsoever.” Tapping the still water again, I draw her attention to the singular ripple and continue, “From that source, light emanates outwards in all directions, moving at the same speed without variation until it can illuminate no further, creating a perfect sphere of light.” Pointing at the sconces on the wall, I continue, “Now imagine a shuttered lantern encompassing that source of light. Inside, the light still travels outwards in all directions, but now it also bounces off the sides of the lantern, and thus the luminosity within the lantern is much brighter than it would be outside of it. This is also why the light travels farther when you open the shutter, because the lantern aims more light in one direction.” Seeing Mila’s lack of response, I purse my lips and stifle a sigh. “I’m not explaining it well, nor is this really helping you comprehend the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, but I can’t really think of a better way to describe it.”

“No, I understand what you’re trying to say, but I can’t seem to translate it into anything of practical use.”

Kissing her on the forehead as she snuggles in for comfort, I hold her close and take in her scent while trying my best to console her. “Well, maybe it’s better if you stop thinking about it for a bit and focus on something else. You have many other attainments just waiting within reach, and you can always come back to this later.” Like learning how to utilize her Blessing, which even I don’t really understand. How does the Blessing of Sun work? How is it different from a Blessing of Light? I mean, technically the Blessing of Light would be some combination of air and fire, but the Blessing of Sun is an Esoteric Blessing, meaning it’s made up of all four elements. I don’t get how that works either, not really. I get that the four Primal Blessings of Earth, Fire, Air, and Water are not exactly those four concepts, but rather representations of the fundamental forces of the universe, but that’s about as useful as saying cars run on gasoline. Good to know, but not the most useful information when I’m trying to build an engine, which is why I have no idea how to use my Blessing of Water.

In the same vein, me telling Mila about water in a tub or light in a vacuum doesn’t help her comprehend the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, but I don’t know how else to help her. Glancing at her Spiritual Weapons laid out next to the tub, it strikes me as such a shame that she’s stuck on this concept, because her circular Spiritual Shield makes for a geometrically perfect vessel for the Mountain Collapsing Stomp. Or Mountain Collapsing Shield Bash, I guess is what we would call it, but whatever. Either way, being a perfect circle makes it so much easier to visualize the movement of the Chi, because you just start from the exact centre and let each ‘wave’ of Chi propagate in all directions, like pulsing radio waves from an antenna. The image pops up in my mind without even having to try, concentric circles of energy emanating from the shield’s centre and moving along the exterior surface only to crash into the rim and be reflected back along the interior, with each circle feeding into next as they return to the source and resulting in a steady growth of power contained within.

