Love is magical.

There is a power to love, an imperceptible, immeasurable, ineffable quality which mere words cannot express, but the power is undeniably there. I feel it now, flowing through me with a warmth that has nothing to do with the heat of Mila’s body pressed against mine or the burning flames keeping our tiny bronze bathtub comfortably hot. With her in my arms, I feel like I can Cloud-Step a thousand miles and run ten-thousand more without breaking sweat, a task I would do a hundred-thousand times over just to keep her by my side. Love is renewing and refreshing, an invigorating nectar that cleanses my mind, energizes my body, and nourishes my soul in ways which can only be described as enlivening, giving me more of everything I need to forge ahead. A moment’s rest against her freckled shoulder is better than a full night’s sleep, and a taste of her pouty lips more delicious than a full-course, five-star meal, and having her here and now trapped within my embrace reminds me of how I’ve been sleepless and starved for far too long.

My lust and hunger is a stark warning of love’s darker side, for it can be addicting, demanding, selfish, and controlling when we let love take control. Love is work, love is sacrifice, love is forbearance, but above all, love is necessary, because without love, life has no meaning. This is why we do awful, horrible things when love is lost or taken away, for while love brings out the best humanity has to offer, it can also give rise to the worst. I and many others would go to great lengths to reclaim what has been lost, or mete out justice when recovery proves impossible. Love is beautiful, but it can turn ugly all too easily, whether it be a love denied, lost, or unrequited, love is a power which can be abused or misused like any other. Thus we must strike a careful Balance with love, as we must in all other things.

It’s said it is better to have loved and lost than to never have loved at all, but I’m not entirely convinced. What would I do if my love was lost? How would I live without Mila in my life? Without Yan, Lin-Lin, Li-Li, or even Luo-Luo? Without my parents, my sister, my niece and nephew, my brother-in-law, my best friend, my rival, or my floofs? Not well, that much I can say, and I would do anything to get them back. I would kill, rend, and torture to recover the people I love, accept any allies or powers which might be of assistance, even if in the end it costs me more than I lost, because without love, there is no reasoning.

All of which means I must cherish the love I have while I still have it, and though the body is bruised and weak, the mind and spirit are more than willing. My roaming hands make their way slowly across Mila’s bare skin, touching, stroking, and exploring whatever they come across, her body a temple I wholeheartedly intend to worship before, but her steely grip clamps down on my wrists before matters progress too far as she chuckles softly in my embrace. “You,” she begins, punctuating the word with a soft kiss on my nape as she draws my arms around her while keeping my hands safely away, “Are insatiable.” Releasing my arms and wholly expecting me to keep them still, she sits up, covers up her bared breasts, and shoots me a coquettish glance, sending mixed signals as she wiggles her hips whilst still seated in my lap to get a better angle to face me. “Left to you, we might never emerge from this bath ever again, not until someone comes looking and finds us in all our shame.”

“Nothing shameful about a man and his beloved wife having an afternoon bath.” Wincing as I sit up to reestablish our embrace, I kiss her deeply in quiet thanks for sparing my wounded pride. Even my refined physique turned into a Spiritual Heart isn’t enough to wholly dampen the effects of Mila’s enthusiastic response to my amorous affections, but at least I didn’t break or dislocate anything this time around, proving I am at least durable enough to eschew the need for reinforced restraints every time we want to get frisky.

Though I wouldn’t mind bringing those out every now and then, just for a bit of extra fun...

A thought which re-ignites my smouldering passions and sets my hands to roaming once more, but while Mila’s lips doth protest, her actions do not match her words as she submits to desire, both hers and mine. My strong and domineering wife turns meek and compliant once the clothes are off, a stark contrast which sets my blood to boiling, and after so many weeks and months of separation, we both seem determined to make up for lost time as quickly as possible.

And once we are breathless and spent, we sink back into the bath and bask in the afterglow, our lips pressed lightly together as neither one of us wants to break off. What did I ever do to deserve someone as amazing as Mila? I have no idea, but I will spend a lifetime making up for this immense karmic debt. “I love you,” I gasp, drunk on her taste, and her smile tells me everything I need to know in return.

“I love you too,” she replies, leaning back to meet my gaze as she rests her head on my shoulder, savouring my touch as much as I relish hers. There we sit until my body recovers and I feel my passions mounting once again, only seconds before Mila feels my ‘passion’ too. Laughing with her eyes while pursing her lips, she playfully presses her fist into my face and says, “Any more and my legs will give out and you’ll have to carry me around for the rest of day, assuming your battered body holds out.” Though reluctant to end things here, my dutiful wife slips out of my grasp and exits the tub at last, a mock scowl etched across her beautiful face as she sits on a stool and sets to soaping up once again. “Besides, what will people say if you return from a leave of absence just to shirk your duties and spend time with your insignificant wife, indulging in lust and passion?”

Again with this argument, as if the outer provinces can’t function without me. “Insignificant wife? Never.” Leaning over to take her hand, she slaps my fingers away, so I settle for resting a hand on her knee, the bathroom too small for her to escape from my reach. “And nothing will ever be more important than my wives.” A statement which elicits a tiny wince, one which fades as soon as it appears, but not before I catch it in plain view. I had to be honest and say ‘wives’ rather than ‘you’, and it pains me to see her hurt by the admission. Though Mila loves Yan and Lin-Lin like sisters, I’m sure she would love to have me all to herself, because who in their right mind wants to share their beloved husband with another woman, much less two to four others? I am a horrible, lustful man, and unrepentant to boot, because even though I know it hurts Mila to have to share me, I still intend to chase after other women. My beloved deserves better, but I cannot bear to abandon my love for Lin-Lin, Li-Li, or even the possibility of love with Luo-Luo, nor can I bear the thought of setting Mila free to find someone else who will love her and her alone.

“You are an idiot.” Splashing me with the bathwater to drive her statement home, Mila leans over for a quick kiss as she fills her basin to rinse off with. “Your thoughts flit about from one mood to the next like an indecisive bee in a field of flowers. I can’t imagine how exhausting it must be keeping up with all those conflicting emotions.” Another reminder that I need to get my Aura in check, but most of the sting of her harsh statement is mitigated by the sight of water running down her naked body, and I forget how to breathe for the next few seconds. Noticing my distraction earns me another splash, but she makes no move to hide or turn away as she rinses off a second time. Then a third, which is when I finally realize she’s teasing me, but my efforts to entice her into another round fall woefully short. “Wash up and get dressed,” she says, slipping just out of reach to towel off in a provocative fashion, knowing full well what she’s doing is driving me mad and enjoying every second of it. “We’ve been in here long enough for people to talk, and I’ll not be the one to explain it.”

That being said, she makes no move to leave after throwing on her bathrobe and simply stands there waiting and watching, her smirk out in full force as she intends to ogle as good as she got. Honestly, when it comes to leering, Mila is almost as bad as Yan now, though thankfully not as vocal about her appreciation in public, and I feel my cheeks heat up as I try to feign nonchalance and recline back in the bath to hide my shame. “I don’t have much to do, really,” I explain, still wanting to spend more time in her arms rather than go out and face dreadful reality. “I mean, Luo-Luo, Liu Xuande, the Marshals, and the Colonel Generals are all working on a plan, so until they have something concrete for me to go over, there’s no point showing up. I’ll just slow things down with my stupid questions while they struggle to give face, so it’s best to stay away until they have all their ducks in a row.”

“Have you given any thought to laying down to rest? Your injuries are not few.” Gently running her fingers alongside my stitched wounds and fresh bruises, the question is there in Mila’s eyes but she doesn’t want to press me for too much, wondering why I don’t just Heal my injuries like I always do, but worried it touches upon some secret I cannot share, whether be because telling her might affect her Dao or because I myself am not sure and the doubt would be my undoing.

“This is nothing,” I tell her, as her eyes linger on some fresh bruises resulting from her passionate embrace. “I’ve had much worse, so don’t you worry, beloved.” Gesturing at the injuries, I switch to Sending for the sake of privacy, even though I already have a Sound Barrier in place. “The reason I’m not Healing myself is because it’s simply not worth it.”

It’s clear from her expression that my beloved Mila doesn’t believe me, given the extent of my injuries. The vast catalogue begins with the bruise on my cheek, courtesy of Gerel’s teachings, and includes a whole host of scrapes, cuts, and bruises which aren’t worth mentioning, many of which are courtesy of my enthusiastic beloved wife. I also have a pulled shoulder and sprained ankle courtesy of the opening exchange with Gongsun Qi, as well as hairline fractures along both forearms from the subsequent trades. My back hurts from carrying Lin-Lin and Ping Ping the entire way back from the monastery, and I’ve got a tiny bit of internal bleeding along my left abdomen, where I bruised a few ribs while fighting Half-Demonic Warriors. All in all, fairly insignificant injuries considering I went toe-to-toe with a Colonel General in the prime of health, and all easily Healed if not for the minor, thus far insignificant fact that I refined my entire body into a Spiritual Heart.

Earlier when I first tried to Heal the Abbot, he told me, “Damage done during a battle between Divinities is not limited to mere flesh and bone. Suffice it to say, my injuries go beyond the physical, and even your unique Healing method is not enough to save me.” I thought he meant Divinities had access to some powerful, non-physical attacks, but the truth is a little more complicated than that. In order to mend the divide between my body, mind, and soul, I refined my body into a Spiritual Heart by melding the physical and the metaphysical together as one. I am a human made of blood, bones, organs, and tissue, but I am also more than just what you would see if you cut me open and looked around. I have a Core to store my Chi and a circulatory system to distribute it throughout my physique, and while I lack the ability to quantify those metaphysical systems, I merged them with my physical being with help from the Energy of the Heavens.

