Honestly, it should work the same with light, seeing how light behaves as a particle and a wave, right? Store ‘Sunlight’ Chi in the shield and build it up until it’s ready to be unleashed, meaning Mila could fire literal laser beams at her foes. The shield’s even shaped like a convex lens, which is what you would use to focus sunlight if you were trying to start a fire, meaning the concept still fits. Granted, the shield is opaque, but considering we’re talking about magic here, I’m not entirely sure that matters. If only I could share these thoughts with my beloved along with my comprehension of the underlying principles alongside it. Then again, I’m fairly certain my grasp of physics is shaky at best and I’ve probably got more than a few concepts wrong, but Chi does a lot of the heavy lifting, though nowhere near as much as Heavenly Energy.

Sliding out of my embrace without so much as a word, Mila shuffles over to her weapons and takes them in hand. Tucking Paragon into her belt, she takes a seat on the damp floor before laying the spear across her knees and the shield over-top it, running her hands over the latter while staring deep into its reflective surface. Catching myself before I speak, I snap my mouth shut and quietly Conceal myself so as not to disturb her, for it appears my beloved, talented wife has stumbled across yet another Insight. What a woman, a Warrior and craftsman of the highest calibre whose name will echo across the Empire in the years to come.

Tip-toeing out of the bathroom, I leave the Sound Barrier in place and send my Death Corps guards to find a Concealment capable woman to watch over Mila as she meditates. I don’t think anything will go wrong, but better safe than sorry, and I can’t risk interrupting her Insight for the sake of her modesty. Soon enough, my sister arrives with a beautiful smile etched across her face, happy to help and be a part of this momentous occasion. Honestly, Mila has more Insights than anyone else I know, and succumbs deeper too, which is only proof of her phenomenal talents which have secured her a place at the forefront of her peers. Even I am in awe of her skills, because unlike me, she has a deep understanding of everything she can do, including Divine Blacksmithing which is still a complete mystery to me.

Leaving my wife in my sister’s capable hands, I head out to check on the floofs and find the bears cowering behind some hedges and living up to their reputation as the most cowardly of floofs in my entire menagerie. Contrary to their large size, Banjo and Baloo are a fearful and panicky pair, prone to freezing up under duress and hiding in the silliest locations, as evidenced by the fact that the hedges are only tall enough to hide their heads, leaving their big furry butts in plain view. In their defence, they never really learned how to survive on their own. At least the wildcats know enough to run up a tree, but despite possessing the same capabilities, the bears tend to go to ground whenever they’re scared.

And scared they are, mostly due to Rakky’s intimidating presence.

Though laid out along a wall, the massive tiger is a fearsome sight to behold, and I want nothing more than to curl up next to his belly and be the small spoon to his big one. The only thing stopping me is the fact that I’m not suicidal, so I’ll have to appreciate his majesty from afar and resist the temptation to touch the forbidden belly floof. There are only three animals present who are not terrified of Rakky, the first being Tai Shan, who sits beneath the cherry tree with his adorably vacant expression while eating bamboo like it’s ice cream and the freezer is broken. The second is Ping Ping who is enamoured with the tiger’s floof, and lastly we have sweet, stupid George, whose furry white butt is currently protruding out from under the tiger’s massive paw. Thankfully, the dumb bun is still breathing, but he’s also fast asleep, which has left Rakky in a state of complete confusion and probably dealt a crippling blow to his pride as well, keeping his paw on the little intruder, but also pretending not to notice him at the same time.

While Pong Pong has made it clear that all floofs are friends, if Rakky takes a bite out of Georgie, I’m not sure I’m even allowed to be mad. At some point, you just gotta chalk it up to Darwinism and accept that sweet, stupid George was not meant for this cruel, merciless world.

Planting myself between the bears, I settle in to comfort my pets while wondering how to fix the epidemic of doom and gloom plaguing the Citadel. I genuinely do not understand the mentality of the average Martial Warrior. We won a stunning victory yesterday, snatching victory from the jaws of defeat thanks to some quick thinking from Akanai to send the Peak Experts ahead alongside the Tyrant’s Runic Cannons. However, because there was no epic final fight to culminate the long-fought siege, the soldiers of Central feel like they’ve been robbed of their victory and allowed a golden opportunity to slip through their fingers. Never mind the fact that even though the bulk of the Enemy army got away, the Runic Cannons still caused significant casualties during the retreat, or how chasing after them with a tired army of soldiers and an overabundance of Peak Experts would have resulted in too many casualties within both groups. No, those facts are unimportant, because G.I Joe didn’t get to stab his fleeing foes in the back, and that makes him sad.

At least, that’s what the Colonel Generals told me, and I have no idea where to go from here, which is why I left it for them to decide our next steps. Whether it be a banquet, speech, parade or whatnot, I’ll do whatever is necessary to raise morale, even though I feel like they’re all pouting over nothing.

The downside of being so good at delegating my work is that there are times when I have nothing to contribute, hence why I sought out Mila for lunch and company. Everyone else is either busy with work or catching up on some much needed rest, which I probably should do as well considering the fact that my throbbing migraine has yet to subside. Add to this the fact that I feel restless and unable to sleep, and it’s clear I’m suffering from a mild case of Chi over-consumption. Overuse? Overexertion? Whatever. Side effects can include depression, psychosis, and development of multiple personalities, so I decided to take this seriously. Alas, there’s no real cure except time and rest, meaning I can’t use Chi for anything unless it’s an emergency, or you know... indulging my beloved wife. It sucks, especially considering there’s so much I want to test and try out, especially after seeing and hearing about so many different Peak Experts and how they fought. I even broke the rules a little to spar with Gerel and throw up a Sound Barrier for fun times with Mila, though I refrained from doing anything too overt and flashy besides my inadvertent Aural leakage. Now that there’s no one to keep me company and I’ve been left to my own devices however, I have no idea what to do with all my free time.

Pet some rabbits and make friends with a tiger I suppose. Not the worst use of my time, but certainly not the best.

One thing I’d like to test out is if using too much Heavenly Energy has the same side-effects as using too much Chi, as that would be a great workaround to my limits. Oddly enough however, the Central Citadel is completely and utterly devoid of any and all free-floating Spectres, leaving me with no way to replenish my drained reserves of usable Heavenly Energy. The dearth of angry ghosties is odd considering the staggering number of casualties sustained during four days of nonstop battle, which leads me to believe Zhen Shi has taken steps to limit my abilities as much as possible. As soon as I arrived, he withdrew every last Demon from the battlefront, even carrying away their corpses for no reason except to deny me access to Ichor, so I suppose he summoned the Spectres away in the same manner. The half-Demon Warriors stayed to fight, but during my first exchange with those amalgamated foes, I discovered I could not absorb the Demonic Ichor even after killing the human host. Why? No idea, though my best guess would be that it has something to do with the fact that the hosts are still technically human. With Demons, the Spectres are wholly in control while the host is relegated to prisoner and bystander, leaving me to believe the Ichor is a physical manifestation of the Spectres’ metaphysical existence, the same way my Spiritual Heart is a combination of my physical and metaphysical existence. With half-Demonic Warriors however, their Ichor might somehow be integrated with the host’s physical and metaphysical being as well, and thus protected by the inviolability of their still whole-and-human souls, protection which remains in place even after death.

A lot of this is just guesswork, because I still don’t know enough about souls to do anything more, but it feels right, and I’ve learned to trust my gut. Besides, while it would be nice to know why I can’t Devour Ichor from half-Demonic Warriors so I can maybe devise a workaround to those limitations, it’s not the most pressing issue I have at hand. No, the important thing is that I can no longer afford to sit back and give Zhen Shi the initiative, because as time goes on, his forces only continue to grow in strength. He revealed thousands of half-Demonic Warriors during the siege of the Central Citadel, and who knows how many more he has tucked away, not to mention how more Demons, Defiled, and Chosen are being turned with every passing day. Given enough time, he could muster three armies equal to the one we just defeated, and if he were to send them all at different targets, the outer provinces would stand no chance against them. Right now however, we have a golden opportunity to strike back using our Runic Cannons before our foe can rally more troops and devise countermeasures to deal with these new weapons of war, and I would be a fool to let this chance slip by.

With nothing better to do, I bring the floofs out to see the Citadel and show my face to the crowd, offering condolences and commiserations which mean little to those in mourning. The Ryo and Ishin families are particularly torn up, both having lost their influential patriarchs in the last twenty four hours, and I can tell my sympathies fall on empty ears as their political woes come home to rest. This is all more Luo-Luo’s wheelhouse, but I try to do what I can and publicly offer my support to anyone and everyone who might need it, including Ryo Da’in and Ishin Ken-Shibu who are now the respective heads of their families and wholly out of their depth.

Poor Ken-Shibu is not only mourning the loss of his father, but his younger brother as well, both dying in valiant defence of the Empire and already forgotten by the vast majority while the powers that be pick away at the still-living body of the Ishin family, opportunistic vultures one and all.

The outer provinces will be long in mending from their wounds taken in war, but the sooner we put an end to the threat, the sooner we can start rebuilding. Hence my rush to take the fight to the Enemy, but not with a mere million soldiers as I implied earlier. No, those million soldiers will merely make up my vanguard, the heroes who will spearhead our invasion Western Province and establish a foothold deep within Enemy territory, but there are a number of pressing issues we have to deal with first, one of which is general morale. The mood is dark and dour, but given the lack of Spectres, I can only chalk it up to a difference of outlook, because I have no idea how to explain the general mood of hopelessness and despair following our unexpected and frankly spectacular victory against the Enemy.

As the hours wear on and the gloomy atmosphere persists, I develop a sneaking suspicion that all is not well in the Central Citadel. I’ve seen more than my fair share of grief and bereavement, but this is on a whole other level, even to someone as self-deprecating as myself. Odd to think that the entire Citadel could be in such a foul mood, with few people talking about our victory and everyone focused on our ‘imminent’ defeat, and were it not for the obvious lack of Spectres, I would think this Zhen Shi’s work. In fact, even without them, I’m almost ready to blame our foe for this sorry state of affairs. I’m not sure if he’s actually responsible or how he might be doing it, but I can almost smell his foul influence in the air, a subtle wrongness hiding behind the acrid smoke and scent of charred flesh. It’s possible Zhen Shi has unleashed yet another weapon against us, one I cannot even identify, but soon I am convinced there is some foul magic at work when I notice Rakky’s hackles and Aural defences are still up no matter where we go in the Citadel. A quick query to Pong Pong further proves my theory, as he shares with me an Aura of uneasy discomfort, one that comes across as swimming through an inky, impenetrable sludge that tastes of death and decay.

The little guy is getting really good at sharing his thoughts through Aura, though it still takes a bit of artistic liberty to understand.

