The golem exchanged a few words with the woman, who appeared more at ease for some reason. Oh yes, Viv had promised to let her live. That was fine. It appeared the golem had projects for her.

//SHE SAYS YOU DID NOT LEAVE AN OPENING SHE WAS CONFIDENT TO TAKE.

“I should have searched her. I was naive.”

//IT WOULD NOT HELP MUCH WITHOUT A SKILL.

//DO YOU NEED HELP RETURNING TO THE SURFACE?

“No I’ll just take the way back.”

Viv picked the still sleeping Arthur and heaved her on her shoulder. Arthur was lighter than she seemed, and also considerably warmer. She retraced her steps and took the small skiff once again, grumbling about her lack of judgment. She should have used the closest exit. Her regrets were dashed when she found a man holding a light orb walking with grim determination across the submerged tunnel, the water reaching his mid-chest.

“Going somewhere, handsome?” she asked.

“I only wish I could heave myself on without capsizing this insult to every ship ever made.”

“Come on, we’ll make it work.”

With only a few scares, Viv managed to drag her boyfriend in. He immediately set to inspect Arthur, who was now snoring and moving her legs in the air.

“She appears fine.”

“Just sedated, It will fade soon.”

“So… I was too late. I did this for nothing.”

“Not nothing, my dear. I am very much impressed by your dedication.”

“I am comforted.”

“You can also help me carry the child.”

“You honor me with your trust. Oh, by the way, some guards are waiting outside. I can talk to them if you wish.”

“That would be best.”

Viv basked in the twilight sun as soon as they were out. Some guards did indeed try to belay the pair, but they were more interested in keeping the peace and nobody did permanent peace quite like Viv, at least here, and at least for now. The sight of chopped humans went a long way towards convincing them to drop their line of inquiry. Viv collapsed in her bed later. The trio reconvened at a nearby restaurant the same night.

“So who served her the poisoned meat?” Viv asked since Sidjin had been keeping in touch with the guild.”

“Recently hired cook. He was eliminated by the wayfarers. The guild will reimburse our expenses.”

“So fucking great, but I think we illustrated a point. We need a more secure place to stay.”

“You need a permanent place to stay in Helock.”

The specific wording stopped her, spoon halfway from her bowl of congee.

“Not we?”

Sidjin leaned forward over the table and refilled his glass with citrus water. He considered his next words carefully.

“I do not believe we should move in together for a number of reasons. That does not mean you cannot stay where I will stay whenever you wish, however you wish. I simply mean that you should have your own independent quarters near the Academy. Let me explain. The Academy offers special arrangements for its foreign students or those who simply wish to use them at very competitive costs. Their actual purpose is to let students form bonds beyond that of their original allegiance which obviously empowers the academy while weakening great families to an extent. By staying at a dormitory, you will get the time and opportunity to meet allies and gather resources. You will also be more protected than most bank vaults.”

“Would they allow Arthur?”

“Undoubtedly. You are not the only student with an exotic pet, no insult intended. Besides safety and opportunities, there is a third reason for you to pick accomodation beyond the walls. Essentially, we have been together for only a couple of weeks and it is too soon.”

Sidjin looked pointedly at her, perhaps expecting her to lash out, but she didn’t.

“You know, I’m annoyed, but mostly at myself because you are right. It’s a little irresponsible. We don’t know each other that well and I think you’re justified to try and take your time.”

“Oh. Well, I feared you might be offended. And I insist that you come whenever you wish as soon as I have secured decent accommodation. I, well, to be honest, this is also about me. I need to know that you stay by my side because you want to. I want you to be completely free of me. It’s the only way I can be sure you are staying by choice.”

Viv smiled and grabbed Sidjin’s hand. Unfortunately, there must have been too much sharpness hidden behind her canines.

“I know you want to tease me so go ahead,” Sidjin allowed with his own smirk.

“Oh darling, you know I want you for your arcane knowledge, not to save on rent.”

“You got me. And that’s fine. I am confident that by the time you finish learning about teleportation magic, I will have replaced the bait by mind-boggingly good sex.”

“Oooooh.”

The banter continued throughout the meal. Viv realized Sidjin was right and she was taking their new relationship too casually. Their companionship had grown so easily and organically that she sometimes forgot they were two very different people from two very different backgrounds, each with their own agenda. Both of them needed some breathing space.

“I’ll accompany you to the Academy tomorrow. We can get you accomodation by noon, I bet,” Sidjin said.

“There is no hurry, I think Arthur will want to stick with me for a while anyway.”

“Yes, but would you not like to know the result of the admission test?”

“Oh. That.”

“Have I ever mentioned I deeply admired your absolute self-confidence?”

“No and do feel free to compliment me on occasion.”

Viv dragged Arthur and Sidjin back to a new room free of burn marks and recently deceased thugs, placed lethal runes on the window, blocked the door with a wardrobe, and then went to sleep. Arthur made herself a bedsheet lair while Viv snuggled with her boyfriend. They woke up the next day fresh and ready to face adversity. A buggy ride to the academy later, Viv had her test results.

“Sorry about leaving. Arthur was kidnapped!” she told Darla the admin with outrage.

Seriously, it had been less than two days. One star review for Helock so far.

“We are aware of this issue and we are looking into it,” Darla replied with a frown. “We take attacks on students extremely seriously. Rest assured that we will get to the bottom of this. In the meanwhile, congratulations on your acceptance. There is the matter of the tuition, which we expect payment for before you start. Oh, and I believe Professor Seranileso would like a word with you whenever convenient. He is the head of the medical faculty. I am so excited to welcome you here! You will have a great time in Helock, I am sure.”

Viv paid a little under ten gold talents for the year which was a complete steal considering the cost she expected. She swore the oath not to murder her fellow students in five minutes and set up an appointment with Professor Ashra the next day. The small woman who had examined her turned out to be the teacher in charge of black mana, which she should have expected.The only urgent matter left was to find a room.

“You are in luck. Most students have already picked their roommates, but we had an unexpected late return from one of our senior students. I’m sure you two will hit it off.”

“Hmmm a roommate?”

“Oh do not be alarmed, the rooms are spacious and, oh, I should have started with that. Dormitories are gendered, of course. You will not have to share your common space with a man, if that was what concerned you.”

“I guess that’s fine. Should we meet first?”

“Of course! Let me show you the way. You can get acquainted while we prepare the paperwork!”

Viv let the admin’s enthusiasm slide off her like water off a cliff. Viv didn’t like to share space. Though, she didn’t have to stay there all the time. And besides, she had missed the whole campus experience. Maybe it would be fine.

Darla led her to a side office where a younger woman waited, head buried among thick books. Viv took her appearance in and stumbled.

“Var…. Var… No.”

The same large brown eyes, the same pale skin, the same black locks falling like rivers to her shoulders. The same lithe arms, but no, it was not Varska. The face was smoother, rounder. The shoulders were a little wide. She was taller too, even when seated. They did share the same frown, however, which Viv got to appreciate when the young woman slammed her book close and inspected her.

“Who are you, and how do you know my sister?”
