The priest nodded. “Do not be in a hurry to return to your friend’s side. He has his road to tread as you have yours. The voice of this land is unique, and the Earth Sage believes you’re particularly suited to hear its teachings. Travel the valleys, climb the mountains, experience a world sourcing life from death and Dao from Void.”

“My other companion disappeared during the upheavals. I’m afraid she might—"

“Who knows, the answer you seek might be closer than you think,” the priest said, his gaze shifting to a nearby mountain.

Zac wasn’t given the chance to ask for clarification. The old templar crumbled into clumps of pitch-black soil filled with Imperial Faith. It fertilized the slopes of the mountain, drastically accelerating its green transformation.

“Travel the mountains and valleys?” Zac muttered, deliberating only a moment before deciding to follow the suggestion.

He’d been looking for a sign of which way to go. Wasn’t this it? Zac bowed toward the crumbled peak behind him before flying toward the next mountain over. The priest’s parting message was clearly not just a general statement. There should be something special about the mountain. There were no pulls of fate marking hidden treasures, which failed to quell Zac’s budding sense of adventure.

Zac stopped at the halfway point upon noticing something amiss, and the more he looked, the more his confusion grew. It was hard to tell for sure when the Heavens hadn’t spared a single inch of the Fuxi Mountain Range, but there were levels to the destruction. Rather than his own mountain peak, it seemed like the tribulation’s epicenter was this nondescript mountain.

Were the rumors actually true, that some elder had triggered a tribulation at the same time he broke through? Would he be disrupting that elder’s consolidation if he barged over? Zac ultimately decided to press on, and the lack of mountain barriers was a good sign. Zac flitted back and forth, looking for anything that stood out.

His recent breakthroughs didn’t prove useful this time. His core may have reached Peak D-grade, but he had no means to take advantage of it. He’d progressed too swiftly, and only half his skills had been upgraded to Late D-grade. While he’d already settled on blueprints for most of his skills that remained Middle D-grade, he hadn’t managed to figure out a single Peak D-grade skill.

The problem was not just the increased complexity, as it had been before. The next set of upgrades needed to set the stage for his ascent into Monarchy. There was a significant risk that his skills would lose their upgradable status and max out at Peak D-grade if he derived the blueprints as he was. He needed to better understand the mechanics of the Inner World and how they powered a skill.

His C-grade bloodline was no better at looking for clues. While [Earthly Dome] was able to reach far and wide, it didn’t actually extend Zac’s senses. Without his vision or the call of treasures to guide him, he would be opening vortexes blind. Sure, he could open a gate to the other side of the mountain and stick his head through, but it was conspicuous, and it didn’t save much time.

In the end, it was through Zac’s signature combination of hard work and dumb luck that he found what he was looking for. A few rocks began tumbling down the wall upon landing close to the peak. While following their descent, he noticed how one stone briefly disappeared. There was an illusion barrier, and since the stone passed through, there were no physical defenses.

Zac hid his presence as much as possible before inching over. After a few tests to confirm it was safe, he peeked through. There was a hidden ledge behind the barrier and a doorway that resembled the entrance of a conventional cultivation manor. Zac’s gaze only lingered on it for a moment before focusing on the man lying prostrate in the middle of the plateau.

It was only thanks to cultivating the Dao of Life and sensing a stubborn flame of life that Zac realized the dried-out mummy was actually alive. Not only that, but his hair and vestments sparked an old memory, and Zac compared the man’s gaunt features with those of his old foe. Sure enough, it was him.

The old priest had led him to the suspected imperial of the Pesvati Rift. He was one of the strongest opponents Zac had faced in the trial, to the point where he’d opted to escape into a storm rather than risk his life for no reason. Now, he was hanging on by a thread, with Zac becoming the arbiter of his fate.
