I followed a trail no doubt intentionally left behind by whoever passed there. It was too obvious.

After investigating the trace of Demonic Qi, I realised that it had been washed away by a far stronger power. Whatever survived was remnants.

As far as I knew, the only thing that could do that was lightning, so whoever it was that fought there must have had it. And of all the people I knew who would be in that location, the Shu siblings were the only ones who had such elements.

But who was it they fought against, and where were they? I was going to find out.

The trail led me toward a rather inconspicuous-looking building that didn’t really stand out from the others. I sent my Divine Sense toward it, but it was blocked. Frowning, I thought about the only person in the village who could do that.

Meng Mao.

I walked in without knocking, as the door was open, and paused.

Anger coursed through my veins, and fire crackled at my fingertips upon seeing Shu Wao Tu with most of his bones broken, and Shu Xu Ning in a similar, yet somehow worse situation. Both of them were unconscious, with their Qi completely drained and wounds all over their body.

Taking slow steps forward, I lit up the room and saw Meng Mao look over Shu Wao Tu, an unnatural expression on his face.

“What happened?”

“You want the long or short story?”

“All of it.”

He sighed, though not once did he avert his gaze from the boy. “That boy… Chiao Gu fought them. I don’t know if he’s dead or not. I didn’t see a corpse, but I cleaned the area the best way I could. There was quite a bit of destruction caused by the lightning.

“I was too focused on your fight to notice that someone snuck out, and when I sensed the aura of the Lightning Spirit, I was too late. I went to the area as fast as I could, but I only found him lying on the ground and the girl buried in what remained of the house.

“She was lucky; his last technique avoided her. And don’t worry, they're both alive. I treated them the best way I could, but I’m not a medic.”

Hearing his explanation, I knelt down and grabbed Shu Wao Tu’s hand. It was prickly, lightning still infused within his body. I sent a little Qi through his meridians to check his condition, and thankfully, he hadn’t been crippled… again.

“Thank you,” I said with genuine gratitude.

“Don’t mention it. Though I admit, they’ve both got talent. The girl has a lightning constitution, which is perfect for my technique.”

“And him?”

“He doesn’t, but he was born with something else. A Lightning Spirit Root. A top grade one as well.”

I frowned. “Doesn’t Shu Xu Ning have one too, then?”

“Not necessarily.” He shook his head. “Constitutions and Spirit Roots are separate. While, naturally, a Lightning Constitution and a Lightning Spirit Root appear together in the same body more often than not, there are times, such as now, when only one or the other exists.

“The Divine  Lightning Construction technique aims to imitate a constitution by making the body the perfect conduit for Lightning, but since the little girl already has such a gift, her natural talent would only help boost her ability to learn and advance.

“On the other hand, the brother has no constitution, but the Spirit Root that allows him to better harvest and control the Lightning Qi type. Since Spirit Roots are the base requirement to cultivate, everyone has them. The girl has a neutral one, which won’t impede her advancement too much.

“Anyway, due to his nature, he was able to better comprehend the technique and did something he shouldn’t have been able to do. He called upon what I like to call a Lightning Spirit, which is very rare.

“To put it short, a Lightning Spirit is a sort of sentient Lightning that only occurs naturally. Most would need to hunt for them in areas dense with the elemental affinity, but the boy’s natural affinity made it so the spirit came to him in a moment of despair.

“He must have called for help, and the spirit listened to his request. The price for having a spirit, though, is that it would reside within the dantian and consume part of the Lightning Qi produced. It’s a very powerful ally, as long as you can keep it satisfied.

“I don’t have a spirit, since I am too weak to hunt for them and not talented enough to call one.”

Listening, I nodded to his explanation. “So what’s going to happen to him?”

“He’s either going to recover or die.” Meng Mao spoke as if it didn’t concern him, and in all honesty, it didn’t. The fact that he’s already gone so far showed how much he needed or wanted me.

“What can I do to help?”

“You? Very little besides feeding them a healing pill. But I can help them in more ways than you can.”

“Explain.”

“It’s simple.” He swished his sleeve, and a token appeared in his hand. “This was gifted to me by an Inner Sect Elder, the Head Elder of the Lightning House Pavilion of the True Elemental Sect. I received it… many years ago, actually. It’s an invitation to join as an Outer Disciple, but I told him I had other plans.

“Ah, he also took an interest in me because of my talent, but I was young and had other things to do. He told me that if I wanted to, my descendants could join in my stead. I didn’t find anyone worthy of going yet, but considering their talent and their relationship to you, I can gift it to them.

“I will also send a message to the sect, informing them of this little change. It shouldn’t be an issue.”

I frowned at that. Their joining a sect made the most sense, but I didn’t like sects in the slightest. However, that was for them to decide. I couldn’t control them… I was never able to. “But what about their current condition?”

“I’ll watch over them until they wake up, explain the situation, then leave.”

“And what do you want in exchange?”

“Nothing.” He smiled, putting away the token. “Not right now anyway. You still have to pay the debt for killing my sons, then we can discuss this.”

In the end, I believed his solution to be the best option. “Alright, if they want to join a sec,t they are free to. In any case, I am grateful that you saved them, and I will not forget this.”

With that said, I turned and left the building. I was sure he had healing pills as well, and since the children were safe, I could only do one other thing. Figure out where Chiao Gu had fled to.

***

Unfortunately, even after searching the entire day, I couldn’t find even a hint of a corpse. It was as if he’d disappeared from the face of the world. It wasn’t something I could explain easily, and I found it hard to believe that Shu Wao Tu had enough power to pulverise the guy.

In the end, I could only give up and return to my cave. The day of the full moon was closing upon me.

And speak of the full moon.

“Where were you?” Yo Na asked, hiding in the shadows.

“On business. But don’t worry, I haven’t forgotten.”

“How’s my son?”

Hearing that question, I almost wanted to laugh. The greedy guy had absorbed so much from my breakthroughs, I was pretty sure he would be fine.

“Healthy. Have you figured out another way to store him?”

“No, why?” She walked out of the shadows, her scary demeanor not nearly as threatening as the first time I’d met her. Still, she was a high-level beast that could kill me with a slap, so there was some pressure.

“I don’t have half the ingredients needed for the elixir, and I will not be staying in the village for much longer.”

“Where will you go?” Her voice sounded worried.

“To Golden Arch City, I have business to take care of there.”

“Take me with you.”

When she said that, I had to take a good look at her and compare her size to mine. “You know that’s not possible. How are we supposed to sneak you in?”

“We?”

“Me and the guy I am cooperating with. I sort of owe him for killing his children. They were grown men, though, so calling them sons would be more accurate.”

“I… see?”

Yeah, it made sense that she didn’t understand the logic, but it was either I help him or run away from him. And it doesn’t matter since I was planning on going there anyway at some point.

“What about the humans?”

“I won’t see them again,” I said, sighing. “They’re going their own way, and I will not be part of it.”

“You’re weird.”

“I know, don’t mention it too much. Anyway, I need to prepare for the full moon. In the meantime, figure out a way to better store your child. I don’t feel safe walking with him around.”

“I will try, but I make no promises.”

Well, you'd better because he’s going to eat my soil as well! Speaking of… how do I purify it?

I still had the Poisonous Coarse Dirt from Teng Yu, but I wasn’t sure if it was any good. Maybe I could ask Xing Ya Chen, but I probably shouldn’t. The easiest and safest thing to do was to figure it out myself or ask someone later.

I didn’t want to be associated with the assassin organisation, as slim as the odds of that happening were.

That didn’t mean I couldn’t just ask about the dirt, though.

It did look to be rather low quality, so odds were I wasn’t going to use it. Once I had what I needed and broke into Foundation Establishment, it would be a glorious day.

Until then, the only thing I could do was eat, sleep, and train.

There was one thing that bothered me, though.

[Beast Core: Dormant Core V]

That thing, whatever it was, was still at the ‘Dormant Core’ stage, and I wanted to raise its rank or grade or whatever it was.

So… what is this?

[It’s the realm of your Beast Core. It’s similar to cultivation realms, and each subsequent realm will give you more stats and better benefits. The maximum rank you can attain, however correlated to your level and evolution path. The best way to raise the rank of your core is to kill beasts and absorb their energy.]

[When you absorb a core, you are absorbing that which the beast was.]

Well, the first part was really useful, and the second part was about as vague as I was expecting. I suppose not all questions could be easily answered. Either way, that was good information to know, and it only confirmed the one thing I had to do.

Hunt.

***

Xing Ya Chen stood behind the counter of his pavilion, waiting for another day to pass. During recent days, only one thing was on his mind: Fa Xiaolan. Ever since she appeared, he could not think about anything else.

From her beauty to her wealth to her power, everything about her attracted him. He wasn’t sure why or what happened, but now he knew that he’d been cursed.

Thankfully, the auction meant that his job was less busy than usual. Regretfully, that also means that he wasn’t busy at all.

Instead of just sitting around, though, he decided to make himself helpful by sorting and stocking the shelves, taking inventory, and doing other things that the pavilion needed done. All so he could think about anything else.

That didn’t work, though, but at least his store was now more organised than when he first arrived.

Doing all of that also meant that he wasn’t aware of the partial destruction of the Chiao Clan and the complete destruction of the small house the Shu siblings used to live in. One could say he was oblivious.

That also meant he was surprised when he saw the branch manager, Fu Qiang, rush toward him with a tired expression. Summoned to his office, he sat down and looked at the man, who sighed and took a seat of his own.

“Manager, what is it?”

“It’s that woman, Fa Xiaolan…”

“What? Did she buy too much on credit?”

“Pah!” He scoffed and shook his head. “No, that’s not it. There’s just something strange about her.”

“Strange? How so?” Xing Ya Chen asked, genuinely curious. He hadn’t found her that strange, though her relationship with the Shu siblings was out of the ordinary at the very least.

“Have you not noticed, or are you blind?” Fu Qiang asked, his words sounding violent but his tone far from so. “She shows up, and suddenly the conflict between the Chiao clan and what’s left of the Shu clan escalates.

“What do you think happened a few hours ago?”

“I’m not sure. I wasn’t paying attention to the outside. She did come to ask me about the siblings, but-”

“The entire Chiao clan is up in flames!” Fu Qiang interrupted Xing Ya Chen, his voice booming. “I am not sure what the extent of the damage is, but their downfall will cost us…”
