Four people in the coach. A fastidious, short woman who was writing in a notepad, ink on her fingers; a rather uncomfortable nobleman, who eyed Damia then instantly tried to cover his face and pretend he didn’t know her; and two [Gang Leaders], who were regulars. Male and female.
“Oi, first time in the Unmarked Coach? How the hell are people getting invites? I had to kill for this.”
Damia didn’t interact with commonfolk much, but one glance at the scarred hand that extended and she shook it gingerly.
“We are new, yes.”
She knew better than to give names, and in that sense, she was a smarter passenger than a certain Wind Runner and Vampire had been back in the day. The [Gang Leader] eyed Damia.
“Well, let me catch you up on the rules.”
“I know the rules, thank you.”
“Sure, sure, but our [Driver]’s mad right now. Never seen her break a passenger’s bones—she’s been racing across Izril.”
“Trying to keep up with everyone who needs to go places. She was out for a month. Ne’er heard of that. I missed a lot of damn meetings because of that.”
The other [Gang Leader] grumbled. That got a nod from the secretary-like woman who said nothing; the nobleman kept trying to hide his face.
An amused look from the female [Gang Leader]; she jerked a thumb at her chest.
“We’re regulars. Big names up north. Not that I bet a noblewoman like you’d know.”
Damia’s heart beat a bit too fast.
“Why would you assume I’m noble?”
Even Binevy tried not to smile as half the coach laughed, including Karsaeu. The female [Gang Leader] twiddled her fingers.
“Everything? Don’t worry, we don’t really care if some new noble’s got ties to the underworld. We just remember. Like sir over yonder; might be good work, so we’re all respectful like.”
She winked at the [Lord], who flinched, and Damia eyed him and sighed.
“I should have brought a mask.”
“Yup! Most of us don’t care, but we’re commonfolk. We’ve had all sorts in here. [Assassins]—haven’t seen much of them anymore. Shame, they were all decent. We even had the Wind Runner herself in here when she went to wake Archmage Valeterisa.”
“Really?”
Damia knew all the big events in Izril, of course, and the [Gang Leader] proudly told the story of how she’d been in this very coach when Ryoka had been riding north. Damia was fascinated.
This was what she wanted! The Unmarked Coach reeked of power, most of it unspoken. Like the free, magical food, the way the passengers were all clearly important. None of it needed to be shown off. That was real authority.
The [Lord] got off on the first stop, which wasn’t his destination, but Damia clearly made him uncomfortable. She leaned over to Binevy.
“Who was that?”
“I don’t know, milady. Not a nobleman I’m familiar with.”
“Me neither. But you saw his coat? The fool was wearing the sigil of House Everight. That’s not possible; it’s dead. Lord Toldos was the last heir.”
Binevy had to fuss with a folder.
“I have a [Message] scroll. I can contact our people, I mean, your people in the mansion, milady. And inquire—”
The two listening [Gang Leaders] and the unknown woman were eavesdropping on Damia’s conversation as they lounged, and the fussy, note-taking short woman glanced up.
“House Everight has a new [Lord]. If that was him, that was Lord Gliven, who was confirmed to be a long-lost member of the bloodline by House Reinhart, among other families.”
Damia’s head swung around. She frowned.
“Impossible.”
“That’s how it is, Miss.”
The note-woman shot back, and Damia hesitated. Brain-engaged. She spoke slowly.
“If that is the new [Lord], it’s the new [Lord]. But he’s no distant relative. Lord Toldos Everight searched for years for family members. I find it incredible that one would pop up after his very public search. He had even tried to induct someone into his family to continue his bloodline as he did not wish to sire another heir.”
That was just the kind of thing a noblewoman knew; the gossip of the houses. Even the note-taker’s brows rose, and Damia went on, thinking out loud.
“Given his presence in the Unmarked Coach, Lord Gliven seems to have a few interesting contacts for such a new member of the nobility. If not much sense.”
He hadn’t seemed that refined to her. He might have recognized her, but she hadn’t reacted to being embarrassed or out-of-place. Good nobility meant you were poised even when embarrassed; it was like how Damia could go silent and blank-faced without flushing or shifting around. So, new to nobility.
“Sounds like someone’s made a mistake. Or arranged for a fellow to get a noble class. You’re not half-bad, Miss.”
The male [Gang Leader] said, voice amused. Damia nodded at him.
“I’m new, but I intend to establish myself quickly. I’m bound for Invrisil. You?”
“Same. We’re moving into a more profitable area. With a lot of…friends.”
A feral grin from the female [Gang Leader]. Damia nodded.
Ah, so they were moving to the City of Adventures as well. With their gangs. She held out a hand again.
“Perhaps we might do business. I have interests in Invrisil and all the connections.”
A chuckle as the callused hands shook hers again. The female [Gang Leader] had bad teeth and a lot of knife-scars. Some of which seemed fresh.
“Never hurts to know people. But frankly, Miss, I doubt you could afford us. Then again, if you can get in here, that’s something.”
Damn, how did one acquire enough money to buy a gang out? Damia sighed internally. She needed something of great value in Liscor or the other cities, and she had hopes…!
“Anything of value in the area I should know of that you’d care to share?”
The two [Gang Leaders] hesitated, but it seemed Damia had earned some credit with the conversation about Lord Gliven, so the male one shrugged. He carried a weird little pointed spear at his side, but with a wide handle. Like a dagger-spear?
No, it might extend outwards. What an interesting weapon. A compact spear. He counted on his fingers.
“What’s not valuable? There’s a good trade in scrolls…or there was. Damn shame we missed it, but maybe it’s there. Have to muscle out the damn hatmen for that, and that’s no fun. But food’s aplenty from the Unseen Empire, even if I hear it’s dicey working there too. Mostly? It’s about transport.”
“With the portal doors.”
Nods.
“You take cargo from one city that has something to another where it’s rare. Say…something nice to sniff, and that saves a lot of travel and hassle. They don’t check at most of the door exits that well save for Pallass. Though you have to have the right signs or I hear the operator of the door gets you.”
“Signs?”
Binevy was taking as many notes as the stranger across from her, and the [Gang Leader] shrugged.
“Sure. Everyone knows you need an Ullsinoi sign; give you that for free. That’s the only one they accept, apparently. Anything else and you might get caught unless you’re high level. It’s pretty reasonable to pay for a few signs that last a month. Bet it’s worth a lot to the [Illusionists], though.”
So The Wandering Inn had a deal with the Ullsinoi of Wistram. If transport’s the real value, perhaps I could take something valuable in the north down south? 
She’d work on it. Damia went back to asking more questions, which seemed to amuse the other riders, and she was working on being…sociable. Someone they wanted to know.
The rest of the time, Damia stared out the window.
Dead gods, they moved fast. She was so taken with this transport that even when they reached Invrisil, she and the other passengers elected to keep in the Unmarked Coach.
“We’re actually hoping to scope out Celum, and I hear there’s a damn Golem at the checkpoint. You heading south, driver?”
The [Gang Leader] rapped on the sliding panel, and Karsaeu barked back.
“All the way to Zeres and back. Won’t take longer than half a day.”
Dead gods, she was blazing down the roads. To Damia’s surprise, the initial group of three had stayed in the coach the entire time.
The note-taker, the two [Gang Leaders], and Damia all eyed each other.
“What, all of us have business in Celum?”
“It’s as good a place as any for me to start. You?”
“I have an investment to check on in the east. I’d prefer not to answer any more questions.”
The note-taker replied calmly. The [Gang Leader] put up her hands.
“Fine, fine. But like I said, Miss Lady, you can’t afford us.”
“But if I did have an offer, how much?”
“Depends on the job—look, look, you need a rep, and no offense, but you’re definitely no Face of the streets. You do something big, smart, and we’ll all listen, but until then…”
Damia sighed as she glanced out the window. Karsaeu was throwing caution to the wind with the Unmarked Coach’s usual secrecy. She was racing down the side of the main road, over the grass because the people on the road would get in the way. Faces turned, and Damia smirked as she saw the disbelieving expressions.
Karsaeu passed an Overnight Coach carrying Desinee El into Invrisil, and Damia blew a kiss at the noblewoman travelling in far less style. She blasted past a Courier who slowed; Salamani and Ci eyed the mad Djinni riding like the wind. Karsaeu flipped off Termin and Rhaldon, who waved at her.
Some idiot was riding a Wistram Carriage and tried to race Karsaeu. It went neck-and-neck with her for sixty miles, then ran out of magical power and left the excited young nobles who’d chartered it in the middle of the road, utterly stranded.
Karsaeu passed by a herd of Corusdeer, a traffic jam on the road, a stop where [Vampire Hunters] were trying to test people, a running half-Elf—
…No, wait. The running half-Elf glanced over his shoulder, saw her gaining on him, and began running faster. The angry Djinni, still shaking from her encounter with the Immortal Tyrant herself, didn’t realize she wasn’t passing him at first until she saw him running ahead of her.
Then she accelerated, pouring more magic into the carriage she had created, faking her horses picking up more speed. The air was tearing around her, leaving a slipstream in its wake. And the half-Elf…
Jogged faster. He didn’t even seem like he was running fast. Just jogging along, blonde hair blowing behind his head, wearing some kind of Drathian robes, bare-chested, spinning on one sandal, blowing her a kiss—
Then a vein stood out on Karsaeu’s forehead. She accelerated to her max speed, hit a flying dove who never saw the coach barreling towards it, and exploded the dove like a thunderclap. And the half-Elf…
Kept ahead of her. Now he was pumping his arms and legs, appearing highly amused. He locked eyes with her, and then—then the Djinni faltered.
Because he was smiling. And the being she had taken for a Courier was bounding along, each step tearing up the ground, carrying him hundreds of feet—
Even Named-ranks in her day hadn’t been that strong. She slowed suddenly, and the Djinni could not sweat, but her magical essence could change; it writhed as she emitted waste magic and the horses steamed with the same.
Almost…disappointed, the half-Elf slowed to jog just ahead of her. Just ahead, and they were staring at each other now.
“Want a rematch? This time, I’ll chase.”
He mouthed at her. She stared straight ahead. Turning her carriage down a side-road. And now he was following after her, grinning. Just grinning.
You think you’re the scariest monster on this road? She began sending [Message] spells to her master. He didn’t respond at first; the idiot thought she was invincible, but there was always a bigger monster on the roads. Always…
The Unmarked Coach and half-Elf were still moving at ludicrous speed. But they turned into a town south of Invrisil with nothing apparently interesting about it save for a gathering of young people in a nearby forest.
The passengers were not aware they were in danger…no, the woman taking notes had glanced up and was feeling at the goosebumps on the back of her neck. But Lady Damia just wondered who that fast half-Elf following them was as she peered out the window. And stopped.
Karsaeu, who’d just received an order to bail out even if it meant leaving her passengers behind, Tolveilouka Ve’delina Merr, and Lady Damia Reinhart—as well as a member of the Haple of the Sisters of Chell and two [Gang Leaders] who were Faces in the underworld—passed by a gathering in the trees.
Mostly Human, though of note, there were actually Gnolls and Drakes in the crowd. Very odd. Very strange. Something only popular in this day and age.
Some had on only black and had white facepaint. [Goths]. Others were older-fashioned. Literal [Anarchists], members of a Gang, or just…the classes that found each other.
Not just your average [Rebel] or dissident, but new classes. There were a gaggle of Humans who’d ridden up on bicycles, [Skateboarders], and—Karsaeu broke off plotting her escape—sounds in the air.
Screeching. The hammering of drums. Even the sounds of string instruments and someone trying to copy the wail of an electric guitar. There was even, she realized, a Gnoll shouting.
“Hey! Hey, get in line! Get in the damn line or it’s not going to look good! This is, uh, Izril’s first Battle of the Bands! You hear that? That’s us! Let me hear it!”
The first underground concert in Izril was underway, and it was chaotic and messy; no food vendors, no real organization. The member of Haple, the secret leadership of the Sisters of Chell, took one look out the window and sighed.
Someone had thrown this together by putting the word out and not expected the numbers or figured out how to organize things. Bands were setting up and arguing with each other. By the looks of it, there’d been at least one fight already, but probably no blood. It was youth and ego, and it was so funny that Tolveilouka stopped following the Djinni to stare.
“Kraken’s tits. Well, someone has style in this era at least!”
He beamed and popped over in an instant to a group of Gnolls with dyed fur squaring off with some local Humans. He didn’t take his eyes off Karsaeu, of course. When she tried to circle the gathering, he kicked a stone so fast and hard that no one saw it.
Ordinary stones didn’t really damage Djinni unless they made themselves physical, like the carriage. Even then, it only blew out one of the Unmarked Carriage’s wheels, but she stopped. Tolveilouka heard people arguing, then the first band got on stage.
They were copying a certain Battle of the Bands that had captured attention a little bit ago. But unlike the Fraerlings, this lot had less practice. A lot of heart, though. Cheering and booing started as someone with a four-string guitar tried to copy the Singer of Terandria’s music.
The music was, uh…okay?
