“Desinee, good. We owe some of that success to you too. You being in Liscor and managing to get images and some of the parts of Solar Cycles’ work let us make our versions—even if they maintain a monopoly on premium bicycles.”
He grimaced at that, and so did she; the House of El hated being second best. They were the counterpart to Pallass; the creators of the north. He went on as she nodded.
“Not least, you’ve been there when Miss Griffin was moving around. Another asset. How is your project, incidentally?”
House of El nobles worked. Maviola had insisted on it; if you didn’t work, you didn’t get your allowance. If Terlands had their silly Golems they loved to collect and hoard and fight over who got to use, then the House of El oversaw projects, not land.
They had the smallest holdings of any of the Five Families except for the Wellfars, who lived at sea, because they devoted their time to workshops instead. Each family had a ‘project’. Some played it safe and made old standbys, like the automatically-reloading crossbows, and earned mostly safe incomes that way.
Desinee, as a married [Lady] with a young son to raise, had more free time for a bit of the experimental stuff; her husband, Irve, was always just making custom crossbows, the high-end ones that cost tens of thousands of gold pieces to buy.
“Decently, Deilan. We’ve put together a bicycle that lets you attach a little carriage for children. Er, but it’s not that safe; it needs far too much cushioning if you wipe out. And we managed to make a chain-version of the magical lifts that Wistram has.”
“Oh, a mechanical elevator? Like Pallass?”
“Yes…it’s rather heavy and makes a loud sound.”
Using the bicycle chains but adapted for more intricate gear systems just couldn’t beat magic. Deilan sighed.
“Understandable, but we may have some buyers. If we can pass it as ‘Earth tech’, someone will purchase it. I’m half minded to send you to the Great Plains to see if you can get a piano copy…”
“Deilan, I have Qibby!”
She protested; her boy wasn’t barely two! Deilan coughed and shuffled his papers.
“Right, of course. Doing well, is he?”
“Yes…”
He’d forgotten about Qibby. Desinee saw Deilan adjust his spectacles.
“Perhaps the air is good for the lad? No, no, a nursemaid could take care of him. It’s just that, well, you may need to go on a trip, Desinee. At least until the [Thought Healer] manages to work on those night terrors! We’ve had two [Master Crafters] complain they slipped while working on enchanting runes, and you know that’s gold when they do.”
Desinee turned bright red.
“I—it’s not that bad, surely.”
“It was the Master Rune of Animus.”
She swallowed. That was a thousand-gold piece rune. Desinee began to explain herself as Deilan glanced over his spectacles at her.
“I am trying, Deilan, truly! It’s just that it’s not as simple as soundproofing my rooms—they are soundproofed, and my chambers as well!”
It was just that she came running out of her chambers, screaming because she saw the Draugr charging at her. Sleepwalking ran in the El family, and Desinee…
Desinee had been at the Winter Solstice. She hadn’t done much, just activated some Skills and—and seen it.
The terror of that lady with three faces. The way the Five Families and Drakes had fought off such overwhelming odds. The Hag Queens—
The [Innkeeper].
Deilan cleared his throat.
“I know you’ve done a lot in the name of the House of El, Desinee. Maviola would be proud. But this is a matter of, well, work.”
“I—I understand.”
“Perhaps if you went on a vacation?”
Desinee hesitated.
“Qibby’s, ah—Qibby’s sleeping in a separate room at the moment. I wake him if we’re together.”
She hated to admit it, but both the boy and her husband had been avoiding her at night. Deilan was sympathetic and cleared his throat.
“Perhaps a solo vacation, then? To First Landing or…? You know, we could use someone to sell our designs. Maybe do a tour, hit Liscor again, and see if they have anything new. I hear Solar Cycles is back with a will. Drat them.”
He smiled, then gazed down at his hands. Desinee knew that the inventor, Kevin, was dead, and so their greatest foe was gone. But she couldn’t celebrate it.
“Maybe.”
“You’re quite good in the field, Desinee. Perhaps you should consider doing sales. Why, you’ve survived two major battles. The Village of the Dead and Liscor. Some are saying you’re a miniature Maviola!”
The field was what they called anything but their headquarters. She rolled her eyes at him.
“Maviola never had children, and I hate sales, Deilan. I’ll…consider a vacation.”
He smiled at her, then his eyes slid sideways.
“Wonderful. And we have a full catalog of items to show prospective buyers. And a bag of holding of samples—”
Zelonica was back. With a bag of holding and a bright catalogue in hand. Then Desinee realized that Deilan’s suggestion was actually more of what was going to happen starting now. She leapt up.
“Deilan! I have a child!”
He pretended to be working, and when Desinee dashed back to hear her husband and baby boy cry and wail for their beloved mother and wife, she found the boy solemnly watching his father carving a rune into a piece of scrapwood. It made the little piece of wood glow, and Qibby giggled, then glanced up. Irve coughed.
“Well, it’s terrible, Desinee, but maybe the fresh air will do you some good?”
Qibby, as a boy of two now, which meant he was a bit older than an Earther—apparently—nodded. She gazed at them in horror, and Irve, in his hapless way, realized he’d insulted her.
“I just meant that we have many prospective buyers coming, and you do alarm people, Desinee. It’s just a short break, and it is business. We’ve never done so well. Deilan’s even talking about re-enchanting the roof, and that would be splendid!”
Desinee gasped, then burst into tears.
“You don’t know what I’ve seen! None of you—h-how dare you all pretend I’m insane when—when—”
She stared around. And her lips moved as Qibby fled and Irve shuffled back, searching for Deilan. But Desinee just stood there.
“It feels like a great battle. I know it was. But the rest of the world didn’t see it. Pretends it never happened, like the Goblin King. Both did occur, I know it. We have fought and bled, and some of us died for the north. No, for Izril, for the world. Why is it all so peaceful?”
She gazed at her son and husband, and they stared back, and she realized she was the one out of place, not them. Marked by a war no one really believed had been that bad.
Change and change again. Desinee gazed at a little image of Maviola on her mantle. And she wondered what she would be in this new era.
 
——
 
At some point, you had to assume great events in the world were all connected. There was, apparently, a literal string of fate that you could see and alter.
He’d heard that from a [Witch], once. A dreadful [Witch] who’d dug her way down to the heart of the world and trapped an Old One in a pit of magic to summon until the end of time.
He should know. He’d done the digging. And she hadn’t helped a damn bit.
There was a synectic view of the world by which one could predict the future. Again—whatever in the name of Giants’ dangling testicles that meant.
No one used the expression ‘Giants’ dangling testicles’ anymore. That hurt him more than most changes about the world. Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer supposed that was because no one had seen one in ages. But he felt like that kind of thing should have been etched into the memories of mortals forever.
It was probably the third most upsetting thing to happen to him recently.
Number one, the death of his Master, the Putrid One. The final end to the most glorious being to ever grace this world, slain by the unworthy, mewling shits of a [Paladin] and her team he had ground into paste a fraction of a moment too late.
Two, the realization that another world had existed where his Master had lived and some alternate copy of him had pledged a kind of crazed loyalty to Erin Solstice, who’d become a living goddess, and that he was sharing those memories and charge to help that most wretched of beings in this or any world.
Three, the lack of the expression about Giants’ hanging testicles.
Four and onwards were probably being bested by a [Princess] in a game of gambling and being suckered into a Skill-based pact and being repeatedly stabbed by that damned Unicorn, but really, the top three were the worst.
Tolveilouka stood on the top of a local cliff, plucking feathers off a bird. A living bird. It shrieked and writhed, and he patted it on the head.
“Shh. Shh. I’m sharing my emotions, wing-friend. Like my kind does. This is how I feel.”
He plucked another feather out, and the blue bird screamed. Which made Tolveilouka feel better. He sat as some [Lady] left what he was told was ‘The House of El’.
Replacements for the Drakes and Gnolls. Tolveilouka sighed.
“Pathetic. Really.”
The trembling bird didn’t get it, but he did. He spoke conversationally.
“I could hop down there and wipe the entire place out in…eight minutes. Even if I didn’t get them all, the rest would die of plague thereafter. I was saving them, working up to it. First villages, seeding the area, then—topple a few of the institutions. Place a few Drake scales down, watch them fight. Now look at me.”
He plucked another feather and listened to the bird.
“It’s all her fault. The [Innkeeper]. She gave me a charge. Somehow, she knew that copy of me might make it here. So—and this is hilarious—”
His fist clenched just tight enough to make the bird scream, but not kill it; he needed an audience. The half-Elf’s face warped as he lifted the bird up, blood vessels bulging like his flesh which began to rot—
“Now I have to be helpful. Because that was the last thing my Master ordered, and she thinks I’m going to do it, despite it being another world, another time that never was! That pathetic little shit of a goddess…”
The bird didn’t reply. After a moment, Tolveilouka released his grip, and it panted, making a sound, begging for life. Tolveilouka sat there.
“…Ridiculous, really. It’s not my Master. Even though it was. Even if—no. It’s not like I have anything better to do, and I know who killed them. Those…dead gods. So they die. And that aligns with her request. Tactics. You fight a war with any allies you have. I even teamed up with that Silver Dragon once. It’s just—”
He was putting his hands out, gesticulating, making boxes. This was that, and that was this—he let go of the bird. It tried to flutter away, but it had lost a lot of feathers, and he caught it. Brought it to eye-level and smiled as it shook.
“—do you really think it changes who I am? For instance, do you think you are going to enjoy the next few days, little bird? Divine goddess of goodness and hugs giving me a mandate or not?”
It didn’t reply. But the angry raven who exploded up and pecked out one of Tolveilouka’s eyes did squawk. He fell backwards, cursing.
“What the—”
Wham. He went tumbling down the cliff he’d been dangling over, hitting every rock on the way down. He broke his neck twice, landed in a way that ruptured his spinal column, and above him, the raven grabbed the little bird and flew off. Tolveilouka sat up, slowly, as his body re-knit.
It wasn’t the pain that made him leap up so fast he sent shockwaves through the forest. It was the indignation.
“How dare you—”
He landed on the cliff, flesh bulging outwards, ready to rupture and obliterate anything moving with plague—
Nothing. No bird. No animals. Nothing for miles around him. Tolveilouka swivelled about and realized the forest had gone dead. The raven was gone with the bird it had rescued. He sat back down. Regrew his eye.
“Damn [Druids].”
No regular bird could peck out his eye that fast. Either that or a [Witch]’s familiar. If he saw it again, he’d…
Reflexively, Tolveilouka cast around. He spun, checked his back, then peered down the rocky cliff. He swivelled around, walked over, checked behind an aspen tree. Looked behind him again.
“No Unicorn. Where the hell is he?”
A bit unsettled, Tolveilouka went back to his seat. By now, that damn Unicorn would have snuck up and stabbed him. This entire area was his ‘territory’; the headquarters of El bordered the Vale Forest.
He really was gone. To those New Lands or further? Tolveilouka scratched at his flowing hair. Brushed it out.
“Well, that fool’s left Izril to me. I’ll cut a swath across his precious home! Even if that Dragon—wait, damn, he’s there again. But he dares not strike me in my Master’s abode! I’ll—”
He raised a hand, grinning, then stared at it. Lay down on the rocks.
“Damn that woman.”
He supposed he really had to do it, didn’t he? Be helpful. Tolveilouka’s cheeks bulged. He puked maggot-infested rot over the cliff. Then, gloomily, had to clean it up before it created an infestation.
 
——
 
Here was the thing. Tolveilouka didn’t have to do anything. If Erin Solstice in her alternate Goddess form came before him, all things else being equal, and pleaded with him to help her, he’d have happily ripped her face off and tried to plague even the divine.
…But his Master, the Putrid One, the great Zacheales, the ultimate [Necromancer] who would never be surpassed, Tolveilouka’s creator who had taken a pitiful half-Elf and made him into the ultimate servant, his love and adoration—
He had liked Erin. Which was fine! His Master could have bad taste. Tolveilouka had disposed of irritants not deserving of the Putrid One’s affection over his long life. Other servants competing for the throne of his master’s love.
Just…if that was all, he’d have let Erin live. The complication was that she and the Putrid One were on the same side. That was, against the dead gods. And they…they had killed the Putrid One.
Taken his ghost and thus erased any hope of his return. This was true; Tolveilouka had heard it from Erin and confirmed it via the memories of alternate-Tolveilouka. Thusly, he had six beings—or was it less?—that had to die.
No matter what, he would kill them in ways so horrific he had yet to imagine them. And that was the problem, you see?
Tolveilouka was not sure he could kill them. Kasigna had been…dangerous. She’d tried to control him and come closer than any other being he’d ever met. Her power was almost that of the Putrid One.
If he’d wanted to, and specialized in mere Draugr, his master could have summoned a hundred thousand in one action. With preparation. Definitely.
