Izril was changing. Everyone always claimed that, just like how they claimed the ‘old days’ were better, where everything was cheaper and simpler—probably because they’d been younger back then.
Whoever they were. But it was also true that Izril was changing. In ways so fast and strange it hurt to see happen. Normalcy was dying, change stood over its grave, and surely it was allowed to mourn that.
Normalcy could be nice. So long as normal was acceptable. But sometimes you had to look back and…see it again.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss glanced back over his shoulder on the way to Dig Site A. The Wall Lord was sitting on horseback, a prime stallion from the City of Gems raised on the best magical grasses and trained for combat. The horse had sleek muscles under a glossy brown fur coat, and a saddle with gemstones embedded in the leather because Drakes had no taste.
He wore a modern suit that was decorated with, yes, more gemstones and in brown today, which was slightly hot in the warm spring air. Summer, soon. He had a bit of perspiration on his purple scales already, but it was nothing compared to the long line of hundreds of [Miners], [Diggers], [Safety Inspectors], [Haulers], [Forepeople], [Soldiers], and various officials trudging to the dig site.
As they hauled tools with them, pushing wheelbarrows across the unpaved dirt roads, Ilvriss tried not to think of this place as a backwater. The north had civilization.
Just not paved roads, apparently. At least, not in the eastern plains where he had come to dig up the City of Purity, Naamreles, as one did. All he saw was the damn grass. All he smelled was, well, manure.
This was [Rancher] territory. He could see vast herds of cattle grazing; even his own herd he’d bought for the meat and milk grazing to the side with bored Drakes on horseback corralling the cows. Plentiful and, he supposed, economic enough, but not enough to attract any noble houses.
Then again, it was far south enough that the Five Families had never come here, and what nobility there had been present had died during the Second Antinium War. So, local [Cattle Barons] ruled the area, and the result was that the roads were unpaved.
Dirt. It had rained yesterday, and most spots had dried up, but there was, apparently, a mudpatch. Or so Ilvriss assumed. He didn’t see one, but—he craned his neck.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss to Dig Site Team A. Who’s in charge this morning?”
“Wall Lord, sir! That would be me, Lord Dramm, sir!”
“Ah, good. Dramm.”
Ilvriss hid a grimace as he glanced around. Dramm. Wall Lord Brilm’s boy. Twenty-something, gone through officer training but never made full army status, decent head on his shoulders—or so Brilm claimed when he’d asked Ilvriss to employ him—but young. Prone to accidents.
Once took his father’s personal carriage for a spin and jackknifed it over one of the higher floors. Nearly killed an entire family. But that was when he was sixteen.
Definitely better these days. Probably. Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“Is…there some kind of accident or mudpatch I missed on the road?”
“Er…I do recall a mudpatch on the road, sir.”
Ilvriss stared at the hundred workers trudging past him, all of whom had mud on their boots and leggings. Some had mud up as high as their chests. None of them appeared happy about it. He checked his horse. No mud.
The Wall Lord scratched his head. Then he went riding backwards. The road was almost perfectly dry in most places, just a few potholes of mud here and there. Crumbling away; he sighed.
If someone would just put down some good stone and upkeep it, it’d probably save so many broken wagon wheels or people getting stuck. But that takes money, time, and organization, and Humans…
All respect to Humans, really. One of his best friends was a Human. But they tended to be a bit lazy when it came to organization. If they could put it off, they did.
Ilvriss knew that was a bit arrogant of him to think. He did, but he was still Ilvriss of Salazsar, a Wall Lord of the City of Gems. He had changed greatly, and so sometimes he had to pull thoughts out of his head and examine them.
But he had been in the north for months now. He’d observed the laxity of the City Watches, the more…what was the word? Carefree attitude towards governance and rules that Humans seemed to employ? Drakes, now, Drakes—and Gnolls of Salazsar, they had organization. Hierarchies.
Dead gods, no one had even heard of a [Safety Inspector] when he’d been hiring Humans for this project! That was appalling. No question about it. Ilvriss shook his head and finally found the mudspot in the road.
He stopped…and his notions of Drake superiority ran up against the hole.
The mudhole was a sloping area of the road that had clearly eroded and become a natural egress for water. It sloped downwards and ran for about twelve feet, a divot where water collected and had stayed overnight. It was, indeed, muddy.
It was also a mystery, because the mudhole did not extend across the fairly generous road. It occupied a third of it, just enough space for two or three people to walk abreast and splash in the mud.
Or, and here was a novel thought, take a few steps to the side and walk around the hole. Mysteriously…the dozens of Drakes and Gnolls were walking straight through the mudpatch. Ilvriss saw a group of female [Miners] splash into the pit, grousing as it hit one of them in the neck spines.
“Gaah! Ancestors! What a way to start the day!”
Okay, so this wasn’t a magical mudhole that was invisible to the eyes. Ilvriss leaned on the pommel of his saddle. They could see the mudhole and walked straight into it.
“…What in the name of quartz is going on here?”
Some of the Drakes around Ilvriss shrugged. He was always accompanied by people. Ilvriss barely paid attention. The Rubirel Guard, his personal bodyguard; his advisors; and often, Osthia Blackwing, known as Asrira Shieldscale as she was supposed to be dead; Nerul, his [Diplomat] uncle; or Xesci, the [Courtesan of Change].
There were even Humans; a bunch of bored-looking women known as the Sisters of Chell, a gang who was running security for his group against the many, many Humans who didn’t want Drakes in their lands.
So many people for this organization.
Welsca, one of Ilvriss’ advisors, was a member of his old advising group, and all these new people and projects seemed to unsettle her. The Drake groused.
“Is there a problem, Wall Lord? It’s just a bit of mud. The work teams will be far dirtier before the day’s over, and we have cleaning areas on site.”
“Well, yes. But it can’t be pleasant. Why are they walking through that mudpatch?”
Ilvriss just didn’t get it. Before his eyes, he saw a young Drake with a pickaxe on his shoulder hesitate as he walked and saw the mud, ready to get all over his overalls and britches.
Aha, someone with eyes! The Drake glanced at the line of people marching into the mudhole ahead of him and stepped right. He began to skirt the mudhole, and—
A few of his senior [Miners] ahead of him, with mud on their overalls, turned, saw him evading their fate, and shouted.
“Hey, idiot, back in line!”
“Wha—”
The young Drake jumped. He hesitated and gestured at the hole.
“But the mud—”
“Back in line!”
More people ahead of him turned, saw what he was trying to do, and bawled back at him. A few more of the marching Drakes halted, eying the young Drake trying to evade his muddy fate. One or two more stepped out of line and received death-glares. The young Drake, with bright black scales, hesitated until an older Drake gnawing on the stub of a cigar bumped him hard.
“Just walk into the damn pit, kid.”
He growled. He was thick, had a pickaxe slung over his shoulder, a shovel as well, and stomped straight into the mud and out the other side. He had off-green scales like olives, and the young Drake hesitated, then began walking around the mudpit.
The jeering grew louder, but more followed the young man’s daring example. He was almost past this mudpit, clothing saved, when there was the sound of hooves. Then—the young Drake peered up, and someone booted him in the chest.
Wall Lord Dramm kicked the young Drake into the mudhole, flat on his back, to cheers and shouting as he rode past.
“No stepping out of line, idiots!”
He was grinning as more jeering arose, and he whirled his horse, hesitating when he saw Wall Lord Ilvriss and his company staring at him. Dramm and his own escort were younger Drakes, and—Ilvriss just had to note—
He had mud all over his pants and boots. Almost like he’d walked into a mud pit. The rest of the Drakes gloomily trooped into the mudhole as Dramm threw a salute.
“Er, just keeping things orderly, Wall Lord Ilvriss, sir! Damn mud.”
A pair of Humans were walking down the road, possibly to work as hands on one of the ranches. They stared at the line of Drakes trooping through the mud with their impeccably clean clothing. Then at the Wall Lord, who had his head in his hands.
 
——
 
Drakes were a funny people.
They were. You had to laugh at yourself, especially if everyone else was laughing at you. The only other thing you could do was lash out or pretend they were idiots for laughing, and in Xesci’s experience…that just made you appear stupid. It didn’t make you a friend to other species, and that was one thing she was good at.
Being friendly with other species. Which, she supposed, was her use to Wall Lord Ilvriss. It certainly wasn’t in organization, fighting, or anything else. However, she’d been across Izril before. She’d slept with more famous people than he’d met, probably, and she knew the underworld.
It was a surprise that Ilvriss relied on her. From what she’d known of him, a few years ago he’d have never associated with her, let alone taken notes. But here she was, riding down to Dig Site A to act as a consultant.
Because…he couldn’t rely on his current advisors or staff. Something that [Adjutant] Welsca clearly had picked up on, because she was glaring daggers at Xesci. But she was also trying to smile.
It was a bad act, let alone for someone who read people like Xesci could. She felt Welsca’s resentment, her anxiety at being replaced, jealousy—because she assumed Xesci was sleeping her way to the top. Which, very funnily, hadn’t happened at all. Xesci hadn’t actually done what was in the nature of her class for months now.
“So, Miss…Xesci. Such a lovely name. Is that your working name? Wall Lord Ilvriss is a bit disturbed about some of our organizational practices and, of course, progress on the dig sites. I’m sure he’s just calling you in for a second opinion.”
Xesci translated this corporate-speak into plain common. She wasn’t good at how business-people talked. She could do gang-cant, but no one had ever hired her in a business setting. Except as a [Stripper] for an office party, of course. She nodded at Welsca, trying to put the Drake at ease.
“Xesci? I suppose it’s my work name. I forgot my real name.”
“You wh—”
A blink and Welsca’s guard dropped. The [Courtesan] slipped into the gap.
“Drake hierarchies do get silly at times. I’m sure it’s not gelling well with our hired Humans or even Liscorian workers. I’ll explain it to the Wall Lord; thank you for giving me the chance to do something. It’s all very dull for me, of course. Nothing to do. I haven’t had sex in four months.”
Disarm, answer Welsca’s questions—it wasn’t that subtle, but Xesci was wearing the plain-faced Drake she liked to blend in. Welsca hesitated.
“Er, that’s usually not a matter for discussion, Miss Xesci, and I remind you that you are representing House Gemscale. There have been some issues with our foreign workers, but we’ve made progress on the dig sites. As for silly—what makes you say that?”
She bristled again, all defense. Welsca blinked as Xesci glanced at her, and the [Courtesan of Change] read deeper.
The person that was Welsca’s desire looked just like Wall Lord Ilvriss. How…predictable. But it was also a trap a novice [Courtesan of Change] would make. Give Welsca what she wanted and she’d not be happy because she knew the illusion would never come true. Spice things up instead. Be some debonair Drake [Rogue] or a Gnoll—not too far out of her sensibilities like a Human—and crack that professional clamshell she had on her—
That was just work. Plus, Xesci knew better than to change genders. It weirded most people out, and Drakes doubly so. Even Ilvriss probably wouldn’t be comfortable with that. She smiled at Welsca as they slowed, and she saw Dig Site A.
It was a huge, sprawling area with a lot of work-tents, tons of debris, and huge ramps where Drakes and Gnolls were wheeling the dirt and stone out. Organized; it had privies, shower areas, and places to cook and clean, and it was one of two dig sites searching for the City of Purity.
She knew Ilvriss wanted four dig sites, but staffing was an issue, apparently. Another thing Xesci wasn’t good at unless she became someone good with numbers. But Ilvriss—
He was working out of his ‘office’ below, no more than a tent used for administrative tasks. Wall Lord Dramm bowed at the door, then rushed past the two female Drakes. He paused to stare twice at Xesci, probably due to reputation more than her appearance at the moment. Xesci walked into the tent before Welsca could announce her.
“Intruder—”
The Rubirel Guard at the tent flaps went to grab her, and they had big halberds, but it was the Sisters of Chell who moved faster. A pair of women raised throwing daggers from where they were squatting on the ground, and Xesci glanced at them.
“I’m expected.”
“Xesci, come in! She’s on our list, surely!”
Ilvriss waved her into the tent, and both groups relaxed. Drakes and Humans glared at each other. More interpersonal problems. Xesci was, in theory, good at this sort of thing, but she had limits. She could charm plenty of people, but making the Sisters of Chell likable to the Drakes? Far harder, and she didn’t have time or inclination to do it. Plus, making herself likable to the Drakes meant denying who she was a lot of the time. Unless it was critical, she let it be and just monitored how much each side disliked the other. Xesci walked into the tent with Welsca, and Ilvriss sighed.
“Welsca’s already caught you up to speed? I had a word with Dramm, in private. Nothing like dressing down someone publicly to cause issues, but the boy has to understand that what flows from the top carries down to everyone in terms of morale and leadership. This is, what, the sixth incident this month around morale? I was hoping you had an opinion, Xesci.”
