A second feint, and this time, Nerul barely moved when Marvus aimed at his stomach, but it was there, and Marvus grinned, then was slapping Nerul on the shoulder.
“Just a joke! Just a joke—no one fights at a cookout. You drink? Let’s get a drink!”
“I do drink! And I owe the Golvas one, but if I may—”
“Let’s have a round, then.”
Marvus pulled, and Nerul resisted a moment, but then it became a question of strength. Lyonette doubted the [Diplomat] could throw Marvus. More than that—she turned to Ilvriss as the mood suddenly changed.
Rabbo Golva blinked and shook himself like a dog coming awake, and then other people were laughing and following Marvus, who was calling for drinks.
“What was that?”
“I don’t—know. Nerul can throw anyone he wants in a social engagement, even the most annoying or aggressive people. I’ve never seen that happen.”
Ilvriss blinked just as hard. They saw Nerul trying to pull the conversation back to them, but Marvus was getting everyone drinks and commenting on the fight. It was when Nanette came over and tugged on Lyonette’s arm that the [Princess] understood.
Well, it was her mother’s dry voice in her ear that made her insides tighten up.
“The [Diplomat] made the error of losing a fight to the [Cattle Baron]. It’s probably a Skill. [Might Makes Right] or some variant. Or just the fact that he lost the fight.”
“Is that what it is?”
Nanette exclaimed, and would have asked more, until Lyonette covered the speaking stone.
“Nanette, stop talking to busybodies. Ask the Quarass if you have these kinds of questions.”
Oooh. The [Princess] saw the little witch’s mouth drop open in delight at that level of pettiness. But Lyonette was now worried, because Ielane was right, damn her.
Lyonette didn’t get it until she saw Marvus gesturing with his fists, occasionally feinting at Nerul or acting—well, like a giant bully. Nerul was good; he barely reacted to the provocations, but it didn’t matter.
Damn it. She’d never thought Nerul could lose a fight, but clearly, in the land of masculine machismo or the language of people who respected a good punch, he’d fallen behind. He eventually escaped the drinking and strode over.
“Ancestors damn it, this is why you never drink in bars before engaging. They got me, Nephew. You need to step up.”
Nerul shook out his lapels, exasperated, and Ilvriss nodded.
“Just tell us what to do, Nerul.”
“In two words? Impress them! Make it so they think they need you more than they need to be rid of you! Damn, damn, damn. He’s uniting them around hating us, and that Aronia’s tough too.”
Colfa nodded.
“She’s got the other house ladies united. And they’re going to start bullying you now. Watch out.”
Lyonette thought that meant someone tossing drinks or sabotage Calanferian style. But she didn’t see any of that, and then she heard someone break out a fiddle and blinked as Marvus turned. He took a huge bite of a skewer of meat, tossed it at his wife, who did the same before passing it around, and hollered.
“Enough talking for a second! This is a cookout—let’s have some dancing! You lot dance?”
Ilvriss and Lyonette exchanged glances. They smiled.
Did they dance? The Wall Lord offered Lyonette a hand, and she bowed.
“We could do some impressing.”
Nerul sat down, wiping at his brows, as Nanette came to offer him a hand. He lifted a palm.
“I appreciate the offer, Miss Nanette, but I think I need to monitor things. This is not going according to plan.”
The young witch put her hands on her hips. She’d already made inroads with some of Aronia’s children; they’d given her a cowboy hat and even a leather jacket she was going to incorporate into her style, and she’d traded them a soccer jersey from Liscor and was making friends.
“They’re playing into our trap, Nerul. Lyonette and Ilvriss’ dancing turned Oteslia on its head.”
The big Drake grunted.
“True. They’re both dancing experts, trained from birth. Tell me. Do you think either have practiced square dancing? Country dancing? Line dances?”
The young witch hesitated. She lifted the speaking stone.
“Er, Your Majesty?”
“What do you think?”
 
——
 
It would be wrong to assume that Lyonette and Ilvriss were out of their element when the dancing began. Oh, they were. Lyonette quickly realized that the rougher ground and the boots that everyone wore meant there were no gliding moves, and there was a certain high-stepping energy to the Lischelles’ dances.
However! She was a [Princess], and dead gods damnit, this was what she had been bred for! Ilvriss eyed the two-stepping jig as they observed. No one was walking them through the dancing, but Lyonette bet everyone was watching them to see if they failed.
None of the other Drakes or Gnolls were trying to dance. Welsca was observing from the sides with the uncomfortable Salazsarians, and while Nerul could probably dance, no one wanted to but Nanette.
“You don’t have to dance, Lyonette. I feel like I’ve given you a headache—I don’t know if I can keep up with the steps.”
She gave him a patently annoyed, bright smile.
“Ilvriss, I’m here to resolve this pettiness. And I dance.”
“Yes, but we don’t have any practice. Erin could—”
She poked him in the chest. That was a sore point with Lyonette, actually. She loved Erin, but—
“Ilvriss Gemscale. Erin is not the first [Dancer] in the inn. I don’t have the class because [Princesses] dance like we breathe!”
“…Seldomly observed, in my experience?”
She colored as he replied, then snapped back.
“You’ve seen me dance! I love dancing, I just don’t have any partners who can keep up with me! Now, let’s show them—”
She held out a hand, and he took it. For a moment, they were whirling on Oteslia’s dance floor. Ilvriss cautiously watched the swing dancing, then Lyonette went in, and he followed and—
 
——
 
“Strike me with a horseshoe. I didn’t know Drakes could dance.”
Marvus and Aronia loved dancing, but they were more focused on the intruders than anything else, and they’d expected both to back out. What they hadn’t expected was to see the [Princess], if the rumors that one of Aronia’s aunts had brought up was true, and the Wall Lord go swinging around by the elbows and match the other dancers kick for kick.
“They’re not bad.”
That was the best compliment Aronia dished out; she was all competition, but she just took another bite from the skewer and then casually nodded to the musicians. This wasn’t a social engagement.
Accordingly—Burlise glanced up and stopped whirling a young man who worked for the Lischelles around on the dance floor. She tugged him away, and Nanette, who’d grabbed a boy her age and was dancing energetically, if completely off-tempo, blinked as half the young folk dodged out of the dance floor.
“What’s going on? I like this song! It’s great!”
Lischelle music was indeed excellent with only a few string instruments. However, it picked up in sound and tempo, and Marvus led his wife onto the floor. Nanette quickly realized why their sons and daughters had evacuated.
The next song was incomparably harder in intensity. Accordingly, the line dance was a complex shuffle of feet where you placed your foot next to everyone in line in the right order—mess up once and someone was stepping on your feet or you’d be literally bumped flat.
The fact that Nanette stuck around, despite instantly tripping, earned her a lot of laughter, but not unkindly. In fact, she was the only person that Aronia liked. Marvus grinned at Nanette as her pigtails slapped her unfortunate partner in the face.
“Girl’s got heart. Nephew Tibb’s swept off his feet.”
Aronia grimaced.
“She’s a little heartbreaker. Focus, Marvus!”
The complex line dance was very impressive. Such that even the Drakes and Gnolls were nodding along as the clapping began. Out of the corner of their eyes, both husband and wife watched the [Princess] and Wall Lord bobbing their heads to the beat. Then—
They entered the line dance and kept up. Aronia actually turned her head as they did a full-body swing around, a two-step back, turn, hooking their feet in with their partner’s, unhook in a spin out, and—
Neither one fell. She swore Lyonette did flinch as the two clasped hands, but almost like she was in pain, not—
“Dead gods, they can dance.”
One of her sisters remarked, and Aronia glared.
“Pick it up.”
The dances got more complex.
 
——
 
Lyonette was enjoying herself. She saw a panting Nanette cheering for her after two more dances, and she knew she was impressing the Lischelles. Even Colfa was impressed; she’d taken a few partners onto the floor, but she probably missed Himilt.
But she was fast enough. The [Princess] was grinning as Ilvriss took a gulp of water.
“Not bad, huh?”
“Not bad! But let’s have an old-fashioned dance next! Who’s up for the old Highstepper?”
Marvus shouted, and Lyonette instantly saw half the adults leave the floor. Marvus’ own children turned their heads, and she smiled.
“Oh, I think they’re pulling out a hard dance, Ilvriss. Let’s do th—”
Marvus and Aronia Lischelle took the floor as the [Fiddler] spat on her hands, then took up the bow. She began to play like a maniac, and the Human and Drake stared.
There were damned dances like the legendary 5-Step from Terandria. In the annals of horrific ankle-destroying dances, the Highstepper—or Shepherd’s Highstepper—was one such.
It was both complex and fast. How fast? Well, consider one of the traditional moves of a dancer. It was the casual one where you came down the floor, kicking a foot in and out, switching feet every step. It looked very lovely when you did it. You normally did it to the beat of a song, fast enough.
Step-step-step-step, about as fast as you clapped your hands together at a decent pace. The Highstepper had you doing that move about two steps per second.
And that was just one move. Lyonette thought of herself as an excellent dancer, but her jaw dropped as she saw Marvus and Aronia, who were not, politely, in the same weight class as her and Ilvriss speeding across the floor, holding their belts, trousers flashing.
“Ancestors!”
And they were dancing together. Half the Highstepper’s moves treated you as a unit; you had to keep in tune with your partner. Any mistake would definitely send you sprawling.
First went Marvus and Aronia. Then Rabbo Golva and his wife joined the procession, and Lyonette’s heart sank.
They were dancing like Demons! The Death of Footwork! When the third [Cattle Baroness] and her husband demonstrated the dance, she knew they had to do it.
“Ilvriss, let’s—”
They needed to practice. But the Wall Lord just stared at the feet and blanched.
“Lyonette, that’s way beyond anything I’ve ever seen. I don’t think—”
“Nonsense! If they can do it, we can! We’re half their age!”
“You’re half their age. Okay, dead gods, let’s…”
The others gave them two circuits of the dance, and then every eye turned to the [Princess] and Wall Lord. They could have bowed out, of course. There was no shame in not dancing the obviously incredibly hard dance.
Just…
A [Princess] and a Wall Lord glanced at each other, and admitting when they couldn’t do things was something they’d obviously been taught you could do.
If you were other people. They strode over, faced each other, and put their hands on their belts. Nanette Weishart covered her eyes, then peeked.
 
——
 
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle gave Lyonette this: her friend was no coward. And she was very good, but the Highstepper? She never had a chance.
They made it sixteen seconds, which was twice as long as Colfa would have bet, before Lyonette misjudged a step, tangled with Ilvriss’ tail as he turned the wrong way, and they went sprawling.
Cue laughter like it was the funniest thing anyone had ever seen. The [Princess] got up slowly, and Colfa wondered if Lyonette’s condition meant—
No, Ushar was there, and she even had a covert healing potion. Colfa relaxed, and that was that.
No one was going to make the two do the Highstepper again. It was just—a message.
As if everything else tonight hadn’t been a big one as to how welcome Ilvriss was. Normally, you bought anyone who tried the Highstepper a drink. Ilvriss was alone as he limped back to his side of the dancefloor to ask Nerul if his tail looked broken.
“Hah! That was worth all the effort!”
Marvus grinned at the Drakes as Colfa heard the Lischelles mocking the [Princess] and her people. They might have been smiles at times, and Nanette had won some admirers, but that was kids. Lyonette and Ilvriss had to know that behind all this façade was a knife, and it was being sharpened.
“It does my heart good to see a noblewoman sprawl like the rest of us.”
Aronia was gloating too, and this, more than anything, prompted Colfa to walk over. She pointedly eyed the skewer of meat that Marvus had prepared and put her hands on her hips.
“You two can stop acting now. If you could do the Highstepper without that [Fleetfoot Grill], you’d deserve to look down your noses at them. What’s old Rabbo’s trick? [Drunker Dancing]?”
She’d noticed him taking down shots before he stepped over; he seemed distinctly unsteady now.
Everyone cheated at the Highstepper. Unless, of course, you could just do it without help. Aronia lost her smile. She locked eyes with her older sister, Colfa, who could do the Highstepper in her youth. And who was not bowing to the unspoken rules of nicety here.
“Colfa. First you call a cookout for that Drake, now you want to lecture us on having a bit of fun?”
“They’re coming here and willing to try the Highstepper in the name of peace. Can’t you give them the time of day? Marvus, how many men have you lost in fights with Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
He hesitated, then nodded at her stiffly.
“Colfa. None save for some broken bones but—”
“Do you think any Wall Lord would be half as reasonable as Wall Lord Ilvriss? Believe me, he’s trying to be diplomatic.”
“No one asked him to come here, Colfa. Where’s Himilt?”
“Working our farm. I’m here as a favor to Ilvriss.”
“How much of a favor?”
One of their sisters-in-law asked snidely, and Colfa glanced at her, and the woman hesitated. Skilless she might be, but Colfa had lived here.
“None of a Skill. Neither one needs it. It’s called mutual respect, Maire. Something you might have forgotten.”
“You’ve got a lot of nerve walking in here and insulting the family, Colfa. And trading in on our name in the north, I heard. I’ve had Lischelle-Drakle products. They’re not much of anything.”
