No, really. It wasn’t bad. To the surprised half-Elf, who hadn’t been paying attention to the changes in music, it was functionally decent.
A bit too much performance, but the young [Musicians] had levels. Tolveilouka had no Eyes of Appraisal, so he estimated they ranged from Level 5 to Level 20 on the higher ends.
Which was decent levelling speed if some had only picked up the instruments last year. In this way, Tolveilouka was out of touch because he thought a Level 1 to Level 30 growth spurt in a year’s time was what the average citizen could do.
Well, partly that was because he was generally responsible for said levels when he led an army of plague zombies across their nations, breeding famine, pestilence, and plague.
Still, he liked the energy. Some of the bands or soloists were trying to copy the Fraerlings, high kicking, screaming into enchanted microphones—someone even attempted a stage-dive, which went hilariously badly.
Broken collarbone. Tolve watched as the frozen Unmarked Coach sat there, and a [Lady] inside began asking what the holdup was. Karsaeu told her to shut the hell up, which made all of the passengers realize they were in trouble and go silent—
Tolve watched until he grew bored, and then he thought he might kill the Djinni or infect her and go back to figuring out where the hell Lyonette was. But he was amused.
The crowd was not on the band’s sides. Oh, they were receptive, but they jeered, screamed along to the singing, which threw off the more inexperienced performers; when they shouted insults from the stage, the audience would come up to fight them.
A different crowd from the Fraerlings. Also, they didn’t have a dedicated MC or [Innkeeper] to make this place, well, work. Lovely chaos, youth in its myriad forms on display, uncertain, but innovative, as it had always been.
Tolveilouka liked that. He was always young at heart. You grew old, you died.
The half-Elf decided he’d watch one more performer, then start killing.
 
——
 
Damia Reinhart was aware there was trouble, but she didn’t know what. She sat, tense, head scanning the crowd as the Djinni waited, silent. No one asked her what was going on.
Damia had begun to do that, but the others had told her to shut up. Her mind had agreed.
Don’t distract professionals. Everyone was swivelling, heads spinning, except the note-taker. She was speaking.
“I need backup. Location is a town just south of Invrisil. Something has halted the Unmarked Coach. Unclear what it is.”
“Got a gang behind you, lady? We’re whistling ours up, but they’re on the move.”
The two [Gang Leaders] were checking their weapons. The extending-spear fellow had his spear in his hands. His friend had two wicked, serrated knives in her fists. The note-taker lowered the speaking stone, exhaled.
“I suppose if it keeps us from killing each other and we survive long enough—yes. I’m with the Sisters.”
“You?”
It surprised everyone. The Sisters were a major gang. Damia blinked at the least-tough woman in the coach, including Damia, but the note-taker just folded her arms.
“Dead gods. You’re one of them leaders, aren’t you? A Haple.”
A look and the female gang-leader shut up. The member of Haple spoke calmly.
“It’s the half-Elf. He was outpacing the coach. He did something when we listed—my guess is he’s over Level 50.”
Silence. Damia was sweating as Binevy wrote furiously, perhaps trying to get help from House Reinhart. This was why she needed a [Bodyguard]…
“No offense, but I’m running.”
“I suspect we’re all dead, but that would be my plan. I doubt he cares for witnesses.”
Silence. Damia stared out the window, searching for any asset. Think! She was a genius! She thought she was. Something. Something—
A new group trudged onto stage as the last band was booed off. Not the planned performer; there was a hiccup. The Gnoll trying to do the MC’s job shouted.
“Next—uh—we’ve got a mystery act—”
Someone, a black-scaled Drake, grabbed the microphone as a hooded figure stood to the side.
“Hey, you pathetic idiots! This concert sucks!”
There was a roar from the crowd, who half-agreed. The Drake pointed.
“Here’s a real legend and musician for you! He’s gonna play a new song. What’s, uh…Numb, what’s the—”
She went over, then dashed back to the microphone. And Damia saw the hooded figure holding something.
A guitar? Not the first she’d seen, but something about him made her look twice. A presence. The member of Haple frowned.
“That’s a high-level person. Higher level than anyone else out there.”
“Good, maybe they’ll die first. Driver, do we got backup?”
On stage, the female Drake was arguing with the hooded figure. Who seemed…upset. But Damia’s eyes were locked on him as the wind blew and revealed something that made the crowd of young people go silent.
Then gasp. Some drew back. A few screamed; others laughed. The rest just cheered.
Because he was—
A Hobgoblin.
 
——
 
Numbtongue, the [Sybarite Soulbard], did not want to be here. And he did. He was shaking with nerves.
Salkis, who’d found out about this event through her friends, who seemed to be all over Izril, was excited. She hissed at him.
“Numb, come on! I’ve got friends in the crowd!”
“Your mysterious ones or actual friends?”
“…Both! Show them a real performance.”
Numbtongue was waiting to see if the crowd tried to murder him. He’d been moving across Izril’s north. He’d fled towns trying to lynch him, run around with gangs, and just—
Not gone home. The inn was searching for him. Some [Informant] had pulled him aside to say that. Numbtongue had punched him in the face.
So what? Numbtongue was tired. He didn’t know what the crowd saw.
The [Soulbard] had lost weight. A mostly liquid diet did that. It made his cheekbones stand out more, and he was tall, his hair a wave of jet black, still fit, a crimson Dragoncrystal sword at his side.
He stood like everything that was wrong or forbidden in this world, crimson eyes bored and tired, and his scars spoke of battles that few had ever dreamed of in their safe worlds. His pointed ears and his green skin, the way he held himself with a warrior’s earned grace, guitar in hands, facing the crowd without fear of them—
And he wondered why they’d gone silent. Why Salkis and her friends followed him around.
They knew him.
Some had seen him on the scrying orb. Or just heard the story. The Goblin with the guitar who conjured lightning. The Hob wandering in the north.
In him was the echo of his father, Garen Redfang, for how soon people forgot, but the story retold itself in him.
But Numbtongue was not happy on his adventure, like Rabbiteater. He felt lost.
He felt…
His claws touched the guitar strings, and a flash of lightning made the person holding the scrying mirror go still. The crowd watched, and so did Lady Damia, even the fascinated half-Elf.
Like the Battle of Bands in Lemoste, this event would not be broadcast live. It would be re-broadcast later, after being submitted to Channel 2 News. Yet unlike Lemoste, it would quickly become a sensation. This Goblin, this song, would eventually travel the entire world and catch parts of it like a storm.
Later that day, the [Princess] waiting for word of a lost Hobgoblin would see it. And so, if Lyonette du Marquin, worried, wanted to know how Numbtongue was doing, this was her answer.
 
——
 
He had backup. Salkis grabbed some drumsticks and began to play. Numbtongue was the bass and lead. [Counter Melody] let him play both parts.
As for Salkis, she’d learned [Echo Competency: Music].
Numbtongue began to strum on his guitar, and the music was electric. The crowd, who’d begun to murmur, went silent. The beat that Salkis was laying down on the drums was as fast as his racing heartbeat.
Don’t do this. The Hobgoblin ignored the voice in his head. He closed his eyes and lifted something as he played. Gazed down at an image of an [Innkeeper] caught by a scrying spell in Baleros. Gazing into the camera as a Lizardman interviewed her.
His eyes locked on Erin Solstice’s face. Then Numbtongue leaned forwards. The crude wooden microphone was waiting for him.
So he sang.
 
“I never thought that I’d feel this old
Thought I’d be dead long ago
That’s the way it goes, that’s how [Heroes] go—”
 
It sounded like the Singer of Terandria. The same style. Pop? Dance. A genre so advanced that lexicons hadn’t evolved fast enough to keep up. But the Hobgoblin sang, and even Salkis nearly forgot to keep playing.
No one, not his family, not his tribe, knew that Numbtongue could sing like that. He was shy. He’d always been shy, and when he performed in the past, he had been serviceable, decent.
Practicing. Practicing in his rooms and singing only with Bird or Mrsha as an audience. Or Octavia and Garia in the mines.
He had never cut loose in public, never shouted how he felt. But now the words, practiced, given voice by his heart and sleepless nights and encouraged by Salkis—they came out of him.
Too late to stop. The crowd began to cheer almost at once. Because they could tell. The words—
They were speaking to them. But that was just how he began. They thought he was going to sing a war song, and he was.
Just not one about battles with swords.
 
“I’ve been to war, but I’d rather be back in hell
It’s easier than you asking if I’m well.
After all you’ve done, how dare you ask?”
 
Wait. A [Goth] raising his hands blinked. It sounded like a—
Love song. The Hobgoblin’s eyes had been closed. Now, they opened and stared at something only he could see. They glowed bright.
 
“Here’s how I’m doing:
Eat shit! I wish you knew how I was feeling
But you don’t care, do you?
Across the world and you don’t look back—”
 
His audience got that. They understood this song, and they had never heard it like this. The Singer of Terandria, the [Popstar], sang classics from her world. Many had lots to do with love. But most were hits, not this. This—
This was bitter. And original. They had never heard this song in this or any other world. The Hobgoblin confirmed that feeling in the next moment.
 
“Go to Rhir!
Go further and maybe I’ll forget you existed
Then I’ll start to heal
Sorry if that stings just keepin’ it real!”
 
Then they were just—cheering. Swept up in the [Sybarite Soulbard]’s greatest performance of his life. His eyes swept the crowd jumping, now, because they had to get the energy rushing through their legs out.
Mosh pit. He imagined someone, and his eyes fixed on that image; his voice became gravelly. He sang harder.
 
“How do you live with all the things you’ve done?
Ripped my heart out and left me to bleed
That’s the least of all your deeds.
 
“Fuck you!
For a woman of fire you’re so cold
You never think you could be wrong
Freeze me with all your guilty flames you deserve.”
 
They were cheering as he strode down the stage, waving their arms—a pair of Humans were shouting in the crowd next to a half-Elf pumping both hands in the air, eyes alight with joy. The Hobgoblin shook his head as the Unmarked Coach and those inside stared, mouths open.
 
“Shoot my heart like you shot my family apart
I wish I could say you’re grateful
But you tossed me aside and never looked back
 
They say I’m the monster but they’ve never met you
You kill everything that loves you just because you can.”
 
For a second, the swelling music slowed. Salkis put down the drumsticks, and he sang alone. Quietly, breathing hard, staring at something, someone, he had written for.
 
“Tell me: when is it my turn?”
 
He squeezed his eyes shut, jerking his head away as the drums picked up speed again. And he let it out. Everything he wanted to say.
 
“Tell me: when is it my turn?
Please hate me.
Look at me like you want me dead
Then I know I’ll never leave your head
Otherwise I’m just a statue for you to admire
Another victim on your pyre
 
I hope when it’s your turn
It breaks you to pieces.”
 
He kept playing. There was more, of course; refrains and the like. But that—
That got the heart of the song across.
It was a really good song too. The kind that captured something you’d felt and put in a form you wish you could have given voice to.
The kind of thing that caught fame. The cheering crowd didn’t stop shouting long after the Hobgoblin had finished. He had to come back on stage and perform again, then do other songs he knew. When it was done, everything revolved around him.
People asking who he was. Trying to get close. Wanting to know where he’d go next as Salkis tried to shove forwards and make sure no one got any ideas about who his girlfriend was. People just—loving the song.
Like Tolveilouka, who cheered with the crowd, completely forgetting about murdering anyone. He didn’t even look around when the Unmarked Coach shot away.
He was having too much fun. The half-Elf couldn’t wait to see the [Innkeeper]’s face when she heard that one. It was so worth being her ally after all.
 
——
 
Music travelled faster than gossip, which could outrun fact. That song and broadcast spread across the world—fast.
It struck most people individually. Some…some knew what it meant. Knew the Goblin. And their opinions were irrelevant because they were just individuals and that was a movement.
No one paid attention to a little Gnoll girl sitting in an inn lost to the world, crying as she saw her older brother singing that with all the bitter hate in the world. Only she knew what he should look like.
 
——
 
To everyone else, he was just the singing Hobgoblin. Creator of that damn good song.
“Dead gods. I can’t get it out of my head. Someone turn it off! We’re having a cookout, and we’ve company.”
“But Ma—”
An excited crowd of children—and she saw them as children, even if some were twenty—were all gathered around the scrying orb. At her warning look, her eldest son switched the orb off, but Aronia Lischelle privately bookmarked the song to come back to later.
“Goblins. They’d better not be in our north or we’ll have to round up a posse and take it out.”
That came from the man standing at the huge metal grille where he was cutting pieces of dripping meat off the fire and serving them onto plates. Huge, glistening chunks of prime beef covered in fat and seasoned until you wanted to scream and take another bite.
Hot as could be, served with fresh bread, potatoes that had been plucked from fields bare hours ago, and that damn good corn from up north, the blue stuff, for sweetness.
A feast, and the architect of it was Aronia Lischelle. It was an impressive meal, talk of the region. People marked on their calendars when a Lischelle threw a cookout, riding for a hundred miles to make it.
