They were famous for it. This was a smaller gathering because it had come together so fast—such a hassle to put on with a day’s notice, but that was family for you.
Only three hundred people, not including the guests who numbered about forty. The Drakes and Gnolls had been worried about taking so many—until they’d been told they’d be well outnumbered.
The Lischelles, the Rominet, and a good number of Calabies as well as smaller families. Literal families, but also their workers—these were the clans who lived in the Cowpat Plains, the local name for this prime ranching spot.
As a certain Gnoll had observed, it did smell, but the huge roasts of meat were overpowering the usual dung scent, and you got used to it. Your reward?
The best damn sausages you’d ever had in your life. Slices of roast beef, pork tenderloin that would make a city-[Chef] cry for he had nothing a tenth as good from smaller, lesser farmers. This was Lischelle meat.
And they were unto royalty for their class.
It was the best damn meat you’d ever eaten.
“This is the best damn meat I’ve ever eaten. How in the name of the walls are they doing it? Is it…[Expert Cooking] or something?”
Aronia’s [Long Ear] picked up a Gnoll chomping down on a leg of chicken and looking thoroughly rattled as he stood with the Salazsarian contingent, who were…guests…at the cookout. Which meant no brawling, no knives, nothing.
Even if Aronia would have happily seen that purple-scaled Wall Lord run out of the north at the tip of a pitchfork, there were such things as manners. She’d reminded Herbus Calabie about that as well; the [Cattle Baron] had a temper.
Well, so did Marvus, but he was busy at the grill. The [Cattle Baron] and head of the family, her husband, was busy making sure the food was seared to excellence; he was so busy clapping people on the back and serving food he didn’t have time to throw a punch. She could hear his huge voice as he turned, sweat staining his work-clothes after a long day riding in the sun.
“Anyone seen the Golvas? Bah, we’ll put something aside for them. They’ll have to ride thirty miles to get here, and I bet no one told ‘em until this morning.”
Thirty miles of riding or more was not something you did casually, but again—[Cattle Barons]. The best riders, ranchers, and fistfighters in the north. Their herds could stretch from one end of the plains to another, and all this meant that this was their land.
Not any noble’s. Not for generations. None of the Five Families came this far south. Aronia was proud about that. No taxes, no rules save for the ones they made, and it was all fair.
Fair trade, free land, pride in what you did.
So that was why when a bunch of Drakes came north, they got what was coming to them. Not a war; she’d told Marvus not to shoot the first arrow. Lischelle sent men down to the Bloodfields each year, and she didn’t need a war up here. Not with a Walled City.
But the only thing keeping her from walking over and giving the Drake a hand he’d not soon forget was the fact that it was a cookout. And, well, the fact that someone was vouching for him.
Her oldest daughter Burlise was fiddling with her belt, which she’d bought, a fancy Wyvern belt from Pallass no less. She’d argued for ages with her mother about getting a Drake belt and insisted; the damn thing didn’t even fit her properly. She hesitated, tossing back her orange hair.
“Ma. Ma—are you going to talk t’ the Drake and that other [Lady] or stare all day? You’ve been shooting [Death Beams] the entire time.”
“Hush, you. We’re letting them fill their bellies first.”
Burlise dodged a hand going for her ear because she wanted to hear today.
“Sure—but you never don’t talk to ‘em. Even the Golvas you walk up and shake hands, and you hate—”
Everyone looked around, but the Golvas weren’t here, and Aronia lowered her voice.
“Hush. They’ve got Gnolls. It’s not the Gnolls, it’s that Drake. Let your father talk first.”
“It ain’t the Drake. It’s Aunt Colfa. You sure it’s her?”
Her loudmouth daughter, love her, could not let anything drop like an adult and pick up on cues. Aronia half-glanced towards a woman standing next to the red-haired [Lady] and a [Knight] of all damn things. Terandrians? They were all on the Drake Wall Lord’s side. Aronia’s voice was so cool it probably would have frosted the stew she was tending to. She began serving it into bowls.
“It’s Colfa. She was always—like that.”
“But her hair’s white, and she’s pale as—”
A swat.
“Stop staring. She’s got a farm up north. Or had. ‘Round Reizmelt. She didn’t bring her husband here either.”
“Just as well. Shifty fellow.”
One of Aronia’s brothers muttered. She shot him a look, and all the adults went silent. Aronia’s voice was firm.
“She’s come back, and we’re giving her the welcome she deserves, even if she did ask for a cookout without any notice. Hear them out, mind your manners, and if we don’t like what we hear, the lot of you can go kick that bunches’ teeth in the next time Marvus is minded to rumble.”
Indeed, the fact that any number of families were here proved they wanted to hear what this Drake had to say. And if they didn’t like it, they’d put aside their feuds and rivalries and deal with the problem.
No damn Drakes in our land. But Aronia just watched her sister. Colfa.
Dead gods, the years hadn’t touched her. She was beautiful, aside from that rash on her arm, but she was so pale. Her eyes.
Her red eyes. Did she color them with alchemy or had she changed? She didn’t feel like a [Rancher] anymore. Aronia was one of the highest-levelled women in this entire section of Izril. She could stare down even Big Burlap himself; she’d once had to knock the bull flat, and they told stories about that. She had thunder and wrath in her left hand, and the ability to feed an army in her right.
Her sister…
Felt empty. The young woman next to her sister had a glow about her. Something fancy, bright, and annoying to Aronia. Like a city’s [Merchant] who looked down on country people. It would have been polite for them to come over and say something. They hadn’t even had any food.
But Aronia gave them just a hint of grace. They were still staring at the scrying orb with the Hobgoblin playing the guitar. From the look on their faces…Aronia listened as the [Princess] finally stopped watching the replay after the seventh time. She glanced up, face utterly calm, and spoke.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin, Nerul and Ilvriss Gemscale, Dame Ushar, Nanette Weishart, his command staff save for Captain Osthia, who was guarding the camp, Wall Lord Dramm and several younger officers, everyone was here.
The only person who hadn’t come to the ‘cookout’, whatever that was, was Xesci, who claimed it was too fancy for her.
Fancy was not how Lyonette would have termed the informal gathering. There weren’t even many places to sit! People just stood around with tin plates, eating off them, chatting—well, the Humans did.
The Drakes and Gnolls from the south stood apart, a clear line in the sand drawn between north and south. Lyonette knew she should do something about it; she’d put on her best travel dress since she’d been advised by Colfa not to wear a formal piece, and she’d come with Ilvriss to make peace.
But then she’d seen the broadcast with Numbtongue on it, and that…
Ilvriss was watching with a pained expression in his eyes. Nanette’s mouth was covered by her hands. Ushar was glancing around, doing her job, and Lyonette?
Lyonette hoped Mrsha hadn’t seen it. Calmly, she beckoned Ushar over.
“Ushar? I believe that’s a northern town nearby or some such? Find out where it is. Then see if we can hire an [Assassin].”
Dame Ushar smiled weakly. Then she saw Lyonette’s blue eyes were not blinking. The Thronebearer licked her lips, and someone spoke in a too-loud voice.
“Seems like we both can agree on one thing, then. Goblins walking around in daylight? It wouldn’t stand in the Cowpat Plains. Nor anything else a Lischelle’d quibble at. Y’all not hungry? There’s plenty to go around.”
Lyonette blinked and remembered her hosts. She smiled as a woman walked forwards, hand stretched out.
“Aronia Lischelle. You know Marvus. Colfa!”
“Aronia. Good to see you.”
They hugged and kissed each other’s cheeks, but the normally-energetic Colfa was rather subdued at the moment. She hadn’t wanted to do this, but Lyonette took a deep breath.
“I’m terribly sorry, Miss Aronia—the broadcast was highly distressing.”
“Well, it’s surely interesting to see a [Lady]’s [Lady] such as yourself do things like they do up in First Landing. I thought all the [Assassins] were gone.”
Ah—perhaps not a good first start. Lyonette hesitated as Ilvriss jumped and began shaking hands with Aronia’s family, who’d come over warily. Where was Nerul? She smiled.
“That was a joke. And we have brought you something—thank you for hosting such a delightful event!”
“Of course. Oh, thank you!”
They’d brought a bunch of Salazsarian wine and even some ice cream carefully wrapped in ice that was mostly melting. Aronia’s children grew visibly interested at the treat they definitely knew, but the woman took one look at the food and wine and gestured.
It went onto the tables. The far end of the tables, and Lyonette saw it put down by one of Aronia’s daughters, whereupon no one touched it.
Right.
Back to work. She took a breath as she studied Aronia and got the distinct impression the woman was doing the same to her.
Lyonette would have described Aronia like this to Ielane. A woman in her mid-fifties, overweight, but a working woman, clearly, who wore boots and clothing in the same style as the [Ranchers]; even if she didn’t necessarily ride, she felt like a [Rancher] to Lyonette, but higher-grade than any [Peasant] in Calanfer. Her clothing was actually quite detailed and fine, even if it was common cotton, and she had orange hair. Not royal red, but distinct enough, braided up into a bun.
With her husband, they were an imposing duo and tall; that was the one thing they shared with Colfa. But the Vampiress’ hair, skin, everything, made her so foreign she was like someone from another continent compared to the Lischelles.
They were a boisterous, noisy lot. They reminded Lyonette of [Hostlers] or [Farmers], rough and ready, and she could see how they were all too willing to throw fists with the Drakes. They were a distinct contrast to Ilvriss’ company-oriented Salazsarian crew too.
She didn’t know how to interact with Aronia, but politeness and dignity did work everywhere in Lyonette’s view, so she smiled.
“May I introduce Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
“Charmed, Miss Aronia. Or is it…Lady Aronia? I apologize, I don’t know the ranks of your classes here.”
That made her laugh, loudly enough for her husband to glance up and begin edging her way.
“Lady? Not us, not here. Oh, we’re [Cattle Barons], but that’s just the name of the class. We’re not proper royalty like you, Lady Lyonette, though some of us give ourselves airs.”
She didn’t glance at Colfa there, but Lyonette swore she saw Colfa twitch. Was that…a Skill? From the way Colfa grimaced, it seemed like that comment had actually hurt!
“[Barbed Comment]. Your Highness, she’s got Skills. She’s one to convince as well.”
Ushar used a Skill to murmur in Lyonette’s ear. The [Princess] smiled.
“Well, we’re all equals here in my eyes. As I said, this is very gracious of you to put on at such short notice.”
“Think nothing of it, but you’re not hungry at all?”
Lyonette began to demur, but Wall Lord Ilvriss’ stomach rumbled, and Aronia smiled. She gestured.
“Come on, let’s get some food in you. Do you all not eat a kind of meat?”
“Er, no, not at all. What have we here?”
Ilvriss asked the wrong question because the woman began to tell him in detail exactly what they had, which vaguely impressed Lyonette. Oh, it wasn’t at all made elegantly, but the cuts of meat looked exceedingly fine, which she supposed you got from the s—
One bite of the first piece of steak and Lyonette choked. Nanette’s eyes went round, and Ilvriss blinked.
“This is excellent.”
It was, in fact, one of the best steaks that Lyonette had ever had in her life, and she was a [Princess]! Nanette began to gobble her food as Lyonette and Ilvriss turned to compliment Aronia, and the woman laughed.
“Of course it is! It’s a Lischelle steak! Colfa never served you any?”
“We had to get rid of our cows when we moved to Liscor. We have new ones, but nothing I’d serve at a cookout.”
Colfa murmured, and Aronia turned. Everyone in earshot, her extended family, went silent, then Aronia spoke.
“We’ll have to send some to you then! What happened up north, Colfa?”
“Poison in the wells.”
“Dead gods. Are you alright? Is that girl and boy of yours, Fierre, Rivel, alright?”
Colfa murmured as the conversation turned on her, providing brief explanations. Lyonette nudged Nanete.
“Nanette, stop gobbling!”
“But it’s so good! Mrsha should have stayed!”
The witch protested, and Aronia beamed and pinched her cheek.
“What a darling girl with good taste! Is she yours?”
“Yes, yes she is. And I have another girl, but she had to return home, sick. She’s a Gnoll, and her nose was sensitive.”
Aronia nodded, and one of her sisters put in drily.
“Oh, aye. We’ve had Gnolls come by and have a sneezing fit something terrible. Poor folks. But it’s only real bad here where Cowpat Plains is deepest. Still, I’ve heard some cityfolk say they can’t stomach the stench! How about you, Miss Lyonette?”
“I barely smell a thing.”
The [Princess] was sure her lie was genuine, but there was a moment of silence, and she felt, instinctively, she was making mistakes. But she was trained by Ielane! What was she doing—
“Er, Your Highness. Your Mother has notes for you. She would like you to know you’re behaving incorrectly.”
Lyonette jumped, turned to Ushar, and hissed at her.
“She’s watching me?”
Of course she was. Lyonette still refused to speak to Ielane, but damn it—she might be correct. Flustered, Lyonette stepped back, and fortunately at that moment, the hero of the hour came in. Nerul Gemscale, [Diplomat], accept no other expert.
Where he’d been while Lyonette and Ilvriss were putting their foot in it was made obvious at once. He had loaded up a plate with an obscene amount of food and, from the looks of it, had made an amazing dent already. He had an ale in his hand, and he strode into the conversation as loud as could be.
“Miss Aronia, this food! The best I’ve had! I shall sing your praises from the towers of Salazsar—if I can manage all the steps! Your husband is a fine charrer of meat.”
