“They steal all our cattle again and it’s going to go to blood!”
Osthia swore, but she went running through the fighting. More [Ranchers] were riding up and jumping off their horses. When Osthia saw a gang of twelve wading into the fight, she did half-draw her sword.
“In the name of House Gemscale, halt damnit!”
They warily put their hands on their sides, and one produced a wicked butchering knife. Osthia had on armor, and she knew she had levels and training on these idiots. She was striding forwards when someone jovially smacked into her.
“None of that now. I take my eyes off the situation for five seconds and here we are!”
Nerul Gemscale had a bloody nostril, but he forced the sword back into its sheath. He and a group of [Bodyguards] were in the fray, and the moment the [Ranchers] saw Osthia’s sword vanish, they lowered their weapons.
“Too scared t’ fight us like men, Drakes?”
“I’m a woman and you’re dead, Human.”
Osthia growled, and she charged the group of twelve, much to their astonishment. It wasn’t…a good idea. She was no hero, and one on twelve? Osthia’s first punch took the speaker by surprise—she got two punches in, and one of his buddies grabbed her. So she headbutted them and probably broke a nose, which was great—until someone else punched her in the helmet.
Which hurt their knuckles terribly but did make her head ring. Then there was a blow to the back of the head, and she was staring at a knee coming up—
But Nerul’s flying elbow dropped the Human about to knee her, and he actually picked up the first Human and tossed him. When another man punched him in the chest, Nerul turned, and his right hook took the Human out of today and put him into tomorrow.
The [Bodyguards] joined the fighting too—Rubirel Guard who didn’t reach for their weapons, but grinned as the Humans took one look at their enchanted armor and backed up. Osthia blinked.
“Diplomat, thank you! How the hell did you learn to fight like that?”
Nerul smiled.
“I never was much cough with swords, but a fistfight? [Diplomats] have to know how to survive a barfight! No blades, Captain! I told you and Ilvriss: this is a custom, and the last thing you want is [Ranchers] taking shots at you or treating this like a war.”
“This isn’t a war?”
She pointed at the huge brawl, which was going to leave plenty with bruises or broken bones the next day. And it wasn’t the first or even dozenth time it had happened! Nerul grunted.
“It’s got echoes, but it’s how the Humans around here settle disagreements. Better than a real battle, you should know, Captain.”
She did know, but it was so damn aggravating—Nerul pointed.
“I think Ilvriss is that way. Come on, let’s bail him out. This is a big fight. Dead gods! Who’s that fellow there?”
They saw a Gnoll go flying over the heads of the brawlers, and then they saw Ilvriss Gemscale, in the middle of the action, trying to push back the Humans led by the only Human that Osthia had met who was bigger than Nerul. A huge, heavyset man with as much fat as muscle and who laughed as he decked another [Soldier].
Nerul exhaled.
“I think that’s no less than [Cattle Baron] Marvus Lischelle. Come on—let’s get Ilvriss out of there.”
They turned as the two leaders locked eyes. Ilvriss threw a punch and hit Marvus straight in the face. The [Cattle Baron] ignored the punch, and his return blow made Ilvriss go stumbling back a dozen steps.
 
——
 
This sucks.
That was Ilvriss’ first thought after the world stopped spinning. He staggered upright and decided he really, really hated the north. In general and this part of it.
Ranchers. Who knew they were this…ornery. The moment he’d come north, they’d picked fights, but it had only gotten to this point when he’d bought cattle; he needed a supply of food, and there was no other real way to guarantee a lot of good food given no one wanted to sell to Drakes. He could only—wait, that [Cattle Baron] was charging him—
Ilvriss had to throw himself sideways to avoid another punch, and he rolled up, panting, and heard the huge man laugh.
In a battle with swords Ilvriss wouldn’t have been worried, but this was a damn brawl, and he bet he weighed half of what this man did. The Human was tossing Drakes and Gnolls around and decking everyone not in armor.
“Y’all remember this is from the Lischelles! Good night, you damn intruders!”
He punched one of Ilvriss’ adjutants so hard the Drake dropped in an instant. Ilvriss snarled.
“Get out of my camp! Salazsar, to me!”
He and a bunch of [Miners] began punching forwards and met the [Ranchers] in a melee; Ilvriss ate another hit to the jaw and staggered back.
I really miss Liscor. Zel would have known what to do here. Actually, Zel would have probably been able to out-punch this entire damn group himself.
He had been a [General]. Ilvriss? He was a [Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence]! No warrior like his father, Zail, but a hybrid leader-economic manager. He almost fell as he saw a man raise his hands together like a hammer—
“Nephew, I see the problem!”
Nerul’s punch to the stomach made the Human puke—but Ilvriss dodged just in time, so the vomit just got over his tail, which was still horrible. But then Nerul was there with the Rubirel Guard! The [Diplomat] waded into the fight, and he dropped another Human with a kick to the chest.
Ilvriss grinned as Captain Osthia began bellowing orders, and [Soldiers] in armor pushed forwards and began handing the Humans’ tails to them. Right up until he saw the huge man in a leather vest and one of those stupid [Rancher] hats turn and size Nerul up.
“There’s a big Drake. Hoi, little man. Let’s dance.”
The [Cattle Baron] came charging through the crowd, and Nerul whirled.
“Ah—”
They collided, and Ilvriss saw Nerul go reeling. He was used to his jovial uncle being one of the bigger men in the room in personality and size, but the [Cattle Baron] was larger and visibly—stronger. When Nerul went to grab his lapels and headbutt him, the man grabbed Nerul’s wrists, forced them back, then began headbutting Nerul repeatedly.
“Uncle!”
Ilvriss fought to get over as Nerul kicked at the man’s legs, earning an oath, and they began to trade punches. Nerul threw a punch that turned the man’s head; the [Cattle Baron] whirled around and knocked Nerul flat. When the dazed [Diplomat] tried to get up, he threw a muzzy punch; the man leaned out of the way, hit Nerul in the chest, and Nerul sagged.
Then Ilvriss drop-kicked the man in the back. And he wished that did more than make the Human stagger.
Ancestors. It was like fighting Grimalkin, and that was not a comparison Ilvriss needed right now. He dodged backwards, avoiding swings that felt like they’d take his head off.
“Get—the—hint?”
The Baron of Beefcakes, the Rancher of Rawhide, the—he didn’t seem to be paying attention to Ilvriss punching him! Ilvriss went staggering back as he earned a kick, but he’d dodged most fists, and after the first flurry of swings, he realized the man had a weakness:
He was no [Soldier]. He was already sweating hard in the heat, and [Rancher] or not, he hadn’t been drilled to fight on the battlefield for long bouts. Ilvriss kept dodging and blocking punches, tiring him out. The Drake began throwing punches as the [Cattle Baron] backed up, raising his fists on the defensive, snarling.
“I haven’t even attacked—”
“Yeah, yeah.”
Ilvriss got one warning before the kick nearly went straight between his legs. When he leapt sideways with an oath, the [Cattle Baron] was running.
“Boys, let’s ride!”
He dashed back to his horse, swung himself into the saddle, and kicked off so fast that Ilvriss was still running at him when the [Cattle Baron] was riding past him. He rode like he was born to it. One boot knocked Ilvriss flat. The Wall Lord heard whoops, and then horses were stampeding away.
With the cows that Osthia’s people hadn’t saved. Ilvriss pushed himself up slowly, body aching, jaw screaming, and saw Nerul rolling over with a groan.
“That brings me back to my youth. Me and Mister Superior getting thrashed…ow. Nephew, I see there’s an issue.”
Their camp was in disarray. Captain Osthia landed, panting, but not visibly that badly dinged up. She helped Ilvriss up as he rubbed at his face, and he said it. He’d really tried not to say it, but…
“I think we might need some more help, Uncle. Is, uh, is The Wandering Inn busy?”
He’d tried so damn hard to keep it all working and not rely on the one place he felt like he shouldn’t bother. But between personnel shortages, the [Rancher] problems, all these damn nobles trying to impede him, and Drakes being their own worst enemy—he hung his head.
Nerul, much battered, just sat up and winced. He pointed a broken tip of a claw left, and Ilvriss’ head turned. He saw a [Princess], a little white Gnoll girl, a brown-haired Human girl with atrocious fashion sense, and a small entourage staring at him and realized he’d fallen in a cowpat.
Despite all that, Ilvriss smiled.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin had promised to help Ilvriss. In truth, there was a bit less altruism in the choice than she cared to admit.
“We’re all sick of the rains, even though it might be ending soon, Wall Lord. With Tessa settled, I thought I’d check in, especially since Nerul insisted you needed help. We owe you for Tenbault. And, er, it’s rather hectic in Liscor.”
“Trouble?”
He was gingerly rubbing cream on his bruises. No healing potions; he’d refused the ones she offered him. Lyonette tried again.
“Honestly, Ilvriss, we have plenty.”
“There’s a shortage, Lyonette. I can’t justify using one on me. I’m even digging with the crews; it’s not pleasant here.”
That made sense, and he did have a kind of charisma and business sense she admired. Though she had to say, his battle-sense for charging the biggest Human she’d ever seen in a hand-to-hand fight might be lacking.
Colfa certainly agreed; she was applying more balm to Nerul with a business-like attitude.
“Vall Lord. You are an idiot for taking on Marvus in a fight. Much less for keeping your cattle out like that.”
Ilvriss eyed Colfa, who’d come riding with Lyonette when she heard where the [Princess] was going. He tried not to snap.
“Miss, er, Colfa. We’ve met at Liscor, correct? It’s not my choice that damn [Cattle Baron] is attacking us! He’s only lucky we haven’t decided to draw swords!”
She raised one brow at him and leaned forwards to pointedly offer him a hand to shake.
“I am Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle, Wall Lord.”
“Val—oh, Ancestors. I apologize—”
She smiled without baring her sharp teeth. The Vampire woman ameliorated her fake accent and adjusted the scarf she liked to wear that hid her usual rashes; her skin was pale, and she wore black with crimson highlights. Fashionable, dangerous, Lyonette’s best friend.
And local to this area, it transpired. She even had a bit of an accent like the locals here.
“It’s been some time since I came home. ‘Taint like I miss it. But I’ll tell you, Wall Lord, what anyone with sense says: don’t make this bloody. The Lischelles won’t win a battle with your soldiers. They won’t try. They’ll ride up, shoot arrows, set bushfires, and make your life a misery. They do it with other [Ranchers], and it’s a bloody, bloody mess.”
Ilvriss grimaced.
“That’s what Nerul said, but the cattle raids—”
“You put all your cows in a pasture and posted guards on them.”
“Yes, and they knock down the walls, steal the cattle, and I’m not made of gold!”
He protested, and Colfa rolled her eyes.
“So, what you do, Wall Lord, is build multiple fences and hang colorful pieces of cloth so the cows don’t stampede through when they get nervous. And get some good dogs; they can also calm frightened herds. I’d have thought you Drakes would get the concept of walls.”
Ilvriss hesitated.
“Oh. I see. Ranching is…not a Salazsarian affair, Miss Colfa.”
She smiled at him politely.
“So I see. I’ll make some recommendations, if I may?”
“Please, Captain Shieldscale and my people can take your advice…ow.”
He tried to get up and winced; he was clearly not feeling good after the punches; his scales were puffed up or discolored, and Lyonette eyed his bare chest. Then realized at least one of her daughters was doing the same.
Dame Ushar handed Ilvriss a fresh shirt to Nanette’s disappointment, and he sat up.
“To be honest, they won’t even take my meetings, only sell me the same damn cows I suspect they’re stealing from me. Any help you could provide would be gratifying, Lyonette.”
She ducked her head.
“I’m completely willing to help, Ilvriss, and Colfa is too! I’m so sorry—”
She recalled when he’d proposed this venture to Erin and that the two things Ilvriss had needed were a Gang to back him up—and a noble to assist him where the Gang couldn’t. Ilvriss had the Sisters of Chell, but she was supposed to be his noble contact. And she’d let him go because, well, she’d been busy.
She had excuses, but when Ilvriss smiled in clear relief, it still hurt. He turned.
“I can, ah, show you around the camp. Let me just check on Brilm’s son. He’s at the [Healer]’s. Uncle. Are you alright?”
“It’s not the first time I’ve eaten a few bad punches, Nephew. Highly embarrassed, nothing more. Frankly, Captain Shieldscale makes us look bad; she barely appears rumpled from that dustup. Miss Colfa, do you know that [Cattle Baron]?”
The two Drakes got up, groaning. Colfa raised her brows.
“Who, Marvus? We used to date.”
Lyonette’s head snapped around, and so did Nanette’s. Mrsha just held a handkerchief over her nose. Colfa’s eyes twinkled.
“I used to live here, Wall Lord. Lischelle farms aren’t far; small wonder they’re one of the groups giving you the most trouble. Well, we own a lot of land. We’re all but nobles. I haven’t come back often, but I can at least get them to let us in. Though it might be—tricky. I didn’t leave the family on the best of terms.”
And she’d run off north to marry Himilt and become a Vampire. Lyonette had so many questions, but then they were moving out of the tent, and Ilvriss was walking along.
“Everyone in good enough shape? Well done, everyone. I’ll have to ask Alrric to authorize combat pay. Again.”
He was making poor jokes, smiling and grimacing, but shaking hands with Gnolls and Drakes who were nursing bruises. To Lyonette’s surprise, Ilvriss got enough grins or jests.
“We showed them. Damn Humans, Wall Lord. Er, present company excepted.”
“Saw a few of them break fingers on the Rubirel Guards and Erchirite Spears. Can’t we just march on them?”
“None of that now. We’re not trying to start a war…”
