…Tolveilouka didn’t know how to kill his foes. He’d given it a damn good shot with all the traditional methods. He needed knowledge. He needed a plan, and he was aware the [Innkeeper] knew things about the gods he didn’t. They were on the same side. And his Master had told him to listen to Erin Solstice in that alternate world.
“Argh!”
Tolveilouka stopped slamming his head into a cliff when it collapsed on him. He dug himself out of the rubble and gloomily went for a walk. He ran ten miles in ten minutes, looking for something to torment, but everything was avoiding him.
He was still Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer, though, the second-greatest traitor to half-Elves, the second-most abhorred member of their species to ever live. His master was obviously first.
The half-Elf told himself that. This ‘Irurx’ fellow? Nothing but a few-centuries old poser who did a few things with bugs. This ‘Death of Magic’? Bah. Young.
If they knew he was alive, the half-Elves would turn their kingdoms brown with terror. He was the monster who could do anything, kill anything…
And he had to help the damn [Innkeeper]. He ground his teeth together and spat one into the ground.
Fine! Fine. But he was going to do it as himself. The [Innkeeper] would regret his assistance. Right, so who did he have to help?
Giants’ hanging testicles, he had ulcers all over his stomach purely from the stress.
 
——
 
Tolveilouka went for a walk to think. He strolled along, past a plateau of stone he felt like he’d been responsible for creating. Going for a walk through House Veltras’ lands.
Wasn’t this where we’d had that knock-down, drag-out fight with the [Archmage of Tectonic Might]? Tolveilouka felt like he’d eaten a Tier 7 spell around here and had to crawl away from the fighting while his master took on the [Archmage].
Funny. There were Humans living on top of the plateau, now. An entire city of ‘em. You looked away one second, and…
 
——
 
High above Tolveilouka, Lord Swey held a sword in hand, his other fake-hand at the ready. For…something. His family and all the residents of his lands were either here, armed and searching the forest for whatever was out there, or ready to scale ropes and evacuate.
Something—he watched the trees in the forest slowly rippling as flocks of birds flew in dead silence. Evading the thing knocking down the vast trees one-after-another. In seconds. It was coming this way, and he’d sent for House Veltras’ forces, but Tyrion was on another continent. Swey waited, sweating—
 
——
 
Tolveilouka kicked over another tree glumly. There was…another reason Tolveilouka had to help Erin. His copy had brought back more knowledge with him. This was just personal.
A little aside as worlds ended. A realization—inference, really—that his beloved master, the Putrid One…hadn’t really cared about Tolveilouka as the world ended. An understanding, delivered to him, that he never had truly loved Tolveilouka as much as his creation and servant had loved him.
That…
Tolveilouka didn’t put that down to another world being different, or a lie, or something. That was probably true.
You didn’t live as long as he had with his master and not notice the signs. It wasn’t like he was a fool. Nor had he cared, really. Love was allowed to run stronger one way. The Putrid One was a [Necromancer], and he had created servants who were, ultimately, extensions of his will. Of course, Tolveilouka had seen his master obsess over other enemies, servants, allies—it was just that the half-Elf had remained constant, the winner by the attrition of everything else.
It wasn’t like Erin had to tell him. Or feel bad about it. It changed nothing. He had always been proud to be the Putrid One’s greatest servant.
“Did I want to be his equal, more than just his finest work of art and weapon?”
He didn’t know. The half-Elf stood, gazing at that plateau, and remembered looking up and seeing his master waging war with the greatest beings in the world.
“Perhaps I liked being a servant, you stupid Human…woman. It changes nothing at all, to me. Not a thing. I waited an eternity for him to wake. For that is loyalty. What could you give me, beyond revenge? A death against insurmountable odds? There is no future for me.”
Was he going to appear at her inn, waiting on diners while hiding his putrid nature? Play cards with Mrsha and teach Antinium how to roller-skate?
He puked again, black bile, at the very notion. Tolveilouka wiped his mouth and shook his head. He kicked a fir tree so hard it lost all of its needles, then stomped off. Minor tremors in the earth.
He would not be one of her pets, even if this version of her and he could ever see eye-to-eye. He saw the [Innkeeper] in her [Garden of Sanctuary], loosing lightning bolts at him.
No, not this version of her. And not this version of I.
There would only be—he stopped, and in his mind’s eye, he saw the [Innkeeper] sailing through the burning sea, spells landing around her.
Only that. Only calamity. Only an ending to everything, and an existence as long as any other great defier of death. Tolveilouka stretched, and he gazed at the sky.
“Ah. That I might do. Until I find someone who attracts my eyes, far more comely and rotten than you. A glorious little corner to infest and grow into something new, if I’ve the heart for it. Until then—”
He supposed he’d have to do her bidding. In his twisted, selfish ways. He’d gone so long with a master—he was out of practice being anything else.
Tolveilouka sighed. But he felt better. This was important, to take personal time for things. He kicked over another tree for the hell of it and hoped it really upset some [Druid]’s feelings.
He still resented helping Erin. He had to make sure she regretted some part of it.
 
——
 
The key was thinking correctly. It had taken some doing, but Tolveilouka had logicked his way into a course of action that made him happy with some deep thought.
He had to help Erin and her damn inn. True. But ‘helping’ wasn’t the same as darning their socks, killing a monster for them, patting them on the back, and tucking them into bed with a glass of warm milk, was it?
They needed levels. Suffering caused levels. And help, well—consider the case of one Lyonette du Marquin.
[Princess]. Slightly cunning. Ran the inn. Thought she’d trapped him with her Skills, and her mother certainly had a decent bit of will to her. Whenever he thought of going near the inn, she’d push him back, enforce that Skill with the weight of his debts to make him back off.
He knew it cost her to do that. There was a huge power differential between them; she was probably wearing her body down with the strain. Now, in theory, Tolveilouka should politely knock on Lyonette’s door, swear obeisance in all things, and end this battle between him and Queen Ielane.
Or—and this is where you had to follow the logic—he had to think about Lyonette and her best interests. Her mother was a controlling, manipulative harridan squatting on her pathetic throne, her lineage stolen from a Dragon. Oh, Tolveilouka had looked her up out of curiosity, and he knew Terandria, where he had come from. He knew her type.
She was probably ruining her children’s lives, tormenting them by her iron fist and rules. Therefore, the best and most helpful thing to do was…continue fighting with her and eventually make her head explode from the sheer strain.
Perfect logic. Tolveilouka had actually patted himself on the back when he’d realized the correct course of action there. It also meant harassing Lyonette was fair game. She had to level.
And, wouldn’t you know it, but a little undead zombie he’d pasted to the side of one of the High Passes told him that the [Princess] had left her inn. Which was where her mother’s power was greatest. Tolveilouka rubbed his hands together.
 
“Misery, won’t you be mine? 
Sadness, come and give us the time.
Go for a stroll under the deadmans’ pier
Our fates don’t require the eyes of a [Seer]…”
 
He strolled across Izril, readying a prize for the [Princess]. Plagues. Now, he was good at plagues. A good sickness, the kind that left you scarred, the ones you had to fight to survive, that was always worth a level or two in his books. You didn’t need two arms. Lose one and there was a free level right there.
Perfect plan. Perfect…he frowned as he tried to figure out where they’d gone. Wait, there were so many damn openings to that teleportation door, and he wasn’t made of running. Nor did he track spells well.
Er…
 
——
 
“Exchuuuse me, Good Missah! I was just wondering if you perchance happened to know the whereabouts of a certain woman I was searching for?”
Liska saw a lot of things on door duty. Lots of characters. But the half-Elf with the giant black mustache and funny way of talking got her to peek up from sorting people into doors.
“Hey, buddy, which city?”
“I was just wondering if you had seen—”
“Get in line or get out.”
Tolveilouka faltered. He rolled a gold coin across his fingers and presented it to Liska with a flourish.
“I happen to be looking f—”
She smacked the gold coin out of his hands.
“I’m busy! Shoo!”
She actually shoved him across the room with a [Lesser Forcewall]. Tolveilouka debated breaking it, but the damn [Queen] was pushing at him frantically. He shouted.
“You damn ingr—”
She flicked him through the door to Invrisil, and he went tumbling down the street. Tolveilouka lay there until a [Guardswoman] tried to arrest him for making a scene at the portal door. He kicked her in the shin, and she lay there, making a whimpering sound.
Tolveilouka got up. He folded his arms, then walked off as he tore the mustache he’d grown off his face.
“I actually grew it. Hair follicles and all. Perfect disguise. She didn’t even banter. Didn’t haggle. Does no one even engage with a bribe?”
This was now the fourth-most upsetting thing to ever happen to him. What happened to class? Style? He peered around.
“You. You there. Are you a [Warrior]?”
He stopped a likely-looking Human on the street. Captain Todi, on his day off, stared at Tolveilouka as he and Elia Arcsinger—who had no friends aside from Calescent—wandered the city. They stared at him.
“Er…yes? Gold-ranker, Todi. What d’you want.”
Tolveilouka looked the man up and down. His face fell.
“Gold-ranker. With a body like that?”
Todi flushed as Tolveilouka stared at his belly, which wasn’t fat, but not nearly as aesthetically pleasing as—
Todi punched Tolveilouka in his stomach. The half-Elf didn’t blink. Todi recoiled, and he and Elia saw the half-Elf’s taut stomach muscles moving. Todi went for a stomp and knee to the groin. Tolveilouka just stared at him.
“That’s your aesthetic? You should be bare-chested, sword on your shoulder, bearing your battle-scars! Even with your frame, it’d work! And you—”
He eyed Elia. Hmmed.
“Bare-chested could work, but maybe a huge, conical hat? Leaflike tunic and some accessories. Does no one have arm-bangles?”
Todi stepped back behind Elia with his instinct for danger. Elia just blinked at Tolveilouka.
“For…adventurers? I’m an [Archer]. Anything dangling would get in the way of everything.”
“Yes, but the style—what about [Unimpeding Accoutrements]? It’s just one Skill! So this is modern fashion.”
The half-Elf drew himself up and looked both adventurers up and down.
“And they call me disgusting.”
He walked off disconsolately. He’d have to find where that damn [Princess] was on foot. Todi and Elia glanced at each other. Todi peered at the door.
“Inn thing?”
“Mm.”
“Alright, let’s get the hell inside before half the city explodes.”
They ran for it. Tolveilouka ran southwards, because he had established Lyonette hadn’t come through Invrisil. Her pretty-[Princess] stink, one of the ways via which he could track people, was too old.
So that meant hot-footing it about four hundred miles then finding her. He sighed and started jogging.
 
——
 
Transport across Izril was easier these days. You had Wistram trialling teleportation spells across the continent, though most people preferred the enchanted carriages, Valeterisa’s comet-based delivery service, and the classic Overnight Carriages, whose industry was being harmed by all of the above.
Functionally, most people had to use an Overnight Carriage. Even Lady Desinee El; it was that or ride a horse, which the [Lady] could do, but not all day, thank you. The House of El might be richer of late, but they did not waste coins. In their way, they were the most frugal of all the Five Families; you’d never catch a Terland taking public transport.
Or a Reinhart. When Damia Reinhart tried to obtain transit south, she found, to her huge annoyance, there were no carriages to be had.
“What do you mean they’re all taken?”
The half-wincing [Carriage Matron] was a unique class in the Reinhart family. Vultine, the bastard daughter of one of the family’s trysts with commonfolk.
You might ask why you could have an illegitimate daughter in the Five Families, who did not practice the Terandrian tradition of marrying other nobles to ensure bloodline ‘purity’, and even Terandrian kingdoms let commonfolk marry into their houses with decent commonality.
The answer was that her father had declined to adopt Vultine when the [Maid] had presented her daughter, and he had done what mostly happened: given her a prestigious job in the family.
It had been one of her uncles that Magnolia had killed…who was it again?
Ah, yes, old Krallis. All that meant that Vultine might still be a servant, but she was allowed to snap back at her family, within reason, and her icy expression frosted over as she stood, levering her weight on an axle to take it off a carriage in repair. She had grease on her overalls and, rather to Damia’s shock, a lot of muscle.
Vultine kicked the axle and somehow got it to roll across the workshop floor to where a waiting pair of young [Tinkerers] hauled it off to be repaired or something. The [Carriage Matron] nodded at the chassis suspended by a lot of straps in the air; someone was actually swinging themselves under it for a look, which seemed risky to Damia, straps or not. That was a lot of weight to drop on you.
“There’s the only carriage I’ve got that’s not reserved or in use, Lady Damia. You want to fix it up to get it rolling faster, be my guest. Otherwise, every Reinhart your age wants one made and custom-fitted at that. You won’t have one for weeks.”
“Weeks? What are you all doing? You should be able to serve every Reinhart here with ease!”
Damia was mad. She tried taking out her pique at her state of events on Vultine, and the [Matron]’s eyes flashed. She swung her long wrench down dangerously and leaned on the huge thing.
