“We had enough carriages to do just that, milady. Right up until everyone decided to carry on the family tradition of running into anything they don’t like! Lord Gorthes alone has gone through eleven. He’ll pay for that.”
She meant in coin. Magnolia had been giving an allowance to the family while she had them under her Skill, but that wasn’t how it traditionally worked; they had more of a ‘grab and give’ one where you used up family assets and then you paid it back or the rest of the family made your life a living hell. And you paid your dues to Regis if you needed something valuable he had.
“You should have reserved some for me!”
Damia insisted hotly. Vultine looked her up and down.
“You and Lord Wernel never use my carriages except to borrow a backseat for one of your little trysts, Lady Damia. You’ve no dedicated [Driver] nor do you contribute to the family wealth or power. You’re low on the list, and take it out on me if you want—the rest of your family will be on you when their carriages aren’t repaired timely. And they’re all learning the same lesson: back you might be, but invincible yer not, especially your damn carriages!”
She kicked another wheel off the carriage with an oath, and Damia hesitated. She eyed the carriage and only now noticed the rather distinctive holes blown out of the woodwork.
“What’s that from? Those are gouge marks…we enchant our carriages, so they must be from arrows or bolts. Enchanted ones that exploded and tore chunks of the body.”
Vultine paused on the third wheel and gave Damia a half-glance of interest. They’d never talked much, but the [Matron] grunted.
“Good to see that brain of yours working. Maybe I’ll have some actual competition around here in chess. Cosoi and Calidus were the only good players while you lot were stupid and dumb.”
“You knew we were bound? And that implies—you weren’t?”
“Sure. Magnolia needed the staff in good order. Doubt she could mind-blank the lot of us. What? We knew better than to say anything. She had the Assassin’s Guild at her beck and call and her staff.”
“What about Cosoi? Isn’t she in Terandria?”
She was weird, wasn’t she? Cecille had never gotten on with her, and Vultine jerked a thumb back into the mansion.
“She’s back. Diplomat as far as we go. One of the family who worked with your aunt Magnolia rather than fought her, so she kept her wits. Not sure she’s long for the world, but I’m not the one buying daggers. And like I said, your family’s not getting all its way. See this carriage? One of your cousins thought they could just storm one of Magnolia Reinhart’s safehouses with a few dozen of the house retainers.”
Damia focused on the carriage, noting the shattered glass windows, broken fourth wheel, and she knew they had the best enchantments money could buy.
“Who attacked them?”
“Magnolia’s staff, of course. Shot everyone but Lady Ethra dead. Took her two days to get back, and she didn’t bring the carriage; I had to send a team out special.”
Vultine spat, and Damia frowned.
“Ethra’s an egomaniacal twit. Even if she’s smarter—who’s finding Magnolia’s estates and properties? I thought they were hidden.”
“Sure are. When Lord Gorthes and Lord Ricule went to take one, the entire place was empty, lands sold off to one of the Veltras family. She’s not making your return to power easy.”
This all seemed highly amusing to the [Matron], and the upshot was that Damia had no transport. No [Driver], either, which Vultine pointed out again.
“You need a good one. I’m not letting some hamfisted lackwit drive our carriages. You’ll run someone over, and the Watch’ll seize my vehicle no matter what you bribe them if it’s a family. You lose a carriage, you give me enough gold to replace it or my workshop’s closed to you. If you want a custom-rig, you need to make it worth my while to upgrade it and maintain a berth. Just so we’re clear, I do prioritize.”
She rubbed her fingers together meaningfully. Damia tilted her head.
“You seem rather well-placed to make a profit given how much the family loves carriages, Vultine.”
Another snort.
“You think I chose this job because I love the family? I claimed it, and now I’m getting what’s mine. That’s the family way, isn’t it? Best of luck, Damia. I wouldn’t want to be you, a full Reinhart without the venom. I’ve placed myself quite well, and I’m underneath your deadly games.”
She saluted Damia with a wrench and smiled thinly.
“Oh, and don’t try the smooth-face on us. Everyone can see you’re floundering. You’re one viper in the flowergarden among many, here.”
That was the problem. Damia fancied she was smarter than Gorthes and at least a match for her mother if she had the same assets to wield, but her entire family was, well, Reinharts. She bit her lip, mind racing.
Everything I’ve tried—which hasn’t been much—has led to nothing at all. I need help. 
“You wouldn’t happen to have a good [Driver] for me, Vultine? I’ll take someone low-level I can train up. And I’ll remember the favor.”
“What, one of my lads? When we’re swamped? I think—”
Vultine nearly spat before Damia interrupted impatiently.
“I’m not Wernel. The Reinharts are back, and I imagine you know to hedge your bets, don’t you? Give me something. I need transport south, and a Reinhart repays her debts, good and ill.”
They were famous for that. People associated them all with the negative, but Damia was proud. She meant it, and Vultine hesitated, chewing on a block of some gum. She spoke out of the corner of her mouth.
“Trade routes are a mess since Magnolia’s no longer keeping them. This is some gum-stuff from Baleros. Comes in blocks. She got me two pounds of the damn stuff every month. Different flavors. I can’t get enough. Not everything we want is just more gold or power, Damia. Fascinating, entertaining things are worth more to the family. That one’s free. The [Drivers]…”
She cast a glance around, shook her head.
“Even if my lads wanted to take the class and job, I can’t spare ‘em. Nor do I have a carriage.”
“But—”
Vultine jerked a gloved thumb back over her shoulder.
“Here’s the favor: go find your Aunt Cosoi. Play very nice with her and she’ll help you travel wherever you need to go. I’ll expect something within two months if I hear you’re doing well.”
Then she turned, began hollering orders, and got back to work. Damia frowned, and her mind again remembered it was supposed to be doing something for a living these days. She closed her mouth, spun on her heel, and left.
Vultine glanced up as she saw Damia striding out of the workshop. She blew a bubble, and it popped.
[Gum Pop: Hidden Comment].
“That one’s smarter than her brother. Tell anyone interested in the staff she can hold her temper and take advice.”
One of her people glanced up from where he was swearing over the ruined frame of another carriage and took a lunch break. Vultine nodded to herself. They had to keep themselves safe, the staff. When the Reinharts were done getting all their energy out, they’d start clawing at each other again and the Five Families, and you wanted to be on the right side then.
So much more dangerous and tricky. But—the [Carriage Matron] and [Gum Chewer]—Level 24, incidentally—grinned to herself.
She had to admit, this was a lot more fun.
 
——
 
Think, Damia, think! She poked the sides of her head, because if she wasn’t careful…she stopped thinking!
Magnolia truly had done a number on her. Damia’s one reward for freeing herself from a lifetime spent under Magnolia’s aegis was this:
She’d levelled once.
She was a Level 9 [Incestuous Lady], having been Level 8 until the Winter Solstice. And her Level 9 Skill, the great reward for such an—an exalted class, was this:
[Think Harder].
Highly insulting. However, it was, perhaps, a sign of what Damia was capable of. In that…even without the Skill, she had learned how to engage her brain.
That sounded like a joke, but Calidus would have understood. After a lifetime of not thinking about much, whenever Damia’s mind actually had to work it was immediately apparent to her. So she could force it to engage in ways she believed other people couldn’t.
She engaged it now as she sought out Cosoi, who had a suite to herself in the far end of the mansion. Why did Vultine give her that advice? Assuming it wasn’t just to get Damia out of her hair…
One must assume that Aunt Cosoi’s a bit of a pariah if she worked with Aunt Magnolia. Perhaps even in danger of being killed, though I don’t know how angry the family is at her, and we’re not that murderous to each other.
Who’d be on her side? No one. And therein lies the…the…
She pulled something out of her bag of holding and paged through a dictionary until she found the word.
Fallacy. It’s so annoying not knowing the word for what I mean. Be nice to her means take her side or do her a favor.
But why Cosoi? The answer must be because…she’s had probably twenty years of being quick-witted while we’ve been idiots. Of course! If anyone has a base of power, it’s her!
All this understood, Damia changed tack at once. She returned to her rooms and put on her best dress for meeting her aunt. Something actually respectable not…Wernel walked in as she was changing and ogled her.
“Damia, where have you been all day? Want to have a quick—”
She threw a perfume bottle at him.
“Out!”
“What?”
His eyes were yellow, and he reeked of Hazyflower. She brushed past him.
“I’m not sleeping with you anymore, Wernel. Stop smoking Hazyflower and look around. We have more important things to be doing!”
“More important than sex? Damia, just stop thinking. Doesn’t your head hurt?”
“Yes! At times! Don’t you feel more alive?”
He shrugged as he stood there and called out after her.
“What’s the point of knowing how to do things better? We’re rich. I don’t need to figure out how to kill that bastard who slighted me at the pub and hide a razor in his food; I can just hire an [Assassin]. You know Cousin Girhel murdered someone and was hiding them in the basements? Mother had him dragged out of his rooms and beaten like a commoner.”
Damia half-slowed.
“Girhel? So he’s moved on from animals then. Huh. Sounds like Aunt Magnolia had a point. Is he being arrested?”
“No, just beaten, and they’re finding a [Thought Healer]. Mother says she’ll have him imprisoned in the family dungeons if he does it again.”
“I wonder if he’ll change.”
So the real idiots were taking themselves out if they couldn’t control themselves. Mindful of this, Damia knocked on Cosoi’s doors. A [Servant] admitted her, though the woman kept dabbing at her eyes with a handkerchief. Damia had a box of expensive treats Wernel had bought for her she’d repackaged.
What she expected from Cosoi Reinhart, Damia didn’t know. But the [Lady]’s rooms were unlike any other Reinhart’s that Damia had ever met.
She had a suit of Terandrian armor in the entranceway to her large suite; every Reinhart of station had a vast amount of chambers in the family manor, and they’d build entire wings for their space. But she also had a hand-woven tapestry of Terandria on the wall above. Pre-Creler Wars and likely authentic; it was dated by a little plaque just so you knew how expensive it was.
There was a dead lion’s pelt draped over another chair, and the head of the most hideous purple thing that Damia had ever seen was mounted next to a crude spear of bone lovingly hung on a rack. It was…
“It’s a hippo. One of the deadlier non-magical monsters of Chandrar. I shot the damn thing when I really wanted an Oliphant, but I was advised to not kill one or have every [Druid] in a hundred miles on me. The spear’s Cenidauian. I made it myself when I visited. If you want something of me, I’m rather not in the mood, Damia.”
Cosoi Reinhart wore her hair up in a Terandrian fashion with needles pinning the tower of hair up, and she was red-eyed. She had a cup of wine in one hand and travel-clothing on, even indoors, another Terandrian look.
Kaazian, with fur on the collar and hems. She had six servants with her, all of whom were red-eyed. Damia blinked and held out the box.
“Aunt! I was hoping to speak to you—is something wrong?”
“Oh, nothing, Damia. Just my [Serving Man], Vorghen. Someone strangled him and dumped him in the well. I suspect Gorthes. Kill his bodyguards.”
Cosoi put her cup down, took the box, handed it to a servant, and stared down at Damia. She didn’t seem surprised, and her eyes flicked to the doors, then Damia’s dress.
“Is this a social call from Cecille? Is your…delightful brother around?”
“Half-brother. No, I came on my own. I—am sorry for the loss. Did Uncle Gorthes really do that?”
“Oh, yes. He never could control his temper. It’s the most overt the family’s gotten. Three of my staff are dead, but I thought I’d convinced them it wasn’t worth the blood to go after anyone else. I might have to move back and take the embassy job in Calanfer again at this rate, but no one in the family can agree we need an overseas presence. It’s all grab, grab, blame me for choosing the winning side—no one sent you?”
A sharp look, and Damia realized Cosoi was all on guard as she poured a very generous cup of wine for Damia. The [Lady] held it and didn’t drink.
“I need a favor, Aunt. I’m trying to establish myself now that I’m—awake.”
“Of course you are.”
Cosoi didn’t appear dismayed or resigned, but faintly amused. She sipped from her cup.
“Your brother…?”
“Smoking himself stupid on Hazyflower. And I heard Girhel murdered someone.”
The older Reinhart didn’t blink.
“Magnolia suppressed more than just intellect. For the better in Girhel’s case. He was always disturbed, but she didn’t put down children even if they were rabid dogs. She had rules. A life for a life. He’d be fair game now.”
Magnolia would murder a fellow Reinhart? Damia shivered; they were a lot of things, but even now, she couldn’t see that being…easy or acceptable. And Cosoi was watching her, so she smiled.
“I’m not here to fight about Aunt Magnolia. You chose the winning side, Aunt Cosoi. Blaming you is pointless. I do need help, and I’m willing to repay favors.”
Cosoi swirled her glass around and peered into it.
