“Oh, someone who knows what she wants. Well…”
He had a catalogue with illustrations, very graphic illustrations, of all kinds of body parts and faces. Damia swallowed.
“You have, uh, Centaurs?”
“And a Minotaur. Some of our most popular entertainers are—non-traditional species. We also have a variety of illusions if you’d like to try them out.”
Dead gods, you heard rumors, but—Damia hesitated, but she was conscious of the eyes on her. She had not, in fact, done much more experimenting beyond Wernel and other [Lords]—or staff—around her age. But she blustered.
“Everything else in the world is dull. How about—”
Her finger flicked down the page, and she pointed at random. Even the staff member hesitated.
“Er…are you sure about Golthox the Gorgon? It can be quite—intense.”
“I’m looking for intense. I’ve been bored these last months.”
Either let her have experiences that made it worth freeing herself from Magnolia’s cage or all the things she felt she was owed! Damia took a breath as she produced her Merchant’s Guild card. The member of staff began to murmur into a speaking stone, arranging the assignation as Damia smiled, when someone crashed down the steps into The Dripping Abyss.
“Argh! Hells! My balls—my back! My—oh, terribly sorry about landing on you.”
A figure slammed down onto one of the guests exiting the building, leapt up, and strode forwards—into a wall. He backed up unsteadily as a flood of people followed, and Damia turned and saw none other than…
Calidus Reinhart. The amiably wide, blonde-haired Reinhart always had on clothing that seemed winestained or askew, even if he hadn’t actually gotten them dirty yet. He twirled in place, spreading his hands, and murmurs arose.
He had no mask on. Damia had a mask on, and she recoiled as Calidus strode into the center of the Abyss.
“Dead gods, it hasn’t changed! Mwah! My home away from—come in, come in, everyone! I’m a regular here. I used to be, at any rate. Terland’s Golems, this place hasn’t changed! Is that Espo up there? Hello!”
One of the glistening figures on stage waved at Calidus, and whispers arose. Damia’s escort nearly dropped his speaking stone.
“Dead gods, that’s Calidus. He’s not dead yet?”
“You know him?”
The [Escort] nodded distractedly.
“He’s a famous member—very generous with his coin and, ah, affections. Who are his g—”
Then he froze, and so did Damia, because no less than twenty figures had followed Calidus inside. But these were no regular guests with masks on. They had full-face coverings of cloth, black clothing, and an unmistakable look to them.
[Assassins]? Calidus spun.
“Don’t worry, don’t worry, they’re off-duty. New, you know? Where’s Calolach? Calo, my friend! I was hoping to book twenty rooms.”
The owner of the Abyss came out himself, and he stared at Calidus.
“You want to reserve us. For…[Assassins]? I heard they were all dead!”
“Who, this lot? No, no, they’re just, uh, employees! And this is a team-building exercise. Well, I say team, but that’s advanced stuff. Not sure they want to go for that. Let’s just get everyone paired up, shall we? You’ve got my card on file…”
He was booking everyone with the [Assassins]! Dragging them over by the shoulders.
“How about that lovely lady? Beautiful, believe me. Or our half-Elf of drugs and delights? No—wait—are you male or female? Well, excuse me! Let’s do the other side of this catalog then, unless you’re still tempted…? Ooh, is this a new member? I might have to introduce myself.”
Damia realized she’d been completely forgotten as Calidus dominated the room. She was trying to get the attention of her [Escort], who’d had to go over to help with Calidus.
“I’m terribly sorry, Lady. We’ll have your partner ready in five minutes—”
She couldn’t help but notice that Calidus had already finished his entire group and they were already vanishing. In fact, the [Lord] was mopping at his brows. He cast around, snagged a drink off a tray meant for someone else, and then spotted her. His eyes widened.
“Is that Damia?”
Somehow, he knew it was her! Damia turned bright red and jumped, but Calidus strode over.
“Aha! I knew it! Same hair style, familiar aura, same dress you wore at our get-together two years back. Fancy meeting you here! Kicked Wernel to the curb yet? Delighted, delighted, let’s never talk again, Cousin.”
He beamed at her, and she scowled at him.
“Calidus. You’re as obnoxious as ever. Do you always barge into places like this so thoughtlessly? There’s such a thing as tact, in First Landing, no less!”
He smiled at her, and she noticed he’d changed too. Calidus had always been quick on his feet, but he’d usually been amiable, practically redolent, and just drinking or flirting with anyone female he met who caught his eye.
Right now he looked…stressed. As if he were trying to have fun but he had too many things on his mind. He grimaced at the drink he held and took a gulp that reduced it down to half in a single go, then sighed.
“Thoughtlessly is the dream, Damia. As for tact…you know anyone can find out you’ve been here, don’t you? The staff sells names to [Gossips]. Which I don’t mind, but you seem to think that mask works. As for me coming in like a hot and bothered storm, I appear to have gotten my way faster than you. First time?”
She flushed as the [Escort] hesitated and stepped back, but Calidus just reached over and plucked the notes up.
“Let’s see who you chose, shall we?”
“Lord Calidus, that’s private—”
The man slapped away the hands, and his brows rose.
“Oh my. Golthox? Someone’s in far over her head. Have you been here before? Has she been here before?”
He turned to the [Escort], and Damia tried to snatch the clipboard.
“Give me that and stay out of my business—”
Calidus snapped his fingers, and now his eyes lit up.
“First time, probably tired of old Wernel, thinks she needs the most exotic thing in this brothel. Which you do not want to try with a Gorgon. Did you even read what you signed up for? It’s going to be rough; I’m really not sure if you can deal with Golthox’s, um, girth, and believe me, I’ve gone drinking with him enough times to really get a good look when we go to piss. Also, two.”
Damia hesitated.
“Do you mean he has two—”
Calidus rolled his eyes.
“Who doesn’t know that? No, wait, you didn’t know about Lizardfolk? Hah! Dear cousin, allow me to save you from yourself. Let’s just cross that off and choose someone…there. Lovely Gnoll fellow by the name of Nrram. Knows what he’s doing—I mean, one’s told. Educational. Put it on my tab.”
He handed the clipboard back to the [Escort], and Damia suddenly had every desire to leave. But Calidus just winked at her, and she glowered. They drew together and began to whisper.
“What are you doing here, Calidus?”
“Trying to get some new co-workers to relax. Well, employees?”
“Assassins? In First Landing? Are you mad?”
Calidus raised his eyebrows.
“No one stopped us. Assassins come and go. And I presume they need fun. This lot is dull as can be. Interesting—but dull. I got a ‘shipment’ from Chandrar. Fascinating that’s how it works, but I have to make something of them, and I thought, well, have any of them ever visited an establishment of such covert delights as this? When they said no…”
He spread his arms. Damia stared at him.
“That’s your reason for bringing them here?”
Calidus downed his drink, grabbed another as it came over, proving he really was a member the brothel knew quite well, and smiled. Without much mirth.
“Well, yes. I have to do something or at some point I assume they’ll just slit my throat or go rogue. I don’t know why I have to do this, but re-establishing the Guild—that’s my job, by the way, don’t tell anyone or do, it’ll be entertaining either way—is not easy.”
She stared at him. This man was the one Regis Reinhart trusted to…
“Why are we establishing it again? Why us?”
Calidus blinked at Damia.
“Aside from the fact that I think a lot of people want it back? Aside from the fact that it was a check on, well, everyone, and that we’re at the mercy of the south without it? Aside from the fact that a vacuum exists and one should be made because someone else will make one if we don’t? I mean, personally…I need something to do. And they’re far more fascinating people to talk to than family or peers of the realm. Once you open them up. Actually, I wonder if I can watch any of them in action. I have to admit, I’m curious. Excuse me, did any of them sign up for an open room…?”
Then he was gone. Damia Reinhart stood there, trying to come up with some kind of reply and realizing that Calidus was insane, a buffoon, but even Calidus was ahead of her in terms of everything.
She recalled he had his own estates, his own finances, even his own staff, although they were famously disloyal. Calidus was more established then she was.
It rattled her so much that she forgot to cancel her appointment. When Nrram the Gnoll came out to greet her, Damia hesitated, but she didn’t quite manage to refuse to at least see…what there was to see.
Which was an experience that definitely put itself as the #1 encounter of her life in that department and made her wonder what she had been doing until now. Someone with Skills and actual practice versus—
Then she realized Calidus had been right, and that soured her mood, but she did arrange to come back here later.
…As soon as she could afford it regularly. She hadn’t realized how much it had cost, but Calidus had put it on his tab.
How rich was he?
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart was glad to see the back of Damia. He hated his family.
Not in a deep, philosophical way, like Aunt Magnolia. He quite respected her dislike of him and everyone else. Calidus just got depressed around them.
Even before they’d all gotten happily stupid, which he’d liked as a change for the better, they were just self-serving. Which, to be fair, so was he. But he didn’t like mirrors that much, and there was something predictable about his family.
They’d do what was in their best interests. They didn’t surprise. Magnolia surprised. The rest of his family just made him want to roll under one of their carriages after half an hour in their company.
At least he’d saved Damia from needing a [Healer]. A good deed for the day, astounding at his age, really. Calidus collected all the Ranks, the low-level [Assassins], after they’d finished their business, flirting with all the employees he knew by name at the same time.
“We’re supposed to be the exotic ones, Calidus!”
A Drake hissed in his ear, and he kissed her on the cheek.
“Well, now you can say you’ve slept with danger. Don’t be strangers! My home is always open to you—and we’ll be back!”
Not soon given how much that had cost, but he led the silent group back up the stairs and towards the waiting carriages he’d chartered. The Ranks filed into the coaches, all black outfits and that iconic look where you took a piece of black cloth and just turned yourself into a giant roll of fabric.
Cheap, effective, and…they sat in the carriage as Calidus sat shoulder-to-shoulder with the black clad figures.
They leaned away from him. He beamed around.
“Well, thoughts? Anyone see anything impressive? Who got to meet old Rilla? Oldest member of the Abyss. Sixty-two, though she doesn’t look a day over forty. Dead gods, her Skills—anyone?”
Silence. Calidus went on.
“Must have been someone in another coach. So, how’s it feel? Interested in going again?”
Nothing. The figures sat there, ready for orders, ready to be given commands. Low-level [Assassins] straight from Chandrar, Roshal, the new members of the Assassin’s Guild that Calidus was overseeing.
Foreign assassins. Not that Calidus was biased, but in time he’d have preferred recruits from Izril itself. These were from Roshal, and one suspected that Roshal might have ways to command them…if they really wanted to. But work with what you had.
The [Lord] laced his fingers together. Sat back. He tried to out-stare one of the Ranks, then gave up and blinked. They were immune to awkwardness or the need to socialize. Calidus exhaled.
“…Well, I hope you at least enjoyed it.”
They said nothing. He scowled.
“I know you were all virgins. Come now, that has to be something after all the training in whatever they made you do. Any fun? Do you lot even talk?”
Silence. He waited. After seven minutes, there was a voice from one of the eight in the carriage.
“It was…new. Good.”
Calidus smiled at last. He began extolling the virtues of the various ladies he knew personally and the lads he drank with. And he thought, in the back of his mind—
I need to get this lot on my side. Or they are going to murder me in my sleep. As well as all the older [Assassins].
After all, this was the Assassin’s Guild. You could rise to the top in a very traditional, pointed manner. Unless he changed the rules. And they had to be willing to accept said rules. Because if they realized that they outnumbered the Faces by far and that Calidus had no people besides them…
Well, the chaos to Izril would be the silver lining if this all didn’t work out. Damn Regis. But it beat being bored.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart’s estates were convivially unmanaged. His staff stole things. They quit often. He didn’t care; he had lived a life of parties, and until recently, he’d been content to waste his money and die in someone else’s bed or under a table and leave the world a finer place.
Then Magnolia had given him his mind back.
Drat her.
Of course, Calidus didn’t feel murderous towards Magnolia. If he ever saw her again and she wasn’t killed for her various involvements, he would probably shake her hand—if she let him touch her or gave him any mind whatsoever, very understandable if she did not—congratulate her on her survival, and ask if she’d put her Skill back on him. Beg, really. He had a lot of practice grovelling at the feet of attractive women.
He hated it here. And by ‘here’, he meant his head. His mind, which would not stop racing until he drowned it in drink or hit it. He hated how boring the world was when he was sober, how mundane things were.
How did you get up, farm every day of your life, then lie back down and not put your head under a grindstone? How did you—seem to enjoy the ‘little things’ he had heard life had? Perhaps money had ruined Calidus, or perhaps he’d still have been this unhappy if he’d been born a pauper.
