The Hunter-Killer cornered Ilvriss in half a minute. One second he was vaulting, running, the next something slapped him down, and he fell on the ground. Rolled and nearly lost his tail. Zail turned his head.
“What was that? I didn’t see—”
Eschowar’s voice was quiet.
“Aura. Can anyone throw a Skill?”
 
——
 
Ulva Terland was panting from the effort, but she watched as the Wall Lord ate eight daggers. They stabbed into his stomach, and he screamed. At last—blood.
Pang. The Golem’s arm recoiled, and the Wall Lord threw himself left. Someone spoke in her ear.
“There goes his ring. Must have recharged. Damn. Does he have a potion?”
He was drinking a potion as he backed up. The Golem slashed at something attacking it—flashes of light were assailing it. [Mages]. The camp was mobilizing, but they’d lost the heavy Drakes in armor. Time to finish this then recall the Hunter-Killer. Ulva caught her breath, heart thudding in her chest as she snarled.
“Firebreath.”
She caught the Drake full on, and he writhed and fell onto his back, twisting and trying to put the flames out. They extinguished, and she saw his head rise, bloody, as he tried to mouth something at her.
“Stop—”
Then the vision of him rotated. Vanished—and Ulva jerked.
“What—what’s going—”
She was staring at the ground. A siren rang out.
“Concussive impact. What was—”
 
——
 
Xesci threw the Golem and her back out. She clutched at it as the Minotaur-form she wore cried out in agony. She was no [Warrior]! And the damn thing was getting back up.
“Xesci, get out—”
Ilvriss was badly burned. But the [Courtesan of Change] faced the Hunter-Killer, standing between him and it.
She was no hero. If it charged, she’d step aside. But…
Sisters are dead. Haple’s going to be unhappy. She spared one thought for the women she’d asked to protect Ilvriss. For them, and because she was the highest-level person here, and because she had a feeling, a certainty from her class, the Drake held her ground.
Her face was changing. Minotaur wouldn’t do much good. All she knew were throws and immobilization moves. No warrior; she’d die the moment it came at her. But something—
The Minotaur’s head was twisting towards her as the Golem righted itself with more effort; it wasn’t good at standing. Xesci saw spells hammering it, saw someone toss a rope that bounced off a glowing barrier. Her face, voice, everything morphed.
She was usually shy about it. What did Ilvriss see for a second as she glanced at him? A monstrosity like the one from the High Passes?
Or just…
A woman? He stared up at her, uncomprehending, and she spread her arms as the Hunter-Killer Golem raised a hand to erase the obstacle between it and its target.
Then it halted. It froze up, and those emerald eyes focused on a woman who stood there, her hair blowing green around her, a ponytail swishing in the night. Face illuminated by magic, stubborn and strong-jawed, not exactly short, but neither tall yet with that intensity of expression.
Will and faith in stone, like the Controller’s pendant that hung around her neck. A tattoo of her house on one bared arm, pride and compassion and, perhaps, even wisdom in her eyes.
Petria Terland, one of the [Twin Virtues of House Terland], stood there as she had been before her death, breathing in and out, eyes locked on the Golem’s face. Half a continent away, a woman froze.
 
——
 
“Petria?”
How? Ulva had stopped the Golem. She held it, ignoring the sirens as the Drakes attacked it from behind, staring.
“Ulva! Ulva, it’s a trick!”
“It looks just like her. It’s…”
Voices around her. She didn’t hear them. Her heart was thundering. She was shaking. Ulva gazed at her twin.
The face she had not forgotten, nor who had been out of her mind a single day in the twelve years since Petria had died. Only, this was Petria as she had been. Young, beautiful, when they had been in their primes.
The one in Ulva’s heart. Someone had taken it from her. She even had Petria’s voice.
“Don’t.”
That was it. The brief warning that she refused to elaborate on because it said everything. Ulva was still. Then she was shaking. Shaking with horror and rage and—
 
——
 
“Who are you? How dare you?”
The Golem bent forwards awkwardly, and the voice came from its mouth. Ilvriss hadn’t known it could speak. He felt the watcher’s wrath, horror, and the knife-hand came up—
Xesci flinched, but she was channeling Petria, and she refused to move. The hand didn’t swing down. The person on the other end couldn’t do it.
“Move.”
“In the name of House Terland, I shall not! Golems witness me!”
“Stop it. Stop it. You’re not her. I see you. I see your true face, you—you faceless mirror.”
She was using her aura from afar. Xesci wavered, but Petria’s face firmed.
“Kill me, then. Kill me, Sister, and damn the north! I am Terland, and I speak to my better half!”
This was madness. Ilvriss was forcing himself upright, gasping. This—Xesci was beyond anything he had dreamed of her. She’d told him he’d regret it if she channeled Periss or Erin, but—
She was pulling straight from Ulva. And the Matriarch of House Terland was shaking so bad the Golem was doing likewise.
“Stop it. Stop using her voice! You don’t know her!”
For a second, Xesci paused and moved sideways as the Golem tried to edge around her.
“I met her.”
“Liar. What are you? Move—move.”
Then came the shove with all the power of one of the Five Families. Hard and fast, and Petria-Xesci stumbled. Ilvriss reached out—pushed back. If the Golem got around Xesci, he was dead, but Ulva refused to strike that image of her sister.
“I said move!”
Xesci almost did, skidding sideways, but Ilvriss put out his hand.
“No.”
“Back away Ulva Terland.”
Someone joined him—thrusting back Ulva’s distant authority. Lyonette? He heard her, but he dared not take his eyes off the Golem. The Minotaur head was jerking towards him. It raised its fist, and someone fired a crossbow bolt that pinged off its head.
Nanette. He registered that with distant comprehension, his mind processing everything, seeing a way out. If the Rubirel Guard got there.
“Out of my way.”
Ulva Terland threw everything at them, and Xesci slid as Ilvriss and Lyonette fought around her. Aura versus aura. Dead gods, the Terland matriarch was strong! Xesci was windmilling her arms, Petria’s face a mask of concentration.
Like someone figuring out a horrible puzzle. Then she went calm and sighed. Coming to a dreadful conclusion. The screaming Ulva Terland was raging, throwing her very soul at the [Princess] and Wall Lord, when Petria Terland, caught between the aura war, glanced up.
“You made a mistake, Ulva. Just like when the Goblin King killed me. You made a mistake. Look at me.”
The Golem’s head swung towards her, and Petria was holding something. A belt dagger. There was a single moment as Ilvriss’ head turned to her. Ulva gasped.
“PETRIA—”
The blade slashed across Petria’s throat. A ribbon of red ran down her throat, and she dropped the knife. Lifted her hands and cupped the blood.
“Ulva. Stop.”
 
——
 
The Matriarch of House Terland froze. Utterly, heart halting in her chest. The war with the Wall Lord and [Princess], the sight of her beloved Petria.
The strain of commanding the Hunter-Killer—
Enmeshed in the House of Stone, hidden from all threats or danger, Ulva Terland had hid away.
Nothing to hurt or kill her. No blades to find her back. Nothing of her to wound.
Except her heart.
She waited, and it refused to beat. The Lords and Ladies of Stone were shouting, then they saw her slump.
“Lady Ulva?”
“Great Aunt? Great—”
 
——
 
Petria Terland drank a healing potion, gasped, then held a finger to the edge of her throat.
“Ancestors, that hurts. I’m glad you gave us more of these or I’d have never tried that.”
She walked away from Ilvriss, shaking her head. He jerked. The Golem had frozen, and the aura-storm halted.
“Xesci, what are you—?”
The Drake sat down.
“You’d better destroy that thing or tie it up. They might reactivate it. But I’m pretty sure we just gave Ulva Terland a heart attack. Not sure if she’s dead, but she’s gone.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss stood there as the Rubirel Guard charged the Golem with chains. Lyonette, standing with Ushar, Colfa, and Nanette, turned her head. Her face went white.
“What?”
 
——
 
Very, very calmly, Lord of Hearts Nouzcrat clapped his hands for silence. The [Healers] were surrounding Ulva, and the room was in panic. Tears on most faces.
Lord Xitegen via his Golem was still. And his Golem could weep, but he just watched. Lord Nouzcrat spoke.
“They’ve killed the Hunter-Killer.”
The viewpoint had gone dark. Every head turned to it, then to him, and Nouzcrat glanced around.
“The Matriarch of House Terland may be dead. Not a word leaves this room. Convene the family for an emergency. And—activate four Hunter-Killers. Kill that Drake.”
Then he turned and ran after Ulva.
