This time, the [Courtesan of Change] smiled, and her face was merciless. Without vindictiveness either, just cold.
“Wall Lord. I knew you by reputation before we met. A year or two ago, you’d have murdered every Human trying to ranch around Salazsar. Oh, you’d have done it with armies and legality, but you would have slaughtered them.”
He opened his mouth, and she leaned over the desk.
“You made war against the Trisstral Alliance and Zel Shivertail. Thousands of Drakes and Gnolls died. It was over trade. The same Tidebreaker everyone mourned, you were dueling to the death along the High Passes.”
“I wasn’t trying to kill him—”
But it had been a battlefield. If he had died, Ilvriss would have probably said to his father it was—
Rattled, the Wall Lord leaned back in his seat, and Xesci shrugged.
“Just remember that’s where he is. I can feel it. They want you dead, and the only reason they’re not shooting arrows is because they don’t know how many [Soldiers] Salazsar will send. You won’t have Humans who come from here working anywhere, not in any numbers. Morale’s low in camp after the death. I’ll raise it with the girls and boys. That’s my contribution.”
She walked out. Ilvriss sat there and just remembered the scream. The boy’s face. He had to write a letter to his family. How did he phrase it? It wasn’t a combat death…
 
——
 
There was one last piece of misery, and this was not meant to be funny humor to undercut the horror of the death.
It was just…it was just damned inconvenience.
Ilvriss had a chamberpot to relieve himself with. Which you tossed in the damn cesspool that was a literal pond of sewage. Small wonder they called this place the damn Cowpat Plains. It was cattle and Humans.
He hated it. He hated that this trivial, gross act bothered him when he should focus on a young Drake being dead, but he just couldn’t deal with the chamberpot.
“Anything for a damn toilet. Anything!”
He knew the Humans didn’t like it either. They laughed at him, joked about it, but the outhouses in the Lischelle lands had stunk of flies, and he saw people grimacing, Humans or Drakes (he had exempted Gnolls on the grounds of the smell) when they dragged it to the septic pond.
Well, that’s the one thing the Lischelles didn’t have. Plumbing. Damn them. Damn it all. I thought Lyonette could do miracles. It’s not fair on her. I just—
I should have told them about the bulls when Marvus warned me. But we were leaving. Damn Dramm. Damn Drake culture and having to repay every insult.
Damn Sserys for giving me directions to this place.
“Damn the Necromancer. Damn you for leaving, Erin. Does no one care but me that he’s out there? I know there’s more! I know! But he has to die forever!”
He knew there were dead gods and horrors and—but Periss. Ilvriss sat on the ground, not the chamberpot, and pulled up his trousers. He sat, covering his face, as a fly buzzed around him. It was so hard to do this and find nothing but pieces of ceramic tiles that were supposed to be the City of Purity!
He hadn’t even shown Lyonette and Nanette the dig site because, well, there was nothing to show! Just dirt, dirt and stone, and not knowing how far down you had to dig, and he needed more personnel, and the cattle raids halted everything, and he refused to quit, but Ancestors—
An eight-foot tall Golem with a screaming bull’s face soldered to a serpentine body with daggers for fingers punched through the tent wall. It slashed down right where Ilvriss should have been if he’d been on the chamberpot.
He stared as the blades gouged a hole in the earth. The Wall Lord looked up. The Hunter-Killer Golem stood there, inspecting its hands. The Minotaur’s head rotated left and right, mouth open in a frozen scream. It turned, oddly slowly, and he scrambled to his feet.
“Ancestors. Ancest—”
It slashed and left trails of light in the air. Ilvriss jerked an arm against them, and his rings shrilled. He felt blood running down his arm as it laid open his scales. But he was busy dodging the arm, which came down like lightning. The Golem paused, head rotating as he scrambled left, shouting.
“Attack! Attack—”
 
——
 
Ulva Terland’s teeth were bared in excitement. She saw the Wall Lord fleeing, and she raised one hand, slashed—missed.
She cursed, and the watching Lords and Ladies of Hearts murmured. Ulva Terland sat in the Heart’s Connection, the device that let her operate the Hunter-Killer Golem.
It resembled a strange, circular space where the person in the seat could move a suit of armor synced up to a Golem’s body. It was a huge, cumbersome connection. If you had Skills and were closer, you could be far, far faster.
A [Golem Controller] could maneuver some Golems at the speed of thought if they were good enough and had the right Golem. But from all the way in the north? This was incredible magic.
It was also…highly suboptimal. Ulva kept missing the Wall Lord as he ran, dodging the blows she sent his way. She was already panting, and there were voices all around her, annoying her. They overlaid the sounds the Golem was hearing.
“—nt Ulva, left, left! He’s drawing his sword!”
“No, use the firebreath! It has firebreath, right?”
“Silence! I nearly have him!”
She snapped, and a voice rose above the others.
“Lady Terland, the Hunter-Killer is not indestructible! Please, relinquish control or allow one of us to take over! The Wall Lord is armed!”
A very upset [Golem Controller] was urging her to let the Golem do its job without her. Ulva was very annoyed.
She’d requested the Heart’s Connection because she’d wanted to do what every Terland desired: control a mighty Golem. But she’d failed to hit and kill the Wall Lord for whatever reason, and now—
“Ridiculous! I have him!”
She swung again, and he ducked. For such a small figure in her eyes—he was so—fast—
There was a warning siren. Someone cried out.
“Damage! Superficial across chest structure! His sword’s enchanted!”
“It barely did anything.”
Lady Ulva grumbled. But she saw the Wall Lord attacking, sword striking in artful blows. More little sirens; she had a monitor for the Golem’s health in the corner of the display. It showed the barest damage to the chest, which was enchanted metal.
But…it was a Hunter-Killer, which couldn’t be remade, and was barely repairable, even a lower-grade model. Ulva wrestled with her ego. She’d used Hunter-Killers before, when she and Petria were young, as well as any [Controller]!
Age. She stared at the liver spots on her hands, then snapped.
“—Fine. Restore the programming. But I will remain here. Transfer the spell-abilities to me.”
She kept herself hooked up to the Heart’s Connection. The relieved [Controllers] adjusted the chassis, and the Golem began to move of its own will. The viewpoint became sickeningly disorienting as it moved at increasing speeds, attacking the alarmed Wall Lord with far more finesse, and Ulva saw more icons light up.
Not many abilities. Firebreath, activating the Razorline Claws, and a temporary [Threefold Arcane Barrier]. She shrugged, then sat back, fingers resting on the activation studs in her glove’s palm. She wanted to see the Drake die.
No forgiveness for him nor the Goblins. Xitegen claimed not to have forgiven Goblins either, but he suffered them. Never here. She stared into the Drake’s eyes as he lifted his sword.
“Salazsar! Salazsar!”
Yes.
That was how she remembered them dying.
 
——
 
He should have known. Nerul had warned him he’d do his best, but some never forgave. Like him. Like his father. Ilvriss’ sword was raised in a guard stance, just as he’d practiced—but the Golem was so fast. Whatever had been wrong with it, it had nearly taken his head off twice. Only his rings had saved him, and one was now dead.
“Salazsar! Salazsar, to me!”
Confusion in the camps. Ilvriss felt like he’d been screaming for hours, but it had probably only been seconds. They—they were shouting alarms.
“Where are the Humans?”
Dead gods, they thought it was the [Ranchers]! Ilvriss slashed.
“In here! Golem attack!”
His enchanted longsword barely scored a line down the Golem’s front. In return, it slashed, and he leaned out of the way.
Remember your parrying technique—he actually deflected one arm and pushed himself off it, a move he’d learned from the sword school he’d practiced. No regular warrior fought like that. It was why he was still alive. That and Shriekblade showing him how fast a real Named-ranker moved.
His time was running out fast. Ilvriss heard a shout, then someone ran into the tent.
“The Wall Lord is under attack! Here! [Piercing Thrust]!”
The Rubirel Guard! The Drake thrust a halberd into the Golem’s side—and his enchanted weapon barely penetrated the enchanted metal. The Golem turned, slashed across the Rubirel Guard’s armor with a screech, and he staggered, but his armor saved him!
The Golem’s Minotaur head had emerald eyes. They flashed, and the Golem paused for a millisecond—then kicked the Rubirel Guard.
“Ancestors!”
It knew how to handle foes in armor! Ilvriss backed out of the outhouse tent, and the Golem came at him, not the downed guard trying to get up. He emerged into a camp in chaos. The Golem tore out of the tent, and Ilvriss saw two halberds descend and blocked them—barely. It began slashing the Rubirel Guards, but it wanted him.
“Get the Erchirite Spears!”
They needed a full battalion to charge up their spears and blast the Golem! This had to be a Terland Golem—it was taking on his bodyguard, and they weren’t dying, but neither were their halberds doing much to that metal shell!
The finest of Salazsar versus the finest of Terland. Armor versus armor, a deadlock—except for Ilvriss, who had no armor and who the Golem was targeting. He went rolling left, onto one knee, and realized it had taken off half his neck spines.
Blood was running from a huge gash down his back. The Wall Lord wavered.
“Ah.”
He was no Saliss of Lights. That one dodge had nearly killed him. He stumbled up.
“Wall Lord, back! Form the lines! Reinforcements! Rein—”
It sprayed fire at two of the Rubirel Guard attacking and leapt at him. Ilvriss flung up his sword to parry—
“[Desperation Dive]! [Thunderous Impact]!”
Captain Osthia Blackwing hit the Golem and sent it staggering back. She recoiled, flipped up into the air, and she was flying.
“Wall Lord, fall back! To arms!”
His personal bodyguard were all around him. Handpicked Drakes and Gnolls from their anti-Az’kerash training force, trying to attack the Golem from all sides. But it just barged through them, slashing.
Too damn fast for anyone under Level 30 to handle. Not without the Rubirel Guard’s armor. Ilvriss could barely keep up with it himself.
“[Reaching Slash]. [On Guard]—”
He deflected one knife-hand, then the Golem was on top of him. He was backpedalling as the others tried to get around the Golem, bring it down, target the legs—
Nothing. Ilvriss saw horrified [Miners] and members of his expedition forming a huge circle, staring at the Wall Lord fighting for his life. He stumbled—and someone yanked him back.
“[Pull to Safety]. [Bloody Stab]—shitshitshit, get it!”
“The hell is that? We can’t—”
“It’s a fucking Terland Golem!”
Women. Human women. For a moment, he thought it was Lyonette, but the woman just had ruby red hair like her, but a completely different, older face. The Sisters of Chell. They were around Ilvriss, but they were as unarmored as he was. They had daggers, shortswords at best.
Members of a Gang, but not—[Soldiers]. The ruby-haired woman turned to Ilvriss.
“Get back—it’s after you, idiot! Girls, get ar—”
The Golem slashed her head off. The blood hit Ilvriss in the face, and one of the Sisters faltered.
“Mirand—”
It ran her through, kicked another Sister, who crunched, and slashed across the others. Ilvriss saw them fall as fast as they’d come. He gazed up. The emerald eyes on the Minotaur’s head flashed, and it turned to look at him, but there was something on the neck. A glowing oval stone. Its real eyes were probably there.
Someone was watching him through the head. He felt it. Her. He could feel her malice, far as they were.
“I have come in peace.”
He told the Golem. The Golem breathed fire at him. Ilvriss recoiled, but a shield rose and blocked it.
“[Elemental Ward]! Ilvriss, fall back! Get behind us! Formation!”
Osthia Blackwing landed, slashing at the Golem’s neck. In response, it generated some kind of magical barrier, and when it blew her up, it grabbed her, then slammed her down.
He heard her bones break as the Golem turned. Again, to Ilvriss. The Wall Lord cast around. He saw the Rubirel Guard moving forwards, his guards trying to take up a formation. The Wall Lord looked at the Golem, at his sword, and he did something he’d have never dreamed of. Something his foe didn’t think he’d do.
He ran.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Zail burst into the command room where Alrric was holding a scrying orb. He was bleary, but the Last Defender of the Wall burned with his reclaimed classes. He took one look.
“Hunter-Killer Golem. The Rubirel Guard have to stop it. Or a full charge of the Erchirite Spears.”
He’d seen the Terlands unleash them. Seen fellow Wall Lords and Ladies gutted as they went through formations. Ilvriss—
“How is he alive?”
He stared as the scrying orb swung, then saw something…Zail’s mouth opened. Wall Lord Ilvriss was running.
Arms pumping, holding his sword, but just running through the camp, the Hunter-Killer in hot pursuit. People were trying to stop it, but the odd, loping style of the Golem meant it was bounding, having trouble locking onto him. It lunged, and he leapt right, through some tents, emerged out the other side—
The viewpoint jostled as whomever was holding the scrying orb tried to keep up. In that moment, someone spoke up in the emergency room.
“What is he doing? His bodyguard were right there! Drakes don’t run!”
It came from some junior officer, a [Major] by his stripes. Zail reached out and backhanded the Drake. He did it too hard; he’d forgotten he was as strong as he used to be. The [Major] went over, and the rest of the people in the room stared at Zail. He rasped.
“That’s Sserys’ line, you coal-headed hatchlings.”
“Indeed. I have orders. Get me in touch with whomever’s leading the forces. Now.”
Eschowar was there, taking command. Good. Zail just watched as his son ran. The Hunter-Killer…were they watching, those damn Terlands? They had to be. His claws were breaking the stone around the projection table.
