For some reason, that last bit sounded like an insult. Aronia wavered as Lyonette took her cues from Nerul.
“Marvus burned some of the meat?”
“Only a bit, and it’s the most excellent stuff I’ve had.”
“Oh, drat the fool—he was probably jawing with the Golvas. They just rode in. How do you do?”
“Excellent, and may I add that your farmstead is splendid? I love the ranch style of things; we’re all up and down, you know. Is that a genuine ivory dining set?”
“That? Bull horns, nothing fancy—excuse me, I’d best check on the food. You just have a bit and we’ll be right back!”
Aronia stepped away, and Lyonette blinked. Ilvriss raised his brows as Nerul began shaking hands with the impressed members of the Lischelles, who watched him with a sudden respect Lyonette hadn’t gotten herself.
“Uncle, what was that? Did you go into her house?”
Nerul whispered out of the corner of his mouth.
“I surely did, Nephew. I’d like to be all sun and roses here, but they do not like us, and they need us to throw a few jabs at them to respect us. Miss Lyonette, you’re playing far too Terandrian courts. Go Erin Solstice. Your mother would astound you how fast she can class switch.”
Lyonette blinked. Sure enough, though, Nerul had put the Lischelles on the back foot a second. Nerul strode back into the conversation, loud as could be, dictating the flow of it.
“Yes, Salazsar! [Diplomat], drunkard, it’s very much the same energy. I can’t handle the flatness here. It’s all heights back home, but here you ride for thirty miles and you’re lucky to find an anthill! And the damn cowpats! I’ve stepped in five this morning, and the stench! Well, this is fantastic. Now—which of you bastards were stealing our cows and are we eating them?”
He punched the shoulder of a surprised man and had them laughing at a bawdy joke he was telling in moments. Nerul could out-drink and out-personality most people. Ilvriss, on the other hand, checked something he had been given.
“I’ve got a gift to present, but I was told to hold onto it until that [Cattle Baron] gets here. He does not like us, Lyonette.”
“No, he does not. I’ll push back more. How have they treated you thus far?”
He raised his brows at her.
“Treated me? Lyonette, they didn’t say anything to me. Refused to hear any messengers I sent—I’ve bought from all the ones here, but only lower-level representatives. Nerul just got dead silence, but he’s been dealing with the Five Families.”
Colfa muttered to both.
“That’s how it works. Their silence is a sign there’s trouble. If they’re loud and arguing, at least you have them talking. Marvus is not as bad as Aronia.”
“She seemed pleasant enough.”
Ilvriss muttered back. Lyonette and Colfa eyed him, and he hesitated.
“…No? Her husband broke half a dozen jaws.”
“She let him. Don’t get her mad. We grew up together; I’m the older sister, but I don’t have any levels. She does.”
Colfa was visibly nervous, and Lyonette whispered to her.
“Colfa, is there a rift of some kind I should know about?”
“Nothing complex, Lyonette. I left for Himilt.”
“You ran away?”
“Oh, no. He got their blessings. But he had to work for it, and I—left.”
“But they gave their blessings?”
Colfa sighed.
“Yes, Lyonette. But what does that mean? Aronia and I haven’t done more than send letters for over a decade. We are going to have a conversation, but not here. Not now. I don’t know how you’re going to win them over, though. They won’t relent. They’ve fought at the Bloodfields.”
“I had no idea they cooperated with the Five Families that much. Or that they had this much sway this far south.”
Ilvriss frowned. Colfa eyed him.
“The Five Families won’t get more than spit down here, Ilvriss. They’re not loyal to any noble house. They’re just…north Izrilian. Why wouldn’t we fight at the Bloodfields?”
He hesitated, and here came Marvus and Aronia, and the [Cattle Baron] strode over, shook Ilvriss claw, then stood back, hooking his thumbs in his belt.
“Hope you’re all enjoying the food. Go on, eat up! Then, turn around and get the hell out of my lands, if you don’t mind!”
He laughed, but there was nothing friendly about the look he gave Ilvriss. The Wall Lord cleared his throat.
“Mister Marvus, I understand Salazsar’s presence here is unwelcome, but I’d like to discuss a cessation of hostilities. We have not begun any offensive actions between our people or any of the local rancher-families, and I have a token of goodwill for you, if you’ll accept it.”
Marvus’ brows crossed.
“You what—?”
Aronia whispered in his ear, and he grunted.
“You want to make peace. Not likely. What do you want to give us?”
For answer, Wall Lord Ilvriss opened a black, Wyvernleather briefcase, and Marvus Lischelle went temporarily blind.
Even Lyonette du Marquin had to own—she’d never seen that many expensive gemstones packed into such a small place. They…glittered.
It was harsh but true to say that a well-cut and spelled piece of glass could usually look as good as your average gemstone. True, the real thing had a bit of luster to it, but most gemstones were rocks when you got down to it, and the cut and finish mattered almost more than the quality to the neophyte’s eyes.
But magical gemstones. Magical ones…they glowed. They glittered. They shone with little motes of brilliant light or ran like water, like the opals in the—
Aronia closed the briefcase, and there was a sigh from her daughter. Not just here; everyone had been goggling at the gems, but the woman’s face was all smiles. Her tone was not.
“You must think we can be bought easily, Wall Lord.”
“Not at all, Miss Aronia. This is a gift.”
“Damn expensive for a gift. I guess that’s the City of Gems for you.”
Marvus’ already impressive chest puffed out, and Ilvriss’ eyes flickered. He might not have been the best diplomat ever—Lyonette had met him the first time he’d come to Liscor, after all—but he was a [Wall Lord] without a combat focus.
Adaptable, and the Ilvriss of today could listen to his Uncle. He smiled and chuckled.
“No, no. I fear we’ve all made a mistake. This is no gift in the sense of a…a bribe. This is a thank-you for your lovely cookout. It’s traditional for Drakes to give gifts to neighbors, and this is a Salazsarian one.”
“It’s so—it’s quite a lot.”
One of Aronia’s sisters changed what she was about to say, and Ilvriss gestured at the case.
“If you have such fine livestock, then Salazsar has the same in gems. Please, as you have offered us your specialties, I insist. This is purely a gift, no strings attached.”
He handed it to the woman who’d spoken, and she didn’t try to hand it back fast enough. Very, very clever. Marvus or his wife would have done that. Aronia hesitated.
“Let’s put it aside, Rachele.”
She meant on the table where the melting ice cream was, not to be touched. But that one had struck a blow, Lyonette could tell. Marvus glanced about.
“Awful lot of armored Drakes for a group coming here peaceful. What’re you digging for? That’s what I hear you lot do all day. Dig and more digging. Must be a fortune in, what, metals?”
“Something like that, Marvus.”
Ilvriss copied the man’s straightforward posture and tone, and his voice was polite.
“I’m not at liberty to discuss House Gemscale business with anyone but our partners.”
“And you’re his partner, Miss…?”
Marvus shook Lyonette’s hand and smiled at her, but glanced at Ilvriss as the Wall Lord clarified.
“Miss Lyonette is a very valuable business partner of House Gemscale. From Liscor.”
“Liscor? With the Goblin King nonsense?”
Lyonette met the man’s eyes as he glanced her up and down and wrote her off for reasons she suspected had to do with his willingness to believe the news. She smiled, and her skin hurt from all the smiling.
Her cracks from taking on Erin’s curse. But her makeup was very good, so she doubted even Aronia could tell she had more than heavy makeup on.
“It’s not nonsense, sir.”
“Bah. I lived through the last Goblin King. If he really appeared, he wouldn’t have stopped like that. But I suppose Liscor’s where you get peculiar ideas like trusting Drakes. These are our lands, Lord Ilvriss. No one invited you.”
“As far as I understand it, there’s no owner of the lands we’re digging in. I requested and obtained permits through the town—”
“Town nothing. We graze our herds here.”
“So you legally own the lands, Mister Marvus?”
Lyonette jumped in, and the man hesitated. He did not, but Aronia returned from putting the briefcase aside.
“There’s nothing legal about it, Miss Lyonette. We don’t deal in that sort of thing nor does the Merchant’s Guild or any other Guild have much to do with us. We’re just honest countryfolk. We’re merely expressing how we feel to Wall Lord Ilvriss, frankly.”
“Ah, that would include the cattle raids? My people haven’t used blades, Cattle Baron Marvus. But we cannot afford to keep this state of affairs up.”
Marvus bared his teeth in what would have been a friendly smile for Drakes.
“Shame about that, then. For us country bumpkins, it’s a good warmup after dinner and a way to whet the appetite before dessert.”
“Could we negotiate a truce?”
“No. I don’t think we can. Y’see, we’ve heard about the sabotage the Drakes got up to in the north. Even had a few fellows try it here. They thought they blended in. Well, they learned how well that worked. Whatever you’re looking for, you’re not going to get it easy, Wall Lord. Mind you, I appreciate you not drawing blades on us. I’d hate for things to get worse.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss inhaled and met Marvus’ gaze as the tension ratcheted up, and people began to shift around them. Wall Lord Dramm was glaring at some of the younger men behind Marvus, and Lyonette wished Ilvriss hadn’t brought his friend’s nephew here. Hot tempers were the last thing they needed. Ilvriss murmured.
“I’d hate for that too, Marvus. Does this feel like a waste of everyone’s time?”
“Not ours. What made you think you could just walk up north? Salazsarian might?”
Ilvriss’ eyes flashed for one second, and Lyonette nearly interrupted, but the Wall Lord put out a claw and glanced at Aronia, then around.
“Possibly because Zel Shivertail did just that. He was a friend of mine. I have not come to fight a Goblin Lord, but I took his lessons to heart.”
For a moment, Marvus’ steady hostility wavered, and Lyonette exhaled. She smiled at Ilvriss as he demonstrated that charisma he did have. Wall Lord Dramm backed up, glaring, as Ilvriss pointedly glanced at him, and the tension diffused a moment.
“Excuse us a moment, would you, Wall Lord? This isn’t only our family’s decision, and you should meet the other heads of the families.”
Aronia murmured, and Lyonette smiled, then turned to Ilvriss.
“That was well done. She’s calling in backup.”
“Yep. We haven’t swayed them an inch, but maybe given them room to think. Now we let the heavy hitter come in.”
They turned, and as both sides converged again, Aronia and Marvus walked forwards with six other men and women, and they were the polite ones compared to some of the glares in the group. But Lyonette and Ilvriss had brought Nerul.
He had come prepared for this engagement. The first thing the [Diplomat] did was hip-check Nanette, who’d come forwards with hand raised, out of the way. He came in fast, Skills blazing.
“Rabbo Golva. How the hell are you, my man? I owe you a drink!”
“You do? We’ve never met.”
The head of the Golvas was instantly taken aback, but Nerul grinned.
“I once served a Golva steak at a high-stakes—aha—meeting. Won the Gnoll over so much we stopped an entire border war! That’s quality. I always said to myself, ‘Nerul, if you ever meet the fellow who raised that head of cattle, buy him a drink’.”
“Well, we sell to—”
“It was a Golva Goldstar Porterhouse. 18 A.F. I remember it because half my peers didn’t want to eat it; slightly blue meat?”
The man named Rabbo had calluses on the front and back of his hands, and Lyonette got the impression Aronia and Marvus did not like him for all they stood together. A wiry mustache twitched, and his eyes widened.
“I remember that year. It was one of the best damn herds we had, but for the blue dyegrass they got into. I just had to get someone to taste the stuff and—”
“Exactly. Well, someone put me onto it, and Salazsar had an entire shipment in. Now, I’ll be paying for drinks whenever you want, but I’m forgetting myself! Ranton, yes?”
Nerul knew everyone by name already, and he was doing the old divide-and-conquer method. It was so artful Lyonette wondered if her mother was impressed. Nerul was complimenting the Golvas, who were probably rivals with the Lischelles, and putting a chink in their armor. It was—
 
——
 
“—Not bad.”
Ielane commented, wiping at the blood coming out of her nose. She murmured as a little witch jumped.
“Er—who is this?”
Ushar had handed Nanette a speaking stone. The [Queen] spoke.
“Your grandmother, Nanette Weishart. That Drake isn’t bad. He’s pressing the entire lot hard on their territory, and with a month’s work, I think he might get them fighting each other unless they check it. Tell your mother a certain half-Elf might be coming.”
“I don’t know if Lyonette or I appreciate being spied on—what was that?”
Nanette hesitated as Ielane wiped at her nose again.
“He’s not hostile. Just…odd. Tell her. And the [Diplomat] isn’t bad, but he’s made a mistake. This is going to fail.”
The little witch was peering at Nerul.
“I think Diplomat Nerul is quite adept, Grandmother Ielane or however I should address you. Yuck. I can’t imagine he’d fail.”
Ielane smiled despite herself. The uppitiness of a witch…but she corrected Nanette.
“He’s already lost the battle. Watch.”
Nerul was moving like a snake. Striking with pinpoint accuracy like a [Fistfighter]. And the problem with analogies was at some point—someone swung a fist.
 
——
 
It was a telegraphed blow, and Lyonette herself saw it.
“Watch out—”
Marvus swung at Nerul, and the [Diplomat] blinked, flinched, and put up his guard. Marvus halted the punch, laughing, as Ilvriss put an arm out.
“Hah! Got you, you bastard! I knew you were the fellow who tried to take me on yesterday. Thrashed him like a bug, Aronia.”
“Marvus!”
She slapped his arm but not hard, and Marvus swaggered over. Nerul smiled, but there was a sudden tightness to the smile.
“Marvus Lischelle? We didn’t get a chance to say hello. Nice right hook. I’m hoping we can talk.”
“Bah. Talking, drinking—I don’t have a mind to change things. Not when this is so much fun.”
