Some were part of the family and knew how it had been. After all, a Reinhart might be a viper, but they knew to share the wealth with people they liked. Gorthes went limping up the stairs.
“You still sleeping with your brother?”
“Wernel? Oh, yes.”
It displeased Damia that Gorthes didn’t even blink at this, just wrinkled his nose up. Last year, he’d have been appalled, if mildly, and it wouldn’t be fit for conversation. Today? He just spat.
“Well, if you’re going to pop children out, we could use them. Maybe I’ll find someone to sire a score; Izril’s barren enough for nobles. Dead gods but it’s all a mess! Did you know we’ve got Terandrians on our shores?”
She raised her brows.
“Really? For the New Lands? Which nation?”
“Taimaguros! Damn bastards. I don’t remember what they’re like. Also, what’s up with these damn [Vampire Hunters]? I nearly ran over a bunch of them demanding to test me with silver—”
Gorthes was striding out of sight, and Damia had no inclination to follow him. He’d always been aggressive and loud, but the difference was, today, he would back that up with the willingness to run someone over in his reinforced carriage.
Before he’d just been, well, rude. Magnolia Reinhart had kept the real Lord Gorthes from coming out, and this man wasn’t shy about leaping from his carriage or unleashing the bullwhip he carried. The old Lord Gorthes had everyone in fifty miles of their manor avoiding any black carriages on the road. Because that was who he had been, and older generations remembered him.
But who…was Damia Reinhart?
She didn’t know. And she owed Magnolia a dagger in the heart for keeping her from herself all her life.
 
——
 
Cecille Reinhart was Damia’s mother, who had been a rather uppity woman with piercing blue eyes, brown hair pulled back in a frazzled bob, but who had mostly contented herself with gossip and sneering at other women. Damia remembered her mother mostly being outraged about Damia and Wernel’s illicit relationship and being annoyed at everything. A woman who would sneer from behind a cup of wine but never sully her hands when a servant could do it for her.
Cecille Reinhart, today, was pacing around a carriage with an [Enchanter] and [Engineer] from the House of El. Both men were nervous, but she was giving orders in a pointed, clipped tone. And yes, she was dressed to impress in that bloody cloth that had once been described to Captain Zevara as ‘rosewood’, but she even seemed sharper. More beautiful, more sure of herself. She didn’t even glance at Damia when her daughter came into the workshop.
“The scythe-blades are utterly useless. If the House of El doesn’t have auto-aiming, auto-reloading crossbows, give me something that explodes outwards. I want more speed. And locking-Skills on my wheels. No disassembly.”
“I—I could look into that, Lady Reinhart. You’re searching for a counter-Skill against any magics or Skills? That’s very specialized—”
“Do it. If you cannot, don’t waste my time.”
Cecille Reinhart snapped her fan open, then tapped the glass of the carriage window.
“Also, illusion spells on the carriage. I want a variety of options. And an enchantment to make it appear as though I am someone else.”
“Lady Reinhart, that’s highly illegal—”
She turned her head, and the [Enchanter] from First Landing added.
“—But well within my capabilities! I may need to consult with Wistram.”
Her lips twisted.
“Can you do without? If you work with Wistram, I will not have any listening or tracking enchantments in my carriage. Unless you can guarantee that, I will do without. And if you are wrong, I will ensure you don’t survive that mistake.”
The [Enchanter] went dead white and said nothing at all. Cecille snapped her fan closed, then smiled.
“Enchanter Jives, that’s a joke, a joke! Dead gods, you take things so seriously…excuse me, my daughter appears to need me. Damia!”
She was all smiles as she came towards Damia and took her arm. Cecille exited the workshop, dropped the smile, and scowled.
“Odious little men. No one capable for miles around here. They’ve either left for the New Lands or…that Master Hedault in Invrisil would have been far better.”
“You couldn’t get him?”
“Him? Hah! Too difficult to work with. Too principled. What do you want, Damia? I’m busy.”
Cecille lit a cigarette as Damia stood there. She wore her clothing of old, which was a young noblewoman’s outfit, trendy, with the lace of last year’s fad still clinging to a revealing, ruby-red dress that would have been so provocative…
Now it just felt pointlessly slutty and trying too hard. Cecille eyed Damia, and one roll of her eyes stung more than any lecture or outrage of before.
I have changed. But because she had, Damia lashed out with a slight smirk.
“Still sore about getting trounced by Watch Captain Zevara, Mother?”
Cecille Reinhart blew out some smoke and didn’t dignify Damia’s comment with a response.
“I miss our [Assassins]. They should have never been allowed to rebel, and doing without them is so tiring. I hear Calidus has them, but how they came back into our possession is odd.”
“We have the Assassin’s Guild again? They weren’t wiped out?”
Damia grew interested again with that flash of—of being alive that thrilled her to the core. Cecille hesitated, then went to apply some lipstick. She spoke, sidelong, appraising Damia.
“That is a secret to any but our house and likely some members of the Five Families and greater houses. It will be kept secret.”
“I’m no fool, but why, Mother? They turned on Magnolia and Tyrion. And the Circle—why suffer them to live?”
“Hmm. I can see you’re still trying to engage that brain of yours. Magnolia, Tyrion? Do we love them that much?”
The question threw Damia.
“But he’s the head of House Veltras, our military commander, and even if she’s Aunt Magnolia, she was our head.”
The older [Lady] fished for a little puff pad to apply more makeup, alternating between that and the cigarette.
“And? When it’s war, he’s a useful dolt. It behooves us to have House Veltras weak, if not in strength of arms, then coin or whatnot. The Assassin’s Guild is a necessity to keep commonfolk in their place. The Merchant’s Guild is getting notions above their station again…one employs a [Ratter] for pests. The same here. But a trained dog instead of a feral one. I’m just surprised anyone gave Calidus the reins. Bah, he might do it, and if he dies, he was always the oddball.”
Damia understood the logic, but it just sounded—
“But doesn’t the Circle of Thorns constitute a larger threat, Mother? Even if we’re accepting the results, shouldn’t we keep eliminating them? No one in the family is bothering with them.”
“Why should we? It’s not our problem. Nobles always have their little cults and groups. I’ve been part of six secret societies. They usually have no teeth.”
Now her daughter was holding her head in a dreadful display of…Cecille rolled her eyes, but Damia was thinking.
“I…understand…that’s how it used to be, Mother. But that was before Magnolia took power. Before the Second Antinium War and the Sacrifice of Roses. Are—are things different now? Shouldn’t we look into the Drakes or—or Gnolls or—?”
Cecille ignored her stuttering daughter. Damia was trying to think, which was in some ways commendable, but she didn’t understand how deep the divisions ran. Ally with the Drakes? Hah! Cecille would rather drink poison; it’d be a more pleasant way to go. She changed the subject, tired of this.
“Damia, if you’re going to continue menacing the servants with Wernel, use protection. I don’t have time to be a grandmother, and you and Wernel bring negative value as a match.”
“You’re not intending to marry us off?”
“Hah! For what, five coppers and a rock?”
That stung even harder, and Damia flushed. Cecille gave her an amused gaze.
“Anyone with eyes knows your relationship. To whom am I supposed to make a bid, much less want to pay a dowry to? We are not Terandrians.”
“I’ve been studying Terandria, actually. There are precedents. There was a proposed engagement to one of the [Princesses] of Calanfer with Lord Tyrion’s sons. If I were to wed a [Prince] or a high-ranking [Lord]—”
No, her mother actually gave Damia a look of half-interest, but it turned to impatience at once. Cecille waved a hand through the smoke.
“You are no Tyrion Veltras, and we are low-ranking [Ladies] in Terandria’s eyes. Confine your ambitions to practicality, Damia. I do appreciate the fact you can now read…your brother seems content to return to form. But don’t presume to think you know the family business. You were born under Magnolia’s curse.”
“I’m quite aware of what you’ve all been doing! You don’t appear to be that much more capable if a single Drake from Liscor could outsmart you!”
The elder [Lady] pinched the glowing end of her cigarette, and the red-hot ash on her finger burned…but her skin did not. Damia sensed—something—gathering on the tip of her mother’s finger and stared at it, wide-eyed. Cecille spoke.
“Aura.”
She flicked the hot ash past Damia’s right ear, and as her daughter flinched, Cecille leaned forwards.
“I have bought over two hundred healing scrolls to replace the healing potion shortage, despite the Watch Captain confiscating the rest. At considerable personal effort. The rest of the family comes to me, begging for what no one else has. Even old Regis summoned me to get them out of me and coughed up enough gold to let me re-establish my businesses. Not the scraps of gold Magnolia gave to us as our ‘allowances’. The next step is capable help. Which I shall find, and secure, then begin re-establishing what our family should have. If you can prove you’re worth the investment, I may allow you to help, but you have nothing but our name, Damia. You don’t even know what we’ve lost.”
She blew on the cigarette again, then swept back towards the workshop. Damia was left red-cheeked, thinking of revenge. Outraged and, for once, envious of her mother.
So that was what they were. She was learning fast.
 
——
 
She could poison her mother, of course. Or slip some glass into her drink.
No, it’d have to be fast. And there were personal protection spells. An enchanted crossbow with an anti-magic bolt would probably do it, while Cecille was in the privy or in bed. Bribe the guards, make sure she was dead.
Damia ran through the scenario in her head, then discarded the thought. For so many reasons, no. Firstly, her mother was far better alive than dead. It would ruin Damia’s reputation, it carried substantial risks—
It was just a thought. The reason Damia didn’t do it was because it wasn’t worth the effort. Not because there was some moral or philosophical reason not to.
Even before her awakening, Damia had known the truth: you could do anything you wanted in life. There were no rules for them. She had just, well—enjoyed life when it was simpler.
Here was the thing: it wasn’t fun sleeping with her half-brother these days. Before, it had been the spice of the forbidden, the thought they were doing some grandly heinous thing or even in great love.
Today? Damia was getting rather tired of seeing Wernel’s nude form. She had the distinct feeling she could do better and was rather annoyed to wonder if he thought the same thing. She was bored of her old life.
Time for something new, but what?
Damia made a list.
“Selphid’s Dust…I’ve tried that. Addictive unless I buy some from Cont’dvalle. Do I have enough gold for…Dreamleaf, bah. A party?”
All her old ‘friends’ were insipid or leeches after her reputation. Damia twirled the quill around in her fingers. She’d tried to hang out with them, but they were just petty bullies who confined themselves to ruining someone’s day by commenting on their dress, sniping at their ‘enemies’ that were other young [Ladies].
If I have an enemy, I will ruin their lives and shatter everything they hold as good and dear. If not, she had better things to do with her time.
Power. Damia checked her list, and she was not happy with what she found.
 
Assets:
Merchant’s Guild account: 2,287 gold pieces. No access to family accounts.
Personal clothing, 7 minor enchanted artifacts, all protective.
Dueling Sword, Enchantment of Sharpness. Wernel’s birthday gift.
Servant contracts:
Liset — Level 9 [Servant]. Useless. Sleeping with Wernel.
Evie — Level 11 [Servant]. Useless. Sleeping with Wernel.
Amadearie — Level 14 [Snitch Servant]. Useless. Sleeping with both of us.
 
“That’s it. That’s all I have?”
She was—poor! Damia clenched the quill in one fist. When she tabulated her wealth, the actual wealth in her control, she had nothing.
No actual retainers on staff, no capable help, no magic. Oh, she had plenty that was just the ‘family’s’. Access to staff, the mansion, their carriages, but even there, she’d seen Gorthes and her mother making their own custom-built carriages.
Damia had no authority. No voice in House Reinhart or the Five Families. No one knew her, except as ‘the girl who slept with her brother’, and no levels.
She was a Level 9 [Incestuous Lady]. That—that stung most of all, knowing she was Damia Reinhart, and she deserved to be Level 30 at her age. But how to get more?
She didn’t know. So Damia went to the one place she knew power lay. Where she could obtain it…if she was clever.
The basement that her family had avoided like the plague for so long, where the oldest Reinhart of all resided.
Regis Reinhart.
 
——
 
Damia had never realized it, but the entire hallway under the Reinhart estates was made of Chemath Marble. Enchanted, probably the most structurally sound place in the entire north. The magical armory that contained the Reinharts’ treasures, guarded by the ghost of one of their first ancestors upon Izril, Regis Reinhart himself, was deceptive.
You could only see a bit into the armory; huge wardrobes and other objects blocked what lay behind, out of sight. There was gold, visible gold, a literal crown, pieces of art hanging in the foreground of Regis’ abode, but, Damia suddenly thought, it was an act.
Who had gold pieces just lying around? It was meant to impress the credulous. Then again—her eyes darted to an object on a plinth.
The Crown of Flowers. Each petal blooming and glistening, beautiful beyond belief. She reached for it as a bunch of ghostly [Maids] watched her. Her hand smacked into an invisible wall, and she recoiled.
One of the [Maids] laughed at her. Damia rubbed at her hand.
“Silence. Where is Grandfather Regis?”
“Absent.”
“Absent? This is where he’s contained!”
