Haldagaz could not communicate these thoughts satisfactorily in any medium, even the squeaking of rats, for they had no language half so advanced. But he tried his best to communicate it to his sister, Rhata, who had been granted strength of body to match his acuity of the mind.
She ate half her body weight in abalone. Haldagaz sighed.
Bad poops it was.
He nosed around the room, peeking out the window to stare at First Landing as Rhata did what she could to help Selys. Namely, making sure the door was actually closed and locked—the Drake hadn’t done that. Pulling together some of Selys’ scattered possessions she’d forgotten so she picked them up the next day, and refilling her waterflask with water from the magical faucet.
In these ways, the rats liked to think they earned their keep. Why, they’d helped defend Selys from the machinations of other rodents, bugs, and even a seagull once on their long journey. Haldagaz’s mind and Rhata’s ability to beat up even a seagull meant…
…Haldagaz stood outside the window and rested a paw on the glass. He saw Selys tossing and turning despite the sleep tonic, still clothed, tears in her eyes. Rhata joined him solemnly, and they waited.
Such a miserable, lonely Drake. He hoped she found something out here. Something to give her a purpose. One should have a purpose. But even if they had none of that…they had honor.
That was what the Minotaur and his first pupil believed in. So Haldagaz waited for the day to dawn, curling up beside his sister. Abiding ever onwards.
 
——
 
Rhata’s stomach hurt. In the middle of the night, she had to poo bad. So she did. She had no idea where they were. The big horn-man was gone. She missed him.
But the food was good.
 
——
 
The next day, Selys Shivertail rolled over, stared at the sun blearily, then at the largest rat droppings she’d ever seen in her life. She went to toss it, because she didn’t feel like giving the staff that job, and tipped well, then left.
She did make one stop on her way out of the city, but it went as well as she had expected. Better, really.
“Excuse me, I was wondering if you had an opening at your Guild? I’m travelling the north, and I have a good amount of experience—I’m looking to upgrade my class.”
It wasn’t the most standard job application, but the [Receptionist] in the Adventurer’s Guild at First Landing could look Selys up on file unlike most smaller Guilds, and Selys’ resume was apparently impressive enough that the Guildmaster himself came out.
Guildmaster Winstre was a former Named-rank adventurer. Which befit the largest Adventurer’s Guild in the north, but it was hugely amazing to shake his hand for Selys.
“You were one of the Conquerers of Chalence, correct, Guildmaster?”
He was dark-skinned, a former [Sailor]-turned-adventurer, and he had a huge scar that became a starburst on one arm, which he showed her.
“Not one of the rich ones! Haha…well, that still smarts my ego, but yes. I got this from the boss monster itself. Damned super-sea urchin.”
“That’s really what it was? I mean, I read all the accounts, but…”
Winstre waved this off as he rubbed at his arm. It moved around slowly, and she saw it had very little mobility. She bet his bones were badly splintered, but he was still in great condition.
“That’s what I call it, and why not? Chalence had a lot of water around it, despite its proximity to the mountains. Perhaps some sea urchins found the magic there and mutated…whatever it was, it was all magic at that point. Monsters always are. Each spine could change, adapt, and it could disassemble itself and move through the inner maze. Fast as a Demon, too. No one in close-combat range had a chance, but, well…”
His lips twisted.
“Orchestra had the right Skills and setup to do the job. You know how they finally got it?”
“Via the water. It conducted the sound, and when they heated it up—”
“Boom. You know your stuff. But I wouldn’t expect anything less from a [Receptionist] at a real Guild. Ours barely qualifies sometimes. Half our people are either retired old guard or young nobles playing at being an adventurer with little to do. Unless the Kraken Eaters or a real threat pops up, in which case I have to pull both groups back and find active Gold-rankers to do the job.”
“Wouldn’t Cosmenaut the Duelist or Caleis, the Favor of the North, be around…? I know many have left—”
The Guildmaster snorted.
“You’d think, but Cosmenaut’s too busy defending people’s honor, and Caleis would slay monsters—but the nobles just go to him directly anyways. If it’s not on their lands…we have plenty of powerful nobles, but the Adventurer’s Guild is for rich and poor alike. And there’s not much interest in the latter.”
Selys nodded respectfully. That was a fascinating, if dismaying insight into the north’s famous adventuring teams. She also appreciated that he knew Liscor and respected it! But Winstre kept up to date on adventurer goings on. He leaned forwards, offering her some coffee.
“Tell me about the Horns of Hammerad.”
She flushed, thinking of Pisces, but she did. They had an enjoyable half an hour before Winstre grinned, then checked her file.
“I’d offer you a job, Miss Selys, but I can’t do better than, well, [Receptionist]. I have two Acting Guildmasters, but we don’t have the hours or, really, work for a third.”
“I understand. I just wanted to at least say hello in such a famous Guild.”
He smiled at her, then added the part she didn’t like, but was used to.
“And it says here you weren’t recommended by Guildmistress Tekshia. With respect to her—and I am sorry to hear of her passing—that makes it harder to bump you up so high.”
Selys tensed up, and there was a squeak from her belt pouch that made the man do a double-take. She knew this wasn’t the Guild, but she argued it anyways, like she’d done dozens of times.
“I understand that, Guildmaster, but she was my grandmother, and I think—you know how nepotism works? Tekshia was the opposite of that. I just need a chance! I’m overqualified for a [Receptionist], and if not that—”
He was nodding, glancing down at the file he held.
“I understand, Miss Selys. But I can’t give a recommendation to another Adventurer’s Guild. As a [Receptionist], yes! If you want one, I’ll write it up, but to take over in any Guild requires you to know the spot or…”
Have a recommendation. Selys’ teeth ground together, but she held out a hand.
“I—understand, sir.”
He got up and shook her hand, sympathetic.
“If it helps, there’s not much harder than Liscor I could name; a few Guilds—maybe, but those are because they’re underserved, not overwhelmed. If you want to get some real experience, such that anyone’d hire you, the New Lands are trouble.”
“I know. But guess who went the wrong way?”
He grinned ruefully.
“Well, those Wistram Carriages take you far if you can afford them…”
“Thankfully, that’s how I’ve been getting around.”
His brows rose, and he double-checked the file. Selys was aware how expensive the magical carriages were. There were a limited number, and you had to pay lots of gold to reserve one. Hundreds of gold for the trips she’d been on.
Well, she was rich enough. The Guildmaster walked her to the door.
“Ah, it’s Solar Cycles, isn’t it? You wouldn’t be able to recommend me to that place, would you? I’d love one of their products…you can get knockoffs, but the real thing would be a treat.”
“I’ll swap you recommendations, Guildmaster!”
She teased him, and he sighed.
“Well, then…”
They were almost at the doors when an impatient man shouted.
“I have a monster issue plaguing my ships! I require adventurers!”
He had come in and didn’t want to wait in line, clearly. But there were nobles and commonfolk in line, so Selys rolled her eyes at classic Human nobility trying to skip the line. Guildmaster Winstre grimaced.
“Hey, loudmouth, wait your turn like the rest of us commonfolk, eh?”
An annoyed man waiting for help from a Bronze-ranker for his basement turned and smirked at the nobleman, who was wearing a very odd dress. Selys frowned. Unlike modern clothing, which had taken notes from Magnolia Reinhart pioneering Earth-like fashion, his coat was bright red and had the oddest patterning she’d seen.
Red and white and gold, and there was a crest on his chest that wasn’t one of the Five Families or any major house she knew—and she’d educated herself once Humans had come to Liscor. And his accent was—
Before she could place him, the nobleman walked forwards and backhanded the speaker across the face. There was a gasp, and Guildmaster Winstre growled.
“How dare—!”
The nobleman snapped his fingers and a hither-to unseen [Knight] wearing huge furred armor strode forwards and knocked four more people out of line. He only stopped when an appalled [Lord] backed up.
“Sir.”
“Commonfolk. Speaking back to me! Taima, preserve me! This Gura-damned continent is full of strangeness!”
Selys stared as the…nobleman? From the Taimaguros Dominion nodded to the [Lord], speaking to himself. Then Guildmaster Winstre was striding for him, so furious he gave off an aura that knocked everyone back but the [Knight].
Selys didn’t wait for the fight. She had places to be, and frankly, if that kind of person was in First Landing, she was out. It made the Five Families seem like reasonable people by comparison. She got in a carriage and headed south, choosing a town at random. Searching for…something. Because, she realized, she could not be content with being unimportant. Not after Liscor. If she gave Erin anything, it was that the [Innkeeper] had ruined her on a quiet life. Selys had spoken to Winstre like equals because they were, classes and deeds aside.
Both had seen real monsters. Selys had seen war and horrors.
It changed you, even if you didn’t want it to.
 
——
 
Your first war changed you, they said. How much…she hadn’t known until she had been there and seen it.
She had nightmares. And she stayed up too late because she knew the nightmares would continue, so she woke at 10 AM and screamed once, then came out of her bedroom.
“They’re attacking! They’re—”
A passing servant stared wide-eyed at Lady Desinee El, and a resigned member of her family, who’d had this happen for the last three months straight, snapped.
“Desinee! Either see a [Thought Healer] or buy a silencing spell, because I won’t tolerate this any longer! I’m informing Lord Deilan!”
Which, of course, got Desinee a meeting with the overworked, harried leader of the House of El. The young Lord Deilan El.
He wasn’t that young. But he was compared to the previous matriarch, and he stood in her shadow, so he would be young, untested, and…and just not her.
Maviola El, whom Desinee couldn’t believe was dead sometimes. Not her. Of course, Desinee had loved and been annoyed by that overbearing woman, who had ruled the House of El with a flaming fist for over a decade. She had carried them through the Second Antinium War and into the end of an era.
Not perfectly; she and Fulviolo, her brother and the former house head, hadn’t kept El any richer than before. They’d made mistakes, but the two had fought wars against Drakes, Antinium, and even other Humans and won.
They’d been splendid heroes of another age. And now she was gone. Ridden off into the sunset and vanished.
Desinee considered herself lucky to have seen Maviola again before the end. Even if she didn’t understand her…it had been something to see the young [Lady] in her glory.
Even then, with all she’d done, fighting the Assassin’s Guild, waving that flag and burning across Izril, Desinee thought that had been the final flare of Maviola’s life. When she had been truly young, Desinee remembered how she had burned across Izril. Fought with the hated Drakes like Salazsar and damned Lord Eschowar and his lightning strike raids in the north.
So yes. Deilan El was no Maviola. But that was arguably a good thing for the House of El because Deilan had what so few of his predecessors had: good business sense.
There was a rumor the House of El was cursed to be forever poor. Which was not a real curse (the House of El had checked many times) just bad business. They were inventors, artisans. If they didn’t make what was wanted or popular, they had to tighten their belts. And tighten again. And then buy a new belt to tighten, which cost money they didn’t have…
Deilan, though, Deilan was the one selling Kaalblades, and wouldn’t you know it, but they were popular thanks to a certain Wind Runner. He’d taken the windfall, reinvested it, and there were other good factors.
“Noelictus wants more crossbows for their Veteran Hunters. As many high-end models as they can get. That border conflict with Ailendamus shook them up, they’ve found more gold, or…and we’re solidly in the black on bicycles, skateboards, and Earther-tech.”
He was speaking animatedly to a half-Elf scratching at her ears with a quill.
“I know, Lord Deilan. But it feels wrong.”
“How so, Zelonica?”
He frowned as Desinee waited for him to break off his meeting. Deilan and his assistant really were products of the last generation. Zelonica was the daughter of none other than Zedalien, the legendary helper of House El, who’d quit with Maviola’s passing.
She was ‘new’ to her post, which meant she’d only worked in the family business for thirty years, and at fifty years old she looked young. But she’d lived among Humans that entire time; she’d grown up running around with Desinee as the older kid, and Desinee quite resented how damn young Zelonica looked. Now, the [Production Manager] gave Deilan a helpless look as she showed him her spreadsheet.
“I keep adding up our budgets, and you’re right, we’re making a profit.”
“And?”
“…And it doesn’t feel right. Zedalien never had such a good year.”
Deilan stopped tensing up and smiled, and Desinee wore a pained smile too. He sighed.
“We owe it to Maviola. Her last project was the right one to back. Not least because Archmage Valeterisa is so famous.”
He nodded at a portrait on the walls, that of Maviola El. Not as she had been in age, but the fiery-haired [Lady of Fire] blowing a kiss at the viewer. It was rather provocative, but Desinee supposed someone had to remember the House of El had been that.
The rest of them were, well, dull. Deilan was a [Lord of Manufacture]. He’d probably levelled, but he was no Level 40 prodigy. And Desinee was a [Artisan Lady], even lower-level. Level 28, actually.
She’d levelled six times surviving the Winter Solstice. Which was why she was here. Zelonica excused herself as Deilan turned to Desinee.
