“Helping the family is not something I’m inclined to at the moment. I’m not a typical Reinhart, Damia, and you’ll soon know what that means. I like travel. I am, in fact, a [Lady of Travel] in base class. Family’s dull. I suppose I could toss a favor your way since you’re the only member of the family who’s not shooting daggers or Skills at me. Dead gods, they think I got soft in Terandria. I’ve had to win fifteen aura clashes…a deed for a deed.”
“What do you want?”
Damia wasn’t sure she could do anything, but here she was wrong. Cosoi peered over her cup at Damia, then smiled.
“Cecille. Convince your mother to stop hounding me and have her talk to some of the others. Do that and I’ll do you a favor. Which is…?”
Damia hesitated.
“I could try that. I need transport. Something fast, private, even a [Driver] and carriage if you have one.”
“To where?”
When the young woman was silent, Cosoi sighed.
“Damia, I’m not going to give you that kind of help if it will blow up in my face. If you’re thinking of going to Liscor and embarrassing the family, it might come back to me. Your mother’s already tried that, and she got what she could.”
Damia hesitated, but she had to say something, so she shook her head.
“I do want to go to Liscor. Invrisil. It seems to me a lot of events are occurring around there, and if there’s any quick fortunes to be won…”
“Well observed. I’ve been meaning to visit myself. I do have a way south, faster than even Gorthes or your mother could obtain. But you have nothing to trade, and I doubt you have the gold to invest.”
A third pointed glance. Damia gritted her teeth.
“I do not…so some gold might be useful. I need a staff.”
A light snort. But Cosoi was pondering. She spoke abruptly.
“Get your mother to relent, Damia, and I’ll make you a deal. I don’t fancy staying in Izril while the family’s looking for a victim. I’m heading off. Chandrar, Terandria, even Baleros; there’s value to being the Reinhart abroad. Even Oteslia! It might be my one chance to visit Drake cities at this moment…but I can’t uproot my entire staff. I’ll turn over their employment to you. You’ll keep them alive and treat them well enough, and that will solve me having to pay for funerals every time Gorthes is drunk. I’ll even throw in some gold. Deal?”
She tapped Damia on the chest with a finger, and the young [Lady] hesitated. Her mother must really be more dangerous than she thought if Cosoi was offering all this. Or perhaps it was a way to divest herself of problems and shove them into Damia’s lap.
Either way, the [Lady] leapt at the offer because she had nothing. She nodded, and Cosoi plucked the wine cup from her hands.
“Splendid! Don’t drink that, it’s laced. Let me know when you have your mother’s word and I’ll get my end of the deal at once.”
Which left Damia with the unenviable task of speaking to her mother.
 
——
 
“Mother. I need a favor.”
Damia marched into Cecille’s study and found the [Lady] with a catalogue of, well, people and one of her own servants. The [Lady] scowled and spoke.
“One moment, Damia. Is this the best we have for security?”
“The rest of the family has already bought the contracts for a number of [Mercenaries] and [Bodyguards], Lady Reinhart.”
“Fine. I’ll select from the lot. I want someone who can beat that damned [Spearmaster].”
A visible moment of hesitation from the [Manservant] who had served Damia all her life.
“That might be—”
“Do it. Damia, I’m busy. I have no allowance to give you or Wernel. Is this a crisis? Please tell me you’re not pregnant.”
Cecille’s expression when she glanced at her daughter was of someone dealing with a hassle. Damia glowered.
“I need an actual favor, Mother. I’ve been speaking to Aunt Cosoi, and she’d like—”
Cecille’s eyes flickered, sliding right to left and then focusing on Damia and something else in a moment.
“No.”
“I haven’t even—”
“You want me to ‘forgive’ her as a favor to Cosoi. No. I’m not sure if she’s impressed you or you think this is clever, Damia, but I really am busy. I can’t waste time speaking with you if you’re going to be as slow as Wernel.”
That stung so much Damia halted, and her eyes narrowed. Slow? She began again.
“It’s true I have some—”
“There is no incentive. Hence the ‘no’.”
Cecille cut her daughter off again, and this time, the younger Reinhart tilted her head. And Cecille, watching Damia’s angry, petulant face out of the corner of one eye, saw Damia frown. And think.
“Mother, I need help, and I’m thinking again. Surely—”
“It is personal. She didn’t stand with us, and she has had twenty years of clearheadedness while we lost it all!”
Cecille snapped. She hunted for a cigarette, annoyed. Damia’s eyes flickered.
“Familial love? If you gave me a small loan of ten thousand—”
“Hah! If I were set up, I might consider it. We are grabbing, and I’m wrestling with your aunts and uncles for primacy. You’ll benefit from that, so no.”
They were speaking faster now, and Cecille realized her daughter could keep up with her. Damia frowned mightily.
“I’m an asset. Clearly staffing is a priority, and no one’s capable in our employ. I, though—”
“Questionable loyalty.”
“Have I ever done anything against—?”
“No, and a negative does not prove loyalty. You and Wernel are net-negatives. The sex. Ugh. Did you visit a brothel?”
“I—yes—”
“Splendid, maybe that will deal with the issue. At least you’re not murdering. You know about—”
“Yes, Wernel told me.”
“I will disinherit you if you’re that stupid.”
“Noted. I don’t see the point. If it’s someone I don’t hate.”
Silence. Mother and daughter glanced at each other, and now there was something in the air that the watching [Serving Man] could see. That old Reinhart intellect, fast as striking snakes. He…backed up a bit. Sometimes, they worked together. Sometimes, they fought and ate each other. Again, like snakes.
Cecille lit a cigarette up and blew some smoke out.
“Well then. You’re showing promise. But again: it’s personal. Cosoi. Why would I relent and spend social capital?”
Damia thought. She had nothing to use. No assets, nothing but her relationship with her mother. Like Calidus, Vultine, everyone knew—her eyes narrowed. She smiled.
“I’ll stop sleeping with Wernel.”
Cecille’s head snapped around. She looked Damia up and down.
“Temporarily?”
“Permanently.”
“That’s no incentive.”
“Help me in this, Mother. Or I’ll marry him.”
Cecille’s eyes narrowed.
“Ridiculous. You’re too smart for that.”
Damia innocently batted her eyes.
“I could get it arranged very fast, and you can’t stop me, busy as you are. Every noble will know about that.”
A threat, not a bribe. Cecille thought about how much her reputation might suffer if her daughter and son—even if they were half-siblings—married each other. She blew some smoke out.
“That’s not a bad threat. I want a promise on a truth stone.”
“Done! And your word that Aunt Cosoi’s left alone?”
The [Lady] growled as she chewed on her cigarette, but she jerked her head at last, sighing.
“She’s not worth trading blows with. Agreed. Go tell your brother. Oh, and Damia?”
The young woman halted as she was striding for the door, a victorious smile on her lips. Cecille gave her the oddest of gazes.
“Not bad. I was half your age when I threatened my parents for the first time, of course. But given Magnolia, not bad. Do it again and I’ll teach you a lesson.”
That was as close to affection as she and Damia had shared in a while. They hurried off since neither wanted to comment on it.
 
——
 
Wernel took the news well. He peered at Damia.
“Okay. What, forever?”
When she assured him this was the case, he sighed.
“I’ll have to build one of those…harems, then. There’s plenty of attractive women. Way more than you, Damia.”
She knew he was saying that to get a rise out of her, and his peeking at her as she rolled her eyes and walked off made it obvious.
 
——
 
Cosoi was far more complimentary. She spun.
“You already convinced your mother? I thought you’d have to work on her for at least a week. How?”
“I threatened to marry Wernel.”
The [Lady of Travels] threw back her head and actually laughed.
“Hah! Clever! You might be a real Reinhart after all, Damia. Well then, I have some packing to do. Binevy, take a list of everyone who wants to leave and everyone who wants to either join the regular staff or Damia’s employ. Transfer two thousand gold pieces to her account via the Merchant’s Guild.”
“Only two thousand?”
Damia was a bit crestfallen, but Cosoi gave her a level look.
“The rest of my favor is worth more, and that is a lot of gold you earned from a very short deed, Damia. Learn what it means. Most of the family doesn’t understand wealth. That’s my tip. I have to pack.”
She was striding into her rooms, and Damia followed as Binevy presented herself.
“I’m Lady Cosoi’s [House Head], Lady Damia. Level 16 with Vorghen’s passing. I’ll be working for you as I don’t travel. Here is a list of servants who shall serve you in House Reinhart.”
She had a file, and Damia skimmed it as she followed Cosoi.
“Do I have your suite, Aunt Cosoi?”
“Hah!”
Damn. Damia’s heart sank as she saw very little of value on the list of servants; just low-level [Servants] with the base class, all under Level 20, half under Level 10. Young. Binevy herself seemed to be Damia’s age or younger.
I’ll make do. We’re all low-level, and that means we’re adaptable. Capable of growth. Everyone will underestimate us, and now I have some funds to work with and…
“Aunt Cosoi, I want to be going as soon as I can. What about transport?”
The older [Lady] glanced over her shoulders as she pointedly barred the door with an arm.
“Oh, that. Taken care of.”
“Ah, then you have a carriage?”
“No, I don’t bother with the damn things. I never got the family obsession. You’ll be taking commercial transport.”
“But—”
That outraged Damia’s sensibilities! She needed privacy, security! She was about to insist Cosoi hold up her end of the bargain when Cosoi handed her something.
A black card. Jet black, glossy, a rectangle with nothing visible on either side. Right up until Cosoi produced a little quill and brushed the bright feather’s end over the card.
She revealed, like someone sweeping ash off metal, the outline of a coach. Then she showed Damia the other end of the quill.
“It needs no ink. You write where you are, and the card will note how long for pickup; it can take days if it’s not heading the right way. But it will beat Gorthes’ carriage and anything else. Binevy, go with Damia and tell her the rules. Don’t break them or the driver will kill you.”
“What is this?”
Damia felt the magic in it, and Cosoi smiled.
“That’s the Unmarked Coach, Damia. I’m on the list of clients, and believe me, it is worth far more than you think.”
Then she turned and slammed the door to her study. She called out from within.
“I’ll want it back when I return to Izril!”
 
——
 
Damia had to do some reading up on the Unmarked Coach, and what she found impressed her greatly. Not that there was a book on such things you could read in a normal library, but the Reinhart family mansion had a lot of…dossiers.
Up-to-date information from [Spies] or their other contacts that they put in, well, a library format. The head [Librarian] was a musty old man, Grahaven, who glared and didn’t care if you got the files messed up; he had the master copies, and he’d just charge you for them.
“Apparently, it’s been out-of-service for quite some time, Lady Damia. But it’s active again.”
“I see. So we just wait and it picks us up? And there’s no fee?”
The [House Head] ducked her head.
“I believe any fee is already paid to obtain the card. Or you’re charged once you use the service enough. You will be informed.”
Well, that meant Damia had better get good use out of it. They stood outside House Reinhart a few hours later; as luck would have it, the Unmarked Coach had claimed to be ‘only’ a few hundred miles away, but crucially, heading southwards.
It was hard to believe anything was that fast…until Damia saw the coach riding hell-for-leather down the road.
A very annoyed woman with dusky skin and a top-hat was whipping a pair of black stallions and leaving a dust-cloud in her wake. She was racing down the road as another carriage tried to ram her from the side. But she was outspeeding none other than—
“Is that Uncle Gorthes?”
The angry [Lord] was trying to run the offending Unmarked Coach off the road; it had probably refused to yield for him. However, he couldn’t keep up! His coach accelerated as he used a Skill to catch up, and he went to ram the Unmarked Coach.
He had spikes on his wheels, designed to snap and break another coach, and visible metal reinforcing his carriage as his team of six horses screamed and tried to race faster while he whipped at them. In response, the driver of the Unmarked Coach, who was named ‘Karsaeu the Unmarked’ by the Driver’s Guild according to her file, pulled a strange move.
She let Gorthes swing towards her, then pulled away. Which meant he turned far too hard, expecting to slam into her, and the movement at such high speeds—
His wheels were not the rubber, compact wheels of another world. They were big round ones made of enchanted wood, which meant they had excellent grip and durability, but they still obeyed the laws of physics.
All that weight on such a narrow edge…the carriage overbalanced and then rolled. The horses tore loose from the yokes designed to snap free rather than kill them in just such emergencies, and Damia and Binevy winced.
Her uncle had been in the driver’s seat. He lay on the ground, hurled a dozen paces from the carriage, and Damia wondered if he was dead…until she heard the distant swearing.
“There goes another job for Vultine. I suppose this coach is as good as they say.”
The Unmarked Coach slowed, and the very annoyed driver snapped down at Damia.
“Get in.”
Damia opened her mouth to say something, and her brain activated. She closed her mouth, got in the carriage, and it took off.
 
——
 
The inside of the Unmarked Coach showed none of the racing speed of outside, and Damia had to crack a window to see how fast they were going twice. She was very impressed—even if she didn’t like the company.
