“Walled Cities were made incredibly well, Lady Ulva. How much is intact after all this time and the ground shifting is unknown, but it could be substantial. The City of War was said to be built out of pieces of other Walled Cities.”
“Really?”
“Oh yes, it’s a ‘last-generation’ Walled City by their standards. Which is to say, still exceedingly old. As for why no one dug up Naamreles, I don’t believe it was so much ignorance as the location being expunged from records. Thoroughly. Even our own.”
“But these are records from House Terland that date back to our presence in Terandria!”
She reminded him sharply. Terlands came from the nation of Levicus, which was no longer a great power of Terandria, but it had been one of the Hundred Kingdoms first founded. Their records were old. Yet the [Historian]’s face was grim.
“They were purged and the record of the purging attributed to ‘keeping the rot of Naamrales’ folly buried’, Lady Ulva Terland. I have run into similar such moments in history.”
“One assumes your class would rebel against the notion, Historian Vredes.”
The man ducked his head; he was balding, and the light was getting in Ulva’s eyes as it shone into the domed room with only a single window, triple-warded by barriers for security. He coughed as she shielded her eyes with a fan.
“It does until I read the reasons for such redactions, Your Ladyship. It’s rather akin to reading horror stories in history, even as dry as some of my peers can be. Moments that are merely heinous are recorded in vivid detail. But locations of dangerous objects or more…memetic threats are hidden.”
“What is ‘memetic’?”
“Threats that hurt you by the knowledge of them. Such as…certain monsters from Baleros, Lady Ulva.”
She did know of Bogleraums and shivered, cursing Petria for ever asking about them. No one else in the room got the reference, and the [Historian] was sweating faintly.
“Not just that. There are records of dangerous beings who had similar powers to appear before those who knew of them. Or just gained power from…there’s even a reference to a travelling establishment of some kind that was redacted. Thankfully, most such things are dead. Mostly dead.”
“I see. And Naamreles was one such, then.”
The [Lady] lowered her fan, frowning. Ulva’s hair was faintly green and the rest brown, like her eyes, but motes of yellow dotted her irises. A striking effect; the paintings of Petria Terland showed her with the same eyes, though she was always the dynamo in the old paintings of the [Twin Virtues of House Terland]. Before her death during the Second Antinium War.
Ever since, Ulva had reigned alone. Time had not touched her greatly due to her many protections, but she had a weight about her. Ulva drummed her fingers on her stone armrest.
“So that’s what he’s been up to. Well, we must claim that city after we kill him.”
A stir from her audience. The [Historian] protested.
“Lady Ulva, the warnings are quite clear! House Terland itself helped end the issue of Naamreles!”
“Really, we were in Izril back then?”
“It was an intercontinental threat, Lady Ulva! And I do believe your family was, ah, scouting Izril even back then. This was during the famous Age of Plagues where the Putrid One damned multiple Walled Cities! Not a long age in the grand scheme of totality, but a consequential one. I must warn you—”
“Yes, yes. But a Walled City is valuable, and I will not cede that if there’s potential there. But especially not to damned Drakes. Council of Hearts, your thoughts? You may withdraw, Historian.”
He had to bow backwards, and some of the other Lords and Ladies of Hearts spoke. Not all of them were here; Lord Xitegen, for instance, was too far away in Celum to be represented, but a Golem stood in his place, and it shifted and moved as he did.
Terlands spoke via Golems; far more secure than Wistram. They loved Golems. A bit too much, sometimes, but that was who they were. Ulva saw the first [Lady] rise to her feet.
“Great Aunt, if there is a Walled City there, it must be worth a fortune, though I don’t know if we should dig it up given the warnings.”
“The Drake is trying.”
Ulva knew Ilvriss’ name, but she wrinkled her mouth every time she thought of it. She sipped from some Purified Water in a special canister for it and grimaced.
“I want him dead.”
“Ulva, given the <Quest> and the potential harm it might cause with the Walled Cities—”
Only Nouzcrat was old enough to call her by her name. He wavered as she shot him a glower.
“The Walled Cities have grown too bold. First they strike our north, next this. Should we allow armies of Drakes to march past our borders?”
Her glare made them all know what she thought of that, but it was Xitegen who spoke up. Always the contrarian, damn him.
“I remind you, Great Aunt, that was because Tyrion sieged Liscor.”
“He never crossed into Drake lands! You warned that fool of a Drake, and now he’s dead. Where’s the Hunter-Killer Golem we deployed?”
Ulva snapped, and the room went silent again. This time with a hint of excitement despite the trepidation of what that meant. Historian Vredes hugged his notes to his chest, shivering.
“It should be in the area, Lady Ulva. It was successfully transported and set up and merely awaits activation.”
“Good. Have the command sent, and have it move towards the Drake’s location. I want a Heart’s Connection set up.”
Direct control over the Golem. Xitegen smiled thinly.
“Eager to let someone play with our Golems, Great Aunt? I’m not for killing Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
She glared at him.
“Xitegen, if you go on one more time about that damn Winter Solstice—”
“I was there, Great Aunt. There were that many Draugr, and every single member of my entourage has testified via truth stone repeatedly. That’s the only reason I can think for Ilvriss to be digging up a Walled City. The concern is real.”
Ulva drummed her fingers on the armrest of her throne.
“Then you can dig it up, Xitegen. You’re closest. But no Drake will be grabbing what’s there. He knew what he was doing. He dies.”
Her tone brooked no argument. The room moved as someone got up to arrange the Heart’s Connection link with the Hunter-Killer. It knew Ilvriss’ name; it would home in on him and kill him. This was an old weapon from the Terland vaults. The family was forbidden from using them and Ulva refrained from activating them. Drakes, though…Drakes were an exception to that rule.
“Well, I’ll prepare for war with Liscor, then. The [Innkeeper] will not forget that.”
Xitegen’s tone was light, but Ulva rolled her eyes.
“For all you speak of her, she has never troubled the north in any meaningful way, Xitegen. You make mountains out of a local molehill.”
“She’s never had a reason to come north, Aunt. I imagine Erribathe said the same thing of her until recently. But that’s merely the Kingdom of Myths. It’s not like she took on the Assassin’s Guild in Invrisil by summoning the Small Queen to war.”
Ulva’s lips quirked for reasons no one but her got. Dead gods, Xitegen annoyed her. He’d always been braver than his peers, because he’d seen the Goblins. But he annoyed her personally. She’d been glad he went south to do something and get out of her hair.
But she couldn’t help but feel that Petria would have liked him. For that reason, she hadn’t drubbed him down to a Lord of Function and allowed all his little madnesses. Well, that and he was high-level among them and brave.
Bravery mattered. She used to be brave. Ulva wet her lips again, then rasped.
“Onto more important matters. Has anyone found one of these—Earthers? How can we be the only group without one?”
The Lords and Ladies of Hearts shrugged. One of them cleared her throat.
“Perhaps they’re just that rare, Great Aunt. Or maybe it’s more of a hoax? I find it hard to lend credence—”
“Nonsense! Too many unique things are occurring. They have to be out there. I will have them. We have wealth and splendor. Have one found and furnish us with information! Have any of the Five Families found one?”
Heads shook.
“If the other Five Families have one, they’ve denied it to our faces. The Reinharts are all mad from the Winter Solstice, and Wellfar are busy with their war, but El, Veltras, both deny having one.”
“Veltras denies having one when the Wind Runner is clearly one of them. Either Lord Tyrion is a fool, which is true, or he’s blind and besotted. Also likely true.”
Ulva retorted, annoyed. She exhaled and leaned back.
“And they’re in Baleros. So get me another.”
“Funny, Aunt. You know there was this [Innkeeper] who I swear was one such Earther, but I don’t know if she’d be that keen on joining us especially after we killed her Drake fr—”
The Xitegen-Golem stopped speaking as Ulva bounced her cup off its head. She only threw it because she knew full well she couldn’t scratch the beautiful ceramic Golem. Even so, most of the others gasped in shock.
“Great Aunt Ulva!”
“Golems serve us, not the other way around, Alorelle!”
Ulva snapped at the recently-promoted Lady of Hearts. Eldertuin’s wife had mostly reached her status by virtue of his achievements, and she flushed. Ulva beckoned.
“Where’s the Mirror of Connections?”
It was wheeled into the room, and everyone shuffled to see it as it flickered to life. The mirror revealed grass moving rapidly underfoot in huge lurches that were nauseating unless you had experience seeing through a Golem’s eyes. Ulva squinted.
“Not much cover.”
“It’s under an [Invisibility] spell, Lady Ulva.”
“Hmf. Shoddy spell for a Hunter-Killer. What grade?”
“It’s a Grismel 3-8, Lady Terland.”
She grumbled under her breath.
“That would do for a modern Wall Lord, I suppose. I asked for noisy—it will be that, and messy too. Knife-hands?”
“Eight per, with enchanted steel fingers. And the legs—”
“Yes, yes. Where’s the Heart’s Connection?”
A far more involved contraption was the Heart’s Connection which allowed someone, usually a [Controller], to remotely operate Golems. Not all of them had this function, but Ulva saw half the nobles in the room raise their hands like children, wanting to be the one to use it.
Given their druthers, every Terland would take all the Golems out of storage and try piloting them or see them in action. Like a child with toys. And that would wear out or destroy even the most well-made Golems, so her job was to keep them from doing what they all wanted. But any excuse to see a true Golem in action…
Ulva smiled as it was brought out. She almost beckoned it over, then paused.
“I want this done privately. Only him and his bodyguards. How close is it?”
“A few miles. It should be—oh, I think there’s the camp.”
Everyone was peering as the bounding Hunter-Killer grew closer and closer. Someone zoomed the view in on the bouncing image of a Drake camp, and Ulva frowned.
“It’s light and busy. Hold the Golem back until it knows where this Wall Lord is and—wait. What’s going on?”
It was evening, and she assumed the Drakes would be finishing work or resting, but it looked like an anthill, all churned up. As the Hunter-Killer slowed and advanced, she raised her brows.
Not all those shapes were people. There were…cows? Stampeding away, and Drakes and Humans, she realized, as the view zoomed in more.
“What’s going on?”
Xitegen knew. He chuckled as she glanced at him.
“I believe it’s a cattle raid, Great Aunt. The Wall Lord is experiencing the hospitality of the local [Cattle Barons]. They take almost as much umbrage with him as you do.”
Her brows raised as she saw a full-scale fight in the Drake camps. Amused, Ulva sat back in her chair.
“You say this happens often?”
 
——
 
“Cattle raid! Cattle raaaaaaaaaid!”
Captain Osthia Shieldscale hated the damn alarm. Because it meant trouble, Humans, and most of all—she couldn’t kill anyone.
She leapt off her horse and plunged into the melee as she saw [Riders] on horseback whooping and shouting as they rode, scaring cows and trying to lead them away from Ilvriss’ camps.
They were stealing cows!
It sounded funny until you realized any good cow was a decent amount of money! Maybe not much in prime rancher territory, but a hundred?
And the Humans were trying to steal them all. Osthia roared as she flexed her wings.
“Get those cows back! Head off those [Thieves]!”
She could have flown after the thieves, but she was needed in the camp itself. Why? Because the Drakes and Gnolls of Salazsar obviously weren’t about to let [Thieves] run off with all that prime beef. So part of cattle raids in the north was sending [Riders] out to steal the cows…
While every damn [Rancher], [Farmhand], [Hostler], and Human idiot attacked the camp!
There were at least a hundred Humans throwing punches, kicking, and tussling with Salazsarian [Miners] and [Soldiers] in a melee. They’d ridden up, jumped off their horses, and begun punching heads.
Humans. Osthia’s hand twitched for her sword, but she just ran forwards and threw an elbow into the back of the first Human’s head.
It didn’t drop him, for all that she put her entire body weight into the blow. He turned as she recoiled, and his neck was gigantic. The bull of a man was flushed red and threw a fist like a ham at her.
“Ancestors damn it—”
She ducked, went for a leg hook, and failed that too. A Drake shouted.
“Captain, I’ve got this bastard! Let’s get him, boys!”
Wall Lord Dramm charged up and threw two decent hooks into the Human’s side. Two buddies charged with him, bounced off the [Farmhand], and hesitated. The Human punched Dramm off his feet and went in swinging.
“Hah! Take that, you damn Drakes!”
Osthia had never thought she’d see [Miners] losing in a fight to anyone, but they must have eaten well in the farmlands—and the [Ranchers] were good with their damn fists. Still, she was a soldier; the oversized Human went down when she kicked the back of his knee and folded him up. When he tried to get up, he discovered she had boots and very fast stomping feet.
Panting, Osthia whirled.
“Where’s Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
She knew he’d be in the thick of things, and there was danger here, even without blades. Someone pointed, and she saw a group of women sitting on an open ranch gate.
The Sisters of Chell were watching with complete amusement at the brawl between the two sides. Osthia snapped at them.
“Are you going to sit around or help?”
One of the Sisters, a woman with a tattoo on her arm of a wicked blade wrapped in brambles, shrugged.
“You want us to join in? We don’t do brawling. We do stabbing. We’re guarding against real [Thieves] and the like. We join and this gets nasty real fast.”
