She was a [Princess], and no one was rushing to treat her incredibly different. True, Aronia and Marvus’ children looked a bit starstruck, but their parents were cordial at best. Aronia had nearly taken Lyonette out of this world with a slap! Didn’t a [Princess] trump all other cards?
Well, not in Izril. And not here, Ilvriss realized, because Marvus spread his arms.
“You must’ve thought it was too easy to walk in here, the Cowpat Plains, and plant a claim, didn’t you? This here—no one owns this land. No cities, no [Lords].”
“I did think it was odd.”
Marvus spat a commendable distance.
“Well, that’s because the noble houses who owned this place all died in the Sacrifice of Roses. Not that there were many. When I was a boy, you’d be dodging their bullyboys shaking you down for grazing in their lands. For what? They said they kept down bandits and monsters, but I dealt with both growing up and never saw their people doing a thing. Then came the Goblins, and they all fled.”
Just as well no one knew about the inn’s policy on Goblins. It was a story Ilvriss had heard before from Drakes just as upset the Walled Cities had fallen back and abandoned them during the Antinium Wars. He listened as Marvus’ voice rose.
“So you know what we did? We moved in. All the biggest ranch-families. We rebuilt the herds. Married each other, hired on new hands. All this is ten years of work. And when the nobles came back, sayin’ this was their lands, well, they didn’t say it long.”
“You warred with the Five Families?”
Marvus half-turned and spat again, but his voice lowered a touch.
“Them? None of them ever came down this far. That Terland in Celum and Magnolia Reinhart are the only ones who’ve ever paid attention to the south. I’m talking regular nobles with a hundred men who think they can string up a few people and arrest the others and make an example. They weren’t prepared for a war. You’ve brought enough Drakes to make a proper fight, but you never tried it.”
“I did not come here for blood.”
“Shame.”
For a moment, Marvus’ eyes seemed like that of Big Burlap. He leaned against the fence as the bull watched them in the distance.
“We can keep raiding you all day and night, Wall Lord. My boys get a concussion one night and roll out of bed the next day bright and cheerful. They don’t get tired, they don’t quit. I don’t know how you got Colfa on your side, but Aronia’s out-levelled her. She shouldn’t have slapped that [Princess], but I’m surprised she even managed to walk on her.”
And there it was. Ilvriss felt a tingle on his scales, and an unpleasant idea crept into his head. Maybe it wasn’t Nerul getting beaten in a fight. Maybe it wasn’t just the odd customs of these people or the dislike between Drakes and Humans.
The Goblin King had destroyed a good portion of the north. Ilvriss had never heard it framed as anything other than a disaster, especially to the nobility’s populations. But it had resulted in a consolidation of strength. Tyrion Veltras, Magnolia Reinhart, the leadership of the north had levels as a result of the war. High level individuals, even if the majority had failed to level and just—died.
Only, there were no nobles here. Ilvriss gazed at Big Burlap’s herd, and then his eyes roamed the rest of the plains. All he saw were grazing animals. Far as the eye could see, not one huge line of them, because that was bad ranching, but herds upon herds.
“Your beef feeds most of Izril, doesn’t it, Marvus?”
The [Rancher] snorted.
“It feeds most of the world. High-grade stuff, not whatever the local [Farmer] is selling with his cheap cows.”
“How many herds do you have, if I may ask? How many heads of cattle?”
“You think I count all that? Aronia’s the one with a head for numbers.”
But there was a glint in his eyes. Ilvriss glanced around, casual.
“I’d guess, based on similar productions around Salazsar, that you’d be able to take on, oh, twenty thousand head of cattle at most. That’s about what we have.”
That was also a lie; the biggest ranch he knew of was 18,000 head of cattle. He knew Gnollish tribes could exceed those numbers, or at least, they had, but Marvus? He threw his head back and laughed hugely.
“You’re talking about Shimmerbeef Pastures. I know ‘em. They’re not as good as our beef. Had that nasty plague two years back. Sure, they’re around there. Last I checked, we have sixty thousand head of cattle. Just the Lischelles. That’s the difference between your ranches and ours.”
Ancestors. It confirmed Ilvriss’ suspicions. Reluctantly, he glanced up and took a long drink from his mug. And he admitted it.
The other man was pressuring him. Not with his aura, but just his presence. Ilvriss was once again out-levelled. Ilvriss twisted a ring on one finger on a hunch, then sighed.
Marvus Lischelle, [Rancher Baron of the Wild Plains], Level 42.
He didn’t even have a ring of anti-appraisal. He didn’t have bodyguards or high-level magic, but who needed those here? He was master of all he surveyed, with an army of [Ranchers]. The [Cattle Baron] lifted his mug and drank.
“To good food, civility at cookouts, and fine dancin’.”
Then Marvus poured out the rest of his drink onto the ground. He rolled his shoulders.
“Get off my land. You think we’re bad now? We’re just warming up. Ain’t nothing you, that Drake with the fancy Skills, nor anyone can do about it.”
After a second, he added.
“You best check on that [Princess], though. If Aronia’s hit her that hard, she might have addled her brains, even if she can walk. She hit someone she was fighting with once. Fellow walked it off, lay down, never got back up.”
Ilvriss took a drink from his mug as Marvus walked away, hands in his pockets. The Wall Lord had to say it.
“Humans.”
He thought about that, then amended his statement.
“Ranchers.”
That felt more accurate. Smaller mass generalizations.
 
——
 
Two things happened before they left. Nerul was shaking his head, adjusting his suit.
“I’m off, Nephew. We can’t do more here; we’ve been a bit trounced, but we made some good impressions. Not ideal. I’ll tell Captain Shieldscale to prepare for raids. Even tonight.”
Ilvriss was cursing as he decided to go around one last time to at least thank everyone—Lyonette still looked woozy, which was why he was delaying departure.
He was walking around when he saw Aronia’s daughter, Burlise. With the Drakes and Gnolls leaving, some people had actually begun poking around the gifts table.
Several bottles of wine had vanished; the other rancher-families were heading off, and a few had wandered by the tables to take the expensive wine. Same for the ice cream; Ilvriss swore he’d seen one of the uncles pouring it into a container, possibly to just eat or re-freeze.
He understood that. You didn’t show you appreciated the gifts. Drakes did something of the same thing, only their version was to thank someone for the gift, take it—they took everything valuable—then put it next to a better gift to pointedly show how less valuable yours was.
Good old fashioned hostilities. There was something noble about the Lischelles after all, but sometimes you couldn’t resist.
Burlise, for instance, just had to peer at some of the gems, but she was trying to do it without anyone watching. She jumped as one of her relatives turned, hid a gemstone behind her back—and it squirted out of slippery hands. Then she stepped on it.
“Oh no!”
Ilvriss went striding over instantly when he turned, saw the broken gem flashing with vanishing magic, and heard Burlise’s shout. Marvus was there before him.
“Burlise! Look what you’ve done!”
“I didn’t—I only wanted to look—”
“Allow me. Let me see which one broke.”
The [Cattle Baron] really wanted Ilvriss gone so he could start raiding the Drake, and he was embarrassed. He blocked Ilvriss.
“It’s all fine. The rest’s all there, and it’s her fault, no need to try and replace it or nothin’—”
Ilvriss shook his head.
“Not that! It’s a magical gemstone! They can cause damage when they’re broken like that! When the magic releases—one side!”
Marvus hesitated, then his eyes widened and stepped aside. Ilvriss knelt down.
“Does your skin feel fine, Miss? Let me see which gem it was…just one of the Lightning Topazes. Good. That one just discharges. You didn’t feel a jolt, right? Welsca, get me an analysis paper!”
She dashed over with a kit, and he held out a piece of paper as Burlise assured him that she was fine and she hadn’t felt…anything? Ilvriss nodded and wiped at his brows. He turned to Marvus.
“Just a discharge. If it had actually affected her, it’d have soaked into her skin.”
“You can do that with gemstones?”
“Magical ones, yes. But they don’t usually break easily; it must have been a stone and the exact right pressure, or just one that had a weakness that wasn’t spotted. I apologize, but they’re made into magical artifacts or used in magic, so there is a danger involved, even if the case should be fine.”
Marvus nodded.
“Right. Good. Burlise, take the case inside so no one does anything foolish like that again. Carefully. Thank the Wall Lord.”
“Th-thanks, sir. Sorry about that.”
She nodded at him, and Marvus nodded too.
“Thank you.”
Ilvriss stuck out a hand. The [Cattle Baron] hesitated.
“I really am just digging for something important. I don’t want to steal it or cause hostilities. My people used to live here, Baron, but I see this is your land.”
Can we at least try? The man stared at Ilvriss, and his hand twitched before he tucked it under an armpit.
“I’ve lost brothers, friends, and more to the Bloodfields. My da fought in wars against your lot.”
“So did mine. We don’t have to keep doing it.”
“Funny. I heard Drakes say that only when they’re losing.”
Marvus was searching Ilvriss’ face, but that hostility—Ilvriss knew it. He’d been Marvus in many ways, and he exhaled. How did you convince him? Did the [Cattle Baron] have a Periss to lose and a magical [Innkeeper]? Ilvriss turned to Lyonette…but the [Princess] was woozy, so he turned back.
“I won’t leave. And with respect, I’d like t—”
He heard the shouts, the cries of alarm, then the sound like a roaring, raging moo, but braying, almost comical until the notes of real desperation and horror were in the air. Marvus whirled.
“Someone’s gotten into the pastures.”
He glanced at Ilvriss, and the Wall Lord turned his head. He started running—but there was just one scream. Just one, then silence.
When he got there, he knew what he’d find.
 
——
 
It wasn’t Wall Lord Dramm’s fault. He was standing there, with a lot of the younger officers, at the paddock’s gate. They’d been stopped from going in by the [Ranchers]. It wasn’t his fault, but Ilvriss just gazed at him.
Then at the dead Drake boy the [Ranchers] had pulled from the fence beyond.
“It—he just—we were talking, and he thought that if they were stealing our cows, why not steal them, Wall Lord. I—we—”
One of his friends had tears in his eyes. He’d been egging the boy, Gem Officer Liuss, to hop the fence and try wrangling some cows or letting them out. Someone might have told them about the bull, but like Marvus said, the huge animals didn’t appear fast.
It had run him over, snapped his spine, and crushed his head in. Ilvriss stared at the bull. Marvus had his hat in his hands. For all he hated Drakes, he was shaken.
“Never go in a bull pen. You never…he’s a vicious one. You and you. Put him down.”
It was what you did to bulls that were too murderous, Ilvriss supposed. He thanked Marvus, then stood there.
“We need to bring him back and cremate his remains. Who has a bag of holding?”
When he spoke, the younger officers jerked. Dramm spoke up.
“Bag of holding? Sir, we can carry—”
Ilvriss just regarded him.
“No.”
“Sir, I knew Liuss! He’s no Wall Lord, but we—”
Ilvriss wanted to shout at the boy. To take out the anger and loss on him, but that was bad leadership, so he walked over, put a hand on Dramm’s shoulder, and looked in the boy’s eyes. He didn’t know what was on his face, but he glanced at the others.
“Wall Lord Dramm. It’s miles to camp. On horseback. It’s getting dark, and how would we bear him? On foot? In a tarp? Insects will be after him, next. I wish to do Liuss the dignity he deserves. The bag of holding is a necessity. I have buried comrades in due time, but we carried them in Chests of Holding. Let’s go.”
Welsca produced her own bag of holding, and he nodded at her. In silence, Ilvriss turned.
“Mount up. Someone ask if Miss Lyonette needs an escort back, but I believe she may wish to find her own way. Let’s go.”
A terrible note to end the night on. He rode, head bowed, as the silence began, then recriminations. Arguing and shouting, and he just thought to himself. Liuss was young; he’d have been one of the youngest. So if there was someone who would get in trouble and get away from it, the lowest on the chain of command, it’d have to be him. It wasn’t Dramm’s fault, but…that was why it was him who was dead.
Because they stole from us, we have to steal from them.
“Drakes.”
 
——
 
Xesci greeted Ilvriss back at camp. She was smiling, having set up her brothel. She hadn’t known about Liuss. She stood there.
“Poor boy. Aside from that, I take it the meeting went poorly. I thought it might, even with Nerul.”
He just stared at her. She pulled up her skirt and began inserting something into her—
“Xesci, what are you doing?”
“Cleaning up. Right, sorry, sensibilities. And deaths—tragic. People die, Wall Lord. I wish I could be more horrified, but I used to run with the Sisters of Chell. They die fast and hard.”
Sometimes, he forgot how jaded she was. Even so, he didn’t feel like addressing her while she was taking care of her unmentionables with a dead boy whose family needed to be told.
“If you don’t mind, Xesci? I’d like a moment.”
“Of course, Wall Lord.”
She was walking out when he stopped her.
“Why…did you avoid coming to the cookout? And how’d you know it would go poorly, even with Nerul? We could have used you there.”
She turned and half-smiled at him.
“I’ve been to Cowpat Plains, Ilvriss. I worked across Izril. I know Baroness Aronia’s type, and I’m the class she doesn’t want anything to do with. She’d let me in, of course, niceties being what they are around here, but it would make the visit even worse. I doubted it’d work because, well, they hate you.”
She shrugged. Ilvriss stared at her. Stared at his desk.
“I thought we had a chance. If we were reasonable, polite, made good offers—”
