Damia cast around, brows raised. Could he ‘sleep’? Was he further in the vaults? He couldn’t leave, obviously, so she stood on her tiptoes, wondering if he was inspecting some Relic-class objects.
The [Maids] said nothing, and Damia folded her arms.
“Summon him. I wish to speak with Grandfather Regis.”
None of them responded. Damia waited, scowling deeper, wondering if she should threaten and, if so, with what, when Regis Reinhart appeared, a misty form coalescing into shape, details emerging until she heard his irritated, snappish voice.
“—got to go. Someone’s bothering—”
He caught sight of her and stopped putting a finger to his temple.
“Bah. It’s just one of the young ones. I’ll deal with her presently. Stop whining, Calidus. I need the Assassin’s Guild functional. Do so and I shall reward you. With what? A Relic!”
He paused, and Damia’s ears perked up. Calidus? He’d always been annoying to her, that fat, drunk slob who slept around constantly. Annoyingly sharp when she and Wernel had tried to nettle him at their get-togethers.
No, wait, he was probably smart now too. And he’d always been…smart…she hesitated, then listened in more closely. Why did he have the Assassin’s Guild? Regis was talking to one of them? Was he more important than she…?
And Regis Reinhart himself seemed frustrated.
“What kind of Relic? Name one!”
A pause. Then Regis’ brows furrowed.
“What could I offer…? I have the wealth of House Reinhart, boy!”
He took his finger from his temple and hissed around the room.
“What would I have to offer Calidus Reinhart?”
The [Maids] who were dusting or sitting around shrugged.
“A good drink?”
“A scantily clad Golem?”
“A crossbow bolt to the head?”
Regis snarled.
“He has to want something! Use your brains, you fools! I command it by our binding!”
A dusky [Maid] floated up to Regis.
“He wants to not be as smart as he is. There’s little you can give him.”
The old ghost visibly faltered. And Damia, listening intently, had a thought. She knew Calidus. She raised her voice.
“Calidus loves pretentious things. Puzzles. Chess. Is there a—a locked box or some kind of unsolvable puzzle you have, Grandfather? A mystery?”
Regis focused on Damia for a moment, and she shivered, but his eyes lit up as he touched his temple again.
“Calidus, Nephew. Do you think I’m without something to delight even you? I have more than just old armor and weapons. How about a mystery? I have a puzzle box no one has ever managed to solve—something that pre-dates the Creler Wars and perhaps even the Continent of Glass. They call it the Obtrix Confundium. Before I acquired it, it was being used as ammunition in war. The half-Elves built a contraption that just hurled it as fast as they could make it go at enemy walls. It’s smashed at least six keeps—never broken. Even Fraerlings couldn’t figure it out.”
Damia’s mouth opened. Regis smiled.
“All yours. If you get them working. Now, I must go—if you need resources, I’ll provide them! Nothing for your amusement. Show results and I’ll deliver rewards!”
He cut the spell, then shook his head as he floated down.
“The most competent member of the family and the laziest. Well, I thought I’d see another member of the family sooner or later. Delilah or some such. You took your time working your nerve up to see me. Half the family’s been in here already. I don’t care what Magnolia’s done to you. You know the rules. Give me more than I shall give you or don’t waste my time.”
He sat down, and a drink was poured for him. Damia reddened.
“It’s Damia, Grandfather. I’m Cecille’s daughter.”
“Who…? Oh, yes. The one sleeping with her brother.”
Red-faced, Damia pointed at him.
“I didn’t know you could speak outside of your chambers, Grandfather! And how do we have the Assassin’s Guild? I thought it belonged to the Circle of Thorns and was destroyed!”
Regis’ eyes flickered as he put the cup down and sighed.
“I may speak with the family abroad per the conditions of my spells. No one else. Girl, the Assassin’s Guild is an asset of the north. If it is destroyed, we remake it. Or should we be lacking in such a valuable tool? What you know is no business of mine, even if that encompasses everything. Begone.”
He pushed at her, somehow. With his aura? Damia stumbled backwards, then windmilled her arms. She tried to stop herself, and the outrage of being shoved backwards made her feel—solid. Just for a second. Regis’ brows rose ever-so-slightly as Damia caught herself.
“I—I require help! You know what Magnolia’s done to us! Give me something, an investment, and I’ll return the favor, Grandfather.”
“Hah. That’s not how it works. I’ve heard that a million times.”
He bared yellowed teeth and licked his lips. Damia protested.
“I helped you with Calidus!”
“One unique thought and the ability to resist the weakest aura-push do not show me talent, girl. You are a Reinhart. Your aunt, that simpering, superior brat Magnolia, could manifest her aura when she was fifteen. She took her entire family over and fought a war before she was your age. That’s talent. I’m sure you’d like to believe she ‘held you back’ from your full potential. But it wasn’t much, either way.”
He pointed his finger, and Damia braced herself to res—
 
——
 
Regis Reinhart cursed as he eyed Damia’s blank face and drooling expression. He’d hit her with his aura, which was superior to any current Reinhart except for Magnolia…maybe. But she’d seen him speaking to Calidus.
Not the worst thing to find out, and she hadn’t seen him leave his vaults—that would have required her immediate removal or indoctrination.
But should he arrange an accident anyways? He drummed his fingers on the air, biting at a skin flap on his lips as he snarled at his [Maids].
“You were supposed to keep any visitors away! Useless sluts. How intelligent is she?”
“She sleeps with her brother, Wernel.”
One of them dodged his backhanded slap, and Regis thought about that, then eyed Damia.
“So she’s barely intelligent. Bah, just send her out.”
She wouldn’t piece anything valuable together, and having her break her neck somewhere would cause more trouble. His worthless family were good distractions for the Circle of Thorns. Regis sat in the air, frowning.
“Calidus is losing his nerve. I may need a backup to him.”
“Very good, Master. A backup to a backup.”
He ignored that too. He was surrounded by idiots and fools. He made use of what he had; Regis murmured.
“Give me a list of the new Circle of Thorns members. Who’s the most intelligent here? And draw up more gold and call Roshal again.”
He hated spending gold. Even if he was richer than most nations. Regis was annoyed by anyone with more wealth than him because wealth was power. He’d celebrated Khelt falling. There should only be one great ancient power in the world. He’d outlasted plenty of immortals, and more were popping up in this age; very well and good. Time to clear the board.
 
——
 
—she blinked, and she was standing in the courtyard where she’d been dazedly staring at the sky, drooling, for the last eight minutes. Damia jerked awake, and Lord Gorthes, striding back to a new carriage, snorted at her.
“Thought you had a chance with old Regis? You’re lucky you weren’t out of it a month. He can push your brain, stupid. Let me know if you want some jam tarts. I’ll have them delivered daily for breakfast. Dead gods but it’s good to eat proper food again! Get me a Lischelle Prime Steak for dinner!”
He leapt into the carriage and began to drive off. Damia stood there, then realized the servants and some of her family members were eying her from the balcony overlooking the courtyard. She turned red and stormed away.
 
——
 
Brothels. Brothels took a lot of work, and no one respected how hard they were.
Oh, sure, in theory you could run one with a curtain, a mattress and a single room, but dead gods was that not the ideal working environment. And Xesci had seen them all. For one thing, even if you were so desperate to do that, there were plenty of factors to consider.
Like hygiene. Mattresses got dirty very fast. Security—at some point, someone wasn’t going to pay or they got violent. Protection both against pregnancy and against diseases.
But even Ilvriss could have probably logiced his way to that point. What he really didn’t consider was…lumbar support.
You needed a really firm mattress. None of that soft stuff. And ambiance mattered a lot for men and women, no matter what they said. Soundproofing too; nothing like hearing someone else in the middle of a carnal act to put many off their mood.
There was an atmosphere to cultivate, scents to hide, and you wanted to also project the right vibe. The exotic allure of a forbidden space or a welcoming, relaxing spot where you knew people.
To that end, she rented a building in the town of Thirthoof, the nearest settlement to Ilvriss’ projects. It was only a thirty-minute march from here to Dig Site A, which was very helpful. It was also, frankly, a pretty remote and poor town.
Esthelm and Celum were prosperous cities compared to the town. This was, again, [Rancher] territory, and the only thing that was in plenty here was milk and beef and other farm-type products.
“‘S the Lischelle clans and Rominet herders. Big families round here. Most have their own farms with everything. No need for us, see?”
The [Pub Owner], who had a closed, unused pub, explained why there were people in town at all. Xesci smacked her lips.
“The meat is very good here, though Ilvriss talked about…cattle raids?”
It sounded hilarious to her, but the man just grimaced.
“That’s rancher stuff. My advice, Missy? You don’t mess with them [Ranchers]. You think the gangs in big cities are bad? These lots are big as the horses they ride, and they gang up.”
Xesci, who was wearing a Human face for the negotiations, glanced at a few women who had their arms folded or who grinned at the ‘gangs’ comment. One flicked out a switchblade, and Xesci raised one brow.
The Sister of Chell hesitated, and the blade disappeared before the [Pub Owner] turned. Xesci smiled.
“Well, I’d be happy to rent this place for a few months. Here’s the downpayment.”
He blinked at all the gold, but she knew how this worked and had a contract ready to sign. The [Pub Owner] scrawled his name, then squinted around.
“You ladies going to run your own pub here?”
“Something like that. We’ll definitely serve alcohol.”
The Sisters all chuckled as Xesci rolled the contract up, and the [Pub Owner] scratched his head. He might get annoyed when he knew what this place was going to be, but then again, he might just become a regular customer. Xesci nodded at the Sisters of Chell.
“Can you get this place worked up? I’ll have specifications about the mattresses and the like.”
“We know what’s up, Miss Xesci. But it’s a surprise to hear you want to work again. I heard you were some big sort-of-Face from the bosses.”
A Sister eyed Xesci; they didn’t quite know what to make of her, but the fact that she knew Haple, their commanding body, had impressed the women. They weren’t as organized as the Brothers, and Xesci gave the woman a polite smile.
“I don’t mind the work; it’s more profitable and easier than having to act as muscle. You’ll get a workout here.”
“Pah. You won’t catch me going back to that life. I’d rather be the one spreading legs than doing it for someone else.”
One of the Sisters spat, flexing a tattooed arm with knife-scars on it. Xesci smiled.
“Well then, grab a mop and clean that up.”
When the Sister glared at her, Xesci leaned on her. Not physically, but she stood a bit taller—she rose four inches and put on muscle. She leaned over the Sister as the others backed up, wide-eyed.
“This is my place, and I’m a Face. Not of the streets, but the sheets. No accidents or sloppiness here. Find me girls who want to work, and they’ll be safe. We’ll make money and all be happy. But we’re all sisters, agreed?”
“Yes, Miss. Absolutely.”
Rattled, the Sister stepped back and went to find a mop. Xesci turned and winked at the other Sisters, half of whom had their mouths open.
“I know you’ve heard stories about me from Boss Yeire. I’m usually just boring and whomever I need to be, but these are unprecedented times. I imagine Ilvriss’ workers will need to blow off steam, so we’re going to be nice and helpful. And make money.”
That was quite important. Ilvriss didn’t get it, and he was paying Xesci well, but this was the language the Sisters knew. Xesci cracked her knuckles.
“Okay, start recruiting. Oh, and find me someone who can make food and serve drinks.”
She was envisioning a friendly place; no need to be like the ones that tried too hard to be important or the most sinful. Classy. And not too many drapes. They looked good, hid a lot of things, but dead gods. No one ever changed the drapes.
You did not want to know what grew on them.
 
——
 
What did you do for fun if you were a relatively rich [Lady]? There were a lot of classics that Damia had gone to in the pre-freedom days.
Drugs, parties with peers, and the latest entertainments, be it fashion, shopping, or just novelties like a [Bard] or performances such as the Players of Celum.
Plebian, now. Predictable. She tried, though, after her humiliation with Regis, to cheer herself up while thinking of some way to get ahead.
Now her mockery of her mother had come back to bite her; despite her woes, Cecille had isolated and secured something of far more value than Gorthes and the stupid fancy [Bakery] in First Landing. But what about Damia? She had no intelligence, no connections…
So, to the brothel Damia went. It was not the kind of thing she’d dreamed of doing last year. But now she thought—why not?
What was going to be ruined, her reputation? This was a private place. Even if rumors came out, so what? Even her own mother had intimated there was more to life than whatever Wernel considered good technique in the bedroom.
There were a lot of curtains in the dark, scandalous brothel called The Dripping Abyss. It was the most risque of all establishments in First Landing, and they’d actually checked her identity at the door. It was all shadows within, and Damia pushed past some black silken drapes to see bodies undulating on a stage, people wearing masks and checking out prospective partners, and, well, sin.
She smiled. There was a man dancing attendance on her with a black mask on his eyes, dressed up like some kind of faux-[Butler], but in a far more revealing outfit.
“Did you have any particular preferences, lady?”
“I’m interested in the most extreme thing you have.”
