Colfa reddened as Aronia peered at her fingernails because it was true. Without Skills, the most she and Himilt could do was treat their animals right. She had used the name to keep the farm selling well. Colfa took a breath.
“We made a living up there as best we could. I haven’t asked for any favors. I’m asking for one now. Just hear them out.”
She didn’t know if Ilvriss would tell the Lischelles what they were searching for. It’d come out sooner or later, Ilvriss had admitted, but…Aronia stepped forwards.
“If you’re such a friend, why don’t you tell them to turn around, Colfa? Or do you think we’re working with the enemy?”
“They’re not the same Drakes you go to war with, Aronia. Get the wool out of your ears.”
“Do not come in here and try to give me orders, Colfa.”
The two women glared at each other as Marvus backed up. He was not going to get in the way of this one. Colfa felt something pushing on her.
Aura. Dead gods, her younger sister had become a force every bit as strong as their mother. Colfa wanted to be proud, but she remembered why she’d left. She lowered her voice until they were both whispering.
“Don’t make this personal, Aronia. I’ve left you alone.”
“Personal? You don’t visit, you don’t speak to us—I had to ask for a picture of Rivel!”
“It’s another life—”
“One you’ve always wanted! So don’t come crawling back to us! I’m glad your farm went under. I always said you could do better than that fellow, Himilt, but you chose him, but it’s disrespectful to us and the animals to do that poorly.”
That one hurt. Colfa’s head jerked with the impact of a Skill that went along with the slap of an insult. She took a breath and fired back.
“No matter how big Marvus makes our herds, you’re never going to be better than mother. You’re just the Lischelle ‘lady’. And however much you play at being the gracious country royalty, Lyonette can see right through it and all your petty little barbs that you never grew out of because you’re so insec—”
She had been waiting for the slap. Aronia might have wanted to play nice and polite, but she had a temper like one of their bulls, and she came with a lefthanded slap that had made her famous.
Colfa blocked her hand with her own, and the ground shifted as she slid back a pace. There was a gasp from everyone behind Aronia. No one blocked that—
Colfa’s right hand cracked across Aronia’s cheek so fast her younger sister blinked and wobbled. Then the red mark appeared, and she went cross-eyed a second. Colfa hadn’t hit Aronia as hard as she could, but she raised her other hand as Lyonette, Ilvriss, and everyone stared.
“You want to throw down, Aronia? Don’t tempt me.”
The [Cattle Baroness]’ eyes narrowed. She raised her right hand, and Colfa sighed. She caught Aronia’s hand with the speed only a Vampire could achieve. As long as she caught a Skill, it was f—
Aronia twisted under Colfa’s arm, and her left hand came around in a backhand. Colfa tried to dodge, but her head somehow jerked back and still ended up straight in the path of the hand.
“Rhir’s hells, she’s got another Sk—”
 
——
 
Lyonette had seen the slap and been aghast. She’d had fights with her sisters, but hair-pulling at worst. Never anything physical.
But she was a [Princess], and Colfa had hit Aronia hard. Lyonette had seen how strong and fast Colfa could be as a Vampiress, even one without Fierre’s full strength.
She did not expect Colfa to go flying across the cookout, hit the ground, roll once onto her feet, and skid four paces. Her cheek was completely red, instantly swollen, and she wobbled.
“Colfa!”
Lyonette dashed forwards in horror. She actually fell to one knee, then gritted her teeth. There was blood oozing from her mouth; it had been cut on her teeth!
“Lyonette, get back.”
“What was—what was—”
“[Bull’s Slap]. She once slapped a bull out of the way.”
Lyonette’s jaw dropped. She’d heard of hand-Skills before; Magnolia’s [Deft Hand] had once laid out a [Lord], and she’d used it to deflect arrows and even move a Mortemdefieir Titan in battle, but a slap Skill?
Colfa was working her jaw with clicking sounds.
“I’ve got this. Is that the best you’ve got, Aronia?”
“I took it easy on you, Colfa. You’ve gotten weaker.”
The [Cattle Baroness] was coming, cheek red, eyes glittering, and Colfa was gritting her teeth. Lyonette no longer had confidence Colfa was the one with the advantage. Before her very eyes, Aronia’s cheek changed from a flaming red to her regular skin tone.
“What is that?”
“[Ignored Insult]. She’s always been tough. Lyonette, get out of the way, she’s going to hit you or anything else in the way, and she can lay out Ilvriss.”
Lyonette actually didn’t doubt that if Aronia had once knocked a bull aside. The left hand of doom rose, and Colfa shook out hers.
“Excuse me, enough. I don’t know why you’re fighting, but Colfa is my friend. Kindly desist.”
Lyonette spoke to Aronia. The [Baroness]’ eyes blazed.
“I will not be told to stop in my home when someone’s breached all niceties. Back up, Princess or whatever you’re supposed to be.”
She raised a hand, and Lyonette caught it with her own. She called on her aura.
[Calming Touch], [Imperial Aura], the authority of The Wandering Inn and Calanfer…she didn’t use her Skills as much as she should. She had so many.
So many negatives. Her body was screaming from trying that dance. Her [Crippled Reflexes] meant she couldn’t do the Highstepper, much like the 5-Step. But she was angry. And a [Princess].
“Miss Aronia, I said enough.”
The royal power ran through her, and Aronia’s arm began to lower like she had a huge weight on it. She wavered, then her eyes blazed.
“No one orders me around in my household.”
Her hand came up, and Colfa snapped.
“Don’t!”
She blocked the slap. So did Lyonette with a gasp as she felt the Skill coming and halted it. The very air snapped with a shockwave that blasted around the two, and there was another gasp.
The legendary Lischelle slap blocked twice? Aronia’s eyes widened, and her other hand came up with the wrath of—
She saw the [Princess]’s head snap around, and Lyonette twirled in place. Twice, three times—Colfa’s eyes slid sideways, and she and her sister froze.
“Lyonette?”
Lyonette completed four full rotations. Her eyes were rolled up in her head. And her cheek—looked distinctly indented, as if someone had hit it with a hand.
Despite never having been touched? Colfa’s eyes widened.
Oh no. [Resonant Flesh]. Lyonette’s new—
Dame Ushar caught Lyonette as the [Princess] went down, healing potion already in hand. Aronia hesitated.
“Was that—?”
Ilvriss had leapt to his feet with a shout. The Salazsarians were standing, and even the other rancher families were confused, wondering if Aronia had hit Lyonette after all. The way she’d gone down looked really bad.
Was—
Were those red cracks on her skin? Aronia stared at the makeup that had opened to reveal cracks on the [Princess], like a porcelain doll that had fallen. Then she heard someone clear her throat and a thwap! of sound that made everyone flinch.
Marvus Lischelle stopped and stared at the vibrating crossbow bolt four inches away from his right foot. He nearly reached for a knife, but it wasn’t a Drake or Gnoll who’d fired the hand-crossbow.
Nanette Weishart reloaded the crossbow, then aimed it at Aronia’s shin.
“Step away from my mother, please, and give Dame Ushar room. Touch her again and I will shoot you somewhere you won’t recover.”
She smiled as her eyes filled with worry for her downed mother. Wall Lord Ilvris looked around, then rubbed at his forehead.
This meeting had not gone well.
 
——
 
When Lyonette got up, everything hurt. Her legs, her spine, her back—and especially her cheek.
“I regret that. Ushar, healing potion.”
The [Knight]’s face swam into visibility as Ushar helped her up; they were still at the cookout, it seemed, though the partying seemed mostly done. Ushar gave Lyonette a concerned gaze.
“You had one already, Your Highness—”
“I did? Damnit.”
The [Princess] cursed. Her body did not heal well, it seemed. But at least she wasn’t dead. Aronia Lischelle hit like Lord Raithland. 
“What’s happened? Is anyone dead?”
“Your daughter threatened to shoot Miss Aronia with a crossbow when you fell.”
“Oh no—”
Lyonette sat up in alarm, but she found, instead of a full battle or standoff, Aronia Lischelle sitting at a table with a cup of coffee, pouring one for Colfa and Nanette. She was all smiles and, when Lyonette stared at her, waved a hand.
“Miss Lyonette? Your young daughter is quite stellar. I am so sorry about that. I had no idea you had a—such a condition. Won’t you sit? Are you well? We have a [Healer] coming.”
She was all smiles and politeness again. Even to Colfa, who was sipping from a cup as Nanette added milk to her coffee. She gave her mother a nod.
“Miss Aronia was quite apologetic, Mother. She had no idea about your cracks. Um, which are showing.”
Lyonette’s hands flew to her face, but Aronia broke in, voice gentle.
“I’d never have involved you in my tiff with Colfa if I’d known—you must be careful, Lyonette! What a dreadful ailment! And Nanette says it’s from a class?”
“Yes, a—it’s to help a friend. I’m fine, Nanette. And thank you, Miss Aronia. I hope we can be peaceful?”
“Absolutely.”
Colfa and Aronia assured Lyonette. They even gave each other what looked like genuine smiles. Everyone insisted Lyonette sit and have the coffee, which the Lischelles loved so damn much.
 
——
 
“Puts my hair up when the womenfolk play nice after that kind of throwdown. We can just hate each other straight, eh, Wall Lord?”
For once, Ilvriss had to agree with Marvus. They were having a drink to the side next to some of the fences that bordered the prime Lischelle land. Ilvriss was just glad Lyonette was alive.
“Your wife’s hand seems like a force of nature, if that’s not rude, Baron.”
Marvus laughed.
“She’s killed monsters with it. I don’t know…I’m glad she’s not dead. That Miss Lyonette.”
Ilvriss swallowed his ale hard.
“That’s likely?”
“If she got hit at full power? It’d break her neck.”
Ilvriss’ guess was that Lyonette’s Skill had given her the blow minus the actual force of it or she might have actually died there. Or perhaps Ushar had helped; she’d been there with shield raised to block the slap too.
Well, the truce between him and Marvus caused by the social fight between sisters had a half-life, and it was wearing off. The [Rancher] nodded at his farms.
“See my herds?”
“Prime Lischelle beef. Very impressive. I might not know much about ranching, but I do know something about economics, and this is a rich operation.”
Ilvriss tried his best, and Marvus grunted.
“You speak like a [Merchant]. It sure is all that. But I mean look at my cattle. Anything stand out?”
Lots of cows? They didn’t all have that black-and-white spot coloration that Ilvriss was used to. You had hairy cows, brown cows, grey cows, blue cows. Magical breeds and nonmagical, and this was just one herd, he knew. Plenty of space so they didn’t transmit diseases, probably rotated into different areas to graze, shepherd dogs, plenty of [Ranchers] who’d milk and feed and take care of them and—
He blinked.
Ilvriss saw a bull.
He could tell it was a bull because even as an amateur to the country, bulls were bigger. And had horns. And were just…more ominous than cows.
You thought bulls were big. But until you saw one, really got up close and saw one, multiple tons of living weight, longer than you were tall by far and just…huge…
You didn’t realize how scary one was. Ilvriss had a respect for his warhorse, which could kill someone with a hoof. This bull was brown with one huge, rolling eye focused his way as it stood with some much smaller cows.
It made Ilvriss’ scales itch like [Dangersense]. Marvus nodded to it.
“That there is Big Burlap, my prime bull. Thirteen years old. Thirteen feet long. Guess how heavy he is.”
Ilvriss recalled some spreadsheets.
“Most bulls get to around one ton to two without Skills, but they can go even higher. Four thousand pounds?”
That was a thousand higher than any one he’d seen. Marvus took a deep drink.
“Five. He’s got all my Skills on him. More children than you can dream of. And you know what? That’s his pasture.”
They were leaning against the fence. But no one was beyond the gates. Not dogs nor the [Ranchers]. Marvus went on.
“When he’s there, no one goes beyond the gates. We’ve got bulls in plenty of pastures. One in a thousand of ‘em are friendly. We don’t need no guard dogs nor [Ranchers] watching overnight. Not with them. We had Carn Wolves come this way once. Ever seen them? Nastiest wolves I ever did see, three times bigger than normal.”
“I’ve seen them.”
“The bulls got ‘em. Big Burlap there killed three. Now, you think he’s just a bull, dumb as can be. But he sees everything. Bulls can see almost entirely behind them.”
“Really?”
That seemed improbable, but Marvus nodded.
“Oh yes. Almost every part but the exact behind him—so if he’s turned his head, he’s still watching you. And you think you’re fast. Maybe you think you can jump the fence or get around him. You just try it. I’ll watch.”
He was encouraging. Ilvriss glanced at Big Burlap, who was just standing there. And, Ilvriss noticed, not eating grass or wandering off. Watching the newcomers he didn’t know.
He reminded Ilvriss of Zel Shivertail when the Drake went still, and that was the oddest, most telling comparison he had because that was how dangerous the bull seemed. And at five thousand pounds of angry muscle…he might actually hit as hard as the Tidebreaker.
“Good to know. We didn’t buy any bulls, but I have respect for that.”
Marvus grunted.
“Well, Big Burlap knows his territory. He knows me. And I never go out there without something t’stand behind or a Wand of Paralysis. Even if I think he likes me. He’s killed men. Not many, and only fools or I’d have had to put him down. But that’s his land, and whatever troubles his kids’n wives dies.”
He swung to face Ilvriss.
“That’s his land. This is mine.”
Marvus pointed at the ground, and his chest inflated, much like the bull himself. Full of distrust, and dislike written all over his blunt face.
And pride. Something had been bugging Ilvriss this entire time the cookout had been going on. He had assumed that Lyonette would have a bit more notoriety because she was a [Princess]. Everyone knew it. Not even in a ‘ha-ha, what [Princess], this is Lionette’ kind of way.
