He didn’t know, but few things interested him, and the problem with levelling was that it meant that things like alcohol or drugs no longer took away his mental clarity like they previously did. He was a [Genius of Sloth], and so despite resenting Regis for doing this to him, Calidus was glad the work was at least interesting.
Calidus did like a challenge, and the New Lands had been fun, but he didn’t get many updates given the mana drain stuff there. He’d enjoyed working on Rhaldon’s projects; the young man and Zeomtoril had produced some very fine natural aphrodisiacs which were making a lot of money. But Calidus had grown bored with the business as he always did when it was working. He was half-tempted to sell it off, but he supposed gold was gold and bought a lot of nice things.
Running the new Assassin’s Guild, now, this was a challenge, but it was not a happy challenge for Calidus because he felt distinctly unprepared, and he’d told Regis that again and again.
The problem with being an old ghost was that Regis probably forgot how things worked. He could get a bunch of [Assassins] shipped to Izril via Roshal, collect all the old members who’d survived, but this did not a functioning organization make.
Strange that Regis knew how to pull so many levers. Roshal makes sense; he has to have connections with any institution. But the [Assassins] in hiding?
Calidus had concluded that Regis had ties to the Assassin’s Guild and, perhaps, Circle of Thorns. But how many? He doubted Regis had tried to kill Magnolia like that; they might be Reinharts, but that had been a blatant assassination attempt of Izril’s foremost [Lady].
Then again, was it any business of Calidus’? He supposed Magnolia would have him killed if she knew what he was doing, but he was positive Regis would kill him if he didn’t do a good job, so there it was. At least the old man had thrown in some enticements for success. But…
“Assassin’s Guild. Assassin’s Guild. Guil-duh. Guillllld. Gui-el-do.”
His [Majordomo], Dorim, a former [Innkeeper], stared at Calidus as the [Lord] put his head down on the table in his banquet hall.
“Er, Lord Calidus?”
He wasn’t happy with the changes in the Calidus estates. No one was; the servants had to actually work hard to keep up with the near hundred [Assassins] living in the rooms, and more were going to come, apparently.
No one could tell how many there were; they didn’t exactly like lining up to be counted, and they came through windows as easily as doors, and oh yes, all of them wore damn masks.
There were a few Calidus thought he could recognize by voice and vague body shape, but the rest…? Dorim and the staff were terrified of the figures, just leaving food out and making beds or cleaning up whenever one appeared to tell them there was a mess.
Frankly, everyone would have quit except for the fact that they were certain if they did quit, they’d be dead. Like two servants who’d tried to slip away during the first two weeks and been found quite dead, quite garrotted, in the courtyard.
Then they’d been so terrified they hadn’t even left the estates until Calidus had gathered the [Assassins] to mandate that yes, the servants needed time off and not to kill them if they just had vacations. But the fact remained that everything hinged on the [Assassins] remaining under Calidus’ control.
…And the face-down [Lord] was not instilling confidence right now, but Dorim had known Calidus long enough to realize this was Calidus’ way. He was thinking out loud.
“Dorim, why do they call it the ‘Assassin’s Guild’?”
“…Lord?”
“Why would they? Prima facie, it’s to mimic the established naming patterns of everything else. Adventurer’s Guild, etcetera. But it occurs to me, [Assassins] are people.”
“Are…we sure about that, Lord Calidus?”
Dorim glanced at some black clad figures just…standing around. Waiting for orders. The Ranks unnerved him more than the regular [Assassins]. The Faces strode about, clearly with a purpose, ignoring the Ranks, but he got the impression the new ‘recruits’ might unnerve even the old [Assassins]. Which left him, Dorim, where? Calidus raised his head, a hint of a frown on his face.
“They do a job and, presumably, want pay, recognition, and everything else, Dorim. If they’re so different from their class…no, the Ranks are different. They’re manufactured, but even they need organization. That’s what a Guild is. Remember that poor fellow last night?”
Dorim shuddered. How could you forget?
 
——
 
Calidus was drinking and welcoming the new Ranks into his mansion when the doors opened and a figure fell into the room. Everyone had a blade out in seconds, but there was no attack.
Just a black-clad body lying in a pool of rapidly spreading blood, back laid open. By a blade? Calidus had stood and called out.
“Who is this? Are we under attack?”
Silence. One of the [Assassins] of old, an [Instructor] apparently, replied with a low, gravelly voice. She was female and checking the body over.
“The wound’s not fresh. They must have made it here on foot. No. Horse outside. Contract, then. Failed or successful?”
“You don’t know? Does anyone know who this is or what job they were on?”
Calidus spun, and there was dead silence. He clapped his hands together, annoyed.
“No, seriously, enough with the silence. Does anyone know? I need an answer, yes or no.”
After a moment, he got his replies. No. Figures shook their heads or went back to sitting and eating, and Calidus spun around.
“No one knows who this is. Where they went. What they were doing. Question: is this even one of our people? Were they really on a contract or is this someone who was fleeing vengeance against the Circle of Thorns and found their way to us?”
Everyone paused at this, and Calidus rubbed at his face.
“I need to call my grandfather.”
 
——
 
That had pre-empted Calidus’ call and then his decision to try to get the Ranks to open up by taking them to the brothel.
Both of which had been failures, if mildly amusing. No help from old Regis, that skinflint. And the Ranks had not proven to be very…friendly.
Calidus sat back in his chair as it creaked.
“We must have organization. What’s our progress on the buildings?”
Dorim hesitated.
“The rooms and training areas for the Assassin’s Guild, sir? Mostly completed; the building frames are up, but the, ah, senior members have a lot of requirements.”
“Well, we’ll have housing by the time the next batch rolls in. But damn—okay, I need desks. Get copies of those desks at, uh, the Adventurer’s Guilds. Paper, tons of it. Quills, ink, filing cabinets, and [Receptionists].”
The [Majordomo] was all hesitation.
“I—I can try, sir, but where…?”
Calidus’ voice turned impatient.
“Just go to a local Adventurer’s Guild, hire the best of them out, and ask where they get all their stuff from. Copy it! Set it up, I don’t know, in town. We’ll run it like an Adventurer’s Guild. I’ll have all the [Assassins] report in. Losmere!”
He shouted, and one of the striding figures halted and turned. She seemed annoyed he could tell who she was, but the female [Instructor] came over.
“Lord Calidus? I am b—”
“Yes, yes, you’re always busy. I’m having the [Assassins] register themselves in a Guild. You had a format like that, correct?”
She hesitated.
“We had…membership roles, and people sent us out, yes. But nothing like a—a standard Guild. We had procedures, but it was more akin to ceremony.”
Calidus beamed at her.
“Well, in lieu of any of that organizational stuff since none of you seem to remember or are willing to help, we’re doing it my way. Unless you’d like to take over? Well then, each [Assassin] will report and register with the Guild, and we’ll issue the contracts from there. Report in tomorrow, and ah, lose the black clothing. No masks. Plain clothes. Or someone will report the lot of us, and we’ll all be dead as soon as Aunt Magnolia finds the time. Or any other member of the Five Families.”
Losmere paused, and an ominous chill ran up Dorim’s spine.
“Lord Calidus, I do not believe the [Assassins] will be happy with that.”
For once, the jovial [Lord] didn’t smile along with her or acquiesce. He slapped the table, and his voice grew distinctly annoyed.
“Well, the [Assassins] are as helpful as cats with burrs in their fur and about as easy to wrangle! I admire the chill-down-your-spine effect by the way, very titillating, but my decision’s my decision. If you object, take it up with old Regis or just kill me, please. Until that happy moment, report in tomorrow or start rebelling.”
He waited, and Losmere nodded after a beat. Calidus beamed.
“Excellent. And on an unrelated topic, may I once again invite you to an all-expenses-paid dinner at one of First Landing’s finest restaurants? I know anonymity is a concern, but since we have to take off masks—”
Dorim stood as still as a statue, watching Lord Calidus once again trying to get Losmere to join him on a date. The [Assassin] sighed, and Dorim edged back, but then she tugged her mask down and revealed a very scarred face. The woman had short hair, a slightly snub nose, and she was in her early forties.
“You won’t find any beauties under our masks, Lord Calidus. Just disappointment.”
He waggled his brows at her.
“Miss Losmere, I am far from disappointed by dangerously alluring women. Six o’clock? They do a marvellous fondue.”
She hesitated.
“I don’t eat cheese. And I’m busy tomorrow. I’m…free today. Do you know anywhere with seafood?”
Calidus beamed. He was making arrangements at the best restaurant that did seafood which still let him into it in First Landing when he got another call.
“Grandfather, have to run. I have a date with this lovely lady with all these scars—”
He was applying cologne as Regis barked into his ear.
“Focus, Calidus! I have a job for you and the [Assassins]. There’s a damn Drake nosing around the southeast of our lands! I want him gone. Not necessarily assassinated—just get rid of him! If someone else wants to off him, let them, but the Assassin’s Guild needs to stay in the shadows. It’s a Wall Lord Ilvriss; ensure his operations collapse.”
“What, just like that? Listen, grandfather, about this Guild thing—I need support. Or else it’s going to end up with a dead me and a bunch of infighting [Assassins]. The Faces are clearly not comfortable with the Ranks; they’re used to outnumbering the ‘disposable’ assassins even if the old Guild got deliveries. If the Ranks start trying to murder them to take their positions, it’ll be chaos, and I need more help. Whatever you think—hello? Hello?”
The old man had hung up on him. Calidus sighed.
“Maybe once I’m dead he’ll regret being so cavalier to me.”
That cheered him up, and he began to think up gifts for Losmere. As he worked, Calidus tapped a speaking stone.
“Zeomtoril, my [Polymath], my friend! What’s a Wall Lord doing in Izril’s north?”
The grumpy genius living in Calidus’ home responded snappily.
“I’m working, Calidus! How the hells have you not heard about Wall Lord Ilvriss? There was a <Quest> issued on him and everything! I’m surprised no one’s killed him yet.”
“Quest? I must have been drunk.”
“You are ninety percent of the time. I’ll have someone take a file down.”
Zeomtoril hung up, and Calidus waited until a [Servant] brought him files. Zeomtoril loved his notes, and Calidus skimmed what was as good as a [Spymaster]’s report. Then he stopped and frowned.
Digging? Yes. He’d been there for months, and that <Quest>…
“That’s the [Innkeeper] who plays chess. I wonder what she’s up to. I was hoping for a rematch.”
He hadn’t heard much from her—not that he’d been paying attention, what with the [Assassins] and Magnolia freeing them all. Calidus read, and his eyes flickered.
Why would a Wall Lord dig in the north?
In that moment, the permanent expression of boredom Calidus wore behind all the smiles and vague amusements vanished from his face. His eyes lit up, and his lips curved upwards in a true grin. He peered around and strode for his library to find some maps and history books. Because he knew there was something here he didn’t understand. That was—
Fascinating.
 
——
 
“He is looking for Naamreles, the City of Purity. It is buried approximately where he is digging. How the Drake knows the location is a mystery. A…ghost may have told him.”
“A ghost.”
The nervous speaker hesitated and quailed as the older, more cracked voice interrupted, but he went on after a moment.
“Yes, Lady Ulva. That is our—our best guess. The records should have been expunged. Naamreles, the City of Purity, fell long before House Terland ever reached Izril’s shores. Yet it is not unknown to us.”
Lady Ulva Terland sat forwards on her floating Sanctum of Health, which had a permanent rejuvenatory effect on her body. She had four Autonomous-class Golems of the Glaistone set standing behind her, transparent crystal showcasing intricate ‘veins’ and ‘muscles’ of metal moving every time they shifted, armed with swords and shields made of Mithril. Dented; the same weapons they’d borne to war when the Terlands had conquered Izril an age ago.
Some of the most powerful Golems still remaining in Terland possession, standing guard over the most powerful living Terland of all, Ulva Terland. Head of her family, [Bereaved Matriarch of House Terland].
She sat in one of her inner sanctums in the House of Stone, the northern mansion deep in Terland lands where most of her family worked from. No [Assassin] had a hope of penetrating these Golem-patrolled walls. An army would falter and break before the mighty sentinels laying dormant in the Terland vaults.
Still. She checked her enchanted rings that were Relic-class items to protect from arrows, poison, hostile magic, and more. The [Historian], who had been granted access to Terland records, had been checked four times for weapons or dangerous items. Even so, if he sneezed, the bodyguard-Golems might not eviscerate him instantly.
Despite all her paranoias, Ulva Terland motioned the man on.
“So that’s what that damn Drake wants.”
Some of the Lords and Ladies of Hearts, high-ranking members of House Terland, stirred as they listened to this very secret briefing. The [Historian] wet his lips and went on, coughing; no one had given him any water this close to Ulva.
“Yes, Lady Terland. It, ah, it can only be Naamreles. The location matches the rough area where it was said to reside.”
“But it still exists? And—no one has found it before? Why to both?”
The [Historian] swallowed.
