Ilvriss admonished one Drake and turned. A [Miner] gnawing on a butt of a cigar was thrusting away a [Healer]’s hands; he had a black eye and was glaring.
“If they want a damn war, let’s show them one! How many times do we gotta finish digging up damn pieces of pottery then punch a bunch of idiots, Wall Lord, huh?”
Nerul whispered to Lyonette as Ilvriss talked with the angry [Miner].
“I think that’s [Advance Miner] Georgie. Higher-level fellow. One of the people headhunted for Ilvriss’ special soldier initiatives, but he’s turned down all offers four times. Rather…hotheaded.”
From the way he was snapping back at Ilvriss even with superiors glaring, Lyonette believed that. She whispered back.
“What brought him all the way up north? Loyalty to the Gemscale corporation?”
Nerul snorted.
“Probably just better pay. We are paying a premium for anyone willing to come this far, and he, ah, might have a disposition that makes him harder to hire.”
Ilvriss seemed used to dealing with angry [Miners], though, which surprised Lyonette because she assumed he’d be more strict than that. But a manager of a big Salazsarian company had to have decent interpersonal skills…but it was a Drake’s method. Which was to say…them.
“Georgie, I hear your complaints, and believe me, I don’t like it either. Miss Lyonette and Miss Colfa are experts I’ve called in to negotiate on the matter. Let’s all sleep this one off.”
“Hard to sleep off a black eye, Wall Lord!”
“Precisely. So here’s what I want my [Forepeople] to do. Let’s have a keg brought out and a drink poured all around for every group that had to deal with the Humans. And you’ll see combat pay, as if these were mine-monsters. Acceptable?”
The bristling Drake hesitated.
“I suppose that’s not bad. The good kegs?”
“As good as you get in Human lands.”
Ilvriss gestured to a [Mining Forewoman], who nodded and began overseeing drinks. Lyonette winced. Well, giving your workforce free drinks and money was one way to deal with complaints…
“It’s very, um, corporate how the Wall Lord treats his people.”
She remarked to Nerul, and the [Diplomat] gave her a strange look.
“Corporate? That’s what we are, Miss Lyonette. They may be ‘his people’, but they’re not like your staff or members of your nation. They’re employees, at the end of the day. A brisk handshake and a pat on the back doesn’t earn much love, though you’d be surprised how many companies try it in Salazsar.”
She knew that! It was just—Lyonette shook her head. Ilvriss came back towards them.
“Sorry about that. We’ve had some, ah, interpersonal issues of late.”
“Drakes being Drakes?”
Lyonette meant it as a joke, but Ilvriss’ lips only twitched a bit.
“Sadly…yes. Turnover is very high, and not many locals want to dig, even if they had the classes—which they don’t. We lost a lot of our Esthelm Humans and Liscorian Drakes to what I now realize are preventable issues. Of culture.”
He glowered at a young Drake limping past him and swearing about Humans for some reason. Ilvriss stopped the lad and introduced Lyonette to a young Wall Lord Dramm, who blinked at her. And then stared at the ring on her finger.
Ilvriss hurried Lyonette off as more people eyed the [Princess], and Lyonette realized in hindsight she should have taken off Ilvriss’ Ring of Salazsar he’d given Erin. But it was useful and—
“I apologize, Ilvriss. It’s just that I needed it in case of trouble and—”
“No, no. Quite appropriate you should have it. Er, just rumors, but I suppose that’s as per usual. What is keeping you away from Liscor and the inn?”
She flushed, because he assumed they were leaving because of something and was thusly entirely accurate. Lyonette cleared her throat as Nanette piped up.
“That would be the damn elections, Wall Lord.”
“Nanette, language!”
“Sorry, I meant to say the fucking elections. It’s in the last stretch, and everyone harasses the inn nonstop whenever we appear. The Council’s fighting for their seats, and they have lots of challengers.”
Lyonette winced, but Ilvriss frowned.
“I thought we liked the current Council. Very progressive, very adaptive—don’t we?”
He turned to Lyonette, and she hesitated.
“Well, yes, of course. Elirr, Krshia, even maybe Lism, but therein lies the problem, Ilvriss. The Wandering Inn’s backing is, ah, not exactly a vote of confidence for many Liscorians.”
“Ah, then why ask…?”
“Well, they want us to do something. Create a Solstice event, offer Liscor a substantive break on door fees—and I don’t really want to embroil myself in Liscorian politics. With respect, we’re trying to draw a line between us and the city that way. Mostly, it’s them wanting us to literally unearth some monsters or create a new invention or some such.”
She sighed, and Ilvriss gave her a sympathetic nod.
“Fair enough. Well then, accommodations are not nearly as pleasant as the inn, but I’ll put you up in the best tents if you don’t have your own.”
They did, in fact, and Ushar and the staff that Lyonette had taken—all Calanferians because Goblins and Antinium would be more headaches—were ready for a bit of a trip.
All except for one. It turned out that one of the aces in the hole that Ilvriss had been counting on to help with his problems—or at least make life interesting—bowed out.
I bow out, Wall Lord. I must take my leave and go back home. Mother, I shall return tonight with greatest sympathies. It is not often I am routed before I find chaos or chaos finds me, but I must away.
Mrsha held up the notecard, and Ilvriss took it, mystified. Then stared at her face.
Mrsha the Menace, the Purveyor of Tragedies, the [Survivor of Fates], the growing darling daughter of Lyonette, had not taken a handkerchief away from her face except to write that one missive.
She held up another card.
This place stinks. It stinks so hecking bad how can you stand it I’m going to die.
The Drakes and Humans sniffed the air, and Ilvriss hesitated.
“Oh, the, er, manure? It is rather pervasive. And everywhere. Watch your step, everyone. I gather most of the ground is, well, just manure. This has been cattle territory for ages.”
It’s not just the manure. The ground stinks. The town stinks. I want to stick my head into a privy, and it’d be better.
Mrsha’s eyes were literally watering, and Ilvriss grunted.
“That would be the lack of any septic systems. They have a…pit. Where one empties their buckets or outhouses. It sloshes when it rains.”
Lyonette turned mildly green, and Ilvriss shuddered.
“No plumbing, and yes, there’s an odor, especially in some of the dig sites…the Gnolls tell me it’s bad for one week, then their noses stop working, but none are, uh, children.”
Taking children here is a crime, Wall Lord. I must go.
It really didn’t smell that bad, but Lyonette knew her nose was many times less powerful than Mrsha’s. She knelt down.
“Are you sure, Mrsha? I’d love to have you, and if you’re worried about causing an incident, we’re going to be very responsible here—”
Mother, with all due respect, I could care less if a second [Palace of Fates] opened up and swallowed me whole. At least that place smelled nice. I am going to puke, then make a nosebag out of that to feel better. That’s how bad this place smells.
“…Okay then. Er, well, we’ll have Ser Dalimont bring you back right away. Do you not want to stay at least to say hi to—”
Mrsha backed up. Lyonette shot Ilvriss an apologetic look, and he scratched at his head.
“Well, I shall have to make do with a Lischelle, a [Princess], and her trusty staff and [Knight], then. I hope we meet under more pleasant-smelling circumstances, Mrsha.”
She waved at him, and Nanette piped up.
“And a witch. I notice you haven’t commented on my attire, Wall Lord. How rude of you!”
“I see the polka dots, Nanette. I don’t speak on crimes against humanity, let alone Drake-kind.”
That made Lyonette smile. She began asking Ilvriss about his woes as he smiled and seemed to relax in their presence. Though it quickly became clear he did need help, and not just with ornery [Ranchers]. It really didn’t stink that bad, though Lyonette did tell Ushar to investigate baths for tonight.
She was informed Ilvriss had a few permanent shower spells via magical water rigged up. No plumbing meant you had to make a wood fire and heat a bath…in a tent. Oh, and they had a chamberpot for privies you needed to empty in the septic pond.
Pond.
Lyonette was an adult who worked and lived in the world. She didn’t let anyone do anything she wouldn’t, these days. Even so, hauling her own bucket over to the waste pits…
She began to wonder how Ilvriss had survived this long. The north, as it transpired, was not that pleasant away from civilization for someone used to a Drake city.
Or maybe it was just being alone and far from home.
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail didn’t miss home. She didn’t like the north; in fact, she’d been drifting from city to city and not liked any of them enough to stay.
But she really, truly, didn’t miss home.
Not with the inn causing trouble and killing people, like an infection that couldn’t be stopped. That…that inn with that Human she’d once called her friend.
Erin. She’d been innocent when Selys had offered Erin help. Selys, the first person to be Erin’s friend in this world, and look what her reward was.
Her grandmother dead. Her city attacked over and over, and Selys homeless.
Of course, you could argue that none of this was Erin’s fault, that Selys had chosen to leave. Certainly, there was a voice in Selys’ head that said that. But she still saw Tekshia lying on the pyre as they were burning her, and Selys knew she’d never forgive Erin.
Not for that. Nor for Zel. Nor for…
She was poking at a wobbling abalone, not really hungry, when her belt vibrated and squeaked. As if they could tell she was brooding, two little companions, her only friends in this world, rustled, and Selys jumped and whispered.
“Shh, you two! I’m in a fancy restaurant! Here.”
She cut some abalone off and fed it into a belt pouch. Then smiled at a diner giving her a very strange look at another table.
Rhata and Haldagaz nibbled at the abalone and evidently found it to their liking, because they squeaked for more. Which was good because Selys didn’t have much of an appetite, despite this being a super-fancy restaurant in the north.
First Landing, no less. It was an amazing city, even if it was diametrically different to the Walled Cities. She was rather surprised no one had given her a hard time for being a Drake, but like a Walled City, you got non-natives enough that there were a few Drakes here.
Even if she’d had to get used to the comments. Most people weren’t overtly hostile to Drakes, but she supposed it was the experience of being a foreigner in Human lands.
Like, say, a Human girl who came to a Drake city where no one would help or trust her.
Selys stabbed herself with a fork rather than pursue that line of thought. She glared at her meal before assuring the [Waitress] that yes, she loved the abalone, delicious. Really.
She had lost her place at home, anyways. As an [Heiress], none of her old friends could relate to her. Selys had gold, but no job. And the job she wanted, she deserved—Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild—had been blocked to her.
By…her grandmother.
That hurt most of all. To realize Tekshia thought that little of her. Now Selys would never prove—so she left.
She left. She was going to make something of herself, up north. Selys had the coin. She had the ability.
Even without managing her properties in Liscor, Selys Shivertail was Rich, and you had to capitalize it. She’d merely been ‘rich’ with the Heartflame Breastplate generating gold for her and people like Keldrass renting it for absurd sums.
But with her apartments pulling in a tidy sum, and other investments generating income, she was wealthier than most other [Landlords]. The real profits were from Solar Cycles, though.
She had a stake in their company, having been the money behind Kevin’s bicycles. And that made her very Rich.
Kevin. Another casualty of being friends with Erin. Selys stared at her plate. Then she went to get the bill. She was in no mood for the food; she just tossed the abalone in her belt pouch. She passed by some Human [Lord] flirting outrageously with a hugely embarrassed woman with scars all over her arms. He was trying to lick her fingers clean, and Selys watched as one of the [Maître D’hôtel] tried to get him to stop or kick him out.
Who came up with a class like that, anyways? It was so…Drathian-sounding. Selys left and went stomping back through the street to the finest inn money could buy without being a noble, then began packing her things.
She’d just come to First Landing for the sights. She wouldn’t find work or a project here. Two little rats scurried out of her belt pouches after the Drake had found a sleeping tonic and used that to drift off. They ran around the room, concerned for her.
Someone had to be.
 
——
 
Haldagaz’s studied opinion on the matter of present events was that too much abalone would give you bad poos, given that the rats weren’t used to a seafood diet. He based this on his intuition, observations from watching the non-ratians of the world talking and teaching him without knowing it, and his reading of Selys’ books in her library.
And Calruz’s Skill. The [Honorable Prisoner] had gained a number of Skills to empower his little rat companions, who had been his only friends in prison. He was doing better, which Haldagaz was grateful for, even if he wished he could be with his friend and savior. The fact that Haldagaz felt more intelligent ipso facto indicated Calruz was advancing in levels.
However, someone had to be with their other miserable friend, Selys, who had no friends in this world. Whether that was by her own actions or the confluences of fate, who could speculate? It was not for a rat to moralize.
He might have vouchsafed, however, that Selys would have had a link back to Liscor had she allowed it. She had a number of magical safeguards that had kept her from trouble. An anti-pickpocketing enchantment on her bag of holding, anti-poison and an arrowward ring—and a new Wistram-made ring that prevented [Appraisal] and scrying spells.
Including the [World’s Eye Theatre]. Or at least, it made it hard to find Selys. Haldagaz didn’t know the specifics, but he recalled Mrsha trying to contact Selys with some regularity. Selys had not been…pleasant to the girl. So, Mrsha had eventually stopped. Which had made the Drake more annoyed for a week. But that was her choice, wasn’t it?
