She sat down in a chair without being asked, which drew a gasp from Welsca. Ilvriss just shook his head at his adjutant, which Xesci appreciated. She could be a bit more herself here, whomever that had been. She’d forgotten her original face and name, after all. She was 70% sure she’d been a Drake, though. 20% she had been a Human or Gnoll, 10% that she was actually a Selphid who’d gone crazy.
“I do have an opinion, Wall Lord. Firstly, Dramm is angry, but not really at you, just at being dressed down. He’s not going to remember whatever you told him, though.”
Ilvriss put his head back and sighed as he poured himself a cup of water, then her one. He sat back in his chair and gulped down the water as Xesci politely drank her cup, then filled hers with a bottle from her side. Sherry. Welsca was trying to find new levels of appalledness, but she had dealt with Erin and Ryoka Griffin before. It was just that Xesci was a Drake, and apparently, that meant something.
Well, Xesci hoped Ilvriss really had changed, because this next bit had him sitting up.
“I hope you recall that some of what comes down from the top is gold, which is why people listen, Wall Lord. But the rest tends to be piss.”
Ilvriss sat up in his chair, and his eyes narrowed.
“I like to think House Gemscale runs a tidy, efficient, respectful enterprise, Xesci.”
She shrugged.
“From what I’ve heard? Scuttlebutt says it’s one of the best thanks to your Administrator Alrric. But the best nettle in a basket still hurts.”
He stared at her and put down his cup.
“You’re implying there’s a flaw in our structures?”
“I’m telling you there’s a flaw in Drake culture. Which is why Liscor’s and Esthelm’s people are turning over at a higher rate and you have an entire worksite covered in mud.”
She’d hoped she was wrong and her memories were out of date, but she had to point out the obvious. Ilvriss drummed his claws on the table.
“Dramm’s a young fool—”
“The fact that every Drake and Gnoll from Salazsar walked into the mud after him is because that’s how it works, Wall Lord. And if they didn’t? Every worker who did walk into the mud would make their life hell for a week.”
“…Surely not.”
Ilvriss glanced at Welsca for support, but here Xesci felt the [Adjutant] hesitate. Because she knew Drake hierarchies. Ilvriss didn’t. Xesci smiled at him.
“You told me to be direct with you, Ilvriss. All I can tell you is what I see. You stand at the top, so I imagine it looks different from above, but I’ve been at the bottom rung in Drake culture.”
“So we have a problem with authority?”
“You have a problem with how authority works, Wall Lord.”
“A bit of overzealousness when it comes to stepping out of line isn’t the worst—”
Xesci turned to Welsca, a big smile on her face.
“I don’t know this Dramm, but I know Wall Lords. Adjutant Welsca, how many times have you gone out drinking into the dawn this month?”
Ilvriss’ head turned, and his mouth opened at this apparent non-sequitur, but when he saw Welsca’s eyes shift away from him, her visible twist of the lips, he hesitated. The [Adjutant] coughed.
“I’d say no more than…eight times? We’re very committed to the project, Xesci.”
It was the 14th of the month. Xesci pointedly turned to Ilvriss, and he hesitated.
“I haven’t been out drinking since last year. I haven’t kept up on after-work events, but a bit of relaxation is allowed, Xesci. Hangover cures were invented for a reason, and if someone’s a bit tired, well—”
He was making excuses to avoid painting Welsca in a bad light. Xesci sighed louder.
“You don’t get it, Ilvriss. It’s not about Welsca drinking. It’s the fact that she has to drink when she doesn’t even like it.”
This time, the [Adjutant] jumped.
“How do you know—?”
Ilvriss blinked, and now he was leaning over his desk.
“Is that true, Welsca? But when I used to throw after-work parties, you always showed up.”
He was thinking. It took a while, but the Wall Lord was blinking, and Welsca was blushing. Xesci was calm because it took a lot to get her ruffled. She smiled.
“That’s expected, Wall Lord. Especially in Salazsar, but most Drake cities have that culture. You show up for an after-work party because you have to. Anyone who doesn’t do that is anti-social. Not part of the team; isn’t that right, Welsca?”
“I quite enjoy such events, Miss Xesci.”
The [Adjutant] really seemed like she didn’t want to be here, but there was also part of her that was saying she wanted Xesci to go on. Ilvriss turned.
“Dramm’s holding after-work drinking parties? I suppose any lad his age would. Into the dawn’s a bit rough, but at his age, you can survive it. Why is Welsca there?”
“Because he outranks her. And because he wouldn’t mind sleeping with her.”
Welsca nearly spat out her water. Xesci wasn’t surprised, of course, but Ilvriss turned.
“That would be entirely—”
He hesitated because he’d had a relationship with his subordinate, but Xesci shrugged.
“Her and every female co-worker the young Wall Lord has. It’s easier when they drink.”
“That’s unacceptable.”
“That’s how it works, Ilvriss. And she can’t exactly leave until he’s done or he’ll get upset—assuming he remembers that. I expect plenty of Liscorian Drakes don’t know how that dynamic works. You have to know this is expected.”
Ilvriss was squirming in his chair.
“I—well, yes, there’s such a thing as being part of the team, but it’s not onerous. I buy all the drinks!”
Which was nice unless you wanted to be somewhere else or you didn’t really care for drinking. He glanced at Welsca, and Xesci exhaled.
“It’s up to you if you want to ignore that. But you asked me what I think? I think there’s things about Drake culture that are making things less effective here, Wall Lord. Especially when you’re trying something new.”
Like digging with mostly volunteers in Human lands and having to work with other species. Ilvriss protested weakly.
“I understand, Xesci. But it’s not just that. It’s the damn cattle raids from those idiots stealing our food! It’s the lack of plumbing in the town of Thirthoof, our low workforce, all these nobles giving us grief—and Humans are damn inefficient, can’t pave their roads, don’t use bidets, and can’t handle one Drake on their lands without causing a fuss!”
He slammed a fist down on his desk as all the frustrations of this project came out of him in a moment. Xesci waited as Ilvriss lowered his head, then peered up, embarrassed, and she smiled at him.
“Yes, Wall Lord. But none of that excuses the issues with Salazsar or Drakes, does it?”
He sat there and rubbed his eyes tiredly.
“…No. No, it doesn’t, does it? So what do I do, Xesci?”
She gazed at him and said the thing that was at the core of her class.
“Change, Wall Lord. You’ve done it once, but only you’ve changed.”
He sat back in his little office as flies buzzed around him, and he heard shouting from the mines and Captain Osthia leading a patrol of soldiers around. Ilvriss stared up at the ceiling.
“Alright. Welsca, starting as of now, I am mandating that no officers have parties…”
Xesci coughed noisily, and Ilvriss sat up and stared at her. He hesitated.
“I’m…instituting a broad reform that people don’t have to attend such events?”
“Sure, that’ll work. This is sarcasm, by the way.”
Ilvriss drummed his claws on the table.
“Well, how in Rhir’s hells am I supposed to change things?”
She gave him a patient look.
“Why don’t you take your own advice and lead by example, Wall Lord? Piss from above and all that. Throw a party, and let people not attend or excuse themselves. Welsca and I will do it, and you should make a point of showing everyone it’s fine.”
He sat there.
“I have to throw a party tonight so people can leave?”
“Yep.”
He sat back in his chair, stared up at the ceiling again, then sighed.
“Alright. Welsca, will you handle it? Spread the word. Ancestors. I wonder if anything fun is happening at The Wandering Inn?”
Everywhere had to be more pleasant than here. Xesci felt bad for the poor Wall Lord. Change was so damn uncomfortable, even if you were used to it. But knowing you needed to change, feeling you had to, in your bones…that was life.
Change or die. She adjusted her clothing as Welsca nodded and scribbled a note, trying not to look that happy. Xesci raised a claw.
“On that note, I think I’d like to help with morale a bit more, Ilvriss. I can keep giving you advice, but how would you feel about me opening a brothel in town?”
“What?”
“No? Just at our worksites, then?”
The other Drakes stared at Xesci, as if they’d forgotten they’d hired a [Courtesan]. Xesci sighed longer.
Corporate people. They were her best and kinkiest clients.
 
——
 
Someone else glanced over her shoulder and had cause for regret as well. Much like a Wall Lord staring at a line of muddy Drakes and Gnolls, Damia Reinhart stared back at the nude form of her half-brother, Wernel Reinhart, in their messy, shared bed and had a thought.
Ick.
It wasn’t the first time she’d felt that way of late, but it had been recurring, and she had to consider that, maybe, just possibly, she wasn’t having as much fun with her half-brother in their incestuous relationship as before.
A crazy thought, but, well, she had changed. Damia sat up in her bed and instantly saw Wernel reaching for a little tin. He poured a line of brown powder into a roll and began hunting around for a wand to light it. She wrinkled her nose at the harsh aroma.
“Hazyflower. That will destroy your mind, you know, Wernel.”
“Bah, it’s fun. Let’s have some and go again, Damia. From behind?”
Normally, Damia would decide to try the Hazyflower and think it spiced up the bedroom. Instead, she rolled over and hunted for her clothing.
“I have more to do than just sex, Wernel. Are you getting bored?”
“Hmm? I mean…no? You should really try the Hazyflower. I’m getting it all the way from…Nomaudrel. It’s non-addictive, or so the [Merchant] who sold me it said.”
Damia blinked and brightened up.
“Oh! Is this from the Cont’dvalle productions? The Delightful Duchess—Princess Menisi of Calanfer, I believe, came up with several high-end variants of drugs that don’t have the same harmful effects. Very interesting.”
She’d just found out about this Menisi because the Duchess had apparently re-emerged in Calanferian politics. Which Damia hadn’t ever paid attention to until this year; now she was reading up on the many Terandrian nations and was frankly annoyed at how powerful and secure their holdings were.
That’s what comes of taking an entire continent and holding it against other species. And largely subjugating the half-Elven and Dwarven populations, of course. She was sure that’s not how the Terandrians would say it, but it gave them an undeniable edge as a continent, as well as their unity against foreigners.
She was ready to snuggle up to Wernel and discuss all that as she perked up, but he finished a huge puff of his spliff, exhaled the brown smoke that stained the sheets and pillows, and gave her the blankest of looks.
“What? Cont’d—what? No, I just got it from Nomaudrel. What’s…the rest of all that?”
“It’s what I found out, Wernel.”
Damia snapped, her good mood evaporating. He shook his head, and a familiar grimace crossed his face.
“That damn curse from Aunt Magnolia—try the Hazyflower, Damia. It helps with all that.”
“What, thinking?”
She leapt out of bed and began dressing. Wernel reached for her arm, but she stormed out of his rooms, so he shouted after her.
“Send a servant or someone, would you, Damia? One of the ones I like!”
 
——
 
Damia Reinhart was annoyed as she walked through House Reinhart’s family manor. Not by the idea that Wernel was promptly going to pop another servant into bed to replace her.
That was normal, expected. She was annoyed because he didn’t want to reclaim their stolen birthright, the intelligence of a Reinhart. He wanted to hide, even after Magnolia Reinhart’s curse, the Skill she’d used to subdue her entire family and cloud their minds, had vanished.
But Damia was thinking, and the problem with thinking was that…it meant she was no longer complacent.
None of them were. As she strode through House Reinhart, Damia saw servants fleeing her or pausing to practically prostrate themselves on the floor. They hadn’t used to do that.
Oh, they’d been obsequious, but not afraid. Also, lower-class. The new ones were a mix of completely inexperienced but attractive, young men and women both, or highly competent. Her mother, Cecille Reinhart, and her uncles and aunts and cousins had shaken up their staffing.
The Reinharts were back. No longer made dumb, no longer tamed by Magnolia. For two decades, they’d been shackled, and some, like Damia, had been born and raised and never known their true nature.
Which was to be the viper among flowers, to be sharp, cunning, incisive—and dangerous.
A crash from the front doors as Damia strode through the courtyard that led into the various wings of the manor. A man was catapulted out of the carriage he’d driven into the doors. He landed, swearing, then got up, visibly intoxicated.
Blood on the carriage front.
Uncle Gorthes strode forwards unsteadily, a bullwhip at his side, and roared.
“Servants!”
They came running, a [Hostler], his personal [Manservants], a pair of [Maids]—Damia leaned over the railing and called down.
“Uncle Gorthes, did you run someone over again?”
He grinned up at her.
“Just a pair of horses from an idiot who didn’t yield the road, Niece! Some fools still don’t get that we’re back. I snapped up that bakery everyone likes.”
She sighed, leaning on the balcony.
“By, what, threatening to run into the owner’s shop if he doesn’t sell you a stake?”
“Don’t be silly. His son was in prison after a fight at the bar. Poor lad. Would have gone straight to the noose if I hadn’t bailed him out.”
“Really, the noose over a barfight?”
Damia rolled her eyes, but Gorthes was chuckling.
“Strange how it all works out. That’s the way, Damia. You, eh, you have any projects going on? I’m still trying to take all those damn mines Magnolia has lying around. But she’s got them all behind other owners. As if she knew we’d come for them. Wine. Wine, and get me something to eat!”
He swung a fist out as one of the [Manservants] tried to take his coat. The man dodged the fist and backed up with the coat.
“Absolutely, at once, Lord Gorthes.”
Damia eyed the older man. He didn’t seem as frightened as the female [Servants] who ran when Gorthes reached for them. Not every servant of House Reinhart had fled the moment they’d reawakened.
