One of the invisible attacks just barely grazes my leg, while the other hits my left arm from the shoulder all the way down to the fingers.

The feeling is like nothing I've ever felt before... It's like I'm being deleted.

Despite all of my defenses being on full power, summoning barriers in front of the closest attacks, and fortifying my own armor and protective energy, these attacks break through me with almost no resistance at all.

Just like the attacks I've been throwing at the Hydra's heads, my flesh disintegrates instantly.

I activate my celestial self-regeneration and send bursts of celestial fire through the wounded areas, but it doesn't work as expected. I don't feel anything at all. Nothing is regenerating.

Fear enters my mind, but I push it out because execution is necessary while I still have some momentum.

I don't back down any further and send a direct attack right back while I'm still close enough to be dangerous.

While activating everything in my artillery may give me a few more moments to think, such as creating massive distractions like a wave of dark mist or unique skills to suppress the enemies from all sides using body doubles, I can feel it would be a waste of energy.

Spreading my resources too thin throughout this whole birdcage would be opening me up to far too many openings... My Celestial Energy isn't potent enough to keep the same necessary strength hundreds of billions of kilometers away. Truthfully, even when I try to activate wind magic or additional aids to speed up my movements, I don't feel any of this Primordial Aura being summoned with them.

Right now, the only way I can activate it is by concentrating heavily on my sword.

Maria sees my position and creates a distraction for me.

Instead of aiming down at the Tortoise, she sends her next attack straight at Samir's head. It curves in at him, with his only options being to block or move out of my way.

As explosions burst through the back of this birdcage following the two dozen invisible attacks that didn't manage to hit me, Maria's slash forces Samir to dodge, leaving my crescent of flames to burn through 6 Hydra's heads in a single strike.

Both of us fly backward to gain a better position and assess the damage, but this Royal Demon's weight in reality grows even deeper. What should have been a safe distance before feels like we're right in the crosshairs again somehow. The space between us bends, making it feel as though the distance has shortened.

My brain tries to understand the impossibility before it, but also grabs new memories from this great war.

I can feel a pressure within them now that certainly was not there during the day I'm watching on the battlefield. I feel the presence of another soul viewing these memories, and it feels hungry like the blade in my hand.

In the long-lost past of this Zone, it appears the Demons cornered every last Hydra and Tortoise into surrounding and defending their last Citadel, and the Light Elves are in the very center creating all of the defensive arrays and long-range protective protocols.

Despite the Demons being relentless and meticulous, the natives of this Zone hold their own for millions more years.

This is the Dark Blue Zone. Any monsters that have made it up that far are special and talented; it will never be easy.

Yet, the Demons are a renewable resource, being constantly trained, sacrificed, and pulled from the Lower Realm. The native forces slowly dwindle.

They even begin breaking through the Citadel's elven defenses, one demonic generation at a time. Breaking their power down and their spirit to keep on defending while facing certain doom. It is not a matter of if anymore, it is when.

However... as the final defenses are being broken through, and there are less than a hundred thousand Dark Blue Cored elves holding the arrays together, something strange happens.

In the final wave of Demons that were meant to finish off this Zone, there is a traitor in the batch.

A Demon and Dragon burst through the fabric of the Zone, leading the charge, one of the very rare Royal Demons that occasionally appear.

It looks like the strongest one to appear in this war yet, but as it charges its mouth up with white flames and gets close enough to the first layer of ether defenses, it swoops upward and burns its own Soul Bonded Demon alive, leaving nothing but barely living cores remaining to fall into the celestial sea.

Before anyone can react, this rogue Dragon with crimson eyes burns his whole army as well.

The flames are translucent, but if looked at with the right angle, they shimmer white, like a mix between fire and acid.

I recognize those flames well; they're Embers. I've seen them many times before, but never through these eyes.

There is a pressure in these memories that cannot be explained. No other lifeforms have it, but these flames do... it's this Primordial Aura...

I try to look deeper, but the burst of memories starts to fade again. I still don't have the full picture.

Yet, when I come back to, I can feel my arm again, as well as the injury in my leg.

Not perfectly, but it feels like static... kind of like circulation has been cut off, but something deep within me just loosened the valve of energy just enough to feel a trickle.

Specs of my flesh begin to grow back, and I can't help but laugh and yell back to Samir.

"Good shot. But what was that you said? If the Fallen One was here, we could beat you? Does that mean you met him and lost in the past? I doubt that is the truth if you're still breathing!"

This Royal Demon's eyes shift with surprise again, not at my petty taunt, but at the fact that my True Royal Sacred Body is regenerating despite being hit.

Maria is not caught up in our quarrel and strikes in the moment of hesitation, already counting on where Samir's move would be after dodging the last.

Half of the glistening white and rainbow sparkling crescent is eaten up by the barrage of attacks sent our way, but a part of it still lands, hitting his right leg from the knee down at the last moment of his turn.

The explosive sounds of his missed attacks hitting the walls of this cage seem like calm raindrops compared to the explosion on his leg.

I've never seen so many ether commands activate in a single place at once.

My eyes are wide open, as I see damage being dealt, but also soak in the knowledge of these complex arrays stripped apart in front of my senses on full blast.

Samir's armor is torn through, and an icy gash digs into his lower leg. A small portion of the cut is deleted from reality... just like the attack I received. Yet, in real time, I watch it heal back up hundreds of times faster than my wounds.

Though, I do see deeper and get another hint as to where this Primordial Aura is coming from. The pathways healing him do not come directly from his Soul either; they're anchored to the armor set he wears, as well as the Sentinels by his sides.

There are heavy soul ties holding them together, and it's not just for show. For some reason, he needs them.

My gaze tightens more to find another angle to attack as he yells back to me, "I said almost. The Fallen One didn't win against me, he just didn't lose. You don't have the resources to leave before it's too late... So I'll show you what I should have done from the start!"

The eyes beneath this armored Demon stop glowing; instead, they grow heavy with invisible energy.

Samir's armor starts turning to liquid, and both of the Sentinels begin roaring and screeching into the air, as though they're in pain. Yet one noise echoes above them all: Samir's laugh.

–

In the Cyan Zone, Lucian Morvale is laughing too.

He's managed to bypass Abby's defensive arrays with ease, slipping right through them using some invisible aura to cover his blade on a chain and drive it deep into Seraphel's Soul.

Instead of killing him on the spot, it seems this weapon has linked Seraphel and Lucian at the chest, and Abby is caught in the middle of it.

The white chain is pulled tight, and it begins to soak with a Blue Celestial glow, as the Wyvern's soul starts to be pulled through it.

The enormous Wyvern is helpless, facing a strange aura he has never felt before. He cannot even pinpoint where it is, or how it's draining his lifeforce.

His Celestial Body starts to shrink, and the chain connecting him and Lucian becomes over halfway Blue, and gets larger by the second as his energy nears the Demon's soul.

At first, Abby is terrified and feels as though she let Seraphel down by not creating a strong enough barrier; but the Wyvern creates a mental link with her and shares his system spectate view down to every last particle he perceives and emotion he feels.

Simultaneously, the Immortal Healer does the same and opens up the General's stat and skill borrowing interface in her mind.
