But she still had a few details to take care of before they began. Naia’s domain was visibly strengthening throughout the cavern, brought about by the horde of slimes she had summoned, and Ali’s domain mana began filling the room, somehow not even conflicting with Naia’s even though she hadn’t done anything special to make it compatible. Naia either had a skill like hers, or something about the Mimic class allowed her to make her mana match her surroundings, just like she could adjust her body. With her Grimoire out, Ali flew to the center of the cavern and summoned a Lirasian Oak. Just the single elder tree would undoubtedly be enough to fill the entire cavern, but she also created a couple of Gage’s Arcanite Birch trees beside it, enjoying the satisfying surge of arcane mana as the trees all joined up and claimed the cavern for her domain. She was, however, rather careful to place her trees far enough from the exit passage that her domain would not mingle with the remaining domain mana of the Blooming Rot dungeon; triggering a dungeon rage at this point would bring everything that remained in the dungeon running.

Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 47.

Huh, nice, she thought absently.

“Maybe put a boss here?” Calen suggested. “For extra protection. That Gate is two-way access.”

“I have Tol’brekk for protection just on the other side,” Ali said, considering the Gate carefully. “And I can always remote deconstruct it if anything goes wrong.”

“That sounds good, but…” Calen said, but he was still frowning.

“Better safe than sorry,” Ali finished, and then she called out, “Hey, Naia?” Her little friend shimmied across the Creep to join them, bobbing with either excitement or anxiety. Ali could already support a boss in this space, but this was Naia’s dungeon, too. “Can you make a strong boss here and guard this side of the Gate?”

“Yes,” Naia said. It certainly didn’t take long for one of the Rotting Slimes to swell to several times its normal size and settle in near her massive oak to guard the chamber. At least with a boss on either side of the Gate, they would have a safe zone to fall back to in case the final chamber of the Blooming Rot dungeon proved too dangerous.

Knowing they would be facing a Mana Eater, Ali had handpicked a small force optimized around doing damage with melee classes that did not care about mana. The blood magic trolls were an easy choice, but her Bone Warrior trolls also got along quite comfortably without much mana once they had made their bone tonfas. Most of their damage came from stamina skills. She reviewed their basic stats quickly.

Carnage Berserker – Giant Troll – level 108-109 (Blood) x2.Bone Warrior – Troll – level 95-98 (Bone) x2.Blood Shaman – Troll – level 93 (Blood) x2.

Her second group was chosen based on the entire dungeon being mostly plants. She couldn’t very well ignore her only evolved caster, so she had two ice mages with her, but she decided to pack a decent complement of fire because the last Mana Eater had been vulnerable to it.

Mage of Piercing Frost – Troll – level 102 (Ice) x2.Hellfire Imp – Demon – level 68-70 (Hellfire) x2.Fire Mage – Kobold – level 65 (Fire).

Then, for utility, she brought a single witch doctor and two acolytes. Fun and surprises!

Witchdoctor – Troll – level 91 (Soul).Acolyte of Azryet – Kobold – level 66 (Holy) x2.

The acolytes, in particular, were turning out to be one of Ali’s most versatile minions. While the Blood Shamans could carry the bulk of the healing in this fight, her little golden holy kobolds sported three powerful healing spells, each with unique and potent characteristics, and their Cleanse skill could deal with a wide variety of ailments now that it had advanced a couple of times. All up, her little army felt quite powerful, and it had cost her a respectable three thousand mana to maintain. She would have made some of the rotting slimes she had been gifted, purely because of the immunity to nature and death, but their fifth party member was Naia, and she more than had those bases covered.

“Ok, Naia,” Ali said. “Remember that once we kill the Mana Eater, you will need to claim the final cave and put your strongest boss monster in there to protect against whatever comes out of that rift.”

“Scary,” Naia said, shrinking visibly.

“Don’t worry, Naia,” Ali said as soothingly as she could. “I’ll be there, too. I’ll turn one of these ice mages into a raid boss to help.”

“Ok, Ali-friend,” Naia said, bobbing a little. She was a tiny glowing blue core in the center of a storm of murky black and green writhing slime, and somehow Ali could sense the excitement bubbling from her membrane.

“I’m ready,” Ali said.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
