After ragging on Shuai Jiao’s outfit and ‘little’ Yong-Jin some more, I walk them both back to the table where I was supposed to stay and face them once more, pretending like I forgot myself in a moment of excitement and am ready to move on to the business at hand. There were other ways I could’ve solved this little dilemma, but this was the most fun and rewarding, as now the general population will see how friendly I am with their hallowed Commander General and possibly rethink our respective positions. I’ve always been seen as the rising young dragon who is destined for future greatness, a potential hero in the making that still needs time to grow. In contrast, Shuai Jiao is the proven quality, a veteran hero who everyone can rely upon to save Central from the Enemy, but I can no longer accept this. It’s high time people started seeing me as their Legate and leader in truth, because despite his fancy new rank, I am still Shuai Jiao’s superior and the highest ranking Official in the Outer Provinces.

I’ll settle for people seeing us as equals for now, but if Shuai Jiao thinks I’ll roll over to his demands at the snap of his fingers, then he’s in for a rude awakening.

Much of my smugness must be leaking through my expression and Aura, because Yong-Jin looks none too pleased. Not Shuai Jiao though, who is still all sunshine and smiles, a savvy political animal down to the core. “Forgive this one for his lacking attire,” he says, his back ramrod straight and hands still tucked away in his sleeves despite his polite appeal. “This outfit has served me for so many years, this one did not even think twice before putting it on this morning. This one even met the Emperor dressed in these robes, though in retrospect, this one should have thought better of it. Thankfully, no calamity came to pass and this one returned home unscathed, for the Emperor is magnanimous indeed.”

Meaning that the Emperor took no issue with Shuai Jiao’s clothing, so I should stop my bitching and moaning. Hang on, did he just imply that he only has this one outfit? Surely not, right? Studying his brown robes, I notice several recently mended patches that match up with the injuries he suffered at Bai Qi’s hands, including an entire sleeve that was almost torn off but the Commander General’s own broken, protruding arm bone. I mean, it’s entirely possible he chose to wear this particular outfit today by chance and has ten or twelve others sitting in his closet back home, but still... gross. I mean, there’s being frugal and then there’s keeping an outfit you lost several litres of blood in, which is just all sorts of wrong. Still, why would he wear the same robe for decades? Were it anyone else, I’d write them off as a crazed kook, but this is Shuai Jiao we’re talking about. There’s gotta be a reason, but I haven’t the foggiest idea why.

Filing away this mystery to pore over later, I wave my hand in casual dismissal and laugh. “Come now, the teasing is all in good fun. Don’t take it to heart, because I’d sooner expect you to show up naked than wearing something tailored and dyed.” I probably should’ve left that second part out, but I couldn’t resist taking a few jabs at his dignity, especially after all the headaches he’s caused me. Well, not me personally, but Luo-Luo in my absence, and I’m the only one allowed to bully her like that.

Conceding this initial round in my favour, Shuai Jiao silently prods his Disciple to action. Handing me a plain wooden box, Yong-Jin drops it in my waiting hands a tad too early, a petty move considering there was literally no way I would’ve ever fumbled it. Lifting the lid of the box reveals a set of neatly bound books, the leather spines utterly blank and unmarked like the rest of Shuai Jiao’s gift. As I move to pull one out and flip through the contents, Shuai Jiao’s polite cough is enough to stay my hand and I meet his gaze with a single raised eyebrow, unwilling to play his games and ask outright. Still wearing a smile which will never reach his eyes, Shuai Jiao says, “This one has long since heard of your inquisitive nature and fondness for reading traffic logs, and thus saw fit to complete this rare collection of yours.”

That is all that is said, but his mention of traffic logs sends a chill down my spine. My copy of Zhen Shi’s notes are titled ‘Traffic logs for Shen Huo’s twelfth district’, which means that this must contain the rest of the notes which Fu Zhu Li didn’t know existed, much less had missing from his collection. How Shuai Jiao knew I’d been reading these notes or that I lacked a complete collection is a mystery, but I will not be intimidated by his knowledge. Besides, it’s not like it’s illegal to own a copy of Zhen Shi’s notes, just frowned upon in polite society, so this information provides no leverage for him to use against me. “Thank you for this enlightening gift,” I say, closing the lid carefully so as not to appear flustered or upset. “A difficult item to procure, I imagine.”

“Not for someone with your standing and connections,” Shuai Jiao replies, his eyes darting away for the briefest of moments, but long enough for me to track his gaze to Monk Happy. “But be wary, for knowledge can often be more dangerous than any sword or spear.”

“A warning I will take to heart.” Before turning around and using said knowledge against my foes. Much as I would love to flip through these books and read what happens in experiments 7485 and 11548 to see what Zhen Shi was rambling about, this is neither the time nor place for forbidden studies. Handing the books over to Kuang Biao and Sending him an order to see them safe, I idly wonder if the Death Corps themselves are the reason Shuai Jiao knows about my reading habits. Then again, Shen ZhenWu might’ve told Shuai Jiao himself, as the man did sit in my bed and rifle through the notes once upon a time, right before a couple Half-Step Divinity Wraiths tried to take his head. Just because I haven’t heard from the former Legate doesn’t mean no one else has, and let us not forget that Yong-Jin was chosen to replace me after I shattered my Core.

Whatever. I should just assume that my Imperial foes know everything the Death Corps knows and plan accordingly from there.

Though the gift has been received, Shuai Jiao and Yong-Jin have yet to leave, and I’d rather not have to dismiss them. Mostly because doing so is not to my advantage, especially considering their continued presence here is not an insult directed towards me, but at the Southern Marshal who is slated to come next. Heaving a sigh that is faker than his smile, Shuai Jiao shakes his head and gestures towards the basin waters before getting to the point. “A fine display you put on out there, but this one must confess to a modicum of disappointment. The games are most certainly a good fit for this joyous occasion, but as a Warrior familiar with the Blessing of Water, I had hoped to see more of the Legate’s Martial progress beyond the superficial.”

Ha. He used a pronoun. That’s a point for me, right? I dunno why it would be, but I’ll take it. “My current status presents me with something of a dilemma,” I reply, having the answer already on hand because I’m paranoid like that. “As Legate of the Outer Provinces, I can hardly spar with my similar aged peers anymore, as it would put them in an awkward position given the vast disparity in rank.” Make no mention of skill, but everyone listening will hear my flimsy excuse for what it is, thinly veiled arrogance that is well deserved now that I have few opponents within my age group anymore, not in true combat. Mila and Yan might be able to hurt me, but I can just Cloud Step away from everyone else while throwing Peace and firing bullets at them. Real bullets, since I haven’t figured out Chi or Water Chi bullets just yet, but I’ll get it soon enough. Seriously, how does Ping Ping fire Water Bullets solid enough to shatter steel? Whenever I try it, my Water Chi just splashes harmlessly off every surface, like actual water...

“Nonsense.” Giving no face whatsoever, Shuai Jiao dismisses my answer with a snort. “Rank means nothing in a spar, for how else can a Warrior be expected to improve? Your sparring partners do you no favours by holding back in practice, for such lackadaisical efforts will only give rise to false confidence. Why not exchange a few blows with Yong-Jin here, and show the audience how far you have progressed along the Martial Path?”

God I hate these games of politics, especially when I’m not winning. How am I supposed to respond? Claim I win my spars fair and square? No, that makes me sound petulant and whiny, not to mention lends weight to Shuai Jiao’s statement. Outright refusal is impossible, since it’ll make me look scared. I could take him up on his offer and spar against Yong-Jin, but this is exactly what the Colonel General wants, so I don’t want to give it to him so easily. Maybe I should ask to spar with Shuai Jiao himself? Mm, bad idea, because I am most definitely not his match and cannot afford to gift him an opportunity to beat me silly on my wedding day.

I supposed sparring with Yong-Jin is my best option, but it’s also the most obvious one, which sets my spidey senses to tingling. Unable to come up with an alternative, I am barely able to control my smile as I consider how badly I should beat Yong-Jin. “Well, I don’t want to hold up the festivities for too long, but I suppose a quick spar wouldn’t hurt. Have you a location in mind?”

“The field you arranged is just fine.” Offering me a Martial salute, Yong-Jin bows his head and turns towards the water to indicate I should lead the way, as I should. His Mentor can butt heads with me all he likes, but Yong-Jin is only a lowly Major and far below my lofty status, so he must mind his manners. That being said, either he thinks I’ve somehow been lying about my strength and fooling everyone with tricks, or he’s so confident in his own strength that he believes he can defeat me, and given how well informed Shuai Jiao has proven to be, I doubt it’s the former.

Leaping out over the audience and Cloud-Stepping out into the basin, I land lightly on the nearest log and turn back to see how Yong-Jin intends to traverse the same distance, only to falter in place as I find him hot on my heels and bounding over the logs in a phenomenal display of Lightening. Though not quite Lin-Lin levels of mastery, Yong-Jin’s skills are top-tier and he makes it look effortless as walking along a pier, his boots still dry despite having come so far. After a brief moment of thought, I realize that I am a giant idiot as I should’ve expected him to be much stronger than he was two years ago. On the evening of Mahakala’s death, when Shen ZhenWu tried to hard sell me on becoming his Oath Sworn lackey, the Seneschal told me that the young talents of the Imperial Clan possessed skills that would put my own to shame. Then he promised me that with proper training under the Imperial Protector’s tutelage, I would rise up to surpass all others and truly become the Number One Talent in the Empire, eventually surpassing Dad in two decades and Akanai in three. I passed on all that because fuck Oaths of service, but it appears Yong-Jin here accepted Shen ZhenWu’s offer and has been training under the Chief Baldy surnamed Liang, who is somehow related to the Grand Marshal and Shen ZhenWu both.

Which means Yong-Jin might actually prove something of a challenge to defeat.

...

Welp, too late to back out now. Besides, it’ll be fun to push my limits against someone my age with a similar Blessing, especially with minimal risk involved. Cheeks hurting from straining against my smile, I head out to the centre of the basin amidst cheers from the crowd, with one voice in particular piercing through the hubbub to reach my ears.

“Kick his butt, hubby!”

And with that, my victory is all but secured, for I do not dare disappoint my sweet wifey on our wedding day.

Chapter Meme
