Exciting as it is to compete with the big kids in front of a crowd, the heady rush of victory is no match for the sheer joy and contentment of spending time with my loved ones, so I make sure to take time off from my political wheelings and dealings to do just that.

Perched on my back with arms wrapped around my shoulders, my sweet wifey’s unrestrained laughter fills me with warmth as we hurdle about the basin atop our wooden log while pulling Yan and Mila alongside us. It’s tricky keeping everything stable while propelling about on currents of my own devising, but its good practice with reasonably high stakes considering Mila will probably murder me if I dunk her in front of so many people. The thought of seeing her soaking wet in her slinky red and gold dress is almost tempting enough to risk death, but my jealous nature hates the idea of sharing the visual with so very many people, so I rein in my mischievous nature and settle for some wholesome fun and games instead.

For now. The unwholesome stuff comes later.

Sweet and thoughtful as always, Lin-Lin encourages the crowd to come join us in our games, and soon the basin is filled with people swimming and splashing about. Mostly children since even the commoners find it too scandalous to strip down to their underwear in front of this massive audience, with many still nattering on about Alsantset’s and Tursinai’s ‘scandalous’ swimming attire. It’s silly considering the assortment of slinky, scanty dresses which are so in fashion right now, as my sister and Tursinai were covered from necks to knees with waterproof shirts and shorts, though I will admit their form-fitting outfits were rather tight and left very little to the imagination, almost like a low-tech wet-suit even. That being said, I should remember to ask my sister where she got those swimming outfits from and see if I can get a set for my lovely wives, while finding some way to convince Tenjin to burn his wife’s outfit so I am never tempted by Tursinai’s inviting smile and alluring figure ever again.

On second thought, that probably wouldn’t help. If it wasn’t for the crowd, Tursinai would probably just strip down to nothing and swim in the nude alongside everyone else who grew up in the village, which is both better and worse at the same time. On a side note, I should see about building myself a private indoor pool, or at the very least make plans to expand the bathhouse so it’s big enough to swim in.

After a few circuits around the basin, Mila and Yan cede their places over to Alsantset and Charok, who carry Tali and Tate with them as I tow everyone about the water. Next up is Luo-Luo and Li-Li, as demanded by my sweet wifey, who wants to make sure everyone has a chance to join in on the fun, though the older generation all decline my generous offer. Delighted to finally go swimming together in real life, Ping Ping glides alongside and splashes water at everyone we pass, her mischievous antics eliciting a chorus of laughter from the watching crowd. The quins are also quick to join in on the fun, avoiding most of the strangers by swimming far out into the deeper waters to search for clams, cockles, and other sea life to munch on, though the pickings are understandably scarce. Rakky and the bears also have a grand old time splashing about, sticking close to the shallows and not so much avoiding the crowd as the crowds avoid them, because even commoners know better than to try and pet the giant danger floofs.

Which speaks volumes to my addiction problems. I should seek help right? I can’t just keep risking my life to collect floofs, can I? Then again, the clinical definition of addiction is engaging in compulsive behaviour to the point of causing harm, so no harm, no foul.

Alas, the fun times cannot last forever as Luo-Luo gently reminds us that we have a strict schedule to adhere to, since it would not do to keep our guests waiting at the next venue. Keeping her grumbling to a bare minimum, Lin-Lin is marched off by Mom and Alsantset to attend her next dress change, and I can only sympathize as Mila and Yan escort me away to mine. Honestly, I could get used to walking around in shorts and no shirt, because damn do my abs look and feel good. Baggy clothes are nice and comfy, but if you got it, flaunt it, amirite?

Since my wives also have new dresses to change into and cosmetics to touch up, I let thoughts wander amidst the mind-numbing boredom of following directions from Luo-Luo’s hired stylist mercenaries. The games went rather well, especially considering I won every match, though not in the most upright and honourable manner available. It’s surprising how rigid and inflexible the general mindset of Martial Warriors can be, as no one thought to sacrifice themselves to drag down another player or attack the logs someone else was standing on, and instead tried to fight head on every time. Stupid of them considering Alsantset and Tursinai are almost as strong as Gerel, who himself is the youngest Peak Expert in who knows how long, but stupid is as stupid does. I wasn’t even forced to use my weapon of last resort, which was stealing or borrowing another rod to dual wield and carry the ball vis a vis the chopstick method. This just goes to show how independent and self-reliant Warriors have become, perhaps by virtue of necessity more than anything else, but teamwork makes the dream work as they say, and I intend to force this mindset onto every soldier I can so that we might better contend against the Enemy.

And maybe the Emperor afterwards, but we’ll see how things go. Maybe everything will work out and I won’t have to rebel, or Zhen Shi will win and save me the trouble of worrying about what comes next. Optimism, wooo!

One unexpected benefit of all the fun and games was figuring out how to surf around, which is great for party tricks and all, but not all that useful in combat. One, I can’t move all that fast, since I’m essentially paddling along using Domain Deflection, and two, it’s much easier just to... you know, use a paddle or sail or something. Still, it’s nice being able to knowingly affect the physical world around me using Chi, even if the results are sorely lacking in comparison to what I can do with Blobby’s help, but any progress is good progress. I’m thinking I could probably Amplify and Reinforce the Chi skill to propel myself faster, but I haven’t really figured out External Reinforcement just yet, much less how to Amplify my Domain. At first glance, it doesn’t seem all too difficult a concept, but then I actually tried it and was at a loss on how to proceed. Reinforcement is all about augmenting my natural muscles, but how do I augment a Domain to make it make me stronger? I mean, I know it’s possible because I can do it without really thinking, but only in the moment and not entirely on command. What about Amplification, which is timing an explosion of Chi at the precise moment of impact? How would I go about doing that with my Domain, which in and of itself is a construct of Chi, and therefore would get exploded alongside the Amplification?

Maybe I’m thinking too much about the nitty gritty details and should just keep practising until I figure it out based on feeling and intuition, but I can’t help but be curious about how Chi skills fundamentally work. If basic Reinforcement is augmenting what is physically there, how does External Reinforcement work? Maybe like an exo-suit of Chi that boosts my speed, strength, and durability? That sounds viable and all, but the devil is in the details, because even though I understand the concept of an exo-suit, I really have no idea how one would work, mundane or Chi based, and thus cannot really improve upon the idea. Then again, I doubt most Martial Warriors understand exo-suits either, so how is it possible for them to envision one and utilize External Reinforcement?

With no one to talk to besides my stylists and guards, I voice my thoughts through Sending to the ever-vigilant Kuang Biao who is supervising the help to make sure none of them try to drive a knife through my eye or something equally deadly. To my surprise, the sullen man actually responds with helpful advice, Sending, “Most Martial Warriors also lack a comprehensive understanding of how the human body works, yet are able to Reinforce just fine. They’re even able to utilize this newfangled Panacea method to Heal without any knowledge whatsoever, so why must you insist on such strict standards for yourself? You also mentioned envisioning this skill as a suit of Chi armour? One that helps you move and fight? This is, as the Abbot would say, making the simple complex, when instead you should strive for the opposite. Why would you need to don a suit of Chi armour when you already possess a Domain which serves the same effect?”

And just like that, the curtains part and a whole host of possibilities dawn on me.

I’ve noted it before, but a Domain doesn’t form the shape of a sphere around the Martial Warrior, but is more shaped like the person themselves, because Chi emanates from the skin in all directions, rather from a central point. That said, why would the skin be the anchor point? Better yet, why would it need an anchor point at all? If the Domain emanates out from the Core, and my Core is now distributed throughout my Spiritual Heart of a body, then wouldn’t my Domain emanate out from my entire being? Skin, muscles, bones, everything and anything would be emitting Domain in a way, with no discernible point of emission. It’d be like... a glow stick emitting light, as opposed to magic oozing out of my pores, which is how I’d sorta envisioned it before, though not in such exact detail.

My glow stick allegory is enough to help me make better sense of things as I envision my base Domain as a larger, illusory version of me laid overtop my physical self. No, that’s not enough, that’s just a regular Domain, creating a region in which I retain Authority over my Chi by extending my Core into the physical world. What I want is for my Domain to not only overlap my physical body, but intertwine and interact with it as well. I must merge the physical and metaphysical both, similar to Refining a Spiritual Heart, only this time it’d be temporary as opposed to permanent.

Waving away the intrusive hands plaguing me from every direction, I close my eyes and deploy my Domain as far as it will go, forming a metaphysical shadow of myself whose few extra centimetres of height I envy. Then, in a reversal of Intent, I compress my Domain as close to my skin as possible, solidifying and consolidating it into something similar to the exo-suit I previously envisioned, but different, as it goes beyond the mere physical. My Domain shrinks in size as it integrates with my physical self, settling over me like a shroud and affixing itself in place as if built to do just that, like two complex puzzle pieces perfectly snapping together as intended. Doing so is as easy as Willing it into existence, on account of how my body is a Spiritual Heart meaning I’ve already done the lion’s share of the work. The result is something that is more than just a superficial covering, one which goes past the skin to integrate with my muscles, organs, and bones in a complete merger of my body and Domain.

I’ve always seen my Core and Domain as some extraneous add-on that I installed with Chi, but only because they didn’t exist in my past life. The truth is, my Core and Domain are no different from my brain, heart, and personality, a critical part of me in a physical, mental, and spiritual manner. What was it Dad said? ‘Your Core is a barrier yes, but it does not only hold Chi, it also keeps your being, your mortality, and quite possibly your eternal soul, within.’ He told me point blank that my Core is at the very least comprised of my soul, and perhaps even ‘part and parcel of the whole’, but I never really understood it until right now.

I am the Core, the Core is me, or in other words, One with the Self. Perhaps rather than a joining of body and Domain, it would be more accurate to say this is a joining of the body, mind, and soul.

All the little details I’d agonized over are no longer an issue, because my Domain knows exactly how my body works, as it too is now a part of my body and already has all the information needed to carry out my Will. Power flows through and around me in a palpable rush of strength and vigour, my body feeling faster and lighter than ever as I hop lightly in place. Opening my eyes, I find myself effortlessly hopping almost twice my height, without any use of Lightening at all. Eager to test my strength out some more, I head over and grab the heaviest thing in the room, which is the hateful makeup table holding all manner of horrible implements used to poke, prod, dab, and otherwise torment me for long minutes without end. A sturdy, hardwood affair affixed with a burnished bronze plate of a mirror, the table is heavy enough I suppose, but not so heavy that I cannot lift it even without Reinforcement of any kind. However, with my newfangled Domain Exo-Suit, the trickiest part of lifting the table is making sure to secure it properly so it doesn’t break apart under its own weight. Under the effects of External Reinforcement, the table feels so light I’m tempted to grab another one and juggle them, but reason wins out over impulse and I put the table back down again.

I feel so strong, I bet I could even lift Husolt now...

