Hang on. I’ve been trying to make sense of the whole metaphysical circulatory system for a while now and have thus far come up with bupkis, but I’ve been missing the obvious connection all along. Isn’t my Domain the metaphysical circulatory system I’ve been looking for, or at least partially so? Food for thought later, but for now, I should focus on the discovery in hand before pursuing other lines of thought.

Turning to Kuang Biao, I grin and say, “Punch me.”

Despite having ordered him to do so, the impact still catches me off guard and sends me reeling back a few steps, but rather than a piercing strike to the chest, the brunt of Kuang Biao’s punch is distributed across my Domain Exo-Suit and ends up feeling more like a solid shove instead. The Domain naturally blunts impacts already, but now, compressed as it is by my Will, the dampening effect is even more pronounced and also more complex. There is more than just External Reinforcement at work, but several skills melded into one, as I can sense innate Reverberation and Deflection also present in the suit which account for the increased defensive properties. Right off the bat, I can see advantages and disadvantages to this consolidation, as it requires less focus and attention to pull off than utilizing all those skills independently, but I cannot separate the defensive aspects from the offensive ones, meaning I cannot put more Chi into one without affecting the others. If I want to hit harder, my defences will simultaneously be boosted, lowering the ultimate heights I can reach in either category. While not exactly a problem considering my ability to Devour Chi on a whim, I should still probably figure out how to do them both separately, but until then, this Domain Exo-Suit will work nicely.

Hmm... I can’t really use the name as it stands, given how I have no idea how to translate exo-suit from English to Common, but what else would fit? Chi Armour is just boring. Chi Stand? Chi Augmentation? I dunno, we’ll work on it later.

“Thanks,” I say, grinning at Kuang Biao and seeing a similar joy reflected in his eyes, if not his face, the man finally warming up to me and his new station in life. During the naval battle against Huanhuzi, I sensed just how little joy was left in this man’s life, his world shattered when he fell from his lofty station on high to become an enslaved Death Corps Guard. The shame of his new status haunts him so, as does the guilt of not knowing what’s happened to his parents, but there was nothing either of us could do. Without revealing too much of what I knew, I asked if he had family and wanted to send a message their way, but he told me nothing we sent would ever be delivered, as contact with the outer provinces was strictly forbidden. Even the Royal Guardians serving alongside me are unable to reach the people back home, which just goes to show how seriously the Imperial Clan takes its isolationist policies.

Though I’ve been unable to help him in any way, shape, or form, I’ve sensed a change in Kuang Biao since the battle that day, though it’s subtle and difficult to describe. He’s... livelier, I suppose, though still stoic and reserved as ever, but he’s more open to offering thoughts and suggestions without too much prying. He also seems more motivated to defend me, and conflicted at the same time, as evidenced by the respect and admiration in his eyes, clouded by a sheen of hesitance and misgivings. Probably because he’s still reporting back to the Eastern Province, though I have no idea what he’s telling them or how he’s getting his messages through. Probably with help from the absentee Xing Yong Wei, the baldy, bearded Divinity who was supposed to be my new Dao Protector and direct me to do all the dirty work that needed doing. The man just up and disappeared after the Imperial Army withdrew from the second lines, and I assume it’s because the Emperor had given up the outer provinces as lost, though we’ve proven him wrong thus far and might soon turn the tables against the Defiled.

Regardless of Kuang Biao’s conflicting loyalties, I still trust him with my life when facing the Defiled, though I’m careful to always keep a couple Sentinels and Aspirants around so I’m not wholly reliant on the Death Corps to keep me safe. Patting the man on the arm as quiet thanks for his advice, I allow the stylists to get back to work and suffer their ministrations a little longer. Many agonizing minutes later, I emerge from the changing room looking no different from before, or at least no different in any meaningful way. Okay, my hair is done nicely and tucked around a pretty circlet, and I’m wearing my golden armour again, but I mean, I could’ve put the armour on myself and who cares about men’s hair? And the makeup, god, the makeup... I never knew how often I touched my face until I wasn’t allowed to do it anymore, else I might smudge the makeup that makes me glow like a revenant back from beyond the grave. When I looked at myself in the water and saw my proper reflection, I almost jumped out of my skin because I thought Casper the shiny fucking ghost was staring back at me.

Worst of all, I’m not allowed to wear Tranquility and have to keep it strapped to my belt alongside Peace, while a Death Corps Guard holds Unity nearby. It would’ve been difficult greeting guests with all my weapons in hand, but I trust less than three quarters of the people invited and will be out in the open for many hours starting in just a few minutes, since we’re doing this out in the open plaza at the front of the Bulwark instead of inside the sturdy, nigh-impenetrable fortress stationed so conveniently nearby. Luo-Luo figured Lin-Lin would prefer an outdoor venue, and to be fair, she’s right, but I dunno man. I get lectured when I sneak out into the courtyard to gather my pets at night, but announcing my schedule beforehand to tell everyone where I’ll be standing in plain view for several hours of the day just seems a wee bit more dangerous to me...

No sense complaining too too much though, because it’s only for the day, one which is still young despite the many hours of work I’ve already put in. Putting on my best smile, I follow my guards out into the plaza to begin welcoming guests and receiving wedding gifts, a long and tedious prospect filled with far more social interaction than I care to go through in a year, much less a day. Why can’t the guests just leave all their gifts on a table before grabbing a drink and a snack like people do at regular parties? The gifts aren’t even wrapped, which sucks because opening presents is like half the fun of receiving them in the first place, but that would mean no one else can see how awesome and expensive the gift each guest brought is. It shocks me that gift giving has been politicized to such an extent, with people falling over themselves to give away the most eye-catching gift just so they can be the talk of the town for a day.

Even the order in which gifts are given must be carefully curated, lest we somehow give offence to someone by receiving a personage of lesser standing before them. I hate this stuff and would honestly do away with it all if not for Luo-Luo’s assistance. I would have never had the patience to work out what order to accept gifts in, but luckily, I didn’t have to because she had it all figured out before I could even ask. That being said, even I could’ve gotten the first guest right, though I would’ve been tempted to move Commander General Shuai Jiao down the list a few spots, if only to deflate his ego just a bit. Though I am not one to care much about fashion, Shuai Jiao’s serviceable but well-worn robes are so plain and boring it’s almost like he’s trying to make a statement with his shabby outfit. I still have no idea why he didn’t end up joining the Brotherhood, mostly because Monk Happy refuses to say anything, but it’s easy to see that Shuai Jiao can walk the walk and talk the talk, but he doesn’t truly hold the Brotherhood’s precepts in his heart.

Because if he did, he wouldn’t have become a soldier much less the highest ranking Officer in Central, a lofty position one cannot achieve with mere strength alone.

Accompanying him is none other than his Disciple, Yong-Jin. Unlike his Mentor, the younger Warrior is dressed to the nines in fancy threads and bedecked in all manner of shiny jewellery, including a silver circlet so thick you could probably beat someone to death with it. At those proportions, it’s more of a head protector than anything, but one that leaves his face and precious man-bun uncovered to reveal his boring personality for all to see. Seriously, his face is so plain and uninteresting I couldn’t describe it even if I tried, other than to say it is pale, flat, and squarish. Not to say he’s ugly, but no matter how you dress him, he’ll never be the prettiest belle of the ball. Okay, sure, he’s got a sorta manly, stoic, Chad thing going, with his neat man-bun, well-defined masculine features, and thick, rippling muscles poking out from underneath his robes, which he wears well now that he no longer feels out of place in them, but err...

I forgot where I was going with all this, but seriously. I can’t stand this guy. Besides, Yan called me pretty, so screw him and his stupid face.

Greeting me with a warm smile that is anything but, Shuai Jiao approaches in an ambling shuffle without removing his hands from his sleeves, much less bowing, saluting, or even nodding as decorum would demand. “This one offers you his most heartfelt congratulations,” he says in his soothing baritone timbre, his back straight and eyes clear as we face off in an unseen contest of wills. Though poorly dressed, no one would ever mistake Shuai Jiao for anything but a Warrior, his dumpy robes doing nothing to hide his muscular physique. While far from the largest or most imposing Warrior around, there is a stifling quality to his presence which I am all too aware of, and not just because of his renowned reputation. Nian Zu, Ryo Dae Jung, and even Mitsue Juichi lacked this imposing aspect that Shuai Jiao so naturally exudes, and it only now occurs to me that he is close enough to kill me before anyone can stop him, not even the powerful Monk Happy chanting nearby in his ceremonial red and yellow robes, so similar to the ones Mahakala wore during my banquet to welcome Luo-Luo.

Not that Shuai Jiao wants to kill me here and now, for many reasons including the many witnesses around us, but the fact that he could is still unnerving.

How to respond to this blatant provocation? If I insist he bow or salute as my station demands, it makes me look petty and insecure about my rank, but if I allow his insolence go without reprisal, then that sets the tone for the rest of the guests who will similarly push the envelope of decorum. Thankfully, I prepared for this beforehand and bounced a few ideas off of Luo-Luo, so I think I have a good riposte in hand.

“Shuai Jiao!” Beaming as if standing before a dear friend, I approach the older Warrior with arms wide open and wrap him in a hearty hug, which is a clear violation of his personal space and a gross deviation from how this all should’ve played out. “Great to see you in good health, though would it have killed you to wear something nicer? This is my wedding, for Heavens sake, not a funeral, and even the monks of the Brotherhood dressed for the occasion. Thankfully, Little Yong-Jin knows how to dress himself, so maybe it wouldn’t hurt to let the student become the teacher when it comes to fashion.” Gesturing at Monk Happy and man-bun to drive the point home and gesticulate the conversation to the people who can’t hear us, I treat the haughty hypocrite like a dear friend and therefore equal, which neatly does away with the problem of his earlier insolence and adds a splash of my own by eschewing his lofty title. If he rebuffs me here, then I can raise issue with his behaviour in retaliation, so he has no choice but to accept things as they stand. What’s more, no one will think his actions impudent anymore, nor will the other guests try to follow his example since I’ve given them an acceptable explanation for his overly familiar entrance.

Everyone in the know will see through all this bullshit of course, but that’s politics for you; Liars pretending not to lie while also pretending to believe the lies of other liars.

Truth be told, I would much rather befriend Shuai Jiao and work with him against the Enemy, because regardless of his hubris and lofty goals, he is still one of the better men of Central, not to mention a formidable Warrior and brilliant tactician in his own right. The problem is that his actions and attitude have shown that he does not respect my title of Legate and intends to do all the heavy lifting himself, but I will not be treated like a child and told to sit in the corner. I wouldn’t mind his attitude so much if he wasn’t actively opposing all my efforts out of what can only be spite, not to mention how he still refuses to acknowledge the Irregulars as an asset to the Imperial Army. He likes the crossbows, catapults, and the additional manpower they provide, but he still harps on about how warfare is the ‘holy duty’ of Martial Warriors everywhere, and not a place where ‘mere mortals’ should tread.

And so I must defeat him politically in order to show everyone which one of us is the top dog of the outer provinces.

Me I hope. Not because I want the job, but because I believe I can lead us to victory in a way no one else can.

