Boyd saw more Sisters had come to replace the dead ones. None looked ready to jump at the next monster coming out, and apparently the undead were in the mines something bad. But the odds…
The news of the second attack had become actual news, because a woman was there with funny things on her face.
Spectacles. Boyd had never seen someone with glasses before, but the woman, whose name was Zage, asked Boyd about if she’d actually been compensated and about delivering the pensions.
“I see. And did Captain Shieldscale order you to fight the undead?”
She pressed Boyd until the young woman got angry and shoved her back.
“No! We just heard there was an attack, and we reckoned we hadta do our jobs or we wouldn’t get paid. And there’s gold for saving Captain Asrira. See?”
She shook her money pouch, and Zage stepped back.
“Hm. In that case, I have no more questions. Thank you, Miss Boyd. Tell me. Would you like a different position in one of the gangs? Your new class and Skills might warrant it.”
Boyd hesitated. In another gang, in another city? She wavered, but then stared at the gold. A lot of gold pieces for nearly getting killed. Twenty.
Twenty whole gold pieces, more than she or her family had ever had.
“I’ll—I’ll think on it.”
“Very well. If you’d like to leave, tell the Night Stalker in charge. The offer does not expire.”
Then the fussy bean flicker was gone, and Marrygold came over to ask what that was about and say they should all go drinking, if Boyd was paying. The Sister of Chell realized that Zage had left behind a brand-new belt for her.
Dusk Prowler. She held it up and felt nothing. But when Captain Osthia appeared the next day, Boyd followed her.
Out of curiosity.
 
——
 
Osthia stood in front of Ilvriss’ desk, and he was concerned.
“Osthia, I know you take your job seriously, but throwing yourself into combat like that—”
“Someone had to, Ilvriss.”
She stood at parade rest before him, and he nodded.
“Of course! You might have saved dozens of lives there, Osthia! If you hadn’t been there, I shudder to think how badly it would have gotten. It’s just…you threw yourself at high-class undead. We need you.”
“I had my sword, sir. I could use more gear, but I had House Gemscale’s finest.”
He pulled a face.
“You had good gear, but we should have given you my gear or better—! I’ll try to find you something more. It’s just that I can’t exactly empty House Gemscale’s vaults. I am taking this seriously.”
“Yessir, so am I. I’d like to speak regarding my command. It was my fault they engaged the enemy without proper gear or training.”
“Your…the Sisters of Chell, of course. Incredibly brave. Xesci didn’t lie. They actually went hand-to-hand against those undead? With daggers?”
“Yes, Wall Lord. They did. To that end, I’d like to continue paying their pensions, if I can take the time and magical carriages. And I’d like a few other approvals. I have a list.”
She pushed one over his desk, and Wall Lord Ilvriss read it and did a double-take.
“You want a…a formal list in House Gemscale? I mean, I can arrange it; we have a list of [Miners] and—but for the Sisters of Chell?”
“The Sisters of Chell and all the people who have died in the line of duty, sir. They gave their lives in the name of Salazsar, House Gemscale, and our efforts, didn’t they?”
The purple-scaled Drake opened his mouth, then rested his claws on the table. He peered down at the paper and murmured.
“Yes. They did. Would it be appropriate to append those who died at the Winter Solstice? Under our command…”
“I would like to add all soldiers who died in the battles I participated in, yessir. Regardless of affiliation.”
“I—I could definitely see that, Captain. We have casualty reports, and each city maintains their records, but that’s not public access. Indeed, a memorial of a kind. Something for our libraries?”
Osthia thought about that. It didn’t seem right to write it up and just…shove it away in one library.
“Perhaps a copy could be made, sir? And that’s a start. But I’d also like to commission medals.”
“For the Sisters of Chell. Of course.”
He was watching her. With an expression she’d never seen before, at least directed her way. Fascination and—and a kind of weird insight. It felt like she could have asked for anything and he’d give it to her.
The Wall Lord could not imagine the spinning emotions in her stomach. See the pile of corpses. Feel the guilt pressing down on her. But he had been here before. He cleared his throat.
“As for your other requests…I think I can find room in the budget. I’ll spin off a few [Miners] and [Builders]—just let me know if you need more. It’ll be a good break from the digging for them anyways. Just don’t go near the, ah, septic zones we’re laying.”
The what? Some kind of project was he doing? Osthia was focused.
“Yessir.”
“Are you sure you don’t need more rest, Osthia?”
“Nossir. This is very restful. Thank you, Wall Lord. I’ll get back to work. May I assume everything’s approved?”
“Of course, of course. I’ll have someone draw it all up and organize it. Alrric, though he’s busy. Damn.”
She nodded; it was a money thing, and he was a money-[Lord].
“Don’t forget the palace made out of silver carried by Djinni, sir.”
“Of course, we’ll get that as soon as I can buy—”
Wall Lord Ilvriss hesitated and checked the list.
“Er—”
“A joke, sir.”
She walked out of his tent. The Wall Lord sat back in his seat. After a moment, he turned to Xesci.
“Do you think she’s—?”
“Traumatized? Oh, yep. Who here isn’t? But she’s functional. Focused. Guilty. I think let her do what she’s going to do.”
He opened his mouth, then rose.
“Right, well…who isn’t traumatized? Just for clarity?”
“Of the people you and I interact with? The inn? Maybe…some of the Calanferians?”
Ilvriss thought about that.
“Do you think I should find a [Thought Healer]?”
“Sure. Level 40 should do for a start, and they’ll definitely counterlevel.”
 
——
 
Captain Osthia Blackwing dug a hole. Not because she was good at it, but because she felt like it was important.
“We can do the rest, Captain Shieldscale. It’s not the hardest project. And we’ll throw our best Skills at it. Nice break from, uh, the damn undead. You should take a break.”
The [Foreman] was very respectful as he eyed her injuries. She just nodded at him and let them finish breaking ground. It wasn’t the most difficult project. They were laying a foundation, using quick concrete that Salazsar knew how to make. They had plenty of stone, after all.
When she turned, Boyd tried to duck down, but there wasn’t anywhere to hide. And the rest of the Sisters of Chell didn’t even bother.
“You, uh, up to something, Captain?”
“Yes. It will take some time to complete. In the meantime, I intend to continue delivering pensions. Wall Lord Ilvriss has paid for medals of honor to be awarded, and I will have a Courier deliver them if I can’t get them made in Esthelm or a city near Invrisil.”
“He what? Really?”
Osthia kept moving. She marched over to a tent where Wall Lord Zail’s promised equipment had arrived. Too late.
“This is armor and weaponry for you. I intend to have you all trained and ready for combat inside the week.”
Marrygold froze. She bent down and inspected some chainmail armor, whistling. There were serrated, wickedly curved knives and weaponry that any decent [Rogue] wouldn’t mind having. Steel wire nets. But—
“Combat? Against more undead? You, uh, serious?”
Captain Osthia nodded. She had been thinking. She had been…remembering.
Why had she even become a [Soldier]? Well, it was a family tradition. She’d wanted to go up the ladder. Become a [General]. Be a Drake who commanded that much fame, power, and respect. Defeat the Antinium.
No actual great reasons. She’d done it because her family did it. Because the alternative was some job she couldn’t envision doing. Getting married for the family.
Sometimes, you didn’t have a good reason to be a [Soldier]. Then you fought for your life, and when you asked yourself, shakily, why you were doing this, the reason was just because that you were here.
And your buddies were here, and you couldn’t let everyone else down.
Those were the reasons you stayed. But there was a deeper reason that Osthia believed in as well.
Someone had to kill monsters. Someone had to defend her home. She’d never say that with a straight face, but she had looked into a roaring Wyvern’s mouth. Fought the undead, and she believed it.
Someone had to fight monsters. She was decently good at it. Let it be her. And she wasn’t some heroine. She was, in fact, a bastard, because she believed the same thing about soldiers.
Someone had to fight the undead coming out of those mines. Someone had to be first into the fray, to slow them down if nothing else, and yes, it meant they’d likely die.
It seemed those someones were the Sisters of Chell. They had what was needed, what great soldiers were made of: the willingness to be first into that fray.
She was doing a terrible thing. But if she gave them the things they needed, armor, training, her respect, then she was giving them every chance she could. She would do that.
Yet here was the question: how did you motivate women to take on what might be suicide missions? It was insanity.
There were Antinium in Liscor who’d fight against insane odds because, well, they were Antinium and they had no futures. The same with [Assassins]; the Ranks knew only how to kill to win all the things they didn’t have.
But [Soldiers]? Captain Osthia had to ask herself how to motivate the Sisters of Chell. The answer was one she had not understood because of her rank, her own privilege. It was the answer that came from talking to them.
 
——
 
“Marrygold. Yeah, ‘smy nickname. Pretty good, I thought. Like Marigold—you got it, which I really like. Stylish. I reckon if I ever get to makin’ a Face, it’ll be a good name.”
Marrygold had talked about her name after inviting Osthia to a fire after their first visit to deliver pensions. She took a sip of the stolen wine, then stared into the fire.
“Nice nickname, right? Wonder how I came up with it?”
“Sure.”
The Sister drank again.
“It’s easy. I really thought I was doin’ it. I was a bit of a looker before I lost bits of me. I polished up real nice. [Local Beauty], would you believe? And I thought I’d marry up. Aimed for it, really. My ma, she thought the same. Thought if I landed the right fellow, we’d all be set. I thought it was a good trade. Raise a few kids to stop going hungry or washing clothing? Heh. Just turns out you should lock down whatever sap you’re trying to hook. Or they have a tumble with you and ride off. Lord Rithmond. Don’t bother looking him up; name’s fake. He was laughing with his buddies all the way out of our village. I know he was. A friend of mine heard him going.”
Then she glanced up, caught Osthia’s look, and laughed before pouring some of the wine onto the fire and handing it off.
“What? It was my damn fault. My ma hit me, hugged me, and told me we’d find someone and trick’ em about me being a virgin and all since the village knew. I ran off. Thought I’d run into the bastard and put one between his back, but that’s how I found the Sisters. It’s better than the other jobs you get. That’s how everyone else ended up here, right, kid?”
She kicked Boyd, and the young [Brave Knife] shyly looked away from Osthia.
“There ain’t nothing else to do. Just making money like that Miss Xesci does, but someone’s like enough to beat you up if you’re not careful, and until she came by, you’d give all you got to whomever was in charge for protection. No work for a Bronze-ranker, really. Even if you were crazy enough. And the Lischelles are real picky about who gets made a [Rancher]. You gotta ride like you’re half-Centaur to beat a boy for th’ job.”
“It’s good enough gold when you get made a full Sister. ‘Till then, it’s harder, but you don’t starve. Sometimes, you have to fight in a gang war, and that’s bad. But Sisters don’t stab each other in their sleep. So that’s us. We heard the Wall Lord was flush with coin and it pays well. But that’s it. When we get enough, we’ll split since this job seems like a good way to get dead and high-level. No offense.”
Captain Osthia had nodded.
“And then what?”
“Then…we’ll go back to our gangs. Spend some gold on something nice. Hit the town. Hopefully all get promoted. You get to Night Stalker and you can sort of sit back a bit. Gang Boss sounds tough, but you can live to maybe sixty if you’re a Night Stalker?”
“Nah. You see anyone with white hair in our job?”
Marrygold protested.
“I’m serious! They’re all up north, but there’s a buncha old women! They remember a time when Haple was just startin’ out. Meanest bunch of know-it-alls you ever met. Fast too. Saw one knife a rival ganger so fast he didn’t know he was dead until he stood up. That’s how I want to be.”
Sixty years old and then dead when you got too slow. Captain Osthia listened. They asked her what she wanted, of course. Why she’d joined the army.
“I just thought it was something I should do. And I never really found a reason to quit, or the opportunity. What do I want to do? Kill someone. Make sure they’re dead. Then I can die.”
The conversation had gone out after that. Boyd swallowed hard, and Marrygold and the other Sisters who were fascinated by the strange Drake exchanged looks. Marrygold held up a cup.
“You’d make a fine Sister. Somedays, that’s all it takes. I just keep turnin’ over because I know everyone else’d laugh at me if I died in my sleep.”
And Captain Osthia had smiled.
“I used to have friends like that in my army.”
“Then what happened? Why’d you quit?”
“Someone killed them all.”
That ended the conversation, of course. The Sisters trailed off, then began talking amongst themselves, and Osthia, who still needed a bit more healing, went to rest. Only after she’d gone did Marrygold lean over.
“One of the Night Stalkers was lookin’ into her. While we were givin’ out the pension things. I think Haple wanted it. Quick move—took her ring of anti-Appraisal off her finger, got it back on before she noticed.”
“And?”
They all leaned forwards, interested. Boyd turned to watch Osthia trailing away.
“She’s got a redline Skill and a strange class. Sounds like…she might be walking through a battlefield filled with bodies all the time. Or in her dreams, the beanflicker said. A guilty woman, instead of someone who don’t care. They said she was from Pallass, but which battle lost that many troops?”
