No one knew, but the Sisters’ gazes followed Osthia as she went to dream. Marrygold spoke on after a moment.
“That’s not the crazy part. The crazy part is that, apparently, Haple or someone asked the Wall Lord if he wanted to pay for a Skill removal. There are ways of dealing with that in the gangs, sometimes. But she said no.”
“Maybe it cost too much?”
“For a Wall Lord of Salazsar? She’s mad as a Face or Named-ranker.”
They all murmured, speculating, telling stories. Boyd sat there, and the next morning, when she saw Captain Osthia brushing her teeth and looking bleary-eyed, but no more than anyone else, she and the other Sisters exchanged glances. And they grew even more curious about their strange leader.
 
——
 
How did you motivate the Sisters of Chell into doing what Osthia knew they could do? She did some reading. And then writing.
Not her usual reading. She didn’t notice she hadn’t dreamed of the pile of dead for a while. She was too busy going over reports. House Gemscale’s reports that an amused Alrric had copied over to her upon request. And other records; all public knowledge. He’d appended a little note.
‘If you’re going to be doing any serious hiring, please consult with me first.’
As far as Osthia was concerned, she didn’t have to do anything. It was already done, if that made sense. Wall Lord Ilvriss was rather surprised, but he agreed that if it worked…why not? It wasn’t like he hadn’t already spent a fortune here.
“Are you sure, though, Osthia? It’s a rather long-term arrangement.”
“Do you have anyone better for the job?”
She had asked him to his face before he signed the contracts. He’d hesitated.
“We have my anti-Antinium warriors. Some have even been shipped out here, and they’re sharp, capable—the Rubirel Guard are highly trained.”
“Mhm. Who pulled you out of that Golem’s reach?”
He stared at her, then lifted the quill.
“I’m, ah, just going to [Mass Sign] there. Let me know if you need more. As for the housing, it’s a good idea. A very good idea. If I may, I’ll use that with our own people. But obviously, maintain what you need.”
“Very good, sir.”
 
——
 
Captain Osthia took the contracts to the Sisters of Chell. They were actually training, or at least playing with the new weapons Zail had sent and teaching each other tricks. They were amenable to learning how to fight better, especially because they all knew they’d have to fight at some point or other.
But when she appeared, they went still, because Captain Osthia walked with the dead. She was on a one-way mission, and she said so.
“Sisters of Chell, it’s my intention to form a fast-response force out of volunteers. The undead attacks are continuing, and someone has to head them off. All applicants will receive equipment, training, but be expected to respond to emergencies without delay. We will be first into combat.”
“Against more Golems. Or giant undead.”
“Or more. Yes, Marrygold.”
“And you want volunteers?”
The Sisters relaxed when Osthia confirmed that, yes, this was all volunteers. One wiped at her brows theatrically. Boyd just watched Osthia. When the [Captain] turned to her and held something out, Boyd flinched.
“I can’t! I’m scared, I won’t do it, even if you ask!”
She shouted, moving away from the hand, but it wasn’t an open hand, but a piece of paper. Boyd hesitated, then colored as everyone laughed at her. Osthia passed out the contracts to everyone—and realized few of the Sisters of Chell could read.
“That’s something else I’ll add to the contract.”
“What, us signin’ up for more pay? Even if it’s a hundred gold per fight…well, maybe a hundred. But it ain’t worth dying.”
Marrygold snapped, but she had hesitated at her own words. However, Osthia shook her head.
“Even Wall Lord Ilvriss can’t offer a hundred gold per fight.”
“Right. And we’d leave after that. So why’d we ever sign up for this?”
Captain Osthia shuffled the contracts together and inhaled.
“Because I will arm you with the best gear I can. I will personally lead this squad, and you will counterlevel. You will all be paid proportionally to your deeds and levels. Generously, even. Believe me, not even some of Pallass’ best squads get this kind of pay.”
“Yeah? How many of them make it till the end of the year?”
One of the other Sisters called out, and Osthia met the women’s eyes.
“Exactly. I can’t offer you a commission; you’re not soldiers. I can promise a pension for any woman who dies in the line of your contract. And a medal.”
“That ain’t worth nothing to a shallow grave.”
Someone else commented. Again, Osthia nodded.
“It’s my hope I don’t have to pay a single pension. That’s for the fallen. Your benefits end with the final payment after your death—unless you serve for ten years. In which case, a permanent pension will be awarded to your family for a duration of two years, escalating with the time you served.”
“Ten years? Is she mad?”
Now, Marrygold was choking, but Osthia waved the papers at them.
“Yes. But that’s if you die. As I said, your benefit plans under House Gemscale apply more to living employees than the dead.”
“Employees?”
Boyd didn’t actually know the word. Osthia turned, and the [Captain] nodded at her. She slapped the pieces of parchment she was holding.
“These are employment contracts. Sign them, and you will work for House Gemscale, much like the rest of the [Miners], long-term [Guards], and [Soldiers] here.”
“You want us to work for that Drake? Why would we do that? We’re Sisters.”
Someone scoffed, and Osthia unrolled the contract.
“Basic contracts for workers in Walled Cities include room and board, or stipends for such. This is a longer-term contract, the kind they offer prospective employees after trial periods. I’ve amended this one. Ten years, not twenty or longer. After ten years, you would be eligible for increased pay or to retire with a permanent pension. I have also convinced Wall Lord Ilvriss to guarantee housing.”
“Wait, retire?”
“In the city of Liscor, yes. He has purchased a lot of real estate. Full employees will, on completion of their contracts, be awarded with a property. Just an apartment unit after ten years, with potential graduation to a house or larger areas depending on performance. You will also be given a basic education, if you lack one, and a [Healer]’s services. You may apply to have members of your family live in Gemscale or affiliated company housing for substantial discounts.”
Another thing Salazsar offered. The Sisters of Chell were rubbing their ears, confused.
“Retire. You can do that? That only happens if you’ve got a fat bag of gold or enough kids or apprentices to make it happen.”
“You can do it in Drake cities. You’re guaranteed a stipend—a monthly payment—for life. That’s why our [Soldiers] fight and stay in the army so long. We know that if we keep at it long enough, we get to retire and be paid.”
Not many veterans got to see those full bonuses. But it was the dream. The damn dream that kept you going, because even if you were in Rhir, you were there with your buddies, and if you were hurt, High Command wouldn’t toss you out to beg on the streets.
The Sisters of Chell didn’t know this system. Not only were they used to the underworld, but they were from the north, where that kind of luxury was for the nobility or people far richer than them.
They clustered around one contract, making one of their own read it out for them. None other than Zage. Somehow, the secretary-woman had popped back up, if she’d ever left. She stopped reading and met Osthia’s eyes.
“So that’s what you were up to. The Sisters of Chell have obligations to their gangs. They are not for…sale.”
“I’m not buying them.”
“What’s this, then?”
Zage’s eyes narrowed. Osthia gave her the bleak smile of a [Recruiter] as she saw the Sisters turning from her to the representative of Haple.
“A competing job offer. The Sisters of Chell have countless members. They join, die, and it’s probably still safer than what Wall Lord Ilvriss is asking for. But he pays better. He will gear any woman who volunteers in the best armor and weaponry that he can afford. After all, it’s company property.”
The spectacled woman’s eyes narrowed dangerously. She turned and pitched her voice louder.
“Haple will want to consider this. No one here should take the [Captain] up on her offer.”
“But it’s legit, right? No flash, no bloodthread?”
Marrygold pressed Zage, and the woman’s mouth compressed.
“It appears to be. But given how many Sisters just died—Haple will not be happy to lose more members.”
“Would they accept it if Wall Lord Ilvriss paid a hiring bonus to them?”
Osthia had a rather jaundiced view of how much the mysterious Haple cared about any one Sister of Chell like Boyd, who hadn’t demonstrated their value yet. Zage’s silence told Osthia her answer. But the Sisters of Chell didn’t rush to sign up.
They had all seen the two incidents that had left only one survivor. Osthia let them have a contract and time to mull it over. She’d made her pitch.
Would she have chosen that offer? She didn’t know. But she wasn’t Boyd or Marrygold. Five gold pieces.
“At least this pays better than five gold pieces, once.”
Osthia waited until she was in her tents to say that and curl up in her bed. A terrible thing. She didn’t want to know if any living women would sign up to be dead ones.
She just lay there until someone came to tell her that the only other thing she could do was be ready. Or at least, ready enough.
Osthia had little to give the living. And the dead?
Only this.
 
——
 
It was just a building in the middle of the Cowpat Plains. It wasn’t like anyone owned the land. Osthia had requested it be made as sturdy as could be. Something that wouldn’t fall over when an earthquake or tornado hit.
It wouldn’t last millennia. But there was nowhere else for it. She owned nothing.
She was not rich enough for anything more. So here she sat.
It wasn’t even an original idea. She’d gotten the idea, actually, from Erin Solstice. It always went back to her. But it hadn’t been Erin…but someone else who had been connected to her.
A Dullahan [General]’s place. A [Garden of Sanctuary] in the freezing cold. Past the vast Snow Golems that had grown up in the timeless isolation, in his sanctum, he had made something. A place to remember the men and women he had known in life.
A sepulchre, a memorial filled with heads. How Dullahans mourned the dead. Captain Osthia was no gifted [Sculptor]. But anyone could pick up a brush and some ink. She could not capture the nuances of a form; even the shape of heads looked wonky and off, for she was no [Artist].
But there was one thing she could see if she just closed her eyes. So the Drake captured it in detail, because if she made a single error, she would just toss it all away and start again.
Faces.
She gazed down, and the battlefield of the dead stared up at her. The Drake drew and captured a single expression as she had known him. 
Thrissiam Blackwing. She worked…it must have been three hundred tries before she stopped throwing away pieces of paper. Then only because she was out of paper. So she just drew on a piece of white stone, washing it again and again until it was discolored. Prevailing on the [Miners] who asked if she was alright, if she needed help, until she caught an eye just right.
Then the face seemed to fall into place.
Or maybe it was her levels.
 
[Chronicler of the Fallen Level 22!]
 
[Chronicler of the Fallen Level 23!]
[Skill – Advanced Artistry (Painting) Obtained!]
 
The night after her first face, Osthia heard it speak, and then she would sit there when she wasn’t at work. Drawing on the pieces of stone that began to litter the…
Memorial.
Below the faces, she wrote an epitaph. Briefly, their names and ranks and levels if nothing else. A detail, a quote about them she found fitting.
It was unfitting, incapable of capturing their lives, but it was all she could do. And she was the only one who could do it.
No one else had been there. Not for Pallass’ 3rd Army. Nor for the Sisters. That was what Osthia did when she wasn’t finding the relatives of the Sisters of Chell and delivering pensions.
It was just a week. Wall Lord Ilvriss checked on her several times, asking if she was well. If she needed…but he understood.
“Something for them. I wish I had the same for Periss.”
She just handed him a brush. And when she found a face peering at her from the pieces of stone that were becoming a second wall to the memorial, she didn’t argue. Just kept adding them. Until she realized she’d have to hang them up. Make more walls for them all.
This place will never contain even Thrissiam’s army. It’s okay. I’ll keep working at it. She could buy a second wing if she saved gold.
What surprised Osthia was when one day, one of the Rubirel Guard approached and asked if she would allow the woman to add her own father to the wall.
Of course.
People began to visit the memorial. Some found it highly uncanny. They left quickly. Others would walk from face to face, then turn to Osthia and ask about one or another. She would talk about them.
Lie.
She’d lie about them, as if she knew Witheart. Or had even known her uncle that well. But she lied, because that too…was what she was.
A terrible liar. But she didn’t feel guilty.
 
——
 
For some reason, the Sisters of Chell began hanging around Osthia more and more. Even when they weren’t working. Meal times especially. No one had taken her offer yet, but they’d march along to demand food and argue with the [Cooks] over getting better portions, and Osthia would have to eat with them.
“You got to eat more than that, Captain. Puts skin on your bones. Or scales. Fuck, I dunno, but you’re not eating enough.”
“Oldbloods who fly tend to be lightweight if possible. Leave me alone.”
Osthia grumbled and kicked at Marrygold, but missed. The Sisters were annoyingly good at dodging. Some new Humans who didn’t know the score walked by and whistled at the all-female group. Marrygold turned her head to give one of the men a sinister look, and Osthia dipped some of her lunch in her water cup. Then she flicked a piece of bread at her head, hard and fast.
It was a [Soldier]’s move, but Marrygold ducked the piece of food and came up grinning. Osthia blinked at her.
“How’d you do that?”
It wasn’t the first time she’d seen Sisters—even low-level ones—react or dodge enemies in combat. Marrygold shrugged as the others chuckled.
