“Chell’s specialty. If you don’t got fancy armor and you’re gonna fight other gangs, you’d better be fast. You just watch out of the corner of your eyes. And there’s always one spotter in a gang. Boyd’s doing it now.”
She directed Osthia’s attention at Boyd, who’d been quiet, glancing around. Barely touching her meal. She was listening, Osthia realized, on sentry duty.
“That’s how you all react fastest.”
“Sure. Some of us get Skills like peri—peripher—something vision. Doesn’t help except with ambushes, and even then, it’s not perfect.”
“Still, it’s a useful trick. You beat Salazsar’s [Soldiers] for reaction time.”
“Yeah, well, so what? They’ve got army and numbers, and a ‘sneak attack’ is probably a bunch of bastards riding down on them at night or something. Easy to spot a thousand people. Us? A single [Rogue] gets behind you and your squad’s dead.”
Another Sister commented, and they all laughed. Osthia raised her brows.
“So how do you train?”
She regretted her question the moment she saw the others smile. Someone hissed.
“Like this—”
They went for a jab to Osthia’s side with a sheathed dagger. Osthia blocked that to their mild approval. But she failed to block the six other times they snuck up behind her and goosed her, stomped on her tail, or stabbed her with a sheathed dagger.
Hard.
The Sisters of Chell, it transpired, had turned hazing into training. Boyd got the same treatment as Osthia—though the Sisters all seemed to very much enjoy targeting Osthia—and the Drake [Captain] began to regret asking for training.
Though it certainly put eyes on the back of your head! After a few days, she grew used to noticing odd shifting movements around her and would stare at a Sister about to creep up or thwack one coming up behind with her tail. After that, it wasn’t hard to pick up on when the [Ranchers] were coming for brawls, either. If five people began staring at something, it was obvious.
If you were always paying attention. Between those moments of training and working at the memorial, Captain Osthia would go out and deliver pensions. She did little else.
 
——
 
“Sister Chrell engaged an Undead Dornstone during a breach of Dig Site C. It is my belief that her actions, along with the rest of her squad, saved countless lives in the evacuation. I sincerely regret her passing.”
Boyd and the Sisters of Chell listened to Captain Osthia lie. She did it well, in a way they could admire.
She lied with the truth. Her truth, it seemed. Because what she said was right. It was just…it put a shine on ordinary women. Made chance or running into a monster and getting killed into something heroic.
Because it was when you saw it through Osthia’s eyes. It was real to the people she told it to, like the polish on the simple brass badges, painted until they looked like something far more valuable than the labor and materials.
It was that which made her so dangerous to the Sisters. She took them, members of a gang, lowlives and criminals, and made them into brave and even heroic people as they died.
Someone their families could be proud of. And yes, it was a bastard’s move, a [Conman]’s shell game. So what?
Better to be remembered like that. Better to be the tears in someone’s eyes who’d sworn they didn’t care if you ended up with your throat cut, or a muffled sob and a treasured memory that got to erase the things you’d been.
A better memory than who you were. They were selfish women to the last, the Sisters of Chell.
They wanted it.
Captain Osthia herself seemed like a dead woman the more Boyd watched her. She moved fast for a corpse, but so did undead. When she sat in that memorial, drawing a face, it felt like something was leaving her. Going onto that piece of stone that would pierce you to your core.
A week had passed since the first undead breach. Just a week, but she had added over a hundred faces already to the memorial, and she was actually standing on a ladder, working on something that was going to hang from the top of the vast room and walls of faces in progress.
This place…made Boyd walk slowly, and she handed Osthia her correspondence and something else. The [Captain] paid no notice until she was done.
“There. Does it look crooked? I can redo it if it is.”
“It’s straight t’ me, Captain. What’ve you got?”
Boyd didn’t know how to read, but she wanted to. Reading made you able to get an account at the Merchant’s Guild and the like. Reading meant no one could trick you and tell you what something said.
She wanted it. Captain Osthia just read correspondence, then snorted.
“Word spreads fast. This is from Salazsar. They want me to add people to this place. I don’t know what they think this is. Salazsar has to have memorials. But they fill up. I…”
Her claws were flexing, and she grimaced.
“I don’t have time for—I’ll see what they want. Are the Sisters training?”
“Yeah. Um, they’re all ready, boss. I mean, Captain.”
Osthia nodded and shuffled the papers, then gazed down at the contract. Boyd mumbled.
“I dunno how to write. So I put my thumb there and a bit of blood. That works, right?”
“Yes. Yes, it does. You’re sure, now?”
Osthia glanced up, and Boyd nodded. All the [Captain] said was—
“I’ll need your real name for my files.”
“It’s, uh, actually Boyd, Captain. None of the Sisters believed me, but it is. Boyd Sunver. My da was really hoping for a boy. Guess that’s how I started letting him down. Never stopped.”
She hung her head until Osthia found her shoulder.
“Got any family, Boyd? Ones you want to write in a will? You need one.”
“Maybe my little brother. I’d like t’send him some gold, but I don’t know how to get it to him without my da taking it. And he’s too young to run away.”
Boyd muttered. Osthia nodded.
“We’ll figure it out.”
“Really?”
“You’re in my squad now. And we’re Sisters, Boyd. We don’t let each other down.”
“All two of us, eh?”
Boyd was terrified. She hoped the undead never broke out, but she knew they would. Level. Level, and then she’d live, and if she did, she’d have a nice house someday. Someday…but she’d take a gang, the kind she could run with forever without regrets, first.
That made Captain Osthia stop and then smile. She tucked the contract into her bag of holding.
“Two? It’s eight now.”
“Wh—I’m not first?”
The [Captain] flew down off the ladder, chuckling, then felt at her ribs.
“Mending well. Barely hurts when I flap my wings. Come on, Boyd. We’ve got to get you outfitted for armor. Trouble might come any day now.”
“Sure, Captain. We’re a squad, right?”
“That’s right, so I’m going to insist on some discipline. But I understand you’re all Sisters. Informality will work. I’m not really a [Soldier] anymore. Being a bit unorthodox will be good for us.”
Captain Osthia still walked like a stick, but Boyd strolled after her.
“Reckon you’ve got a problem with your dreams.”
“I’m one step closer with you all, Boyd. And we’re going to see blood and combat. How’s that a problem?”
“Well, ‘cause you got a squad now, and Sisters. Can’t go dying on us.”
Boyd grinned triumphantly. Captain Osthia slowed and peered back at her. Boyd waited for a cuff, a kick, or Osthia to tell her to get lost. But the Drake just blinked at her, then smiled. Guiltily.
“I guess I do. I’m sorry, Boyd.”
“It’s better prospects than what I got, Captain.”
“Yeah. A pity I couldn’t offer you anything else. But someone’s got to do it.”
They walked out of the memorial. Above the faces of the dead—Boyd looked back once at the words that Osthia had written up there. The only words beyond the ones that describe the dead. It was a simple phrase.
A question.
 
Does it not matter?
 
——
 
That evening, Captain Osthia and the Sisters threw a party for the dead women. By which they meant Boyd, Marrygold, and the others who had signed up for Osthia’s squad. The party involved older Sisters who walked in, grabbed food, talked to Osthia and eyed her—then went to try and talk the younger Sisters out of it.
It seemed not to work; Osthia received a dozen signatures from the event alone. She…was conflicted.
“Pay’s good, and we can still back out and be regular Sisters after. Not like Haple cares so long as we level. Shut up about it already. You Night Stalkers forget what it’s like, not bein’ high-level and rich.”
Marrygold snapped at an older Sister. In response, the woman threw a jab at her side, and it was blocked—Osthia’s hand-to-hand training was paying off.
When the older Sisters realized there was no changing minds, they gave up and just watched the squad drinking and celebrating.
“Captain, if you’re leading us, you have to try this. C’mon, we got some special.”
One offered Osthia a Dreamleaf joint. She almost knocked it down.
“That’s contraband in Salazsar.”
“Well, we ain’t in Salazsar. And if you’re gonna drum us out for using that, I reckon you’re back to a squad of zero. We’re not polishing up that nice and bright. We’re Sisters.”
“More like Asrisa’s Bitches. Throwin’ over the Sisters for a Walled City.”
One of the older Sisters said that, and the group around Osthia produced throwing daggers. The air grew tense, and Osthia snatched the joint.
“If it cuts the smell and gets you lot to stop fighting—give it here.”
She lit it up and smoked awkwardly as they all turned to her, then began cheering, old and young sisters, like it was the greatest thing in the world. Getting a Drake officer to break regulations probably was an achievement to a gang like that. Osthia felt herself relax and feel better, then harrumphed.
Ancestors damnit. She’d refused any from the [Thought Healers] that Ilvriss had found—it would have provoked too much trouble in the Walled Cities, even with documentation. But she kept smoking it as she stood there, and the party relaxed.
“You know, you look better than you did when we first met. Less uptight. It reminds me of myself—but you’d already lost your command. Finding one again…that makes me jealous.”
She didn’t freeze or spin around in horror, because she’d already known Major Shellc was there when Boyd’s face had turned waxy. Osthia just sighed. He was good if the Sisters hadn’t tagged him right off.
“Major, the Gemscale company and Ilvriss might object, but we’re not in a military outfit. This is just—”
“Oh, stop. You think we didn’t have that in the ranks in Rhir? I know how Dreamleaf works. I just came by to congratulate you, Captain. Learned anything new about your command? Yourself? I’ll be putting your squad into action soon. I hope they’re ready.”
Osthia’s stomach fell as Shellc filled his plate with some food, and they stood apart. She took a breath.
“Ready? No. But no one’s ever ready. We’ve got gear, training—have us on quick-response wherever you think is needed. Would you like a formal report, sir?”
“Who has time for that kind of paperwork? Let me have it.”
She nodded.
“The Sisters might be unconventional and used to skirmishing action, but it means they’re the fastest-response group you can ask for, aside from being experts in anti-infiltration and close-quarters combat. They’ll be there…if there’s a reason they respect. That’s all.”
“Sort of a short list.”
“I’m sure I’ll find more qualities, Major Shellc. That’s just my initial impression. I’m not trying to sell them as a replacement to our standing forces. Just one squad.”
Major Shellc smiled. He held out a claw, and she shook it as more Dreamleaf smoke wafted upwards.
“Good enough for me, Captain. You’d be welcome on Rhir with that kind of mentality. If you ever want to fight the good fight up there, let me know.”
She studied him up and down. Captain Osthia, whose own conditions and Skills would have made her unsuitable for promotion in Pallass’ army…she glanced at her ragtag squad, then at Shellc, one-eyed, standing on his prosthetic leg, a consummate commander. She wondered if he had his own battlefield he saw when he slept, even if it wasn’t a Skill.
“The same to you, Major Shellc.”
“Hm? I don’t follow, Captain Shieldscale.”
The [Captain] saluted.
“I hope you find another command, instead of just a place to go back to and die. Begging your pardon for speaking out of turn, sir. It’s not fun, but there’s nothing else for it.”
For a moment, the [Major]’s face went blank, and she feared he’d grow angry. Then Shellc just closed his one good eye and nodded.
“I’d hate that. There’s only one unit I want to serve with. There’s nothing to do but go back in time, or join them. This is just a holding action until I find my way back.”
He turned his head, and his teeth flashed in the fading light. Then he regarded Osthia.
“You scare me, Captain. Was it…hard?”
“Yes, sir. The hardest part is doing it twice.”
“I see.”
They stood there, in silence. Then Major Shellc excused himself, and Captain Osthia kept puffing on her joint. Boyd wandered by with Osthia’s new squad after a second.
“Was he giving you shit, Captain? You don’t gotta keep smoking that.”
“No, Boyd. Just two [Soldiers] talking. Give me another one of these Dreamleaf things. I have acid in my blood; it makes it harder to get drunk or anything else sometimes. Now you’re a member of my squad, there’ll be rules and regulations. Only two people on Dreamleaf at any time. One spotter—and we’ll figure the rest out later.”
They stirred, then began chuckling and heckling her, and she smiled. Just once.
 
——
 
That night, Captain Osthia laid down and waited to see the dead. But she didn’t. There was no familiar scent of rotting bodies, no blood hanging in the air.
The pile of corpses was gone. Instead…Osthia got up and found herself walking through a camp before the eve of a battle. Soldiers were milling around, some leaning against tent walls. Some idiot was urinating, and a [Sergeant] was sneaking up to bellow at him—Osthia saw the familiar yellow armor on his breastplate.
Then she saw a face she knew, felt a buffet on her armor, and one of her Oldblood Fliers jogged past. Osthia turned her head and knew where she was.
General Thrissiam and General Garusa were sneaking out of her tents, as obvious as the sun. Captain Osthia heard her wing shouting at her, and there were voices asking if the [Scouts] thought they’d cornered the Goblin Lord, someone asking for a loan of a whetstone…
She blinked and raised her claws. Turned from face to face. She was waiting for the dream to turn to bloodshed. Or death. Or for those faces to become reproachful, to blame her for being—
