Girnol’s blade flashed, and she tried to deflect the blur of motion. But the stinger was larger than her hand and cracked forwards with such force that it gouged a chunk out of her hand. Osthia turned and saw the scorpion. She exhaled, and it ignored the acid.
“Let’s get—”
A throwing dagger from Girnol’s offhand bounced off its face. It lunged, and she grabbed the mouth mandibles before they could bite her, and the stinger jabbed again.
It went through Girnol’s chest.
Blood splattered Osthia’s face. Girnol’s eyes turned glassy, and she sagged. Osthia recoiled; the stinger withdrew and jabbed.
She parried it as the scorpion came after her. She slashed across its face.
“Reinforcements! Fall back! Fall—”
“I’ve got it! I’ve got—”
Someone threw a net over the scorpion. Boyd. It began to jab furiously, and the Nightlight lifted a dagger.
“How do we—”
“Get out of here! Fall back!”
Osthia shoved at Boyd. Then she heard Crooknose shouting.
“Hey, hey, run! It’s fixin’ itself! It’s—”
The Dreadnought. It had gone still when its horse had fallen, and Osthia had forgotten it. But now—she saw the horse rising onto its legs again. Its head, that she had nearly cut in half, was gleaming. Bone.
More pieces of the Dreadnought. It snapped its armor closed with one hand, seamlessly repairing its body. Then it charged her. On foot. The horse galloped at Osthia, screaming silently.
“Hells—”
[Flaming Slash]! Osthia slashed along the horse’s side as it charged at her and thought she’d dodged—it hit Boyd in the chest, and the young woman screamed. Once—right before she went falling into Dig Site #3.
Tumbling over the guardrails, straight down. All the way to the bottom.
Osthia never heard the scream cut off. She lifted her still-flaming blade and concentrated. Breathed a mixture of acid on it.
The acid hit the fire, and it grew hotter. Acidblaze. She lifted the sword, knowing it had thirty seconds before the acid wore off. The Dreadnought thundered at her. Swung horizontally. She kicked up, leaping over the mace with her good wing—realized it wanted that as the shield came up and it swatted her down. Like a bug.
Osthia lay there. She gazed up and rolled out of the way of the mace. So the Dreadnought just stomped her. She heard her ribs break like cheap pottery. Then the scorpion leapt on her. It had razors on its legs and began to claw at the Drake until Osthia’s acidblaze sword burned a hole straight through its head.
It collapsed, and Crooknose tried to heave the undead off Osthia.
“Hey, Boyd. Kid, kid, where’d you—”
Osthia couldn’t speak. She tried to lift a shaking claw. Crooknose blinked at her, began to turn her head, and stepped sideways as the Dreadnought raised its mace. It brought it down like dull thunder, then the Drake saw Crooknose staggering from the impact that had shaken the ground.
It had missed her? She leapt away, shouting, trying to draw its attention away from Osthia. Up the mace whirled, a horizontal sweep that would have crushed Crooknose if she hadn’t jumped it in a single leap Skill. Then the Dreadnought threw a piece of its armor.
Crooknose landed on the ground, a hole in her side. She spasmed and lay still. The Dreadnought closed a fist in a single motion of victory. Then it turned and regarded Osthia. She lay there, hating the smile that split its helmet-like face. The mockery of brave knights in armor.
The mace rose again, then the Dreadnought turned. Osthia saw it recoil, then bring up its shield. It took a step back, and Major Shellc advanced, eye glowing as he held his sword, tip pointed at its chest.
Rubirel Guard—running past her. Grappling with a multi-headed Ghoul. Then—someone heaving the skeleton scorpion off Osthia.
A pair of Sisters of Chell, white-faced. Lifting the broken Drake out of the impression in the ground. The last thing Osthia saw, before the world faded out, was one throwing a dagger at the Bone Dreadnought’s back. Right before Major Shellc activated a sword dance. And then—
Then she was staring down at the pile of bodies. And Crooknose was gaping up at her as Osthia’s blood dripped down onto her face. Crooknose, Girnol, and…
 
[Covert Wing Captain Level 34!]
[Skill – Unit: Piercing Weapons Obtained!]
 
——
 
She lived. Being stomped on by the Dreadnought instead of turned to paste by its mace…they had to use a healing potion on her, since her insides were badly damaged.
There was no using healing potions on the Sisters of Chell. They had died. Six of them. Osthia had only seen two die.
Major Shellc delivered the report to her, despite the [Healer]’s objections.
“We didn’t know they could tunnel. Didn’t believe they’d think strategically. We’re all idiots. Now it’s a damn race to both corner them and keep all the other exits secure. They must be trying to escape. Either that or they’re trying to divide and flank us. Either way, their levels are way too high.”
“D-Dreadnought. Did you—?”
His face was grim.
“I got it. Barely, with support. The undead with all those holes drew a squad into the tunnels and minced them there before fleeing. We’re trying to identify what it was. Aside from that, casualties were only the first [Miners]…and your squad. I’ve written a commendation for all of them and yourself, Captain Shieldscale.”
“Why’d they do it?”
She didn’t understand. The [Major] stood there, tired, as he glanced around.
“You’d have to ask the survivors, Captain. Why do some people run into burning buildings? Brave kids. Get some sleep.”
Tears were leaking from the [Wing Captain]’s eyes. Shellc then seemed to focus on another bed. He slapped the table since Osthia was still completely bandaged.
“Don’t fall apart on me, Captain. More of those Sisters are coming, and they need your leadership. Someone who can stop them from getting killed and who knows what they’ve done. At least one of your squad there survived. Probably more.”
She didn’t know what he meant. Not until Osthia dragged herself up, despite her mending ribs, and realized she’d seen only two familiar faces in the Skill that haunted her dreams.
Boyd, the youngest Nightlight with her messy red hair cut short by a knife, was staring up at the ceiling. Her neck was in a cast and she’d broken her right hand in two places, her leg, and half as many ribs as Osthia, but the horse knocking her down into the dig site hadn’t killed her.
She stared upwards as the swaying Drake gaped at her. Then Osthia fainted, and for once, she didn’t see the pile of the dead.
Just a scared girl who’d attacked undead horrors staring up at the roof of the tent. Grateful to be alive.
 
——
 
No one called on Osthia even after she was discharged from the [Healer]’s tent and was limping around. Osthia had no crutches or wheelchair; the broken ground meant both would trouble her chest a lot.
Rather, she had orders to use her powers to hover or suspend herself in the air. Oldblood Drakes, much like other too-heavy flying species, could regulate their body weight. Unlike Garuda, who actually flew, Osthia could reduce her weight, and she had a Skill.
It still hurt. She was not able to train or do…anything. Not that her command was in any shape to train.
Losing more Sisters to the undead attack had the women who presented themselves to her for inspection dead quiet. They avoided looking at her. Played with daggers, scuffed at their boots, muttered about Crooknose noticing the alarms and beating all the other idiots—
But there was no will to continue from them. They’d seen what happened when they went into fights in Ilvriss’ dig site. Osthia didn’t blame them. Veteran [Soldiers] would have stopped after seeing the results of the Golem and undead attacks.
She just didn’t understand why they’d gone in the first place. The answer was in the kid who also was discharged from the [Healer]’s tent.
“Boyd. Front and center.”
Boyd’s arm was still in a sling, and she had one leg that was braced; she limped over as Osthia read from a little notecard.
“For your service in combat, you are awarded a commendation by House Gemscale. So are Crooknose, Girnol, Redshark, Brier…”
She had a bag of coins, which Boyd accepted and instantly opened to count. It was a lot more gold than she was expecting. She shot a glance at the others before putting it in her money pouch.
“…I’m also issuing posthumous commendations as well as pensions to the dead.”
Osthia finished, and someone laughed. More like a snort of derision.
“Just give it to us, Captain. Not like it’s going to any of their kin.”
Osthia regarded the speaker, a Sister of Chell. The rest of the lower-ranked Sisters shuffled their feet, but they were too dispirited even for wisecracks. Before, Osthia would have snapped at them or ignored the comment. Right now, she just hung in the air, feet hovering off the ground. Like a broken puppet herself.
“Sister…Marigold?”
“Marrygold. Good name, ain’t it? Proper nickname for the streets. I always told old Crooknose—that ain’t no name. If you’re gonna choose one, get a real good name.”
It sounded like how Goblins made their names up. Apparently, there was some weird overlap between Goblins and the gangs, at least, according to Reiss. One Goblin Chieftain worked with the gangs. Osthia just met Marrygold’s eyes.
“Do you object to your fallen sister’s kin getting a pension?”
“Object? They’re not getting one because they don’t exist! Who cares about nothing-women? The only people who coulda used the gold were Crooknose and the others. And they’re dead.”
Marrygold’s eyes narrowed, and Osthia exhaled. So that was the skepticism she remembered Yeire and Zage expressing. She nodded at Marrygold, and everything hurt. Most of all her heart.
“That’s fair. It’s not been easy to track down their identities. I understand there is skepticism. But given my current state…I’m appointing you as a bodyguard and part of my—squad. You too, Boyd. You can watch me giving out the pensions.”
The hostile Sister hesitated. She rubbed at one ear that had a huge chunk taken out of it.
“Huh?”
 
——
 
The Sisters of Chell didn’t believe Osthia had found any of the dead women’s relatives. Osthia herself had doubts on the carriage ride to Ocre.
Magical carriage ride; they had to hire a Wistram Magical Carriage™ because anything else would have hurt her and Boyd’s ribs. Osthia and three other Sisters of Chell entered the coach and waited as it sent them northwards.
At first, in silence. But silence could only last so long. After a while, the Sisters began to talk.
“So, Boyd, what’d you get, kid?”
“H-huh? My gold?”
Boyd covered her money pouch, but Marrygold rolled her eyes.
“Not that. Though you’d best save your dues for Boss Yeire. Or are you local? Whatever, you’d better pay what’s owed or you’ll get that other leg broke.”
“If there are any fees, I will pay them.”
Osthia snapped, and Marrygold sat back.
“Ooh, scary. Don’t get her riled up or she’ll break another rib at you. I meant levels, Boyd. You gotta have gotten some for challenging those fucking undead. Who does that?”
They gazed at Osthia, and Boyd muttered.
“I got four. An’ a new class.”
Everyone stirred at that. Four levels and a class for—?
For attacking insanely advanced undead, alone, and getting hurled down multiple stories into the ground? That was the least you deserved. After some badgering, Boyd revealed she’d changed her class from [Street Blade] to [Brave Knife].
“Ooh. Nice! You could be a Bronze-rank adventurer with that. Silver-rank. All fancy n’ shit.”
The other Sisters applauded with less irony than Osthia thought. They pestered Boyd for her Skills, one of which was, apparently, [Break Fall].
Skills after life-or-death experiences were usually ironic like that. But Boyd revealed one Skill that had Osthia’s brows raising.
“Say that again? [Heroic Stab]?”
She’d never heard of a Skill like that—well, not from anyone she’d actually met. Boyd demonstrated; her simple knife glowed gold, stabbed into the wall of the semitranslucent magical carriage, and promptly made the entire carriage explode in a puft of mana and air.
Everyone went tumbling across the ground, except Osthia, who caught Boyd before she could re-break her bones. Then they had to wait for a second magical carriage to appear and for a [Mage] to start screaming at them about fees and demand to know how they’d destroyed one of the carriages.
 
——
 
It turned out Wistram carriages were fragile, a fact Marrygold knew.
“Damn things explode or Wistram can blow ‘em up. Someone was trying a racket collectin’ em to make run how they wanted. Didn’t work. So you quitting the Sisters, Boyd?”
“I dunno.”
“You got that fancy stab. Could be a Gold-ranker, even.”
“I dun wanna be a Gold-ranker. I’m not pretty. I ain’t got the book learning for that. Or want t’die that bad.”
Boyd was still pale-faced as she avoided glancing at Osthia. And the Drake remembered she was from the local town. A kid in a nowhere place like this—well, not nowhere if you were a [Rancher], but for everyone else it seemed grim.
The exact opposite of Osthia Blackwing, a Drake born into a Walled Family in the City of Inventions. The other Sisters teased Boyd before one slung an arm around her.
“Well then, you’re a Dusk Prowler for sure. Just you wait until we get back, and we’ll get you that new belt. Just as soon as we finish this goose-chase to nowhere, huh?”
None of them believed they were going to find a relative of Bimthe. Marrygold said as much.
“Look, I knew Bimthe. She sometimes yapped about her old man, but never in the way that said she’d ever go back. How’d you even get his name?”
“I have some unique Skills.”
“Yeah, well, don’t expect much. Sisters don’t got families for a reason. Oh, some find some. You, uh, giving money to Alta’s family?”
“Alta Suarbloom? I was looking up her next of kin—”
“Nah, nah. She’s got two kids working the trades. One’s fourteen, and she’s some apprentice in Celum, real respectable. The other’s working in the brothel we run. She’s, what, twenty?”
“Can’t be. She was just a kid—”
“No, that was years ago. She’s twenty.”
Kids? Osthia checked her notes, and there was nothing there about that. But Marrygold was insistent.
“They’re hers. She raised ‘em. Ran around with them as a streetkid until Yeire picked her up as a Sister.”
“Oh, adopted. That’s why it’s not on the records. If they’re her next-of-kin…you’re not lying to me, are you?”
“Who, us? Not about Alta’s kids!”
The other Sisters were indignant. Osthia just glanced from face to face.
