“I did hear the comments about splitting their pensions. This is a military matter. I’m a [Soldier], even if I’m not active. If it turns out you were misleading me about giving the pensions meant for the deceased to the wrong people, I will breathe acid over the lot of you.”
She held Marrygold’s gaze as the Sister shook her head.
“That ain’t it. Swear on Haple’s sagging tits.”
“Okay, then.”
Just in case, Osthia sent a [Message] to Xesci to ask Boss Yeire to confirm this. And she sat back in her chair after writing in the [Message] scroll only to see the Sisters eying her.
“What?”
“I dunno. We just don’t get pensions. Weird.”
“Your Sisters fell in the line of duty. It’s true they don’t have medals, and we cannot commend them as [Soldiers], but House Gemscale has similar plans for [Miners] or anyone who works for them. Drakes believe in monetary, tangible rewards for service. Living and the dead.”
Osthia grimaced as she checked her bandage. Marrygold nodded.
“Yeah, well, that’s why Alta was a damn fool and went fighting Golems.”
The Oldblood Drake’s head came up, and she saw them all nod. And there it was. The mystery.
“For what?”
“For the gold, a’course.”
The Sisters frowned as if this weren’t hard, and Osthia breathed in and out, holding her ribs.
“It was five gold coins that they were promised. Five gold coins, and that thing was a Hunter-Killer.”
“Yep. Wasn’t worth it for me, but the pay’s good enough I stuck around even if you didn’t catch me running at the undead. It were worth it for Boyd and poor Crooknose and the rest.”
“Five gold?”
Then, and only then, the grieving women’s eyes flashed, and Osthia saw Marrygold regard her. The Sister of Chell wiped at her nose.
“Guess you ain’t ever been poor before, huh, Captain?”
 
——
 
In the end, that was all it was. What would drive a woman to fight a Golem or risk their lives against the undead?
Five gold pieces. More than Boyd had ever seen in her entire life. More than a Sister made until they actually hit the Sister’s rank.
It wasn’t like Osthia was a fool. She knew plenty of [Soldiers] in Pallass’ army who’d joined up for the pay and their own pensions they’d hopefully claim when they were living. It was just…
Bleak.
She sat there on the ride to Ocre; she wanted to confirm Alta’s two kids were who the others said they were. As for Bimthe, the deceased Sister of Chell did have a father in the city.
A Master Genous. He wasn’t exactly an upstanding member of society. The first thing he did when Osthia asked if Bimthe was his daughter was demand to know if she was a [Debt Collector]. When she delivered the news, he went still.
“She was workin’ as a what? A damn criminal?”
Marrygold and the other Sisters of Chell had come to listen, and they bristled.
“As opposed to what? Your fascinatin’ job?”
Genous was a [Laborer], which was a generic class you got when you bounced around for work. His nose was weirdly bulbous, and when Osthia presented the gold, he snatched it.
“You serious?”
“Yessir. As you are her next of kin—did she have any will? Her mother—would Bimthe want—sir?”
He was glancing around at the rest of the workcrew, who’d paused to watch the strange meeting. Genous tried to fumble the gold coins into his moneypouch, but he wasn’t exactly slick. He dropped a few gold coins and panicked.
“This is mine! Where do I—they’ll jump me for it!”
“I can escort you to the Merchant’s Guild, sir—”
“I don’t got an account!”
“They’ll open one for you.”
Osthia was not enjoying herself. Or the man’s reaction, but she had done this before. Only a few times, but the man relaxed as they walked him down the street. Only then did he grin, staring at the gold coins.
Then look up.
“Bimthe. How’d she go? What—why was she working for some Wall Lord?”
Osthia explained, and the man’s face screwed up in confusion.
“A criminal working for…? Golems? That damn idiot. I told her to mind me, and she went and got herself killed.”
“I heard Bimthe say she’d rather make a livin’ on her back than have you coming home and stealing her pay.”
Marrygold put in with a silky purr. Genous jumped and edged away from her.
“I never did! She was staying in my home, eating me out of my rent long after she came of age to work.”
“I heard she was fourteen and you started takin’ her apprentice money.”
Another Sister put in, and the man began to sweat. Osthia was the one who interrupted.
“Marrygold, leave it.”
“We don’t leave grudges—”
“He’s her last-of-kin. Leave it. Please.”
The Sisters eyed each other, and Genous ran ahead to the Merchant’s Guild. He spun on his heel.
“No wonder she got herself killed, hanging out with you lowlifes. It’s your fault! And yours!”
He pointed a finger at the Sisters, who flashed knives at him, and Osthia. She just bowed her head. She looked down at her boots, and further still.
A pile of dead soldiers gazed up at her. Each one fallen. And Bimthe…the Sister of Chell lay among them. Osthia knew her, even if she had never known her. She met those vacant eyes and spoke.
“I’m deeply sorry for your loss, sir. Bimthe was incredibly brave. I’ve known [Soldiers] who couldn’t do what she did. She saved Wall Lord Ilvriss’ life.”
The man stood there a second, and then he gazed down at the money pouch in his hands. Gaped at Osthia, and then he did seem lost.
“She did? How?”
The Sisters of Chell turned to Captain Osthia, expecting the Drake woman to march off, gold delivered. Marrygold was spitting invectives under her breath. Even if Osthia didn’t recognize the look on Humans, even Boyd could tell that Genous was a drunk. His face was full of ruptured blood vessels that gave him that permanent flush, and he’d glanced at the pub and licked his lips. He was probably a higher-level [Drunk] than [Laborer].
He’d piss away a dead woman’s gold in the week. No doubt. If someone didn’t mug him for it. It was…something that the Drake woman was giving any gold away for a Sister. But there it ended.
Or so they assumed. Because Genous himself was half-turning for the Merchant’s Guild door, showing the [Guards] eying him his gold, when Captain Osthia put her clawed hands behind her back.
She stood at perfect parade rest, the Humans of Ocre passing by the street slowing, and spoke in a loud, carrying voice. Like the military woman she was.
“Sir! Warrior Bimthe was engaged in the bodyguard duty to Wall Lord Ilvriss when an attack was made on his life last Lundas at 7:36 PM! A Hunter-Killer Golem attempted to assassinate Wall Lord Ilvriss, armed with Tier 4 magic and killing weaponry. The Wall Lord escaped with his life due to the actions of his personal bodyguard, including Warrior Bimthe and her escort. I personally watched her pull him to safety; but for her, he would have been cut to ribbons. She then engaged the Hunter-Killer in hand-to-hand combat, whereupon Warrior Bimthe took fatal wounds. The Hunter-Killer Golem was later neutralized and destroyed. It has been my honor to serve with Warrior Bimthe and her comrades. Bravery of that kind is the difference between those who run into burning buildings and those who do not.”
Her voice was loud. Boyd stood there, blinking at the Drake. Bimthe? Boyd knew the woman, who had been swearing and stealing drinks from the Drakes until—
But that was what had happened, right? Marrygold stood there as Bimthe’s father blinked at Osthia. He stared at her and then turned. Staggered away and only recalled he had a moneybag of gold after a dozen steps down the street. Then he turned back to the Merchant’s Guild.
“I see. I…”
He walked through the doors, and Osthia Blackwing waited. Then she saluted, once, and strode away. When the Sisters of Chell followed her after that, it wasn’t because they had been paid to. They wanted to see.
 
——
 
Genous was hard because it had felt like he hadn’t cared about his daughter and that the gold was wasted on him. But you did not choose that.
Alta’s daughters were—harder.
Neither one was like her at all, apparently. One was a Stitch-girl, a [Prostitute], the other a regular Human with permanently-scuffed hair, an [Apprentice] cobbler.
They’d both known about Alta dying and greeted Osthia, stone-faced. When she offered them the gold, the older of the two took a look in the bag, poured half into her money pouch, and handed the other half to the apprentice.
“Right. Thanks for the gold. Beat it, Drake.”
She turned and would have walked off except for Marrygold. The Stitch-girl hesitated, and Marrygold hugged her.
“Hey, Kivia. No one messing you up? C’mere, girl. I’m sorry—”
“Sorry for what? Ain’t like you got her killed. This gold’s good, right? No tricks? No bloodstrings on it?”
Kivia was speaking hard street; the apprentice, whose name was Thirth, was just staring at the gold. They all knew it was a lot. Kivia might be worried about being jumped for all that gold like Genous, but the Sisters of Chell had rules.
You didn’t steal from workers or your own like that. They weren’t Brothers with all their fancy ideals, but they were still…Sisters. Marrygold shook her head.
“It’s clean. But dontcha want to ask a question?”
“What kind? We heard how it was. Some Wall Lord survived, and Alta got killed defendin’ him. Some ‘easy job’. Guess she set us up, though. She always said she would. Alta don’t lie after all. ‘Leastways about this.”
“Kivia.”
Thirth made a sobbing sound, and Kivia glared at her sister, but then averted her gaze from Osthia. Before Ocre, the Sisters would have had the same reaction, but Marrygold turned to Osthia.
“Maybe you—you should talk about how Alta died. She was pretty brave, weren’t she girls?”
“Brave. Hah! She probably got killed runnin’ too slow.”
Kivia wiped at her eyes, and Captain Osthia saluted. That perfect, stupid caricature of military perfection that they were told. But when she spoke, it was straight-faced, staring ahead, just like before.
“Sister Alta has been commended by House Gemscale of Salazsar for heroism unto death, Miss Kivia. She and her—squad—willingly engaged a Hunter-Killer Golem. They advanced in the face of overwhelming odds and magical firebreath to buy the Wall Lord time to escape. I was not in charge of their squad at the time, but I regret that my actions, and that of the Rubirel Guard, Salazsar’s elite soldiers, were not enough to stop the Hunter-Killer on their own.”
“She did what? That idiot—”
Kivia turned to Osthia, then to the Sisters. They nodded wordlessly. Captain Osthia’s voice was hoarse, yet soft, like falling gravel.
“It…has come to my attention that the Sisters of Chell were unprepared for the engagements they took. Their unpreparedness was my fault. Nevertheless, Sister Alta fought valiantly.”
“You’re lying. She weren’t brave. How much didja pay her to dress up and talk nice about her.”
The young Stitch-girl whirled back on the Sisters, but Captain Osthia shook her head.
“Miss Kivia. Salazsar’s commendation is an official one that can only be awarded to the dead. A record of Sister Alta’s deeds will be kept, and a medal has been sent for. The record exists in the annals of House Gemscale.”
“Shut up. Just—”
Kivia was blinking rapidly. She peered away, and Thirth was trembling. Osthia paused.
“I am sorry for your loss. She was a brave—”
“You got her killed! You and that stupid job, and for what? A Golem? She was a Sister, not some Gold-rank adventurer!”
The slap caught Osthia on the chin. Boyd caught Kivia before she could swing twice, but Thirth began to attack Osthia.
“Hey, hey! Don’t hit her! C’mon, kid. Listen, it were just the job. It—you know how it goes. But she was that brave, right?”
Marrygold grabbed the sobbing girl, and then they had to stop them from attacking Osthia. The Drake held still until the two were separated. And then—
Then they went back to the dig site.
 
——
 
Captain Osthia didn’t have any more confirmed relatives. Apparently, she could only confirm a fake name into a real one daily, and looking people up was hard.
The Sisters were shaken themselves. They didn’t really know what had gone on back there. Only that…the [Captain] had lied. Or not lied. But she’d gussied up the truth and made the dead Sisters into something they weren’t.
Heroes. As if them throwing themselves at a Golem had been better than it was.
—But it had been brave. No matter how much Boyd rolled it around in her head, it stuck.
Brave. Just like Crooknose and the others had been. Everyone knew it had been for the gold. But the two girls had been sobbing for Alta, and it was like she’d mattered more.
“More’n how she was. Alta was just some coward. Never saw a fight she wasn’t running from. She only joined the Sisters ‘cause what other work do you got? It was good sayin’ how she died, though. Made it feel right. Maybe she was brave.”
Marrygold broke the silence after a while. She turned to Captain Osthia; the Drake was staring out the window at the rushing landscape as they rode back to the Cowpat Plains.
“There’s really a registry with Alta’s name on it? An’ a medal? Really?”
Captain Osthia’s head turned at last. She looked…lost. Guilty. She’d been a hellish trainer for the last week or so. Now? She just muttered.
“No, there’s not.”
Every woman in the carriage sat up. Marrygold’s jaw dropped.
“But you said—!”
“I lied. Walled Cities keeps registers of fallen soldiers for several generations. But even they don’t maintain them indefinitely. Mostly, it’s for recruiting purposes. House Gemscale doesn’t award medals; it’s a company. It has a pension plan. That’s it. Even if Ilvriss did apply for a medal, no one would approve it for a Human who’s not part of Salazsar.”
Silence. Marrygold sat back hard, and Captain Osthia stared out the window again. At her bandages, her claws.
“I’ll have one made. And I will request something from Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
Boyd’s head rose, and Captain Osthia turned back to them.
“I would like your assistance with delivering pensions to the rest of the deceased.”
“I…sure. I mean, yeah. We can do that.”
That was all Marrygold said. She glanced at the others. Boyd kept watching Osthia’s face, but the Drake didn’t elaborate on her promise. When people lied, they talked a lot and explained things, in Boyd’s experience. But the Drake just sat there.
Later, when they got out of the carriage, the Sisters milled about, gossiping. Half didn’t believe Marrygold’s account of what they’d seen, but they listened. No one made them train.
