She was having them practice with shortswords, the ones not with dagger Skills, because Osthia didn’t see a place for daggers in a large engagement. Too short. She was envisioning using them as mobile [Rogues] or [Scouts]; skirmishers.
“You shout like that when you’re having sex, Captain?”
Crooknose grunted, and there was a lot of laughter. Osthia glared.
“You lot wouldn’t survive an encounter with a single Mothbear! Now, I’m going to Celum and obtaining reinforcements—I want you running laps around the camp!”
“Hell to that.”
Another Sister muttered and yelped as Osthia thwacked her with her tail. The Sister glared, and Osthia tensed. She was ready to throw down to assert her authority. It was the only thing they seemed to respect. That and gold.
“I’ll have your progress monitored. If you don’t run, you don’t get paid, got it?”
That made them grumble and swear, and she believed they’d do it. The Sisters wouldn’t work hard, but they would do things. Honestly, she’d had more trouble with raw [Recruits] back in Pallass’ army who also thought they could give lip and object.
They’re actually sort of easy to work with, bawdy comments aside. She wouldn’t tell them that, of course. And the main problem was…even if they got Zail’s equipment and trained for a month, she’d still rate them like Level 10 [Soldiers].
Mincemeat the next time a Golem came at them. However, Osthia did her best. She shouted, doled out punches for idiots, and then stomped off to ride with Xesci and Ilvriss to the portal door to Liscor. Then she took a door to Celum.
While Ilvriss got to dance, Xesci got to deal with the Sisters.
 
——
 
Boss Yeire was a loud, huge woman who looked like a brawling, hard-drinking troublemaker to Osthia. She was friendly as could be—to Xesci.
Osthia got spit, literally, on her boots. Yeire wiped her mouth.
“Here’s the Drake who got some of our own killed! Why’re you here? We sent reinforcements!”
She glowered at Osthia until Xesci pinched Yeire’s ear.
“None of that. Be nice.”
“Ow, owowowow—Xesci! Not in front of my gang!”
It was a weird ranking with Xesci around; the Sisters of Chell were rather wary around her, but she was no fighter. She was a civilian who outranked them, which meant she had limits. The other complication was…[Scribe] Zage.
Zage was a short, pedantic woman with spectacles who wrote things down on her clipboard constantly. She had a note that said ‘kick me’ attached to her back, and the Sisters of Chell picked on her. Again, up to a point—she was a ‘bean flicker’, some kind of flunky in charge of maintaining the Sisters’ finances and accounts.
Yeire clearly liked her as much as Osthia, but just as clearly didn’t want to get in that much trouble with their leadership. Whomever they were. She jerked a thumb at Zage.
“Listen, officer-Drake. We’re not the army. You get us killed, there’s a price. You get me? And don’t be upset when we don’t want to send our best.”
She rubbed her fingers together as everyone quieted and nodded. Osthia ground her teeth together.
“The deaths of the Sisters were highly regrettable. I came here to commend them posthumously, not complain. Identifying the deceased was my goal.”
“…What’d she just say?”
Yeire rubbed at one ear, utterly confused by Osthia’s comments, but Zage frowned.
“You wish to issue the members of the Sisters with pensions, Captain? I can accept that on behalf of the Haple.”
Everyone went silent, and Yeire stopped holding out her own hand from the mention of gold. But Osthia just folded her arms.
“I don’t intend on issuing any pensions to anyone except the deceased’s relatives, Miss Zage. I suspect the money would be spread around if I gave it to you or Miss Yeire.”
“Damn right it would! We’ll pour one out for our sisters! You think they’ve got anyone who’ll miss them?”
Yeire shouted, flushing and rising. Xesci put a hand on her arm, but Zage just eyed Osthia.
“I can furnish you with some names, and Boss Yeire may have other details, but she is largely correct, Captain Shieldscale. Sisters of Chell do not have relatives nor…wills.”
“I understand that, Miss. Nevertheless, I have my orders.”
Osthia lied here a bit, because Ilvriss hadn’t given her explicit orders in this, but Zage just peered at her before nodding.
“I will help compile said lists. Boss Yeire?”
“Sounds like a pain in the ass.”
“I believe Haple regards our contract with Wall Lord Ilvriss and Xesci the Changer as important.”
“Oh, if Haple’s saying so—fine.”
Yeire was twice as unhappy, and as Zage walked past her, she kicked the [Accountant] flat on her face.
“Oops! Sorry about that. Piece of paper.”
Everyone laughed, and Osthia rubbed at her forehead. Their visit accomplished little beyond illustrating how chaotic the gangs were. Well, Zage was all business. She wiped at a bloody nose as she handed Osthia a piece of paper thirty minutes later. Yeire’s gang had conferred and given all the names they thought ‘might’ be the dead women’s real names.
“If I may, Captain Shieldscale. The Sisters of Chell have agreed to protect and secure Wall Lord Ilvriss’ project. Casualties are inevitable. Further casualties may result in punitive fines, especially if our members are sacrificed to no point.”
“That was an assassination attempt. Believe me, everyone was in danger, Miss Zage.”
Osthia replied honestly, meeting the sharp eyes of the [Accountant]. Zage nodded, glancing up and down at Osthia.
“So my investigation has revealed. My superiors were concerned as it appeared primarily Sisters were killed in the assassination attempt. I understand this is because your forces were slow to mobilize. Sisters do have an instinct for trouble. Nevertheless, the warning stands.”
That stung on several levels; the Sisters had been faster than the military, because they had no need to organize into squads. And they had…Osthia cleared her throat.
“May I expect further reinforcements?”
“I can offer you more Sisters.”
“Of the…Nightlight and Dusk Prowler ranks? I’d like more senior members.”
Osthia hinted, and Zage’s eyes flicked to Xesci. She nodded and made a note on her clipboard.
“You understand our ranking system. Good. Frankly, Captain Shieldscale, few senior members can be spared or want to join a highly perilous or boring guard job. We have several free-roaming Sisters in the camp who have nullified two [Assassin] attempts already. The lower-ranking members under your command are there for you to make use of.”
“But what are they good for?”
Osthia snapped, and Zage’s eyebrows rose. She wiped at her spectacles.
“Throwing themselves between a Wall Lord and a Golem, Captain? I rather think you wouldn’t have many of Salazsar’s [Soldiers] half so brave. Try not to get your current group killed. And if you require help delivering pensions, we will accept donations on their behalf. And note if they have been dispensed.”
That sounded like a threat. Osthia assured Zage that she wasn’t lying and stomped off to wait for Xesci to finish speaking with the Sisters. When the [Courtesan of Change] was ready to go, she made a point of talking to Zage before strolling out of the base. She had taken the form of a Human woman, tall and rowdy, and she shifted back to the nondescript Drake as they walked together.
Osthia was always unsettled when Xesci changed forms. But the [Courtesan] was calm.
“You’ve got your list, and Yeire’s feathers are smoothed. She thought you were sacrificing her girls, but I cleared up how it went down.”
“With a lot of bribes.”
A shrug from Xesci.
“Gold’s their language. Nothing’s real except if you pay for it. Talk’s cheap. It was good that you were polite to Zage too. She and I used to work together.”
“What, was she doing your taxes in a brothel?”
That might have been a bit too snide from Osthia, who felt like this was a waste of time. Xesci gave her a very cool look, and Osthia bit her tongue.
“No, she and I were working the same profession. [Prostitutes]. She hated the job, but it’s the only kind of living someone could make before the Sisters of Chell.”
“Oh. I—I didn’t mean—so the Sisters are new?”
“Their current iteration is. Bear in mind that Zage reports to the Haple. Yeire never understands that; she won’t ever make a higher rank, but she probably doesn’t care to. The Sisters will keep working with us, at least for now.”
Wait, had that meeting been that important? Osthia turned to half-glance behind them, then exhaled, relieved that Xesci was here. She didn’t understand Gang politics. The two women walked towards the magical door in Celum, and Xesci murmured.
“With that said, Yeire says it’s hard to do business with Lord Xitegen around. He’s quite effective in reshaping Celum. She claims two major gangs ran into him, and he wiped one out very effectively. Several members had to join her. And their leader…oh, here we are. Do you have time to watch a hanging?”
They stopped in an open square with a huge crowd. Osthia saw a gallows had been erected, and a pair of Golems were flanking a woman ready to go to the noose. The Oldblood Drake swallowed hard.
“That’s damn barbaric.”
“Yes, nothing like the axe that Salazsar uses. So much better than other Drake cities like Oteslia and Loeri that practice hanging.”
“Exactly, it’s so slow!”
Xesci rolled her eyes. The two watched anyways, with macabre fascination, as Lord Xitegen made his appearance. And then a certain [Lady]…Osthia had to admit, it was pretty entertaining. It turned out this event had a bearing with later events that came to Ilvriss’ attention.
But she didn’t know all the particulars. She was just…a [Captain].
 
——
 
The next time they had a meeting, Wall Lord Ilvriss was complaining. Well, sort of. He was actually in a good mood.
“We’ve got some new recruiter who’s bringing a score of hires to the camp. I don’t know how, but it’s a vast number. Even a Gnoll tribe, apparently? Xesci, do you know who this woman is? It’s a ‘Damia Reinhart’ which makes me worried it’s some kind of scheme…”
Xesci hmmed as Osthia munched on some waffles from the inn. Waffles with egg and bacon, a classic. Yum. It beat camp rations. She’d utterly missed…whatever was going on while training the lazy Sisters.
“I put out a few feelers. She’s a young Reinhart. She might just want the money. There’s not much known about her, other than that she’s been sleeping with her brother.”
Ilvriss stopped drinking some water, and Osthia’s head snapped up.
“What—is that some Human thing? A Reinhart thing?”
“No, just her. Is she trustworthy? I say let’s just wait and see. Not all Reinharts are purely evil, if that word exists. Just self-serving. Everyone’s forgotten how they work.”
“Well, I’ll accommodate all of them as best I can. And Georgie’s still causing trouble. She’s—or is it he—? Damn, damn. Any word from my Uncle?”
Osthia spoke as she stopped wolfing down waffles before Xesci said something else to put her off her feed.
“Nothing major, sir! He’s bogged down in paperwork. Some kind of very important negotiation in the City of Gems.”
“He’s got top-level clearance. If we can help—and I know we keep getting raided. Damn. But we’re making progress! Listen, Lyonette created some magic boots!”
Xesci and Osthia eyed Ilvriss. He waved his claws excitedly over his head.
“No, I realized that sounds inane, but it was elegant! It was a Solstice event, but in her style. There was the Quarass, and she can dance now!”
The who? And why does this matter? Osthia wasn’t impressed at all until Ilvriss demonstrated the Highstepper, and she had to admit, his feet moved fast. Xesci was quite admiring.
“Wall Lord, you’re really getting the hang of it.”
“Well, it’s not just that. There’s some kind of…magical dance that Mrsha found. A real magical dance, Xesci.”
The [Courtesan] sat up.
“No. Really?”
“Erin had a bunch of instructions for one. We’re going to learn that and the Highstepper. I told you! It’s not quite a Golem-killer, but…”
Magical dances? Osthia snorted quietly. It sounded like a bunch of useless claptrap. She was a [Soldier]. No time for dances. But Ilvriss sprang up, excited.
“It’s worse than the Highstepper in a way. Hugely complicated. And there’s this part at the end that I swear Erin added just to embarrass me. Look, I can do a few parts…”
He executed several snappy moves that would probably look better on a smooth floor, trying to glide over the ground in the tent. Xesci nodded along at the complex stepping, then Ilvriss hesitated.
“…Then you get to this part which Erin swears is part of the dance. And, uh—”
“Show us.”
Ilvriss didn’t want to. But after a second, he threw his arms up. Waved them right, then left. Did a shuffle around in a circle. And then did the finger guns to the right and left.
Osthia wore the blankest expression she could muster as her tail curled around the chair leg and squeezed. Xesci just started laughing.
“That’s the dance?”
“I swear it’s not! But Erin wrote it down, and apparently, the dance only works if I do that—you should see what Lyonette has to do. It gets worse. Remember Ksmvr’s silly dance? You do that, slap your butt, spin around three times, and that’s while I’m waving my arms around like a tree in a windstorm…and then I flap my arms like a duck—stop laughing, I swear it’s written down in her notes.”
The hilarity of Ilvriss dancing aside, Captain Osthia didn’t have anything to add to her report.
“I think the Sisters are actually learning, sir. But slowly. I have a list of names of the dead, but I need to make sure they’re actually the deceased. The Sisters use so many pseudonyms, you see…”
Ilvriss’ smile faded. He nodded and sat.
“Of course, Osthia. Let me know if I can help.”
She nodded and excused herself after polishing off the rest of the food. Osthia went back to her tent and sat there.
Alone. When she wasn’t working, Osthia didn’t have friends to socialize with. Xesci, Ilvriss, and Nerul were her companions. The rest of Ilvriss’ people had never quite taken to her.
She was alone. So what did Osthia do with the remainder of her night? She poured herself a drink of Firebreath Whiskey, put it on a little end table next to her bed—she had an actual bed even out here, which she was grateful for, and she’d heard Ilvriss was fixing their atrocious bathroom situation—and read. She read a lot these days.
