And she had more reading to do. Osthia shook out the pages and lifted the dog-eared corner to find where she’d left off. It was nothing like a book. Just a bunch of reports she’d accessed via Salazsar’s shared military command. It had taken a lot of work from Nerul to get it to her without tripping some major flags, actually. Chaldion retiring had helped.
This is what the scrawled notes said:
 
Witheart Hiscale (Gnoll), Age 34. [Level 16 Soldier]. Pallass’ 3rd Army, 3rd Battalion, 6th Company, Squad 2. Private, 1st Class.
Notes: -Reprimanded twice for personal hygiene, court-martialed for striking an officer, 5th Army.
-Charges revoked and induction into 3 Army by General Thrissiam’s orders.
-Body never identified. Marked as ‘Killed in Action’ after [Casualty Report: Name the Fallen] deployed.
-One son in Hilight city, potential for recruitment after coming of age.
 
The report was, well, nothing. Age, name, rank. And a few details about the Gnoll’s life. Osthia poured over the file for details, and she found some interesting things.
A Gnoll with a Drake’s name. He was definitely Pallassian-born, though he hadn’t grown up in Pallass, but a periphery city, Hilight. He had a son and was married, according to the file. If she read between the lines, he’d been written up formally—an actual problem compared to a minor incident—for ‘bad hygiene’.
Which sounded like a Drake officer taking objection to a Gnoll under his command. Bad hygiene was really hard to actually be fouled for. Especially because General Thrissiam himself had intervened after the incident had escalated into a fight, pulling Witheart into his army.
From 4th. That meant General Edellein and his nephew might have clashed over this. Edellein gave his officers way more leeway than Thrissiam had. Osthia hadn’t known about any of this, of course. She’d never known Witheart, and the Gnoll hadn’t been that outstanding. He had joined Pallass’ army, done well enough to be a decent [Soldier], but without any real promotion…
And then he had died fighting the Goblin Lord. Two armies of Drakes and Gnolls had died in the mountains, unburied, their bodies animated to fight for the Goblin Lord, and it hadn’t been that long ago, but it felt like it.
Who remembered that battle after the Meeting of Tribes? Or even the Goblin Lord’s fall at Liscor? After the Winter Solstice, 2nd Army going down in the High Passes?
It was just one more event in Pallass’ recent history of defeats and losses—and oh, Ancestors, they had a lot. You could be forgiven for forgetting it. There had been no survivors.
Just one.
Just Captain Osthia Blackwing. She alone had lived, and so she read Witheart Hiscale’s report, then pulled up another file. Even briefer, about his life. She’d paid for a local [Informant] to dig up anything they had on him. Nothing major; she hadn’t paid for actual legwork, just anything on file. She had used her salary for this, and while Ilvriss was generous, she had paid for…tens of thousands of reports.
“Nothing on Witheart. Son…arrested twice for delinquency. After father’s death. Charges not filed due to father’s status.”
A kid without a father running with gangs. Or just mad and tearing up the city. Osthia put the report down. Sat in her bed and tried to remember if she’d ever seen…
No.
She hadn’t. But she put the file aside, carefully, and wrote his name down on another piece of paper. A list.
It wasn’t long. Only four thousand entries so far. Given how much time had passed…but she tried to be thorough. Someone had to be. Osthia knew there were lists of the dead. She’d read them.
Just…it was her list. Someone had to write it. Someone had to know the brave men and women who had died, from General Thrissiam and General Garusa on down.
That was how she spent her nights. Quietly, Osthia read for an hour and a half until she put the pages aside and picked up a new document. This one was fresher, and she read from it. It was even less precise.
“‘Adder’, Age 25-ish. Full Sister of Chell. Ran with Boss Yeire’s gang for two years—after original gang beaten and assimilated. No children. ‘Mentioned her old man and spat a lot.’ Bimthe? Came from Ocre so I dunno, ask them Sisters there or something.”
She wrote that down slowly. Bimthe. And Ocre. She’d have to ask Xesci to help contact the Sisters there, or maybe she could inquire about the name. Who’d have a registry of names of people in the city? Runner’s Guild.
Osthia scanned the brief biography of a dead woman’s life and wondered which one she’d been. The one with scarlet hair? No—she read the next page.
“Scarlett. So that was her…”
The Drake kept reading into the night until she fell asleep and had to turn out her lamp and roll over in bed. The papers crinkled as she put them aside. And slept. She hated the Necromancer. She would see him dead.
But the fury that had kept her going for a long while felt tired sometimes. Really, what kept Osthia going some nights was just the dead.
She slept on a pile of bodies. Faceless, lying still, a Drake sleeping amidst a silent battlefield’s end. When she looked down…a few faces stared up at her, recognizable. Thrissiam’s. Garusa’s…and now a new one.
Witheart gazed up at Osthia, a resentful expression on his face as he lay there. Bitter in death, an arrow sticking out of his collarbone, fur savaged by Ghoul teeth, yellow armor bent and broken.
The horror of it was just one of the countless tens of thousands. And now there were dead women as well, torn to pieces by a Golem’s knives. She didn’t know any of their faces yet.
She would. The Drake slept, gazing down at the dead as she lay there. Knowing she was dreaming.
She had been Osthia Blackwing, Level 24 [Oldblood Wing Captain], a perfectly respectable, if ordinary enough class.
Tonight, the only other being who knew the names and faces of all the dead in her dreams whispered to her. As it sometimes did.
 
[Chronicler of the Fallen Level 21!]
[Skill – Identify True Name (Daily) Obtained!]
[Condition – Battlefield of the Silent (Dreams) Intensified.]
[Aspect – Odour of Carrion (Dreams) Obtained.]
 
The Drake shifted as she inhaled, and then she could smell the urine and feces coming from spilled intestines. The sweat, terror, and blood. The rot.
She kept sleeping. Embracing it.
It was no worse than her other dreams. If anything, she was grateful.
It meant she didn’t forget.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss had left for yet another visit to The Wandering Inn when two events occurred involving Osthia. The first was when she met the new commander of Ilvriss’ fighting forces.
Osthia had been worried about that, actually. She wasn’t under his authority, but that was the thing—some commanders could get tetchy about anyone outside of their realm of command. Uncle Edellein? A great example of that.
However, this particular commander had been vouched for by Zail and clearly had passed Ilvriss’ personal inspection. And he found Osthia before she could introduce herself.
She was just finished shouting at the Sisters of Chell and telling them why they were maggots—and getting their insults in return—when a Drake coughed and saluted.
“Captain Shieldscale? I’m in charge of this expedition for the foreseeable future. Don’t worry, I’m not some fool who’ll insist on breathing down your neck spines. Nor am I angling to replace you; I’ve got other missions in mind, but I did think this was worth sticking around for, as a favor to Wall Lord Zail. He’s quite worried about his son, despite how he talks, and if there’s a hope for some interspecies peace despite all the tensions, I’m here for it.”
Of all the openers—Osthia blinked as she held out a claw and got a solid handshake. It was pre-calculated to assuage her concerns, but it was also so open and contrary to most commanders’ perspectives. No wonder Zail had approved of the Drake.
At the same time, Osthia clearly saw why this fellow had been discharged, dishonorably or not. He had multiple visible scars and had even lost an eye in battle, but unusually, had a prosthetic eye that stared with a bright, gemstone glow. And a leg made out of green wood that was articulated enough to look like a real one. He’d been through something.
He seemed…highly veteran, and he also carried a sword she bet he was good with. Something about the way he moved just screamed to her that if he wasn’t Level 40, he was approaching it.
“I wasn’t in fear of losing my job, sir. But it’s good to know I can work with you. I’m in charge of the Sisters of Chell, for my sins.”
She smiled. He did not return it, which made her slightly uneasy; she’d thought it was a good joke. Instead, the Drake nodded around the dig site.
“I’ve been impressed with Wall Lord Ilvriss. I had already heard of him, but this operation makes him one of the few Drakes worth a damn in my books. I apologize if I’m candid; war rubs off niceties. I’ll stick around to make sure he stays alive, then I’m off for another command unless I find a real reason to stay. I doubt it. Again, so we can stay professional and not snipe at each other for position this entire time.”
Okay, he’d definitely had to talk with Welsca and the others. Osthia frowned as she crossed her arms.
“Where to, sir? And which war? Salazsar and Fissival?”
Some city-to-city war she didn’t know? The Drake’s good eye sharpened, and his tone became more brusque, annoyed—until he forced it down. But he had a temper.
“The war, Captain! Apologies…I know it’s not top-of-mind around here, but coming home is not pleasant, and I was warned. I’ve forgotten to introduce myself. Major Shellc. Formerly of Manus; I’m redeploying to Rhir once I’ve completed my contract with House Gemscale. Wall Lord Zail was worried I’d be down after getting drubbed out of the City of War, and I appreciate his hospitality, but I know where I’m needed.”
Rhir? Osthia was entirely surprised, so the [Major] explained.
“I’ve been serving there for the last three years. My command was—lost. I was the only command survivor among the Drakes. We were on 5th Wall when the Death of Magic returned.”
“Dead gods. I remember that!”
Osthia was astounded, then horrified. Shellc nodded and took a huge breath.
“I was a [Captain] under Commander Cirille at the time. We fought with a bunch of irregulars—I’m surprised anyone remembers us.”
“I—I recall the incident, sir. I’m—it was a tragedy.”
“Yes.”
That was all the Drake said. Then Osthia had a thousand questions.
“How did you end up here, sir?”
Shellc’s twisted smile became a grimace.
“Simple. I kept on in Rhir after my command was destroyed. They couldn’t drag me back for love or money. Drakes don’t run. I owed it to the others to stay. Not that I blame anyone who left, of course. But I was still an officer of Manus. They called me back for a report and, potentially, reassignment.”
“Makes sense. They’d want your expertise.”
They were walking around the dig camp, and Shellc spat to the side.
“Everyone wants advice until you tell them something they don’t want to hear. I was frank in how I saw the situation in Izril. Too frank, clearly. Well, I couldn’t hold my temper. I told some idiot we shouldn’t be fighting the north and then heard someone say that Fissival might have been right in taking the Gnolls’ magic. A few punches to other officers and I earned my discharge.”
Osthia winced. Yep, that was a good way to get yourself kicked out of the military, even if you were a war hero. Shellc barely seemed to care. His fake leg kept pace very well thanks to his Skills.
“I’ll head back to Rhir, and they don’t care if Manus dropped me. That’s where we need to be. The Deaths are back, and we’re squabbling over the New Lands and fighting each other!”
It was a variant of her and Ilvriss’ complaint about the state of the Walled Cities. But Rhir? Osthia cleared her throat.
“We have some issues here, Major.”
“Oh, yes. The Antinium. I’m well aware of that issue, which is why I came back. Nothing like a firsthand view to give Rhir an awareness of how bad it might be. Still, I appreciate Wall Lord Ilvriss working with Gnolls and hiring Humans. That’s what I learned in Rhir, Captain. Flexibility of thinking. I was an idiot most of my time there, until the end…but if I have anything to give beyond purely tactical advice, I’ll deliver it.”
He smiled at her, and she nodded at him, resisting the urge to ask him about the Death of Magic or that battle—he must get that a lot. And that was all she thought about the matter.
She noticed Major Shellc moving around the different dig sites, of course. Peering around, making recommendations. He apparently shared Ilvriss’ notions about Drake hierarchies too because he drubbed down two officers for ‘toxic leadership’ publicly.
He was not here to make friends. But he was also apparently amazing with a sword. Osthia even heard that regular [Soldiers] had joined the Rubirel Guard in clearing the undead in the mining tunnels; they refused to engage the Rubirel Guard, who were virtually invulnerable to most threats with their armor.
However, she was just…dealing with the Sisters of Chell. By now, Osthia had developed a routine where she trained them multiple times per day, taking the youngest Nightlights and making them run, do pressups, even lift some weights, anything to get them into fighting trim.
They were still pains in the tail, even if they actually did most of what she wanted with only giving her lip as the consequence. But they weren’t good with the shortswords she issued them. Daggers? Okay. Clubs, throwing weapons? She supposed they were adequate, but nothing she’d trust them for in a pitched battle!
She didn’t realize Shellc was watching her until she saw him after kicking around Boyd, Crooknose, and one of her squads. He beckoned to her as she wiped sweat from her brows.
“Captain Shieldscale, a word?”
“Yes, Major?”
He walked her away from the training arena.
“I understand you’re one of Ilvriss’ special adjutants. Including, ah, Miss Xesci?”
“Yes…”
“Fascinating woman. Rhir could use someone like her, though she laughed the idea off.”
Shellc saw Osthia’s jaw drop and raised his brows.
“Soldiers need an outlet, and she’s more widely travelled than you or I put together, Captain. Honestly, I expected the same from you, but either you’re playing a game I don’t see or we need to have a word. What’s your end-goal with these Sisters of Chell?”
“Sir? Getting them to actual fighting trim, sir! They’re a miserable lot. Some were quite courageous in the line of duty, but the rest don’t do much. I’ve been trying to make something out of them.”
Shellc made a beckoning gesture at Osthia.
