Every evening, Captain Osthia Blackwing read. She didn’t like reading, really. It was something she could do, as a Pallassian and daughter of the prestigious Blackwing family…but she’d probably read all of three books in her entire life before recent events.
She knew that made her a helmet-headed idiot [Soldier], like many of her uncles, aunts, and cousins, who had a history of military-service. She hadn’t cared. There were more important things than what went on between the covers of a book, and that was still a belief she held.
No battles were won by the turn of a page, only a swinging sword.
But she didn’t swing her sword much these days. She’d lived for over a year after escaping the Goblin Lord Reiss, learning the Necromancer of Izril was alive, and joining Wall Lord Ilvriss to form a desperate secret alliance against him.
They’d gotten a bit done, but not enough. Too many fears of the Necromancer’s minions being everywhere, as Reiss had claimed. Too few levels, and too much damn infighting with Drakes. It made her entirely bitter about her people, sometimes.
She wished she could have gone to Pallass and told the Cyclops. Maybe that would have been the right move.
Or maybe they’d have interrogated her for suspicion of being a double-agent. Charged her with treason for abandoning her army. She didn’t know. She only knew that sometimes she didn’t feel like the bright-eyed, impatient Osthia Blackwing who wanted to be promoted, who admired her uncle Thrissiam, and who saw Pallass as the greatest city, beyond reproach.
She’d begun forgetting her name. She responded to ‘Asrira Shieldscale’, her cover, more these days. Ilvriss sometimes forgot to call her Osthia in private. Even ‘Othmissa’, another cover-name, was more familiar to her than her own name.
The cobalt-blue scale dye was now Osthia’s face. She had a Salazsarian accent, if a bad one. Was she happy?
…No. The Drake would swing herself out of bed each day and address her command. Which was a bunch of damn Humans who didn’t even show up for muster.
Sisters of Chell. If they weren’t lazing around, they were drunk, insubordinate, and had more attitude than anyone she’d commanded. They’d saunter up, listen to her for a while, then grumble as she made them patrol an area and report in.
“We ain’t soldiers, Ma’am. You just leave the gangs to us. And the next time we all gotta line up and get minced by a Golem, give us a sick day, eh?”
A woman with brown hair and a twice-broken nose hefted a long club on one shoulder and spat on the ground, not quite at Osthia’s boots. A few of the Sisters gazed down at their feet; the rest laughed. Most were newcomers, replacements for the dead ones.
One of the Sisters not laughing was a kid with red hair. In her teens, a single dagger in her belt. Osthia remembered her because she’d been there when Ilvriss had been attacked. She hadn’t been minced because she’d been too slow. The Drake pointed at her.
“It’s been two damn days since your comrades fell in battle. Don’t you have any respect for the dead? You there, soldier. Er, Human! You were defending Wall Lord Ilvriss. It’s my job to issue commendations for the dead and pensions. As well as awards for everyone who fought to defend the Wall Lord and the expedition. What’s your name?”
She had it in her head to reward the girl. Make an example of her to at least incentivize the others. But it didn’t work. The young woman just slid her eyes sideways.
“Boyd, Miss.”
“Boyd? Er, Interesting name.”
“Boyd On. She’s a rookie. Just some dagger-wielding kid. You want to give out some coins for th’ dead? We’ll spread it around real generous.”
The twice-broken nose woman slung an arm around the kid’s shoulder and rubbed her fingers together to more laughter. Osthia frowned at her. As far as she understood it, the Sisters were a mix of lowlifes and former escorts or prostitutes. They ran racketeering and theft operations, but they made a lot of money from taking over red light districts.
They were a large organization that spanned the north, but the result was a lot of…quality issues. You got high-level members and raw recruits.
“Well, Miss Boyd’s in line for a commendation, and I’ll require her help identifying the dead. The rest of you, on patrol. Do you have any formal training?”
“Sure, we teach the new girls how to stab right. What, you fancy soldiers going to train us too?”
“I might do just that. Report in at midday for training. Anyone who passes is exempt, of course.”
They glared and grumbled at that, but Osthia was a former officer, and she had command Skills. She pressed them down, and the Sisters broke off. That left Boyd, the broken-nosed woman who was loitering around for some reason, and Osthia.
“Miss Boyd, can you list the deceased for me?”
“Dunno who they were, Captain.”
Osthia blinked. She could remember a woman grabbing Ilvriss out of danger and taking on the Golem. It sweeping knives through them in seconds.
“You don’t know? But I know the Sister who rescued Ilvriss was assigned personally from Celum’s headquarters. Base? She was your superior, wasn’t she?”
Boyd shrugged her shoulders, staring down at her feet and mumbling.
“Dunno who she was, Miss. I was new t’ the group.”
“How new?”
“Six days?”
Another laugh from broken-nose. The woman smirked at Osthia, revealing some foully corroded teeth.
She needs a damn [Toothmaker]. Osthia covered her nose.
“Told ya. She’s a real newbie. Dagger and some pants.”
“What, you mean a rookie soldier?”
“Sure. Must’ve signed her up. That’s what you get. Dead woman’s dagger, dead woman’s pants. Don’t bother asking who else got killed. If anyone knows, it was their buddies from whichever cities they got pulled from. No one’s gonna come begging for their money. They ain’t got families. Though if you wanna donate it to their local chapters…”
…It’d go straight into the pockets of Boss Yeire or the like. Osthia wasn’t an idiot. She massaged her forehead. She had a headache already. Damn Ilvriss for asking her to do this! But it wasn’t like she had the training or authority to command all the soldiers. She exhaled.
“Let’s start from what you know. Miss Boyd? Can I get your name?”
“Fer what?”
“For my roster. I am in charge of you. That’s ‘Boyd On’, correct?”
What a weird name. The young woman fidgeted so much when Osthia wrote this down, and the broken-nosed woman laughed so hard that Osthia squinted at her. Miss Boyd couldn’t even meet her eyes, so Osthia underlined the name and got the other woman’s.
“Call me Crooknose. ‘Sbetter than another name. I ain’t gonna go on a list to get myself caught once this job is done.”
Despite Osthia assuring her that this was only for her records and that she was from Salazsar, not a local city, Crooknose refused to give another name. So Osthia gave up. She was writing an inquiry to Celum and realizing that ‘Boss Yeire’ was not about to respond to [Message] spells. So that meant going herself or sending someone she could trust.
Xesci? Would Xesci know? Osthia was checking the list of names of the women under her authority, thirty Sisters of Chell in the base camp, and sixty spread around the other dig sites. They were lazy, gambled, stole, and fought with the [Miners] and actual guards…but they had apparently caught several thieves themselves and prevented a few incidents in town. Even so, she regarded them as a full net-negative with few upsides for how much Ilvriss spent to buy their ‘protection’.
Except for the group that had died to save the Wall Lord’s life. For that and that alone, Osthia balanced the scales and felt like she owed them some effort. So she persisted until she stared at the name at the top of the list.
Boyd On. Another sister had called herself Girnol Ereh. Much to the same laughter. Osthia eyed the names, then began writing with a quill.
A few minutes later, she kicked her way out of her tents, swearing. Stormed off to go shout at Xesci because she figured it out.
Boyd On. An anagram for…‘nobody’. And Girnol Ereh. ‘No girl here.’ Fake names for criminals. Women who didn’t exist. It was enough to make Osthia mad enough to breathe acid over the lot, except for one thing.
They were like her.
 
——
 
“You want to do what with the dead?”
That kind of question was never welcome, especially from a [Courtesan] like Xesci. The woman was all promiscuity. Not lewd, sultry desire and temptation like you thought. She was more casual, sometimes. Like her personal hygiene or how she talked about it! Like it was as common as blowing your nose and, often, just as pleasant.
Osthia fancied she was a bit jaded from her captivity and seeing the Walled Cities from the perspective of someone in hiding. But if she was a bit of jade, Xesci was a Relic-class piece of art fit for the Empire of Drath’s palace. Nothing made her blink. Not death, not the most depraved acts. She’d given Ulva Terland a heart attack, slit her own throat, and didn’t seem shaken by it at all.
“I want to issue pensions for the deceased, Xesci. Not have sex with them!”
“Who said anything about sex? Don’t be disgusting. This is a clean brothel.”
She was running a brothel. Osthia drew a deep breath.
“I have a question about some of my…people. You see—”
“We don’t have undead chained up. I’ve heard of a few ‘exotic’ brothels that tried that. Always a bad idea. If the sickness doesn’t get you, the undead adapt. Ever seen one grow teeth in the genital area?”
“Please stop talking. No one does that, right?”
“…Seen it happen six times. To be fair, four were the same fellow. Never learned his lesson. What’s this about the Sisters?”
When Osthia got Xesci on track, the [Courtesan] laughed.
“Boyd On. Classic. Crooknose is right. Don’t ask her what she knows; she was a local recruit. Probably from this very town. They’re called Nightlights. That’s Sister-slang for their ranks. It’s nothing as formal as the Brothers.”
“I don’t understand. The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings? They’re just another gang, right?”
Xesci raised her brows.
“To you, a Walled City Drake, maybe. To the underworld? The Brothers are an organized, professional lot. Some kid wants to run with them, they have to prove it. The Brothers don’t let anyone just join. Or even if you kill someone—you’re less likely to get in. Some gangs have it simple: knife your first person and enter. Others make you kill a member, but those never really last long. Too much attrition.”
Osthia shook her head.
“Insanity. The south has nothing like that.”
“Heh. Oh, wait. You’re serious? Pallass, Salazsar, both have gangs. Not as much flash because the Watches are more serious, but plenty of blades, even so. Sorry, that’s cant. Flash is showy, blades are stabbing-types. Violence.”
“…So the Brothers are organized?”
“Sure are. They train new members, make them walk with veterans, try not to let them get killed. Sisters do it differently. Anyone wants to join the Sisters? They can get in after pledging loyalty. Just costs you a bit of blood. But all you get is a dagger and—”
“A dead woman’s pants. New recruits, Nightlights, must not last long.”
Xesci poured herself a cup of iced water and sipped from it. Osthia tried not to listen to a thumping sound from overhead in the brothel. The [Courtesan] sighed.
“Hydration? It’s getting hot out there, and I want to run this brothel right. No? Suit yourself. Yes, turnover’s high, but there’s always a girl wanting to join. And they don’t always fight like that situation with Ilvriss. Frankly, I was worried there might be trouble. Getting Sisters killed means the local bosses or Haple get unhappy.”
“The leaders, right. They understood it was dangerous.”
“I’m just mentioning it. But you’ll have more reinforcements. Just lower-quality, I suspect. More Nightlights and less Night Stalkers or higher ranks.”
Osthia made a note of this, grumbling.
“Great. At least I can train them. Why does anyone join the Sisters of Chell?”
She let a bit too much of the acid she could breathe, the liquid contempt and ire in her Oldblood heritage, enter her tone. Because when she glanced up, Xesci was annoyed. The Courtesan’s face changed and became a red-haired woman that Osthia recognized.
The dead Sister who’d saved Ilvriss. She spoke softly.
“Who joins? Anyone who wasn’t born with the Blackwing name, Osthia. Girls whose only option is to spread their legs in marriage or a brothel, who don’t have anyone’s help. Can’t read or write good, don’t have any classes, and who won’t last a second on the streets without anyone to watch their back. A Sister’s feared. A Sister has family, even if she’s a lowlife scrounging for coin. Watch your tongue.”
Osthia held up one claw as she backed up a step.
“I apologize, Xesci. I just—it’s frustrating because I need records. I need to identify the dead, and no one knows them. Unless you do?”
Xesci turned her head, and her features shifted, melting like wax and morphing in a moment that made Osthia shudder.
“No. Just the faces. You’ll have to go to Celum where they were drawn from. I can go with you to talk to Yeire. She won’t be pleasant, otherwise.”
“Will it be…difficult? We got nearly a dozen of her best women killed.”
Now Osthia was feeling her way forwards, a bit on more solid ground. She knew politicking; she’d served in Pallass’ armies. Her time in Thrissiam’s 3rd Army had taught her a lot. Taking someone else’s command and getting them killed? Edellein, her uncle in 4th Army, had held grudges for decades over that sort of thing.
Uncle Edellein. Not the [General] I would have chosen to lead Pallass. He was always a bit of a nightmare to everyone but Thrissiam, who outranked him. Maybe he’s changed. Maybe they don’t have anyone else better with Duln dead and Shirka out of an army. I can’t believe High Command wasted the Slayers. One of Pallass’ trump cards dead.
And some had been anti-undead specialists. More and more Walled Cities squandering their power. Osthia already felt bad with this job, but she was resigning herself to some anger from Boss Yeire when Xesci tilted her head.
“What? Her best…is that an insult or a joke?”
Osthia frowned and glared at Xesci.
“The ones who died! I assume they were all Night Stalkers? Is that the highest rank?”
The [Courtesan of Change] gave Osthia a probing stare, then half-smiled. Bitter irony on her face now. She drank more water and exhaled in that weary way. And then Osthia understood, because Xesci replied.
