“Expound on that, Captain.”
“Sir?”
“You want to make them…what? What position do you envision them in?”
“Er, scout-rogues, sir. Skirmishers. Hit and run given that even with armor, they won’t be up for much. I believe Wall Lord Zail is sending some gear, but even with that, they’ll fall behind a regular [Scout] troop. Still, do what we can with them.”
Something was wrong. Shellc was staring up at the sky, then at the Sisters, who were sitting around probably gossiping about Osthia. He exhaled slowly.
“Captain Shieldscale, I was told that my commander, Cirille, once got an offer from no less than Wall Lord Ilvriss. She was mulling it over when 5th Wall fell.”
“She did? I mean, I do recall something about that, sir.”
Shellc nodded.
“I wish she’d gone a day early. Izril needed her perspective, and I think Wall Lord Ilvriss was actually the Drake who would have worked with her. Cirille was a [Combined Arms Commander]. Someone who got synergy Skills for both Drakes and Gnolls under her command.”
“I…see. An interesting class, sir.”
“An unprecedented class for any officer in the south, Captain. And a powerful one, I think. We never saw its full potential, but it taught me the same lesson I’m going to teach you. Take a good look at those Humans over there.”
“Sir?”
She directed her attention at the Sisters of Chell. They were eying her and Shellc. One raised a middle finger. Boyd was picking her nose. Shellc grinned at them.
“Tell me, in what way do the Sisters of Chell exceed a standard Salazsarian unit’s capabilities?”
“Sir? You mean in levels or competencies?”
“Tell me something the Sisters of Chell can do that you’ve observed you can’t. An improvement you think you should take to whatever command you have moving forwards.”
Osthia tried to think about it, but she was put on the spot.
“Er, their ability to intercept [Assassins] and other lowlifes, sir? I imagine their capabilities in theft, underworld talents—”
She turned her head to look at him, right into Major Shellc’s full glower. He put a hand on the hilt of his sword.
“Captain Shieldscale. It’s my opinion from serving with other species that there are plenty of things each species can do that we Drakes can’t. If you have nothing good to say about your command, then you don’t deserve them.”
“Wh—sir.”
Osthia saluted, growing red under the unexpected reprimand. Shellc snorted.
“Don’t sir me. Speak freely.”
Her jaw worked.
“Sir, I am working with members of one of Izril’s largest gangs. They are lazy, insubordinate—”
“Captain Shieldscale, if you were working with [Soldiers] from Salazsar, I would accept your complaint. Did they or did they not suffer the only significant casualties defending Wall Lord Ilvriss from that Golem?”
“They did, sir. But the rest of the soldiers who responded were armored, and they are still critically flawed for any kind of military operation—”
Shellc glanced past Osthia.
“I’d put ‘speed of response’ on that list, Captain Shieldscale, then, wouldn’t you? Bravery?”
“Well, I wouldn’t say bravery, but—”
She fell silent. Would she say bravery? Yes, for the ones who’d died, but not all the Sisters. Shellc shook his head slowly.
“Captain Shieldscale. In my position as commander of Wall Lord Ilvriss’ standing forces here, making use of all hands without prejudice is where I believe I’m useful. I’ve had to dress down a number of Drakes who don’t appreciate our Gnoll friends. Humans are still a minority here, but the only reason a lot of Gnolls are here is because they know Wall Lord Ilvriss’ company is equal-opportunity. And because he respects them, and so do I.”
“Yessir, I appreciate that sir—”
Shellc stuck a finger in Osthia’s face.
“Of course you do. You’ve served with Gnolls. I can tell; that’s good. But I suggest you’re treating our other allies, the Sisters of Chell, like the most junior, close-minded new [Lieutenant] you could name.”
“Sir, I protest! I’m not calling them furbags—”
“No, you’re not slinging names. Congratulations. And no, you’re not as bad as some idiots which is why Ilvriss gave you the job. Being the best of the trash pile doesn’t mean anything, Captain Shieldscale. You don’t feel like you’re getting anywhere with them? That’s because you’re not. Only, the problem isn’t them, it’s you.”
Shellc poked Osthia in the chest, and she saw why he’d been discharged. She wanted to take a swing at him.
“Sir, if you would care to deal with the Sisters of Chell, I’m sure you’ll find they’re difficult.”
He gave her a one-eyed glare as he closed his good eye.
“I’m sure they are, Captain. And you know what? You win the loyalty of good soldiers. If I must, I’ll do just that, though I don’t have the time. If you don’t change how you are working with the Sisters in my estimation by the end of the week, I will petition Wall Lord Ilvriss to replace you.”
Is that a threat? It sounded great! However, Osthia’s scales itched at the way he said it! She threw a salute.
“Yessir, understood! Permission to get back to it?”
“Denied, Captain. Go for a walk.”
“Sir—”
“Go for a walk, curse me out, and think about what I said. You’re not an idiot. Don’t start acting like some hidebound Drake who thinks the Walled Cities can do no wrong. Dismissed.”
She stormed off, and Major Shellc sighed.
“Dead gods. Sometimes I miss Rhir.”
 
——
 
Osthia was so mad she had to avoid other people because she was literally breathing acid fumes. She flew around the dig sites, cursing Shellc loudly because—well—
Things stung when they had a point! She didn’t like how he’d delivered it; he had no grace or tact, but the part about the Sisters saving Ilvriss really stuck.
I never got why they did that. Xesci said it was because they knew they’d get paid five gold coins for saving his life. Is that it?
Five gold coins. For five gold coins, she’d do a decent amount of things, but put herself between a stranger and death?
No way.
Yet they’d done it. And…she flew lower over Dig Site C, which was largely abandoned now that everyone was going after the undead mine. It was close enough to Dig Site B that they’d set up a number of these holes in the ground, then abandoned them and filled them in when they’d found nothing. She floated there.
“How am I supposed to win their trust? They don’t want to learn to fight—well, they don’t mind learning better ways to stab. But they’re criminals. Once this is done, they’re gone. Am I supposed to like them? They’re damned gang members.”
She sank lower, thinking. And she’d not even dispensed the pensions. She’d confirmed a number of names with her new Skill, but finding the actual relatives from that took time, and no one could exactly deliver the news.
Busy and yet doing nothing. Story of her life of late. Osthia almost wished Shellc took the Sisters from her. She knew what they did to men they didn’t like, and she’d even been told by Crooknose that the Sisters took souvenirs.
And yet…when she slept, the dead were piled up, and the Sisters of Chell gazed up at her too. They had a place amongst the honored dead, even in that horror Skill. So what should she—?
Wait. There was movement in Dig Site #3. Osthia saw several Drakes and a Gnoll moving across the site’s floors and ramps spiralling downward. Sprinting, actually. It still appeared slow to her. But they were running.
Running…from another shape that emerged out of one of the mining tunnels. A…white figure. On horseback?
Osthia swooped lower, and then she heard the screams in the air. And the figure below her became clear.
A skeleton with glowing orange eyes, covered in armor of bone. A massive dreadnought of a skeleton with armor made out of ivory, an amalgamation of bones, riding a horse equally armored. A [Knight] of undeath.
“A Skeleton Knight?”
It was beyond any undead she had ever seen before. Osthia had fought mounted undead, rarely, in her time in 3rd Army. But this thing looked like an actual…
The Bone Dreadnought brought down a huge mace and tossed one of the fleeing Drakes down into the pit. It raised its weapon overhead and howled. A shriek like some bird—right before Osthia sprayed it with acid.
Its bones smoked, and it recoiled. Osthia shouted as she drew her sword.
“Run! Sound the alarm!”
The alarm was sounding across Dig Site #3, she realized. But so few—no one was here. All the Rubirel Guard, the [Soldiers], undercover and real—they were where they expected the undead to be.
And the miners were so used to hearing the alarm for the damn Humans that they were slow to react. Osthia flung a wing out, darting right past the Dreadnought, whose head turned to regard her. She spat acid again; it raised a shield and blocked the acid! Then flicked the shield and sprayed her own acid back at her!
“Ancestors!”
Osthia was immune to her own acid, but it smoked on her light armor as she floated out of reach in the open air. The Dreadnought could not reach her, so it turned its horse and began to thunder after the other miners.
“Stop!”
Osthia flew after it, then nearly missed the flicker in the air. She turned her head—
[Emergency Maneuver]!
She skimmed up and around in a tight spiral, dodging the figure that reappeared for just a moment. A pale white Drake, denuded of scales, and who seemed almost…sticky. Osthia’s panicked mind and her studies of undead told her what it was.
Wight.
It went tumbling into the center of the dig site, but she saw it squirming and getting up, even after the multi-story fall. Osthia whirled, and then her heart sank. She saw something peeking at her from the mine shaft the two undead had come from.
A giant…eye. It was glowing and pulsated oddly, in a pale face of twisted bone. Then the ‘eye’ winked out, and she realized it had been a magical eye in an empty socket.
Not a round socket, either. Nor a round head. A lumpen ‘head’ of bone with huge, black voids was tottering around, an oversized head on tiny little legs that she realized were made up of hands.
She—she didn’t know what kind of undead it was. Only that as the head rotated, more ‘eyes’ appeared, magical irises focusing on her. Drawing her in—
Osthia slammed into the ground so hard she nearly broke both her arms and her ribs. Only one of her skills, [Lightweight Frame], saved her. It broke the hypnotic gaze the undead had placed over her.
Mind control Skill. She struggled to breathe, to get up.
The undead have tunneled out of their mine. Flanking. We have to stem them here. She flew up just in time. A scuttling scorpion with too many legs had been advancing on her. It had an oversized Drake’s skull for a head and a stinger that oozed black putrescence.
Advanced undead.
“Alarm! To arms! To—”
When she flew higher, avoiding the eye-undead, Osthia saw [Miners] fleeing. The Bone Dreadnought was running them down, swinging a red mace down, and everything it hit—
She dove at it. Osthia had an enchanted sword and some magical gear. She knew she wasn’t ready, but someone had to stop it.
“[Diagonal Slash]! [Hit and Away]! [Acid Globule]!”
She cut across the Dreadnought’s back, her enchanted blade leaving a scar of flames on the thick bone, backflipped into the air as it swung at her, and spat a glob of acid.
This time, it began to melt part of the horse’s rear, and the Dreadnought swatted at it as the undead horse reared and came back. It charged Osthia as she dipped low, and she spun.
“[Pierce Stab]!”
She tried to execute a kill attack, but the Dreadnought raised a shield, and she just took a big divot out of the bones. Osthia cursed and flew higher.
The giant skeleton on horseback eyed her as she circled, then went back to pursuing the living. It didn’t attack even when she spat more acid on it.
Damn it, it was intelligent! It knew it couldn’t hurt her, so—
She was coming in for another attack on the horse to slow it down when she saw the giant undead’s arm droop. That was the only warning she got before it half-turned and threw something at her.
The blow clipped her, and she hit the ground—hard. When Osthia peered up, she had a hole in one of her wings. The pain was faint; her blood was pounding, and she rolled.
[Deflect Projectile]!
She knocked the second object aside and got a look at it. It was…a piece of the Dreadnought’s body. It had ripped part of its armor out to hurl it.
“Insanity.”
Osthia staggered upright. She set herself, knowing she couldn’t fly. She took a two-handed grip on her sword, walking left as the Dreadnought swung its mace up. It rode at her, and she saw death in its swing. It raised the mace high as it shrieked again, and a dagger’s hilt bounced off its head.
“Shit.”
Boyd lowered her hand and turned dead white as the Dreadnought’s head rotated slowly towards her. Osthia shouted.
“You idiots—”
[Sword Art: The Rising Phoenix]! She activated her Skill, launching into an uppercut with her blade as the Dreadnought was distracted. It brought its shield up, blocking the flaming cut, and Osthia twisted, flapping back and avoiding the return blow. The Dreadnought tried to charge her as she half-crashed to the ground, landing on one knee. Then it glanced down.
Its mount took a shaky step. Then collapsed onto one knee. The Dreadnought stood as the horse, whose head was melted and half-severed by Osthia’s Skill, collapsed. Osthia shouted.
“Get back! Get Major Shellc!”
“Oh fuck me with a battering ram, that’s not a regular undead—”
Crooknose paused as the Sisters of Chell, half the morning squad, halted. She threw a dagger at something—Osthia twisted.
The invisible Wight leapt, but the dagger thunked into its arm, and Osthia dodged left. It still clipped her, and she half-froze, muscles going dead.
Nononono—she couldn’t get her sword up, but she breathed acid straight into its face. It wasn’t expecting that and shrieked as it clawed at the acid. It rolled away—and then Girnol put a shortsword in its head. She tried to ram it through the Wight’s head, but the undead was too tough! It snarled, snapping as she stabbed at it—then the Sister put her boot down and hopped up on her blade.
Like someone pushing a shovel through the earth. There was a wet crking sound, and she jerked as the blade pierced the Wight’s head. It began jerking, and she shoved.
“Fucking—it’s so—”
Osthia got up and axe kicked the blade down. The Wight spasmed and then went down. Girnol panted, wide-eyed, as Osthia felt the paralysis wearing off.
“Hey, Capt’n. How much was that worth?”
She grinned at Osthia, then swore and pivoted.
“Hells, there’s—”
