“Night Stalker’s a high rank, yes. If Yeire lost twelve of them, she’d be trying to murder Ilvriss herself. But those weren’t Night Stalkers, Osthia. You think they’d be stupid enough to try to take on a Golem with knives? All three of the ones assigned to Ilvriss weren’t anywhere close to the fighting.”
Three Night Stalkers? Osthia frowned.
“But who—?”
Xesci lifted her fingers and counted.
“The ranks go Nightlight, Dusk Prowler, Sister of Chell—that’s most ordinary ones, just ‘Sister’—Night Stalker, Lantern Lady—no one uses that term, that’s just ‘Gang Boss’ like Yeire—then you get bigger bosses for an entire city, and the Haple, who command everyone. The twelve that got killed were just Dusk Prowlers and Nightlights, Osthia. Maybe a Sister or two among them.”
What? But they’d fought the Hunter-Killer Golem when Salazsarian [Soldiers] had hesitated to rush in. Osthia stared at Xesci.
“But why did they…?”
The [Courtesan] just shrugged.
“They must have thought they had a chance. No, wait…”
She snapped her fingers.
“I remember! Boss Yeire put a counter-bounty on Ilvriss’ head to motivate the girls. If they saved his life, they got a five gold reward. Pretty smart of her. She has grown up.”
Xesci smiled at Osthia, and the Drake stood there with answers and insights into the Sisters of Chell’s nature. But no idea who had died. Just twelve dead women.
And more reading to do.
 
——
 
New jobs were rough. Sometimes, you were a trembling Drake with someone holding a dagger to your throat, making you sign a contract in blood, sitting in the backroom of a fake Guild as expressionless [Assassins] eyed your pet rats.
Sometimes, you were dealing with a bunch of lazy Humans yawning and farting and nudging each other while you tried to whip some discipline into them. Osthia felt like her life was nothing but new jobs.
First it had been Ilvriss’ employ and being a [Bodyguard] in the City of Gems, with their different culture and having Welca and the other [Aides] thinking she was there to take their jobs. Starting the anti-Az’kerash operations. Feeling useless reading books and not knowing how to counter super magic.
Here, at least, she felt like she was on solid ground. Osthia shoulder-threw Boyd onto the practice courts and tossed a punch. She winced as her healing bones protested, but clocked Crooknose as the woman came in for a tackle—and it took the woman out.
Literally out of the sparring ring. The Sister walked off, holding her nose and swearing.
“Fuck this, I’m out!”
“What? You don’t leave the ring, soldier! We are sparring—”
“I ain’t getting paid to get punched in the nose if it’s not work.”
The Sister snapped back, and Osthia saw her already-broken nose was bleeding. It probably hurt like hell; Osthia hesitated, but then growled.
“Take five, and someone else get in here. I want you up to military standard!”
“Military, she says. You think we need all that?”
One of the Sisters produced a knife as she sauntered into the arena. She was just a Dusk Prowler; now that Xesci had told Osthia the ranks, the Drake recognized the low-level Sisters. It was their clothing, actually. They could dress how they wanted, but each new rank meant you wore standard-issue clothing. Nightlights got a dead Sister’s pants.
Dusk Prowlers all got…a belt. It was a pretty good one, worn, with plenty of loops and pouches for storing things like lockpicks, tools, and so on.
Full Sisters of Chell got issued new pants, boots, and Night Stalkers got a fancy cloak which was actually magic. Almost all her ‘command’ were low-level Sisters, sadly. The Dusk Prowler sauntered over, thinking Osthia was afraid of her blade.
The Drake waited until Boyd got closer, then feinted a punch at the Dusk Prowler. She kicked the blade out of the woman’s hand; the Sisters watching dodged the spinning knife. Osthia grabbed the woman’s shoulder, swept a leg.
“You’re not Night Prowlers or full Sisters. And none of you are as good as regular [Soldiers]. Name?”
“Pennybought.”
Another fake name. Osthia rolled her eyes as she helped Pennybought up. She glanced around.
“Fifteen more minutes of sparring! Then I want to see how good you are with your daggers!”
 
——
 
They were not good with the daggers. Osthia spent half an hour correcting grips, having them stab practice dummies, then went to sit and have a drink.
Water. She stared at the cup.
They don’t know how to fight! Any Salazsarian recruit with a month of practice would be better! The Sisters literally had no experience. Boyd, for instance, had been initiated a week ago.
It meant she’d never stabbed anyone. She’d cut a few purses, participated in a mugging where she’d done some kicking—she’d never seen combat until the Golem attack. Nor was she a streetwise tough with a background that meant she was used to brawling. After some questioning, she’d admitted she’d run away from her home.
Am I going to have to repatriate some of my command to their parents? Osthia decided she’d just keep training them up. She had to do something, and the Sisters might grumble and walk off if they got hit, but they were willing to learn how to fight.
The trouble was…Osthia was sort of alone, making little progress in her field.
Everyone else seemed to be having a grand old time.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss came back dancing after his first visit to The Wandering Inn.
He stopped when Osthia stared at him. She had a black eye; one of the Sisters had gotten annoyed after a training session and thrown a [Dirty Punch].
Ilvriss looked great. Good sleep at the inn, good food; he’d brought back a hamper and dancing.
“Miss Lyonette is, ah, having trouble keeping up, but I have homework. This darn Highstepper—oh well.”
“Is this a good use of your time, Wall Lord?”
They were having a briefing where Xesci, Ilvriss, and Osthia discussed how things were going. Nerul would have been present, but he was gone. Ilvriss hesitated.
“Well…it keeps Lyonette happy. And I must say, it’s a good workout!”
“He should keep doing it. Dancing is in the purview of [Lord] classes. It might level him.”
That was Xesci’s comment. Osthia couldn’t object to that; she was just sour.
“I have a report: the Rubirel Guard engaged the undead in the mine after careful digging. The undead fought viciously, and two were destroyed, but the rest pulled back after an inability to damage them.”
“Really? Damn. Any more breaches?”
“Nossir. Just a cattle raid. Eighteen wounded.”
Ilvriss grimaced. He checked his notes.
“Sounds like the undead are clever. Well, we’ll keep the Rubirel Guard at it. They’re the only forces who won’t take casualties…we could pull our [Soldiers] off reserved duty to augment their advance. Let’s do that if they don’t make progress. I don’t want to take casualties, but we have to push.”
Everyone nodded at that. The Wall Lord sighed.
“I’ve got a few other reports to share…Nerul’s in Salazsar trying to deal with the Terlands. He has a plan, but his only update is that the city’s got a bit of a problem. The Fissivalian war is ongoing, and there’s unrest. Remember Sellme?”
Osthia shrugged; she’d never really cared about him, but Xesci sighed.
“He’s dead, isn’t he?”
“Likely. That’s what the claim is, but the [Anarchists] who supported him are still causing trouble. Not in the Walled City; apparently the Watch and army came down on them hard. But other Salazsar-aligned cities are reporting trouble. Well, it’s minor. The war…Father said Eschowar was helping direct our military.”
“Is he that important, that old Drake? I recall him retiring, but we have modern [Generals] and [Strategists], right?”
Osthia snorted at Xesci’s ignorance and got a flat look from her. She ducked her head, recalling Xesci did outlevel her.
“Eschowar was a military genius, Xesci. I have no doubt his insight is as useful as the Cyclops’ was. Surely Fissival wants to sue for peace after your father’s victory, Ilvriss?”
He just grimaced.
“It’s pride and the cities. It sounds like they’re still engaging, just not with full armies. Smaller skirmishes and a lot of their damn [Mages]. New magic. Just keeping you apprised. I think that’s it. I need to do some stretches.”
He was still doing more dancing? Xesci grinned as Ilvriss practiced a few lunges.
“Want help?”
“You can do the Highstepper?”
“I haven’t practiced it since the last time I was here, but I can take the most flexible dancer I’ve ever met. Unless it’s a magical dance, sure.”
They began practicing the silly Human dance, and Osthia ground her teeth together! She wanted to lecture Ilvriss about wasting time, but she had been to The Wandering Inn.
She knew what it could do. She raised one claw.
“Before you dance off, Wall Lord…do I have permission to visit Celum to talk to the Sisters of Chell? I’ll bring Xesci as a negotiator, of course.”
“Hm? Naturally. And I do thank you for dealing with the Sisters, Osthia. No one else is as flexible in my command. Just imagine Dramm dealing with them. If they didn’t stab him to death within the first hour, I’d be worried they were blackmailing him or something. The same with Welca and my other people. I do trust them, but…”
That cheered Osthia up a bit. She coughed, slightly mollified.
“Of course, Ilvriss. Just don’t expect miracles. But I was worried about our leadership now that we’re seeing combat in the dig site. Real combat, not the Humans.”
They needed a capable officer. Osthia had only ever been a [Captain] of a wing; she knew they had decent military forces, more than the Humans expected. But a good commander made Wyverns out of regular [Soldiers]. Ilvriss could do it, but…he slowed.
“I just told my father the same thing the other day. I’m decent at leading an army, but no Zel. And if I’m splitting time…my father’s still around, isn’t he?”
“He was touring the dig site. I believe he wanted to fight the undead, but he was kept from doing so.”
“Ancestors, there’s a relief. Ask him if he has someone. He knows the army better than I do.”
Osthia marched out of the tent to do just that. She heard Ilvriss speaking to Xesci.
“The high-kicking gets me, though. I know you do it in a line, but that fast?”
“It’s a showoff dance. Your flexibility sucks. Let’s do some stretches. Can Lyonette do this?”
“Er…politely, no. Her detrimental Skill is really affecting her mobility, even with [Flawless Attempt]. But I expect that if I do a few more practice sessions with her, in about four visits or so, Mrsha will uncover a Relic-class Golem Destroyer for me or something.”
“Sounds about right. Okay, put your leg up on a table and see how high you can raise it before it starts to hurt…”
 
——
 
“He’s not sleeping with that [Prostitute], is he?”
Wall Lord Zail’s first question to Osthia made her bite her tongue. After assuring him that Xesci was purely there for a professional matter, he relented. He looked good. Military, and he was far more at home with Osthia than his own son.
“It’s only a problem since she’s so damn obvious. It’s not like it’s not traditional. I used to raise morale by hiring a hundred of them in local towns. But employing one? You understand the issue, don’t you?”
“Yessir, Wall Lord, sir. This is just because she’s so high level, sir. And the Sisters of Chell, sir.”
The constant sir-ing was reflexive from Osthia and pleased Zail. He walked around a map of her dig site.
“Good that you set up an actual model of your camp. I was concerned—until I noted how many troops you have here. Very clever. That lad, Dramm?”
“Yes, Wall Lord Zail?”
“Sharp as a bag of rocks. Even some of the other spies might not have noticed…idiots. I’m not sure about the monsters, but I noted the lack of a commanding officer. I happen to have someone fit for the job. I was going to recommend them for the anti-Antinium initiatives, but I’ll trial them here. A good man; new. Came from Manus—well, dishonorably discharged, but I reviewed his files and spoke to him. He might do well here.”
Zail had a bit of a soft spot for veterans, it transpired. Osthia nodded, though ‘dishonorably discharged’ didn’t fill her with hope, but if he thought they were good…the Wall Lord glanced at Osthia.
“These Sisters…useless?”
“They fought the Golem, sir. They’re brave. But, ah, any green company could mince them. No armor, no training. Shortswords and daggers. A few throwing weapons, but nothing more.”
He pulled a face, and she was relieved to talk to someone who got it.
“Eugh. Conscripted Tribal Gnolls were more dangerous in my day. So this is one of the dread Gangs that plagues the north. Hah! Well, they’re brave enough if they charge a Golem. Or dumb as Humans. I’ll have some more armor and weaponry sent so they’re at least outfitted right. I’m releasing more funds to Ilvriss; the rest are needed, but he seems to be doing well enough.”
“Yessir, Wall Lord! And The Wandering Inn is providing monetary assistance as well!”
That alone justified Ilvriss dancing with Lyonette; how they had so much money, Osthia didn’t want to know. Zail pulled a longer face.
“The inn…and that [Princess]. Fine. Fine. It’s my son’s life. I’m heading back to Salazsar. Keep him safe, would you, Wing Captain?”
“Yess—”
She caught herself and hesitated.
“It’s, it’s just [Captain], Wall Lord. Not Wing Captain. I never served with any fliers.”
She saw the grey, faded scales around Zail’s eyes wrinkle up as he turned his head to her. And the hunched figure straightened over the map.
“I’m sure that’s what you claim. And I am sure my son knows your particulars. But my class doesn’t lie to me. Keep him safe, Wing Captain. That’s an order. Anyone does their job right, man, woman, Drake, Gnoll, and I don’t ask questions. Gemscale rewards loyalty and good work. Always has.”
“Yessir.”
She managed, and he nodded and walked for the tent flaps.
“I have to fly back to Salazsar. Fissival needs its tail stomped in. Oh, and Captain?”
“Sir?”
“If those damn Humans keep raiding us, do me a favor and break all their damn jaws, would you? Drakes don’t run—that’s a stupid saying. But Drakes don’t lose a fistfight. Not to Humans.”
 
——
 
Old-school. Meeting Wall Lord Zail invigorated Osthia; she wanted to be like him. Tough, efficient, a leader—she bellowed at her ‘squad’ of Sisters of Chell.
“C’mon, give me a proper stab! Thrust, thrust, thrust!”
