Glowing softly with her nature magic, her arrow arced across the raging waters with a soft swishing noise, only audible over the rushing water because she was sharing Cami’s uncanny hearing. It flew true, punching into the side of the river serpent with a sudden splash. The roiling river exploded with sudden churning as the monster reacted with fury. Large coils of what looked like water erupted out of the river and surged toward her. A triangular-shaped serpent head rose above, fangs gleaming, and eyes sparkling.

Magnificent! “Go get it, Cami!”

Several bolts of high-speed water jetted from the serpent’s mouth, and Cami dodged sideways to protect her, taking one of them on her chest. Willow channeled a little mana into Beast Restoration, sharing a healing buff with Cami, and then nocked a second arrow with the fluid action Coria had taught her.

This time, she spent the stamina for Rapid Fire and unleashed a stream of arrows at the water-bolt-spewing mouth. The monstrous serpent reared up and crashed into the bank of the river, emerging fully from the water. Wow, that’s huge!

“Take it!” she yelled, but the massive Timber Wolf was already charging forward, crashing into the exposed elemental water snake without hesitation, even though she was dwarfed by its sheer size.

Willow buffed them both with Grace of Air and unleashed another stream of arrows into the monster’s flank while Cami tangled with it over by the water’s edge. From the furious snarling and snapping, and the hissing amid the violent sprays of water, she would have been terrified for her friend. But, through their shared connection, she knew exactly when to refresh the Beast Restoration buff and where to shoot.

Willow skipped backward, careful to maintain her distance, and fired again. And again.

The River Serpent was not particularly smart, fully engaged in snapping at the wolf directly in front of it with forearm-length fangs while blasting water bolts in every direction, never seeming to notice that Willow was standing at a distance healing Cami. She downed a mana potion and continued her precision bombardment.

It took several minutes before the giant River Serpent finally collapsed, drenching Cami with a great splash of water.

“Simple, right?” Willow said, approaching the corpse. It would have taken a lot less time if she had brought more people, but with her ability to heal Cami, it seemed these River Serpents would be a slow but easy grind.

Cami chuffed softly, keeping her eyes on the churning river, sending her satisfaction with the hunt via their connection.

Lesser Water Essence

Elemental Core (Water)

“Hmm, didn’t Aliandra put up a quest for elementals, too?” Willow asked, mostly speaking to herself because she was certain Cami hadn’t read the quest board. She reached down and retrieved the core – a strange floating torus of spinning water. This looks interesting. She examined it carefully before storing it. Perhaps Aliandra would want to buy it when she returned. The water essence, on the other hand, seemed to be a particularly dense, oversized raindrop that refused to splash onto the ground.

Going to need quite a few of these. The recipe called for several essences, none of them lesser. She would need to combine them to satisfy the requirements.

“Come, let’s find another one,” Willow said, and Cami immediately began searching up the river.

She’s such a good girl. Time to hunt.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
