The adamantine plating guarding the man's supple flesh gave a sickening scream as it was promptly compressed inward. Adam caught a brief spray of blood as everything inside the man was pulped, his innards spilling free from the tear lining his armor.

Veilpiercer 165 > 166

This provoked an immediate reaction from the other Vanguards. Two stepped out and swung their shields in the direction of Adam’s projectile. At the same time, Adam heard some of the wardens near him fast approaching. He used his Commander’s Foresight Skill and halted the moment. Two approaching. Looks like one is an Archer like me. They will probably fire a shot in the next second. The other is a mage. Neither should have very high Toughness. But they’re close, and they’re dressed in adamantine too. I’m unlikely to achieve an easy kill here. I should have the burning man move across and then follow him. No hesitation.

As soon as he stopped using his evolved tactical skill, a faint ache passed through his skull. “Across! Across now!” he called out to the burning man. The momentarily stunned prisoner responded as if awakened from a stupor, blasting into motion. A flash of heat struck Adam, but rather than suffering any burns, the Gate Lord endured a rush of weakness as some of his water-mass was dissolved by the spike in temperature. “Well, that’s useful,” Adam muttered.

Just then, he felt a spike of magical pressure in the air and noticed a Hydromancy spell lashing out to cage him. As it struck his body, he winced as he prepared to feel his Hydromancy tear, yet found only a crushing sensation instead. He remembered that his Hydromancy had evolved alongside his Physicality and pushed through the spell with a shout. A crack sounded. An arrow arched over his dimensional rift and struck his body—and passed through without inflicting any actual harm.

Gods, this is a good skill, Adam thought to himself.

He rushed after the burning man, accelerating into the dimensional pathway. To his pleasure, Vectors of the Eternal Ascent allowed him to glide from place to place with ease. His new body tumbled through the dimensional channel like a raging flood—no, not like. He was a literal raging flood now. If Adam had to guess, he was well over three tons right now, and if he gathered more moisture, he could keep building on his Physicality. He wondered if there was a limit to his new strength—he would test that by draining as much fluid as he could from the environment.

As soon as he burst out from the exit, he found himself slamming into two wardens from behind as he doused some of the burning man’s lingering flames. The wardens that Adam struck cried out, surprised and laid low by his sudden emergence. He tore free from his own rift in jetstreams of water. Bones broke against him. Armor endured. But Adam lashed at more than just bodies now—he could strike Magical Resistances as well. More importantly, he funneled his Physicality down the orifices of the two enemies he just hit and felt them gag.

Rather than letting them fly free, he drew them deeper into his embrace and compressed his might inward. He held them there as he flooded their lungs, as he choked them while trying to follow in the burning man’s wake.

To the Vanguard Wardens’ credit, they hadn’t collapsed before Adam’s ambush and were holding the Pyromancer back. One of their number was channeling more mana into their shield, creating what seemed to be a pulsating dome of mana infused with hints of Pyromancy. The others stabbed at the blazing figure using a lightning infused halberd. Adam's fiery recruit was fast and strong, but he fought like a thug, without any technique. He let his enemies cut him, and where they nicked his bones, jets of flame spewed forth, splashing toward his foes.

Even through the clamor of chaos and battle, Adam could hear the burning man laugh. It was the sound of a building crackling. It was the growl of a forest fire yet to reach its apex. And it was drowned as two dimensional wounds opened up behind the two unsuspecting Vanguards holding the burning man back.

Adam unleashed a chain of Veilpiercers as they struck his enemies. The Vanguards folded as they failed to anticipate this asymmetric attack. It left them merely injured—yet that was bad enough. As they crumbled, more arrows exploded out from them due to Adam’s Propagating Salvo Skill. These new arrows zipped out and impacted the other Vanguards still battling to contain their fast-moving prisoner.

The Gate Lord readied another shot—but paused as the world went white in front of him.

“FEEL IT! FEEL MY EXISTENCE!”

A pure beam of Pyromancy erupted forth from the burning man, consuming everything in front of him in a cylindrical shape.

There were only a few meters between the Pyromancer and Adam, and the Gate Lord expected to feel an intense rise in heat, but instead, only the space in front of the burning man came ablaze. And what a blaze it was. At first, Adam saw the wardens as faint shadows. About three seconds later, there wasn’t even that.

And that was a good thing, as Adam was still building up more moisture. But he was having a hard time containing all the fluid that made up his body now. Every time he moved or took a shot, parts of him were left behind as he failed to hold on to them. The Gate Lord winced internally and understood what he had to do. I really need Parallel Thinking. This skill demands too much concentration.

Just then, an alloyed spike tore through his chest. Adam felt something inside him part, but then it melded back together. He realized the two Pathbearers he was drowning were making a last-ditch effort to get free. At the same time, Adam could hear at least fifteen sets of heartbeats nearby. More wardens were on the way, and he needed to deal with them. The first thing the Gate Lord did was spit the wardens he was drowning inside himself out at the burning man. The moment they tumbled past the Pyromancer, they were vaporized entirely, along with their adamantine plate.

Good thing I’m not standing in front of him, Adam thought with a shudder. He wasn’t lying when he said I might want to keep my distance.

Adam fired shot after shot at the enemies coming from behind. Between his vector wings and his fluid morphology, physical attacks either missed or passed through Adam without inflicting true harm, and magical spells were avoided entirely. Veilpiercers crashed into his enemies in an unceasing stream. Every arrow spawned more, and where he didn’t slaughter his foes immediately, he launched them against walls, sent them sprawling across the ground, broke knees, and shattered ankles.

A few wardens had strange skills of their own. One turned into a rush of wind when they dashed—but they were combusted by the burning man as he waved a hand, reduced to cinders in an instant.

“Oh, yeah, baby!” The burning man let out a near lustful shout. “I’ve been holding that one back for a good long while! Yeah! YEAH! Burning's good! Love to burn! Burn is love!”

With every word the burning man spoke, Adam felt his discomfort grow. The Pyromancer was a psychotic pyromaniac at the very least, and probably had a pretty good reason for being in this prison. But prisoners couldn’t be choosers, so Adam was going to keep using him and figure out the moral dilemmas later. Gods, that’s such a Shiv and Uva thing to do…
