Erin, Lyonette, and Ceria looked up. They were all gathered around a table. Bird stared at the table. Then he stared at what was on it. They were eating from a plate. And on that plate was…
“Pretzels! I’d offer you one, Bird. But it’s all bread, so you can’t have it.”
Miss Erin looked apologetic. Bird nodded.
“That is okay. I would like to eat. If that is good.”
“Oh! Sure! What do you want? B—”
“Birds.”
“Why am I surprised?”
Erin laughed. She bit the chewy bread pretzel she was eating and then dipped the uneaten side into a bowl. It was filled with a cheesy mixture. Erin ate the rest of her pretzel.
“Mm. Cheesy.”
“I like the sauces more. The cheese has too much oil in it for me.”
Lyonette had another little bowl of red sauce. She and Ceria were cautiously dipping their pretzels into it. Bird stared at the bowls as Erin went into the kitchen.
“You good with any kind of bird, Bird?”
“Yes.”
Bird sat at a table and listened to his stomach grumble. He wondered how bad it would be to eat a pretzel. Probably bad. He remembered his stomach hurting last time he ate bread by mistake. But maybe the pretzels could be good? Could he use them as bait for birds? Maybe water birds would eat a crumbled pretzel? He was about to ask Lyonette about that when he saw a little bit of white.
“Oh. Bird bait.”
Mrsha poked her head up from the table’s edge and regarded Bird severely. She snatched a pretzel and dipped it in another, dark brown sauce. She savored the flavor and disappeared behind the table.
“Here we are! Hot chicken! Seared wings and some veggies. What do you want to drink, Bird?”
“Milk?”
A big tankard of milk was placed in front of Bird. He happily put down his bow and picked up a fork.
“Birds. Mm. Tasty.”
The food was hot and filling. Miss Erin watched him eat and then frowned.
“Hey Bird, how long have you been up on the roof? I can’t remember the last time I saw you eating down here.”
Bird paused and shrugged.
“I don’t know. Maybe I was here a week ago?”
“A week!?”
“Maybe I was here an hour ago?”
Erin exchanged odd looks with Ceria and Lyonette. She went to confer with them as Bird ate. Good food made him happy. He saw Mrsha sneaking up to his plate and blocked her when she tried to snatch a piece of his chicken.
“My birds.”
“Bird, you need to come down at least twice a day for food, okay? Promise me.”
“Okay. I promise.”
Bird finished his food and felt better. His head felt clearer, and his stomach stopped bothering him. He sat as Erin took his plate, and when she asked him how it tasted, he told her it was good. All things were going well, until Bird remembered something.
“Oh. I forgot.”
“About your promise?”
“No. Today is an important day.”
A special day. Bird had nearly forgotten, but he was sure he’d remembered just in time. He stood up.
“I must go to the Hive today. I have to meet Pawn and Belgrade and Anand and Garry. Maybe not Garry. But the others will be there.”
Erin slapped her forehead.
“That’s right! Pawn did say to remind you! Hold on—I even made a few snacks for you to take with you! Hold on—”
She went into the kitchen. When she came back, she had a rucksack filled with nice smelling things. Bird opened the pack and discovered it was more food! His stomach rumbled again.
“Now Bird, remember, this is for everyone. It’s not bird bait. And you can’t get it wet, okay?”
“Okay, Miss Erin. I will go now.”
Bird strode towards the door. He opened it and was halfway down the hill when Erin came chasing after him.
“Bird! Not that way!”
Bird was headed towards the underwater bridge. He looked back at Erin, confused, as she waved at him in the rain.
“Are you crazy? Go through the magic door!”
“But there is a bridge now.”
“You can’t swim!”
That was true. If he fell in the water, Bird was sure he’d drown. But the bridge looked like fun as it swayed just under the water’s surface. Erin dragged Bird back into the inn, though. She made him promise not to use the bridge and fiddled with the door.
“Let’s see—oops! That’s Pallass.”
Bright sunlight shone on Bird’s face. He looked at the blue skies.
“Do you think there are birds in Pallass?”
Erin hesitated, looking at Bird. She bit her lip and looked at Lyonette, who waved her hands and shook her head for some reason.
“…No. I think Pallass has no birds. At all.”
“That is a shame.”
“Yes, it is, isn’t it? Okay, here’s Liscor.”
It was wet and raining. Bird stepped through into the street and heard Erin turn back to Lyonette. He quite clearly heard her voice before the door closed.
“Lyonette, I think you should take Bird when you go with Mrsha to Celum. He’ll be a good bodyguard.”
“If we can get him through the city without causing trouble. I’ll try it next time. Now, these pretzels are good, but they won’t stop trouble at tonight’s play, Erin.”
“That’s why I’ve been practicing with my aura. The pretzels are just for fun. Did you like the cheese sauce or is it—”
The door closed. Bird stared at it for a second and then began walking down the street. Liscor was rainy. Drakes and Gnolls passed Bird on the street, some staring at him, but without much alarm. Bird hummed under his breath, looking around in case there were birds, but not really expecting any.
Soon, he came to the Hive. The entrance was dark and rain was pouring in. Bird paused there.
“Dark.”
He didn’t like the Hive. There were no birds in the Hive. He always had to work in the Hive. But he had promised Pawn, so he went down inside. He passed through the entrance into dry dirt. Then he saw the Soldiers.
“Hello. I am Bird.”
They stared at him from their alcoves. Big Soldiers. They would kill him if he wasn’t a Worker, Bird knew. He walked past them, humming. Then his hum vanished. He felt himself enter the Hive.
There was a difference there. A rhythm. A flow. Bird didn’t like it. He had lived in the Hive for almost all his life, but when he entered the lines of Soldiers and Workers moving in perfect synch, it was still a struggle to move with them.
Walk. Stop. Walk. Turn. Step left to let Soldiers go past. Walk. Stop. Turn. Turn.
Each Worker moved in unison with the others. Each one stopped and stepped precisely. The crisscrossing lines of Antinium were efficient. Bird didn’t like it. He shifted, awkwardly holding the rucksack Erin had given him. He wished he’d brought his bow, but he’d forgotten it on the table. He hoped Erin didn’t throw it away.
Walk. Stop. Step left. Turn. Walk. Walk. Turn.
At least he could do this without having to think as hard. So long as he became one with the others, Bird wouldn’t fall out of place. Reassured by this, he began to hum to himself.
“Birds and pretzels, birds and pretzels. I like birds. I cannot eat pretzels.”
He stopped when he realized no one was moving. Bird looked around. All the Antinium in the tunnel were staring at him. All of them. Hundreds. Bird hunched his shoulders. Suddenly, he felt bad and his insides hurt.
“I am Bird. I did not mean to sing.”
After a moment, the flow resumed. Hunched, afraid, Bird moved as one. He did not sing again. Soon, he reached his destination.
“Bird. You remembered!”
Pawn stood in the barracks. Bird stared at him and waved one of his four hands.
“Hello Pawn.”
He stared around the big barracks. It was bigger than before. And there were more Workers and Soldiers in it. That was Bird’s only observation. He noticed three other Workers waiting for him.
“Belgrade and Anand. Oh. And Garry.”
“Hello Bird. We have not spoken in a long time.”
“We haven’t?”
Bird stared blankly at Garry. Then he shifted his attention to what the Worker had brought.
“Oh. Food!”
The [Cook] nodded.
“I have brought a few treats to share. What is it that you are holding, Bird?”
Bird remembered the rucksack. Carefully, he placed it on the mound of dirt the Workers were using as a table.
“This is food from Miss Erin. She says it is for me to share with everyone. It did not get wet.”
“How wonderful.”
Anand and Belgrade immediately clustered around the rucksack. Garry and Pawn held back. Bird looked around. Yes, there were more colorful Soldiers around. That was good. Bird stared at Yellow Splatters reading a book, Purple Smile doing something like dancing and showing the other Workers and Soldiers how to do it too, and then he found the special thing. It was always what he looked at. On the barracks, on the far wall, was a white bird. A symbol of one of the Soldiers. Bird always liked staring at it.
“This is delicious. What are these things? Bird? Bird?”
Someone interrupted Bird. He looked around.
“Oh. Those are fish flakes.”
“Fish flakes?”
The other Workers were intrigued. Bird nodded. He explained them as best he could.
“Miss Erin made them. They are fish with bread. Or bread on fish. She says she made some for Antinium with less bread because bread is no good for Antinium. But it still has bread. There is a sauce you dip the fish flakes into. Miss Erin says the fish flakes are good hot and a nice snack.”
“How wonderful. I must copy this design.”
Garry reverentially picked up a fish flake, breaking off a bit and then inspecting the insides to see what was underneath the crust. He nibbled at the food as Anand and Belgrade offered the fish flakes to some of the other Antinium who had passed by. It was Pawn who gave two thirds of the pack’s contents to Yellow Splatters to distribute. The rest went on the dirt table.
“I envy you, Bird. It is a privilege to work at Miss Erin’s inn and experience her cooking each day.”
“It is? Yes, it is good.”
Bird nodded at Garry. The other Worker paused and looked at Pawn. The Worker opened his mandibles and looked around.
“I suppose it is time. Let us speak.”
The other Workers nodded. They sat around the table, eating from what Garry and Bird had brought. Belgrade and Anand had brought real chess sets, and so the Workers took turns playing while they spoke. Bird sat, letting Anand play Pawn first while Garry played Belgrade. He listened, staring at the white bird on the walls sometimes. Just in case it moved.
“—An incident while I was on duty. Two adventuring teams entered the Hive from the dungeon. It was the subject of much agitation from Revalantor Klbkch. However, he told me this may be an opportunity for the Hive. He did not elaborate.”
Pawn delicately moved a chess piece, nodding.
“The issue is that of the Drake cities. Or so Lyonette tells me. The Drakes may be upset that we have a route into the dungeon and thus may obtain treasure. By we, I refer to the Hive in general.”
“Surely they knew? It would be obvious that a Hive would have some vectors by which to enter the dungeon given our proximity.”
Anand paused as he pushed Garry across the board with ease. Pawn shook his head.
“I cannot speculate. I only know what Lyonette told me, and she is not an expert on Drake politics.”
“But she is a Human. She knows many things. And you danced with her. I did not know this.”
Garry’s tone was wistful. The other Workers had not seen him for over a month. Garry’s duties involved serving the Queen, and apparently, that meant he did not get much time off. Bird watched as Garry lost the game against Anand.
“Revalantor Klbkch was very upset with you, Pawn. But he has expressed contentment with you as well. I do not know how he regards you.”
Belgrade’s mandibles clicked as he cornered Pawn’s bishop. He was a better player than Pawn. Both Belgrade and Anand were very good. Bird obediently sat as Anand reset the board so they could play. He enjoyed chess. But not as much as hunting birds.
“I do not know what Klbkch thinks of me either, Belgrade. I hope to work well with him, but I cannot help but feel that I disappoint him sometimes. Other times, I feel that I do not disappoint him because he has no expectations of me. By contrast, he speaks highly of you and Anand. Your fortifications and traps perform wonderfully.”
“Revalantor Klbkch says that?”
Belgrade’s antennae twitched wildly. Bird watched with interest as he played Anand. Pawn nodded.
“In terms of developments, I would hope for your and Anand’s continued growth most. You have already saved many lives with your strategies, and I am told your management helps the Queen herself.”
The two [Tacticians] sat straighter. Anand nodded.
“That is most gratifying to hear. I hope that our continued efforts will mean we can visit Miss Erin someday. I would like to play her and see how much I have improved. And play games of Go with her.”
“I also.”
Pawn listened to the two and nodded.
“I will attempt to bring this matter up with Klbkch.”
“Thank you, Pawn.”
“Yes. Thank you. Garry, what of you?”
“I serve the Queen. It is…difficult. But I do level.”
Garry took over for Pawn in playing Belgrade. His four hands moved slower than the other Worker’s. Pawn stared at Garry with concern.
“I have spoken to the Queen only once. How is she to work under directly?”
“She is the Queen. I am a Worker. It is…good to cook. I must not complain.”
The [Cook] looked down at the board. The other three Workers looked at each other. Bird looked at the white bird on the walls. In silence, they played. It seemed Belgrade was suddenly worse because he lost to Garry, and Pawn told Garry to learn to dance and read some of the picture books on his day off. He got up with Belgrade while Bird played Anand. When they came back, Bird was still playing.
“What of you, Bird? Have you done anything of note?”
Startled, Bird looked up.
“I shot a fish.”
The Workers waited. Garry was staring at a picture book and glancing up every now and then. Pawn clicked his mandibles together.
“And?”
“And my bow is still broken.”
“I see.”
Bird looked down at his board. He knew that he should say something else. But it was hard! He tried to think.
“I got paid.”
“Paid?”
Suddenly, all of the Workers stared at Bird. He hunched his shoulders.
“Is that news?”
“Yes. Miss Erin is paying you, Bird?”
“She is. She says I can save it for a new bow. She gave me many silver coins and bronze ones. She tells me not to use them as bait for crows. I have put it away in my room. Next to my fortress of fluff.”
“Your what?”
“It is what Miss Erin calls my bedding. She made me a place to sit and sleep. It is made of pillows and blankets and soft things.”
The other Workers stared at Bird. Belgrade opened and closed his mandibles.
“I would like to express my incredible jealousy towards you, Bird.”
“Alright, Belgrade.”
