The other Workers kept pestering Bird about his fortress of fluff and what it was like having money and what he was going to do with it. And about Miss Erin and the adventurers, Goblins, and everything else. It was very hard for Bird to concentrate on his game and the questions. Eventually, he lost.
Anand frowned down at the board. He stared up at Bird who was chewing on a piece of fish.
“Bird. That was a most curious game we played.”
“Yes?”
Bird tilted his head. Anand looked at the board. Belgrade, Pawn, and Garry crowded around. They looked up at Bird.
“I had the same impression as Anand. Your playing style was incredibly odd, Bird. What was your objective? It seems as though you threw away your Queen and a quarter of your pieces. But your play on the left side was incredible.”
“I played to make the game good. It did not go entirely like I wanted. But it is good. See?”
Bird turned the board. Anand, Belgrade, Garry, and Pawn stared at his side of the board blankly. Bird waited. They looked at him.
“What is good about this, Bird?”
“I made a crow. See?”
Bird pointed. It was lopsided, but a black crow was looking at the other Workers. A white king was the one eye. The Workers stared at it. Belgrade turned his head left and right.
“I do not see a crow.”
“Bird. Was that your objective in playing the game the entire time?”
Anand asked sharply. Bird hunched his shoulders.
“Maybe?”
The other Workers looked at each other. At last, Pawn closed his mandibles.
“That is a good game, Bird.”
“Yes. Yes. I did not expect any of it. What does Miss Erin say when she plays chess with you, Bird?”
“I do not play chess with Miss Erin often.”
“Oh. She is busy?”
“Yes. And I say no when she asks me.”
The other Workers stared. Belgrade grabbed Bird with his four arms.
“Say that again?”
Bird shifted uncomfortably.
“I say no. Miss Erin says I am always ‘weird to play’. But she likes playing me. Especially when I win.”
“You wh—”
All four Workers stopped and turned. Bird looked around and saw what they were staring at. The other Antinium in the barracks had gone still. Because Revalantor Klbkch was striding towards them.
“Bird.”
He spoke, and Bird looked up. The other Workers stared warily at Klbkch, and Garry shuffled behind Pawn.
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch?”
“I require your presence. You will come with me.”
“Okay. Where am I going?”
“To meet the Queen. She wishes to inspect you.”
The other Workers froze. Bird nodded.
“Okay.”
He wanted to follow Klbkch, but Pawn blocked their way.
“Revalantor Klbkch. Is Bird in trouble?”
“That remains to be seen.”
Klbkch was taller than Bird and Pawn. Slimmer too. Bird stared at the shiny blades at his side. Pawn glanced at Bird and then at Klbkch.
“May I ask why the Queen wishes to see Bird?”
“She wishes to evaluate Bird’s contributions to the Hive. He will be brought before her and questioned. I will not be present.”
Both Worker and Revalantor paused. They looked at Bird. He looked at them blankly. Klbkch lowered his voice.
“I will feed him answers. It should not be a difficult questioning.”
“But Bird is—”
“I am aware. But the Queen wishes to see him. Now.”
Pawn looked helplessly at Bird. He turned to the other Workers and then hurried to Bird. He pulled the Worker aside and lowered his head.
“Bird, you must listen to whatever Revalantor Klbkch says. Understand? Whatever he says, you must do.”
“Yes, Pawn.”
“You will be alright. The Queen just wishes to speak with you. Do whatever Klbkch says and do not do anything…abnormal. You will be fine.”
“I will be fine.”
Pawn’s mandibles opened and closed. He seemed anxious. Then he lowered his head and two of his hands clasped together. The other two held Bird’s shoulders gently.
“You will be well. I will pray for you. You will be well, Bird. Be well.”
Bird nodded.
“Thank you, Pawn.”
He walked back towards Klbkch. The Revalantor nodded, and Bird walked with him as the others watched him go. Bird stared one last time at the white bird on the wall before Klbkch took him out of the barracks. They walked through the Hive. This time, Bird did not walk as one. The Workers and Soldiers made way for Klbkch as he strode forwards.
“You will be alone with the Queen. Answer her honestly.”
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch.”
“If she asks about your contributions to the Hive, mention your income as well as your role defending the inn. Do not speak overly long or in tangents.”
“What is a tangent?”
“Answer her in short sentences, Bird. Speak only of the good you have done.”
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch.”
The other Antinium turned to look at him as they neared the Queen’s chambers. Bird had only been there once. He remembered that day. Klbkch had been worried, and so had the others. The Queen had asked them questions in turn. She had made Pawn afraid, and the others had shaken as they stood before her. Now it was Klbkch who seemed on the verge of shaking.
“I am sorry. I did not expect her to ask for you. If you are lucky, she will notice nothing as before. Answer her quickly, Bird. Do not speak about birds.”
“Why? I like birds.”
Bird tilted his head. Klbkch shook his head.
“Simply do not. Now. She is waiting.”
He pointed. Bird stared at the dark hallway where Soldiers stood on guard. He walked forwards. He did not know what the Queen wanted or why Klbkch and the others were afraid. He did not know many things he thought he should know. He had always been like that. Even before he met Erin. He wondered when he could go back and sit in his watch tower again.
 
——
 
The Free Queen watched the Worker and Klbkchhezeim enter her chambers. She saw Klbkch bow precisely and saw the Worker copy him awkwardly. His gracelessness hurt to see. By contrast, Klbkch had no wasted motion. He had been created a warrior. The thing that stood next to him had been formed as a simple Worker. It had become something more, but the Queen did not see it in him.
“The Individual known as Bird is here, my Queen. If you wish, I will stay to answer any questions you may have. The nature of his task is complex and—”
“Your presence is not required, Klbkchhezeim. Leave us.”
Klbkch hesitated. The Free Queen saw him glance twice at the Worker before he bowed and left. Bird, he had called him. Another strange name. An odd name. Not like an Antinium’s name at all. It rankled the Queen, so she spoke harshly.
“Approach.”
The Worker shuffled forwards, staring up at her. He did not quiver as other Antinium did when they stood before their Queen. She was unlike any other Antinium in the Hive. Where all the Antinium were uniform, she was unique. A colossus sitting in her chambers. Her arms were not based on a humanoid appearance. She had feelers rather than hands. Her body was bloated, changed by food and the stresses of birth. And she was the Queen. The Worker stared.
“Hello. I am Bird.”
The Queen of the Free Antinium jerked in surprise. He had spoken! Without permission! She stared at the Worker, and her mandibles closed slowly.
“Worker, you were not given permission to speak.”
“Oh. I am sorry.”
“Be silent.”
He was. The Free Queen regarded the Worker for a moment. Her feelers twitched. So this was the fifth. She had received regular reports of the exploits of the other four from Klbkch. Anand and Belgrade she had observed herself. Garry was almost always in her chambers. Pawn was…different, but his efforts had been recognized, and an assessment could be made off the performance of his unit of Painted Soldiers. But she had never heard of this Worker’s deeds.
“You are one of the remaining Individual Workers formed after the battle against the undead.”
The Worker did not reply. The Free Queen inspected him. He was not different from the others. Not that she had expected him to be. She had heard that one of her Soldiers had grown after receiving his [Sergeant] class. An anomaly like that was troubling.
“Your class is [Hunter]. You provided the Hive with sustenance until you were reassigned to act as a guard for the Human known as Erin Solstice. You now reside in her inn, do you not?”
The Worker didn’t respond. The Free Queen stared at him.
“Is this so?”
He said nothing. The Queen, already irritable, felt dangerously close to true anger. She leaned down, shifting her enormous weight closer.
“Speak.”
“Yes. I am working at Miss Erin’s inn. I shoot birds. But I am not supposed to talk about birds.”
The Worker’s voice was loud and cheerful. The Queen sat back.
“Birds? But your name is Bird.”
“Yes. I am Bird! And I shoot birds.”
“You are a [Hunter].”
“I am. I have a bow. I shoot birds.”
For the first time in years, the Queen had to pause to digest this information. She studied the Worker. Well, he had answered her. He hunted animals.
“And you believe this contributes to the Hive? Do you believe protecting this inn is a task that will further the Hive’s goals?”
The Worker tilted his head back and forth.
“Um. I do not know.”
Uncertainty. The Queen nodded slowly. At least he was aware of this. She peered at Bird again.
“Erin Solstice is a unique individual to the Hive. She has worth of a kind. But will she employ it for the Hive’s use or does she withhold her aid? Klbkchhezeim assures me she is an ally. What is your opinion?”
The little Antinium paused.
“Miss Erin is very nice. She made me a fortress of fluff.”
At first, she was shocked by the reply. And then she was suspicious. Darkly so. This time, the silence that came from the Queen was ominous. The Worker seemed to take that as a cue to go on, so he did.
“She feeds me food when I ask for it. And she has many interesting things. She has a play in the inn. And Goblins. And adventurers. And she gave me a bow. Which broke. I like Miss Erin. She plays chess and says I play weird games. But good! When I hunt birds, she takes them and cooks them. And she pays me money.”
“Money?”
The Queen latched onto that last word, ceasing the flow of chatter. The Worker nodded.
“I am paid money each week. She gives me silver coins and bronze ones and tells me not to use them to lure crows.”
“And do you give this money to Klbkch—to your Revalantor? Do you return it to the Hive?”
The Worker looked blank.
“Why should I? It is mine.”
Now, the Queen was certain. She leaned forwards.
“But you are part of the Hive. You are Individual, but you are still loyal to the Hive. Or are you Aberration? Do you reject the Hive?”
“No. I am Bird. I hunt birds. No one told me to give money to the Hive, so I did not. I hunt birds because Miss Erin and Revalantor Klbkch told me I could. I have a bow, but I left it on the table. But I brought the rucksack!”
And there it was. The Queen drew herself backwards. She spoke one word.
“Flaw.”
The word echoed in the chamber. At the entrance, the Soldiers shuddered, the first move they had made since arriving for their shift of guard duty. The Worker looked around.
“Where?”
The Queen ignored him. She sat back, feeling tired. Betrayed? No. Not even hurt, in truth. But she understood now why Klbkch had been so anxious not to let her see this Worker. She had not realized it when he stood with the others. Then, she had been too disappointed listening to their wrong answers that marked them as not being true Antinium. But now it was clear. She looked down at the Worker.
“You are a flawed creation.”
The Worker stared up at her, neither surprised nor afraid. It did not understand.
“I am?”
The Queen nodded. He—it was a failure. It shouldn’t have surprised her. In a pool size as small as that of the Individuals, there was certain to be at least one. She sighed. Of course, Klbkch would have wanted to conceal an error, especially one that hinted at more faults in the creation of individuals. It was only fortunate that he had concealed the same failings from Xrn and the others when they inspected the Hive. Wearily, she beckoned with a feeler.
“Come closer, Worker.”
“Okay.”
He walked closer. The Queen bent. Her massive face stared down at him, and her mandibles opened slowly.
“Your mind is broken, little Worker. Your development was flawed. You never should have been created.”
“I should not?”
“No. The Workers and Soldiers are made to an exacting standard. Something—an imperfection in the growing stage—led to this flaw. It is not your fault.”
The Worker considered this.
“Oh. That is good.”
The Queen nodded. She didn’t know why she had told the Worker that. Perhaps it was an admission of her guilt. She did not oversee the process by which new Soldiers and Workers were brought to life. Many were created each week. But she should have paid more attention. Perhaps the flaw was rampant among the others. She would inspect the process herself, order Klbkch to manually check each one of the birthing pods. It would be too late for those already formed however, just as it was too late for this one.
“Come closer, Worker.”
“I will.”
Bird walked forwards. The Queen stared at him. A pity. But the other Individuals were sound, and more could be made. A mistake was a mistake.
“So Klbkchhezeim gave you a position guarding this Human. Sensible. But he should not have hidden the truth from me. You are flawed. And that is unforgivable.”
“It is?”
The Queen nodded. She moved slowly, raising her massive feelers. Just one was large enough to grab the Worker. He stood in front of her, tilting his head back and forth.
“So it is my fault after all? Am I in trouble? I get in trouble with Revalantor Klbkch almost as much as Pawn.”
“I am sure you do. But this is not your fault. And it will be corrected soon.”
“That is good! I want to go back to Miss Erin’s inn soon. I left my bow there, and I am waiting for water birds. I have not seen any before, but they will appear someday. Erin says it might happen. Oh, but Revalantor Klbkch says I must not speak about birds. I cannot speak about them. But I like birds. I sit in my tower all day and look for them. And sometimes I shoot fish.”
He babbled nonsense as the Queen slowly drew her feelers around him. She lifted the little Worker up, tightening her feelers slowly. He did not seem to notice. He spoke brightly and cheerfully.
“You are a big Queen. Not at all like a bird. I am Bird. Is it hard to breathe? I am very high. Like a bird! I always wanted to be a bird.”
“I am sure.”
The carapace cracked. Bird made a sound. The Queen found his head. She heard his voice, muffled. Still speaking.
“I always wanted to fly. Belgrade says a Worker cannot fly, but I am very high. I am very high. I am very high, all up in the sky. I am Bird. I like to fly. So very high. When my Queen holds me, I am in the sky. Will I die? Fly, fly. Fly.”
