“Oh, you know. Dodging Wyverns all the way. I had to take a massive detour rather than go near the Blood Fields.”
Baiss shuddered as he sat. He had white slashes of color across his face and tail that stood out from his darker scales. Some of the Street Runners recognized him and pointed excitedly to their comrades. Baiss was a Courier like Hawk, and his abilities were a known quantity to anyone who lived and breathed the world of Runners. He wasn’t as distinctive as Hawk, the only Beastkin Runner on the continent, but a Courier was famous, if only in their home city.
“Had any problems with getting across Liscor? It’s not easy to move, is it?”
The Drake grimaced.
“I don’t know how you can do it, Hawk. [Flash Step]’s no good on water, and I thought someone would grab me as I was swimming. I had a bottle of Boneset Marrow in one claw the entire time I was in the water.”
Hawk rolled his eyes as he took a seat.
“Don’t use that! Boneset won’t harden nearly quick enough! Just toss something loud in the water. The explosion scares most things away. Besides, I don’t swim. I jump from hill to hill.”
“Horse crap. You’re pulling my tail. There’s no way you can jump that far!”
“Wanna bet? Some hills are just under the water. I can land on them. You just have to know where you are.”
“Huh. Well, I’m not memorizing the landscape. I’m only here to do this delivery and get out. Can’t say I’ll enjoy swimming back, but I can’t wait to be done.”
Baiss grimaced and reached for a mug. Hawk raised his eyes as he noticed how many drinks Baiss had gone through. The Runner’s Guild supplied liquor on demand, but they were hardly a bar.
“Stressed out?”
“I want to be gone yesterday. Damn rain. Damn water and fish trying to take chunks out of my ass. I don’t know how you stand it.”
The Rabbit Beastkin watched Baiss drink deeply. The Drake did look quite stressed, which was unusual. Hawk thought a moment and then nodded with his head.
“You know, there’s this door from Pallass to Liscor. Magical. You can step right through and be in Pallass in a second.”
“You serious? If I’d known that—”
Before Baiss could throw his drink, Hawk cut him off.
“The [Innkeeper]’s got a deal with the Runner’s Guild, though. No deliveries or anything that cuts into our work. You could walk through it, though. As a traveler.”
“Oh. Well, that makes sense. Good thing for us, huh?”
“I don’t see the point. It’s not like Liscor to Pallass is a good route for Couriers, anyways. Too short.”
“Right. And it’d help keep us out of the water. I’ll ask when I get done with this.”
Baiss shifted again. He looked quite worried. Hawk eyed him and hesitated. Couriers, like Runners, had a strict code that prohibited them from leaking secrets of what they delivered and to whom. It mattered a lot more for Couriers given how much they traded on their reputation, but Baiss looked like he was about to burst. So Hawk carefully chose his next words.
“Can you tell me about your delivery?”
“What? Oh.”
The Drake jumped and looked around. He frowned, and Hawk expected him to say no. But to his surprise, the Drake grunted.
“Can’t hurt. It’s not like everyone doesn’t know about it already.”
“Really?”
Now both of Hawk’s eyebrows rose. A Courier usually kept every detail of their delivery private. Even for innocuous deliveries. But Baiss was nodding.
“You have no idea how many Drakes know about this. Not my fault either. I had to get this cleared by so many channels that—well, I should never have taken the job. But the pay was really good, and they wanted someone to do it. So—here.”
He put something on the table. A bag of holding. This one was delicate, hand-made, and clearly superior to most mass-produced bags of holding. Hawk had seen it before, so he picked up the black pouch stitched with red and gold and peeked inside. The instant he opened the drawstrings, he recoiled and closed the bag up tight. It took all of Hawk’s effort not to shout.
“Ancestors, Baiss!”
“Yup.”
The Drake drained another mug and waved at the [Receptionist]. The Gnoll on duty gulped and hurried over with another drink as fast as he could. Hawk waited until he was back behind the desk before hissing at Baiss. Couriers used anti-listening charms and other tools to detect observation as a matter of trade, so there was no chance of being overheard by the Gnoll’s keen ears.
“And you’ve been carrying that all the way from Oteslia?”
“Not that far. I was on a trip northwest. Scale me alive, do you think I’d get something like this anywhere else?”
“No. But—are you sure this is alright?”
Hawk looked at Baiss with genuine concern. The Drake nodded slowly.
“It’s been cleared. Through the highest channels. I’ll bet my tail and yours that every official in all six Walled Cities knows about it.”
“And they agreed to let you deliver it?”
“It’s a request. It pays well. I just want to be rid of it now. I’m waiting on one of them to pick it up. But—”
The door opened. Baiss looked over Hawk’s shoulder and choked on his drink. The Rabbit man thumped him on the back and turned. He saw Klbkch looking around. The Gnoll on duty hurried towards him and pointed to the table.
“Oh, Ancestors!”
Baiss shook in his seat. Hawk stared at him before he realized that Baiss had probably never seen an Antinium before.
“Calm down, Baiss. That’s Klbkch. He’s known around the city. He’s a Senior Guardsman. As Antinium go, he’s the only one I trust.”
“Him? I heard the Antinium actually walked about Liscor, but—oh, dead gods.”
“Don’t panic.”
Hawk turned and waved at Klbkch as the Antinium approached. Baiss was stiff in his seat, but he remembered to stand.
“Uh—are you—are you—?”
Klbkch nodded coolly at Baiss. He glanced at Hawk.
“I am Klbkchhezeim, Revalantor of the Free Antinium of Liscor. I believe you have a delivery for me?”
“I do. I do! It’s right here—I’ll need a seal, proof of your identification. Uh—”
“I should go.”
Hawk got up to leave, aware that he shouldn’t be listening. But Baiss shot him a desperate look and Klbkch also shook his head.
“That is not necessary. I am sure your presence would expedite matters, Courier Hawk.”
That was true. Hawk sat back down and helped Baiss go through the somewhat lengthy process of making sure Klbkch was who he said he was and receiving confirmation of delivery. The Drake was so nervous and stumbled so many times that he seemed like a Street Runner doing his first delivery.
At last, Klbkch had the bag of holding in his hands. It was Baiss’, but the Runner had assured Klbkch that he could return it to the Runner’s Guild later that day. Hawk thought privately that Baiss would have given his precious bag of holding away if it meant the Antinium would leave sooner. Klbkch marched back out of the Runner’s Guild, and both Couriers sat. Baiss was breathing as if he’d run a hundred miles.
“Ancestors. I don’t know how you live with them in your city, Hawk.”
“You get used to it. Did you notice how Klbkch told me I could stay? He knew the delivery was public knowledge.”
A bit of color flooded back into Baiss’ scales.
“That’s true. Damn. I’d better note that in my report. You know, I’m going to have to file twice as much paperwork for all of this? Not to mention I need to do an interview with a [Mage]—it’ll be such a pain to do! I wonder if I can do it in Pallass? Better get it out of the way, you know?”
Filled with relief, Baiss started babbling. Hawk listened, nodding at the appropriate times, but his mind was still filled with what he’d seen in the bag of holding. He thought of Klbkch. He’d seldom spoken with the Antinium, but he’d gotten to know him over the decade that Klbkch had been working in the city. It was true what he’d said. Klbkch was well-liked. Better than other [Guardsmen], actually. He was polite, efficient, and had won over Liscor by hard work.
But still. Hawk shuddered. Sometimes he forgot what Klbkch really was. He reached for Baiss’ drink and drained it entirely. He’d delivered terrible and wondrous things in his line of work as a Courier. But there were still things that made him very, very nervous.
 
——
 
Klbkch walked with the small bag of holding in his hands. His movements were quick. Graceful. His new body was unlike that of the hunched Workers or solid Soldiers he passed as he entered the Hive and strode down the tunnels. Klbkch stood tall with only two arms and a far slimmer body than any of the other Antinium. It felt good. Not that he could recall what his old body had been like very well. But he remembered the awkwardness.
This body was smoother. It had been designed for him. The designer had broken the rules set upon her to make it, but she had done so for him. Now, Klbkch strode into her private chambers and looked for her. She wasn’t there. He turned his head and stared at the two stone doors that had been custom-built. He strode towards them and hauled one open. A strange, alchemical scent assailed him as he walked inside, closing the door swiftly before anything could enter. Or escape.
“My Queen. I have received the delivery. It is of great importance. I think you will want to view it at once.”
The inside of this sealed chamber resembled a place of horrors, even to Klbkch. He stared past the sacks of fluid, the heaps of strange minerals and powdered or crushed objects, the vats of fluids, and saw a gigantic, black form turn as it slowly mixed something at the far end of the chambers. The Queen of the Free Antinium turned, her face nearly invisible in the darkness. No lanterns hung here, and the only glow came from glowing lichen on the walls.
“Klbkchhezeim.”
“How goes it, my Queen?”
The Queen moved, pulling her bloated body towards Klbkch. Halfway there she paused and stared at one of the sacks clinging to the wall. The membrane was slightly translucent, and something was suspended within. But what hung there even Klbkch dared not stare at. In the fluid, something cried out without tongue or voice. The Queen of the Free Antinium looked away.
“Poorly.”
“I see. Shall we enter the main chamber?”
That was all Klbkch said. The Queen nodded, and they left the room quickly. She knew he did not like to be there. It brought up too many memories. Nor was entering that place particularly encouraging for either of them. It reminded them of failure. Of what had been lost.
“What have you brought me, Klbkchhezeim? A delivery? Did you buy something for the Hive?”
“No. This was sent from the Hives. The other Hives.”
The Free Queen froze. She stared at the bag of holding that Klbkch held.
“I see. It comes from the Grand Queen?”
“Without a doubt. Would you like to inspect it first?”
“No. Place it before me.”
The Free Queen waited as Klbkch reached into the bag of holding. He had to kneel so whatever would come out would spill onto the ground. That alone told the Queen that whatever was inside was ungainly or heavy. She waited as Klbkch slowly pulled.
The Courier, Baiss, had been terrified and uneasy about what he’d carried. He knew what was inside, of course. Generally Couriers respected the desire for anonymity, but the Runner’s Guild demanded to know the contents of anything sent or received by the Antinium. So did the Drakes. The instant a request had been made—through the most unusual of channels—the contents of the delivery had been known to anyone with power in southern Izril.
It nearly hadn’t been sent. The Walled Cities had been highly, highly suspicious of the package. They would have blocked it, but they had a peace treaty and they did not want to reveal to the Antinium what they knew. Better to have them use a public service than do whatever they wanted in secret. They hadn’t dared tamper with what Baiss carried, but they had studied it as extensively as they could with magic.
There was some genius to the delivery. That Klbkch understood. It was hard to travel from Liscor to the other five Hives, all of which were located far to the west in southern Izril. Such a journey was difficult, especially covertly. That Xrn and the others had made the trip at all was a testament to how important it had been. Or perhaps how important Xrn had made it. But beside that one occurrence, Klbkch had not seen another Antinium from the other Hives for ten years. They had communicated, of course, but rarely. But this?
For all their uses, bags of holding had several flaws. It was dangerous to carry multiple bags of holding around on the same person. They had limits on what they could store. They could break, malfunction, and you couldn’t put something living inside. Bags of holding could not contain living things. So what was inside was not living.
A dead Antinium exited the bag of holding. It fell wetly to the ground. It was encased in a thick mucus. Its limbs were wrapped around itself. It was very dead. But the body was preserved. That was not what surprised the Free Queen. Her mandibles clicked together in a sharp gasp. She stared down at the dead Antinium.
“Female?”
For a second, she was stunned. And then the Queen picked up the Antinium and ran her feelers over it, swiping away the gel impatiently. After a second, she shook her head.
It was not female. This drone had been created in the shape of a Queen, scaled down to a Worker’s size, but the change in appearance was cosmetic. Her internal organs and biological processes were the same as any Worker. She had not the capacity for thought, or the ability to give birth that any true female Antinium would.
By the same token, it would have been wrong to call her ‘male’. The Drone was Antinium, neither male nor female or any sex unless the biological need arose. Still, the Queen thought of the small replica as female, if only because that was her function.
“It is not female, Klbkchhezeim.”
“I thought as much. It is a replica made to imitate a Queen, though.”
“Yes. And I think it only requires revival.”
“The Rite?”
The Free Queen waved a feeler. She placed the drone back on the ground.
“Hardly. It is perfectly preserved. Reactivating the brain will only take a moment. But cleaning out the air passages so it does not choke would be helpful.”
“I will do so.”
Klbkch knelt as the Queen placed her feeler on the Antinium’s head. The miniature replica of the Queen twitched once and then went limp. It was now alive, for a given value of alive.
“It is conscious?”
“No. It has no mind. It is a shell. We must wait for the Queen in charge to realize it is awake.”
The two stood in silence for a while. Klbkch studied the inert Drone.
“I understand part of why it was sent. But surely it cannot relay anything? Not unless they have discovered how to form a Unitasis Network?”
