She sat below. He stood above. The distance between the two was immaterial. They were linked, and the rock, stone, and water that lay between them was no barrier. If they had stood ten miles apart, they might have struggled with this trick. But practice made the task as easy as breathing here. When she spoke, he spoke. When he listened, she heard.
“I dislike interruptions. I am busy. Nor do I care for questions.”
Klbkch bowed smoothly to the two Drakes.
“My Queen greets you with perceived warmth and welcomes your inquiries, Watch Captain.”
Zevara cleared her throat. She looked nervous, although she had spoken with Klbkch often in her private office in the Watch’s barracks. Only, it wasn’t Senior Guardsman Klbkch she was speaking to. Klbkch stood in front of her, divested of his armor, with only the twin silver swords hanging at his waist. In this moment, he was the Revalantor of the Free Antinium of Liscor, and she addressed him as such.
“Revalantor Klbkch. Do I have that right? Let me first congratulate you on your promotion.”
“Thank you.”
Watch Captain Zevara waited, but Klbkch did not elaborate on what his new rank meant. She coughed and went on.
“Ah, I realize this is somewhat irregular, but some concerns have been raised about the proximity of the Antinium Hive to the dungeon.”
The Drake shuffled some papers on her desk. Klbkch nodded.
“My Queen is aware of these concerns. She has tasked me with relaying her words. Ask your questions, Watch Captain.”
“Right. Well, to begin with, how long have the Antinium known about this dungeon?”
Beneath the earth, the Queen shifted in her chambers. She spoke in the dim light, her mandibles slowly clicking together as she looked upwards.
“How could we not?”
Klbkch inclined his head a fraction.
“The discovery of the dungeon was quite a surprise to our Hive. I believe we first became aware of it a few months ago.”
Zevara glanced at something hidden in her right claw. Red light shone brightly at her, and she grimaced.
“I see. And the entrances to the dungeon?”
“It seems monsters are able to tunnel through the earth. The fortifications discovered by the Horns of Hammerad and the Silver Swords are a natural precaution.”
“Very sensible of you. This wouldn’t also be a, ah, staging ground for the Antinium to enter the dungeon themselves?”
Below, the Queen sighed. She moved her huge body a few feet, ponderously, a giant confined in a cavern too small.
“Tiresome. Why ask what is known?”
“Of course we would leave the exploration of the dungeon to adventurers in all circumstances. However, the proximity of so many threats to the Hive—and to Liscor—necessitates a combative approach that may result in incursions of a preventative nature.”
“Obviously.”
Zevara scratched at the spines on her head and sighed.
“You are aware that under Liscorian law that all items retrieved from the dungeon are technically Liscor’s property? Naturally, the dungeon falls under existing agreements with the Adventurer’s Guild’s right to trespass, but that would not apply to third parties.”
“What the Antinium take will never be returned.”
“My Queen is fully aware of the existing legal structure of Liscor and abides by every law placed to the best of her ability. However, it would be remiss for me not to point out that under the agreement signed by Liscor’s Council and the Free Antinium, our Hive is not subject to the legal restrictions of Liscor, nor would the dungeon be considered Liscorian property as the claim to Liscor only applies to the lands around the city, not, in fact, what lies underground.”
Both the Queen and Zevara paused. The Queen raised one massive feeler.
“Is that so, Klbkch?”
Far above, he shrugged. Zevara cursed softly and rifled through her papers.
“Damn. Really? I, uh—sorry, Klbkch. Let me just write that down.”
She scribbled urgently on a piece of parchment as Klbkch waited patiently. After a few seconds, Zevara looked up and sat up formally once more.
“I see. Well, as Watch Captain of Liscor, I am concerned about the possibility of Antinium and adventurers meeting by accident. I understand the Hive is…dangerous to intruders.”
“Tell her that creeping spies and saboteurs will die as they always have, Klbkchhezeim.”
“The entryways to the dungeon will be marked, Watch Captain. Quite clearly. We cannot take responsibility for anyone who ignores the warnings.”
“Nor can Liscor prevent any accidents that might occur while adventurers explore the dungeon.”
“I fully understand.”
Zevara met Klbkch’s eyes and sighed.
“Please tell your Queen that I hope for our continued success working together. I am sure that whatever reservations the Council may have about the dungeon will be assuaged by our meeting. I would like to speak with you further about the possible dangers of monsters attacking Liscor and the Hive…but I think we can do that in your capacity as Senior Guardsman. Send my sincerest regards to your Queen.”
“I shall do so.”
The Queen of the Free Antinium turned her head.
“Tell your Watch Captain that I do not care for her.”
“She thanks you for your interest and wishes you continued success as Watch Captain. My Queen was especially pleased to note your commendation after the siege of Face-Eater Moths. It is well deserved.”
Zevara blinked. Her tail, hidden behind her desk, swished and gently knocked against the table before she caught herself.
“Oh? Oh. Thank you. I, ah, thank her and wish her the same. That’s all, Klbkch.”
The Antinium nodded. He left Zevara’s office, marching downstairs and out of the barracks. A few Gnolls and Drakes waved at him. Klbkch waved back as he stepped out into the pouring rain. He strode down the street. After a moment, the Queen spoke.
“What commendation was that, Klbkchhezeim?”
Klbkch spoke softly, although no one was around to hear him as he walked down the street. Water glanced off his carapace as he headed for the Hive.
“She received a medal for heroism and competence in the defense of Liscor, my Queen.”
“Medals. They are…”
“Bits of shaped metal that are hung on a body to emphasize superiority for deeds achieved.”
“Ah. Are they valuable?”
“Not monetarily.”
“I see. Do you have more of your duties above, Klbkchhezeim?”
“No, my Queen. I will return below shortly. However, I have been apprised of an outstanding package waiting for me at the Runner’s Guild and will meet the Courier there before returning.”
“Do so.”
The Queen of the Free Antinium felt Klbkch stride down the street and turn before she broke the connection between the two.
 
——
 
Klbkch was gone. He vanished from the Queen’s mind, and she no longer sensed the rain falling, saw and heard and smelled what he did. Suddenly, she only had one body, and it sat, bloated and immobile, in her chambers. It felt limiting. But the Queen had lived so for over a decade, and she was used to the feeling.
She settled back in her dark cavern, feeling isolation steal over her. But only for a moment. Because the Queen of the Free Antinium was never alone. If she reached out, she could feel thousands of Antinium moving in the space around her, each connected to her by a thread thinner than a spider’s strand. She was at the center of the Hive. She gave them purpose.
The Queen thought, and more Antinium obediently moved towards a passage that had sprung a leak, allowing water to pour in from above. She sensed them battling the waters, retreating, one falling behind. Drowning. The connection disappeared as the Antinium drowned. But there were always more.
While the Queen existed, the Hive moved. They demanded her thoughts. Even if it wasn’t conscious, the Queen was still responsible for the way the Antinium moved in perfect synchronization. It was…taxing.
On busy days when the Hive was at war or in crisis, the Queen devoted all of her mind to allowing the Hive to run at peak capacity. Even on ‘slow’ days, a portion of her intellect was consumed by the task of managing so many. Klbkch did his job, but he was only one. The Queen had to send hundreds of orders each second. It was a task that would have killed Watch Captain Zevara and her desk full of papers in a single day. Sometimes, all the Queen could do was sit and keep everything running.
But of late, the Queen had found herself with more thoughts, more freedom to do as she wished. The new Individuals were responsible for this. Not all of them. Two, rather. The Queen recalled their names vaguely.
“Belgrade. Anand. [Tacticians].”
They were efficient. Together, they had effectively taken away the burden of managing the Hive’s defenses and had begun to regulate a greater portion of the Hive without the Queen needing to take command. They had freed up her mental space and so she deemed them worthy…if still flawed. Of the five Individuals that had first been created, they were the most useful.
The Queen was aware that more Individuals had been identified, of course, but she had not inspected them yet. Klbkch told her they were all inferior copies of the original five to begin with. She had no desire to observe them in their failings.
Five Individuals. Around two hundred lesser Individuals capable of receiving names, but lacking the same degree of autonomy. Or so Klbkch claimed. Of that number, an inordinate amount were Soldiers—Painted Soldiers as they had been dubbed. That was not part of the original plan, but they were an asset to the Hive.
After ten years, the Free Antinium had succeeded with part of their goals. But their grand success was still incomplete. The Individuals were still flawed. That dissatisfied the Queen when she thought of it. And yet—she felt an urge move through her body and looked up.
“Food.”
Her words provoked instant movement. The Queen’s head barely turned as a small Worker scurried out of the newly-built side tunnel in her chambers. Garry, one of the original five Individual Workers, practically fell over himself as he pushed out a small cart laden with food.
Cooked food. The Queen felt her appetite rising the instant she detected the scent rising from the hot dishes. She saw glazed pieces of meat, succulent dishes of sweet fruit, and delicately roasted vegetables, fillet fish freshly bought and then steamed, baked, or fried, and of course, insects.
“What is that?”
The Queen reached with one huge feeler and picked up a fried ball of something chitinous before the cart had reached her side. Garry squeaked and fled as the Queen greedily grabbed more pieces of food with her other feelers. He retreated rapidly and spoke loudly.
“I have prepared a Shield Spider abdomen by cleaning the insides and then stuffing it with a mixture of lentils and fried eggs, my Queen. I then deep fried the entire dish in oil—”
The Queen gestured, and Garry fell silent. She crunched the abdomen, savoring the complex flavors. The hot oil, the way the insides squished as she ate—it was heavenly. Taste! After a decade of eating the paste that the Antinium made, such flavors were as addictive as a drug for the Queen. She consumed the abdomen quickly and then lifted a roast of pork up. She knew she liked that.
“Good. Make more. What is that?”
“That is a Lurkersnatch Fish, my Queen. I attempted to prepare it by—”
Again, Garry broke off as the Queen waved a feeler. She chewed and swallowed.
“I don’t like it as much. Make something else.”
“Yes, my Queen.”
Garry waited until the Queen had finished the cart of food. It took her less than five minutes. The Queen opened and closed her mandibles and then turned away.
“Go.”
The small Worker grabbed the cart and turned it, trundling backwards into the kitchen he’d been assigned to. This was his job—feeding the Queen delicious food every day. It was something the Free Queen enjoyed. In that way, Garry was useful.
“But flawed.”
The Queen stared at Garry as he hurried away. Her feelers twitched with annoyance. He was Individual. But a failure. He was not true Antinium. Nor was Anand or Belgrade or Pawn or…the last one. They had all failed her test. In that sense, they were incomplete. They were not people. They were only useful tools for Klbkch and her to make use of.
The Queen sighed as she sat back in her chambers. So close. Yet their final goal was still so far. She and Klbkch had labored for a decade to bring about true individuality in the Antinium. They had made that the goal of their Hive, while the other five advanced the Antinium’s goals in their way. The Free Queen had gone against her peers, been exiled to this far-off spot with little resources because of her goals.
And she was lonely. Only Klbkch had been here to keep her company these long years, and he was so busy. She had no one to converse with. There were only two real Antinium in the Hive. All else were dross. Expendable shells. She stared at Garry as he left, shoulders hunched, scurrying along.
“Alone.”
She shook her head and pulled herself across her chambers. The Antinium Soldiers standing guard stirred, but they did not follow her. The Queen exited her chambers, moving into a private area that no other Antinium save Klbkch could enter. She opened a pair of doors, airtight, and sensed a miasma of foul and strange odors assail her before she crawled through and closed the doors. It was time to work while she still had enough mental space for it.
 
——
 
Hawk the Courier was wet. His large, furry ears drooped as he pushed his way into the Runner’s Guild, muttering about wet fur. He didn’t often enter Liscor’s Guild compared to the Street and City Runners—his job took him across Izril and it was more convenient to visit a larger Runner’s Guild. But there was always paperwork to fill out, and as a resident of Liscor, Hawk had to provide his city with occasional updates.
The Runner’s Guild in Liscor was, as usual, mostly filled with Street Runners. There wasn’t much call for City Runners in Liscor, given that Drakes rarely traded with Human cities and other Drake cities were too far away. Thus, most of the Runners in the Guild were part-timers. Young Gnolls and Drakes who wouldn’t ever become City Runners, much less Couriers. They stared at Hawk and pointed covertly as he strode past them. Hawk paid them no notice.
However, he did stop and stare when he saw the Drake with dark orange scales and bright white stripes of color across his face. Hawk broke into a grin.
“Baiss!”
The Courier sitting at the table was looking anxious and restless, but he turned with a relieved look the instant he heard Hawk’s voice. He stood up and grabbed Hawk’s arm.
“Hawk! I hoped I’d see you here!”
“What’s Oteslia’s finest Courier doing this far north? How’s the work going? Did you have a quiet run north?”
