The Free Queen paused, her feelers rubbing together.
“I am unsure. Perhaps—”
Both broke off as the drone sat upright. The Free Queen blinked as it slowly raised something. It had been holding an object in one of its feelers. She saw it raise something that shone. A piece of glass? No. A hand mirror. It stared into it, and the Queen saw a flicker of light. Somewhere, far away, the cousin of the mirror activated, and magic shared both image and sound between the two.
“Ah. Clever.”
A Queen from the Hives far to the south would not be able to control one of her drones from this far away with any subtlety. Without a Unitasis Network, her range would only extend a hundred miles. At most. But the little scrying glass would neatly bypass the issue. The Drone stared into the mirror, and the Queen used the magical link to augment the mental one. Now, the Drone stood taller and her posture changed. The mandibles opened and closed, and her feelers moved with delicate subtlety as she looked around the Hive.
When she spoke, it was quietly.
“The transport was successful. The Grand Queen of the Antinium sits here. And here.”
She gestured with one feeler, then she saw the Free Queen. She looked up.
“Free Queen of the Antinium.”
“Grand Queen. It has been too long.”
“Yes.”
Neither Klbkch nor the Free Queen bowed. The Queen paused, her feelers moving uncertainly. She searched for words. The sudden contact unsettled her. They had been separated for so many years. After a moment, she spoke.
“I assume this drone was sent after Prognugator Xrn returned to the Hive? I trust that she relayed her findings—”
The Grand Queen spoke over the Free Queen. She turned her head, looking around the cavern as she spoke in what was for the Antinium, clipped, quiet tones.
“This vessel was delivered for the purpose of more secure communication, should the need arise. The Free Antinium have been judged to have adequately made progress towards their objectives. They will now rejoin the larger Hive through this relay.”
Her words were abrupt. Almost insulting. The Free Queen bristled until she remembered that this was how the Grand Queen had been. She spoke, concealing her anger.
“Prognugator Xrn has returned to the Hive, then?”
“Yes.”
Silence. The Free Queen paused.
“This network—”
“A series of proxies using magic to facilitate control at range. My design.”
The Grand Queen’s satisfaction radiated through her voice and posture. The Free Queen clicked her mandibles together shortly.
“Is the process one w—”
“Other Queens have their own proxies. This one was sent first. Others will arrive in time.”
“What if I wish to instigate communications with other Hives?”
A pause.
“That is not necessary at this point. Other Queens may contact your Hive as appropriate.”
“I see.”
The Free Queen contemplated the miniature Grand Queen. Perhaps the only thing that kept her from picking up the drone and breaking it was how satisfying it felt to look down at the Grand Queen. The Grand Queen didn’t feel the same way. She stepped backwards until she was able to stare at the Free Queen without tilting her head up.
“Drakes have made inquiries as to the Hive in Liscor. In regards to the dungeon unearthed recently.”
“As I informed you in my latest report. The dungeon is currently the subject of interest in Liscor. A group of adventurers inadvertently discovered a route into the Hive from the dungeon. However, the Hive is well-fortified and—”
“This information has already been considered. Continue probing the dungeon. Commit whatever resources are necessary to acquire artifacts.”
The Grand Queen turned from the Free Queen and looked at Klbkch.
“Klbkchhezeim.”
“Grand Queen.”
He bowed smoothly. The Grand Queen studied him. Her feelers waved. When she spoke next, she sounded irritated.
“Your form has been altered. Without permission.”
“It was a necessary side effect of the Rite of Anastases, Grand Queen. This form allows me to fulfill my duties far more efficiently than my old one.”
“…Understood. Do you have anything to report at this moment?”
Klbkch looked at the Grand Queen’s proxy. He glanced up at the Free Queen who was vibrating dangerously.
“Did Prognugator Xrn return to the Hive safely?”
“Yes.”
“Then I have nothing to report.”
“Understood. Maintain this vessel. Other proxies will be delivered in time. Await orders until then. That is all.”
The Grand Queen departed as quickly as she’d come. The drone crumpled, and Klbkch and the Free Queen looked at it. Neither spoke for a second. Klbkch clicked his mandibles together shortly.
“That was unexpected.”
“Was it?”
The Free Queen was simmering with slow-burning fury. Klbkch paused.
“I suppose not. She is still angry at you, my Queen.”
“Yes. Because I am here. Because I succeeded where she believed I would not.”
The two looked at each other. Klbkch nodded.
“The other Queens will send their own proxies? It would be good to communicate with the Hives.”
“And receive orders I do not wish to obey. But yes. The connection will be reestablished. Perhaps a transportation network will be built.”
“That would be an undertaking. But yes, it would be welcome. What concerns me is that the Hives may soon move.”
“Too soon.”
“We must say as much.”
The Free Queen turned away from Klbkch.
“You must say as much. She will listen to you. I am renegade. She saw your new form. She was displeased.”
“As well you did not show her your experiments. But if she is willing to speak, perhaps she would lend you the components you require.”
“Perhaps. I am in need of them, Klbkch.”
Klbkch’s gaze went to the sealed stone doors.
“The alchemy ingredients I purchased did not work?”
The Free Queen shook her head.
“Alchemical goods are too complex. Without rendering, they are impossible to work with. Magic and body parts—”
The Queen clicked her mandibles irritably. The notion of alchemy, of the so-called masters of potions and craft, offended her to her core. To a Queen of the Antinium, [Alchemists] were nothing more than infants playing around with cheap toys. They banged rocks together when they should be rendering miracles out of sand.
Of course, these were metaphors based in the terminology of other species. The Free Queen didn’t think of rocks and sand, or even infants. Her image of the [Alchemists] was of a wriggling larvae with half-formed eyes, squirming about and playing with complex cellulose instead of the most basic of enzymes. The Free Queen clicked her mandibles together, scratching them irritably.
“The Grand Queen boasted of her invention. Magic scrying and remote control. A poor solution.”
“Effective.”
“I saw her Prognugators. She has not altered them in any way. What have the other Queens done in this time? Have they learned nothing?”
Klbkch paused, his antennae moving restlessly.
“I observed the Flying Queen and the Silent Queen’s new combat forms. The Silent Queen has improved on her designs.”
“True. As for the Flying Queen, she has delved further into folly. I saw the Flying Antinium’s forms. Many flaws. Imperfections. Even in her Revalantor! That they move and ‘fly’ is a product of so many faults. So many that they cover for each other.”
“If they function well in battle, her methods have merit, my Queen.”
“She should have spent time perfecting what she had. As I did. I spent four years reconfiguring the formulation of muscle fiber. Two more years after that I spent on balance. Your current form is the pinnacle of that achievement. Not enough. But it is better, is it not?”
The Free Queen looked down at Klbkch. He flexed one arm and nodded.
“I am stronger. Though I have still yet to regain the rest of my lost levels…this form is stronger than my old one.”
“Good.”
“Do you have plans on mass-producing this form?”
“No. It requires too much work. Too many resources. I may update the Workers and Soldiers with the changes in muscle fiber. If I am able. There is much to do, Klbkch. Much, and the Hive still consumes my attention.”
“Belgrade and Anand have helped in that regard of late, haven’t they?”
The Free Queen nodded. She picked up the lifeless Drone and set it in a corner of the room, propping it up. Garry would have to feed it now and then. Tiresome.
“Progress has been made. But there is still far too much to be done, Klbkchhezeim. These Individuals are incomplete, and the methods of creating them are far too uncertain. Look at that one.”
She pointed. Garry froze as he scurried out of his kitchen, perhaps to do some shopping. He turned and bowed to the Free Queen and Klbkch.
“Flaw.”
Garry trembled. Klbkch stared at him and then at his Queen. He hesitated, and then stepped backwards, as if shielding Garry from the Free Queen’s displeasure.
“They are not true Antinium, my Queen. But I believe you do them a disservice. Each of the original five Workers has contributed to the Hive’s wellbeing in their own way. Garry is an exemplary [Cook], and I believe his continued leveling is a testament to his hard work.”
Garry’s mandibles opened wide in surprise. Klbkch turned his head and stared at him and then looked up at the Queen.
“You might consider giving him a day off? That is customary for those employed in other races.”
“Is it necessary?”
Klbkch paused. He glanced at Garry again. The Worker looked hopeful.
“…It may assist with his leveling.”
“Hm.”
The Free Queen was already in a bad mood. The idea of not having anything to snack on displeased her, but she put Klbkch’s advice over her desires.
“Very well. A day. Go.”
“Thank you, my Queen!”
Garry bowed. The Free Queen stared at him, and he fled. Klbkch sighed. He looked up at his Queen. In some ways, she understood very little about the world. She was holed up in the Hive while he had gone above and seen the world. He understood more than she did, he knew. But he had little but admiration for her. She had seen the flaw of the Antinium and attempted to solve it, though she understood little of the solution. He wondered if he could tell her what he had seen, explain to her what Pawn had done.
“I believe these Individuals show promise. Especially Pawn’s new unit.”
“The Painted Soldiers. You have given me the reports, and I have observed their efficiency. Yes. I agree. But they are still not…”
“I know. But it seems that we will be able to create more of them. That will strengthen the Hive.”
“True.”
The Free Queen was moody. Unhappy. The Hive would become stronger, but her goal, the goal that she and Klbkch were working for, was no closer.
“You say these Individuals show promise. I agree. But we have but five. Five who you claim are…original.”
“Perhaps seven, now, my Queen. Two of the Soldiers show great promise. Yellow Splatters and Purple Smile.”
“What ridiculous names.”
Klbkch had no answer to that. The Free Queen paused.
“Will these Individuals ever be true Antinium, Klbkch?”
“I do not know, my Queen. But they are helpful. If I could turn a thousand Antinium into such Individuals of Belgrade or Anand’s character, I would in an instant. Those of Garry’s quality, likewise. Even Pawn shows promise, for all the trouble he causes.”
“Hmm. What about the fifth one?”
Klbkch paused.
“Oh. Bird.”
“Does he show promise, Klbkchhezeim?”
“…Yes?”
The Free Queen stared down at Klbkch. He looked away from her. She had worked with him, shared her mind and goals with him, for over a decade. She knew he had his secrets. She knew he was, in a way, far superior to anything she could be. A Centenium while she was but a Queen. She trusted him and took his words to heart, even if she disagreed with his assessment of the Individuals. But she was very sure he was lying to her right now. And because she was frustrated, annoyed with the Grand Queen and her failed experiments and not having anything to eat, she called him on his lies.
“Prove it.”
 
——
 
Bird sang in his little watch tower above Erin’s inn. He watched the rain come down as he sang. It was not a song he knew. He made it up as he went along. Sometimes the song surprised him.
“Rain, rain, go away. Rain on me another day.”
This one was based off a song Erin had taught him. Bird rocked back and forth on the little stool she’d given him, his homemade bow in hand. He missed his other bow. It had broken. Bird had tried to put it back together, but he’d failed. But he still had a bow. And arrows. And what else did you really need? Bird didn’t know, but Erin had told him there was something else.
He didn’t care. The rain kept falling down, pattering on the roof on top of his tower. Bird hadn’t wanted it—how could he look overhead with it there?—but Pawn told him he could take it down when the rain was gone. The rain made a nice pattering sound overhead.
“So rainy. Lots of rain.”
It was the second week of rain. Or was it the third? The fourth? Bird couldn’t remember. But the rain kept falling, and the waters were still high. He could see little fish swimming around and bigger ones hiding in the murky water. If he looked really hard, he could sometimes see Rock Crabs scuttling in the waters, feasting. They were dangerous. Bird had already heard of people nearly getting eaten by them while fishing.
If one tried to climb up to the inn, Bird would shoot it. He didn’t know if his bow would do any good, but he’d learned [Piercing Shot] and he had lots of arrows. Bird didn’t think of the possible dangers an encounter like that might entail, however. He was watching the water, and the skies too. He was waiting. Waiting for water birds.
They had to exist. Bird had no proof, but water birds had to exist. If they didn’t…what was the point of anything? So he waited, bow at the ready for when the elusive water birds appeared.
They did not. After a period of time that might have been long or short, Bird felt his stomach rumble. He realized he was hungry.
“Food?”
Bird looked towards the trap door leading down to the inn. He decided to go down for food. He had no idea if it was night or day—the sky was always grey and dark. But that didn’t matter. If no one was awake, Bird would just go back to his tower and wait. He remembered sitting up there, listening to his stomach growl for hours.
That didn’t matter. Bird was good at waiting. He could wait for a bird to come closer for hours. That was why he was a [Hunter]. Because he shot birds.
“I am Bird. I shoot birds. La, la, la…”
Bird pulled up the trapdoor and then remembered to be quiet in case he woke anyone up. He closed the trapdoor, wiped the steps with a towel on a little rack that Erin had put there for that very purpose. Then he trundled downstairs.
“Oh! Erin is awake. And so is Lyonette. And you.”
