And, he thought while he tied himself to Lexi and Haoyu both for good measure, I still have entirely excessive knowledge about electrical spells like Shock Box. It’s not useless.

“Even if she’s got the Shock Boxes layered one behind the other or something tricky like that, the spell has a maximum height from the surface it’s cast on. So we don’t actually have to go through at all. We can go over.”

“How can you look so confident?” Lexi grumped.

“Because I believe in myself. Because I have super superhuman powers! Because I’m definitely not the most useless S-rank.”

“I told you to stop reading that weird story,” Everly hissed. “Nobody thinks you’re useless in real life.”

“And because I have been practicing very hard,” Kon said. “Just hold onto me with one arm, Haoyu, and see if you can keep me a little steadier so I can still cast? I’ll win this for us. And then Alden will feel bad about inviting everyone except me to a spa night.”

In just a short span of time, the Rabbit had somehow managed to apply so many straps to so many different parts of the squashed crate that even if Kon screwed up and accidentally repaired some of the cage instead of relocating it, there was a good chance he would stay tied to the thing by at least a few of the strands.

“I invited you in my head,” Alden said, looking up. “I didn’t do it out loud because you were using your skill, and I didn’t want to distract you.”

He’s so unusual for someone Lexi’s age. And so normal for someone who got commended by a general.

The kind of enigmatic figure you hoped to meet in high school. Kon was proud of himself for nudging him toward Lexi. His brother needed more friends.

“If I win this for us, you have to let me throw a party in your apartment!” Kon announced.

“No,” Lexi said. Of course.

“See,” said Kon, “you do think I’m capable. Otherwise you wouldn’t be so vehement.”

By my powers, I hope I’m capable.

This was going to be a spectacular embarrassment, immortalized from every angle by the gym drones, if he wasn’t.

Kon Roberts—S-rank Adjuster and superhero. The dream was going to feel thrilling again one day. He got flashes of it sometimes, like he had when he’d moved that car on the Span.

I picked this, he thought, as the reading he’d done of the crate filled his mind. Now I figure out how to make it work.

******

******

“You lit that traitor up, Søren! You did it! Did you hurt yourself, too? You don’t seem hurt. You shouted something about light! So Apex! Hold on, let me dodge that kitchen sink. Waker’s throwing that last? His sense of humor is the best, isn’t it?”

Søren clung to Febri, unable to get a word in as they plunged through the wind to rejoin their team. He was stunned. He was…happy?

He was also perilously close to barfing because being carried by an Agi who was dodging sinks with the Instant Corners skill was an awful ride.

All of a sudden, his face was pointed upside down and then back in the direction he’d just been picked up from. He could see Winston lying stiff on the floor. He was facedown, and the sandbag he’d taken was on top of him.

Did I kill him or just burn him so badly he can’t move?

And then the view was gone as Febri spun again.

I’m going to be okay, aren’t I? Søren thought. I’m going to be a real Avowed, too.

******

******

A radiator crashed to the floor beside Winston’s head. He couldn’t even move his neck to see Rebecca’s face.

“What in the universe was that?!” she demanded, rolling him over with a bare foot while she still clung to the radiator with her hands. “Why’d you attack Søren? Why didn’t you go help with Klein? You said you would!”

Winston’s sunglasses were gone. He thought they’d cracked from the heat, and then he hadn’t been able to keep them on his face when he fell.

“Well? Answer me! Everyone’s going to think we’re all liars because of you!”

She was gripping his arm with one hand now, holding the radiator with the other, her face close to his. On camera it was going to look bad, especially if the drones got a shot of her clenched jaw and narrowed eyes.

“Answer me, or I’m leaving you here to make a point to everyone else.”

“I was…I offered Søren the chance to come with us,” Winston said, licking his lips. “He—”

“You shouldn’t have been offering him anything! You should have been across the gym. You said you’d go as our team rep to fight the instructor. Alden sent us the maps because you said yes! If you weren’t going to help with the plan, why didn’t you tell me so I could do it myself?!”

“I wanted to win.” The words were still on his interface. “Winning with all of you would have shown—”

“People are going to hate us!”

She didn’t get it. “If we’d won, it would have been all right. It would have been perfect. Winners have lots of fans. Being in first would have made my followers—”

Rebecca’s nostrils flared. “Do your followers live here? Are they going to school with me?”

Winston had no choice but to lie there while she yelled.

“I thought you might be really stupid when you started picking on a guy who hangs out at Matadero with a bunch of wizards. But I assumed it wasn’t my problem. Now you’ve made it my problem!”

“Alden was being crazy that—”

“We're Anesidoran! This is Apex. My dad says if you pass gas on the east side of the crescent, they smell it on the west! These people we’re in this gym with?” She tried to gesture without letting go of him. “These are the people I’ll know forever. I’ll try to beat any of them, but I’m not going to do it by screwing up a plan we agreed to as a class!”

Winston swallowed. He felt something like panic.

“Olive was saying you were nicer than she’d thought. Just a minute ago. She’s been wearing that gross sweatband you gave her to encourage you.”

She didn’t think I was nice before?

“You’d better tell everyone the rest of us had no idea what you were going to do.”

“I just wanted to win. For all of us. I was helping you all.”

“Ha! Who is it who needs help right now?”

He couldn’t answer her.

“It doesn’t look like anyone is winning today, anyway,” she said. “Nobody’s that close. Maybe on Friday.”

She leaned back a little, moving to pick him up. Winston’s eyes had a clear view of the ceiling when five people, clinging to each other and some smashed metal thing, rocketed overhead like Galecourse’s wind had no effect on them.

Four of them were screaming.

One of them was chanting a chant that Winston had always thought was too alien and disturbing for someone who was serious about being a celebrity.

He sounds like a creepy dolphin.

******

******

Alden knew he and his teammates were all destined for a gruesome finale. He’d been jerked from his feet by the dog crate so violently that he had webbing and paracord digging in everywhere, and the crate had unexpectedly flipped over right at the start. So there was just no chance everyone was going to end up together and in one piece, and he was sure he was screaming, which was the only reasonable reaction for a person to have under these conditions.

Suddenly, his stomach proved it hadn’t been left behind at the starting line after all. It plummeted as their rapid journey up and across the gym turned into a fall straight down from nearly ceiling height.

They kind of slowed down, but not enough for him to wonder if it was evidence of Kon having some control, before he was landing in a pile of human limbs.

A lot of his body parts hurt for a couple of seconds before the gym let up.

“That…that wasn’t fun,” said Everly. Alden thought that was her leg on top of his neck. He was too disoriented to try to move out from under it. “I did not like that. Not at all.”

Haoyu was laughing somewhere under Alden but it sounded more like nerves than joy.

“I can barely move,” Lexi breathed.

“Yeah!! Did we win?!” Kon shouted. He was tangled up with Lexi, Haoyu, and the metal, but he was already trying to wiggle out from under them.

A large, smiling face appeared in Alden’s line of sight. Hi there, Big Snake.

“Did we win?” Kon said again. “Did I do it?”

“If you’re all alive, a Healer could probably fix you,” said Instructor Waker. “I think we could count that. So…are y’all alive?”

Haoyu responded after several seconds. “I’m cool.”

“Yes, we know,” Alden said automatically, “but are you dead?”

Haoyu’s laugh was real this time.

Ah, that just came out so naturally. Like joking around with Boe.

“I’m cool and alive,” said Haoyu.

“Me too!” Kon said

“I can’t move my arms or my legs, but I seem to be alive.” Lexi sounded shocked.

“…I think…I’m not even hurt much. Thank you for breaking my fall, Lexi,” said Everly.

“And I’m alive,” said Alden. Feels great to say that.

“Then it sounds to me like you’ve won.” Big Snake clapped his hands together. “Thanks for helpin’ me test out one of my wol…pet crates. Looks like I should buy a tougher model.”

He winked at them. Their suits relaxed.

Once he’d made it to his own feet, Alden helped the others get untangled, and then they all stood there, meeting each other’s eyes and letting it sink in.

Lexi looked over at his brother. “You did a good job.”

Søren’s shaping might have been the brightest thing to happen in the MPE gym that evening, but Konstantin’s smile was a close second.

******
