Avyna tried, she really did, but unfortunately for her, Ranthia fell asleep with her head resting on one of Avyna’s slender arms. Even with her elven grace, she didn’t stand a chance of successfully slipping her arm out without waking Ranthia up. Once stirred from her slumber, Ranthia blearily blinked her eyes open, then, before the love of her life could apologize or urge her back to sleep, she desperately and needfully kissed her elf. She was vaguely aware that someone else was in the room with them, but she really didn’t care.

She should have kissed Avyna the instant she saw her after what happened, and the fact that she hadn’t was probably the ultimate proof of just how bad her condition had been before she slept. The kiss was essential; it reaffirmed that she was still alive—that she was able to come back to the most important person on Pallos.

After sleeping, she bore no hazy uncertainty any longer. And she knew from the very instant that she woke up from her slumber—a deep sleep, devoid of dreams of any sort, thank Xaoc—that she had almost died. …The word ‘almost’ felt ludicrous, actually; she had been a prisoner in Black Crow’s talon, and she had no idea why the demi-divine bird chose to release her at the last possible moment. But at that moment, the unanswered—and possibly unanswerable—question didn’t matter. She made it home and she was kissing the woman that she loved so dearly.

That was enough.

It had to be.

Over eighty thousand vitality enabled a lot, but not even Ranthia could spend an eternity with her lips permanently locked with her beloved’s. Eventually—and regretfully—they finally separated, then Ranthia followed Avyna’s lead and got out of bed and got dressed. All while Glorine awkwardly stood there, her eyes fixed on the fabric ceiling of the couple’s home until, at last, the duo were both presentable.

“They’re here.” Glorine solemnly announced. Which was all that she needed to say.

It was time for Ranthia to learn if their panicked speculation was true—if someone from Remera had truly sought to help the shimagu murder Ranthia.

Ranthia accelerated her perception for a moment as she and Avyna passed through the curtains. There were two dwarves seated at their table—the shrubbery [Healer] and a man that Ranthia had seen around Remera but had never spoken to—along with Gailla and Caelillia. Near the entrance to their tent stood three of the soldiers that often hung around Avyna’s shop, each man in full gear, shield and spear in hand.

Ranthia… appreciated the sentiment, but if there truly was a plot afoot, three mid-tier legionaries weren’t going to make a whit of difference.

The trio saluted her—or perhaps Avyna—as they emerged. Ranthia slowed her perception back to social norms and traded nods with the dwarves. Though the shrubbery-looking [Healer] split into a massive grin as he looked her up and down.

“Was hopin’ that gettin’ close to you woulda worked. Glad I was right, lass.” The man boisterously announced.

Ranthia paused in her tracks, blinking at the dwarf as she processed his accent. Was he saying what she thought he was?! …Also, the man was loud when he wasn’t dozing off.

“Wait, you’re saying you were healing me when I fell?” Ranthia asked.

“Naw, was after you hit. Dem Legions of yers weren’t letting [Healers] get to ya and tried to bar the way. Didn’t have my trusty nail with me at tha time, so figured best to be clever. Fools never thought to block off the other tents, so ah got myself inside the next tent and let my ranged Skill do what it did best. Thanks for the levels, lass.” He answered, his bizarre beard-and-hair combination jiggling with mirth.

“I… Thank you.” Ranthia’s gratitude was sincere, but she had somewhat mixed feelings about the fact that she only survived because of a [Healer]’s touch, however indirect.

Black Crow didn’t release her because of her own struggles, for the second time in her life she lived only because a [Healer] managed to wrench her from the avatar of death’s talons. No matter how she grew, too often her survival came down to luck, which was a fool’s gamble to rely upon.

The pall that came over her mood gave her a desperate, burning desire to run to her altar and pray for a while, but that—may Xaoc forgive her—had to wait.

“I shall get a pot of tea brewing, would anyone like anything else?” Avyna chimed in.

Ranthia took a seat at her table—next to the shrubbery of a dwarf, since her other options were to boldly sit next to Caelillia or to steal Glorine’s spot next to her wife. Glorine was already moving to claim it anyway.

“Fine, whatever, very good. Now show me tha arrow yer message mentioned already!” The other dwarf snapped.

“Sorry, right. Um, go ahead?” Ranthia looked to Glorine and Gailla. It wasn’t like she knew where the arrow was, she had been asleep!

Gailla nodded and stood—her weariness more pronounced once she found her feet—and walked into the cooking area. The arrow turned out to have been hidden in the stasis storage area they used for bread, inside a small wooden case. Arrow in hand, Gailla returned, before she carefully offered it to the irritable dwarf.

The dwarf shook out his jet-black hair and accepted the arrow with one hand. While he eyed it, he stroked his beard, causing no small amount of noise as his calloused hands rattled the finely wrought steel chains that wrapped around and wove their way through his robust facial hair. The man nodded to himself, then, did something so ridiculous that it left Ranthia momentarily flatfooted: he bit the arrowhead!

“There’s poison!” Ranthia shouted several moments too late.

“Keep yer knickers straight. I’ve got tha best anti-poison Skill I know of, and I’m sittin’ next to a farkin’ [Healer]!” The dwarf roared, before he went back to poking at the arrow.

Ranthia’s nerves overcame her and she found herself standing again before she had quite decided if it would be rude to do so. Avyna was still preparing the tea, in addition to mulled wine and hot cider. With the dwarf roughly pawing at the arrow and the [Healer] seemingly already sound asleep, Ranthia turned her eyes to her friends and (sort of) family.

Gailla flopped back into her seat, leaning against Glorine. Both women looked haggard; odds were they hadn’t gotten to sleep, even for however long Ranthia had spent napping. She wasn’t even sure if Avyna had slept, or if her beloved had spent the entire time trying to soothe her, to keep her nightmares at bay. Gods and goddesses, with the crowd, it was likely that even Caeli hadn’t rested. Everyone had worked themselves desperately, just for her.

Ranthia suddenly felt guilty for her own rest, even if she had desperately needed it. The hourglass told her that it was still late at night, but she had rested long enough that she felt surprisingly more like herself.

“It’s human-made aight, one of yer Legion-issued arrows. Someone, not an expert either, removed the fletchin’ and changed it out. Used a local bird, probably thought it woulda made it seem like a shimagu arrow. ‘Cept the shimagu dun use this kinda bird. Ta color’s the same, but the bird they use has superior feathers; bigger and more durable.

“Poison didn’t do squat ta me, an not cause-a my resistance Skill. Just doesn’t work on dwarves. It’s got a nice flavah, kinda spicy-tingly.” The dwarven weapons master held the arrow over to the shrub-healer, who licked it and nodded appreciatively.

Ranthia suddenly felt somewhat mortified that the arrow had spent time lodged in her butt, but she absolutely wasn’t going to volunteer that information to the men after that.

Avyna emerged from the kitchen and set the tray of beverages down before she grabbed the arrow from the dwarves and—in a fit of recklessness—jammed it forcefully into her own palm. Ranthia and Caelillia both called out in alarm.

Avyna was silent for a long moment, before she looked at the [Healer] shrubbery/dwarf. He shook his head in response to her unvocalized question. Avyna frowned, then nodded and pulled the arrow free. The dwarf promptly poked her, and her hand sprang back to its usual hale appearance in an instant.

“He is right, I experienced no effect from the poison either. Its potency was due to the fact that it was narrowly designed. Most likely, it is a Skill-generated poison intended to affect only your kind, or perhaps you specifically, my love.” Avyna decided.

Ranthia eyed Avyna—the woman that was practically her wife—in shock. It wasn’t just the weight of the words that Avyna spoke, Ranthia was also floored by the complexity of the words her elf selected. In large part because Ranthia had noticed exactly what Avyna did—she had accelerated her perception to craft her theory even before she jammed the arrow into her hand.

Somewhat stiffly, Ranthia strode over and took the arrow from the woman that she loved, trading a quick kiss of gratitude and affection for the instrument of her near-demise, and cut her thumb on the arrowhead again. Even after the dwarven mouths and elven blood that had stained the barb, the strange numb-adjacent sensation returned immediately. With a nod to the [Healer], he leaned over and poked her with his free hand—the man clearly had no intention of putting down his mug of cider.

…Surprisingly, it wasn’t an instant process. It took a few precious moments for him to purge the toxin from her, even if the cut on her thumb healed immediately.

“That is potent!” The hairy [Healer] announced with a somewhat messy whistle, spraying flecks of cider in Ranthia and Avyna’s general direction.

“Well, as fun as this was, I have business ta attend to. Would you care ta accompany me, [Healer]? I can offer salt and bread at mah workshop.” The severe dwarf offered, though his final statement came off as scathing for some reason.

The shrubbery beamed.

“Delightful, never get sick of that!” He announced and somehow, impossibly, it didn’t sound even remotely sarcastic.

“Wait, one last question… Why did you go out of your way to help me?” Ranthia hesitantly asked the [Healer].

“Heard ya the day we met, lass. Yer one of ta few that recognized the look I’ma goin’ for! Ye noticed I was supposed to look like a shrub!” The man seemed to radiate earnest excitement.

…Oh Xaoc, she hadn’t even meant to utter that aloud! Yet he had heard her. And with a single, rude thought that had inadvertently reached her tongue… Ranthia had planted the seeds that saved her life, eight years later. The weirdness of the coincidence left her more numb than any poison ever could, which left her barely able to nod to the grinning dwarf.

With that, the dwarves made their exit, talking amicably about the [Artisan]’s current smithing projects. The legionary guards were shooed off, at Avyna’s behest, as well. The instant it was polite to do so with their guests gone, Gaila, Glorine, and Avyna started to… well, basically freak out over what they took to be definitive proof that someone in Remera had tried to kill Ranthia.

While the victim of the conspiracy just stood there, feeling once again broken and listless.

“My love?” Avyna didn’t take long to notice. The instant she did, she blurred into motion and was there for Ranthia, holding both of her hands.

Ranthia blinked and refocused on the present.

“Yes, <Gemheart>?” Ranthia asked, hoping that she hadn’t missed something important.

“We should leave Remera, at least for now. Not only this, but… about what happened before. You dearly need a break, my love. You are wounded in ways that no one here can heal. Your mental health has to come first.” Avyna’s words were gentle.

Ranthia was still stricken. Gods and goddess, with everything that had happened, she had—quite unforgivably—managed to completely forget the horrible fact that she had struck Avyna. The bruise was gone now, thanks to the [Healer]’s touch. But Ranthia struggled to remember what it had looked like when they woke up. The memory wasn’t there—had she seriously forgotten to even check or pay adequate attention to the woman she loved!?

Unforgivable. The word tore through her, burning its path through her mind.

“You… might be right, <Gemheart>. But… Sorry, please give me a bit to think.” Ranthia finally shook her head and pulled her hands free of Avyna’s after failing to find the words.

She claimed a cup of warm spiced cider, then ducked back into the personal area of their home. There, she settled onto the chaise with an involuntary sigh. After taking a moment to compose herself, she took small sips of the beverage while she tried to sort out her thoughts.

One thing she knew for certain was that her own guilt and whatever mental health was both could and had to wait. She couldn’t hope to resolve the conspiracy while she sat there, but she needed to decide what her move would be.

It was difficult to trust her own judgment unconditionally given her state, but it sure felt as though the new evidence the dwarves had provided confirmed the panicked theory that they came up with—someone, almost undeniably someone Reman, had tried to ensure that the twin killed her. …Unless the shimagu were playing strange mind games by creating an arrow that was meant to convince them that someone had tried to frame the shimagu—no, it was absurd and the what-if scenario that invoked spiraled endlessly.

