“Before broker fees, roughly one small arcanite per point.” Avyna answered in a deferential tone.

This time the man whistled. He snapped his fingers in complicated patterns for a time, before the blindfolded elf nodded. It was a strange form of nonverbal communication, both slower and noisier than Ranger hand signs. As improbable as it sounded, it seemed that the woman truly was blind.

The System enabled a lot, but Ranthia struggled to imagine how a blind archer could work!

“Alright, we’ll do it. Huh, our little trip to this stupid playground really has proven to net a nice bit of pocket change for us, hasn’t it?” The male elf grinned.

“Do not be crass. We shall do as you asked. You said it will be after the sun is up?” The blind(?) woman inquired.

Avyna nodded, then a heartbeat later, she looked positively stricken over her gaffe. She hurriedly vocally responded. After that, she fielded questions from the duo and shored up details, before the elven strangers—neither ever offered their name at any point—departed without fanfare.

The instant the flap was closed, Avyna swooned, forcing Ranthia to catch her collapsing lover.

“<Gemheart, what’s wrong?!>” Ranthia hissed in alarm.

“<…Mom, were those two…?>” A pale Caelillia emerged from the privacy curtain. She was supposed to be getting some sleep, same as Glorine and Gailla.

“<I… I think so, sweetling.>” Avyna answered, as Ranthia helped her back to the table and sat her down on the nearest bench.

“…Um?” Ranthia asked, looking confusedly between the two women.

“<My love, for your own sake, please do not ask. Never ask or look curious again. If we are right, those two are extremely dangerous, even more so than their levels would suggest.>” Avyna hissed out in the lowest voice she could manage.

“<…And you’re sending me with them?!>” Caelillia demanded, openly horrified.

“<They have both given their word, you will likely be safer in their care than anywhere else.>” Avyna answered firmly.

Ranthia was left to wonder what on Pallos she had stepped into.

“Oh, it’s you. It’s in that basket over there.” An exhausted-looking [Healer] glanced up from his latest patient and immediately dismissed Ranthia’s presence.

In full gear—namely, a fresh suit of armor—she had set out to locate her missing knife. [Mine!] had pinged almost immediately, but contrary to her expectation that someone had tried to steal the knife, the Skill led her to one of the still-active [Healer]’s tents.

Ranthia winced, carefully feigning a deliberate slowness and hesitance in her every movement, as she walked over to the basket. Her knife was there, resting among various other metal debris—all covered in blood.

“…How bad was it?” She had to know.

“It wasn’t why he died, at least.” The [Healer] responded tersely. His tone strongly reflected his desire for her to leave and let him continue to work on the patients overcrowded into the tent.

With an unseen nod, Ranthia complied, breaking her newly retrieved knife down as she went.

Breakfast was hearty, at least. Ranthia and Avyna had prepared it together and, at least according to Glorine, the result was tasty. But Ranthia, Avyna, and even Caelillia were eating because they needed to; their moods were troubled enough that none of them truly had an appetite.

Caeli was acting as though her mother was sending her off to be killed. Avyna was bothered by her daughter’s reaction and worried for Ranthia’s safety. Ranthia, for her part, just felt as though she was suffocating in guilt over everything, despite the rational part of her mind knowing she was a victim and not the cause.

The pall left them sharing their meal almost entirely in silence. Mother and daughter had been unable to enjoy their reunion after so many years, not that Caelillia seemed to consider nearly ten years to be a particularly long time spent without seeing her mother. Ranthia had never been able to even try to establish a friendly connection with the daughter of the woman she was happily bound to. A piece of Ranthia even lamented that Avyna never got a chance to tease her over her former—and, even with her thoughts muddied, Ranthia still desperately tried to convince herself it was only former—attraction to Caelillia.

But they could, in theory, reconnect in Coalition City. No matter how Ranthia struggled to believe that things would work out.

“Are you going to risk leaving those potions here, or did I drag them all the way over here for nothing?” Caeli asked once it was clear that no one was going to keep eating.

“<What are you referring… Oh! I forgot completely about those, with everything that happened. They are for my love to use, so I imagine she will take some with her and leave the rest here.>” Avyna speculated.

“What?!” Ranthia and Caeli reacted at the exact same time.

“Mom, those are…! Shattering sapphires, I don’t even know what they’re worth! What are they worth anyway!?” Caeli sputtered.

The potion had been almost miraculously effective, leagues beyond any potion Ranthia had ever even heard of! It was more like something out of a legendary tale than something Ranthia should be using!

“<The set only cost me an old favor, one that had gathered dust for most of my life. I was lucky that she remembered, if I am honest.>” Avyna shrugged it off.

“But…!” Caeli seemed uncertain how to argue.

“<They will keep her safe. It is a solid use of the old favor. If it puts your mind at ease, sweetling, consider that her safety ensures my own.>” Avyna answered her daughter.

…Ranthia chose to ignore the argument and took another bite of food. She felt unworthy, but she also had no sense of the potions’ value. Avyna clearly wasn’t going to explain the value; she unambiguously avoided answering her daughter’s question about that. Ranthia just needed to convince herself that the potions were relatively ordinary by elven standards, no matter how convinced she was that they weren’t.

But she didn’t want to dwell on that. Caelillia was to depart from Remera, which meant that Ranthia’s message to the few peers that she could truly (and must) trust would be underway. Her guilt for leaving—and her concerns about the safety of her friends—made it difficult, but Ranthia needed to find a way to enjoy what little time she had left in Remera.
