Someone in Remera wanted her dead, but Ranthia was stuck on the why. She was charming, she was [Sexy], she had saved the lives of many within Remera, and (perhaps) more importantly, she was the lynchpin of the base’s ability to repel shimagu twins. The [Battlemaster] had kept pace with Ranthia’s leveling speed, but she was still less reliably able to fight a twin than Ranthia was. They had no one else and Ranthia somehow doubted the Sentinels would bother to assign another of her peers to Remera if she fell in battle—even had the plot gone unnoticed.

Theory number one was the happy one. It wasn’t entirely impossible to imagine that a shimagu agent had retrieved one of the large number of arrows that had been fired into their forces and used it to try to help the winged ogre kill her. That theory worked whether the shimagu assassin was playing mind games to frame the Legion or if the arrow was just salvaged due to a dearth of shimagu-made arrows on hand. It made sense for a shimagu to learn to conjure a human-specific poison, whether it came from the ‘agent’ or the twin’s unexplained Poison-aspected class. It was a pity that killing someone didn’t give her a full Skill breakdown—she’d have loved to know how his kit worked.

She was getting off track. The biggest question theory number one left—were it the truth—was whether or not this theoretically shimagu agent attacked from outside of Remera or if they somehow found their way into the base.

Theory number two was the scary one. Ranthia basically let her imagination conjure the worst-case scenario and tried to make it logical. The crux of the theory was that she crossed some sort of line with the base commander when she left with the scouts and he ordered her death. The man was arrogant and foolhardy, but Ranthia struggled to truly believe that he would risk leaving a powerful shimagu twin loose inside of Remera. Sure, had the dwarves come together they might—might—have been able to deal with him fighting as a unit, but the idea felt ludicrous. The risk was too great for the base commander; in all her years interacting with the man, he was typically exceedingly averse to the slightest, most implausible risk. And hoping that she would finish off the twin while poisoned was far from a guaranteed bet. …Gods and goddesses, as horrible as it was to think about, there was a good chance that the twin might have inadvertently sealed his own fate by ripping her in half, since it removed the poisoned arrow from what was left of her.

Ranthia tried to distract herself from that dark thought by trying to find an unrelated third theory. The elves from the caravan were all screened by [Healers]—most of them needed a [Healer]’s touch for their wounds. The duo of high-level elves hadn’t interceded at all, but for all that she cursed them for it while she fought, she wasn’t actually certain they had stuck around. If they weren’t there for the caravan, it was plausible that the elves had kept journeying wherever they were bound—which made their escort of the wounded an act of charity. Unfortunately, Ranthia hadn’t really stuck around while the elves were being dealt with, so she wasn’t sure if they stayed or if any elves somehow slipped past the [Healers]. But if there were parasite-infested elves among them, she had just reinvented theory number one.

Not that she had ever seen a shimagu-infested elf before.

After mulling it over for a time, theory number three truly boiled down to just… someone else wanted her dead. Which meant that it wasn’t really a theory—she was effectively penning “something else” after a list of possibilities. Not that she was writing anything down, but—okay, she was definitely getting distracted.

Ranthia took a deep breath and tried to still her increasingly tempestuous mind. Okay, she had two (and a half) theories, great. What steps could she take to narrow things down?

There are no bad ideas. Ranthia pepped herself up before she turned her mind loose on the problem.

She could try to track down the supposed assassin! …But she had no idea where to start looking.

She could… confront… the base commander? Okay, no, that definitely wasn’t an option. There was no theory where that worked out in her favor. She would burn the last dregs of good will between them if she accused him for no reason, and she somehow doubted the man was stupid enough to just calmly go “Yup, you caught me. I surrender immediately and without risking turning Remera against itself with reckless, desperate orders.”

Gods and goddesses, so much for ‘there are no bad ideas.’ She wasn’t sure of anything else to even try! Unfortunately, she had to admit the truth: investigations weren’t her strong suit.

Back when she was an Adventurer, one of the biggest breaks in her career had come through an investigation, but that was something of an outlier. Besides, she had—quite foolishly—just allowed herself to become a victim to break the case open, then happened to find a loudmouth that actually knew where to find damning proof of the illegal slave trade scheme.

As a Ranger, she had relied on others and there were—more often than not—locals that were eager to whisper actionable intel to their potential saviors. Unfortunately, the nature of her current plight meant that it was beyond unlikely that someone would come up to her and just hand her the truth. Even if theory number two was true, the base commander wouldn’t have broadly issued the orders.

Dumb luck wasn’t going to resolve the situation, and it wasn’t like she had a team of experts that could…

…She was being stupid.

She was a Sentinel! Unlike the Rangers, Sentinels were precision tools—their entire premise was to match the right Sentinel to the situation. And she wasn’t the ideal Sentinel for her current situation. Swarm would be, but as far as she knew he was still in Remus.

But her peers had to have someone that could quietly investigate the situation. Which meant that she needed to contact the other Sentinels, before anything else went wrong.

Xaoc willing, theory number one was the truth and there was a shimagu somewhere outside the wall—someone that no doubt fled the area long ago. But something had taken out her images—one on Remera’s walls and the other beyond them—and left her vulnerable, which was the largest hole in theory number one.

She would never be able to go back to how things had been, not without unshakable proof of what had truly transpired.

By the time Ranthia emerged to talk to her support team—plus Caelillia, whose visit was proving to be terribly timed—she found a crate waiting for her. Ever since Gailla and Avyna had dragged Ranthia back to their tent, people throughout Remera had returned her missing equipment piece by piece. The crate contained three out of her four missing knives, her mistweave blindfold (…which she hadn’t realized was absent until she saw it in the crate), the lower half of her Sentinel Armor, one sandal, her impressively intact belt, several small pieces of arcanite, and her mistweave undergarment bottoms. Ranthia needed to track down her missing knife, but the rest of the missing arcanite and the sandal weren’t exactly the highest of priorities for her, given everything else.

Over tea and snacks, Ranthia ran her inner circle through her two “main” theories (as if she actually had any others), only for Avyna to inflict a potentially mortal wound on theory number one.

“<I saw the arrow in flight, my love. Your assertion that it could have come from outside of Remera is mistaken. Based on the trajectory, it was shot from within the base proper. Unless the [Archer] used a Skill to curve their arrow’s flight unnaturally, it could not have been shot from the walls of Remera, let alone beyond them.>” Avyna was forced to use High Elvish to explain.

After that, Avyna, Glorine, and Gailla formed a united front to finish off the wounded theory. They understood the appeal of it, but they were highly dismissive of the idea that a shimagu agent would have gone through so many layers of deception. The likelihood of each deception being uncovered to point the finger away from the shimagu and back at the Legion was too low.

It wasn’t like the loss of one theory changed much once they started considering next steps. Ranthia had tried to urge Glorine and Gailla to stay out of the plans, just in case, but they refused to be denied.

“You and me, we’re friends. If I wasn’t willing to stick my neck out for you, I wouldn’t have joined the Legions. Sure, an [Analyst] is safer than a shield-bearer, but I could have had a safe life in a city if I wanted it. I’m not going to shy away from risk when it comes to a friend’s life. Besides, everyone knows we’re friends; it’s not like we’d be any safer at home trying to keep a distance from you, girlie.” Gailla had the final word on the matter, and so they moved on.

Which left Ranthia feeling guilty because the best plan they had was the one Avyna insisted upon—which called for Ranthia and Avyna to leave Remera for a time. Her friends were willing to stick their necks out for her, yet she was planning to abandon them, and somehow no one else in the room considered that to be the case.

Ranthia and Avyna would return to Coalition City for… a time. There had been an argument about how long it would be, but they agreed that discussing that could wait. (But seriously, Gemheart, they weren’t going to stay there for five years.)

The rest of the plan relied upon two messages that Ranthia wrote. The first was handed to Glorine, for later delivery to the quartermaster, marked for urgent dispatch to Ranger Command via the Sentinels in Coalition City. The message explained that she had nearly been killed in battle and required time to recover from a Poison-aspected Skill the twin’s parasite used. The message was a request for transfer, along with a request for a replacement to support Remera in her absence.

The second message needed to be smuggled and needed to arrive first. Caelillia was volunteered by her mother (over her daughter’s objections) to carry it, along with the arrow, and see them delivered directly to Sentinel Night and/or Deflection (or Swarm, if he was somehow there). The true message explained the plot and the evidence that they had collected—with an apology that the arrow had been contaminated by Ranthia’s blood three times over, elven blood once, and the saliva of two different dwarves (and in hindsight, yuck).

Ranthia went all out with her efforts to prove she was the originator of the true message. She made a charcoal rub of both her Sentinel badge and her Adventurer’s Guild token, noted that Sentinel Ocean had a copy of her handwriting samples, and—after consulting with Avyna for ideas—listed the exact bedding supplies that Avyna had loaned Night when he stayed at their place that one time (okay, yes, her Gemheart’s [Chest of Experience] was more amazing than Ranthia had expected it to be).

The only question was how they were going to get Caelillia safely to Coalition City ahead of the first message. To that, Avyna announced that she had a plan, before she left their home—ignoring Ranthia’s energetic protestations.

“We cooould, yes. But why would we?”

So much for her theory that the extremely powerful elven duo had moved on. Avyna returned with the level 1024 and level 1902 elves in tow, served tea, and then bluntly asked the duo if they could ensure delivery of her daughter—safe and sound—to Coalition City.

Ranthia had so many conflicting feelings about the situation that she chose to set them aside in their entirety.

“We do not ask you to do this for free. I offer this payment upfront.” Avyna answered the man. Her voice was oddly tight and strained and she kept her [Merchant]-at-work mask firmly in place. Once she finished speaking, she carefully—keeping her hands visible the entire time—removed two mid-sized gemstones from a pouch that she had placed on the table. A pair of brilliant red rubies, identically and dazzlingly faceted.

The man had looked interested at the first one, then the second converted his expression to one of eager greed.

“Well, we weren’t planning on heading east, we actually had planned to continue our journey west…” The man hedged, clearly haggling.

Ranthia waited, ready for Avyna to pounce.

…Yet, against all expectations, Avyna refused to debate the man. Instead, Avyna nudged her, as if Ranthia had missed her cue! More than a bit grudgingly, Ranthia nodded and grabbed the quill and slip of paper that Avyna had set next to her.

“Avyna will draw up the contract. Once Caelillia has been safely delivered to Sentinel Night, Sentinel Deflection, or Sentinel Swarm, the signature of any of the three men will authorize the document and transfer these contribution credits to you.” Ranthia cupped her hand over the small sheet and wrote a number.

Avyna bumped her foot, prompting Ranthia to add a digit. …Or more than one, given the next bump. Yet that zero only invited another bump!

Ranthia felt like breaking into a cold sweat by the time Avyna finally assented to a number. It comprised well over two thirds of the contribution points she possessed—at least before whatever she received for killing the winged ogre twin!

Shakily, Ranthia folded the paper in half, as she had been instructed—desperately wishing that Avyna had explained more before she fetched their guests—and slid it across to the duo. The male elf took it and glanced at the number.

“Yeah, so for those of us that aren’t wasting time on this little farce, what does this actually mean in real currency?” He asked, clearly unimpressed.

Ranthia felt her brow twitch, despite her best efforts to keep the outrage off her face. Little farce?! It was a war!

