Falene took a sip and found it quite enjoyable, and Ceria snorted as she took a sip as well. The taste was very light to many sensibilities, but it grew on you the more you waited before swallowing.
“Falene’s actually from Gaiil-Drome, so she has standards about wine from our people. This is what you’d call the rural stuff. Me? Anything from home is too rare to complain about.”
“Does the Village of Springwater have a wine?”
Ceria laughed.
“We have a few half-Elves who’ve ‘practiced’ for a hundred years, but they refuse to bottle it. Real old-time half-Elf villages never sell vintages. The traders come by too often—by which they mean every few months. Practically every day.”
She and Falene laughed. Colth grinned.
“Well, I have heard that’s how the old villages work. I’ve always wanted to visit, but the few times I’ve been on Terandria, I didn’t have anyone to introduce me.”
“Yeah, you’d need someone who came from a nearby village or that place to get in. Even for a Named-rank. And there aren’t that many half-Elves in the adventuring scene, even in Terandria. How many have you met?”
Colth counted.
“…About a hundred and five. Above Silver-rank, obviously.”
Ceria choked on her drink.
“What, really?”
He grinned like he was younger than they were—which he was—but like he was some Silver-rank scamp.
“I get around. I adventure with other teams, remember? And I have a great memory. I have to, in my class. By the by, I also noticed that a lot of half-Elves at higher ranks here are female. There’s Falene Skystrall, Ceria Springwalker, Elia Arcsinger and her daughter…”
Falene blushed and waved away the compliment, but Ceria’s eyes lit up, and she smiled impishly.
“Oh, that? Well—most half-Elves who make it to high-ranks are female. The male ones just don’t make it. Hazard of the job.”
“…How’s that?”
Falene frowned as a few adventurers turned to Ceria. The half-Elf’s ears lowered, and she whispered somberly.
“Fame. Oh, we’ve got Archmages Eldavin and Feor, but they have access to high-grade magic, and you know [Mages]. Most adventurers? Gold and Named-ranks? Half-Elves live a long time…but disease cuts us down. I couldn’t tell you how many venereal diseases famous Named-ranks have. Tragic. That’s what happens when you’re so famous.”
She looked sadly to the side, and a few adventurers made a face of horror and disgust. Falene hesitated. She narrowed her eyes and whispered.
“That’s not true.”
Ceria laughed, and Colth’s eyes lit up. She watched the other adventurers talking, and the [Supporter] slapped one leg.
“Ceria, this is going to catch up with you someday.”
“It hasn’t so far.”
The half-Elf merrily took a gulp of wine. It was her newest hobby to do this kind of thing, and so far—the consequences hadn’t landed on her.
Tong.
She froze, goblet raised, as she heard a sound in her head. Neither Colth nor Falene seemed to have heard it—but Ceria heard a loud sound that was entirely non-natural in her head. She looked around—but she didn’t know if the circlet had caused it.
That…might not be so good. What was that?
While Ceria glanced around, Colth was speaking.
“…love to join the Horns on an adventure. Or the Silver Swords. Your Dwarf companion, Dawil, is a master [Axe Thrower]?”
“[Axe Champion]—he’s got an odd story behind the class. I’m sure Ylawes would welcome you on an expedition.”
“Just let me know. If I’m free, I’ll join for an equal share of whatever you get.”
Ceria and Falene smiled politely, but Colth glanced at their faces.
“I mean it. Ask around. If I’m free and it’s not crazy—send me a note and call me up. If you’re up against a dangerous monster, need someone with auxiliary Skills—it’s a benefit to me, too. Especially the Horns, frankly. I haven’t partied with a [Necromancer] or Antinium, and that will be a valuable insight to my class.”
“Really? How does [Supporter] work?”
Ceria nibbled on some of the free bread—it was mostly flatbreads—as Colth gestured to a table. Barnethei was whispering to one of his staff, and Ceria noticed the flamboyant [Innkeeper].
“…baking powder, Amentus fruits—we’ll test them for poison—these matches, and any other local goods. Once we can bake it, Larra wants her Skill to produce the fluffier breads.”
He handed the staff member a bag of gold. Ceria’s ears perked up. Well, the Haven wanted all of The Wandering Inn’s advancements, eh?
Colth had heard it too. He made a little note to himself.
“Baking powder. That’s right, you have matches. I wanted some of those firestarters.”
“Can’t you use a magic wand?”
Ceria expected him to have all the gear he needed, but Colth just smiled.
“Deni’s team and I might be able to afford it, but Silver-rank teams would love something faster than flint and steel. Plus—if you need a light and there’s a magical monster about, you don’t want to give it a clue.”
Now that was a level of preparedness the [Mages] respected. Falene looked impressed.
“Do you actually prepare to that extent?”
“If I know the monsters are magical, of course. I’ve gone to House Byres more times than I can count for silver-tipped weapons, and starting a fire is the easiest way to smoke a lot of monsters out. A [Supporter] needs to know these things. And like I said—the more people we support, the better.”
“Ah, so a [Necromancer] empowers your class? Is that secret?”
Colth shook his head.
“Not at all. It’s something I’m quite open about—once I journey with someone of another class, I can pick up some of their class Skills.”
“Really? Impossible.”
Colth raised his hands.
“It’s not as convenient as it sounds. I have to practice magic—I picked up instruments from Deni, and I try to learn new trades as I go. Tailoring—difficult, but I spent a few years learning the basics. Spellcasting is the hardest. If I’m in a group, actively casting with you two, I can cast a spell like I were a [Mage] twenty levels lower than my [Supporter] class. If I’m not partying with Pisces? I’d be able to cast about forty levels lower. So, a Level 6 [Necromancer].”
Which meant he was claiming his level was…Ceria blinked. Falene frowned.
“That doesn’t sound…too useful, I must admit.”
“Ah, but animating a skeleton even at Level 6 could be very situationally useful. And having a backup caster at Level 26 is useful too. Combat classes—I can pull good Skills. In fact, I’m always searching for someone with a good, low-level Skill to complete my build.”
“Your what?”
Colth pulled out a piece of paper and handed it to Ceria and Falene.
“My classes and Skills. I’ve organized them—I can choose which ones I use, so I configure it. This is my go-to arrangement, but I’ll change them up for magic or stealth as needed.”
Ceria stared down at the strangest thing she’d ever seen. It was…a list of Skills, spells, and other notes about Colth.
Warrior Skills: [Basic Footwork], [Survivalcraft], [Improved Parry], [Evasive Roll]…
Tier 1 Spells: [Stone Shard], [Arrow of Light], [Flareburst], [Detect Magic]…
He had it all noted down, and Ceria felt like she was reading something intimate—yet Colth’s class let him choose.
“Colth. Are you showing them your stupid adventuring sheet? Stop harassing the others.”
Mihaela caught sight of Colth and shouted, but the [Supporter] protested.
“It works! They don’t appreciate it.”
“This is…amazing. It’s almost like I can picture you fighting. You could put this in one of those Adventuring Rooms that Wistram’s come out with. Or those games the E—the children were talking about.”
Colth’s eyes lit up as Falene murmured. She was somewhat aghast, but he—
“You know, I’ve thought about that! If you can write down someone’s Skills and talents, why not make a game of it?”
“Colth! I swear, you’re not starting this again. Colth!”
Mihaela and his friends were shouting insults at him. Ceria grinned as a certain Kevin turned his head, and his eyes lit up. If only Leon and Troy were here to hear this!
“A game?”
The [Supporter] nodded sadly. He jerked a thumb at Mihaela.
“Larra’s banned me from trying it. But I had rules and numbers to represent combat. Actually, I do it for adventurers too, but privately. But in this game, you’d have numbers to represent how good you were at, say, swinging a sword. So if you hit someone, you’d calculate that against how good a monster was at defending or how tough its scales were. I didn’t really have it down—and Named-rank adventurers get touchy when they fail to stab a Creler and get eaten.”
He rolled his eyes.
“I call it—Havens and Havoc. For Larra. I was even going to have a full game made. With little pieces and maps for kids to play. But I couldn’t figure out how to do combat or the rest without it being arguing over whether you’d hit someone or not. I had these cards—”
“You need dice, dude. Twenty-sided dice.”
Kevin sat down at the table. Colth’s head turned, and the Named-rank adventurer blinked.
“Who’re you?”
“I’m Kevin. Hey. Just wanted to say dice is the way to go. I’m not an expert, but twenty sides on a die, a hundred—and then you roll for damage and stuff. Cast the lightning bolt!”
Kevin winked at Ceria, who gave him a knowing look. Colth blinked.
“A twenty-sided die? Can you even make one? But…oh, I get it.”
Who was worse, Kevin or Erin? He winked as Ceria snorted. She ran her eyes down Colth’s list. The [Supporter]’s eyes lit up, and then he sighed.
“Where were you eight years ago? If I’d put in dice, figures…”
“What happened to the game? I imagine it had a shot.”
Colth gave Ceria and Falene a woebegone smile.
“Oh, I put gold into the project, and I had it all going well. Then I found a backer. Maviola of the House of El.”
He spread his hands and threw them up.
“Poof. It wasn’t even her fault. But half the [Traders] heard House El was backing it and decided it wasn’t worth the investment. That’s reputation for you. At least Valeterisa’s projects are making money. You want to talk about bad investments—she’s always been eating Larra’s bread for free. Come to that—Viecel’s adventuring because of the money too.”
The Selphid [Gambler]? Ceria glanced at him.
“Is it the gambling?”
“Partly. He also has about eleven children he’s raising across the world. Anyways, you two want my help? Just let me know. It’s also good for me to know a team’s specialty. Sometimes I might connect a team to another that needs a good group of trackers, for instance.”
He nodded to Griffon Hunt. Ceria smiled and thanked him. The [Supporter] smiled at her as he stood.
 
——
 
The world according to Colth was far more analytical than not. He could—or at least, he tried to—pin a value on people’s abilities.
Whether or not that worked was debatable, and Mihaela would kick him if he did it around her, but Colth believed that there was some merit to reducing people’s abilities to numbers.
After all—a number could be used in a calculation. And wasn’t that similar to someone’s gut instinct if you could win a battle or not?
His number-theory had made some people’s fortunes, and so he often ran the simulation in his head. With that young man’s tip, Colth now thought it made sense. There was randomness in everything. So…for instance, how would you rate that little Gnoll girl’s attempts to steal from Deniusth?
 
Stealing Check: 13 (random: 5, he turned his head as she was reaching up over the table + 2 concealment + 4 [Natural Concealment] + 2 agility. Dexterity?)
Target Check: 33 (random: 15, looking her way + 9 dexterity + 3 fencer’s gloves + 6 [Flash Hands])
 
The end result was that the girl, Mrsha, put her paw on the plate of honey bread as Deniusth stared at her. She tried to snatch it and ran, crowing, with an empty…plate…in her paws. The Violinist took a bite from the bread as Mrsha the Slow stared at him and slunk away.
Well, you couldn’t reduce the world to numbers. There was always an unforeseen variable, but it was fun. Speaking of which—Colth got up to do the other thing adventurers loved doing, especially veterans to new ones.
Pump them for valuable information. And if he could have seen an invisible roll in the skies, he would have realized there was at least one odd variable going on.
 
——
 
“So, tell us about this dungeon in Liscor. And Albez—any other big dungeons about? Come on, Jelaqua, Ulinde, help a fellow Selphid out.”
The Halfseekers fell silent as Viecel brought up the topic. He was smiling at Jelaqua and Ulinde, who looked intimidated and gratified that their senior Selphid knew them.
“You want to ask us for advice, Adventurer Viecel?”
Ulinde squeaked. But Viecel just winked.
“Jelaqua’s a senior adventurer. I’m just sorry we never seemed to meet—I was in Baleros a lot, but I definitely know of her. It’s a long route to the new lands—anything worth seeing before that? Deni, you want to take a stroll in Liscor’s dungeon?”
“Pass. I’ve had enough dungeons for a lifetime. I made my fortune there—I’m after more in the new lands than a hole to wander around in.”
The Violinist waved his hand, and Yvlon interjected seriously.
“The dungeon in Liscor is no joke. It may have been cleared of a lot of traps, but there’s at least one monster that’s Gold-rank or above. It nearly killed Xrn the Small Queen, and it’s still roaming.”
All the adventurers looked up. Viecel’s smile turned serious.
“I heard about that. But I heard it was a [Witch]…what monster?”
Numbtongue started, and Rags turned from surveying the inn, because she knew it too, at least, from Badarrow’s stories.
Facestealer. Mrsha shivered, and Deniusth noticed. He swung himself up and offered her his violin’s bow. When she grabbed it, he hoisted her up onto the table.
“There’s a dungeon boss monster on the loose and no one’s hunted it down? Seriously?”
Mrsha blinked as Orchestra surrounded her—and then began to feed her snacks.
“Such a cute girl!”
Some of them had families, and Mrsha squirmed as they tried to pat her on the head. Help! I’m surrounded by old, affectionate people! Help!
“Boss monster?”
Ksmvr tilted his head, but this was adventurer jargon.
“Dungeon bosses. The biggest, baddest monster, sometimes the leader or head of the pack. There is usually one or two—how bad is this one?”
“It’s gotten Gold-ranks. And it paralyzes everything that gets near it. I don’t know…we never went up against it ourselves, but we’ve heard stories. It lurks around corners with a bunch of severed heads on sticks.”
“Dead fucking gods. An intelligent one lurking in—how big is this dungeon?”
