“So you’re Captain Ceria herself. Hello, hello. My name is Colth. Colth the Supporter. I am truly pleased to meet all of you, Pisces, Ceria, Ksmvr, Yvlon. I hope we have the chance to work together at some point!”
Colth the Named-rank shook all of their hands so fast that the Horns were left staring at him. He was one of the youngest Named-ranks, Lehra obviously notwithstanding, but he looked excellent.
Orchestra, Deniusth’s team, were dressed like a cross between performers and adventurers. Eldertuin had a more nobleman’s casual outfit, and his partner, Viecel the Selphid, was similarly attired.
But Colth? He wore chainmail over leather—mithril chainmail—and he had one of the most diverse adventuring belts Ceria had ever seen. His hair was one of those rarer colors—green and brown—and his belt had a throwing axe, sword, wand, two vials, and a loop of something, clearly magical rope attached.
And that was what was on his belt, not in his bag of holding. The [Supporter] was mobile despite the heavier armor and all the gear, and he smiled earnestly at the surprised Horns.
“Adventure with us?”
Ceria blurted before she remembered—this was Colth the Supporter. Famous for empowering teams and being a force in his own right. The Named-Rank grinned.
“It’d be my first time adventuring with a [Necromancer] and the Antinium. That’s valuable insight. But excuse me—is that Jewel I see? Glitterblade? Colth.”
He strode over and scared the daylights out of Jewel. In fact—Ceria saw him shaking hands with a surprised Anith, Nailren—
“Does he know every adventurer by name?”
“He should. It’s practically his class.”
Yvlon muttered back. Pisces blinked at Colth and then glanced around uneasily.
“It is quite convivial, I agree, Ceria. Suspiciously so. One has to imagine that there is a Captain Todi for every Colth.”
“I do not see a Todi, Pisces. Maybe the Haven only has nice friends?”
Ksmvr’s optimism was cute. Ceria smiled as she glanced around—she didn’t miss that some of the adventurers were hanging back, especially from Ksmvr and Pisces. Or just the Drakes. This was a good meeting, but she…
She focused on Numbtongue. And Rags, but Rags was sitting at her table since she wasn’t an adventurer. Numbtongue, though, Erin was tugging him forwards, and Ceria was expecting something else here. But even she was surprised by what happened.
 
——
 
“Um. Um—Larra, have you formally met one of the inn’s family? Numbtongue.”
Larracel turned, and Mihaela Godfrey stopped shaking Garia’s hand—the [Martial Artist] looked as though she might faint. Deniusth turned, and the adventurers fell silent.
The Hobgoblin stood there as Erin stood in front of him protectively. She went on, voice determinedly cheerful.
“He’s actually a Bronze-rank.”
“What.”
Mihaela’s voice was flat, but Erin explained how Numbtongue was technically an adventurer. She was eager to introduce him to the adventurers. Even if they reacted…
“There’s a rule in my inn. No killing Goblins, so I’ve got them as guests. I figured it was best to introduce him around. Just in case.”
She met Larra’s eyes, and there was the first point of dissonance between them. Larra’s brows rose silently, but she nodded to Numbtongue and—
Everyone waited for the adventurers’ reactions. Especially and critically here—
Deniusth’s. He had felt at the red scarf around his neck the instant Numbtongue had appeared—and his healing wound. His eyes sharpened, and the pupils turned into points as Numbtongue stared at him. Erin cautiously lifted one of Numbtongue’s hands for him—and the [Bard] gently plucked his arm out of her grip.
Not a good idea. He spoke, and Mihaela started at the sound of his voice.
“Hi. I’m Numbtongue. Goblin.”
The Guildmistress stared at him, but then Eldertuin nodded.
“Eldertuin the Fortress. Viecel the Gambler.”
He spoke, carefully, indicating the Selphid. Colth started, then smiled—but more artificially.
“Colth the Supporter. Well, there’s an adventurer I didn’t know about!”
A few chuckles, but everyone turned to Mihaela. She eyed Numbtongue.
“I’m not an adventurer. Mihaela Godfrey. I can see this inn’s guests are going to be weird. Still better than Saliss.”
“Love you too, Mihaela.”
It was astonishing, almost—and Erin was getting hopeful. Even if this wasn’t being televised, this was a miracle! But Deniusth was staring past Numbtongue’s head. He scowled, then spoke.
“…I’m not doing this. Not again.”
“Deni. This is Erin Solstice’s guest. The Wandering Inn’s guest. Try to at least say hello.”
Larra glanced at Erin and gave him a warning look, but the Violinist threw up a gloved hand. He swatted at a familiar prodding at him with a breadstick.
“No. And don’t try to bully me. I’ve done this dance once. No more.”
No more? Then, Erin blinked at him, and her mind focused on a connection. She looked at Deni—then at Jelaqua’s suddenly melancholic features and the adventurers—some of whom were looking at Numbtongue with distrust or horror or disbelief.
Or among some—a kind of pained nostalgia. And at the Halfseekers. Then it came to her.
“Garen Redfang.”
That name dropped among the adventurers, and then it became clear. A group walking up the stairs and talking in disbelief froze—and Deni turned to look at Erin.
“Yes. We’ve done this before.”
He glanced at Jelaqua, and a world opened up to Erin, and she wondered what it had been like the first time a Goblin came to the Haven. Not today—but whenever the Halfseekers had been here. Deni stared at Numbtongue with a mix of hostility and guardedness. He tugged at his scarf.
“My team just lost a battle against Goblins, Miss Solstice. No offense, but we’ve had a Goblin among adventurers and seen a King. Izril’s done this before.”
Numbtongue’s shoulders hunched—but then he looked up. To Erin’s surprise, the [Bard] spoke to the Violinist as he turned his back.
“Yeah. But I’m neither Garen nor Velan. Garen Redfang was my Chieftain, my father. I’m a [Bard].”
Deni’s head turned back. He blinked at Numbtongue, then the guitar on the Hob’s back, as if he’d never seen it before. He stared at his team, and Orchestra turned with more curiosity than they had to anyone else in the inn.
“…That’s new, at least. Ever heard of Kraken Eaters? Tribe up north?”
Numbtongue and Erin traded a glance. Rags sat up, and the [Bard] replied after a long second of searching Pyrite’s memories.
“…Heard they suck.”
Deni blinked, then he grinned. And to Erin’s huge gratification, the Violinist stuck out a cautious hand and received the most cautious of handshakes.
“I like you. And that little Goblin there. I heard she took Crowdcaller Merdon down a peg. That’s good enough for me.”
A handshake. Erin let out a huge breath, and Larra blinked at Deni as if she hadn’t expected that. But then Erin turned—and threw up her hands. She began running as Numbtongue blinked around, and the adventurers didn’t pay attention at first—until she threw her arms around someone who grunted.
“Erin.”
“It’s you again! I told you it wouldn’t be long! Guess who leveled up? You’re gonna get drinks and—”
Mrsha sat up in her chair, then her eyes widened. She howled and leapt over to hug the legs of an embarrassed [Bowman]. Heads turned, and Ceria’s jaw dropped.
“No way.”
“Griffon Hunt. Izril’s trackers. What is this, Invrisil?”
Colth laughed at his own joke, and Saliss threw something at him.
“He even tells bad jokes! That’s my thing! Tessa, kill him.”
The team of Griffon Hunt had just arrived, and Larra’s head whirled around as she saw Erin laughing in delight.
“I knew Ishkr would figure it out. My door reaches Riverfarm! My door reaches—waitasecond. Ah, man. Does this mean I’m gonna have to negotiate with Laken? Drat.”
Larracel the Haven focused on Erin as a few pieces came together. The [Magical Innkeeper] had her new Skill all of a morning and she had realized it enabled her to…?
Barnethei had come with drinks and food to the adventurers, but he gave Larra a significant look. They watched Erin try to hug a grumpy Revi and then hesitantly greet Briganda, who gave her a one-armed hug as Cade bounced in her other arm.
So that was The Wandering Inn’s [Innkeeper], eh? The other guests focused on Erin. They had come south to Liscor to make a splash, but it turned out the puddle was as deep as a lake. And Liscor…
Erin wasn’t the only thing changing or ready to roll with the unexpected these days.
 
——
 
Liscor’s Council got news that Erin’s door was ash in the morning. They convened, of course; not a day went by when one of them wasn’t finding the others or they weren’t meeting formally, it felt like.
“Looks like the door isn’t broken. Coffee? Tea?”
Lism had a bagel in his mouth as he shared around a tray of food. Tismel had brought it this time, which proved something about something.
In fact, the two old-guard Council members, Zalaiss and Tismel, showed up routinely, if for no other reason than these Council meetings were important.
“Now there’s a relief.”
Jeiss sighed, but everyone had already agreed to give Erin a day or a week to un-destroy her door or find a new one under a toadstool or something. Lism chewed on the bagel as Krshia cleared her throat.
“Apologies, honorable Shassa. A minor emergency has occurred, and it seems the Council may need to adjourn. Another city has just connected to Liscor, and an [Emperor] has just sent us an—invitation. To Pallass, Celum, and Invrisil it seems.”
“An—an [Emperor]? Not at all, Council.”
A nervous Drake stood before them, and she was properly confused, agog, and perplexed. But Liscor’s Council just gave each other resigned looks.
“Our [Negotiators] are working up a speech and gifts and whatnot. Let’s conclude our business here, first.”
Lism put the bagel on a plate and folded his claws together. The [Druid] blinked at him.
“But the [Emperor]—”
“He’ll keep another few minutes. But we would be delighted by your offer, Shassa. Do you have lodgings in Liscor?”
“I tried The Wandering Inn, but it seemed full up. I found an inn in Celum…”
The [Druid] had been offered a rock in Nalthaliarstrelous’ garden or any place in the hedge maze, but she’d wanted a bed. Instantly, Alonna began scribbling a note. The Mage’s Guild’s Guildmistress passed it to Elirr, who handed it to the [Druid].
“This is for Timbor Parithad’s inn or Peslas’ if your tastes run more to fancy, the Tailless Thief. Both will put you up.”
“Free of charge. Breakfast, dinner. Personal service not included.”
Lism added hastily, but Krshia nudged him. He had to stop saying that—the [Innkeepers] could clarify.
“Oh! This is very welcome, Councilmembers. I actually have one more friend from Oteslia—”
“Let me write a second note. If you, personally, would like to head the sample project, I think we have just the candidates, [Druid] Shassa. Or help find and vet the proper instructors? Make sure it’s all working—we would welcome Oteslian expertise.”
Alonna was smiling, and the [Druid] appeared energetic.
“Of course. I didn’t expect you to see me so quickly—it’s just that I saw the issue and I thought—well, thank you very much. I will, uh, move my things and see that building you offered.”
The Council was very pleased, and they murmured amongst themselves.
“We can have Hexel make a new one if it would help. Something central?”
“We’ll need multiple ones. That’s [Architect] thinking. Nice, safe areas—damn, will we have to negotiate for spaces in established properties? Tismel gets to do that.”
“Me?”
“It’s a net positive, a net positive, Tismel. You just need to convince everyone of that.”
Lism was sighing for some reason, though. Krshia eyed him.
“What, exactly, is wrong, Lism?”
“Oh…damn it. I think we need to pay Erin Solstice.”
Jeiss looked at Lism, aghast.
“For what? For—oh.”
Then they all remembered a promise Lism had made. Off-handedly, yes, and ages ago. But that was the thing. Whether it was coincidence or inevitability—probably pay the [Innkeeper].
“I think this is excellent. And a new Human settlement? At times like this—what do we do? Did the old Council toast things, Zalaiss?”
“Something like that. A cup of wine, clinking glasses together—”
“We’re on the job.”
The other Councilmember sighed, but Lism snapped his claws.
“A good laugh. That’s the thing. A good…mocking, suitably evil laugh. For all the little children and especially Miss Mrsha.”
He smiled with such villainy that Shassa looked aghast—then thought of Mrsha. Mrsha…who, at this moment, was having a sneezing fit and had no idea why.
Why did her fur shiver? Lism chuckled, then tried to really give it a good guffaw and a cackle.
“You baked ham.”
Krshia rolled her eyes, but Jeiss tried it.
“No, I feel what Lism is saying. I can’t wait to see my kids’ faces. Or how Beilmark reacts. She’s going to love it.”
They looked at Shassa, and the [Druid]…the [Teacher] saw Lism’s Council try on a laugh. Tismel was bad at it, but Alonna gave a quite evil chuckle. Raekea…
“Ha. Haha. Ha?”
—Had no sense of grandeur. But Elirr’s laughter started back in his throat, and he came out with an escalating overture of dark hilarity, which turned into the deep sinister guffaws of the final villain in a dark castle.
Everyone fell silent, and Elirr turned red.
“Did I do that?”
“Dead gods, Elirr. New talents. New talents. Don’t laugh like that when we meet the [Emperor]. Druid Shassa, we like to have a bit of fun. Thank you for your time. And good luck. We’ll have a class of…students for your school thing very shortly.”
Dark days had come to Liscor. The children sensed it upon the wind, but even they didn’t know what was coming next.
 
——
 
“What a monster.”
Larra had to actually step away when she saw Griffon Hunt appear. Barnethei had found her and whispered what Erin had done. She stood there, shaking her head.
And trying not to let her own hands shake. It was an irrational feeling, but—
“Larra? Is everything cordial?”
“She’s perfectly friendly—but she’s a monster. She hit Level 40 so fast no one saw her coming. Where did she come from? That was deliberate as well.”
Larra whispered back. The [Vice Innkeeper] glanced at Griffon Hunt.
“Should I prepare the welcoming team?”
“Do that. Are you scoping out Liscor?”
“I’ve already sent someone to get all the new things, and I’ve surveyed the inn’s staff—those that you don’t see here.”
“Anyone you want? Be polite, Barnethei.”
