It was one thing after another, these wild days. It proved the Gnolls were right. They always were when the wind changed.
More than [Historians], more than [Kings] and nations—Gnolls had successfully predicted more changing of eras than any other species.
That was a…fact that either had no value or all the value in the world. It was something that only a few people knew.
The night had been quiet for so many, and when the people of this world woke, they did not know, yet, what had changed.
Selphids did. They woke to news via [Message] spell or the sudden suspicion in the air, like smoke and death and dark things brought into the light of cleansing flame. A familiar feeling.
Suspicion. Their own people warned enclaves and individuals first. Friends telling friends, simple [Messages] that lacked for many facts, but contained the important truth.
The Minds had breached the Minacien Wall. Those that did had been destroyed. Dark deeds had been done.
Unlike other species…no, exactly like other species, the actions of a few would reflect on them all. Was it fair? Possibly not. The Minds had authority among Selphids, but their people had not known, by and large, where or who or what these Minds had done at all.
It didn’t matter. Word would spread. Indeed, it was already being discussed, in what would happen—the fallout.
(This has been the worst day for our people in thousands of years. The Minds have delivered no cure to the Wasting, but more death.)
The Minds. They had not been the only ones in Baleros, but they had been a sizable minority. And arguably…did it matter? Minds had violated the Minacien Wall. They were all culpable in that sense.
(That they—violated the Minacien Wall. We have no context for why, only the outcome. Any survivors must shed some light.)
The remaining Minds were discussing the incident quietly. Their usual secrecy and attempts to work independently had been dropped for the purposes of this event. Indeed—the different Minds were being unusually—frank.
(Context? CONTEXT DOES NOT MATTER. The Minacien Wall was BREACHED. Stay away from the [Doctor]. Stay away from the survivors lest we compound this—this disaster.)
One of the remaining Minds was leaking so much raw distress the others had to dampen the influx of thought. Not all of them were upset, but none of them were in denial. They had processed it and realized the truth.
The six Minds who had convened at that Gathering Citadel had not, in fact, come together organically. They had been chosen, some merged for the express purpose of creating a new Gathering Citadel that would combat the Wasting. Each of the six had adherents and affiliations—if they had been public to the other Minds, they would have had factions of support similar to Wistram and other political bodies.
The First, Second, and Sixth Minds had even possessed what was analogous to disciple Minds who had learned from them.
Under the cold light of day, a decision was being made. The Minds speaking to each other from their citadels were not as numerous as the six. So many Minds in close proximity was not normally needed.
Still. The Minds were interrupted by another Mind who represented a group of three.
(This Mind represents north.)
It combined the mental handshake with images of cold stone and snow. The other Minds recognized it and began to fill it in on what they had concluded—little as that was—but this Mind was brusque.
(Our conclave is at work. We have understood what has come to pass, if not why. The conclusion is enough. The Mind that was spun from Egress has come to a decision on its own. It has voluntarily agreed to unmake itself. Into sub-Minds where Egress’ perspective is reduced or into Selphids if possible.)
The other Minds were shocked into silence by the announcement. Six Minds had perished—and more would also be dissolved.
(The Second Mind is not culpable if it—Redemption—signaled the breach. Few Minds remain. This conclave urges Dissonance to remain.)
Dissonance, one of the Minds who had hither-to been silent, signaled understanding.
(I shall consider these thoughts. Nor shall I be blind to Contradiction’s possible corruption. For now—I shall devote my first thoughts to emotion. Mourning. Then, think.)
It was a perspective different from the others. But they listened hard, because the Second Mind had been the one who called down wrath and truth upon the others. What conclusions did they come to? Simple ones. Cautious ones, tempered by guilt and realization just how dark the crimes had been.
(Leave the [Doctor] alone. Warn Selphids abroad. A scourging must not come again—but perhaps it already has been set in motion. Ten—no. Nine shall remain. The Minds of Baleros should consider their place. Consider the future.)
The remaining Minds felt the Selphids’ place in this world shaking—and they had no one to blame but themselves. Grief from Dissonance…one of them did pulse one last thought out.
(…That we have committed so many wrongs. It does not change the fact that the Dyed Lands are expanding. It does not change the fact that there are children from another world appearing. Paeth on the Coast has appeared. We now suffer—)
(—rightly—)
(—it matters not. This Mind suggests one last course of action to the above. To be deliberated upon: send an emissary in humility and cooperation. To either Forgotten Wing or this United Nations company. If neither will have it, then further abroad, for we desperately need allies who are not Selphid. An alliance that does not contain the Minds as the leaders.)
This proposal was met with arguments, but more acceptance than not. Already, reports were coming in that many Selphids in the Blighted Kingdom were either being watched or politely being asked to leave.
For now, it was polite. Yet—if it needed to be, it needed to be. The nine remaining Minds conferred.
(Outreach? Now? Who would trust…ah.)
(An agent like that even exists?)
Some of the Minds had no idea what was being referred to, but they slowly began to agree.
(Very well. In humility. This is the greatest priority of the Minds. So…send our last representative abroad. In outreach, to aid, not dictate. Send the Duck.)
So the Minds reached out and sent an order to an agent of theirs. It heard and obeyed and quietly…
Quacked.
 
——
 
It was an ashy morning. The ash drifted down from where it had been blown into the skies, like snow. It was probably toxic, and the Great Companies, civilians, and people who had gathered to stare at the crater in the ground were being advised to wear masks.
Even nearby cities saw Lizardfolk wearing cloth masks or staying indoors—but the majority of the fallout was being contained by wind spells. The ash blew across the jungle, and [Weather Mages] were even dispersing water into the air to hopefully mitigate the effects. It might well poison the ground, so they were being careful to localize the rainfall. But the ash had to stop.
Why were the Great Companies doing that? Well—there was a rumor in the city. A Lizardman serving tables was chatting—they liked chatting—
“I heard it was The Last Light.”
Several people at the tables glanced up, and the Lizardman nodded happily as someone at the table he was waiting glanced up. They accepted a cool fruit drink and pressed it to their forehead before gulping it down.
“Really?”
Their companion sniffed—and sneezed. The eighth time since they’d sat down. The [Server] wagged a claw with a wink.
“Yep. Heard of her? The [Doctor] who stopped the Yellow Rivers stuff—she appeared and told one of the commanders to do it all. Then—vanished. I knew she wasn’t dead. But a Selphid fortress?”
He shuddered.
“Right next to our city. They’re crazy. Maybe…”
He trailed off, then smiled brightly. No Selphids were in the cafe; everyone looked too alive, but the Lizardman glanced over to the kitchen where another order was ready.
“I’ll be back in a second with your food.”
“Another glass of water, please.”
The first person sitting at the table waved their cup, and the other one sneezed into a napkin. The Lizardman trotted off, and the two turned to stare at each other.
Geneva Scala glanced at the falling ash and then at Geneva…Scala. Or were they?
A Gnoll and a Drowned Woman looked at each other. The Gnoll kept sneezing, but she eventually got it under control.
“…What’s your name?”
“G…no, maybe we have different names, now? What’s yours?”
“I was thinking on that. And the future. Did—she get out? Did the bad one?”
“I don’t know.”
They had stuck together, but however many others had made it…the rumor was that at least one woman was in the company of the Titan. But these two were not her.
They had no levels—at least in [Doctor]. The Gnoll scratched at her fur. It felt—normal. She didn’t have any dissonance with this body, just a feeling as though everything were new. And everything smelled.
She wondered how much she’d been—altered. But she had to believe she was her. And who was that her?
“…I’ve got seven levels in [Survivor]. Four in [Telepath].”
“That’s a lot. What did you do?”
“I don’t know. What about you?”
“Eight in [Telepath], but it’s [Purified Telepath].”
The Gnoll frowned at the Drowned Woman.
“Why did you get that? It sounds better than mine.”
“Perspective?”
“Hrr. Why did I say hrr? Everything smells.”
The other Geneva took a glass of water and gulped it down. She asked for another refill.
“Well, I’d rather be in the water. What now? Do we find—her?”
The Gnoll scratched at her chin.
“I don’t see why we would. She’s with the Titan. I hope she’s well, but we…we should see if anyone else made it. How much gold did you find?”
Amazingly, they had enough to pay for a café. The Drowned Woman counted and shrugged.
“The Minds must have forgotten to remove this bag of holding. I’ve got…a lot. Was this body a [Smuggler] or something? I may be an alcoholic.”
“Wonderful.”
They sat there in silence as the Lizardman came back and wisely left a pitcher of water. At length, the Gnoll spoke.
“Let’s team up. We can do more together. Let’s team up and…figure out what happens after that. The world has the Last Light. Let’s do something else that matters.”
The other Geneva looked up and smiled. She reached out, and the two shook hands. The Gnoll felt the cold grip of the Drowned Woman tighten on hers. Unspoken…they looked into each other’s eyes. Then outside at the fallout.
But the sun was rising. Slowly, they sat back, and the Gnoll decided to order a baked rat. For just a moment—
Rest.
 
——
 
Quietly, then, the day began. Quietly—with no great wars or events save a kind of exhaled breath, the subdued exhilaration after a party.
In Liscor, The Wandering Inn, guests woke up with hangovers and oddly refreshed minds thanks to the sleeping Skill. They woke up—and knew that The Adventurer’s Haven was still headed south, past Invrisil.
That the legends of the north had come south and were heading to the new lands of Izril. That Erin Solstice had met Larracel Delais and that new, strange, and perhaps wacky days were yet to come.
…One Selphid sat up in bed without her usual smile. Jelaqua Ivirith had rooms at The Wandering Inn, but she often stayed in Pallass. Last night at least, she and a certain Dullahan had found this room, but he’d stumbled back to Pallass after realizing that bed was not going to accommodate someone of his size and weight.
She should have been smiling today as well, but she didn’t. She read the little [Message] scroll that was reserved for emergencies…and closed her eyes. Without a word, she rolled up the scroll, then sat there, head in her hands.
Everyone else didn’t share her sudden change of mood. The patter-patter of eager paws on the floor signaled a little Gnoll bursting out of her room in excitement. And like a herald, she was followed by other feet and then a predictable thump-thump of heavy footfalls.
“Jelaqua, are you awake? Let’s have breakfast together. Is she here, Seborn?”
“Probably. Unless she and Maughin are in Pallass.”
Even Seborn’s usual doleful tones were cheerful, and Moore sounded energetic. Ulinde joined them, and Jelaqua looked up. She hesitated, then called out.
“—Be right there, you lot. Save me a seat.”
Later. She’d tell them—the Selphid didn’t know what to say. She stared blankly ahead and wondered what it would change. Nothing, she hoped. But she feared—
The Minacien Wall. The Selphid put a smile on her face. No use keeping secrets, but no use spoiling their good mood.
She’d tell them tonight.
 
——
 
It would change many things, but not immediately. The only effect that news had, this morning, was that Erin Solstice noticed Jelaqua was bummed out.
The [Innkeeper] was eating leftovers and dipping a roll of buttered bread in her bisque as she grew heartily sick of the taste. However, she was in good spirits, and she sensed that almost everyone else coming down the stairs felt good.
If hungover. Ceria Springwalker was rattling Octavia’s doorknob until the [Alchemist] tapped her on the shoulder.
“Ceria. What do you want?”
“Hangover cures. Give. Here. Gold.”
The half-Elf shook a bag of gold at the Stitch-woman pleadingly. She was joined by several other guests, including Seborn, Alcaz, Relc, and Menolit.
“Relc? Menolit? Why are you two here?”
Erin blinked, and Relc stared at her.
“Why am I here? Who am I?”
“Didn’t you give Relc a room, Erin?”
Lyonette looked exasperated, and Erin hesitated.
“I did? I did. You normally go to work before breakfast, even Relc. Hey! Wait. Did Menolit get a room too?”
“I woke up in Bird’s tower. Someone put a blanket on me. I had this pie. Think it’s still good?”
Menolit had breakfast…which might have been what he was eating when he passed out. Bird folded his arms.
“I wish to have a lock installed on my tower, Lyonette.”
“We’re replacing your door, Bird. But isn’t it nice that people like your tower?”
Bird thought about it as he picked up a spare omelet and put a chicken leg on top. He turned.
“No. It’s my damn tower.”
He stomped off, and Erin laughed. It was rare for Bird to be that mad, but he wasn’t seriously angry. It was a difference in emotions.
She was feeling perceptive today after levelling up. Intelligent. Erin noticed Jelaqua trailing behind her team as she came down the stairs.
“Hey, Octavia, better get another cure for Jelaqua.”
“Hm? Oh—thanks, Erin.”
The Selphid jumped, and Erin blinked. Maybe it wasn’t a hangover? Anyways, the inn was filled with chattering guests, and Erin saw Liska wringing her paws as Ishkr calmly passed out food with Calescent.
The Goblin was in the kitchen, and Erin stared at him. He stared back, and she smiled.
“Calescent! Wow, this is wild.”
