Some of the Gold-rank teams from the north lost their appetite for Liscor’s dungeon just hearing about Facestealer. Others wanted to know if it was really ‘that’ tough. Ceria…
 
Intelligence Check: 26 (random: 6 + 4 memory + 3 lore + 13 combined intelligence)
Target Check: ??
 
Scratched at her head. Yvlon shook hers.
 
Intelligence Check: 27 (random: 18 + 4 memory + 4 lore + 1 specific intelligence)
Target Check: ??, check impossible.
 
…If you were still representing it as Colth thought of things. Something about Ceria made the [Supporter] curious. He kept glancing at her. He had no idea what it was, but his instincts told him that she was, even among the adventurers here—
Promising. So he was inclined to listen to the Horns’ perspective. Then again, he also had a strong feeling about a number of adventurers present.
Colth could be considered to be a kind of talent scout on par with the best [Generals] and [Trainers], even if that wasn’t his exact class. A lot of the adventurers present were the real deal in his mind. Character and natural ability made up a successful adventurer, and they’d survived a lot.
Anyways. The adventurers looked at each other until one of them, arms folded, spoke.
“If you want an actual expert who’s run into it before—ask Numbtongue.”
Halrac the Grim glanced over, and the [Bard]’s head rose as everyone turned to stare at him. Numbtongue blinked—and then realized, yes. Even compared to the Flamewardens and Bevussa’s Wings of Pallass—he and his brothers had gone down into the dungeon and seen more of it than any but Ceria.
“You actually ran into that monster and lived? How?”
Deniusth was mildly incredulous, but Numbtongue shrugged.
“Luck. Trapped it in a trap room.”
“Oho.”
Nothing would do but for Numbtongue to repeat the story he’d once told about surviving the dungeon and getting treasure from one of the rooms. He told it well, and even Erin’s guests were surprised—they hadn’t heard all of it before.
“Wait. Wait. That thing was melted by acid and what sounds like dozens of Tier 4-5 spells and then broke a trap room? That’s…not right.”
One of the Gold-ranks didn’t believe Numbtongue at all, but Garia Strongheart broke in.
“It did. I saw it when Belavierr was here—it attacked Xrn, and her head opened and…melted part of it. Straight into the bone. But it still survived.”
“…Okay, it’s a Named-rank boss that stalks a dungeon on its own territory. And you lot haven’t tried to trap it? Then again—if these Raskghar didn’t and the Antinium couldn’t—damn. That’s some monster. I wouldn’t want to live near Liscor with that thing around.”
“They have precautions. But yeah.”
The Horns shivered, but Ceria raised a hand reluctantly. Her mind flashed back to the time when she had met Calruz in the darkness, and she shivered.
 
Intelligence Check: 31 (random: 10 + 5 memory + 3 lore + 13 combined intelligence)
Target Check: ??
 
“…I have to break it to you all, but that isn’t the boss of the dungeon. Not even close. That Facestealer is one of three sub-guardians, and the real monster is way deeper down.”
Keldrass, Bevussa, and the other teams who’d made a history of going into the dungeon turned. Eldertuin’s brows rose.
“And you know this how?”
“Skinner and Facestealer were part of a trio. Along with another one that’s dead. Well—that means one’s left, and they were all guarding the real center of the dungeon. Along with other monsters like those suits of enchanted armor and Crypt Worms.”
Ceria remembered the inner city, and the other adventurers listened to her tale of screaming fleshy monsters in that ruined city that even the Raskghar wouldn’t enter. An entire tribe of them under Calruz had failed to reach the hole in the center.
“…Well. That’s a Vengeance Dungeon if ever I’ve heard one.”
Colth remarked slowly. Eldertuin nodded.
“No wonder you tried the Village of the Dead. That dungeon…sounds no less nasty in its way. And Liscor is keeping it contained?”
“The monsters either have to go through a series of trapped rooms or a hole in the ground. Liscor’s been building defenses around it, but the truth is that most of the monster attacks that hit Liscor came from there. I think they killed a lot of what was likely to come out. Plus, adventurers have fortified the area, so it’s harder for a swarm to emerge.”
“Nasty. Well, I’m not going down there.”
One Gold-rank Captain shuddered. Another shook her head. Ceria closed her eyes and remembered that dark time—but it was over. And she agreed. There was nothing more down there.
 
Intelligence Check: 24 (random: 2 + 6 memory + 3 lore + 13 combined intelligence)
Target Check: ??
 
“Let’s do the Ruins of Albez instead. I know it’s empty, but a team just found some treasure there—wait a second. It was you!”
The Horns were again the center of attention. Pisces brushed at his hair as the other adventurers talked enviously—until someone tapped him on the shoulder.
“Say. You wouldn’t happen to have that map you used to scout the ruins of Albez, would you? Where did you get that information?”
“Ah—the Free Hive had a map in their possession, and Ksmvr, apparently, gained hold of it.”
Pisces nodded to Ksmvr, and the Antinium clarified.
“As a matter of fact, Pisces, it was Olesm who had it from Prognugator Klbkch.”
Ceria remembered that. She still felt vaguely bad about letting Olesm down—and in hindsight, he’d been robbed of a fortune. Then again—Yvlon rubbed at her arms.
“That was another adventure with some high costs. We ran into a series of traps and a Flame Elemental.”
“Nasty. But—do you have that map by any chance? Because I’d love to buy it or look at it.”
Colth’s eyes lit up as Pisces frowned at him. The [Necromancer] absently began to dig through his bag of holding. Ceria glanced at Colth as she felt a prickle of…insight.
“Why’s that?”
The Named-rank adventurer saw Pisces produce a roll of parchment and elbowed Deniusth hard in the side as the Violinist suddenly left his seat. He looked at the Horns seriously.
“Because…if you found one hidden vault in Albez, who’s to say there isn’t another? Did you ever check that original map for hidden text? Enchanted writing?”
The Horns looked at each other as every adventurer sat up and a burn of excitement ran through their veins. Pisces froze with the map in his hand.
“We cross-referenced it with older maps, I believe…”
He turned to Ceria and Yvlon for confirmation, and Yvlon’s eyes flickered.
“Yeah, I went to the Adventurer’s Guild and bought some of the treasure maps on offer. They had pretty thorough records if you wanted to pay for it—it’s been tapped for ages, so even the best [Treasure Hunters] sold their findings.”
“But that means there might be a room that you could have missed or—you have a map. Actual blueprints. All they had were the ruins. Hey, let me look at that map, and I’ll pay you for your time. If we find anything…I’ll give you a cut of what I get. How about it?”
Deniusth reached for the scroll, but Colth elbowed him hard.
“You’re done with dungeoning, Deni. And you’re old. See? You can barely stand.”
He’d gotten the other man in the liver, and Deni doubled over.
“I’ll pay a fee to look—”
“No, let us look. Hey, Horns, you want a favor? One favor—you name it. You want to hit another Adult Creler, we’re with you. It might not have anything anyways.”
Pisces was backing up, holding the scroll, but half the adventurers weren’t even looking at him. One group was just glancing at the sun.
“…Can’t we get to Celum from that other inn? How far away is Albez?”
They began to stroll off…and then walk and then run as other teams decided this was a fine idea.
“Albez is long empty. The odds of finding anything are minute!”
Keldrass snorted some smoke, but his eyes were on the scroll. Ceria felt like kicking herself. All this time. All this time and they had never gone back!
Then again—Albez had been traumatic, for Yvlon especially. But could Warmage Thresk have had a second armory? Was he the only one who…
“Come on, Pisces. Be a friend and share it. Your team’s already gotten the Village of the Dead raid and Albez. There’s a limit to luckiness!”
The other adventurers were pressuring the [Necromancer] hard. He was refusing, but Ceria saw more than one [Rogue] doing something to the air. She was reminded of [Secretaries] and all the powerful Skills—and Pisces wasn’t warded. One snatched a bit of foolscap up and began to draw as Yvlon noticed and cursed.
“Hey, you—”
Seborn grabbed, but the [Rogue], a half-Elf who looked barely fourteen, did a backflip away.
“Come on, guys!”
His team began to race away, and Viecel cursed.
“Well, that’s torn it. Let’s share, and I’ll split what I find. Come on—”
Pisces was looking outraged at the other teams running for the door. He began to run after them and Yvlon was doing likewise when Ceria…
Had a thought.
 
Intelligence Check: 41 (random: 18 + 7 memory + 3 lore + 13 combined intelligence)
Target Check: 40.
 
“—Pisces, we’re already in trouble. Let’s share the scroll. For a cut of whatever any team finds.”
She spoke suddenly, and the [Necromancer] looked up. His outrage turned to resignation as she nodded to the other teams.
“Thank you, Captain Ceria, for some sense! Already—oh, look at this. Is there any [Spymaster] in Invrisil? We need to treat the paper—I bet if there was any magic it’s more complex than [Detect Magic]. But these rooms—Albez has shifted, but we could properly check this.”
Deni, Viecel, even Eldertuin and teams like Jelaqua’s were all over the paper. They practically ran towards Invrisil, arguing over what to do first as Yvlon threw up her hands in exasperation.
“Well, there goes anything but a bit of gold! I almost hope there isn’t any treasure in Albez. Damn it, Ceria.”
She cursed, but lightly. She knew that Ceria had a point—it made no sense to hold the scroll after those [Rogues] began stealing copies. But it made her angry.
Only a few adventurers were left who refused to join the rush. Even Orchestra was heading off to find the treasure, but some were either not interested like Saliss, had a job like Tessa, or were just not inclined to join the rush like Stargazer’s Promise.
Lehra was complaining loudly, and the Named-rank was staying put.
“I’m not going to search with a hundred amateurs. That’s how you run into monsters. Besides—I already found everything I wanted in some ruins.”
Ironically, Ceria realized that Lehra, who hailed from a tribe who specialized in searching ruins, was probably the best person to search—but the Gnoll showed little interest in that.
“You don’t want to try to find something in Albez, Lehra?”
“I want to talk to Erin about her quest. Dragial wasn’t the only person looking for Mershi. Niila is still out there, and Fissival is going to be after it too. Besides—so many adventurers are going to fight over whatever they find.”
Lehra seemed fairly certain it wasn’t worth the effort. Or perhaps she had her eyes on something even greater.
Only one last person hadn’t joined that rush from the Haven—and that was surprising to Mihaela Godfrey. She had been staring at Garia, who was full of nerves—but she turned as Colth emerged from the bathrooms.
The world’s greatest [Supporter] had been listening to the entire story of Albez—and Liscor’s dungeon. While it had taken Ceria several attempts to figure something out, it was understandable. Her past felt long ago, and if you missed something once, recorrecting that error in thinking was hard.
But Colth? Colth was the universal specialist. He saw opportunities most people missed—and while any number of adventurers who’d been listening to Ceria, Numbtongue, and the others had made the same mistake, Colth had not.
He glanced at Ceria’s too-cool expression as Yvlon cursed. Ksmvr had already noticed his Captain’s odd silence.
“Captain Ceria. Is there some reason we are not heading to Albez? It occurs to me we could still have a chance at establishing mass-dominance in our hunt, especially because we know Albez.”
The Antinium’s words made Pisces and Yvlon glance up. Ceria glanced sideways at Colth, and the [Supporter] whistled and put his hands behind his head.
“…I might have some kind of an idea. Unfortunately, Adventurer Colth figured it out too and we might be in a competition. Unless we’re going to start elbowing each other for seniority? Yvlon, get over here.”
The [Armsmistress] eyed Colth, but he put up his hands.
“Now, Captain Ceria. I’ve competed with other adventurers before, but it leaves a bad taste in my mouth the more vicious it gets. If what I think you and I are thinking is right—we could share. Possibly even with any other interested adventurers here. If I’m right.”
Mihaela’s ears sharpened, and the confused Horns and other adventurers looked up. Saliss blinked—then swung his head from Colth to Ceria. He put his chin in his claws.
“Hm? Hmm…”
What had they just figured out? Ceria stuck out a hand.
“It’ll be dangerous. But let’s say you get a share and we see what we get first.”
“Very fair. We’re going to need to be safe, but we have the drop on everyone headed to Albez. If we swear everyone here to secrecy—”
“Ceria. Just what are you planning?”
Yvlon stuck out an accusatory finger at her friend, and the half-Elf turned—and her face turned into a huge, evil smile.
“…I just thought of something. Something we all forgot about, no, I forgot about because I’m dumb as two rocks. One rock. We’ve been leaving something extremely valuable behind from one of our adventures. Something as obvious—and potentially as lucrative—as Erin’s door.”
Her team stared at her. Erin’s door had been, unironically, the greatest treasure to come from the semi-disastrous Albez expedition. What could this be?
Everyone was thinking now of the stories that had been told. The dungeon, the crypt, Albez…Pisces muttered.
“The most obvious loss was all the artifacts that were burnt away. Could there have been something in Thresk’s armory—?”
Could they have reconstructed the magical dust? Ksmvr slapped his forehead.
“The runes.”
Everyone turned to him. The Antinium waved his arms.
“Captain Ceria, of course! The runes! Each one is so valuable—”
“Dead gods!”
Yvlon turned white with horror as she recalled how Earlia’s team had earned money from the dungeon.
“There’s dozens, possibly a hundred Insanity Runes we left behind! That—that’s a fortune! Ceria, do you think they’re still there? Please tell me we weren’t that stupid and forgot!”
Ceria shook her head, but not in denial.
