“No, we definitely left that behind. But don’t worry.”
“Don’t worry? That’s the first place all the teams will check!”
The half-Elf nodded and her panicking team calmed down when they saw Ceria wink at them.
“Doesn’t matter. Someone clued me onto that back when I was on Chandrar. We’re good.”
They were so astonished they just stared at her for a second. Firstly because they’d been left out of the loop—and secondly because Ceria was acting like a proper captain. Yvlon’s mouth worked until she frowned.
“Wait, if it’s not that—what?”
Yvlon’s eyes were squeezed shut. She was going back to the first expedition, and her arms hurt—her heart hurt.
“Could it be…the crypt doors that Skinner came out of? The sarcophagi?”
“Nope. They’re not enchanted as far as I can tell.”
Ceria shook her head. She was thinking of something else, based on the retellings. Her circlet, her conversations with adventurers, dead gods, even Omusc the [Pillager] had made her realize what Colth, with his fresh perspective, had picked up.
One ultra-valuable thing. Just lying there in sight of all the adventurers. Saliss’ eyes narrowed. They swung to Numbtongue, Ceria, Colth—and then he snapped his claws.
“Aha. I’m smarter than you all.”
He sat back with a grin. Yvlon’s kicking foot twitched—and then stopped. She stared at the naked Drake, and her mouth became an ‘o’.
“Pisces. I have it. It’s so obvious—how did you not think of it? You, of all people!”
Pisces looked offended—and slightly paranoid. He sniffed heartily.
“Me? Why—why would I be the lone fault in our collective thinking? I am not the career adventurer here.”
“Yes, but you’re the one who’d think of this first, Pisces. You…filthy [Necromancer], you.”
Ceria and Yvlon were teasing now. Pisces stared at them, and then he felt that tingle in his head too. Wait a second. Wait…
Only Ceria had actually ever ‘seen’ what they had left behind. So naturally more people wouldn’t have had that direct link. But when you thought about it—
What did an adventurer do to earn money? Find treasure, but how many Trolls just kept jars of gold hidden in the earth? How many Crelers invested in artifacts? Dungeons contained such treasure, but there was another basic way that Relics and artifacts were generated and made.
Pallass had done the smart thing after the Wyvern attack. It was now a growing hub of high-quality leather and meat. What had Ceria seen that she had left?
Well—how about the sight a crazed Minotaur had once shown her? Deep in an infested city lay the corpse of one of the three guardians of the dungeon.
Stalker. A once-invisible beast so powerful it had not succumbed to rot. And it was still down there. Hide and all.
Pisces’ mouth fell open, and Colth rubbed his hands together. He looked around at Ceria.
“Now, how big did you say this beast was? No—first off, let’s swear everyone to secrecy. And then—let’s have a team up. Time for an adventure.”
He smiled, and Ceria bared her teeth. After all—Stalker’s corpse was in the center of the dungeon. In the most dangerous spot, where Facestealer hunted. But they had a Named-rank—Named-ranks in the area.
The question was, how would they adventure? And of course—what could go wrong?
All their encounters with Liscor’s dungeon had always gone so right, after all.
