There were Goblins and Antinium working here, and she didn’t know all their names! She looked around and saw a Hobgoblin with one leg using a long wooden leg as she poked a surprised Yvlon and handed her a plate of food. An Antinium Worker being shown how to sweep by…
“Silveran! There you are! I knew it! Shoo, shoo! You have a job!”
Silveran jumped, and his mustache wobbled. He fled as Erin chased after him. The inn’s guests laughed as Ishkr took the broom and began shooing Silveran out the door.
“Morning, Miss Erin. We may need to deal with a small situation after you eat.”
“Oh? What’s up, Ishkr?”
Erin was still waking up, but Liska was opening and closing her mouth behind her brother.
“Small situation? They’re trapped in Invris—”
“It’ll keep. Have your breakfast first.”
Ishkr nudged his sister in the ribs, and she and he began elbowing each other as Erin blinked at them. She went to sit back down, yawning.
“Erin. Did we really meet the Adventurer’s Haven yesterday? Was I drinking with Named-rank adventurers? And did I really—and you have to be honest here—did I really see Mihaela Godfrey do a kegstand? You have to tell me.”
Yvlon Byres was begging for a whiff of sanity as she raised two bloodshot eyes at the table. Erin Solstice thought about it.
“Is that the thing where you balance on a keg with a straw and drink lots of the alcohol?”
“Yes.”
“Sounds about right. You forgot the part where Ceria did the same thing.”
Yvlon glanced over at the hungover half-Elf.
“…No, I believed that part even without Godfrey. The Adventurer’s Haven. There were what, four Named-ranks? More?”
“Well, counting Saliss and Tessa, yeah—wait a second. Is Tessa here?”
Erin frowned around the inn and then looked up. But the Named-rank Adventurer wasn’t there—she sat up from behind the bar and scared Seborn out of his chair.
“What?”
“Oh, good. You eating breakfast?”
“Yep.”
Tessa crouched back down, and Yvlon stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] scratched at her head.
“Some night, huh? And guess what? I leveled up! I think I did, at least. Wait a second…”
Erin put a hand on her chin. She felt like she was forgetting a key thing. Level up. Great stuff. Fun [Innkeeper]…
Deconstructed door?
Erin’s smile turned waxy for a second, and Ishkr glanced up as Yvlon blinked and smiled.
“That’s great news, Erin! Right?”
The [Innkeeper] gave her an unconvincing smile that made Pisces and Ksmvr stop chewing and glance at each other. Lyonette’s eyes narrowed, and she saw Liska’s panicked look. Seborn grunted and reached for his daggers as Mrsha turned her head.
“Y-yeah. Totally great. Um. Ishkr? What was that thing you were gonna mention? I’m just gonna go over here a second, Yvlon, and—”
A scream echoed from the entrance of the inn. Everyone looked up—and a wailing Gnoll and laughing Drake burst into the room.
Saliss of Lights and Xif had apparently fallen asleep in the rec room. Whereupon they’d tried to get back to Pallass, only to find—
“Someone’s destroyed the door to Pallass! I—I’m stuck here!”
“You’ll have to walk back! Four hundred miles!”
Saliss was laughing at Xif as the [Alchemist] wrung his paws. Erin Solstice saw all her guests look up in horror and lifted a hand.
“Wait, I have a new Sk—”
Too late. The inn exploded into chaos as the adventurers went pouring out to see what had happened. Lyonette threw up her hands in despair. Mrsha looked around for Temile, the Players of Celum, and wondered if they were stranded in Invrisil or worse—Celum.
And Erin? She thought for a second, then waited for everyone to flood out of the common room. Silently, she looked around and counted the people who remained.
“This bad, Miss Erin?”
Calescent looked put out at the people who’d abandoned his meals. He looked at the Goblin and Antinium staff, and one of the Goblins decided that if Ceria wasn’t eating her meal, she would. She sat down and began to eat—until someone glared at her.
Rags had stayed in her seat. Tessa appeared from behind the bar, and Saliss emerged from behind the common room door, sniggering. Erin saw Seborn take a gulp of water and put her hands on her hips. She eyed Ser Dalimont and nodded.
“Well, well, well. Are you all the smart ones?”
“I’m the lazy one. I’m not getting up and running around in the morning. Besides—no one disintegrates a valuable object.”
The [Rogue] toasted Erin. The [Innkeeper] laughed and then saw a timid girl raise a hand.
“I’m here too, Miss Erin.”
“Nanette!”
The witch was munching on some toast with melted cheese on it by the fire. Erin beamed at her. She closed her eyes and thought for a second. She heard a squeak, and when she opened them—
Nanette jumped as a door appeared next to her. But it was not the door to the garden or even the true door of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Erin opened her eyes—and they widened as Saliss rubbed his claws together and chortled.
“I’ll pay you 50 gold coins to keep this a secret from Xif all day.”
Erin just smiled as a door appeared, framed by stone, and a glittering crystal knob and oval mirror of glass showed another inn—where a distressed group of Humans, including Temile, suddenly jumped and leapt back and began pointing at—
The [Door of Portals]. Erin Solstice felt it ready to go and eight different spots it could reach. She beamed as the door swung open.
Mrsha and the distressed guests were just in time to see the door opening—and the stone archway allowed Temile and a relieved flood of guests to pour through. Liska’s eyes bulged as she saw twenty people race into the inn, and Drassi threw herself down on the floor.
“Oh, thank the Ancestors! I was afraid I’d be stuck—”
The Players of Celum followed and several citizens of Liscor, Celum, and Pallass.
Twenty-nine people came through the door, and Liska expected it to blink out like normal after half that. But it didn’t. The portal stayed open, and Erin exhaled. She clapped her hands and laughed in delight.
“It’s got juice! I could send, like—eighty-three more people! To Invrisil! I could probably open a door in Riverfarm! I’ve got a magic Skill door! I’ve got a magic Skill door!”
The upgraded [Door of Portals] looked cooler, could send more people—and it could reach a hundred miles farther than the last one. Erin danced around as her guests stopped in awe—right until someone wandered through the door and inspected it on Erin’s side of the inn.
“Oh. Here it is. And I thought I’d have to begin work right away. Mmm…mm. Apprentice, look at this.”
Valeterisa, the Archmage of Izril, walked through the door, and everyone turned to stare at her. Valeterisa, or ‘Valley’ as some of her friends from the Adventurer’s Haven called her, had a plate of food floating behind her. It bumped into her cheek as she turned.
“What’s this?”
‘Eat me.’ A folded notecard was placed on top of the plate, and Valeterisa blinked at it.
“Oh, breakfast. How convenient.”
She began eating as Erin turned to her. And the [Magical Innkeeper] saw how Larra ran her inn. The sleepy Archmage looked nothing like the woman who had carried Fissival into the sky.
Yet she was the same one, and Montressa du Valeross appeared to Bezale’s delight. She stopped as she saw Ceria, Pisces, and the others, but she tugged nervously at Valeterisa’s arm.
“Archmage, you’re supposed to be at The Adventurer’s Haven for breakfast.”
“But this is magic.”
“Mihaela Godfrey told me to fetch you! Archmage, please…”
The thought of annoying the famous Guildmistress was so apparently distressing that Valeterisa noticed Montressa’s anxiety.
“Oh, very well. After I just inspect this door for a little bit. She’s going to visit this inn anyways. I’m just…hm. Hmmmmmmmmmmmm. Hm. Ah, it’s been replaced by a door made of Skills. Just as I thought. Completely incomprehensible enchantment if there even is one. Take note, Apprentice. This is what we call a sidegrade. Or—how did Nailihuaile put it? ‘An upgrade made of gold-painted shit’. I was just about to work on this door too.”
Valeterisa poked the door absently. Erin’s dancing stopped, and the [Innkeeper] turned.
“Say what now?”
The Archmage of Izril looked around.
“Well, it’s a Skill-based door. It probably scales off of levels, not magic. Which means I can’t upgrade it anymore.”
Valeterisa looked around, and everyone stared at her blankly.
“I was going to do this. I’m sure I mentioned it? At Fissival?”
It seemed to occur to her that this wasn’t Fissival. The Archmage uncertainly looked around, and she edged back into Invrisil’s side. Then she made a fist and struck her palm with it as her mouth fell open.
“Wait. This means I can make my own teleportation network. And I have less competition.”
She smiled.
“Yay.”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice had a new door. The news was only slightly tempered by Valeterisa’s revelation that it was no longer contingent on the magical enchantment.
“Ignore Valeterisa. This is a good thing for your inn. The best outcome, in fact, and time will doubtless prove that—especially if Valeterisa makes good on her promise to create a teleportation network. Which is no guarantee; she has failed before.”
Larracel herself came to inspect the door, or rather, her inn did. It was still hovering around Invrisil, having stopped for the combined party between inns.
She walked through the door, and Erin felt her enter her inn, as if a sudden charge of electricity were filling the building. Not hostile—just foreign, a sense of an [Innkeeper] whose level exceeded her own.
Was that how Agnes and the others had felt? However, Larracel didn’t look like some former Named-rank monster or a terrifying woman.
She was short, pretended to look like a member of staff, she had greying hair, and the magic in her eyes was only there when she wanted it to be. She was, in fact—a bit like Erin Solstice.
—But the difference was, she was also a [Mage] and an adventurer. And she’d been doing this for a long time.
“Erin Solstice. Hello and good morning. You must have leveled up. I didn’t, but I’m sure I made progress towards my next one. Congratulations.”
“Oh, thank you—”
There was something more formal about Larra, so Erin almost offered her a handshake, but the other [Innkeeper] just stood there until Lyonette hurried over.
“Won’t you have a seat, Innkeeper Larracel? Can I get you anything to drink or eat?”
“Do you have any of this coffee I think I saw your inn advertising? I would like to taste it properly prepared. And whatever anyone else is eating.”
The [Innkeeper] sat down and smiled at Mrsha.
“Hello there. Who is this young woman?”
Mrsha shyly held out a paw, and Larra shook it.
“Ah, the scamp. I think I know your name. Mrsha?”
Beware of this woman’s gifts! Mrsha narrowed her eyes and stared at Larra’s fresh omelette as the [Innkeeper] turned to greet Nanette and the other diners. Larra didn’t even bat an eye at Numbtongue, and Mrsha slowly reached out—
Someone tugged at her ears before she could mess with Larra’s plate. Mrsha froze with a hefty pinch of salt and saw a glowing imp-familiar tugging on one ear. She hid her paws behind her back as that [Innkeeper] turned—and one of Larracel’s eyes glowed.
“I’ve seen a lot of pranksters like you, young woman. If you want to start a war, just don’t complain about how it ends.”
Mrsha decided to sit up and be very polite. Larracel reminded her of Shaman Theikha—in that she seemed nice, kind—and might throw Mrsha into the sky if she got mad.
“It’s great to see you again. I mean—we met yesterday, but thanks for coming over.”
Erin was only slightly flustered, but Larracel just chuckled.
“Let’s not stand on formality, Erin. You, I like. Besides, we’re not two [Innkeepers] who need to negotiate like the local associations. My crowd is sure to bother you—if only because they want to get to the south and my inn’s too slow. As for the door? Valeterisa’s only focused on magic. It’s better to have a Skill.”
“You think so?”
Erin had begun feeling some chagrin about the original door being lost, but Larracel calmly cut a bit of the omelet and ate as she explained.
“Doors that aren’t Skills can be stolen. I have heard a few attempts were made on yours—and a door that can be taken makes you a target for [Thieves], no matter how good the security is. This is far, far better for your inn. If Valeterisa makes her network, your inn is still valuable.”
“Yeah, that’s right! And people have stolen my door before—plus, I think this one’s got a lot more mana. I can tell. I can send way more people over without charging it up. Although…it might not be able to be manually charged by mages anymore.”
“Well then, it’s consistent. Did you gain anything else?”
“Just a spell. Wait, I can cast magic! I have—[Playful Radiant…Fishies].”
Erin’s excitement diminished as she said the spell out loud, and Pisces snorted loudly. Prixall and Ulvama glared at him, and the latter wiggled her fingers. He jerked back as a spider emerged from his hash browns.
“Interesting spell. Is that Goblin magic?”
“Yeah. I mean, I have a few other spells—mostly [Witch] stuff. I can use my craft to fuel the magic. Like a sorcerer?”
“Interesting. I’m a [Mage], but it is something that both our inns are so magically-based. I hate competition, so let’s not compete.”
Larra chuckled. Erin smiled in relief.
“I don’t actually know much about magic to tell you the truth. [Witch] stuff, a bit, but not magic magic.”
Nanette sat up indignantly at her table, but she was too shy to say anything in front of the other famous [Innkeeper]. Larra raised her brows.
“Oh? Well, I can give you some pointers. I’m technically a [Wizard], but [Mage] magic isn’t much like other types. Mine is embodied in a lot of objects, my inn especially. Would you like to visit it? Or I can summon my hordes to your inn.”
Erin had seen the Adventurer’s Haven from afar, but she and Larra had needed to deal with the literal crowds who flooded both inns. She hesitated.
“I wouldn’t be interfering, would I?”
She knew Larra had noble guests and…but the [Innkeeper] waved that off.
“The Haven is large enough to feed an army, which it has done time and time again. My staff can handle everything—you’ve met Barnethei?”
“That guy who snuck in?”
Larra nodded with a smile.
“He’s ambitious. And he’ll probably be your largest competitor—but he keeps my inn running without my direct influence. He could easily accommodate a few dozen more. What do you say?”
Erin looked around, and half her friends were nodding or trying to get her to say ‘yes’. And she had to admit, she was curious, so she agreed.
