Nadia reached the tendril in three seconds. Her hands moved with the Trapsmith's efficiency -- disarming the trap mechanism, repurposing its anchor point, redirecting its tension so that the Rootwhip Tendril now pulled against the Sentinel's own compression. The root-barrier on the left side groaned, strained, and held open.

```stat-screen
[SKILL ACHIEVEMENT]
Nadia Volkov-Baptiste -- Trapsmith (Lv. 5)
Achievement: Environmental Repurpose
  Repurposed existing floor hazard as structural
  countermeasure against boss mechanic.
XP Earned: +100
```

The second Null Compound went in during the compression window. Nadia threw it sidearm, the grenade threading through a gap in the root barriers and detonating against the Sentinel's trunk. Eight more seconds of stripped magic armor. Two of three used. The last one was for Floor 10.

"Central node exposed!" Solenne's voice, sharp with analytical certainty. "Tomás -- coordinates through Harmony Conductor. Upper trunk, two meters right of center, one meter below the crown. The node is behind the bark, but the bark is offline. You have a window."

The coordinates arrived in his perception through the Conductor's feed -- not as numbers but as spatial awareness, a point in three-dimensional space that he could feel relative to his own position the way he felt the wind's direction on the Reservation. Solenne's Arcane Analysis at Level 7 fed the data with a precision that made his Clearvoiced perception sing.

He drew.

The bow's draw weight was heavier than standard -- he and Vesper had designed it that way, the AGI enhancement shaving milliseconds off the nock, the extra weight buying penetration. His AGI at 33 meant the draw was smooth and the release was invisible. No wind-up. No telegraph. The arrow was on the string and then it was not.

Precision Shot. The arrow crossed forty meters of vertical distance in a breath and struck the Sentinel's central mana node through the gap in its bark plating. The impact resonated through the root network -- he felt it in the arch beneath him, a shudder that ran through the entire organic architecture of the chamber.

The Sentinel's Phase 3 transition stuttered. The enrage sequence that should have begun immediately -- the full acceleration, the desperate final push -- delayed. Thirty seconds. He had bought them thirty seconds.

Those seconds mattered.

Dayo used them. Shield Rush into the trunk at the point where roots met floor, destabilizing the attachment points that held the Sentinel upright. The impact of STR 31 through System-enhanced gauntlets against compromised root-structure was not dramatic. It was structural. Load-bearing elements failed. The Sentinel swayed.

Miriam's Thorned Ground erupted beneath the trunk -- sharp root-formations catching the Sentinel's base tendrils, holding them, preventing the regrowth that would have stabilized the creature. Vesper's Enhancement Inscription on Dayo's gauntlets was still active, the +15% STR bonus visible in how the next Shield Rush hit harder, cracked deeper.

Solenne channeled Ley Conduit -- five seconds of doubled INT poured into an Arcane Bolt that struck the exposed mana node from below, the arcane energy following the channel Tomás's arrow had carved.

Nadia's Stumble hit the Sentinel's sensory cluster -- a thrown knife to the crown, the debuff dropping its defenses by twenty percent for four seconds. In those four seconds, Dayo landed the final Shield Rush.

The Sentinel's trunk cracked. Not a dramatic fracture -- a structural failure, the sound of something that had been holding together ceasing to hold. The twenty-meter frame swayed once, twice, and then the root connections that had made it part of the chamber released all at once, and it fell.

The chamber shook. Bioluminescent fungi flared bright green, then dimmed to their resting state. Dust and organic debris drifted through the air. The root barriers from the Phase 2 compression sagged and went still.

Silence. The kind that follows the end of something large.

```stat-screen
[FLOOR 9 BOSS DEFEATED]
Thornweave Sentinel (Boss, Lv. 15)

Party XP Earned: 800
Bonus: No Party Member Downed

Loot:
  Rootwood Core (Rare crafting material)
  Root-Walker Greaves (Uncommon)
    +2 AGI, +15 Physical Defense
    Passive: Silent movement through organic terrain
```

Tomás descended from Position 3. The root arch's surface was familiar under his hands now -- he climbed down without rushing, his bow across his back, the medicine bundle on his quiver swinging gently with each movement. He landed on the chamber floor and the Root-Walker Greaves were waiting in the loot display, organic armor that looked like it had grown rather than been crafted, and when he equipped them the silence was immediate -- his footsteps on the root-mass floor produced nothing. No sound. As if the organic terrain had accepted him.

Miriam was already examining the Rootwood Core, turning it in her hands with the careful attention she gave to materials she understood through the Warmhearted Aspect's connection to living systems. "Warden-attuned," she said quietly. "I can feel the growth pattern. This would enhance a nature-focus significantly."

Vesper appeared beside her, not asking for the Core, simply present with the Openhanded Aspect's awareness of what a material could become. Miriam placed it in Vesper's hands without discussion. They would figure out its best use together. This was how they worked.

---

The "All Secrets Found" notification arrived as they gathered in the chamber's aftermath. Tomás had located the hidden cache during his pre-fight scout -- a root junction in the upper corridor where Harvest had flagged a concealed space that his Eagle Eye confirmed. The cache contained a Skill Book.

```stat-screen
[FLOOR 9 -- ALL SECRETS FOUND]
Bonus Objective Complete

Reward: Skill Book (Tier I)
  Burst Speed
  After any successful Stumble, user's AGI
  increases to 150% for 3 seconds.
  Requirement: AGI 18+, Jester class

Eligible: Nadia Volkov-Baptiste
```

Nadia absorbed the Skill Book with the particular focus she had when something mechanical clicked into place beneath the surface of her awareness. She flexed her hands once, testing. "That," she said, "is going to be ridiculous."

"Define ridiculous," Tomás said.

"I Stumble something, and then I am briefly faster than you." She looked at him. "For three seconds, I am the fastest person in this party."

"For three seconds."

"Three very good seconds."

He almost said something about the statistical improbability of her AGI exceeding his at 150% of her base versus his sustained 33. He did not, because the math actually worked -- 22 times 1.5 was 33, which meant for three seconds they would be precisely equal, and Nadia would take that equality and turn it into something he could not predict, because that was what the Brightspirit Aspect did with equal footing. It made the footing unequal again, in her favor, through means that could not be anticipated.

He kept this observation to himself. She would figure it out on her own, and the figuring out was part of the gift.

Dayo's Anchor had been running as a full-party passive throughout the fight. Tomás had felt it from Position 3 -- not as warmth exactly, but as the awareness of being held in someone's attention. She had tracked all five of them simultaneously, from the floor, while fighting. The skill notification registered quietly in the Party Record.

```stat-screen
[PARTY RECORD UPDATE]
Harmony Skill (Steadfast: Anchor)
  Full party passive: Confirmed
  Simultaneous tracking: 5 targets
  Range maintained: 40m+ (Position 3 included)
  Status: Active / Full party / Sustained combat
```

---

The Transition Hall was the same as every Transition Hall. Smooth black stone, amber light, the maintained stillness of a space that existed between places. A door behind them, sealed. A door ahead of them, dark.

Floor 10.

They stood there, all six of them. Dayo with her shield arm at her side and the Sentinel Gambit's crystal lattice dark on her forearm. Miriam with the Rootwood Core in her pack and her hands loose and ready. Vesper with her Workframe collapsed to carry position and her eyes already calculating what the next floor would demand. Solenne with the Annotated Staff in her hands, the word *designed* pressed against her palm in letters almost too small to read. Nadia with a new skill settling into her muscles and a knife she was not cleaning.

Tomás with Root-Walker Greaves that made no sound on the black stone floor, and a truth in his chest that he carried for all of them.

The door ahead was dark. Behind it, the Ironjaw Sentinel. Behind it, Class Selection. Behind it, the reason they were here -- the reason they had always been here, whether they knew it or not.

Nadia looked at the door.

"One more door," she said.

It was a small thing to say. She said it into the silence of six people looking at Floor 10's entry, and it was exactly the right thing, because it was honest and it was funny and it was also completely true. One more door. Behind it, everything.

No one answered. The amber light held them. Six people, six Resonance Shards warm in pockets and on wrists, six Harmony Aspects that the Tower had known about before any of them were born.

Tomás looked at the door.

One more door. And through it, the thing they had been moving toward since the beginning. He did not know if he was right to stay silent. He did not know if Solenne was right to ask him to wait. He knew that the people standing beside him were good, and that they deserved to know, and that knowing before this fight might break something in the way they held themselves, and that Solenne had weighed this and decided, and that he had agreed.

He kept the thought to himself. It was not time yet.

The door waited. All six of them waited with it. And the weight of what he knew -- what he and Solenne carried for the rest of them, what the Tower had written into its walls before anyone alive had been born to read it -- sat in the amber light between them, invisible and heavy and true.
