It did something bad enough that Shiv cracked the Tarrasque more with every subsequent hit. Marikos was swinging harder now, getting only faster. Shiv closed his eyes and swallowed back mouthfuls of vomit. It took a lot to make him nauseous, but the Dragon-Knight achieved it with little effort. Shiv activated the Song of the Vigilant, maintaining his focus not for spellcasting, but to keep getting tougher.

Even so, the arms race between the Tarrasque's body and Shiv's Heroic-Tier skill was a hopeless one. As the Tarrasque cracked, it healed, and as Marikos swung Shiv harder and harder, the Pillar of Orichalcum began to sustain damage, and Shiv himself thereafter. The soul-wounds inflicted by Stormhalt's lightning earlier still wept with free-flowing blood.

Part of Shiv's shoulder cracked, and then he felt one of his lungs deflate after a particularly heavy impact. Marikos let out a deafening bellow as he brought Shiv down, intending to drive the Deathless through the Tarrasque's eye. But massive hands clamped around Shiv, hands infused with the power of gravity. Shiv stopped dead. Marikos gave a cry of exertion, but he couldn't move Shiv at all.

Marikos adapted, blasting a beam of concentrated fire into the Tarrasque’s eye. But when the haze cleared and the smoke parted, the Tarrasque was glaring at them with a large, toothy smile on its face. It let out a chuckle, and it twisted its hands in opposite directions. Shiv's skill cracked, and part of Shiv's skull shattered as a wave of gravitational force flowed through his Orichalcum, slamming into his body. He let out an agonized shout, and he heard Marikos call his name.

The Dragon-Knight released Shiv then. He held up both hands, and an orb of pulsating fire materialized between them. It was an overwhelmingly powerful sphere of Pyromancy, bright enough that its very presence consumed this static world in light, and hot enough that Shiv felt his flesh char even within the pillar.

In that moment, he remembered something that Valor had told him, all the way back in the Umbral Wilderness.

“Pyre of the what?” Shiv had asked.

“It’s something that evolves from Pyromancy,” Valor had replied. “His flames are a bit more potent than most—closer to the fire of the sun than anything found on this world, if Marikos is to be believed.”

The Tarrasque prepared to unleash its explosive Magical Resistance once more, but Marikos still had one more trick up his sleeve. He slammed his foot against Shiv's pillar, and he drove Shiv into the Tarrasque's eye as soon as it released the Deathless. The behemoth let out a cry of surprised pain, and Marikos flung his arms downward, channeling the sun-bright incandescence of his Pyre of the Wounded Dawn directly into the Tarrasque's body.

"Burn now, creature of day!" Marikos cried, his voice resounding with power. "Burn, and learn to fear the light as we do!"
