As the cargo ship approached Wistram Academy, it burst into the sun. It had been raining but a moment ago; now, the [Sailors] relaxed and cheered.
They had arrived. And what a long voyage it had been! Too long. Especially to hear one of the passengers complain. The [Captain] himself was glad to be headed towards the docks. He had erred greatly, making a round trip across Pheislant rather than heading straight for the Isle of Mages.
It was usual for anyone who made the Wistram Detour—because the academy was in the ‘center’ of most maps, in the middle of the ocean between all the continents—to go along ports and collect people and [Mages] before heading to Wistram Academy. And given the number of people wanting to go right now—and the number of ships already docked and unloading—it had seemed like a profitable run.
However, the affable Drake [Trading Captain] had nearly yanked out all his neck-spines after nearly a week of being harangued by one of his passengers. The old half-Elf had practically flayed the Drake’s scales off with his tongue alone after hearing he wouldn’t immediately be taken to Wistram.
It wasn’t like he’d paid more than anyone else, as the Drake had patiently pointed out. To which he’d received the astonishing response that a [Mage] paid for service and that the [Captain] shouldn’t have even demanded a fee up front from a real [Mage].
Which was so incomprehensible that the crew had made jokes under their breath the entire cruise about the idea. The [Captain] however, had heard of stuff like that. [Archmages] who’d walk onto a vessel and demand the owner take them somewhere—even if they were [Pirate Lords] or [Storm Captains].
But that was the stuff of old tales. And again—his passenger was a half-Elf who was so old he had white hair, even if he looked imposingly well-preserved.
So the [Captain] had flattered and apologized, and pointed out he was taking fellow [Mages] to Wistram and that they were also taking new students for this quarter…and kept well out of the old man’s way.
Now, he was breathing a sigh of relief as he came into dock. The [Harbormaster] was waving him in; a man whose job was normally cushy, but who was right now cursing as dozens of ships came in and out. Per day.
Not that Wistram didn’t have enough places; it was an island so you could theoretically hop out on shore or take a rowboat, which was what some parties were electing to do. There were other docks too, which had actually been raised out of the sea for this occasion. Normally, Wistram didn’t get this much sea traffic.
But something was up with the academy. And that something was a gathering of [Mages] not seen since they had come together to declare the King of Destruction a public threat oh, thirty, forty years ago?
This was because Wistram had a secret. A big one, that had been circulating the academy since last year.
The Academy of Secrets, as it was sometimes called, traded such things. So—for a small secret, the lowest denomination of their secondary currency, you could learn this:
 
There were a bunch of strange kids in the academy. All Human.
 
Nothing much. That was a ‘small secret’, and it wasn’t even worth much. Small secrets were like that. Hints.
 
If you whistle while walking down a certain corridor, something interesting might happen.
 
For instance, that was a small secret that hinted at a larger truth. Well—this was a ‘spent secret’ in that most people knew about it.
Mage lingo. For instance, the medium-equivalent would be—
 
The Somela Corridor has a secret uncovered by whistling.
 
Or—
 
There are a group of Humans who the Archmages and the factions are fighting over. Here are the names of some of them…
 
More detail, more value. Now, the Somela corridor’s value stopped there since no one really needed to know more than that you could uncover the dedicated music classrooms and auditoriums by whistling a tune while walking there.
A decent tune, mind you. Anyone who couldn’t hold a note didn’t get to get in.
However, the big secrets and grand secrets? Those were where detail was everything. A big secret about what was consuming Wistram? It would include a list of every single one of them, confirmed and unconfirmed, what they’d done to be so interesting—if the secret broker was at all good, obviously—and the following:
 
These children do not come from any nation that can be pointed to on a map. They come from somewhere else, and the Archmages will have anyone’s head who doesn’t have their faction’s backing to tell the secret. And there are more of them being found every week.
 
Not many could afford that secret. Everyone, from the students to the teachers to the [Mages] living in Wistram, knew something about the Earthers. How much? Well…
And it was rare, but this secret had not left Wistram’s halls. The Archmages and the Council had put a lockdown on [Message] spells—since of course they could detect what was being sent—and had warned people. This was a secret for [Mages]. If you think it’s worth blabbing to someone, you might just find it was the last word you ever said in Wistram Academy.
Because they’d kick you out. Not because they’d kill you. Ahem.
It was this secret which was driving everyone to gather here. Because even experienced [Mages] with great friends in the academy received silence when they asked what the hullabaloo was about. Their allies only said one thing: ‘Come back. There’s something important you need to see.’
Thus, they came. And not just those who knew there was something to learn. [Mages] of every species, color, level, and age were congregating at the Academy, or would be on the way. Not all would arrive at one time; for instance, a certain half-Elf [Battlemage] was dragging her companions to the nearest harbor. It didn’t matter that she wasn’t here now, either.
This would be a month-long event. A semester of chaos and meetings and of course, banquets. That was why some [Mages] who hadn’t even graduated from Wistram were coming. For the event, to learn, and to eat. Drakes from Fissival, [Depth Mages] from the Drowned Folk, [Mages] fleeing from Belchan, other academies’ brightest and best to represent them, and so on.
Thus, as the Splendid Scale docked, not only was the [Harbormaster] and his team there to help count cargo, or speed up the unloading of passengers, a number of young [Mages] with diplomatic skills or inclinations were at the docks too.
Because Wistram had no idea who was coming. Oh, they had called on their Archmages, old Councilmembers, [Mages] in good esteem, and everyone on their list, but their actual message’s content had read somewhat differently from a call-to-arms. It was more like a social cue, and a casual one at that.
 
Hey, we’ve got food and drinks and secrets to share. Get over here and bring those braised Phoenix wings you had last time.
 
So they came. A flood of [Mages]. A herd—a pack—a cabal? A sorcery of [Mages], returning home.
One of the young [Bards] in the welcoming committee was adjusting her clothing as the morning sun made her sweat a bit. There wasn’t much of a breeze; Wistram was always sunny and calm and she had a Terandrian doublet, adjusted for a [Bard]’s sense of style, on.
She was one of those rare students whose real class wasn’t exactly [Mage]. But [Bards] used magic! Some of them. Barelle the Bard, for instance. So they’d put her in charge of welcoming Terandrians.
It was her job to sort people coming in. Into the right camps. For instance, there were the Archmages—two had already arrived!
Old Verdan Blackwood, the Dullahan Archmage and one of two from Baleros had actually made the trip, eager to learn what his people were hinting at. He was affiliated with the Iron Vanguard and the Qua-Baleros faction, which was hugely political. Smaller, really; they had more members abroad. They essentially were like the Libertarians with less focus on political reform, but represented their continent of Baleros just as heavily.
More overtly too; the Libertarians pretended like their mostly-Human, pro-interference party wasn’t the party of Terandria. Dullahans didn’t bother. Verdan, by extension, did not either; he was Human, but he was called the Dullahan Archmage because he wore armor like them and was essentially the extension of the Iron Vanguard’s might, for all Archmages were theoretically neutral.
He would have been a stir in himself. But then had come Archmage Valeterisa of Izril. And Wistram had flipped.
The Archmage of Izril had not been seen in a decade! Moreover—the reclusive Archmage had long since left the Academy to pursue her own magic. The fact that she had arrived and immediately demanded to see all the spells that had been invented or discovered was hilarious; she hadn’t even known the full scope of what was happening!
The young [Bard], Mena Alstren, would have loved to be in the academy trading secrets and maybe even meeting the new and powerful [Mages] coming in. But she had been assigned this job and at least she could maybe earn some points by introducing herself! Not that some of the old Terandrian [Mages] would remember her; she’d met half a dozen crotchety old men and women.
As the new boat came alongside the docks and the gangplank was lowered, the young woman glanced up and reluctantly got to her feet off the makeshift benches the greeting party had made out of barrels, sacks, and so on. She heard a call—
“Splendid Scale! No cargo—passengers only! New students, visitors from Izril and Terandria!”
“Ah, the new students. Selphid’s tits, I forgot they were coming! Someone greet them. I nominate you, Beme.”
“Me? Oh—fine. But you have to tell one of the [Mages] they need settling in!”
“Tell Cognita. Find a Golem and do it.”
“I don’t want to, though…”
The young Lizardman—really, a Lizardboy—whined. The Centaur was unmoved. He glanced sideways.
“Visitors from Terandria and Izril? That’s you and Seky, Mena.”
“Don’t abbreviate my name.”
An Oldblood Drake grumbled. She nodded at Mena and adjusted her much more open clothing as Mena put a big smile on her face. They began to walk to the gangplank as the students lined up—
From the railings of the trade ship, a pillar of stone smashed the gangplank to bits. The greeting party, [Harbormaster], and other [Captains] and crews recoiled as bits of wood splintered into the water. The pillar of stone caused a huge splash of water.
Some of it got on Mena’s doublet. She stared.
“A piece of wood? Is this what we’ve come to? First you cart me all the way to Pheislant like some piece of merchandise and now—out of the way. If no one else will do it, I’ll handle it myself! [Bridge of Light]!”
A shimmering walkway appeared in front of the scared passengers and greeting party. A gently sloping ramp—with stairs on either side, even handrails! Mena gaped.
That was a Tier 4—maybe a Tier 5 spell! She wasn’t sure, but it was more than just the tier that amazed her. It was beautiful. She had seen light-spells like the [Light Wall] version of the famous wall-defensive spells, but it was just…solid light. This? This was semi-transparent, gently molded colors along the vein of yellow such that they turned to green twining tendrils like vines around the railings, orange where the bridge met stone or wood, blue down the center…
It was a piece of art. And it had appeared in an instant.
The new students stared—then flooded down the walkway after testing it gingerly. They were fleeing the irate speaker. Mena looked at Seky and approached nervously. She heard the old half-Elf at the same time as she saw him lecturing the Drake [Trade Captain].
“—one does not make a [Mage] walk down pieces of wood. Not for a returning [Grand Mage] of Wistram! At least I see my reception party is down there, but I expected coordination with the docks! A [Light Bridge] is the least I could expect—not to mention the rain!”
“I am terribly sorry, Grand Mage Eldavin. It’s just that—the—the rain?”
The Drake had a terribly put-upon look. Reflexively, they all glanced towards the horizon; rain was pounding the bubble of calm air and sunny skies.
“Exactly! I was rained upon on our trip here! They couldn’t send a [Weather Mage] to whirl it elsewhere?”
“I—I—I can only apologize again, Grand Magus. But we have arrived! Perhaps you’d care to disembark at this time and put our inferior service behind you?”
The Captain looked like he would like that very much. Eldavin sniffed. He rummaged in his bag of holding.
“It seems it is time. I will not say this was a pleasant trip, [Captain]. Bear in mind proper service next time. However—for your trouble.”
He dropped a ruby the size of the Drake’s palm in the [Captain]’s hand. The Drake’s eyes popped. The half-Elf turned away. Mena began adjusting her doublet. She wished she had a hair-comb.
 
—-
 
The week-long delay had been good for something, at least. After a week, Teriarch had stopped tripping on his toes, and he’d refamiliarized himself with most aspects of having a humanoid body.
What a ridiculous design. Two legs? There was no real support there! He’d fallen too many times, forgetting he had neither tail nor two more legs to keep him stable. Even Drakes had a tail—he should have gone as a Drake.
But half-Elves got to be old without question, so Eldavin had managed. He’d also gotten back into casting spells as…well, [Mages] did it. Put the magic in the box and it worked. Boring, but there you went and it was bad to do magic any other way here.
And he’d arrived. The Dragon—no, half-Elf, he had to be in character—inhaled. Ah, what a relief. The Drake was spluttering, no doubt at the shoddy tip. Well, that was what one got. A real [Grand Mage]’s gratitude, now…
“Um—um—Grand Magus Eldavin? My name is Mena. I and Sekiyas are delighted to welcome you to Wistram Academy!”
A young, Human woman greeted the Dragon with a bow. The Drake beside her did the same, wide-eyed. Teriarch—no—Eldavin—smiled. Then he stopped.
“I am delighted to return. And I see my reception is…?”
He peered past Mena for the rest of the greeting party. But a Lizardman was taking the new students up and to the Academy and the rest hadn’t bestirred themselves.
He frowned. The young [Bard]’s smile desperately widened.
“I’m so sorry, Grand Magus. But we are having [Mages] arriving each hour and we are a bit—understaffed.”
She nudged Seky. The Drake nodded rapidly.
“Extremely. Too many boats, not enough [Mages]. Er—even Archmage Valeterisa had to wait to come into dock!”
That was true, if only by virtue of her not having announced herself. Teriarch read it as a mixed truth, but let it slide.
