“That old half-Elf is insane! Half-Elf versus half-Elf!”
“He’s going to lose. That’s what all the [Mages] are saying.”
Elena was listening to the commentary amid the roar of battle. George looked at her. The young man rubbed at one ear.
“Really? Then why do I hear boss music?”
Elena opened her mouth. Then she just slapped him on the back of the head. But George was right.
 
—-
 
“What is he doing?”
Feor was still unloading comets on Eldavin’s position, until the [Grand Mage] gave up. But Eldavin was—moving. He was throwing something, detonating one of the comets before he could hit it.
Trying to trigger them before they reached him? Valeterisa shook her head. Feor was channeling his mana into an optimized spell! Moreover, you needed an equivalent amount of power to stop one of Valmira’s comets. You couldn’t just cast, say, [Light Arrow] and expect it to explode one. They ate lesser magics, hence the spell’s power and Feor’s love of it.
Another comet exploded as the half-Elf began to weave, throwing barriers up, forcing Feor to home in on him. He was clearly running out of power. Valeterisa watched. She did not want him to die. But then—
Boom, boom, boom.
Three of [Valmira’s Comets] exploded in the air. Three amongst dozens. But they detonated well before reaching their target. Feor noticed and a frown crossed his expression of concentration.
The [Mages] stirred. Then—Eldavin pointed and half the incoming comets exploded. But Valeterisa hadn’t seen a spell! The Archmage of Izril drifted into the firefight, staring. Invisible magic? What was—
She realized what he was doing. Only a handful of [Mages] could even comprehend it. Grimalkin of Pallass’ eyes were wide. He breathed the answer at the same time as the [Wardsmistress] of Fissival.
“He’s…unraveling the spells as they come at him!”
Eldavin’s eyes were closed as he stood there. What use were eyes to magical sight? His fingers twisted and plucked—
A dozen comets exploded seconds after forming. Feor stared up at them and then at Eldavin. His eyes were wide.
The same spell. The same spell! The half-Elf was panting, his robes scorched and damaged. Sweat ran down his brow. But Eldavin was still standing there. As if he had walked other battlefields.
The comets began to explode in the air. Now, Feor and Eldavin were wrestling with the magic, the half-Elf Archmage trying to reconfigure the comets that Eldavin had figured out how to trigger mid-flight.
The [Mages] of Wistram watched. Viltach, Verdan, Naili—no longer laughing, or raging, or mocking. The [Grand Mage] raised his hand as Feor’s comet storm winked out. The Archmage whirled his staff down.
“[Greater Tremor]!”
The world shook past his staff.
Eldavin’s feet left the ground. He looked down at Feor. Then he raised his hand. The two exchanged spells; a burning lance that cut the air and a flurry of doves made of light that left afterimages like razors. One dodged; the other threw up a shield.
The [Grand Mage] was panting, an arm cut by the spell that went through his barrier. Still, he raised his hand.
“He stood here, in these very halls! The great Archmage of Terandria! The Undying Shield of Calanfer! The Archmage of Death! Remember his name! [Summon Spectral Skeletal Warriors]!”
And then the figures broke the stone of the banquet hall. They pulled themselves up, lifting blades of energy. Feor’s eyes went wide. He blew three to bits; the others charged.
Eldavin whirled as the [Mages] cried out. He lifted a hand.
“They were both here. Now—[Zelkyr’s Emergency Golem].”
The splintered wood and broken plates—even bits of food rose in a whirling arc. Cognita, shielding the students, slowly rose. She saw a ten-foot-tall being assemble itself. It began to run at Archmage Feor. A Golem made of bits of wood and detritus.
The scrap Golem charged. Feor was fighting off both the spectral skeletons, which kept trying to reassemble, as well as the Golem who hit a magical wall he created. And now—he was unable to cast another grand spell as Eldavin flicked a [Shatterbolt] at his face.
The old [Mage] was winning! Eldavin looked around like a hunting predator. His eyes alighted on the Drakes. He pointed a finger.
“Evasive!”
Grimalkin barked. The Fissival Drakes scattered as the [Siege Fireball] burst on the [Wardmistress]’ shields.
“He’s gone mad!”
One of the Drakes shouted. He lifted a wand and Eldavin flung an orb of light at him. It detonated in the Drake’s face and everyone went blind.
“Complacency! Is there no one who respects magic?”
He roared. The half-Elf turned again—and a shadow wrapped around his leg. He went cross-eyed.
“Dr—”
The tendril flicked him through the air. The half-Elf got up with a growl, looking at—
The eight [Depth Mages] were all standing save for one. The veiled woman pointed at him and bolts of anti-light shot across the ground. Pure darkness, eating up visibility. They passed straight through a table and a broken [Wall of Stone].
Eldavin just flicked eight [Arrows of Light] up and they burst. The [Depth Mages] wavered.
“He knows our magic, mother?”
“Surprising.”
The eighth, their seated leader, went to grab Eldavin with the tendril again. He saw it coming, somehow, and slashed the shadow with a glowing sword of light. He pointed.
“[Lightning Bolt]!”
It shot across the ground and vanished. The air was dark; a dome around the eight women which had absorbed even one of [Valmira’s Comets]. One of the Drowned Folk’s [Mages] smirked behind her veil.
[The Midnight Veil]. A spell that belonged to their class and nature. Even an arrogant land-mage wouldn’t understand—
Eldavin took one look at the dome and sighed.
“Darkness mage. Appropriate for the deeps. Let’s see. [Light Orb] crossed with…”
He muttered and then flicked a glowing orb into the barrier. The eight saw the light vanish, as all things d—
Two dozen bursts of light tore at the veil. Their leader gasped.
The veil flickers. She heard the warning siren in her mind, and how many times had she ever heard…?
Her daughters cried out in dismay. She rose—and a tide of black water shot across the ruined floor. Eldavin levitated over it; it surged upwards and he cut the spell at the base. The water flooded around and then began to vanish.
“A powerful [Mage] indeed. Daughters—go.”
They hesitated. Then all seven stepped back. The [Depth Mage] stood up—and all eight removed their veils.
What they presented to the [Mages] of Wistram was the same face. One far older than the rest, who were sequentially younger. The same face.
Not just—related. But exactly the same. Just in different stages of age. Half-Human, exceptionally pale of skin because she crewed vessels that sailed dark currents where the sun’s rays were forgotten. And she had learned a magic fitting to that place, supreme in darkness.
The other half of her face? A starfish’s rough skin, reddish, hard. Her daughters, clones of one self.
“Grand Magus Eldavin. Do you pick a fight with the representatives of the Drowned Folk?”
“I pick a fight with anyone and everyone in this moment!”
He snapped back. The half-Elf’s blood was burning. He was half-smiling, half-furious. He strode about the destroyed banquet hall; the woman turned to face him, her fingers moving shadows around her.
“I am Grand Magus Eldavin. And that seems to mean more than it did when I left. I knew Zelkyr of old and Chandler both! They do not even dare to say his name here. But you will respect my will!”
Feor had destroyed the summoned things and was watching Eldavin. His staff poised. Viltach was ready to jump back in, having geared up, furious. The [Depth Mage] was drawing from her daughters. Eldavin was panting, reaching for a mana potion. Both his opponents tensed—
And Eldavin whirled.
“[Spell Purge]!”
He pointed. Both Feor and the [Depth Mage] raised their guards—but Eldavin wasn’t aiming at them. He aimed at a patch of air to his left. It rippled—then vanished. The old half-Elf traced it across the ground.
“Come out before I force you to.”
He growled. The air seemed to quiver—
Then a Centaur trotted out of the air. He looked extremely put out. Everyone stared.
None more than the Ullsinoi. For as he had appeared—
Galei and Taxiela had vanished. And this Centaur was far older than Galei. Moreover?
He had scales amid his fur. On his skin, even face and arms. A product of mixed species. Eldavin’s eyes narrowed.
“Who are you?”
“Call me…Gaxiela. I was just admiring talent from up close.”
The strange [Mage] winked. Eldavin aimed a finger at him. Then whirled left.
Feor, ‘Gaxiela’, the [Depth Mage] of the seas, and Eldavin saw Valeterisa walk towards Eldavin. The half-Elf opened his mouth.
“Y—”
Valeterisa spoke.
“[Bound Fireball], [Bound Fireball], [Lightning Bolt], [Gust of Air], [Burst Arrows of Light], [Thunderclap], [Roving Silent Sickle], [Stone Lance], [Stone Lance], [Stone Lance], [Stone Lance], [Tidal Wave], [Spray of Needles], [Darkness Pool], [Burning Floor], [Merda’s Push], [Multiplied Stone Fists], [Enhanced Flame Spray], [Caustic Acid]—”
Her voice was layered multiple times, such that she was casting multiple spells—and sped up. Feor saw Eldavin—vanish in a spectacle of lights.
Everyone clapped their hands to their ears, except those smart enough to have used spells already. When Trey could see and hear again, he saw Eldavin, panting, laying sprawled on the ground.
He’d gotten to safety—just. But his robes were simultaneously on fire, dissolving from acid, steaming wet, and suffering from multiple effects. He’d also taken a number of injuries to his legs and right side.
In the silence, Valeterisa’s head turned. Her face was composed, even blank. She looked at Eldavin.
“I am Archmage Valeterisa of Izril. The authority of Wistram’s Archmages does not submit to a lone [Grand Mage]. Will you relent?”
Eldavin stared up at her. His eyes sparked—and then he raised a hand, palm up.
“I do. I throw myself upon the mercy of the Council of [Mages], and apologize for my indiscretions. I will, of course, make amends.”
The Archmage of Izril gazed at Eldavin as he groaned and reached for a healing potion. Uncertainly, Feor adjusted his staff. After a moment, Valeterisa nodded.
“Very good.”
She turned and walked off. The audience stared at Eldavin as he groaned about actual pain and fumbled with the cork, then smashed it on the ground and levitated the liquid up to tend to his wounds. They looked at each other.
So camest Eldavin, [Grand Mage] of Wistram, to the Academy of Mages.
 
—-
 
The next day, Grand Magus Eldavin woke up sore.
Where?
Everywhere. And it wasn’t just physical pain. He was suffering from mana burnout. He felt sick, nauseated, and nearly tried to blow up…reality…that he might not suffer this.
He eventually stumbled to his feet after downing a healing potion and mana potion because he was hungry.
The injustices of a body that didn’t run on mana or generate it for himself! He was halfway out the door when he realized two things.
Firstly, that he hadn’t put his robes on, forgetting once again that he was supposed to wear clothes almost at all times. He was only in his undergarments, which was well because an entire crowd of people was waiting for him.
The half-Elf stopped as they all admired his abs.
“Whoa. Dude’s ripped.”
Someone muttered in the crowd. Trey thought it was George. Eldavin did not blush—he just tapped his body.
“Excuse me.”
Cloth covered him in a second, attiring him like some scholar-adventurer. He still walked back into the room and came out a moment later in his robes. Then he looked around.
“It seems I have guests.”
“Grand Magus, I come from Archmage—”
Eldavin raised a hand and the speaker was [Silenced]. He looked around—the hallway was packed—and then strode off. The crowd followed.
Trey knew exactly where Eldavin was going. So he took a shortcut, ran, and beat the others to the banquet hall. Eldavin settled himself down at a table.
The hall was still being fixed, but Golems were remarkably good at fixing up stuff good as new. So too with magic. He investigated the buffet, and food dishes levitated after him.
Half a dozen people wanted to show him to a seat, or had one waiting for him. Eldavin regarded the crowd, motioned them all aside, and pointed.
“Young Troy. And you. And you.”
He pointed. Three people, including Troy came to sit at the table. The others found themselves excluded by ten feet or more, unable to hear or see what was being said within.
Trey found himself sitting with Teura, Archmage Valeterisa, and Eldavin at the same table. He definitely felt like the odd one out. Eldavin politely raised his brow.
“Do neither of you have the desire to breakfast?”
Teura hesitated. She rose slowly, but Valeterisa did not. Trey already had his food.
“I do not require food. I wished to talk with you, Grand Magus.”
“It seems many do. Quite a difference from yesterday, when I was unknown. But as I believe it was said, ‘magic walks and talks the halls of Wistram—’”
“—little else does.”
The half-Elf stopped. Valeterisa looked at him. She was scooted to the edge of her seat, and, Trey noticed, almost vibrating with excitement.
“You recall the same expression. And you knew Archmage Zelkyr and Chandler.”
“Are they speaking his name again already? How does Wistram’s morality change.”
Eldavin snorted, but he gave Valeterisa a second look. She shook her head.
“I have never stopped. Your spellcasting yesterday is the talk of Wistram.”
“Is it now. I will no doubt be fined and censured by the Council. Ah, well…I understand the Academy now. And who to appreciate. Isn’t that so, young man?”
He looked at Troy. The [Sand Mage] ducked his head.
“Thank you, Grand Magus.”
Valeterisa jumped in as Teura returned through the bubble.
“Your spellcasting, Grand Magus, was exemplary. No spell you cast or theorem of magic you applied was unknown. Each spell alteration was replicable by some [Mage]—however you combined all elements in ways not thought of. Even emulating the school of physical magic postulated by Magus Grimalkin of Pallass!”
“I had cause to meet him. And he did not postulate it. He rediscovered it, if anything. Contextualize it properly, Archmage.”
Eldavin waved a fork as he chewed and spoke. He patted his mouth with a napkin.
“I am a highly-trained generalist practitioner, as befits my [Grand Mage] class. I do not consider myself overly valued for my class—but few [Grand Mages] exist, and it seems Wistram has…overvalued some forms of magic over the time I have been gone.”
Teura looked uncomfortable. Valeterisa just nodded and pushed up her spectacles.
