“Freezing. Why ice? She’s no [Cryomancer] or Ice Dragon…”
Yet there was a kind of logic there. Teriarch listened, mixing analytical disbelief with hope and…
“The fae think she’s alive. Or she can be healed. Ivolethe was trying to help me, before…and [Detect Death] and [Detect Life] both don’t work!”
“That does not mean she is safe. Is she warded? Against ghosts?”
“I…I don’t know? I’ll ask.”
Teriarch thought.
“If she lies in the [Garden of Sanctuary], she is. And this news…you met with him. You travelled to another world. You met with the King of Chivalry?”
“I have his autograph.”
Eldavin sprayed the mana potion across the room. He stared; he’d been running low on mana and had to sip one of those odious things. He stared, affronted, as mana potion ran from his nose.
Bodies!
“Please, Eldavin. Help her. Help me. I have…other things. Whatever you want.”
“You know what I have said, girl.”
Yet…that was just automatic. He was thinking. Ryoka gulped loudly and wetly.
“I do. But please? I can’t…I did my best. And I…”
“Hush. Before I speak on that, say it again. What did you say before that?”
Another gulp.
“They’re back. I…Laken got a text. He’s like me. Haven’t you seen…?”
“I am not close to that—device. You saw it? And…describe the meeting with the fae again.”
She did. And now Teriarch conceived a mortal horror the like of which he had not felt since the Creler wars.
Oh no. How? Why now?
But he knew.
Earth.
The Dragon thought. And he feared…more than the worst. This was pretty much it. Yet he sat in the rooms of Wistram and realized—he was where he needed to be.
Now, the Grand Magus spoke, and he was sincere in his words. His tone was steady, his eyes distant, watching mana potion drip down the far wall.
“Listen to me, Ryoka Griffin. I have business in Wistram. I am Grand Magus Eldavin and I now know I can do more good here than anywhere else. I must. But this is no time to be idle. There are…no. Allies?”
He thought and shook his head.
“Not for you to find. But listen to me. I will see about Wistram hunting you. And I will investigate your claims. I do not disbelieve you. But if what you say is true, this ‘text’ came from here. And I will uncover the truth of it. You may reach out to me as you wish.”
“Yes. Thank you. But Eldavin…Erin…”
“I cannot help her now.”
“No. Please. I know you—”
The pleading voice was silenced as he adjusted the volume. The Dragon spoke sternly.
“Listen. Be silent, Ryoka Griffin. I said, I cannot help her now. As I am. Do you understand me? I am inconvenienced. Far from my…usual abode. And means. Do you understand?”
An indrawn breath.
“Yes. Does that mean…?”
Again, he wavered. What had he told her? But then, he spoke.
“My aid is not so easily bought. But you may have something…I want. I must first conclude my work here. Then return. I cannot so easily make my way back, but there are ways to effect it quicker than by boat.”
Teleportation. They had to have at least one circle remaining. He spoke, sternly, but trying to get every word to her.
“When I do, I promise you, I will call you. And I shall uncover the means to help Erin Solstice. If it can be done, I can do it.”
He heard his own words and coughed.
“If you can pay for it, of c—”
“Thank you! Thankyouthankyou—”
“That’s quite enough. I said, ‘if’. I have work to do, and I cannot simply…wait. Yes. I promise. Do not make me repeat myself. I promise, and I do not break my word. Stop crying, child…”
And after a long time, he rose. He felt tired, but those painful tears had turned to ones of hope.
Wait. He could not go now, no matter how much she pleaded. He would—he had sworn it. But a shadow weighed upon his heart.
“Tamaroth’s beard.”
He shook his head. And that old curse seemed so sinister. The Dragon turned.
He really didn’t want to go to the banquet now. But it was more important. He shook his head. And hoped Ryoka Griffin would listen.
Wait. It might be painful, but wait. If there was hope at all, even the smallest spark of life, he would find it and bring it back. So wait, and do nothing hasty until then. It would not be long.
She had a Dragon’s promise.
 
—-
 
The first of many banquets in Wistram was a grand affair. Not that Wistram didn’t have lavish events each night.
Buffet? That was the staple. Exotic foods from around the world and master-class [Chefs] hired to produce treats at all hours? There would be riots without.
So when [Mages] threw a ball, they threw one.
Possibly even the now-infamous party in Riverfarm couldn’t compare in sheer expense. Certainly not to [Waiters], the rich and exotic foods like the aforementioned Phoenix wings (a debatable issue since they did grow back, but the Phoenixes really didn’t appreciate losing them), and more.
Each group who knew the score had brought gifts. For instance, there was rich fish roe from the [Depth Mages] sitting veiled and separate from the main tables. As Telim had told Aaron, the hierarchy was in full effect; the main factions sat closer to the head tables, with notable outsiders on the periphery and the general [Mage]-public to the rear of the banquet hall.
This was actually agreeable for the general public who didn’t care to be waited upon. They swarmed the buffet tables, talking, casting little spells and generally having a great time while politics and dignity engulfed the more important guests. Telim himself repeated his bag of holding trick, much to the umbrage of everyone who was lined up for cream puffs and many of the Earth-style desserts.
It was debatable whether expense = better, but that was [Mages] for you. Even the food was a kind of code.
“And what is this?”
A Fissival [Mage] pointed at one of the pizzas, now a staple in the diets of [Mages]. He looked at his fellow guests, noticeably shoved off the main gathering. They were displeased, but that was rivalry for you. One of the Oldblood Drakes sniffed; she was a [Wardmistress].
“Looks like cheese on bread. The things they come up with. Why…is that pineapple?”
Some people were depraved. But the symbolism wasn’t missed. A [Combat Mage] folded his arms and exhaled a bit of frost.
“New food. Plays. This is an echo of what was going down at Pallass. Your thoughts, Magus Grimalkin?”
A voice spoke from a scrying orb placed on the table. One of six; other Drakes were observing the banquet, symbolically here.
“Don’t eat the pizza. It’s quite unhealthy. Yes, this is exactly like Liscor. They have at least one.”
“Odds are—dozens. We’ve fallen behind. If the damned secret-thing these idiots have is any indication. I bought a ‘medium’ secret which…paugh. We have to get one for Fissival. If Pallass won’t share?”
He raised one brow. Grimalkin exhaled.
“I am Pallass. The only reason I am communicating is because this is a shared interest, Magus. Now—do you see Grand Magus Eldavin anywhere?”
The [Combat Mage] glanced around the room.
“We’re still filling up. So—not the pizza? What about the gelato?”
“Even worse.”
The other Drakes rolled their eyes. One went up to get a triple scoop. Magus Grimalkin was a graduate of Fissival, but he did preach so.
“When are we ‘allowed’ to mingle?”
“I think it’s the fourth course.”
The [Wardmistress] rolled her eyes.
“Wonderful. Where’s our [Waiter]? Excuse me—wine. Lots of it.”
They were one faction, and outliers at that. Other groups also observed their tenuous position in the pecking order, as set down by High Mage Soner.
“They’ve exiled us to this table, mother. What do we do? Are they insulting you? Testing?”
One of the [Depth Mages] from the sea-faction leaned over. Their leader, veiled in both aura and clothing, sat very still. She occasionally put a fork or bite under her clothing.
“In times past, they knew the worth of our magic. Perhaps since Zelkyr they have forgotten. Either way, the landfolk have what we need. Endure indignity.”
Her daughters nodded. Each one was quite peculiar—but Soner hadn’t noticed and the sea’s representatives were content to observe. For now.
Other new arrivals were in far better standing. An old Garuda for instance, Grand Magus Erkika, was included right in the circle of tables around the Archmages. He was known to all the [Mages], and they were plying him with wine as his apprentices and the serving staff fetched whatever he desired.
“Tell us about Qualve—Quelvekky—the Shield Kingdom, Erkika. Is it worth not visiting Wistram?”
The old Garuda was losing some of his plumage, but his eyes were still sharp enough. He drank lightly, as alcohol tended to affect Garuda far more quickly than others. He kept tossing up snacks and snapping them out of the air, never mind that it was bad manners.
“Qualvekkaras. And it’s a lovely place. You should all visit. Almost exclusively Garuda, but why mourn Wistram’s halls when I’m a [Prince] among my people?”
A portly half-Elf chuckled, one of Feor’s Centrists.
“True enough. If I could go back to my people as a hero and one of the greatest [Mages]…but we don’t have an empire or nation of our own.”
“Anymore. You thinking of starting the half-Elf kingdoms back up, Demerial?”
A Selphid—Sa’la, mingling before she headed back to Telim—got a kick from the half-Elf and a few snacks levitated at her. Everyone laughed, though.
They were [Mages] before species, most of them. And the notable ones were those who had left Wistram, to put petty nations or groups before magical solidarity.
“Archmage Verdan. How is the old Iron Vanguard doing? I heard you got put on the back foot by the Forgotten Wing Company. First the games at Daquin, now the loss with Maelstrom’s Howling.”
Nailihuaile was ribbing the elderly Human, who wore armor like Dullahans. Beatrice listened uncomfortably; she had great respect for the most venerated Human in Dullahan society.
Verdan Blackwood was unmoved. Like Dullahans, his face was blank as his body slowly turned to face Naili, rather than turn his head.
“We have suffered defeats, Archmage Nailihuaile. So does any great organization. Tulm the Mithril is confident we will soon enter a glorious new phase. We regroup and keep vital aspects of our strength. Unlike the lamentable fate of the Lizardfolk’s Great Company.”
Naili’s eyes narrowed.
“That’s very hurtful, Verdan. I thought we were being friendly!”
“Then draw your fangs, Archmage Naili. Are we at odds, or the representatives of Baleros?”
The man gave her a level look. The Lamia’s eyes flickered—then she smiled and was laughing with him.
“I guess we are! Baleros should stick together. Speaking of which…are you referring to the rumors about the Titan?”
Her eyes glimmered with interest. Verdan smiled politely. Those listening leaned in, because of course the rumor had begun to circulate already.
Niers Astoragon was missing. And the fact that he hadn’t been visible up close—just from a distance—only added to that claim. People said…he had suffered an accident. There were rumors. But the telling part?
Peclir Im had vanished.
It didn’t take a genius [Strategist] to figure out something might be up. And if one of the two pillars of the Forgotten Wing company was gone…
But that was politics outside of Wistram. Naili leaned over, just as symbolically as Feor and Viltach clearly vying for Valeterisa’s support.
“In the following discussions, interests should be aligned, should they not, Valeterisa?”
Feor was calmly indulging in the first course as Valeterisa poked at some veal. Viltach raised one brow.
“Of course they should, Archmage Feor. But perhaps Humans would understand the issue more completely.”
“Does magic distinguish itself by race, Archmage Viltach?”
Feor gave the Archmage a long look. Viltach shrugged eloquently.
“Perhaps not, Archmage Feor. But we find ourselves divided too often despite the fact that we are both Archmages of Terandria. Archmage Nailihuaile and Verdan are quick to ally. Chandrar’s Archmages—Archmage has yet to appear. But as it stands, there is one alliance.”
The half-Elf’s finger tapped against his plate slowly.
“Insofar as Terandria’s interests are represented, we find common ground, Viltach. However, Terandrian and Izrilian interests would provide a majority in most discussions.”
“True. What say you to that, Valeterisa?”
Both looked sideways at her. Valeterisa sighed. She selected Item #4 from the list she’d been composing with her multiple minds.
“That would depend on the nature of the discussion, Archmages. I have yet to be informed of what is necessary.”
“Ah.”
“Quite. But in the event that we come to odds?”
“No doubt Terandria should ally with Izril since we are closer to each other than Baleros.”
Valeterisa’s face was smooth. Viltach and Feor looked at each other and nodded. They pressed Valeterisa, innocently pretending to argue. She proceeded to ignore them. She was—distracted. She hadn’t made the mistake of getting lost in herself as she had before that fascinating young woman had woken her, but she was still devoting only a third of her mind to the present. And even that was really too much.
One third was performing analysis on that light beetle, speculating about the political acts she might need to take…and another third was busy deciphering a puzzle. Her eyes flickered across the floor. More guests moved in; it was hardly as if there was a set time for the banquet to occur.
And that was when Grand Magus Eldavin appeared.
 
—-
 
It was about forty minutes after his discussion with Ryoka Griffin. The Grand Magus had collected himself since then.
No—what was there to collect? He was perfectly calm. The half-Elf strode into the banquet hall and exhaled.
Erin Solstice was…not dead. Wounded, yes. And he had learned that Maviola El had also passed. The young [Lady] with fire and an older soul.
These things happened. He had seen better mortals die. Had he not lived so long as to know the fragility of their lives?
He was Teriarch, Lord of Flame.
No, he was Eldavin—
It mattered not. The half-Elf looked around, waiting to be announced and escorted to his seat. He had promised Ryoka Griffin to help, and he would keep his word. That was all.
They burn bright, like fireflies. That is why we do not grow attached. I did not even know her.
Eldavin remembered a hilltop. A garden he had thought he would never set foot in again. An absurd movie on a screen, inaccurate Elves…popcorn and a Gnoll child with white fur.
It meant nothing. He looked around then saw the High Mage hurrying over. Eldavin frowned with annoyance. But he controlled himself.
The young woman was dead. Not dead. Either way, it mattered not.
He was fine.
“Grand Mage Eldavin, apologies. Your seat is just over here…”
