The Lamia nodded. She tapped her staff, the relic-class artifact, the Serkonian Lance, to the ground. Not to cast a spell, just to be official.
“Then, as leader of the Revivalists and Archmagus and all of that, I expel Montressa du Valeross from our faction. I can’t do it from Wistram alone, but I only need one more Archmage’s support. And Feor won’t object. Because of her, someone from Earth was lost. And there are more children there. She isn’t ours. Bezale—I’ll let the Scriptels handle her. But she had no authority, do you understand, High Mage?”
“Yes, Archmagus.”
“Sort it out.”
Nailihuaile nodded to the blank scrying orb. There weren’t visuals since they only had a speaking spell on. The other end produced an affirmative sound.
“I’m ending the spell. Let me know what happens.”
It was done. The Archmage turned away from the mirror and slithered across her personal chambers. Beatrice stayed there for a second, then fastened her head to her body.
Good riddance. The Horns remained. But at least someone would pay. She came to stand behind the Lamia as the Archmage sighed.
“I don’t get it. She was right with you, Beatrice. I was going to make her my apprentice—or find her a good master for an [Aegiscaster]! What could have happened? She was begging me to go after that Pisces fellow and…”
“I don’t know, Archmagus. May we change the subject?”
Beatrice looked ahead. Naili nodded.
“Speaking of [Mages]—we’ve got some interesting guests. The Drowned Folk have sent some, there’s Drakes from Fissival—I’m really sad. Do you know why I’m sad?”
“No, Archmage. Why?”
Part of being Naili’s trusted helper was indulging her. Naili flitted around her room, getting ready for the banquet. Lamias and other snake-body type Lizardfolk didn’t dress like normal. Pants were impossible, and dresses were more for the look rather than a great need for modesty.
“I wanted Grimalkin of Pallass to attend. But he’ll only be watching via mirror. Do you know him? Did you hear about his duel with Archmage Feor?”
“Yes, Archmage. But I didn’t see it. Was it entertaining?”
“I would have loved to see him do it again! He kept trying to punch Feor’s lights out—ah, well. This is our first big banquet. Maybe Grimalkin will arrive later. And speaking of big names—Valeterisa’s back! I wasn’t even an Archmage when she left.”
Naili added some earrings to her attire and checked them out. Not her ears since she had none, but her neck-frills.
“She’s weird. And I know weird. I’ll introduce you, if you want. She’s here, old Verdan is here, probably to get in on the secret—we can’t stop him, but none of the guests should know if possible. Or if they do…they had better be allies.”
Allies to Wistram. Beatrice nodded. The Academy was making big moves. Earth was an inevitable idea that would get out, they’d concluded. But they were going to get the head start on using the ideas and technology.
Thus, the conclaves. Naili led the way down the halls, calling out to people, waving, navigating Wistram’s strange layout by heart.
“And we also have a Grand Magus returning! I hear he’s an old half-Elf. No—wait—there’s a retired one from Chandrar too. Old Garuda. They’re all old.”
“Grand Magus Eldavin?”
Beatrice had heard he was very old, enough that he claimed to have rooms on the twelfth. She had added it as a small secret to her collection, but she wanted verification before she sold it.
She was a secret broker and secrets were her income. One of the reasons why Naili liked her; the Archmage got all of Beatrice’s secrets.
“Yes, that’s the one. If he’s as old as he claims, that could be useful if he was a good [Mage]. We need those old [Mages]. Some have spells we’ve lost since Zelkyr sealed the higher floors. We might be able to persuade them to hand over their knowledge before they croak, for the Earth stuff. Anyways…oh, here she is! Valeterisa! Valeterisa!”
And there was the Archmage of Izril. Valeterisa was an older woman, at least in her mid-sixties, grey of hair, thin, and the most normal-looking of all the Archmages Beatrice had met. She looked like, well, an old widow.
Except for her aura. That was power. Beatrice bowed respectfully, taking her head off as she did. Naili just slithered over. Valeterisa gave the Lamia a long look, and her eyes flickered.
“Oh. And you are…Archmage Nailihuaile. Who I met yesterday.”
It was as if memories suddenly became accessible to her—or parts of her mind found the information, like sifting through a cabinet. It was subtle, and very fast, but disconcerting if you didn’t know what was happening. Valeterisa straightened. Naili peered at her.
“…What are you doing, Valeterisa? Why are you sitting?”
“I was investigating this bug.”
The Archmage vaguely pointed to a beetle with a glowing abdomen—yellow—and shell-wings with holes on them. It was crawling around in front of them.
“Ooh! What’s that?”
“A bug. Mutated by magic. I wondered what it did. It turns out it eats [Light] spells. It is storing light in its abdomen.”
“Oh, those little things! Gah! I hate them! They’re the ones that eat our [Light] spells so we have to renew them! Take this! [Stone Fist]—aaah, my eyes!”
Naili had squished the bug with a little fist made of stone that thwacked the insect into paste. But as it squished, the abdomen let out a flash of light. Beatrice and the others in the hallway cried out.
“Hm. It was storing all the light and converting it to magic or energy.”
In her blindness, Beatrice heard Valeterisa speaking. Naili was cursing.
“Did you know they did that?”
“No, but I wish I had a sample to breed and inspect. [Remove Blindness].”
“What? That works? Do me, do me! Fine, I’ll do it. How did it go? This is where I’d like to look at my spellbook…[Remove Blindness]! Aha! Beatrice!”
A staff touched Beatrice’s shoulder. She blinked, and the afterimages went away. Valeterisa reappeared, taking a sample of the dead beetle. She looked at Naili.
“Did you want something, Archmage Nailihuaile?”
“I was just wondering if you cared to join us after the banquet. You have a lot to catch up on in Wistram, and I hoped to get to you first.”
The Star Lamia smiled coyly. Valeterisa just sighed.
“Politics. I do not care to socialize, Archmage Nailihuaile. And Archmages Feor and Viltach have both approached me already.”
“They did? Those sneaky…can I persuade you to join me?”
“I would prefer to learn what there is to learn outright. Will you tell me?”
Valeterisa turned to Naili. The Star Lamia shut her mouth and smiled. Another sigh.
“Then I will attend one party afterwards and join whichever faction seems to be in charge. Now. I would like to find another bug. Goodbye, Archmage Naili.”
She walked off. The Star Lamia shrugged at Beatrice, who was a bit taken aback at how…non-interested Valeterisa was! She really didn’t care for Wistram’s politics and power. She was only Archmage because her magical abilities were top-notch.
And then Valeterisa turned.
“Archmage Naili. Perhaps you will answer me.”
“Yes, Valeterisa?”
Naili brightened up. She looked back. The Archmage of Izril gazed at her.
“Where is Amerys?”
The Star Lamia’s eyes narrowed. Beatrice froze. Naili just chuckled, though, and made a beckoning motion with her tail.
“We really must talk, Valeterisa. The Archmages will convene after the parties. But we can be on the same page before then. What about it? Party, then my quarters later.”
The older [Mage] just sighed and walked on.
 
—-
 
Valeterisa had little power. She was an Archmage, but one without faction or friends—at least, many over the decade she had been away. Power, in Wistram, was more than just magical talent.
Telim explained this all to Aaron over a private lunch.
“Power is more than magic, young Vanwell.”
The young Vanwell, the [Magictech Engineer], nodded, then caught himself and frowned.
“…Isn’t that wrong, High Mage Telim?”
The man chortled. Telim was a big-bearded man with red hair, and a big…belly. He was a lifer for Wistram, and was eating a rather large lunch. Aaron was saving himself for the banquet tonight, but Telim clearly thought he’d have room.
“Not in Wistram, lad. Archmages were always good at politics as much as magic, even before Zelkyr. Valeterisa’s been away for too long. Not that she’s poor at politics, mind you. She hates it more than I hate running about—but she’s a cold serpent, even more than Nailihuaile. Although she does love new and fascinating magical things, so she might well like you.”
Aaron had not met her. She was not in on the secret. He picked at some deviled eggs, which even had little tiny horns on them made out of some hard corn batter.
Telim was an odd friend for Aaron to have made, but the young man felt like he was one of the first. Because Telim was not as nakedly ambitious as Naili or some other [Mages]. They had met when the man heard about the therapy sessions for the Earthers who had come here and helped supply them with potions.
After that? He’d gotten to talking and now he and Aaron and some of the other Earthers and [Mages] were creating the world’s first real-life combat simulations. Their name for it was Magical Reality—a play on Virtual Reality.
But in their product, you’d step into a room or building and fight monsters, experience dungeon raids—do anything you could envision, perhaps! All without the fear of death.
Telim was also a good sort. Magnanimous and prone to fits of indulgence. He’d introduced Aaron and some of the other older Earthers who’d been here a while to his friends, like Vhedel, Sa’la, and the others. Who were people to know if you wanted to meet someone who could create potions, or get you Dreamleaf, or…
Kindly [Mages]. As Elena had described them, ‘happy to be where they were’. They didn’t dream of using Earth’s tech beyond making fascinating things for themselves. They didn’t want to rule the world; they just wanted better canapés. If they were all Wistram was, Aaron would have been more relaxed.
As it was, Telim was a fine information source. Aaron helped himself to another cookie at the man’s urging.
“So they’ll all know after tonight?”
“Within the week. Some might pay for secrets, but most will turn to the Archmages. They’ll give something, and be let in on the secret. You see, it really is them coming to Feor, Naili, and Viltach, who have created an alliance.”
“They hate each other’s guts. Naili once said she tried to hex Viltach impotent.”
Telim nearly sprayed his mouthful out across the table. Sa’la and Elena both started laughing. The Selphid and [Beautician] found it much funnier than Telim and Aaron. The young man turned to Telim.
“That’s impossible, right? You can’t just hex someone from afar?”
“M’boy, you’re learning why I don’t make enemies.”
The man patted at his mouth. He shuddered.
“Let me tell you about the time a particularly vengeful [Swarm Mage] put a talisman in a friend’s laundry pile when it was being washed. Only activated when he put on his underwear, poor fellow. I still think about the bites.”
Aaron put down his cookie. [Mages] got up to a lot of weird things. And again, if it was just that, he’d love it. But Wistram had a grand scheme. And they intended to use the secrets they had to further their agendas.
Still, he had secrets of his own now.
The young man went back to munching on his food.
“So, the Earthers don’t get to attend the banquet?”
“You do. Just inconspicuously. You see—the banquet hall will have a strict hierarchy. I’ll probably take a mage-picture, just to know how things stand. Where you sit matters, so all the jockeying for position will tell us where the smart [Mages] are.”
“Really? It’s that easy?”
Elena put in. She saw Sa’la shrug and toss back her drink.
“Sort of. It’s more like—do you have the clout to sit with an Archmage if you want to? Who’s sitting together. Telim, do an illusion.”
“Very well.”
He grumbled; he was good at illusion spells. He flicked his fingers, casting a few spells and muttering while the others ate in silence. After two minutes of his hard work, a bunch of seats and glowing icons appeared.
“There. See? This is the high table, where the Archmages sit. And the most important guests. That’s obvious, so it’s not as important…no doubt a [Lord] or one of the nobility will earn a place. Below it? We’ll have tables per faction. So the Revivalists here, Libertarians here—this is just an example, by the way.”
He made long tables, coloring them by faction. Aaron nodded. It was based around the high table. Power to the front, less important [Mages] to the back. The main factions were in the upper center. Telim pointed to the edges.
“And here are independents whom you can’t offend. Other parties too. The Drake contingent from the Walled Cities, for instance.”
“It seems really isolating. Don’t they mix?”
Elena put in. Sa’la nodded.
“Of course they can change tables. But this is where they’re seated.”
“And beyond that? Some organization—students will have tables here, but it’s a free-for-all after that. You’re not assigned a table if you were never important enough to have one. And here is where I will be.”
Telim pointed all the way across the room, away from every faction, towards the furthest end. Elena and Aaron peered at the spot blankly.
“Why there, Telim?”
“Because they have sofas and other delightful modalities of sitting there, young Vanwell! Status be damned, I’m stretching out whilst I eat!”
The [High Mage] chuckled, and Aaron grinned.
“I guess we’ll be split up, Elena. We should try to sit together after the banquet starts.”
“Hm. Yes, you Earth-folk should be given a spot of your own. Maybe the Archmages would allow it.”
“Oh, they’re doing that, Telim. Silenced, protected, so they can talk without eavesdropping.”
Telim snapped his fingers.
“Makes sense! There you are then, Aaron. Far to the back and to the sides I’ll wager, but that’s a good thing.”
“Why—oh. It’s because we’re closer to the buffet tables, right?”
“Exactly. I knew you were sharp! Now, you’ll want to be on your toes. There are always secrets and money to be made when the banquets take place. If you weren’t…well, from Earth, I’d say you could make a powerful friend. As it is, take a bag of holding for the good foods. They always run out.”
“Because of you. You know, he made an entire table disappear one time? I saw it. Took a bag of holding, ran it down the table, and walked off.”
Sa’la gave Telim an affectionate, but exasperated look. The man just winked at Elena and Aaron, who laughed. They liked him.
