Eldavin looked towards the High Table. But the Naga was gesturing to…Eldavin stopped.
He was placed about midway across the banquet hall, away from the buffet. He eyed the Naga.
“What is the meaning of this?”
High Mage Soner winced. But he put a huge smile on his face as he turned, coiling upon himself.
“Regrettably, the Archmages must entertain some Terandrian nobility—as well as Chandrarian, Grand Magus. We—thought that you would appreciate some peace and quiet without disruption in Wistram politics on your first night here.”
“I have business with Archmagus Feor. With the Archmages, for that matter. I am a Grand Mage. This seating seems far below my stature.”
Soner thought quickly. He held up pleading hands.
“Would you consider it, for the sake of the—the students, Grand Magus? Everyone at the table has expressed a keen, keen desire to speak to you.”
“…They have? Ah, well, that does change things…”
Soner urgently gestured and the mix of students and younger [Mages] he’d bullied into filling this table stood up and all bowed slightly. It was Seky, Mena—and some of the junior representatives of each faction.
“It would be exceedingly kind of you to share your wisdom, Grand Magus.”
“I—well, hrmpf. This is highly inappropriate, Magus Soner.”
Teriarch glanced at the high table. The Naga was soothing, though, and the young [Bard] bowed.
“Grand Magus, I’m terribly sorry for asking Magus Soner to do this. But we hoped you might tell us about Wistram as it was—I should have thought better.”
“I can of course prepare another seat, Grand Magus. Ah, but where…?”
She and the Naga exchanged glances as Eldavin wavered. At last, the half-Elf sniffed.
“I suppose this will do. I will prevail upon the Archmagi later in the meal. We must present a unified front, after all. Very well.”
With ill grace, he seated himself at the table. Soner exhaled and nodded at Mena. She made a face, but he’d promised her personal lessons with one of the older [Mages] for this favor. And she had suggested this, so…
He slithered off as Eldavin sat down. The half-Elf let the others introduce themselves, smiled, and noted the factions around the room at a glance. He frowned.
“[Depth Mages] from the seas and Fissival’s Drakes? This is indeed a large banquet. I should introduce myself…”
He stood up and all of the table urgently talked him back down.
“Not yet, Grand Magus! Its customary to do so after the fourth course.”
“Fourth course? Who thought that up? Wait…is that one of Zelkyr’s little dinner rules? When I was present, [Mages] went where they pleased. If someone wanted to talk to the Archmages, they got themselves noticed.”
Mena sighed. She looked at her friends whom she’d coerced into doing this. They grimaced. This was not going to be a fun night. The old half-Elf was already upset. Even as the first course was joined by a second, he raised his voice, objecting to the layout of the room—and the placement of all the guests. Himself included of course, but he had salient points on the other seats.
“It’s the dignity of the thing. Perhaps there’s a good reason for it. But if I were to lay out the room? It would go like this.”
Telim was edging around the tables, trying to avoid the wrath of one of the [Chefs] who’d stormed out of the kitchen.
“Who took the entire roast duck?”
“Cover me, lads.”
He whispered to Troy and Flynn. The young man holding Prickly, the Needlehound dog, was grinning at the prank-theft. Trey was just shaking his head at the mischief, but Telim had promised a share of the duck for Prickly.
They were moving away from the scene of the crime by heading across the room before cutting back to the rear where Telim had set up a lounging dinner party at the sofas. As they did, they passed by a table with a very angry, very old half-Elf.
Troy paused because why wouldn’t you? Not only was the half-Elf tall, he looked well, a lot more fit than most of the [Mages] here. To Troy, he was like one of Parasol Stroll. There was a confidence about the way he gestured. Also, if Troy knew his species, a half-Elf with white hair was super old! Even Feor was only greying!
…Not to mention he was really loud.
“Respect, young [Mages]! Respect levels! Put that [Depth Mage] at the high table. The one in the center, right there, you see?”
He was pointing at the veiled woman surrounded by the other ones. Trey turned his head; she was a subject of high scrutiny of course; each [Depth Mage], and there were eight total, was covered head-to-toe in dark fabric such that you saw only their eyes.
It was an odd look, especially for Drowned Folk. Trey lingered as Telim looked around and ducked behind the Libertarian’s table. They all laughed at his antics as Mena turned to Eldavin.
“How do you mean, Grand Magus? Because she represents the Undersea fleets?”
“Because of her level, young woman. Are you blind?”
Eldavin picked up a chicken nugget and stared at it for a long moment before savagely biting into it. The others at his table stirred. Telim’s head poked up.
“You can see how strong she is?”
“Naturally. Oh, I suppose for young [Mages] you rely on, what, [Appraisal]? [Aura Reader]? But it takes more than that to suppress your nature. Let’s see. Her, that [Grand Mage] Garuda over there—I see a [Wardmistress] of Fissival—and maybe those two. Who are they?”
“Er—[High Mage] Teura of the Centrists and [Solar Mage] Vedufien.”
“Yes. Half-Elf and Centaur. Put all of them at the high table. And myself of course. And why at that end of the room? Put them in the center, here. And the hall around them.”
“But that’s not as dignified, Grand Magus, surely. People should approach the high-table.”
Seky protested. The half-Elf waved a finger at her.
“You’re speaking like a Drake, young woman. Everything has to go in order of superiority, does it? Why an arbitrary direction? The room revolves around you. This is Zelkyr’s style, claw marks all over it. Must we sit on decorum? Why, in times past there was even elevated seating!”
“You mean…bleachers?”
Eldavin gave the offending [Mage] such a long look the man turned red.
“I mean, floating tables. Separated levels—artificial light structures. Completely egregious, incidentally. That is what happens when rank takes too much precedence. Not that I am saying it shouldn’t factor in! But it was ridiculous.”
“Must have been a sight to see.”
One of the Drakes murmured. Eldavin’s brows rose.
“It was. It looked like—well, this.”
He snapped his fingers. Telim, head rising like a submarine’s periscope and swiveling to and fro, froze. Trey blinked. Then he stared.
Slowly, a shimmering table appeared over the heads of Eldavin’s group. Everyone around looked up and gasped as they saw lifelike people—[Mages] of old, wearing shimmering robes and made of light—eating, talking, and waving down at the people below. They sat on a kind of [Light Bridge], like Mena had seen, with a staircase leading down.
Then it was gone. Eldavin calmly took a sip of wine.
“That takes more magic than I remember it doing. But you see? Completely inefficient. Only useful if the banquet hall was filled.”
Everyone was staring. He looked around.
“What?”
“That was a magnificent illusion spell, sir.”
A voice broke the silence. It was Telim. The High Mage had approached the table. He’d brought a chair with him. He placed the stolen duck on the table.
“High Magus Telim. And you must be Grand Magus Eldavin. I’m a fan of the Illusion school myself, and I have to say—that was exceptionally crafted!”
“Well met, Magus Telim. And it was hardly exceptional. Just a few memorized replications. You understand how it is. Memory is far easier to replicate than anything else.”
Eldavin nodded calmly. Telim blinked at him.
“Still, extraordinary. Aren’t you from Izril? A little bird told me that.”
“I have come from there, it is true. And it has been long since I last attended Wistram’s halls. Much has changed. Lack of decorum, you see…”
His voice rose again. And with it, some more illusions. Other [Mages] were showing off too. One conjured a Wyvern; someone else threw a fake spear through it.
“Behave yourselves! There will be no large spellworks without permission!”
An irate voice shouted from the front. Some of the [Mages] laughed, others fell silent. Eldavin meanwhile was getting more and more looks from the Libertarians and nearby [Mages].
“I have half a mind to bring up my complaint with the Archmages at this moment.”
“Tricky, Grand Magus. They will be swamped with people and it will be hard to get a word in edgewise…”
“Then I will insist upon it. Who represents Izril up there?”
“That would be Valeterisa. But the Archmages to know are Feor, Viltach, Nailihuaile at the moment…”
“One of them, then. Feor perhaps. Really, he should have come to me. We are both half-Elves, aren’t we?”
For a [Grand Mage] no one had heard about, he had an ego as large as well, anyone else’s here, and a voice to match. The mostly-Human group began joking as he continued to rant through the second course. One of them leaned over.
“That old hermit-mage seems to think he should be right up next to the Archmages, eh, Charles?”
Charles de Trevalier gave Eldavin a none-too-friendly look. He nodded at Timor du Havrington; they were both Libertarians under the watchful eye of Mage Rievan. The teacher and senior member of their faction cautioned them.
“Do nothing that might embarrass Archmage Viltach, you two.”
They hesitated in front of the warning tone. Charles looked innocently at his mentor.
“That old half-Elf is rather full of himself, Rievan. Half-Elven superiority right there. Shouldn’t someone take him down a notch?”
The [Mage] pursed his lips. Eldavin’s voice came carrying to where they were seated again.
“And the reception at the docks was simply shoddy. One impresses guests with effort, not with half-hearted groups—no offense to your hard work, Miss Mena. But you should have had ten times your numbers, music, personal touches like that make all the difference…not some ragtag group of metal statues. You might as well drag out some actual statues for all the effect the Golems had! What use is one if they act no different than the furniture?”
Rievan’s lips pursed. He’d suggested the Golems on display! He nodded to Charles and Timor.
“Words only.”
They grinned and began composing their work as some more of their fellow students and [Mages] leaned in for the fun. It was clear to them that Eldavin was a Centrist in all but name, and would soon be in Feor’s faction. And the enemy deserved to be embarrassed, especially if they were all talk.
 
—-
 
Trey had abandoned the back table. Telim had made introductions, stayed for a minute to talk illusion with Eldavin, but he had to scamper once the [Chef] honed in on her missing duck. Flynn ran off too, since Prickly was drooling and following the [High Mage].
But Trey was fascinated. This old [Mage]…Trey had no reading on his aura, like some of the better [Mages] here. He seemed like a lot of hot air. And yet—Trey had met the Quarass of Germina. He got the same feeling from this half-Elf as her.
His instincts told him to stay, so he was the one who retrieved food for Eldavin. The [Grand Mage] gave him an approving nod as Trey sat.
“Respect, young man. Troy Atlas, is it? It goes a long way.”
“Yes, Grand Magus.”
Trey also had a lot of experience handling people with huge egos. Fetohep, Flos, the Quarass again for that matter…Trey inclined his head.
“You were saying about the reception, Magus Eldavin?”
The [Bard] sitting next to Trey gave him an exasperated look. She and the others kept trying to get Eldavin to talk about the floors above the Golem’s test. But the half-Elf latched onto Trey’s question.
“Thank you, young man. I’m simply confused. Perhaps you can illuminate me as to why no [Weather Mage] provided clear skies?”
“I’ve only been here two weeks or so, Grand Magus.”
“Ah. Then you, Miss Mena?”
The [Bard] coughed.
“Well, sir, we don’t want to cause another magical typhoon…and once you arrive to Wistram, everything is peaceful.”
“They could have at least extended the bubble of weather.”
The [Bard]’s fake smile was accompanied by a lot of head nodding. She took another long sip of her cup and a bite, then spoke.
“But it’s surely something for a guest, to see a sphere of perfection even out of a storm. That’s impressive, isn’t it? More impressive than clear skies all the way here?”
Eldavin looked at her as if she was mad.
“A localized bubble spell is more impressive than perfection and a satisfactory voyage?”
“No—I just meant—people expect Wistram to be like this, though, so why not let them sail through some bad weather? ‘It’s always sunny in Wistram’, after all.”
“What?”
The [Bard] looked at the others. One did a covert ‘he’s nuts’ gesture with her claw. Trey winced.
“It’s what people say. It’s always sunny in Wistram, Grand Magus. Because of the calm air? Perfect skies? Didn’t they say that when you were here? A hundred years ago?”
The Drake, Seky, gave him a patient smile. Eldavin slowly gulped down another chicken tender.
“I have never heard that in my life, young Drake. And you will drop the patronizing tone. What do you mean, it’s always sunny? When we care for it, we’ll have rain! Tam—dead gods, the flora surely enjoys that! And what about when [Aeromancers] practice? Gale winds. Come to that, they should lower the temperature a bit. It was altogether too warm for my tastes.”
The table blinked at him.
“Lower the…”
“The weather spell. Has no one changed it since…”
And then Eldavin stopped. He looked around incredulously.
“You must be joking. Has no one changed the weather for the last hundred years?”
A silence fell on the table. No one quite wanted to reply. Eldavin began tapping the wooden surface rapidly.
“This—this is incredible! Even if the higher floors are locked, it is not that difficult! Even a junior [Mage] can do it. Do they just not bother to change the setting?”
“I don’t—I didn’t know—”
Mena was flushing, looking around as if Wistram itself were being impugned. Indeed, everyone in earshot was uncomfortable.
Except for Trey. That was, Troy. He was happily eating the imitation of fast food fried chicken and enjoying this.
“So there was different weather when you were here last, Grand Magus?”
The old man looked at Trey approvingly.
