He sat still in his seat, not eating, as the other students and mages sat silent around him. For a minute. Valeterisa watched Eldavin’s back and then looked at Troy Atlas. She understood it was probably politically inexpedient to talk to him. Even if she had just agreed with everything he said. She drifted after Troy. She wondered if she could buy that Lifesand Golem.
 
—-
 
“Troy! There you are! Where’ve you been? Did you see Telim steal that duck?”
“I did. Where’s Prickly?”
“Over there.”
George pointed. The Earthers were at their own tables; some were mingling like the group with Telim, but here they were allowed to talk about, well, Earth.
“This is amazing. It is Hogwarts!”
“Would you stop saying that? This is reality!”
Elena rolled her eyes at one of the newcomers. She looked about.
“Where’s Sidney? Is she okay? She got a scare.”
Trey sat down as the others looked around. He vaguely recalled Sidney, one of the youngest girls. Very timid, part of the therapy sessions in that beach-room.
“What happened to her?”
“She saw one of the items they were serving. Roasted rat…she freaked out.”
“Aw. Damn. Is someone…?”
“Saif and Malia went after her. I—oh, there they are. Quick, someone give me a calming tonic. I’m going to put some in her drink.”
“Is that drugging…?”
“Shut up, George.”
Trey sat among the Earthers, most of whom were relaxing without restraint. They thought this was an adventure story. Some had seen enough to know better, but they were a minority. He saw Aaron glancing at him.
“You doing okay, Troy? You don’t have to study so much.”
“It’s what I’m good at. Thanks, Aaron. But we want to level up, right?”
“True enough. But hey—if you want help, Naili can probably arrange some private tutoring.”
“That would be…great, actually, thanks.”
The young man smiled.
“You should take some more time to hang out. We haven’t properly welcomed you with all this…”
He waved his hand.
“…But we’re trying to all get together more often. How about tomorrow?”
“Sounds good. I don’t have more than a morning class…”
Trey relaxed. But he noticed some of the new, 1st year students were eying him at his special table. The new group, including the surly young man from Hellios…he wanted to blend in, but he couldn’t.
Well. It was his job to find a way, even if he had help…Trey busied himself with his food. He had a feeling he should try to talk to the Grand Magus when he cooled down. Did no one else think someone that old would have the most knowledge to spare?
“Oh no. That poor old guy’s getting embarrassed again.”
Elena groaned as the fourth course rolled around. Trey’s head rose.
“What old guy?”
“The half-Elf. Look, he’s…”
As waiter-Golems, the living [Waiters] and [Servers] and the 4th course—Chandrarian themed, rolled about the head tables, Grand Magus Eldavin stood up. Instantly, Mena and the others beseeched him to sit down.
Now was the time when guests circulated, but it was still on the Archmages to make the first move; one could hardly just run up to their table. They would usually send someone to ask for a chat.
Moreover, since it was Eldavin, the Naga High Mage Soner was already prepared to intercept. He’d already been fending Valeterisa away from Troy Atlas and the Earthers, and he was miserable as he signaled to make Mena keep the old troublemaker there.
And in that, he underestimated Eldavin’s wrath. The Grand Magus had been forced to endure the Libertarian’s loud jokes, not to mention the insults and his splendid fall. He had realized he’d been shuffled off to the side.
A lesser man might have left altogether, or caused a scene before being escorted out. But Eldavin…
He was a Dragon. And Dragons did not forget so easily.
“Archmages of Wistram! Esteemed guests! It is my honor to return to the halls of Wistram after a century’s time! I, Grand Mage Eldavin, have elected to perform a magical working in honor of this occasion!”
The booming voice cut through the air and the entire hall looked up. Soner put his serpentine face in his hands as he slithered forwards. The Archmages looked around. Trey inhaled.
Eldavin was standing away from his table, arms outstretched, magnifying his voice. Now people looked at him, really—looked at him.
“Handsome half-Elf.”
Sa’la whispered to Telim. He pushed her.
“Don’t tell me that. What am I supposed to do with your input? I hope he doesn’t embarrass himself.”
“Should I stop him, Archmage?”
Feor grimaced.
“Let another faction—or we shall see what he does.”
He glanced down the table, but the other guests looked amused. Eldavin went on, casually ignoring Mena and Seky.
“It has always been custom for [Mages] to attract the attention of Archmages so! And be it so humble, but my magic may speak for itself. Behold!”
“What custom is he talking about, Feor?”
Naili leaned over. Feor frowned.
“I hardly remember anything so elegant. It was all…more chaotic back in my day. With…”
He bit back the words. Archmage Chandler and the rest. Those had been different times. He watched with resignation as the half-Elf prepared to humiliate himself. Certainly, the Libertarians were jeering.
“Stop him! Would you two do your jobs for—”
High Mage Soner hurried forwards. Then he saw why Mena, Seky, and the other minders couldn’t drag Eldavin to his seat or make him leave the hall. They were pressed against something.
“A barrier spell?”
“We can’t get through, High Mage—”
“Gah. That old—[Dispel Magic]!”
Soner pointed a wand at the invisible space. He slithered confidently at Eldavin and went thunk into the invisible barrier. Dazed, the Naga recoiled.
“What the—?”
He tried again, but to no avail. And Eldavin now was lifting his hands. He had no wand or staff. Like a maestro, he waited as the hall gazed at him.
“What a silly old man, mother.”
“Watch.”
The leader of the [Depth Mages] stirred. Valeterisa had turned to watch. The Drakes from Fissival were gazing at Eldavin and one had lifted Grimalkin’s orb up obligingly so he could watch. Everyone else was gazing out of the corner of their eye, or idly. The smart ones were more intent. Ullsinoi were already taking bets on what it would be.
Eldavin stood poised, eyes closed. Concentrating. Naili hoped it wouldn’t be some old-style long-form spell chanted with like, a six-minute casting time.
She watched as Eldavin lowered his open arms. And then he stomped his foot.
Lines of light radiated out across the banquet hall from his foot. Intricate patterns, flashing across the stone, glowing a gentle blue. Forming an elaborate…magical circle nearly sixty feet by sixty feet.
Feor sat up in his seat. Naili started choking on her roasted rat.
Telim rubbed at his eyes and checked the alcohol content of his glass of rum. He turned to Sa’la.
“Did he just—is that a spell circle?”
“It can’t be. It looks like one, but—he stomped his foot?”
Incredulity. Some of the [Mages] stood up. It was so fast! But it was a circle; they sensed the complete power in it. It engulfed the tables around Eldavin—it didn’t seem to be doing much, but it was a beautifully complex pattern!
“Magnificent.”
Someone murmured. Inscribed magics like spell circles weren’t as common as direct-action spells and this one was elegant! Complete, without perceivable gaps or ebbs and flow in the structure of the spell. It was, well, perfect, such that if you were trying to break or interfere with it, there was no good place to start, no weak point.
Applause. A few [Mages] began applauding Eldavin, standing up to clap. Some of the others hesitated. Eldavin just inhaled.
The Libertarians were caught in the middle of the spell circle, along with Mena, Seky, Soner, and the others. They were beginning to sense something, but it wasn’t apparent.
“What is this spell circle, High Mage?”
“I don’t know…”
Eldavin was murmuring something under his breath. He was drawing magic to him, and now all the Archmages and guests; indeed, the entire hall was staring. The Golems and staff were standing as well—well, that wasn’t accurate. They were in different positions. The staff were frozen uncertainly, but…
Feor snapped his fingers and laughed. Teura turned to him.
“Archmage?”
“Oh, I just remembered. There was a custom before Archmage Zelkyr became the undisputed master of Wistram. A silly thing. If you wanted the Archmage’s attention, in the old days, you just cast a spell and…”
His eyes focused on Eldavin and his voice trailed off. Feor began to stand. Then he saw the serving staff. The mortal, living ones were just staring. But the Golems had moved.
All the Golems were standing against the far walls.
The doors blew open. Cognita, Truestone Golem, a giant marble figure, strode into the banquet hall. She turned to Eldavin. The half-Elf’s head turned.
“Rievan. I don’t feel well. My mana feels like it’s…”
Timor plucked at the [Mage]’s sleeve. Rievan stood up.
“He’s draining our mana!”
He shouted and pointed at Eldavin. The [Grand Mage] pointed back.
“[Blooming Fireball].”
A gigantic orb appeared. It struck the table where the Libertarians were sitting and sent them flying. The plates, tables, and people all went soaring. Charles de Trevalier crashed into a table where the [Depth Mages] were sitting. One of them pushed him off.
Silence. Then, Eldavin pointed at the head table.
“[Valmira’s Comet].”
The second burning spell arced across the floor. The Archmages stared. Viltach raised his hands.
“[Force Sh—]”
Naili dove out of the way of the table. Feor raised his finger.
“[Lightning Bolt]! [Barrier of Scintillation]!”
A shimmering force field appeared around him as the spell hit the comet. It detonated and Viltach went crashing back over the edge of the table. Verdan was knocked back, but his anchoring spell protected him.
Feor stumbled as his shield caught the blast. Eldavin waved his finger around.
“[Firefly].”
Glowing sparks of fire appeared in the air. They dove at the Archmage’s table.
Chaos in the banquet hall! Half the [Mages] were on their feet. The Libertarians not blasted away stared at the [Grand Mage].
“He’s lost his mind! Defend the Archmages!”
That was an extraordinarily stupid comment from a lower-level [Mage]. She pointed her wand and Eldavin pointed a finger.
“Protect yourselves first. Let’s see. [Greater Spellshield]!”
The jet of lightning streaking towards him vanished before it struck him. The Grand Magus saw the [Mage] check herself.
“[Arrows of Light]!”
“[Ice Spike]!”
“[Fireball]!”
The [Mages] not immediately paralyzed and nearest to him with a line of fire shot spells from their wands or fingers. All of them vanished before they could touch Eldavin. Even Tier 3 spells! As soon as they crossed the lines of the barrier, they dissipated.
“I return to the halls of Wistram! Are there no true [Mages] to greet me? Have you forgotten so soon what you used to be?”
Eldavin thundered. The first barrage of spells ceased. [Mages] lowered their wands. The half-Elf turned.
“[Lancearrow of Light]!”
Teura aimed her spell at him. This time, Eldavin moved.
“[Stone Wall]!”
A thick wall of stone six feet wide shot up and blocked the spell. Teura blinked. That was fast! She saw more [Mages] aiming, but Eldavin was already widening the wall. He created a semi-circle around himself, then spoke.
“[Ice Wall], [Light Wall], and er…no, that should do it. [Fivefold Arcane Barrier]!”
Layers of ice, stone, and light sprang up around him, and a central magical barrier appeared. He was lost from vision.
“—must be mad—”
Viltach was on his feet, fury in his eyes. He spotted the barriers and lifted a finger.
“[Ray of Shattering]! [Lightning Tempest]!”
The first pale ray struck the wall of rock and shattered it to pieces. Bolts of lightning followed, drumming beats that blew the wall of ice to bits, then the light barrier. And behind it, the arcane barrier shimmered as Eldavin held up his hands, chanting.
“Evacuate the hall. Viltach! Don’t kill him! Vilt—”
Too late. The lighting burst through the barrier. Feor saw Eldavin illuminate as the bolts struck him. There was a flash. Feor was blinded for a second and cursed.
Was he dead? Surely he had—
Viltach lowered his finger. The bolts of lightning subsided. Everyone saw the broken shell of defensive magics was empty. Eldavin? A pillar of rock vaguely shaped like him was broken down to the base, molten stone cooling.
Where—
“Aaah! Help, h—”
Mage Rievan whirled around. He saw Timor and Charles de Trevalier. The two young men were alive and…floating? Behind them, Grand Magus Eldavin pointed a finger.
“[Stone Fist].”
“Wh—”
Rievan received a punch to his chest from a block of stone. He went over another table and didn’t rise.
“You! Put them down!”
“[Arrow of Light].”
Eldavin flicked a huge bolt of glowing magic far larger than Trey could muster under Charles’ body. Viltach flinched and it burst on his personal shields. He raised his finger—hesitated.
“Get them out of the way!”
The half-Elf calmly adjusted Timor as Libertarians, the nearest group to him, scrambled to spread out. He was flicking more jets of magic out.
“[Stun Bolt]. [Shock Orb]. Um…[Arrow of Light], again.”
He tagged a dozen [Mages] who went flopping down, paralyzed, shocked, or just knocked silly. One aimed a wand at him—he put Timor’s flailing behind in the way.
“Stop that! Are you mad?”
A [Mage] shrieked at Eldavin. He just turned his head and pointed a finger. She deflected the glowing bolt of magic and aimed a wand at him. He sighed and flicked his finger.
“Not many [Battlemages] here.”
The wand in the woman’s hand flicked across the room. She faltered and the spell she had been casting dissipated.
“My w—”
Flick, flick, flick—half the [Mages] with a poor grip on their wands promptly lost theirs. Eldavin regarded them, and then tossed them telekinetically across the room.
“I told those Bronze-rank adventurers they were poor spellcasters. But at least they could grip their wands.”
“Someone get Charles and Timor!”
Then Viltach called out. Naili and Verdan were standing back, but he and Feor were confronting this mad half-Elf! Feor was muttering fast, his fingers working on a complex spell, but Viltach was too irate to cast a large spell. He strode across the ground and jerked his wand.
Charles went soaring left—then screamed as he was moved right in the path of Viltach’s next spell. The man cursed and the orb went sideways. It detonated, and some of the students close to the battle too slow to get out of the way screamed as magic peppered their skin.
Eldavin’s head turned. His eyes widened.
“Are you mad?”
