He motioned and Charles and Timor flew at Viltach. They hit his barrier, but slowed the Archmage up. Eldavin whirled on the other [Mages].
“Barrier spells! Put them up!”
He pointed at Telim. The [High Mage] had already erected one around his group, but at Eldavin’s furious finger he reflexively began to cast them on the other students in the way. Eldavin scowled. Then—turned.
“Ah, oop—”
The next spell from Viltach blew him across the ground.
Valeterisa watched. The [Greater Spellshield] had dissipated the force of the explosive orb, as had some other barrier spell, but Eldavin still had to pick himself up. The half-Elf looked up and blinked out of existence. The second explosion made Viltach’s head swivel.
“You have the audacity to attack an Archmage?”
Eldavin reappeared on a table, half of which was burning. His eyes flashed.
“You have the audacity to call yourself an Archmage? I knew the Archmage of Golems! How many challenges do you think he endured, boy?”
Viltach wavered. Then he aimed—
“[Blue Lightning Bolt]!”
Again Eldavin vanished. [Lesser Teleport]. He popped back into existence, raised a hand, and blocked the third bolt of lightning.
Frost and electricity. He grimaced. Half the hall was in the midst of evacuating; the [Mages] more preoccupied with slapping down barrier spells. But this—his eyes narrowed as he saw a contingent who hadn’t fled.
Drakes, standing behind a layered barrier spell. That reminded him of something. The half-Elf smiled.
“Ah, yes.”
With one hand he kept up the barrier against Viltach’s furious onslaught. With the second, he began chanting.
“[Bubble of Air]. [Bound Compression]. [Stone Armor]—”
“Viltach! You’re blowing half the hall apart! Stop!”
Nailihuaile called out. She was watching the half-Elf, edging out for her shot with her Serkonian Lance. She saw the Archmage snarl—then saw the half-Elf move.
“[Bear’s Strength]. [Haste]. And…[Flash Step].”
He blurred straight at Viltach. The Archmage hadn’t expected that. He’d been laying down a volley of spells that an entire squad of [Mages] would have been hard-pressed to match, but Eldavin had been blocking it all.
Magnificence. Because, Valeterisa, watching, had noticed the barrier the half-Elf was applying was still being reinforced by the mana drain circle. Viltach hadn’t realized. And now, the Archmage saw Eldavin speed at him. He tried to dodge, trusting to his personal barrier—
Magus Grimalkin of Pallass saw Eldavin collide with Viltach at top speed. The Drake—who really could have used some popcorn at this moment, despite the health qualms he had with the condiments—saw the half-Elf was covered in the [Stone Armor] spell.
It was rather like being body-checked by a brick wall at high speed. Viltach was protected, but he went over hard. He scrambled up, aiming a finger up at Eldavin—
The half-Elf grabbed his arm and it went wide. The other [Mages] hesitated, afraid of hitting Viltach. The Archmage was cursing. He hadn’t been in a brawl since he was a student. Eldavin on the other hand, swung a fist down.
He probably hadn’t punched something in…the windup was long, the arc far from compact to Grimalkin. But the tip of his fist still hit Viltach’s chest with commendable force. Then the bound spell detonated.
Pop. The sound was more like a vast pop of air suddenly uncompressing at once. It blew Viltach into the air. He landed behind Feor, Nailihuaile, and Verdan.
“Bubble of air? He just compressed it and used it like—”
Grimalkin of Pallass! Eldavin flexed one arm, then [Flash Stepped] into another [Mage] trying to aim at him. Step, step, step—he bowled into [Mages] like bowling pins.
“Are you all insane? Clear out of the way and let us deal with him!”
Teura barked at the lower-level [Mages]. Her eyes narrowed as Eldavin turned. His [Spellshield] was still intercepting all the low-level spells. She raised a hand.
“[Siege Fireball].”
A whirling vortex of fire knitted itself out of the air. Eldavin’s eyes locked on it.
“You want to use fire on me?”
He saw the swirling strands of fire knitting together like a ball of yarn, creating a burning, swirling mass of fire. It took seconds for a [Mage] of Teura’s strength where multiple [Mages] had to create it themselves. Eldavin saw other [Mages] dashing clear as she aimed it at him.
“Surrender or perish!”
She warned him. The half-Elf just shook his head. He was murmuring. Teura unleashed the spell and it rocketed across the floor.
“Woven-style [Fireball]. Fire. Against me.”
He stepped sideways, blinking left. Teura swung the fireball around to home after him. Hers was not a simple spell that couldn’t be aimed! But the half-Elf simply stepped around it again. And then—
He reached out and plucked a fiery strand out of the [Siege Fireball]. As it shot past him, it suddenly—Teura gasped—
Unwound. Even the Archmages stared as the fiery strands making up the [Fireball] suddenly unraveled. Eldavin held a burning strand of coiling fire—then it compressed into his hand.
His eyes were glowing. The fire compressed into a dot and then burned there.
“Compression-style [Fireball]. Considered inefficient and outdated compared to modern spell formation…”
Valeterisa murmured. Teura was gaping. Eldavin held a mote of light the size of a baseball, blazing white-hot. He flicked it back at her.
“Spells cast the same way. Magic recited and memorized by rote. Magic is more than a Tier. More than a level!”
He bellowed. [Mages] running for cover or aiming at him went sprawling. Nailihuaile jerked and saw Beatrice fall over as she tried to step forwards and aim at Eldavin. A little snare of green had wrapped itself around her foot without her noticing.
“[Grow Grass]? Are you kidding me?”
The Star Lamia blinked at Eldavin. Then she raised her staff.
She had been watching him, holding back like Verdan, who had enmeshed himself in barriers and just…walked away. Eldavin was taking on all comers, but only a fraction of the hall of [Mages] was actually taking him on.
Naili wasn’t so nice. Or timid. She raised the Serkonian Lance overhead.
“Grand Magus! Catch!”
A gigantic lance of magic appeared. She tossed it across the ground. Eldavin whirled. He took one look at the spell and vanished.
[Lesser Teleport]. Naili saw the spell, but couldn’t trace where—her neck rotated. She saw Eldavin pop up behind an overturned table.
“Got you! Expand, the Field of Serkonis!”
Around her a similar field of magic began to expand. Feor hissed as his spell and own aura refused to be ensconced by the magic. Naili let him do that, but everything around her began to take on the properties of the relic-class artifact.
In other words, turning into an area where everything was on her terms. Eldavin’s counter-attack fizzled out halfway towards her.
“Ah, the Serkonian Lance. An [Enchanter] carrying an artifact worthy of an Archmage, at least.”
He didn’t look put out by the field. Naili waved at him—then sent crackling lightning bolts at him. He blocked them and the flashes of light blinded the audience.
“Why don’t you come and try tackling me, Grand Magus?”
She was laughing.
 
—-
 
From their spot in the audience, the students and [Mages] were watching the magic fight take place between the second Archmage and Eldavin. Viltach was either down for the count or had removed himself and Feor was still preoccupied.
“He has to be an [Elementalist]! High level!”
Telim was babbling to the other [Mages] watching. They were hardly as good at commentary as Drassi, but they were watching as Eldavin took cover. This time—he raised huge pillars of stone out of the ground around him.
Like a forest of stone. Indeed, ‘branches’ shot out of the central pillars, decreasing their mass, but blocking the spells Nailihuaile was sending at him. Trey thought it was fascinating. And intelligent.
“That’s just [Earthen Spire]! He’s blocking all her direct spells with just—one spell!”
Sa’la was staring. Naili was growing frustrated; she was looping the vast lances she was conjuring, but the expendable pillars of stone kept rising and sacrificing only miniscule bits of themselves to block each spell.
“Elementalist. He has to be.”
“But that spell circle—hold on, what’s he doing now?”
Eldavin was hunting around the ground as the stone pillars—the [Forest of Stone] spell if any of the [Mages] had correctly identified it like Valeterisa—blocked the incoming fire.
“[Enchanters]. So reliant on artifacts. She’s not even using more than the lance spell.”
He grumbled. At last, he finished his work. He stepped out of cover as Naili blew apart the last pillar of stone. She raised her staff.
“Done yet?”
He looked up at her. He was holding…an orange. He’d hunted around for a proper object and this was the best he’d come up with. She blinked at it as she angled her staff.
“You are wearing a barrier, aren’t you?”
Eldavin called out. The Star Lamia’s eyes narrowed.
“Yes. Why—”
He tossed the orange at her. For a second, the orange just flew with all the throwing power of the half-Elf. Which was decent; far from a fastball since he had terrible form.
Then the first compressed spell fired. And the next—and the next—
[Directed Compressed Burst of Air]. [Frictionless Surface]. [Flash Move]—and so on. To the audience, the orange appeared to go lazily flying, and then, in an instant, speed—
 
—-
 
The sonic boom, if that was what it was, was deafening. Trey saw the entire glowing field of magic flash around Nailihuaile. The Lamia cried out and raised her staff—but the orange never reached her.
It had probably disintegrated halfway to her. But the air, impact—all of it non-magical—not to mention the little seeds flung at insane speed hit her magical field like, well, a supersonic orange.
It tore into the magical field and stopped. Trey actually saw the magic filling the space, ground, and air, tear apart.
Naili’s expanding field was torn open in a wedge. Again, only halfway towards her, but Eldavin had erased that section of magical field which had sacrificed itself to stop the attack. The Star Lamia stared at the rupture in the Serkonian Lance’s magic. Then she looked at Eldavin.
He was reaching for a fallen roast duck, the twin of the one in Telim and Prickly’s stomachs. She stared at her torn magical field, already re-knitting itself and came to a quick decision.
“Okay, I’m out.”
She slithered out of the way fast. Eldavin watched her go, smugly. He turned his head across the ruined floor; only a few figures remained. His eyes locked on one across the hall.
“And now. I believe my kindred is finally ready for me.”
Feor looked up. The half-Elf’s eyes were glowing and Eldavin turned to face him. This entire time, Feor had been chanting soundlessly. The two looked at each other. Slowly, Feor lifted his staff.
“Magus Eldavin. There are some things even a [Grand Mage] should be wary of. We are still [Mages] of Wistram, no matter how much we change. Even in the days when [Mages] challenged Archmages, it was never done lightly.”
“Lightly, Archmage Feor? I should repeat the same to you. Even Archmages did not lightly tread in other [Mage]’s affairs. You are interfering in my business. Stay away from Ryoka Griffin. She is not yours.”
Feor’s eyes widened. The words the two were exchanging were incomprehensible to anyone not standing close to them. The Archmage raised his staff.
“Grand Magus. Enough.”
The glowing orb set into the ancient ironwood sparked. Eldavin looked up and saw the air open. He saw the spell that Feor had been working on for the last six minutes activate. And his smile flickered.
“[Valmira’s True Comet Storm].”
The Tier 6 spell activated. The first glowing comet burst out of the air. It was not as fast as most spells. But it had a terrible glow about it. Each one the size of the first spell Eldavin had flung at the high table.
Each one—aimed at Eldavin. The half-Elf blinked across the room. The comets began to follow.
“He’s going to blow the entire banquet hall to smithereens! Sa’la, help me reinforce the barriers!”
Dozens of the spells were shooting forwards. Individually, they were Tier 5. But Feor was throwing dozens through the air, and dozens more—
Not even Grand Mage Esiela came close to this. Trey shielded his face as they began to detonate. This was an army-killing spell! He saw the Minotaur’s siege weapons firing in his mind. A reflection of that, if not the same way.
 
—-
 
Eldavin flung himself across the ground, moving to the back of the hall. He threw up barriers and saw them explode as a comet hit them. There was no using the same [Forest of Stone] spell—nor evading the hail of meteors.
He retreated as Feor made comets land around Eldavin, cutting off places to [Flash Step] or teleport to. The half-Elf began throwing up repeating barriers of magic, just—single-hit deflection shields. Layers and layers of them.
The comet storm converged on him. He could see Feor past the flashes of light, eyes glowing, staff raised. He was simply channeling power into the spell, unleashing the kind of magic that had once made [Archmages] feared.
Ah. He stood, throwing up magical barriers, enduring the onslaught. But at last—at last—
He was no longer mocking the [Mages].
There were spells he could cast. Attack spells, indirect ways of fighting this kind of magic. Evade, attack from far away while staying undetected or ahead of your foe. But he had not come to kill.
And if he did not run, or turn spells deadly? Eldavin looked across the ground.
Ah, this reminds me of why we died. This reminds me of why we ruled them. Because we feared them.
The Dragon recalled other battlefields. Other places. And he felt his magic burning out in his body.
The Archmage half-Elf had more mana than he did. A vast supply. Skills. Even if his comet storm was far less efficient than Eldavin’s spells—he was winning by sheer, limitless power.
The explosions of magical force were slowly pressing in on the half-Elf as the comets hit his barriers faster than he could make them.
“He has to surrender. Feor will blow him to pieces. He can’t even teleport out in that much mana density!”
Telim breathed. Everyone was watching as Eldavin’s barriers slowly dwindled and he was forced back.
Teriarch, Eldavin, gritted his teeth as pain began to lance through his body.
If I had my body—no, this is my body. This is my limit. There is always that hero and army on the horizon.
But how frustrating. He made a sound like a roar through a different mouth. Look at me, boy! He stared at Feor. You think you know magic? Then why have you forgotten who you are?
If only there was a way—he saw the comets bursting, each one deadly—his eyes narrowed. His hand began to move.
