“Exactly. Why, we had glorious days where we’d turn the weather to fall and sip drinks in Somela’s Forest. Wonderful trees, blooming in every color; damned petals kept getting in the drinks, but half the academy would be there. Rain for [Hydromancers], baking sun for [Pyromancers] and so on. Weather informs magic. Well, the reverse was also true; you’d get miserable [Pyromancers] in torrential downpours who had to cast [Fireball] before their masters let them in to eat! One time a poor [Pyromancer] camped for two weeks in the rain. Had to survive on fish and donations and a quarter of the student body gave him tips until he finally mastered the spell.”
He laughed heartily at the memory. Trey nodded. He’d had similar training from Gazi and the [Mages] of Parasol Stroll. The students, though, looked appalled.
“That’s barbaric!”
“What? He learned the spell. Adversity! Don’t tell me they don’t throw [Aeromancers] off the high balconies anymore? That’s how you learn to fly. Or at least, break your fall.”
At that, Trey shuddered.
“I learned how to cast [Slow Fall] that way.”
Mena gaped at him. Eldavin beamed.
“There you are. The old ways! Not everything old is wrong. Not everything…”
He lapsed into silence for a moment. And he looked terribly sad for a moment.
“I remember a time when Archmage Chandler roamed these halls. Is it anathema to speak his name? There was a time when Terandria boasted of their Archmage!”
Charles de Trevalier’s head slowly turned incredulously. The Libertarians froze up. Mena gulped.
“Grand Magus—”
Eldavin wasn’t listening. He turned to the [Sand Mage].
“You seem to have decent foundations, young man. Who taught you? Er…”
He squinted for a second.
“Trey Atwood, isn’t it?”
Trey began to choke on his food.
“W-what? No, it’s Troy Atlas.”
“Oh. My mistake.”
Eldavin gave Trey a look and casually sipped from his drink. Trey felt a huge pit burning in his stomach, but no one seemed to have noticed. But he had an anti-[Appraisal] ring and everything! They had told him—
 
—-
 
Valeterisa was growing increasingly antsy. She did not care for this seating. Moreover, she had just spotted the young man with the Lifesand Golem.
He had run away from her. Screaming. It was not a unique experience, but now she saw him sitting at a table with what her internal notes identified as Grand Magus Eldavin, affiliation unknown, level unknown, apparently older than Archmagus Feor.
That would have already interested her. But in her head, one of her thought-processes attracted the attention of all the others.
Ding! Translation complete. The mysterious note on the wall finally sorted itself through her translation.
 
I am Magus Eldavin and offer you a secret of fire…
 
Viltach was sighing. Someone had brought up the Necromancer, apparently. Magus Rievan was pointing and the Archmage glaring.
“If they’re over there, the better for it. Let them talk. No, just let them talk, Rievan.”
He shooed the [Mage] away. Some old [Mage] who had as many memory issues as incontinence ones? It didn’t matter; no wonder Soner had put a [Grand Mage] over there. He turned.
“As I was saying, Valeteris—”
He looked around. She had left the table in the third course and wandered off. Viltach cursed and sighed. Lack of decorum everywhere!
 
—-
 
“I actually think they’re not going to approach us. Which means we have to go begging to them. Ridiculous.”
The Drakes were glowering from their isolation table. The voice from the scrying orb was patient.
“Wistram owes the Walled Cities little. Go to Grand Magus Eldavin. I can vouch for his superior knowledge.”
“I’m getting up. Fourth course is nearly done; I see Archmage Valeterisa.”
The Drakes stiffened as they saw her picking her way through the crowd. Half glared; she was the Human Archmage of Izril as far as they were concerned.
“How did someone wake her up? Better if she stayed silent.”
Grumbling, they watched her move. Then they noticed whom she was moving towards.
 
—-
 
“Who’s that half-Elf?”
Galei of Ullsinoi was eating in the company of his faction…or maybe not. Charles de Trevalier was offering Cessic, one of Beatrice’s few remaining friends, a tureen of gravy. In fact—most of the [Mages] here looked like ones from other factions. They had doppelgangers—or they were actually here.
“No idea. But he had a splendid illusion spell. Looked almost spontaneous. You interested, Galei?”
The Bear-General of Ailendamus was eating at his table. Yerzhen—or rather, the [Mage] stealing his name and look—glanced around. The others murmured.
“As good as I could do it. What was that, light magic?”
“Lovely containment; I barely saw any magical leak. Where’d he come from?”
“The High Passes. And Liscor. And the inn.”
The Ullsinoi faction stopped. They gave each other significant looks.
“Ah. Then we had better say hello. Old man sounds very upset. Did you know we could change the weather spell?”
Bemused, most of the table shook their heads. A few nodded just because. So did Galei. And Taxiela, both of whom might be Palt’s master, or neither. The Centaur bit into the Hawaiian pizza slice.
“I did. I was wondering if anyone would remember.”
The others laughed. He might have been telling the truth. They all looked over as someone raised their voice.
“Excuse me, sir. Would you mind sharing your wisdom with us?”
Charles de Trevalier glanced over and saw his twin rising from his seat and calling out to Eldavin. The Ullsinoi [Mages] stirred.
Oho.
 
—-
 
Eldavin’s head turned. His ire had faded a bit, and he was actually beginning to enjoy himself as he ate; he’d sent Trey to collect a sample of all the dishes.
“Yes, young man?”
He called out to Charles de Trevalier. The young man was smiling—but not in a happy way.
“We—the Libertarians—”
“The who?”
Eldavin blinked at the Humans. They looked at each other.
“The Libertarians? Who believe Wistram should involve itself in the affairs of nations? One of the largest groups in Wistram?”
“Ah. You must have called yourself something else the last time I was here.”
Eldavin’s eyebrows politely rose. The young man looked uncertainly around, then flushed.
Charles de Trevalier. Beatrice glowered from her seat. She knew him. A troublemaker, decidedly pro-Human and anti-most species.
Once, he had been Ceria and Pisces’ enemy, having come in on the same boat and year as they did. He stepped away from the table and everyone heard the silver chime.
A silver bell and a rapier hung by his waist. Proof of mastery, or the first step to such.
He didn’t deserve it. But that was long, long ago…
“You seem to have a number of old memories, sir. Such as that of the Necromancer of Terandria. Or are you forgetting Wistram exiled that kind of foulness?”
Eldavin stirred. His eyes locked on Charles’.
He recognized uppity tones when he heard them. Young Dragons now…
Ah, once. Once, he had walked among his kind. Endured challenges, their testing of him—what a pain.
What he wouldn’t give for those days once more.
The young woman who bested a Dragon. Shot by crossbows. Lying frozen—
He blinked. Forget about it.
“Young [Mage]. Your tone seems to indicate that you object to me using his name. And title. Archmage Chandler.”
Charles flushed. Another young man shot to his feet.
“He is not an Archmage! He was exiled and his name stricken such that it is never uttered nor remembered in all of Terandria!”
The half-Elf sighed.
“If it is never remembered, how do people remember not to utter it? Quite a contradiction in terms…but I digress. He was still an Archmage. Strip him of his titles as the world will—I thought Wistram, Academy of [Mages], would at least give history the courtesy of being correct. He was an Archmage, for better or worse.”
Charles ground his teeth. Timor was beet red; the fool had no gift for words. He snapped.
“That is inconsequential. The point is that—that brand of magic is both repugnant and worthless. Or have you not heard what necromancy has wrought since?”
More people in earshot stopped laughing or talking. Troubled faces among the older [Mages]. And even the younger ones who remembered the events that had led to a [Necromancer] being expelled.
“I have not, young man. Nor do I care to be illuminated at this time. I am here to speak to the Archmages. Necromancy is just a type of magic. That it should have fallen to such a state of neglect here—that is legacy for you. If Az’kerash could have seen it…”
Eldavin sat there. Trey felt himself nodding. He had been to Khelt. The old man’s eyes caught the gesture.
“You won’t apologize for invoking the Necromancer’s name to sons and daughters of the lands he terrorized?”
The Grand Magus did not turn around.
“Young man, if a name were all it took to terrorize Terandria, your ‘Necromancer’ would have conquered it long ago. Nor do I require lectures from a lesser [Mage]. I am Grand Magus Eldavin and my understanding of the magical craft is second only to the Archmages.”
The listeners tittered as he calmly speared a baked eel and chewed it happily. Charles was incandescent. Rievan was hurrying back as Viltach rolled his eyes.
 
—-
 
Feor glanced down the hall.
“Who is that half-Elf, Teura?”
He motioned to his second-in-command. She grimaced.
“Grand Magus Eldavin. He wished to see you. He claims to be a contemporary of Archmage Zelkyr.”
“Truly? Grand Magus…I don’t recall him. But then, the higher [Mages] came and went.”
Feor looked around. It seemed like he was arguing with a young man—Charles. One of Viltach’s troublemakers. Feor grimaced. Perhaps the half-Elf wanted to reminisce? He did not recall Eldavin, but the argument was getting louder.
Meanwhile, a serving Golem’s eyes lit up. No one noticed. But somewhere in the academy, a Truestone Golem paused. Someone remembered.
 
—-
 
Eldavin was sitting, chewing the eel and savoring the taste. It all tasted better when you weren’t well, the size of a Dragon.
However, he was recalling the times of old. He had been here when Zelkyr was made Archmage of Golems. He had talked to the Drake.
To the Archmage of Death too. Before and after. He knew his story. There was no sympathy from the descendants of his victims. Of course not. They had vilified him.
But how they forgot.
They forgot to change the weather. They forgot how they used to sit, even some magics. That [High Mage] didn’t even understand preset illusions you just summon.
How things changed. In an instant, so much was lost.
The [Garden of Sanctuary] will be lost again. Her legacy. The [Innkeeper] is dead.
The food turned to paste in his mouth. Then the arrogant young man spoke.
“For such a venerable, wise senior mage, sir, you don’t seem to be in the right company.”
Slowly, Eldavin looked up. Mena hurriedly stood.
“Mage Charles, don’t you have your own faction to attend to?”
But it was too late. Eldavin had turned in his seat again. He fixed Charles with a look.
“What do you mean, young man? I am in the company of [Mages] seeking my knowledge. As befits wisdom, which you appear to lack.”
The words stung and provoked chuckles, but Charles just sneered at him.
“I’m sure that’s the reason you’re sitting here, Grand Magus. After all, someone else with your class is right over—oh.”
He nodded to the old Garuda sitting practically next to the Archmages. Eldavin’s eyes slowly narrowed.
“I am tired from my journeys and sit where I choose, boy.”
“Of course, sir. And I did not hear you object at length to your position? You were certainly not placed here because everyone felt it would be an embarrassment to have you utter your ramblings in front of our esteemed guests.”
He nodded to a [Mage Lord] of Terandria, some of the Chandrarian nobility and other guests. More laughter, louder, from the Libertarian faction. The half-Elf looked around, and then saw Mena’s abashed expression. The other people sitting around the table save for Trey bit their lips and he read the truth of it on their faces.
Slowly, the tips of Eldavin’s ears turned red. Then his face. He opened his mouth to respond—and then stood up.
“We shall see about that.”
He began to stride away from the table. Mena rose.
“Grand Magus—please, it’s not even the fourth course—Grand Magus!”
High Mage Soner was already moving on an intercept course as Eldavin stormed towards the high table.
“Out of my way. I have words for the Archmages regarding my business—”
“Sir! Grand Magus, Grand Magus, please, there is no need to cause a scene…”
It was hardly the only interesting thing happening in the hall, of course. At this very moment, one of the Earthers at the private table where Aaron was sitting was juggling flaming chicken nuggets to laughter. Another [Mage] was dueling a rival far to the back of the room in a grudge match, and a fiery debate had just ignited between the Libertarians and Centrists about which side was right in the Ailendamus vs Dawn Concordat battle.
But Eldavin was certainly part of the scene. The Archmages noticed him arguing with Soner and some of their representatives. They affected not to notice, except for Naili, who was watching with amusement.
“Grand Magus, the Archmages are not taking unsolicited meetings at this moment!”
In the end, Soner burst out with the truth. The full truth, the whole truth, and, to Trey, the wrong truth. He saw Eldavin stare at the Naga.
“So I am refused admission?”
“Later, I am certain they will all have time for…”
For you. The Libertarians were all chuckling. Eldavin stared at the Archmages—all of whom were looking away. Naili waved apologetically.
Trey waited for a detonation. But it never came. Never let it be said Dragons didn’t respect rules…except when they didn’t. But Eldavin just adjusted his robes.
“I see.”
He turned, and slowly, with great dignity, went back to his table, ignoring the laughter. The tips of his ears were red, but he was calming down.
It might have ended there. But then—it could have been a leg, a sneaky spell, a bit of something on the floor. Or his robes.
He tripped and went sprawling. Charles, Timor, even Rievan, and everyone in sight howled with laughter as the half-Elf picked himself up.
“Grand Magus—are you—”
Mena and Seky went to pick him up. Eldavin brushed off their hands. His face was pale now. He walked over and sat down at the table. Trey Atwood gave him one look. Then he stood up.
“I have to um…it was a pleasure to meet you, Grand Magus.”
“Thank you, young At…las. Your company has been most enjoyable. Where are you sitting?”
Trey pointed. Eldavin’s head turned as the laughter died out. He nodded.
“Good. Stay there.”
