[Mages] were used to telling truths or not at all, since most learned [Detect Truth] or [Detect Lie] in their first year. Smart ones learned both.
“Even an Archmage? I see, I see. Wistram must be in the throes of chaos, then. Or maybe it’s improper management. At least they sent someone.”
He grumbled. Mena felt sweat running down her back. Oh no. This was a crotchety old [Mage], worse even than the old woman who made Mena walk her all the way into the academy and her old rooms! She had to turn up the charm offensive.
And as it happened—[Charm Smile], a good ear, and a willingness to accommodate went a long way. She made her smile vanish into one of apologetic dismay at once.
“I am so sorry, Grand Magus. I only knew you were arriving and I’m not in charge of the reception affairs. If you could pardon the lack of decorum—I am sorry again.”
“Well, I suppose it’s not your fault. These things happen.”
The half-Elf harrumphed, but he was already looking more mollified. Seky gave Mena a nudge and look of approval. Good job! Mena was happy herself; she was training as a [Bard], but that last bit had come from the plays they were putting on. She was a lead actress in one.
Flattery and respect. That was what Teriarch desired. He could tell the young woman wasn’t being entirely truthful, but he could well understand that she wasn’t in charge.
He might have a temper. The Dragon had to admit that. Millennia had passed and well, he was who he was. Not that he was a brash young Dragon who’d burn a city to ash for being snubbed. No, he was past that stage of life…
And he was Eldavin. Remember that. The Dragon scolded himself as he walked onto the docks. People were admiring the [Light Bridge]; he had copied the design from a quite nice one he’d once seen. But he reminded himself to tone down the overt magic.
He was not a Dragon here. Eldavin had limits. Actual, physical limits that Teriarch did not. The two legs aside, his mana pool was a lot weaker in the simulacra than a Dragon’s. Still considerable, but Teriarch couldn’t just cast Tier…damn. Those damn Tiers were going to be a pain.
And he had to be more accommodating. He was a [Grand Magus], but not one most people would be familiar with, hence the ruse. Be a bit more diplomatic, T—Eldavin, old chap. Obviously, Eldavin should have a proper respect for himself! But…
“Have you your old rooms for a prolonged stay, Grand Magus, or would you like us to take you to your faction’s headquarters?”
“My rooms were not assigned to me?”
“Er—I don’t—well, I don’t know if anyone recalls your rooms, Grand Magus. I’m terribly sorry…”
The half-Elf lifted a hand.
“Ah, it has been at least a century since I last visited, hasn’t it?”
Longer still. The two young [Mages] gaped at him and the half-Elf amended his words.
“…Visited more than a week, that is. I suppose I’ll rediscover if my rooms are extant. As for faction? None.”
“O-oh? Well, then, Wistram must have changed…a century?”
“I am a half-Elf, my dear. Time passes differently for us. I’d imagine some of the better [Mages] would remember me, although I was hardly an active presence. Who are the new Archmages? The ones present.”
Mena blinked.
“Archmages Feor, Nailihuaile, Viltach, Verdan, and Valeterisa are all present at the moment, Grand Magus. We might get the remaining two…and Archmage Amerys was removed from her position, of course.”
“…I see. New blood, it seems. Well, I remember Feor…? Do I? [Recall Memory].”
Eldavin frowned and tapped his head. He brightened.
“Ah! Yes! I do! He was that scamp who once upended three entire tables with that misfiring spell! Ah, good to see him rising to the class of [Archmage]. I must remark on that.”
Mena’s mouth opened and closed. She looked at Seky. She had definitely heard the [Archmage] class. She wondered if she should say something as they walked onto the docks.
Eldavin stopped then, and the two [Mages] saw him blink upwards. Because some of the other parts of the welcoming committee had impressed themselves on him.
Giant metal Golems stood sentry, their armor polished and gleaming, their swords and shields reminiscent of [Knights]. But only a half-Giant [Knight] would be twelve feet tall. These ones were part of Wistram’s reminder of power for all guests. They just stood there of course; Cognita had been asked to post them.
“Ah.”
Eldavin gazed up, and Mena decided that the Golems could have been here specifically for him. She was about to tell the old half-Elf this when he strode up to the nearest one and halted in front of it.
“No personal baggage to unload. However, you may escort me to my rooms. Here is my bag of holding.”
He proffered the object at his side to the giant metal Golem. The [Mages] on the docks stared.
The huge guardian’s sentry head slowly turned. It stared down at Eldavin. Mena hurried forwards.
“Grand Magus—those aren’t really escorts so much as—”
“Not escorting us? Nor to unload? What are they supposed to do, kill intruders?”
Eldavin was much upset. He put his bag of holding back as the Golem returned to staring ahead. He looked around, then blew out his cheeks.
“Wistram’s sense of decorum really has gone downhill. Is this Zelkyr’s work? No—wait—he’s ‘gone’, isn’t he? Hah! When Archmage Chandler was still present, we would have proper service! Not even skeletons or Wights, but a proper staff. Trust a Drake to be too stingy to pay for help, or even send proper Golems to greet the guests. A real shame about him—but that was before your time, young lady. Now there was someone who understood manners.”
He shook his head. Mena’s jaw dropped open and stayed there. Because it had taken her a second—but then she recalled whom Archmage Chandler was.
Eldavin rapped his knuckles on the Golem’s arm and winced. He’d forgotten how fragile bodies were! Pain, bladder issues—oh, what a mess.
“Tell Zelkyr I’ve seen better, even for reception. Golems of metal? Pah.”
The Golem stared at him again and then went back to staring ahead. Eldavin shook his head. He noticed the [Bard] staring at him and smiled.
“Don’t look so alarmed, my dear. One does rib at the Archmages. It’s traditional, even if they have passed, and I don’t know the new ones. Some can be touchy—ah, well, Zelkyr himself. But he might as well come down and object himself then, eh?”
She nodded slowly. Everyone was staring at Eldavin as he sighed. He proceeded up the hill, talking nonstop. Mena slowly and covertly sent Seky to run ahead to tell someone else in charge they were getting a really troublesome old man. The kind who they did not want on display tonight.
 
—-
 
Soner was a Naga and part of the Revivalist faction. Also, in charge of coordinating rooms, seating, and so on. With Cognita. But his job was to do what the Golem would not, which was make sure Wistram looked good.
They had given the job of sorting the new arrivals to the dock-group. There were the Archmages, trusted friends of the Academy, and so on. Then there were the guests.
The guests who would not know more than what was told. Who would be impressed yet not privy to Wistram’s secrets. Some would mingle with Councilmembers, but there would be rank.
For instance, Fissival would not sit with the Archmages, for all they had sent a number of their Drakes. Just because it was Fissival.
Soner was a [High Mage], and whilst not being specialized in this class, was high-level enough to get a good estimate of most people’s levels and he was also a political animal and knew who was noble and who was not.
He’d only had trouble with the Drowned Folk’s representatives. He couldn’t get a read on the [Depth Mages], and their leader, a very old woman with a bunch of daughters all in veils, had apparently come to represent the Undersea Crews.
Were they [Pirates], then, as the Drowned Folk often were, or esteemed guests? He’d put them at a separate table not too far from the high table to offend, but definitely sectioned off as they were.
Now, he was annoyed as he turned to Seky.
“Grand Magus? We can put him in the third setting. If he’s not of a faction, he’s fine. So what if he cast [Light Bridge]? I can cast that!”
“He’s a bit…weird, Magus Soner. That’s all.”
The Drake couldn’t explain. The [High Mage] sighed, adjusted his suit; not all [Mages] had to wear robes! And found Magus Eldavin.
“I remember a time before Zelkyr came to power. We always had Golems, but there was an actual cleaning staff you know. Well, in times before that Wistram used automated magics, but they get tangled up. Easier just to pay for it and be done. So no one’s seen Zelkyr? No hints he’s alive?”
Mena looked up with a put-upon look as the Naga slithered over.
“Not a one, Grand Magus. But—oh, here’s High Magus Soner. Magus Soner, the Grand Magus has just arrived and we’re not sure if his rooms are still, um, unoccupied. It’s been a hundred years since he was last here.”
She stressed that last part. Soner blinked. A hundred…? He hadn’t missed the half-Elf’s ears, but this was something.
“Grand Magus Eldavin. I am honored to meet you. Forgive me for not coming in person—we’re extremely busy at this moment.”
He bowed gracefully, and Eldavin inclined his head.
“These things happen, Magus Soner. However, I would not mind re-accommodation of my rooms. I was on the twelfth floor, but it seems that area is quite out of my reach, wouldn’t you say?”
He laughed. Soner froze.
The twelfth floor? 
In theory, there were more than twelve floors from ground level to the ‘twelfth’. But Wistram didn’t count the hidden ones, or the ones squished together. The Twelfth Floor—if it was what Soner thought Eldavin meant—would be above the testing floor.
The ones locked by Zelkyr’s final test, and Cognita.
The death of mages.
“You were here before Archmage Zelkyr locked the higher floors?”
“Indeed I was. It must have been…no, I don’t think I actually visited since then. More than a week, that is! I should love to see it. But I will take a modest suite below.”
“Thank you for your forbearance, Grand Magus.”
Mena bowed. She hesitated, then cleared her throat.
“I—ah—think Wistram may have changed quite a lot, Grand Magus. Magus Soner, Grand Magus Eldavin was just saying how he recalled Archmage Chandler’s superior etiquette.”
Soner blinked. Then he nearly swallowed his forked tongue. Eldavin was nodding sagely.
“A different time. I would like to remember it with Archmagus Feor. I understand he’s finally achieved the rank! Will there be a social gathering?”
“Tonight. Er—Magus Eldavin—”
“Grand Magus, Magus Soner. We must keep to proper decorum—at least before we know each other!”
The Naga caught himself as Eldavin chuckled.
“Yes. Yes, my apologies Grand Magus. Er, we will certainly have a banquet tonight, and small, unofficial gatherings thereafter. I am certain Archmagus Feor would be delighted to meet you. However—did you say ‘Archmage Chandler’? You are, of course, aware that the, ah, Necromancer has become a touchy subject in the last hundred years?”
Where had this fellow been, hiding under a rock? Well, half-Elves did have their villages and Valeterisa had been completely out of it for a decade or so they said. The Naga waited, but Eldavin just arched one white eyebrow.
“Of course I recall Peril Chandler’s fall. And the…death of Az’kerash. Yes, of course I know that, young Naga. But he was still Archmage Chandler. Archmagus of Death. And let us not forget—he and Archmage Zelkyr were friends! The Archmage of Golems. The Archmage of Death. Izril and Terandria. Should we not remember that?”
He looked around pointedly at Golems—virtually identical to a [Maid] or [Butler]—cleaning and polishing, made of ceramics. Soner just blinked.
“…Yes, certainly, Grand Magus Eldavin. But that was a hundred years ago and memories fade. For the sake of decorum, perhaps do not bring up Az—Archmage Chandler as much?”
“Perhaps, perhaps. I shall take it under advisement. I suppose it would ruffle feathers in Izril and Terandria. Now, about my rooms…”
Eldavin nodded to Soner. The Naga smiled and quickly found a nice suite for Eldavin. And he made a huge mental note:
No way in all of Baleros’ jungles was this [Mage] going to be let anywhere near the guests.
Whether Eldavin had known it or not, he had just kicked himself so far down the rankings of Wistram’s society that he was already into the catacombs. And for [Necromancers] and those who practiced that magic, there was always further to sink. Some magic should not be practiced.
 
—-
 
Beatrice Stogrehn stood in the company of an Archmage. One of the two Archmages of Baleros, in fact.
Archmage Nailihuaile was energetic, friendly, and silly as could be at times. But if you underestimated her, you were a fool. Because she was a Star Lamia, one of the rarest of Lizardfolk evolutions in this world and she was still an Archmage.
A master [Enchanter]. Head of a faction and one of the most important people in all of Wistram. Beatrice a few years ago couldn’t have imagined being in her company. Not at her age!
She was barely thirty. A few years ago, she’d still been a student! And she had been in love, she had debated going home to work after graduating…she had even wondered if she might marry.
Now, Beatrice looked at her dark skin, her armored body of metal covered by runework in the blank scrying mirror and recalled that she had once smiled.
The [Runemistress] remembered Calvaron and it still hurt. It still tore at her insides, the memories of those old days. She still recalled that night of horror, as well as how the cursed study group had formed. Ceria, Calvaron, herself, the traitor, and later, Montressa.
She never forgot. Some nights the memories filled her head. So—how could Montressa, how could Ceria forget? Allow that monster to walk about, even journey and fight beside him as a team?
“Montressa lied. That’s clear in hindsight. Well, it was pretty clear at the time. Clear as my neck-frills, but I thought she was still on our side. That’s the problem with traitors. You really like them, right, Beatrice? She was your friend. Any idea why she did this?”
Naili spoke at last. Beatrice shifted.
“She was my friend, Archmagus. She and I ran our secret broker business. I stood by her even after all that happened. And now? I do not know her.”
She held her head in her hands and turned it to face her torso. Naili looked sympathetic.
“This has got to be hard for you Beatrice, is it? It looks like it. Listen, if you want, you can do it yourself.”
“No, Archmagus. There’s too much to do here. And Montressa—no. Thank you.”
