“How are the new Earthers doing, by the way? I heard we had a real talent in uh—uh—what’s his name? The one with the actual magical ability.”
Telim snapped his fingers.
“Troy?”
“That’s the lad. [Sand Mage]. He’s a good student.”
Aaron nodded. Troy was a bit standoffish, but he’d been warming up. He was still getting his legs in, but he actually went to classes which was why he had less time than the others.
“Good foundations, that boy. Someone taught him properly. And I heard that other boy who came with him got in a bit of trouble. For his pet.”
“Oh. Right. Someone sat on Prickly.”
“Poor thing. Is it okay?”
Sa’la made a sympathetic noise. Which she wouldn’t have if she knew Prickly. Elena shook her head.
“Prickly was fine, just startled by the screaming. She’s a Needlehound and—”
Telim and Sa’la winced. Half-porcupine, half-dog, and worse than either if you ran into it and she got nervous.
“I hope it was a Selphid. Imagine…gah! Well, I am glad. And your ah, therapy group, Miss Elena?”
“A lot better. Everyone’s sleeping and—a lot better.”
Elena gave Aaron a tired smile. He felt proud of that. Telim looked around, almost fondly. He’d never had children, but he’d begun remarking that he felt like the ‘Earth-children’ as he called them were the children he wished he had. Sa’la would then point out that this was because he hadn’t had to raise them from babies and Telim would retort that was the entire point.
Well, it would be an interesting banquet. Aaron stretched out. He wasn’t the one who this mattered for. He was in Wistram, but apart. The children of Earth had no power. Yet.
He intended to change that as soon as the opportunity arose. The knowledge from the Summer Solstice burned in Aaron. Even though the Archmages were still in a panic. They’d suspected him, but they couldn’t trace who had sent the mass-text, and given up suspecting him because how would he have done it?
Elena now…she eyed Aaron as he sat, chatting with Telim about what might be on the menu and the entertainment. She had seen it too.
The Gods are alive.
She desperately wanted to return to Cara and talk. Until then, she looked forwards to the banquet. What else could she do? She was surrounded by [Mages]. Even the kind ones.
 
—-
 
Troy Atlas gave up searching for Amerys today. He kept being bothered by, well, friends. Flynn wanted to meet all the new people coming in, Elena wanted him to join the ‘talk it out’ group after lunch, and even if classes were cancelled, the hallways were packed.
“Maybe that’s what I’m doing wrong.”
Trey frowned. He looked around and tried to navigate away from people. He found empty corridors, and hurried down them.
However, weeks of searching had availed him little. Was it weeks? At least two, so plural was fine.
“I think I know what the problem is, don’t you, Minizi?”
He commented. A little head poked out of the pack he was carrying on one shoulder and nodded.
Minizi, or Mini-Gazi, as he had named her, was the little Lifesand Golem he’d taken to carrying about. To remind him of what he was doing here. Trey had taken to talking to her, although it was nothing like the real Gazi.
“The problem is…I think I’m never going to find it this way. Right?”
The Golem nodded again. She understood Trey’s thoughts and even if he thought she was limited in intelligence, it was comforting.
The problem was, Trey continued internally, he doubted Amerys was in any space he could find. Why have a top-secret prisoner where anyone could find her? 
There was a finite amount of space in Wistram, for all it was vast, a city’s size or more compressed by dimensional space. Amerys could be deep in the bowels of the academy, but Trey thought he knew where she really was.
Down a hallway I will never find, because it’s magically sealed or lost or I don’t know the way in.
He’d learned some of the secrets, like the whistling music classrooms. And he’d learned Wistram’s ways. You bought and sold secrets, you gave allegiance to certain groups…
It was like the world, and not. A caricature of the world, maybe. Trey didn’t know if he hated all of it. Some people were quite nice, and meeting other people from Earth?
…But it wasn’t Chandrar. The [Mages] were removed from war and they had a superior attitude about them. That was why they collected Earthers.
Well, he had come of his own will. Trey sighed. Still, he was definitely ‘their Earther’. He had been taken by the Revivalists—Flynn, the Libertarians. Neither young man was treated badly. But Trey felt like he was having his conversations with Flos again. It was not slavery. But it wasn’t bloody well freedom either.
He needed to learn more magic at this juncture, which was why the King of Destruction had sent him. More than that? Trey needed to make friends. Perhaps the banquet was time for that? He began heading back that way.
He’d missed lunch, to grab a bite before joining Elena’s therapy group. Which was tough because ‘Troy’s’ cover story had some danger in it, but he couldn’t very well say he’d killed people or visited A’ctelios and saw what they did there.
Before I go, I need to learn [Fireball]. But how to make one big enough for that place?
Thus, he was caught between impatience and knowing he needed to stay. Trey kicked along the corridors, letting Minizi ride on his shoulder; he’d put her away before people asked questions.
He was just reaching for his shoulder to put Minizi back in the backpack when the Lifesand Golem punched him in the ear.
“Argh! What is wrong with you, Minizi?”
Trey grabbed at it. Was she becoming more Gazi-like just because he’d made her that way? Then—he froze.
On a hunch, he’d told the little Golem to look with him. Now—the little Golem urgently hit his shoulder with her little fist. Trey blinked. He looked around—
Empty hallway. He exhaled, but Minizi was banging on his skin. And staring…
The [Sand Mage] looked at a blank patch of air. Slowly, he reached out. Nothing. He took a few more steps and pushed his vacant hand into—
Archmage Valeterisa’s bespectacled face appeared as she shed the spell. She peered at Trey as he recoiled.
“That is a Lifesand Golem. How did you make one? Will you make me one? I will pay you in gold or secrets.”
Trey stared at her. The woman peered at him. He threw up his arms, screamed, and ran. He knew trouble when he saw it and he wasn’t getting his throat slashed twice.
 
—-
 
Archmage Valeterisa was terrorizing the hallways. The other [Mages] were gathering, getting settled in, exchanging secrets, giving each other gifts.
Now was the time of potential. Wistram never changed. Well…it did, actually. Quite a lot. But a clever mind could always adapt.
“Let me see. This should do it.”
Eldavin glanced down the hallway to the right and left as he fiddled with the wall. He’d cast an illusion on both ends to make it look like stone, but anyone could walk in. There were tricky [Mages], or at least, there had been when he had last come.
He had no money—at least, not his vast hoard of wealth—and few secrets he cared to enter into Wistram’s economy. So he’d have to make something from nothing!
He was a Dragon. It was easy. Eldavin straightened and regarded the handiwork of the spell-letters he’d written onto the wall.
They were in a form of writing once used by mages. A dead language used in spoken chants. It already cut down the number of people who’d be able to decipher it, but the glowing words were clearly visible to anyone who cast [Detect Magic]. Quite invisible to the naked eye.
It read, when translated:
‘The key to knowledge lies in the heart of the source of the page. To the one clever enough to descry meaning from this, I am Eldavin who offers you the clue.’
It was a proper riddle—not a hard one! But one that only a perceptful [Mage] would read. Dead language, invisible letters. Oh, and the riddle.
It referred to a key to a hidden library in Wistram. Eldavin had made it very easy to solve on purpose. ‘Heart of the source of the page’. Obviously, a tree, and there was a forest in Wistram you could visit…
He rubbed his hands together happily. He had a strong working knowledge of many of Wistram’s hidden areas. People would find the dozen or so clues he’d put around the most-populated hallways in Wistram, come to him, and he’d be in the secrets-game soon enough. Obviously, some people knew of the forest library, but the fact that he, Eldavin, was showing people the depth of his knowledge just added to his reputation.
All he had to do now was wait. The Grand Magus smugly went back to his rather small and cramped rooms to wait. He’d put them up as soon as he’d arrived. If he knew the [Mages], they were already in a furor, translating, speculating who could have put up the spells without being seen in the hallways! Gossip would have them pounding on his door. Any minute now…
Eldavin waited for three hours until he realized no one was coming. He went to check each hidden message and hit upon a flaw in his plan.
Yes, they were visible to anyone who cast [Detect Magic]. Yes, the riddles were obvious.
…But the students and [Mages] had changed. One group was indeed staring at the letters. Eldavin waited, bouncing on the heels of his feet.
“What do you make of it, High Magus?”
“Some sort of code. I can’t tell what it is. Might be one of the old written languages. Or someone’s idea of a joke. Anyone know [Translate]? No? Well, let’s erase it, then. Hm…it’s not coming off the walls…”
The half-Elf looked at the group, crestfallen. He waited for a bright mind to suggest looking up the language. The [Mages] glanced at each other.
“We could search up what it is. Maybe some of the translation books?”
“Which library? We have four. And they’re not organized.”
“Fourteen.”
The two didn’t hear that. One of them shook their heads.
“Too much for me. Let’s check out the banquet!”
Crestfallen, Eldavin looked at the group as they dispersed. Even the so-called ‘High Mage’ just gave it a blank look and grumbled about ‘getting to it later’.
Was this Wistram? Eldavin wanted to tear at his beard. He was about to make a sarcastic appendage to the riddle in plain writing when he stopped.
“I think it’s the spoken language. It looks like it, doesn’t it?”
A young Selphid was excitedly talking to a Dwarf. The young Dwarf tugged at a blank space and realized he’d shaved his beard for the umpteenth time. They were both young—although that was a variable age for Dwarves.
“Could be. You know, I’m studying old languages—goes with runecrafting. Maybe we search this up? We have time before the banquet.”
“Yeah! Let’s do that! Who knows? It just appeared, people said! We could find a big secret! I mean—probably not. The Archmages probably know what it says already. But I want to know, don’t you? We could sell it as like, a secret.”
“Let’s go, then!”
The half-Elf watched the two young first-years hurry off. He looked at his message on the wall.
They were not his clientele—he’d hoped to get the best of Wistram. But apparently most had just walked past the wall, or failed to be interested in it.
He raised a hand to erase it—then lowered it. Well, why not?
“Let the wise benefit from acts of wisdom.”
Eldavin shook his head. He’d have to re-think his work. That was all. And he had forgotten that Zelkyr had locked the upper floors. Now, why had he done that? He had to be alive, surely? Either way, it was a truly Draconian move, and not even Teriarch would really support it. Not unless the goal was to deprive Wistram of learning…
The banquet tonight would change things. The lack of interest had put Eldavin in a bad mood, but the two students gave him hope. He switched tacks and decided the best thing to do was introduce himself to Feor. Bring out a fine vintage, reminisce about the old days as half-Elves did, and get in with the Centrists.
He was just walking out to find the Archmage when something caught his ear.
“…Earthers to the recovery groups…”
The half-Elf stopped in his tracks. He turned. Two [Mages] were walking past and talking. They were under a [Muffle] spell, but Eldavin didn’t allow people to walk around him without him noticing. His detection spells were superior and let him hear as clearly as they did.
“Which ones? Come on, we’ll update the listings.”
They were a Drake and a Garuda. Wearing robes, clearly full [Mages]. Not strong ones to judge by their auras…then again, they stood out more than most in the hallways.
Eldavin hesitated. Then he murmured some spells and followed them.
 
—-
 
It was hard to shadow the [Mages]. Teriarch-Eldavin fretted over it as he pursued them down corridor after corridor. First he cast [Greater Invisibility], [Aura Mute], [Complete Silence], and…but that was stupid. Anyone would just cast [Spell Purge] or have the enchantment hit him!
Thereafter he used [Shadow Walk], while keeping the option of [Telehop] for bypassing checkpoints, but he realized he was vulnerable to aura-based detection. After that, he had to really think.
He wasn’t a Dragon, so he had to actually be careful! The half-Elf shook his head as he buzzed into the Drake’s robes and began to spell-meld himself with the enchanted fabric. He couldn’t cast full [Polymorph], but temporary transformations would get him where he needed to go. He could already run out of the checkpoint if…
If…
After the two [Mages] got to their destination, Eldavin concluded that there had been no magical checkpoints. No ward spells. They’d just used a secret passage and walked on through with a few sensor spells which he’d obviously been prepared for.
The half-Elf walked behind them and sighed. Well, he was a Dragon of countless years. Even an [Archmage] would have been paranoid if they knew Teriarch was lurking about. He’d done that once; raided Archmage’s homes.
The trick was that once you ran into a barrier you couldn’t dispel? Dragonbreath. Worked every time. He’d stolen a lot of artifacts and spellbooks from angry [Archmages] and then innocently hobnobbed with them afterwards in Wistram. Good times, good times…
Now he was listening, though.
“Where’re our new Earthers?”
“Mainly Izril. It’s the unconfirmed. Archmage Naili wants them confirmed and got. She’s got a [High Mage] going to Liscor.”
Eldavin froze. The Garuda flapped his wings.
“Well, why do we have to update the lists?”
“The other one’s tricky is why. Any group in the area should reach out. But—hold on. Excuse me! Can we get a [Scrier] here to send out one of our [Messages]? We need to re-code and have it in the Mage’s Guild in the following locations before the banquet!”
