They were in a room with a lot of scrying mirrors. Teriarch sensed the very spell creating the Wistram News Network being operated here, and…his eyes narrowed.
“You reversed the scrying spell? Spying on so many? You fools! It’s so obvious!”
A young [Scrier] trotted over, sighing.
“How many?”
“Er…forty eight.”
“Forty—that’s insane! We’ll be at it hours! We have to code each [Message]!”
“Why don’t you send a spell that can’t be read by all present?”
“Well, too bad. And we need it before the banquet. Don’t bother showing up until it’s done. It’s for a number of teams—it needs to get to them now. Archmage’s orders. Standing orders in the Mage’s Guild.”
The Drake was unmoved. The [Scrier] looked heartbroken. She took the coded missive. The Drake turned—and went sprawling.
“Ancestors damn it—”
“Are you alright?”
The Garuda checked his friend. The Drake rubbed at his face and looked back at the [Scrier], but she couldn’t have done that. Blushing under his scales, he adjusted his robes and stormed off.
Eldavin debated tripping him again. No, no. He stayed with the [Scrier] as she groused.
“Why forty eight? It’s normally one or two! Oh. Oh. That’s why. Wherever she is? Stupid…”
The half-Elf read over her shoulder as the young Drake turned. His eyes went round as he saw the name and reason for the message.
 
Ryoka Griffin. Alias: Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Confirmed—acquire if possible. Caution—House of Veltras is known to be affiliated. Do not offend House of Veltras, contact Archmages for negotiation. Levels unknown, speculated high-level [Runner] with possible [Aeromancer] class.
 
Acquire if possible? The half-Elf looked at the [Scrier] as she began sending the spell. Then he looked around. He walked over to a board across the room, away from the people monitoring the broadcasts.
It was a map. On it, there were pictures, sketches, pins in glowing light of places. People found and not found. The Dragon looked at it. Around the room.
“It is logical. It makes sense, to find what is valuable and safeguard them, or understand what you lack. It might even be commendable, to do this rather than kill them, if they are treated well. I will know.”
The young Drake sneezed and rubbed at the back of her neck. She looked around, then went back to work. The half-Elf standing there looked down at the page.
“I will decide. However.”
His hand reached down and gently touched the page.
“I know that Human. You do not chain the wind, any more than you do the fae. And if what I find displeases, soon you will answer to me.”
His eyes narrowed. He was gone when the [Scribe] stood to send the first [Message]. And now—time was not on his side. He had already understood that he had missed something. Now—he had two reasons to talk to Ryoka Griffin.
They were separated by countless miles, and he sat in the heart of the Academy of Magic. The Dragon knew [Message] spells could be easily read by all if not secured.
So…what? There were easier ways.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin’s head rose as she tried to do a crunch. She was getting out of shape, or so it felt. Days of resting after being shot, plus the wind making her job easier…
“What was that?”
“A [Message] from a ‘Grand Magus Eldav—”
Ryoka was on her feet in an instant. The Street Runner in Riverfarm recoiled.
“I’ll take it! Is it secure?”
Heart pounding, she reached for the slip of paper. She read—then blinked.
“That was what I was trying to say. We don’t have one, but there are some in nearby Mage’s Guilds. So…”
The [Message] from ‘Eldavin’ was short. Ryoka had sent word to him begging for him to talk—and to Teriarch himself, with a Scroll of [Message]. Both times she’d gotten no response.
Until now. But Teriarch’s missive was odd. It read:
 
Miss Ryoka, I, Eldavin, require your services once again. To facilitate this, procure a speaking stone and send the [Message] back.
“A speaking stone?”
“One of the tuned ones. Lodestones. You can tune ‘em to other stones and talk. Like a scrying mirror. Lady Rie says we can give you one as soon as it can be found—or you can run and get one if you want. She’s hunting through her collection.”
The Street Runner explained helpfully. Ryoka blinked at him.
“No, that’s fine. I think I—if she has one. Otherwise, I know someone who might lend me theirs.”
 
—-
 
Jericha gave her an odd look, but gave Ryoka a stone when asked. Of course she had one; it was practically essential for those in the field.
“Do you need to tune it?”
“I…don’t know? I was just told to send a [Message] back when I did.”
“Ah. Then you need to tune it. Let me send the [Message].”
Ryoka hesitated, but Jericha was already involved. She nodded and smiled.
“Can you send, ‘Grand Magus, it’s me, Ryoka. I’m at a Mage’s Guild. What do I do now?’ Thanks.”
Jericha gave Ryoka a look, but sent the spell. Ryoka hoped Teriarch would know what that meant—why was he going through ‘Eldavin’? Just to be safe? Then Jericha frowned.
“Ah, he is sending me a tuning request.”
“What’s that?”
“It’s a frequency of…you set it that you two can comm—hold on.”
She raised the glowing stone and focused on it. Then her eyes flickered; Ryoka knew that was the telltale of sending a [Message] spell.
“This can’t be…you can do…?”
“Is something wrong?”
Jericha ignored her. Ryoka bounced on the balls of her feet. Then she waited.
And waited.
And…
Ryoka was nervously chewing on a snack when Jericha finally lowered the now-glowing lodestone. Her brow was covered in sweat.
“I have never received a request that complex before. Hello? This is Jericha, speaking on behalf of Miss Ryoka Griffin. Riverfarm. Is the spell functioning?”
“Perhaps you have never properly tuned a speaking stone before. I am T—Grand Magus Eldavin. Wistram. Kindly relay this to Miss Griffin.”
Jericha blinked. She handed the stone to Ryoka. Then she stared. Ryoka held the stone up.
“Eldavin?”
“Yes, yes. Please exit the Mage’s Guild, Ryoka, and find yourself a secure space at once. And tell that [Mage] that if she doesn’t bother to encrypt her speaking stones, she is providing poor service!”
The voice was familiar and not. It didn’t have the bass of the Dragon’s full voice, and yet it was him. Jericha’s jaw opened. Ryoka hesitated.
“I have to—sorry, Jericha. Thank you so much, but it’s an important client and…”
She practically ran out of the room. Jericha half-rose to go after her, but she was sweating. Then the [Mage] looked around.
“I have to write that down! Where’s…”
She scrambled for a quill and paper.
 
—-
 
Teriarch was rather impatient as he heard Ryoka puffing along. He was pressing her—but waiting until she got to a secure place.
“Cast a [Silence] spell, any anti-scrying spell, hm, and obviously image-deflection spells. An illusion spell will do if you must, simply to prevent lip-reading. Oh, and check your location first. A [Rogue] can always hide within your enclosed space.”
“Is…is that you, Eldavin? Really, you?”
“Yes, yes. Hurry now.”
“I have to tell you—”
“Prepare the space first, Ryoka.”
He snapped. Ryoka hesitated. She was gulping, huffing, fumbling with a lock—he adjusted the intensity of the stone. The nerve of that little [Mage], asking him why it had to be so complex. So he could adjust volume, make sure no one was listening, and so on!
“I can use some scrolls, and I have a [Silence] scroll, but I don’t know about the rest. Anti-scrying?”
“You do not have an anti-scrying spell?”
“No. My name is good enough, isn’t it?”
“Someone can [Scry] an area even if they fail to scry you! At least check your area! Cast [Aura Detection]!”
“…I don’t have that.”
The Dragon stopped. He was pacing in his room.
“…[Spell Purge]. [Contained Room]. [Isolation Bubble]. …[Detect Life]?”
“I do have that one. But uh…no, wait. I must have sold it.”
He closed his eyes.
“Very well. Walk around your room and touch every conceivable space where something could be. Ceiling, floor…then shut the window and shut the doors and lock them. We shall speak covertly either way. Is that…mundane enough for you?”
“I’m doing it, I’m doing it. Not everyone can cast magic! You are Eldavin, aren’t you? We should confirm it…”
“Where did I send you when we first met? Before that, tell me how much my price was in quantifiable units for my first task.”
“Four hundred gold pieces. And the Bloodfields. Okay, we’re secure.”
“Have you checked the doors and windows?”
“They’re closed. I’m not st—oh, wait.”
Creak. Someone closed the shutters that had given her trouble before and latched it. Eldavin was pointedly silent. After a few seconds, he spoke.
“What occurred on the Summer Solstice? I regret that I missed it, but something clearly did occur. On a magnitude I did not expect! Did you truly meet or invoke…him?”
He could only think of a few reasons why the entire world had stirred in greeting. Ryoka Griffin’s voice on the other end was…hesitant.
“Yes. You didn’t come. I thought you would, and Magnolia.”
“I…forgot.”
“You forgot? I—you forgot? And why are you in Wistram?”
The Dragon sniffed.
“Sometimes one forgets, Miss Griffin! And I had business to attend to. I am in Wistram and I am Grand Magus Eldavin. As you know me.”
“Wh—oh. Oh my…really? Why? I thought you said—listen. The Solstice…you don’t know…”
The half-Elf sighed. This was why he preferred talks face-to-face. He half-debated whether it was worth seeing if his true body could be awoken…but no, he’d done too good a job. Pointedly, he tapped his finger on the side table as he reclined in a chair.
“I am calling to enquire upon that very matter. I assume my knowledge was accurate, of course? The fae were invoked?”
Probably safe to mention them. Ryoka hesitated.
“Yes—yes, they were. I was able to go…to their place. But listen, T—Eldavin. Something’s happened—”
He sat up, blinking.
“You went to the land of the—you went there? Are you mad? Also, how?”
“I bargained for it. I met someone who let me in. Eldavin. Something terrible has happened. I went there to find help. And meet Ivolethe.”
“Did you meet her?”
“Yes. And someone like you. But listen. Erin is—”
“Someone like me? You don’t mean one of my relatives, but like…I knew some went. Where? What were their names?”
“Erin. Eldavin. Listen to me. Before that, Erin.”
The young woman’s voice was changing on the other end. But Eldavin was too excited to notice. He was pacing the rooms now, talking excitedly.
“I knew something had occurred, but Reinhart entered into her difficulties and I have left to see how Wistram has changed. Listen to me, Ryoka. You are soon to be hunted by the academy.”
“Eldavin—”
“I uncovered it on my first day here. It wasn’t hard, fortuitous true, but shoddy spell work of these [Mages] made it easy. They are collecting children of Earth. And you will be on their list.”
“Eldavin, that doesn’t matter. I need you to—”
“Does not matter? This is Wistram, Ryoka Griffin. Faded they might be, but a threat they are still! I have told you I do not interfere, hah, well, I would hardly trouble myself to oppose them. However, in light of our relationship and that we are exchanging secrets, I have taken upon myself to inform you, and I will make a few subtle gestures in—”
“Teri—Eldavin! Erin Solstice is dead. And the gods are back.”
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin’s eyes were running. They’d turned on and hadn’t stopped as the Dragon began to chatter, sounding happier—more involved than she had heard him.
She spoke again.
“Erin’s dead. And not dead. She was hurt. I need your help, Eldavin. The g—they’re back. We saw them there. The fae fled. It’s all ruined. Erin…I need your help. Please. I’ll do anything. Just please help.”
She waited.
“T—Eldavin?”
“Hello?”
 
—-
 
“Hello?”
But he didn’t respond. The old half-Elf…the [Grand Mage]…
Eldavin…
No, Teriarch, the Dragon, was huddled in a corner of the room, his body contorted, as if it belonged to someone else.
His head was in his hands. The voice spoke again, asking. Pleading.
—And there he was again. He had looked away for a second.
In his arrogance, in his complacency. Rhir’s beautiful daughter died. Died, to shame them all, as Crelers filled the land, sea, and skies.
The last Empress of Harpies, Sheta, fell. And all that she had built fell to ruin.
The first and only [Dragonprince] died, he who had charmed them and given even them something to believe in.
Gone. 
The old Dragon had seen it. Heard it all, so many times.
There they were. Bright stars, beautiful souls, blazing bright. Fading in moments. Gone—gone—taken in a moment. An accident. A blade in the dark.
He thought he had seen it all. And still, they surprised him as they died. Still, it tore a piece of him away, as if there had been barbs.
Suddenly, all the little joys and petty annoyances were gone. The half-Elf uncurled by fractions.
…He was Teriarch again. In this moment. And he wanted to be back in his cave. To sleep, and not wake until all that he had known was changed again.
He listened to a familiar sound. Sobbing.
The young woman was crying, pleading with him. Begging and offering trinkets from another world. Knowledge.
She thought he was gone. Slowly, he bent and picked up the little stone.
“Child. I’m here. Speak to me.”
The old man sat there, on the bed. And he listened. He listened to how the [Innkeeper] had—
 
—-
 
“Checkmate, I think.”
She smiled at him during the third game. Not a smirk, but a small, pleased smile. She couldn’t help it. Nor was she gloating, not really.
It was such a genuine smile, of someone truly pleased with herself, that he couldn’t be mad. Well, for a moment. Then he’d tossed the board.
But he’d gone to her later, and looked at her again, even as she made comments about being a bad sport. And she knew more of him then. And he knew her.
He remembered her name and face. For here was someone who had bested a Dragon.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice. Eldavin’s head rose suddenly.
“Say that again.”
“She’s not…dead.”
“How?”
“We froze her. Listen, listen, please…”
He did, with heart pounding. And it changed again. In his mind, he saw a broken body. A great warrior-queen, laid low. Preserved by a grieving [Archmage] who called for someone to heal her.
A Dragon who knelt after slaying the greatest filth Crelers had ever wrought. Her kin, who labored to save her…
“Alive. No. Neither alive nor dead. You are sure?”
“I haven’t…haven’t seen her. But I know what they did.”
