Cale quelled his first impulse, which was to point out that if that was true, then Ashvali did not deserve their followers, and he would find them and blast them out of the sky. He quelled his second impulse, which was to storm up the stairs and tear open the door and confront the boy's father for letting it get to this in the first place.

Then he sighed, kneeling, and placed a hand on Adam's shoulder. "You didn't do anything wrong," he said firmly, looking into the boy's eyes. "You know how I know that?"

"How?" Adam looked at him, lips trembling.

Cale looked over at the cot. "Because Ashvali can't see your shamblers, either," he said, the words somber.

There was nothing there. [Eyes of Ashvali] had granted him the deity's eyes, and the deity's eyes saw nothing. Perhaps the faintest shadow that might have been one of the shamblers staring down at the bed, or the slightest trace of something wrong that nagged at him the moment he looked away, but for the most part, Ashvali saw nothing. Could see nothing.

Which was probably why when he stared at that cot, he could feel an echo of an emotion that wasn't his own.

Dread.

Ashvali, reacting to the presence of something even they couldn't see.

Cale did not like the implications of that, but he kept his reaction to himself, for now. Adam was already staring at him fearfully. "What do you mean, the Holy Ashvali can't see them?" he asked. "You just don't know how to interpret their divine sight yet, that's all! It's really hard, don't worry, but with a few years of training—"

Okay, that was quite enough of that. Cale understood why Adam was panicking, but this was getting to be a little insulting. He coughed lightly to interrupt the kid, then reached to pull a coin out from behind Adam's ear. "Ta-da," he said, giving him a small bow.

"What?" Adam's eyes went wide. "But—but only a priest of the First Understanding can do that! And that takes at least a year of training!"

It took significant self-control for Cale not to laugh at Adam's wide-eyed, awed reaction. He was pretty sure Adam was just regurgitating the explanation the Fifth Church gave to children; whoever had founded the church had probably been cackling to themselves when they'd come up with this.

But it was interesting that [Eyes of Ashvali] did, in fact, allow him to pull it off without any actual sleight-of-hand.

"Well, think about it this way," Cale said. "If I'm that good with divine sight already, it's proof that Ashvali sent us here to help you, isn't it? And it's proof that you're special."

"It is?" Adam's eyes widened again. Cale suppressed the urge to hold out his hands in case they fell out.

"You're the only one that can see the shamblers," Cale said. "Ashvali is going to need your help to figure out what they're up to, you know?"

"Oh... oh!" Adam brightened, then ran over to Syphus, who without prompting helped him climb up onto its shoulder. "I can do that! I can definitely do that. I'll tell you if I see anything!"

With that, he started staring intently at the cot, earnest determination written all over him. Cale blinked.

Next to him, Flia sighed. "And how did you actually pick up whatever that was so quickly? I'm assuming you didn't just have a coin lying around."

"Nope," Cale said cheerfully. "I didn't figure it out until Adam kept insisting it was 'sight beyond sight', but I used to know this eyefiend with a similar kind of visual curse. I lost a bet, so we swapped eyes for a week. Absolute nightmare, but it did train me to figure this sort of thing out quickly."

"So what exactly is this sight beyond sight?" Flia asked, curious.

"It's a bit like what the Leviathan does, but I guess maybe an older or visual version of it," Cale said. "It's a map of how everything is connected. Past, present, and future, but also the relationship between objects or their relationships with themselves. I mean, I get why it's hard to interpret; everything has like a thousand different overlays.

"If I focus I can kind of see when this shelf used to be a plank, for example. Or when the plank used to be a log. Or when the mage collecting the logs took off their pants—"

"Nope," Flia said, holding up her hand. "Thanks, I get it. Don't need to know the rest."

"It's not that bad."

"Don't need to know," Flia repeated, giving him a flat look, and Cale grinned but dropped the subject. "Tell me the truth—do you think this Ashvali's got something to do with the shamblers? I get that you didn't want to uproot the kid's entire belief system, but..."

"Indirectly, maybe, but I don't think they're behind them," Cale said, shaking his head. "If anything, they seem... afraid."

Flia frowned. "Adam said his mother claimed the shamblers were the future," she said. "And according to you, Ashvali's sight can see into the future a bit. Or the relationship something has with the future, at least."

Cale's expression shifted into something more grim. "I noticed the same thing," he said. "What do you think that means?"

"I don't know yet." Flia studied him carefully. "But there's something you haven't told us, isn't there?"

"There's something I can't tell you, which isn't the same thing, but..." Cale hesitated, looking over at Thorn. "I don't know. That might be changing. I'm not sure yet. If anyone can figure it out, it's you guys."

Flia nodded. "Just as long as you're not keeping it from us on purpose," she said, giving him a light punch on the shoulder. "I'm gonna go figure this out. There's something that's been nagging at me about that space under the cot. Think I might have an idea."

"Show me," Cale said. He watched as she walked over to the others, muttering something about the Abyss and how her connection to it felt strange here.

Then Professor Graystalk stepped up beside him. "This dungeon is proving a poor environment for learning," he said, bemused.

Cale snorted a bit and shot the professor an apologetic glance. "Maybe in the next scenario."

"Knowing you, I will somehow have to figure out how to teach while you fight off a dragon," Graystalk said dryly. "Which will be the second time I have had to do such a thing."

Cale blinked, intrigued. "How'd that happen the first time?"

"That is a story you will have to earn, I think," Professor Graystalk said with a chuckle. "In the meantime, I believe Thorn may have some questions."

The vinewalker had indeed walked up to them, as scowling and intimidating as ever. Cale looked up at him, not the least bit intimidated. "What's up?"

"Your spell," Thorn said. "[Eyes of Ashvali]. The Gift has given you a spell that draws from a deity that should be dead."

"I've been thinking about that," Cale said, nodding. "It's strange. It's a higher-tier spell than it should be, too. Either this is a really weird dungeon, or this Ashvali is somehow still—"

Cale stopped mid-sentence, then raised an eyebrow at the thorn being held against his throat. "Is this some kind of mating ritual I don't know about?" he asked, ignoring Professor Graystalk, who had begun to choke.

Thorn glowered at him. "You cannot be plainroot," he said. "You are masking your true self. Who are you, and what are you doing in our school?"
