A golden claw met the holy sword a moment later; their clash scattering the beam as the air shook and the ground more than a kilometer beneath them cracked open from the impact. At the same time, the attacks from the other Templars arrived, but several barriers of golden energy sprang up to block them, as the Unique Lifeform seemed only focused on the Master Templar.

Pushing forward, the Master Templar grimaced as he unleashed another burst of power, gaining purchase as the golden claw cracked, and with another explosion, the Unique Lifeform was blasted backward, his ivory claw and even some of his arm now full of fractures glowing with holy light.

The Master Templar breathed heavily, but still pressed forward. Unfortunately, he was met with a powerful blast that pushed him back, and the Unique Lifeform also retreated slightly as it looked at its injuries.

“You surpass my expectations, even though I had expected the Holy Church to be an annoying opponent,” the Forest King spoke as it stopped retreating. “Though your means seem rather limited. Also, the noise surrounding us is starting to be a bother, so allow me to show you something.”

Raising its still uninjured arm, the Unique Lifeform continued.

“Being a Unique Lifeform means that your Path is set, that your magic is defined from birth. Yet I didn’t feel like I truly realized myself before now. That I hadn’t fully grown into my potential, more than likely due to certain limiting factors I’ve now freed myself from. Though in retrospect, I believe these limitations only ended up making me stronger.”

Letting the Unique Lifeform talk perhaps seemed unwise, but the Master Templar didn’t feel the movements of magic, and behind him, his priests were chanting, and the Templars were also preparing themselves for a joint attack, seeing that many individual attacks had proven ineffective. Time was on their side, so he was fine with having the monster monologue.

However, he came to realize that perhaps this had been a mistake, as an intense burst of energy suddenly emanated from the Unique Lifeform. He was certain it had already used some boosting skill before, but this somehow felt like a second one.

“Force. Gold. Soul. King. Those are what made up my being. Force is power, Gold is stability of form, Soul is what bridges the gaps and binds them together... but my identity as King always felt lacking. Unrecognized.”

Above in the sky, space shivered and swirled as something started to take form. A faint outline appeared, filling the Master Templar’s entire field of vision, stretching for hundreds of kilometers in every direction.

“Yet the answer was simple. There for me to merely grasp when I regained my true self and actualized what I am upon my evolution.”

The golden claw on the Fallen King started glowing with more intense light than ever, and at the same time, something manifested above. The Master Templar’s eyes opened wide as he realized he was looking at a massive claw.

“To be a King is not a burden. Not a privilege. It’s my birthright. To stand above everything else is merely part of what I am, and with that, I rightfully claim...”

At once, the entire claw fully solidified as all the mana in their surrounds was dragged in as if it were a black hole, empowering it with an incredible amount of energy as it descended with the King’s final word.

“Authority.”

Finally, the Master Templar was shaken out of his stupor as he yelled loudly.

“Full focus on defense!”

The sheer pressure as the golden claw descended stopped his allies from moving. It wasn’t merely the aura of a powerful attack, either, but an actual physical pressure trying to bring them down as the Unique Lifeform had taken control of all the mana in their surroundings.

We were wrong.

Looking at the claw descending, the Master Templar finally realized that he had been the foolish one.

It is not weakened, but far more dangerous than our intel indicates.

Lifting his blade, he shot upwards toward the massive golden claw as he yelled, infusing his sword with yet another burst of power. A massive blast wave of crescent holy light clashed with the massive claw as the world was consumed by the powers of holy light and golden force.

That day, the Holy Church lost thirty-two of its B-grades, with the rest forced to retreat under the leadership of the Master Templar, who also had to abandon his Territory Beacon, which was promptly broken by the Unique Lifeform.

It was the first major loss suffered by one of the biggest factions in the multiverse, but it would be far from the last, as there were many powerful individuals found in otherwise low-seeded Territories... a fair number of them courtesy of the utterly anomalous planet known as Earth.
