She sat for a while watching the mana-generating moss while the little monster happily crooned as she petted it. “Ok, go make some more,” she said, sending her thoughts to her little Moss Creeper as a quick montage of emotions and images, more intent than language. The tiny creature bounced up and down briefly, before scampering off and summoning its magic by another tree, seemingly excited and happy to have a purpose. Ali watched its antics for a few moments and then got to work, summoning a half dozen new Moss Creepers. Adding her customization was as easy as selecting the variant from her imprint, and soon she had an army of little moss monsters creating various mosses from her imprints. Some of them created feather mosses in the trees and one even scampered off into her stand of Radiant Larches, summoning the Glow Moss she had learned near the light affinity spawning pool.

“That’s fantastic,” Mato said. “Now you can fill out the gaps with lots of variety. I can ask Basil for more varieties of moss!” Somehow Mato seemed just as excited about this new development as she was.

Ali’s attention returned to her Grimoire. When she had first learned the strange monsters of the jungle, she had noticed marked similarities in construction and behavior – something she attributed to the fact they were all plant-based monsters. But now she was certain she had been reacting to the similarity in the formations of their summoning skills.

Her discovery with the Moss Creeper had planted the idea in her brain, and now she needed to see how far it went. With her Grimoire open to the wildflower imprint, she began to summon a Floral Menace, activating Sage of Learning to help study the magical patterns. When the moment arrived, she caught the pattern again. It was at once similar to the skill of the Moss Creeper, and yet it exhibited some profound differences. Prepared in advance by her earlier experience, she caught the magic and bent it with her Customization, twisting the Floral Menace till she felt the same click of her magic connecting back to her Grimoire. The pages flared as the new variant was created.

“Can you make me some flowers?” she asked. The gnarled woody creature flared its scruff of pink petals, hissed, and scampered away onto a clear spot of mossy ground. Its magic flared within it, creating the formation Ali was expecting to see, and then, in a surprisingly short time, the monster created a broad patch of delicate mystic bluebells.

“It worked!” Ali exclaimed, happy to see the softly shifting mana patterns of the divination affinity flowers.

“Wow, there’s no stopping you now!” Mato chuckled.

Malika giggled, “Look, the flowers are so pretty!”

“Wait for my next trick!” Ali laughed. She repeated the process, this time with the Spore Spreader mushroom monster, linking it to her mushroom imprint with surprisingly little effort. Of course, it was the third time, and her understanding of the process helped her immensely.

It works! The new plant monsters were not particularly high level, and so they didn’t cost a lot of reserved mana, but that meant they were limited to the lowest level variants in her Grimoire. Like her own skills, it seemed they could only summon something lower level than themselves. Still, it was an incredible boon and Ali spent quite some time summoning monsters and sending them out on a mission to fill in her domain throughout the giant cavern. She impressed on the Spore Spreaders and the Moss Creepers that she preferred her nature and arcane variants, but other than that she left everything up to their whims, trusting that it would probably end up more natural that way.

“Got any more?” Mato asked.

“Just the Bamboo Crawler…” Ali said, paging through her Grimoire and stopping at the Grass imprint. Excited by her success so far, she summoned one, but the magical ‘gap’ she had been expecting never materialized. Instead, she observed a torrent of unfamiliar runic structure that would probably take a long time of study to unravel.

She looked at the giant bamboo stick-insect monster curiously. “Grow something,” she instructed, but it simply shifted back and forth uncomfortably before turning and shooting a needle of wood at a nearby tree and turning back to her.

“I guess these don’t have a plant-summoning skill?” Ali said, studying the monster carefully.

“These seemed to be more like assassins or snipers in function,” Calen said, nodding sagely.

She was going to have to plant her bamboo and blue mana grass manually. But that didn’t seem to be much of an issue; she could delegate three types of her plants now, and that already was an enormous improvement.

“Go guard that bamboo stand,” she said and watched it scurry off to the Living Bamboo glade she had created earlier, vanishing from her sight as soon as it entered the area. “Err… don’t shoot Malika,” she added.

She sat quietly, reflecting on all her new minions and options when her notification chimed entirely unexpectedly.

Requirements met for skill advancement.Martial Insight has surpassed level 20.Intelligence has surpassed 180.Perception has surpassed 75.Three Perception skills have surpassed level 15.Summoned minions with more than five unique perception skills.Used a Perception skill to modify a minion.Survived combat in the dark.Avoided an Ambush attack with the perception of a minion. Martial Insight gains Remote Perception.Martial Insight gains the Intelligence trait.Martial Insight – level 23Your mana empowering your summoned creatures now carries your accumulated experience. Your creatures gain +70.6% [40 + skill + perception / 10] to combat abilities. Martial Insight only gains experience when you observe your minions’ combat.Mana: You can use the perception skills of your minions. Higher intelligence allows you to use more sources of perception simultaneously.Nature, Minion, Mastery, Perception, IntelligenceAccept this advancement?

“Ooh! I got a skill advancement!” she exclaimed. She had just been messing around with her Grimoire and her new imprints – she had certainly not been expecting to earn a skill advancement for that. Advancements came after challenging combat – most often when she had had to do something unusual.

“Which one?” Calen asked.

“Martial Insight. I can use my minions’ perception skills.” She shared the changes with them.

Some of the requirements to unlock this advancement seemed to be related to her immediate activities. Sage of Learning had just hit seventeen when she discovered how to modify the Moss Creeper – likely the event that counted as the requirement for using a perception skill to modify a minion. She had been using both Sage of Learning and Arcane Insight at the time. For the requirement that she summon minions with at least five unique perception skills, she was certain her oozes possessed nonstandard perception skills. She also had an elemental, a healer, and mages – minions that most likely had special perception skills.

Two of her requirements seemed to have been drawn from her old experience when she and Mato had fallen into the Ruins of Dal’mohra. She shuddered, recalling how close she had come to dying – she had been heavily withdrawn, and without her wolf sensing the invisible Kobold rogue and warning her, she would not have blocked the Ambush. Perhaps the wolf has a scent skill? Or a perception enhancement? She had to admit that the minion perceptions requirement had presented her with an interesting puzzle, and she was curious to figure out which ones were contributing to that.

I guess I can just take the advancement and check, she thought. But do I want it? If she took this one, it would commit to a path that potentially closed off other avenues for growth. If she skipped it, she could potentially earn something else pretty soon. But it’s a perception skill. Martial Insight had been the lifeline she had clung to when she was scared in the darkness of the ruins of her home, now seemingly so long ago. Its versatility had saved her then, and countless times since.

“That seems excellent,” Calen said. “You can grow your options by filling your Grimoire.”

“That’s a good point,” Ali said, considering it. I’m so glad I chose this skill. It required work to train herself for each of her minions’ combat styles, but it was the versatility she had come to rely on, not so much the power. This advancement seemed all about versatility. It wasn’t a huge power boost in combat, but she would be able to scout better, and maybe learn to recognize more dangers. Her role in many fights was to learn the dangerous magics and warn her friends or take appropriate actions in response. Knowledge is power. Arcane Insight had unlocked her abilities in combat, and for study, and now she was being offered the ability to get any perception skill she could encounter from a monster. How much will that improve my knowledge and magic?

The thought filled her with excitement and banished her doubts. She accepted the advancement. The chime sounded, but nothing much changed.

“Come over here,” she called out to one of her Kobold Fire Mages.

“Yes, Ancient Mistress,” the Kobold answered, stepping up and waiting patiently beside her.

She concentrated on her new skill advancement. With just a little infusion of mana, she was subjected to a sudden, disorienting snap. The entire Grove shifted sideways, and she found herself staring at herself sitting on the ground from the perspective of the Kobold.

Whoa, that’s weird.

Her second thought was that she needed to visit Lydia again. There were some unnoticed scorch marks and tears in her Tailored Cotton Clothing that she had missed. With a quick pulse of mana, she activated the self-repair enchantment, restoring it to pristine condition once again, but her armor was still only level twenty-five and she had reached forty already.

“How is it?” Mato asked, walking into view, and peering at her curiously. A thoroughly disconcerting experience, considering he was looking at her body, and she was watching both of them from a third point of view.

“Very odd,” she answered, fascinated by the ability to watch her own mouth move as she spoke.

She glanced around curiously, using the eyes of her Kobold minion. The cavern was far less vibrant, all the colors, and even the light seeming desaturated, lending a gray cast to the world. However, her perception of detail was dramatically heightened; she could make out many details her own eyes were simply not powerful enough to resolve or see in the dim light.

“Do Kobolds have dark vision or something?” she asked.

“I believe so,” Calen said.

Ali released the disorienting third-person vision, feeling her awareness snap back into her own body once again. Does that count as one of the minion perception skills? She was still curious to unravel the mystery, but some of them seemed obvious. She called one of her Scalding Slimes to her, expecting something a little different from a monster that had no obvious sensory organs.

She used her Martial Insight, focusing on the ooze monster, and suddenly everything vanished.

I’m blind?

It was as if she had suddenly lost the ability of vision, all the light-emitting plants had been snuffed out, plunging her into darkness. She couldn’t hear anything either. In a pang of sudden panic, she released the connection, snapping back to herself for a moment, relieved to find her sight and hearing restored.

“You ok?” Mato asked, releasing his grip on her arm.

Ali realized she must have staggered or wobbled. “I tried the slime, and I went blind and deaf,” she said. It must be able to perceive the world, somehow.

“Try searching for some kind of tremor sense, maybe?” Calen suggested.

It was her curiosity that took her back into the wobbly slime monster and kept her there, searching for how it saw the world. She endured the darkness for a while, and finally, she saw it. Or, more accurately, felt it. A pulsing sensed somewhere off outside of her body, but tactile, not seen. The experience reminded her most closely of how intense mana prickled along her skin sometimes. There’s another, she realized as the pulsing resolved into a second distinct source. And then several more, and her mind finally began making sense of it. The closest one was the one that triggered her understanding. That’s… my heartbeat.

I can feel everyone’s heart beating. It was an utterly alien sense that she finally deduced was related to the vibrations carried through the ground, but sensitive enough to exactly pinpoint the location of her friends nearby. Struggling to get it right the first couple of tries because she was separated from her own senses, she tapped the ground with her hand, and instantly the action exploded across her borrowed senses as a powerful tactile and positional feeling. She tried speaking, only to experience a sense like a gritty wind rubbing against her body. Sound vibrations?

But there was more. Around each pulsing heart, she sensed a feeling of warmth that seemed distinct from the vibration sense. Curious to test it, she sent her slime moving forward to where the campfire embers still glowed, finding the same warmth sensation growing stronger and stronger – and this time not attached to the pulse of heartbeats.

That will take a lot to get used to. Its entire mode of perception seemed to be analogous to proprioception and touch, locating objects by the vibrations they made, or the felt sense of heat. It was an unquestionably unique perception and in a flash of inspiration, she suddenly understood several of the more bizarre mannerisms Naia had demonstrated.

I think she could see mana though, Ali thought, recalling her interactions with the mimic slime as she released her connection to her own Scalding Slime. She would have to check them all; she had a hunch that the heat perception was related to the Scalding Slime’s highly specialized steam affinity. “That has to be the strangest thing I’ve experienced,” she admitted.

“How so?”

“I could feel your heartbeat. And this slime has heat perception of some kind, too.”

“Huh, interesting,” Calen said, noting it down in his notebook.

I should be able to use more than one perception simultaneously, she thought, returning to the description of her newest skill advance. The question was how, or if she had enough intelligence to make it work. Trying the skill again, but with the Kobold’s much more familiar perception mode, she shifted her awareness into the mage, simultaneously trying to anchor it in her own body. What followed was a nauseating ping-pong as her awareness rapidly flipped between herself and her Kobold before she finally got the hang of it, and it stabilized.

