Ali stayed up well past dinner, experimenting with her new imprints. She hadn’t gained a level for the last fight, but she had the sense that she was quite close, now. On the other hand, her Grimoire had grown substantially – she had learned several important things from the fight at the nature affinity spawning pool and the bamboo forest they had explored before that.

Variant: Living Bamboo added to Imprint: Grass.Variant: Bamboo Crawler added to Imprint: Elemental, Grass.Variant: Toxic Spitter added to Imprint: Ooze.

Not to mention she had added several higher-level variations of the Toxic Slime and deconstructed a level fifty Forest Guardian. I just hope that comes in useful, she thought. Her Grimoire had added a lot of runes in response, but it was hard to test just how much the imprint had updated without being high enough level to summon the variant directly.

The most curious, however, was the strange notification that the Bamboo Crawler had been added to both the Elemental and the Grass imprints. How that had been achieved, exactly, was quite baffling – unless she was very much mistaken, the exact same pages were shown in both chapters.

“I need to pick up some fresh fruit and vegetables from the market,” Mato said, walking around and collecting the dirty plates and utensils and stacking them up in the Cleanse circle.

“Thanks, Mato,” Ali said, handing him hers. “I want to study my Grimoire. I got a lot of interesting new things to test out.”

“Oh, I want to help with that,” Mato said, frowning.

“I can buy stuff,” Calen said. “Just give me a list.”

“Do you know how to tell the difference between fresh and rotten veggies?” Mato teased.

“I think I can manage,” Calen said. “It’s just a bunch of green stuff, right? How hard could it be?”

The Beastkin gave off his most disgusted huff.

“I can go with him and help,” Malika said. “I want to check in with Weldin anyway, see his reaction.”

After cleaning up a little around the shrine, and taking care of the fire, Calen and Malika headed up to town and Mato turned back to Ali.

“Ok, what you got first?” he asked.

“Bamboo,” Ali said, paging through her Grimoire to the grass chapter.

“That Living Bamboo from the jungle? I knew grass would be a useful imprint for you,” Mato said. “Where do you want to start?”

“Malika wanted a spot for meditation,” Ali mused, looking around. “Maybe off to the side here? Starting at the edge of the Grove and going out a bit to the north?”

“That’s a good idea, you have a lot of unclaimed space out in that direction,” Mato nodded. “And it should offset the trees nicely.”

“Mhm,” Ali said, leading him to the spot. In a gap in the loose circle of trees around the Grove, she began to summon her new Living Bamboo imprint. Mato kept his comments to a few suggestions so she could focus, and her mana began to flow. Minutes passed as giant stems sprouted from the ground; more and more appearing under the influence of her sparkling magic as she expanded the growing stand of giant bamboo.

“That looks pretty good, Ali,” Mato said after nearly half an hour of work.

“You think Malika will like this?” Ali asked, wiping her brow with a sleeve.

“For sure,” Mato said. “Listen to how still it feels in here.”

“It does feel a little like that forest,” Ali agreed, pausing to study her creation. It didn’t surprise her to find the Living Bamboo beginning to draw in ambient mana from the rock below, smoothing and changing it into the characteristic flow that had stood out so clearly in the jungle. What shocked her was the amount.

The Living Bamboo was entirely unlike her other trees in that it was generating nature-affinity mana instead of just spreading her existing domain over a wider area, and so the first thing she noticed was the opposite of mana attenuation. In this new area, the heavy presence of dense mana being generated cradled her skin in a soothing flow, like floating in a warm bath, but one that held hints of new shoots and the promise of growth.

“Is it working?” Mato asked.

“Oh, yes,” Ali said, following the vast upwelling through the stems. “There’s no comparison to the Verdant Moss.” The volume of mana flowing up through the tall bamboo stems defied explanation, launched skyward in a powerful but smooth flow, only to rain down on them from above as it merged into her domain.

“Nice!”

“I need to put this stuff everywhere,” Ali said. It would serve as a far higher-level backbone for her domain – at least the nature-affinity part. Placing clumps of Living Bamboo to fill in the gaps with her other plants should dramatically increase the speed with which she could develop her domain.

“Why not continue to the north and west?” Mato suggested.

“That’s a good idea,” Ali nodded. “I want to claim everything up to the entrance hallway that we escaped through.” She couldn’t forget how she had wrecked so much of the Ruins of Dal’mohra bone-affinity domain by deconstructing a critical bottleneck in the library. Creating multiple connections to the ruins sounded far more robust to her.

“Good idea,” he agreed.

She spent a couple of hours claiming everything in the area with bamboo, stopping only when she reached the passage downward and she could no longer fit the giant bamboo stems in without running into the rock overhead.

“What else did you get?” Mato asked as they returned to the shrine.

“I got those dragonets,” Ali said.

“Oh yes, let’s see them!” Mato said, grinning widely.

“Here’s your shopping, Mato,” Calen said, offering several bags of groceries.

“Thanks!”

“Oh, hi, Calen,” Ali said. “Is Malika back too?”

“She’s already meditating in your new bamboo forest,” he said, nodding toward the new growth she had created.

“Ok.” Ali decided not to disturb her, instead feeding mana into her imprint.

Luminous Dragonet – Dragon – level 2 (Light) Swarm x9.Your reserved mana has increased by +5.

The flight of tiny yellow-gold dragons took to the air in a flurry of shining scales, wings, and cute screeches, zipping around the nearby bamboo stalks in a graceful display of dexterous antics.

“Look at them go!” Mato exclaimed. “Maybe they can keep the Grove clear of bugs for us.”

“Not very useful for combat,” Ali admitted ruefully. “But they only cost five mana for nine level-two creatures.”

“They’re pretty,” Calen said, admiring their aerial acrobatics.

“I got some more monsters too,” Ali said, pursing her lips in thought as she paged through her Grimoire. The elemental imprint chapter had long been a source of much frustration for her, but she finally had a viable elemental she could summon. And what a monster it was – the Forest Guardian was so much more than just a sentimental summon – its aura had kept her friends and minions alive while being swarmed by hundreds of slimes. The chapter had accumulated quite a few interesting variants, but she decided to put off studying them for another day.

“What else did you get?” Mato asked, perking up.

“Um… the Toxic Spitter ooze, but I need to level up before I can summon that,” she said. “Moss Creeper, Floral Menace, and Spore Spreader. Oh, and the Bamboo Crawler.” Each one of the monsters had been a unique challenge, or a pain in the ass at some point during their explorations underground.

“I like the Moss Creepers,” Mato said.

“I don’t know if they’ll be useful, though,” Ali admitted, flipping the pages to the moss imprint.

“Maybe they can help with the ecosystem?” Mato asked. “Let’s see it.”

“Ok,” Ali said, obliging him by beginning to summon a Moss Creeper. It was one of the stranger monsters she had learned. They hadn’t provided much of a challenge, nor displayed any particularly interesting abilities. “Maybe my expectations are too high,” she said.

“What do you mean?”

“Well, it’s an animated pile of moss…”

As her magic formed, assembling tiny threads of runic script and floating them off the pages, Sage of Learning suddenly twisted, making off with a sizeable chunk of her mana.

“Urk…” she grunted, inelegantly. It wasn’t painful, exactly – but the discomfort of having her mana wrenched from her was unexpected. What was that? She hadn’t exactly been paying close attention to her magic as it unfolded, but there was something strange in the spell construction. Something like a hole – the space before the last piece of the jigsaw puzzle was fitted – and it plucked at her memories like something familiar she had recently forgotten.

The Moss Creeper scampered about on the ground before her, looking surprisingly cute for a mound of green moss with teeth.

“Everything ok?” Calen asked, his hand already tightening around his bow in concern.

“Yes… just – there was something odd about the spell,” Ali admitted. Now that her curiosity had been piqued, she had to figure it out. “I’m going to try again.” This time she fed mana to Sage of Learning deliberately and then summoned another Moss Creeper focusing her attention on the runic spell formations as they unfolded before her eyes.

About halfway through, she felt it again; the sensation of something hollow, like the outline of something. Sage of Learning again gobbled up a healthy chunk of mana, filling her mind with tantalizing glimpses of ideas, but in the end, it fell short of making the connection for her.

I’m missing a puzzle piece. I just wish I could see what it’s supposed to look like. Something definitely goes there… But no matter how much she worried at it, nothing sprang to mind. Still curious, she decided to summon another, narrowing her focus to just the anomaly.

The magical formations assembled, and Ali deliberately cleared her mind in an attempt to prevent herself from jumping to conclusions. If her mind was open for observation, perhaps she might notice something new. Sage of Learning did its best to distract her by pulling on her mana, so she ignored it explicitly by focusing instead on the shape of the runic spells, leaning on her Runic Script skill to interpret some of the key runes whipping by her eyes.

So familiar, she thought, racking her brain to figure out where she had seen it before.

“What’s it doing?” Calen asked, as her newly summoned Moss Creeper clambered up the trunk of a tree, dragging itself slowly across the bark.

“They grow moss on things,” Mato said. And as he said it, formations of nature magic sprang up within the animated ball of moss. Formations she recognized.

“That’s it!” she exclaimed. It was just like the way her Grimoire summoned moss. Riding a wave of excitement at the discovery, she poured her mana into her imprint, summoning some Verdant Moss, all the while comparing her magic to the formations the Moss Creeper used.

It’s not quite the same, she decided. Her magic seemed substantially more complex, and it was only when she chose a simpler variant that the similarities clicked. It made sense, though, her Grimoire was a general summoning tool, and the magic of the Moss Creeper seemed highly specialized; a spell specifically tailored for summoning moss. It matched some of her mundane moss variants quite closely.

Excited by her discovery, she studied her moss imprint. Embedded right there in the Moss Creeper’s magic was a pattern that looked like a shadow outline of the basic moss imprint itself. It wasn’t a particularly good explanation, but she knew what she was seeing.

Is that one of the monster’s skills?

Suddenly recalling Malika’s calligraphy workbook, an idea occurred to her that she immediately had to test. She summoned a new Moss Creeper, but this time, when she perceived the magical gap, she bent the magic just slightly with her Customization, injecting several alterations with her Runic Script skill. With surprisingly little effort, the entire structure clicked together, somehow linking it back to her imprint.

Sage of Learning has reached level 17.

What did that do?

There was nothing obviously different about the fuzzy clump of green moss capering around on the ground next to her, but she had definitely altered something about its construction. She had done something different – and more than that, her Grimoire had updated, suggesting that she could choose the modified variant in the future.

“Go do something…” She sent a mental nudge to the small creature, permitting it to do whatever it wanted. Perking up immediately, the creature looked at her briefly, or seemed to – it didn’t have eyes – and then scampered off to a nearby tree with an air of energy and excitement very much at odds with its usual slothful movement.

Ali stared in amazement as a nature magic formation appeared within the creature – a formation she recognized as mimicking her moss imprint. There was a sympathetic surge of energy from her Grimoire as the magic flared and completed, and suddenly there was a patch of moss under the creature.

Verdant Moss – level 3 (Nature)

That’s a moss from my imprint. Ali was pretty sure that the Moss Creepers in the jungle had not been able to make this variant – the monster had chosen it from among her variants and created it with its skill.

But the surprises kept coming. As Ali studied the newly created moss, she saw the familiar stirring of mana as the green swathe stuck to the tree automatically hooked itself into her domain, beginning to emit nature affinity mana to bolster her magic.

This little guy is creating my domain…

Ali walked over to where it was bouncing gently as if proud of its creation, and excited that she was interested in seeing it. She crouched down, petting the tiny monster while she studied the moss it had made. It really is making my domain.

“What did it do?” Mato asked, joining her in studying the moss. “That looks like your moss.”

“I made it use my moss imprint; now it’s expanding my domain for me,” Ali said, and as the words came out, she realized just how much this changed for her. It didn’t surprise her that the nature-affinity monsters had magic or skills that could grow or influence plants – that was a common feature of nature magic. What surprised her was that she could link the moss summoning skill from this monster to all the moss imprints in her Grimoire – and they would be summoned as if she had personally summoned it, linked to her class’s domain.

“That’s… impressive,” Calen said. “Will its repertoire grow if you add new variants?”

“I think so,” Ali said. It was not something she had immediately thought of, but there seemed to be no reason why it wouldn’t work the way Calen thought.

