The Resonant Stalkers were not surface-ambush type — they were sustained-contact type, Level 18-19, six of them, each one tracking the specific bond-aura of the party member closest to them and not breaking off. Three of them went immediately to Dayo — the strongest bond-aura signal, the closest body, the one the floor identified as load-bearing. The other three split the formation's flanks, each one finding a party member and holding contact. When one Stalker tried to pull and reset, its gap filled before Solenne could track the adjustment.

Dayo was in the hardest position she had been in since Floor 10. The compact formation meant she couldn't drift, couldn't use the mobile coverage she'd built across twenty floors of becoming exactly the right kind of anchor. She had to take it in place. She was distributing impact she could not reduce by movement.

Her HP dropped forty points in the first minute.

She did not call for Miriam. She didn't need to — Miriam was already there, the Warmhearted signal shifting into full application, the precision work she'd been building since Floor 14 running at maximum expenditure. Solenne tracked Miriam's MP counter and felt the math close around her: the 10% amplification from the Sanctuary Weave was the only thing keeping the rate of loss below the rate of recovery. Without it, Dayo went down in three minutes. With it, the numbers were almost even. The math held. Barely.

At the two-minute mark, a Stalker on the right flank adjusted its angle — not retreating, repositioning — and for four seconds it was between Nadia and the clearest Pattern Break angle on a second Stalker. Solenne saw it. Tomás saw it one second later. He shifted his weight two inches to the right, the compact formation signal, and Nadia moved without being told — not to the clean angle, which was gone, but to an angle slightly wider, a harder break, a Pattern Break she'd never tried from this approach vector.

It landed.

The sixth Stalker was the last, and it took four minutes and eleven seconds.

Nadia was at 71 MP — 17% of her pool — when the last Stalker's Mana structure failed. Dayo was at 214/380. Miriam was at 89/420, a number that required the rest node before they moved again. Vesper was at 203 of her pool, the construct geometry having cost more than anything on the Ash Plain.

The Stalkers' loot notifications arrived at once.

```stat-screen
[COMBAT — FLOOR 20]
Resonant Stalker ×6 (Level 18-19) — Defeated

XP awarded: 620 per member
  Nadia Volkov-Baptiste → Level 11
  Dayo Adeyemi-Okafor → 94% to Level 14

Party HP: Dayo 214/380, Miriam 361/420, all others above 75%
Party MP: Nadia 71/408 (17%), Miriam 89/420 (21%), Vesper 203
```

Nadia looked at the notification.

She did not say anything for a moment. Solenne read the Brightspirit signal through the Conductor — open-present, the particular quality she'd been running since Floor 19 still there, not closing, just present with what had arrived.

Then Nadia said: "Huh."

Not flat — the particular quality of someone who has received something they didn't know how to receive and is holding it simply while they work out the shape of it. What was different from prior level-ups was the signal itself: the Brightspirit at every previous milestone had a specific quality of self-management, a brief internal adjustment before the register settled. There was no adjustment here. The level arrived and Nadia was already at exactly the register she'd been at before it came.

"Level 11," Vesper said.

"Yeah." Nadia looked at the display again. "Level 11."

Dayo was looking at her own display with the Steadfast register in the Conductor doing something it did not often do: a slight warmth at the edge of the working signal. She did not say anything. She did not need to.

The Sanctuary Weave's field had held for the full fight — it was still running, the 15-meter radius present and steady, the quality of the room slightly different inside it.

Miriam checked Dayo's HP, Nadia's MP, ran the post-combat assessment in the notebook — the three lines, the clinical data captured and closed. Then she added a notation in the margin that Solenne could not read from here but could recognize by placement: another entry in the right margin, added after the main text, in the register of something that had happened and needed to be held.

Solenne looked at the floor ahead.

The Crystal Salt Desert extended toward the floor's far edge. They had the formation, they had the Sanctuary Weave, they had the false-depth geometry as a known factor and the Stalkers' combat-overlap pattern as a filed variable. They had the rest node and the fire-bowl and the telling behind them. They had 127 resonance events and 23 to go and the fifth pair still pending and the Proving Gate somewhere ahead.

She had said it. It was out. They had it together now.

She had a hypothesis about the fifth pair — Solenne and partner, pending — that she had not prepared to name yet. The Conductor had been giving her something for twenty floors that she had been filing under a different category. She was not prepared to name it. But it was there, and the floor was long, and she was going to be walking next to all of them for however many floors remained.

She picked up her pack.

"Rest node first," she said. "Then we keep going."
