Cale exhaled. "You better not be giving me false hope," he said, and then when Damien gave him a wide-eyed look, waved a dismissive hand. "I meant the Gift, not you, Damien. I wouldn't threaten you."

"O-oh."

"You worry me sometimes," Cale said with a half-smile. "Practice attuning with the Verdant Flame. I need to think. And also finish baking."

Cale was ready.

To cast [Baker's Oven], anyway. He still didn't quite know what to think of Sisyphus's warning, or the implication that Vital could be brought back to life. The thought made something deep inside him clench—the promise of an old friend brought back and all the old pains that came with him. Cale didn't know if he was ready for that.

Though it didn't really matter if he was ready or not. If Vital could be brought back, then Cale owed it to him to try.

Besides, it was fitting, in a way. If any of the Monoliths could be brought back, then it would certainly be the Monolith of Life.

He stared at the dough—carefully prepared and laid out on the table—and cast [Baker's Oven]. He noticed almost immediately that the fire portion of the spell was remarkably easy to control compared to normal; evidently, five ranks of fire resonance did a lot...

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Although not enough, apparently.

Adjusting spell construct...

[Baker's Oven] has evolved into [Touch of Vesuvius (Baker's Edition)]!

Well, good thing the spell clarified. He would have been disappointed if it had been a regular fire-touching spell.

...He checked the Gift's message anyway, just in case.

[Touch of Vesuvius (Baker's Edition), Level 1] [Fifth Tier (Unique), Active] [1.0e12 Mana]

Imbue any physical object that makes contact with this spell with the ability to bake any dough or batter touching it at the perfect temperature until done. Includes decorative fire sigils to mark all affected surfaces, which will be all of them, because all physical objects imbued with this spell are considered part of the spell. Good luck!
