“The rest of the Republic. From there, I think the true foe lies in wait, in Portal.” Yetta said, “Portal is not just the gateway to Spur and the Crystal Forest, but to almost every nation everywhere with a border on the Letri Ocean.”

Erick frowned deeper, saying, “Caradogh Pogi, the Lower-Trademaster of Portal. He’s a really big deal, isn’t he?”

Yetta's facade cracked. She gusted, “Yes.”

“What the fu—” Erick looked over Yetta, his words cutting out when his eyes saw her waist. Yetta was missing the belt Erick had made her. The artifact belt, worth 60 Strength. At another look, her ring for 30 Vitality was also gone. Disgusted, Erick demanded, “Where’s your belt! I made that for you. What about the other stuff?”

Yetta sighed, saying, “I destroyed them; it was part of the deal.” She added, “All of that which you gave us we destroyed.”

Erick breathed deep. He exhaled, then he said, “Fuck that fucker!”

Yetta chuckled, then frowned again, saying, “Sorry, Erick.”

“I’m sorry, Yetta. I pissed off that asshole and now he’s denying you the ability to accept my help.” Erick said, “The plan to create a [Gate] network is going forward.” He asked, “Does Odaali want a permanent [Gate] to the Crystal Forest? To Spur? That’s what I’m going to work on, now.”

Yetta smiled, softly, and a little sad. She said, “Maybe.” She tilted her head. She looked at Erick then held out her hand, saying, “I’m being told to do this...”

Divine yellow light flowed from her brown hand, like [Teleport], but wider. She moved her hand through the air. There was no dual light, but a flow, a path; a tunnel, somehow. Erick stood straighter. And then the light cut, but the sound did not vanish. Ophiel hummed the tune as he floated beside Erick. His song was a reflection and recreation of Yetta’s —or rather Atunir’s— [Gate].

Erick bowed, saying, “Thank you. Yetta. Atunir.”

Yetta nodded, silently.

Erick briefly looked back to the platform, before turning back to Yetta, asking, “If this box were to fall off the back of the [Teleporting Platform], would that be a problem?”

Yetta said, “We would have to throw such a thing into a grinder and then heavily [Dispel] and [Cleanse] the remains, so that no stray magical corruption was allowed to flourish.”

Erick sighed, saying, “Sorry this couldn’t work out.”

“It is what it is, and nothing more.” Yetta said, “We are rebuilding. We are culling the growing banditry from our wounded nation and bringing scattered people back to their homes. Odaali is coming back. We will be fine without your assistance, though we will always appreciate your help in getting to this point.” Yetta said, “Atunir appreciates your contributions to the world, as well, but she would like to know when you’re going to try making that ‘chocolate’ you talked about.”

Erick smiled, a touch of mirth returning to the day. “Soon. Chocolate is not an easy thing to make.”

Yetta said, “Atunir wishes you to know that there is a tree that produces beanfruit in the jungles of eastern Nergal. You can likely find of this red and white striped fist-sized fruit in Eidolon. It is called ‘Tarip’, and every part of the fruit, seeds and all, are used to make a complicated, sweet and savory, oily jam. This might be a good start.”

Erick made a mental note of ‘Tarip’, and said, “Thank you.” He added, “Good luck with the rebuilding. If your situation should change, I’m not too far away.”

“Thank you, Erick.” Yetta stood tall, saying, “Good luck with your [Gate] network.”

Erick nodded, holding the stone box tight. He turned, saying, “Farewell, Yetta.”

“Farewell, Erick.”

- - - -

Liquid walked into her office, and paused. A stone box sat on her desk. She left her office, demanding, “Where the fuck did this box come from?”

Her secretary, Thom, said, “Archmage Erick’s [Familiar] dropped it off, just now.”

Liquid turned back to her office, and glared at the box, her grey metal skin rippling; it was another box of artifacts, no doubt. Did that idiot not understand what he was doing? He was just making artifacts! And then handing them out!

But maybe she was wrong? Maybe it was something else?

Another ripple of fear passed through her grey metal body. Maybe it was something worse than artifact rings. She tiptoed over to the box. She undid the stone latch, and opened it.

“Slag,” Liquid said, seeing row upon row of silver spheres, each the size of a pebble, each locked into a bar of metal, waiting to be [Metalshape]d onto the fingers of their recipients. “More fucking rings. Dammit.”

“Oh?” Thom stuck his head into Liquid’s office, asking, “Can I get one of those this time? Willpower would be great.”

Injecting as much sarcasm into her voice as possible, Liquid said, “Sure! Would you like a million gold while I’m at it?”

Thom deadpanned, “I could use a raise.”

Liquid slammed the door in his face.
