Mehdi was nodding.

“You’re buying in to something crazy,” Lexi warned. “None of that can be right.”

He looked accusingly at Alden.

“Maybe I shouldn’t have called Ash a six-year-old and pushed our thoughts in exactly that direction,” Alden said. “But what if a couple of the strategies we present today take advantage of some of what Rahul told me? Just in case.”

“You’re wrong. But fine. It won’t hurt to try.”

******

******

Bad qualities aside, Instructor Ash did know how to design a cool-looking obstacle course.

After they suited up, they entered the gym and finally had the chance to see the whole thing.

“There’s traffic!” Haoyu said. “No water, though, Jeffy.”

The course filled the entire white floor, made extensive use of the gym’s magic, and had what were basically first and second stories to take full advantage of the vertical space. They had a mere five minutes to wander through it with everyone else, getting a sense of what it would be like before the first teams had their turn.

It turned out the pincushion alley was the first obstacle, and it ran nearly the whole length of the floor.

“So if we were on this side to start, all the spikes would shoot out from the barrier to our right,” said Kon, reading the information on his interface as they jogged through the narrow corridor together. The barrier he meant was the invisible wall at the perimeter of the gym that protected spectators. Alden assumed it would remain invisible, so that the spikes looked like they were coming from nowhere.

“The pins represent material attacks and spells that are blockable through mundane interference. But they’ll be really fast, so Lexi and Writher will cut them down as they appear when we’re going through as a group. Alden will serve as a second line of defense, and then everyone will just try not to get stabbed if they both fail. The spikes will go all the way to this giant traffic tunnel on our left, so we can’t just squeeze close to it to avoid them.”

It wasn’t obvious from pincushion alley that the tunnel contained traffic. From here, it was just the left side wall. An opaque green wall with an arched top that almost touched the semi-transparent white ceiling of this first level.

On the other side of the tunnel, the opposing team would have their own starting line and pincushion alley.

“Can people attack over the top of the tunnel?” Alden asked. “Is it climbable, and is that gap between the arch and the ceiling wide enough for an enemy to get through?”

“I’ll check,” Ignacio and Jeffy said at the same time.

Jeffy threw himself at it, scrambling against the slick surface and the curvature before he opted to dig his hands in. They sank in to the knuckles when he put some force into it. Ignacio was already up, having jumped and planted a Meister knife into the green barrier magic. He squirmed over the top of the tunnel and looked toward the other side before sliding back down to join them.

“Possible,” he said succinctly.

Alden doubted they’d see many people attacking by going through that gap, but it was good to know. The alley ended, and a sharp turn to the left allowed them to enter the tunnel, which both teams would share with each other and with the traffic—two lanes of vaguely car and truck shaped blocks  in different colors. They were still at the moment, but they would be moving when the runs started. The vehicles would appear and disappear from the ends of the tunnel.

“This is a free combat area,” Alden said, surprised as he saw the rules on his interface. Instead of waiting for one teammate to make it over the finish line and earn an attack, anyone could attack anyone in here.

“Keep reading!” a girl on another team shouted from the other end of the tunnel, where she and her teammates were poking at a car. “It’s such a trap.”

“If you initiate an attack that results in a traffic accident, your whole team starts over with a one-minute penalty,” said Lexi.

“So if you attack another player in here, you have to be good enough to take them out without any cars being damaged. ” Alden tried to imagine what it would feel like in here with the traffic in motion. “And it looks like the penalty for accidentally wrecking a car, if you don’t attack the other team, is a regular start over for the person who caused the wreck. Let’s just not hurt the cars at all if we get to run.”

“We can land on them though, can’t we?” said Mehdi. “Like the footage we saw in class.”

“I guess if the gym determines it’s not a wreck-inducing landing?” said Alden. “It’s pretty tight in here. I think we’re mainly worried about not getting run over.”

At the end of the tunnel, the lift that would take people up to the next floor was only big enough for two, so even teams running in a close pack would have to separate briefly. When Alden stepped onto the square panel, it fired up toward the next level, and he jumped off quickly to take a look at the next thing. It was a tangled climbing frame, a jungle gym made of metal and wooden poles jammed through chunks and blobs of the gym barrier magic. Those blobs would be randomized to be tough or fragile. Forcing a way through would be an option for some, but destroying a “fragile” chunk by shattering the poles attached to it would result in an injury penalty.

It was a lot of clambering around in uncomfortable positions to get through that, and then there was a wide, clear area that was going to turn into a place where vulnerable people got picked off as they tried to get up to the floating island.

“Hello, my nemesis,” said Alden, looking up at it.

“It’s higher than we practiced in the park,” said Kon. “Or does it just seem that way?”

“It’s higher,” said Alden. “But there’s more to grab onto than with the nonagon.”

The obstacle was gym barrier magic of course, the same shade of green as the exterior of the traffic tunnel, which might indicate it would behave the same for climbing and hanging on purposes. It was shaped sort of like a mini island with two mountains and a bay.

“And since this is the gym, I’m willing to throw you guys way harder and trust your luck.” Alden’s interface was already providing him with information about the island. “Ha! Really? To be fair, I might do the same thing if I were him.”

“What?” Kon asked.

Alden accessed their team chat.

[Alden: The island is supposed to mimic the behavior of a high-rank Adjuster spell that changes the spatial trend of certain other spells. Like making spells that are normally set to a location want to move to a different location. Only it’s giving it a trend, not a new hard set, so the situation becomes a bit more mobile. He wrote it right here in the notes. Or the System did. Let me look and see if there’s more about it online.]

“I don’t think you have to bother with that,” said Lexi. Haoyu and Ignacio were beside him. Jeffy and Mehdi were still playing around on the jungle gym. “It doesn’t really change anything for how we handle it, does it?”

“But it’s very different than a standard gym obstacle that’s not mimicking anything. Or one that’s mimicking a fixed levitation spell or shaping. It’s more interesting than those.”

“How?” Lexi asked. He sounded genuinely curious about the answer.

Because it’s a spell I hadn’t heard about until just now, and I want to learn to cast it.

I can’t say that. It’d be so fun to use on Max’s traps, though. I wonder how fast it moves things? Would his traps pretty much snap to where I sent them? Or would they drift in that direction more slowly?

Probably degrades them somewhat?

[Alden: It’s a spell Ash must be thinking about choosing for himself. There’s no point in setting the object to behave this way otherwise, is there? So he most likely cares about the island more than the rest of the course.]

Ash was an S-rank Adjuster who made terrain that only he could see. He could use it as a trap, like Max did his zones, but his terrain covered a much larger area and it was really more like terrain. Like an undetectable gravel covered slope or a swamp, just appearing out of nowhere in front of someone he was chasing. Alden assumed the spell the floating island was mimicking would allow Ash to move part or all of one of his landscapes without recasting.

At least. He probably has multiple uses for something like that.

Their course admiration time was up all too soon, and Alden trailed after the others to stand on the sidelines while the first two teams took their starting positions.

“I do think as weight is added to it, the floating island will sink a little,” he said, still reading descriptions of the spell online. “If we’re all standing on it at once, or if members of other teams are, I might have to throw someone from there so that they can reach the monkey bars.”

From the floating island, they gained access to a long stretch of ordinary monkey bars at the top of the gym. All they had to do was cross them to finish.

Since it’s mimicking that spell, I wonder what would happen if we tried to deal with the spell instead of trying to use the island correctly.

It might just break? Then we’d have no way to reach the monkey bars.

“Alden, you’re not watching the first run. A truck just got hit by someone!”

Alden looked away from his interface at Jeffy’s urging. He and his teammates were standing at the end of the gym that allowed them to see into the traffic tunnel. Ash wasn’t far away.

The team that had injured the truck was being sent back to the start already, and Mehdi was moaning about how he was going to lose his mind watching other people run such a fun course so badly.

“For once, I agree with him,” said Lexi. “What’s our best strategy from last night’s chat? I’ll go suggest it to Instructor Ash.”

“There’s rope in the object pile,” said Haoyu. “Say we’ll use that if you want to be as logical as possible. Or say we’ll build a ladder out of broken jungle gym. You know there will be ten thousand bent and broken pieces of that by the end. We won’t even have to demolish it ourselves.”

Lexi held up a hand. “I’ll deliver a logical plan logically. Rope. I’ll…express our confidence.”

He took a breath and headed toward their teacher.

“He looks like a strong representative for us,” Haoyu whispered. “Tall. Sure. Barely angry.”

Lexi was turning back to them within a minute.

“More than barely angry now,” said Haoyu. “But his representation was good. You did good, Lexi!”

“He said it didn’t sound like it was worth the floor,” Lexi ground out.

“Spinach,” hissed Kon.

“I’ll try,” said Ignacio. “Maybe something with the cars? I’ll go in several minutes to show we thought about it for a while.”

“When can I go?” Alden asked.

“Whenever you want,” said Kon, “if you’ve come up with something.”

“No,” said Alden. “I mean when can I go with… ”

He switched to text.

[Alden: When can I try to trick him like he’s six?]

[Haoyu: Yes! What trick?]

[Alden: I want to tell him I have the best idea ever for floating island, but then I want to refuse to give him all the details so that he has to let us on the floor if he wants to see what it looks like.]

He outlined the kind of idea he was thinking of quickly for them. They spent longer exchanging looks than reading what he’d mental texted.

Kon grinned. “I like it, but will it work?”

Alden shrugged. “How would any of us actually know without trying it? But we haven’t mentioned a single strategy like it, it’s not boring, and nobody else will do it.”

[Alden: I was hoping that if the run fails, but we’ve shown him something he didn’t think of himself, maybe we get to go again. Because he’s curious to see what we do next.]

“Okay,” said Kon, very quietly. “As team captain, I think we should present two more strategies that will definitely work even if they’re boring or they rely on extra equipment. One in five minutes. Another five minutes after that. And then if those fail…we send you in. With that. Half an hour from now?”

Alden nodded.

He spent the time watching runners, refining his plans for making it through the early obstacles, and thinking about how to learn what he needed to from the course.

When the whole team started glancing at him, he knew the half hour was up. Ash had walked to the other side of the floor to observe. He’d rejected ideas from Ignacio and Haoyu now, too.

“I’m going,” Alden said. “Wish me luck.”

“I’m going to be so incredibly…something, if this works,” Lexi muttered.

“Grateful?” Alden suggested.

[Alden: Keep an eye on him.  Watch his face for clues. We have to know what goes on in his mind.]

He was aware he was being a little dramatic, but waking up at the crack of dawn to twiddle his thumbs while other people used magic was only going to get harder as the term progressed.

When he reached Ash, he waited for Ram—probably Ram—to finish requesting a run for his own team. The Brute’s tone was several steps down from respectful, but Ash just looked like he’d shut his hearing off a while ago.

I guess that’s better than him looking annoyed, but wouldn’t it be best for my cause if he were in a perky mood? Should I offer to let him play with Ro-den’s enchanted ring? I never wear it anymore. Maybe he’d cheer up.

Before he could convince himself that that was necessary, Ram was stalking past him, and Ash was either deeply interested in what the teams on the course were doing…or pretending to be in hopes that Alden would go away.

This is awkward. But Stuart handled Ro-den! I have no excuse not to successfully handle this guy.

