292

******

“Haoyu! You’re suspiciously quiet in there.”

Alden rapped his knuckles against the door to Haoyu’s room a couple of times. A muffled response that sounded like “mup” was all he got in reply.

Alden had his doubts about that answer, but he headed to the kitchen anyway. He and Lexi had been awake for a few minutes. Alden’s gym bag was on the floor by the table, ready to go. Lexi was searching through the fridge with feline assistance.

“He says he’s up, but it sounded like he was saying it from underneath his pillow,” Alden reported, taking a cat treat tube from the drawer where he stored them. He added some to the food that was already in Victor’s bowl.

“We’ll probably have to drag Kon out of bed, too,” said Lexi. “He sent his last message at one. There’s not much in here.”

“Those gross-looking brown nuggets are mini dark chocolate almond energy bars. They’re not sure if they want to be health food or candy, but they’re a decent gym snack.”

Lexi pulled out the plastic deli container full of bars. “These?”

“Yeah. You can have some. Actually, we should just take the whole thing with us.”

Lexi tossed the bars onto the counter, then bent to nudge Victor away from the fridge and toward his food dish.

“It’s not bugging you having him around?” Alden said.

“How many times are you going to ask that? I’ve told you he’s fine.”

“Now that I’ve got him here, I realize he’s more of a fifth roommate than I imagined. He’s obsessed with following people into the bathroom—which is new—and he sometimes sounds like he’s fighting ghosts all by himself in here in the middle of the night. That’s not new, but I worry it’s more annoying to other people than it is to me.”

“Victor’s quieter than ninety percent of our neighbors. And you shouldn’t have to lose your pet on top of everything else when you get selected. He’s fun to have around, but even if he wasn’t…”

“You’ve gotten more sympathetic to my globie woes!”

“I was always sympathetic except for a couple of mistakes.”

“You were,” Alden agreed. “You’re pretty understanding about me bringing knights in through the window to eat leftovers with us, too.”

“I wouldn’t say I understood that one.” Lexi glanced toward the living room window like he thought a stray Artonan might be waiting to come in. “By the way…your friend over there… ”

“I’m not sure if you’re talking about Esh-erdi or Stuart, now,” said Alden when Lexi trailed off. “Or a human you associate with windows.”

“Your friend. Stuart. Do you two practice magic together?”

Alden had been reaching for the shaker bottle he liked to carry on gym days. He froze with his arm stretched up toward the shelf. “Huh?”

“I mean does he help you practice your skill?” Lexi asked. “Or does he tell you what talents might be good for you in the future? Ever since you said you wanted to volunteer for ‘baby level chaos zone’ work, I’ve kind of been hoping your friend knows what he’s doing…or worrying that he doesn’t. He’s not a real summoner yet. He gave you those rings. Those aren’t the only protection you get before an enthusiastic Artonan kid puts you on a list to go be a human shield for his second cousin, are they?”

Lexi was scowling and shrugging simultaneously.

“Anesidoran Social Dynamic,” he added, “I’ve never heard anyone try to pass off a chaos assignment as ‘baby level’. I realize you know more about that type of thing than me, but…just tell me you have plans and proper channels, and your friend is a solid person who won’t do something like forget he signed you up for whatever it is a Rabbit does out there if you two drift apart in the future.”

Of course he’s talking about practicing my skill. Thank goodness I didn’t jump into denials about wizard practice. It’s way too early in the morning to scare a guy like that, Lexi.

Alden grabbed the shaker, the rest of what his roommate was saying registering as he set it down and scooped in some protein powder. He was wearing his armor rings right now. He’d take them off for class soon.

I know Lexi can be a worrier, but imagining that these will be all the protective gear I have after a flaky wizard unfriends me…is actually not something I can criticize, considering how much time I’ve spent coming up with doom scenarios in which heartless summoners just straight-up drop me into chaos with nothing but the clothes on my back.

Stuart had to talk me out of that. More than once. The only reason I’m not still in that headspace is because of him.

“Lexi, do you want to talk to Stuart? He’d like that. The next time he calls you could say hi!”

“Who said anything about that?” Lexi protested. “I was just checking on you!”

“Stuart’s rock solid. Like stubborn stone. We’re not going to have a falling out, but even if we did, he’s not the kind of person who’d ever forget a promise or a responsibility. He’d fight a more powerful wizard for me, and I know that for a fact.” The memory of Stuart threatening to skewer Ro-den with the walking stick was still vivid and would remain so forever, he hoped.

“I’ll believe you.”

“Do. And he is the proper channels in this case. Or he will be. He’s not adding me to some list he’ll forget about…he’ll be on the list, too. Thanks for caring enough to check, though. And, yes, we do practice together when I’m over there.”

“You do?” Curiosity replaced some of Lexi’s awkwardness.

Alden popped the lid onto the shaker and carried it over to his duffel bag. “It’s not like he knows a ton of secret wizard hacks for my skill or anything. He has a different perspective and way more magical knowledge. But, mostly, practicing my Avowed abilities with him has been the same kind of stuff I could do with you guys. Only he’s more likely to cast spells than throw a punch, and one time, he got me some disposable armor and this thing that’s called a hazard mimic to try my shields and trip lines out on.”

The wizard hacks Stuart did know were pretty difficult to explain without saying too much. The bolstering of Alden’s authority when he’d made the puddle shield and the recent insight into entrustment weren’t going to be helpful to Lexi in any way.

“I can ask him for his thoughts on Mind Writhers if you want. Or you could ask him. Or if you wanted to ask an adult wizard instead, we could invite Hn’tyon Esh-erdi over for dinner agin, and Lind-otta this time, too.”

“I’m not inviting Artonan military over for dinner to ask them for weapon advice!” Lexi said. “You’re joking right now, aren’t you?”

“I’m not trying to force you, but I think it’s an option you should consider before they leave Earth. Esh-erdi really enjoyed it. Kon could come.”

“No dinner guests!”

“But if we did invite them, I’m sure they could help you with— ”

A knock on their apartment door interrupted him before he could make a serious case for hosting knights at their kitchen table.

“I’ll get it,” said Lexi. “Don’t do or say anything weird.”

“Do you imagine the normality police are out there ready to arrest me for putting protein powder in a cup at four thirty in the morning? It’s probably just— ”

Lexi opened the door.

“Good morning, my brother! Are you ready to whip our enemies?”

“Why is this apartment so much better than ours?”

“It’s probably just our team,” Alden concluded.

Kon was already slipping under Lexi’s outstretched arm, and Mehdi ducked after him. It was like the body language suggesting that they should stay out in the hallway was completely meaningless to them.

“You have carpets and good furniture.” Mehdi gasped. “And a cat!”

“None of that came with the room,” said Alden. “You could have it, too, if you bring it in yourself.”

He watched the Agility Brute closely to make sure he didn’t do something that would scare the crap out of Victor, but Mehdi just moved to look down the hall toward the bedrooms.

“Didn’t you see our place when you brought food for Matadero Thanksgiving?” Lexi asked. “It hasn’t changed except for the cat.”

“You wouldn’t even let me use your bathroom that day. Why does the polar bear wear sunglasses?”

“Your own toilet is upstairs.”

“Where’s Haoyu?” Kon asked Alden. “Jeffy and Ignacio are waiting down in the community kitchen. We’re all walking over together, aren’t we?”

“I thought we would. I talked to a uni student about Ash last night. Got some advice. I don’t know how much it’ll help but I thought I’d share it with all of you.”

“Exciting. Haoyu?”

“He says he’s up. But…”

“Understood,” said Kon. “He needs my help.” He strolled toward Haoyu’s room.

Alden and Lexi looked at each other.

“Shouldn’t we stop him?” Alden asked. “Kon’s got a worthy cause, but he’s a trespasser. And Haoyu’s a liar, but he’s our guy. Huntski Lodge loyalty?”

“You have a point.”

Scuffling sounds came from Haoyu’s room. They were followed by Kon’s voice saying something about sunshine and Haoyu’s saying something about death and blankets.

“We took too long to decide,” said Alden.

******

They picked up Jeffy and Ignacio from the community kitchen, and the whole team was on their way to the MPE building within five minutes.

It was chilly, and Alden was glad he’d thrown on a sweatshirt instead of something lighter. Haoyu was chewing tooth cleaning gum while they walked. Ignacio had a piece of toast with tomato on it that Alden wanted.

Jeffy reported that Vandy’s team had left Garden Hall twenty minutes earlier.

“We’ll leave even earlier than them next time,” Mehdi said. “We can’t let them get ahead of us.”

“They probably just wanted a warm-up since they know they’re running today,” said Alden.

“Doesn’t matter.” Kon turned around to walk backwards. “You have insider knowledge to share with us and give us an edge.”

“I wouldn’t go that far, but it’s more than nothing, at least. Last night, I talked to this guy named Rahul about Ash’s personality, and he said… ”

He told them all of it and finished up as they were passing the Wong building. A few people who he thought were also members of the Coursing class were way ahead of them on the walkway. They hadn’t seen many other signs of life.

Mehdi was the first to speak when Alden was through. “We can’t let any of the other teams know these things. We have to use them to our advantage.”

“Use what to our advantage?” Lexi asked. “Instructor Ash is a six-year-old? That’s not something you can form a strategy around.”

“It might be,” said Haoyu. “I’m willing to go with it.”

“It doesn’t sound real. I’m not saying Alden’s lying or anything— ”

“What kind of lie would this be?” Alden asked, amused by the suggestion. “My nefarious plan to sabotage my own team by giving you wrong impressions about an instructor who we already seem to have wrong impressions about?”

“That is villainous of you, Alden,” said Kon.

“I try. Curse you, Lexi, for foiling my scheme.”

“I’m just saying maybe your Wright friend gave bad advice. Ash likes to not be bored and see new magic? He likes fighting other faculty members and sugar?”

“He does like sugar, though,” said Jeffy.

“Maybe that’s proof Alden’s Wright is onto something,” said Haoyu.

“What are we supposed to do with this information? Bribe a grown man with pudding cups?”

For a few seconds, none of them said anything. Then Kon cleared his throat. “All right. Lexi thinks pudding cups are the way. I think something more exciting and dangerous would be better. Mocha brownies with just a hint of some illegal potion added. Let’s vote on it.” He raised his hand. “All in favor of brownies?”

They almost all laughed.

Lexi was too busy huffing. Ignacio was finishing the last bite of his toast with a frown.

“What about if it’s right?” he asked. “I think he likes watching my knives. In Superlatives. But that could be… <<Leading Knife isn’t what most Meisters of Knives choose. I think I’m better than most Meisters my age, but he has talked to me more than a couple of times about how my skill works. Details. What if he’s not interested in how well I’m doing but just what my talents are capable of?>> Not what I’m trying. Only the magic.”

Alden nodded at him. “I know what you mean. You want people to care about your efforts to do well with your affixation more than they care about the novelty.”

“Yes. I practice. I think. Instructors should see.” He sounded bothered by it.

And now Kon was frowning, too. “What if I ruined our chances by describing what we planned to do too well in the submitted strategies?”

“Now you think you’re being punished for doing homework correctly?” said Lexi. “This is why none of this really makes sense.”

“Of course if the instructor is a six-year-old he doesn’t know it,” his brother answered. “I’m sure he didn’t think, ‘Konstantin did this homework too thoroughly. Look at all this footage and supplemental information he included. He spoiled their run for me!’ He probably felt that deep down, but he thought something that sounded reasonable in his own head. Like that we’d already practiced enough in the park and didn’t really need the floor for those strategies. Or he just felt bored after reading everything I sent, and he’s unable to tell the difference between things that bore him personally and things that truly suck.

“Therefore, he runs from us after class because he’s afraid we’ll ask why, and the truth is, he doesn’t have a good answer. Our strategies were just spinach to him. He didn’t want to clean his plate.”

