“Instructor Ash?” he said. Smiling had rarely felt more contrived. “My team’s come up with an idea that’s not like any of our other ones. I think it might be really cool.”

Ash glanced at him through half-closed lids. “Your team presents so many ideas.”

Oof. Dickhead.

“Well, yeah!” Alden said as merrily as he could. “We can’t give up until we surprise you. We might have done it this time.”

“What is it?”

He wore most of his rings even during class, Alden noticed.

“We can beat the floating island by throwing one person up there. And we won’t have to use rope or climb anything to do it.”

There. That’s it. That’s all he gets. Alden held his breath.

Was the instructor looking at the island a little harder? Or was that just because a boy was currently clinging to the edge of it by his fingertips?

“How?” Ash asked after the boy had fallen.

“It’s not hard to do, but explaining why I think it will work might take longer than an actual run. I only have to throw one person. No ropes.”

“You already said that.”

“I did. Sorry. I’m just so pumped about it. No other team is even trying something similar. And it’s kind of dangerous and relies on the magic of the island reacting in a certain way. But it should be awesome when it works.”

How vague can I get away with being? What else can I do?

“I guess there is a chance the floating island could explode or something,” Alden added.

“What do you imagine your team could do to make that obstacle explode?”

“Nothing!” said Alden. “I hope.”

They stared at each other.

“Should I write down all the magical interactions that might happen on a sheet of paper and bring it back to read it to you?”

The instructor’s lids lowered even further. “How do you know what might happen?”

“I don’t. But I could still write my thoughts down and share them. It would be like a risk assessment hypothesis I made up for you to give you the edges of the possibilities for our interesting method to make that island obstacle work for us.”

“Did you have a lot of caffeine before class?”

“What do you mean?”

“Fine,” said Ash. “If you’re all so very…passionate about trying out whatever it is… just run. Make sure you show it off during the run. Don’t write anything extra for me to read.”

“Yes, sir. We won’t waste your attention.”

Alden walked away fast before any more questions could be asked or any fickle minds could change. His grin as he approached his teammates was very real.

“I’m horrified,” said Lexi.

“Get unhorrified. We go to battle against an island in the sky. And I promised it would be interesting. That’s a lot of pressure on us now that it’s happening.”

******
