"Use your health sight?" Zach suggested. "Like, passively? That should burn some."

He shook his head. "Not right now, if there's someone dying nearby... I don't want to see it."

Oh wow, he really was a coward, wasn't he? He also wasn't sure he could trust his own judgment. That was a terrible place to be.

Did Akilah have a point? How could he effectively dive dungeons and manage increasingly pushy healing mana?

Jo put her hand on his arm. "We'll figure this out later. Let's just go."

"No," Thomas said. "I have a few extra healing crystals. We're going home right after this, right? He should have them."

She didn't look happy about that, and Zach just looked on with sympathy as if still a little worried the mana was juicing up his brain.

"I don't know what the crystals can do against poison," Thomas continued. "But maybe it'll help until he can get them to a real healer or hospital. It's the least I can do."

Jo shook her head. "No, you're staying with Zach. I will give him the healing crystals." She held out her hand, no nonsense. "Give."

Thomas wanted to object, but she also had a point. Silently, and feeling increasingly embarrassed like his friends were taking his car keys away because they thought he was too intoxicated to drive, he dug in his pack then handed over the healing mana crystals. Two were level 2, and one was level 3.

Taking them, Jo walked back around the large inn to wait in the square for the elf to come out. Thomas and Zach hung back, closer to the System Marketplace booths.

Thomas felt like he was burning with shame.

"It's okay, bro," Zach said casually. "You've saved me from my mana how many times? You've built Jo up with the awesome loot drops, too. Let us give a little back."

He knew what he was saying, but it didn't make him feel any better. Thomas scrubbed at his face and admitted. "Akilah told me I can get rid of the healing mana. I can burn my core back to zero and start again with a different mix."

Surprised, Zach turned towards him. "You've never mentioned the details before. That's possible?"

"For healers, yeah. Most got it... worse than me. Or I could try a different mix for my next level, see if that helps."

"Oh right. Druid build, maybe?" He watched him carefully. "Is that what you want, though?"

He lifted his shoulders in a shrug but what came out was, "Not really. I just keep thinking... what if someday someone's hurt, and I don't have the power to help? But that might be the healing mana again. I don't know."

Zach just nodded, and they both turned their attention back to Jo, who was waiting with increasingly visible impatience by the inn door. What was taking the elf so long?

And why was Thomas feeling more and more anxious for her? Jo was more than capable of taking care of herself. The elf hadn't been armed and it wasn't like she was going to be mugged. She would be giving him help. It would be a thirty-second conversation, tops.

"We should use a code word," Zach said.

Thrown, Thomas looked at him. "Huh?"

"You know, for emergencies. I remember what it was like when the Fire took over back in the Mimic dungeon. I wanted to burn the whole dungeon inside out, and at the end I wanted to know what it was to burn." It was clearly a hard admission for him, and he carefully did not meet Thomas' gaze. "So I get it. If one of us is about to dive into the deep end of the mana pool, the other person tells him, I dunno, 'Pineapple' or something. Then you trust the team's judgment even if it feels wrong. Jo should get in on this, too, but I don't think her mana mix is a problem unless she goes way more into Poison."

Part of Thomas wanted to scoff or make a safe-word joke, but was it a bad idea? Really?

"She'll have to be the deciding vote on... Pineapple situations," Thomas said after a moment. "Poor Jo, she's the only one on the team not getting high off her own supply."

Zach snorted a laugh and that helped cut the tension of this heavy, awkward conversation.

They both turned their attention back to Jo, whose patience had apparently snapped. She was just striding to the inn door, a hand outstretched to the handle to yank it open.

The door flew open before she could touch it and she hastily backed out of the way.

Not a moment too soon because the poor bedraggled elf was flung out like someone being ejected out of a saloon in a spaghetti western. He'd obviously been roughed up, if not experienced a beating judging by the red marks on his chalk-white skin and split lip.

Elves bled orangish-looking blood. Good to know.

Laughter poured out of the inn, cut off when the door swung shut again.

Thomas fought the impulse to step over and help. Zach would stop him anyway. Instead, he forced himself to stand back and watch as Jo helped him to his feet.

The elf's pride was fully intact. The moment he was on his feet, he shook off her touch as if offended.

Stone-faced, Jo presented him with the three mana crystals.

The elf's expression blanked in shock. Then, snatching the crystals, he looked over her again and said something too low for Thomas to catch.

She replied curtly, then turned to leave.

Quicker than could be tracked by sight, he grabbed her wrist and pulled her back, bellowing in her face. "Where?!"

"Hey!" Zach barked. A half-second later he appeared right next to the elf, a ribbon of fire sparking in his hands.

Jo wasn't standing frozen either and had grabbed for a dagger at her belt.

Again, the elf almost moved faster than could be tracked, showing that despite being roughed up by the other Light elves, he was above their level.

He easily knocked the dagger out of Jo's grip, sending it skittering across the cobblestone street. Then, with a smooth motion he yanked her forward and around again against his chest, using her as a shield and forcing Zach to snap his ribbon of fire to the side at the last second.

"Stop! Let her go!" Of course, Thomas had been sprinting to reach them, but unlike some people, he didn't have instant teleport and had to hoof it the long way. He reached them just as Jo stomped down on the elf's foot... and got no reaction. He definitely over-leveled them.

"Where is your healer?" the elf snarled.

"None of your business," Jo spat.

"We don't have one," Zach said at the same moment.

His face contorted into a mix of despair and rage. "I'm no fool. Only healers carry healing crystals, for not even off-worlders cross the Light Ones." The elf tightened his grip on Jo, making her wince. "Now, where are they?"

Oh, right. On this world, healing mana was shunted off to places for healing. And, apparently, to those who could use it to heal others.

"Fuck," Thomas said. "It's me, okay? But I don't know what to do for poison—"

In an instant, the elf had released Jo and was at his side, instead. One hand was around his upper arm. His grip was like steel bands.

"You will come with me," the elf ordered, like Thomas was a servant. "Now."

He was starting to get why Dark Elves didn't like these guys.
