"Yeah, good work, team." Deciding it was time, Thomas started unloading their mana crystal haul.

Seeing it all piled up in a well, large pile, he realized he had no real room to complain. The vast majority was Wood mana, which wasn't common on Earth. Shadow mana was mixed in here and there, along with the occasional Light. Not to mention it was all level four, which made each crystal more special considering dungeons on Earth were still limited to level three.

"What happens if I try to sell level 4 mana on Earth?" he asked. "Big bolt of lightning comes down from the sky and incinerates me?"

Zach rapidly shook his head. "Don't even think about it, dude," he said, unusually grim. "The level 3 restrictions are there for a reason. We can use it for ourselves just fine, but not sell it. Once integration is supposed to hit, the System will be everywhere. I don't want to get on its bad side."

"Offloading all this here is going to be a pain in the neck without attracting attention," Jo said. "But we've got to do it, or exchange it all for level 3 and then sell it on Earth."

"We've got to be careful doing that too," Thomas said. "I've thought about opening up a stall either in Reno or the Crystal Flea Market back home. Being a vendor gives me a good excuse for having so many crystals."

"I'm gonna use my haul to buy a lot of level 4 Teleportation mana and Fire mana," Zach said.

"I just want the cash," Jo said. "As much as I can get so I can spend it before money stops working."

Both sounded like good ideas. One day Thomas's giant Wellspring mana crystal was going to give out and he'd have to find his own supply.

"Well, we can start offloading this at different locations. At least we have more than enough to get us back home, and if there's a village nearby, there's a System marketplace booth. We could start selling some of it there, then some more back at Shadow City."

The name for the city they portaled in from Earth to wasn't actually called Shadow City. Its official title was The Shadowed Haven of Dark Hope, but that was just way too much of a mouthful. Thomas was going to call the place either Shadow City or Home Tree, and he knew which would be politer.

"Let's get something to eat while we're there," Zach said, pitching his half-eaten MRE over his shoulder. Seeing him casually litter annoyed Thomas for a half-second until he remembered that dungeons absorbed whatever was in them after the instance closed. In a way, they were giving a little back to the dungeon they had just taken so much out from.

Pack-it-in, pack-it-out rules did not apply in a dungeon.

Coincidentally, the fact that dungeons could transmute matter into energy without radioactive byproducts meant that pollution problems on Earth were soon to be solved.

It was always nice to find a silver lining in the pending societal apocalypse.

Putting that out of his mind, Thomas started splitting the loot into equal thirds.

____

The village was a short walk away. Despite being close to a decent dungeon, it was a scrubby, dirty place. The Dark Elves that lived on the outskirts had houses made of mud with regular holes in the walls for ventilation in place of windows, and curtains or strings of beads instead of doors.

From the way several goat-dog creatures prowled in and out of the houses, it seemed that many of them lived with their livestock, like humans did back in pre-industrial times. But this was not a pre-industrial world. These people had access to magic and classes. There was a literal dungeon at their doorstep.

Why weren't they taking advantage of it?

Shadow City houses didn't look exactly like human habitations, but they certainly had windows and doors, and they were just a portal away. Except that the portal cost fifty Shadow mana one way. Maybe they just didn't have access to money—er, Shadows?

They continued walking down the road, and the houses grew a little more elaborate, a little cleaner, many with kitchen gardens out front. The plants were a crazy rainbow of colors, with the fruits and vegetables looking like someone had planted a bag of Skittles.

A few people stared as they passed by, but no one offered them any violence or real conversation.

The center of Nonstrel Song Village was a bit more promising, with basic shops open and what looked like an old-fashioned inn. A familiar marble plinth dominated the town square, where a fountain or a statue of a city founder would normally be in a human settlement. Small alcoves ringed the outside of it for private business transactions. This was the System marketplace.

Thomas, Zach, and Jo headed there right away to start selling their portion of the loot. For his part, Thomas exchanged his Wood mana crystals for Shadow, which was the currency of the Dark Elves.

Shadow had less buying power than Wood crystals, so he came out ahead. It also spoke to the lack of economic power the Dark Elves had on their own planet. Out of the four races, their currency was worth the least.

Out of curiosity, he once again tried to purchase Healing mana, but received a message that healing mana crystals were reserved only for medical institutions on this planet.

He would have to speak to Akilah to see if he could get a lead on that. Perhaps he could volunteer at a local community hospital in exchange. He was already partially on call for the Ross-Astor family in exchange for the opportunity to dive their feeder dungeon. Thomas figured it was good practice to maintain relations with the local Old Family, who could stand between him and the coven of witches who would like to use him as a sacrifice for their blood rituals.

Next, he searched for Wellspring mana. It was flat out not available, and the System restricted him from searching anything level 5 and above.

Oh well, he would have to start looking around for a dungeon that dropped it.

Jo and Zach had finished their transactions, so Thomas quickly closed his out and joined them. Together, they walked to the inn.

The innkeeper who greeted them at the door gave them a hard look, and not the most welcoming first impression ever.

"You may as well come in, though be warned, we don't have any substitutions for species-specific allergens. It's not often we get dwarves here."

"I don't have any allergies I know of," Zach said cheerfully, unbothered about being labeled a dwarf.

Jo shrugged, and Thomas offered, "I have healing crystals in case anything goes wrong. We're humans from the new System world. You call it Terra, here?"

The innkeeper looked them over again and seemed to thaw a little before gesturing them over to a table set in the corner.

Other Dark elves were around, eating or drinking, but they had yet to see Wood elves, which was interesting since they were technically in Wood elf territory. Did the species not mix?

Nevertheless, they were seated, and the innkeeper said, "The meal today is kela-sped pie with a gemberry cider. Prices are either one Wood or two Shadows per plate."

Apparently, there were no menus either.

"Sounds great," Zach said. "We'll take three level 3 meals."

The others nodded and the innkeeper walked away.

"I thought dwarves had beards," Thomas muttered. He was clean-shaven, Zach had a day of scruff, and Jo obviously wouldn't qualify.

"Something tells me they don't get a lot of dwarves around here either," Jo said. "I think you were right before, Thomas. This place is rural and isolated."

There were benefits to having only one item on the menu. The innkeeper returned promptly with three giant mugs of ale and three piping hot meat pies. The top of the pies was a raspberry red, with the 'gemberry' ale black as a stout.

Then the innkeeper stood by the table and glared at them until they got the idea to pull out mana crystals to pay right away.

Crystals in hand, he stomped off to help the next guests.

The fork only had two tines which was stretched to half of the utensil's length, but Thomas could deal with that. The crust was flaky and, despite the weird color, tasted savory and salty. The inside was... well, he could practically taste the rainbow, except it was also oddly savory.

"I'm not sure if I like this or not," he said.

Zach, meanwhile, was chowing down and only came up for air long enough to give a thumbs-up.

Jo looked downright doubtful but was clearly too hungry to be that picky.

Thomas tried a chunk of yellow and purple something, chewed, and decided it wasn't that bad. He just wished he knew whether this was meat or fruit. Maybe it was a mushroom.

None of it pulled on his healing mana, so he figured it was fine.

He'd eaten about half when the front door to the inn suddenly slammed open, and in strode a group of Light elves.

There was zero question about who these guys were. Dark elves had blue to bluish-gray skin, dark hair—unless they were going gray like Akilah—and yellow eyes.

These elves had chalk-white skin that would make any goth girl jealous, piercing blue eyes, and straight blonde Tolkien-elf hair. They were also dressed in fine clothing whereas the Dark elves around here were dressed more like hard working farmers.

"Innkeeper!" one Light elf bellowed. "Table for five."

The innkeeper immediately rushed in to serve them, actually pulling out a chair for each one. The moment they were all seated, another person rushed in from the back with drinks along with an extra heaping pitcher.

Thomas noted they weren't required to pay the second they got their food.

The Light elves were loud and boisterous, insulting each other and anything else that came to mind with casual arrogance.

All other conversation in the inn seemed to die, as if everybody else was worried about being noticed.

"You guys getting a bad vibe?" Zach asked.

"Oh yeah," Thomas said.

Jo nodded, and Thomas saw her reach down to the dagger at her side.

Sure enough, the innkeeper came by and said, "Did you enjoy your meal?" His yellow eyes flicked to the Light elves as if to say, "Maybe you should leave."

"A+, will come again," Zach said, flipping a Shadow mana crystal to him.

The innkeeper caught it and nodded once. "This way, if you please," he said, gesturing them quickly not toward the front door, which would make them pass in front of the Light elves, but out the back. For whatever reason, he thought they should remain separate.

Feeling the atmosphere, Thomas was not going to question him.

They got up and made their way quietly to the back when, again, the door slammed open and a sixth Light elf came in.

In direct comparison to the richly dressed group, he wore visibly rattier clothes than even the Dark elves and had a desperate, almost hungry expression.

"Brothers," he said. "I seek—No, I beg your aid."

"Brothers?" one scoffed. "You dare to call us that? After what you've done? After what you've touched?" He grabbed a piece of pie crust and threw it. "Be gone before I lose my appetite."

The elf didn't blink as the crust bounced off his chest. "Please, do any of you have healing crystals? Any antidotes for poison?"

Immediately, Zach and Jo closed ranks on either side of Thomas, Zach with one hand on his shoulder, Jo outright grabbing his arm and pulling him along.

He didn't even realize he had stopped.

"Yeah, okay," Thomas said roughly, shaking his head as if to clear it. They were right. This wasn't his circus.

That elf had sounded desperate, and he felt bad for turning away. Then again, Thomas didn't know the first thing about how to cure poison.

Though what if a child was sick?

They were almost to the back door. Behind them, Thomas heard a splash of liquid and the Light elves laugh uproariously. It seemed like someone had upended one of the mugs of gemberry on the newcomer.

"Please!" the newcomer cried, "She's unto death. I have nothing else in the world!"

Ah, fuck it. He couldn't turn away when he could do the bare minimum and still help.

Thomas hadn't realized he'd twisted out of his teammate's grip until he was facing back towards the elf drama. The poor guy had his hands clasped in front of him, the picture of supplication.

Meanwhile, the Light elves at the table were laughing.

It made his blood boil. He could help, at least a little.

"Thomas," Jo growled in warning.

Smoothly, Zach stepped in front of Thomas. "Not here, bro," he insisted. "It's the wrong moment."

"I'm just going to give him a healing crystal," Thomas said. "It might stall the poison. Just let me—"

"Can you get him out of here?" Jo asked Zach urgently.

She had a look of alarm on her face, and it took him briefly aback. She was afraid... for him?

"If I have to, but teleporting you guys plus the all the mana we're carrying will wipe me out." Zach spoke to Jo, but he was staring Thomas down as if daring him to try to move past him to the elves. "We'll get the dude the healing crystal, but not here when those other guys are looking for targets. All right? Trust your team."

They were being overprotective about him being a healer again. Damn it.

Turning away made him feel like a coward, but he still did it. He trusted his team, even though he was certain they were overreacting.

It was only after they went out the back door and around the corner, when he was away from the sight of the man begging for healing help, that it occurred to him... Okay, they might have had a point about time and place.

Zach, who was still watching him like a hawk, saw the switch. "Feeling better?"

Making a frustrated half-growl, half-exasperated sigh, Thomas turned away. "Yes... No. I don't know."

Putting himself in the target of those bully-boy Light Elves was not a good idea, to say the least. He couldn't believe how quickly his vision had tunneled in.

"What happened?" Jo asked bluntly. "You're normally not so dumb."

"My mana," he bit out. "It wouldn't influence me like that if I had healing skills as an outlet... but I'll need combat skills to keep up in the dungeons."

