This chapter was already long on my patreon. Then I decided to change-up the end and add MORE to it the next day. All that is to say that this chapter is a beast.

"Damn it," Thomas muttered, picking up a dead griffin hatchling by a wing and shaking it as if hoping that hidden crystals would fall out. Nothing did.

"Another dud?" Jo asked.

"Yeah, third one in a row." He frowned and looked around. This was their fourth go-around in the dungeon, and this time they had decided to spice things up by using the glass staircase instead of the stone one. Maybe it would turn their luck around.

The glare from the sun could be tricky, but the fact that the glass could actually become slick under their feet on different steps made the footing treacherous. The hope was that choosing a different path up would garner them an increase in loot drops again because it had noticeably dropped off with every re-run of the dungeon.

Jo had sheathed her sword for the moment, so her Still Waters skill wasn't in effect. She offered Thomas a flicker of a smile. "How does it feel to be one of the normal people?"

"It sucks," he said flatly.

Zach, who had taken the lull in the fighting to stretch and keep limber, added his part. "I don't think it's your Gift, dude. I think it's the dungeon that's running dry."

Thomas turned to him. "Huh?"

"Yup." He practically stretched backward in a way that did not look entirely possible, then put his hands back behind himself and completed a lazy backflip on the treacherous glass staircase before standing again. "Think about it. We have been taking a whole ton of mana out, right? Then putting none in. The dungeon has to feed itself somehow."

"I feel like I'm going to regret asking this," Thomas said, "but how does a dungeon normally feed itself?"

"I mean, it gets a big boost through deaths, but I think... world energy, somehow?" Zach squinted in thought. "But there's a reason why you don't see a constant line of people outside of old family feeder dungeons, even though the right one can be a money-printing machine."

"Yeah, no that doesn't make sense," Jo objected. "What about places like the Octopus's Garden Dungeon? I was about to run that, but the line was about four hours long. People always get great drops from there, with no Thomas needed."

Thomas knew the answer to this one. "That's a dangerous dungeon, though. People die, or... at least get hurt."

"If they die, the dungeon absorbs their cores, which is really mana-rich, plus they leave all their stuff behind, including any mana drops that they picked up," Zach said. "The dungeon recoups what it gave. It's like, the circle of life."

Thomas wanted to be annoyed, but the truth was that four runs in, they had made out like bandits. They had more Wood mana than someone could shake a stick at (he had made that joke twice to Jo just to see her cringe each time), as well as a couple more item drops.

Unfortunately, he hadn't seen any indication of a goldie, and his Eyes of Riches skill was picking up nada on this run of the dungeon.

They were only a quarter of the way up the glass staircase. He looked down again. "Do you guys want to try another staircase or just keep going?"

"I vote keep going," Jo said. "We may have been brought back down to a normal level of drops—" she nudged Thomas's shoulder playfully "—but they're still good drops. Plus, I've been getting a lot better at my Blade Throwing skill."

It hadn't all been about drops; that was just what Thomas had been focusing on. They had also taken the opportunity to work on their particular methods of combat.

The nestlings were tricky, but they weren't that bad, which made them ideal training dummies.

Zach had given both Thomas and Jo tips on their weaponry. Apparently, the fencer's sword was tilted a bit toward slashing and less toward pointy/stabby, but Jo's Poison mana still made it feasible to just "stick them with the pointy end," as she'd said. She was finding that she truly enjoyed sword work. Though when she'd gotten a little tired, she worked on her Blade Throwing skill, perfecting her accuracy at medium range.

Ideally, she would wound a monster and Thomas would go in to finish the kill. Sometimes, though, she made an instant kill when she skewered a hatchling or two at the same time. Then the blood and pain that caused fed into her skill, which made the next generated blades even more effective. It was a powerful skill.

Zach had corrected Thomas's grip on his halberd. He'd gotten into the habit of holding it a little like a baseball bat, when really he needed to separate his grip—one hand lower for stability at the base and one higher up for the best chopping action. It was a fun weapon, though his shoulders and triceps were starting to burn from the strain. He really needed a gym membership.

Meanwhile, Zach focused on figuring out the ins and outs of his new teleportation skill.

Heavenly Mandate: Skip the Distance was, at its heart, a distance teleportation skill. Through some cautious—or at least Zach's version of cautious—testing, he learned that it was more mana-intensive for him to teleport short distances than longer ones. Short meaning anything within this dungeon.

Typically, Zach took it in stride. "I can add more teleportation skills later," he said, "like versions of Blink. That way I could have short distance and long distance." He grinned. "Maybe some phase-through skills too.""He's going to be a menace," Jo predicted.

Thomas nodded.

After their last kill, they decided to take a break on the steps they'd cleared, trying out MREs and discussing skills.

The MREs were just as bad as people claimed. Thomas's was apparently supposed to be spaghetti and meatballs but somehow failed to be both. It was still food, though.

"You sure you want to go all in on teleportation?" Jo asked Zach, around the peanut butter and jelly sandwich she had packed herself. It looked about ten times better than the men's MREs. "Especially since the mana drain eats you alive, doesn't it?"

"Yeah, if I'm not careful," Zach agreed. "Teleportation mana is made for this, but I can't do anything else with it, so it's going to be solely dedicated to this skill." He trailed off for a moment as if consulting himself, then nodded. "Yeah, I'll have Fire because I am the fire. Then Air, or Sky soon if it works for me for the flexibility and speed, Teleportation for my awesome skill, and Adaptation so I have even more flexibility."

Jo looked at him. "I can never tell if you're knowledgeable about this or if you're making it up as you go along."

"Por qué no los dos?" he said easily. "Why not both?"

"What about you, Jo?" Thomas asked. "Still planning to add Shadow to your Mud and Poison mix? Going to throw any Adaptation in there?"

"I'm not sure," she said. "I still haven't absorbed the Shadow yet, but I felt a big zing when I touched the crystal so it should work. I might not use Adaptation this round because I'm just not seeing what it does for me."

"Your fighting style is straightforward," Zach agreed. "Sneak up on things and poison them, like an assassin."

She made a face of disgust. "I hate assassin stories, but it is a convenient way of killing things." She glanced back at Thomas. "You sure you don't want to add some Poison mana? I read once that all medicines are a type of poison if you do it right."

"And you say you're not an assassin." Zach grinned.

Thomas shook his head. "No, I can tell Poison's not for me. It gave me the 'bad zing' whenever I touch it. I'll just keep on with Healing, Wellspring, and Adaptation." He paused, tilting his head back and forth as he thought. "I need to add some sort of combat or offensive skill, and that might affect what other mana I add, if anything."

"Didn't you say that you were compatible with Light?" Zach asked. "You can always try it, and if you don't like it, use that halberd to burn off all the Light mana in your System."

"Healer with Light mana. I am such a cliché," Thomas bemoaned.

"Yeah, but think about it: maybe that path will lead to some sort of Paladin class," Zach said.

Jo turned back to him. "Again, do you actually know all this, or are you just guessing?"

"Both. Yeah, a Healing-Light mix is a cliché, but remember that the System seeded all these archetypes into our society for years in preparation for integration."

Paladin did sound pretty badass, with one giant caveat. "Aren't they like holy clerics where I would have to swear fealty to a god or something?" Thomas asked. "I am not about that."

Jo looked alarmed. "Don't tell me there are System gods too."

"Then I won't tell you," Zach said, but then added when she blanched, "No, actually, I got no idea." He held up his hands. "I don't know what the requirements of Paladins are either. It might be an oath not to do any harm to people who don't deserve it?"

That definitely sounded like a guess to Thomas.

But he could imagine himself in cool plate armor and carrying a shield. Man, he definitely needed to start hitting the gym and pumping iron.

In any case, once their disappointing meal was done, they got back to slaughtering helpless griffin chicks in their own nests. Was the System turning him into a murder maniac? He didn't think he was a murder maniac, but... did those types of people know what was happening to them in the moment?

Thomas's big, important morality questions all flew out of his mind when he saw the loot drop from the chick. "All right, finally," he said, and held it up. It was a C-grade Adaptation mana crystal, level 4.

The rest of the glass staircase netted them more Wood mana as well as another Shadow drop. Then, when they ascended a quarter of the way up a rickety-looking rope staircase, Zach was able to pull a Sky mana crystal. He'd been aiming for one of those all this time.

So it was with good cheer that they took another break on the ground level and decided to absorb some of the mana into their cores.

"I am really feeling this Sky mana," Zach said. He held a crystal in the palm of his hand, his eyes half-lidded. "Yeah, it feels like it's Air but... more."

"So what you're saying is you're going to be even more of an airhead," Thomas teased.

Opening his eyes, he grinned. "Only if all goes well. What about you, Mana Man?"

"I'm going to just absorb more of the Wellspring mana," he said. "Smack me if I don't come out of it in about thirty seconds."

"I thought you were in this dungeon for the Adaptation mana," Jo said.

"Oh, I am, but Wellspring mana is more my base. It enhances the Healing mana I have... Uh, I think. Plus, it also works with Adaptation. So I want that first." He rummaged around in his bag until he found the glowing white crystal. Truthfully, it had become his favorite mana.

"Well, since I'm not aiming to be boring, I'm going to try Shadow," Jo said, then pulled out a nice B-grade crystal.

Thomas took a few deep, cleansing breaths, then focused on the Wellspring mana in his palm. As usual, it felt good just to hold it, like there was already a connection formed between them.

Wellspring mana was high-leveled stuff and usually hit him like a truck. This was no different, except that for the first time, Thomas's muscles didn't lock up, and he found he could take more than the barest sip of power. It was still incredibly difficult, as it felt like live electricity was running through his veins—except that the burn felt good. For the first time, however, he was able to push through the extreme power.

"I'm okay," he said to Zach, who was keeping an eye on him. "I think I can... control it better now that... I'm level three."

Even then, a little bit of Wellspring power went a long way, and he was forced to cut the connection a few seconds later. Looking deep inside, he saw blazing white motes all through his system, some already sticking to his core like they were called there.

He sat and let the process happen, trying to guide the motes and start the foundation of his new level-three layer. Meanwhile, Zach and Jo absorbed their own mana types. As their crystals were level four, it was a much less dramatic experience.

"Oh yeah, that's the stuff," Zach said, opening his eyes. "Sky is like, somewhere between Air and Space, which gels really well with my Teleportation mana."

"I don't get how you can tell," Jo said. "All I know is my Shadow mana feels right."

"I am my mana," he replied simply.

Thomas thought about mentioning that healer Akilah said Zach's mana was tangled up in his life force. But he suspected that it wasn't anything Zach didn't know.

If Thomas's mana was also his life force, he would be a lot more careful with how he spent it, but maybe that was why he was a basic healer and Zach was the teleporting fire mage.

While everybody was still chilling out absorbing their mana, Thomas rooted through his bag to pull out the items that had dropped. He pulled out the Sound Mana Crystal that hadn't even been mentioned on the loot drop table, which made him consider it a rare item.

After that came Griffin Feathers. Even the downy chicks had feathers, but these two had specifically dropped from separate kills. They were each as long as his forearm, patterned white and gold. The System labeled them as Feather Fall Feathers. No idea what that meant, but it sounded promising.

He also had a leather bracer with a nice design of an adult griffin etched into it. This one was on the loot table and didn't have any listed magical effects, but it was highly prized for anyone with the Gryphon Tamer class. They planned to sell it on the marketplace.

Finally, the Chook Seed. If his mom couldn't grow it, no one could.

"Pretty good haul," Thomas admitted. "I would like more, but..."

"We're drying up this dungeon," Jo said flatly.

"Yup. I'm going to guess that'll screw over anyone diving after us, too," Thomas said. “Not a great way to be a guest.”

"On the plus side, this dungeon won't be overflowing any time soon," Zach pointed out.

