The Dark One's Approval: Using the key from Waddle's nest opens the room with much better loot and no secret entrance to Maestro. The best food and drinks will be offered and there's a one in ten chance to find a door straight to the second floor. However, if someone under Waddle's bad luck curse uses this key, they will be shrunk to half of Merry's size for 5 minutes.

Twittee: A small canary that flies about as Merry is active. Things seem to just work out in its favor when it's being chased. On its leg is a small piece of paper with a clue to Maestro's entrance.

Twittee's magic potion: Somewhere in the room is a strange vial that almost compels Twittee to drink it. The effects are startling… and terrifying.

These were tempting. Nu had to admit, but they lacked what he wanted. That edge, the puzzah of danger and surprise…

He looked around as he felt Sister focus on him. He shivered. He was never meant to be a focus. Nu was never meant to be, period. Especially since-

Since…

It didn't matter.

"You are not happy," Sis said to him through the network.

"I'm not unhappy either," Nu responded dryly.

"You've been taking pieces of yourself to aid Delta. You're not stable," Sis said, almost hesitantly.

"Unimportant pieces. Control, power, the deeper aspects of the system. Things I can live without. I cannot live without Delta," he responded with no shame.

"You could… you have… but in the end, I don't want you to be unhappy. I don't want people I care for to be sad anymore. Let me help," Sister offered, and Nu had no clue how she was going to help him.

He was bored out of his skull, not dying.

"Once Delta returns. Perhaps you should take the next Dungeon trip to aid another core. Most of them require Delta's special care, but there are a few Dungeons… important ones that cannot be peaceful. Some are in danger of simply not knowing better, others are in danger from things far worse," Sister explained.

"From what? Dungeons are pretty good at surviving anything short of an organized mob in the beginning," Nu said, trying not to sound too interested.

"The Silence may be imprisoned here, but this is only their main force. Many pockets of their ilk remain unopposed. They will feast on people, monsters, and Dungeons. New Dungeons will be easily overrun if discovered in these dark places," the girl said somberly.

"So, Delta teaches some Dungeons to be bright and cheery, while I help others survive in the darkness? Sounds like a lot of work…" Nu trailed off.

"These dungeons actually need to use traps," the goddess said dryly.

"I'm sold."

Now, he just had to wait for Delta to return from teaching some poor Core how to hug and sing songs or something.

Nu was mildly excited.

Not that he would admit it.

He couldn't wait to meet his first protege. They would be smart, cunning, and best of all, guilt-free for Nu.

---

"You took the chieftain's son?!" Delta screeched at Jack who was cleaning between his toes with a particularly solid piece of salt.

"I didn't take him. I lied to him in order to lead him to a dark cave where no one would hear him or find him," Jack corrected.

"Who's he talking to?" The boy, Vadellen, asked Wyin. The tree had taken a weird liking to the kid, but she was also nice to Deo and the others…

"Delta. She's the Ghost of Christmas Guilt-tripping," the second floor boss said airly.

"What's a christmas?" he asked right after.

"A yearly tradition where humans cut down the mightiest tree they can find in order to decorate its rotting corpse with baubles and insulting paper. Atop its crown, they place their idol to another god to show dominance and under it, they place offerings and tributes before they feast upon birds and berries!" Wyin said with excitement.

"Did they try to cut you down?" Vadellen asked in a gasp. Wyin buffed her nails with a smirk.

"Many men have tried to claim me. I have 'discouraged' them all… except my sweet knight of honor and courage," she sighed to herself.

"Mum?" Jeb asked, sounding confused. Delta turned, face puffy from yelling at Jack.

"What's wrong, Jeb?" she asked, trying to remain composed.

"Fishies are coming," he pointed out into the open beach area where the tide had receded to show shapes emerging from the pool and waves. Vadellen turned and went pale.

"The Mad Jaws. They're the invading Seahagans!" he cried as about thirty in total emerged onto the beach covered in silvery scales of some fish and adorned with thick coral stone. They had a selection of dark stone weapons and crystal versions that glowed with Mana.

"Maybe we can discuss things?" Delta said quickly. One of the Seahagans pulled its bluish arm back and let a spear fly at Vadellen without hesitation.

The spear bounced off Wyin's raised arm as she curled it around the boy.

"Shall I remove their heads and boil them in a stew?" the boss asked Delta, who looked shocked then angry at the attempted murder before her eyes.

"Ask Vadellen if there are any 'good' Seahagans," Delta said simply. Wyin repeated the question as Lord Mushy took up the vanguard to shield them.

"The Low Blues and the Surfacetooth clans are… okay, but the Mad Jaws attack them too," the boy responded, shaking badly.

Delta closed her eyes for a second as the Seahagans advanced closer. Their Mana was putrid, and it reminded Delta of the slimers.

Refusing to act when someone was in danger, even if it meant killing to defend them, was not wisdom; it was indolence.

"Kill Fishies… not sandwalkers?" Foodie said, sounding confused as all heck.

You know what? Delta could work with that.

A solid foundation.

"Into the Dungeon! Let's power level Foodie and save crying children!" Delta commanded.

"I got sand in my eyes!" Jack said defensively.

Nu was going to be bummed out that he was missing this!

---

"And I'll be there for its first spike wall trap kill," Nu told Fera excitedly.

"Mhm," the goblin said, not paying attention at all.

"And when it gets fire? Oh, fire arrows!" he gushed.

Fera hoped that Nu would soon remember that the average new Dungeon was like a sponge. Braindead, soaks up anything, and filled with holes in all logic.

Fera reckoned Nu would gain valuable life lessons being a sponge-daddy.

Patience, hopefully, but Fera would settle for deep regret.

---
