Erick decided to ask her a question that was somewhat in her wheelhouse, “Got any words of advice regarding making new nodes for gate spaces?”

Without a single change in her generalized mirth, Fairy Moon said, “Split a splice from your soulcore and make of it a copy of your core-core, but without the soul at all. Simple!”

“… That somewhat tracks with what I heard from Quilatalap.” Erick was not comfortable around Fairy Moon at all, but he wanted to be; which is why he had asked her a question that she might have known something about. He did not want any sort of antagonistic or mind-controlling relationship between them, and so the only other type of relationship to have was one of calm talking… Maybe. The only problem was that he couldn’t really trust her; she had already broken trust once, and she would have broken it again had Erick allowed his walls to come down… Aaaaaand there. Erick turned himself around from trying too hard with Fairy Moon, for now. His walls were staying up. For now. “Appreciated, Fairy Moon. I hope you find the rest of the Feast well.”

Fairy Moon raised an eyebrow, and then she lowered it, simply saying, “When the horns of war blow, I will be there by your side, my Wonderful Wizard of Benevolence. I wish you would not see what I do as something other than what is deserved, though; I act with ages of knowledge hard-fought and hard-learned; not with simple truths and simple actions.”

So she wanted to get deep into it, then?

Erick said, “Maybe you do act in a deliverance sort of way, but it still seems odd to me that you… Well. I suppose it doesn’t seem odd at all that you want your family back above all the concerns of mortals and the mayhem your desires cause. But…” Erick paused. “Honestly, you probably made the right call with the Dragon Exodus. I can admit that. And I’m probably fucking up a lot of things I don’t want to fuck up. I can admit that, too… But it’s the providence of the young to believe in better, new ways, and so I will make of that my providence.” Erick said, “I find it very distasteful that Bright Smile had to go to war to secure Ar’Cosmos. But I also find it distasteful that I had to go to war, too, to do the same with my own lands. Whole buncha’ shit happened recently that I wish had not needed to happen.”

Fairy Moon looked upon Erick—

The Last Fairy suddenly stood at her full height, looking rather regal in her white/pink/green dress, her heterochromatic eyes seeming to sparkle in the light, as her mouth turned into a knowing line. She nodded, like an empress. The effect probably should have been subdued by her stature, at being a full head shorter than Erick, but it was not subdued at all. Fairy Moon was regal, and she had always been.

She spoke, “It is the realm of the young to know what is unknown by elders. It is why I die and am reborn every so often, and why my family does the same. But we can still draw on those older parts of ourselves when necessary, and I am far, far older than anyone else in this land. Whenever you need it, you are always welcome to ask me for guidance, and I will always give that guidance true.”

Erick saw too many sudden-loopholes in those words. He could only utter:

“… Really.”

For an uncomfortable moment, Erick had knocked Fairy Moon off of her metaphorical throne.

“… Outside of certain topics, like family and friends and countries and men and— Most topics are fine!”

“How about for verifying history? Would you talk true on that?”

Fairy Moon shrugged. “Easy enough. What do you want to know?”

Erick opened his mouth to ask about Xoat and all of those stories that Quilatalap had spilled out this morning. But then he had a different thought. Erick began, “The Feast is made up of several necessary parts; opening song and ceremony, presentations of growth, the Tellings of History, and closing ceremony. Gifts happen somewhere in all of that, too. As far as I have been told, these are the necessary parts of the Feast in this day and age, with everything else from dinners to days spent doing this to housing and whatever, merely to allow the host to show off as much as they can, but since I don’t care to show off, we had a light schedule. I planned for 2 and a half days. With a real Feast Barrier, though, and with 5 days, we’re stretching out the events. Tonight is the First Telling of the creation of the Old Cosmology. The Second Telling is the Sundering and the Creation of Veird, and that’s tomorrow. If all goes well with the next century, then what we —you, I, House Benevolence, the gods, Melemizargo, the wrought, everyone… What we do here tonight could be spoken of in a theoretical Third Telling. But at this juncture, we have two Tellings that need to happen. The creation of the Old Cosmology, and then the Sundering Story. The First Telling will happen in 3 hours, after a meal prepared by the Saucery. I have yet to tag someone for that, for I was assuming to do it myself.” Erick asked, “But do you want to give the First Telling?”

Fairy Moon’s eyes sparkled as Erick spoke. By the time he finished, and actually asked his question, she was grinning wide. With strength, she declared, “I would give the Prime Telling, and then all the rest, for all the other days of this Feast.”

“… Your enthusiasm is noted, and appreciated, but I am not interested in a Prime Telling, whatever that might be. I want this Feast to be as normal and as non disruptive as I can make it, so a First Telling and Second Telling are acceptable. I also won’t accept any ensorcelling Fae Magic in any of your words.”

Fairy Moon smirked. “I’ll give everyone here a True Telling; something that I doubt even Melemizargo has witnessed in ages. It will be informative!”

… Erick was less sure by the second that he should have offered this to Fairy Moon. But he had. And he wasn’t about to take it back. So he said, “Try not to make it too special.”

Fairy Moon gave a regal chuckle. “It will be exactly as it needs to be, to be as memorable as it needs to be; not too much, and not too little!”

“Are we talking ‘memorable’ in the sense of a nice day from yesteryear? Or ‘memorable’ in the sense of recalling a near-death, or such?”

“As memorable as your song last night!”

Erick stared. He began, “Fairy Moo—”

“I jest! I jest!” Fairy Moon said, loud and giggling. “It’ll just be a bit jarring. Nothing too terrible, or too tumultuous. But it will be a True Telling; I would have it no other way.”

“… Please don’t ruin whatever peace and calm might be growing here.”

“Ohhhh… Erick.” With sad eyes, Fairy Moon said, “Clinging to calm in a time of trials is to falter hard, and heavy. So rise up, our Wizard of Benevolence, on the waves you yourself are sending into the susurrus. Ride the waves, and soar as we haven’t seen in an age!”

“… Has Bright Smile heard this story before?”

Fairy Moon eyed Erick. Slowly, she said, “She has.” More assuredly, “Everyone of Ar’Cosmos knows of True Tellings, from True, to First, to Second, and all the smaller stories in between the big ones. Even your man Volaro could voice these verisimilitudes if he were wont, but I know them truest of true, and so I shall be the one to give them to you.”

“How about Volaro and Bright Smile working together to tell the tale, and you can coach them?”

“… I can do that, too.”

- - - -

Erick walked out of Fairy Moon’s presentation space with a weight upon his mind. He had delivered both a loaded gun to the ancient fairy, and then rapidly disarmed it after the fact, after he realized how big of a deal she was going to make of the whole thing.

Oh well.

Fairy Moon had been right about one thing. Erick needed to ride the waves that he made, instead of getting sucked up in the undertow that he also made...

Huh.

‘Undertow’?

So many coincidences happening everywhere, eh? But then again, Erick could just be twisting what was already there to fit a mold that did not exist, like how he felt Quilatalap had done with the Xoat stuff. And yet… The Script caused ruts in the mana, allowing for magic to work in certain ways. For just one example: Accretion used to be able to work many thousands of different ways, back in the Old Cosmology. But here on Veird, deep inside of Ar’Cosmos where the Script was rather loose, even people born and raised and who had never left that land (and discarding their own uniqueness as a person) still accreted the same Stats as everyone else.

When was a coincidence not a coincidence?

- - - -

Erick walked into House Benevolence’s presentation. Zolan was overseeing the presentation space right now. The castellan nodded at Erick, and Erick nodded back, before turning his attention on the walls, on the presentation.

It was a myriad presentation. There was a list of monsters killed around the world, graphs of inflows and outflows from every major Gate collection, and maps of the growth of the Greater Candlepoint Area starting from before Erick even took over the place.

The first map of the area was from back when Candlepoint was a city of shadelings half a [Teleport] away from the Wall of the Wasteland, filled with shadows and lures for adventurers, like some minor mirror of Ar’Kendrithyst. Erick looked upon that map now. Back then they were calling this place the ‘beginner’s Ar’Kendrithyst’, due to the organized economy of getting darkchips for completing tasks in the city and then spending them on grand lists of new magics, courtesy of the Shades.

And then ballooning spiders descended upon the land, Bulgan made the problem worse, and Erick ‘liberated’ the city from that Shade… Though not before a hundred thousand shadelings had died. Even more died when Melemizargo carved out a 50 kilometer wide lake on the west side of the city, as a ‘reward’ for Erick’s ascension to power, collapsing about a third of the city into parasitic-eel-filled waters in the process.

… This place had come a long way since then.

Candlepoint was up to a population of 85,000. Weald, on the southwest edge of the lake, was home to around 110,000. Gambler’s Rest, to the north of Candlepoint, had about 25,000 people. All of that was contained within a wall that surrounded the whole space, which was about 250 kilometers from side to side. Erick and his people (mostly Kiri and Overseer Mox and Overseer Burhendurur, and their offices) had reclaimed a minuscule portion of the Crystal Forest. It was not a lot! But it was something. Thanks to a lot of magics, the dead sand had been transformed into something that might one day resemble soil. Even now, that once barren orange land out there was becoming something greener, with tiny bushes and hardy grasses and sometimes even more than that. A lot more than that, in some cases, which was mostly due to Kiri’s direct efforts, or to the efforts of the Benevolence Dragons.

For Benevolence Dragons could literally breathe green life out of the soil, causing strong grasses and flowers and bushes and even some trees to start growing out of nothing but dirt. That life did not always flourish unless it was taken care of, but sometimes it took root and spread properly.

Quite a few of those dragons had taken it upon themselves to file the paperwork for the creation of new settlements within the Greater Candlepoint Area, and those settlements were well under way out there, too. They were growing fields of food, raising tall buildings, and bringing more and more people to this land.

Erick gazed upon the full breadth of what he and House Benevolence had been able to accomplish, and it was good. Most of all of this stuff only took place in the last few months, so the growth of it all was astounding, even to him.

Smiling softly, Erick said, “It’s all going so well, Zolan.”

Zolan stood beside Erick, having walked forward as soon as Erick appeared.

As they stood in front of the most recent map, Erick looked to Zolan, asking, “Got any ideas on what we could do better?”

Without needing a single moment to think, Zolan said, “You should revisit the idea of water Gates, or seeing if we can safely [Cityshape] the land to provide water to the cities growing in the green spaces. If we can extend a canal system from the lake, then that could provide a lot of water to these new places.”

“… Are cisterns and daily rains not doing enough— Eh. No. Of course they aren’t. What was I even thinking. I’d want constant water, too… Okay. I’ll ask… Fallopolis? If it’s safe to [Cityshape] the land?” Erick debated for a second if he wanted to risk asking the Darkness in the corners if he would allow [Cityshape]s inside the Crystal Forest. Erick decided not to do that. Melemizargo was the direct reason why much of the Crystal Forest remained uninhabited, for every time someone tried to reroute the water table, which necessitated a reach down into the near-Underworld, they got dead. But the last time this land had been Shaped, Melemizargo had done it himself, and he had killed many shadelings…

Jury was still out if those shadelings had actually died, though.

All that was a distraction to the question, anyway.

Erick said, “I’ll ask Fallopolis.”

“Ask me what?” Fallopolis said, stepping out of the shadows and into the room.

“Did you read the letter?” Erick asked.

“… That was not what you were going to ask me.”

“I know, but you were pretending like you didn’t know what I was already talking about, so I wanted to blindside you.”

Fallopolis rolled her eyes, though it was hard to tell with her eyes being pools of light. She shrugged her shoulders, saying, “I read your letter. It was only 5% new to me—”

Buzz. Lie.

“—and yes, that was a lie, because I’m not ready to talk about it yet.”

And that was the truth.

Fallopolis said, “Go ahead and Shape your land however you wish! You won this land by right of conquest and you could have done this Shaping last year.” She looked to Erick. “You can Shape this land, though. No others.”

Erick frowned at her. “The people I’ve appointed couldn’t do it?”

“The Dark wants you to grow further! So learn how to [Cityshape], Erick, and bring water to your people, besides, you know, through the falling-from-the-sky option.” Fallopolis smirked. “It will be good practice for when you eventually start [Planeshape]ing.”

“World Shaping shouldn’t be that hard with Scripts, and I already have [Terraforming] for plant and life creation. Why would I want to make cities anyway? Let the people make their own houses.”

