Fallopolis clicked her tongue. “Erick! That has nothing to do with the problem. [Cityshape] is a big spell and you have yet to do anything too deep with Stone magics, and that is irresponsible. You can’t make Scripts and you especially cannot allow others to make Scripts without knowing how magic truly works. You’re also required to learn true Fire Magic. Air and Water Magics are only barely passable, and that’s because you have [Control Weather], but you should learn how to Shape mountains of water, too.”

“… We have vastly different ideas of what I expect out of a world.”

“… Maybe? What do you expect out of a world?”

“A barren rock of a world which orbits its sun and is maybe 13,000 kilometers in diameter. Upon these worlds, a seed of Yggdrasil will fall, and then take root. This seed envelops the planet in an Edge, so that mana cannot escape to the void, and then that seed casts a bunch of [Duplicate] to make water and other essential things, and then [Terraforming] to begin a water and plant growing cycle. Maybe some [Cleanse] to remove natural toxins in the ground and in any sort of atmosphere… It’ll be complicated, but eventually the world will become habitable to everyone. When that happens we can link up with this new world through a [Gate] through Benevolence.” Erick added, “And when the new world has basic life support, others will come in from other worlds and populate the new planet, transforming it however else they wish to transform the place. I won’t be controlling how people populate the land.”

Fallopolis paused for a moment, then she said, “I have too many things to say about all of that, so I’m not going to say anything except that your plan is not nearly expansive enough.”

Erick brightened. If that was the direction Fallopolis took his plan, then he could work with that. “Well of course it’s not planned out enough. One second.” With a mental command, Ophiel dropped down from the upper floors, carrying a pile of paper. “But since you want a great big report, let me fashion a preliminary project idea...” With an expert sunform, Erick began picking up papers and lightly singeing the paper to mark down his entire idea for Yggdrasil seed spreading. He began at the initial mana investment for a seed, which was some number he did not know, along with the basic spells needed for terraforming, including [Cleanse] and [Duplicate] and the [Terraforming] spell itself, but also the Script support for Yggdrasil’s basic magics, and the support for [Gate]. And then he did a whole lot more. Within a minute Erick had made a hundred and thirteen page report, complete with images, lots of no-jargon wording, and a bunch of ideas that were not really spoken of too much outside certain circles, but which seemed important for making new worlds. With one final flourish, Erick bound the whole thing into a book, and then [Duplicate]d the book into another two copies. He handed the original to Fallopolis, saying, “There’s a lot of science in there about weather patterns and solar winds and magnetospheres and upper atmospheres, and magma and iron planet cores and a bunch of earth-sciences, all of which comes from an Earth understanding of how worlds are supposed to work outside of Script influence. In this knowing, we might be able to lower maintenance mana costs of a Script quite a lot, and provide extra barriers to mana leakage, so that the Edge of those Scripts is much easier to contain.”

Fallopolis stared at the book, taking it from Erick. Erick handed the other two to Zolan, nodding as the man took the books, his eyes going wide but then rapidly going small again. Probably because he had never wanted to actually see Erick use [Duplicate] so openly, but then again everyone already knew that Erick had that spell. So that was whatever.

Erick continued, “But you’re right. I don’t know how the Script works too well, and I’m possibly making a fool of myself for making this book. But that’s okay. Rozeta said she would speak to me about all that in seventy years, once this new equilibrium of stability actually stabilizes.”

Fallopolis held the book in her hands like it was a weight. And then the book vanished in a flicker of shadows and Fallopolis stood strong again, grinning. “We look forward to your Telling tonight, Erick!”

“Volaro and Bright Smile will be doing that, and it’s going to be something called a ‘Prime Telling’. Whatever that is.” Erick added, “Or a ‘True Telling’. Though I’m not sure what that is either.”

Fallopolis’s eyes went wide. “Oh Dark God.”

And then she vanished in a flicker of shadows.

… And Erick slowly smirked. He said to Zolan, “You know, Zolan. I really like making them all freak out. It’s a welcome change of pace.”

With a dejected air, Zolan asked, “You think the drug bar is a bad idea? Or simply for fun? Because I’m thinking I’m way too sober.”

“I know you’re joking, but... When I hired you I promised you would never need to work with a Shade, but I’m pretty sure I’m going to make a Gate to New Brightwater when this Feast is over— If they all behave, of course.”

“… I am not actually about to get inebriated during a time like this, but you almost make me want to.”

Erick smiled wide. “Sorry about that, Zolan.”

“See now… You say you’re sorry, but I am not sure you are.”

Erick chuckled, and then his smile softened until it went away entirely. With a heaviness to his voice, Erick said, “I am sorry. But this Feast happening like it is happening is probably still better than any of the alternatives.”

Zolan nodded, and then with an air of nonchalance, he asked, “Have you heard many Telling stories before?”

“Not at all. Got any stories for me so I’m not blindsided later?”

“I do. They used to be really popular a thousand years ago, but they crop up now and then. I probably know the one that Ar’Cosmos is going to give...”

- - - -

Dinner was had, and it was wonderful. Erick thanked the Cooks, and so did everyone else. Now that meal times had happened five times already, and good food in great quantities had been available at all points in time, Erick recognized that getting fed by 8, 9, and a 10 star Cook had resulted in perhaps some of the most polite interactions between Shades and everyone else that Erick had ever seen. Erick worried a bit when Farix hit on Donny again, but that was the extent of the untoward actions made toward the Cooks, or their staff. Even Treant had been grateful for the meals, which was some of the only times that Erick had ever seen the dour bark-skinned man look a little less dour.

Treant really liked his lemon bars.

Being seated at the same large round table in the center of the atrium, with everyone served at the same time, probably had something to do with the politeness. Or maybe Erick was imagining that. Whatever. There were no servants or otherwise at that large round table. Just Erick, Quilatalap, all the Shades, Fairy Moon, Bright Smile, and Erick’s overseers, in that order around the space. Same as yesterday. It was nice to eat at the same table, in Erick’s opinion, with no one above anyone else. For a lot of the Shades this was odd, but they adjusted well enough.

And then dinner was over, everything was put away, and the stage was set for the evening’s entertainment. It was time for the First Telling, and Volaro and Bright Smile moved into position to begin that Telling.

All throughout dinner the conversation had been weird because of many different factors…

But dinner, with these sorts of people, was always going to be weird.

Maybe last night’s dinner had been weirder, though, due to Erick’s performance and everyone had needed time to digest that. But tonight’s dinner had been weird, too, for everyone was talking about the presentations and about plans, and they were also speaking around the topic of the First Telling. Fairy Moon had hinted at ‘nothing but Truth will be Told tonight’ and Fallopolis had said something about how ‘Truths and Fairy Truths were not always the same’, which had started a good natured (but not really) talk that ended in Erick declaring how the Dark’s Truths and Fairy Truths might have come at history from different angles. They dropped that subject then.

Fallopolis diverted that conversation to nicer topics, back to speaking of the presentations, because she did not want to have a religious talk with Fairy Moon at all.

And now Fallopolis stood prepared-to-be-mad, as the lights dimmed overhead.

Volaro stood tall and resplendent in white and black-lined robes, his eyes of red Carnage fire glowing brightly. He could have become a dragon for the Telling, as was how it was supposed to be, but he remained orcol-sized. Volaro stood on the left side of the stage.

Bright Smile was a meter shorter than Volaro, but she stood tall, too, on the right side of the stage, her red and pink dress looking like weighted fire wrapped around her deeply-tanned frame. She could become a dragon, too, but she remained human-sized.

Volaro spoke with a deep voice, “The time is nigh.

Bright Smile continued, “The sun has set.

Every single Shade, and Erick, and Quilatalap, responded, “The time to Break and Make is met.

So far, so good. That was normal.

Fallopolis relaxed a fraction, and so did every single other Shade. Quilatalap glanced at Erick, to his side, smiling softly. Erick returned the glance, and then grabbed Quilatalap’s hand. The big guy flinched a fraction, but then he smiled brighter, and squeezed back.

Zolan and Aisha, and many of the Cooks and helpers off to the side, watching from a safe distance, looked like they were witnessing a train wreck; they could not look away.

Together, Volaro and Bright Smile’s voices filled the atrium, “In the beginning of the Darkness’s Cosmology, there was only Darkness.”

And that part was different.

Fallopolis frowned. A few worried looks passed between the Shades. Zolan almost chuckled but he strangled his expression to an unruly frown, threatening to turn into a smile at any moment. He was enjoying the complaints of the Shades. Quilatalap’s eyes widened a fraction. Aisha tsk’d.

And then Fairy Moon stepped out onto the stage between Volaro and Bright Smile, and all eyes focused on her. She wasn’t supposed to be a part of this Telling, but as soon as Erick had that thought, he realized that he should have expected this.

The petite fairy wore a schoolgirl-like dress of white, pink, and green. She raised her head, her heterochromatic eyes blazing fresh-growth-green and nuclear-pink. Her voice filled the world,

“But before the Darkness...”

Springtime asked for the floor, and Darkness retreated.
