“As much as I think walking alone into a trap is a terrible plan,” Neil said, “I think we have to recognise something. We’ve been running around this planet for a decade, fighting monsters right out in the open. All McKean had to do to learn about us was turn on the TV. He won’t know everything we can do, but he’ll know enough to have some idea of what’s coming for him. If he started this fight, he thinks he’s ready for us to come knocking on his door. So, if someone is going to be helplessly smacked around by whatever McKean has waiting for us, we should send in the guy who can take it. The rest of us can put our efforts where the operation will be better served. We let Jason fight harder while we fight smarter.”

“I say yes to sneaking in,” Lindy said. “I like the idea of finding whatever crazy magic McKean has and making it go poot.”

“Poot?” Sophie asked, looking at her friend from under raised eyebrows.

“Poot,” Belinda confirmed with a serious nod. Sophie chuckled and slung an arm around her friend’s shoulder.

“I agree,” Clive said. “Although I suggest expanding our little squad beyond Farrah, Lindy and myself. As has been pointed out, something will inevitably go wrong. Sophie would be excellent in a fight, and has more practical experience at illicit intrusion than any of us.”

“I’m in,” Sophie said.

“I would also like to take Lindy’s wife,” Clive added.

“Hold on,” Belinda said. “Stella isn’t a fighter at all.”

“No,” Sophie said, “but she’s got sharper senses than anyone on the team, and is an experienced infiltrator. She’ll help us avoid conflict. We’ll keep her safe, Lindy.”

Belinda let out a reluctant grumble.

“I’ll ask her,” she said, although her tone held the threat of rebellion. “If she says no, and I’ll strongly recommend that she does, then that’s that.”

“That’s all we can ask for,” Humphrey said.

“What about the rest of us?” Taika asked. “Standby in case you need help?”

“I can make sure you have access to rapid transport, should you need to offer support,” Michael said. “In the meantime, it would be a criminal waste to have you waiting around when your considerable talents could be put to use. If you aren’t going to be involved in the attack on McKean’s castle, I have more than enough for all of you to do. I’ve received dossiers on your various abilities, but I would like to confirm certain details. Unlike our enemy, I’d rather not learn what you can do from watching television.”
