And so the war between the Yellowstone Republic and the Necrotechs came to a bitter end at the Battle of Blackedge. As the Republic’s reinforcements arrived to stall the tide of the Necrotech Legions, a daring group of heroes led by Pathbearer-Master Roland Arrow pushed into the depths and slew Abyssal Lord Udraal Thann.

This shattered the morale of the Necrotech Legions, and as they collapsed into chaos and infighting, the Republic began a full counteroffensive, pushing the threats back into the Abyss and purging any unholy nests that lingered too close to the surface.

In the aftermath, Pathbearer-Master Roland Arrow returned to his fortress stronghold of Blackedge to proclaim his victory to the capital, and to establish his claim over the great fissure splitting the ancient kingdom of Lost Angeles as he obtained the Title of Town Lord…

-A History of the Eclipse War

3

Festival

“Itha. Switch with Marco. You’re supposed to peel the potatoes, not your own fingers.” The elf eyed Shiv warily for a moment before he casually slammed his knife on the chopping block. She moved very quickly after that, heeding his orders. He allowed himself a slight smile as the others worked doubly-hard under his watchful gaze.

Something he discovered about himself was that he was a good Sous Chef. Very good. Where Georges liked to yell with his lungs and scream insults, Shiv liked to “shout” by driving his blade through the board.

For once, the fear-aura induced by his Omenborn Curse came in useful. People were scared of him. Scared people listened. Scared people worked faster. Scared people didn’t waste time defying or complaining. Pair that with the fact that Shiv was more than good enough to fill in for any role they failed as relief cook, and the Swan-Eating Toad was churning out meal after meal with minimal issue.

What problems they did have within the kitchen were handled by Shiv with ruthless efficiency. The problems with guests on the outside? That was something Shiv left Seymour in charge of. The goblin wasn’t any good at cutting, or mixing, or reading recipes, but he was a charming little creature who had an uncanny talent when it came to calming people.

An automaton server rushed in, huffing gasps of electrical static despite not having actual lungs. She laid a stack of empty trays as she came in to pick up the new items that were due. A hovering stick of chalk constantly updated the conditions of orders delivered and pending along the corner wall as dictated by Georges or Shiv. Not that it was needed for the latter. He remembered. He kept track of everything. “Orders thirty-five, twenty-three, seventy-four, eighty-one delivered. Good feedback. Table thirty-five is adding another dish—”

“Another?” Marco moaned. Shiv glared at him and started hacking into the cucumbers with more ferocity. The man paled. “I mean, yes, another please! I want them to order more!”

“What do we want?” Shiv grunted.

“More orders!” the rest of the kitchen cried. Someone working the grill began to cry. But it was all part of being a chef.

Georges burst in through the back door with a balled up list of orders in hand. “Table Sixteen has been occupied by a gang of wankers. Shiv. Have everyone spit in their food.”

“Yes, Chef,” Shiv said. “Smokers: Clear your phlegm—no evidence.”

As the dishes for desk sixteen were passed around and graced with special sauce, Shiv felt Georges tap him on the shoulder and point toward the freezer. Time for another talk, apparently.

“Parsley—” Georges began.

“Parsley! Take over!” Shiv shouted reflexively. He paused. “Sorry, chef.”

Georges hummed. “No. Just… more cursing next time. They need it.”As he led Shiv into the freezer, the Omenborn knotted his apron and threw it over the top of the door to stop it from closing fully. He didn’t need another incident where someone accidentally locked them in without noticing. Like Georges that one time. That was the day Shiv learned the head chef did indeed have the Physicality to yell for a literal day.

“So. What now?” Shiv asked.

“Now, we prepare to wind things down here and head to Starhawk’s Perch. The real fun’s about to begin.”Shiv’s heart skipped a beat. “Already—it’s—”

“It’s almost four. The sun’s starting to go down. The festival is going to be starting soon at the Town Lord’s mansion.”“I thought we were going to be making things here.”

Georges shook his head. “Security. Lord Arrow needs someone to supervise and analyze the contents of the food. Extra tight this year because—”

“The wedding. The guests… His son…”

“Yeah, exactly.”

The Omenborn still wasn’t sure about this. “What if they see me? I don’t think they’ll let me in.”“They already have,” Georges said. He handed Shiv a golden badge bearing the emblem of a hawk drawing a greatbow with its talons. There was also a strange pattern of spells on the back. It looked pretty enough. “This is a special pass marking you as a guest of honor and not some assassin trying to do something sneaky.” Georges pulled out a badge of his own, and Shiv narrowed his eyes.

“Why is yours mithril?”“Because I’m not a guest. I’m head-felling-chef, son. That gives the privilege to invite one guest of honor.”Shiv blinked. “You used that on me?”Georges looked at him like he was stupid. “Who else do I got to spend it on? How else will I get you in?”“I…” Shiv still didn’t have anything to say. Georges was playing a dangerous game. If Lord Arrow found out about this—when he found out about this, Shiv wasn’t sure if Georges was going to get out of this unpunished. “We… We better make some good godsdamned food, I guess.”“Yeah. We better.” Georges sneered. That was the same audacious sneer that he gave when he went out and got in a fight with one of the customers.

***

The streets were filled with revelry and noise by the time they got out. Pyromancers sent twisting serpents through the air, dancing to the delight of children and drunks alike. Illusionists practiced their trade on every corner, showing dramatic scenes from the last great war between Yellowstone’s heroes and the horrible monsters from the abyss.

Vendors hawked their wares and called out to anyone who would listen, while the streets were draped in a carpet of rose petals.

Which wasn’t great for Georges. “Pollen. Bloody felling pollen—every bloody felling year.” The man sneezed as he stomped his way through the streets. People who saw him followed by Shiv offered them a wide berth. The Omenborn’s presence was like a coming plague. The path he took saw the aforementioned vendors, artisans, and performers screaming for people not to flee as parents pulled their children away while most spat and made gestures while invoking the divine.

“We could have taken a carriage,” Shiv said.

“Yeah, but I wanted to walk,” Georges replied, uncaring about the looks they were getting.

“You don’t seem bothered.”“By what? The rubes?” Someone spat behind them. Georges spat back and intercepted the spit with his own globule of phlegm.

Shiv arched an eyebrow. “Is that a skill?”“Reflex. Things feel slower when I focus. It’ll be that way for you too, once you get past 20.”“If.”“When. Stop bloody worrying. This’ll work.”Shiv really hoped so. But aside from a few people acting decently around him, most of his life could be defined by things not working.

Blackedge was, by most standards, quite the bland and unremarkable town. It wasn’t particularly large, housing only around fifty thousand people. Most of its buildings resembled bunkers due to its past as a sky fortress, and to this day, most people here were either Slayers or Soldiers or some Path that logistically supported Slayers or Soldiers. In the end, that made the whole place rather compact as well.

The town could be sectioned off along two tiers: the lower level where most of the commerce, businesses, and housing were located, and a higher level occupied by Starhawk’s Perch—the town lord’s residence and castle. Well, it was more looming tower than castle, considering how high up it went.

Shiv looked at the golden, gleaming pillar rising above all the other dome-shaped buildings around him, and he swallowed slightly. Rumor had it that Lord Roland Arrow saw everything, heard everything, and knew everything that happened in Blackedge from atop his tower. Rumor also had it that his Awareness skill was so advanced that he could hit someone from over the horizon.

Shiv didn’t know where the legends began and the truth ended, but even an Initiate Pathbearer was like a blur to him, capable of pulling apart a lesser vampire with ease. Shiv, meanwhile, barely won his fights through preparation, cunning, and a lot of fire.

So. It was best to assume that Lord Arrow knew where he was, that the man was always watching. In that case, if an arrow didn’t blow a hole through his chest, Shiv took it as a sign that Lord Arrow was fine with his coming.

It took them the better part of an hour to reach Starhawk’s Perch—with them getting stuck in a security checkpoint to get past the parapets protecting the castle. The security eyed Shiv several times while Georges glared at them. Almost everyone in the town knew who Shiv was thanks to the ritual of his birth, but the Town Lord’s guest badge was the Town Lord’s guest badge, it seemed.

As they approached Starhawk’s Perch, Shiv saw it from ground level for the first time, instead of just gazing at the tower from the lower level. It was quite like a bird’s nest in terms of design. Curving bands of glistening metal and flowing magic protected its exterior, while its balconies were staffed by scores of archers—most of them automata rather than human, elf, or goblin.

Shiv was used to people staring at him. He was not used to walking toward a group of very unfriendly-looking archers.

“Stop being so bloody tense,” Georges said out of the side of his mouth. “And stop staring at them.”

“I’m afraid they’ll shoot me.”“Well, if they do, it won’t be your problem. Those bows will turn a Pathless like you to paste.”“Thank you, chef. I feel worse already.”

They went around the side of the castle instead of just marching in through the front door. A good thing, as Shiv didn’t much want to come face to face with either of the Arrows during this little “invasion” of his. Instead, he and Georges went in through a servants' entrance, and once again, Shiv noticed a distinct preference for automata workers rather than humans.

“They’re harder to taint,” Georges said.

“Hm?” Shiv asked.

“The automata. They might not advance nearly as fast as a human, but they’re harder to taint by far. There’ve been attempts before on the Town Lord and his son.”Shiv grimaced. Everywhere he went, there were reminders—scars left from the ritual.

They made their way through the servants’ entrance—and by now Shiv was absolutely certain they made a mistake. The automata might not be easy to taint, but they were still fearful as humans were, and they knew who he was. It wouldn’t take long for the Arrows to find out. Shiv imagined getting thrown out from the Perch. Or just killed outright if either was in a poor mood. But what about Georges? What would they do to Georges after—

“Eyes forward. Shoulders back. Put this in your mouth.” Georges handed Shiv a cigarette.

“I don’t smoke.”

“It’s not for smoking. It’s just to hold. Show that you’re not scared. Part of being a respected chef is being able to tell someone to go sit on a knife with a glance.”

“I think that’s just you, chef.”

“Yeah. And that’s why I’m the most respected chef in this place—”“No! Absolutely not!” The whirring of metal limbs sounded, and an automaton with spider-like legs dressed in a noble’s doublet came rushing forward. “Georges! Have you gone mad? What is this?”Georges gestured at his smoke. “Sorry, love. I have to get in the mood before I—”The automaton zipped past him and loomed over Shiv. The Omenborn faced the mechanical life form with a slight grimace but betrayed no other hints of fear. This one was a Pathbearer too. They had to be. Some kind of butler, maybe. Their face looked like a facsimile of a human. Most automata did some way—something about them being created by humans in the time before the System. Whatever the case, this one was human enough that its bronze face could crease with outrage. “Why did you bring this… this…”“This is my guest of honor,” Georges explained.

The automaton wheeled on him, sending other servants scattering. “What?”

“I got a guest of honor badge and I gave it to him,” Georges shrugged. “That’s what they’re for, right?”

The automaton butler seemed on the verge of exploding. Steam was hissing out from his beady, glass eyes. “You—you—Lord Arrow will hear about this.”

“I hope so. Tell him we look forward to making him several dishes. That he won’t find a better set of chefs in the republic, and that he can feel free to chuck us into the abyss if he’s disappointed.” Shiv turned to stare at Georges, pleading for the man to stop talking. “Now, unless you want to countermand the Town Lord’s authority…” He gestured at the badges on his and Shiv’s chest. “You should consider pointing us to your kitchen for the grand feast, and standing aside.”

“I—you—he should have never purchased your indenturement from the capital! You deserve to rot in that penal colony! He’ll hear about this!”

As the butler let out a vicious scoff, he shouldered past Shiv and Georges without pointing them toward the kitchen.

