“Come on,” the head chef said. “Let’s get this done before we get in trouble.”“I thought you said—”“You gotta be audacious to get someone to change their mind sometimes.”

“And what’s this about a penal colony?”George’s grin faded slightly. “A City Lord had an allergic reaction. Felling nobles always overblow things.” The look on his face told Shiv not to dig further.

After some questioning, Georges managed to find the kitchen, and he entered with Shiv at his side, greeting the present staff. Lord Arrow’s personal chef—an older man with a finely trimmed mustache, turned to greet them. “Head Chef Georges, I must say that your presence here is an incredible honor—” The rest of his well-wishes died at the sight of Shiv.

Georges walked right past him and immediately began ordering the staff to their stations. “Alright. We’ll start with the Honey-Glazed Hawks. I hope you felling shits read the recipes I’ve sent you and memorized them well because we’re going to make this good and perfect, or else…” Georges pointed to Shiv. “Well, we never know when the Omenborn’s Curse might go off.”

Shiv sighed. And there was the other reason Georges probably brought him: It was easier to bully people with Shiv.

***

“What is the point of you being born? What did your mother push you out for? You know what I think? I think she should shove you back up the way you came and see if she can get a return coupon to try again! Because everything you do is so! Felling! Disappointing!”

Cooking > 19

Shiv smirked slightly as he finished applying the sauces to the Honey-Glazed Hawk. The bird’s skin was nice and crispy, looking almost golden in the light, and the flavors it released into the air were heavy and sublime. Pair that with the new advancement he got in cooking, and some of Shiv’s earlier nervousness faded, replaced by focus and a mission: To cook the best feast Town Lord Roland Arrow ever tasted.

Over the course of five hours, over five hundred dishes were prepared. Enough to feed an entire battalion of warriors. And every single one had gone perfectly. The Town Lord’s personal staff was remarkable and well-disciplined, and they took Georges’s abuse relatively well. The same couldn’t be said for their usual head chef.

“Y-yes, chef,” the older man sobbed, his head bowed as Georges breathed smoke into his face. “You’re right, chef.” This wasn’t a development Shiv was expecting. He knew all chefs had their pride. Georges especially had his. Yet, right now, the other chef was expressing a sense of remorse and subservience to Georges.

In fact, he seemed to think very highly of Georges.

“I—I—” the other chef tried to breathe.

“You—you what?” Georges sneered.

“He can’t talk very well, chef, he’s crying,” Shiv said offhandedly as he rushed over to the vegetable station and threw out some poorly prepared vegetables. “Those have black spots on them.” He glared at the team of elves and automata manning the station. “That was incompetent.”

“I didn’t make him cry,” Georges muttered off by the side as he kept glaring at the man he was trying to ruin. “He made himself cry.”

They didn’t cry like the head chef did with Georges, but all of them went pale with terror. Shiv ignored them as he continued with preparations, making up for their mistake by redoing the salad. As he sank into the task, he felt someone pat his shoulder.

“Shiv. Keep an eye on these clowns, yeah? I’m going to use the loo.”

“Loo?”

“Pisser.”

That was more understandable. Shiv never could guess where in the republic Georges was from. Across the big river was all the man would say.

The Omenborn committed himself to checking all of the dishes in great detail. Most of the people here were better chefs than he by skill alone. But he was, as Georges said, a pillar. He didn’t stop. He never stopped until the job was done. And until it was perfect.

His mind felt tired from how long he’d been concentrating, but he squeezed a little more out of himself. Enough to make sure there were no mistakes anywhere.

He was so engrossed in his task that he failed to hear the rest of the staff gasping and halting where they stood. He then failed to notice them all rushing out of the room, one after another.

The last thing he failed to notice—until it was too late—was the only other person in the room ripping a piece free from the Honey-Glazed Hawk and putting it in their mouth.

At the sound of the crunch, Shiv did a double-take. “Hey. What are—“ he growled as he wheeled on the offending fool with a knife in hand. “That’s for… for…”

Shiv’s words trailed off. Before him was a man. A Pathbearer. He was a bit shorter than Shiv—a bit shorter than Adam Arrow, even. Despite this, his features were immaculate. Almost angelic. A glow radiated from his body, making his hair seem like streams of gold. He wore a sky-blue jacket that did little to hide his Master-Tier Physicality.

The man was strength. He was power. He was authority.

He was Town Lord and the by far most powerful Pathbearer in Blackedge, and here he was in his own kitchen, stealing a nibble before the feast even fully began.

“For me?” Roland Arrow asked, his tone even, face expressionless.

The knife fell out of Shiv’s hand and clattered to the tiled floor. “I—yes, Town Lord.”

The Town Lord chewed the meat, savoring it thoughtfully.

“It’s not poisoned,” Shiv said, his brain numb.

Roland nodded. “I know. And it likely wouldn’t matter. It would need to be particularly potent to harm me.”

Shiv opened and closed his mouth. What was he supposed to do? What was he supposed to say? He wasn’t dead yet. That was good, right?

“Come. Walk with me. I think it’s time we spoke honestly about things.”

Roland led Shiv into the palace without another word. The latter followed in a trance, his insides feeling like a block of ice. The hallways were eerily empty and silent. Like the Town Lord had them cleared. Shiv felt like he was marching to his execution, but despite this, a part of him was excited.

Maybe the Town Lord could change his mind. Maybe Roland Arrow was going to finally absolve Shiv of the things his parents did.

The walk lasted only minutes, but it felt like an eternity. They reached a white platform with a spell painting its surface, and Roland stepped on. Seconds after, they were ascending at staggering speeds. Shiv felt his stomach lurching until they finally came to a stop.

As they got off, Shiv found himself inside something between a study and a watchtower. The windows and floor around this place were transparent—which made Shiv realize he didn’t much like heights—while a large wooden desk sat in the center of the room. Two chairs stood behind it. One looked worn with time and use. The other was coated in a thick layer of dust, but pristine otherwise.

Roland pulled out the worn chair and sat down. Shiv stood before the desk, still in his chef’s attire. He folded his hands behind his back to feel more like a soldier reporting to his commander than a prisoner awaiting sentencing.

“So. Here we are.” Roland breathed out slowly. He shot a weary look at the chair beside him. Shiv tried not to wince. He didn't have to guess who it once belonged to. “Sometimes, I wonder what Rose would say to me. I think I can guess. She was always the better between us. More noble.” He paused. “Not really all that nice, though, to be honest. She had a temper.”

Shiv felt like a voyeur. He didn’t want to know these things. Especially about someone his parents killed.

“I knew your parents too.” Roland’s expression flattened, and he closed himself to hide his rage. But the man failed. The hate burned in his eye, making the structure around them rattle. Shiv eyed the glass floor warily, worried it might break.

Roland Arrow could likely survive a fall from this height without issue. Shiv would be a smear.

The Omenborn could see the entirety of Blackedge from up here. He could even glimpse beyond its boundaries and see the sprawling ruins of the old world, and the great chasm that swallowed so much of it.

There, between that cleft that split the land, was the Abyss, the darkness always lurking, always hiding more dangers. Day after day, more creatures climbed out from the black, necessitating Slayers to keep them in check. Creatures like lesser vampires.

Above, the sun and the shattered fragments remaining of the moon that once was were slowly coming closer together, verging on superimposition. The eclipse was near.

“Georges. Did he tell you that he spoke to me?”

Roland’s question pulled Shiv back to the present. “Yes. About bestowing a Path on me.”

Roland watched Shiv for a while, like a hawk observing its prey. “And you helped him make the food? All of that.”

“Yes. Along with your staff.”

Roland nodded. “A pity. It really did taste good.”

Shiv’s heartbeat quickened. Something inside him turned sour. “Why is it a pity?”

Roland answered his question with one of his own. “Do you know what you are?”

Shiv stared at him. Was this a trick question? Or something to make Shiv humiliate himself? “An Omenborn?”

“No. That’s what your parents made you. That is their fault. Do you know what you are?”

“I… I don’t know what you mean. What do you want to hear? That I know I’m a monster? That I’m sorry for existing?” The last two sentences escaped Shiv with years of bitterness in tow. He regretted speaking those words immediately.

Roland let out a breath. “You are my responsibility.”

The Omenborn didn’t know how to respond to that.

“Your parents didn’t just murder my wife and unborn daughter. They didn’t just scar me and my son. They destroyed you too. Everything you are. Everything you could be. They chose to ruin that. And to this day, I just—I don’t even know why. I don’t know!”

The Town Lord almost snarled those last words. It took everything Shiv had not to take a step back.

“I don’t know,” Roland whispered, before he mastered himself again. “But they ruined you. That Curse… It’s still there. The capital couldn’t find anything wrong with you, but it’s still there. You look at it every day, don’t you?”

Shiv swallowed. “Yes.”

“And so that is what you are. My responsibility. More than—more than being unable to forgive them, to look past who you are, I have to watch you. I have to keep you controlled and monitored. Because I don’t know what your Curse might bring—if your parents are even done with their demented scheme.”

“It’s been eighteen years,” Shiv muttered.

“I’ve seen acts of vengeance run far longer than that.” Roland leaned against his table. “I have a confession for you, on the eve of this festival. The Slayer Team that keeps going out to find you after your excursions?”

“Tran’s?” Shiv asked, confused.

“Yes. If you managed to earn a Path, they were to capture and return you to me.”

Shiv felt sick. Even Tran was…

“I couldn’t risk anything. I can’t have you with your own Path. Not without considerable restraints.”

“More Curses,” Shiv breathed. “Yours. To counteract the one you cannot control. The one you fear.”

“Yes,” Roland said. He had the decency to look ashamed.

Shiv couldn’t help it. He laughed. Everything about his life was some kind of sick joke. “I… Why? Why not just kill me?”

“You know why. I don’t have it. I can’t. It’s not your fault. But I can’t let this go. And I can’t muster up the wrong in me to murder an innocent.”

“But you can make it my problem,” Shiv seethed. He didn’t care if the Town Lord was going to strike him dead; he advanced on the man and leaned down on his table. “So. What? Let’s say I agree to be some kind of slave. Some dog you can collar like Georges with his debt. Will you let me be a Pathbearer then? Even just a Cook. Or are you afraid that might be too much power for me too.”

Roland showed little fear but great exhaustion. It made him look twice his age. “I don’t know. I don’t think so. You… will still have a life here. You can still live.”

“Like a dog in a cage.”

“Like a person I’m trying to spare,” Roland snapped. He stood up, but Shiv didn’t back away this time. To the Town Lord’s credit, he didn’t turn the boy to bloody paste. “Come. Let me show you something.” He gestured, and the glass dome around them came alight with moving spellforms. Roland pointed to his right and highlighted the abyss in the distance. “I have to watch for all this. To make sure the enemy doesn’t rise.” He highlighted the many buildings below. “I have to protect them. And you too! Maybe even from yourself!”

Finally, he pointed to the other side, to the place where his rear garden extended to the very edge of the floating town. There, on the emerald green grass, were hundreds of people celebrating the coming of the eclipse. But the spell magnified the glass, zooming in on two people in particular: Adam Arrow and his fiancée.

“And I have to make sure he doesn’t lose anything anymore. He’s suffered enough. I can’t… He's got centuries ahead of him. He can achieve great things—start his own family. Be a hero of the republic.”

“And what about me?” Shiv asked, almost too quietly. He never quite hated the entire world as much as he did right then. “What about what I could have done?”

Roland dropped his hand and sighed. “You can still live. Pathless can live well. A century if you’re lucky.”

