“Why would I want to live that long in someone else’s cage? For someone else’s sin? You bring me here, you tell me how you feel, you tell me that I’m your responsibility? No. That’s a lie. I’m your fear. That’s all I am. My parents hurt you so bad that you never even scarred, you just kept bleeding. And now you can’t finish this. Now you can’t finish me. So you choose the worst option of all. Nothing. Purgatory. You’re a godsdamned coward, Roland Arrow.”

The Town Lord grimaced like someone had just stabbed him in the chest. “I… know.”

The admission made Shiv sick. And that was the worst thing he could have heard. The man wouldn’t even commit to anger. How were they supposed to live this way? Halfway to hate. Halfway to pity. No way—

A sudden flash of light in the distance made Shiv squint. A large column of fire rushed up into the air from the middle of the town. Shiv blinked as he looked outside. “What are those Pyromancers doing now?” He looked up. The fragments of the moon weren’t anywhere near the sun yet, so why were they bringing out the climax right now?

Then a deafening shockwave shook Starhawk’s Perch, and Shiv realized the entire Slayers Guild had just vanished in a ball of fire. His mind went blank. That…

Suddenly, a series of distortions dotted the horizon. All over Blackedge, Shiv could see things blinking into the town. Colossal beasts of bone, blood, and flesh spawned among the celebrating people. More explosions rocked the town as a few residential clusters and what appeared to be a sky-farm went up in flames.

“No,” Roland whispered.

Just then, several points of heavy pressure clenched hard against Shiv’s body. He let out a gasp of pain as a horde of figures appeared in the room in bursting pockets of spatial magic. Before he could react—before any of the invaders could do anything as well—Roland Arrow exploded into motion.

A bow as radiant as the dawn combusted into existence upon his hand like a contained explosion. Then, in a motion too fast for Shiv to perceive, the man’s arms multiplied as he drew back on his bowstring with a hundred hands. Then, Roland loosed, and the room was filled with a rainstorm of comet-bright arrows. They circled about, shredding through the enemies before they even had a chance to act. At the same time, the Town Lord’s eyes turned a brilliant white, and the shriek of a hawk sounded high above.

From the light of the slowly vanishing sun came a brilliant bird of prey that crashed through the ceiling, shattering the glass utterly and landing on Roland Arrow’s shoulders. The cold air washed over Shiv when he finally finished his first breath. As he looked around, the smoldering remains of the unknown enemy crackled around him, and the arrows Roland fired hovered alongside him and the burning hawk, ready for continued use.

Shiv stared on at his great captor and savior in stunned disbelief. This was the power of a true Pathbearer. Someone at the Master-Tier. And he knew he barely saw anything.

“We’re under attack,” Roland said, his expression twisting into a mask of wrathful rage. “Get down. Get to safety. Hide with the staff. I will deal with this.”
