“She’s the headman’s daughter, who I consider a friend. She’s leaving to study magic some time in the future, and I’m not sure Anastasia covered this in her lessons.”

“As I said, the spell is common knowledge. I have no problem with you teaching her if you want to. But I thought you were keeping your talents a secret?”

“I am, but I can still discuss magic theory with Sandra. She thinks I’m trying to unlock my mana right now. I might even tell her I succeeded with feeling my magic, but I’ll downplay my abilities to the level of someone like Anastasia.”

“You would make a great mage, you know, that right? With all your secrets, you would fit right in.”

“Stop making fun of me Del, I thought you wanted to teach me how to make nails.”

“Alright then, no more magic! Let’s get smithing!”

Walking on the path back home with dad, I’m covered in sweat and soot again.

Master Del taught me how to properly make nails. It was interesting to work with metal for the first time.

After I started the fire in the forge and got it hot enough, Del had me grab the small rods of metal he made yesterday. When they were hot enough, Master Del showed me how to draw the metal down into a point while twisting the metal on its sides to make each side flat.

After the nail was ready, a quick chop from the axe and a nail was formed.

I wish I could brag that I aced it on my first try, or second, or tenth. Luckily, I made my first real nail before I ran out of metal on the first rod.

I spent the rest of my time making dozens of nails, but I would be happier if Master Del didn’t tell me why he wanted to teach me so badly.

“Now I don’t have to make nails for the village anymore. I have more time to relax, I mean, teach my new apprentice.”

Kicking a rock on the path, I grumble a little.

“You ok, sweety? I’m sorry I wasn’t there for you when you woke up. I was told you asked for me first, right after you woke up.”

“Everything is fine dad, Del helped me think about what I did right and what I did wrong yesterday. I’m sorry for not listening to you. I didn’t want to feel helpless as I watched you fight again. But I realized, I don’t like fighting. Next time I promise I won’t be in your way and I promise I won’t act crazy again.”

“You weren’t that bad.”

I make sure to give dad the look, so he knows that I can tell when he’s lying.

“You weren’t great, but you did better than most kids would’ve done in your situation. On your days off I can teach you a few things if you want?”

“I would like that a lot, dad”

Noticing the village ahead I stop for a moment.

“Something wrong?”

“No, I just want to clean up before we walk through the village. I want to see mom’s face when I come home clean for once.”

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

This time I can watch my mana a little better.

The mana inside my body actually resonates with the spell as I chant it. This must be why celestial spells work so much cheaper, they command the mana extremely precisely before it’s even expelled. Master Del told me in two days he would teach me the only other spell he memorized as a child. It’s only a ball of light that follows above you, but it will make our mining trips a lot easier.

As the mist fades off of me, I see that dad leapt back nearly 10 feet from me.

“Cool huh!” Dad does not look happy at the surprise.

“Yeah, that’s an interesting spell. I thought Del warned you about casting your own magic?”

“This isn’t one of my spells. This is an official spell that Del had to memorize as a kid. Now mom can’t get mad at me for coming home dirty anymore. The only sad thing is I can’t cast it on other people, it’s meant to only work in a single way.”

“I’m sure your mother will be thrilled.”

I spent the rest of the walk home talking to dad about the village clean up. The bodies were removed quick enough but the village is on the lookout for more goblins and other creatures attracted by all the blood that was spilt.

Eventually the smell will fade, but for the next couple of days the watch will be doubled.

Opening the door to our house the smell of stew, hits my nose, and I’m reminded how hungry I am. Brother is finishing up dinner with mom and it looks like he brought Sandra with him today.

“Go wash before dinner is ready.” Mother doesn’t even turn around to greet us. Let’s see how she reacts.

“I’m good, I already cleaned up.”

Mother and the other two finally turn and notice me. Mother and Richard look stunned, but Sandra looks curious.

“How did you get so clean Aaliyah?”

“Master Del taught me some magic knowledge to cheer me up. He even cast some magic on me when I asked if he could try and teach me a spell, so he showed me a basic cleaning spell.”

Sandra’s face lights up brighter than Del’s forge. Even if it’s a basic spell, it should give her a better chance at gaining a good teacher in the city.

“Was it, Ah yt ls wee m ap piss?” Sandra awkwardly says the spell.

“Yeah, that’s the one he told me about, but his sounded different. It sounded more like this:”

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!” I make sure to say the spell correctly, but I don’t use any mana. Maybe I can nudge her towards the proper form. Once she has that down she can probably figure out the rest by herself.

“That’s how Master Del casted the spell. If you want, I can say it again slower after dinner?”

“Of course, if it’s not too much to ask. Thanks, Aaliyah.” Her smile looks like she just figured something out, she’s probably happy we can have another magic discussion.

“Just remember this when you come back from your super-mage training in a few years.”

“I will!” With a light hearted smile our promise is struck.

With plans made, we all take our seats and have dinner together as a family. However, our conversation tonight feels a little rocky for some reason.

Though everyone shares stories about their help in the cleanup and attack, Richard and Sandra appear to have something else on their minds. No matter how hard mother or I try to pry, they refuse to talk about what they’re hiding from us.

Once dinner is finished, we put the awkward conversation behind us, as I try to help Sandra finish her cleaning spell.

“A-H-Y-T L-S W-E-E-M A-P-P-I-S-S!”

“You have to say it like this though”

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!” “Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

I can tell how concentrated Sandra is as she tries repeating the chant perfectly. It only takes her four tries before she chants the proper spell.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

We spend the next 30 minutes talking about the history I learned from Del. Sandra knew a little about why spells were kept secret, but Anastasia never mentioned anything about the war hundreds of years ago. Anastasia only received a little bit of training with the cleaning spell, before the army deemed her not talented enough to receive further training. We went back and forth talking about the complex celestial language, till Sandra had a sudden strike of inspiration.

As Sandra sinks into her own closed eyed meditation, I notice everyone in the family is looking at me with a smile. When they notice my cheeks turning red, they all start chuckling.

I’m about to yell at them for laughing at me, when Sandra chants the spell perfectly.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

Sandra opens her eyes as she is wrapped in her own fog of mana, I notice everyone is watching her. A surprising amount of dirt falls from her, and her clothes look even more incredible.

“I did it! Did you see that Richard! I did it!”

Sandra gets up and immediately tackles Richard.

“No hug for the person who helped you finish your spell?”

I wish I didn’t say that. Sandra lets go of Richard and moves to me, smothering me for five minutes. The joyful mood is cut short by Richards coughing, he’s trying to get everyone’s attention. Sandra seems to know what’s happening because she lets go of me and moves to Richards side, taking one of his hands into hers.

“Mother, father, Aaliyah; we have something to say!”

…

“We’re moving to the city tomorrow.”

The three of us scream “what” at the same time. Where is this coming from?

“I’m moving with Sandra to Drey. She’s going to be looking for a teacher and Salus gave me a recommendation for someone I can work under in the city. We plan to move back eventually but it could be years before we return.”

The three of us are silent. It might not seem that far away, in the scheme of things, but travel in this world is long and dangerous. Drey is four days away from us if you’re walking the whole way, and carts move even slower and could take you six days or even longer if something happens.

While mother and I are stunned, father stands up from his chair.

“Is this what you really want?” His look could probably scare another horde of goblins away.

Brother doesn’t flinch; “Yes, I want to go with Sandra and support her. Her family is escorting us tomorrow morning.” His resolve leaves no room for negotiation.

The atmosphere turns awkward, and they leave to finish their packing. They promised to wait for us to see them off tomorrow at least.

Because of the big revelation, we decide to go to bed early.

For the second time today I’m staring up at the ceiling, there’s something I have to do before I go to bed. Status Page:

LV: 41 Experience: 29,419/ 69,380Health: 1100/1100 Stamina: 154/700 Mana: 317/530Vitality: 110Endurance: 50Strength: 50Dexterity: 50Senses: 50Mind: 50Magic: 53Clarity: 51Status Points: 126Skills: Sense Mana (LV52), Acting (LV27), Meditation (LV52), Expel mana (LV32), Charm (LV35), Running (LV38), Cleaning (LV25), Mathematics (LV26), Writing (LV15), Mana Manipulation (LV17), Wood Carving (LV10), Drawing (LV13), Axe Skills (LV15), Inject mana (LV11), Mining (LV4), Cooking (LV14), Sewing (LV6), Chanting (LV9), Blacksmithing (LV7), Hammer Skills (LV3), Intimidating Shout (LV1), Spear Skills (LV2), Dagger Skills (LV4)

I gained over 30 thousand experience points in the last week, crafting is an experience gold mine. I gained four new tier 1 skills and Intimidating Shout which is another tier2 skill. It’s scary how I gained so many weapon skill levels during that attack. Master said the more you challenge yourself the easier it is to level, but I don’t think I could do that again.

I should practice my Dagger Skills though. I have tomorrow off, and Sandra and brother are leaving in the morning. I should have plenty of time to practice my skills after they leave.

“I can’t believe brother is leaving.”

I don’t receive a response from the night as I fall asleep.

Waking up to the first rays of morning light, signals the start of a new day, the sunrise might even fill a certain kind of person with joy.

I curse mother who won’t let me hang curtains in my room. It’s a waste of materials she says, you won’t get up she says. She’s probably right about that second one.

Rolling out of bed, I change my clothes.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

The mana fog clears away the oils my body produced while I was sleeping. With my hair completely clean, it becomes much easier to brush and tie up. Why couldn’t Del teach me this spell a week ago!

Refreshed and ready to go, I see mother and father waiting by the door.

“Morning mom, morning dad.”

Father responds, with his trademarked smile. While mom looks a little jealous.

“Sweety, are you able to cast that spell on me too? You shouldn’t be the only one who shines.”

“Sorry mom, I can’t change this spell. It’s designed to only work on the caster.”

“Oh well, had to try. Let’s go meet your brother. He stopped by while you were getting ready and told us to meet at the road leading out of the village.”

We walk in silence towards the village entrance. There is a cart loaded with supplies waiting to leave. Instead of a bivol pulling the cart as usual, the largest jelen from the coral is being used to draw the cart. They probably want to use the deer-horse instead of the mini-buffalo so they can reach the city faster.

As we approach, the headman’s family looks like they already said their goodbyes. Sandra and three armed guards are waiting next to the cart while Sandra’s father is whispering something in brothers’ ear.

Once we get closer, brother separates from Sandra’s father and greets us with a smile.

“Took you long enough to wake up little rabbit.”

“I didn’t think there was a reason for me to get up so early. A horrible carpenter is just leaving the village, and taking my friend with him. I came to say goodbye to Sandra.”

Trying to play it cool, I walk past brother trying not to let him see my tears. I can already hear some sobbing coming from behind me. I should leave my parents alone so they can send off their first child.

Noticing me walking to her, Sandra meets me half way, leaving the guards by the cart.

“You came to see me off? What about Richard?”

“He’s being smothered by our parents. If he’s still alive I’ll say goodbye after that. I hope you watch out for him when you reach Drey.”

“Of course, I will!” Sandra leans in to give me a big hug.

“I don’t know, you might not have the time, learning to throw spells everywhere.”

“You don’t have to worry, if he gets out of hand, he could help me with my aim.” Still hugging, we share a laugh.

“Looks like Richard is finished with your parents.” After Sandra warns me about Richard, she tightens her hug and whispers in my ear.

“Thank you for helping me finish that spell. Thanks to you and Del I’ll have a much easier time finding a good teacher.”

“You would have convinced a two-starred mage to take you as an apprentice without Master Del’s help.” I mumble, as she continues to whisper in my ear.

