“Yes, Del did help me a lot. It’s funny, he told my father he left his home because he couldn’t use any magic. He seemed pretty mad he had to tell my father that so I would stop bothering him.”

She knew, about Del! And I said  all of those pointers came from Del!

“I hope you continue to practice your mana skills. If you continue to practice, I’ll teach you one of the spells I learn from my new master when I get back. We can have a proper magic discussion when I return.”

Letting go of me, Sandra turns and walks back to cart and her guards. Turning quickly, I make eye contact with Richard and hiss silently at him.

“Did she tell you she knew about my magic abilities?

“What? No! Don’t look at me I didn’t tell her; she must have figured it out on her own, she’s really smart you know. You don’t have to worry I don’t think she’ll tell anyone.”

“She is smart, and I hope you're right. She’s trustworthy, so it’s a good thing I asked her to look out for you in the city.”

“I bet she will. Are you going to miss me?”

Taking a step forward I embrace my brother.

“I’ll miss you every day. You better come back when you’re ready to marry the villages first mage.”

“I already promised her father I would do just that. I’ll level my skills and build her a mage's tower that we can get married on top of. We should be back in four or five years; you’ll have grown up by then. I can’t wait to see how ridiculously strong you are by the time I return.”

“Safe travels brother.”

“See you soon little rabbit.”

Watching him walk to the cart, I can’t help but smile and cry at the same time.

Mother and father appear beside me as Sandra and Richard board the cart. We wave at the cart as it continues to disappear into the distance. I’m saddened that I won’t be able to talk to Sandra for a while, but she and Richard will be back in no time.

As they disappear, the image of Richard and the perfectly clean Sandra glowing in the sunrise is etched into my mind.

Wait, perfectly clean!

I look down at myself, and realize I’m perfectly clean too. I couldn’t still be in perfect condition after sleeping all night and changing my clothes. I would have had to have Del recast the magic or do it myself.

Have Del recast it. That’s another flaw. If she learned the basics from Anastasia then she already knew the spell only works on the caster! The way she smiled after I confirmed the spell! If that didn’t confirm her suspicions, my cleanliness this morning sealed my fate.

Sandra must have noticed my appearance immediately. I blew my secret the day after I learned my first spell. Who knows maybe she’s known even longer than that?

Oh well.

All that matters is we’re going to have fun together when she comes back.
