The eyes are everywhere!

I can’t find the trail I was on!

All around me I see the forest closing in. The deeper I run into the woods, the larger everything becomes. Every shrub I pass I can see more eyes staring at me, following my every movement.

How did I get separated from dad?

I can see too many shifting shapes around me to count, I’m being hunted!

I continue to weave in and out of the trees, trying to shake my pursuers. I’ve trained for this! After the karhu attack, I made sure to practice running through the forest around our village every morning.

My footing remains stable as I run through a patch of mud. I can feel the sludge splash across my pants, and up my legs. My clothes are ripped everywhere, but that doesn’t stop me.

As I advance deeper into the forest the trees cover the sky and an ominous darkness is cast over me. All the shadows elongate around me.

Grinding to a stop, hundreds of eyes dot my surroundings. There’s nowhere left to run.

Searching my surroundings, I can’t even find a stick to protect myself. I can’t remember where I dropped my dagger. Doesn’t matter, I refuse to give up without a fight. I’ll take as many as I can with me.

Sensing my resolve, the shadows condense into dozens of goblins. Each one has an expressionless face, and is thankfully unarmed.

Steadying myself, I wait for the inevitable attack. Slowly turning in place, I try to guess which one will charge first.

Their empty expressions and silence, give nothing away.

With no signal between them given, they all rush at me as a silent horde.

As the first one reaches me, I grab its face, and inject 100 mana directly into its brain. With my increased mana control, the mana is injected quickly and the creature's face starts to melt. It looks like I poured acid on its face.

The melting goblin distracts me. One goblin grabs my left hand and another the right. Remembering my first forest expedition, I twirl my arms and grab the two new goblins and inject another 100 mana each. The two goblins start rolling on the ground, cradling their arms, but there are no screams.

Turning around, I shove my hand into the face of one of the bigger goblins. He stops rushing me, as I pour the last of my mana that I can spare, directly into his eyeballs. The eyes pop and the juices run down my arm.

I feel amazing! I was able to use all my skills single-handedly, just like the first time I used Inject Mana!

My joy is short lived. With my mana almost completely exhausted, everything becomes fuzzy. In my moment of weakness, the horde tackles me and brings me down.

Countless hands are holding me down, as a fat goblin sits on top of my chest. Before I can scream at him to get his naked ass off of me, his hands close around my throat.

Every breath hurts, as I stare up into the goblin's emotionless face.

How dare these filthy creatures do this to me!

Mentally pulling up my status page, I dump all my stats into Strength, almost quadrupling it to 200.

The rage builds inside me, as my body radiates a new heat. The puny hands can’t hold me anymore. Shaking the goblins off my arms, I reach up and squeeze the throat of the goblin sitting on top of me with all my might.

The fat goblin’s neck shatters in my hands. That felt amazing!

Before the goblins recover, I roll over with my new strength and grab the necks of two more goblins, one in each hand.

They’re so flimsy now!

I continue to grab the goblins around me, ripping off limbs and flesh with every movement of my arms. The horde of goblins never seems to end though.

While using two dead goblins as clubs, I mental pull my status up again. Two more levels gained! I distribute the points giving me more Strength!

The fire in my body burns brighter, as my murder spree becomes even easier.

The forest floor is soaked in blood, and covered with the dead and dying goblins that I don’t care about finishing off.

“Why aren’t you screaming Goblins!” The empty faces around me continue to stare. No matter how many I slaughter, they refuse to make a sound.

Time feels meaningless here, as they continue to charge me.

It’s great for me, more experience!

Distributing my status points as I level, I smile as my slaughter continues.

Ripping a goblin’s head off, I twirl around looking for my next prey. The sea of bodies around me is unmoving, there are no more goblins left to kill. Thousands litter the ground, that was fun!

With the sound of a stick cracking behind me, I turn looking for my next challenger.

Instead of more goblins, mother and father walk out of the forest, stepping on the field of corpses.

“I’m so happy to see you guys! I survived dad, just like I said I would! No more goblins to worry about!” my pride is overflowing, maybe I’ll be called a hero in the village! Isn’t this what reincarnated people are supposed to do, become heroes?

But mother and father don’t respond. They stand there expressionless like the goblins.

Walking in front of mother, father draws his beautiful axe.

“What are you doing dad!?”

Without stopping or changing his expression at all, his words freeze me solid. “I’m killing a monster.”

“I’m not a monster! I’m your daughter!” Waving my hands in front of me, trying to proclaim my innocence, I notice my arms and stop.

Looking down, every part of me is covered in blood.

Now that I see it, I become aware of the liquid dripping from every inch of my body. Staring from my bloodied hands to the bodies surrounding me, I can’t help but think of myself as a monster.

When father's shadow covers me, I look back up.

His straight face, is completely devoid of any love for me.

I can’t even think of a reason to try and defend myself.

The screams of the goblins fill my head, only for me to realize that it’s me who is screaming instead.

As the axe closes in, everything turns black as I sink into nothingness, with the void screaming at me.

Suddenly I’m being embraced. “It’s ok sweety! You’re back home!”

Mother is rocking me like she did when I was little. Looking across the room, I see the bright lights of a sunrise. “I’m back home?”

“Yes, you’re home. It was a bad dream. You’ve been asleep since the goblin attack yesterday.”

Before I can relax in mothers’ embrace, I see the field of bodies around me, and the empty look of father before he killed me flashes before my mind. Trembling, I cry in mother’s arms.

Mother sat with me for over an hour before I started to calm down. After asking several times if I’m ok, she left me to rest a while longer. The goblins scraped me up pretty good and I’m sore all over from overexerting myself. I was lucky dad saved me before the goblin with the spear could run me through.

I can’t close my eyes, not only do I vividly remember my nightmare, but the attack from yesterday constantly plays through my head alongside it.

Before mother left, I asked where father was. She said he’s helping remove the goblin corpses from around the village. Apparently, this was the biggest attack the village has seen in over twenty years.

I want dad to come back and give me one of his encompassing hugs, but he will likely be helping the rest of the day. I know I won’t be able to get over my dream till I see his smiling face again.

Rolling over in my bed, I see my new dagger placed on top of my clothes chest. Sweeping my legs out of bed, I don’t bother putting my slippers on. The floor is slightly chilly despite the spring air.

My legs feel stiff as I make my way towards my dagger. Grabbing the weapon carefully, I shuffle back to bed in a lifeless daze.

Back in the security of my blanket, I stare at the blade in my hands.

There’s no blood on it, someone must have washed it off. The blade doesn’t have the same shine to it as it did yesterday. I can spot four small nicks in the edge, three up near the tip of the curved blade and one more towards the middle. Did my knife hold up like it should have?

I used it a lot yesterday.

There it is again, the memories of the goblin attack. With my right hand holding the handle the same as I did yesterday, the sensations return to haunt me. I remember the feeling of plunging my knife into the flesh of those goblins. Feeling something drip down my arm, I panic. Is there still blood on me?

Sitting up too rapidly, I feel dizzy. Ignoring the sudden vertigo, I check my arm for blood.

It’s only sweat. My arm is clean, mother must have wiped me down while I was passed out.

The relief of knowing the blood is no longer on my hands doesn't help. Falling backwards, I lay flat on my bed once again. Looking over to my right hand, I’m still holding my dagger. The feeling of disgust overwhelms me, so I drop it on the floor. The clanging noise as it drops is the last reminder that it’s still there, even though it’s out of my sight.

What did I do yesterday?

I threw myself at those goblins. Why would I do that? I’ve never attacked an animal let alone something humanoid before. With the first two goblins I ever encountered; I was simply trying to get away.

But this time! This time, I charged at them looking for blood. With how quickly dad killed all the other goblins, he probably didn’t want my help in the first place. I think I knew that on some level. So why did I fight, knowing it was pointless?

I didn’t want to join the kingdoms army because I told myself I didn’t want to hurt people. Was that a lie?

Do I want to fight?

Staring at my hands, I imagine them covered in blood again, with me surrounded by the thousands of goblin corpses from my dream.

“Maybe I am a monster?” I quietly mumble to myself. Staring up at my crudely drawn clouds, I remember drawing when I was little.

Was everything meant to be like this?

Knock-Knock

The sounds from my door keep me from falling into another abyss.

Why would mother knock on my door?

“I’m coming in! Are you decent?” Master Del gives me no time to answer as he pushes my door open.

“Why are you here?” Can he not read the mood of the room!

“You shouldn’t leave your work laying on the ground. Didn’t you complain about that the first time you saw my house?” Bending over, Master Del picks up my dagger and starts examining it.

Can’t he leave me alone! I twist my body around, so I’m no longer facing him. Grabbing my covers, I try to compress myself into a ball, and ignore the annoying Stone Kin in the room.

“It’s rare for a tool to see such use, straight from the forge. Only a few nicks, I’ll show you how to take care of your nicked blades later.”

“What do… Aaaagggg!” Before I can ask what Del means, he rips my blanket off and hoists me one handed over his shoulder. As he makes his way through our house, it takes me a minute to realize what’s happening before I start struggling.

“Put me down you stupid dwarf!”

Ignoring my racial slur, Del makes his way to our front door. Stopping in the doorway, he turns to my sitting mother. Noticing her myself, she doesn’t look surprised about the situation in front of her in the least.

“I’m taking her to work. Tell Darrius, he can pick her up as usual.”

That’s all you’re going to say, while kidnapping me! What’s going on?

“Ok, I’ll let him know when he gets back. Study hard sweety!”

“Mom!” How is she letting this happen?!

Without giving me a chance to demand an explanation from mother, we’re outside, walking towards Del’s house.

“Put me down Del, I mean it! I’m too tired for this!”

“Can’t do that lass. You’ll run, and I don’t feel like chasing you right now. Relax and enjoy the ride. Your Stamina is incredibly high for someone your age, you’ll bounce back quickly. You got plenty of rest, and your mother said you didn’t suffer any real injuries.”

If he thinks I’m going to let him carry me like a sack of pommels again, he’s sorely mistaken.

As we move through the village, I try to increase my struggling, but nothing works. His arm that’s pinning me to his shoulder never moves a centimeter. After a few minutes of my last ditched struggling, I give up. Del was right though, after struggling so much, the soreness I felt vanished the more I moved. I only hope no one saw me like this.

Looking around, no one is paying attention to us, they’re…

They’re moving bodies!

Paying attention to my surroundings more, I notice the blood all over the ground. Villagers are dragging corpses to the bonfires scattered around the village. Some of the younger villagers are helping by collecting severed goblin limbs that are scattered about.

No one is talking.

“Del, did anybody get hurt during the attack?” I try to whisper my question, I wonder if he can even hear me while I’m in this position.

“Prome yous wnt run?” (You promise you won’t run?) Del asks me over his shoulder. Being so close to other villagers, he reverted back to his jumbled speech.

“I promise.” I can’t start running about, with the village like this.

Pulling me off of his shoulder, Del gently places me on the ground. He doesn’t answer my question till we start entering the path to his house.

Whispering in case a villager is close by, Del answers my earlier question. “Two died yesterday, and seven others received major injuries. They carted the injured to the city of Drey. Before you ask, that’s the closest city to our village, and Anastasia went with them to keep them stable till they reach a proper healer.”

“That bad, huh. So why aren’t we helping the rest of the village?”

“Because we have our own mess to clean up.”

I freeze in the middle of the trail. I’m back at the attack site from yesterday. This is where I…

“Keep going, we have to grab the cart first.” With a gentle push on my back, Del keeps me from breaking down, and continues on towards his house.

