Entering Del’s clearing, I’m treated to another war zone. I can’t tell how many dead goblins there are because most are smashed into paste.

Seemingly unaware of the carnage around him, Del walks over and starts dragging his cart back towards the way we came. I can only silently follow him, till we reach the bodies again.

“Let’s go, we need to clear this up.” Unaware of the images floating in my head, Del prompts me to help him throw the bodies inside his cart.

Watching Del grab chunks of goblins in each of his hands, I turn and face the pile of goblins I killed. Their bodies are still laying exactly like I remember. The blood looks dried except for the puddle that formed underneath their corpses. I can smell the rot that’s already started to eat away at the decomposing flesh.

Unlike the bodies inside the village, we’re surrounded by forest here, and the bugs have already started to gorge themselves on the feast I created. Large bugs, some that look aggressive, are tearing small chunks of flesh away with every bite.

“These the one’s you killed? Good job.”

Turning around, Del is right behind me. “GOOD JOB! How is this a good job?! I mutilated these poor creatures, I savagely tried to tear them apart. I’m worse than any of them!”

Hanging my head after my outburst, I try to not cry in front of Del.

“What did I say about looking a Stone Kin in the eyes, stop hanging your head.”

Looking up again, the normally strong features of Del’s face are replaced with a softer look of concern.

“I could tell this was your problem the moment I talked to your mother. This isn’t your fault. You were only defending yourself and your father.”

“But dad could have handled it all on his own. I wanted to make the goblins suffer, so I charged them without thinking. I attacked them like an animal, like a monster! I almost died a monster!”

“And I’m sure a monster would be standing here crying over some goblins that tried to kill her.”

What is he talking about?

“Goblins are one of the most common monsters in the world. They breed like rats, and have been known to attack and eat one another. The fact that you are crying over creatures like these, shows how kind you are. You can feel sad for the lives you have to end, but never feel sorry for defending yourself and those you love. Whenever we see our loved ones threatened, it brings out parts of ourselves we never think about. Are you feeling an overwhelming need to go into the woods and kill everything you see?”

“No…” I can barely respond.

“Then you’re not a monster. Our world is filled with danger, and though you don’t have to go looking for it, you need to face it when it comes for you. Living in a village like this, we have to deal with the dangers of the forest, but even if you moved to a city like Drey, you would still have to face the human monsters of this world. Continue to respect life, but respect your own life the most.”

Finishing his speech, Del grabs two of the goblins in front of me and throws them in the cart.

Thinking over Del’s words, I help him load the rest of the remains in the cart.

We walk back to Del’s house. As we enter the clearing, Del takes his cart over to the large ash pile he keeps towards the edge of the clearing.

“Start a fire, I’ll scoop up the ones left around the forge.”

Building a small fire is easy, building a bonfire is work. Del finishes collecting the bodies before I have the fire big enough to burn a single goblin.

Working together, we build a pyre that is 10 foot squared. We even topped it with “blacksmith” logs to burn extra hot. Before we start tossing the bodies in, Master Del says a quick prayer.

“We give these bodies back to you, great Tarrow. May they become one with the earth again.”

Bending over, Master Del grabs a handful of dirt and throws it over the fire.

“Alright, let’s get this over with.” With master giving the go-ahead, we start tossing the bodies on top of the fire.

“Master, who’s Tarrow? I’ve heard you say his name a few times before but I can’t remember who that is?”

Scoffing at my remark, Del educates me. “You humans, always praying to the gods, but never taking the time to memorize them. Tarrow is the god of earth and nature. Tarrow is the god all Stone Kin worship.”

“What about the others? My parents never talked about the specific gods, they said we could bring danger upon us if we show favoritism to any one god.”

“That’s only because no god has ever blessed humans with their boon before. That’s why humans are a low magical race. We Stone Kin are taught that in the beginning of life, the God Tarrow blessed the Stone Kin with unparalleled earthen magic. That’s why we’re the best at crafting. But just because we worship Tarrow the most doesn’t mean we don’t respect the other gods. You have Goddess Sepia, master of water and the cold. God Aptis, who rules over fire and heat. God Vitis controls the air and seasons. Goddess Ebeon is the harbinger of death and space. And finally, Goddess Ilia, the goddess of all life and time. It’s said the six gods and Goddesses came together to create the world as we see it.”

“Have the gods blessed other races?”

“I’m not sure. I didn’t spend much time being social after I left Truset. I know I said I’d answer any question but let’s finish this so we can get on to some forging.”

As we dump the last of the bodies, the smell has become almost unbearable. The air smells of rotten smoked meat. Staring at the pyre, I feel so dirty right now. At least Del’s pep talk did the trick. I’m pretty sure I’ll still have nightmares, but I don’t hate myself anymore.

“See you tomorrow Del.”

“What are you saying! You’re learning to forge nails today.”

“Yeah, that sounds interesting and all, but I feel really dirty right now. I’m going home to wash all the goblin blood off. We can forge nails tomorrow, promise.”

Del looks at me with a complicated expression.

“How about I teach you a celestial spell, as long as you promise to work extra hard afterwards?”

Turning around, I don’t care about the blood covering my clothes and skin anymore.

“Wait! How are you going to teach me? You can’t even use magic yourself.”

“I’ll teach you the words and the proper way to recite the spell, controlling and expelling your mana correctly will depend on your skills. It’s a simple spell that all Stone Kin learn as children, it’s a personal cleaning spell. Every Stone Kin learns it so water isn’t wasted on personal hygiene. Pay attention, I’ll say it slowly the first time, then again with the proper enunciation.”“A-H-Y-T L-S W-E-E-M A-P-P-I-S-S!”

“Got that? Here it is a few more times.”

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

“Knowing the words is only the first step. You need to have at least a picture in your head about what the spell does. This spell creates a mana fog around you that removes dirt and grime from your body and clothes if they’re close to you. If you wear thicker clothing it might not clean it all the way. Once you know the chant, and have an image in your head, that leaves the final and hardest part. You need to expel your mana in a way that resonates with the words you're chanting.”

“What do you mean?”

“It’s hard for me to explain. I’ve never been able to use magic, so all I can tell you is what I remember from the people who tried to teach me as a child. The celestial language resonates with mana itself, so you need to expel your mana in different intervals with each part of the chant. You need to match each tone to the next to properly cast the spell.”

“Want me to say it again?”

“No, I think I have the chant itself memorized. Give me a second.”

Centering myself, I activate my usual skills. Meditation, Sense Mana, Mana Manipulation, Expel Mana, and Chanting all come together as I recite these weird magical words.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

I manage to recite the spell exactly as Del did, but as I say each consecutive word in the chant, the mana fractures and ultimately breaks as I continue the chant. Del said the mana needs to change with each word so it connects into a proper spell.

Sitting on one of Del’s benches, I run through chanting the spell multiple times. My first breakthrough happens when I decrease the mana, that I am expelling between the third and fourth word. I thought the larger the word the more mana I would have to expend, but I was wrong.

“I’ll give you 30 more minutes to try and cast the spell, then we move on to blacksmithing.”

Del must think I can’t cast the spell that easily. Though, I think I can do it!

The letters ending a word decide the change that the mana needs to take before it can link with the next word. Using my hypothesis, I test the chant a few more times.”

“Ahyt… ls… weem. appiss!”“Ahyt. ls. Weem…. appiss!”

If a word ends in consonant and a consonant is used at the beginning of the next word, I need to increase the mana in the next word. And when a word ends in a consonant and the next word starts with a vowel, I need to reduce the mana in the next word. With this discovery I try one more time.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

Other than expelling the mana through my words in the order I discovered, I can’t sense anything different. It’s hard adjusting the mana I’m expelling, but at least I can feel the words no longer clashing with each other. Unfortunately, when I finish my casting nothing happens immediately. Maybe I said it wr…

“Gods!”

Before I can properly track my mana, it evaporates inside my body! The mist of mana seeps out of every pore and combines with all the blood and dirt on my clothes and body.

The mist fuses with the grime and falls of like a dirty snow from the sky. As the last of the mist fades, I feel naked. I feel like everything covering my skin is gone. Even my rough clothes look cleaner than the day mom sewed them for me. Checking my mana levels, I’m astounded that the spell only cost me 97 mana, and that’s including the mana I expelled during the chant!

No wonder mages fight for these spells. Four short words and I’m cleaner than the day I was born!

“Ya-ya, stop staring at yourself. I’m happy you managed to figure it out so quick. It’s only a common spell, any proper mage should know it. Now you have to work extra hard like you promised me.” Master Del looks a little jealous, probably because I figured it out in less than an hour.

“Of course, Master Del, I’ll do anything you say! It’s thanks to you I could learn my first spell ever!” I have to keep the big guy happy.

“I’ll hold you to that.”

“But before we start, I’m curious master Del. I thought you said you wouldn’t teach me Stone Kin secrets?”

“That spell can’t be called a secret. Mages pride themselves on their cleanliness, and that’s because that spell has been spread across the continent for hundreds of years. Remember I said every Stone Kin child learns that spell. You picked it up quick, but how much mana did you use?”

“I used 97 points of mana.”

“That’s ok for your first time, I guess. Normally it should only cost around 60 mana, and people who master the spell have been know to drop the cost down to only 40 mana. When I said it was a basic spell, I meant it.”

“Then how are celestial spells considered a secret? After you hear four or five spells you could just mix and match the words to create new ones, right?”

“Never mess with celestial spells! The consequences are even worse than casting magic in the common language. Misspronouncing the words of a celestial spell will only waste your mana, but if you combine words in different patterns, you have no idea what could happen. Adding a word to the beginning of the cleaning spell could make it stronger, or it could clean all the blood from your body!”

“Wow!”

“Yes, that’s the problem with celestial magic, and the reason why mages keep their successful spells hidden. Most mages cast their magic with no more than a whisper, and many buy artifacts that either create or destroy sound to drown out their voices. And every mage is careful about spells they hear on the battlefield.”

“What do you mean Master Del?”

“During the great wars hundreds of years ago magic played a big part in every battle. Strong spells became pivotal to each nation, so thieves were dispatched to try and steal research from enemy mages. Most strong mages realized this quickly and swapped out their spells with more sinister spells. Many mages thought they were learning grand magic, but after wasting months just learning to cast the spell, it would turn out to be a self-detonation spell.”

“Oh Gods!”

“Yeah, and because of the war, the losses were considered justifiable. Some countries that knew they were going to be defeated, sent their mages to the battlefield just to detonate and take as many lives as they could with them. After the continent settled down most of the faulty spells were sold to unsuspecting merchants, even to this day, they say some of those dangerous spells are found and used accidentally. That’s why people seek a master to teach them magic, instead of written records. With a master they can show you the spell first so you know exactly what it does. Only Stone Kin weren’t affected by the false celestial spells, because we focus on runic magic which is safer but much more complicated. That being said Stone Kin are taught three basic celestial spells as children. If you listen to what I say I might even teach you the other two.”

“So, that’s why mages hoard their knowledge! Master, is it ok for me to talk about this with Sandra?”

“Who’s Sandra?”

