Two of the scouts immediately volunteered. One was the ‘monkey man’ that Ranthia had worked with many years ago, a proven veteran who had recently returned to Remera from a stint with one of the Legions. The other was a woman that Ranthia vaguely recognized, and she dashed into a nearby tent to get someone else who she thought would want to come.

The three scouts hurriedly geared up, then followed Ranthia to the front gates.

“I’m sorry, Madam Sentinel, but I was told to not open the—” A pale legion soldier waited at the gates.

“Open the damned gates or we’ll find out how long it takes me to go through them.” Ranthia bluffed angrily.

It would take her ages to carve through Skill-reinforced stone that thick, and it wasn’t like she could actually risk destroying the gates—if Remera was wide open, Avyna would be in peril.

A dwarf [Gravity] Mage laughed, then called for the others on duty to join him in opening the gates before they ended up “sliced ta bits.” Ranthia somehow doubted the dwarf honestly believed that she could slice the gates to bits, but even if he just found the power plays between humans hilarious, his words somehow pushed the gate team into acting.

Once the gates of Remera rose, Ranthia and her three scouts made their way out into the night, bound for the broad ‘path’ toward Coalition City.

Ranthia and the scouts spread out as they searched. Despite autumn’s usual trends, rainfall had remained sparse, which left the terrain firm enough that even wagons and their beasts of burden weren’t guaranteed to leave a clean trail. In fact, the first worn grooves that Ranthia found were discounted by the experienced scouts; they were unanimously confident that those were old wounds left on the terrain sometime shortly after the last proper rain.

Ranthia deferred to their expertise. Their assistance was invaluable and Ranthia hoped she would somehow manage to shield them from any harm they might suffer over their ‘insubordination.’ The base commander was plainly incensed beyond the norm with her, but the entire situation was his fault. For Xaoc’s sake, had the spineless man just done his actual fucking duty…

Ranthia exhaled and pushed her frustration aside. She was getting distracted by what the future held, but she had more important things that required her focus and utmost attention.

Dawn was painting the sky with its vivid hues when one of the scouts finally found the caravan’s tracks.

“Something forced them to turn, right here. Not just one wagon either, but the whole caravan went. Dunno what put the big gouge in the ground, but odds are they came under some sort of attack.” The female scout explained.

Ranthia nodded. That much, at least, had been plain to her as well.

“Let’s hurry and follow their tracks.” Ranthia ordered grimly.

Were they too late? Ranthia had no idea, but she silently hoped for the best. There was no use praying—the caravan had either escaped or fallen by that point. The trail that they followed had almost undoubtedly been created well before nightfall.

And if that was true, it had been more than half a day since whatever incident or attack struck the caravan.

“There!” One of the scouts called out, as he circled around a mesa.

Ranthia wasn’t close enough for [Combat Awareness] to ping, but she wasn’t stupid—they were operating under the assumption that the elves had been attacked. Which meant running up to them while shouting “There!” was a bad idea. She accelerated her perception to its limits and tapped every bit of speed she could muster to close the tiny gap between herself and the lead man.

She was just in time to deflect a hastily fired arrow with one of her bracers. Had there been any true Skills behind the shot, there was no way that she could have saved him.

“Allies! We’re with Remus!” Ranthia hurriedly called out.

The wagons were completely wrecked. A handful of elves—several visibly wounded—were gathered amidst the splintered wood and tattered cloth. The one with a bow—[Laborer] tagged—eyed them warily, but he finally lowered his weapon.

Ranthia and the scouts approached, while Ranthia continued to speak to keep the elves from getting jumpy.

“Sentinel Grace. We came from Remera, looking for you. We were worried that something must have happened to your caravan when you didn’t show.” Ranthia explained.

“It was an ogre.” The elf with the bow answered with a hoarse voice.

“<Tell the human that it was a shimagu.>” A different elf suggested, in High Elvish.

“Duh. But you should have mentioned the wings.” A feminine voice added, more quietly, in Creation.

“<We do not even know if we can trust them!>” Another feminine voice whispered, so low even Ranthia barely picked it up, in High Elvish.

“<Avyna, a Silverleaf Trader [Merchant], personally requested my assistance. At her behest, I’m here to offer whatever aid that I can.>” Ranthia called out, in High Elvish. She was only a few steps away from the wreckage that the elves used for shelter, with her wary scouts trailing a dozen or so paces behind her.

“Mom did?! …Oh, it’s you.” The owner of the first feminine voice rushed into view, only to stop and scowl.

Ranthia hadn’t seen her in many years, but she recognized the young woman immediately: Caelillia, Avyna’s one and only daughter. The young (and yes, Ranthia knew Caelillia was several times her own age, but it helped her own mindset if she thought the daughter of the woman she loved to be ‘young’) elven woman had a nasty wound on her side, but she was on her feet and carried a wooden staff, ringed with metal on both ends, in her hand.

“I’m glad you’re safe.” Ranthia sighed with relief, while she examined the young woman. Okay, so safe was a bit of an overstatement—the girl was stoically running around with a wound that would incapacitate most of the greener legionaries. But she was alive, and that meant everything. Ranthia had endured a knot of fear that wound itself tighter around her heart with each moment that they followed those stale tracks. She had been terrified that she would have to tell the woman she loved—after she struck Avyna, no less!—that her daughter was dead.

The urge to rush forward and embrace the near total stranger was oddly intense. She was only barely acquainted with the young elf in the most literal sense, but Avyna spoke often—with naked pride—of her daughter in the quiet downtime that they shared. A significant portion of the mail that Avyna received from other caravans and traders related to the girl—not that she ever wrote Avyna herself. It was odd to know so much about the girl, yet simultaneously Ranthia was barely known to her.

“Yeah, totally safe. Most of our cargo is pulp!” The young elf grumbled, before she moved back and lowered herself back to the ground—using her staff to support the bulk of her weight. She tried to hide it, but a slight hiss of pain slipped through her teeth until she settled herself.

“Scouts, help with the wounded. Let’s get everyone bandaged up as best we can, then figure out the best way to proceed back to Remera.” Ranthia ordered, slipping back into her Sentinel Grace ‘mask’ for a moment.

The others saluted and scattered amongst the elves. There were nine elves on their feet and another four were laid out prone. Ranthia suspected at least some of the ones laid out weren’t just unconscious, but she couldn’t get a clear enough look from where she stood for [Divine-Touched Identify] to tell which bodies were empty vessels, devoid of life.

“What happened?” Ranthia asked in general, while she tried to kneel next to Caelillia. The woman shielded her wounded side, glaring at Ranthia. Ranthia rolled her eyes and silently beckoned for the young elf to let her see the wound. In the end, Caelillia capitulated and hesitantly lifted her shirt and coat.

Caelillia chose to remain silent, but she wasn’t the only elf in the caravan. Soon enough, another began to share their story.

“A flying ogre, or at least I think it used to be an ogre, came out of the sky suddenly. Our caravan’s lead [Driver] sensed it coming, of course. She had us veer off and we avoided it. Thought it was done for a bit, but that monster followed. He came from the sky again and that time he somehow took out the lead wagon, then proceeded to smash through the rest. Subpar craftsmanship for sure—I’m going to be demanding a refund for my ownership interest in these, they held up practically to dwarven standards.

“Ah, right. Anyway, some of the younger elves got themselves killed. Those of us with the sense to get away from the wagons—even if we brought cargo with us—were left alone. That monster of an ogre just destroyed the wagons, crushed our beasts, and left. Zindis alone knows what such a beast might have been thinking.” The elven [Laborer]-turned-archer shuddered.

“This is a bad wound… I take it no [Healers] were in your convoy?” Ranthia frowned as she studied her not-quite-kin’s injury. Whatever hit her had punctured deep, been removed (which was seldom advisable), and there was wooden shrapnel all over inside of the bloodied tissue.

Caelillia was even more impressive than Ranthia had known—it was the kind of wound that could bring a hardened veteran down, yet the young elf had been prepared to fight while bearing it. Ranthia couldn’t help but smile over a surge of (borderline nonsensical) pride for her beloved’s daughter.

“She snuck out and tried to heal the parasite out of the shimagu. He resisted it, as best we can tell, and… yeah, she’s in pieces. If you want to look, I bet you can find chunks of her pretty much everywhere.” Caelillia snarled ill-temperedly.

None of the elves were past their level 768 cycling class up and quite a few in the caravan hadn’t even completed their first cycle. As absurd as it was to think that a single twin—one that Ranthia could equal, at that—managed to take on an entire elven caravan, it wasn’t as impressive as she would have expected. Then again, the elves had always relied on the threat of retribution to keep the shimagu cowed—which raised significant questions about what the winged ogre was truly hoping to accomplish.

“Okay, Caelillia, listen to me. I’m going to trust you to be honest when we start moving. If you think you can walk, that’s fine. But if you’re not sure if you can manage or if the wound gets worse, please for the love of the gods, let us know. We’ll find a way to carry you or maybe we’ll make something to carry those that—” Ranthia was interrupted when one of the scouts cried out for her attention.

The elves were already reacting, but the monkey-esque scout had lucked into being the first to notice the trouble on the horizon. Unfortunately, Ranthia was readily able to see the problem with a single glance.

It was an all too familiar sight, one that plagued Remus since time immemorial and struck fear in the hearts of farmers and veteran Adventurers alike. Sentinel Aurora had mentioned the tactic once, but Ranthia had largely ignored it—she had never seen them venture beyond the Dead Zone and into the wastes.

Yet it was undeniably a flock of ornithocheirus, flying straight toward their position.

Ranthia was an experienced woman and was (presumably) one of the highest leveled Sentinels Remus possessed, yet the sight of the dread that haunted her entire mortal existence still caused her to freeze up for a precious moment. The memory of the murderbeasts reducing her long-lost body to bloodied, ruined meat often haunted her dreams.

A piece of her was reduced to the helpless young woman she once was. There was just something materially different about facing that particular horror from her past anew.

Ranthia shook her head to clear it and tried to force herself to think, only to realize that there was something else—the winged ogre, her familiar foe, was flying ahead of the ornithocheirus. The flock seemed to be chasing him.

Which was odd, Ranthia was certain that he could fly fast enough to escape them. Yet the savage smile on his face twisted into something particularly nasty when he locked eyes with her.

Oh.

A certain detached aspect of her mind felt ridiculous for not immediately grasping the situation; his plot was obvious enough. He dared to attack an elven convoy—and risked leaving survivors—because he fully intended to erase all evidence of his involvement. The ornithocheirus would see the survivors dead and tear apart everything else, searching for the scraps of meat he had left scattered throughout the wreckage. The plan straddled idiocy and brilliance. There were so many ways in which it could have gone awry, yet there was a savage cunning behind it.

Said detached aspect of Ranthia mulled over the merits of the strategy, while the rest of her was immersed in a dark blend of outrage and fury.

“Scouts, get everyone out of sight! Camouflage and hide all presence of life! And do something about the smell of blood and meat! I’ll… I’ll hold them off!” Ranthia ordered, her nerves narrowly buoyed by her emotions.

There was no mesa between the flock and the camp, but there was a somewhat wide, lumpy rock formation that offered at least a little height. Ranthia threw an image onto it and shifted, before she dismissed her image from the wreckage. There was no time to do anything but hope the scouts and upright elves could (and, in the latter case, would) follow her orders.

Ranthia pushed the fears from her mind and began to dance, joined by one image after another. An impossible to miss sign of life that the stupid flying scourge—and the mindless beasts that followed him—could never hope to ignore.

The winged ogre entered a dive. The flock followed, of course.

Ranthia wished that she could be surprised when the ogre aborted his dive shortly before he got close enough for her to throw a knife or three. It was a feat borne of both Skills and raw stats, but the winged ogre halted his dive and shot upward again. It wasn’t a maneuver that the ornithocheirus could match—few even made a clumsy attempt—and they locked onto a new target. The nice, temptingly wiggly ones on the ground.

“Your death will be slow and agonizing, you piece of shit!” Ranthia yelled after him.

The winged ogre had changed since she last saw him. The twin looked more like a dinosaur than an ogre, with a darker and more rugged hide, but she had no doubt that it was the same man. The ogre barked a keening laugh as he made his escape—though he no doubt waited somewhere overhead to watch the show.

Not that Ranthia had time to worry too much about him—the swarming flock was upon her.

