Refrigerate (6/10) Exp: 1468/1600

58-67 cold (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Range: 7.94 meters

Cost: 30 mp/s

Immolate (5/10) Exp: 566/1100

49-56 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 6.62 meters

Cost: 25 mp/s

Utility Auras

Tier 0

Purify (10/10)

Purify poison, corruption, and contamination

Range: 13.2 meters

Cost: 100 mp/min

Winter (7/10) Exp: 425/2200

Boost M.Regen by 93% for all entities

Range: 9.27 meters

Cost: 7 mp/hr

Tier 1

Essence Well (10/10)

Transfer mana to all entities within range, including user

Transfer Rate: 13.24 mp/s

Efficiency: 20%

Range: 13.2 meters

Detection (9/10) Exp: 4215/7400

Sense selected items of interest

Not occluded by mundane materials

Resolution: 0.02 meters

Range: 11.9 meters

Cost: 9 mp/s

Velocity (7/10) Exp: 4138/4400

92.68% boost to speed for all entities

Range: 9.27 meters

Cost: 7 mp/s

Free Skill Points: 3

Detection is almost maxed now, which isn’t a surprise with how much I was using it. Velocity didn’t get nearly as much as I expected though. I suppose the big fight wasn’t really that long in the grand scheme of things, and I didn’t need it for the smaller packs. Oh well.

IFF is a bit better now, but not enough to use Refrigerate other than in an emergency. I’m definitely not unlocking any tier 3 skills until we get out of here, so I guess that’s that. I can spend a skill point later if I really need to.

“Ok, good to go,” he said.

“Anything new?” Jamus asked.

“Nope. Nothing worth mentioning at the moment. Velocity’s still our best bet.”

“How ‘bout Spring?” Carten asked. “I could do with the stamina.” Glancing at his HUD, Rain saw that the big man was indeed still missing a good chunk, not having recovered to full overnight.

“Yeah, I suppose I could do that,” Rain said. “I kinda wanted to save the points until I talk to Staavo if I’m being honest. I’ll take it if you really need it, though. Running out of stamina down here would be…bad.”

“S’alright,” said Carten. “I’ll manage.”

“That’s…surprisingly understanding of you, Carten,” Jamus said.

“What? You gotta respect a man’s right to stick to his build, even if it’s gonna get em killed oneah these days.”

“Weren’t you the one who was arguing for hours about how he needed Force Ward?” Ameliah said. “Also, can we focus, please?”

Carten scratched at his ear and looked away. “Ah, that was just speculatin’. I’d never actually force em to pick somethin’. And you’re right, we should get going. Sorry.”

“Wait,” Ameliah said, placing her hand on Carten’s chest. The huge man froze, looking down at her as if she was a bird and he was afraid to move lest he scare her away. Out of the corner of his eye, Rain caught movement on Carten’s stamina bar. It quickly reached full, Ameliah’s stamina dropping by a much smaller amount in relative terms.

“Woah,” Carten said. “I didn’t know you could do that…”

Ameliah took her hand away and gave him a half-smile. “For being polite, for once. Now, let’s go.”

“Wait a minute,” Jamus said, tilting his head. “How did you do that through his armor?”

“Yeah, that shouldn’t be possible,” Val said, staring at Ameliah with keen interest.

She stared right back with a blank expression. “Let’s go.”

“Oh, come on, you can’t just—Hey!” Val chased after her as she turned her back on him and walked down the tunnel, taking her light with her.

“Which way now? It’s still straight behind us,” Val said, the party having reached the first intersection since they’d started walking.

“Straight ahead,” Rain said. “Let’s just try to get as far away from it as we can.”

“Straight ahead it is,” Carten agreed, leading the way into the darkness. They walked on for a few minutes until Val suddenly stopped, turning to look off to the left.

“Did it move?” Jamus asked. Carten stopped as he realized that Ameliah’s light was no longer following him.

“Yeah, it’s off to the left now,” Val said. “Keep going?”

“Yes, let’s—Incoming!” Rain suddenly shouted, interrupting himself as he registered a hit on his detection aura. He’d taken to leaving it on at a low level whenever he had the mana. It didn’t seem that the Dark Hounds could avoid it completely, even at low intensity. Their shadowy nature only made it difficult for him to pin down their exact location.

“Which way?” Carten asked, readying his shields. Rain intensified his aura and the amorphous feeling of danger solidified into several shifting points coming from behind them in the darkness.

“Behind. Five signals,” Rain said.

“Aww!” Carten lowered his shields. “Boring!”

“Don’t let your guard down, Carten,” Jamus said, pointing his hand towards the tunnel behind them. “One might make it through this time.”

“Could you…I don’t know, miss or something? On purpose-like. I need the experience.”

“You’ll have your chance, Carten,” Jamus said, “Let us handle it.” He and Val were standing side-by-side, ready to fire the moment they spotted red eyes in the darkness.

Rain looked on apprehensively. “They’re almost here,” he said, monitoring the slippery signals in his mind. The party had fallen into a well-oiled routine over the course of the many small battles they’d had with the hounds, and they weren’t treating the small packs as serious threats anymore. Rain couldn’t relax, though, not after Ameliah’s speech the day before.

Once again, however, his fears proved groundless. The hounds died even before they reached their small pool of light, Jamus and Val easily picking them off in the darkness the moment their eyes appeared.

“Predictable,” Val said. “I’m starting to think the lair is just trying to annoy us to death.”

“Don’t complain,” Jamus said. “Easy is good.”

“I’m with Val on this one,” Carten said. “I’m ready for a real fight. We’ll never finish at this rate. The bar ain’t even halfway down yet.”

As reckless as wishing for a huge pack of monsters is, he’s not wrong, Rain thought. The lair’s power is only down to 78%. It was lower before we went to sleep, so us being in here isn’t stopping it from regenerating. Ameliah’s right. We’ll run out of supplies before we ever get it to zero.

After purifying the area and collecting the spoils, the party continued down the tunnel in the same direction as before. They reached another intersection and turned right, moving away from the signal of the Lunar Orb.

After another few minutes of walking, Val stopped again. “It just moved. It’s in front of us.”

“What now?” Carten asked.

“We turn around,” Rain said.

The group reversed direction, heading back down the tunnel they had just traversed, coming to a corner that hadn’t been there before. The three-way intersection that they remembered was gone, as predicted.

They continued in this manner for another six intersections, encountering no more Dark Hounds, but steadily increasing the distance between themselves and the orb. Rain was starting to get worried that his plan wouldn’t work after all when the light of Ameliah’s orb suddenly revealed a door in front of them, closed with a metal bar.

“Well, hello,” Jamus said. “That’s different. I think your plan worked, Rain. Wait, Carten, be careful. It must be trapped. Otherwise, it would be too easy.”

“Fine,” Carten said, taking his hand away from where he’d been reaching for the door. “How do we do this the right way?” he asked, turning to look at Ameliah. “We don’t exactly have a rogue.”

Ameliah looked back at him, smiling, clearly planning on making them figure it out for themselves.

“Hang on, let me try,” Rain said, tuning his detection skill to look for the platonic ideal of a trap, then releasing a full-powered burst. “Humm, either it isn’t trapped, or my skill doesn’t work that way. I’m not sure.”

He tried a few more searches for more specific trap types, such as tripwires, darts, and pressure switches, coming up empty. He also tried a generic search for ‘magic’ which also proved to be fruitless, not even the nearby Lunar Orb registering on his radar. He shrugged. “Sorry guys, I can’t tell.”

“Humm, let me try,” Jamus said. “Stand back.”

The group gave Jamus some room, and once they were clear he pointed a finger at the door and blasted it with a bolt of blue energy. The magic sunk into the metal of the door like water into a sponge, with nothing to indicate that any trap had been triggered. “Not a magical trigger, or at least, not a simple one,” Jamus said.

Val stepped forward. “Let’s try physical, then.” He fished in his pack, looking for something. “Ah, perfect, just as good as a rock,” he said, pulling out a ration bar in its paper wrapping. He tossed it unceremoniously at the door. It bounced off and fell to the floor with a clatter.

“Huh, I was sure that would work,” Val said.

“Bah, I’m just openin’ it,” Carten said. He reached out and grabbed the metal bar, lifted it to the side, and shoved the door open. Other than the creak of the door’s hinges, nothing exciting happened.

“Well,” Jamus said, peering into the dark room that had been revealed. “That was anticlimactic. I suppose it wasn’t trapped after all.”

“Goin’ in,” Carten said, but before he could set foot in the room, Ameliah halted him with a hand on his shoulder. She shook her head and bent to pick up the ration bar then, tossed it into the room. The moment it crossed the threshold, it was immediately struck by a flurry of black darts. The bar clattered to the ground once more, the darts quivering where they had lodged in its surface. Suddenly, it exploded, sending chunks of ration gravel flying to bounce off of Carten’s armor. Ameliah had ducked behind Carten to take shelter as soon as the ration had been struck.

“How did you know?” Jamus asked as Carten brushed his beard clean of ration dust.

“Experience,” she said with a small smile. “Always expect a trap, especially when you’re sure there isn’t one.”

I’d laugh if that wouldn’t have killed me. Ration bars are tougher than I am, after all.

Looking into the room, Rain saw nothing but darkness. “What now? Could there be more traps?”

“There can always be more traps,” Ameliah said.

“Well, I’m not standin’ here all day on a maybe,” Carten said, stepping through the door. This time, Ameliah didn’t stop him. Luckily for Carten, nothing happened.

“Clear,” he said, moving out into the room. The others followed, Rain waiting until last. He cautiously stepped through the door, half expecting it to slam behind him. It didn’t, but he refused to drop his guard.

This is the part where the giant spider descends from the ceiling, he thought, looking up. Ameliah sent her orb up, following his gaze. The arched stone was blessedly spider-free, the room appearing similar to the lair’s entrance, other than the lack of the shimmering barrier. There was another passage leading into further darkness. Unlike the rest of the lair, this passage looked to be the entrance to a cave, the natural stone forming a sharp contrast with the orderly tiles. The sound of dripping water echoed faintly from the darkness.

“Let’s rest here a few minutes,” Jamus said. “Nobody should go near the cave until we’re ready. There’s going to be something nasty living in there. I guarantee it.”
