Ali’s gaze swept over the tiny area she had been granted – her entire domain in the remains of the cathedral chamber. To be fair, it was a large chamber, but compared to the space she had enjoyed prior to her unwilling sojourn in the Abyssal Realm, it was small. Her benefactor had been absent for almost two days now, although she had no way to know the exact passage of time down here, and she was getting progressively more bored and depressed. She tossed the worthless artifact she had finished crafting to the ground, a creation of mithril-inlaid Adamant Onyx that glowed with arcane runes and a core of arcanite to power it.

Hearthstone – level 100Mana: Teleport yourself to the Locus. Recharge: 1 hour.Locus: Novaspark Academy of Magic, Myrin’s Keep.Created by Aliandra Amariel.Artifact

The artifact had been surprisingly easy to make after she had asked to examine the scout’s hearthstone. It was basically a runic teleportation circle on a stone with some arcanite to cover the bulk of the cost. There was some fancy trickery needed to get it to project the circle that she had not encountered before, but it hadn’t been difficult to learn. She had crafted it from memory, but it didn’t work for the same reason the recall potions and her regular runic circles didn’t work: the Myrin’s Keep locus was gone.

She had tried practicing her rune magic for hours, even messing around with the imprints in her Grimoire. She had read large chunks of Clarence until both she and the book had grown impatient and frustrated. She had summoned several Eyes of Agnor, unsummoning them shortly after, verifying that indeed they seemed to pick their affinities entirely at random, although it looked like she should be able to learn to influence the options with her Grimoire customization at some point. She decided on arcane and lightning and tried yet again.

Eye of Agnor – Demon – level 136 (Arcane / Lightning)

Your mana reservation has increased by +1020.

It worked? She eyed the affinities suspiciously, unwilling to believe it had been that easy.  Obviously, she would need to try again to make sure it wasn’t just a fluke this time, but she had gotten precisely what she had intended this time. She poked and prodded at the massive floating demon a little, but she grew tired of it quickly and simply flopped down.

A few minutes later, a vast surge of mana rushed through the chamber, and suddenly, Azryet was there in all his overwhelming presence and size, but instantly, he clamped down on his aura, muting it to the point where Ali could only feel it as a background pressure in her mind. She didn’t quite squeak, but it was a close call.

“You’re back?” she asked, glancing up. She gasped at the sight of him. Azryet, the dragon god, looked like he’d been put through a wringer furnished with razor-sharp spikes. Rivers of glowing blood leaked from several huge gashes on his flanks. Blood that glowed with holy light and sparked with flecks of pure black, sizzling as it dripped onto her plants. “Oh, you’re hurt?”

“It is of no matter,” he said, his great voice rumbling in the cavern. “One of the higher demons interferes with my healing, the wounds will close when its magic wears off.”

“Oh, ok,” she said. He certainly didn’t look ok; the wounds were wider than her entire body and were being consumed by a strangely warped blood magic – a kind of corruption far beyond what she had personally experienced in the presence of the Pit Lord. It had to be something horrific if it could keep his incredible healing magic at bay. Ali decided she didn’t want to get too close, just in case it was as contagious as some of the other demonic corruptions she had had the misfortune to encounter.

“You have greatly exceeded my expectations, little one. Your efforts have thrown Destraggoth’s forces into disarray, and it has been the catalyst for my first victory in centuries. You have my deepest gratitude,” Azryet said, bowing his head slightly toward her.

“So, you’re going to send me home?” Ali asked. Despite her caution, hope ignited within her heart.

“Alas, as I said when we sealed the bargain, I do not know how,” Azryet rumbled. Already, some of the corruption was beginning to fade, and his wounds were slowly closing. “However, I gave you my word. First, I will find this rift you spoke of, and then we will learn how to open it and send you back home.”

“Ok, thank you,” Ali said. Not unexpected. She twisted her lips and frowned. It was not exactly what she had hoped for, but at least Azryet seemed committed to going through with his promise. “What do we do first?”

Azryet seemed to change the subject, shifting his gaze to her latest minion, but before Ali could apologize for the offense of summoning demons in his realm, he said, “I see you have learned to make the Eye of Agnor. Would you share its skills with me?”

“Surely you know them by now?” she asked, more than a little surprised by his request.

“I do, but I have never been able to make them, and thus I have not seen the exact descriptions. I wish to confirm some details.”

“Well, here you go.” She promptly pulled up the status and shared it.

Race: DemonActive Buffs: Demonic MagusClass: Eye of Agnor – level 136- Arcane Eyes – level 101Mana: Fire a cone of Arcane Mana Burn from your Major Eye.Mana: Fire Arcane Bolts from a Peripheral Eye.Arcane, Ranged, Perception, Intelligence- Lightning Eyes – level 99Mana: Fire a Chain Lightning from a Primary Eye.Mana: Fire a chaotic Ball Lightning from your Higher Eye.Lightning, Ranged, Perception, Intelligence- Metamagic – level 61Mana: Empower a magic skill granting magical enhancement. Recharge: 30 seconds.Metamagic Enhancements: Amplified Casting, Accelerated Casting, Greater Spell Range, Spell Echo, Increased Area of Effect.Arcane, Lightning, Area, Intelligence- Infernal Archmage – level 58You gain +290% [skill x 5] to spell power, spell haste, mana control, and mental reaction speed when casting spells of your affinities.Arcane, Lightning, Mastery, Intelligence- Sentinel Sight – level 96You can see mana. All of your perceptions are accelerated when you are in danger. Arcane, Lightning, Perception- Demonic Magus – level 85Mana: Your Perception, Intelligence, and Wisdom are increased by +189.2% [40 + skill + base perception / 10]. Reserve: 20%Arcane, Lightning, Buff, Perception- Demonic Curse – level 77Mana: Curse your foe with one of your known curses. You can have up to 8 [1 + skill / 10] curses active at one time. You can cast multiple curses simultaneously, up to your maximum. Recharge: 10 seconds.Curse: Interrupted Casting.Curse: Lightning Vulnerability.Arcane, Lightning, Curse, Ranged, Intelligence- Teleport – level 80Mana: Teleport, moving instantly to a remote location you can see. Range: 68 meters. Recharge: 10 seconds.Mana: Teleport a Demon ally to your location. Range: 680 meters. Recharge: 5 seconds.Arcane, Lightning, Movement, Intelligence- Infernal Gaze – level 68All your eye-based Perception skills gain +204% [class + skill] range and spell power.Arcane, Lightning, Mastery, Perception, Intelligence- Demonic Command – level 73Mana: All nearby demonic allies gain increased Resistance, and short duration arcane barriers automatically block a portion of incoming attacks. All nearby demonic allies gain haste and Lightning Armor. Channeled. Range: 31.9 meters.Arcane, Lightning, Area, IntelligenceAptitudes- Arcane (Affinity): +100% spell power to Arcane magic- Lightning (Affinity): +85% spell power to Lightning magic- Sentinel (Racial): +136 to Perception- Languages: Demonic, Ancient Dal'mohran, Elvish, Draconic- Vulnerabilities (Racial): +50% extra damage from Holy- Ocular Superiority (Racial): Your eyes are unaffected by magical or mundane darkness- Ultra optics (Racial): Spell critical chance for eye-magic is proportional to Perception + Intelligence- Flying (Racial): You can flyAttributes- Vitality: 327- Strength: 202- Endurance: 77- Dexterity: 227- Perception: 1856 (+1214)- Intelligence: 1312 (+858)- Wisdom: 1017 (+665)Evasion: 952Dodge: 20%Resistance: 1958Magical Damage Reduction: 33.95%Health: 3270/3270Stamina: 770/770Mana: 8136/10170 (+2034 Reserved)

“Interesting,” Azryet said after a few moments. “So, the affinities are truly random, then?”

“Yes,” she confirmed, “but I seem to be able to influence them somewhat with my Grimoire.” She indicated the book hovering beside her. “Demonic Command, Demonic Curse, the eye skills, and Sentinel Sight all change based on the affinities, but otherwise the monster seems to be the same each time.”

“A true template monster, then…” he rumbled.

“Template?”

“Yes. The monster itself follows a pattern, rather than an explicit skillset, but the variance is controlled – in this case, according to the random affinities selected.”

“I see.” It made sense, and it was rather curious, but it was the only monster in her entire repertoire that followed this supposed template structure, so she had nothing to compare it with. “Do you mind?” she asked, pulling out an empty vial and pointing at the pools of his glowing blood forming among her plants.

“I do not,” he said, “but I am curious why you would want my blood? Godhood conveys protection against most of the trickery that might be performed with it.”

“I know an ink crafter who might be able to make something potent with it,” she said, collecting a full vial and storing it. Whether his wards would interfere with the crafting was something she would need to determine later.

“Very well. Come, Aliandra, allow me to bring you to my library,” he said, and she felt the prickle of a powerful spell settling upon her, but somehow, it seemed to be waiting for her to accept. No sooner had she allowed it than she suddenly appeared in a vast chamber. It was indeed a library, with books and shelves as far as the eye could see. It was far larger than her library, sized for the dragon god himself, and as he settled on a rocky hollow in the center, not even his massive wingspan could reach the towering shelves of books that lined the walls.

Ryn would love this!

“Azryet. How may I serve?” The voice was both draconic and feminine, but filled with a powerful resonant quality, vibrating through Ali’s bones. She turned quickly to find herself staring at a golden-scaled dragon – far smaller than Azryet, but still enormous from the perspective of a Fae.

“Aah, Tiraza. Aliandra here requires whatever knowledge we possess on teleportation magic. Exotic, or esoteric, with a specific focus on realm travel.”

“At once.” The gleaming dragon vanished in a startling puff of holy mana, appearing on the far side of the library, diligently searching shelves and tomes to do Azryet’s bidding.

“I fear that due to my distrust of strangers, I was not entirely honest with you at first,” Azryet said, looking down at her with an unreadable expression on his massive, scaled face.

“How so?” Ali asked, a little thread of worry creeping in, dragging her attention away from the wealth of knowledge that must be contained within this library. Ancient knowledge, long lost from her own realm.

“In our conversation prior, I deliberately led you to believe that I stand as an equal against Destraggoth,” Azryet said. “However, that couldn’t be further from the truth. I may be a god, but I cannot stand against his might. It is only a matter of time before he grows too powerful for me, and our precarious stalemate ends in my destruction. And when I fall, your realm will likely be crushed, as he will bend his entire might to crossing realms to conquer everything in his path. Subjugation and conquest have ever been his purpose. It was to prevent that eventuality that I first came to this accursed realm.”

“But didn’t you just win a battle?” Ali asked. What had she fought that boss for if there was no hope?

“Yes,” he said, rumbling in the depths of his throat. “But, ultimately, only a small reversal in a larger war.” He turned, lowering his body and head so that his eye could be closer to her level. “Godhood is usually first offered once a being surpasses level one thousand. It represents a fundamental shift in how progression and experience work – as personal combat or achievements become progressively harder, godhood provides an alternative source of growth: Reputation. A god thrives on followers who share traits, principles, and values. These followers work to increase the reputation of the god, and in exchange are offered progressively growing boons, crafted from the god’s mana, intent, and traits. It is through the accumulation of reputation that Authority can be earned.”

“So, you just need followers who care about your ideals, and you can get stronger?” The theory was well understood, and she had researched it several times, but hearing it from the mouth of an actual god was something else entirely.

“Precisely.” Azryet’s giant eye slowly blinked, and he shifted a little. “And therein lies the source of my weakness. For I am a dungeon, stuck here in this Abyssal Realm. There are no entities in this realm besides me and Destraggoth. And now you. There has been no opportunity to gain followers in thousands of years.”

“But you have Havok, and Mato, and a few others from our guild.”

“I do indeed, and I cannot describe how precious they all are. They are my only followers – there are no others. When Havok accepted my patronage and gained the title of First Paladin of Azryet, I gained my first level in longer than I can remember. And once again, when Mato reached his first evolution, and chose the path that I offered to him.”

He created Mato’s evolution path? There were so many things to unpack in Azryet’s words, but she put her curiosity aside to concentrate instead on what he was trying to tell her. There would be time enough to consider the implications later. “That sounds pretty rough. But doesn’t Destraggoth suffer from the same problem?”

“He has access to several demonic planes, along with millions of demon followers.” Azryet sighed, a great billowing gust of air. “But this is not all. Several thousand years ago, I was forced to pick a path that restricted my dungeon, not only to draconic minions, but also in affinity to holy or void. There was little choice at the time, but this decision has greatly limited my scope and growth over the ages, and I find myself unable to match Destraggoth and the ability of his Pit Lords to turn anything with blood into a demon for incorporation into his repertoire. Perhaps you can understand now why I look jealously upon your ability to make almost anything you encounter.”

