“Is there anything I can do?” Ali asked. She had just defeated a raid boss for him, but the slowly healing scars on the dragon-god’s face told her more eloquently than his words just how powerful the Demon God’s Lair really was. There was no way her magic or minions would sway the battle in any meaningful fashion.

“You are here. From a different realm,” Azryet said, lowering his head so he could peer closely at her. She shrank back from the intimidating visage. “And you brought your domain with you through the rift.”

“Err… yes?”

“If you could teach me that…” Azryet’s eyes swirled with obvious hunger.

“I don’t know how,” Ali stammered. “I got Adaptable Mana in my evolution, but I think it originally came from twisting my domain to share it with Aunt Lira.” She stared wide-eyed at him, but after a moment she recognized the glint in his eyes for what it really was – a scholar’s thirst for knowledge.

“No matter,” Azryet said. “Your domain meshes with mine; I will study it carefully. What I require more than anything are followers. I need access to new monster skills, but I suspect finding holy or void dragons will be next to impossible. Above all, I crave new knowledge – all the advances in magic and skills that I have been denied over the years, locked away here in this accursed realm.”

“You want to make another deal?” she asked, guessing his intention.

“I do. If you promise to grow my followers when you return to your realm, I will offer you instruction in how to fight with your domain.”

“I am not a member of your church, and… I have no desire for a god,” Ali answered. She kept her tone even and careful, trying to avoid offending him, but he didn’t seem to react harshly, so she continued. “Havok seems to be doing a good job promoting your patronage, and he is my friend, so I would help him anyway.”

“I see,” Azryet said.

“But I do have something else you wanted,” Ali said, noticing how his attention fixed on her as soon as she spoke the words. “I have the Grand Library Arcana – the greatest collection of magical works from Dal’mohra before it was destroyed three thousand years ago – and I can copy any book. I think we share a similar desire for knowledge.” It was, she knew, a bit of a stretch – she had had the grand library, and now it was technically lost to her, but, if she was to recover her dungeon and domain, she was certain she could at least rebuild the library from the spirit realm echo of it with some help from Cael, Gage, and Ryn. She just hoped Ryn had gotten out safely.

“I think you have yourself a deal,” Azryet said, the mana in his eyes swirling in what could only be interpreted as an avaricious gleam. Perhaps she was reading too much into it, but the way he moved closer seemed to confirm that this dragon god’s hoard was books and knowledge. “I will grant you full access to my library, in exchange for you supplying me copies of the full contents of the Grand Library Arcana.”

“Ok,” Ali said, hoping she hadn’t bitten off rather too much. The entire grand library would take a rather long time to copy, but for access to his draconic library, she was sure it would prove worthwhile.

“There is more I would offer,” Azryet said. “You have brought sad tidings of the passing of Lirasia. Should we succeed in opening the rift, you will still need to fight your way through a powerful dungeon. I can offer aid in the form of a few minions, or I can offer to train you to use your domain mana to combat other dungeons.”

“What do you mean, using my domain mana to combat other dungeons?” Ali asked, suddenly curious. She hadn’t thought much beyond finding a working teleportation spell or recovering the rift and opening it – he was right, she would have to fight her way solo through the entire dungeon that had supplanted hers. She was certain that Azryet could provide powerful minions, but the opportunity to learn a skill from him that would allow her to do it herself was something she couldn’t afford to pass up.

“You studied the battlefront between my domain and Destraggoth’s, did you not?” he asked. “What did you observe, besides the leviathan?”

“I saw your domain mana and his meeting in the middle and annihilating each other,” she answered.

“Indeed,” he answered. “For hundreds of thousands of kilometers along the many boundaries between our domains, the domain magic battles ceaselessly.”

“Doesn’t that create dungeon rage?” Ali asked, suddenly horrified at the scale, and just how much something like that must hurt.

“It does,” he said, not elaborating further.

She tried to imagine what it must be like to be subject to so much dungeon rage for as long as he must have existed in this realm, and her mind simply drew a blank. How he was still sane and even functional, let alone polite, was something she couldn’t even begin to fathom. “Why did you flinch when I turned my domain against you?” she asked, the thought suddenly popping into her head. “I mean, if you’re always experiencing so much dungeon rage, my little domain must feel insignificant.”

“You surprised me, little one. Till then, I had not suspected that you were a dungeon within my domain. I have never seen magic that could hop realms or hide a domain from another,” he said. “It is a powerful skill you have, but be wary of how you share it, for it makes you exceptionally vulnerable. Should I choose to, I could consume your entire domain and all its mana in an instant, and you would be powerless to defend against it. That is what dungeon rage is – a dungeon’s defense against invasive mana – and it is what I will teach you to use.”

“I would like to learn,” she said. She had already made the somewhat intuitive connection that her sharing her domain with Lira was what had propelled the Blooming Rot dungeon to grow so suddenly and aggressively when paired up with the undead monster she had become. Any tool to help her reclaim her space and clear Nevyn Eld’s abomination would be something she would take without hesitation.

“Very well.” The dragon’s rumble of approval vibrated through the stone of the library, transmitting through her bones.

The Dragon God, Azryet, offers his patronage.Mentor Patronage – AzryetTraits: Void, Holy, Domain, Deity, Minion, Draconic, Strength, Vitality, Endurance, Intelligence, Wisdom, Chaos, Combat, Healing, Knowledge.Experience gain is increased for actions aligned with your mentor or under their supervision. Gain additional skill unlocks and advances aligned with your mentor’s traits and experience.A portion of your increased experience is awarded to your mentor, increasing their reputation.Enchantment – TitheAccept this patronage?

“Um, no offense, but I did say I wasn’t looking for a god patron,” Ali said, surprised at the sudden notification that appeared.

“I respect your choice, Aliandra. That is not a godly patronage I offered. Besides, this way is better for what we must do.”

“It’s… oh,” she said, suddenly noticing the difference. A mentor patronage? With a dungeon god? This was truly something incredible, even if it would likely be a temporary arrangement. Azryet had not pushed her to become a follower, something he desperately needed, at least according to his own words.

That says more about him than an entire Grand Library of words, she realized, and then realized also that he could likely read her emotions – most of all, the deep and instinctual swell of her gratitude – with the utmost ease.

Without any further hesitation, she bowed deeply and accepted the offer.

“Thank you, Azryet,” she said simply. “What do we do next?”

“Watch closely, and I will show you.”

Something stirred over in the cathedral where he had allowed her to grow her domain. Her Subterranean Brood Queen, left to guard the area, perked up her head in surprise. Then Ali staggered as excruciating pain ripped through her mind, dragging her down as her vision dimmed and faded. She didn’t even feel when she hit the ground.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
