“Guild Master Marai, your act over the past year was most impressive,” Royce said as he wiped the blood from his mouth. He tried to maintain calm, but Marai could see the smoldering anger that threatened to crack the gentle façade. “Alas, you lack follow-through. The selfishness that brought you to our side was also the cause of your failure. You might have killed us all if you’d truly detonated your Inner World, not just a refraction.”

Marai didn’t have the luxury of wasting energy on bantering with this stranger wearing her companion’s face. She had her hands full keeping her Inner World from collapsing while keeping the teeming corruption at bay through a spatial barrier. There’d been no choice but to mix truth and falsehoods to trick these otherworldly monstrosities, no choice but to truly partake in their cursed offer. Now, she felt like she was dying of thirst, and the murky mist just within reach was life-giving water.

The fake Inner World she used to absorb the disgusting madness was made from a quarter of the real thing. By sacrificing it to disrupt the ritual, she’d severely damaged her foundations. Even if she managed to escape, there was a decent chance her cultivation would collapse. Besides, she couldn’t leave just yet.

“Still, I’m surprised. We thought we had you pegged,” Royce continued. “Or did you think you could discard your new allegiances after using us to break through? You should understand that some doors aren’t that easy to close after they’ve been opened. You can feel it, can’t you? And without our help—”

“Too slow,” Marai sneered with a bloody grin while grasping empty air.

An inconspicuous branch exploded, exposing a broken tiara embedded with a blue gem shimmering with ancient, illusory power. Everyone had kept themselves in check while they tried to understand where Sevona’s semi-awakened relic had disappeared to in the explosion, and the backlash wasn’t enough to undo Marai’s edge. Looks weren’t enough to become the leader of a treasure-hunting guild.

“No!” Royce roared, his form twisting into a monstrous shape as the tiara appeared in Marai’s hand.

Marai’s heart broke again as the grotesque appearance soiled her memories of the real Royce, but it only steeled her conviction. These invaders were right. She was selfish, lacking any real allegiance to the Empire beyond the sect’s border. But they shouldn’t have tried to recruit her by replacing the man she’d set her sights on. She’d ruin their plans if it was the last thing she did.

Her spatial blockade crumbled under an outpouring of furious attacks. There was no time to dodge, and she couldn’t allow this body to be destroyed. She drew the punishment into her Inner World, allowing it to rain down on her already lacerated continent like an apocalyptic meteor shower. Her mind was swimming from the infusion of corruption, and she almost caved to the urgent demands to hand over the treasure.

Marai’s vision was closing in, and her thoughts grew scattered. She desperately safeguarded her inner self, using the anger from Royce’s twisted form as fuel as she activated [Peregrine Voyage]. Royce’s roars distorted as she was dragged away, and the follow-up attacks passed through empty space. The next moment, Marai crashed into a wet, hard surface, and the collision snapped her spine. She neither had the energy nor the ability to get up on her feet.

“Still here,” Marai lamented as she felt the corruption surrounding her.

She’d hoped that her strongest escape treasure would let her see the Peregrine Isles one final time, but the seal had proven too strong. Marai wasn’t even certain the island remained in their dimension. The signs indicated it had shifted position, sitting at the threshold of both realities.

At least there were no signs of Royce, or anyone else for that matter. [Peregrine Voyage] had sent her deep into the impenetrable mists at the island’s center. Even weakened by the rituals, finding her would be like finding a needle in a haystack. Marai smiled as the darkness took her. The rest would depend on the efforts of others.
