Lea’s chosen magics would make her a weapon of almost unimaginable power, and that had to be harnessed if the girl wished to proceed with even a somewhat normal life.

As the days turned to weeks, Tala and Rane occasionally worked together to allow visitors, one of them monitoring Lea, the other constantly enforcing their will and authority to ensure the safety of the visitor.

Alat and Enar worked alongside them, both when visitors came and on their shifts. In truth, the alternate interfaces might have been able to handle things with Lea entirely on their own, but neither Tala nor Rane were willing to step back from their daughter’s needs in such a manner.

She needed help that they could give so they would be there for her.

Lyn visited on occasion, sometimes with Ron, sometimes without.

Some of the Talons came by, mainly those who had sparred with Lea in the past and wanted to maintain at least an acquaintance with her, but the most frequent guest was Talax.

The boy came whenever he was allowed and stayed as long as the Sappherrouses—or his mother—would allow. He played games with Lea, the board and card varieties forcing her to work on her fine control far sooner than she might otherwise have even attempted it.

To his credit, he never got upset when a game was disturbed, or even fully destroyed, by uncontrolled expressions of her new magic. He simply took it in stride, doing what he could to help. That said, he mercilessly teased her when he won, but Tala felt it was always in good fun.

It certainly inspired Lea to try harder each time.

Beyond games, he also brought books and read to her on occasion, he joined them for a meal, or the two just talked. He often chatted about his own growing up years, stronger than he ‘should have been’, and how it made him feel separate. He expressed how glad he was to have other kids slowly adding to the number of those reborn, and to have Lea in a similar situation to him. Though, he also expressed sympathy for her current plight.

Regardless, Lea was always glad to see him. She clearly loved her parents, but she was just as clearly becoming sick of her confinement.

A year passed in what felt like a single breath to Tala, and Lea continued to improve.

She was reinscribed a half-dozen times by means of Tala and Rane’s authority within Kit, replacing the metal across the full schema. Such might have worked for the first inscribing, but it had been safer to do it through more standard means the initial time. That more standard way was also required to ensure Mistress Holly’s involvement, and they’d rightly seen that as pivotal.

Regardless, the reinscribings were hardly an issue at all, and Lea would brook no discussion of allowing the magics to subside.

Lea was dedicated to learning to make it work, and her parents would be there to help make sure that she had a chance to make it happen.
