I left the beast carcass somewhere inside and went out looking for twigs and other materials I could use for an impromptu nest. Soon, the cave filled up with some really nice materials such as branches full of leaves, twigs I found on the ground, some tiny river rocks, a bit of clay, and even some shiny crystals from the side of the mountain.

A nest soon materialized under my expert talons, and though it was tiny, it was mine. The cave finally felt somewhat like a home. It wasn’t the best of homes, but it was mine, and that’s all that mattered.

Happy with my new sleeping place, I broke off the fatty leg of the Spirit Beast and began munching on it. I also lit up a fire nearby, but not too close, and soon after finishing my meal, sleep took me.

When I woke up in the morning, I felt very refreshed. The word looked a little brighter, and the sounds were just a little bit crispier. It was the start of a good day.

It was also the day I was to meet that little girl, who would hopefully teach me how to read. It was embarrassing to admit, but I was basically a newborn anyway, so it was alright! Once I learned the words, I could decipher the techniques on my own and gain some more skills, or even better, cultivation techniques.

This Divine Lightning Construction wasn’t bad, but it was unsuitable for my current body. It didn’t require any Lightning Affinity and would even give you some, but you still needed some sort of affinity with the element.

I would be brute forcing it, in a way. Not that it was a bad thing, I desperately needed it in order to cleanse my body of the Demonic Qi. Since lightning could do that, there was no way I would not make the best use of it.

I wasn’t planning on buying the Holy Affinity or finding a random priest, so this was heaven-sent.

Eyeing the Spirit Beast corpse, I devoured it in its entirety, gaining some Overeater reserves. I picked up the technique in my beak and rushed over to the meeting place.

When I took to the skies, I could have sworn it was a little bit more difficult to fly, but I could only blame that on the morning sluggishness. I wasn’t sure if the girl would be there already, well, it would be weirder if she was, given the time.

Much to my surprise, she was, though she didn’t look well. I descended in front of her, dropped the scroll, and waited for her to speak.

Imagine my surprise when she kowtowed at my feet, bashing her forehead against the ground while crying.

“Child, what’s gotten into you? Get up!” I yelled, but she refused to lift her head from the ground.

“Miss Fire Bird… I… I…” The little girl choked on her tears, and she told me what had happened during the few days I hadn’t seen her. All while trying not to keep crying even more.

Apparently, she rushed to her big brother with the pill, hoping to help him get better. But just as she was trying to convince him that the pill was from a good source, her cousin, Chiao Gu, stole it from his hands.

She wanted to know what happened to it, so she followed after them for two days. The little girl admitted that she wasn’t a good stalker, but at the very least, she had gathered enough info to be assured that he wouldn’t immediately eat the pill. As for how long that will last, she didn’t know.

Naturally, she came to me for help. Since it was our promised meeting day and all. Her big brother wasn’t doing so well and seemed to have gotten even sicker since meeting their cousin, Chiao Gu.

Now that was an issue. Although I didn’t know them, I did give the girl the pill, and getting it stolen from her was equal to disrespecting me. And such a crime was punishable by death.

I wouldn’t go around killing the children, though, but giving them the scare of their lives would not be too bad. The only issue was my feathers… and talons, and beak, and stature… Actually, the issue was that I was not human.

Going around in human villages wasn’t exactly something I wanted to do. However, since the girl was in a predicament, again, I wanted to help her get out of it. If for nothing else, but for my consciousness.

[Quest]

[Get Chiao Gu to return the pill, save Shu Xu’s big brother, and help heal him.]

[Rewards: 5 Medium Spirit Stones; Reading Skill; 2 Mystery Pills;]

[Bonus rewards based on completion percentage are awardable.]

Oho?

With the System giving me a new quest and with such beautiful rewards to boot, it was hard to reject. Now I had even more reason to help the little girl. Though the requirements were a little bit… extreme? Way more than I intended to do anyway.

However, I was already sold. Even if the spirit stones would not give me that much Qi, they were precious materials that I could use. As for the rest of the rewards… they were definitely something I wanted!

Leaving aside the mystery pills, the reading skill alone would be more than worth it! After all, being taught and already knowing were two different things. But going inside the village would be just a little more difficult than I would like. Unless the System had something for me…?

Hey System.

[Yes?]

Do you perhaps have a skill that doesn’t use Qi and allows me to disguise myself?

[Searching shop…]

[Skills that meet the criteria have been found.]

[Ghost Illusion]

[Transforms the user’s body into a ghost. The shape of the ghost and the duration of the skill depend on the user’s INT. To use this skill, comprehension of the Ghost Path is required.]

[Cost: 20 Skill Points]

Huh… twenty skill points? And for what! This is a scam, a scam I’m telling you!

[It’s so costly because it’s classified as an advanced skill.]

Huh? Since when were skills classified?

[Since the System Update.]

Why did you not tell me about it?!

[I never got the chance, TwT. You don’t talk to me anymore.]

What? Aren’t you supposed to be reading my thoughts and starting the conversation? That’s how we’ve always done it.

[… I was instructed to stop doing that.]

Huh?

“Miss Fire Bird… Please, help my big brother…”

The little girl’s voice broke me from talking with System. Either way, I quickly understood that skills would be a little on the expensive side. I didn’t want to spend my precious points, after all, System mentioned something about using them to evolve skills, I think.

[I did.]

Thank you for the confirmation.

Therefore, I would like to save them until I get an opportunity to evolve a skill. Preferably, Phoenix Fire.  Since it was my main source of damage, evolving it would help me greatly. Then again, it may evolve alongside my evolution, who knew?

I had to get there first.

“Alright, alright, stop crying. I will help you and your big brother.” I said with a magnanimous voice, puffing up my chest.

The little girl’s eyes sparkled, and she stopped crying after hearing my intentions. However, the how of how to get into the village and teach those punks a lesson was the most pressing question.

Unless… That ghost technique gave me an idea.

“Are you ready to give them a good show?” I grinned from ear to ear… or at least I thought I did. Judging by the girl’s reaction, I had little to no facial expression.

Sigh… being a bird is really difficult.
