After bathing, I planned on testing out my skills. Since I could use them, and since I had so many of them, I wanted to increase my proficiency. Even though certain skills were ranked as ‘Intermediate’ or ‘Master’, I felt like I lacked a deeper connection with them.

I was not as intimate with them as I was with my Nirvanic Flames, which I missed dearly. However, I had little choice in the matter. Once the little girl translated the technique for me, I could start practicing and refining my body with lightning. During that process, I could also work at grinding away the Demonic Qi invading my dantian.

Once that was over, I would be back at one hundred percent power… and maybe have a chance against a Core Formation cultivator. The sharp sword hanging over my head had not been forgotten.

Luckily for me, that uncle of theirs didn’t seem that interested in me and would be hunting me in passing, probably. That gave me no excuse to slack off, though. Even if I were just an ant, I would become strong enough to at least bite his leg off!

Once my feathers were dry, I flew to an emptier part of the forest, one where there were few trees. I had no intention of starting a forest fire, and even less so around that Yo Na’s fella territory.

I eventually found the perfect spot, and I wasn’t sure if it should be concerning that a rather large space was devoid of trees. It definitely looked like someone’s abandoned training ground, perhaps a cultivator, or someone who had nothing better to do? Who knew? It was mine now.

First, I took into account all the Bloodline Skills I had.

Phoenix Fire was my highest-ranked skill out of all of them, and also the one that refused to rank up the most. It seemed that the gap between Expert and Master was bigger than I thought.

In comparison, Stealth, who was at the Master rank, was only categorized as (Lesser), but it was the first skill that I’d gotten to that rank. I didn’t get an achievement for that, by the way!

[…]

Giving me the silent treatment, I see.

Anyway, if I had to guess, the (Lesser) trait made it so it was easier to rank up. I would expect that once the maximum amount of proficiency was reached, then it would upgrade from (Lesser) to normal, or something like that. Similarly to how Poison Resistance upgraded to (Greater). Although the circumstances between the two were vastly different.

After Phoenix Fire came Phoenix Reflex, Ember Step, and Elemental Wave, who were all at the Beginner Rank. Then, Precise Flame Control at intermediate, and everything else was Novice.

Currently, I am more interested in upgrading all the skills that were at the Novice rank, though doing so without a target to hunt would be difficult. Just like how Stealth didn’t give me much, if any, proficiency while not hiding from something, I didn’t think the other skills would rank up just by me using them.

Or perhaps they did, and I was very wrong. Novice meant a total beginner, so maybe if I familiarized myself with them enough, they would rank up to Beginner at the very least.

It was worth a try, and try I did.

First, Paralyzing Screech. Screaming around like a crazy bird wasn’t the most fun thing I could do with my free time, but it wasn’t the worst either.

The first time I used it, I could tell that my screech wasn’t perfect, but it did the job. I didn’t have many occasions to properly use it since I’d gained it, though. But now I had the time to really explore it.

I’d never realized just how annoying my own bird voice sounded. It was sharp, a little thorny, and even more than that, it was very… cute.

Cute wasn’t a word I would use to describe myself often, but in this body, I had no choice but to accept, I was incredibly cute. From the fluffy feathers to the round body, to the tiny beak and the squeaky voice, everything about me was cute.

If I had to guess, that high charisma stat had something to do with it. Or maybe that stat was because of my appearance? Would it lower once I grew up more or evolved into something scarier? Only time could tell.

After screaming for what felt like an eternity, my throat began to hurt. I could tell that the limit of this skill had been reached. Even with my abundant energy reserves, I could not use them without pause, and the more I used them, the less the effect. It looked like the power of the skill was reliant on how well my voice sounded as well.

However, something good did come out of that yelling session.

[Paralyzing Screech]

[Let out a screech that paralyzes anyone who hears it. Afflict the target with the [Paralysis] status effect. The effectiveness of the attack depends on the user’s INT, vocal power, and the target’s resistances.]

After going from the Novice rank to the Beginner rank, the skill description was updated based on my findings. That was really good, especially considering the fact that I could forget the tiny details.

With that done, it was time for a little period of rest. I flew up on top of a tree and took a deep breath and noticed that… there were no other birds around.

Well, there were, actually, just not flying. They all lay sprawling with their backs on the ground, unable to move or even budge their eyelids. Next to them were other animals, such as boars, deer, insects, and even some larger Spirit Beasts.

I didn’t do that, did I?

But of course, I did. After yelling like a maniac while actively using the skill, it would have been weird if there were no victims.

Well, either victims or… food. It would be a shame if I left those Spirit Beasts rich with Qi and other nutrients just lying around, right?

I jumped down and picked three of the biggest ones and killed them with a clean swing of Blade Wing.

Sorry, but a girl’s gotta eat. They weren’t even that high level, only about ten to thirteen, so the XP they gave was minuscule. I had to say, the way XP was calculated was downright awful.

I killed so many snakes and didn’t even get one single level, but after killing their higher-ups, I got so many. Even if the XP required to level up was exponential, wasn’t this too much?

Anyway, after eating as much of their meat as I could, I went back to the clearing and began training. I left the rest of their carcass for the other beasts, as once paralysis wore off, they could have at least something to eat.

Speaking of Blade Wing, I could not help but wonder just how sharp it was. Sure, it cut off a guy’s head in one swing, but that was just a weakling. His body was not even being reinforced with Qi, or if it was, it was very poorly done.

Although I doubted that a tree or a rock would be any better targets. Just to prove that, I swung my wing casually. But as it turned out, it didn’t pierce all the way through the trunk. Instead, it went as far as one third of the way through.

Hmm?

I pulled my wing back and hit it again with a lot more strength. That time around, the trunk got sliced through, but I used a lot more energy.

So, the amount of strength is related to how much energy I use? If that’s the case, then does the same thing apply to sharpness?

Walking up to a tree, I activated the skill, but controlled the amount of energy used. It was hard at first, but after doing it around five times, I managed to somehow manage the energy expenditure.

With the lowest amount, I could barely make a cut through the tree. I didn’t use much strength, if any at all, but simply cut like one would cut vegetables with a knife.

At a more moderate amount of energy used, the feathers seemed much sharper and deadlier, and when used to cut with, I could make a cut a few inches deep inside the bark.

When I tried using as much energy as possible, I felt that at some point I could not put in any more. That must be the hard energy limit that the skill has. Therefore, with the maximum amount of energy that I could put into the skill, my feathers became so sharp that even I was scared of getting cut.

However, as I sliced, I noticed that it kept using up my energy to replenish its sharpness. That wasn’t something that happened with the other two experiments, and I found it interesting.

That meant that when I use Wing Blade at its maximum potential, the energy cost would be way higher. But the results spoke for themselves.

‘Thud.’The tree fell with a muffled thud, hitting the trees in the vicinity, breaking branches, and crushing bushes. Its base had been cleanly sliced through, and I only used the minimum amount of strength necessary. Truly, this skill was simply too strong.

[Skill: [Blade Wing] has reached the [Beginner] Rank!]

Oho?

So, it was as I guessed, once I gained some understanding of the skill, then it would rank up regardless of the usage? Was there a hard limit to how much I could do that? There had to be, otherwise I could have evolved all of my skills by sitting down and meditating.

But that was too boring!

Fighting and killing, and hunting were much more enjoyable activities. However, I didn’t know what I was or was not allowed to fight and kill in this forest. Food to sustain myself would be understandable, but I couldn’t have a repeat of the snake incident.

Well, until I could let loose, I had to get stronger. Before, I wanted strength so I could be free, but now, I need strength. Mother wasn’t here to protect me anymore, and I somehow managed to make an enemy out of a Core Formation cultivator who knew where I was and who I was.

I had to raise my level and cultivation level, and also my Beast Core. It was so quiet and useless that I’d almost forgotten about it. The thing was still floating around in my dantian, sleeping.

It was covered almost entirely with fire, but a tiny part of it was blue in color.

The fire was obviously my Fire Affinity, so the blue color must be my Water Affinity, which was still in the negatives. The water serpent had given me a marginal increase after absorbing its core; however, it was far from enough.

I needed to either find a large number of cores or some other way to gain more water affinity. Not being able to use one of the second elements I was given was quite a bummer.

Usually, cultivators could only use one or two elements at the start, with others being learnable along their journey. The most talented cultivators, those blessed by the heavens, could use as many as nine elements without any issue, while the trashiest of the trash could not even use one.

I was once such trash in my past life. From what I could remember, I was a mortal with no spirit root, no meridians, no dantian… nothing. However, I could not remember what made me want to cultivate, or how far I’d gotten. Not completely.

My hazy memories resurfaced every so often, revealing themselves to me as I got stronger. Eventually, I would remember everything. Who would I be then? Fa Xiaolan, Little Flame, or someone else entirely?

Argh, those things were too complicated and annoying to think about. Who cared anyway? I was me, and me was me, and the present me was in danger!

Stronger, stronger, gotta get stronger, or else the Core Formation sword will fall and sever my neck!

Alright, alright, focus. Focus!!!

My fire skills, most notably Pyro Breath and Burning Wind, were extremely strong, especially the latter. However, the area it covered and the damage it did were too much. Just from what happened to that that Su… Xu girl, it was obvious that unrelated parties would easily get caught up in the fight.

And I didn’t want that, definitely, definitely didn’t want that. What if I bothered some scary monster that could kill me with one snort? That was too scary!

So I had to find a way to make it so Burning Wind only had an effect over an area I chose, and also manage the temperature and strength of the wind.

Using the same method that I did with Blade Wing, and after a lot of trial and error, I managed to reduce the size of the area of effect to as little as a small house, like a hut on top of a mountain, and controlled the speed of the wind to the point where… a rock was torn to shreds.

Yeah, if you asked me, that was more of a wind elemental type of skill than fire, but who was I to complain?

The temperature was a little trickier, as judging how much energy was required to raise or lower it was not easy. Eventually, I managed, but even at the lowest temperature, plants would still wilt and die within a minute.

At the highest temperature… they exploded.

As for how many plants died in the process of my experiments? Well, one only needed to look around and notice that the surrounding area looked as if a drought had passed by.

It was definitely not my fault, though. Nothing to do with me, definitely. Maybe some other crazy Phoenix came around to destroy the forest for fun. Me? Blameless!

Anyway, after using it for so long, Burning Wind had also reached the Beginner rank. As for Pyro Breath, I played around with it and managed to control the length and force of the fire, but it didn’t rank up.

It was quite a shame, but I could not have epiphanies in all skills.

As for Flaming Talons… I used it so much in my fights, yet it was still stuck at the Novice rank. That had to be a mistake of sorts, or maybe it was extremely close to ranking up? Who could say?

It was time to head back home, though. On the way to the cave, I picked up another wandering Spirit Beast and killed it, as I would need dinner and breakfast at the very least.

As I walked inside and lit up the place, I realized that it looked a little… depressing. Besides some feathers, bones, the bag of holding, and the two cores, I had nothing.

This place definitely needed a nest!

