Vulcan looked down at the broken pieces for far longer than necessary considering his processing speed. His faceplate turned to his father and it was weird to Viv how something with no actual features could express that much bafflement.

//IT’S SHIT.

Solfis didn’t immediately reply. Viv knew Solfis didn’t create mana, so to speak, but he did have a soul Nyil recognized, and for the first time ever, she felt it. It was uncomprehendingly massive. And cold. Very, very cold. Something expanded from there like an iris slowly unfolding to let the emotion behind flow, and that emotion, rather predictably, was rage.

Blind, never-ending rage.

Rage so pure it was almost physical.

//YOU.

//FOR THREE HUNDRED YEARS I FOUGHT ALONE PRAYING FOR REINFORCEMENTS.

//FOR THREE HUNDRED YEARS I HELD THE LINE.

//I WATCHED OVER THE BODY OF IRLEFEN.

//I KEPT THE EMPIRE ALIVE AND HOPED THAT BY KILLING NECRARCHS, I WOULD HOLD THE TIDE OF UNDEATH.

//I WENT TO BATTLE EVERY DAY HOPING SOMETHING SUBSISTED.

//AND THAT MY MASTER’S SACRIFICE WAS NOT IN VAIN.

//AND I DID IT

//FOR THIS?!

Solfis’ more human hand grabbed a loose stone and reduced it to gravel in a pang of hydraulic pressure.

//FOR.

//THIS?

//YOU DESPICABLE, PATHETIC EXCUSE FOR AN INBRED BEASTLING.

//YOU DISAPPOINTMENTS.

//WHAT IS ALL THIS?

//WHAT HAVE YOU DONE?

//WHAT.

//HAVE.

//YOU.

//DONE???????

Followed by a deafening scream that Viv could only define as a house-sized dial up modem being thrown into a blender. The Strike Golem sprinted forward in a wave of collapsing buildings right to the imperial statue, which he grabbed by the feet and pulled. The marble limbs were reduced to powder under the immense pressure. An instant later, the statue was sent flying into the bay.

It was the signal for the other golems to move. Marus was grabbed two seconds later and Viv floated away, dejected.

“Well, there goes the fucking city.”

***

Viv sat on a boulder, watching as the capital of the Remnants was reduced to rubble and ruin, or at least more so than it had already been. She took a sip of kava. It was a nice kava, freshly made from a nearby canteen.

A piece of palace crashed against the fortress walls, this time taking a bit of the crenelation with it. That was the fourth throw already.

“Some milk?” Sidjin said from behind.

“Aw, thank you.”

They settled in to wait on the rock. Viv wished she had some biscuits to go with her drink.

“Sooooo where are Arana and Marus?” Sidjin asked.

“Oh, a bit everywhere. Except the heads, of course.”

"And the half golem?”

“The real golems harvested the silverite for their own use.”

“I see.”

“While Marus was still in it.”

“That must have been unpleasant.”

“It certainly sounded that way.”

Another crash reverberated in the distance. Viv resisted the urge to set up a charging station. The ambient mana wasn’t great here anyway. And they had enough energy as it was.

“I really thought we would be able to recover the workshops,” Sidjin moaned.

“Yeah, me too, but it’s the people and their expertise that matter.”

“Is that… a giant metal vat on the statue’s head?”

The golems had planted the broken statue in the middle of the bay, feet down this time, with an improvised hat on top of it.

“Yes, from the foundry. I think it’s a running joke of theirs. A way to say they’ve been there and no one was able to stop them.”

“I hope they don’t make a habit out of it.”

“Trust me, I know Solfis. It could be muuuuuch much worse,” Viv replied, taking another sip of nawa. “And no matter what, I take solace in the fact I’m not the person getting the most screwed over here.”

“I think I know who you’re talking about.”

Viv nodded to herself.

“It’s lucky I’ll go to the Glastian wall very soon.”

***

Lady Azar, First Minister and head of the government ‘in absentia’ while the younglings went carousing south, looked up from a pile of reports on tar production. The yries had found some tar deposits and requested a clean zone to harvest it ‘for military purposes’. She frowned. Another one of Lak-Tak’s harrien-brained schemes, no doubt.

“Come on in,” she told the person approaching her door.

Her secretary carefully opened the door. Lady Azar recognized that face. It was the bad news face. She sighed.

“What is it?”

“The, ah, the empress reports that the conquest is complete.”

Lady Azar blinked.

“I’m sorry, could you repeat that?”

“The conquest of the Remnants has been successfully completed, ma’am. The empress requests you to manage the integration.”

“Of Frostbay?”

“Of all of it, Your Grace. All, ah, three hundred and twenty-seven recognized municipalities for a population of, hmmm, approximately forty-five thousand people.”

Lady Azar leaned back into her chair.

This couldn’t be happening.

That was twice the current population of New Harrak, after a recent wave of immigration they STILL HADN’T FINISHED PROCESSING YET!

“Why did I even come here?”

“To make a difference?”

Lady Azar glared at her secretary. That woman had a mouth on her. It was the girl’s influence. She was far too casual with propriety and the chain of command.

“By all the gods light and dark, this is ridiculous. At least, this time there will be an existing framework. We shall raise the Remnants’ administration to our standards. Have the coachmen prepare my personal carriage. I shall go to Frostbay in person to assess the situation.”

“Yes, well, milady, this concerns the second part of the missive?”

Lady Azar didn’t have intuition. That was a spy skill. And yet, a shiver of anticipation crawled up her spine.

“The war golems went to Frostbay under Solfis’ direction. They found it very offensive.”

Lady Azar froze as she was standing up.

“The imperial archives?”

“Very, very offensive.”

Lady Azar calmly grabbed her letter opener, then, with a frightful yell, planted it in her desk.
