Chapter 503

Matt was surprised with just how much force - ninety two percent of his non-crystalized buffs - he needed to crush the sword in his hand, but he’d suspected it would be fairly tough from the very start. What he hadn’t anticipated was it transferring the damage he dealt to the man holding it. With its host’s death, it dissolved into threads of brown and silver light that imploded into themselves like a sea of roiling eels.

Except rather than grow smaller, the impromptu light show grew dimmer with each inward rotation.

He cycled through his Domain, particularly his Meld and stage two Power, in an attempt to stop it, but none of it halted the swirling and cycling of the lights as they burrowed into the deeper layers of reality. In fact, neither had even been able to interact with the light show in any way. That was interesting enough that he didn’t want to dig truly deep into his toolkit to try and halt the process, instead he focused on studying the phenomenon. Even if he could stop it, which he didn’t think was possible at this point, he was more likely to get something useful out of it by watching.

He quickly realized the sword was far more impressive and interesting than its previous wielder had showcased.

Not interesting enough to take the sword up on its offer. He had no interest in allowing anything, even some ancient sword, to so blatantly try to leech from him. Despite that, it was still worth letting his [Actual Insight] study and analyze the energies at play. He did recognize some familiar phenomenon from aperology, which was both unexpected and exciting. He’d have to check in the next few years if he’d developed any new instincts around rift creation based on his observations.

While his subconscious did its thing - centuries of experience had taught Matt he was better off not actively poking at the internals while it was doing said things - he considered the ‘fight’ he’d just had, and how it seemed quite likely that he’d been played. Chances were Aurelius had been played as well, but then again Matt hadn’t been expecting the true mastermind to be a sentient weapon that couldn’t easily be destroyed or captured.

It really could have worked on its sales pitch though. ‘Power beyond imagining’ worked a lot better if the current user of that power hadn’t just been absolutely crushed, and the accumulated ‘wisdom of aeons’ clearly didn’t mean much considering, once again, the mental state it had left its past meat-puppet with.

The sword’s ability to draw power from death - both of its targets and its wielder - was interesting, but still didn’t inspire much confidence. It would have been ideal to study it a while and keep it contained in some capacity, but as Matt watched the final glimmers of light fade away, he sighed.

The ripples reminded him of what happened when trying to make a rift inside of a rift and he suspected he knew what that meant. He wasn’t sure if never seeing the sword again would be lucky, or if he’d be fortunate to run into it once more. Either way, he queued up a message to Wun to get him to keep an eye out for weird rift drops in the coming decades.

Dropping the half-merged mix of [Cracked Phantom Armor] and [Archmage’s Presence] that he was still tinkering with, Matt grabbed the rest of Aurelius’ body and shoved it into a storage ring. Once that was taken care of, he didn’t bother lingering in the Tier 35 rift any longer.

A [Portal] placed him next to the exit and the ruined reward distortion courtesy of Aurelius’ intrusion, but he didn’t bother to do more than glance at the four mana stones.

If Aurelius hadn’t already been dead, he might have thrown a few insults at him for wasting the first delve rewards, but his mind was far more interested in the sword.

When Matt exited the rift, all of the guards flinched but didn’t move. It had only been a single month of time inside, which for a Tier 35 rift translated to roughly 91 hours, or just under four days. That was far shorter than his expected first delve, and the guards were smart enough to know that.

Instead of explaining what had happened, Matt flicked the data packet he’d compiled during his initial exploration to the guards so they could pass it on. It wasn’t as detailed as he would have preferred, as he hadn’t gotten around to micro-scanning the full rift, but he’d identified and categorized everything larger than a fist. That should be sufficient for the follow-up teams to build upon.

Most of his attention was turned towards the reports his subconscious was spinning up for him, knowledge of Aurelius’ history crossed with various crime records to compile a full list of his kills. The most recent ones were the easiest, with them being public kills during duels, but they also weren’t the kills he was looking for. While some of those opponents might have been unwilling to go into battle against an absorber, they’d all signed up knowing death was a very real possibility in such fights.

Matt wasn't looking for Aurelius’ volunteers, he was looking for his victims.

Most were easy to identify. In fact, in most of the murders he looked into, Aurelius had already been a suspect. Even a prime one in some cases. However, for all his faults, the older man had always been careful to avoid leaving enough proof to get him arrested.

After a few minutes of careful review while he made his way to his next destination, Matt identified eleven people who he was confident Aurelius had killed outside of combat for no other reason than to absorb their power.

Five were from the previous dynasty, which put them firmly beyond his reach. Tracking a person's genealogy through a few dozen generations was hard enough, but after over sixty thousand years and the sheer bureaucratic chaos and destruction the dynasty change had created, it would take actual amounts of mana from him to see who had the legal right to restitution.

He set those aside for the time being. He could revisit in the future, when he had some faster connections to the deep archives on the Capitol. But for the time being, he mostly just focused on providing the additional information gleaned over the course of their fight. Most of the stuff his [AI] had noted was non-admissable under black box laws, but Aurelius' assortment of ‘Trophies’ and accompanying information was enough evidence on its own.

None of the cases were less than a thousand years old, so there wasn’t the most time pressure involved, but Matt still felt impatient as he submitted requests for the reexamination of evidence. There was only a single justice higher than Tier 40 associated with any of the cases, so it would take even longer for him to get a response, but at the moment he was more annoyed with the connection speeds he had to deal with.

Matt distanced himself from his [AI] a bit to lessen the emotional bleed-over, and looked at the bigger picture. Those who were found to officially be slain by Aurelius would be entitled to a share of his rather sizable estate, to be distributed to their remaining families. The man had been a popular gladiator and had the wealth to prove it.

However, one of the cases stood out to him. The only technically still active case.

A Vanessa Roadings, who had confessed to the murder of one of Aurelius’ victims for whatever reason. If he pushed for it, he could probably see her freed remotely, but he didn’t when he went over the particulars of her case and saw from her initial confusion how quickly she’d accepted the crime. He had suspicions about what had happened there, but he wanted to check them out in person before ruining her life trying to give half assed help. It wouldn’t be the first time someone accepted a lesser punishment to escape another situation, nor would it be the last.

As an Ascender, he did have considerable legal sway even beyond what his status as a duke warranted. He could use said power to expedite pretty much any legal proceeding and even, in some cases, override rulings with authority on-par with that of the Emperor.

The problem there was that doing anything like that sent out warnings and messages to pretty much all nearby dukes to ‘minimize damage’ and to whatever Royal was nearby to ‘prepare for containment,’ plus a high-priority alert sent to Manny himself about whatever he’d done.

The overrides were baked into the Empire’s various systems and well hidden.

So much so that Matt hadn’t actually believed Allie when she’d told them about demoting Ciceron from head librarian to street sweeper. It hadn’t been until Leon confirmed everything while filling him in about things she no doubt hadn’t cared to remember, such as the revocation of such privileges should it be used for undeserving reasons. In reality, she hadn’t been supposed to tell him or any of the other active Ascenders about the overrides at all, but she’d been too eager to share her new toy and popped around to all of them as she cackled with newfound power.

He hadn’t used the overrides yet and doubted anyone would bother to come and stop him given what he was intending to do if he did, but that was more a consequence of history. Most Ascenders who used such powers were usually following up threats they’d just leveled, by doing exactly what Allie had been doing at that moment.

Something she didn’t have the authority to do by… holding down the button.

There was very little doubt in his mind that when the overrides had been created, no one had expected Allie. Doubtless, it had been made at a time when a wrathful Ascender would have resulted in the destruction of a planet, and was intended to keep their displeasure focused on a singular organization, or individual.

Matt doubted the designers had expected an Ascender to temporarily demote the head librarian to street sweeper when said Ascender had been caught trying to sneak into restricted areas. Or for there to be multiple teams of Ascenders to be active at the same time to learn of the secret early instead of organically finding out as she did.

Then again, they were Ascenders. Given that context, Matt felt that was really just a failure of that person’s imagination.

Lila had at least quashed any notion of frivolous usage by promising to eat Allie if the teleporter ruined it for the rest of them. Given that he’d taken care of what amounted to an assassin in a rift, he doubted anyone would be rushing to restrain him if he did wind up pushing the literal button in question but he didn’t want to deal with the followup if he didn’t have to.

His legal business momentarily taken care of, he stopped by the bakery he remembered Aunt Helen mentioning enjoying and grabbed a large portion of their remaining stock. Most of it went into a time stopping ring he kept on hand for snacks, but two full bags were kept out for Aunt Helen.

Matt froze on his way out, strudel mid-descent from his mouth as he identified one of Allie’s ‘secret bakery’s’ true location. He and everyone else who tried to ask her for the best snack locations knew that she hadn't actually been getting her desserts from Kent Krust’s. Sure, she went there and bought their products but ever since he caught her first secret location after his Insight came online, she’d started using Kent’s as a cover and he hadn’t been able to find the rest.

Walking on air - he was far too heavy for the ground - he sent a picture of him walking away from the bakery to Allie, the last corner of the pastry clenched between his teeth.

Her reaction only added to his good mood as he made his way to the teleportation pad. He could have traveled through chaotic space but that would have required him to store the bread in a storage ring and he knew Aunt Helen preferred fresh items.

Whether there was a discernible difference didn’t really matter but it did require him to take the slower path.

He’d already warned workers about his early departure and the workers had preloaded the pad. Using his full hands as an excuse to skip most of the ass kissing, he refilled everyone's mana pool with his Concept even as he refilled the reserves his early teleport would drain. He spent a few extra seconds to top them off but regretted it as it cost him almost two additional minutes of fawning before they let him go.

Every word made him regret not instantly filling the storage system but that would have ruined every conduit they had. Normally, he wouldn’t have minded the chatting but he hadn’t seen Aunt Helen in almost five hundred years due to scheduling issues and they were slowing him down.

Storage topped off, he squeezed himself into the small spot they’d left for him and swapped worlds. Before anyone else could accost him, Matt increased his perception and stepped into the sky. He then immediately stepped back to the ground in front of the very person he’d been hoping to see.

Dropping his perception down to Tier 26, he grinned even as he used [Telekensis] to hold the two bags as he opened his arms. “Long time no see.”

Instead of getting the hug he was excited, he got a light swat on the chest. “Don’t try to pretend that you didn’t run away and then run back. I noticed the difference, young man! Don’t try to lie to me!”

Matt laughed instead of trying to defend himself. “I was eager to not get bogged down again.”

That finally earned him an eye roll and the hug he’d been waiting for. “Mr. Popular, I’m sure.”

Taking a sniff, her eyes narrowed into slits as she pressed her nose into his shirt. “Were you in a fight recently?”

Matt didn’t answer until he’d released Aunt Helen and they started to walk to her place. Her bodyguards fell back but he didn’t mind them as he described the attack obliquely.

