After the first time he’d interacted with Aunt Helen post-integration, he’d done a bit more digging on her bodyguards and had come to an understanding with those who ran the more practical aspects. While they rarely lacked for funding, given how many people Aunt Helen had helped had reached Tier 45 and ascended, they rarely had as much liquid capital as they could really use.

He’d been more than able to help, given his own financial situation in the last few thousand years.

Aunt Helen picked up on the drop in his mood immediately and stopped them mid-street to ask. “What’s wrong? I felt that.”

Matt rolled his eyes, sighing dramatically. “You remember how Kees retired to Ascend right?”

Aunt Helen nodded easily. They’d talked about that before, but he hadn’t shared that much over their normal message exchanges. He hadn’t even meant to bring it up at all, but he didn’t mind elaborating now that he had.

“His replacement, Elliot, is good at his job. In fact he might be too good. He’s taken Titan’s Torch from falsely profitable and laundering my mana to stay afloat, to wildly profitable. Logically that should be a good thing but I can’t honestly say I’m happy about it. On the surface it’s a positive but I can’t help but dislike his methods. I am also self aware enough to know that a lot of my issues with him come from the personality mismatch between us and how his moves opened us up to the Cabal’s latest strike.” After a moment he added, “And because he was always supposed to be a temporary replacement.”

Having gotten past the sensitive topic he returned to verbal as he opened her door for them. “Camreon is still having jitters and wants to prepare more. Again. To make a long story short, I’m growing frustrated. I’m even irritated at Kees for putting me in this situation in the first place. If the asshole was going to delay his ascension to throw his hat in the rift to be the one to awaken the heir apparent, he might as well have kept working for me while puttering around! He keeps sending me messages of all the places he’s vacationing and it's not fair!”

Matt let his smile give the lie to his final words. He didn’t actually blame Kees for delaying with the few other Tier 45’s all hoping to set their remaining families up with the Emperor’s generous offer for the one who helped awaken the new generation of nobles. His former second in command had done more than his fair share of the work for Titan’s Torch and deserved all the time off he wanted before he once again began to advance in the higher Realms.

Aunt Helen sniped right back with her own grin. “Leave us retirees alone. We seek a slower pace. Not like you children who race ahead so quickly.” She cupped his face for a moment before pinching his skin and failing to stretch it. “It feels like last week you were Tier 4 and sitting in Travis and Keith's house for your first ascension. It might do you some good to slow down yourselves, but I won’t waste my breath trying to convince you of that.”

As if reminded of something she sped up, pulling him along in her excitement. When they reached the private kitchen, he saw that one of the bar stools was very different from the others.

With a less skilled craftsman, the heavy gray Tier 43 steel with glowing blue mana channels would have looked out of place, but they’d managed to make it look elegant rather than industrial.

Matt was touched and let it show. “You didn’t have to.”

That earned him another light swat. “I said last time you came over that I would ensure you have somewhere to sit anywhere I’m permanently based out of and I meant it! Speaking of, I haven’t seen you or Liz in a while, would you like a new fire?”

Letting her redirect the conversation from her incredibly kind gesture, he carefully sat on the chair and let it take his full weight even as he held out a hand with a wide grin plastered on his face.

“I would love one. Both Liz and I were sad to see the last one fade. She managed to keep it going another decade, but eventually it was just an ichor-based flame and we removed the fireplace instead of having it sit there empty. It will be nice to put it back in.”

Aunt Helen's smile was impossible to repress as she cupped a hand to her mouth and breathed out a tiny wisp of fire too small to properly call an ember. It swirled between her fingers before, with her next breath, she made it grow into a miniature inferno. Except, rather than burn with heat or danger of a normal flame, it burned with the warmth that only Aunt Helen could bring.

While Talents were hard to predict, Matt and everyone else felt that her Tier 25 Talent had been compensating for a lifetime of work fixing her Concept.

As the flame touched his hand and was absorbed he felt an unmatched warmth enter him, as if he was being embraced by Aunt Helen’s concentrated love and compassion. The flames tried to heal him, but when they found that he didn’t need it they seemed content to simply exist and warm him well beyond the physical.

When he got home, he’d expel the flames into the fireplace they had specifically made to work with her Talent. From there, it would spread its effect to the entire house and everyone inside it while also stretching the flame’s life span as far as possible.

Matt beamed as he let his sincerity shine through. He’d have loved to say a million things but between them he only needed two.

“Thank you!”

Aunt Helen was preening as she sat down next to him. “Good, now tell me about the fight you were in. For real this time! Don’t try and fluff me off again young man.”

Using [Create Illusion], he created a showing of Aurelius and his sword, explaining what little he knew, ending it with a hopeful request for information.

“Have you ever heard of a sword like that before?”

Aunt Helent swatted him for the third time but this time she actually looked mildly offended and he worried for a moment. “I’m old but I’m not a history book! Ask Ciceron if you want to know stuff like that! I’ll pretend you didn’t ask while we snack on that loaf of pumpernickel.”

Matt rolled his eyes even as he split one of the loaves and handed her half of the dark bread. Instead of immediately digging in, she grabbed butter, honey, and olive oil for them to dip as they made their way through the loaf while chatting about nothing in particular.

When their bread was almost gone, she circled them back around. “Okay, I’ve thought about it and I think I might have heard of the sword or something like it. I could be wrong but it's the only thing I can think of that might be related. You of course know of the Inheritors’ Vault?”

Matt nodded. Even without his firsthand experiences with Seasaidh and her morningstar Stjolna, everyone knew about the Clans’ armory full of Artifacts, capable of almost singlehandedly turning whoever they bonded with into an elite. He only tangentially knew about the Vault itself though, as even Allie hadn’t been able to figure out how to get in, or even where it was, despite more than a few attempts.

Waving a crust around, she continued. “There’s all kinds of stories about items that have gone missing from the Vault, and even more about the items Simeria took inspiration from, or even outright copied, as she was getting started that I know haven’t made it to the modern day. I never heard of any of them with the kinds of powers or abilities you described, but who knows? Did you consider that it was telling the truth? Maybe it is some long-escaped Artifact that somehow survived its first wielder’s death. But like I said, go ask Ciceron if you want to learn more. He enjoys learning about this kind of thing and probably knows off the top of his head.”

Matt had also come to the same suspicion, but he was happy to have her confirm his idea.

Rather than linger on the negative, he rubbed his hands together as they finished the loaf and asked. “Okay, what are we cooking?”

Except he didn’t get the response he expected. “Not yet, Mister! You tried to run away from me earlier and I haven’t paid you back for that. We can cook after I take you to task in the sparring room!”

Matt nearly did a double take at the unexpected words. He’d been trying to get Aunt Helen to spar or let him assist her training in any way for the last two thousand years. But contrary to his expectations, she’d turned him and everyone else down every time it was brought up.

Popping to his feet, he held out his hands to help her up before she could change her mind. “Then what are we waiting for?! Let’s go!”

***

It awoke to find itself nestled amongst others of its kind. Weapons of all shapes and sizes with no two identical. The only unifying feature among the blades, and the one it didn’t share, was their disrepair. The weapons were dusty, rusty, and sad.

This was still its new resting place, and instead of listening to the new nattering voice of Aura, or whatever the name of its last wielder had been as they joined into the chorus of their many predecessors, it shuttered its awareness until someone new came along. That it had been rejected cut deeply, an insult that stung each and every time someone closed their mind to the power it could offer.

It had still gotten what it wanted. A dead wielder meant a return to the beginning. A new form, a new name, a new chance at ascension. With just one more wielder, no matter how uncooperative, stubborn, and boring, added to its collection, it was one step closer to Ascension. Another death, another former wielder ready to serve and help empower the next. With all of that potential, there was a still distinct lack of autonomy that not even a sentient Tier 1 blade could overcome.

Its only currently available course of action was to… wait.

It could only hope it wouldn’t be too long this time. As much as it always told its wielders that fate was what brought them together, it knew how little truth there was to those statements. A sword was nothing without a hand to wield it.

The eternal curse of being one half of a whole.

That resulted in luck being a larger determining factor. It had been a few… hundred? Maybe a few thousand wielders since it had truly been forced to wait what it considered a long time, but if such was to occur there was nothing it could do but sit around and wait.

Despite that, it was still hopeful that the weapons around it, as disrepaired as they were, was a sign that its resting place was at least in a settled part of the Realm. If nothing else that meant the odds of being left unpaired for millions of years again weren’t too high.

It waited alertly for an entire day, using the limited awareness it had cultivated in its long existence to probe for signs of life, but when it found nothing, it allowed itself to drift off to sleep. It was not sleep in the way a biological being would understand it, but that was the word which most quickly stopped its wielders from badgering it. And truthfully, it was hardly as though a better word did exist.

It awoke as a curious finger ran down its flawless blade.

A young, freshly awakened girl who had yet to taste anything more than the first motes of essence. Its excitement at encountering a potential wielder so soon didn’t stop it from using the touch to weave the first threads of connection.

While she admired its previous form, it interwove with her spirit and learned about this new potential host.

At one point in its life it was sure the fierce undercurrent of rage barely contained in the young girl might have startled or excited it, but now it was merely noted along with everything else. It calmly took everything in and formulated the best avenue of approach from what it saw.

“You do not need to fear them. Truly, it is they who should fear you. Or would you prefer something else? Power over them? Control? Their respect?”

The girl jerked back, startled away, but the connection had been established and unless she put a universal shift between them, it would be able to communicate regardless of how far she ran. It would be able to draw her back in due time, if that were to happen. But that would require time, during which time it could not bond to another. Not unless it found a way to shed the girl. And it abhorred time spent wasting away, so it would much rather that this… Zhu Li, take it now.

Straightening her back and facing the door, she demanded, “Luo Mei? Is that you? Was your latest triumph not enough? Must you chase me down to gloat further?”

It had no idea who the other mentioned girl was but it didn’t care. Instead, it made its offer, stoking a faint thread of indignation and curiosity to ensure its words took.

“No, Zhu Li. I am not your tormentor. I am your salvation. I am everything you have ever wished for, the rightful judgement descending upon those who have done you wrong. Take the sword before you, and I shall show you the way.”

Zhu Li, already emotionally distraught, didn't fully believe it, but it could also tell that she wanted to believe. That made everything else easier. They could skip the dancing and back and forth and it wanted to.

“Who's there? Show yourself!? Luo Mei? Guo Yue? Gao Yang? Who is it!”

It wanted to sigh at the predictably of youth, but it was still better than Aura’s… everything.

The girl reached out, nearly grasping its handle, but then she hesitated. Before she could have second thoughts, it redirected the conversation back to its intended purpose. “You never answered my question.”

Zhu Li shook her head forcefully, bringing herself to remember the question before she continued the gesture in a more controlled manner. “I want them to hurt, the way they hurt me. But I could never use that sword. It is far too barbaric, too wide, not fast or nimble enough. I require a rapi—”

