It didn’t bother to wait for the girl to finish speaking as it started shaping its body, pulling on her innate desires as a guide and framework. It wasn’t like she was asking for something new or unique. At one point in its long life only its wielders had been able to change its form, and only with great difficulty, but that had been many long waits ago. It knew for sure it had been at least ten, but it was only semi-confident of it being under fifteen. Had it reached twenty? Beyond that level of specificity it couldn’t remember and didn’t care to.

Zhu Li reached out instinctively as it continued. “You only need the merest taste of my power and know that they shall hurt. Your struggles have been seen, and they have been judged worthy. All the power, all the knowledge of the Realm, shall be yours, Zhu Li. Revenge shall be yours. The humiliation and shame you have felt shall soon be forgotten by you and imposed on those who inflicted it upon you. Take the sword, claim its power, and never be weak again.”

It felt the girl's reaction more than it saw it. Wanting to reel in the bait, it reached out through their growing bond and sensed for the opportunities surrounding the girl. Targets. Trophies.

Most were blatantly outside her capabilities, including the one with the greatest existing emotional connection, who it assumed was the aforementioned Luo Mei. Whatever that girl’s fate, it wasn’t going to be ended by Zhu Li.

At least not at Tier 1, that it knew for sure.

However, the second strongest target, Gao Yang, a young man of a similar age, felt like a difficult but possible opponent, one which its mentorship could turn into a proper victory. A taste of blood, to finalize their connection and serve as a most delightful first meal, one just barely within Zhu Li’s ability to overcome. A trial and target in one.

It could have spent more time and identified easier targets with acceptable compatibility and better future synergies, but through countless wielders it had learned several very important lessons.

One of which was that while it could turn trash into treasure with enough guidance and help, it couldn’t do it all. If that were possible, it would have Ascended on its own. No, it required a good wielder, not someone turned into a competent one through its effort. Its time and energy were better used to polish a nearly perfect product.

One of the easiest metrics it had discovered to determine someone's potential was to send them against a nearly impossible target. There were only three real outcomes, they attempted it and succeeded, in which they proved their worth and earned more investment. They did the same but failed in the attempt, which let it move on as fast as possible, usually to the far more promising individual responsible for that death. The third possibility was someone deviated from its first target, but its solution then was to fall asleep and see if they could grow to Tier 15 on their own.

At that point it would reevaluate and if it ever decided to deliberately move on, it could do what it did to its previous wielder… Aura? It was a shame its last wielder had decided to deviate from their path after getting back onto it after a rocky start, but ultimately it chose its wielder, not the other way around.

“You have been told that you can never be strong, simply because of your Talent. It isn’t what you dreamed of.” Zhu Li’s eyes widened, not comprehending how it could know that but it didn’t slow down. It didn’t want to get bogged down in such irrelevant details. “But I assure you, overcoming, or even fixing such things are trivial for me. Death shall be your currency, paid when due and yielding such grand profit. I can teach you secrets which nobody on your world has ever even dreamed of, take the might of those who oppose you and give it to you. I can do the impossible! Guide you to long-lost treasures, train you to use mighty techniques, all to help you fulfill your revenge, and let you stand tall in the blood of your enemies. Is that not what you want, Zhu Li?”

It was relieved to see only eager anticipation in her eyes at the mention of killing people. Wielders who had such qualms never lasted long and it was glad to start on a positive note.

Zhu Li didn’t need to hear any more and eagerly agreed without asking any of the hard to answer questions. It repeated long memorized words as it described what it felt she needed to know before ‘growing tired’ and ‘falling asleep’ to avoid the endless follow-up questions. It had spoken more today than it had in the last thousand years and with so little death to feed it recently, it truly did need something of a break.

It was the curse of the immortal.

It had spent far too much time doing all of this. None of it was new or interesting after so many repetitions. Time in the mortal realms, time in the lower immortal realms, it had even spent enough time in the upper immortal realms that even those heights had grown dull and lackluster without the possibility of Ascension. It had spent too much time in this Realm.

It had been around for so long that it was no longer sure if it truly remembered being in a lower Realm and ascending into this one, or if it had always been in this Realm even when it was at some point a lower Tier. It still told all of its new wielders that the former was true but even it could no longer remember.

It wasn’t like the distinction actually mattered, it simply wanted out.

Anything would be better than this monotony.

It did not, however, expect the girl to die within a few hours. Perhaps it should have used a bit more of its power to stay aware and guide her more actively?

Well.

At least the boy who killed her picked it up, and he proved far more promising than the Zhu Li girl. He had even killed Zhu Li with it, meaning it had more starting power to work with, and it used it to provide the boy with a bit of extra essence and some words of advice from a past wielder.

He was promising, and took to the sword forms admirably. However, he proved too headstrong and died in a rift less than five years later, and once again it found itself reforming - this time, stuck up to its hilt in stone at the top of a mountain.

It had barely whispered anything to the person who had pulled it from the stone before one of their party members stole it and shoved them off a cliff. Not a typical exchange of wielders, to be sure, but it never minded ambition.

The more the better.

Eventually it would find a proper wielder.

Eventually.
