He closed his eyes and tried to calm his thoughts. He didn’t need to try to plan out an assault on a continent-sized dungeon at the moment. But his imagination was threatening to run away with him, imagining things that made a Grave Tangle look like a moderate threat. That wasn’t what he needed right now. They had defeated Badud’s grid, and freed the nation of Esebus from their control. Garna and Ushia were taking over, and it was likely that the country would soon change for the better. He didn’t know their exact plans, but he hoped they’d do better than the system Sussu had set up, which had seemed designed for maximum extraction efficiency.

His thoughts drifted, thinking about nothing in particular as he finally released the tension he’d been holding since they landed on this continent. They’d come to challenge a civilization, and they had won, leaving it changed in their wake. He’d probably helped more people today than freeing Giantsrest of its masters had done.

He felt Sarya phase through the ceiling of the container and land soundlessly beside him. There was no indication she was there to any mundane sense, but her magical signature stood out distinctly in his mind’s eye. She sat down across from him and waited for him to acknowledge her. She might have been trying to scare him, but Nathan kept his eyes closed for a minute. He tried not to focus on the Questor before him, to capture a sense of calm that would help him make the decisions he needed to make.

When he did open his eyes, he saw Sarya waiting before him, looking up at the world overhead. Her gaze dropped to meet his.

“Did you want to talk about anything?” he asked.

“Just trying to understand you,” she replied easily.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 92903/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 729

Regenerative Focus: 7390/7390

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 4

Inspiration 8

Impulse 5

Mystical Discernment 7

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 9

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 7

Veracity 3

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 4

Aura Control 7
