red and Merry rushed under a shelf and it wobbled but the boy simply jumped into it, sending it crashing the other way and cutting Merry’s path off.The bowl slammed down and Grimnoire roared with triumphant as Merry became trapped.“I spent my childhood catching rat-princes for pocket change!” he laughed. He lifted the bowl and Merry sat there, defeated.“My mouse...” Delta whispered and Grimnoire sat down with a wince.“Ow... jumping into shelves was a bad idea,” he mumbled and then without thinking he slid Merry an apple that rolled near his feet.“You’re crafty,” he said and stood something seemed to hurt so he rested against the nearby wall for some relief.Something flashed and Grimnoire seemed to hold a small raggedy cat doll.The reward.Delta blinked and tried to remember what Sys had set. It got excited because Devina had made it possible...Delta had no idea how the system had set up multi-rewards with various chances and rarity but they had done it here.90% chance to get a nice mouse hat...10% for that doll.Delta frowned as Merry seemed to devour the apple and promptly fall asleep like he was drugged.The doll did something but she couldn’t remember the details. Grimnoire shook it and it hissed then a ghostly blue cat of the scarred variety appeared, snarling and pacing before Grimnoire like some bodyguard.“It’s a voodoo ghost cat doll...” the boy said and blinked.“I mean... I guess?” he shrugged then the doll hissed and the ghost vanished with nothing to do. He shook it again but nothing happened“What? I need to charge it and it's limited? What is this? One a day? Talk about lame classics,” Grimnoire scowled.The last shelf topple and fell over towards the boy and Delta wince as he moved out the way and a side of the secret passage was slightly revealed.“Merry!” she said to the sleeping mouse. Grimnoire bent down and pushed more of the broken stone away, the wooden wall covering it cracked by the falling shelf.He looked immensely pleased and was about to start pushing when music sounded out.It was soft and haunting, this seemed to lure the boy in more.“Sweet treasure,” he sounded almost intoxicated by the idea then the sweet music stopped and Grimnoire screeched and crawled away as the wooden wall began to melt and smoke as green acid ate through it, flailing thorny vines reaching for him.“Trap! Trap!” Grimnoire yelled over and over as he crawled back out the room, cat doll in one arm.High pitched drumming sounded out, like a bird’s heartbeat.“Woah...” Delta stared at the acid. She had never seen her Greater Mushy in action before.She stared with dismay at her ruined room before following the boy.He stood and brushed himself off.“I could just... bomb it but I need to conserve resources,” he said, voice a little high. That worried Delta.Who would give this kid a firecracker, let alone a ‘bomb’?---“MUM! I CAN’T FIND MY NOVACRACKER! I WAS GOING TO GO SHOOT SOME FIREWORKS FOR POPPY TO CHEER HER UP!” Deo said calmly to his mother.Her long red hair swayed and she turned with a small frown.“Oh... well, I’ll help you look. You’re usually responsible so it must be in your room somewhere. Did you take it anywhere?” she asked softly, voice barely higher than a whisper.Deo thought about it.“SHOW AND TELL! MY FRIEND GRIM TOLD ME HE PUT IN THE TEACHER’S ROOM CAUSE I WAS LATE WITH MY HOMEWORK!” he beamed and the woman closed her eyes then pulled her son to her shoulder for a hug.“Oh...my Deo...” she sighed.----Grimnoire eyed the pond then sniffed, turning away.“Smells like Deo,” he sighed and Delta glared at him.“Mister ‘I can do what I want and everyone loves me’! I come to class looking a little tired and ‘are you doing drugs? Are you upset?’ are the comments I get. Deo comes in stinking of fish and covered in spider goo and no one bats an eye!” he ranted as he headed towards the mudroom, ignoring the pond entirely.“Maybe because Deo doesn't steal, murder, complain, act like a spoiled brat and generally makes life better while you just ruin everyone’s day,” Delta said conversationally.Grimnoire frowned as if almost hearing her.“Dungeon is crazy. Mushrooms everywhere, mice, stupid ponds and now this!” he exclaimed, waving a hand to the mudroom.“Well you know what, my gutrot mushrooms suck but they’re better than you. You’re just...just... allrot!” Delta shouted.Grimnoire stared at the platforms.“Hm... different paths but I expect some collapse into traps, like spikes hidden in the mud or maybe the mud rises if I get stuck. I’ll need to test the stability of each platform but those walls look patchy...I’ll have some time limit to choose the correct path,” he deduced and Delta crossed her arms.“You scream like a 3-year old,” was all she could say.Grimnoire ran back and Delta saw him return with a bunch of apples.He began to lob them at the platform. Some wobbled, some were solid as the apples landed.“I...guess that was clever,” she admitted and then glared at him.“But you’re wasting my apples,” she added. Grimnoire stepped forward and the challenge appeared.“Easy enough, this dungeon needs some interaction clause so people can’t just figure it out before the challenge appears,” he said aloud and Delta could see that, she would have to pull the challenge back or expand it somehow.It didn’t take him long to get over it and he was beaming with success and he eyed the pile of logs.“Uh... no thanks. Deo said you can hear me so...uh...give this to Deo next time he is in. I stole something of his but I redid his exam so he got a pass instead of the 2% he was gonna to have. That these logs should make us even,” Grimnoire said quietly and walked on.Delta stared.2%?How could he have gotten 2%?---“Impressive scores...I do believe you are the brightest man to walk through my doors,” Mr Jones smiled as Seth. The petit water mage nodded.“You’re house of many brains is very pleasing to my eyeballs,” he agreed. Mr Jones stared and Quiss cleared his throat.“He means your educational building is impressive,” he said.“No, he is quite correct. I have many doors to ancient knowledge here. Some connected to still alive brains,” Mr Jones smiled again and Quiss eyed him.“They all signed consent forms,” Mr Jones added and Quiss said nothing but just stared at the only other person in the room.In a seat that was near the back but closest to the window, Ruli stared out as if something awaited her.If it wasn’t the nice uniform, black trousers, shirt and a tie, it was the pigtails her hair was in. She looked and scowled at them.“It’s only how she sees herself. This place is something of a changeable environment for students. Each student will see and have the best suited learning place for them. Outside, inside, homely, barren and studious, dark, warn, and so on. Only a few students never mesh right,” he explained and Ruli moved back too fast and the illusion of her school uniform was broken and she was dressed back in her usual furs.“Well, she doesn’t look happy. How can we let her leave?” he asked and Mr Jones pursed his lips.“I am reasonable. I just need her to finished her last 3 years of education and she is good to go!” he beamed.“We don’t have that kind of time. I was being nosy- I mean investigating a serious matter,” Quiss explained and Seth drummed his fingers.“Rights of master. I offer you a dance!” he declared and everyone looked at him. Seth frowned and then made stabbing motions.“Oh, a duel!” Mr Jones nodded then the world around them went dark with miasmic energy.“I can fight if you wish...” he offered, a voice both loud and almost hard to hear.“No no! I fight you with brains!” Seth smirked and Mr Jones frowned again.“The consent forms don’t cover swing them by their spinal nerves...” he said almost sadly.Seth stood and pointed to a smoking exam paper.The single name on it was bright and sunshine yellow

“I bet I make true score a pass in 3 days,” he offered and Mr Jones looked disbelieving.“You? Where I could not?” he blustered.Quiss stared at them and then got up to say goodbye to his not-best friend of Durence.He would sneak her a drink where he could over the years...---Deo hummed as he threw up a bottle of fizzed up Root-soda and made explosion noises. Poppy peaked out her window and smiled softly at the display.“THIS ONE I CALL THE MOON KISSER!” he said and gave the bottle a twirl when he threw it and Poppy applauded shyly.Deo was pleased. He had lost his Novacracker but he still made Poppy smile.That was one of his ten happy things a day list almost complete!He hoped to see Grim soon, he was in a hurry earlier and dropped something.Some sort of lizard ring which Deo put straight into a box so he could bring it to school tomorrow and return it!It looked important.---“WHERE IS MY CAMOUFLAGE RING!?” Grimnoire screamed as Boary bucked and tried to sent the boy flying.Delta sat down on a rock and sighed with pleasure at the noise.Honestly, the boy was rude as hell and Delta wanted him to scream more but she was interested in what he would lose or use next in the fort room.The demon child was her very own treasure goblin.She couldn’t wait for the legendary items.
