Then he went back to the dungeon. He stayed there well past nightfall and then a few more hours in, but he would not spend another late night like before. He went home in the dark, while people were still putting down glittering white stone over the greys and tans of the natural dungeon walls.

Erick had briefly checked on his original dungeon every day with Ophiel, if for nothing else than to just renew the [Gravity Ward] that fed the river of the dungeon floor. He did so again, today. Through Ophiel’s eyes, the [Gravity Ward] was working just fine; Erick renewed the spell, anyway. But when he checked on the actual dungeon floor, there were easily four dozen light slimes or more, bumbling this way and that, but generally moving in a large circle around the dungeon floor.

Like some huge skating rink, light slimes glittered in rainbow light, as they circled the center.

And in the center, floating above the waters of the main pool, was a woman made of white light, wearing rainbows for clothes, like billowing clouds. She could have been of any people; human, incani, orcol or dragonkin. Maybe even wrought, but Erick somehow doubted that. Maybe she was a harpy, or a shifter. Whatever the case, she was an intruder of some sort, and her eyes were open, and staring at Erick, through his connection to Ophiel.

In a blink, Erick stood in the dungeon, and it wasn’t blinding without his sunglasses.

“Ah.” Erick checked his Status. It did not come up. He asked, “Dream Wormed?”

“Yes.” The woman said, “I’m Messalina, the Life Binder. I think it is past time I talked with you, directly.”

He was likely already being tended to by Poi, and he was close enough to the hospital that, even if they couldn’t [Teleport] him there without his conscious consent, they could certainly get other people to him. So Erick rolled with this confrontation. He said, “Your worms have killed people. Your plots are murderous. You appear before me in a dazzling, probably fake way. You’re obviously a very fake person. Why should I listen to whatever lies you feel like spinning?”

“Because if you do not, then I will have no choice but to go to Melemizargo for help.”

“Lie.”

Undeterred, Messalina said, “He’s growing much more cognizant as new magic is being invented everywhere.” She added, “He’s not insane anymore. Most of his Shades aren’t, either. They purged those using Yetta as an excuse.”

“Half-truth. Likely just enough true to try and get me to believe you, but I won’t. I’m going to have to be stubborn about this, all the way to everyone’s deaths, if I have to.”

Messalina, all bright white and floating rainbows, frowned. It was like the world turned two shades darker. She stepped down from the air, to stand upon the water in front of Erick. She said, “Let me prove it to you, then. Set for me a task.”

“Nope.” Erick said, “One task completed does not make you worthy of redemption. You dream wormed the people in town. Turock and Veel, people who were staying with my daughter and looking after my house, [Defend]ed themselves to death because of your influence.”

Messalina laughed, saying, “Now that is untrue.”

Erick frowned at her. He did not ask for a clarification.

Messalina said, “Fine. I can have this conversation without you, but it seems I must add certain words that you can go ahead and verify on your own.” She said, “The Lower Trademaster of Portal and I worked together for a period of one month, maybe 35 days, to try and find the people who killed my people. I gave him dream worms as a part of this agreement. He has spread them far and wide, in order to increase his own influence—”

“And that doesn’t bother you!” Suddenly incensed, Erick said, “Taking that at face value —and holy shit is that a hard thing to take— you allowed your magic to go wherever others wanted it to go? You allowed your mind controlling worms—”

Messalina’s face flared into anger. “I do NOT mind control people! I do not pinch at souls. I do not do anything to the free will of anyone, anywhere!”

Erick glared at her, saying, “Lie.”

Messalina’s eyes went wide. She suddenly cooled, like a volcano stuffed back into the ground, and said, “You invented a new magic. Is your circumstance not the same as mine?”

“Absolutely not.” Erick said, “I didn’t invent anything. It’s already all there. None of you managed to see it, is all. Even if I did believe your story— Do you expect me to think that you giving out mind controlling parasites is the same as me giving out knowledge?”

“Yes. They are. A hundred percent the same. But I can argue from your position if you want, because when Caradogh decided to use my mind freeing worms to control people, I cut him off.” She said, “Normally, they don’t control people. Normally, they allow recipients to quest for their personal truths in the safety of their dreams. But that great boon is also an unavoidable weakness. They open up people to the possibilities all around them, and when this is used in the wrong way, you get victims like Turock and Veel.” She said, “Those two were not Caradogh’s only victims. But I discovered the problem too late and he had already spread my magic far and wide. If you have a problem with him using my gifts, then take it up with him.”

“Fine.” Erick said, “I don’t believe you right now, and probably not ever. But I will check up on all of that. Continue.”

Messalina nodded. She said, “Kirginatharp is dangerous—”

“I certainly won’t believe you about him. Try another tactic.”

“Then I will simply say this: Has he ever touched upon a spell you created, holding long to the release of the blue box? Has he ever threatened your life? Has he ever made a list of Pros and Cons to decide your fate? Has he ever threatened the lives of your loved ones, perhaps by standing over their bleeding forms while you begged him for help?”

“That last one sounds personal.”

“… It was.”

“Lie.” Erick said, “Sorry. No sympathy for the killer, here. You have killed people in Spur, and you killed those people in the villages on your way to Eidolon.”

Messalina started with, “Firstly: I gave power to people and then they used it wrong. The Flare Couatl was never under my control, but he did see you talking about killing him the next time you met. I will not accept responsibility for the actions of a free man who was only looking to protect himself. And besides!” Half incredulous, she said, “Really? No sympathy at all? With all your ideology of helping ‘the dregs of society turn their lives around’? This has no bearing on me, who just lashed out because my entire world was taken from me?”

Erick said, “So you know me. So what? You’ve obviously listened to me talk about you, and there’s something to be said about you being open about that as opposed to trying to hide it. But. You already know all my buttons. As does the Headmaster, I’m sure.” Erick said, “So go ahead and bring on the threats. I know you have a dozen lying in wait for this part of the conversation.”

“I prefer the carrot.” She said, “I can heal your daughter’s Disintegrated Dragon Essence in three moments, if you produce the spell to find the people who killed my village.”

Erick felt his anger bloom like a darkness rising from the bottom of the ocean. He calmly said, “Stay away from my daughter.”

Messalina, all bright and rainbow, sighed out, “That was not a threat. That was an offer of assistance.”

Silence stretched between the two of them, while light slimes bumbled around the room and water splashed.

“Haven’t you already found those people?” Erick said, “The Headmaster said that there was no way you had not found them by now.”

Messalina barked a single laugh, then she said, “That Old Dragon. He can’t find me, but he expects me to have found my own quarry? We’re both using the same damn spell, Erick. I learned it from him! [Eyes of the Goddess].”

Erick paused. He had no idea what to say to that.

Messalina continued, “You really don’t know anything, do you?”

“I know both less and more than you.”

She laughed again. “True! So let me fill you in on a little history—”

“I don’t want to hear it.”

Messalina smiled, all teeth and anger, as she said, “But you will.”

Erick almost said something, but he couldn’t speak. He could only listen.

“Kirginatharp and I were the two sides of a schism in the Arcanaeum Consortium that began 350 years ago, but the whole thing erupted into violence soon enough. The only reason I retreated to the jungles of Nergal was because I voluntarily lost, because to continue the fight was to plunge the world into darkness.

“The world has forgotten that fight because I have allowed him to dictate the terms of my surrender, but I have been deeply wronged by the Cinnabar Hand, and Kirginatharp has chosen to fight me, instead of help. So allow me to break this very old bargain of trade now, and tell the truth of that fight.

“I was apprenticed to That Dragon for 30 years, but even in the beginning it was so much more than that. I learned everything from him. We even had children. Melemizargo ate those children, like all dragons do whenever someone is born three generations removed from the one who began their lineage, and the great grandfathers or mothers discover the progeny. But I brought them back with necromancy, and without the taint of dragon essence, too! That was the start of my involvement in the schism that would shake the very foundations of Oceanside, and every Arcanaeum on Veird.”

Erick listened. He couldn’t help it. Either the dream was trapping him here, or her words were powerful. And had she just implicated that the Headmaster was Melemizargo’s grandson? Did that mean that Rozeta was Kirginatharp’s mother? Or at least an aunt? Whatever the case, as Messalina spoke, dark lines, tears or black blood, fell from Messalina’s glowing eyes, to trace lines of darkness down her pained face. Her voice choked as she forced a long held torment to the surface.

“Kirginatharp was the one who showed me necromancy. He knows every magic there is. But when I used it to bring back our children, he cast me out. He wouldn’t even entertain the possibility that my necromancy was different.

“And it was, Erick.” Her entire radiant body seemed to brighten. “I had done it. I brought back people from death, whole and unharmed. Memories intact. Soul unblemished. True Resurrection! I had done the impossible. And I had damned myself in his eyes. He tried to kill me, but I managed to flee with my kids.

“In the years to come, I traveled the world, hiding from everyone, raising my children on my own, doing what I needed to do to survive. Years turned to decades. I thought I was free of That Dragon. But a chance meeting with one of Kirginatharp’s Elites in the highlands of Nelboor led That Dragon back into my life. His children had grown...

She spoke with restrained anger. “He said he wanted to reconnect. He knew my children were grown, and whole, and pure of soul. They were not abominations. They were genuine, and they were without a single drop of natural draconic essence, therefore they were not a target of Melemizargo. And it surprised him. He had never been able to have children before, because that Dark Dragon always killed them. But he saw my kids— his children! He saw them as a possible future. A future of happiness, with kids and grandkids and a whole linage. A future!

“I foolishly believed him. All three of us believed him. When the three of us showed for the meeting, it was a trap.

“He took them from me. He ripped their souls from their bodies in order to understand how I had done what I had done.” She stopped. Moments passed. She wiped the black lines of blood or whatever it was from her face. The darkness vanished from her radiant skin like so much flaking ash.

She continued, “Originally, I had been all for That Dragon’s iron fist wrapped around Veird; holding civilizations together and bringing warmagics to bear against the monsters.” She spoke flippantly, “And all the time, I saw the small things he did to me, but I didn’t care. When he intercepted a spell I had worked on before it could come to me, I thought nothing of it. When he demanded concessions for the good of Civilization, I gave in. When he demanded unequal bargains of trade, what did I care? I was doing good to help him do good to help the whole world.” She said, “I gave myself to him, Erick. Body and mind and soul. And he took it all. But then he took my children, and that was it. I would take everything from him.

“And so I went to war.” She said, “I contacted his detractors in the Arcanaeum Consortium, for people in power always have detractors. I gave True Resurrections to people he had killed, raising co-conspirators from ash. I controlled minds. Eventually, I maimed souls. I put people together wrong, all for the glory of That Dragon’s downfall.

“That section of my life lasted two months. And then I undid all I had done. If I was to win this war, I was going to win it right. I wiped some memories, and put some people back in the ground who were too evil to live. For all his faults, That Dragon is sometimes right about some things.

“With free will, and with plots and partners, we planned Kirginatharp’s downfall from Second to Rozeta. We wanted to teach the magic that would give True Resurrection to the people. Kirginatharp wanted that magic buried and gone. I had a much more personal reason for fighting, but I believed in the greater cause, too.

“In the end, seven arcanaeums out of fifty five joined our side, of their own free will.

