I, Falling Rain, am a complete and utter mess.

It’s no big secret. I’ve been one all my life, but most people probably figured I would eventually get my shit together and graduate from ineptitude as most youths do. Unfortunately, what they don’t know is I’m not as young as I look. Physically, I barely look my age, but mentally? I must be at least forty now, or if not close to it, and you can’t teach an old dog new tricks. I’m a middle-aged idiot who’s set in my ways, and if I haven’t learned a basic life lesson by now, there’s a good chance I’ll never figure it out. While a lack of wisdom is expected from the inexperienced youths of today, it is a cardinal sin amongst older, seasoned hands, which makes me the greatest sinner of them all.

Mila, my beautiful and confident betrothed gave me one job, show up on the date of our wedding, and even then I still would’ve fucked it up. Yea, the wording threw me off a bit, and my trip from the frozen North to balmy Central gave me the wrong impression that the Spring Equinox was the middle of spring, but that’s no excuse considering Mila told me the exact date. She loves me so much, not only is she willing to accept me even as I am, she’s even willing to share me with four other women, while I can’t be bothered to remember the date of our wedding. Good job buddy. She set the bar so low, yet even then you managed to defy the odds and limbo right underneath it. Well done. Way to show her how much you care.

You don’t deserve Mila, or anyone else for that matter, not even the rabbit sleeping in your arms or the wildcat curled up around your feet. Almost everyone you’ve met and cared about would’ve been better off without you, because you’re a worthless, heartless, faithless asshole who’s too wrapped up in his own thoughts to pay attention to the people who love him.

You should’ve never crawled out of that corpse pile all those years ago. That’s where you belong. Abandoned and forgotten, with nothing of worth lost.

...

There are times when my inner self-loathing takes things too far, but tonight is not one of those nights. Although Mila is easily placated with an earnest apology and a series of kisses, I am not ready to let myself off the hook. I almost made her cry because I forgot our wedding date, which just goes to show how much I care. No amount of apologies will ever take away her pain from that moment, pain I caused with my careless indifference to what should be an important milestone in my life. It’s my wedding, for fucks sake. Why am I not excited about it? Why hasn’t it been more than a footnote in my mind? I’ve been treating it as a social obligation, an event to grace with my presence when it should instead be a defining moment in my life, and that is utterly unforgivable.

And to make matters worse? I’m not upset our wedding was delayed. I’m relieved, and not because she snapped her steel restraints like they were made of wax. I’m relieved because I don’t deserve Mila, and I never will, so as long as we’re not married, she’ll always have the chance to walk away from her mistake.

Standing outside the manor gates, I stare off into the distance where I last saw my sweet, fiery betrothed heading home with her loving family. The minutes tick by as I imagine what life would be like if I had the nerve to just walk away and disappear into the night. I could head west and blend in with the soldiers streaming towards the front lines, join up with a loose band of soldiers and find myself a proper end at the hands of the Defiled. Mila would hate me for leaving like that, and so would everyone else, but they’d all be better off for it in the end. She won’t have problems finding a new husband, someone who’ll treat her right and remember things like wedding dates and various equinoxes, while Yan would probably do the same, but not before leaving a trail of broken hearts and spurned lovers throughout all of Central. It’d be tricky to get away from Song on account of her Oaths, but it’s not like she’ll instantly drop dead once she realizes I’m not within five kilometres of her. It’ll be a tough few days for her as she and the Death Corps scramble to find me, but she’ll probably clap for joy once she’s finally free of my influence, and she’d be right to. It’s only a matter of time before I succumb to my inner desires and do something monstrous, so the further she is from me, the safer she’ll be. Luo-Luo will probably kick up a fuss, but even though I’m willing to abandon her alongside the rest of my life, my family won’t do the same. They’ve already accepted her as one of the People and they’ll treat her as such, with Alsantset taking her in as a little sister or maybe a second wife for Charok, so I won’t have to worry about Luo-Luo. She’s nothing if not adaptable.

Then there’s Lin-Lin, who might be the hardest person to walk away from, and also the person who needs to get away from me the most. I can barely remember a time when she hasn’t been in my life, and that is both a comfort and a curse. She was ten years old when I first met her, and while she’s since blossomed into a bright and cheery young woman, I can’t help but sometimes lie awake at night and wonder just how much my influence has shaped her. Sure, there’s nothing weird about two kids growing up to become childhood sweethearts, but I was never a kid. I was a grown-ass man hiding in a kid’s body, and if anyone knew the truth, they would take Lin-Lin as far away from me as possible, if not just outright cut my throat and be done with it. I wouldn’t put up a fight either, because it’s creepy as fuck when you think about it. I was an adult grooming a sweet child into his ideal partner, even if I never consciously meant to.

In short, if everyone knew who I really was, they would abandon me in a heartbeat. If that doesn’t mean I don’t deserve their love, then I don’t know what does.

Depression sucks, but it sucks even more when you have an actual legitimate reason to be depressed. It’s a cruel and twisted joke of fate. The more happiness I have, the more I have to lose, the mere thought of which is enough to keep me awake for days without end. And Monk Happy wonders how I live without faith. If he were in my shoes, he’d be the same. What merciful god would condone such a cruel and sadistic existence? Fuck you, Mother Above. You’re a cold, heartless bitch.

...But if you are real, please forgive me for my insolence and fix everything real quick. K thanks, love you, bye.

Tired of waiting around, Mama Bun rears up on her hind legs and paws at my thigh, making soft grunting snuffles all the while. On the other side, Aurie sits sloppily with one leg splayed out and his torso wrapped around my leg, all so he can arch his head back and study my upside-down expression with curious concern. Mouth opening to smile as he catches my attention, he rests his head against my hip and blinks ever so slowly, a sign of trust and affection amongst predatory cats, or so I’ve heard. Unable to eke out a smile for my sweet kitten, I close my eyes and pet his head to show I love and trust him too. Taking a long pause to clear my thoughts, I let the weight of my worries settle onto my shoulders and mentally adjust myself to bear them, then open my eyes and pick up Mama Bun before her digging claws tear a hole through my pants.

That’s how it is now. You take that dread and misery and push it all down, then go about your day as if everything is okay.

Coddling my sweet bunny close like a giant baby, I almost smile as she leans back in my embrace with a monstrous yawn, as happy and content as any living creature can be. The other rabbits don’t like lying on their backs, and I’ve never seen Mama Bun do it on her own, but I accidentally discovered she loves being carried like this during a long ride somewhere. One moment she was sleeping normally, with her paws pressed against my chest and chin resting on my shoulder, then the next she flopped over and decided it’d be more comfortable like this. Now she barely lets an hour go by without demanding to be cradled and I’m always happy to oblige no matter how tired my arms may be.

Sometimes, I envy how simple animals have it. All Mama Bun wants is food in her belly and warm cuddles from her human. That’s it. She has no demands beyond that, no requirements which need fulfilling, just food, love, and nothing else. She doesn’t lie awake at night thinking about her past mistakes, or wonder what her life would’ve been like if she’d made different decisions along the way. She doesn’t worry about being hunted by predators or finding food for tomorrow, she doesn’t question why nature can be so cruel or if there’s a higher power watching over her from above. When times are good, she revels in life, and when they’re bad, she grumbles and endures, and that’s all there is to it.

Is this One with the Self? One with the World? Maybe that’s why animals use Chi so easily, because they are so in tune with their inner nature, though I’m still unsure where faith fits into all this when animals are concerned. Following one’s inner desires has its drawbacks of course, the most obvious of which is sometimes, said nature stalls progress. With Kukku, it keeps him from flying because he instinctively believes he can’t fly, and while Mama Bun is supposedly older than most trees, she’s just as sweet and innocent as her little bunny babies. Don’t get me wrong, she’s a smart bunny, smarter than most animals in fact, having learned dozens of tricks and commands like ‘come’, ‘sit’, ‘wave’, and ‘stay’. She can recognize people and places she’s familiar with, knows where she can and can’t dig, and even knows who to approach for treats and who to leave alone, but that’s about it. I’ve tried teaching her to count like I taught Pong Pong, but that didn’t work out. She can’t figure out the magic cup game either, which is weird because she can sniff out a Spiritual Plant from kilometres away, so there’s no way she can’t sniff out which cup her treats are under. Still, no matter how many times I try it, she just knocks over the cups one by one until she finds her prize, and is unwilling to play the right way.

Jimjam and Sarankho picked up the game almost instantly, while Aurie took a little longer to catch on, so I don’t think it’s a matter of intelligence, but rather innate instinct. Mama Bun is a herbivore, so she doesn’t understand the concept of food moving around, but the wildcats do. By all reports, this is exactly how I behaved in Sinuji while fighting against Wraiths and Demons, like a natural predator in front of his prey, so the question becomes: where do my instincts and limitations lie?

Given my predatory persona’s fixed interest in Demonic Ichor, dying Wraiths, the Runes on Song’s armour, Ping Ping, and Kukku the rooster, it's not a stretch to assume my powerful but primitive persona is interested in finding a source of Heavenly Energy. I wanted to Devour, but I couldn’t, not straight from the air like I used to, so I was trying to get Heavenly Energy by any other means. The Runes were a bust, and Monk Happy wouldn’t let me torture Wraiths to turn into Demons, so I went after Kukku. I’m not sure if I wanted his physical flesh, his Spiritual Heart, or something else altogether, but I thank the Heavens I left Ping Ping untouched and sought what I needed elsewhere.

At least now I know I inherently value floof over sex, or at least sex with Luo-Luo, which is good, because I would never be able to live it down if I ravaged her on an open field while soldiers were fighting and dying a stones throw away.

Having thought things through, I’ve long since decided it’d be best if I didn’t rely too heavily on this instinctive state of Balance to solve all my problems. Predator me wasn’t interested in solutions, but substitutions, meaning my instinctive mindset isn’t to fix what’s wrong with myself, namely my shattered Core, but to make up for my deficiencies through other means, like eating the giant cowardly rooster. While I didn’t kill and eat Ping Ping or Kukku back in Sinuji, who’s to say I’ll make the same choice the second time around, or the third? What if I kill Ping Ping, Pong Pong, Mama Bun, or someone else’s Spiritual Beast the next time I lose control? Or worse, what if I do something which brands me as Defiled, like eat human flesh or arrange severed heads into an altar of sorts? I don’t know why the Defiled do what they do, but there has to be a reason, right?

It’s not all bad. At least the whole debacle confirmed my suspicions that eating Spiritual Herbs and Spiritual Beasts will help me recover. The Legate’s tofu pudding was probably made from Spiritual Soy Beans, or some other fancy, Heavenly herbs and stuff, so as long as Taduk can get his Spiritual Plant farm up and running with help from Pong Pong’s poop, I’ll have a constant supply of Heavenly Energy to keep myself from reverting back into a frail cripple. That’s great news, but it’s a big ‘if’, so I shouldn’t rest easy just yet, but if anyone can do it, it’d be my goofy, yet brilliant teacher.

More good fortune I don’t deserve. A single Spiritual Plant farm might not be much, but if properly scaled, the knowledge could eventually go on to save millions of lives, whether it be through direct means of easily accessible miraculous medicines or the vast sums of gold nobles would be willing to shell out for said Spiritual Plants. Doesn’t matter though, because I’ll be devouring all the fruits of Taduk’s labour instead of using it to better humanity as a whole, which has been my Medical Saint of a teacher’s dream for Mother knows how long...

