Aurie’s plaintive mewl brings me out of my thoughts and my heart breaks once more, because it’s yet another reminder of how I bring nothing but hardship and suffering to those I love. “Sorry sweet kitten,” I croon, dropping down to touch foreheads with the patient and lovable wildcat. “You sleepy? C’mon, I’ll go brood on the couch.”

Given the lack of electric lighting, everyone usually goes to bed soon after sunset and wakes just in time for sunrise, but I’ve never gotten into the habit of going to sleep right after dinner. Instead, I usually take this time to study or mope, but it appears Mom and Dad have other plans for tonight. Already waiting with lit candles in the living room, they sit cuddled up together on the couch, but shift apart and gesture for me to join them as soon as I step through the door. Declining with a shake of my head, I quip, “Don’t let me get in the way of your romantic star-gazing.” My smile is only half fake, because even as depressed as I am, I can’t help but be happy to see this display of true love. Mom looks ten to twenty years older than Dad’s thirty-something appearance, but they still look picture perfect when they’re together, their fingers still interlocked even after making room for their idiot son. “I’ll just head off to my room and sleep.”

“Nonsense,” Mom snorts, fixing me with a stare that stops me in place. “Come sit with your parents. We would have words with you.” Ah. So they were waiting for me. “Besides,” she continues, her stern glare melting into a knowing smirk, “No need to worry about the time, there are still some hours yet before your midnight visitor comes a knocking.”

It’s impossible to keep a secret in a manor full of Martial Warriors, but everyone is usually polite enough to pretend Yan isn’t visiting every night. Between Mom and Dad, Alsantset and Charok, and Yan and myself, it’s a wonder that anyone gets any sleep at all, but I suppose we all adapt eventually. Cheeks burning with embarrassment, I suppress the urge to lie or make excuses and simply take a seat on the couch while inwardly wishing I didn’t hate social interaction so much. Mom and Dad love me, so talking to them shouldn’t be a chore, but it feels like one sometimes. Smiling as Mom slides a giant floor cushion in front of us for Aurie to lie on, we all settle in together as naturally as breathing. Mom arranges a blanket over our knees and Dad presses his cheek against my head, holding me close before ever so gently shifting me over into a similar embrace with Mom.

I suppose not all social interaction is bad, and human cuddles are nice too.

Long minutes pass in relative silence, and as I feel myself slipping away into comfortable sleep while nestled in the arms of my loving parents, my brain compels me to ruin this snug and comfy setting. “So what did you want to talk about?”

“This morning, you said you had questions,” Dad replies, his voice deep and reassuring. “Ask, and we will do our best to answer them.”

“Mind you,” Mom interjects, tweaking my nose lightly in good humour, “If you ask something we believe best discovered on your own, we will tell you as much and no more. You might not hold much stock in the Mother Above, but we still believe She will provide.” Hugging me tight with a contented sigh, she adds, “After all, did She not bring you to us?”

Doing my best not to sigh or scoff, I do what I can to return the hug while still cradling Mama Bun in my arms. “I’ll take whatever answers I can get,” I reply with a smile, but as I wrack my brain for proper questions regarding the Martial Dao, it all seems so inconsequential in this moment right now. It’s nice sitting here with my parents to share out warmth and affection, because while we were never what you’d call a traditional family, I will never doubt the depths of their love for me and can only pray I’m able to return even a tenth of it to match.

That’s not my fault. They just love me so much, it’s gone beyond mortal limits, and I for one could not be more grateful.

Focus Rain. Questions. What do you want to ask? How do animals have faith? No, that’s just nitpicking because then you’ll get into a long and drawn out debate regarding faith, confidence, and beneficial ignorance. Besides, they probably don’t have an answer anyways, so pick something they can help with. Why do animals turn into Ancestral Beasts? Same issue as before, and no one really knows. How is a Core Created? Again, largely theological and hypothetical, because we lack the tools to understand it in whole. C’mon man, you spend all your time lost in your own thoughts wondering about the Martial Dao, and now you can’t even come up with a single question?

“One with the Weapon,” I say, unconsciously glancing towards my room where the ruins of Peace, Tranquility, and Unity hang on the walls. “One with the World. Now we potentially can add One with the Self, so are there any more ‘Ones’ I should know about, or is that it?”

Mom and Dad trade looks over my head and I figure I’ve touched upon one of those unspeakable topics, but Dad surprises me with an actual answer. “One with the Heavens,” he whispers, his voice filled with reverence. “Aside from the name, there is not much else we can say, son, for that is all we know. It is a theoretical step, one believed to be the last step before true Divinity, wherein one must Shatter the Void and ascend into the Heavens to join the Mother Above.”

“Shatter the Void.” There it is again. “What is it?”

“No one knows for certain,” Dad replies, gesturing at the pond outside our manor walls where Ping Ping sleeps at night, “Because those closest to success lack the words to describe it, and those who have experienced it forget the process. All animals must shatter the Void to become Ancestral Beasts, but only so that they might bend the rules of reality to mould themselves into a new existence. In short, Shattering the Void means to break through that which divides the mundane and the Divine, so how can we as mere mortals truly understand?”

“Is it called Shattering the Void because of the Void surrounding our Natal Palace?”

“Yes and no.” Stopping to consider his answer, Dad looks to Mom for advice, but she merely shakes her head in helpless defeat. After a long, silent exchange through Sending, Dad explains, “I understand what you are hinting at, but your logic is faulty. Your Core sits in the Void, but the Void is not your Core. The Void exists outside your Core, and your Core is what separates you from the Heavens beyond. Your Core is a barrier yes, but it does not only hold Chi, it also keeps your being, your mortality, and quite possibly your eternal soul, within.”

Huh. “So what... my Core keeps my soul from... seeping out?”

“Perhaps,” Dad replies, but his tone says otherwise. “Or perhaps it is part and parcel of the whole.”

Meaning... the Core is made of my soul? Or everything inside is organic soul? When I slip into someone’s Natal Palace, am I literally putting my soul into theirs?

...

Ew... Gross. I don’t mind mixing souls with Bei, but what about Dagen, Vivek Daatei, Yo Ling, Pong Pong, and Mahakala? Too many dudes have touched my soul. I don’t like that. Is that weird? Or homophobic? I don’t have anything against gay people, love is love, and love is beautiful, but that doesn’t mean I want some dudes putting their junk all over my eternal soul...

“Stop thinking strange thoughts,” Mom reprimands, and I don’t even need to wonder how she knows. “And do not for a moment think about trying to shatter your Core entirely. They share a single word in common, but you might as well try shattering your bones in search of Divinity. Throughout human history, countless souls have tried to Shatter the Void, and none have survived to speak of failure or success. Perhaps some have succeeded and transcended mortality by taking a new form, but we cannot say for sure, because none have sent word back as the Mother and Father did.” Leaning away and turning my head, she forces me to look her in the eye and says, “Also, I’ll write my name in reverse if you haven’t heard the term somewhere else before. Where?”

“Those notes I’ve been perusing.” I might’ve once hesitated before mentioning them, but after what happened in Sinuji, I came clean to Dad, which is no different from telling Mom. “The author referenced a certain passage when we last met, and it mentions the term.” Despite what they’ve said about how well protected the manor is, I’m still leery about mentioning Zhen Shi out loud, and not just because the Legate’s caution spooked me. Monk Happy reassured me that there were no Spectres lingering about, but I never let facts get in my way before, and I’ll be damned if I start now. Ha. What’d I say? Old people like to get set in their ways. Then again, maybe it’s just me. Who knows.

“You should not put too much stock into those notes,” Mom says, having already made her displeasure known. “Do not forget how far back Elder Ming’s diary set you, a misstep which you are still dealing with today. Knowledge is dangerous, my sweet child, and you have never been one to tread carefully.”

“True, but I think I figured out why Elder Ming’s notes were more harm than help.” Shrugging imperceptibly so as not to ruin the comfy group cuddle, I explain, “His notes went into great length about what he did, but never into why, or at least that’s what I thought. After today’s chat regarding faith, I suspect Elder Ming wrote his poetry in the same journal he kept his private notes because they were an extension of his Dao. The poems were... flowery and indecipherable, but not to him. Those poems embodied his Dao, his thoughts, his emotions, and even his faith, much in the same way Luo-Luo’s music embodies her emotions.”

“Finally, the boy understands.” Chuckling in good humour, Dad kisses my forehead and says, “Now imagine if I had told you as much, three years ago. Would you have understood it then as you do today?”

“...Probably not.” I would’ve spent every waking moment trying to interpret his poems, but even if I understood them perfectly, it wouldn’t have helped. Those poems were his Dao, and I need to find my own.

“Then you have grown wiser with age.” Chuckling as he squeezes me tight, he adds, “And I have not been a complete failure as a Mentor, only mostly.”

“You are no failure.” The words come out harsher than intended, and Dad flinches away in surprise, but I can’t help it. Self-pity is my territory, and I won’t let anyone I love sink into it as well. “I spent months working towards Insight and Enlightenment, but you guided me to it in half a day. You taught me not to lose myself within the Forms, but to find my path within them. Without you helping me with that first step, I would not have risen to the heights I have, so don’t think for a second you’ve ever failed me, because I will be the first to argue otherwise.” To ease the tension, I smile and add, “You’ve probably done some other stuff too, but who can be bothered to keep track?”

Holding one hand up in surrender, Dad settles back into the group cuddle with a sigh, basking in the warmth and comfort I’m sure we all share. “Very well,” he says, after a moment’s pause. “Do you have any more questions to ask?”

“So many questions, but I’ve pondered the Martial Dao enough for today.”

“Then we will keep you no longer.”

“Hang on.” Shimming in to get a little more comfortable, I continue, “I still have questions, just not about the Martial Dao. You know how I was supposed to marry Mila on Spring Equinox? Well I forgot the exact date and didn’t realize equinox is the first of spring, and therefore coincides with the banquet.”

Mom barks with laughter, and while she quickly covers her mouth in contrition, her eyes still sparkle in amusement. “A grave blunder,” she says, her voice shaky and strained as she resists the urge to laugh. “Similar to the one your father made before our wedding. Luckily, Mila loves you and will forgive you, but do not take forgiveness for granted. How do you intend to make it up to her?”

Despite the lack of blood ties between us, I most certainly am my father’s son. “I was thinking I’d cook breakfast for her...”

Time flies by as I talked with my parents, sharing with them my mundane woes and worries regarding love, marriage, pet care, and more. Nothing life-threatening or world-shaking, just normal, everyday matters I needed help with. It felt like only minutes had passed before Dad changed the candles, and then he did it twice more before Mom stopped the conversation short to tell me Yan had just slipped over the manor’s back wall. Though reluctant to end things here, Mom and Dad need their sleep, so I make a note to invite Yan to a family cuddle conversation sometime in the future, if only because she’s probably never had one herself.

Maybe I didn’t solve any problems regarding my Martial Dao, but as I head back to my room, I feel like the weight on my shoulders has gotten a lot lighter, to the point where I can almost forget it’s there.

And not just because Mom and Dad kept Mama Bun after I left. Some burdens are just best shared, emotional or otherwise.

Chapter Meme
