The manor was dead silent at night. She knew there were a few patrol guards around, but it looked like they weren’t in this wing right now. She’d rather not run into anyone, mostly because she didn’t feel like dealing with the inevitable scolding, so she made a point to move quickly and quietly.

It didn’t take long to reach the servant’s quarters. She did have to be more careful to not bump into anyone here, but she was able to take a few detours to get to the rooms. Based on the glimpse of her schedule that she’d gotten, Pyre should be in room B4.

Daphne stepped down the hallway, squinting to make out the signs in the dim torchlight. Finally, she reached the one she was looking for.

The door was shut. The noble leaned forward to press her ear against it, but as she did so, the entire thing swung forward. She just barely managed to catch herself on the frame and frowned. Had Pyre forgotten to lock her door?

Slowly, Daphne leaned closer to peer into the room. It was hard to make out details in the darkness, but after a thorough sweep, one thing was clear. The room was empty.

Her brows furrowed. Maybe Pyre hadn’t returned from her guard shift yet. She could be on the way back right now.

Despite the possible explanation, a nagging feeling rose in her chest. She couldn’t help but worry that the guard had actually passed out somewhere after all. Daphne stepped back, shut the door, and hurried back down the hallway.

It occurred to her, as she made her way to the manor’s back entrance, that she was probably being ridiculous. Pyre could be in the washroom, or maybe she had a meeting with John. She wouldn’t put it past the butler to schedule a check-in right after a night shift.

Still, she was already here, so Daphne kept going. She continued down the hallway, glancing out the windows as she passed by. The moon was bright tonight, and she could see a sea of stars sparkling through the clear glass. The manor grounds somehow looked even more vast in the darkness, the forest appearing like a dark ocean set to swallow everything up.

In the corner of her eye, something moved.

Daphne stopped. She immediately spun around to face the window, only to be greeted by none other than the very person she was looking for.

Standing in front of the forest, Pyre’s back was to the manor, but that height and build were unmistakable. From what Daphne could see, the woman was still wearing her guard uniform. She relaxed a little. So Pyre was just a little late returning from her shift. She’d been overreacting after all.

Daphne shook her head. Maybe she was more like her uncle than she thought, if she was this paranoid over something so minor. The noble turned, about to head back to her room, when her eyes briefly flitted to the window again.

Outside, Pyre ducked into the forest.

Daphne stopped and frowned. She waited to see if the guard would appear again, but she didn’t. She’d simply disappeared into the shadows of the trees, gone from view. Where was she going at this hour?

The earlier nagging sensation returned, but this time it was accompanied by a growing coldness in the pit of her stomach. All her suspicion from their first meeting returned full force, now tinged with a bitter, stinging sensation in her throat. She clenched her fist.

Spinning around, Daphne hurried towards the back doors to follow the guard.
