Mentioning his cousin put him back in a votary frame of mind, and he spent a minute looking down at each of the knights, then calling Bithe to inform him that his coat had gotten caught on something he was wearing, hitching it up in the back and giving him a funny fabric roll over his butt.

Bithe yanked it straight and kept talking with an old, old person who’d gotten comfortable with him fast. They were holding one of his hands and patting it while he spoke.

“Bithe will offer protection and care to a household of assistants who leave this wizard after generations of service,” Stuart said. “The traditions are more important to them than to some others, and he cares about those as well.”

“They’re keeping you from having all of that?” Alden asked quietly . That’s a lot to be left out of, Stuart.

Stuart took a moment to respond. “It’s understandable that my time as a Declared has gone this way, when you know what they fear will happen. They try to discourage me for what they believe is my own good, but they also do it to protect themselves during a time when they will be struggling. Most of us raised in the Rapports survive first binding and the early years of our knighthood. But when someone does fall…it can become too much, with everything else, for those who most depended on them.”

Alden swallowed.

“When I live and show that I will thrive, things will change. And this is not as difficult as the experience of people who try to become knights after growing up outside of a Rapport. Many have begun that way and gone far, but more of them—”

“Iiinnooooo! Village Master! Iiinnooooo!”

The cry came from a man in Bithe’s group, and it was so loud that Alden jumped.

“It’s starting. We should go down now,” Stuart said. “Move toward Bithe.”

“A new day brings your people to your door!” the speaker called. “Our wizard is wanted. Come hear our needs, or we’ll forget your name.”

******

Alden and Stuart climbed down while the man repeated the iiinnooooo calls. A ch-ch-ch sound was rising from others, starting slow but growing faster as the two of them headed toward Bithe, who stood near the front patio of the village master’s house.

The house took up one whole edge of the hexagonal space the crowd had filled. It was an edifice of connected blobs with domed tops, the white painted surface bouncing so much light that Alden dug into his bag for his sunglasses and held them up questioningly toward Stuart.

[Rude to wear these?]

“Of course not. Some people have on <<eyeshades>>.”

Alden hadn’t noticed, but after he started looking for what Stuart meant, he spotted faces in shadows that didn’t seem to come from their surroundings. The only thing those people had in common were headbands, so he assumed those were the source of the shade.

Reaching Bithe’s group didn’t take long since the crowd melted back at their approach, allowing them through. Emban and Ryada had eased forward toward the patio, too.

To get a better view or because we need to be at the front?

The family Bithe would be playing guardian for was still taking the lead on demanding the village master’s presence. As the calls for her to emerge became cacophonous, Alden stood quietly, watching. None of the wizards were joining in with the noise. Even Leeter-zis, now squatting at the edge of his balcony almost like he was preparing to spring off it, was silent.

Finally, the wide, recessed section of one curved wall split in the middle and drew aside like curtains on a stage.

The village master strode out onto the patio, and the sound stopped at once, except for the wrinkled old person beside Bithe giving a small gasp and clasping hands together over their stomach. “So beautiful, Tass!”

The words weren’t loud, but they were excited. Alden caught a tiny lip quirk from Bithe.

Was that an actual smile?

A couple of the family members around them tittered.

“Grandma-Grandma, don’t compliment her,” a woman with a short black braid whispered. “We’re supposed to be <<demanding>> more of her right now.”

The grandmother made a sound Alden took as a scoff, and kept watching the approaching village master with a proud lift to her tattooed chin.

Alden didn’t think beautiful was a word he would use to describe the person who stood before them with her eyes darting around to pick out people in the crowd, always landing together on the knights and lingering on each. She gave Alden the same treatment while he stared at her, too.

Spectacular might be a better word. Flashy and over the top. She was clearly dressed for a performance, in gray and silver robes with a high collar and a fan of o’odee tail tendrils levitating at her back.

Other wizards, dressed in the everyday-elaborate clothes Alden was more used to seeing, had exited the house behind her. They stood a few steps back while the village master lifted her hands, palms up as if she was offering the pair of white wands in them to the people who lived under her care.

“Why have you all left your work?” she asked. “Why have you left your homes and your instructors? What have I failed you in, that you call upon me and threaten to forget my name?”

The man in front of Bithe who’d led the call stepped forward.

“Tass-ovekondo!” he shouted. “Master of this village! We are fed here, and we are taught here, and we are given purposes. Is it not so?”

“So it is!” screamed the crowd.

On Earth, Alden would have covered his ears at the volume.

“But we have fears about the future. We imagine more fertile lands for our children. We hear of the greatness of other wizards, and believe they might welcome our labor and our company. Is it not so?”

“So it is!”

“The answers to these things are wanted on this morning. We expect to hear the voice of the wizard. Is it not so?”

“So it is!” the people roared.

Seconds after silence had returned, a new voice rang out.

“My ears! My ears!” Ryada’s words were clear and strong. “Passing through this land, I have heard the sound of our peoples’ voices. Firstborn of the Mother, here before wizards, they now call on a wizard to give answer. I am a Knight of the Mother Planet, and I will hear that answer, too!”

Bithe went right after her, repeating only the last part. Alden was distracted by Stuart motioning him closer to whisper in his ear.

“I think you speak after me, but if Leeter-zis speaks after me, then you speak after the last wizard.”

[What do I say?]

“The same thing everyone else is saying.” With the next breath, Emban was finishing, and Stuart was going. “I serve as votary to these Knights of the Mother Planet, and I will hear that answer, too!”

Not. Enough. Warning. Stuart.

Alden whipped his head to look at Mr. Stripes Out, who seemed tickled that he was being considered. He flipped a hand in a little gesture that looked like it could mean, “Go ahead,” or, “Take your pick.”

“I am an Avowed of Earth, and I will hear that answer, too!” Alden shouted as loud as he could.

“I am a wizard passing through,” cried Leeter-zis, “and I—”

Alden relaxed. He’d managed to say what he was without messing it up, and nobody seemed to think he should have gone with something fancier than “Avowed of Earth.” Twenty additional descriptors had clamored for his attention in that second, all of them phrases he’d heard used by humans or on the Triplanets to refer to Avowed. Even ones he didn’t care for, like “gifted with power and given to war.”

What if I’d yelled that one? I’m a Rabbit. The knights aren’t even shouting about war. Bithe might murder me then apologize to everyone here for my windy mouth.

He stayed vigilant after that, but his parts in the ceremony were never individual again. He shouted along with wizards and knights in response to the village master’s dramatic negotiations with her people. After he took a puff from the inhaler Stuart had gotten him, he could appreciate it all more. The inhaler was full of the same watermelony smelling potion used in the recovery sauna at North of North, and it really did help with the heat.

There had to be much less amicable versions of this group play, even in modern times. When the village master confessed that she was no longer able to provide the best home for every person here, the other wizards did some very mild threatening:  “Do what is right, or we will be forced to protect these people from your wrongs!”

But it was ended at once by her agreeing to the Here-to-There and beginning the farewells to the families who would go. The village population was being reduced by more than half, and every family with a child below a certain age was leaving. A few people received personalized thank you speeches and gifts—those who’d been her assistants and worked with her the most closely for many years.

Alden didn’t know this community, but by the end, he was starting to feel like he did, as she told stories about how the first child to graduate from their school had gone on to become a healer’s assistant and the year none of the chicks would have survived a freak cold spell that came while the wizards were away except for everyone banding together to catch them and fill all the buildings with them.

Her assistants were getting teary-eyed, and several of the wizards on the patio behind her seemed just as moved by it all.

Except for one man who seemed annoyed with the whole thing. That was surprising since he was wearing a pair of o’odee tendrils. Alden had found out that those marked Tass-ovekondo’s children after eavesdropping on the grandmother beside Bithe, who whispered things out of turn to him and her family members frequently.

Guess not everybody can be into long goodbyes.

It was taking longer than Alden had expected, but he was judging the sour one anyway. This was the ceremony to mark the end of his mother’s life’s work. From all the shouting back and forth, it sounded like this old-fashioned allegiant village was winding down for good in the next decade or so.

Dude could fake a smile.

People being shits to parents who were in the act of doing something nice had been one of his more specific pet peeves since he was nine. That was when a boy in his class had flushed one of his own birthday cupcakes down a school toilet and called his mom stupid for getting the wrong superhero’s costume colors frosted on top. Alden hadn’t spoken to that kid for the rest of the year, which seemed like overkill now that he was older, but bereaved nine-year-olds had to do what they had to do.

The pet peeve applies across the species barrier, he noted. And it’s still overkill. That guy could be in physical distress for all I know. Maybe he’s got a rock in his shoe, or one of his hidden potion vials has cracked, and it’s dripping acid on him, and that look he’s wearing is the only way he can hold out.

He didn’t have to hold out much longer.

Alden found himself dangerously close to the center of attention as the farewells ended with the family around Bithe. The bors. They were talented assistants who had already been accepted in similar roles by the new wizard.

The grandmother was last of all. Uro-bor had been the supervisor of the village master’s household before Earth found out Artonans existed. She’d also been present for the birth of Tass-ovekondo’s babies, and now that she’d retired, she was still prone to stopping by and checking to make sure everything was running smoothly.

“Even if she does pretend it’s only for wevvi!” The village master looked to Bithe. “Hn’tyon, will you make sure this one and her family make it safely to their new home?”

“I will. I will make sure that they make it there and that their every need is met until their family stone is placed,” he said.

Does he sound choked up? Alden couldn’t see any sign of it on Bithe’s face, so it was probably his imagination.

All the wizards promised to care for a collection of specific people on the way, then they promised to care for the entire traveling party if they saw anyone in need. Then Leeter-zis promised the afterparty would be so awesome that everyone would just want to move right back here so that they could have another one, and with much laughter, cheering, and many goodbyes, the Here-to-There was officially underway.

******

******

While the crowd was still clearing out of the village meet, the knights, Leeter-zis, and the assistants who would be departing had a more personal meeting with Tass-ovekondo. Her family and friends were trying to play it cool, but they were overcome with delight that knights, even such young ones, were interested in being a part of the special day.

Right up until they heard the art’h surname, at which point Alden was sure the emotion switched to just being overcome. The village master herself, though, was even more excited by it.

“Look at you all!” she said, swinging around and almost catching Leeter-zis with a tendril feather. “So young and on the bravest of paths. And you! Human man!”

That’s me. I am human man. He smiled and nodded in acknowledgement.

“I’m so happy you are here to see this! No one from your world has ever seen my village. What do you think?”

“It’s beautiful.”

“He chased Sopee through the field as fast as an o’odee!” old Uro-bor said. “She swooped off on a contraption from this Leeter-zis Celebrant and could not stop.”

Before Alden knew it, he was being hailed as a minor hero, and the knights were being thanked for his service, and Emban was graciously giving the thanks back to Alden, and then he was holding a carved eggshell of his very own that he wasn’t sure what to do with.

This isn’t going to fit in with my dorm room…

