The Second Mind’s lessons did more than give Geneva some power even without Idis sharing her body. It earned her the respect of the other Minds, enough to learn their ‘names’.
Minds were odd things. They had personality, as Geneva well knew. However, even a broad collective wanted a name. Rather than take one that was made up, though, each Mind was a word.
For instance, this Second Mind was referred to by a word that summarized its purpose or perhaps its vision and how it viewed itself and its role. It was known as ‘Contradiction’.
By contrast, then, the Third Mind grudgingly told Geneva it was called ‘Dictum’, and she had to admit, it was a fitting name.
She met with ‘Egress’ five days after gaining her new class.
Egress was grumpy. That was the first thing Geneva noticed. It was like a well-worn track, and it resented doing the same thing, even as it understood the value of not extrapolating. Egress was tired.
Egress was old.
(This Egress is the oldest of six. Once, it led Minds. Now, it serves another point until the very foundation of Egress shifts to a new name and purpose.)
She understood that this Selphid was comprised of so many ancient Selphids that it had grown stuck in its thinking and been given a different task compared to the other Minds. It was, perhaps, less adaptive, and the sad part for Egress was that it knew it. So it had voluntarily shifted its role.
“How old does a Selphid grow? What is the average age of Selphids within your body?”
Egress was silent a moment, but the room it was in was not. Rather, very sturdy barriers of glass and magic were surrounding this Mind, so it could still ‘see’ around the room—but the forges where hammers swung and metal cooled did not end.
It was making weapons. Weapons and armor and even items for the Bodies of Fellden and other Selphids. Geneva saw a chestplate of armor that could be adapted to multiple forms shining with some kind of bright magic as Egress enchanted it and manipulated hot steel in the air without needing tools. Only the sheer hammering force required such implements.
It could only forge a fraction of items compared to an army of smiths, but what it did make was of a quality only Fraerlings could exceed, and they were tiny. Still, Geneva understood why Egress disliked the work; it made valuable things to defend its people, but it was boring.
Accordingly, the Sixth Mind’s touch was weaker than the others, as if the monotony weakened the collective itself.
(…The average age of Selphids in Egress not replaced due to Wasting or the needs of continuum is ninety-one years.)
It had taken a few minutes to calculate that. Geneva’s eyes widened.
“How old is the oldest Selphid within you?”
(Six hundred and two.)
“How is that possible? I thought half-Elves were the only ones who lived nearly that long!”
For answer, the Sixth Mind lifted a burning piece of metal into the air and began to shape it as it spoke to her.
(No Selphid bound within a body, alone, has lived past two hundred years in the last two Ages. Selphids are introduced to parasites, disease, pain, and distress. The Minds are controlled environments. Nevertheless, time affects us. Is this information germane to your understanding, Doctor?)
“I think it is. But I need to look into your biology.”
The Mind dourly agreed, which felt in Geneva’s mind like a thousand grumpy Lizardfolk nodding.
(Hence Egress. I have nearly completed prototyping. A more fascinating challenge. Egress appreciates the stimulation. Your second request is difficult. Each Mind must tabulate. It is foreign to us. Need your—statistical analysis truly be done?)
It sounded annoyed, and even Contradiction had hesitated when she asked. But Dictum had insisted, and Geneva nodded.
“It is. You called me here for a perspective and understanding unlike—”
(Yes. The point is already made.)
The annoying thing about Minds was that they never let you finish a metaphor or analogy. They got your point whenever you thought of it.
The ironic thing about the Minds was that when Geneva met them, she had thought she was encountering some kind of biological artificial intelligence. Some grand force—and they were.
But like everything, reality didn’t meet expectation. The Minds were collectives, a gestalt of countless lives, not a supercomputer. Thus, as the Second Mind had shown her, their weaknesses were all biological:
They could get trapped in a way of thinking. If they lacked perspective in their constituent parts, the greater whole might still lack it.
Thus, when Geneva Scala had begun her research into the Wasting, she realized that the Third Mind had no spreadsheets, no concrete data it could show her about the Wasting.
It had taken tens of thousands of Selphids who had encountered the Wasting in their personal lives or seen its effects or tried to stop it into its body. But when Geneva asked it the basics, Dictum had floundered.
 
——
 
“If this is a plague, can you show me a breakdown of Selphids infected by the Wasting by geography, time, age, and so on?”
It had been unable to. Nor had the Mind appreciated Geneva wanting it to copy down all the data it had in quantitative form. Even for the Minds—
(It will take cycles upon cycles of thought! The other Gathering Citadels must all be queried and the knowledge cross-referenced. The Third Mind will be at work for a week straight!)
So Dictum had complained, but the other Minds had allowed Geneva’s request to go through. Mostly because they saw her point.
Scientific analysis was something Humans came up with because they died and they couldn’t share their information at the speed of thought. It was a weakness of the Minds, and hence—Geneva Scala’s value to them.
So Dictum was unhappily now processing data for hundreds, possibly thousands of years of Wasting events from the memories of all the other Minds and trying to pinpoint them across a map and having to write it down.
It meant it had no time to speak with her, and in the meantime, Geneva was free to pursue other avenues to improve this world’s medicinal knowledge and help with the Wasting as a whole.
Hence, Egress.
 
——
 
Geneva Scala was a doctor.
She was also a surgery resident in her third year on Earth. If she went back home, with all her knowledge and experiences, a surgeon might well admit her as a very, very promising doctor who’d operated on battlefields and who had an intimate knowledge of the Human body.
Experience like that was invaluable, and Geneva might be the best authority among Earth’s medical practitioners on adapting medical practices to non-Human bodies.
…None of that meant she was near the level of a practicing expert in medical fields. She was also not an anesthesiologist. She was not a biologist. She didn’t know (much) about the effects of radiation or how to deal with cancer. Mind you, you had questions on nuclear physics on some exams—
—But she was aware of her lack of knowledge. So Geneva Scala had decided that all her understanding of the bodies she had worked on, the lives she’d saved as The Last Light on the battlefield, were anecdotal.
Did she really understand how Dullahan bodies worked? Did she know, conclusively, how a Centaur was a mix of Human and horse?
No. Were Lizardfolk even lizards or were they mammals in disguise? The microbiology of each species alone was a mystery to her, and Selphids were arguably the biggest mystery of all.
So Geneva had asked for a Mind to help make her something no other person on Baleros had been able to do thus far. Egress slowly shaped metal and glass and magic to exacting perfection.
(Not even a Fraerling could do as well. For they cannot see the final product. Egress understands. Refraction of light. A [Glassblower] once observed the same when working for an [Archmage]. Zelkyr, they called him. He wished glass eyes for his Golems but gave up.)
Slowly, it placed a gleaming lens of glass in a large contraption of metal still gleaming blue from forging. It adjusted, grumbled, and cast a spell to enhance the image again.
The resultant object was nowhere near as precise as what Geneva knew from home. Yet it was still a microscope. It had to be far larger because even Egress could not adjust the minute parts perfectly, but with magic, it could magnify beyond belief.
Even so—getting down to the cellular level was tough, and Egress soon realized that the slightest imperfections or misadjustments meant Geneva ‘missed’ what she was trying to focus on by miles. Metaphorically speaking.
(Can this not work?)
It grumpily cast [Eagle’s Eye] on a circle of wood for her, and Geneva could see the very pores on her skin. She looked up as it tried to adjust the lenses it needed to have perfectly aligned and tried to figure out a system so it could be manually adjusted. It had no eyes, so it needed a volunteer to help it.
“Unfortunately, this is far, far below what I need to see.”
(Then Egress shall ponder. Go, go, go. You shall be summoned when Egress is finished.)
It shooed her out, but it seemed rather pleased by the difficulty. As for Geneva—she walked off and spent the rest of her time in lessons with the Second Mind and then investigating bodies of dead people that the Selphids were only too happy to show her—so long as she sewed them back up afterwards.
She needed to learn.
 
——
 
Those were the days before Fetohep of Khelt called an alarm across the world. When the Minds feared an advent of Seamwalkers, they dropped everything they were doing and spent every moment obsessively combing Baleros for the threat or monitoring the battles elsewhere.
Geneva Scala did not see The Dyed Lands changing, but she felt the Minds desperately assessing the damage and trying to evacuate their people from the first waves of monsters.
She worked and dreamed and made a few discoveries.
In her dream, she remembered something. The dead body in the body bag. The smell wasn’t bad.
Even so—that idiot threw up. So she had to walk through a mess, and there she was as the coroner and she carried the body out to the van. And he said, as they were maneuvering the body into the back—
“That one won’t last long.”
She agreed.
 
——
 
Memory was a strange thing. Geneva knew that memory cells actually changed in your mind; they were rewritten, and so your memories changed too. Perhaps her class was uncovering the truth, or at least, putting some memories into clarity.
The Third Mind was grumpy when it finished its work. Dictum presented her with a chart highlighting the Selphid Wasting occurrences by region on a map of Baleros and the world, and she looked at it blankly.
“…This is just population data? I can see Wasting occurs where there are more Selphids.”
(So?)
Geneva bit her lip. This would have been so much easier with a computer instead of the papers that the Third Mind had laboriously copied down the data onto. It had had to teach itself statistical analysis from her memories, and it seemed really fed up. She still caught a current of…fear from the ripples after Fetohep’s warning and the battle at the Meeting of Tribes.
“Can you perform another comparison? I need you to show me the number of Wasting occurrences by density of population.”
(How would—aggravating, aggravating.)
The Third Mind actually sank in the air as it realized what Geneva wanted it to do. Rather to her amusement she realized—it wasn’t made up of a lot of Selphids who liked numbers.
Another flaw of the Minds was that while they had [Guardians] and helpers, they were individualistic. The Second Mind had the most capable staff; the Third Mind had been so used to being superior that it had no one to delegate this work to. It was the only person who could do the job. Glumly, it told her to come back later.
Meanwhile, Geneva Scala was working on an actual discovery courtesy of the First Mind.
Continuum.
Of all the Minds, the First Mind was the one who got to worry about Earth. And unlike anyone else, the First Mind could look into Geneva’s head and see an image of a nuclear weapon falling. It could understand a billion—and it worried.
But it said little of this to her. Continuum knew how the world worked—and it tried to see how the world could change.
So the First Mind had given orders, and the unhappy Bodies of Fellden, the Selphids who fought and executed the Mind’s wills, had given Geneva Scala some of their most precious resources.
(The Bodies of Fellden are a vast group. A name for all Selphids acting as the Minds’ will. Each Gathering Citadel may employ them under this title. Some have more combat capability than others. Calectus is among the best of our number.)
It shunted the information to Geneva as she worked on a table in front of it. She was concentrating hard, but the First Mind was listening to her background thoughts.
(This body in front of you may cost hundreds of gold pieces, or less if the owners are unaware of its worth. Many times, a Selphid may pay tens of thousands of gold coins, even for a body that may soon be useless. This is unto…artifacts as most non-Selphids understand it.)
It gestured down at the dead Gorgon, and Geneva glanced up and nodded.
“Especially if they have loved ones.”
(A regrettable difference between species. What do you observe?)
Slowly, Geneva Scala lifted something out of the body, and one of the [Guardians] sighed.
“I’m afraid I need to investigate this. Which means you may need to cede the body to me.”
(Acceptable. Can Egress manufacture a microscope to your expectations?)
“Not as precise as I want, but…this is invaluable.”
Geneva Scala was holding something she’d removed from the body. She felt like she was performing actual mad science, because this was dead tissue. Not a transplant. And yet—she looked down at the strangest thing.
She thought it was…well, she had a thin strand of muscle fiber and what might be a tendon. Geneva knew all about connecting tendons and the many, many complications from tearing or snapping one completely.
It was a difficult process with a lot of rehabilitation, and she had never done anything like having to reconnect them—even repairing the War Walker’s body, Bastiom, had been more about pouring healing potion into the right spots and connecting whatever she saw.
This though—Geneva Scala had never, ever run into something in a body her scalpel couldn’t cut through. But she’d had to actually yank the entire tendon out of the body as well as the individual strands of muscle.
They even looked subtly different as they curled up, and Geneva was carrying them over to the next version of the microscope as she spoke.
Because she had a feeling she was about to see Galas-muscle up close.
