“Philosophy. Enjoy yourself, if only memory. This is a gift.”
So, Geneva Scala looked around and then decided to revisit a memory. She stood on a beach, with Luan, Ken, and the Earthers, and dabbled her toes in the water. But this time, instead of sitting there with Aiko, she asked if she could try canoeing and walked off into the water. For a little while—
She imagined she was free.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon never received a reply from the Minds regarding his offer about Geneva Scala, from Ollosq or via any other means.
He had not expected any. The offer-threat had multiple purposes. Yes, it tipped his hand, but it escalated timetables on the other side. Which wasn’t necessarily good for Geneva if the Minds were hostile to her survival, but he had to hope they were not.
He suspected they wanted her for the same reasons he did, and the Wasting disease for Selphids? Well, he had motive. He knew it had to be Minds, and so Niers just needed to know where they were. The reason he’d said this all publicly was simply because he wanted this to be above-board.
Jumping a bunch of Minds was already risky without this looking like an attack on their species. If the other Minds disavowed whichever group this was, Niers had a better chance of not causing a diplomatic incident.
At the very least, he could claim he’d warned them.
Not that Niers wanted this to come to blood—it was just a distinct possibility. And yes, the Minds might think they were undiscoverable in their Gathering Citadels, but Niers had found one group before. Mind you, they had nearly killed him when he popped in, but it had been a valuable lesson.
Minds were still capable of being idiots. If anything, they were highly intelligent idiots sometimes, and unless one was geared to strategic thinking, Niers knew he could locate them. In fact—
He had Erin Solstice to thank, and she had asked him to find Geneva Scala herself.
It all went back to the day when she had come back from vacation. Niers had begun laying plans before that, but Erin had provided the perfect catalyst. When she’d challenged him, on television, to a match, Niers had refused.
 
——
 
It hurt him, physically, to step away from the board, but he knew she’d smoke him, and if he wanted to beat her, he had to see how good she’d be. Watching her thrash poor Pisces with a dozen top-level Skills was something he was going to put on repeat.
“Save the recording. But get me Eirnos. Now. I want Foliana and Umina’s reports and every single [Diviner] we’ve got. But get me Eirnos.”
When the Titan spoke like that, he got what he wanted. Iuncuta Eirnos was not pleased to be summoned, but she found him watching the scrying orb of Erin Solstice playing.
“A bit tall for you, isn’t she?”
The Fraerling quipped, but Niers barely reacted to her jab. He was checking an hourglass.
“I need to participate in the chess games. And probably broadcast my live reaction. I take it you’re watching the news?”
“Your mysterious chess partner? We’re on campaign, Titan.”
Eirnos snapped back, but even she had to admit that she was watching the news. They were all stationed in one of Niers’ forward bases, pushing towards the Dyed Lands. It wasn’t some campground affair of tents—they’d set up magical buildings and mobile fortifications—one of his Chess Towers was providing a level of defensive fortifications few groups could match on the march.
The Titan barely looked up.
“And I’m on two. Three, counting Jungle Tails, Iuncuta. I told you that I wanted your people’s help? Well, I’m going to convince you to call every Farspeaker and [Mage] under your authority to help me out.”
Iuncuta Eirnos laughed in his face. She leaned against her spear.
“If this is to get more angles of your Human interest or win a chess game for a level—”
She stopped as Niers glanced up at her. The Fraerlings exchanged a look, and Eirnos’ smile flicked out.
“You’d better have a damn good reason. The Fraerlings do not go to war against the Tallfolk without a damn good one.”
“I’m looking for The Last Light, a Human [Doctor]. This is the moment. I need you to hack into Wistram’s scrying spell and find her.”
Eirnos blinked her good eye. She understood what he meant at once.
Everyone who was magically gifted or paranoid knew about the scrying spells being reversible. Wistram’s scrying orbs could be used to create a bunch of informative cameras—and Wistram itself was not so advanced that another party couldn’t break into their spell.
Especially Fraerlings. However, Archmage Eldavin had solidified the spells’ intricacies so it would be tougher. Not impossible. Even if you couldn’t break into Wistram’s network, you could essentially pinpoint whoever was using a [Scrying] spell and linking into a network and backtrace it to their device.
“That’s an invasion of privacy above your authority, Titan. If we’re found out—I know about that [Doctor]. Some kind of famous healer, eh? The answer is still n—”
“The Minds have her. And unless I miss my guess, they’re close to violating the Minacien Wall.”
Niers was very gratified to see Eirnos go perfectly still. Her good eye flickered, and her fingers slowly tightened over the butt of her spear.
“How certain is that claim?”
“Certain enough that when we find Geneva Scala—you can interview her and find out why the Minds would be so fascinated with her. If you don’t think I had reason to fear this, I’ll stand trial with every Fraerling settlement and conclave of Minds you want.”
Niers Astoragon knew that claiming someone was violating the Minacien Wall could make you an enemy of every Selphid—and it was not a claim you threw around lightly. But he just bet the Minds were at the very least reading Geneva Scala’s thoughts.
That alone gave Eirnos pause. Foliana wheeled herself into the war room.
“Is this about your girlfriend?”
For once, Niers didn’t rise to the bait. He turned as one of his aides hurried in.
Cameral, the Dullahan, looked terrified, but he was doing well as Niers’ assistant. He had a sheaf of papers, and he put them down as the Titan looked at Eirnos. She spoke.
“What do you want, Titan? What are my [Seers] after?”
Niers pulled up a piece of paper and showed it to her. It was…a sketch. A sketch of a partly-rotted face and a Selphid within a corpse. It had a name, and he had nearly three dozen of them.
Courtesy of Umina, Marian, and Cameral.
“In Talenqual, the Bodies of Fellden were working with the United Nations company, a group of Humans, and the Last Light before they carried her off. I had my students use a memory spell and yanked an illustration of all of them. They may have rotted a bit over the months, but I need you to find every scrying spell in this area.”
He had a compass, and he circled a vast region around Talenqual; everywhere he thought the Bodies of Fellden could march in a month’s time.
“That’s fucking huge.”
Eirnos grunted. Niers shrugged.
“Find one of the faces here.”
“If they’re in a Gathering Citadel, there’s no way you’ll find them. The Minds ward everything.”
Foliana’s head snapped up, and she gave Niers an uncharacteristically serious stare. Cameral looked blankly at the Titan, and Niers gestured for him to remain silent. Cameral was going to learn one of the secrets of Baleros today. He had an eye on Erin Solstice announcing her challenge to the world as he replied.
“I know that. But the Bodies of Fellden are their mercenary group. Not their protectors. In short…”
In short, they might not all be in the Gathering Citadel. Eirnos blinked as she got it.
Everyone needed time off. Gathering Citadels were underground, boring damn places. The odds that the Bodies of Fellden were working somewhere else were high, or at least, on vacation.
During a huge event like this—the odds of one of them watching a scrying orb were through the roof. Niers just had to find them.
“Here are their names. Try scrying them first. I know our Fraerlings can break through or bypass low-grade anti-scrying spells. Find them, Eirnos. All I need is where they are.”
But that doesn’t find you a Gathering Citadel. This time, the Iuncuta didn’t say that. She was thinking. She nodded, slowly, and turned on her heel.
“How long is this chess tournament supposed to last?”
Niers glanced at Erin Solstice. He shrugged.
“You’ve got an hour or more. I think she’s going to beat me, but I’ll throw every game if I have to. Find them.”
 
——
 
It turned out the rush was unnecessary. By the time Niers watched Calidus Reinhart beat Erin Solstice—purely due to his luck and her exhaustion, he might add—Eirnos was waiting.
She handed him a map with a circled group of dots. All of them in the same city.
“Did you throw all eight games?”
“Don’t talk to me. She wasted Fraerlings as well as everyone else. So this is where they are?”
Niers glanced at the map, then he just took a compass, found every single forest and body of large untamed space within fifty miles, and circled it. Then he handed the map back.
“That’s where the Gathering Citadel is. Six spots, and I’ll bet you they’re in an area marked ‘Gold-rank danger’ but without any known valuable resources. This spot—in the hills, here, is my top guess.”
He pointed at the second-largest body of land in a valley that he’d pick. Eirnos didn’t take the map.
“You’ve got your intelligence. Am I supposed to fly out there? I’ve never fought Minds, but I know the record. They’ll tear up a column of your best—and you have Selphids in your ranks. How are you going to make sure they’re there? Three-Color Stalker?”
“No. Get me Golems.”
Niers’ eyes gleamed. Even Foliana wouldn’t be appropriate against the Minds. Eirnos’ brows rose.
“You mean…?”
“If you have a [Necromancer] or a [Puppet Master]—I want them to send in Golems, puppets, and undead. On flying carpets, no trained animals, or similar spells. Have them scour the area.”
“Remote detection? To find a Gathering Citadel? You must be mad.”
Eirnos scoffed, but Niers shook his head.
“Even an underground base needs air vents. If they think I’m coming, they might be stupid enough to call the Bodies of Fellden back. At the very least—someone takes them food and other resources. Put sentries up there and all the other spots. When you locate them, I’ll have a strike force ready. You want to watch?”
He stood up. The Iuncuta was giving him a disturbed look.
“We’re on campaign against—”
“We’ll take a flying carpet. I’ll move a force with the right preparations into the area. I have a number of Fraerling specialists I want you to lend me. I’ll be there—and if you want to watch, be my guest. But we might be fighting Minds in the tunnels.”
He was striding to find Cameral and giving the orders. Now, the other Fraerling was watching him. That was the difference between them.
She might be a proven war-leader, an expert hunter of monsters, and she certainly didn’t find him intimidating—but Eirnos was still a Fraerling used to Fraerling strife. She didn’t hunt people.
“Better take notes, Iuncuta Eirnos. When we find Peclir, I’m not going to bother with a raid. Let alone a warning. We’ll knock on the Minds’ door, but if they don’t open up, I’ll drag them out of their lair.”
The Titan was striding fast. Because despite his ability to find the Minds, they had been holding Geneva Scala for ages. If he had been back here, instead of lost on Izril, he might have found her sooner. Right now?
Hurry, hurry. His mind was buzzing. The Minacien Wall was something the Selphids had created to prevent more reprisals. But it was also there for everyone else’s safety.
When the wall came down—
Bad things happened. But how sure was Niers that bad things were happening? Maybe Geneva Scala was just a guest of a powerful force of semi-neutral Selphid leaders genuinely trying to save or safeguard their species, treated well but simply hostage?
If one of his students said that, he’d fail them out of their class. Besides—Niers scratched at his beard. No Minds had officially replied to him in any capacity, but he’d received something odd from one of the Selphids under his command. While they’d been marching back from a campaign against the Dyed Lands monsters, one had handed him a slip of parchment. It had one word scrawled on it, and he took it to heart.
‘Hurry.’
Hurry.
 
——
 
The Second Mind knew something was wrong. It knew it, but it didn’t believe. It didn’t send Niers Astoragon the message until it had a reason.
(I asked you to not discover anything.)
Geneva Scala looked calmer, happier after walking through her memories. The Third Mind was very, very pleased, and even Contradiction couldn’t deny that Dictum had achieved some success.
Continuum and the others were very pleased, and that meant Contradiction had to rely on Niers Astoragon being able to pressure the others.
What disturbed the Second Mind was this:
The other Minds, First and Third, which it thought might be colluding in purpose, should have forced a decision ahead of the Titan finding them. If they wanted to keep Geneva Scala, that was the most logical course of action before the stakes were against them.
Instead, they’d opted to wait. Which implied a plan. Something other than Geneva Scala finding clues about the Wasting. The second cause for unease was Geneva Scala herself.
“I know, Contradiction. But I am committed to helping the Selphids as much as I can. My oath as a [Doctor] doesn’t diminish that.”
This was true, but Contradiction was still disturbed. It floated around her, and her own telepathic abilities were stronger. Idis was humming inside Geneva’s body as the two communed, and the Second Mind didn’t sense Geneva’s faint unrest at the Selphid’s presence.
Perhaps she no longer felt as much a prisoner in body and mind. Yet the Second Mind was still—
(Why did you transplant the galas-muscle into the bodies? Why have you agreed to keep doing this? This action does not seem to me to be something you would do, Geneva.)
She hesitated, then. Geneva almost shrugged.
“It’s dead bodies, not living ones. I draw the line on Human—that is to say, experimentation on people, but these bodies are already dead. If I can level and find ways to correct injuries or understand how magic or galas develop…”
She felt at her own back as she spoke. It all sounded very reasonable, all understandable. The Second Mind had no nerves, and the component Selphids in it needed very little that larger bodies did.
Nevertheless, a thousand Selphids squirmed. The orb of them shivered.
