The Fourth Mind hesitated, and the other Selphid looked aghast. For some reason, this seemed like the first question that was uneasy to the Selphids, despite Geneva investigating countless dead bodies.
(This Mind allows it. For your understanding of the Wasting. How goes it?)
Geneva Scala shook her head, but not in denial. She approached the Fourth Mind as Inconsolable gave directions for the Selphid body to be preserved magically and sent to her laboratory. She indicated a stack of papers Idis was arranging with her body.
“The Third Mind has compiled a wealth of information. But it is so precise—may I ask for help?”
(This is the agreement of Minds. Step forwards, and this Fourth Mind shall aid you in—)
Geneva Scala reached out as she floated upwards, and the papers whirled around her, arranging, shifting—
 
——
 
“…Perspective.”
Then she was floating over a visual depiction of the map of Baleros. Geneva looked down and thought that the Americas of her world matched this continent. Not perfectly, but this continent above all others was the most diverse in terms of climate.
A warm, warm southern jungle contrasted with the frozen north of Dullahans. Around the upper middle were the flatlands that Centaurs had created, and the port cities and trade routes snaked through the untamed wilds.
The Dyed Lands were a pulsing dot in the lower southwest of Baleros, a spreading colorful stain.
That must have been the Fourth Mind’s understanding of the map, because the ones Geneva had did not indicate this. It was linking with her, boosting her own intellect and understanding.
This was the realm of a Mind, and it gave Geneva added cognitive ability and sheer time in the form of mental processing power. Imagine a think tank on Earth with this ability?
Well, Geneva was using it right now to sort through the raw data the Third Mind had given her. It was eager to know what she made of it—and she realized now that it must have seen something. But it had learned enough of the scientific method not to color her own perceptions unduly.
Therefore—she looked and saw. And what she first saw was a breakdown by date and location and yes, relative population of every Selphid that had ever fallen victim to the Wasting.
What was the Wasting? It was, quite simply, disintegration by parts. A kind of full-body death where a Selphid slowly lost parts of itself until it expired. Bits fell away, as if a Selphid were rotting to death like the corpses they inhabited.
And that was a terrible death, because unlike other species, Selphids were a mutable organism. If they lost part of themselves, any part, they did not necessarily die, but they lost memories and bits of  their selves. This Wasting was a death of their very identities, and it was as close to Alzheimer’s as anything Geneva had encountered.
A bunch of notes—her mental notes—fluttered up and pinned themselves to the hot, humid air where Geneva was hovering. Firstly, the Wasting was not transmissible as far as she understood it. The Minds and other Selphids behaved as if it were, but even when a Selphid had been sharing a body with another Selphid, it hadn’t necessarily ‘spread’.
It normally affected older Selphids, too. However, some Selphids had gone into centuries without being affected, and others were struck down decades in. No known cure. No known vector. Some Skills—especially high-level Selphids—could hold it off or even regenerate and grow faster than it killed them.
For a time. But even Named-ranks fell to it, slowly. It was a plague of the Selphids—but here was the thing. That was a misnomer because it was not something another species had done to Selphids.
At least, as far as the Minds could tell. In its efforts to erase this phenomenon, the Third Mind and many other Selphids had investigated whether this was some kind of retribution for the old Selphid empire or a way to keep them weak.
That wasn’t even paranoia; the Gnolls’ stolen magical potential proved that it was definitely a concern. However, the Minds were fairly convinced that this was not created. They were very, very good at finding out things, and they had investigated the matter.
(Thoroughly.)
Geneva Scala twisted as the Fourth Mind emphasized that. She did not…like how it thought that. But she let it go. What species wouldn’t look into its own demise? It was too long ago for her to do anything about it. An entire species was in jeopardy, so she lent what insights she could to the data so painstakingly acquired.
The map of Baleros was the most accurate sample of data as other continents had very, very few Selphids by comparison. Even so—
“Can I get the other continents displayed? For contrast? Even if the data is suspect, I’d like to see it.”
Again, the continents appeared, and Geneva slowly ‘toggled’ through her mental and the pictorial depictions of the data. If she turned on the sheer numbers of Selphids who fell to wasting—
Baleros turned red below her, a spreading stain of crimson and black the more Selphids who fell to the Wasting. As she had observed—the map highlighted population centers. Even more crucially, it was doubly confusing because the population centers moved and changed over the years, so the Fourth Mind showed her how each decade, different cities and provinces had more Wasting occurrences.
“The data is skewed.”
A Selphid Garuda observed, flying next to Geneva. The [Doctor] nodded and concentrated.
“Now, let’s see the distribution based on Wasting events to Selphid population density. Ah.”
Instantly, the map changed. It was a complex equation, trying to balance out this part. Not because you took the number of Selphids affected by wasting and divided by the population. More—because doing that was so difficult without formal censuses.
A Selphid who developed the Wasting might not know about it for a while, and might travel somewhere else to seek a cure or live out their remaining years. They might not tell anyone—so the Third Mind had had to check, double-check, and rely only on hard data.
Even so, Geneva instantly saw something odd. But she swooped from continent to continent to make sure she was right.
What she saw was, firstly, no real data or evidence of most parts of Izril, Terandria, Chandrar, and places like Drath and the House of Minos having any change in Selphid Wasting. The numbers were too inconclusive, and Selphids had developed the disease wherever they went on these continents.
“Too many mobile Selphids. Those who do develop the Wasting in cities follow the exact same path in Baleros.”
Geneva swooped down, and the world dissolved, and she landed in—
Pallass? Geneva stared around the City of Inventions and saw a bunch of elevators in construction. Drakes, working to and fro, a master-smith, a Drake, calling out orders to a bunch of working Drakes and Gnolls.
This was Pallass as one of the Selphids in the Fourth Mind had once seen it. The Fourth Mind overlaid this with scrying orb images of modern Pallass. But the smell, the feel of being there came from Selphids who had walked the City of Inventions before joining the Fourth Mind.
Up, Geneva shot, feeling like this was something she could do all day, touring countless memories of the world. She wanted to see it all.
(Duty calls.)
The Fourth Mind whispered, and Geneva wished it was not right. She looked about.
“I have theorized that corpses—the consumption or inhabiting dead bodies is a vector for this disease. But the Third Mind told me the Wasting occurred even during the Selphid Empire.”
(Yes.)
“Inconclusive, then. Diet…if no continents have a difference in Wasting that we can immediately see, maybe diet isn’t a factor. Back to Baleros.”
The world spun, and Geneva began inspecting the map again. What had the Third Mind seen that was so interesting? She frowned at the relatively even blotching of Wasting. It was indeed—fairly uniform when you accounted for population.
Except…she eyed the map and had an idea.
“Can you—overlay the population graph again? No, wait. Just take the numbers of Selphids by area. Then show me this map.”
The Fourth Mind had to take a few moments to do this. When it figured out how to display the data, it began highlighting what Geneva wanted.
In short—it showed her the places where Selphids were—but where they didn’t suffer from the Wasting. Then—the Fourth Mind began to buzz with excitement, and Geneva Scala exhaled.
“We’ve found a clue.”
She didn’t know what the clue was, but the Fourth Mind broadcast a triumphant note that made every Selphid, from Idis in Geneva’s body to the other Minds, look up and laugh and smile. Statistical analysis won, and—no wonder the Minds couldn’t see it!
Few Selphids would come to them from these spots. There were a few around the world that might be just statistical anomalies because only a few Selphids had ever lived there, like Khelt or another paradise. But if you wanted proven populations of Selphids in a region and almost no Wasting events?
There were exactly two spots in the entire world with sufficient data to create anomalous zones. And guess which ones they were?
 
——
 
“This cannot be a coincidence. Now, of all times? Rhir. Rhir and The Dyed Lands.”
Calectus, the [Honor Guard] of Selphids, was present with a number of high-level [Guardians]. The Third Mind had convened them to speak about what Geneva had found.
(The data is beyond refuting.)
“Is it…could it just be that Selphids have perished there too quickly for the Wasting to take them, Third Mind?”
One of the [Psychic Guardians], Ressk, didn’t quite understand the significance of the data. It was Geneva who replied.
“No, this is about Wasting events, Guardian Ressk. We did not look at the number of deaths, but the number of Selphids who developed the Wasting in these areas. I am sure many Selphids did perish in these areas.”
“Both are Death Zones.”
Idis muttered out of the corner of Geneva’s mouth. She fell silent as the older Selphids glared at her. Not Geneva.
(That is a fallacy in thought. Now the data is presented, it is clear. Rhir has developed only six cases of the Wasting since its resettlement six thousand years ago.)
One every thousand years? And—Geneva Scala pointed down at the map the Third Mind had worked up.
“That’s one oddity. The second is this. Look at the relative number of Wasting events around the Dyed Lands. They decrease the closer you get to the origin point. It’s less concrete than Rhir—”
In that more Wastings occurred, but the number faded out the closer you got to the Dyed Lands. Almost as if something there was stopping the Wastings.
By now, every single Selphid was getting excited. Even if they didn’t follow the data analysis, they understood what that meant.
“Then—something in these locations is protecting Selphids.”
“Or there’s another factor. Either way, I need to know what it is.”
“You cannot tell based on some—similarity between plants? Animals? Magic?”
Now they were reaching. Geneva Scala shook her head. If this were Earth and she had an unlimited budget and resources, she’d instantly call for a full analysis of both areas. Soil, climate, local fauna, magical spectrographs, everything.
Failing that? The Third Mind was deliberating with the other Minds.
(An expedition must be mounted to The Dyed Lands. This comes at the worst time. But the Minds must investigate this place.)
“Not Rhir?”
Geneva only knew about the hell of continents by reputation, but the Third Mind was adamant.
(It is further. And the Blighted Kingdom is—inquisitive. Demons aside. The Dyed Lands are far easier to secure.)
“Every new monster is pouring out of there.”
(Then Selphids shall join the taming of The Dyed Lands. Geneva Scala, you have done well. Very, very well. A tangible hint emerges. Continue your work. This is proof—proof you will help us find the cure in this generation.)
The Third Mind was beyond ebullient. Geneva feared it was making too many promises, but she had to admit, this seemed like a tangible lead. She was only too familiar how hints or evidence didn’t provide a cure, though. If this were analogous to cancer—she couldn’t help.
Then again, she had never heard of cancer or any disease just disappearing in a geographic location. Diet, lifestyle, exposure to harmful chemicals informed rates of cancer—but this was something else.
She decided there was still more she didn’t know. Geneva’s investigations had to continue, and she was growing excited, not least because she was learning more and more. She had agreed to try and transplant more galas-muscle into a single body with her new Skill. The Second Mind was teaching her more mental tricks.
After this day, the Third Mind was so pleased, it offered her a reward only a Mind could give: anything.
 
——
 
In your daydreams, have you ever wondered what it would be like to fly into a cloud? A boy or girl imagining being a superhero?
Such dreams had to be pleasant. Telling your boss exactly what you wanted. Winning an argument. Eating a favorite meal again, or reliving triumph, correcting a failure.
However—the mind was a weak thing, and imagination only colored these ideas faintly. In the heart of a Mind—Geneva Scala put on a red cape. She pointed a fist up—and flew.
The world disappeared below her, and she felt gravity beginning to drag on her, but fall away. It was terrifying, exhilarating, and real. She felt the cape flapping behind her, and when she stopped, hovering in the air, she could look down and see her home, her apartment window below.
Someone was staring up at her. Pointing. Geneva looked around and saw someone poking their head out a window back on Earth. As she hovered there, she could see a helicopter taking off on a skyscraper, hear shouting—
That was when this false reality grew too real. She concentrated, and the world blurred away.
“This is my reward?”
Geneva Scala was unsteady, but the Third Mind reassured her. A Selphid walked out of white space and smiled.
“Anything you wish to envision can be done.”
Geneva Scala looked around. Anything? 
The Minds truly were like a thought experiment. A thousand things flickered before her, and she imagined what someone might do if they could experience anything. The knowledge that she was within a Mind stopped her from going on.
Geneva Scala reached out—and held a coffee cup. A latte. She took a sip and then drank a mouthful down, and it was so real she dropped it and almost backed away.
I am within a Mind. 
I am Geneva Scala.
She centered herself, as the Second Mind had taught her, and the sense of boundless power and the fraying of reality stopped. The Third Mind seemed displeased.
“The Second Mind teaches you too much. What is the harm in indulging thought?”
“Thought leads to action.”
