“There will still be scenarios where I would like to call you in for help, Eirnos. Call me Niers.”
She gave him a mirthless grin.
“I knew you’d say that. So did all the other leaders, so they chose me to head this group.”
“And why are you so qualified?”
She leaned over and looked Niers in the eye.
“I don’t admire you like most of the others, Titan. And I don’t get my people killed. If you have a ‘special mission’ for us that isn’t part of taking down Jungle Tails or fighting through the Dyed Lands and finding Gindal’s city, you had better have the best of reasons.”
The Fraerling gave Niers a huge grin and was disconcerted when he laughed. Niers apologized, but his eyes glittered.
“Oh, is that all, Eirnos? Trust me. I always have excellent reasons.”
 
——
 
As Niers strode through his palace, he thought that Eirnos was going to be tricky. But again—she was a Fraerling commander. She probably dealt with life and death, and she had led armies and made terribly fraught choices. Her missing eye proved she’d paid for some of her mistakes.
But she was not the Titan of Baleros.
He knew all kinds of secrets. And what he’d learned was that compromising your values wasn’t a question of integrity. It came with the job when you led hundreds of thousands of lives.
One of the things he’d learned, for instance, was about loyalty.
Oh, Peclir was betrayal, and that was different. Foliana was still kicking herself about missing him, and she was still recovering from her strange injuries. Erin Solstice and the new Fraerlings had definitely helped her. One of the Fraerlings had praised her recovering condition as the result of some real good curse-breaking.
“We don’t have many [Witches], so it’s good to see the Tallfolk have some craft left.”
Niers smiled about that. But he had a lot to do, so he was busy writing instructions down.
“…be…back soon, Umina and Marian. Tell Kissilt to do the same. Cameral is…employed…for the Dyed Lands, and you two are either employed or needed for class.”
He didn’t know if Venaz, Wil, Merrik, and Peki would get Yerranola and return or not. Feshi?
Feshi had graduated. Niers Astoragon slowed, and he looked up sadly.
She had already written him that she wouldn’t be coming back.
He lost students to accidents, changing events, and some dropped out due to lack of confidence or something else, of course, marriage…but Feshi’s was always the one that struck him the most.
His student was now a Chieftain, and she had to help lead her tribe. He shook his head as he finished writing Umina.
So much to do.
So the Titan only stopped by the barracks where some of his finest were quartered. The line holders, the vanguard of his armies, the Selphid Immortals had served, if not all of them, for decades.
“Titan! What can I help you with?”
“Captain Ollosq. Can I walk with you? I have a few things to talk about. Just around the citadel, maybe.”
The Selphid, who was wearing a looted Medusa corpse, was only too pleased to put Niers on her shoulder and slither out across the palace. She had a huge hole in her chest covered by a shirt, but the Selphids certainly appreciated all the free bodies.
Ollosq was clever enough to know that Niers never wanted a walk for no reason.
“Disruption in the ranks, sir? Squad to fight or is it something else?”
She flicked her tongue out as Niers checked on the walls under repair and the citizens of Elvallian. He gave them a wave, and they were still cheering him as if this mess wasn’t his fault. He murmured to the Medusa—obviously both were under privacy spells at all times.
“No, Ollosq. Just a quick word. You see, I’ve had this problem come up—among my many busy problems. I know you’re getting ready to head to the Dyed Lands—”
“Ready to go, sir. Give us the order, and we’ll reinforce the front.”
The Selphid smiled, and Niers nodded. He stared past Ollosq’s shoulder as if admiring the birds flocking to the aviary bearing Fraerlings, keeping her face in the periphery of his gaze.
“It’s just that I’m in need of a talk with, oh, the Minds. But you know how they are. Impossible to reach.”
Ollosq was a Selphid, and a good one, so the Medusa’s face never changed, but if you were wearing a Ring of Sight, you could see via [Detect Life] the Selphid squirming about in her body.
“The Minds, sir? Never heard of them. You’ll not find a single one in my company, on my word.”
Niers grinned, but he waved that off.
“Ollosq, I’m not accusing you of pulling a Peclir. Not at all. But everyone knows that a Selphid’s still got obligations, and a good soldier has to weigh them. Just like Lizardfolk and Nagas.”
“I understand your point, sir, but I don’t know who these…Minds are.”
Ollosq’s voice was very calm, and Niers wished he’d asked to ride in the palm of the Medusa’s hand. Well, it would work if she wasn’t a Selphid—it was hard to control hand muscles to stillness.
“Oh—well, maybe I’m wrong, Ollosq. But I had a message for them. A serious one. Non-hostile, I think it’s important to say, but it’s critical they learn.”
The Medusa kept slithering on after her pause. Her voice lowered slightly, although it kept as friendly as could be.
“Not that I know them. But what would you say if you were trying to get a message, sir? Maybe I could workshop it for you.”
Niers stroked at his chin.
“Well, obviously you have to start with some greetings. After you say something very cordial—a few jokes—much respect, you know?”
“Of course.”
“Significant respect, I’d say. We’ve never had issues. Oh, I’ve been a rascal with one group, but I imagine they don’t think we’re at odds. If anything, I’d say they hate the Howling Maelstrom and Iron Vanguard more than me. Even Eyes of Baleros have a history.”
“…I wouldn’t know, sir. But let’s say that’s all true and Forgotten Wing was so well-liked Selphids work with it. What could possibly be important enough to tickle these Minds?”
Ollosq glanced down, and Niers Astoragon put his hands behind his back.
“Ever heard of The Last Light, Ollosq?”
“Never, sir. Oh—that story about a [Doctor]? Yes, that, and I think I heard her name in the academy? Some Naga with artifacts telling tall tales in the barracks, but not personally.”
Niers nodded. He adjusted the truth spell on his ring as he clasped his hands behind his back and went on.
“I bet even the other Minds don’t know much about her. Aside from rumors. Which is why it would really shock some of them to know that the Bodies of Fellden walked off with her. Or maybe they all know, in which case my inquiry is just a matter of course. How is she, is she eating well, when are you going to return her? That sort of thing.”
Ollosq’s smile was getting glassier by the second.
“That sounds—pretty aggressively like kidnapping, Lord Astoragon.”
Niers coughed sideways lightly.
“I wouldn’t say that. In fact, if I were talking to the Minds, diplomatically, you understand—”
“Of course.”
“—I’d say that if she showed up, unharmed, we might let bygones be bygones. Completely unharmed, of course. Nothing to do with her memories. I know the Minds are very secretive, but I’d make sure to be discreet, and they know I am. If that happened, we’d drop it and I’d send them a cask of wine or something.”
“Do the Minds even dr—I mean, I get your point. Sir.”
Quietly, the Medusa came to a stop in a garden, and Niers glanced up at her. She wasn’t sweating, but the Selphid was very still as the Titan smiled.
“That’s all. I think that’s what I’ll tell them if I find them. Thank you for your time, Ollosq.”
The Medusa nodded as Niers prepared to jump to one of the Fraerway exits by the walls. She unlatched the hidden door built into the stone for him and paused.
“Out of curiosity, sir? What would you say if the Minds didn’t know where this Geneva was? Could be it was an accident and that it wasn’t the Bodies of Fellden who did this.”
“Oh, I know one of the Gathering Citadels has her, Ollosq.”
“Could be an accident—”
Niers sprang and caught the door. He looked back at the Medusa and smiled.
“I know. If they weren’t certain, I think that’d be that.”
“Just that?”
The Selphid waited, and Niers sighed.
“Well, obviously then I’d be lost without a clue. The Minds told me their answer—and I’d have to begin my search. Alone. And whatever I find, I’d probably have to deal with alone. But I’m a busy man, and I’d say my patience would be about three days—once I talk to these Minds, you know? It’s a very serious thing. A friend wants me to find Geneva Scala, and you know how that is.”
“Absolutely, sir. Mind if I take a little break before I get back to work?”
The Selphid gave him a bright smile, and Niers gave her a salute.
“Take all the time you need, Ollosq. I’ll see you later for work.”
He shut the door, and Niers Astoragon calmly pulled out a [Message] scroll as Umina wrote him a reply back. He scribbled a reply, muttering under his breath.
“Three days. It’s not hard. Just get an…get Paeth to get a [Mage] capable of [Memory Transcription].”
Of course, that entire little conversation and event was far more than three days ago. By the time Erin Solstice had her big meeting with the owner of The Adventurer’s Haven, Niers Astoragon was eight days overdue.
But he knew where Geneva Scala was. The question was—how was she?
 
——
 
The Gathering Citadel was empty as the Second Mind floated through it. It left its chambers. To most, it seemed as if the gargantuan orb of flesh, squirming, began to rise.
Through no visible means, it floated higher. Higher, into one of the vast, circular tunnels that let it move through this place.
Few species had such architecture in mind. This resembled a kind of worm-like tunnel, an arterial network of veins within an underground fortress.
It did not appeal to the sensibilities of Humans or other species. There was a word for the very fear the aesthetics of Selphids evoked.
Trypophobia. The fear of holes. Well, among other visions. You see, Selphids privately, secretly, were drawn to the very same imagery that other species were naturally conditioned to fear.
It was truly a natural phenomenon. Humanity had been taught deep down, on a primal level, to distrust the sight of a hundred thousand holes gaping at you—it might be a swarm of insects burrowed into the bark of a tree.
Something infectious waiting in the flesh. A billion insect eggs waiting to hatch upon the leaf of a vine. Nature had informed biology, hence most people’s natural aversion to the imagery.
Selphids were the opposite. It reminded them of the inside of a body. A long, thin tunnel they called home in rotten flesh was their natural state. In the same way, Humans feared the uncanny valley—the features of someone who looked close to normal, but who had some oddity that made them clearly unnatural—Selphids found it appealing.
Humans of Earth had evolved, long ago, to recognize the uncanny valley in faces because sometimes, someone who looked off wasn’t Human. Geneva had told the Second Mind, Contradiction, that a theory was that Humans had killed off another species, Neanderthals, in their early ages.
It must have been a terrifying thing to see someone standing in the darkness outside a campfire or your abode and not know whether it was one of your people or someone…else. Of such encounters, an entire species developed an instinctual paranoia.
Contradiction understood these things. It studied psychology and even appearance, and it understood this:
The Minds were to other beings, even other Selphids, horrifying. The Gathering Citadels scared many species.
It was valuable to know what others thought of you. Wisdom, to the Second Mind, was exploring perspectives outside your own.
Slowly, the Mind of the Selphids rotated as it floated upwards. The Gathering Citadels were vast underground structures. Even the tireless Selphid bodies would have quailed at hollowing out so much space—but the Minds built them by hollowing out dirt and stone with the ease of telepathic beings of their scale.
They had also decorated the Gathering Citadel. Now—the Second Mind floated up, through a tunnel in the stone. And it passed a statue.
A graven wall of stone slanted down on either side. The carvings were decorative. A Selphid understood that, but another species? Only Geneva Scala, of every visitor here, had immediately understood what she was seeing.
The twisting, odd branches upon the wall could be roots at first until you realized they were veins. Beating hearts and organs graven onto stone. In another place, above what might have been a massive keyhole—another entrance for a Mind to move through—a cluster of faces stared blankly down.
They were faces of Selphid host-bodies. Living beings, forever memorialized on stone. To Selphids, it had been a great honor.
Some of those faces had once belonged to unwilling hosts of Selphids. Contradiction studied the faces with its telepathic sight. This Gathering Citadel was old. It bore the mistakes of their kind.
But did the other Minds, its peers, take this place as a lesson or a symbol of past greatness? Did they question what they saw every day?
Last of all—the Second Mind came to a halt in this chamber, where strange stalagmites of fleshy stone rose. More decorations. It swiveled, and past the slanted walls of stone rose the statue.
This was the greatest mystery of the Gathering Citadel of all. As Geneva had observed, the Minds were actually poor at keeping physical records, trusting to the power of their shared consciousness. So there was no record that the Second Mind had found as to what the statue looming above all was.
Even the vast Mind was dwarfed by it. It appeared to be a giant of some kind, robed, two hands raised and placed together, fingers reaching out. As if to clasp in prayer or some other odd gesture.
Geneva had not ever seen this in person. It was too…dramatic. Even the Second Mind agreed some things should be kept secret from her. But it wanted to ask what she made of it for a few reasons.
Oddity one. The statue had only four fingers on each hand. Three fingers and a thumb. That was then—reminiscent of Gazers, the only species to have that difference in digits. It would make sense for Selphids to honor their cousins like that. Save for…
Oddity two. And yes, the one you noticed first.
The statue had no head. Instead, a bulbous growth sprouted from the top, and a huge, nearly circular hole replaced the ‘mouth’. The rest was fungoid, dotted with holes and strange growths that twined upwards like ‘hair’.
No Selphid looked like that. No Gazer, even the most wildly diverse. What being, then, was this?
