The Second Mind had a few suggestions. Artistic license? Some kind of ancient Selphid who had encountered a vastly powerful class? A sculpture that was beautiful—for there was a twisted appeal to the Selphids—yet unreal?
Or perhaps was it something else? There were darker theories in that single statue that overlooked the meeting place of the Minds, and Contradiction contemplated them one by one as the others arrived.
Six Minds slowly emerged from their own tunnels and floated into a circle. Six—a large number for this Gathering Citadel.
They were roughly even in mass. A Mind could grow larger, or smaller, depending on the number of Selphids contained within its form, and size was a primitive, if useful indicator of possible mental strength or the complexity of their thoughts. In practice, quality still mattered.
However, the Second Mind was indeed second of all six in terms of rank. It had proven itself wise enough to support the Titan in ages past. It had made mistakes, like trusting Velan the Kind, but it had also foreseen his madness and saved countless Selphid lives.
It was the one who reached out across continents and dreamed of where Selphids might go and find welcomes. The Second Mind was, among other things, a reason why adventurers like Jelaqua Ivirith and Viecel Cohex could venture to places like Izril and not be hunted on sight.
Pay a [Bard] to tell stories of Selphids. Pay Barelle the Bard to influence thought. The other Minds, some of them, called it ridiculous until it bore fruit. That was why Contradiction was placed second. Most of the Minds realized that its role was essential.
The Third Mind was different. It, Dictum, was a known dissident in thought to the Second Mind and vice-versa. It was obsessed with the Wasting, which was fair to its chosen role, but it was also—drastic.
It had forced Geneva Scala’s kidnapping. It had been her unwelcome captor, prying into her thoughts until the Second Mind intervened. In its way, it was as radical as the Second Mind, and so the two traded thoughts warily.
Not that the Minds did small-talk. They entered a merging quickly, but not deep. It was akin to them all lifting up a tarp over their heads and facilitating instantaneous thoughts, but not drawing together so close their minds blended. They were individual collectives if that made sense; they had their own purposes.
And perhaps, secrets. Well, the Second Mind had one. It had brought something to this gathering, a tool, a rarity for Minds to carry anything because they were so self-sufficient.
Egress, the Sixth Mind, noticed it first. It nudged the object slightly, and something wriggled in a pool of water in the center of the room. Another aesthetic choice, but the Second Mind addressed it not.
Their conversation, mentally, went as follows: first, the First Mind uploaded all the information it had just received from the other Minds regarding the Titan’s threat. Purely factual data that all the Minds could use.
Opinion came next, once they had the same information. It was then that the Fifth Mind, Sympathy, opined.
(Not a threat. The Titan appeals before conflict. He would not unless he had an open perspective.)
(His position militarily is untenable. He is fighting Jungle Tails, the Dyed Lands, and has no reason to involve himself in a conflict with Selphids. Nevertheless, it is a threat.)
That came from the Fourth Mind, Inconsolable. A Mind who pondered war and battle and often protected Selphid interests.
(It is dangerous. Geneva Scala’s position here is now in jeopardy. Her place here has attracted the attention of the other Minds. They are united in disapproval if not intent.)
Continuum was unto a kind of leader, at least, the first among equals. It was also the one who had communicated with the other Minds. It shared some of the censure it had received emotionally.
The Second Mind was quiet.
Here were things most people did not know about the Minds, including their existence: not all Minds were united. Each Gathering Citadel, and there were precious few, were hidden to the world. And each other.
In the past, Minds had disagreed so much they had battled each other. These days, Selphids were a weaker species, so such strife was discouraged by all. However, Niers’ threat to dig up a Gathering Citadel was as much of a threat as his clear statement that he would have Geneva Scala back.
(The simplest solution is to remove Geneva Scala after gathering what intelligence she has.)
Egress offered cautiously. It often took the mental approach to solutions that was simplest in rhetorical debates like this. If only to frame arguments.
As usual, the Third Mind objected.
(Geneva Scala’s worth is an increasing variable due to her class and growth. The Titan is unable to locate this place by magic. We will sense any intruders.)
(That sounds like arrogance.)
The Second Mind interjected its thoughts for the first time, and the Third Mind broke off. The other Minds agreed with the Second Mind at once.
(The Titan has located other Minds before. He is the world’s greatest [Strategist]. Geneva Scala’s presence here should be weighed against his actions militarily, not a better-case scenario.)
Dictum agreed with the Second Mind, but all the Minds caught a current of refusal already in its tone. That was…not good for the Second Mind.
It would prefer to convince its peers to let Geneva go, now, and make such pacts as could be forged if the [Doctor] were still sympathetic to them. Yet it was clear the Third Mind was not going to let that go without a fight.
The First Mind was eminently sensible. It was pondering the Earth problem, but it understood that keeping another world’s child hostage was not a good look. If they could take some of Geneva Scala’s ideas—what had changed?
Some Minds might share all information equally, but these Minds were individual because a collective united in thought might weaken itself because it had no other viewpoints. Yet by the same token—secrets could be dangerous.
The Second Mind slowly levitated up its prop as the other Minds turned to it.
(Geneva Scala should be freed. The Titan’s wrath is not consummate with our goals. If he knows about Earth, and I believe he does, he is beyond vested in her. A Great Company’s sympathy towards our people has been a hard-won thing.)
(The Wasting—)
The Third Mind began, but the other Minds censured it, a mental kind of ‘shut up’ nudge. It would have its turn. The Second Mind continued, placidly, as the being swimming in the water below it moved.
(Geneva Scala is my final point in and of itself. She benefits not from captivity. She is a being of desire, and she was captive of Okasha. Now, us. Cooperation, true cooperation, is not won by coercion.)
Then it tugged on the object it ‘held’, floating in the air. And all the Minds focused, briefly, on the dim consciousness swimming around the decorative pool of water.
It was…a fish. Just one of the common varieties of fish that the Second Mind had asked one of its helpers to find for it. And the Second Mind was holding a fishing rod. It had just snared the fish, and it deftly yanked up the wriggling creature into the air.
The other Minds took the entire speech and the object demonstration in and processed it all in seconds. The Sixth Mind, Egress, projected a reply underlined by sarcasm.
(The point is already made.)
No one ever let you get away with a good metaphor, here. The Second Mind tossed the fish back into the water and silently waited.
(Geneva Scala has already informed this Gathering Citadel of numerous advantages. She is mapping out the Wasting in data analysis. She has not even begun her research. She has created a tool from Earth, and—she has learned how to transplant galas-muscle into new bodies.)
The Third Mind’s rebuttal was strong. And that last part about the galas-muscle? Unwelcome. The Second Mind stirred.
(Is this too far? I must object. This treads upon the sacrosanct. It pushes at the Minacien Wall.)
The other Minds fell silent at the weight of that accusation.
The Minacien Wall was an agreement between the Minds. It referred to one thing: any action or deed that would incur the wrath of other species that had nearly wiped out all Selphids after the fall of the Selphid Empire.
Stealing bodies, controlling living beings, was the most well-known example of that. Okasha had violated the Minacien Wall, and the penalty was normally death. But there were other things you could do as foul.
(The bodies were dead.)
(I do not believe Geneva Scala would agree to this.)
(That she did indicates her understanding of this procedure medically as a net benefit. It benefits Selphids as well.)
(To create bodies as tools of war?)
Dictum and Contradiction sparred as the other Minds observed. However, Contradiction was unhappy when Continuum weighed in.
(Geneva Scala has produced one great discovery already. Transplanting galas-muscle is something only she can do with her advanced knowledge and techniques. The Titan’s ultimatum closes in, but we have not gained an appropriate understanding of her value. Delay is this Mind’s decision.)
(Delay?)
The Second Mind hadn’t expected that. Yet the Third Mind reacted with instant approval—and that made the Second Mind curious. What would a few days of delay do? Yet the other Minds seemed ambivalent, and the Fourth Mind agreed as well.
Three out of Six Minds were already in favor of delay. The Second Mind cast against, but with almost a majority, they only needed one to agree, and Egress did.
(The Titan will be ignored until he is able to press the issue. Continue with Geneva Scala’s training and assist her by all means. All the Minds will interact with her.)
Astonishing. The First Mind clearly intended to get as much from Geneva as it could before returning a vote. The Second Mind realized it was now up against two Minds. Or more.
The Third Mind was oozing satisfaction as the Minds prepared to float away. But Egress halted as it turned to the Second Mind.
(Ah.)
It wasn’t so much that word as a kind of realization-understanding that the other Minds felt. They all turned and focused on the pool of water where the fish had been caught. The Second Mind’s little demonstration was back in the water but…
It floated, belly-up, and there was no thought in its head. It had been caught, released—but the hook had dug in too deep or the shock, the air, something—
It was dead. The Second Mind hovered over the dead fish. Then, silently, it picked up its body and the fishing rod and floated back to its chambers. Pointedly, it sent one thought back to the others.
(When Selphids ruled this world, Fraerlings were one of the few species we never conquered. They were one of the species who returned us to sanity.)
Then it floated away and went back to thinking. Thinking…which turned to worry as the days continued.
 
——
 
The same dream haunted Geneva every few nights. It was—well, a bit annoying, but she noticed something else a few days after her discovery of galas-muscle.
Geneva Scala did not know what had happened on the day when ghosts came back. Only that all the Minds were silent—and disturbed. Nor did she know about the Titan’s hunt for her until the Second Mind told her.
(Your time here will be cut short. If all goes well. Perhaps try not to be so intelligent or discover anything for a week?)
That was a joke, or so Geneva thought. And it was easy for the Second Mind to say that—it was hard to stop your own brain from working, and another Mind could tell when you had an idea.
The dead body. The person she had never known, whom she carried away on her first day on the job—Geneva had forgotten something poignant. Ridiculous, really, but she did recall that after she’d taken the body to the van, nausea had hit her all at once. And she had, embarrassingly, hurked up a bit of her own lunch onto the ground outside as the coroner watched.
He had been kind about it, but Geneva remembered the pure embarrassment after how much she’d tried to be stolid. She must have forgotten it wasn’t a perfect lead-in to her career.
How the mind played tricks on you. Well, that gave Geneva a bit of sympathy to the Third Mind and, indeed, the other Minds in the next few days.
They were all introducing themselves to her, and they were all—well, not perfect. The Third Mind was passionate about stopping the Wasting, but it was tired. It had tried, Geneva learned, over 24,316 different alchemical creations on volunteers. It had tried magic, Skills—and nothing had stopped the Wasting. Even if it had never done statistical analysis—it knew every attempt it had ever made.
Time waned even the other Minds. Like the Fourth Mind, Inconsolable. Of all the minds, even Egress, this one was—senile?
(Hello again, Geneva Scala.)
That was how it greeted her, then seemed to hover in the air in embarrassed silence when she first met it.
“We have never met individually, Fourth Mind.”
(…A mistake. This Mind has met other individuals. It is distracted with the Dyed Lands.)
The Fourth Mind tried to hide embarrassment. It removed a Selphid from its body, and the Selphid hung limp in the air. Slowly and sadly, it placed the body on a waiting tray of stone a [Guardian] held out solemnly.
(Even Minds fail. The Wasting takes more of us, year by year—but time slays us.)
“What killed this Selphid, may I ask?”
It was small, thin, and darker, purplish and almost black with oxidation. Selphids in a body were often orange or yellow, even greenish at times—they could also change color and even fluoresce. This one was dead.
(Time. A factor unknown. Exhaustion. This mind sensed the vessel was coming to an end.)
It did grieve a bit for its lost part. That surprised Geneva.
“Do Minds care for the Selphids that make it up so?”
(Naturally. Joining the Mind is a welcome and a grief. Each Selphid ends its life. It is a death, even if it is a calling. The death of ego. The death of an individual. Separating an individual Selphid from a Mind is…rare. And they are never the same.)
“Can it be done?”
The Fourth Mind seemed surprised by this line of questioning. It was fidgeting—lifting various diagrams of bodies it had procured for her.
(This Mind had planned on discussing anatomy. Very well. We will discuss Selphids instead. Yes, a consciousness can be returned to a body. It is very, very difficult. Dangerous. But it can be done. For a Mind—even harder because the original Selphid must be preserved as it was, because a separation is all but impossible. The original must be restored into a new form. Even harder.)
Did it mean cloning thoughts? Cloning a person? The Fourth Mind seemed to understand Geneva’s unease. It moved the [Guardian] away, but Geneva looked at the dead Selphid and had to ask.
“This is an imposition but—may I study this Selphid?”
