Geneva Scala dreamed of the past, some days. She knew, then, she was in a memory. They called it ‘lucid dreaming’ on Earth, and the [Doctor] had, privately, always thought it was a hoax. Despite people claiming to be able to control their dreams, it bordered too much on pseudo-science, and she had the same feeling from it as friends who tried to get her to admit that exotic foreign herbal tinctures and acupuncture were replacements for medicine.
She had always been meaning to look up some studies and see if there were any actual data behind the myth. Perhaps, then—that was why her subconscious always brought her back to her journey into becoming a medical practitioner.
It was a long, long path. Geneva had entered into med school and actually been getting hands-on at 25. Which was fast; she’d managed to gain acceptance in the grueling sea of applications without having to take time off or build up a resume.
A resume, to be accepted into the right school. The costs? Not to be spoken of when you were adding to your student debt. Geneva remembered vaguely resenting a lot of college, which was a four-year pre-med journey normally—before you actually got into medical school.
She’d done it in three years in a BS/MD program. To get into medical school, you had to be very, very focused on science. But not just that—you had to prove you were the right candidate. So in a sense, Geneva had been, in college, preparing for a second round of applications and admission tests.
That was a level of academia unknown to most of the world, let alone the one she was now in. Even the Minds had been slightly alarmed by the mental conditioning, as they saw it, that some people went through.
Which was funny for giant amalgamations of Selphids formed into a collective. But as the Second Mind had pointed out—how long was school, even for someone who dropped out at high school? Eight years? College made it twelve—sixteen, more depending on if you were in graduate school?
Possibly no other experience would shape you as much, especially in your formative years. Parents might have less of an impact.
It was this memory that stood out to Geneva. Among the many things she’d done to apply for med school, she’d known that students needed to get patient-contact hours. Experience in varied fields that proved they were more than a bunch of essays.
There were a number of ways to do this. She chose to be a first responder since she had enough experience to be accepted. Well, the requirements weren’t that high, but she had seen medical emergencies before, and she was confident she wouldn’t freeze up.
More strenuous activities like climbing, rafting, or any sport led to someone getting hurt, and she’d had to help call in a helicopter for a friend who’d taken a group of college students climbing. Their leader had been the one who broke their leg.
Compared to search and rescue, being a first responder had seemed far more fitting to Geneva, who was not fit or confident enough to find someone lost in the wilderness. She had been so focused on the requirements and building up her application for med school she’d forgotten what first responders did.
All this to say that Geneva was nineteen years old when she first touched a corpse. Not an animal’s; she’d lost a beloved pet long, long ago, and that had started her on this path, almost by chance.
—The gravel driveway was crunching under her shoes as she walked up the slope. She’d volunteered with a bunch of other pre-med students, and by chance—or because they were close by in their dorms—she actually knew the guy who had also shown up.
He was freaking out, though. Already. He must have been here eight minutes before her, but there was no rush. Volunteer first responders were called on to head to accidents, medical emergencies, and more. Sometimes, though—they arrived for cases like this, where the victim was already deceased.
Suicide. Geneva hadn’t known that was the case when she was called, but the dispatcher had been fairly certain. Her role, and the adrenaline spiking through her body, changed to apprehension. She wasn’t needed to save a life, but for something else. That was why her coworker was so upset.
Nor were they even the first to arrive. The coroner was already done. They were being nicer to the first responders. Nicer—in that the coroner put the body in a bag for them to carry to the van. First responders weren’t like EMT’s. 
It didn’t smell as bad as she feared. That was what Geneva remembered, in this dream-memory. She feared a stench so foul she wouldn’t forget it or that she was going to panic. 
Her classmate wasn’t helping. He was panicking about carrying the body. Geneva was afraid of what she might see. But that fear turned out to be groundless.
The coroner had arrived first. Whomever this was was already dead. All Geneva saw was a black tarp and a shape under it. No flies, no…
Her partner bent down and almost touched the feet. Then he straightened. She could hear him breathing a mile a minute, and she didn’t think that was what he wanted. Not in this room. 
In her dream, she remembered that the wallpaper was peeling. Peeling in those rounded strips or torn off. She hadn’t ever recalled that when she thought of this day.
That was her gift. An older Geneva now watched the younger one trying to calm down the other student—but he was already backing away. 
And she remembered how the coroner’s face had looked, a twisting of the lips as he turned to her and realized he’d have to help. Then she bent down and felt something too stiff and awkward in her arms and waited for that burst of panic, ready to fight it off and do what she’d surely have to do in time.
…It never came. She just watched her step as they moved out through the house’s corridors, and the idiot who couldn’t lift at least held the door open. Then? Then she realized she was touching a dead body, and it was a moment she might not forget. But it hadn’t sent her into a spiral or taken her off this path.
In her memory, she wondered, even now. Whose face had been under that sheet of plastic? Sympathy, determination, and that crunch of gravel and straining in her arms.
Then she woke up.
 
——
 
Geneva Scala remembered the dream as she woke up and someone greeted her.
“Good morning, Geneva. Have you been sleeping okay?”
Idis, the Selphid, was as cheery as ever. Geneva didn’t know when she had fallen asleep but she answered slowly.
“I’ve been having the same dream.”
“Are you remembering your dreams? I remember all of mine now!”
The Selphid was instantly excited, and Geneva nodded stiffly. Her body swung out of bed, and Idis began hurrying it around, putting a pot of tea on the stove in the subterranean quarters they had been assigned in the Gathering Citadel, the home of the Minds.
By now, it was something Geneva was used to. She’d asked Idis to let her feel her body, but it was like riding along, not having to do the, well, the sheer mundanity of some activities like brushing your teeth. Idis did it and still seemed to relish the sensations she and Geneva shared.
“Idish.”
Geneva muttered as Idis brushed their teeth with the toothbrush she’d had made, rather than using the alchemical mouthwashes she didn’t quite trust. But that was the problem with a Selphid; sometimes they couldn’t quite hear you. So Geneva Scala concentrated—and spoke with a second voice.
(Idis. Don’t swallow the toothpaste.)
“Oops, sorry, Geneva. It tastes so good!”
The Selphid stopped, and Geneva felt her body spit. The [Doctor] rinsed her mouth, and then she thought again.
(We’re going to be late if we savor breakfast. Let’s just eat some cereal and go. The Second Mind is waiting.)
She could sense a tin of cereal grains on the table. Slowly, despite her body washing its face and combing its hair, Geneva Scala reached out, and she, her mind, slowly pressed on the tin. It was different to how hands worked. Foreign. She had to exert pressure here and here, because the damn thing stuck—and she kept forgetting she should press from the outside.
It made sense to try to push straight up, from the inside, but that meant projecting her will through the thin metal, and that was ten times harder than—
Pop. The little lid opened, and Geneva mentally exhaled as it did. Idis strolled over, humming. Then she recoiled as she saw the open tin.
“Did you do that, Geneva? I can’t do manipulation yet!”
The doctor just murmured her agreement. And the [Telepath]—Geneva Scala—carefully watched and hid everything she truly thought and felt deep within her mind, locked away behind her consciousness.
She was learning.
 
——
 
The days after Geneva Scala had gained her new class and resisted the Third Mind’s attempts to force her to cooperate were better.
Better, for being a hostage of the Minds. Better, because she had gained some autonomy. Her body might need Idis to be moved and she might be prisoner to it, but her mind was free.
And her mind could move mountains. Or at least, pop the lid off a tin.
(Small steps make a thousand miles. A very good saying. Of course, Fraerlings point out that not all steps are the same size. That, too, is wisdom.)
The Second Mind ‘spoke’ in the same way Geneva did. When she wasn’t inside the…landscape of one of the Selphid Minds, she could sense the meaning and words themselves much like hearing them, but without the possibility of being misunderstood.
Only the Second Mind bothered; the other Minds found it infinitely faster and more nuanced for Geneva to enter their gestalt and communicate there. The Second Mind was, of all of them, an ally.
The radical, the free-er thinker; identical to the others. A slowly moving orb of thousands of slowly-writhing Selphids. To others, they appeared to be elastic slugs, these ones dark in color from oxidation by the outside, living, pressed together, and held hovering in the air by pure mental force alone.
The stuff of some people’s nightmares. Yet the Second Mind was a calming presence. It had decorated its floors with bright colors, experimenting with palettes to see how they affected the emotions of people who walked the corridors.
The Second Mind played music and read books. For Geneva, it had put a chair and even pillows, a stuffed animal in one corner. It kept switching out which one was there. A monkey, a crocodile, a rabbit…
In that sense, Geneva Scala was still an experiment, someone to learn from. But she appreciated at least the sense that she was more than a resource.
All the Minds did. The Third Mind had been censured, and it had pulled back from its more invasive uses of her own consciousness. Accordingly, she and Idis had begun to be taught by the Minds one of the purposes of this place.
The Minds were leaders of the Selphids. They were super-intelligent, powerful, and had old memories and knowledge to draw on from all the Selphids who made them up. They had capabilities that had allowed Selphids to survive even the wrath of other species, and their one greatest threat was the Wasting.
Well, their existence was a secret only Geneva and few others knew. Their true goals—ending the Wasting being one desire—were unknown to the world, as were their true capabilities. But one of the things they gave [Honor Guards] and elite Selphids like Calectus, and now Idis and Geneva, was a class unheard of by most of the world:
[Telepath]. It was the Selphids’ great weapon, and it was useful in combat, diplomacy, and everywhere else.
It was hardly infallible, though. Most Selphids could not best a [Mage] throwing a [Fireball] at them even with mental abilities. Yet for someone like Geneva, it could be very useful indeed.
Could she ‘see’ into a patient’s body? Stop hemorrhaging with more than a Skill—locate a shard of metal hidden away? At the very least, she could now move things with her mind and sense other people’s thoughts.
Her training was with the Second Mind. It often consisted of meditation and learning how to move mentally. For instance, like the tin—Geneva’s mental power was limited by her proximity to an object.
Not by space alone, though. What was interesting was that unlike magic, telepathy didn’t scale up in the same way by sheer distance. Rather, it was Geneva’s understanding of things.
She could not open an object she hadn’t seen before. If it had a screw-on lid or a latch, she wouldn’t be able to do more than pull weakly on it. If she were handed a ball or a scalpel, she could make it move. But an object she had no idea of, not what it was made of or the entire thing, was far, far harder to manipulate.
(Sense each object completely. Meditation is part of this. [Monks] have learned many lessons we remember. Your dreams you now remember because you are learning to be aware of what your mind is doing. Sometimes, you will be aware it is playing a trick on you. Mental control, even magical, will be far more difficult. But flying may be beyond you without Skills.)
“I don’t know how I’d even begin.”
Geneva had a headache just pushing around a soccer ball the Second Mind had placed between them. A child could kick it infinitely harder than the slight pushes she was doing. The Second Mind lifted the ball up and tossed it to one of its [Guardians], who caught it and retreated.
(We are the Minds. Thousands of Selphids’ wills joined. Ours is not exactly a fair competition.)
“How can you fly all the time, though? I know you do have to rest.”
Geneva stared at the floating orb, and the Second Mind executed a kind of mental shrug in her head. It looked like a Selphid wearing a Gnoll’s body shrugging.
(We know ourselves perfectly. Each Selphid that makes me up is a part of me, memory and experience. Each Selphid is lost in me, never to be individual. At least, not without me deliberately separating off those experiences. It is a great sacrifice. Our creation is constantly changing as Selphid bodies die, and in that sense, we are a wasteful being for our species. Yet powerful. Perhaps we have lost our way as a species and considered a Mind the end result, rather than a choice.)
That was why the Minds hated the Second Mind, incidentally. It questioned their very existence. It was…well, dissident thought made manifest.
Six Minds occupied this Gathering Citadel. Of them, Geneva knew they were ranked in terms of importance by number. There was a First Mind, tasked with looking into the Earthers, who led the group. But they voted collectively; the Second Mind was a radical. A free thinker who took in Selphids who had journeyed far from home.
The Third Mind was her true warden. It was the one who tried to stop the Wasting, the death of all Selphids before their time, and in that, Geneva was united with it. But she had opportunities to meet more in the days after her new class.
 
——
 
