In a sense, it was well that Egress couldn’t yet manufacture a microscope that took her down to the maximum level of Earth’s microscopes. It was getting close—she was down to views of muscle fiber.
That had to be—200x magnification? She had to guess. And she wondered if it was even possible to get to the molecular level with the Mind’s help. This—this was already revolutionary for this world, but only Geneva could understand what it meant. She focused, twisting a knob that the Sixth Mind had labored on for ages. And what she saw made her blink.
She wished she had access to a medical database. Even Wikipedia would mean she wasn’t reliant on memory! But the First Mind was able to help her cycle back through memory to the point where she could actually ‘pull’ pages of textbooks into the mental landscape of the First Mind.
Geneva did so now, jotting notes down as a horde of Selphids, all wearing lab coats, followed her about. As if she were a professor in a laboratory teaching a bunch of students about dissection.
Geneva pointed up to a blown-up image taken from her eyes as she adjusted the microscope with her physical body.
“This is what I’m seeing right now. Galas-muscle. I’m almost sure that’s what it is, and here—is an image of regular muscle from memory.”
A bunch of pink strands with odd striations—little lines—appeared. It looked just like long branches of pink with black dots. The black dots flanked the muscle fiber most of the time, and they looked—some of the Selphids frowned.
“What is that?”
“The black dots? Nuclei. A kind of—well, I suppose you’d call them the center of a cell. The databases with all the information a cell needs to multiply. The instructions for doing so.”
“These are in muscles? They look uncanny. Like parasites.”
One of the Selphids looked disturbed, but the rest were nodding. Their eyes were swinging from the image Geneva had seen back home to the galas-muscle. Because there were differences.
For one thing? Geneva Scala’s own eyes hurt a bit as she tried to count how many striations were in the galas-muscle compared to the regular muscle.
A factor of two-to-one? Three? The galas-muscle obviously wasn’t pink in her microscope; you often got dyed samples for better clarity, and lighting mattered. But it was more—vibrant.
Vibrant, in a way she wondered if it would show up on a camera. It had a subtle iridescence to it. And she thought that change in color might be a sign of magic.
Well, the other big clue was this: each nucleus in the galas-muscle looked slightly larger, and they had a different color to them. Pale grey or silver, and Geneva Scala wondered what the hell was going on at a cellular level.
“The Galas-muscle is tougher. Stronger. Even in bodies where rot has set in, galas-muscle does not degrade. A rotting corpse of a Level 30 [Warrior] can be stronger than a fresh one without such muscle.”
One of the Selphids observed knowingly, and Geneva caught the image of two Selphids swinging an axe. One could swing it and push their body so hard they tore muscle and crashed it into a tree; the other swung, and the entire tree shook and began to tilt and fall over.
“There’s something changed on a cellular level about galas-muscle. You said it develops as a result of high-level classes?”
All the Selphids nodded.
“Not quickly, though. If a [Warrior] dies at Level 34 having [Greater Strength], they might not have any. But if a Level 22 [Veteran Lineholder] dies after decades of fighting…they may have some.”
Geneva Scala stared at the two images and frowned.
“In that case, it seems clear to me that Skills aren’t biological. They’re intangible—this is a change due to…what, levels? Your class? Magic? I wonder. Hold on, I’m going to check something.”
She went back to the Gorgon and extracted more samples from what she could identify as non-galas-muscle. Yet when she put it under the microscope, the Selphids began murmuring.
“The nuclei.”
It took Geneva a dozen samples, but she found in the muscle along the Gorgon’s abdomen, arms, and tail—where muscle would be very important rather than, say, non-vital areas for a warrior—a telltale sign.
Some of the nuclei had changed color. Geneva Scala saw the faint tinge of magic, and she began working on a theory.
“This must be galas-muscle in development. I could be wrong, but a fundamental shift is occurring in the Gorgon. I’m also…confused.”
This entire time, she had been inhaling the smell of a dead body, and the Selphids were good at keeping rot and other signs of decomposition from corpses, but the Gorgon was an old body from the mercenary company.
Cut open, it was smelly, to be blunt, and some of the muscles had begun to, uh, liquefy. The stench was increasing to the point where a preservation spell had to be cast so this long dissection wouldn’t result in worse rot.
—However, the galas-muscle was not rotting at the speed of the rest of the body. Indeed, Geneva Scala could barely cut it; it was closer to steel wire than muscle!
“Even diamond-edge scalpels might have trouble. Imagine performing surgery on someone lined with this stuff.”
She shook her head. One of the Selphid [Mercenaries] nodded.
“Even Selphids have to learn how to move past Galas-muscle; it’s too tough to shift. If the damn stuff snaps, we can’t easily reconnect it.”
Geneva’s head snapped up.
“You can reconnect tendons and ligaments? Muscle fiber?”
“Of course.”
The Selphids looked amused, and one actually tried to show her what the Selphid meant.
She was a writhing—her body was myriad, and she had no eyes. She felt contained. She was squeezing part of herself through a—
“Stop!”
Geneva threw her mental shields up and pushed the sensation of being a Selphid out of her head. She nearly vomited, and the First Mind instantly censured itself.
(Your perspective—is not that of a Selphid. Apologies.)
It tried to show Geneva instead as she collected herself. She had the vaguest sense of a Selphid slowly secreting something over a bit of torn muscle and manually closing it together. In fact, they could do it with bones too.
“It is tiring. But that is why bodies do not rot with us. We can also…put elements of ourselves into a body to stop it from rotting.”
They could slow decomposition. They were living, biological factories that could consciously produce—Geneva’s mind spun.
What? Platelets? Fibrin? Any medical company in the world would sacrifice everything on an altar to get one Selphid for them to learn their means of production. Imagine being an athlete and being able to manually knit together a torn ACL!
The First Mind was growing excited as Geneva began thinking in a dozen different ways. One of the Selphids in its mental image tapped Geneva on the shoulder.
“Medical practices, yes. Getting a Selphid to secrete a vial of the substances you require…done. We require a living subject. You will not injure yourself; perhaps a squirrel? What are you thinking about, ethics?”
“Ew. That sounds like a lot of work. A vial?”
Idis complained, but the other Selphids were shushing her. Yet the First Mind’s inquiry was focused on something else Geneva had thought about.
“…What do you mean, transplant?”
Geneva Scala focused, and a few thoughts flew together. Well, surely it made sense. She looked down at the galas-muscle in front of her.
It was curled up, and even Selphids probably had a lack of knowledge or inclination to try this. Yet the First Mind was thinking of [Saw Doctors], [Necromancers of Flesh], and there was a precedent.
Such images made Geneva feel vaguely queasy—and that was madness. Sawing off an arm and putting it on someone else?
She wouldn’t think of that. Not yet. Certainly not with someone living. But what if—all in the context of dead bodies, right?
Dead bodies didn’t have rejection issues. Dead bodies, that a Selphid could use, weren’t repairable by healing potions. But if a Selphid could conduct spot-repairs, even if it was tiring for them to do so and impractical…
What if you harvested galas-muscle from bodies well past usability? Arm muscle here, leg muscle there—it would be madness to try to copy them over, and what kind of surgeon on Earth would try?
But if a Selphid could join tendon to bone…could you replace an entire body’s muscle with galas-muscle? Or at least, the part the Selphids cared about?
It was insanity. It was something no decent medical student should think about. But—the First Mind was already asking how many bodies they had, especially ones that had no further use. Just an arm? What about an arm?
Geneva Scala’s fingers twitched, and she hesitated. Galas-muscle was used for combat, for war. She kept hearing a name in her mind, the apocryphal tale.
Slowly, she saw more bodies being walked over to her, and she stared down at the cords of flesh in front of her. And she wondered if she could walk if you could heal a spine, or give someone who was paralyzed a new lease on life.
 
[Surgeon Level 36!]
[Skill — Advanced Organ Transplant obtained!]
 
Yet all Geneva Scala heard as Calectus flexed the arm of a Lizardman and the First Mind began alerting the other minds in excited telepathy was a voice. It said one word to her.
Frankenstein. Frankenstein…
 
——
 
Geneva Scala’s learning from the Minds was a long process, in secret, in their most hidden abode. So hidden that most of the world didn’t even know the Minds and Gathering Citadels existed.
Even knowing about the Minds could get you in trouble. Knowing where they were? Well…the Minds could pluck that information out of your head. They suffered few enemies.
So no wonder no one had found her. Even if they knew the Bodies of Fellden had taken her, every Gathering Citadel was home to the ‘Bodies of Fellden’. So chasing rumors of that company would lead you across Baleros to no end.
Plus, who had the resources to go up against Minds? Resources, inclination, and most importantly, knowledge of why The Last Light was more than just valuable, but essential?
Well, Niers Astoragon, weeks before Erin Solstice played her famous chess tournament, was on the job. Jungle Tails was retreating, and after making sure the biggest fires were out, he had a walk through Elvallian.
Through the Fraerways, obviously. Although they were crowded of late! There were actual Fraerlings walking about, investigating his citadel, and Niers couldn’t believe his eyes.
“Titan.”
“Tallguards. Need any help?”
A few Tallguard were marching down the Fraerway, armed for battle. They stopped as Niers descended through part of his palace, and one saluted.
“Just investigating reports of roaches and possibly a cat. Do we have permission to set up a cat-trap?”
“…By that, you mean a fake mouse with [Grand Fireball] worked into it? There are cats in the city. Blowing them up is discouraged. We had a [Druid] lay down several spells, and we have a [Detect Life] spell calibrated to several species like that.”
“So that’s a ‘no’?”
Niers smiled.
“That’s a no.”
The Tallguard nodded. One hefted a crossbow and glanced around.
“Then can we set up an outpost?”
“Where?”
Again, Niers was surprised, and he eyed the portable crossbow the Fraerling held. She gestured to it.
“Little ballista emplacement. Along the walls, maybe. We’ll just build out somewhere unlikely to catch fire if there’s a siege. We can fire a few ballistae, teleport back to safety—in case of Tallfolk attacks.”
Niers had never had so many Fraerlings around, and he was reminded why the Fraerling settlements survived; they had the same attitude towards defensive preparations he did. He lifted a hand.
“Teleportation doesn’t work if we lock it down. You need to talk to—damn, my [Chamberlain]’s a traitor. Talk to Perorn—no, wait. Talk to Magus Major Collex, and tell him I sent you for access to our safe network.”
“Ah, good. Thanks, sir. Should we get you a list of fortified areas? Not that we’re staying here long, we understand.”
“Please.”
The Titan watched them march off and shook his head. Tallguard. They were actually competent, or so they felt.
If he had had an entire Fraerling settlement at his back when he first started the Forgotten Wing company…
Niers sighed. Fraerlings did not take sides. The few that worked for him in combat were not an entire city’s manufacturing capabilities. That made you a target, and as Paeth had proved—no city could withstand an army alone.
However, he had an army of Fraerlings dedicated to fighting the Dyed Lands and enacting retribution on Jungle Tails for their actions. That meant that he had more options than he had ever thought of before.
Amazing options, given their magic. The one flaw was…
Niers grimaced. His last conversation with Iuncuta Eirnos had been frank and straightforward.
 
——
 
She had already taken over Peclir’s old rooms. They were constructing a mobile war room in the [Chamberlain]’s quarters, and it looked like a miniature doll’s set to the Tallfolk, but this was real.
Tallguard setting up weapon racks, training areas—and places for [Healers] to tend to wounded. It might become an entire settlement in miniature or an outpost in time, but Eirnos had gestured to all of it and given Niers a hard ultimatum.
“The Fraerlings are here to stay for a campaign, Titan. However, we’re not your personal forces.”
“Meaning, Iuncuta Eirnos…?”
She was a difficult person because Niers knew he shouldn’t annoy her—and half his instincts were grating against her own authority. Only Foliana bossed him around, and rarely.
But the female Fraerling who was leading all the other settlements’ leaders didn’t seem to be one to be easily intimidated or cajoled. She had fury-red hair and a longspear, a rarity for Fraerlings, who mostly didn’t use that kind of weapon. She also had an empty eye-socket, which she often showed people by flipping her eyepatch up. It had to be for intimidation; he was fairly sure she could get a prosthetic.
“Meaning the Fraerlings don’t want to fight your battles. We’re not here to make the Forgotten Wing company stronger than the other Great Companies or make you artifacts. Anything, and I mean anything, you want us to do? Unless it’s an emergency, it goes through me for approval. If I think we’re being used to fight your wars or drawn into something personal to your company, I’ll pull us out.”
She meant it, too. Niers tried to reassure her.
“And if I were to cede a lot of resources for any actions taken…?”
“I assume you’d do that either way. If we’re killing Dyed Land monsters, the cities expect a huge share of whatever you get to further the Architects’ damned research. No bribes.”
Wonderful. However, Niers put his hands behind his back.
