(You say this reasonably, Geneva Scala. I can tell you believe your words. I point out that this does not sound like you. You told me once that the ethics of your profession were a slippery slope. Are there no parallels in your own history to your actions now?)
It watched her face and sensed her thoughts suddenly go into a kind of arrest, a frantic…Geneva Scala’s eyes flickered, and her confidence changed.
“I—that’s just a children’s story. Frankenstein.”
Frankenstein? The Second Mind was confused. It listened to the parable of Frankenstein’s monster. Which, yes, was a mix of popular belief at the time, culture, and a number of other elements.
All very reasonable for someone from Earth to relate to her actions here as a cautionary tale.
…Which was why the Second Mind felt something was wrong. It floated around Geneva, leaving the center of the room. Its own personal [Guardians] watched it. They could sense the Second Mind’s nervousness. Its unease.
(Geneva Scala. Why does the myth of Frankenstein come to your mind?)
“Because it applies? It’s a warning, Contradiction, but I understand Selphids are a being, and these bodies are something they need to live. If I can create a more stable vessel or—recycle them, isn’t that a net benefit for all?”
The Second Mind was aware it was, by nature, too powerful. The Minacien Wall meant it should not look into her mind. Even that, even reaching into her head, was a technical violation under the strictest version of the idea.
Perhaps the Minacien Wall had been designed to discourage Minds from being created.
Even so—the Second Mind broke the Minacien Wall in that moment. It had to. It reached out and touched Geneva Scala’s memories.
(Geneva Scala. Your story of Frankenstein befits a girl from your world. Not a doctor. Surely there are historical examples you can think of.)
Then—her face twisted into uncertainty. Then, the Second Mind saw her mind connect to something she knew full well. A story not rooted in fiction, but reality. She looked up at the Second Mind, and her lips grew bloodless.
“I—there is. There have been people—who experimented with no regard for safety or ethics. But this isn’t the same. This is dead bodies. This is…”
She fell silent, because her eyes were flickering left and right. And the Second Mind thought that surely they had done that too. The living and the dead. If monsters of her world had—why would the most principled [Doctor] of this world not deliberate more?
She had performed the galas-muscle transplanting experiments before even asking for time to think it over or talking to the Second Mind. As if it were natural and only a children’s story had any bearing on that.
(That is not like you, Geneva Scala. Tell me, has anything—changed of late? Have the other Minds done or thought anything unusual? Do you notice anything fundamentally different about yourself?)
It could not tell, not without moving her into the center of the mind and searching her very core as the Third Mind had done—and that was a violation of her privacy and self.
Yet Geneva Scala just shook her head. She ran a hand over her head as Idis spoke up.
“S-Second Mind, I don’t know what you’re talking about, but I’ve been here the entire time. I would have reported anything weird. I promise.”
She sounded and felt genuine. The Second Mind acknowledged Idis, who did seem to care about Geneva. And she was loyal to the Minds, not knowing allegiance to any particular one.
But Idis was a junior Selphid and a burgeoning [Telepath]. She could not sense…
The Second Mind was about to put this down to paranoia when Geneva Scala spoke.
“Nothing—major, Second Mind. Just one thing.”
(Tell me. Anything.)
Geneva looked up with a huge frown. She spoke as if this were all silly and in an embarrassed tone, but she did say it.
“I’ve been having a dream. The same old dream. It’s just—me, on the first day of me being a First Responder. I—it’s stupid.”
(Go on. Tell me. Dreams are a part of thought.)
The [Doctor] shook her head. She spoke, feeling stupider by the moment, as the Second Mind hovered in silence.
“It’s just a lucid dream where I can sort of tell I’m sleeping. But it happens the same way—I’m at my job as a first responder, going to investigate a…a suicide. Some poor person shot himself. I’m the last one there. The coroner’s already been there, and my friend—no, he’s more like a college classmate—he’s freaking out. Because the body’s in the body bag. We don’t even have to handle it, just carry it to the van. But my classmate can’t, and he actually throws up. So the coroner and I have to take it out of his bedroom. Out…to the car. I didn’t remember all of it, but I’ve been remembering how I threw up and what the coroner said. It was the first time I touched a dead body. That’s all. I guess it’s a kind of parable or maybe my subconscious is warning me as well? What do you think?”
She laughed and looked up, slightly embarrassed because in her entire rambling retelling, not once had the Second Mind interrupted her.
Contradiction floated in the air, and Geneva Scala thought she saw the mass of Selphids…twitching. Writhing, as if every single one of them were moving. It was contained, though—and the Gathering Citadel was dark, the shadowed veins of the fortress still.
That statue loomed in the Second Mind’s thoughts as it sent one thought back to Geneva. One thought—and the fortress changed. One thought, and the Second Mind feared.
(Geneva Scala. Your dream is strange.)
“Because I have it every night?”
The Second Mind projected a shaking head into her mind. A thousand Selphids, slowly shaking their heads and staring at her with worried, dead eyes. The world began lurching as it projected something into her head. Unease. Fear. It showed her…a [Doctor], sitting warily in a padded armchair and speaking with it, just like Geneva was doing now.
One of the first times they’d met, when it had made contact to upset the Third Mind. The Second Mind showed her this memory it had.
(Geneva. You told me the first body you ever touched was when you were fourteen. It was your father. A heart attack. You tried to resuscitate him. Don’t you…remember?)
Geneva Scala looked up. Her eyes opened wide, wide—and she had the memory of her first day as a first responder.
Touching a dead body. Vomiting—but being calmer than she thought. The coroner, her classmate—the crunch of gravel under her feet.
Her father?
She couldn’t remember a thing.
