Pine had isolated himself and had most of his outer connections devoured by the denizens of the Nexus. His father’s visits ceased. Without those events to delineate the passage of time, everything became fluid. He rode endless waves of suffering. He hated himself. He couldn’t look away from the small ripples he could still observe from the outside world.

He couldn’t remember the last time he had heard from his mother. Pine’s expression had crumpled when he made that realization. She must have realized what I was. She must have run away, to save herself.

A thousand years felt like so much longer. His traitorous body continued to wring itself dry, producing more energy.

Laplace’s invasion had been a relief to Pine, a sharp certainty that had cut through his blurry awareness. Once again, his instincts betrayed him. The last shrivel of himself he divided again, so his consciousness could flee the calcified remained of his energy core. He found a grand chamber that his father had constructed and hid out there.

Until Devick had showed up. Until she had bothered Pine into helping her, until she stood against impossible odds. Pine felt something other than poison festering in his heart as he watched her fight.

Yet her resistance couldn’t last forever. Laplace soon arrived and Pine felt a complex mixture of emotions as he understood the arithmetic of what was about to happen. Soon, even this small reprieve would end. And on the one hand, he was so, so tired.

Yet right before the climax, onto the stage walked Randidly Ghosthound. Who released some of the purest energy Pine had ever sensed. Who had condensed, not once but twice, pure spheres of power that Pine had been able to inhale from the periphery and handle his hunger.

Pine couldn’t help but open his mouth. “Is this Nexus worth saving? Simply move the individuals to your Alpha Cosmos, Randidly Ghosthound. Allow… this place, this body, to collapse. None will mind the switch and you will achieve a fresh start.”

Randidly Ghosthound looked at Pine. He shook his head. “No, I don’t think so. This universe is worth saving.”

As the very core of this universe. Pine… didn’t believe him.

He had lived too long face to face with proof to the contrary.
