"Yeah," Shiv replied, offering a slight lie. "I hate them too. But I want to get out. You want to get out of here, Rebis? You want to feel better?"

Rebis just stared at him for a long moment, and his automaton side briefly flickered with a faint glow. "Escape, I need to escape. We need to escape." He reached out for Five, grabbing him by the shoulder, clutching them more like a child would hold a security blanket rather than a Pathbearer would clasp the hand of an ally.

"Yes, yes, Rebis," Five said, patting the tortured Pathbearer on the hand. "Escape, that's what we all want, and that's what we're all going to get. So long as we stick together and try not to leave so much of a mess." The wolf-man offered Shiv a brief smirk, and the Deathless took advantage of that opening.

"I don't blame you for killing some of these people, but the bigger the mess we leave behind, the more they will keep coming after us." Shiv followed his Psycho-Cartography and used its guidance to formulate his following words. He knew one thing above all others about Rebis: the Pathbearer hated being stared at. And there was more than good odds that if he killed enough people, there would be warden after warden glaring at him as they tried to put him down. "The more you kill, the more noise we make, the more people they'll send after us. They'll all be pointing their eyes at you, Rebis, pointing their eyes, just staring over and over.”

"No, no," Rebis whimpered, shaking his head. He clutched his skull, rubbing at the automaton side with his human fingers and scratching bloody gashes into his human face with his metallic claws. In a second, his human face healed, while his mercury-textured automaton skull was lined with oily fingerprints.

“Yeah, so we do this carefully, Rebis. You don't need to worry about doing it on your own, because I'm gonna help you. I'll make sure no one looks at you at all. But you need to listen to me and Five. Or things will get hard.”

Silver Tongue 33 > 34

Rebis paused, and a flash of childlike innocence slipped through his twitching features. "You can do that?"

"Sure I can," Shiv said. "I can fuse their eyes shut, I can cast you in a blanket of shadow, I can keep their eyes on me while you slip away. You don't need to be doing all this on your own anymore. You're among friends."

"Yes," Five said, coordinating with Shiv to further calm Rebis, "among friends."

The unnatural Pathbearer shook a few moments longer before his shoulders finally sagged. His anxiety attack died down, and he stepped aside, revealing the doorway.

As they quickly swept the Guard Cube, Shiv took the opportunity to assimilate the biomass of the wardens Rebis had butchered. There had been 12 more Pathbearers within the cube, most of them trying to recover in the infirmary upstairs. There had been one Biomancer tending to their wounds. Said Biomancer had died when Rebis burst through the door and cleaved through their head at a 45-degree angle.

Rebis then stabbed them well over a few hundred times, so Shiv couldn't make out the details of the body. He didn't know what race or gender the Pathbearer was. The only thing he knew was that they were the team's Biomancer because they wore a diagnostic helmet. Shiv would have really liked having that piece of broken equipment.

Apparently, the helmet’s enchanted visor allowed someone to gaze directly into an organic body to examine the organs, blood vessels, and cells on the inside. Shiv decided to keep that helmet with him for now.

When he found Can Hu again at some point, maybe it could be reforged with something else. That’d be useful for his own Biomancy.

With the upper level secured and all the bodies fed to his Aegis, Shiv came down to the primary living quarters of the cube. The layout of the place was economical. There were four rooms slotted in the corner of the cube, each with four double-deck beds. A total of 16 Pathbearers were intended to live inside this guard cube, and Shiv guessed there were probably a great many guard cubes sliding around this entire prison complex, especially considering how many guards he'd seen earlier. Connected to every other room and the upstairs by a long ladder was the primary living quarters.

It was a space that ran 40 meters by 40 meters, and there was a kitchenette here with a small pantry stocked with useful ingredients. They immediately began glowing in shiv's eyes, and he felt the call of his Chef Unwavering skill demand he cook, demand he cook for months and months and simply not stop because he'd gone through so much bloodshed and conflict, and he hadn't had a chance to decompress all this time. His hands were shaking as he stared at the ingredients in the pantry.

He knew he didn't have time to linger; he knew that he needed to break out as soon as possible, but pulling himself away from the kitchen took more willpower than he thought he had.

Looking to his right, there were smears of blood painting the ground. A few Pathbearers had been debriefing at some of the living quarter benches when Rebis got to them. Their deaths had been quick, and Shiv had cleaned up their bodies quite well, but he guessed he'd missed a spot earlier. And then finally, there was the central mana control.

A large mithril pillar was lodged in the center of the room, and a concentric series of spell patterns swirled outward, forming something that anyone could manipulate. Five stood before these controls, and with a swipe of his claw, the ambiance of the cube changed, the light going from bright to a soft dimness. Rebis let out a shuddering gasp as the room grew darker. He appreciated that, and he offered a stuttered thanks to Five over and over again.

The wolf-man continued digging through the spell patterns. He moved different functions around and finally expanded on what looked to be a complex model of interlocking cubes. Shiv's eyes widened as he walked over immediately. "Is that the Well?" Shiv asked.

"Indeed it is," Five replied.

The structure of the Rubix Well comprised thousands of cubes. Their current cube was highlighted near the very bottom, and it blinked bright yellow at the edge of all the other cubes. It had been caught out of position when Shiv broke the Zenith Cube, and so it had been uniquely vulnerable to their intrusion. At the same time, there were strings of spellstuff extending out from other cubes as Shiv looked upon them. Online reports detailing casualties and requests for aid flickered and faded before his sight at rapid speed.

This prison was far more complex than he'd assumed. It was by far the most complex facility he'd ever been in, surpassing even the vast, sprawling structure that was Passage in Weave. Just the informational detail provided by a single guard station was more than anything possessed by Confriga's operation back at Gate Theborn.

Shiv took a few minutes to familiarize himself with the rest of the Rubix Well. The section of the prison he, Five, and Rebis were in was described as the Nadir. This was where they kept Legendary-Tier threats to the Republic, along with Zenith-tier prisoners, which included Shiv. “What's the difference between Zenith-tier and the rest of the Legendaries?” Shiv asked. “That's not a Skill-Tier.”

Five blinked at him. "Zenith is a special circumstance. There is a substantial overlap between being Zenith and Legendary, but Zeniths usually also have Unique Skills or otherwise unique circumstances. They are for the Ascendants’ personal attention, and thus our interactions with the Zenith prisoners are kept to a minimum." The wolf-man sighed. "And what a pity at that. So many of you are so very interesting. I would have rather been in the Zenith Cube, to be honest. You made for a lot better conversation in your brief time here than most of my associates."

"That bad, huh?" Shiv asked.

"Worse than you can possibly imagine." Five let out a sad whimper. "I'm not particularly social for my kind, but still, I do like company. And when most of your company consists of hardened killers that yearn to butcher and maim but possess little else in the way of hobbies or culture, things can get rather dull."

Shiv couldn't imagine being cooped up in this prison for that long, and it only made him want to escape faster. But before he fled, he needed to find Bonk and his equipment, and that was going to be quite the challenge, considering how many cubes he had to sift through.

Furthermore, as he studied the Nadir, he found the Chronomantic loop that Five had spoken about earlier fused around it. The Nadir was connected to the rest of the well-shaped prison by a long, central spine. The structure extended through a brief empty space that was covered by an arcing wave of golden mana, until finally it threaded through the rest of the prison's architecture.

The levels above had larger cubes, but they, too, were surrounded by many smaller ones. Those were listed as guard stations from what Shiv could read, which meant that the lower-Tier prisoners were allowed to mingle together more with far wider spaces rather than these narrow valleys.

"Hey," Shiv asked, "you know if the prison up top is also made of Orichalcum?"

Five paused. "Parts of it I would assume yes, but for all of it to be made of Orichalcum…" He let out a chuff of doubt. "Orichalcum is a very rare metal, my Deathless friend. It's rare for any world, even ones with a higher ambient mana threshold than yours. The fact that they spent so much Orichalcum to create this place reveals the staggering depth of your Republic's wealth."

"Alright, so there's a chance I could just punch straight through once I get to the top. It's just getting through that time loop that might be a bit of a challenge," Shiv said. He folded his arms as he considered his Legendary skill. He was strong, but a mana core was likely supplying the power to that time loop, and he knew that mana cores outputted more magic than any individual Pathbearer on average.

“I suspect that we might need to do something a bit risky,” the wolf-man hummed. He pointed to a central cube and scattered the other cubes around it with a wave. “This should be the station that stores the mana core. We disable that, and it should be enough to halt the loop for a while. But it will be quite well-defended. We need a strategy…”

But Shiv wasn't just a Legend, he had Outside Context Problem, so he might not need to struggle through that either. He could just slip across. "Wait, we're on the edge," Shiv said as he regarded their guard cube once more. There looked like nothing to the left of his cube aside from the curving time-loop keeping them walled in. “What’s out there?”

"I am not certain," Five admitted. "My knowledge of the prison has been put together by information that I overheard from the guards and gossip I gathered from other prisoners. If you're asking for my suspicions, I think we might be in a pocket dimension of some kind, but then again, maybe not. The amount of magic flowing through this place is substantial, and it taxes a core to sustain. If it were me, I might put this prison at the bottom of an ocean, or potentially even anchor it in the void somewhere in the local solar system, making sure that there's no way to reach civilization even if one were to break out of the facility."

Shiv nodded. It made sense to him too. He wanted to find out what kind of inhospitable place they were in before attempting to bust through. "Can you do me a favor, Five?" Shiv asked. "Can you find someone or something for me through this magical thing?"

"Spell Cortex," the wolf-man provided.

"Yeah, that. There's a certain big someone I want to locate, and the guards here took my stuff as well. I want my gear back.”
