I stared off, "It's just a bit of compression. I'm just thinking about what I'm going to tell Krog and Chrona. 'Hey there, guys. Sorry, but your race is dead. Tough luck, buttercups. We're heading off to fight another war while the rest of your kin are killed. Get ready.'"

I shook my head, "Being a guild leader has its cons, that's for sure."

Torix sighed, "It is an unfortunate reality. We've done more for the gialgathens than they could have ever expected. You remember what Krog said when the Emperor initially offered his artifact search?"

I did. Krog was ok with us stopping our assaults. Even though he knew I wouldn't agree as he said it, the sentiment was real; Krog understood what we were putting on the line here. Chrona might be different in that regard, but she could still be reasoned with. We put a damn good effort in already as well.

I nodded, thinking about all that,

"Yeah, Krog seemed resigned already. This battle's wearing everyone down too. We're going in and slaughtering entire city's worth of people. Killing the Hybridfs isn't a problem, but the espens...It's dehumanizing. Hell, even I feel more like a monster than a man sometimes."

Torix listened, but he didn't know what to say. Maybe the guy didn't understand me. He was a lich, after all, and that meant he was a pragmatist through and through. To him, the people were numbers on a sheet. Killing them all was the simplest, most elegant solution. That meant it was the best solution.

I didn't hold that perspective against Torix. It suited him, and it kept us alive more times than it didn't. At the same time, I didn't feel like I was actually fighting for a meaningful reason anymore. I was just killing and killing and killing.

I stared at my hands, remembering a few of the first people I killed. I remembered telekinetically choking someone while hiding from Ajax. It was in the middle of a battle, and I didn't mean to do it. The entire time I was numb. I killed many since then, and at this rate, it would never stop.

I would live forever, killing monster and man alike, the monster of all monsters.

I quashed that growing dread. I wasn't some monster made by the forces around me. Giving myself that reminder, I frowned,

"Let's wait until the morning and have a few of the others help us make a decision. That should help us out."

Torix raised a hand to disagree, but he held his words before lowering his arm,

"Of course."

I turned, walking out,

"Alright. I'll be in practicing until then. That Sovereign skill won't unlock itself."

As I stepped out, Torix's fire eyes waned,

"Do take care of yourself, disciple. Our demons can overwhelm us when we least expect it."

I raised an eyebrow at the guy, kind of confused,

"Eh, uh, sure. I'll keep that in mind."

I turned and walked out of his lair, pacing back into my room. Once there, I practiced with quintessence and ascendant mana. Whatever Sovereign skill I intended on using, it would require both manas used at once. That kind of doubling down demanded fluidity. There was only one way to gain that.

Practice, practice, and more practice.

Those thoughts flooded my mind as I honed in on my task. I sat down, staring at complex magical shapes I crafted from nothing but energy. Despite my efforts, my earlier doubts leaked into my mind as the hours passed. I remembered Torix mentioning the guild being destroyed and me being left behind.

Something about that was even scarier than death. In my position, I didn't have time for this kind of hesitation either. People depended on me, and failing them meant lots of people could die. If I focused on saving people now, I could avoid another genocide like the gialgathens.

If I kept pushing forward, I might stop another Springfield from being infected. If I stayed relentless, then I wouldn't lose more friends, family, or homes. I had to become unstoppable, a force of devastation like Schema expected.

No, like everyone expected. If I didn't, I'd lose everything and every one I found up to this point. Hell, sometimes even having people like Althea felt like a dream. The day they all died, yet I remained - it would be a waking nightmare.

That immortality scared me, the idea of losing everyone seeming inevitable. Something about it was unavoidable, like everyone around me was more fragile than glass. I was metal, and they were pulp. I gripped my hand through the stone beneath me, the once hard, stable material crushing as if it were a liquid.

I watched it fall between my fingers. The sight of something substantial melting in my palm, it made my eyes burn. I took a few quick breaths while my chest tightened as I stared at the destroyed particles. I struggled to breathe for a moment, despite not needing the air. I leaned down, grabbing the sides of my head, squeezing my hair for a moment. I shook my head, choking out a pained laugh.

I mean, I couldn't even really understand what was going on anymore. Galactic Empires, monsters worse than the eldritch, and fighting against something with the mana of an Old One...How did I get in this mess to begin with?

I laughed a bit more, the pressure from the situation overwhelming me. Everyone else was so fragile, even the enemies I made and the people I killed. They were all just a passing moment. I glared at the metal covering my arm. I held it up high.

This, this was forever, whether I wanted it that way or not.

I leaned down, surprised by my sudden emotional breakdown. It all just crushed me. Something like tears leaked from my face. I didn't check to see if they shined because I didn't want to know if they were liquid metal. I preferred not knowing.

Instead of fighting my panic attack, I just let it happen. For a moment, I was weak.

It was...liberating.

I just let myself feel the uncertainty, the dread, and the guilt of my failures. I usually just kind of pushed these emotions down, but bottling up only worked for so long. I guess I convinced myself I wasn't normal after having been shown so many signs to the contrary. This kind of mental breakdown, it was humbling, hard, and hurtful.

At the same time, it reminded me of who I was. Despite everything, I still felt pain like everyone else. I was human. Well, maybe not entirely, but I was mortal in the ways that mattered.

After a half-hour of wallowing in my misery, the sharp edges of the ache dulled. Like all pain, it passed. I stood up, taking a deep breath. I soaked the liquid tears on the ground and on my skin up, draining them to nothing.

Yeah, I felt better.

Without some massive ball of negative emotions lingering over my head, I set out to practice again. This time I took a different approach. I walked through Elderfire, the darkness draping over the city like a black cloak. After reaching the ancient city's center, I traveled back to Mt. Verner.

The warp drive's electric sizzling buzzed in my ears as I found myself on the second floor of the mountain city. Being underground kept us from being exposed, from Yawm and the Adair's alike. I paced through the place, the machines still.

After getting to the outside of the mountain, I met up with the dimensional golems I left behind. They stayed there under the canopy of the forest, motionless and without purpose.

I extended my consciousness out to them. The connection created, the new, tender minds exposed themselves to me. I couldn't mold their minds like Torix had with a mental link alone. I wasn't that talented at it, and I didn't want to do it that way either.

Instead of doing it directly, I wielded quintessence, and I focused on building the minds of the golems up instead of controlling them.

This was a complicated process, and it required tremendous focus. These guys would fight eldritch and mind mages alike. This meant putting them through a boot camp of sorts. I trained them in mental defense, focusing on fundamental barriers against mental bombardments. More elaborate movements followed, giving them more mobility.

These simple activities acted as a way of letting the golems learn how to use their minds. The process was...slow. They didn't learn fast, and what they did discover was a fragmented, hollow piece of what I was trying to teach them. Building them up might take years at this rate. It was trying to make something work that wouldn't.

Scrapping the mental buildup plan, I changed my strategy. Taking a few steps back, I reviewed my previous inscriptions. Opening my grimoire, I tapped my chin while looking them over. I peered at the pages while trying to keep the mental boot camp going. Even if it wasn't useful for them, it was still practical training for me.

It required much more focus as I split my attention between two things. If it wasn't for how second-hand cipher carving was at this point, then it would be impossible. The informational injections by Etorhma and Eonoth gave me a lot of insight into the dimensional code, however. Using that fluency, I simultaneously mentally attacked the golems while thinking up new carvings to make.

Despite the difficult work, I appreciated the sudden strain. Having my mind cleared let me think with clarity and concision. I was feeling pretty on point, and my results agreed with me. I gained a skill while trying to help bulletproof the golems.

New Skill gained! Mental Construction(lvl 10) - This skill allows the user to help develop burgeoning minds into what they desire.

Several minutes passed, and I gained another skill I didn't expect to earn.

New Skill Gained! Runic Programming(lvl10) - Creating complex decision trees using runic inscriptions is eased, allowing for more developed behaviors.

It was what I was doing, though it sounded worse in skill form. I glanced at several of the formed golems, their rough figures showcasing physical bulk. My initial designs lacked any real thought, most of them just hobbled together chunks. They used a lot of mana to move, and their forms restricted their abilities quite a bit. If anything, improving their designs made the mental framework far more manageable to map out.

Thinking that all out, I etched down a simple design for a new golem using a tree. Wooden strips curled up as I moved my hand through the trunk. When finished, I took a step back. The design was simple. It used floating pieces, along with a few other adjustments to the golem's combat abilities.

The alterations weren't exactly complicated. If anything, they simplified things quite a bit. I changed their connecting joint structures from interlocking metal pieces to saturated mana wells. This made crafting them effortless since no small, connecting pieces were required.

This put more work into the cipher carving aspect, but I preferred it that way. I was by no means a skilled engineer, but my runic carving held up with the best of them. If I could take some of the difficulty out of construction and put it into etching, then it was a win in my book. This floating joints method also made working with delicate materials easier.

I mean, some stuff, like fire or wind was a real pain in the ass to form and shape properly. Making joints using those airy, soft materials was basically impossible. This kind of design would make that possible. It did come with drawbacks, however.

If something wrenched the golem apart, then the golem would be neutralized. That was easier said than done when my gravity wells were involved, but it was still possible. Having some method of reassembly foolproofed the golems in that regard.

Another issue was the sheer structural integrity of what I made. My gravitational magic and the materials were damn sturdy, however, so I didn't mind that much. Fixing the fall apart element took priority, given the circumstances.

With all that in mind, I crystallized mana, creating a roughly circular orb of quintessence. I added a core to the golem's design, and this would be the central point for coming back together. Revisiting the runic guideline, I added a note to make this core the center.

Once the centralizing aspect was finished, I got to making the actual bodies. I ripped chunks of armor off my arm, throwing it aside. Before it landed on the ground, it melted into a glowing ball several feet from me. After collecting enough material, I molded it into the correct shapes for arms, bodies, and heads.

I created two more mana cores of pure quintessence, placing them on the head of the body. After a bit of runic carving, the golems could sense their surroundings with sight. Basic senses given, I gave the golems three fingers, each curved and floating. These gravity wells were complex as I added several antigravitational enchantments as well. Several layers of runes later, and the fingers could shift a foot or two from the 'wrist' of the golem.

This gave them a superb ability to grip and restrain. The fingers could be used as piercing weapons, given some creativity as well. After that, I made their bottom halves nonexistent. Instead, I created an antigravity well along with several stabilizing anchor points around it. Inefficient, maybe, but I wasn't about to waste my gravity expertise. I might as well use what I have.

After finishing that part, I made each segment of the golem fit into one another. This lets the creature pull itself together into a single shard of umbral fabric. With a bit of momentum, using them as orbital strikes wasn't out of the question.

Powering all these magical processes required the golem's natural mana reserves. A bit of carving later and my experience with gravity meant the cipher inscriptions holding them together were rock solid. It was the first time I used the cipher for something so frivolous instead of the standard runes other people used.

They worked like a charm, their potency proven. I lifted one of the golem's bodies with a gravity well, inspecting my handiwork. They moved like joints, my intentions for them rubbing off on the design. That was something I learned about the cipher during this exercise.

