It didn't act as a direct interpretation like the regular runes did. It served as a more abstract, flexible tool in general. I knew that part already, but I didn't realize that the cipher could work that way without my telling it so. The runes I used for the joints were straightforward, but I wanted something specific while making them.

The cipher made it so.

This eerie realization made the cipher even scarier than before. In many ways, it took on a life of its own once made. Noting that discovery, I worked on the signaller core at the center of the golem's chest.

I melted down a tunnel to the thing's center of mass. After excavating the channel, I placed the crystallized quintessence into the hole. A couple carvings later, and I inscribed a sort of signaller enchant onto the center.

After patching it up, I used lots of molten dimensional fabric as reinforcement. The more I worked on this project, the more I felt like I was retracing the steps of old golem creators. Golem cores, floating joints, all of it felt like stuff I'd heard about before, but I never understood why they did it that way. After working with it, it all made sense.

Once made, I inspected the beings. Simple but effective, the dozen or so creations stood upright as I walked past them. Well, floated upright. They were about ten feet tall, and their central bodies where giant hunks of dark gray dimensional fabric.

Their arms retracted into the main body most of the time. When I pushed one, the arms and fingers disconnected from the main body. It stabilized itself before making a weak attempt to attack me. Yup, it needed a bit more refinement, but this was a solid base to work with.

I went back to creating a mental framework for them. Before getting into the details, I figured having an end goal in mind would produce better results. After a bit of brainstorming, I wanted them at the entrance of a dungeon so I could see how they fare.

Most dungeons on Earth exceeded level 500, but that shouldn't be a problem for my golems. If they performed well enough, who knew, Schema might even give them special status like the Sentinels. If they worked out, then having them clear weaker dungeons wasn't out of the question.

That would take a tremendous load off any people living nearby. It let ordinary people target more dangerous, pressing targets instead of dungeon faring small fry. Maybe with enough of them and some serious improvements, they could help stop Earth from ever becoming a Fringe World. Even when I wasn't there.

Not having to patrol a bunch of tiny dungeons myself was a big bonus too, not gonna lie.

With that in mind, I finished a few of the new outlines of behavior. This acted as the second primary adjustment, and it involved their defensive tactics. I set up a simple response to anything trying to harm the golem: hold and eat the threat. This was possible because the draining of my armor carried over into the golems. When ordered, these guys could assimilate like I could.

Of course, they weren't nearly as developed as I was in that regard. It was enough to fend off most viral eldritch attempting to sink their teeth into these lugs though. That was enough for me. I also gave them a few slamming protocols if something attacked them from far away. They would launch themselves at a threat should it get too far away.

My third and final adjustment came in the form of a simple patrol. I gave the hulking creatures the simple commands to travel. I had them hug the left wall of any dungeon they entered. This meant they would roam around the outskirts of a rift, attracting attention. A labyrinth, for example, could be moved through using this method and on a set schedule.

The metal being would cover the dungeon every few days or so, clearing out any hostiles as it did. If it hit a dead end, it would simply turn around and continue hugging the left wall. This let it clear most of a dungeon. After testing them out, I'd learn the other adjustments I needed to make.

That kind of thing was hard to predict, and testing was a much easier solution than thinking up hypotheticals. Besides, these things were strong enough to climb out of holes and heavy enough to sink along the bottom of pools. This gave them slow, steady mobility that would work well in most dungeons.

This left a few basics on the table. Distinct necessities like the will to battle, searching out enemies, and self-preservation was implanted. I designed them to be responsive rather than proactive. This meant they wouldn't take the initiative in encounters. They would let the other guy start the fight before they finished it.

Most eldritch wouldn't be cunning enough to avoid them and discover their weaknesses. Even if they did, good luck peeling back a three-foot thick wall of metal harder than steel. Any dungeon with something that dangerous would likely have some kind of message about the eldritch inside. That's how it worked in BloodHollow with Baldag-Ruhl at least.

Either way, it took a few minutes to channel the cipher inscriptions required. The mana required wasn't as bad as usual since these inscriptions weren't abstract; they were concrete and exact. That was much easier than the more creative configurations I usually did. Once made, I placed them where necessary.

They floated with runic markings along their seams, fingers, and head. The white quintessence eyes stood out in particular, giving them a sharp, hollow-eyed look. Combine that with their massive size, and the new golems were eerie, ominous, and menacing.

Perfect for killing eldritch.

When the golems moved around, I beamed with pride. They shifted with far less clumsiness, having actual goals in them. A bit of an orange tinge reflected off their surfaces as I stared at them. Turning towards the sky, the sunset in the distance. I got caught up with work again.

After willing the golems to stand hidden beneath some trees, I floated back towards the second floor of Mt. Verner. Once inside, I warped towards the center of Elderfire. The sun rose here as well, a majestic sunset overlapping with trees and desert dunes alike.

Damn, I got lucky the day cycles were similar this time.

Once at the temple, I met back up with Torix, who sent a message to the others. With the meetup already planned, we walked out towards the outside of the temple. Waiting for the others to awaken, he and I stood on the temple's stairs with a slight awkwardness.

Since the earlier conversation, he and I only exchanged pleasantries. I did leave the talk on a rough note. The social discomfort was by no means unbearable, so I stood there and bore it. Torix raised a hand with care,

"You seem lighter. Perhaps you drove your demons back for now?"

I smiled, "Yeah. I did."

Torix nodded, satisfied with my response. We watched as the others flew, walked, and woke up here. The feast lasted long into the night, so a few hardcore partiers were still laid out in the open. Hod, in particular, sat with his back on the stone steps, his belly swollen, and snoring loud as a foghorn. I gave him a telekinetic nudge, and the shadow birdman woke up. He looked around,

"What Hod miss?"

I scoffed, "Nothing, yet."

Krog and Chrona landed, and I sighed. I turned to them,

"But you will miss quite a bit if you don't wake up. We've got a lot to talk about."
