During our walk through the peninsula, we saw several arbor squirrels and it reminded me that I’d hoped to get one or two to care for the Golden Oak and other trees I had growing in my garden.

After mentioning it to Stephen, I learned that Memorial Retreat had a small selection of beast breeders, two of which bred and sold arbor squirrels.

While we could have probably captured a couple ourselves, the idea of doing so didn’t quite sit well with me. However, generationally bred domestic arbor squirrels didn’t give me the same negative feeling.

Since the creatures would help keep the Golden Oak in my garden healthy, I picked up a pair of males. I didn’t want a bunch of baby squirrels filling the garden and potentially eating through all of my resources; otherwise I would have gotten a breeding pair.

I could have also picked up two females, but they were actually a bit more expensive than the males, and my frugal nature won out.

About an hour after we left Memorial Retreat and returned home, I received a message from the Porter Guild letting me know that my waypoint guide was available during a two-hour window ten days later.

It was the same day we were scheduled to enter the dungeon the following week, but I was sure that Mike and Cora wouldn’t mind delaying by a day or so, since the waypoint was ultimately for them.

As expected, the couple had been happy to adjust our delving schedule once they learned about the scheduling conflict.

Ten days later, I teleported to the Portal Guild Headquarters a few minutes before the scheduled meeting. Unsurprisingly, the guildhall was a lot busier than the one in Sorenguard. However, I didn’t have to worry about waiting in line since I was expected, and the clerk on duty seemed to be keeping an eye out for me.

“Are you Emie?” the clerk asked.

“I am.”

“If you would please follow me,” she said before leading me up the stairs to a large office. Once she reached the door, the clerk knocked and announced us.

“Ah, Miss Emie. Welcome to the guild. I don’t believe we had the opportunity to meet during the opening of the new branch. I’m Solan, the Porter Guild Leader.”

I recognized the man from the opening of the Sorenguard Branch of the Porter Guild.

His hair looked like it would suit a Fire Magi far more than the head of a guild dedicated to spatial skills, but it strangely suited him.

I hadn’t gotten close enough to notice before, but his eyes were an interesting mix of blue and gray, which stood out sharply against the brightness of his hair.

“It’s nice to meet you. I’m Emie… though I guess you know that,” I said a bit awkwardly.

Though I was certain he was restraining it, I could literally feel the power rolling off of the man. Even without the circlet marking him as a mithril-ranked Porter, I would have guessed he was close to ascending.

“Indeed. Well, we don’t have a lot of time, so I guess we should go ahead and get to it.”

The Guild Leader’s comment surprised me, and I tilted my head. “Are… you going to be the one to serve as my guide?”

“I am,” Solan said with an amused smile. “Is that okay?”

“Oh, uh, sure,” I said awkwardly.

It was less because I was intimidated and more out of surprise. I really hadn’t expected the actual Guild Leader would be the one to serve as my guide to set the waypoints.

Laughing, the flame-haired man said, “Good. I was hoping to get the chance to get to know the guild’s newest Space Magi. I figured this would be as good an opportunity as any.”

I didn’t really have a good response to that, so I just nodded and smiled.

“Alright. Well, let’s get to it. Janice, please let Mathias know that I’ll be back in about two hours,” Solan said to the clerk still waiting by the door. Turning back to me, the Guild Leader stepped closer and said, “Let’s start with Saint’s Hollow.”

My surroundings immediately twisted before straightening back out to reveal a new location.

“And here we are,” Solan said, extending his hands. “Saint’s Hollow is actually one of the smaller locations that we maintain regular portal services to. The dungeon here is only steel-ranked, but it is one of the largest producers of metal and raw ore on the continent.”

The arrival platform was set up like pretty much every other arrival platform I’d seen, so there was nothing particularly noteworthy aside from the decorative sign. Because of that, we headed out of the Dungeon Complex so I could get a better feel for the area to help solidify the waypoint.

There was nothing about the town that made it obvious it was a mining town, aside from the increased amount of metal used in construction. In fact, from what I could see, the town looked like a more basic version of Goldwood.

“There are local mines in the area, but none are still in use since the dungeon itself is the source of the ores and metals being exported,” Solan continued. “While most lower-evolution dungeons don’t specialize to quite the same degree, the local dungeon is a bit of an anomaly.

“In fact, the entire dungeon is basically one big mine. The only things that change between floors are the mobs and the specific resources that can be harvested. Even then, there is very little in the way of harvestable non-ore resources.”

The Guild Leader told me a bit more about the abnormal dungeon as we walked around the surprisingly small town. He also told me that the town itself was nestled between several larger cities with overlapping dungeon auras, making the area much safer than it might otherwise be.

It still had a wall protecting it from any wandering beasts or the occasional demon that might slip through, but for the most part, the dungeon town was pretty well protected.

“Are you ready to move on?”

Feeling confident I’d be able to open a portal to the town when needed, I nodded and took a step closer to the older Porter.

Even considering the time I’d spent in Neohim, it was obvious that the mithril-ranked Guild Leader was much older than me. If I had to guess, I would say he was several thousand years old, at least.

Though he only looked to be in his thirties, that was old for someone with whom stagnation had not set in.

Our surroundings twisted and changed once again. This time, the arrival platform was noticeably different from what I was used to, if only because it was encased in a room of near-solid metal.

Assuming one of the major sources of metal was likely Saint’s Hollow (which explained why the regular portal between the two locations was so important), I found it a bit surprising that the previous town had not had a similar metal-themed arrival room.

However, my thoughts were quickly distracted by the sight just beyond the arrival room once we stepped outside.

“Wow. The photos really don’t do the city justice,” I commented. It seemed to be a common theme with images of cities I’d found through the Delver Association’s network.

Like Saint’s Hollow, the city used a lot more metal in its construction than I was used to seeing. But on top of that, there were noticeable steampunk-esque technologies and features visible all over the place.

In reality, most of it was probably cosmetic more than genuine technological advances, considering the goddess’s stance on spreading advanced technology in this new era. But still, the sight was remarkable.

People were bustling from one location to another, each dressed in clothing that wouldn’t have been out of place in the early 1900’s.

Drawing me from my observations, the Guild Leader asked, “This is the city you wanted to visit, correct?”

“Yes, but not necessarily for myself,” I answered. “Two of my party members were originally from Arkenesis. After seeing pictures of the city through the Delver Association’s network, they asked if I could find a way to bring them here.”

“Ah. They must be feeling a bit homesick.”

“I think so. They’re also talking about starting a family, and I think they want to do that somewhere that feels more like home to them.”

“There are… other cities of similar design,” Solan said carefully before adding in almost a whisper, “It might be better to encourage them to settle in another location if they’re merely looking for is a similar aesthetic.”

Stepping a bit closer, I quietly asked, “Is there something wrong with the city?”

Sasha had mentioned something about the popularity of the city dropping due to problematic laws. I wondered if that was what Solan was hinting about.

“Of course not,” he said, though his expression sent an entirely different message. “I just wanted to point out that there are other cities and towns inspired by Arkenesis since you have only just started exploring.”

Clearly changing the topic, Solan smiled and said, “Let me know when your waypoint is set. There’s still one more place I wanted to take you.”

His comment surprised me since I’d been under the impression that we’d only be visiting two locations for me to set waypoints. However, he had scheduled two hours for the trip, and we’d barely spent half of that.

“I’m good,” I said. The city was unique enough that it hadn’t taken long to establish the waypoint.

“Excellent. Let’s go.”

Once again, the world around me twisted.

“I’m sorry for the lack of explanation,” Solan said as soon as we arrived on the new arrival platform. “I didn’t realize nobody had told you about the issues with Goldwood.”

“So, there is something wrong with Goldwood. Sasha hinted at something, but she didn’t explain anything.”

“It’s not necessarily that something is wrong with the city. It’s more that the laws there are far more authoritarian than they are in other places, and people have a tendency to disappear there,” he replied. “Porter Guild members are somewhat protected by our agreement with the City Lord, but even we need to be careful when it comes to certain things.”

“Even you?” I asked in surprise.

“Even me,” he agreed before completely dismissing the topic. “This is Arkenton. Though there was a regularly scheduled portal between Saint’s Hollow and Arkenton prior to Daver’s disappearance, I do not expect you to fill that slot as well.

“The option is certainly open to you, if you’d like, but I brought you here because I thought it would be a better place for your party members to move if all they’re looking for a city that reminds them of Arkenesis.

“As you can probably tell from the name,” he continued, stepping out of the room and heading toward the exit, “this city was also founded by Ascenders from Arkenesis. However, the dungeon here is only a silver-ranked dungeon. While you’ll have to pay a bit more in taxes, I believe the city itself would make the loss worthwhile.”

We stepped through the doors and into a city that, on the surface, looked a lot like the one we’d just left. However, it only took a moment to recognize the difference.

Everyone seemed much happier here.

It hadn’t registered before, but the atmosphere of Goldwood had felt heavy, and the people walking in the streets had seemed tense and hurried instead of casually strolling like many of the people I saw here.

Now that I thought about it, I couldn’t recall seeing anyone just casually walking through the area outside of the Dungeon Complex, nor could I remember seeing any children while we’d been in Goldwood.

By contrast, there were families walking hand-in-hand down the pedestrian streets just outside the Dungeon Complex, laughing and smiling as they went about their days.

While some of it could easily be explained by the difference in neighborhood or city planning, the contrast felt too stark for that to be the extent of it.

“It feels a lot lighter here,” I said after a moment.

“It does. The laws aren’t quite as harsh here, though crime is still strictly punished.”

“What other kinds of laws does Goldwood have that this city doesn’t?”

Solan’s expression darkened, and his lips flattened into a thin line. “I think it would be better to provide you with a copy of the laws once we get back to the guild instead of trying to explain things myself. You’ll want to read those before heading there to manage the portal transfer, anyway.”

“Is there anything in particular that I should be worried about?” I asked uncertainly.

At no point had anyone said anything to make me think that doing my job might hold some kind of political or legal danger, and while I could almost certainly escape from any trouble, I didn’t want to walk into a bad situation uninformed.

“Not directly. As I mentioned, the Portal Guild has an agreement with the City Lord of Goldwood, as it does with nearly every other City Lord of a city that we provide regular services to. That is how we are able to come and go so freely and without checking in at each location.

“Any other visitor would be required to check in with the local Delver Association and, depending on the location, the city government’s office. Please keep that in mind when you begin traveling for leisure with non-guild members.”

I nodded in understanding. Heaven had actually mentioned that already, but the reminder was welcome.

We walked past a group of young teenage girls who were animatedly discussing something that had happened in school earlier in the day. The trio looked happy and carefree.

“In any case,” Soren continued, “I doubt you’d have any issues as a member of the guild, but there is a reason that I opted to be the one to guide you while you set your waypoint in Goldwood.”

“And why is that?” I asked, coming to a stop next to a bakery. The smells coming from the store were amazing, and I hoped the Guild Leader didn’t mind going inside before we left.

“Because I wanted to ensure nothing happened,” Solen said simply. “As unlikely as it might be, I felt it was better to be the one to accompany you to prevent any potential issues. You won’t have an issue managing the portal transfer because that’s scheduled, but unscheduled arrivals into Goldwood are scrutinized far more closely.

“In fact, unless your party members absolutely insist, it might be better to just avoid Goldwood altogether,” Solan stated. “However, if they do insist, you’ll want to notify the local Delver Association of your travel plans at least three days in advance. That should minimize any potential issues.”

It was all far more complicated than it should have been. Given the fact that the Guild Leader had taken the time out of his schedule to be the one to accompany me for the trip, I could only imagine the kinds of issues they’d had with the city and its lord in the past.

I desperately wanted to ask, but since Solan seemed intent on remaining vague, I let it go. I’d ask around if I got the chance.

Solan must have sensed my interest because he opened the door to the bakery and motioned for me to enter. We both selected several items and paid before finding a seat on the outdoor patio.

“So, what happened to the person who managed these transfers, anyway?” I asked, somewhat changing the subject as I unwrapped one of the flaky pastries. “Daver, was it? You mentioned he disappeared. Was it—”

“That had nothing to do with Goldwood, I assure you,” Solan said, putting my mind at ease.

I nodded and took a thoughtful bite of my treat while watching the people of the city pass by. Just based on the atmosphere alone, I felt that Mike and Cora would enjoy it here better than they would Goldwood.

“Truth be told, we still don’t know what happened to him,” the Guild Leader continued. He’d put his purchases into storage, but didn’t seem to mind sitting with me while I enjoyed my snack.

“I was told it might have something to do with the incursion breaches?”

Solan sighed. “That is the most likely possibility, given what was going on at the time. It’s particularly unfortunate since Daver was one of the few people who could manually close incursion breaches.”

“Is there some other way to close them?” I asked, picking up on the implication of his phrasing.

“Of course there is. There are artifacts that can force a breach to close, but they are one-time use items and very expensive to make. That’s one of the reasons that Daver dedicated so much of his time to doing it himself.

“Another reason is that breaches often occur near the edge of a dungeon’s territory – in particular, near the border of where more than one dungeon’s aura overlaps. Because of that, tracking incursion breaches is one of the most reliable ways to discover new beginner dungeons. Daver was one of the best when it came to finding and retrieving newly-formed dungeons.”

“Do you know how it’s done?” I asked, leaning forward. “I’d heard that it’s possible, but I’ve never been able to learn anything about the process itself. Wouldn’t it require entering the dungeon and interacting with the core? I thought you couldn’t enter a dungeon if you were at a higher evolution than the dungeon itself.”

“I do know how it’s done, though I don’t have the skills required to do it without damaging the young dungeons. I mostly rely on the brute force method, which isn’t the best method by any means. And while you’re right about the limitations on entering a dungeon, entering isn’t necessary when it comes to relocating a young dungeon.

“If you’re interested, I can arrange for one of the guild’s senior Porters to teach you. I would do it myself, but I rarely have much free time, and there are others who would probably be able to do a better job of training you.”

I was interested, though I didn’t have any immediate plans to go out in search of baby dungeons, especially not after learning that they are often discovered by locating an incursion breach. What I didn’t want was to run into a situation where I needed the knowledge and not have it.