“Close your eyes.”

“What? Why do I need to close my eyes first?” I asked as I dodged the hand moving to cover my eyes.

“Because I want it to be a surprise, obviously,” Stephen replied with a light chuckle. “Besides, it’ll be more fun this way.”

“What did you do?” I asked suspiciously.

Stephen had disappeared for about half an hour after I’d agreed to spend the day exploring, but he’d resolutely refused to explain why. Given the expression on his face, I was equal parts nervous and excited to find out what he’d been doing.

“You’ll see after we get there,” he replied. “Come on, please? I promise it’ll be worth it.”

Since I had no reason not to trust him, I let out a breath and closed my eyes. His hand covered my eyes a moment later, preventing me from peeking.

“Alright, here we go.”

I felt the shift of displacement, but Stephen had practiced the skill enough that it wasn’t jarring like it had been when he’d first started learning.

The first thing I noticed was the sound of waves, followed immediately by the smell of salty sea air.

“We’re at a beach?” I asked.

Stephen removed his hand from my eyes and said, “Not just any beach. This is apparently a pretty famous beach in this part of the world. It’s called Black Sands Beach. The reason for the name is probably obvious.”

He was right. Instead of the white or tan sand that I expected, the entire stretch of beach was covered in dark sand that seemed to almost drink the ambient light.

It was already dark since it was the middle of the night in this part of the world, but the added effects from the sand made the darkness even more profound. Strangely enough, it also made the colorful auroras illuminating the night sky seem even brighter.

The night sky didn’t have stars like my old realm. Nor did it have a moon, though there were a few artificial structures orbiting the massive planet that almost looked like stars. Each was large enough to have been its own country in my old world.

The night sky was undoubtedly beautiful, but a part of me missed seeing the stars of my home realm.

“What do you think?”

“It’s really beautiful,” I replied. “It’s been a long time since I spent any time at the beach. And I don’t think I’ve ever had a nighttime picnic at one before,” I added, noticing the blanket, cushions, and low table set up a few feet away.

“I hope you’re hungry,” Stephen said, taking my hand and pulling me toward the blanket. “I ordered a lot of food for us. It was what took me so long.”

He started unloading an array of small dishes as soon as we settled onto our cushions. Aerie and Lana had discovered the ocean and had already started playing in the surf.

“I didn’t even think about the time difference,” I said.

There was still plenty of daylight back in Sorenguard, and while it should have been obvious, the implications of traveling across the world hadn’t occurred to me when Stephen had brought up the idea.

“I got everything back in Sorenguard, so the time difference didn’t matter all that much,” Stephen replied. “Besides, I’m pretty sure a lot of the bigger cities stay awake throughout the night, especially in areas near their dungeons.”

“That’s true.”

We ate slowly, savoring the dishes and the ambiance. The sounds of excited young asolades playing in the water nearby brought a soft smile to my face.

Eventually, the kits wore themselves out, and they came begging for food. Not long after they had inhaled their meal, the kits snuggled together on the cushion Stephen had set aside just for them.

They were asleep in seconds.

“This is nice,” I said, looking out at the dark ocean reflecting the colorful night sky in broken patterns. “Thank you for thinking of it.”

“You were the first person I thought of when I saw this place,” Stephen admitted, reaching across the table to hold my hand. “Jace brought me here after I spent about an hour telling him about you. I mentioned wanting to discover places to see with you, and this was the first place he brought me.

“There isn’t actually a city close by, but the area is still protected by the nearest dungeon’s aura. The surrounding area is basically a dungeon nursery and is located on a long, thin peninsula. The city controlling the area is closer to the neck of the peninsula, near the mountain range that separates the area from the mainland.

“The only real method of reaching the city is via spatial travel since even airships aren’t capable of crossing the mountain range unless they are absolutely top-end vehicles. It makes this area one of the safest places from demonic incursions in the entire realm.”

“Wow. Where do all of the beginner dungeons come from?” I asked.

Stephen shrugged helplessly. “I didn’t ask. Maybe they find them and bring them here? Or maybe the goddess creates them here so they can be distributed to other locations? I didn’t really think to ask.”

That was something I’d definitely be curious to find out, but regardless of the answer, the fact that there were so many isolated and protected places was a surprise to me. I’d thought that Seabed and Mountain Refuge were anomalies, but maybe I was wrong and such locations weren’t as rare as I believed.

“Jace did mention that the area is really popular as a training destination for the rich,” the archer explained. “Apparently, some of the wealthier and more powerful people of the realm like to send their children here so they can experience what it was like before the demonic incursions.

“As a result, the Dungeon Complex in Memorial Retreat is actually quite a bit larger than the local dungeon warrants. It’s actually larger than most of the Ascender Dungeon Complexes that I’ve seen, even though the dungeon itself is only late silver-ranked. There are also a few small resort-like villages set up to support trekkers as well, but the closest one is ten or so miles down the coast.”

It was surprising to hear that some of the people of the modern world still managed to complete the traditional trek to adulthood, but if the area truly was protected from demons, it would make sense.

The Trek had been an important rite of passage for most Dians during the time of the simulation, and I’d been sad to learn that the tradition had been lost due to the demonic incursions.

The realization that the practice was alive and well locally actually made me a little jealous that I hadn’t ascended in Memorial Retreat instead of Sorenguard. I would have loved to have gotten the opportunity to travel between dungeon towns and explore different dungeons during my early levels.

“I don’t suppose any of the young dungeons have reached bronze, have they?” I asked, moving around the table to sit next to Stephen.

His brows furrowed. “I have no idea. It might be worth visiting Memorial Retreat and asking if you’re really interested in doing the trek. We obviously won’t be able to enter any dungeon that hasn’t evolved, but even if we can’t enter the dungeons, it might be fun to travel the route anyway. Besides, it’s not like we can’t just teleport to cities with appropriate dungeons if we want to delve.”

I found myself smiling at the thought of hiking between towns and roughing it like a normal young delver. If we did get to do it, we’d need to pick up tents and supplies since using my demesne would be cheating.

If we were going to do it, I wanted to do it as close to traditionally as possible.

“Is that something you’re actually interested in?” Stephen asked after seeing my expression.

“Strangely enough, I think it is,” I admitted with a hint of embarrassment. “The trek was one of the most memorable parts of the simulation, and being able to actually relive aspects of it would mean a lot to me.”

“I didn’t realize it was something you felt so strongly about.”

“Me either, honestly,” I admitted.

Until the possibility was presented, I truly hadn’t realized how much I wanted to experience the rite of passage once again.

“Well, if you want, we can explore the area a bit while we wait for sunrise,” Stephen suggested, looking inland at the thick jungle. “There shouldn’t be anything capable of threatening us since the people in charge cull any creatures approaching the first evolution to ensure things are relatively safe for the trekkers.

“It obviously isn’t perfectly safe since there are wild creatures living in the area, but we won’t have to worry about anything stronger than us attacking.”

“That makes sense. I doubt the people in charge would want the kids of the rich and powerful dying outside of the dungeons,” I commented.

There wasn’t anything they could do about what happened inside the dungeons, but it wouldn’t be good business to let the kids die during the trek itself.

Of course, accidents were bound to happen, and there was a reasonable amount of danger that was to be expected. It was the way things were during the original trek as well.

Eying the ocean, I grinned and said, “But before we wander away, I want to feel the water. You don’t suppose it’s safe to swim in, do you?”

“It is! Well, at least, mostly,” Stephen corrected. “There are a few strong sea creatures, but they tend to stick to the deeper parts of the ocean. Jace told me about it when I asked about the fishermen.”

I walked casually to the water’s edge. I’d already removed my shoes earlier.

“He said that most of what comes close to shore is relatively harmless,” Stephen commented as the temperate water rolled over my bare feet. It wasn’t as warm as I preferred, but it was tolerable.

Following behind me, he said, “Jace specifically mentioned that some of the kids doing the trek like to come to the beaches to swim between delves. It’s actually how he knew of the beach, since he was one of those young trekkers back when he was just starting out.”

“Oh, that’s good to hear! It’s too bad we don’t have any swimsuits, though,” I said with an exaggerated sigh. “The water is just barely warm enough to be comfortable.”

“Well, it’s not like there is anyone here to see us,” Stephen replied playfully before removing his shirt.