It was such a…pernicious, underhanded comment coming from the [Chef] about his own people that Elia searched for the lie on the Goblin’s face, thinking it had to be him betraying his own kind for the sake of the conversation. Yet she realized his eyes were on the sushi as he manipulated the chopsticks, and his voice was level.
“Not all, surely. Surely you would tell me that the…the young ones. The tribes didn’t do everything wrong.”
Her voice felt hoarse, and Elia reflexively went to one of the chilled cabinets to hunt for a drink. She coughed, and Calescent pointed her to a container of blue juice and cups. He watched as she refilled the cups.
“Maybe. Sometimes, entire tribes follow Chieftains. Sometimes, many Goblins do terrible things. Slaughter villages down to the last child. You’re just an adventurer. You do your job. No hate. Gotta kill monsters.”
“Stop it.”
“Stop what?”
“Stop arguing from my point of view. I know that style of argumentation.”
She snapped at him; she knew what he was doing. Yet the Hobgoblin seemed genuinely surprised.
“Not argument…ation. Just saying, I understand. Sometimes, I think. Not like Goblin, but like Human. Like Drake. Makes sense to them.”
He tapped his head, denuded of his regular [Chef]’s hat. Elia realized that Calescent cut his hair short, likely to avoid issues with his hat, but kept it oddly spiky, like a cone, if a short one. It was funny to think he hid that under his hat…he noticed her eyes and grinned. But said nothing.
“I have met…Sticks. I have heard Lyonette speak. I understand what this inn…the [Innkeeper] claims. Even why Griffon Hunt fought me. I do not agree. I saw the Goblin King slaughtering his way through the continent. If you gave me a million chances, I would slay him in each one.”
He nodded once, silently.
“Okay.”
She waited for something. He delicately picked up another piece of sushi.
“I don’t understand why. Goblin King to me is a story. He dead before I small baby. All Goblins talk about him. How great he was. How strong. How angry. Sometimes angrily.”
She had to get out of this conversation. Elia was filling up, but in the way of sushi, you could fill up and find enough room for just one more in a few more minutes if you waited. She was going to go to her room to pack or sleep, but every time she did, something drew her back. Like Calescent’s last word.
“Angrily?”
“Sure. Goblins are hunted. Dying. They were before he came, but he got lots killed. Why shouldn’t we be angry?”
“I don’t know. I always assumed you all admired him without thinking. Goblins react to Velan the Kind’s name. Don’t they yearn to finish his work? To become him?”
Calescent blinked at Elia; she’d heard and seen this when some of them invoked Velan around her. Seen that rage, if not seen the frightening humanity in the eyes before. He replied slowly with a shake of his head.
“I never wanted to be him. Or to be Chieftain or Goblin Lord. When you say his name. When I look at you—”
His eyes glowed.
“—I get angry.”
Elia felt a pressure for a second and realized her bow was upstairs. But Calescent’s tone was soft, and he gently pushed around half a sushi on a plate in front of him.
“I don’t know why. Is not my anger. I think…I…just want to know why.”
And what was she to say to that? Elia opened her mouth to say something when she heard a sound. There was some rustling outside the kitchen; Calescent blinked and glanced towards the open door.
The kitchen door was only open a crack, and Elia had often heard him complaining that his kitchen was isolated from the rest of the inn. But he had added the middle island where he could prepare more food, magical cupboards, runes of heating and cooling, and all kinds of utensils.
As they looked past a pasta-making station complete with hanging racks of drying noodles, they saw a figure pause at the doorway. Elia recoiled as Chieftain Rags halted, blinking at the two of them.
“Calescent?”
She stared at Elia, and Calescent raised a hand. He gave Elia a quick glance, then spoke in Goblin.
“Chieftain? What you up so late about? You going to Goblinhome? About the bad-bad-death-death-Troll thing?”
The what? Rags just shook her head. She glanced at Elia, then rattled off a few things in Goblin. Elia listened.
“Nope. Doing some…research. Keep it secret.”
“Oh. Again? You want something?”
“Yeah, sushi. Give me a bunch. What are you doing with the adventurer?”
“Talking. She’s going tomorrow. Are the warriors who attacked her okay?”
“Idiots getting patched up. She didn’t kill them, and they’ll all heal, Prixall says. Don’t…remember Hekusha, Calescent.”
“Yeah, Chieftain.”
He heaved a huge sigh as he found a box of sushi and packed it up with chopsticks, a drink, and some sauce. Rags pointed, and Calescent sloooowly added a fork. She took the bundle, glanced at Elia again, and then bared her teeth and nodded.
“Arcsinger. Thank you for not killing the Goblins.”
“I…didn’t think it was in my best interests.”
Elia managed stiffly. She stood there, face blank, as Rags cast another look at her.
“You thought we’d kill you?”
“It crossed my mind. And it was a pointless thing to do.”
Pointless. The word slipped out, and Elia wondered why she’d said it. Goblin ears were worth coppers each. But it was—pointless. She couldn’t have imagined herself taking their ears even if she’d ignored how the Goblins would react.
This inn is changing me. I must go. Elia hunched over her sushi, about to rise, but again, she wavered as Rags strode away. A door opened; it exposed moonlight and brought a strange scent to the air. The garden. Elia stared at it, realizing she’d never known what was in there.
The door closed.
Calescent exhaled as he turned from Rags and put his chopsticks down. They were mostly through Bird’s sushi; he expected the conversation to be over. But Elia couldn’t resist. She felt like she’d go crazy if she didn’t answer one of the inn’s questions, and she had just gotten another one.
“Um. Calescent?”
“Hm?”
He was picking up dishes and putting them together quietly to clean. Elia glanced at the place Rags had been.
“What’s the bad-bad-death-death-Troll thing?”
Calescent dropped a dish and grabbed for it desperately. Again, Elia caught it with her chopsticks before it hit the ground, and he picked it up and stared at her.
“How do you know that? You know Goblin?”
“…Yes?”
She hunted Goblins for a living. You had to pick something up after so long. She’d learned her first lessons in the wars against the Goblin King; every soldier would, to understand what the Goblin Lords and leaders were ordering their soldiers to do. Then the voice of levels had given her [Natural Foe: Translate Language (Low Goblin)].
When Elia related that to Calescent, his brows snapped together.
“Low Goblin? What that mean?”
“I don’t know. Most Goblins speak like you or your Chieftain. A few—a very few I’ve met—sounded, uh, fancier. Usually, I ran into them around the coastline of continents.”
“Which continents?”
“All of them. They have the same accent as the ones from the Isle of Goblins.”
High-level, fearless Goblins. Whenever Elia heard their different Goblin language, she’d call in backup no matter what it took. Calescent’s gaze turned sharp. She expected him to say nothing, but he replied.
“Probably, yah. They send Goblins all over.”
She was surprised he knew that; he seemed surprised she knew of the House of Minos’ eternal foe, but of course, she’d visited the Minotaur King, Inreza. She’d even offered her services to help fight them, but the Minotaur King had just laughed at Elia and told her that death was a Goblin Lord sitting on the island. When Elia had sensed the Goblin Lord there, she had decided she wasn’t needed in the House of Minos.
“Strange. Strange. You speak my language. You know my secrets. I hated Tyrion Veltras far more than you. But you killed more Goblins than even he did.”
This was true. Calescent slapped his thigh, glowering. The inn was still quiet around them, though the creak of floorboards above made Elia think Rags wasn’t the only person awake. She didn’t know what to say, so she asked.
“The bad thing?”
“Big monster fighting Trolls in the High Passes. Deep underground. Chieftain says it could kill Pallass’ 2nd Army by itself.”
Elia gulped—hard.
“Is that a joke? An exaggeration?”
She was hopeful and wondered if Rags just didn’t know Pallass’ 2nd Army, but Calescent just shrugged.
“She’s very certain. How does she know how good Pallas’ 2nd Army is? Don’t know. But she says it can, and Chieftain Rags doesn’t exaggerate.”
“How are you going to stop it? Or her tribe? The Trolls?”
He sighed.
“Is a big problem. I don’t know. Chieftain Rags says she’s researching it. Somehow. I not one of those Goblins in her tribe anymore. I hope she can.”
If something like that killed the Goblins and Trolls, other groups could be next. Elia didn’t like what sounded like a Named-rank threat hovering about. She swallowed hard and found they’d moved back to sushi; octopus or whatever she’d killed. Chewier, but no less good, arguably better because you now could savor it while you were less hungry.
“What…I heard Hekusha’s name. The Healer of Tenbault? Did you meet her?”
Didn’t they say someone had kidnapped her? Her team had debated doing something about it, but they weren’t exactly fast. Elia saw Calescent’s face close down.
“I met her. She was kidnapped by us. To save Erin.”
“…And?”
“She was afraid of Goblins. What there not to expect? Obvious. Duh.”
The way he stabbed a chopstick through the sushi made Elia think there was more to it than that. She tried to imagine it and had a sudden image of Calescent trying to feed the Healer of Tenbault sushi. He turned away from her gaze.
“I getting in your way. Tomorrow, I will have a box for you. Thank you for saying my cooking is good.”
He walked towards the door, and she felt a pang of regret. This was the longest she’d spoken to, well, anyone in the inn, and it had been, against all expectations, a remarkably pleasant chat.
“I…”
What did she say to him? The [Chef] turned at the door, and Elia wavered.
Sorry? She meant it. She had killed the Goblin King and never regretted it. I’m sorry about the Goblins who attacked me? She had let them live; ‘sorry’ for the rage in the eyes of the one who had crawled towards her was such a pathetic word it didn’t bear saying. Nor should she ask why or interrogate that.
She knew why.
She was unto the Goblins as Velan had been to her and so many soldiers. There was nothing to say.
A Goblin regarded the half-Elf, a nemesis of his species, who had slaughtered more Goblins than this inn could have held, even with all its secret passageways and rooms. She gazed back, full on the sushi he had made that she enjoyed—and eventually, he closed the door.
Then he opened it because she was in the kitchen and that was the only way out. Elia chewed on one last sushi in silence.
She felt…even more tired than before and decided she could leave in the morning. Tomorrow.
 
——
 
Elia Arcsinger got back to her room, but stopped when she heard the whispering. She again reached for a bow she didn’t have—until she heard a familiar voice.
Nanette. And the scrabbling of paws and scritching of a quill on paper that had to be Mrsha. Elia peeked into the room and saw two girls.
With her journal. They were reading it as Mrsha sniffed the air now and then, but Elia was a [Ranger]; even after chowing on spicy sushi, Mrsha hadn’t realized Elia’s Skills made her untrackable even by Gnoll standards. Nanette was whispering, too-confident in her friend’s abilities.
“Don’t rush me, Mrsha! Just keep a lookout! And don’t shove me! It’s a witch’s job to investigate these things!”
Mrsha gave Nanette another shove and held up a card. It was backwards to Elia, who was peeking in via the door’s slit; she searched around for the two Thronebearers, but they must have been patrolling elsewhere or asleep.
Vaulont the Ash walked down the hallway, a silent shadow, and gave her a glance as he stared at her room. He shrugged; this wasn’t his business. The [Assassin] walked on as Elia listened.
She could vaguely read the note from the glass of her window, reflecting the writing in the faint [Light] spell that Nanette had cast. But even her eyes struggled to read the note backwards at that distance, and Nanette hissed back.
“I’m not being nosy! And you were just as curious as me because you were up! I’m sick of covering for you at night! What are you doing with Rags, anyways? Don’t get evasive on me; I help you with your mission, you help me with mine!”
The Gnoll girl gave up with a sigh, sniffing the air again as Nanette muttered out loud.
“Where’s the latest entry? The Spice Incident…no…she has such silly names. Let me see. Did she write anything about the Goblins? How does she feel? Oh no, she’s still doing it, Mrsha. Look! ‘Laudas: Today was pork roast. Tasty.’ Dead gods.”
She and Mrsha giggled. Elia scowled. She’d put up with a lot over this last day, in her opinion, remarkably well. Having children judging her journal entries was the last straw. She was trying to think of a suitably scary or imposing way of entering the room when Nanette read the next entry.
“Wait a second. ‘Saelsmorn: Capoinelia finally sent me a [Message] back. She says I’m a disgrace. I don’t know what to write back. A bad day.’ Oh, that’s sad—”
Elia twitched—then she shot into the room. She snatched the journal from Nanette as the girl squeaked; Mrsha tumbled backwards in shock and alarm, eyes wide at being ambushed.
“That is my journal, thank you. How—how many times have you read it?”
Elia was red-faced, realizing they were a bit too fluent with her diary! Nanette stuttered.
“Adventurer Arcsinger! I—I—uh—”
I plead the fifth! Nanette made me do it! Don’t tell Lyonette! I have places to be!
Mrsha held up her card as Elia glowered at the two girls. The half-Elf pointed.
“Out.”
Her leg was hurting again, and she didn’t need them reading her diary of her private thoughts about her daughter. Elia was just grateful she hadn’t elaborated.
Capoinelia. She was ashamed. She was angry at her daughter. She was…she had lived years of regrets, of trying to figure out how to raise her daughter right. Whatever right was. Of wondering if she should part ways with the not-ready half-Elf girl, and afraid of seeing her corpse in more than her nightmares.
Elia had no great skill with the quill. She wrote down all she needed to remember. Angrily, she shoved the journal into her bag of holding.
“Get out.”
