The Goblins’ turn was next. But for this moment, they looked up and beheld the story from Elia’s perspective. The half-Elf who trembled like a leaf as an army pushed past the spells raining down on them. But even the greatest Goblins couldn’t run through magical hellfire—only one broke through, racing, almost on all fours, armor burned to ash, eyes wide, howling as he came at the army he could slaughter himself.
Velan the Kind. 
When he appeared, every Goblin was on their feet, including Calescent. He did not know he rose, only that he expected to feel something.
Rage. A memory that burned hotter than the mere name evoked. An echo of the fury of Goblin Kings that might ignite the Goblins present.
He sensed the Thronebearers tensing, saw Elia’s head turn towards him, but when the figure burst out of the ash, Calescent wavered. And he thought…
Velan was so small.
There was no flash of memory. No burst of rage in his chest. Nothing from the image of the armored Goblin running and roaring at the trembling army.
The moment captured him. The very air was shaking in the memory, and the [World’s Eye Theatre] replicated enough of that scene to have many flinching in their seats. Valeterisa was cringing back, but some people were also on their feet.
Relc had his spear in hand, gazing upwards with a wordless intensity, every muscle standing out on his body. Saliss of Lights had his arms spread across two seats, posture relaxed—but death emanated from him as he gazed upwards.
Calescent saw this, you see, because he was not transfixed. He could look around. He could think. Why?
—Because this is Elia’s memory. Not mine. When he gazed up, Calescent saw a Goblin King as she did. He felt his breathing ragged in his chest and wondered why he was panting. He saw Asgra, next to him, staring up at the Goblin King in awe and delight.
Across the room, Redscar was blinking upwards, an expression of surprise on his face, but a flicker of…uncertainty. Even disappointment. His eyes flashed around at the other Redfangs and met Calescent’s gaze a second. Rags was looking up, lost, disappointed as well. But Calescent breathed in suddenly. His eyes focused upwards. And he saw how it had ended.
 
——
 
When she drew her bow—the half-Elf stood there amidst a crumbling front rank. Warriors were racing forwards, being cut down by arrows singing across the battlefield, spells—some were dropping from the Goblin King’s presence alone, his clawed hands that tore through magical armor like it didn’t exist. Onwards as soldiers ran or fought and died.
One half-Elf alone as the entire rank of archers threw down their bows and fled. And they all saw him hesitate, staring at that half-Elf he thought he recognized for a crucial moment, his resolve weakening.
She shot him through the eye, and he collapsed. He didn’t die right away; he fell, got up, and ran—and [Mages] poured magic onto him, arrows stuck home—and Goblins began to shriek in the distance as they felt their King die. When he collapsed, an entire army turned to a trembling half-Elf standing in disbelief, not knowing how she’d killed him, and roared her name.
The audience watched the moment, the truth behind that lie she had never meant to tell, and saw how Elia looked around, bewildered, uncertain, as she became a legend. Yet even still, even seeing how the accident had played out…
Saliss of Lights sighed as he leaned against a seat and popped a piece of sushi into his mouth.
“She never ran. That’s a real Named-rank for you.”
His words broke the silence, and Goblins stirred. They might not have even breathed as the Goblin King died, but it had been because they’d been holding their breaths.
If they were transfixed, it was because of the moment, not because they had felt his death in their very souls.
As Nanette rose to give context, to ask Elia to recall another memory, and then to later show the Named-rank adventurer what the Goblins had seen—Calescent stared up at the image burned into his eyes.
The [Spice Chef] said only this. He said it out loud, voice raised so the half-Elf walking up the theatre’s steps could hear it, and the other Goblins around him. He said it, because, even if it wasn’t true, he wanted to say it.
“That was a pretty bad king. Looked more like a monster to me.”
Every Goblin around him twisted in astonishment. Asgra’s mouth fell open, and she nearly flipped out of her seat to get away from him. Redfangs, the rest of the staff, looked at him like a traitor.
Calescent shrugged and winced as a Goblin threw a shoe and it bounced off his shoulder. Then he watched the half-Elf’s face.
Wondering what she would look like. He saw startlement, disbelief, tension, and just for a second—
He thought he saw regret. It might have been his imagination, but if he could believe he saw that on Elia’s face, even if it was a lie he had to tell himself…
That was good enough for him. Elia Arcsinger hesitated as she walked up the stairs, and he realized she really was an awkward person. Amazingly awkward. So, he patted the seat next to him invitingly until she stiffly sat down, and he smiled at her. She tried to smile back, her face jerking, and the [Chef] ducked a second shoe, then grabbed the third and threw it back at the Goblins trying to pelt him.
When the screen above him flickered to life, he smiled, sat back, and ate some sushi and watched the memory above and Elia’s face. For it was her turn to see how she appeared to Goblins the moment she had broken the Mountain City tribe. Surely, it hurt. He hoped it hurt, and for more guilt and struggle and perhaps even regret to cross her features.
But she saw it. She saw through their eyes as a wretched Chieftain, a bully, a schemer, a rapist and monster—Calescent would never deny any of that—a Goblin, Tremborag of the mountain, died. Something words could never do justice. She gazed up and saw the Elia Arcsinger that Goblins knew. And he saw her eyes wide and wondering, a startled expression across her face. Then, he thought he and she understood each other a bit better.
Calescent loved this silly inn for that.
 
——
 
There was pride and pain in it. A silly, perhaps puffed-up little witch’s conceit. And yes, she had learned it from her mother, but you had to give her credit: Nanette had helped make this moment.
A Goblin’s memories flickered above them, and the watchers got to see what it felt like when you lost your home, when people came in with magic and metal to kill you, without pity or mercy on their faces, and so often glee, or worse, boredom.
If Rags had her own hat, she would have taken it off for Nanette in this moment. This mattered. If the Goblin could have broadcast this across the world, she would have, and she grudgingly gave Nanette a few more points.
It was in small things, like Rose pointing up excitedly as she spoke to Mirn, her face alive with excitement, Mirn’s shadowed by doubt and wariness even as he watched the Goblin memories. Saliss—well, Saliss knew Rags was watching, so he just winked at her and waved a claw.
Rags had chosen her seat well; she was close enough to hear Lyonette speaking softly with Mrsha and Nanette.
“This is too much for you and Mrsha to see, Nanette. Don’t look. Don’t—”
“This is reality, Lyonette. It’s not even bloody.”
It was merely traumatizing. Nanette’s head swung around, and Dame Ushar leaned forwards.
“Your final guest has arrived.”
“Your who? Did you invite the entire city, Nanette?”
The witch tossed her head.
“By rights, I should have. No…Dame Ushar suggested one more person.”
Ah, so points a bit lessened for Nanette, upped for the Thronebearers. Rags needed a Goblin version of Thronebearers. She saw someone entering the theatre and heard a loud, familiar, chatty voice.
“—cover for me, okay? It’s just one segment, max. Keep covering the Horns. People love the Horns. Get Elena on the scrying orb and just talk, Mraxine. No, I don’t know why they called me over, but it’s the inn. I’ll just see and—”
Drassi Tewing stopped as she entered the [World’s Eye Theatre] and gazed up. She glanced around, taking the moment in with a [Journalist]’s eye, and Rags got the impression Drassi would have loved to have a camera. Instead, she pulled out a notepad and spoke crisply into the speaking stone.
“—Make that a few segments. You wanted to sit on television? This is your chance, Mraxine.”
She looked around at the Thronebearers, Mrsha, and then upwards, bleakly, at the memories playing out. She nodded to herself.
Drassi was one of the few people who had changed her opinion about Goblins. She had met the Redfang Five, gotten to know them. She was sympathetic to Goblins. Rags didn’t know if Nanette expected Drassi to grab a camera and begin broadcasting this to the world. But neither Rags nor Drassi would have done that, even if they could.
Not like this. Drassi knew her audience. She knew how minds changed, and so she sat, cupping her head in her clawed hands, watching, learning, with that pained expression of someone trying to find a path forwards.
Rags knew that feeling very well and nodded to herself and closed her eyes.
Clever. Clever girl fighting on Goblins’ behalf. It felt weird to have anyone on their side. Or even less enemies in the world. Speaking of which—she eyed Calescent and Elia and noticed them talking. Quietly. She was stiff as a board, staring upwards; he was just talking.
Something flew at him in the dark, and Rags thought it was Asgra with a fourth shoe; she’d borrowed one from Sticks. Rags leaned over and spoke in a quiet voice as Goblins shifted to read her body language.
“Hit the next Goblin who throws something at Calescent.”
Her tribe nodded in varying degrees of reluctance. Rags had noticed a few objects coming from them, but not, she noticed, from Redscar, who had returned with Fightipilota from his trip abroad. He sat, arms folded, giving Elia the stink eye, but not Calescent.
“Redscar?”
He shifted and grunted.
“What? No one killing Arcsinger, yeah, yeah. We making friends. Next, I be kissing Tyrion.”
Rags snorted at that.
“Erin’s inn can’t force you to change anything. Calescent big softheart.”
He agreed, glowering at the former Mountain City Goblin.
“Too big, too soft. Too heart. Good thing he’s gone. He can make friend with Arcsinger.”
“So you not going to make this a problem?”
Redfangs had their own ways to deal with problems, which resulted in hitting people. Redscar said nothing for a long moment. He stared at Calescent, grinning at Elia as she gave him another frozen look, then accepted a sushi and some new dipping sauce. In the end, Redscar’s lips turned up.
He knew what he was seeing. Rags had figured it out, even if she mostly had to go on pattern recognition rather than instinct. The blademaster glanced at Rags.
“Problem? I hate her. Never stop, Chieftain. I think Velan had a reason. But that?”
He gestured at the duo and leaned over.
“That would be very funny.”
Every Goblin around Rags snorted or laughed, and she felt her own lips curl up wryly. It really would be. And Goblins thought funny beat vengeance sometimes.
—She went back to watching. Rags didn’t have that much time, but she had enough to be here, in this moment. She was dozing, really. She’d spent night after night learning what she could, making plans.
She had a plan. You could learn anything in the [Palace of Fates]. Okay, almost anything. But that Mortemdefieir Titan—that being of the old City of Graves, made to lead armies of death—
That was no Goblin King. It had weaknesses. It could die.
She just didn’t know if the plan would work. More time. If she had—
Something hit Rags in the cheek, and she jerked upright. A poke of paper—she snatched it, growling, and looked around for who’d hit her. For answer, Redscar just pointed left. Rags glanced over and saw a figure waving at her.
Saliss. A paper airplane had hit her in the cheek. Rags paused, then unfolded the paper. In the half-light of the theatre, she read a single scrawled message.
 
They had to cut through the Bloodfields, so they did. It slowed them down. Two days, maximum. You are out of time. 
 
No instructions. No order to run, no suggestions about white flags or how to avoid it. Just…Rags gazed up, and the Named-rank Adventurer stared upwards.
If, by some miracle, 2nd Army failed, they would call for their greatest weapon. Rags nodded and rose without a word. She glanced at Mrsha, and the child’s eyes met hers wordlessly. Rags wondered what she’d been looking for, racing around the [Palace of Fates] from door to door. Had she found hope in those endless, painful what-ifs?
Respite was watching a terribly sad, true movie while eating sushi in an inn. Hope was a single fate in which you saw victory. But wonder and magic, the stuff of this inn? Rags saw it flickering in a little Gnoll’s eyes.
So even now, the Goblin smiled.
