When she woke up, Elia Arcsinger stared at the ceiling and wondered if she was dreaming. Each day, she pinched herself hard on the cheek. Hard enough to leave a mark.
Every morning, Rosencrantz stared at the red mark on Elia Arcsinger’s cheek as he handed her a too-spicy breakfast, and a Goblin [Spice Chef] would poke his head out of the kitchen with a bunch of Goblins. They would watch as Elia slurped down spicy red spaghetti noodles or munch on seasoned fries.
She loved spices. This wasn’t a commentary on her status as Named-rank adventurer, some quirk of her surviving battles of life-and-death, or childhood trauma involving bland food or starvation.
She just liked spices. True, in her homeland of Gaiil-Drome, half-Elves weren’t as big on spices—they liked subtler foods. When Elia had become famous and gone on her worldwide tour, she’d been introduced to the joys of capsaicin. She’d had a hard time going back.
But she really just liked spices. To the horror of the Goblin called Calescent, she ate any dish he put in front of her without fail. She knew he was trying to out-spice her…he was one of two Goblins whose name she knew. Okay, three—she knew Sticks, Calescent, because his name was ironic, and ‘Numbtongue’, only because he was mentioned in absentia all the time.
She didn’t want to know the other Goblins. She had huge reservations about this job; she was literally only doing it for the money and because Lyonette claimed her daughters were in danger. Mostly the money.
Elia’s strange misadventures and quiet days blended together in the background of her existence at The Wandering Inn. In her diary, which she kept like any good, responsible adventurer, she had written boring entries that a few Goblins and an occasional Mrsha or Nanette would sneak into her room to read.
Elia wrote notes about her expenditures, letters to her daughter—which never got replies—correspondence of note, and how her day had been.
Some entire weeks read like the following:
 
Month of Caelhic, Week 1
 
Laudas – Shepherd’s pie tonight. Spent four coppers betting Bird could not hit a Creona Flashbird. She could.
Saelsmorn – Peppers filled with pilaf. Very tasty.
Beithday – Burping too much? Could be cheesecake dessert. But I like it.
Nendas – I wish the outhouses had plumbing. Lyonette says maybe soon? Hamburgers. I liked them.
Tirenv – Vaulont scared me again. Not on purpose? Time #32.
Lundas – Colfa and Lyonette sing. Pretty good? Spaghetti. Okay.
Gnorna – Mrsha stole a fry. Incident #55. Rice dish. Not sure what it was.
Zenze – I don’t think I had enough noodles for dinner. Hungry, so I had ice cream.
 
Elia didn’t bother with the date and broke her months into four weeks, in which she wrote each day out, usually in a somewhat-messy scrawl. Caelhic was the first month of the year; you could read her diary and see years upon years in the same notation.
She had multiple diaries, too. And most had this brief description of events like ‘killed a Mothbear’ or ‘I think I have a rash on my butt’ to be later filled with the revelation that: ‘no rash, just keep sitting on a strap.’
What kept the Gnoll girl and others sneaking into Elia’s room was that every now and then, the monotonous writing would be broken up. Elia would stop writing notes and it would read like:
 
Month of Liuwhe, Week 3
 
Laudas – I found a squished caterpillar in my socks. Very unhappy.
Saelsmorn – I don’t like walking in the tall grass. I get burrs. Pottage soup. Wasn’t good.
Beithday – Capoinelia keeps flirting with our [Marshal]. She’s only twenty-seven.
Nendas – The Adult Creler Incident.
 
The Adult Creler Incident:
It appeared out of the grass as [Marshal] Goishart was leading us back out of the wheatlands. It was responsible for the quaking we’d been feeling. The ambush took him off-guard. He was dead within a second of it appearing; the [Knights] of Haegris we’d met barely survived the first volley.
Had it not been for their armor, I believe I would have been dead, my enchanted gear or not. As it was, I caught a stray shard of chitin. Capoinelia thought I was dead. She fouled my initial shot as the Adult Creler grabbed the first of the [Armsmen].
I estimate there were up to a thousand smaller Crelers and nearly fifty juveniles; we should have been dead as they burst around us. However, the Adult Creler had struck the ambush on the edge of the wheatlands and underestimated the sympathetic Skills of our [Druid], Jorrus. He kept the horses alive.
I used [Line-Ender Shot] and created a hole roughly five feet in diameter in the Adult Creler’s midsection. It did not kill the adult, but left it in considerable pain as I regained my horse and we began to flee. Capoinelia and a few of my team advocated to try to finish the Creler. When the second and third Adult Creler surfaced, they did not object to further flight.
During the course of our flight, eighteen armsmen and two of the Haegris Knights perished. By this time, I believe that Castle Rexigel was fully alarmed, but I had no view of their actions. I believe I killed forty-two Crelers in retreat, five Juvenile. My second [Line-Ender Shot] missed; the Adult Creler seemed to know how I was aiming.
Three of its major legs were still crippled, and the final Adult Creler tunneled to avoid confrontation with me. This would stymie my attempts to aim at it until Jorrus used [Tremorsense] to allow me to deliver a killing blow from above, but that was later in the fight. A baby Creler landed on my armor during the escape to the castle and began to try to bore into my neck and spine.
Capoinelia noticed my screaming, but missed the kill-shot, so I stabbed the Creler with an arrow and shot it away while the creature was impaled on my arrow, which a Haegris [Knight] believed was ‘impressive.’ By the time we were within a mile of the castle, fifty of the Order of Haegris had lined up for what I assumed was an ill-intentioned charge…
 
She wrote in the oddest of styles. There were no details like smell or sight, and Elia was even vague on numbers and the details of how she did things. Her readers argued about why she wrote in such a weird way until Nanette visited Pallass’ library and found an adventure story of Elia’s life.
Arcsinger, by Krsysl Wordsmith.
They managed to cross-reference several events in the diaries with the famed Drake [Writer]’s far more thrilling account of the events and realized all the details Elia omitted, he filled in. An excerpt of Elia’s biography read:
 
—Marshal Goishart’s noble countenance vanished in a spray of gore and white that spattered Elia’s cheek. She recoiled as a second shard of black, chitinous material propelled at unimaginable speed hit Ser Cormen in the chestplate.
Unbelievably, the Haegris Knight survived the impact, his enchanted armor deforming and kicking the Human off the horse. He landed with a cry of shock, and all heads turned to him—except Adventurer Arcsinger, who kicked her daughter off her horse and shouted a word of warning.
“Dodge—”
Alas, the open maw of the horrific Creler, an Adult bloated on years of consuming the Wheatland’s natural bounty, continued to spit the jagged shards of death. Elia felt a sting like a wasp on her chest, magnified ten thousand times; her ribs compressed, and she felt her own enchanted armor burning hot just under her right ribcage. 
When she opened her eyes, she realized she was upon the ground, unhorsed, with panic around her. A shard of the projectiles was buried in her chest, and she surely must have appeared dead to her horrified daughter, who threw herself down and…
 
Was Elia writing in her journal like this in the expectation these would become her later memoirs? Or was she just genuinely unable to write any descriptions?
That was the fascinating element to her small audience of…fans? Bored voyeurs? People trapped under the same roof as the most boring Named-rank adventurer they’d ever met?
One of those things, perhaps. Elia’s journal was a good insight into her mind. If an event lingered with her, she wrote it down. Whether her accounts were of any literary merit or fairly reported was up for debate, but a few events stood out in her journal. They might not have mattered in the grand scheme of The Wandering Inn, but they mattered to the half-Elf.
In the months of spring, the underlined events in Elia’s journal read as followed:
 
——
 
Zenze – The Spice Incident/Revelation
 
Lundas. The 6th day of the week. It was written as Lundas on the calendar in the inn’s common room, but also ‘Saturday’.
No one had explained why. Elia tried not to ask questions. She was a Named-rank adventurer. You had to look like you knew what was going on. It was her sixth day of employment, after the gambling night, and she, Captain Todi, Gemhammer, and Vaulont the Ash were all settling into their roles as new inn employees.
Elia Arcsinger’s cheek was especially red today. Rosencrantz felt compelled to address it.
“Miss Arcsinger.”
“Huh?”
She jumped as he handed her a burger, which was literally red with death spice. Calescent peeked out the kitchen at her, but Rosencrantz was focused on her cheek.
“Is your cheek…injured? Healing potions are not available to the staff for minor injuries, but I can send for a poultice of some kind.”
“What? No…um. It’s fine. It’ll fade after a few minutes.”
“Yes, this is my observation. But why…”
Elia stared blankly at Rosencrantz, and he hesitated.
“Nevermind. Have a good breakfast, Miss Arcsinger.”
He walked backwards. Still staring. Elia felt like this was unfair; the bugman was an Antinium, a horror of Rhir, the likes of which the Blighted Kingdom feared, and she got the weird looks.
Everyone was too personable. Everything was too weird. Elia ate her burger, and it was so hot.
Delicious. Yum.
The food here was a real plus. The rest of the inn confused her. Elia glanced around and saw Captain Todi fidgeting at a table, trying not to visibly stare at her.
Gold-rank adventurer, smaller time. She had met him; he hadn’t left much of an impression aside from being a brown-noser and social climber. She wondered why he’d been hired; clearly, he had some qualifications. Admittedly, he seemed to ‘get’ this inn more than she did. It had all kinds of things that threw Elia off.
She was a Named-rank adventurer. Elia clung to that. She’d worked for picky clients. You had ones who wanted you to show off, real eccentrics; back in the day, she’d worked as a Silver-rank adventurer for old Norlis Reinhart—Magnolia Reinhart’s father.
No one talked about him anymore. Elia had just been a Silver-rank trying her luck in Izril. Back then, you did exactly what you were told, didn’t ask questions, and didn’t say a word—not even if you heard screams in the Reinhart estate. They used to be scary. No one remembered that. They said Magnolia was scary, and Elia would laugh until she realized they meant it. All Magnolia did was kill people.
Elia had watched Norlis Reinhart take umbrage with another Silver-ranker who’d given him lip about his request to rid his entire domain of Shield Spiders—as in, no specifics, adventurers responsible for finding the nests, you will pay if you fail me—unreasonable.
Norlis had looked at the Silver-ranker, asked their name, and left it at that. Two days into the Shield Spider cullings, someone had found the Silver-ranker in a nest of Shield Spiders with their neck mysteriously snapped. Elia had scoured the entire estate top to bottom for spiders, and gone back to Terandria as soon as her contract was done.
…Lyonette was as weird as the weirdest of clients. She wasn’t like the ones who made up reasons for Elia to touch them or as insane as the Titan—weird, not creepy or crazy. It was just that experience of seeing a young witch sit down at Captain Todi’s table.
Nanette Weishart. One of Elia’s charges.
“Captain Todi, good morning!”
“Er, hello, Miss Nanette. Anything I can do for you today?”
“I was thinking—I need to learn some self-defense techniques. Mrsha could use them, but I’m especially keen to learn, and I was thinking you could teach me.”
“What—me? What about someone more qualified? Like that Vaulont fellow? Or that Ser Normen?”
Nanette shook her head.
“I want to learn dirty fighting, Captain Todi. I know the groin kick already, the Zeresian tailbuster and basic moves, but you’re a master of dirty fighting. Is there anything I don’t know?”
She was such an earnest young girl, like Capoinelia had used to be. To hear the round-cheeked girl talking about groin kicks or…what was a Zeresian tailbuster?
Even Todi looked shocked by this.
“Dead gods, who taught you how to do a tailbuster? That’s not something a girl should know.”
“I’m a witch, Captain Todi.”
He rubbed at his chin.
“I reckon there’s a few things I could teach. Most of it’s not that useful. If you have time to rip someone’s hair out, you might as well be shanking them. How’s your groin-kicking form?”
“There’s a form to it?”
Todi looked insulted as Elia listened with one long ear.
“Oh yes. That’s what every fellow forgets. Every lad thinks he can use the kick if things get dicey and he’s not afraid to look bad. World of difference between hitting them in the Dragonbells or not. You kick them as if you want to send both balls back out their throat. Otherwise, they’ll get back up.”
“Can I…get a demonstration? I could try it out.”
“I’m not going to be responsible for—”
“I meant on Mrsha. Or a practice dummy. I wouldn’t do that to someone who didn’t deserve it.”
They got up, chattering, and Elia had to remind herself that Nanette was thirteen. She sounded so worldly. Half-Elves looked about the same as Humans until puberty, but most of them would be begging their mothers to peel their apples and cut them up or brushing their hair a thousand times before going out to pick fruits from the orchards.
Children stuff.
 
——
 
Mrsha went sliding face-first on a pillow down the stairs, launched herself into a table, flipped onto her feet, and raised her arms. She instantly got applause from Peggy and a scolding from Ser Dalimont.
The staff were busy today. They’d been busy for a while; ever since Elia had joined, in fact. They were all eating breakfast fast, grumbling about more work in ‘the garden’. Most of them were rubbing their backs or donning heavy work gloves; they had shovels, and Elia saw Earlia come in this morning with a bunch of hammers.
“This is decent stuff for smelting. You sure you don’t want me to set up a crucible?”
“We good, we good. Thanks.”
Peggy took a hammer and sighed. Ser Dalimont was chivvying Mrsha to a table.
“Miss Lyonette will be along shortly. Ah, Lady Arcsinger.”
