“He died. He fought the Goblin King during the last Antinium Wars; one of the few Archmages of Wistram who dared to. He didn’t die there; he burnt his mana circuits out. He passed away half a year later, despite everything they tried to do to save him.”
Oh. Was he…a good guy?
Elia closed her eyes and pictured a white-haired man, not quite as typical of that old, grand, iconic [Archmage] as you might think, because he had a country accent, a loud, braying laugh, and drank like a sieve. She also remembered him screaming specks of spittle at frightened apprentices, like the Lizardgirl who’d go on to become Nailihuaile, as the mana-sickness took hold of him.
And she also remembered that joyous Archmage having a contest of magic that did more harm than good—and the man who stood there, staff raised, facing down Velan the Kind as the Goblin King charged.
“He was an Archmage of Wistram. A real one.”
The little girl nodded solemnly, as if she understood the nuance of what that meant, and didn’t take it at face-value like another child her age would. She was disconcertingly adult. But still childlike enough to be rude.
Hey, if we’re asking questions…can I ask why your journal is so weird? You don’t write any details about the big events in there.
Elia spun and glared as they passed by a group of solemn undead figures, all draped in the finery of Khelt. Mrsha held up her paws.
I said sorry!
“How many times have you read my journal!?”
Uh…eight?
“Eight? You and Nanette?”
A lot of us have, actually. Picker, Sticks, Silverboots…
“Why?”
I dunno. It’s sort of cool? You have a ton of diaries, and Nanette found a book based on it by Krsysl Wordsmith. It’s pretty accurate! But it’s also strange because you don’t ever do details.
Elia stopped and, to her great embarrassment, blushed.
“I never should have agreed to do that biography. It didn’t even sell well!”
Probably because, shortly after publishing it, he’d written the Second Antinium Wars, which had been so universally panned that no one had wanted to read his works outside of a largely Drake audience. Mrsha scratched at her head.
It was a pretty good book, I thought. I read all of it, except the chapters where people kept trying to get kissy with you. Nanette liked those. Did he make up all the details after reading your journal?
Elia wanted to dig a hole and put her head into it. She spoke through gritted teeth.
“I would never show him that! I regret telling him…no, he made me sit down and tell him all the details.”
…What details? All you write is stuff like ‘Marshal G died’.
“Marshal Goishart.”
Elia murmured. Her head turned, and she wished, for a moment, she could see him there, and all the others she had known, one more time. Then she feared it and wondered why anyone would wish for a place like this. She shook her head.
“I don’t need that. It’s my personal journal, not for you. Marshal Goishart was a man, mid-fifties. Married, though you wouldn’t know it, seeing how he and Capoinelia were flirting. He looked like he was barely in his thirties, despite having grey hair. He had one of those Skills that rejuvenated him somehow, so his hair was glossy, and the lines on his face—a crease on his cheeks, here, seemed painted on.”
She touched her right cheek, drawing a line across it.
“A stunningly handsome man, in his way. The Knights of Haegris operated a chapter from a castle on his fiefdom outside the Wheatlands; wild lands of wheat, brown and thick, that grew in a broad field, patchy in places where animals cleared it. You’d think it would be well-tended and fill bellies, but the wheat’s tough and barely edible. It strangles other plants, so it’s more pestilence than anything. The day he died was winter, and we were still sweaty despite it after riding hard the twelfth day of looking for the tremors in the wheatfields.”
The moment was vivid in her mind; she could smell the frost in the air, the scent of saddlegrease and the underlying odor of the wheat, frozen and, she now knew, rotting because they’d been chewed through by Crelers for years. She looked to her right and saw him in full relief.
“He turned to me, I think, to apologize, and then a barb of chitin struck his head off. Krsysl told the moment wrong; there were no brains. No blood. His head just vanished, he fell, and then the Adult Creler spat a shrapnel storm at the rest of us. He was to my right, here, and I had a cover of six Haegris Knights who took the impacts. If they hadn’t been there, Capoinelia would have been dead when I kicked her off my horse, but there was a gap between one’s arm and body—here.”
She drew a sliver in the air, indicating the gap in the [Knight]’s armor.
“That’s where the shard hit me.”
Elia was lost in her recollections, pointing out where each stood to Mrsha. She realized the Gnoll’s mouth was open and stopped, embarrassed.
“What?”
You remember all that?
Elia shrugged, self-conscious.
“Of course. I need help on the names. The entries are a prompt, that’s all. I’m an adventurer. A [Ranger]. I have to remember tracks or trail signs.”
I don’t think regular people do that. I can’t remember what I had for dinner two nights ago, sometimes.
“Well…that’s why.”
Silence. Mrsha wrote as they rounded another bend, and Elia saw a roaring Dragon, wings bared to the sky. She nearly slammed into a ring of Antinium and gaped until Mrsha got her attention.
Doesn’t your daughter talk to you? She’s the one who didn’t fight well in Riverfarm. And you’re not that bad.
Elia stared at the note, and her face almost crumpled up, but she refused to let it. She strode forwards instead, snapping at Mrsha.
“—Where’s that statue you want to show me? If it’s not what you promised, I’m going to sl—”
She nearly walked into the statue of the lone half-Elf holding her sword as she stood on a cliff of rock, about to cast it downwards into an abyss. Elia’s attention was drawn to her face first, and she had a moment of shock.
Is that me? She looks almost like m—
Then she saw how this half-Elf’s ears were longer than Elia’s, how her body was different. Less…stocky, and Elia had never been described as stocky in her life, but less like a solid being who had evolved to run, jump, and climb trees from its ape-like ancestry and more like a being of forests.
Long limbs, a more angular head, an elongated neck—not huge differences, each one, but all combining to form a sight that Elia half-recognized. Half—because half of those similarities were in Elia, in her blood, in her body. But the other half, the completeness of it, the utter perfection of those timeless features…
Elia Arcsinger stopped as she bore witness to the being whose face hers was so close to—and so far—the being who had once been called The Last Elf, Queen Sprithae, Sprigaena of the Fall, the Last Traitor.
Sprigaena.
Her face was wracked in anguish. It was a warrior’s face, for all of that beauty and immortality that time fled. She stood, forever-captured as she held a blade aloft whose beauty, even in naked stone, transfixed Elia’s eyes. Her gaze was wretched, and Elia thought it was too familiar.
How many years had Elia looked in the mirror and seen an imposter, a sham, a worthless liar? Or at best, someone who had gotten lucky?
How much despair did she glimpse behind that face so like hers? All of it, all of it Elia recognized, yet her own tribulations and torments were a drop in a sea of regrets that this woman carried.
Their faces were the same. Elia saw it; in the Elf’s face, she beheld that memory that had haunted her for a decade. A widening of a Goblin’s red gaze. A moment when madness parted, and he looked at her, straight at her, in longing and recognition, and hesitated.
Now—she understood why.
 
——
 
Nendas (same day. this is very important, I think) — The Question
 
Mrsha shook Elia again and again until the half-Elf finally moved. Elia was kneeling before Sprigaena’s statue, tears rolling from the corners of her eyes, gazing up. Her nose was all messed up with snot, and she didn’t seem like the hero of another species who stood before them.
It helped—because when Elia wiped at her face, Mrsha did see—something. Some similarity throughout the countless generations of half-Elves between them. Or maybe not so countless. Maybe that was the reason why Sprigaena’s features had thrown so true.
“Who is she?”
Sprigaena, The Last Elf. I don’t know who she is, only a few things Erin told me. Only Erin has the full story about her.
“How…how did the [Innkeeper] meet her? She’s dead. There are no Elves!”
Now came the incredulity, not disbelief, but desperate wonder as Elia croaked at Mrsha. For she couldn’t disbelieve what she witnessed. The Gnoll solemnly held up a card.
Erin met the ghosts of everyone that ever was. Remember the big battle at the Meeting of Tribes? All the ghosts that popped up for a few moments over the world? That was their final battle. They all got eaten by Seamwalkers. And worse.
“…What? What? How are people not aware of it? Where are they now, if they did that?”
Two…no, four of them remain. Two were trapped by the Dragon and woman with six arms and four wings back there. They’re free. The other two are biding their time or something; they can only strike when the Solstices appear. But they’re getting stronger. The Winter Solstice, all the bad stuff that happened here? That was one of them trying to kill Erin.
Elia Arcsinger was digesting this, trying to drink in all of the inn’s causes and battles and the truth that Erin Solstice had warned so many about. She gazed at Mrsha.
“So that’s why the [Innkeeper] isn’t here?”
Yeah, well, you can also blame Roshal for that. And she wanted to help Rabbiteater, Ser Solstice, on the ships. He’s a Goblin.
“He’s a G—wait. So you’ve made an enemy of Roshal and Terandrian powers, as Lyonette said. I knew that. But there’s also at least three—”
Four, we didn’t kill the one who came after us here.
“—Four more Seamwalker-things that might try to kill everyone here next Solstice?”
Mrsha tilted her head as she consulted some internal roadmap of doomsday events. She nodded after a while.
Sounds about right. The only thing you missed is that Erin’s missing, the Horns are in Chandrar, and there’s another world, which is where Erin and a lot of the Earthers come from. Oh, also, the four super-bad-people (two are female, one’s male, and one’s a jerk), have followers, so they might have armies if we don’t find a way to kill them. We’re supposed to look for weapons, but I dunno where.
Elia Arcsinger read the final notecard.
“What about the bad-bad-death-death Troll thing?”
She asked just to be clear, and Mrsha slapped her forehead.
I forgot about that. Rags is so unsecretive for all she said I was gonna be the weakest link. No, that’s just some kind of ancient Drake necro-giant. It’s in five pieces, and when it combines, it’ll form this super-Revenant and try to kill all the Trolls and Rags’ tribe. It’s like…separate from the big four? It’s like an Elder Creler instead of Ancient Crelers. Only, all of those things are lower-level than the bad guys.
Elia Arcsinger stood there on the grass, gave the statue of Sprigaena another look to make sure this wasn’t a dream, pinched her cheek hard, and then nodded.
“Right.”
She picked Mrsha up under her arm and began to run. Elia began tearing out of the mists as Mrsha wrote with her wand.
Hey, wait! What are you doing? Put me down!
“Getting you out of here! Lyonette should have evacuated you and Nanette ages ago! And herself! Calanfer has an army; she can go there! Or Samal! They might listen to me!”
Who, in their right minds, would stay here with those kinds of odds arrayed against them? Even if it wasn’t immediate? Elia kept running until she sensed the grass moving in front of her foot.
She hopped the [Tripgrass] spell and kept running, dodging two more Mrsha conjured. The Gnoll was writing furiously.
Elia, don’t panic! Don’t tell my mother or she’ll be furious! She doesn’t trust you! I have something I need to do! Put me down or I’m gonna do something we’ll both probably regret! I’ll use my luck powers! Don’t make me do it!
Because Elia was an adventurer, because she had a healthy respect for her own safety, and because she’d seen the broadcast about Doombearers—and mostly because she realized that running Mrsha to Terandria was impossible—she slowed, then stopped.
Mrsha leapt down and gave Elia an annoyed huff.
I’m trying to be nice here, you know. Nanette’s trying to mend bridges between you and the Goblins. But she’s sort of been a bossy-britch of late. A bossy-witch, hah! I think you needed a reason to stay. And I think…we need your help.
She gave Elia an earnest look, so filled with concern and nervousness and…age the girl shouldn’t be wearing that Elia knelt down. They were down on the main hill now, Elia’s mad run having taken them almost out of the garden. The yellow flowers danced in a breeze as Elia spoke.
“This is all crazy. Even if you trust me…thank you for telling me the truth—the garden was driving me insane…I can’t do anything. I’m a failed Named-rank. An imposter. You saw me lose to Halrac the Grim. I’m not as good at fighting as Vaulont. You need a hero. You need—Onieva. And Saliss. Not me.”
She thought of the real Named-rank, the real corn as Onieva would put it. However, Mrsha just gave Elia a sad shake of the head.
I dunno about Onieva. But we like Saliss too much. I hated you, Elia. That’s why I thought it’d be okay if you guarded the inn. Now…I guess that’s how it happens. So I’ll try to make sure you don’t stay here. But we need you. Please, come with me? I need to show you something even more secret than the garden. But you have to promise not to tell anyone.
Mrsha held up a paw, and Elia processed what Mrsha had written, feeling goosebumps run up and down her arms and back when she realized what the girl meant. She recoiled from the paw at first.
She could run. Run away, quit her job, and even, if she was so inclined, sell this mad story to whomever would buy it. All her carefully honed survival instincts told her that taking the girl’s paw might lead to her death. That it was dangerous.
Yet…Elia couldn’t pick Mrsha up and run. Well, she could, but the Gnoll would flop around and run back here. Elia could run away.
—But for all she called herself a coward, for as much fear and incompetence lurked in her heart, she had never run away when a child’s life was in danger. Elia the imposter, they called her now. Arcsinger the liar. The worst archer of the Named-ranks. Elia the coward.
