“Why did you trust me with all this? When your own mother doesn’t know?”
It couldn’t just be because Mrsha had overheard Elia and Calescent and wanted Elia to stay. Onieva had indicated she and Saliss were close to the inn. There were, surely, better people to confide in for the purposes of secrets.
Mrsha stopped rubbing her eyes. She hesitated, then wrote for a while on a card. She handed it up to Elia, her face serious once more.
I’ve been looking at things with Rags. Thinking. Learning stuff. I think the inn may need you. I see a lot of bad things. Happy things. Sometimes, you’re in the futures of the inn.
“So? Do I matter that much?”
Elia didn’t know if she liked that. Mrsha shook her head.
No. But you never run away. No matter what happens. I thought someone should trust you after all you’ve done.
“But I didn’t do anything.”
Not yet you didn’t.
The smile Mrsha gave Elia was bleak and dark and respectful and…Elia read the card again, then stood straight. Curiosity suddenly gone.
“Um. Goodnight.”
She turned on her heel, relieved when the door to her room appeared. Elia strode through and instantly flopped into bed. The door closed, and Mrsha vanished, probably to her own sleep. Elia gazed at the window.
It was probably 5 AM; the sky was lightening outside. Elia lay there, staring at the ceiling. After a few minutes, she pinched her cheek hard.
What the heck was all that about?
 
——
 
Nendas (same day, again, last entry, I swear, unless something really odd happens in the last hour of me writing this. Also, I am hiding my diary in my bag of holding and locking it, so if anyone is reading this, I am exceptionally upset) — The Way Goblins and Half-Elves Might Understand Each Other Slightly
 
That morning, Elia Arcsinger found Lyonette waiting with a bag of gold as an apology for her near-death experience, and a huge mound of sushi on the table at nearly noon. She’d slept in, and it appeared that the [Chef] and [Princess] had sort of expected her up earlier.
“Adventurer Arcsinger, I am deeply sorry about the events that unfolded under the demesne of my inn. I hope this gift in some way recompenses your hard work, and brief though it may be, I commend you for your stellar work and would be delighted to recommend you to any future employers via the Adventurer’s Guild.”
Lyonette had a little speech pre-prepared, and Elia stopped, her face set to maximum impassiveness. The [Princess] gestured to Calescent, who was glancing at her, face also carefully blank.
“I believe Chef Calescent has prepared some vittles for the road, if you would care to take them? And, ah, anywhere you would like to go, Liska can send you. Or we can send for a horse if that is to your fancy.”
Uh…Elia looked around, trying to remain cool. Where was she? Elia had thought that—
Mrsha du Marquin, seeming equally sleepy, had frozen with a huge bite of breakfast cereal to her mouth. She gave Elia a side-eye as Rags blinked at her table. Elia stood there as Lyonette’s smile wavered and she glanced at Calescent’s sushi.
Afraid that the Named-rank would refuse it? Calescent’s face was stolid, unmoving. They both stood there, trying not to let any hurt feelings or emotions show until they realized Elia was turning slowly redder and redder.
She’d done so well over her tenure here. But Elia twisted and tried, but she couldn’t find a way out of it aside from unprofessionalism. She shuffled her feet and mumbled.
“I, uh, I’m reconsidering my options.”
“Er…what?”
“I’m reconsidering my options, sorry.”
Lyonette cupped one ear as Nanette sat up excitedly. Calescent blinked at Elia, and the Named-rank took a breath.
“I am reconsidering my departure from the inn due to—recent circumstances. I am exceptionally sorry about the mixup. Would you give me a day or two to postpone my decision, Miss Lyonette? Actually—I may wish to stay on if I can.”
She was trying not to glance at Mrsha, or glare, and her face was beet-red. Calescent’s mouth opened, and Lyonette hesitated.
“I…well, of course! Let’s, uh, I’m quite sure one would—this is a delight. Thank you, Miss Arcsinger. Why don’t we, uh—your leg is hurt, isn’t it? Can we offer you breakfast?”
“No, I’m fine, thank you, Miss Lyonette. I apologize for the misunderstanding.”
Red-faced, Elia Arcsinger retreated upstairs with every eye on her. Calescent was blinking at her, Mrsha was trying to hide under the table, and…
Well, Elia really wanted to disappear.
 
——
 
Elia slipped out of her room the second time someone knocked, wanting to talk. Ishkr was fine; she could refuse him. Rosencrantz wanting to offer advice and analyze the situation was too much.
She was sitting in the only place she could think of that was free from people—the basement, behind a sack of potatoes—when she heard a sniffing sound and someone calling out.
“Found her.”
Mrsha came down the stairs with Nanette. Elia tried to remain still, then got up and pretended she had just been sitting behind the potatoes for a good reason and not hiding from people in general and Goblins in particular.
“I was inspecting the potatoes. For weevils.”
Both girls traded amused glances. Elia feared her professional front was being compromised by Mrsha. After last night, it felt like the girl saw more of Elia than the [Ranger] wanted.
As for Nanette…the young witch was hopping from foot to foot in excitement.
“I knew you’d change your mind. Miss Elia, you have to come with us! Please! I have an idea for how to have a meeting of foes with you and the Goblins! It’ll work! Probably!”
She wanted to drag Elia somewhere and seized one of the Named-rank’s hands and tried to pull her up the stairs.
Nanette, a thirteen-year-old child, failed to pull Elia. The adventurer shook her head.
“No.”
“But you must!”
“I’m not doing anything until someone explains something, this time.”
Elia folded her arms, ignoring Nanette’s attempts to push her up the stairs. The half-Elf was, by and large, a rather pushable person, she had to admit. Being an adventurer meant you did what the client wanted.
However, she’d been pushed and pulled around by Lyonette, Onieva, and now Mrsha. The copper coin had to stop somewhere, and this was it.
“I just…want…to show you…the Goblin perspective! Mrsha, help me!”
The child wrote and held up a card with bigger letters and what Elia thought as a youthful scrawl compared to last night’s eloquence.
Forsooth, Nanette. Did your mother teach you that a [Witch] should drag people around to do what they want?
“She told me sometimes you put them in a headlock. Like this—”
Nanette tried to leap up on a barrel and put Elia in one. The adventurer sighed.
“Why should I want to see a Goblin’s perspective? How could it change anything? There’s no argument that could change my mind.”
Nanette was clinging to Elia’s back like a Balerosian monkey-creature. She panted.
“That’s because you can’t argue this out! You have to show other people what you mean! Please, Miss Elia! I have a way you can see how Goblins feel. And show them—show them the Goblin King. Us, too.”
Elia blinked. She turned to look at Mrsha, suddenly, and remembered the door. Yet Nanette seemed ignorant of that secret palace—Mrsha gave Elia a half-shrug of the shoulders and flashed her a card.
This is Nanette’s big idea. It might work.
She gave no further explanation than that, and Elia decided to pull an Ushar. She reached over her back and held Nanette under her arm like a giant, wiggling cat.
“Please, Miss Arcsinger! I can do it!”
The red-faced girl was desperate, clearly worried she’d be ignored or pushed aside like many adults tended to do. Elia put Nanette down and knelt.
Someone had told her to do that, once. The previous king of Avel. He’d told her, and his son, that you knelt so a child was on the same level as you. Elia had remembered it.
Professionalism.
“I’m listening. But I must agree to do it, first. Show me.”
The little witch’s eyes brightened, and she tugged Elia.
“This way. Through the [Garden]. Mrsha, I’m making a special exception and letting Elia in. Just so we can get her through the inn without Lyonette noticing. She’ll mess everything up, and she’s trying to bribe Elia.”
Forsooth, this sounds fine with me.
Mrsha innocently held up the card. Nanette frowned at her.
“You keep writing that. I don’t think you know what it means.”
It’s my word of the year. And it impresses snooty people. This way, Elia. This is the amazing garden.
“Oh. My word. This place is…fascinating.”
Elia made dutiful sounds of awe, but her impassive face actually paid off here; Nanette gave her a quick peek as she hurried Elia into the garden and used the door to navigate through the inn.
“I suppose you must have seen amazing things, Adventurer Elia. Most people are in awe of the garden.”
“I have seen something like this before. It is marvelous, though. Where are we…ah.”
The door reopened and admitted them into another familiar room that Elia had been in, but never really used. Despite her curiosity.
She stood in the domed theatre as Nanette explained her idea. The young witch was all vim and vigor and excited confidence. And nerves; she outlined her plan, and Elia cocked her head upwards.
“You can do that?”
You can do that?
Mrsha was just as aghast. Nanette faced them with a huge smirk.
“Why not? It may be Erin’s inn, but I’m a [Sariantfriend]. You didn’t think I just got useless Skills, did you, Mrsha?”
I thought your Skills were going to be completely useless and lamb-based.
“Well, they’re not. It’s called [Shared Vision], and it turns out that not only is it helpful with communicating with lambs, and Bismarck, it synergizes with this place. I’ve been talking with the lambs in Riverfarm. They’re pretty mean, you know.”
The witch’s smug smile faded a bit.
“…Although I just learned that Witch Thallisa made a cloak that lets Emperor Laken talk to them. I didn’t know you could do that. And Mavika’s crows gossip—nevermind. Will you do it, Adventurer Elia? Please say yes!”
She gave Elia such a pleading look that the Named-rank was uncertain. It felt hugely personal. Embarrassing, and of course, the witch’s idea might fail.
“You said this was something your mother taught you? A meeting of…?”
“A Meeting of Foes. It’s a [Witch] thing. A way to resolve issues. Sometimes, it’s a group, sometimes, it’s just one or two people. We must try if you’re to stay here. Please? I can get Calescent and Rags and a few Goblins right now.”
Nanette was bouncing on her toes, ready to dash off. Elia swiveled her head to the domed room and auditorium…and she had a thought.
“No.”
“But—”
Elia held up a hand, and Mrsha’s ears flicked up. The Named-rank felt that familiar trepidation, that fear of embarrassment, of failure that was so normal for her. She took a breath.
“No. I am a Named-rank adventurer. Elia Arcsinger. If you’re going to do this—call me an audience. Show them all.”
She slowly walked to the center of the theatre and stood there. When she drew her bow, she tossed her head back like an imitation of that ancient ancestor she resembled. Mrsha’s eyes went round, and Nanette gasped in delight. Elia Arcsinger posed in the center of the room. Of all the things she was good at, her bow, being professional, chopsticks, remembering things—
She had learned how to put on a show. So let it be; Elia Arcsinger nodded at the witch and waited.
 
——
 
Half an hour later, Elia was getting tired of holding the pose. But the last guests to the [World’s Eye Theatre] were arriving.
Calescent walked into the theatre and halted when he saw the half-Elf with blonde hair standing there, bow in hand. The [Chef] had a platter of sushi in his hands—but he halted, and it nearly tumbled to the floor.
For one moment, when she turned her head, he thought he saw…someone else. And he felt such a pang in his chest, of affection, of grief, not of hatred or betrayal, but terrible loss, that it overwhelmed him.
It came not from his soul, but something deeper. That connection to all Goblins. A voice of the dead speaking so loudly that no matter how many aeons passed, their descendants heard it.
The [Chef] caught the sushi before it could fall and steadied Asgra’s sushi platter before the Cave Goblin could drop hers. She made a sound, reacting as he had. Calescent caught his breath and resisted the urge to glare at Nanette.
The little witch had cajoled, begged, and persuaded most of the inn to come here. She hadn’t said what, only that it was a Meeting of Foes, whatever that was, and that it would help the divide between them and Elia.
Maybe.
However, the impression the [Ranger of Renown, Nemesis of Goblins] left on Calescent made him feel that any resolution was doomed. When he regarded her, he didn’t feel that strange emotion—he just remembered a half-Elf standing in the doors of the Mountain City tribe as Humans flooded in.
A figure pointing a bow towards the Goblin Lord’s armies as Tyrion Veltras and his people charged. Even if he wanted to stop hating her…when she gazed at him, did she see a [Chef] or another Goblin?
The half-Elf’s eyes lingered on Calescent as he put the sushi on a table and folded his arms. He realized he was the last Goblin to arrive; the theatre was filled.
Goblins sat in the seats around the room. Rags and her entire bodyguard, all the staff, from Peggy to Picker, and not just them. Antinium were eating sushi with their hands; regular Soldiers had no chance of using chopsticks. Even Lyonette and guests of the inn were here.
Relc was staring at his sushi glumly; he didn’t seem to like it that much. However, he brightened up each time Valeterisa levitated a bite towards his mouth, and it seemed to balance his feelings towards sushi to the positive on the whole.
Indeed, Calescent turned and nearly knocked over the sushi he was arranging.
“Imani? You’re here?”
“Hey, Calescent. Long time no see. This is excellent sushi. Do you know what’s going on?”
She winked her good eye at him as she waved. Calescent was gratified to see her; of course he sometimes visited her kitchen to learn from her and exchange recipes and ingredients, but Palt had refused to visit the inn…he looked around for Palt.
“Where’s Palt?”
“Sulking. He refused to come by, but I was told there was a safe inn-event, and I told him that he could either sit out and miss it or come with me. But he doesn’t give me orders.”
Her eye glittered, and she gestured to her left. Joseph waved at Calescent with a young man that Calescent vaguely recognized.
“Hey there. I’m Rhaldon.”
“The [Driver]-[Alchemist]. Right. You want sushi? Dunno what this is for, but Nanette said to bring food.”
