Ishkr looked ahead at the Flooded Waters tribe bringing the would-be group of assassins to a waiting Wyvern for transit back to their base. The Redfangs were hitting the silent Goblins, arguing with them. Rags’ very upset voice silenced everyone. And all of them were glancing at Elia with scant more love than the ones who’d tried to kill her.
“I see.”
The Gnoll’s voice was impossible to read. Elia stumbled forwards a few more steps, then realized he didn’t understand.
“Not the Goblins. Not him. They looked like—the warriors I served with.”
Mad with rage and grief, throwing themselves at the Goblins for a chance at the Goblin King. Eyes wide and unfocused on anything but death.
Elia realized the stares on her were inquisitive now, not just vengeful. Ishkr wore that same look, his of fascination. She flinched. Averted her gaze and said nothing more. Then she realized the Goblin she’d shot repeatedly had woken up from the healing potion. That gaze lingered on her like sparks burning the edge of her soul until the Goblins were aboard the Frost Wyvern and flying away.
 
<Basic Quest – Hunt for Supper completed!>
<Turned in Items: one turkey, five Goblins!>
<Distributing rewards…>
 
Something fell out of the air and bounced off Elia’s head. She caught it reflexively. It was a copper coin. And—floating down on the breeze was a white, silk handkerchief. When she caught it, she saw it had a grinning little Goblin’s face in the corner. Elia studied it.
 
——
 
“I quit.”
Those were Elia’s first words to Lyonette when she got back. Chieftain Rags was there, and Lyonette held up her hands.
“Just a moment, Adventurer Elia. I heard what happened, and I assure you, Chieftain Rags had no idea about it. You did—excellently not killing any of the Goblins. She’s promised it won’t happen again.”
“Stupid. They went to die. Even other Goblins thought they were stupid. Sorry.”
Rags nodded at Elia, and the Named-rank peered at her and stumbled towards the staircase.
“I’ll just get my things and—”
She still had the handkerchief. Lyonette hurried after her.
“Elia, I can offer you a potion for that leg. Ishkr, you didn’t—this is a—clearly a combat event. I did warn you, and I can pay you very generously for—”
“I’m done. I don’t—I’ll take money. But I don’t want to work here. Thank you, goodbye.”
The half-Elf was pale-faced and visibly disconcerted. She took a huge breath, then another.
“I can’t do this.”
Lyonette’s head turned in confusion to Ishkr, and he hurried over to whisper in her ear. Her eyes opened wide. She glanced at the handkerchief that Elia had stuffed into one pocket, and someone tried to block Elia’s way.
“Miss Arcsinger, you can’t! I wanted to learn how to shoot a bow from you—and this inn is good for you! Please stay!”
Nanette earnestly tried to block Elia’s way, dancing back and forth in front of the staircase with her arms spread like the world’s first, shortest, and most ineffectual linebacker. In response, Elia pulled an arrow out of her quiver, tossed it—and reappeared where it hit the ground. She limped upstairs as Nanette chased after her with the others.
“I don’t want this. I’m not going to see—I kill Goblins. I killed the Goblin King. They will never like me or want me alive! So leave me alone!”
Elia whirled at the door to her room and shouted. She screamed at the little brown-haired girl and then reddened as everyone gazed at her. Antinium Workers, Lyonette, the two Thronebearers, Ishkr—
A door slowly opened, and Relc stuck his head out to stare at Elia. He and Valeterisa blinked at her, then they closed the door. Elia turned, the tips of her ears flushed, opened the door to her own room, and limped through.
A dozen Goblins standing in front of a platter of sushi nudged each other. Calescent glanced at Peggy, and the Hobgoblin whispered as Elia came to a halt.
“Told you it was gonna be weird.”
Goblins. In her room. Elia blinked at them, then the sushi. It was, as promised, sushi like she’d had in Drath, recreated with different cuts of fish and octopus. Calescent had worked hard on it, but he hadn’t been blind in his kitchen.
Rather…that might have been why they gathered in this room. Sticks angled the platter up to Elia, and she saw the sushi had been placed in a design. With the different cuts and colors of the sushi, it spelled out…
 
‘Sorry you got shot.’
 
Asgra picked up the period and offered it to Elia. The Named-rank adventurer stared at the red-spiced tuna bite mixed with a bit of avocado, then at Calescent. He didn’t seem outraged at her having hurt the Goblins, nor surprised they had tried to kill her.
Just tired. He gave her a weary not-quite-a-smile as he waited for her to slap the sushi out of Asgra’s clawed hand, kick the sushi platter over, and leave.
Elia Arcsinger turned and walked out of the room.
 
——
 
Nendas (technically) — The Garden Revelation
 
She didn’t leave The Wandering Inn that night. Mostly because her leg hurt. Pride had kept her from wanting to use a healing potion on something that would heal, but her leg hurt too much for her to want to walk around another city and find somewhere to sleep.
Plus, Elia hated to admit it, but she was having second thoughts after the night before. Not on the basis that she had changed her perspective on nearly getting killed by Goblins.
…It was more that she wasn’t sure how employable she was. Lyonette had paid her very well, and Elia was flush with gold, but, uh…
Everyone was talking about the Terland Tithel or the Liscorian Mark, and the Merchant’s Guild had even asked if she wanted to convert some of her gold into the other currencies. Elia was weighing the very real fiscal realities of her occupation, her injured leg—which she had no potion for except the ones the inn had given her for her job—and her own vague sense that this place was important against the overwhelming feeling of wanting to get out of here.
The Goblin crawling at Elia had haunted the Named-rank’s dreams all night. Not that she’d slept, more tossed and turned and kept seeing that look in the Goblin’s gaze. It was still past midnight when Elia awoke because her leg hurt, because she needed to pee, and because she was really hungry.
It was ironic. Elia stormed out of her room, argued with Lyonette, refused a healing potion, like the Named-rank she was, and when she got back to her room, there was no sushi or healing potion. Just like she’d wanted.
When her stomach growling got too loud, Elia crept out of her rooms to get some food. She limped downstairs and into the kitchen and found a lot of sushi in one of the cupboards.
Her mouth watered, and she found herself picking it out by hand and chewing down the first bite of octopus-flavored sushi, before she realized someone—Calescent—had organized it by box. So she instantly picked up the red box and found a bunch of spicy tuna.
Elia was chewing on the sushi, wondering if she’d get to eat like this later, when someone cleared his throat and lowered the cleaver. She spun, and Calescent was standing there in his pajamas.
The half-Elf was red-faced and sweaty; she’d taken the Amulet of Fire Resistance off by reflex, and Calescent was sleepy. She flinched at the cleaver, a vision of that crawling Goblin coming to her, but he just put it on the counter.
“I—er—”
“Is sauce in there. Soy and fish and mayonnaise. Mayonnaise makes you bad person, though.”
He pointed at another cabinet. The Hobgoblin turned away from Elia abruptly, and she swallowed and called out.
“Er. Thank you. I was…hungry after all.”
She was embarrassed, but he just nodded.
“You want, I could pack a box for you when you go?”
“I’m f—that would be nice. Thank you. I may leave in the morning.”
Elia flexed her leg, wincing slightly, but it felt a bit better. She was over Level 40 and healed faster than average. It still hurt, but she kept her face straight. It was what she was good at.
Calescent glanced back at Elia as she stood there awkwardly, opening a cupboard and taking out some of the dark liquid that Drathians loved.
How the heck do people in this inn have this shoyu stuff? She saw him wavering at the kitchen’s entrance, and since she wouldn’t see him again, Elia asked.
“Can I ask a question?”
“Mm? Sure.”
“How do you have shoyu? It’s a very Drathian thing; I barely see it outside of their islands.”
Of all the questions Calescent had been expecting, this, clearly, wasn’t one of them. He blinked, almost smiled, then scowled and replied with a face as flat as hers.
“Chef Imani. She knows lots of foods. So do Joseph and K—and Troydel and Rose. And Erin, though her foods are…bad.”
He rubbed at his chin, thinking.
“I think this comes from Oteslia. Lyonette has contacts there who sell her good food.”
Oteslia could grow anything. It made sense someone could process a decent version of the soy sauce. Elia found herself dipping a piece of sushi gingerly into it. Only the fish part, only a smidge; she’d learned proper etiquette.
Calescent watched with a vague hint of approval as Elia took another bite of his spicy sushi. After a moment, he turned away, a silent green form in the night wearing blue, striped pajamas. A Goblin. Then he turned back.
“Why you like spicy food?”
He asked the question abruptly, like Elia had, with that sense of ‘well, no point holding back’. Elia blinked and answered instinctively.
“It’s tasty. I like the burn.”
He grunted.
“Why you?”
She didn’t know what to say to that.
“Why me? I’ve met half-Elves who like spices before. Not many, true, but that’s probably because of how they grow up. Most half-Elves like fruits and vegetables in Terandria. It’s cultural.”
He gave her glower, his eyes glowing faintly in the gloom as the inn shifted around them. Elia swore she heard a few people moving this late at night. Vaulont took nightshift, but he was too quiet. Someone going to the bathroom? It didn’t matter. Calescent retorted.
“Not that. Why do you have good taste in food? I want to hate you.”
That was a surprising statement. Elia hesitated, then shot back.
“Why do you have to make food I like? Do you know how hard it is? I thought you were going to poison me, and instead, you cook some of the best food in my life.”
The slack expression his face made gave her a small pang of guilt and joy. She seldom got to say how she felt, and even this was liberating.
“Best food? Is a lie.”
“Ish noff a fie.”
He stared at her until she swallowed a double-mouthful of spicy sushi. Dead gods, there was something green and very tasty in it. Avocado? Why would you…? Because it was delicious, that was why. Also, Elia noted the seaweed was on the inside of the roll, sandwiching the filling. It was things like this that told her this wasn’t like the sushi of Drath. But how could that Chef Imani have known…?
“It’s not a lie. This is excellent food. Not many [Chefs] use spices how I like. They don’t want to offend a Named-rank. And even the ones who do…”
Arrogant nomadic [Cooks] who got off camels laden with tools and cooked a feast in the middle of Chandrar’s deserts. Hermits in Desonis who emerged with fresh, wiggling fish and turned them into a feast as it rained forever. Back-alley restaurants in Walled Cities with barely any space to swing a frying pan that served the best food.
Sometimes, you ran into a famous, high-level [Chef] who made food so mouthwatering it was unforgettable. But often, they relied on Skills, and you found someone with a family recipe who could cook it as fine as any Level 40 Skill in the least-likely place you expected. And spices…Calescent looked pleased, then angry.
“That. Why you have to be like that? Otherwise, it easier to wish you were dead.”
He glowered again, and Elia remembered the sushi in her room. She felt guilty, now, but she hadn’t been able to face the Goblins and see that familiar hatred.
“Why don’t you want to kill me?”
He raised his brows and spoke eloquently.
“I’m a [Chef]. I like my job. You get fired for killing guests.”
She flushed; the spices were getting to her as well.
“I mean—even want me dead! I feel like you hate me least of all Goblins.”
He hesitated. Calescent scuffed a foot, as if searching for a stain on his immaculately clean floors, and replied without looking at her.
“Maybe I’m a weak Goblin. Tired of hating. Very tiring, hating. And you don’t hate Goblins.”
He said that bold-faced to her, and Elia was so astounded she dropped the sushi she was holding. It fell, and she snapped her chopsticks and caught it in the air. That made Calescent blink, and Elia nibbled at it for time.
“I have never regretted killing the Goblin King. No one will ever make me apologize. Not Lyonette, not Goblins…”
The Goblin shrugged, eyes keen on her face.
“Sure. But that not what I said. You don’t hate us. I know hate. It like crawling on the skin. It is knowing someone will one day pick up a knife and you kill them before they kill you. It is death, now or then. So much hate you pull yourself across the ground to kill them. I have that. But not you.”
He couldn’t have known how the Goblin had come after Elia, unless they’d told him, and somehow, Elia didn’t think he was invoking that moment deliberately if he did. Elia was on her twelfth piece of sushi, and silently, he pulled open a new cupboard and pointed at a lid with a bird scribbled on it.
“That tempura turkey avocado sushi. Look in cupboard. Spicy mayo there—spicy fish sauce there.”
“Oh. Oh. Isn’t this Bird’s?”
A flash of teeth.
“Yah. She loved it. So eat it all.”
The vengeance of a [Chef] was petty, but cruel. Elia only hesitated a second before she put the entire open container on the island counter in the middle of the kitchen, and Calescent himself snagged some chopsticks as his belly rumbled. Both dipped the sushi into the spicy fish sauce and chewed.
Elia saw Calescent’s eyes roll up as the hot and sour taste of the sauce hit them. She sighed; she’d miss this. Then she realized he was looking at her.
“Like that. You don’t hate me.”
“You’re a Goblin. You could kill me.”
“Not hate.”
“Well…no. I’m doing my job when I kill Goblins. If I hated them, it’d be—I mean to say I kill Goblins who threaten people.”
His eyes seemed old and tired as Elia realized what she was saying to his face. She had been afraid to express such opinions for the rage that she had assumed would follow. But his expression was, in its way, worse than the ceaseless anger of the Hobgoblin woman. His eyes were understanding.
“Sometimes, Goblins do bad things.”
