“Adventurer Arcsinger, we are so sorry—”
“I said out. I’ll forget this ever happened. I’m leaving tomorrow.”
To go where and do what? Elia rubbed at her bandaged injury. She glared, and Nanette burst out.
“You can’t!”
The quiet outburst was so impressioned that it drew Elia up. The witch wrung her hands together.
“You mustn’t, Adventurer Arcsinger! This is the only chance you’ll have to turn your life around. To understand Goblins! If you leave now—you mustn’t leave! I’ll resolve this, I swear! Just don’t hold what those Goblins did against all Goblins, please! I’ll mend the bridges here—I can do it! Just give me time; one day! They don’t all hate you, I promise!”
It was such a strange statement, and Nanette’s round face burned with such earnest intensity that Elia was drawn up short. She was reminded of her own daughter, what felt like mere years ago, burning with awe and solemnity as she heard tales of Elia’s deeds and swore she’d carry her mother’s mantle.
—In this case, Nanette’s fervor was both unwelcome and misguided. Plus, it was barely past two AM. Both girls were yawning, and Elia shook her head.
“I don’t—I’m not—go to sleep. This isn’t your concern, Miss Weishart.”
“It is! They’re not all monsters!”
“I—I know. Please leave.”
That was the wrong thing to say. Nanette’s eyes widened with hope. Mrsha blinked at Elia and gave her a longer look of inquiry, and then the witch was clinging to Elia’s arm as the Named-rank tried to push her out the door.
“Please! If you get that, then don’t go! My mother taught me about how to perform a meeting of enemies like this! The inn might need you! And you certainly need this inn!”
She sounded far too all-knowing for Elia’s tastes. A thirteen-year-old girl playing at being…well, a [Witch]. Elia was pushing Nanette towards the door as Mrsha tilted her head at the two of them. The half-Elf was walking towards the door when it opened suddenly.
Nanette, trying to push off the doorframe to keep reasoning with Elia, turned as Dame Ushar appeared with Vaulont behind her. He had found the Thronebearer, and Ushar pointed.
“Lady Weishart, I believe I have told you that if a young woman gets up to trouble, being caught is the worst outcome of all. Let alone making such a clamor at night!”
Ushar bowed to Elia, grabbed Nanette around the stomach, and lifted the girl up.
“Ushar! I’m being a witch! Put me down! Don’t you dare—we haven’t left the inn!”
“You are disturbing Adventurer Arcsinger, and I believe our agreement was never that I would refrain from meddling. Just that you had better make it so I was unaware of events to begin with.”
Ushar deftly held onto Nanette, despite the girl’s attempts to wriggle free or go floppy. The [Knight] turned to Elia with a very convincingly appalled face, as if Elia hadn’t just heard her exchange with Nanette the moment before.
“I am terribly sorry, Adventurer Arcsinger. Rest assured, Her Highness will hear of this. Can I offer you anything by way of apology…?”
Elia Arcsinger favored Dame Ushar with her classic adventurer’s smile. She gripped the door in one hand.
“No need. Please get out of my room.”
Ushar bowed, stepped back, and Elia shut the door. She stood there, breathing in and out for a few moments—and then turned around.
Mrsha was sitting on Elia’s bed. The Named-rank nearly screamed; she leapt back and shout-whispered.
“What are you doing in—?”
Mrsha held up a furry finger to her lips. Elia glared and went for the door to yank it open, but glowing words traced themselves in the air in front of her. Mrsha lowered her wand as Elia recoiled and read—
I’m sorry! It was Nanette’s idea. Please don’t tell my mother or Ushar! I can’t be grounded right now!
Elia recoiled, then glared at Mrsha.
“And why would I do that?”
The girl scratched at her head, then wrote in the air.
…Because you’re super nice and cool?
Elia twitched. She folded her arms, thought, and then glowered.
“Alright, go.”
It wasn’t like she cared, and she had been a young girl of forty not too long ago herself. Dead gods, she remembered her youth before becoming an adventurer and the Antinium Wars…Elia saw Mrsha bow gratefully, then leap through that door to the garden.
She must have gotten back to her rooms in time, because Elia heard a faint exclamation from her open doorway from Lyonette and Nanette’s protesting voice. The rooms were pretty well insulated from the sound, and Elia, peeking out, saw Nanette being escorted by Ushar into Lyonette’s rooms and heard a furious argument beginning before the door closed.
Served the little witch right. What did she mean, resolve the issue? Elia was here, in an inn with Goblins, with a tribe of them who had seen her murder one of their Chieftains, even indirectly, nearby.
There was nothing to say. If there was, she would have said it to Calescent. Elia rubbed at her leg, groaning.
“I might have to…try the New Lands. Maybe I can find work around the Gnoll Plains as a [Hunter]? Caravan duty, maybe.”
But it was so dangerous to be a Named-rank—you might get mugged for your gear. And her reputation would attract danger. Maybe even other Goblins—
Elia turned, thinking she’d deal with it in the morning, and a white Gnoll girl was sitting on her bed again. Elia jumped, then raised her voice.
“Oh no, I warned you. Out!”
Hold on! I came back because I have something to ask you! Please?
Mrsha held the card up, and Elia snatched it and tore it up.
“I’m tired, I’ve been shot, and you were in my rooms, snooping into my personal things! I’m quitting my job tomorrow! What gives you the right to think I’d listen to anything you have to say?”
For answer, Mrsha wrote and slowly handed Elia another card. It said:
I am sorry. I thought you were a worse person, but you let the Goblins live even when they wanted to kill you. Even Rags was surprised by that. I didn’t mean to, but I heard you and Calescent talking. Before you go, I have to show you something. Please? It’s in the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Elia stopped. She stared at the note, then at Mrsha suspiciously, getting angrier than she had all her time in the inn. It was always like this. She tried to push a girl out of her room, walk away from the Goblin [Chef]…and they always dangled something in front of her face like a carrot.
“You can’t tempt me with that. No matter how curious I am—! Why should I listen to you?”
Mrsha blinked. Her big, round, brown eyes fixed on Elia’s face, and she wrote—rather impressively, without even looking at her card—in very good script.
You’re curious about the [Garden]?
“Of course I am! Who wouldn’t be?”
You don’t act like it.
“I’m a professional adventurer! Why shouldn’t I kick you out of my room? Hm?”
Hesitation, then—
Because I’ll actually show you what’s in there. Mother never will. But I think you deserve to know. And I think…I think I have questions too. Questions about the Goblin King. And maybe both of us deserve the answer.
Elia Arcsinger stood there, reading and re-reading the notecard, utterly nonplussed, at a loss for words. It wasn’t that she didn’t understand them, it was just that it made no sense.
This adorable little Gnoll girl—well, she was growing out of the cute and cuddly state that many Gnoll children occupied—this child was going to tell her the answer to the questions Elia had held in her heart for over a decade?
Ridiculous. And yet, Mrsha opened the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She held a paw out, and Elia hesitated.
Secrets and answers. She had too many questions, about the inn, about her life, to pass up the chance to get at least one answer. And…she looked at that too-old expression in Mrsha’s eyes and thought of Calescent’s words.
Something that could kill Pallass’ 2nd Army. Did Lyonette know? Surely she should so her daughters could be safe. Elia hadn’t quite believed her when she claimed her daughters were in danger until the gambling night. Elia couldn’t just leave with children in danger.
After a moment, she exhaled, then walked towards the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Elia Arcsinger slammed into the invisible barrier in the garden’s doorway, and Mrsha scribbled frantically.
Whoops, sorry. I have to let you in! Sorry! It wasn’t on purpose, I swear!
 
——
 
Seven minutes later, a glowering Elia, rubbing at her sore nose, was inspecting the [Garden of Sanctuary] with naked interest. She was striding to-and-fro, marveling at it.
A location Skill! With growing crops and space inside this place? She’d heard of the beach-garden, but not been allowed to visit the inn for obvious reasons. This place was fantastical; the beam of moonlight slanting down from the hole in the domed roof gave this entire place a magical feel, and Elia wanted to run around and spread her arms and twirl amidst the golden flowers blooming under the stars.
Weird flowers, too, because they were still open to the moonlight when regular flowers closed their petals at night. Were they nocturnal?
When Elia asked that, Mrsha gave her an open-mouthed stare, then held up a card.
No one’s ever noticed that in the history of ever. No one! Not even me! How do you know that?
“I…haven’t you ever seen flowers at night?”
The question floored Mrsha. She held up another card instead.
So each place in the garden is different! Here’s our cocoa tree, and over there’s the jungle—Apista’s sleeping in there, so don’t go in. Here’s the winter area no one really talks about or uses…
She gave Elia a brief tour of the garden, and on the way, they passed by a giant pile of gold. Elia stared at it so long she nearly walked into one of the dome’s walls.
“What is that?”
Oh, that’s our gold pile. I forgot we were keeping it secret from you and everyone. We had a pile as big as the hill before we got rid of it. There’s gold coins all over the place.
“A pile of…how? Is that what was in the garden? What’s in the garden?”
For answer, Mrsha pointed, and Elia’s attention was drawn to a hanging box she’d missed in all the other wonders of the place, suspended by a rope from the ceiling. She stared up at the Box of Incontinuity, then at Mrsha.
“What’s that?”
Magic box. It reproduces whatever you put inside forever. We were cloning gold, but Mother says we might have crashed the world economy. Don’t tell anyone.
Elia Arcsinger stood there, reading the card, inspecting the box, reading the card—she wanted to say something and had that pure denial of reality for a moment and assumed Mrsha was just lying to her.
…Before she remembered how much they’d gambled with Tolveilouka, Rhisveri, the literal King of Khelt, and others. Clues like Goldbody’s appearance, all the tools the Goblins and Antinium had hauled into the garden. Dead gods, they’d been smelting gold; that’s why they came out covered in gold dust. And the gold coins that Elia had noticed here and there…
“You’ve been paying me in cloned gold?”
Hey! It’s as good as the real thing! You want more? Help yourself! Anyways, the real magic of the garden is up the hill. The misty second hill, there. Follow me.
Mrsha pointed at the huge pile of gold. She padded past the gold as Elia stood there, stumped. Elia followed Mrsha after a moment. Then she ran back, shoveled as much gold as she could into the bag of holding, and ran after Mrsha. She was an adventurer, after all.
 
——
 
Nendas (same day, this deserves another entry) — The Statue
 
The hill of mists. The hill of statues.
Elia Arcsinger didn’t need to be told what this place was. She had, in fact, guessed. Mrsha was so astounded when Elia didn’t burst into tears or wonder that she demanded to know why. For response, Elia gave her an odd look.
“Everyone says the inn is terribly sad. And I did watch the documentary about the…what was his name? The Dullahan [General]’s garden. It makes sense Erin Solstice would have something dedicated to the dead as well, doesn’t it?”
Oh. It does. Well…well reasoned. I don’t think there’s anyone you know in here, with the exception of one person maybe. This way. Sometimes, she’s hard to find. I think even the garden’s scared of her or something. Follow me.
Rather to Elia’s surprise, she and Mrsha had an amiable conversation as they walked, the girl walking and waving her wand to write messages in the air, Elia strolling along and observing the statues in their timeless repose.
The girl was pretty well-spoken, and like Calescent, it was the second conversation of any real substance that Elia had had in the inn.
I am sorry about overhearing your conversation with Calescent. I don’t mean to; it’s just that when it’s quiet, I can hear everything in the inn. Sometimes having good ears sucks poo. You don’t want to know how Relc flirts with Valeterisa. I keep telling them to close their doors; I made them enchant it.
“…The Drake? And the Archmage of Izril? Are they a couple?”
Yeah. You gonna make something of it? Relc’s a good guy! Valeterisa might be able to do better, but does she deserve it? He’s pretty cool sometimes!
“No, I wasn’t. I don’t, uh, care? I just thought it was odd.”
Oh. Right on. Yeah, we like Relc. And Valeterisa’s pretty awesome sometimes, even if she’s sometimes as airheaded as Erin, an empty jar, and a cloud combined.
“I saw her lifting Fissival. That was an astounding magical feat; it reminded me of the old Archmages I knew when I was growing up. Evighe the Archmage of Izril—the last one. He’d perform magical feats like that, you know. One time, he challenged Verdan Blackwood to see who could excavate a larger mineshaft; the two blasted spells into a tunnel for hours on end. All to help local [Miners]. Though I hear they vaporized a lot of the ore they were supposed to help excavate.”
Mrsha’s ears flicked up as she walked, hunting the mists. Elia passed by a group of laughing, bearded men and women who looked like Dwarves…but they were too short. She couldn’t have said why, but they seemed like some of the most striking statues in the garden, each one dressed differently, laughing to the high heavens.
“You’re pretty chatty for a girl who can’t speak.”
You’re pretty chatty! I didn’t know you said anything!
“I’m being professional. I don’t know anyone here, so I try not to state my opinions.”
Yeah, well, you’re kinda okay now that you’ve survived your first life-or-death situation. Which is weird but it happens a lot over here. I’ve never heard of Evighe. What happened to him?
Elia glanced down at her shoes.
