Elia murmured. They were using casual expressions as well. ‘Hard target’ meant something like an Adult Creler, an armored foe that required specialized Skills or items to get through. Soft was a [Bandit], regular monsters. Named-ranks tended to be either good at taking down single, hard targets or masses of soft targets. Onieva was definitely better in the latter camp, and Elia was in the former, but Onieva could deal with hard targets too.
“I’m afraid I don’t know Colthei that well. I’m mostly familiar with Named-ranks in Terandria, though I have travelled. Do you know…Musky?”
“Is that Muscane the Hound?”
“That’s right. She’s young—well, comparatively, she’s in her late thirties—and still fairly innocent. Genuine.”
Onieva rubbed her chin as Elia glanced at her. If this was a test to see if Onieva really knew everyone…she shrugged.
“Never met her. But I believe she’s actually a good kid from the rumors. She partners with Gold-rankers, right? If she actually works with teams, it means she’s not got that ego.”
“Yes…it’s not wholly altruistic. She has some quirks that she needs help with.”
Must have been a secret. All Named-ranks had a problem of some kind. This was what you did when you met another sane one, capable of conversation, that you trusted. You swapped stories. Warnings.
“If you’re staying here, watch out for Tessa. Lyonette says she’s getting her back, and I’d do it, but I don’t want to throw down with Merdon if there’s a better way. Crowdcaller Merdon?”
“I’ve met him. He’s very…colorful.”
“Literally all bark, no real bite. Couldn’t kill a hard target without hearing if his life depended on it. Shriekblade, though, she’s real. And crazy. Poor girl. It’s not her fault, but she’ll mess you up. Any newcomers in Terandria worth mentioning?”
“Uh, eh, Duchess Greina of Noelictus and Princess Telleis are set to hit Named-rank…”
“Spare me. Doesn’t matter if they’re royals, if they’re not even rookies—real corn, Elia.”
The half-Elf blinked. She stopped under trees growing in a park that residents of the 5th Floor could experience. A slice of nature without having to leave their stone city. Big, impressive oaks that stretched to the ceiling; some had been allowed into the 6th floor and given holes to let branches grow through.
“Corn.”
“Right. Real corn, fake corn.”
“I get it. You—really are Saliss’ cousin. I remember he used that analogy. Someone to watch? Ah. Calcirite the Forgeblessed.”
“…That is new. The name’s got to be fake.”
Elia nodded.
“He’s a Dwarf. Adamantium gear. I’m not sure if his talents are Named-rank without his armor, but he has enough of both. He’s rather…direct. Mercenary. Challenging. My team had a few run-ins with him, and I defused the situations, but I believe he’s good enough.”
Hotshot new Named-rank who wants to pick fights with other Named-ranks for easy reputation. Onieva filed that away and made a note to tell Saliss.
Tonight. She’d have to visit him tonight, which meant she had to spend as much time with Ishkr as she could before slipping away. Then it might be ages before she got to see him again.
I could just visit him tomorrow and sneak into his bed and wake him up in a fun way. Or just prank him. Why don’t I do that?
—She focused on Elia.
“My turn. Watch out for…Zeter Sixswords. I call him Sixdicks, all of them smaller than a punch dagger. He swaggers around enough to make it true. He’s all [Soldier]—Manus’ little pet. He’ll try to kill you in a heartbeat if the City of War thinks you’re a potential enemy.”
Elia licked her lips.
“What are the odds he’ll clash with Liscor? Low?”
Onieva slapped Elia on the back, happy.
“He already went there once for the Trial of Blades! He tried to cripple a bunch of adventurers—he got the Champions of the Coast. Took off Teithde’s arm, poor woman. Hopefully she gets it replaced. He did a lot of damage to the Gold-ranks too.”
“Champions of the Coast. I don’t know…them. Are they respectable?”
She meant sane or normal enough to function. Onieva hesitated.
“Rasen and Teithde. I don’t know. I can vouch for Mivifa in Oteslia. Gnolls tend to be solid. There’s this kid, Lehra…I’ve met those two. I can’t figure them out. My bet’s on them having serious damage.”
It was just an instinct. Almost every Named-rank was broken in some way. The only difference was that Tessa and some of them were honest; the rest hid their scars. Elia certainly did with hers. The half-Elf glanced again at Onieva and switched subjects.
“Will you be staying around The Wandering Inn often? We could make a habit of this.”
Another slap to the shoulder. Elia winced.
“Sorry. I know you’d like that, but I can’t hold your hand for you all day. I’ll be headed off. There’s big alchemical stuff happening, and the writing is on the walls. Saliss and I are probably headed to the New Lands.”
“Oh? What for? Something valuable?”
“Could be.”
Onieva gave Elia a bland smile, then switched the topic again.
“I thought you’d retire. Or go home. Working at the inn might be good for you, Elia. You were always full of…not hot air. Hot air implies you thought you had anything close to your reputation’s abilities. You knew you were half-grown corn the entire time, but you kept the act up. I can respect that, even if I think it must have sucked. You could have packed up, lived quietly, gotten enough to live off of on your reputation. Why the sudden injection of spine? All those [Necromancers] in Rheirgest give you one?”
Elia’s cheeks flamed, and she put a hand on her bow—met Onieva’s eyes—and took it away. She peered intently at tall, sturdy ferns lining a walkway, answering softly.
“I’m…I have the liberty to train and find things out about myself here. Home would be political.”
“I feel that.”
“And you? Are you visiting the inn because it gives you a break from Pallass? Or because you see the potential in the place and Ishkr?”
It wasn’t exactly hard to find the weak spot; Elia was an [Archer] and could return fire. Onieva smiled a trace sadly.
“Ishkr and I won’t last. I’m a Named-rank. He’ll do or say something, and I’ll show him who I am. But he’s cute. I want to see how he breaks and turns into a jagged edge of glass. Real corn. As for the inn—it’s a damn cornfield there. You’re not going to be safe, Elia.”
The Drake opened her bright yellow eye, the other dancing blue, her rose-and-cobalt scales glittering in the last light of the sun. She faced Elia and delivered her warning.
“If you’re going to cut and run, do it now. I’ll pay for your ride back home. Because you don’t run from this job, Elia. If I put the inn and the people in it in your claws and I come back and find you weren’t there until the last, I’ll kill you myself.”
She saw Elia’s throat swallow, hard, and the [Archer] took a deep breath, then two, before replying.
“I’m still a Named-rank adventurer, Onieva. That threat works better coming from Saliss. Everyone knows Saliss is a monster behind that smile. I don’t know you.”
The two’s staring contest caused an entire nest of bats hiding in a tree to fly, shrieking in high-pitched shrills only Onieva could hear. The Drake just smiled; she knew how dangerous she was. Elia was the one who looked away first.
“I’m acting in good faith. If you could—put a word in with Ishkr, I would appreciate it.”
“Can do, Elia. Anything for my favorite little Named-rank!”
Onieva threw an arm around her and tried to pinch Elia’s cheek. Elia didn’t let her do that, but Onieva was mostly satisfied.
There. Two of us talking like Named-ranks, talking about what it’s like to be female adventurers…
She stopped.
She hadn’t said one thing about what it was like to be a female adventurer to Elia. Nor had Onieva ever had that conversation.
Not once. Not with Mivifa. Not with other adventurers growing up. Onieva could remember conversations with Mivifa. They were friends. They’d talked about the old man, about Mivifa’s struggles, Onieva’s…
Not once about—Onieva glanced at Elia. And she was going to talk about, what…having a younger, male lover? Dealing with accusations from other adventurers? She knew the topics, vaguely, but they weren’t personal to her. It was as if she could regurgitate something she’d seen or observed second-hand.
I can remember two dozen one-night stands. Plenty of adventurers or people I’ve liked. Not one night that I shared in anyone’s arms without slipping away like a [Rogue]. No, I can’t even remember holding anyone for longer than two hours at most.
Impossible. She liked lying in bed with Ishkr. She was happy. Things were great.
Why were things great?
Something was wrong. The old man? But he was well and truly out of it. High Command?
Onieva saw Elia recoil in alarm and had to smile and reassure her. It wasn’t Elia; the half-Elf just sensed the sudden moment of bloodlust.
What is wrong with my memories? 
She had to ask someone. There were only two people she really trusted in all of Pallass. Mirn and Saliss.
Onieva went to find Mirn.
 
——
 
Onieva ran into people outside Saliss’ home on the 5th Floor before she found Mirn. Mirn was hard to find; if he wasn’t running the bar nights, he was either sleeping during the day or working odd-jobs under his cover-job as an imports warehouse manager.
It was just chance that Onieva had been passing by Saliss’ home and saw a group of Drakes and two Gnolls banging on his door.
“Alchemist! We know you’re in there! By order of General Edellein, open the door!”
The Drake was shouting with the kind of bald-faced lie of someone who had no idea where Saliss was and was really just hoping the [Alchemist] would appear. Onieva, knowing Saliss, bet that even if he was home, he’d only open the door to toss his wastebin on the Drakes and Gnolls. She grinned, hoping he’d do that…but after a minute, the Drakes huddled with their compatriots.
“Think he’s actually in there?”
“Well, no one’s seen him leaving his workshop—should we wait?”
“If he’s in the workshop, he could be in there a week. I’ve heard that if he’s on a giant project, he can vanish for months at a time, but High Command wants the report on seith now—”
“What if we beg?”
“…That won’t work.”
“It might. He might come out to laugh at us.”
There was something pathetic about this; these were high-ranking flunkies who reported to the new 1st General, the Assembly of Crafts, and so on. They smelled like cologne and perfume, and Onieva saw the alchemical goop that kept their scales bright and shiny. One of the Gnolls even had an illusion spell on her. They were some of the glue that held Pallass’ bureaucracy together, but what glue.
Onieva decided to help both them and Saliss out. She strolled over, claws tucked into some fashionable, tight ‘jeans’ she’d bought from that new fashion store in Invrisil. It was the fourth set of clothing she had…so few. Why?
“Hey, you lot, Saliss isn’t home. He’s working on the seith—somewhere. I’m sure he’ll report back in a day or two. He’s not lazy.”
He was, in fact, too committed to doing his job when it came to the actual safety of civilians in the Walled Cities. Put him on a cure project or an antidote and he’d work without sleep for up to a week. Onieva had been right with him on those jobs.
Hadn’t she?
The oddities now crowding Onieva’s brain increased as the Drakes, some puffed-up [Aides] or [Staff Members], gave her supercilious looks.
“Excuse me, Miss. This is Walled City business. Please, step back. Unless…you know Saliss?”
They gave her a look between haughty and desperate, and Onieva rolled her eyes.
“Know him? I’m Onieva.”
She waited. All six of them exchanged glances. Onieva flicked out her tongue, exasperated.
“Onieva Oliwing? Chaldion’s grand-niece? Saliss’ cousin? I run deliveries for him to the auction house and practice alchemy? Hello?”
She’d been to social engagements! She’d hobbed with the nobs, who really weren’t that fun. One of the Gnolls scratched her chin.
“Onieva…ah, right. I recall you. Can you tell your cousin we need his opinion on the seith? A report, now? High Command needs it.”
“He’ll get it to you when he gets it to you. It’s not exactly easy putting it into writing for idiots to understand. Like Edellein.”
“That’s General Edellein to you, Miss! Adventurer Saliss is not permitted to share confidential information to civilians!”
One of the military staff-members snapped at her, and Onieva disliked the tone. She rolled her eyes.
“I’m helping him with the seith, soot-for-brains.”
“You are? Saliss doesn’t have assistants.”
Their odd expressions…Onieva hesitated, then snorted.
“Correction. I’m not an assistant, I’m helping. And he has an assistant, a cute Stitch-girl. Try not to stab her if you see her entering his workshop—”
“His assistant, of course! Let’s ask her where he is! To the door!”
The group turned and raced for an elevator, completely ignoring Onieva. She held out her claws, mightily tempted to drop-kick them in the back. That was—
Well, she knew Saliss was the more famous Named-rank, but was Onieva of Lights not even a footnote in Pallass’ files? Typical! She stomped down towards 2nd Floor, claws in her pockets, growling the entire way.
“See if I help fight those Wyverns next time. Saliss gets all the credit—not that he doesn’t deserve some of it. But I’ve been—”
I’ve been there. I fought the Wyverns on the eastern wall with Saliss. But he’s the one who single-handedly held them off. They should all recognize me; I helped fight the Wyvern Lord, and people haven’t stopped patting Saliss on the tail for that.
But the news only showed Saliss. That’s not even an omission due to his fame.
I remember the news coverage of Saliss.
I wasn’t in it.
But I remember fighting the Wyverns.
What’s…going on?
 
——
 
Mirn was ticking off a checklist as he took in a bunch of cargo for his warehouse, which doubled as a storage area and hideout for Turnscales in trouble, when someone threw her arms around him.
“Hey, there’s my favorite lover!”
The former [Soldier]-turned-[Protector] jumped, then relaxed. Only Onieva could sneak up on him like that. He turned as a few of his hired workers spotted Onieva and waved.
“Onieva, I’m working.”
“Aw, can’t I drag you away for a bit of fun?”
She gave him a bawdy wink, and Mirn made a show of putting away his clipboard. He—was slightly worried by Onieva being here.
Shouldn’t she only appear in the evenings? Saliss must have been overworked if Onieva was out in the daytime.
