Technically, Elia had been granted the title of lady, so the Thronebearer used it, though she’d turned down the class and lands. She stood, awkwardly, abandoning her burger as she fidgeted with her bow. She would have checked her gear, but it was literally just her bow, arrows, a few basic potions, and the Amulet of Fire Resistance. She was so poor…
“Any work for me today, Ser Dalimont?”
“Guard duty, I think, Lady Arcsinger. It’s mostly the garden today. Er…”
Dalimont caught himself, eying Elia, and she nodded.
“Right.”
Mrsha had been sliding past Elia towards her own breakfast burger, but she slowed and gave Elia a scowl. The half-Elf got the feeling she wasn’t liked by the girl. It was small clues, like the occasional middle finger, the death-glare, and the notes that said so.
You’re not allowed in the garden.
“Got it.”
Elia sat down and took another bite of her burger. Mrsha hesitated. She gave Ser Dalimont the side-eye, and the Thronebearer paused. He’d been vetting the new arrivals to the inn. Some, like Earlia, were openly disappointed about not being allowed in the [Garden of Sanctuary]; Elia saw her turning the hammers over to Peggy while asking for hints on what they were for.
Todi kept trying to ferret it out, but he knew he had to earn that trust. Vaulont had tried to see what was going on a few times, but very covertly.
Elia? Dalimont kept teasing it, but the half-Elf was the only member of the new staff that was really incorruptible. He supposed that really was what being a Named-rank adventurer meant; Elia was a professional.
After a moment, he and Mrsha hurried to breakfast; the inn was busy and Lyonette was still making deals. Elia kept chewing on her burger, face placid, calm.
 
——
 
What’s in the garden? What’s the box? What are they doing? What’s in the garden? Is it cool? Is it dangerous? Are they keeping something from me? What’s in the garden? I have to knowwhat’sintherewhataretheydoingwhat’sgoingonwhat’sinthegarden—
Elia’s thoughts bounced around like one of those soccer balls. Her face, honed over a decade of practice, was unreadable even to a Thronebearer.
She played it cool. Named-rank. Remember that. Elia coughed when she heard a couple of the Antinium complaining.
“—It is so hot.”
“Fiery.”
“I do not sweat, and I feel ill from melting it all the time.”
“I as well. We must take more breaks in the pond or we will be like poor Sticks.”
“Poor Sticks.”
“Dehydration.”
They were complaining about something heat-related. Elia wasn’t about to walk over to the Goblins, but she sidled next to the two Antinium; one was a Soldier, the other a Worker. They were both ‘new Antinium’, whatever that meant. Apparently, Soldiers didn’t normally talk?
“Is there something heat-related you need help with?”
“It is in the garden, Miss Arcsinger.”
“We are fine.”
Damn. There went her entire plan. Elia nodded. She saw Ser Dalimont glancing over, and panicked.
Play it cool, Elia. Cool. Think of some reason to look professional. Then she had an idea. Elia casually fiddled with her neck.
“Oh…well, in that case, I won’t pry. What if you took this?”
So saying, she pulled off the enchanted amulet and handed it to them. The Worker hesitated as he took it.
“Is it magic?”
“It’s enchanted to resist flames. It should work on anything short of a [Fireball]. If you give it back tonight, I can let you borrow it.”
The Worker hesitated, but then nodded.
“This is very thoughtful. Thank you, Miss Arcsinger. You are very welcome. Also, we are both not Goblins.”
“I…know?”
“I feel the need to emphasize this.”
“I see.”
“Because we do not wish to die.”
“I understand. I’ll…leave you to it.”
Elia backed away, and the Soldier and Worker waved before turning back to each other over breakfast.
“That was very strange, Saltshook.”
“I am very perplexed, Hammernail. Was that proper socializing? It is very awkward with her. Goblins are much easier.”
“I think she is more difficult. But Captain Ceria is easy.”
“Yes…maybe we have not acquired enough socializing Skills? I was very uncomfortable around her.”
“Me too.”
Elia tried not to pay attention to the conversation she could definitely hear. She sat at her table, ears burning a bit, trying to play it cool. So much for that. She wondered what was in the garden. Maybe…no…it was just a job.
She kept eating, flushing more as the Antinium began ranking people on their list of awkwardness—and she was pretty much last. Elia chewed on her burger and fanned herself.
Wow, it was hot—but the winter had just ended. It was raining, too; the air had been cool just a moment ago. What was going…
Her mouth was burning up. Elia realized Rosencrantz was pointing at her. Ishkr had appeared, and the two approached.
“Miss Arcsinger—”
“My cheek’s fine.”
“It has spread to your entire face, Miss Arcsinger. You are very crimson. I believe you may be unwell.”
“I’m…”
Elia caught sight of herself in her water cup’s reflection and stopped. She was exceptionally red-faced. And sweating. And her mouth was about to explode—
Wait.
Wait a second…Elia stared down at her burger. Her burger, which felt like molten flames themselves were trying to melt their way down her throat.
Tier six flames pouring down her intestines, which would destroy this very inn and burn a hole into the Floodplains—
She looked over her shoulder, slowly, at Hammernail, who was trying on the necklace. And Elia’s mind connected a few dots.
Enchanting was an imprecise art. Unless you had someone as precise and pedantic as Hedault, an effect covered a lot of things. So [Fire Resistance] could protect you from the effects of heat. But what if you were some enchanter and you covered all things heat-related? Like…
…spices…
Ishkr did the calculation at about the same time as Elia. He went striding over for the amulet, but it was too late. Elia took another bite of her burger, more out of denial than anything else. Then her mouth exploded.
“Hot. Hot—it’s so spicy—”
 
——
 
Calescent sat in the kitchen, facing a corner as Asgra patted him on the back. Trying to give him a pep talk.
“My spices are bad, Asgra.”
“Is not true. She just stupid.”
“My spices can’t harm babies. Good thing I left the tribe. Famous death spice? Hah! More like…not very spicy stuff. Pepper.”
“She just weird, Calescent. You make plenty of babies cry. Chieftain Rags cries eating your famous spicy stuff.”
Calescent glanced over his shoulder at his hat sitting on the counter. He’d never been so defeated. If he went outside, he’d see her there eating his best burger like—like—
It didn’t even taste good to him. It was the death of all spices, and she ate it down. Didn’t even complain in the outhouse, and he swore that was the smell Lyonette kept bringing up. He’d worn a mask putting this burger together.
There was a shout from the common room. Calescent heard Elia and drooped even further.
“See? Now she’s mocking me.”
“I’m dying! Help! Help! Give me the amulet—”
Asgra was less in denial than Calescent. She hesitated, held up a claw, and went to the door. She glanced outside, then brightened up. She raised two claws—
“Throw here! Throw here, Hammernail!”
She caught a golden amulet with a red ruby, dashed to a cupboard, and tossed it inside. Then grinned at Calescent. He blinked at her and heard a wailing scream like someone having her tongue ripped out of her face—no, that would be a kindness.
A familiar shriek that he’d heard many times when he’d blown his patented death spice into the eyes of enemy combatants and, occasionally, allies. The gurgling sound of someone trying to drink water before they realized that just spread the burning.
Disbelievingly, slowly, Calescent rose like a man waking from a long nightmare into happy reality. He walked to the door of the kitchen and saw a figure writhing on the ground. A burger had fallen from her plate, and the Named-rank adventurer burned, as if her Skill had malfunctioned again.
Calescent smiled. He beamed. He clapped his hands and did a dance with Asgra in the kitchen.
It was a splendid, wonderful day.
 
——
 
Later that evening, Elia Arcsinger’s face was covered with sweat. She looked like she was dying as she gulped down milk, and her face was redder than a beet.
And yet—she was shoveling down curry and naan with the rice so fast that her gasps for air sounded like a [Diver] surfacing and gasping for oxygen.
It was so concerning it was putting Relc and Valeterisa off their own dinner. Elia’s Amulet of Fire Resistance sat on a table in front of her; she could have put it on.
But she didn’t. She kept eating, and Calescent stared at her in horror out of his kitchen.
“She’s still doing it!”
Elia was still enjoying spicy food. More now than before, if that were actually possible. She seemed like she were dying each time she had a meal, but she’d gobble it down with gusto. To the horror of the Goblins, who’d thought they’d won a splendid victory, it turned out Elia just liked spicy food.
Suffering was part of the game. If you didn’t burn, why bother?
Madness. Despair—but at least Calescent had moderated his spicy levels down from ‘active war crimes, even in the Unseen Empire’ to just ‘really spicy’. Elia was physically incapable of eating death spice without her amulet.
Small victories. Even so, the [Spice Chef] resented Elia. He resented the fact that she was one of the few people he’d met who truly liked spicy foods. Of all the monsters in the world, this one had to have good taste.
Monster. Calescent didn’t like thinking of anyone like a monster. Not people. As a monster-person himself, he knew what it was like to be a real monster they hunted down like a thing to be killed. Where nothing was too underhanded, and where you could do anything you wanted to monsters because they didn’t have real emotions or deserve sympathy.
But if anyone was a monster, it should be her, right? Arcsinger, the murderer of too many Goblins to count, the slayer of the Goblin King.
Calescent knew why she was here. He knew…Lyonette had fine reasons to want to defend the inn, so he hadn’t objected. Sometimes, Chieftains had to do hard things. That, Calescent got. He didn’t have to like her to deal with her.
The spice thing was just petty; at first, he’d been amused then gotten genuinely annoyed by her resistance. Now, seeing her just—liking his food—well, that was worst of all.
She never said anything to him. But she scarfed down his meals and sometimes went back for seconds. He noticed that. Even when she didn’t like the meals, he noticed she almost always cleaned her plate.
Calescent hated when guests didn’t clean their plates and just left good food behind. Of course, he thought it was his fault; he hadn’t made it good enough. But Elia gave him the impression that she was savoring each bite.
—She’d killed Tremborag. Not directly, but led to his death. She was why Reiss, the Goblin Lord, had died. Her actions had caused the slaughter at Liscor.
Hate her. 
…It was hard. What Calescent wanted, secretly, a secret he told no one because there was no one to tell, was that he maybe, possibly, wanted to talk to Elia. To ask her questions. Maybe just to have that dread adventurer greet him day by day.
It was a shameful thought. Calescent wrestled with it. He couldn’t tell anyone. Not Lyonette, not Ishkr…it was too personal, and they wouldn’t get it.
If Erin were here, he’d have told her. If Numbtongue wasn’t so weird, Calescent might have gone to him for advice. He didn’t want to burden Chieftain Rags with the thought.
To reconcile this, he might have said something to her beyond a greeting. Smiled, or…he thought about it. But when he thought about doing those things, he remembered one of the most painful moments of his life. Not being stabbed or that time an adventurer had slashed his chest open and left him for dead.
No…that moment when Hekusha, the Healer of Tenbault, who’d smiled at him, who’d complimented him on his cooking, who he’d thought had at least thought he was a person—when she’d turned and begged Valeterisa to save her and kill them all.
Calescent had fought many battles. He’d survived Liscor and wars. But he was too afraid of trying again and getting hurt like that. So, he glowered from his kitchen at the half-Elf who happily ate his food. Rosencrantz and the other staff thought it was a rivalry.
Calescent wished it were a rivalry.
His heart hurt. But that was the inn. His heart hurt and twisted, and that was okay. It was how he knew he was alive.
 
——
 
Beithday – The Onieva Encounter
 
“Here’s lunch.”
“Thanks.”
That was her entire dialogue with Calescent, and the [Chef] paused a moment after Elia thanked him. He turned away with a grunt, and she wondered if he hated her.
Certainly, he didn’t say much, and she thought he scowled at her back, but he hadn’t poisoned her yet. Though, if you saw Elia huffing and puffing while eating, you might be forgiven for imagining the latter.
Quesadillas filled with spicy meat with a salsa dip and sour cream to cut the heat. Only, Calescent had improvised so it was some kind of green cilantro-dip with oil and this lovely aftertaste, and the quesadillas were bright red, a sign of pure danger. Elia partook of the sour cream, but she was so red-faced after her first quesadilla that Mrsha and Nanette, lining up for lunch, both ordered an extra cup of sour cream each.
Elia Arcsinger relished the agony. Afterwards, she finished rehydrating with two huge glasses of water and sat there, sighing in contentment. Her lips burned as though she’d just kissed a [Fireball], and she hoped she wasn’t gaining weight.
Actually, she spent all day either training Bird, herself, or using that exercise room. She was trying to get into form, and what else did she have to do all day?
No, really—it was that or watch the news, read a book, or visit Liscor or another city in her downtime. But Elia wanted to save money, and she had a bad reputation elsewhere, so she was…bored.
Also, lonely.
No one talked to her.
No one would tell her what was going on in the garden—the activity had died down a bit, but Elia had never found out what it was.
Even for Elia, this was a level of isolation she hadn’t been used to. She had been with her team and daughter for so long, Elia was beginning to get a bit stir-crazy.
So her resolution was to get to know her co-workers better. That seemed like the best bet.
The problem was…Elia was fairly certain most of them hated her guts. But she’d made a list of candidates she might get along with. She put her dishes in a pile and headed up to the second floor in search of amiable companionship.
 
——
 
