Here was the thing. You couldn’t just befriend anyone in the inn. Elia was a Named-rank adventurer. She should be speaking with people she’d interact with regularly. So the regular staff were out. Half of them were Goblins—obviously a no-go. The other half were Antinium too busy for regular socialization during their work hours. And…what would they even talk about?
So Elia had a shortlist, narrowed down to exclude all Goblins, people who hated her—like Mrsha—and who weren’t important or didn’t fit her schedule.
…It was pretty much the other adventurers—Todi and Gemhammer—Nanette, Bird, Rosencrantz, Ishkr, Liska, Octavia, Yelroan, Vaulont, and the Thronebearers. Then Elia had to narrow it down again.
Lower-ranking adventurers got a bit weird. Sometimes, it was healthy junior-senior relationships, but Todi was a bit of a rat, and Gemhammer were former miners. Not really a great fit. Nanette was a witch and a kid. Out. Rosencrantz or Bird…maybe, but they were Antinium. The Thronebearers and Vaulont were also out; the [Knights] would report to their [Princess], and Elia didn’t think socializing with [Assassins] worked well.
[Alchemists] tended to explode.
So it really left the Gnolls as her best, most ordinary candidates. Not any real Drake employees at the inn. Elia wondered if it was a racist thing. Regardless, of the three Gnolls, there was only one real candidate when she thought about it.
Liska was on door-duty all the time. Hard to chat with her, and she was young. Yelroan seemed a bit odd, but he was also mainly in the garden. Ishkr…Ishkr seemed like an ordinary Gnoll. Pretty competent. Elia could talk with him, get an in with someone everyone liked, and ingratiate herself into the community.
Perfect plan. She paced in front of Ishkr’s room for a good ten minutes, mustering the courage to knock. She—didn’t really know how you did this.
Socialized. She knew how to hobnob. There was no one better at bland banqueting, social climbing, etiquette deflecting, or passive social sailing. Elia was used to people wanting to talk to her, being her friend, and not trusting anyone.
…She’d forgotten how you approached someone. Elia decided to execute a simple plan.
“Hello, Ishkr? Sorry to bother you, I was just wondering if you needed me to do anything. I’m free, and—”
After a brisk knock, Elia swung open the door with one of her fake smiles. She took two steps into the room, turned around, and walked out.
“—and I’m very sorry. I should have—please excuse me.”
She had interrupted two people on the bed. Namely, Ishkr and a pink-and-blue-scaled Drake that Elia vaguely recognized. The half-Elf closed the door over the exclamations from both and stood there. The tips of her ears were red—she put her face in her hands. Then she began to run.
 
——
 
It had been a good, no, a great run of days recently, and Onieva hadn’t quite been sure why. Okay, a big hint was getting some action in the bedroom.
She had been appreciating Ishkr, the mysterious [Waiter] of The Wandering Inn, when Elia Arcsinger had barged in. Onieva wondered how much Elia had admired the Gnoll’s body.
To be fair—it didn’t ruin Onieva’s evening. Ishkr was more embarrassed than she was, though Onieva was amused by Elia’s reaction.
Named-rank adventurer and employee of The Wandering Inn. If you couldn’t roll with a punch and throw it back, you’d never survive.
“Sorry, sorry—let’s pick this up in a second. Unless you think you can finish—?”
Laughing, the Drake was on her feet, and clothing was flurrying around her in moments. Ishkr had been scared out of the moment, and he rolled out of his bed. He was panting; she was barely warmed up.
Named-rank adventurer. Even if she was an [Alchemist] instead of a [Warrior]—Onieva blew a kiss.
“Give me a second. I’m going to have a word with her.”
“A violent word or…?”
“Civil! Don’t worry, I’m just curious. And she’s a coward. We know each other.”
Ishkr hesitated. He opened his mouth with a frown, and Onieva bounced out of the room, in the best of moods. She saw a half-Elf running for the stairs, and laughing, Onieva called out.
“Elia, wait! I’m not mad—hold on!”
She wouldn’t catch the half-Elf, so Onieva popped an oil pellet—a concentrated gel that absorbed through the skin. It was very handy instead of a potion you had to drink. She crushed it against one hip, curled her legs up, and jumped.
Springstep Oil. Onieva hit the far end of the hallway like a lightning bolt, pivoted, and ‘stood’ on the wall for a second as the sheer force of her momentum let her defy gravity. She saw Elia’s eyes go round, and the half-Elf went for her bow, reflexively, then twisted—
She half-dodged Onieva, but the two went crashing down the hallway as Onieva tackled her. Elia tumbled onto her feet and had her bow in hand, but no arrow drawn—Onieva had to give her that.
She was still a Named-rank, even if she was known as one of the worst in the world. Onieva was just laughing as she held up her claws.
“Peace. Peace. I’m not mad. Hey—it’s me. Onieva! We didn’t get a chance to talk.”
“I’m sorry for interrupting you and, uh, Ishkr, Miss Onieva.”
Elia was red-faced and executed a smooth bow. Onieva rolled her eyes.
“Don’t worry. How many adventurers have you and I walked in on over our lives? Let alone had to camp next to.”
Or sleep in the open when they thought they were being ‘sneaky’. Then you were staring up at the stars, listening to giggling and squelching and wondering how much trouble you’d get in for pulling a Garen Redfang. That was an old euphemism for killing your entire team—not a lot of adventurers got the reference. Strange, how fast stories like that faded…
At this, Elia hesitated, and a trace of a smile crossed her face. She ducked her head.
“Even so—”
“No harm. Did you need Ishkr for anything urgent?”
“No—I was just—”
Aha. Elia was hesitating, cheeks flushing red, and Onieva just bet whatever pretext she’d been muttering when she came in was just to talk to Ishkr. Now, was that because she was interested or…?
No, Elia’s embarrassment, rather than shock, suggested to Onieva she’d just wanted to talk to Ishkr. She knew Ishkr and Onieva were an item. Not that Onieva was actually worried. Elia was cautious, cowardly, and rode her fame with her second-rate team—or at least, she had until she’d been publicly exposed by Halrac and the Order of Solstice. She knew how much blood could be shed when Named-ranks fought over a love interest.
Onieva threw an arm around Elia’s shoulder.
“Come on, let’s go for a walk.”
She turned over her shoulder and blew a kiss at the room behind her.
“Ishkr? I’ll be back tonight. Let me know if I need to bring a potion or two.”
“I only got startled.”
He shouted back. Onieva blew another kiss at him, then dragged Elia down the stairs.
“Come on, let’s walk. Pallass. I’ve been meaning to talk to you, adventurer to adventurer or woman to woman.”
“Er—I’m on duty—”
“I’ll make an excuse to Lyonette. Come on. It’s not every day two of us who’re sane get to talk. The last one of us I was talking to was Tessa.”
Last one of us? For a moment, Elia looked confused, as if she’d really forgotten Onieva. Onieva? One of the world’s greatest [Alchemists] along with Saliss? They’d met only maybe half a dozen times, but Named-ranks remembered each other. Tessa’s name made Elia’s gaze flicker.
“Tessa…”
“Shriekblade. Salazsar?”
“Oh. Of course. Well, let’s—”
Onieva brushed away Elia’s reservations as she hauled the half-Elf downstairs. Lyonette blinked at Onieva and gave Elia a sharp look, but okayed the break. Obviously. And Onieva was in such a good mood she brushed aside that weird, nagging feeling she’d been getting of late.
Things were going great. Saliss was grumpy and gloomy as ever, but he was always cooped up in his laboratory, worrying about the seith or his old man or this or that. Onieva was living. She’d found someone who she actually respected, who could keep up with her, in Ishkr—
Dead gods, why haven’t I been having fun like this? It’s like I’ve been as dull as Saliss for decades.
—And there was something odd as well about Mirn and now Elia. Onieva brushed it away at first as she sauntered into Pallass. Only, Ishkr had said he hadn’t known Onieva was a Named-rank adventurer. He’d never heard of her. She’d put that down to him being a Liscorian. But it was odd.
 
——
 
Elia Arcsinger was panicking, but she was playing it cool. She had no idea who Onieva was; she’d only known her as someone Ishkr sometimes met up with.
That she was a Named-rank adventurer and claimed to know Elia? Impossible…unless they’d met when Onieva was a lower-ranking adventurer? But she spoke as if she were a veteran.
It wasn’t an act. The way she’d casually moved like that and the strength in her thin arms were impossible to fake. Rather, if you could fake the walk, you deserved the title.
She was a Named-rank of Pallass, but the only famous Named-rank of Pallass that immediately came to mind was Saliss of Lights. But one whiff of Onieva’s scales and Elia put her as an [Alchemist]. Did Saliss have a sister? A teacher? An apprentice?
She just pretended she knew what Onieva was talking about. It generally worked.
 
——
 
It was like déjà vu, but backwards, if that made sense. It was like…doing something that Onieva felt she should have done before. This odd feeling of ‘why is this the first time it’s ever happened?’
Here they were, a Drake and a half-Elf, walking through Pallass as the sun set and turned the City of Inventions orange. The sounds of the elevators whirring down for the day was the background clunk of the city, along with the ringing of hammers from the 9th Floor and the permanent babble of millions of Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda.
Two Named-ranks. Two women, walking and talking, paying no mind to people turning to stare at them. Even if they didn’t recognize the names and reputations, Elia and Onieva were two of the rarest species in the world.
High-level. Both above Level 50—okay, Onieva was. Elia had to be above Level 40, which still put her in a minority, if not nearly one so radical. What they did, they were the best at. Onieva could create miracles and death with her claws. Elia could look at something and hit it, even a fly two thousand paces away.
And they knew how to kill—they had walked into ancient tombs and come out, covered in blood and death. They could look horror in the eyes and stab it without freezing.
Even if Elia was a pretender. Onieva remembered the first time they’d met, when she’d pegged Elia as a fake within the first moment of talking.
It was obvious. The entire world had been celebrating Elia’s killing of the Goblin King, and she’d been invited to Pallass by the old man, the Cyclops himself. He’d been sharper back then and attended a big gala with the Assembly of Crafts. Everyone had been all over her, but Onieva and Chaldion had gotten to talk to her due to their rank.
What other people had taken as false modesty when they asked her to recount killing the Goblin King, Onieva had seen as genuine honesty in an instant. It really had been a lucky shot. Or something much like it. Elia hadn’t scared Onieva, and she should have.
Of course, the half-Elf professed not to remember the meeting. She only remembered Saliss. Onieva made a face.
“I’m constantly in his shadow. Onieva Oliwing. Also Named-rank, for my sins.”
“I’m…sorry for not remembering. Are you new to your rank?”
“Nope. I got it around Saliss’ time.”
“I see. What’s your title?”
There it was again. A flash of something odd. Onieva hesitated.
“Onieva of…Lights. Same as Saliss. I know, I know. I can’t beat the allegations. We both do alchemy, we’re both cousins, I share recipes with him…look, I keep my tail down. He’s the big hero of Pallass.”
That poor, miserable idiot. Onieva stared across the city, past all the faces, grateful they weren’t staring at a Drake nakedly gyrating. Saliss, laughingstock of Pallass. He’d done terrible things for his city—and he liked them knowing him as a fool. She pitied him.
Elia walked stiffly, as if worried someone would see her and call her a fraud. They struck an odd comparison, the formal half-Elf and the sauntering Drake with her claws behind her head.
“I—am sorry, again, about interrupting you. I was trying to make Ishkr’s acquaintance. I’m not well liked in the inn, it appears, and he seemed like the best candidate.”
Onieva winked one eye.
“Of course he is. He’s the highest level.”
“He is? I mean, yes, he is.”
Ancestors. Onieva rolled her eyes. Elia’s tricks didn’t work on her. But her instincts were good. You didn’t survive at Named-rank level, even as a ‘fake’ like Elia, without being able to back that up. Unconsciously or not, Elia had spotted Ishkr. Few people did.
“He’s cute. Like a Gold-ranker about to hit Named-rank, but not one of the ones who think they deserve it. He’s got no ego; the opposite. He knows he’s something, but he’s not quite there yet. He doesn’t walk into a room with the confidence of who he is. You know? He reminds me of Colth the Supporter. Do you know him?”
Now they were on firmer ground, lack of memory aside. Named-ranks knew each other, and Elia nodded hesitantly.
“Passingly. He’s visited Terandria. He was very promising when I saw him.”
“Was that when he was Silver-rank, or Named? Because if you meet him now—he looks the same, but someone took that tousle-haired kid and turned him into a serrated blade.”
“Before. It must have been. He was earnest. I shot a bow with him…so he’s properly Named-rank? I thought at the time he was better than Silver-rank.”
Onieva drew a claw across her throat as she led Elia up the stairs. They could go for a walk along a park; she decided to get some baked Prelons with salt on top from a stand. The combination of sweet and salty was good in the evenings, and it wasn’t wet and mushy like other fruits; the two could pick pieces out at their leisure.
“Colth’s Named-rank to the bones, now. Pure generalist. Not that great against a hard target, but he’ll dice anything soft up a million different ways.”
“Capable. I thought about trying to partner with him, but he headed south too fast for me…”
