Calescent got back to work, trying to ignore Elia. She stood there like a statue, bow drawn, but no arrow to the string. Waiting. He wondered how long she’d been posing like that. It looked uncomfortable.
If only she wasn’t Arcsinger, death of Goblins. She cut an impressive figure. He avoided looking at her. She had changed her mind, and he’d expected to feel happy, as if their conversation had helped. Instead, he felt bad.
This divide between them would not fill. She would never apologize for killing Velan. He understood that. He understood that she was a hero; he could think like she did. But—it still—
Lost in his thoughts, Calescent moodily made plates of sushi combinations and passed them out with Asgra. He stumped over to a group against one wall, two Drakes and a Human.
Rose, Mirn, and Saliss. They were talking quietly. Saliss seemed tired, but he grinned as he took the sushi.
“Thanks, Calescent. Hey, if I don’t like this particular inn-event because Nanette put it on, can I get my money back?”
“Sure.”
Calescent was fairly certain he hadn’t paid anything, and the [Alchemist] winked at him.
There was someone who had killed Goblins, who was an enemy…yet Calescent could smile at. He was different from Elia. Calescent might not have forgiven Saliss if he knew how many Goblins the Named-rank had killed. But it was still different. The [Alchemist] went back to speaking as Calescent pretended to be the [Background Chef].
“—Anyways, I’ll be working, Rose. Pallass has got a job for me.”
“About what, Saliss? What happened to your cousin, Onieva? I wanted to take her on the town. But Mirn said…”
The other Drake cleared his throat as he accepted some sushi warily from Calescent, but Saliss sounded relaxed. Still tired.
“She’ll be around. Listen, it’s going to be a real rat king in the New Lands, soon. This is top secret info, but it’s going to be secret for about…three days no matter what they try. And our sister Walled Cities already know the plans because 1st General Edellein thinks we should share our moves ahead of time.”
Mirn gnashed his teeth together.
“That Lizard-kissing idiot. Then it’s not a secret at all.”
“Yeah. Anyways, point is, you know how the New Lands push is going?”
Calescent was running out of excuses to stay nearby, so he wandered off slowly as his ears perked up. Mirn’s voice had trepidation baked in.
“Uh, bad soil, magic drain, countless nations heading in? And someone already got to the Crossroads of Izril and it’s not us.”
“Yep. High Command’s getting worried the ‘strategic value’ of the New Lands is getting away from us and they’re mad as Rhir’s hells someone might get to the Crossroads. So…what’s a smart Drake to do?”
“Send better-prepared expeditionary forces?”
“No, no, Mirn. Think about it with your tail. The Iron Vanguard’s sending armies here. And Terandria still landed a lot of its ships, and Chandrar’s hitting the south. So we’ve got to send armies.”
Calescent half-turned from handing sushi to Colfa. Both of them stared at Saliss. Did he mean—?
“Ancestors. How many?”
The Named-rank adventurer was laughing with a note of exhaustion in his voice. He spoke as he raised the sushi up with his chopsticks.
“At least three. I’ve been mustered since they need a good [Alchemist]. Maybe, if we’re lucky, no one’ll start a war, but I hear Drakes are already taking potshots at Gnoll tribes. One last time, Mirn. One last time.”
 
——
 
Nanette was arguing with Lyonette when Calescent stumped over. The [Princess] was not happy at being kept out of the loop.
“With respect, Nanette, this is my inn, and the situation with the Goblins and Elia is very tenuous. It requires tact. You should have told me what you were planning. I am your guardian.”
Nanette snapped back, facing down the [Princess] with her hands on her hips. She pointed at her bare head.
“And I am the witch! This is my work, and you aren’t part of it! A [Princess] should respect authority if no one else does. Dalimont, Ushar, please remove her.”
“Nanette, you can’t remove—Dalimont, Ushar, what are you—this is my inn right now, and I—wait a second!”
“Sorry, Your Highness, but we are giving Witch Nanette her chance. Please stand back and let her make her attempt. Further back, please.”
The sight of Lyonette being blocked by the two golden bouncers was a good floor show, but everyone was waiting to see what was going on. It was Nanette who turned, palpably nervous, and addressed the audience.
“Hello, everyone, thank you for coming here at such short notice. I know there has been…strife of late, in the inn. Between the Goblins and Elia Arcsinger. That is why I’ve called this Meeting of Foes, a way to resolve the conflict before it comes to blood. More blood, I mean.”
She spoke well, for a girl. Calescent settled into his seat, and in the center of the room, Elia stood there, waiting, just standing and looking good, which was, again, her specialty. Nanette’s earnest face turned from Goblins to non-Goblins as Rags’ people stirred. They didn’t watch Elia with open hostility, but there was not even a pretense of friendliness in their eyes. Yet they did wait as Nanette continued, now addressing Elia.
“I am a [Witch]. Excuse me, I mean a witch. I understand that you have warred against Goblins and killed them, and they would very much like to see you dead, Adventurer Arcsinger. You have been enemies, but in this inn, we must work together. We do not want you gone nor Goblins to feel frightened or unwelcome. Yet we are at an impasse. Thus, I have called for this meeting.”
Nanette spoke to Elia, small and serious, and the Named-rank adventurer saw nods from the Goblins, shrugs, stares…
Is she going to have Elia apologize? It would be a foolish thing to do, and Calescent did not think the little witch, who had greeted him within the first minutes of coming to the inn, was that foolish. But she was young.
An apology would mean nothing, if Elia even meant it, and she had told him she did not. An apology could not cover all this blood. He watched, narrow-eyed, chewing on the last of the chicken-sushi. Bird was staring at her empty box of sushi, mandibles open in horror.
It was Nanette who gazed up at the dome of the theatre. It had gone dark; it was night by now, and she spoke in a tone trying to be grand and wise, but mostly just sounded loud.
“There is no apology that would solve this. Nor, from my knowledge as a witch and the covens I have met and talked with and my mother, is there any way to end hostility. No spell can do it earnestly, no Skill overnight save ones that control. Yet this is The Wandering Inn! If there was ever a chance…I ask for Goblins and Elia Arcsinger to bear witness, and those who have fought Goblins and bear grudge. You, of all, should be here to witness this.”
Nanette bowed to someone else, and Calescent saw Relc in the bleachers, chewing on a turkey leg. He stopped eating and gazed down at her, and his eyes flicked to Rags and away. She gazed back, and there was more blood there both had a claim to. They did not fight.
That was respect. Practicality. Don’t ask for more than this. Elia, like Tyrion, could be tolerated at best. But there was no—he couldn’t actually—
Calescent tugged the brim of his hat over his eyes, sitting back in his chair with his arms folded. The witch swept around, voice louder now.
“Elia Arcsinger, the bane of Goblins. Slayer of the Goblin King. No one shall deny she hunted down Goblin tribes. No one should utter excuses or justify anger. But it seems to me…that if all know her story, we only know it as it is told. Similarly, she has been told not to kill Goblins. She understands she has destroyed their homes—but she is an adventurer. No one has communicated. Grant me…grant us one moment, then you may make your choices, and upon your hats be it.”
Now, everyone was sitting forwards in their seats, wondering how Nanette was going to resolve this. The witch pointed at Elia and called down to her.
“Elia Arcsinger. Will you apologize for the Goblin King’s death?”
Calescent lifted his hat, heart constricting in his chest. He sat forwards and saw the archer raise her head. Elia Arcsinger stood with her famous bow in hand, not the one she’d used to slay the Goblin King. But the same woman, barely aged from the mere decades she had lived since then. She stood, taller than he could remember the silent, awkward woman before, and answered in a clear voice.
She said—
“No. Never.”
Nanette tilted her head as the Goblins’ crimson gazes fixed on her.
“Why?”
 
——
 
Elia’s heart was pounding in her chest. She regretted offering to do this, let alone insisting on the audience, but she had been here before. She had been asked so many questions about her pivotal arrow—but never this.
The words bubbled out of Elia Arcsinger’s heart, rising like true bubbles from the depths of her uncertain soul, and she realized no one had ever asked her this question. What was it like? Countless times. Why didn’t you run? She’d lied and answered it differently many times. But do you regret it? Her voice grew louder as she spoke, and for once, she felt certain of something, she who was very seldom certain of anything.
“Because he had to die. If you had seen him, you wouldn’t ask. Monster? He was no monster. He was slaughter incarnate. When he charged, when he looked at you, people died. I was there. He could have killed everything and everyone in this room in a minute. I slew him. Yes, it was a lucky shot. But apologize for it? Never.”
She paused, voice panting, and the eyes of that Hobgoblin who had crawled towards her were Elia’s own eyes for a second. She could still smell the blood, hear the screaming and his roar.
“He had to be stopped. Every single person on that final battlefield went prepared to die if it meant this madness could end. I have never regretted it.”
Elia closed her eyes, waiting. She didn’t want to see the fear or betrayal or hatred on the Goblins’ faces. She waited for a sound, for one of them to draw a blade, but there was only silence. Then—panting. A voice in Elia’s ears, a familiar one. Loud, echoing around her. Her voice. It said:
“Am…am I in the right place?”
Someone was late. She edged past the bodies, stumbling a bit, clutching her bow. Elia blinked. She frowned, cracked one eye open—and then peered up.
It was bright. No…it was the blaze of magic in the distance, spells raining down. Like a lightshow of armageddon as warriors lined up. Armor creaking, murmuring, and a single half-Elf, young, so young, was trying to find her battalion.
Elia Arcsinger, over ten years ago, glanced around, face grimy with soot, wide-eyed, as soldiers assembled in ranks. In the distance, someone was shouting.
A familiar voice. And then Elia saw herself standing above her, reflected in the glass dome, a young half-Elf clutching an ordinary, basic bow with a low-grade enchantment on it, dressed in battered leather armor, searching around as a group of [Archers] grimly planted arrows in the ground, staring into the distance.
The [World’s Eye Theatre] was shining her memories straight down at her. Elia’s eyes opened wide, and she remembered. Perfectly.
 
——
 
Mrsha’s ears perked up as the movie—no, the live replay of what had once been—played itself above her heads.
In stunning visual quality. Each moment sharp as reality, vivid, the voices crisp in her ears. Mrsha had sat in this theatre and watched movies from Erin’s recollection. But they hadn’t always been this sharp.
They came from Erin’s memories, and they had been movies, in the end, a recording of events. This was clearer still, because it came from the Named-rank adventurer who needed no descriptions nor words to recall events.
There she stood in the center of the room, head tilted up, silently watching the events unfold. Everyone else was stunned. Gazing upwards.
Mrsha gazed at Nanette’s triumphant, relieved face and gave her a slow nod of respect until a voice she recognized snapped the Gnoll girl’s attention upwards. She noticed Rags was standing up, watching.
If they could not find all their answers in that secret palace, then here at least—
Dead gods. A witch beat the [Palace of Fates]. How ironic.
As Elia Arcsinger, the young version in the memory, wound her way awkwardly past [Archers] being ordered into ranks by a weary [Captain], her head turned, and she stared at a group of figures wreathed in shining spells, whirling orbs of magic, visible barrier spells, listening to someone screaming at them from a scrying orb.
A voice was raised, younger, rougher, filled with fury and nerves. Niers Astoragon’s voice, and his face was visible in the orb as he roared.
“—coming for you! He will wipe this entire damn regiment out! Fall back! Fall back and get me—”
“There is no falling back, Titan. He’s escaping the bombardments. In Wistram’s name, he halts here!”
An Archmage snapped back at the orb. Not an Archmage of the current era, but one now dead to the world, who flew and wore robes of shimmering stars that flowed and moved as Mrsha watched. A glimpse of what Wistram had been.
He was floating off the ground; a Human with a white beard, pointed hat, and robes, but not as traditionally [Wizard]-like as Mrsha expected. As Elia had said, more like an old [Farmer] with a beard, complete with the accent, who wore the robes of an Archmage of Wistram.
Yet his magic was real, and the [Mages] around him spread out, heads fixed on the horizon. Niers launched one last plea, then fell silent.
There was a trembling in the air—the warriors around the [Mages], helping guide the spellstrikes, stirred. The younger Elia swallowed as she peered ahead. The sound grew louder, no howling of the wind.
The Goblin King. 
 
——
 
It was no sound the Goblins had ever heard before, but it struck them. A mad beast’s roar, not the sound of a chieftain or general. They glanced at each other, then at Elia. The Named-rank adventurer was frozen, watching the memory.
Her memory.
The little [Sariantfriend] was the architect of it all. Erin had her Skill. Lyonette had access to said Skill. And Nanette had access to other people’s memories in shared visions.
Combination Skill. For one moment, everyone could see the events that had defined Elia’s life as she had lived them. And not just her memories.
