The staff of the inn and the Goblins following that Chieftain around stared at Elia as she took her archer’s umbrella off, but they seemed to be just observing her comings and goings rather than actively hostile. And Calescent seemed…friendly. All Elia wanted was to be an average coworker. She felt like this was a good step.
 
——
 
Happily, it wasn’t raining in Esthelm. The localized weather really did only affect Liscor; the city that ran through the safer route of the High Passes was dry, and Elia enjoyed the spring air.
In fact, it seemed like her proactivity had even reached Lyonette’s ears, because no sooner had Elia passed out the gates in the direction of a turkey flock that a [Guard] said all the [Hunters] had been after than she heard a voice in her head.
 
<Basic Quest — Hunt for Supper!>
Limits: Elia Arcsinger, dinnertime.
Ishkr told me you’re hunting food for dinner. That’s very…proactive of you, Elia. Well done! Can you get six turkeys? Or whatever else you can find, really.
Conditions: Any creatures hunted within the time limit will count towards the quest reward. Six turkeys are preferred. (0/6 hunted).
Posted Reward: Dinner.
Quest Reward: 1 copper coin, experience in <Hunting> classes.
 
…The reward sucked. And the wording implied that Lyonette hadn’t expected Elia to do anything. But the Named-rank adventurer considered it a win.
Low expectations meant she could exceed them by marginal amounts! She set off and quickly encountered a problem.
Turkey swarms attracted [Hunters]. [Hunters] killed as many turkeys as they could and made a quick profit.
That meant fewer turkeys already. She passed more than one [Hunter] on the road, butchering turkeys or slinging them into handcarts.
There must have been a lot. Elia picked up the pace, heading down the High Passes towards Liscor. She had no doubt the frightened fowl would fly off when they sensed the hunt or take cover in the rocks.
 
——
 
The shadow of a Wyvern passed overhead, and Elia warily looked up after thirty minutes of trekking south towards Liscor. But it was just a Frost Wyvern, and she found it ridiculous that Goblins were riding them and everyone was relaxed—but at least it wasn’t a threat.
She had shot one turkey so far, but she had sighted something even better; a full group of fat ducks waddling towards Liscor. They must have known the rains would give them a place to breed and eat. Elia was creeping towards them not so she had a better shot, but so she’d have an angle as they tried to fly away. She reckoned she could drop all eight of them and was only debating if she left one alive; they had a few chicks waddling with them, and Elia didn’t think Goblins would find them much of a mouthful.
She was aiming her bow at the first one’s head when Elia felt the shadow pass over her again. She glanced up, and the ducks quacked in fear as the Frost Wyvern passed lower. Elia was relieved the ducks didn’t fly off. She adjusted her aim, drew back on her arrow, and saw the flicker out of the corner of her eye.
Elia threw herself forwards and rolled as something struck the leather armor on her shoulder. It lodged—she heard the ducks squawk in alarm as she burst out of cover. Elia whirled, raising her bow, and shot the second arrow out of the air.
What? She was under fire! She ran sideways as a third and fourth arrow hit the ground. From where? Above—she looked up as the shadow passed lower a third time, and she heard the first scream from above.
A familiar, high-pitched shriek. 
Goblins.
They leapt off the back of the Frost Wyvern as it circled low, then took off. Elia didn’t get a look at the rider; her eyes were on the Goblins.
Five. Each one armed with a bow. Melee weapons too; two Hobs and three Goblins. They screamed as they landed, raising their bows and loosing arrows at Elia. She took cover instantly, sprinting for an outcropping of rock.
What was going on? Arrows rattled off her cover with good precision, and Elia reached for a speaking stone that Ishkr had given her.
“This is Elia. Are you in range? I’m under attack by Goblins!”
There was a moment of silence—then Ishkr’s startled voice.
“Adventurer Arcsinger? Goblins? What did you do?”
“Nothing. They attacked me!”
Elia peeked her head up, or pretended to, and an arrow streaked through where her head would have been if she hadn’t yanked it down. She peeked from the side instead and saw them advancing slowly, the two Hobgoblins ahead of the small ones. They were using cover, clearly trying to outflank her and get into melee range.
She was suddenly perspiring and afraid. It was only five Goblins, but their aim was far too good for untrained archers. And they’d come on Wyvernback. Was this a trap?
She swung her bow up, on reflex, as she heard a shout. A bright-blue flicker—Elia blew the enchanted Ice Arrow out of the skies and heard distant cursing in Goblin.
“They’ve got enchanted munitions. I have to defend myself!”
“Don’t kill them. I’m getting—where are you?”
“Thirty minutes south of Esthelm. They’re coming for me. If they get into melee range and surround me, I’m dead without enchanted armor.”
She had a single rock for cover, and they were alternating between lobbing shots at her and firing directly whenever she poked her head out. All the Goblins had to do was get closer; they could also hit her with enchanted arrows even if she stayed hunkered down.
This was disastrously disadvantageous. They’d come prepared to kill an [Archer]. Elia knew what she had to do; she drew her bow back, raised it without exposing her head or body, and spoke.
“[Explosive Arrow]!”
She heard a warning cry from the Goblins as they ducked, but Elia’s shot hit the ground barely a dozen paces from her. The explosion sent dust funneling up, and she leapt out of her cover.
[Repositioning Leap]!
Elia didn’t run, but jumped in a huge arc to a spot she’d marked before loosing her arrow. Her jump carried her nearly thirty feet, depositing her behind an outcropping of rock. Just in time too; she heard a thump behind her and guessed they’d hit her cover with some kind of explosive arrow.
I have to shoot those down if they come at me. However, her gambit had worked.
The Goblins lost her in the dust cloud as Elia landed behind the rocks and found a ledge she could crawl behind. But she cursed as she saw one of the Hobs turn their head and point at her.
Tracking Skill of some kind. Elia pulled an arrow back on her bow and got to one knee as her speaking stone buzzed again. It wasn’t Ishkr this time.
“Arcsinger.”
The voice was low and intense. Elia froze.
“Who is this?”
“Bravehammer. Chieftain Rags’ guard.”
“Order the Goblins to stop attacking me. I didn’t attack them! I was hunting ducks! I know it’s your tribe!”
“Is our tribe.”
“Then—”
“Those Mountain City Goblins.”
Elia heard two more arrows rattle off the rocks above her. She rose, ducked—a web exploded just above her and clung to her skin. They wanted to lock her down.
“What does that mean?”
“You raided their home. Helped killed their Chieftain. Tremborag. They trying to kill you for revenge. We coming.”
“How long—”
Elia ripped at a web, and she grunted as it came off with her skin and hair. She knew they were getting closer.
“Wyvern can’t fly in rains. Ten minutes.”
“I’m dead in ten minutes.”
She took a hold of her bow, stomach tight. She heard chatter in Goblin and knew they were sending someone creeping along the rocks. There was no reply from Bravehammer. Just a sigh. He said nothing, but Ishkr broke into the speaking stone desperately.
“Elia, don’t—”
She rose, and her bow sang. A Goblin’s scream was Ishkr’s reply.
 
——
 
She knew war. That was what the Goblins had forgotten. Even if she had never deserved her title. Even if she had lost her greatest Skill—she was still an [Archer].
A [Nemesis of Goblins]. She could see them; they glittered in her vision despite their attempts to take cover. And her arrows were better than theirs, magic enchantments or not.
The first Goblin coming along the cliffside almost had a bead on her. Elia aimed at the Goblin and realized, whether by chance or design, they were all female. The Goblin recoiled, but it was too late.
“[Instant Arrow].”
Elia hit her target the moment she let go of the arrow. She spun—one of the Hobs was raising a crossbow.
Elia fired the second arrow, then aimed at the Hob’s cover: a thick tree.
“[Greenbane Arrow]. [Piercing Shot].”
Her arrow went straight through the tree and hit her target. Elia saw the remaining three take aim at her and fire; their aim was good. Unerring shots? She saw one was a burning Arrow of Fireball—
Elia vanished as the arrows flashed through the air where she’d been and fire engulfed the spot. She felt the sticky web on her vanish; the Goblins whirled around, searching for her, and she aimed down at them. She’d appeared higher up on the cliffs of the High Passes.
[Arrow of the Traveller]. Elia’s bow sang twice more.
[Seeker Arrow]. [Impact Arrow].
This time, she missed; one of the Goblins twisted in an impossible dodge at the last second. The other went down, shrieking, clutching at a leg. The last Hob and other unwounded Goblin began running, and both fired up enchanted munitions at her. Elia performed a simple [Ranged Dodge], leaning out of the way of another burning arrow—
It exploded in midair without her touching it, and the other one curved around to follow—
 
——
 
One of the Hobs was downed from the [Greenbane Arrow]. So was the first Goblin Elia had hit; the one hit in the leg was screaming but able to fight. Three, staring at the cliffside where smoke was rising. Did they get her?
The wary Goblins’ answer was an arrow flashing down and striking the wounded Goblin, eliciting another scream. They saw Elia Arcsinger rolling down the cliff with a barrage of stones. She’d fired mid-roll; the Goblins got up and charged, screaming.
They hadn’t a chance of beating her in a ranged battle, even with their munitions. [Rangers] acquired too many Skill-based arrows, and Elia was the better archer by far. But they were only a hundred feet away, and Elia was rolling in a miniature avalanche.
“Tremborag!”
The first Goblin screamed as Elia fumbled for arrows cascading out of her quiver. She fired—Elia caught the arrow and reversed it. She put the arrow to her bow, adjusted her aim, and fired.
The Goblin dropped as her helmet pinged. The Hob kept running. She fired her arrow before casting her bow aside.
It struck home, hitting Elia Arcsinger in the right thigh. She pushed herself to her knees. The Hob was halfway towards her. Elia Arcsinger reached for an arrow as the Hob raised two axes, screaming.
 
——
 
Elia fired her first arrow in a blur, on pure instinct. She hit the Hobgoblin in the knee, then the shoulder. The warrior staggered, screamed, and kept coming.
Aim. Loose. Aim. Loose! Aim—
Elia hit the Goblin with three more arrows, each time having to stop herself from a headshot. It would be so simple—but she had no idea what Lyonette or the other Goblins would do if she killed them.
The other four Goblins were downed, shot through the legs or shoulders, unconscious or immobilized by the arrows. But the last one was the highest-level of them all.
She kept coming. Five arrows, then six—and she finally fell to one leg. Both legs had multiple arrows sticking out of the flesh, and she collapsed, unable to move. Barely twenty feet away. Elia began to yank at the arrow in her thigh, panting, praying it wasn’t poisoned or barbed. Then she heard a strangled scream.
The Hobgoblin was still moving. She was crawling forwards, her crimson eyes locked on Elia. Leaving a trail of blood on the dry ground.
Elia loosed another arrow and had another on her bow before she caught herself. The Goblin’s right arm jerked as an arrow pinned it to the ground, but the Goblin yanked the arrow out. She was crawling with her arms, unable to use her legs.
Her eyes were locked on Elia’s face. Twisted in pain and a snarl. Monster. Elia’s arrow wavered.
The Goblin’s eyes were boring into Elia’s. Her face was twisted up with so much rage it seemed to be distorting the very air around her, a roiling fury turning her into a glowing-eyed creature bathed in blood and darkness.
Every scar and line on her face was magnified. A woman’s face that held a demonic gaze. Crow’s feet on the edges of her face. Not from age, but from hunger, maybe, that had turned her skin oddly old.
And she was still moving. The half-Elf slowly lowered her bow as someone shouted her name. She said nothing as a Gnoll came racing across the ground and slowed; Ishkr saw the downed Goblins and ran for them with a healing potion. The other Goblins arrived minutes later, glancing at the impromptu battlefield, grabbing the downed Goblins and checking to see if they were alive.
The Redfangs seemed surprised that the attackers weren’t dead. Even the final Goblin, lying on the ground. She had passed out four feet from Elia’s boots, still reaching out, snapped arrow shafts covered in blood.
The Named-rank adventurer didn’t move. She only jerked when Ishkr offered the last of the healing potion. She glanced down at her thigh.
“I’m fine. Just a…”
Even when the Goblins picked up the unconscious warrior, it felt like that murderous stare had etched itself on Elia’s face. She missed what they said to Ishkr or reported to Lyonette and Rags—Elia kept standing there until she realized she had to walk back to the inn.
She didn’t know what had affected her so strongly.
It was not the first time an enemy had glared at her across the battlefield. She had seen thousands of Goblins at the end of an arrow’s tip. Beheld the terrifying hatred of Crelers and their strange intelligence. And she had killed men and women too, bandits. Looked them in the eyes as the life vanished.
But this time—Elia shuddered, because she had seen a mind burning with hatred so hot it had made the Hobgoblin woman willing to sacrifice her life to kill Elia. That—also—wasn’t unique.
Why? Why was it?
Perhaps it was the first time she had recognized it in a Goblin’s face. That dark fury, and it was dark, destructive, all-consuming. Battle-madness, vengeance incarnate.
Such expressions didn’t belong to mindless monsters. They were—
“What was that, Arcsinger?”
Elia blinked. She realized Ishkr was helping her limp back to the inn, supporting her. She searched for what she said.
“—the Goblin King. She looked like they did when we were fighting the Goblin King.”
