Then again, the potions of transformation were no longer the issue since Saliss could make tons with the Faerie Flowers. Mirn checked the sun’s position.
“I’ve got to finish unloading this cargo.”
“It’s all here, boss. We can take it.”
One of the workers called out reassuringly. He was another Turnscale, and the other workers were solid, good people—they shouted the same, and Mirn made a show of being dragged away by Onieva.
They played this game that wasn’t a game for the sake of watchers. But the truth was that they probably did behave like a couple; Onieva straightened Mirn’s dirty work-clothes and tutted as they headed to the 5th Floor.
Saliss’ home. Onieva led Mirn as if she were Saliss, because she was—but Mirn knew she was using Saliss’ memories.
But she didn’t remember she was Saliss. That was the drawback of the Faerie Flower version of the potion, and it always made his stomach hurt when he saw her walking about. Still, Saliss said he was happier when he was she—
Sometimes, it got confusing, depending on the kind of Turnscale you were. Rose, that kid from Earth, had a lot of terms, but even she got mixed up because magic played with the rules. Saliss was Onieva. Saliss was truly Onieva, and the body someone had tossed on him was the bad, cruel joke, but Onieva was something Saliss could transform into.
Because of that, Saliss had decided he was Saliss at times. Saliss, the Named-rank adventurer, the one who did what he thought he had to do. So Saliss was Onieva, but Onieva was separate from Saliss.
If that made sense.
Mirn’s job, in this case, was to wake up Saliss. He had vials, six of them in his house, on his person, in a safety box—all of which would reverse the transformation. It wasn’t hard, normally—he handed Onieva the vial, and she recognized it and would turn back. But today was—different.
“I’m glad I caught you, Mirn. Today’s been weird. First, I met Elia Arcsinger; remember her?”
“The slayer of the Goblin King? You said she’s half-real corn.”
Onieva shrugged, taking on Saliss’ mannerisms, and she remembered everything he did. But it was still slightly—off.
“Half-real, but she’s okay. Had a conversation with her, but then I had this weirdest—not déjà vu, but the opposite. No one recognizes me. I mean, some people do, but it’s like everyone’s forgotten I’m a Named-rank all of a sudden. Maybe I should restart my adventuring career? Stop helping Saliss and go solo?”
Uh oh. Mirn wished he had some more stomach pain powder, but Saliss had told him it just destroyed his stomach lining. He needed some right now and reached for the vial that would at least help Onieva.
“It’s—probably just people forgetting you since Saliss is the flashy one. Hey, Onieva, isn’t it time to take your tonic?”
“Eh, I’ve got time until Saliss has to deliver the report. He’s just got to write it up and sit through a stupid meeting with High Command and hold their claws. Then let them say something horrifically military. Ancestors, I could do the report and deliver it for him. Take a load off. He’s been stressed. Anything new happening with you, Mirn?”
Small wonder if you’re here. They headed to 5th Floor, chatting over the things they could talk about openly, covertly mentioning news about a new Turnscale, and so on.
Neither one was too worried about the Eyes of Pallass getting in their way. Mirn didn’t clash with them—and he wasn’t sure what the new status quo was with Chaldion gone, but Onieva didn’t get hassled. If the Eyes of Pallass even knew who she was—they knew better than to tail her.
Onieva glanced at the potion Mirn had slipped back onto his belt as she unlocked the door to Saliss’ home and slipped in.
“Hey, Saliss? It’s me! Wow, he really is out. Hey, I’d better get my own home. It’s sort of embarrassing crashing at his place all the time, don’t you think?”
Mirn poured himself a cup of water from the faucet. Okay, it was bad today. He spoke carefully.
“I don’t think so? You and Saliss do everything so similarly—what’s the issue?”
Onieva’s eyes flickered to him as he poured a cup of water for her. He didn’t pour the tonic into the cup; spiking an [Alchemist]’s drink was the dumbest thing you could try. But Onieva just stretched at the messy table filled with food she or Saliss had brought from restaurants and never thrown away.
“Yeah, well, I’m really disliking how much credit he gets. Remember when I was fighting the Wyverns? Guess who gets all the television.”
Mirn tried to grin.
“Oh, that. Didn’t you duck out of the interviews or something? I vaguely remember that.”
“Did I? It sounds like me.”
She leaned back in her chair, balancing on her tail, as she took the cup of water and a sip, then smacked her lips. Mirn sat down, brushing a stack of plates to the side.
“So—how’s the seith?”
“Nasty? It’s the kind of stuff the old Golems were made of. It’s fuel for Tier 6 spells. It’s literally the magicore of the older eras, Mirn; nothing gets done without it. If there’s more of it, anyone who knows what it’s worth wants it. It’s like a mana-crystal or magicore for Level 50+ people.”
“Dead gods.”
“Them too. Say, you think we should take Saliss to the bar tonight? Get him out and actually having fun for once instead of sitting in Tails and Scales or something?”
“He’s…not a Turnscale, Onieva. But he is an ally. I don’t know if he’d be comfortable, you know? Let alone how safe the bar is.”
Mirn was in agony now, trying to figure out what to say. Onieva frowned, tapped her lips, and shrugged. She sat forward as Mirn slid the tonic to her.
“Listen, I think it’s time. Have a sip and we’ll see what Saliss thinks when he arrives.”
Onieva snorted as she picked up the vial and held it to the light. She lightly uncorked it and put it to her lips.
“High Command’s sent their little staff scurrying all over Pallass looking for him. Have you seen him? Don’t tell me he’s hiding in your house.”
Mirn saw Onieva take a sip.
“Oh, I think he’s closer by than you think.”
“Hm. Interesting.”
Onieva’s mouth pursed, and she turned and spat the Faerie Flower drink in Mirn’s eyes. That was the last thing he saw as a clawed hand, dainty but impossibly strong, picked him up and slammed him into a wall.
Mirn was tough, a former soldier in the alchemy corps ranks and a [Protector] to boot, a high-level one. His claws shot out, even blind—and then a crushing arm was locking one of his arms and his windpipe against the wall. And there was a dagger placed right in his earhole.
He stopped struggling, an icy blade of fear running through his chest.
“Onieva!”
He wanted to speak, but she had him locked down. The Drake’s blue and yellow eyes were terribly, terribly calm, and she was poised to kill him in a second.
Named-rank adventurer. Great [Alchemist]—she spoke, her voice quivering slightly.
“What’s in the drink, Mirn? I don’t remember. I remember thinking I made it. Funny. My memory’s clear. I never ducked interviews after the Wyverns fled, but you seem to think I did. Or want me to believe it. Where’s Saliss? Is he part of this?”
He tapped on her arm, frantically, and the knife tip moved further into his ear-canal in response.
“If you try anything, I’ll kill you. Is Saliss part of this?”
She was ready to fight, like this was a Turnscale raid. Mirn’s scales were sleek with sweat, because if she thought he was a traitor, he was very dead. If she thought she and Saliss were about to kill each other—
“No, no! We’re on your side, Onieva! You’ve known me for decades!”
“I have. The old man means I don’t trust even my oldest friends. Memories can be faked. What’s in the vial?”
“F-faerie Flower tonic! It’s just meant to transform you back, Onieva!”
Her eyes flickered.
“Faerie Flower…? I never made…transform me back into who?”
Her grip loosened a bit so he could gasp for air, and Mirn spoke.
“You—you have to know. I asked you the first time. I know it’s the side-effect of the drink—don’t kill me, Onieva. Where’s Saliss? You know where he is. Why don’t people recognize you? You know.”
She let go of him, and he fell, coughing and cursing himself as an idiot. He should have never agreed to play along with this stupid charade for as long as he had. But she’d been so happy—Onieva stood there, flicking the dagger up and down. She was glancing around, paranoid, searching for a trap or trick, but she was too smart.
“Where’s Saliss? Don’t…no one recognizes me. I met Elia. She should know me. Four pairs of clothes. Can’t remember how many times I’ve ever slept over with anyone—all those adventures.”
“With Saliss?”
Her eyes flicked to him, and she hurled the dagger down into the table, making the plates jump. Onieva strode around the room, holding her head in her claws.
“But he’s a lone operator. So am I. I remember being alone when I fought Wrymvr, that—but I was with him. I know what Faerie Flowers do. I definitely would have turned them into a potion! I did with Xif! Something’s wrong. Holes in my memory. What did the old man do?”
She lifted him again, baring her teeth, going to the first and most logical conclusion. This time, Mirn held still.
“Nothing, Onieva. Not this time. You did it to yourself. Figure it out. Why did you go to Chandrar?”
Her eyes were wide and searching. She was in denial, now, but her intelligent mind was putting it together. Her claws loosened as she whispered.
“Run away. I ran. Why did I run away to Chandrar? Because I didn’t want to turn into my father or mother and be the old man’s hope of the Walled Cities. Because I knew something was wrong. Because—I knew there was a famous [Alchemist] in Nerrhavia’s Fallen that could change your form. Let you become anything…”
She glanced down at her body. Rose-pink and cobalt scales, a flashy, beautiful coloration. A Drake in the prime of her life, looking younger than she was, beautiful. She found the water glass and stared at her face, which was similar in a few ways, but mostly…her eyes widened further.
She didn’t drop the glass or gasp or scream. She just stood there as the Faerie Flower’s drink finally lost the ability to trick her. Onieva put the glass of water down with a claw that visibly shook and turned to Mirn. He lay there, but her voice was quiet, gentle, and oh so very afraid.
“Mirn. Am I…Saliss?”
His eyes stung.
“Yeah, Onieva. You are.”
For a second, Onieva didn’t move. Then her shoulders slumped. She let out a breath, long and slow, and he saw all the weight that had been absent from his best friend’s shoulders, all the burdens that Pallass’ unthanked hero had carried, fall back into place. Heavier than before.
But it was Onieva who caught the load, and it was still her, not Saliss, who sat down heavily in a chair. Mirn pulled himself up as Onieva put her head in her hands. Neither one said a word for minutes. Then she spoke.
“It makes sense. No wonder I’m so miserable when I wake up, yet then I’m always happy and relieved for no reason. Deliriously happy, like someone cast a [Hysteria] spell on me. No wonder I feel like I’ve never gone out shopping or held anyone’s hand or had the time to love or just walk in the park.”
She looked at the overturned vial and righted it on the table.
“So this thing was responsible for me not knowing…?”
“You did with the first potions. This is—the side-effect.”
“Faerie Flowers. Always some kind of prank. Except with the painkiller stuff. I’m pretty sure the trick there is that you sleep an hour for every hour you get pain-free. The First Gardener was complaining about that. Makes sense. And it played just enough with my memories that I didn’t get it. Then I thought you were drugging me. I was about to kill you and then fight my way out of Pallass.”
“—Thanks for not doing that.”
Mirn felt shaky and knew Onieva was putting together more pieces, reconciling her life with Saliss’. Maybe the memories were joining up, but dead gods…he didn’t want her to remember what had happened to Saliss.
If Mirn could have gone back in time—well, he’d have told a young Saliss to run. Run like all the Demons of Rhir were after him and not give his life to Pallass. Maybe not to go to Nerrhavia’s Fallen, either.
Or maybe I’d just go there and murder that damn [Alchemist] and give Saliss the recipe book. The prices Saliss had paid to learn what he had were too much.
As in, to be brutally clear, the price had been trading her body to her ‘master’ for the knowledge of how to shape herself. Saliss, and Onieva, had not found a better or more understanding world in Chandrar.
Then she’d come back, risen to become a Named-rank adventurer, and put her body and soul on the line too many times for so little reward until she was close to breaking. Only brief hours as Onieva had kept her sane.
Then one day she’d met an [Innkeeper] and talked to Mirn about a cute, crazy kid who was cursed with the same stuff as Named-ranks. And then she’d experimented with the Faerie Flowers and…
Here they were. Onieva, running her hands down her face. The first thing she said in the dim light of the shuttered house was—
“So I’m actually a nudist and all of Pallass has seen my dangling worm?”
Mirn tried not to laugh. But Onieva continued, straight-faced.
“—And I’m a Named-rank adventurer who’s playing the famous idiot when I’m actually…I—Saliss—must feel like—”
“Yeah.”
“I’m a Turnscale.”
“Yep.”
Onieva’s head ducked, then rose, then she banged it on the table.
“Ancestors, I’m a Turnscale! No wonder I hang out at your bar all the time! No wonder I know what—and that means since Saliss isn’t me and he’s—is he happy?”
Mirn shook his head, relieved and heartbroken.
“Nope. I think he’s miserable.”
“Dead gods. I’d die if I had to be…the potions. And he’s been doing this for forty damn years. Or trying to, before he figured out how to create the potions that made—me.”
“You’ve been doing this for forty years, Onieva.”
She peered at him, clawed hands trembling.
“And you didn’t tell me?”
“I wanted to, but Saliss said—”
“I bet he did. I did. Ancestors, this is so confusing!”
Onieva leapt to her feet and paced around the room. She turned back to Mirn suddenly.
“If I drink that potion, I turn into Saliss, right? And he remembers…?”
“Everything you did. Including the fact that you don’t remember.”
Her face twisted up in a wry grimace.
“Well, he’ll remember this time. I…wow. Okay.”
