She buried her face in her claws again and just sat there. She didn’t shake, and Mirn was afraid to pat her on the shoulder. Afraid that she might break down. Then he heard a laugh, pain-filled, tired, but relieved.
“I thought I was going mad or being tricked. I’m only a Turnscale, not some body-double or mind-slaved victim. I’m…it’d be easier if this was all a scheme from the Eyes of Pallass. Wouldn’t it?”
She looked up, eyes shining, and Mirn thought about what she had said. It’d be easier if a Walled City’s secret agency was mentally corrupting her mind or drugging her for decades. He leaned on her, eyes watering.
“Yeah.”
For a while, neither of them said anything, then Onieva wiped at her eyes.
“On the plus side, I had a great time with that cute Gnoll [Server], Ishkr. It’s the first time I ever woke up with someone holding me. And you know my first thought? I was really worried about getting pregnant. I swallowed one of those after-night potions instantly. It’s like less than a one in ten thousand chance of getting naturally pregnant cross-species, but it happens…”
Mirn started laughing, then choked with the idea of any of that happening to Onieva. Onieva laughed too. She sat there as Mirn stood.
“What happens now, Onieva?”
“Now? I guess I drink the tonic, go back to being Saliss, and you can stop acting like an idiot each time I turn into Onieva. I’m sure I’ll remember. Dead gods, you were an Eye of Pallass, Mirn. How are you so bad at acting?”
He hunched his shoulders defensively.
“I was combat and alchemy, not speechcraft. Are you going to be okay, Onieva?”
She shrugged, exhaling wearily.
“Me? I’m okay. Like I said, it makes sense. It’s not—fun to know I’m Saliss. It feels terrible, actually, because I know how his life is. But I’m happy. I’m me, Mirn. This is everything I wanted. If I could go off into the distance and leave Pallass behind and not go back to being Saliss…”
She trailed off, and Mirn turned. He strode over, picked up the vial, and stoppered it. Onieva glanced up, and Mirn spoke.
“Don’t.”
“Don’t what?”
“Don’t go back to being Saliss, Onieva. Pack up. Grab everything—you can probably get everything except his Merchant’s Guild’s money, and even a lot of that maybe. Just pack up, go somewhere—The Wandering Inn—and never come back. They’ll look for Saliss, but you can pretend you are his cousin. The potion doesn’t wear off, or even if it does, you have enough to make a lifetime’s worth. Go!”
He shooed her with his claws, suddenly desperate. This was her chance. She wasn’t Saliss. She could go and—
Onieva sat there, and there was too much of Saliss in her eyes. She shook her head.
“What happens to those idiots in charge? All the kids and people in Pallass?”
“They’ll find another Named-rank, Onieva.”
“The old man—Chaldion—”
“He’s dead! Stay near the inn, then! Go to the inn and have a dozen kids with Ishkr if you want. Or be a Named-rank for another city! Explore the world! Anything but here. You can’t keep doing this.”
At some point, he realized he was crying. Actually trying to shove her out the door, voice raised, hysterical. Onieva was holding him, and Mirn broke down. She was so gentle, for all her strength, as she patted him on the head.
“I am Saliss. Or he’s part of me. He still loves this city, Mirn.”
“It’s not worthy of you.”
Onieva said nothing for a long time. She sighed, and Mirn rested his head against her chest. After a while, gently, a claw touched Mirn’s chin.
“Worthy. Unworthy. It never mattered to me whether they were or not, Mirn. Only if I loved them. I could never do anything about them loving me for who I was.”
Mirn’s head tilted up as a familiar voice spoke, gentle, deeper, and Saliss of Lights gave him a grin that was just tired. Mirn shook his head in despair, and the Named-rank adventurer shed Onieva’s jeans and clothing. He sat down.
“Saliss—”
“Even as Onieva, I’m me. I can’t do it. Not with the New Lands, not with seith. It’s more than just protecting people, Mirn. It’s making sure Pallass isn’t the monster I know it can be. One more time. One last push.”
“You’ve said that since you came back from Nerrhavia’s Fallen! I can’t keep watching you tear yourself to pieces! I should have lied and let Onieva kill me!”
Mirn overturned the table, and Saliss grabbed plates and food, piling them up in a blur of movement. He stopped, grinning, balancing a dozen plates on his arms and even a foot, and Mirn watched him in despair.
“Saliss.”
The [Alchemist] gently put the plates down, then brushed at Mirn’s tears. He hugged his friend and spoke.
“—It’s like a drug, being her. The happiest in the world. And I keep thinking—‘if I can be her half the time, a third of the time, I can do this’. I can live my entire life with a third of my day happy and as myself.”
Mirn was going to scream. To shout at the manifest horror of those words. But Saliss’ arms tightened, and he murmured as he rested his head against Mirn’s chest.
“—But the more I feel what it’s like to be Onieva, the closer I get to the dream, Mirn, the more impossible it gets to split my time. One last time. One last push, and then…Saliss of Lights is going to retire. He’s going to pull a Zel Shivertail and make a stand for Turnscales. It doesn’t matter if his reputation goes to shit; it’s already there. Pallass can exile me or order me in line. One last year, Mirn. Then I’m packing up and never going back.”
Mirn looked up suddenly, heart leaping.
“You’ve said that—”
“I’ve said it before. Look at me, Mirn.”
Saliss held Mirn’s head with his claws.
“Turnscales. I owe you and everyone else a debt. Saliss can do that. He can stand in front of an army and threaten to turn it to ash and blood. This is it. Burn every bridge I’ve got because Onieva’s going to fly away.”
The [Protector] didn’t know what to say. He wanted to tell Saliss to drink the potion and run off now. But the Named-rank was so determined, and if Saliss left, Turnscales in Pallass would suffer.
“Promise me? Or I’ll slip that potion into your drink along with a pregnancy surefire draught the next time Onieva dates Ishkr or whomever.”
Saliss snorted.
“Dead gods, Mirn. I promise.”
He took a breath and sounded relieved. Saliss gently lifted the mostly empty vial of Faerie Flower tonic and sighed.
“It only took forty-some years. Soon, I’ll be able to live.”
He smiled, then. That smile you only saw when Saliss was alone, not in public. That courageous, damned stupid, wonderfully tragic hero of Pallass.
 
——
 
Beithday (same day) – The Hunting Event
 
Elia Arcsinger felt a bit better after her talk with Onieva. There was a Named-rank adventurer who didn’t seem as noticeably broken-down by her rank as many Elia had met. It gave Elia hope that she, too, could have an enjoyable, reasonable lifestyle.
Elia supposed there was nothing wrong with how things were. Certainly, when she got back to the inn, a slightly embarrassed Ishkr asked her if she’d wanted anything, and she intimated that she’d mostly wanted to talk about the staff.
“Oh. The staff—they’re, ah, erm, standoffish. Given your reputation. But The Wandering Inn is full of second chances. If you proved you were willing to change, I think many would give you that shot. You just have to show it.”
“How?”
“Well…it’s often in events.”
“Like…handing out food when the inn has a big party or putting on a show? I can juggle a bit.”
Elia had an image of herself putting on that maid outfit and doing a bit of manual work to show she was part of the team. Ishkr hesitated.
“Er. No. I meant more when Facestealer attacks. Or Crelers pour in through the portal door.”
Liska had been having lunch and gave Ishkr a side-eye along with Elia.
“D-does that happen often?”
Ishkr tried for a reassuring smile.
“Not—often? Infrequently! But reliably infrequently? In the meantime, er, you could maybe add something to the inn? You’re always either training Bird or on lookout duty.”
So all you do is sit around and eat food. Elia took the hint. After a bit of discussion, she realized there was something she could do. With the pouring rain, it was wet as hell around the inn, but the waters provided her with an opportunity.
The wooden bridges linking the hills gave her ample space to walk about and shoot her bow. For training, obviously, but also…
“Do you think if I brought in some game—fish or maybe rabbits or something—it would help?”
Ishkr’s eyes brightened.
“We buy fresh fish, of course.”
“Oh. Then—”
“—But if you were to bring in some, I could have Calescent make up a special meal and tell all the staff you were responsible for it. Goblins and Antinium love eating.”
This was true. Thus, Elia’s mission for the day became a hunt for the best game or fish to impress the inn’s workers.
It was pretty fun. Elia didn’t mind the pouring rain; she just requested an archer’s umbrella, and when no one had an idea what that was, she built one out of some wood and canvas.
It was essentially a giant stick you attached to a harness that kept the umbrella over your head and with enough room for your bow. It was silly-looking, but it let Elia keep dry as well as pivot and shoot so long as the winds didn’t blow.
In fact, when a few of the wet Rheirgest [Necromancers] saw her, they were copying her within minutes. Elia strode out of the inn, walked over the wet, swaying bridges, and began her hunt.
 
——
 
She was still a Level 40+ [Archer], when all was said and done. Elia was a [Ranger] so survival activities were simple for her, but when you got down to it, all you needed was a bow, enough force to shoot an arrow deep enough into the water, and good eyes.
And a bit of string or rope to pull the arrow back. Elia forgot the first time and watched a Quillfish bobbing in the water until another fish dragged it down. Then she made another mistake.
“Um.”
A giant octopus-fish riddled with eight arrows bobbed in the water as Elia tried to tug it over to the bank. It was so big that she couldn’t pull it onto shore, nor get it into her bag of holding.
However, rescue came as Ishkr came skating out of the inn with a Chest of Holding and a delighted Calescent. He took one look at the octopus-thing, held out a hand for Elia to high-five—and she backed away. The [Chef]’s face fell, and he stood there looking—
Hurt?
Then his smile expanded, and Elia wondered if she’d imagined it. Calescent turned and pronounced loudly as Bird buzzed down.
“Sushi. I have to tell Imani! She wants one of these.”
The massive octopus-thing was black and less malleable and adaptive than a regular octopus; it dragged itself onto land and attacked land animals most of the time. Bird sampled one still-twitching tentacle.
“This is moderately tasty despite not being a bird. However, Elia, I must warn you.”
She held up a finger as Elia wondered if she’d done something wrong; Bird seemed angry.
“I am Bird.”
“Okay?”
“Bird. Me. I shoot birds. Well, not anymore because I have reconciled my philosophical differences with birds.”
“I…see.”
Bird gestured to the dead octopus-thing.
“Birds are my thing. I wish to caution you that if you become a fish person, you are stealing my theme.”
Elia nodded slowly.
“I’m not a fish person.”
“Good, good. As long as you know your role. Stick to Goblins.”
Bird pointed a finger at Elia as Calescent half-turned and gave her an outraged look. The [Chef] was slicing off a bit of the tentacle to experiment with. He turned to Elia again. The Goblin was visibly excited and pumped up; like a good [Cook] anywhere, he liked fresh, quality ingredients. He hesitated, though, when he faced Elia, and his tone became a bit more cautionary.
“This is good, Adventurer Elia. You…like seafood? You want anything else?”
She bit her tongue, not sure what to say. Be cordial. Friendly. They were standing on a wet island, and she was conscious of Bird and Ishkr glancing at her, so she forced a smile. It wasn’t that hard.
“I—uh—I like Drathian sushi. You know what that is?”
“Yah. Seaweed, rice, fish.”
“That’s right…um, er, this is for the inn’s staff. I can hunt another fish if you want.”
Calescent eyed the dead octopus-thing and shook his head.
“This more than enough for all the inn. Nice and fishy. Though…fish meat is fish meat. Could use land meat. Something nice and tasty?”
He glanced at her, and Elia brightened.
“Rabbits? Or maybe a Corusdeer? It’s spring, and if they’re not here…”
Ishkr jumped in.
“I heard Esthelm has an influx of turkeys.”
Everyone turned to him, and Ishkr shrugged.
“That’s what I heard. Probably some kind of migration due to the Garbichugs or something else. Would a few turkeys do, Calescent?”
The [Chef] grinned.
“That good. Then picky people can eat turkeys. And I have lots of meat for the Redfangs. They eat too much.”
“And they have feathers, which I shall accept as tribute. I would go hunt them, but I have a job.”
Bird fanned her wings pointedly, and Elia decided to ignore the jab. She confirmed with Ishkr that an hour or two to hunt down six or more turkeys was acceptable and set out.
Elia hurried back after getting two bridges away, feeling mightily embarrassed. Calescent was arguing with Bird about whether or not sushi could be made with poultry.
“So you are saying you cannot do it.”
“I can do it. All I do is grill some chicken or make tempura-stuff and put it into the sushi instead of fish.”
“Does it taste bad?”
“No. Tastes pretty good.”
“Then why do you not do this for me, Calescent?”
“Because I am making sushi and you will eat my sushi!”
“I feel like you are being very anti-bird right now, Calescent. It is hurtful. I died recently, you know.”
“You have said that over two dozen times.”
“Oh, so dying only gets me two dozen meals? Very hurtful—”
Ishkr was listening to the back-and-forth with a grin, but tilted his head up as Calescent drew breath to shout at Bird. They all turned to Elia, and her ears became red, but she had to say it.
“Er—thank you for making sushi for me, Calescent. And the morning’s quesadillas were good.”
She spun on her heel and almost dashed off, hugely embarrassed and wondering how awkward that had been. But she’d forgotten her manners. And you had to have manners…
She just hoped Calescent and Bird and Ishkr weren’t laughing at her behind her back. Regardless, Elia didn’t look back.
