She had not run when the Goblin King charged. She would cling to that, in her heart, as the one moment in her life she had known what bravery was.
Slowly, very slowly, Elia took Mrsha’s little paw and felt the girl’s heart racing. Elia bent down.
“I promise that if I think it won’t harm anyone, I’ll keep your secret. Okay? What should I swear on?”
The half-Elf was prepared to make many oaths, but the clever little Gnoll girl looked her in the eye without hesitation and wrote:
Swear on your daughter.
Elia swore.
 
——
 
Even with the promise, Mrsha didn’t quite trust Elia, or perhaps there was more to it, so she made the Named-rank wear a blindfold. Elia tried to tie it so she could see through the gauze with her sharp vision, but Mrsha found out by flinging her paw in front of Elia’s face and re-tied the blindfold until it was truly dark.
It wasn’t a long journey; they seemed to walk through a door, then come to a stop in some dirt pit with a low roof, if Elia’s senses were any judge. Then—
The problem with a mute guide was that even with Mrsha’s pre-programmed speaking stones, Elia didn’t understand Mrsha’s tugging meant there was a drop. She picked herself off the ground and tore off her blindfold and glared as Mrsha slid down a rope.
Sorry, I said there was gonna be a drop!
“That hurt like—where are we?”
All of her outrage faded the moment Elia saw the impossibly long corridor. And her eyes and perception were nothing like Mrsha’s. Her mind whirled with the impossibility of it. Dead gods, I can see for at least ten miles straight—there’s no architectural building in the world that has—
Mrsha scrabbled for the blindfold.
Don’t look! Don’t look! Put it back on and follow me!
“Where are we going? Oh. Right. You can’t answer.”
“Hello! Stupid!”
“I know those are pre-programmed answers and you’re showing me a secret, but that’s still very rude, you know.”
“Sorry! Hey, listen!”
“…Is this something Lyonette doesn’t know about? I assume so. Squeeze once for yes, twice for no.”
One squeeze. Elia walked forwards onto marble; Mrsha seemed to cast around and pulled Elia forwards. The Named-rank felt something distort around her.
“Did we just teleport? I can tell something moved!”
One squeeze. Then a pre-programmed voice.
“How? How? How?”
“How what? How do I know we moved? I’m a [Ranger]. I can tell. Are we going to get lost?”
Two squeezes. There was a brief moment of silence, then an outraged voice as Mrsha let go.
“Mrsha! What are—”
That was Rags! Elia started and resisted the urge to tear off her blindfold. She listened instead as Rags whispered furiously and Mrsha began to scratch away. Damn…Rags moved away, and Mrsha was silent save for her quill. But Elia caught a few things.
“…all the people to…”
“…she can speak Goblin? Oh. Uh…”
“…the point! You…”
“…idea. That’s…not a bad idea. Why didn’t I think of that?”
Rags sounded entirely miffed and upset with herself by that point, and Elia chanced a peek from her blindfold. They were standing in that hallway filled with doors, and she saw Mrsha writing.
It’s not your fault you’re stressed about the super-Titan dude, Rags. I thought maybe she’d help activate the right doors, and HEY SHE’S LOOKING! PUT THE BLINDFOLD BACK ON!
They re-blindfolded Elia and shoved her along, and then the Named-rank could at least ask questions. They stood there, and she turned to where she sensed Rags was.
“Okay, this is a secret place only the two of you know about. Why can’t I see?”
“I don’t like you, and Mrsha doesn’t fully trust you, which is the only sensible thing she’s done all day. Kick me again, Mrsha, and I’ll kick you. My boots have steel in them.”
“Alright, why are we standing still?”
“Mrsha’s finding the right…place. Mrsha?”
The Gnoll girl must have been concentrating or doing something silent, because Elia didn’t feel anything for a while. Then…once more, their location changed. And they were somewhere else. When the two inhaled, Elia took off her blindfold.
A single door stood there in a corridor of cracked stone walls, light guttering with old-fashioned torches hanging from the sides. Crack-lines of force spiderwebbed their way left and right, meeting where a single door was.
It was green. It was big; three times the size of the other doors Elia had glimpsed.
It had a crown of gold on it.
Elia’s heart began pounding out of her chest the moment she saw it, and she didn’t know why. She regarded Mrsha and Rags, and the two seemed apprehensive. And excited. They were whispering to each other—well, Rags to Mrsha—and glancing at Elia.
“What’s behind this door?”
Elia wanted to open it. She was afraid to open it. Rags cleared her throat, suddenly higher-pitched.
“Mrsha…had a good idea from your conversation with Calescent. He wanted to know what the Goblin King was like. Why he did—all he did. The secret of Goblins.”
“Yes. And?”
Rags pointed silently at the door.
“Behind that door…is the moment Velan the Kind became the Goblin King. A…a…memory? A what-if? Is it going to be accurate, Mrsha?”
Elia’s face went white. She spun, then turned again to see Mrsha’s nervous reply.
Who cares if it’s accurate historically? Can there be any truth but the truth? And I asked for accurate historically.
“Can it do that? Can you go back in time…?”
Why not? Fate isn’t like time. Fate is everywhere, in the past and present. How would we know fate exists if it didn’t exist in the past? It’s the anchor in all moments you have to move around, or pull up and sail into the future unchained by.
Both the half-Elf and the Goblin stared at the notecard and then at Mrsha in shock until she held up another card.
That’s something Shaestrel once said to Ryoka. Open the door, Elia.
They turned back to the Named-rank adventurer, and she wondered if she would get a second answer to the questions that had plagued her. One felt like more than enough. She walked towards the door, seeing two great, brass rings on either side. She reached out…then hesitated.
“Hold on, if I open these doors, will something come out and kill me?”
“No.”
Rags and Mrsha were, Elia couldn’t help but notice, at the far end of the hallway. Elia backed up a step.
“So it’s not going to harm me in any way?”
“Maybe emotionally. Open the door, Elia.”
“Why are you over there?”
“Nothing’s going to hurt you. We’ve seen nothing in this place that can actually harm you, and nothing can go through those doors. Believe me. I’ve tried.”
Then the Goblin looked incredibly sad and weary, and Elia wondered what this place was. Fate? A place like the garden…
Some place cripplingly sad like a room that shows you what-ifs and what-might-have-beens? No, that’s too clichéd, like those adventuring books. She noticed Mrsha glancing down at her paws as Rags did the talking, but Elia was too distracted to pay it much heed.
Now that she had an idea of what might be behind the doors…caution weighed with curiosity. Curiosity, and a sense of the rules of this place, won. Elia grabbed the handles of the doors and pulled.
There was resistance, as if the door was trying to keep itself closed—then they swung open. Elia jumped back, raising her bow to aim at—
Nothing.
Or to be more precise, blackness. A perfectly black rectangle of space blocked the doorway. Rags had started forwards, her eyes wide. When she saw the rectangle, she ran forwards and felt at it.
“No. Come on. That’s not fair. No, no, no—”
She groaned as Mrsha walked forwards and saw the truth too. The girl held up a card, which Elia read.
Dead gods damnit! It’s a censor bar!
“A what?”
This thing on some of Kevin’s—you know what, he’s dead, I don’t wanna be mean to him. It’s keeping us from seeing the truth! Even here! Even a Level 70 Skill can’t access the truth? Stupid palace!
She kicked the door savagely and hopped on one foot, howling silently, as Rags rested her head on the doorframe. Elia interrupted, heart beating out of her chest.
“Hold on. Was this meant to show us the moment when…?”
“Yes! It was supposed to show us! Now it makes sense. There are limits. Of course there are, or we’d see everything. It’s like…show me the other door I asked for. There.”
Rags pointed, resting her head against her forearm, and a second door appeared behind them. This one was surrounded by pieces of armor worked into the frame, and it was smaller…but it also had cracks covering it. Mrsha glanced at it.
What’s in there?
“Open it.”
Mrsha did, cautiously, and the door revealed…nothing. The same black rectangle. Rags turned to Mrsha, embarrassed, glancing at Elia.
“I…I asked to see a future in which a new Goblin King arose.”
Mrsha gasped, and Elia felt another prickle of unease. Rags glanced at her again and swung around.
“It didn’t occur to me to go to the past. I thought maybe there weren’t any futures in which I survived…now, I see. Some secrets are meant to be secrets.”
She wore a tired, resigned look as she turned away from the doors. Mrsha lay on the floor, exhausted by all the pent-up emotions. Elia just lifted a trembling hand.
“Um. Excuse me.”
They turned to her, and the Named-rank adventurer searched around weakly.
“I’d rather like to lie down and go to sleep myself. C-can I—may I leave? I was going to retire. I still want to, really. I don’t think I can stay at this inn while Goblins hate me. I don’t want to be here, where I…I’m…”
Where I see too much of them and question things. She trailed off, realizing how hard that would be with all Mrsha had told her.
So many secrets here. Just like Lyonette and Onieva said, here I shall level. Or die. Yet Elia thought of Calanfer, and that wall had not faded despite all she knew. She met Rags’ eyes.
“I don’t regret killing the Goblin King. I want to know the truth, too, but…I shall never apologize for that. Ever. If your Goblins come after me again, next time, I may have to kill them.”
Rags sombered, and the Chieftain returned Elia’s look. Her fingers formed a circle she held up to Elia.
“If I had known, I would have stopped them, Elia Arcsinger. Your relationship with Goblins, no, Goblinkind is like this. A circle. I want to break it. I do not know how. I will order them to leave you alone. I will post watchers, but I cannot swear it will not happen again. Yet if Mrsha thinks the inn needs you…”
She trailed off, eying Mrsha. The girl was lying on the ground, staring at the doors, but when she sensed the two turning to her for inquiry, she sat up.
I wish you could all make friends and be nice to each other. If Elia and Calescent made friends, I think it’d be great. They’re both spice-buddies.
Spice-buddies? Elia saw Mrsha hold up the card with a little smiley-face in the corner. Then the Gnoll tore up the card and held up a second one.
However. I’m not that stupid. It’s like Merish and me. Or Relc and Rags. Or Tyrion and anyone but Ryoka because she’s dumb and thinks he’s hot or something stupid. I don’t know how you can ever forgive someone like that. I sort of like Elia now. I like Goblins, despite what happened to my tribe, because Erin was right and they’re not all the same. But I can’t make Goblins forgive Elia like I got along with the Redfang Five. I just wish we could show everyone the truth of Goblin Kings.
On that, the three could agree, and Mrsha stomped her foot in anger. Elia exhaled.
“I…wish I could know too. I saw it in that Goblin who tried to kill me. She looked like the soldiers I fought with against the Goblins. I realized I had become something like Velan the Kind to Goblins, and I…I guess that’s when I realized they were people.”
Not by mercy, by Sticks’ flag, not by reason or argument or their intelligence. But by that hatred. Perhaps it was shameful; Elia could not meet Rags’ eyes, but Mrsha listened as the half-Elf spoke.
“Yet I still do not regret it. I never shall! What was he like? That monster, Velan? I wish I could show you, Chieftain Rags. Show every Goblin who ever dreams of being him. Because I think he would have terrified even Goblins. When he charged, everything died. He could murder all of Liscor within an hour. He was insanity and wrath, and I can never forget him, even in my dreams. Is there a door that can show me that?”
She looked around, despairing, and Rags’ reply was somber.
“Only futures where you did something differently. Where you missed or failed or—didn’t fire.”
The half-Elf’s voice was cold as ice with the only certainty she possessed in her heart.
“There are no such futures where Elia Arcsinger truly exists. She is a coward, afraid, incompetent—but if you had looked him in those eyes, you would have seen there was only ash for the entire world or his end. That is a Goblin King.”
Her gaze was fierce, burning, like her Skill that could immolate her flesh, and Rags avoided the gaze, which angered Elia more.
“I believe you. I know. His memories…I cannot touch the ones where he is King. They burn me, even in dreams.”
Mrsha was gazing solemnly from face to face. Troubled, like someone trying to reconcile the irreconcilable. But as Elia spoke, Mrsha put her chin in her paws, thinking. She was writing on a notecard.
Censor bars. Dirty movies. No…movies. Memory. Always remember…Nanette’s new class…Nanette’s new Skill. Movies and Nanette’s new Skill and the Goblin Lord. Wait. Holy poop!
She threw up her paws, and both women turned to her. Mrsha danced on the spot, then gave them an agog look, mouth open.
I can’t believe it. Nanette’s right about something.
Elia and Rags exchanged a glance. Elia coughed.
“Right about what?”
Mrsha pointed.
I’ll show you in the morning! First—
She yawned hugely.
I need some sleep! All these secret meetings make me tired, even with naps. Is this why adults drink coffee?
Elia had no idea what to say to that.
 
——
 
They left that strange place, not saying much. Rags stayed behind to keep researching, but Elia and Mrsha were slightly overwhelmed, despite not having learned that much.
There was a sense that they were pressed up against great secrets, so weighty that it pressed down on them, even if the answers weren’t revealed. Elia was actually glad to go, and as for Mrsha, the girl kept yawning.
Like that, holding Elia’s hand, as the Named-rank peeked at her from under the blindfold, she looked like an actual girl, young and innocent. But Elia hadn’t forgotten how Mrsha had acted.
After Mrsha led Elia up the ropes to what Elia strongly suspected was some secret entrance in the [Garden of Sanctuary], they paused in the garden itself.
“I have one question for you, Mrsha.”
Mrsha rubbed at one eye.
Yeah? About what?
Elia knelt down.
