His hands stung as the weapon hit.  His spear bounced back.  The viper’s momentum barely shifted.

Edmund pushed off, taking advantage of the snake’s immense inertia to instead shove himself out of its path.  It shot past him, disappearing clean into the bramble behind.  “Thrax, they’re heavy!” he called out.

“I noticed!” Priam shouted behind him.

Edmund kept his eyes fixed on the spot his snake had disappeared, catching the brothers’ struggle only in his periphery.  Light erupted from Priam’s hand as he ducked beneath the snake and uppercut its jaw.  Lucius mirrored the strike from above, inky blackness crackling like lightning as he dodged to the side and hammered his fist down atop the creature’s head.

Shards of metal chipped off, deep dents carved into viper’s neck on each side.  It still didn’t stop.  The thing left Edmund’s field of view before he could watch it vanish into the briars, but it didn’t take a vast logical leap to figure out that’s what’d happened.

For a moment, all was still.

“These things are tough,” Lucius muttered.

“Don’t seem too deadly, though,” Priam said.  “Only a single set of fangs to avoid.”

“They’re not trying to bite you,” Edmund snapped.  “They’re trying to knock you into the thorns.”

“Then just don’t get—”  Priam cut off as a snake—Edmund’s from the look of it—launched directly for his throat.  He dropped to his knees, allowing the metal beast to pass overhead, until its tail suddenly dropped, cracking down like a whip midair.  Before it could shatter Priam’s nose, a pale white aegis flickered into existence.  The strike bounced clean off, sending the snake tumbling off balance.

Instead of vanishing into the briar, the beast crashed directly into one of the vines, snapping the thick branch like a dried-out twig.  Lucius darted in, taking advantage of the moment’s stillness to wrap his hand as far around the snake’s body as it could reach.  An ebon tendril bridged the gap between his middle finger and thumb, pulling the digits together tighter and tighter, yet somehow, rather than the flesh and bone of Lucius’s hand, the dense metal between gave way.

The snake fell to the ground in two pieces.

Before Edmund could marvel at whatever the hells that had been, the second snake made its move.

The encounter didn’t favor him.  The creatures had ambushed them, robbing him of his multipliers from The Warmonger, The Tactician, and The Guerilla.  Combined with his imminently clear lack of Solitude bonuses and the quick-and-deadly nature of the fight countering his Perseverance boons, Edmund simply lacked the firepower to readily deal with the tough reptiles.

That didn’t stop him from trying.

He marked his Target as his eyes fixated on the two dents the brothers had left in the first exchange.  He crouched down and raised his spear in a feint, forcing the snake to twist out of the way of its tip.  The maneuver sent it just wide of Edmund’s helmet, directly over his right shoulder—his right shoulder equipped with a pointed rockjaw pauldron.

Edmund timed his Savage Rend for the moment the viper’s damaged jaw passed above the tip of his pauldron.  Energy drained from his body as the ability carved into the metal snake, cutting deep and jagged into its throat.

It failed to cleave through.

His shoulder armor stuck partially into the creature’s neck, the thing’s momentum knocked Edmund back.  He fell hard into the briars behind him, its thorns etching deep lines into puncture-resistant armor.  His pauldron itself, his one under-powered piece, survived by nature of the fall.  Still embedded, the viper’s head struck the briars first, keeping the pauldron itself away from the deadly thorns.

A second Savage Rend separated its head from its body.

Edmund panted.

Lucius offered a hand to help him up.  “You get pricked?”

Edmund took it.  “I’m fine.”

“So,” Priam said, his eyes fixed on the fallen snake as the dungeon reclaimed it, “snakes.”

“Tungsten constrictors, apparently,” Edmund said, reading aloud the smoky letters that drifted off his dead foe.  “They drag prey into the briars and let the poison thorns do the work for them.”

“What do you think the mark did?” Lucius asked.

Edmund shrugged.  “Probably made them tougher.  Never seen anything survive my Savage Rend like that.”

“Could be they were made of some softer metal before we showed up.”  Lucius theorized.  “Umbral Guillotine worked well enough, but it’s slow.  Need to keep them out of the briars long enough to cut through.”

Edmund nodded, wishing not for the first time that he still had some heartwood sap.  Controlling the brambles would’ve made this floor vastly easier.  He wracked his brain for ideas.  Lack of firepower had never been a difficulty for him.  It was possible Collateral Damage would fare better than Savage Rend, but Edmund doubted it.  Either way, neither Edmund nor any of his gear would survive the skill’s double-edged nature better than the snake did.

“It’s a bad matchup for me,” Edmund admitted.  “Probably best I keep them busy while you take them out.”  He looked to Priam.  “Do you have a-um… some kind of light version of Umbral Guillotine?”

Priam grinned.  “Something like that.”

“Sounds like a plan,” Edmund said.  “Let’s do this.”

At the Durnes’ nods, Edmund set off once more, deftly weaving his way around fallen thorns and errant vines, his spear raised at all times, ready for the next ambush.

They didn’t make it far.

As before, two tungsten constrictors burst from the briars in near sync.  Edmund’s first tactic was to bind the two together with a Smoke Lash, thus preventing them from disappearing into the vines, but as he cast the spell, it swung like an ordinary whip rather than the prehensile tendril he’d come to expect.

Weird.

The encounter ended much the same as the first, with Edmund holding the snakes in place by standing in their way and allowing them to tackle him into the bramble.  He kept his shoulders forward in a ploy to keep the pauldrons safe, but the thorns still burrowed deep into the rock.  At least thus far, none had pushed in enough to reach his skin.

On they went.

For not the first time Edmund mourned the loss of his shield as he settled into his role as the party’s tank, taking impact after impact while the Durnes executed their targets.  Limited as his defensive capacity was, they made it remarkably far before one of Edmund’s pauldrons collided with a thorn in just the right way to sever the strap that held it in place.  When Priam offered a hand to help him up after the fight, the pauldron slid right to the ground.

The other pauldron survived three more encounters before it too failed.

The instinct well-honed to keep his shoulders forward whenever a snake bowled him over, the small, unprotected gap between his cuirass and rerebrace didn’t actually pose any issues as the trio worked their way through the last of the floor’s base encounters, leaving Edmund to wonder if perhaps he should’ve taken the pauldrons off from the outset if only to preserve them.

Thrax, he’d been losing a lot of gear lately.

It came, then, as a wondrous relief when they rounded the final bend to see the brambles open up into a circular clearing with a large, freestanding doorway at its center.  A chime rang out.  A chest crafted of the same tungsten as the snakes, inlaid with rubies, arose from the floor.

Lucius patted Edmund on the back.  “Well fought.  Sorry about your shoulder pads.”

Edmund sighed.  “They were over twenty floors old.  I was due for an upgrade anyway.”

Priam elbowed him in the ribs, a gesture that might’ve hurt had Edmund not been wearing armor.  “How much do you want to bet there’s a set of tungsten pauldrons in there?”

Edmund shook his head.  “If there weren’t before, there are now.  You know how this works: ask and you shall receive.”

Lucius blinked.  “Really?”

Priam tilted his head to shout to the sky.  “Any chance there’s ten thousand platinum in that chest?”

“Don’t push it,” Edmund said, making his way to the chest.  He knelt before it, digging his knees into the ground as he lifted the heavy lid.  Within, sure enough, was a set of pauldrons of the same dull metal, carved in the shape of a snake’s head complete with fangs poking down just past where his shoulder would go.  The smoke gave him the details.

Snakeshead Pauldrons

Provides inviolable protection against piercing, blunt force, and corrosive damage.  Vulnerable to magic damage.

Edmund blinked.  “You two ever heard of ‘inviolable protection?’”

“Holy shit, really?”  Lucius bolted to his side.  “I’ve never heard of anything that good showing up before the forty-fifth floor.  These have gotta be worth a fortune.”

“Inviolable means… inviolable,” Priam oh-so-helpfully explained.  “Outside of something that actively changes the properties of the metal, nothing will ever… what is it?”  He leaned in.  “Nothing will ever pierce, dent, or corrode them.”  He let out a whistle.  “You won’t be losing these any time soon.”

“Since those are clearly yours, that would mean these…”  Lucius’s hand darted into the chest to withdraw a pair of tungsten bracelets.  “Are for us.”

Edmund only managed a glimpse of the name before Lucius donned his and tossed the other over to Priam, the name told him enough.

Tungstenskin Bangle

Priam’s eyes shot open.  He turned his head back to the sky.  “Actually, forget the platinum!” he shouted.  “This is better.”

Edmund looked up at him.  “Do those do what I think they do?”

Lucius beamed.  “Skin as hard as tungsten.  Lasts five minutes on a two hour cooldown.”

Edmund exhaled.  It was a bit less objectively insane than the ongoing effect he’d suspected, but the utility was clear.  Most fights went well under five minutes, so with enough patience to wait out the cooldown between encounters, they may as well have been permanent.

A dark thought crossed Edmund’s mind.  Of everyone he’d met in the Depths thus far, the Durne brothers seemed far and away the least likely to wait two hours for an item.  Liam had to have done that on purpose.  “You’ll have to wait out that cooldown after every fight.”

“That’s only if we use it every fight,” Priam countered with a confident grin.  “Far easier to simply not get hit.”

Edmund scowled beneath his helmet.  This wasn’t going to end well.

Nonetheless he pushed himself to his feet and strapped on his new pauldrons.  He’d learned long ago that delvers were a stubborn lot, and he simply lacked the charisma to change anybody’s mind.

“Well then,” Lucius said, slipping the bangle over his wrist, “I believe that’s our cue to press on.  You’re sticking around to explore those clearings?”

Edmund nodded.  “That’s the plan.  There’s gotta be something out there.”

“Best of luck, then.”  Lucius held out a hand.  “It’s been a pleasure delving with you.  May our paths cross again in the not-too-distant future.”

Edmund shook it.  “Perhaps even sooner.”  If the timer on Edmund’s mark of the shrouded gauntlet was any indicator, the odds were good he’d see the brothers again in just a few days.  He didn’t tell them that.  The last thing he wanted was to explain how he knew the dungeon was going to close for maintenance, and the Durnes hardly needed the foreknowledge.  They weren’t being chased by kingsguards.

“Edmund,” Priam offered a hand of his own.  “Always a joy to see you work.”

“Likewise.”  Edmund patted him on the arm as they shook hands.  “Be careful down there.”

“Never.”  Priam smirked.

With that the Durne brothers turned and took their leave.  Edmund lingered for a moment, staring into the darkness between levels even after the pair disappeared, letting his mind turn over their time together.  He worried for them.  The two were incredibly competent delvers—arguably more so than Edmund himself—but they seemed to ardently refuse to take the dungeon seriously.

Edmund sighed and shook the thought from his head.  He couldn’t change them.  Instead of letting his mind wrestle with it, Edmund shut his eyes and focused on his constellation.  He’d missed it in his fervor to complete the planned confluence, but The Anarchist, the impossible Aspect that contained Madness twice in its makeup, was only a tier 6.  It had room for another base Aspect without repeating.

Loath as he might’ve been to upgrade an Aspect that thus far seemed to do very little, the prospect of a potential tier 7 and all the level-ups that came with it was too great to deny.  Without much additional thought, Edmund selected The Anarchist and Perseverance, and made his newest confluence.

Tier 7 Aspect: Inevitability (Perseverance and The Anarchist) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides increased damage every time one of your attacks fails to kill its target.

Edmund blinked.  The description didn’t specify exactly how much bonus damage it offered, but the core concept seemed remarkably powerful.  Theoretically, as long as he kept throwing punches, he could take down anything.  Thrax, this would’ve been nice against the snakes.

A quick scan through his constellation confirmed that Madness, Perseverance, Wrath, War, Elements, The Recluse, The Tactician, The Guerrilla, and The Anarchist had all leveled up without updates to their description.  Only two of the component Aspects had noticeably changed.

Solitude, upon hitting level fifteen, no longer listed its perception bonus as “lesser.”  The Philosopher, in contrast, had completely changed yet another time.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher (Elements and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 5 - Open the way.

Edmund couldn’t quite nail down why, but something about the Aspect felt… different.  It seemed to hum in his ear, its silver star pulsating with eager energy.  Not even Madness did that.

His thirst for progress satisfied if not his curiosity, Edmund dismissed his constellation and set his sights on exploring the level at large.  He leapt up to survey the expanse of briars.  Sure enough, the intermittent clearings stretched out far into the distance, each some couple hundred feet further away.  A handful of options presented themselves as potential starting points, but Edmund opted for the opening nearest the exit, both for convenience’s sake, and for a more tactical reason.

If he stood atop the open loot chest, he could leap to the correct altitude with only one windstep rather than two.

A plan in mind, Edmund paused to open his portable camp, take a sip of water from his ewer, and deposit his satchel within.  Everything packed away, he stepped up onto the tungsten chest, lined up his target, and jumped.

