And bit by bit, the vines grew deeper, further entrenched in his way, closer to reaching for the boss room itself.

There was no way out.

Adrenaline coursing through his veins, Edmund frantically searched every inch of the underground chamber, every piece of gear on his person, in his satchel, or hidden away in his tent, every sigil and title and Aspect to his name.

There was no way out.

He yelled to the gods, to Thrax, to Liam.  Nobody answered.  The vines pushed into the spherical chamber, trapping Edmund for good, entombing him in the barrow he’d willingly entered.

There was no way out.

Open the way.

Edmund’s eyes snapped shut.  His constellation flickered into view, twenty nine stars against the darkness behind his eyelids.  Madness shone with its usual prismatic glimmer, but Edmund’s gaze glossed over it, drawn instead to a strangely pulsating silver.

The Philosopher beckoned.

Edmund dove into it, focused in on its thrumming gravity, on this Aspect he’d leveled up time and time again for seemingly no reason but the promise of future power.  Closer and closer he gazed upon it, until the darkness and the smoke and racing of his heart all gave way to that shining argent.

The warmth of the false sun drew sweat from his brow.

Edmund’s eyes shot open.

The cavern was gone.

The tunnel was gone.

The encroaching vines and their inexorable advance was gone.

He stood in a clearing, the arid heat beating down upon him from a cloudless sky.  To his left sat an open loot chest of tungsten inlaid with rubies.  To his right, an open doorway led to an impenetrable darkness.

Edmund blinked.  He was out.  He’d escaped.

He shut his eyes once more, looking again to the Aspect that had so freed him.  The Philosopher had gone still.  It hummed, it pulsed, it beckoned no more.  Its power was spent.  Edmund knew not if or when it would come off cooldown.  He knew not how it’d worked or if he’d ever learn to control its effect.

All he knew was that it’d saved him when nothing else could.

And with that harrowing realization, with one mystery solved and a dozen new ones to take its place, and with the understandable decision that he’d seen enough of these Thrax-damned brambles, Edmund closed his constellation, opened his eyes, and stepped into the darkness.

Hivemaster Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 29

Tier 1 Aspect: Wrath - Red Resonance

Level 8 - Provides access to the Brutalize active ability.

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 14 - Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt.  Provides a lesser decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 13 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 15 - Provides a greater increase to constitution while fighting alone.  Provides a lesser increase to celerity while fighting alone.  Provides an increase to perception while alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 14 - Gain health regeneration.  Gain greater health regeneration outside of combat.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 23 - They’re coming for you.

Tier 2 Aspect: Vengeance (Madness and Wrath) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Reveals all enemies that have damaged you in the past two minutes.  Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt to such enemies.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor (Madness and War) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery (Madness and Elements) - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession (Madness and Perseverance) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.  Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse (Madness and Solitude) - Gold Resonance

Level 7 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone.  Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island (Solitude and Perseverance) - Gray Resonance

Level 8 - Grants greater resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus (Elements and Obsession) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Challenger (War and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Challenge active ability.

Tier 3 Aspect: Artillery (War and Sorcery) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Firestorm spell.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Warmonger (War and Obsession) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides a greater increase to all damage dealt and a greater decrease to all damage taken while engaged in combat you initiated.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher (Elements and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 5 - Open the way.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift (Madness and The Island) - Gold Resonance

Level 7 - Provides access to the Savage Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Tactician (War and The Philosopher) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 4 - Deal double damage when executing a pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Target (War and Focus) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Allows the marking of a single enemy as the target.  The target takes increased damage from all sources.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure (Elements and The Rift) - Silver Resonance

Level 4 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Tier 4 Aspect: Rebellion (War and The Rift) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 2 - Grants resistance to mind controlling effects.  Deal bonus damage to enemies above your level.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Guerrilla (Wrath and The Tactician) - Bronze Resonance

Level 3 - Take reduced damage while executing a non-conventional pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach (War and The Fissure) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

Tier 5 Aspect: Discord (Wrath and The Fissure) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Brutalize has a chance to turn your foes against each other.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Insurgent (Wrath and Rebellion) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Collateral Damage active ability.

Tier 6 Aspect: The Reckless (Wrath and The Breach) - Tin+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Reckless Charge active ability.

Tier 6 Aspect: The Anarchist (Madness and The Guerrilla) - Platinum+ Resonance

Level 2 - Be uncontrollable.

Tier 7 Aspect: Inevitability (Perseverance and The Anarchist) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides increased damage every time one of your attacks fails to kill its target.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters.  Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open.  Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage.  Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Hivemaster

Grants lesser tremor sense.  Bestows the right to challenge other hivemasters for control of their hives.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Adept

The fifth step on the Path of the Azure Fox.  Increases agility.  Grants two windsteps.  Grants ten feathersteps.  Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Sigil of the Bramble Constrictor

Your weapons, claws, and teeth inflict foes with a paralytic venom on blood draw.  Gain increased grasping strength.  Gain lesser atmospheric taste.

Sigil of the Slumbering Deep

Gain greater health regeneration.  Gain immense health regeneration while sleeping.  Gain water breathing.  Gain lesser dark vision.  Gain lesser subaquatic sonar.

Delver’s Mark of the Shrouded Gauntlet (Temporary)

Rewards loot of the Shrouded category based on the number of floors cleared while the mark is worn.  Prize to be granted at dissolution of mark.

Time Remaining: 4 days.
