His first windstep took him high enough to Break Through, launching himself forward a few dozen feet and providing the momentum he needed.  As his leather clad foot descended towards the deadly vines, Edmund took advantage of an upgrade he’d earned several floors ago.

He featherstepped.

The sole of his boot barely touched upon the thorny tangle before it propelled him up and forward again.  Solitude’s celerity and Obsession’s strength sent him forth in inhumanly great bounds, covering several yards with each leap before his next featherstep repeated the process.  By the time he’d used all ten, his Break Through was already off cooldown.  He didn’t need it.

Edmund’s second windstep brought a stop to his momentum as he landed in the first clearing, a five-foot radius of bare dirt surrounded by the brambles.  A faint rustle caught his attention.

His head spun to the left just in time to spot a snake, its scales no longer metal, but the same pale brown as the briars, leap for him.  Edmund bent his wrist to free up the tip of his unassembled hyper-magnetic spear and swung his arm up in a great arc at the snake.

Savage Rend cleaved it in two.

Edmund exhaled.  Thrax were these things easier without his challenger’s mark empowering them.  The vast difference in power level almost made him believe the three marks had stacked.  That’d certainly explain why he’d received loot with three inviolabilities.

For safety’s sake, he reassembled his spear in the moment he had while his steps recovered, then charted his path forward.  For lack of the loot chest to start from, Edmund had to angle his Break Through higher, costing him a bit of forward momentum.  It meant having to use the ability again the moment it came off cooldown to make it to the next clearing, but that meant little to Edmund.  It wasn’t like he needed it to defeat the snakes.

Mad dash by mad dash he traversed the clearings, pushing further and further away from the level proper until the path and exit alike both faded into the distance.  There were only the briars, vast and seemingly unending in this hostile desert of a floor.  The false sun beat down, sending beads of sweat down Edmund’s neck even with the haze of smoke shading him.

Even more so than for his cooldowns, Edmund stopped to drink, the near constant running regularly sending him into his tent to rehydrate.

Miles of running, of leaping, of fighting later, the clearings just… stopped.  Further ahead the brambles stretched on for as far as the eye could see, a dark brown blanket with no end.

It didn’t take long to find the burrow.  Just opposite the way he’d come, a hole some four feet in diameter opened up in the earth, falling nearly vertically into darkness.  Trouble was it sat just beyond the clearing, its entrance effectively blockaded by a barrier of vines.  If he were particularly careful, Edmund might’ve managed to sneak a hand through the gaps, but never his entire body.

He’d need another way through.

He supposed it might’ve been possible to expand the hole into the clearing through a series of Magma Fissures, but if that didn’t violate the no tunneling clause, Edmund didn’t know what would.  Once again, Edmund lamented the use of his heartwood sap.  It would’ve trivialized the removal of the vines.

Instead, he’d have to find another way.

He plucked the low-hanging fruit first.  Savage Rend, activated with the tip of his spear from a safe distance, managed to cleave right through a couple of vines, but dry and rigid as they were, he’d need several cuts just to move them at all.  By the time the skill came off cooldown a third time, his first cut had already begun to fuse itself closed.

The bramble was more alive than it seemed.

Edmund spent a half hour pursuing the strategy, optimizing to clear as much space with as few cuts as possible, but no matter how he went about it, the vines regenerated faster than he could Rend them.

So Edmund withdrew his focusing lens.

Familiar, by now, with bramble’s resilience, he didn’t bother starting slow.  Edmund went straight for Firestorm.

An angry torrent jetted from the lens in his palm, bathing the desiccated vines in flame.  They didn’t melt.  They didn’t catch.  They did shrivel.

A series of explosive pops met Edmund’s ears as liquid within the vines flash boiled.  Tiny impacts struck his armor where little thorns flew free, lethally toxic projectiles striking back against the source of the flame, as if coming to the briar’s defense.  Edmund twisted his neck to face the openings in his helmet away from the onslaught and kept casting.  His armor could more than handle a few airborne thorns.

Against the focused beam, the brambles shrunk and curled in on themselves, retreating from the burrow they covered as Edmund’s most powerful spell forced them back.  By the time the Firestorm ended, the front half of the hole lay exposed.

It stayed that way for all of eight seconds before the bramble reclaimed its lost territory.  That was good enough.

Edmund had his way in.

He didn’t like it.  It’d mean descending into the burrow almost completely out of mana, in a rush to get through before the vines covered the entrance, and without an immediately clear way back out.  Presumably the same trick would work from below, but in the Eternal Depths, presumptions killed.

Perhaps more to Edmund’s dislike, was that the nature of the trick would shut the proverbial door behind him.  Once he was in, there’d be no retreat.

That wasn’t going to stop him.  He’d resolved long ago to claim all there was to take, and here the dungeon had presented him with something to take.  Because the floor had been cleared, whatever was down there wouldn’t be empowered by his challenger’s mark.  Edmund felt confident he’d be able to handle it.

He’d not rush in, of course.  There was preparation to be done.  First and foremost, the only light that made its way into the hole came from the false sun above and pierced no further into the shadows than a yard or two.  That wouldn’t do.  His sigil of the slumbering deep may’ve granted him lesser darkvision, but anything alive down there would function far better in that gloom than he.  Edmund had a better idea.

He opened his tent to grab his satchel from where he’d left it, digging through the worn leather for a piece of rounded glass he’d wrapped in one of the towels he’d found in his tent.

Even obscured, the luxstone—as the smoke had called it—outshone the sun.

He slipped the stolen loot into his pocket and returned the satchel to his camp before again setting his sights on the brambles.  Once more his focused Firestorm forced them back, once more his armor weathered the storm of exploding thorns.  This time, Edmund slipped in the opening he’d created.

Inside, he wedged his feet into the opposite edges of the burrow, holding himself aloft just beneath the recovering vines.  Peering down, he saw only darkness.  He kept the luxstone hidden.

Minutes passed.  His knees ached with the effort, the joints not built to support his weight at such an angle.  Edmund ignored it, focusing on his breathing while he waited for the fog of spell casting to withdraw from his mind.

Only once his mana had fully recovered did Edmund turn his gaze upward, peeking through the gaps in the vines into the daylight above.  His pupils tightened, acclimating to the bright outside rather than the dim depths below.  Without allowing them to readjust to the darkness, he at last reached for the luxstone.  Even accustomed to the light, his eyes ached just looking adjacent to the glass.

He didn’t hold onto it for long.  Without a second thought he dropped it, letting it bounce and roll along the burrow’s walls until it disappeared around a bend.  Edmund followed its light.

Finally able to spot where the tunnel flattened out, Edmund happily let himself fall the dozen feet to the floor, windstepping twice along the way to cancel his momentum.  He walked along the sloping path at a crouch, the four-foot tunnel far from able to support his full height.  He didn’t have to travel far.

The luxstone had landed at the center of a spherical chamber, some ten feet in radius.  The burrow spat him out a third of the way up, leaving Edmund a treacherously steep incline to descend into the space itself.  He held off, lingering at tunnel’s mouth as he shielded his eyes from the luxstone and peered through the gaps in his fingers at the room as a whole.

Its lone occupant, unsurprisingly a snake the same dull brown as the others, recoiled against the back wall, head pressed eyes first into the dirt as it tried to escape the blinding light.  The serpent’s body stretched the same four feet wide as the tunnel through which Edmund had entered, its length obscured in the ways it folded over itself.

Edmund didn’t stop to read the letters of smoke that drifted off of it.

He darted in.

The giant snake didn’t even react to his presence, the luxstone overwhelming its senses beyond any impact Edmund could make.  The beast only acknowledged his presence when the tip of his spear met its neck.

It may’ve been huge, but it was made of flesh and blood.  Savage Rend, empowered five times over by as many Aspects, severed the beast’s head from its body in a single blow.

It fell to the ground.

A chest arose at the cavern’s center.

Edmund let out a breath.

Panic arose in his heart as Edmund watched the giant snake dissolve to feed the dungeon.  All this distance, all this difficulty to reach it, and the monster that had almost certainly been a rare boss had died in a single blow without so much as putting up a fight.

It was too easy.

Sure, the luxstone was a powerful artifact he wasn’t supposed to have, but trivializing a boss fight felt… wrong.

But a loot chest awaited him.  Better yet, his constellation tugged at his subconscious.  Edmund answered.

Sigil of the Bramble Constrictor

Your weapons, claws, and teeth inflict foes with a paralytic venom on blood draw.  Gain increased grasping strength.  Gain lesser atmospheric taste.

Edmund didn’t hesitate to replace his mostly-defunct rootmother’s sigil with his newest boon.  He hoped the paralytic venom it mentioned was the same that coated the thorns.  From what the Durnes had told him, it was incredibly powerful.  The other two bonuses looked less useful.  Grasping strength seemed like a particularly narrow piece of utility, while atmospheric taste—intriguing as it sounded—came to Edmund as more of an annoyance.

When he opened his mouth, he tasted smoke.

Given the vast variety of situations the Depths threw him into, the odd sense would probably come in handy at some point, but the cost of tasting the smoke in the air was neither pleasant nor comfortable.

But Edmund hadn’t come here to be comfortable.

Shutting his mouth to banish the unsavory flavor, Edmund moved to the chest.  It mirrored perfectly the tungsten one by the exit, a strange similarity considering the boss itself hadn’t used the metal.

That didn’t stop Edmund from opening it.  Within he found a pair of knives that matched the thorns he’d spent the past several hours avoiding, following the same curved pattern to a deadly point.  They stretched nearly two feet long, far larger than the thorns they mirrored, and the concave side had been sharpened to a razor’s edge, but otherwise they looked like giant brown thorns with handles.

Bramblethorn Daggers

Deals massively increased piercing damage.

Edmund’s eyes widened.  Of the two properties the thorns had, the daggers had certainly taken on the better.  Assuming they worked the same as the thorns, these would punch right through anything without major piercing resistance.  Alongside his newest sigil, they effectively recreated the brambles themselves.

He noted that while the interior edge was sharp, the curved daggers only empowered piercing damage, not slashing damage.  He wasn’t about to complain.

Edmund spun one of the weapons in his hand, only muscle memory from his time with Rat’s Fang taking over.  It’d been some time since he’d wielded a dagger, but his hands hadn’t forgotten.

He slipped the blades into his belt, collected the luxstone from where he let it lie, and turned to depart.  He didn’t make it far.

He’d expected the tunnel to be closed off—it’d been closed before he’d even left the entrance.  He hadn’t expected the vines to start working their way down.  Already they’d pressed nearly two feet into the burrow itself, encroaching on what’d once been the serpent’s territory.

Edmund didn’t waste a second.  He windstepped up the vertical shaft, reaching for his focusing lens as he planted his feet into either side of the dirt walls.  Before the bramble could expand any further, he released his Firestorm.

The vines recoiled.  Thorns burst and rained down on him, bouncing off his helmet and pauldrons.  He kept his left hand hidden within his pocket, his right protected by the very flames that raged from it.  By the time the spell ran out, he’d bought himself three entire feet of extra space.

Only a few inches of which opened up into the clearing.

By the time his spell came off cooldown, the vines had already reclaimed their lost territory and pushed yet further into the burrow.  Again Edmund cast, and again he bought himself time and space but not an escape.  His head pounded from the mana expenditure.

He let himself fall to the shaft’s floor as the realization sank in.  The boss fight hadn’t been easy because of the luxstone.  It’d been easy because it wasn’t over.  The giant snake may’ve looked like a boss, it may’ve rewarded loot like a boss, but it wasn’t the true danger.

The vines grew deeper.

Pushing past the mana drain, Edmund reached for the luxstone once more, this time testing a theory he’d had since he’d claimed the strange item.  He held it up, keeping the palm of his hand between it and his eyes.  His other hand raised the focusing lens.

It took some effort—precious minutes he didn’t have—to line it all up correctly, but soon enough, a light nearly as blinding as the source itself refracted off the nearest vine.  Within moments, a black spot appeared, then a hole, then the vine was completely severed.

The next one was out of focus.  Edmund gave it a few more attempts, but the vines refused to burn.  The luxstone-lens combination seemed able to cut through nearly anything remarkably quickly, but the time spent aiming and focusing it made the whole process slower than Savage Rend.

Edmund cursed.  Another dead end.

He tried everything.  Firebolt barrages, Break Through, focused Firestorm, every permutation and combination of spells, abilities, and items at his disposal, Edmund threw at the problem.

