Edmund barely caught a glimpse of blue sky and false sunlight before a familiar voice pulled his attention away.

“Wait a minute.  I know that oppressive heat.”  Lucius Durne spun on his heel to face the entrance.  “Edmund!”

Edmund blinked, realizing that twice now he’d discomforted the brothers in his absentmindedness.  In his time thus far in the Eternal Depths, the last thing Edmund had learned to expect when entering a new level was allies.  “Right.  Sorry.”  He slipped the swelter ring from his finger.

“No apologies necessary,” Priam said as he approached.  “It’s always best to come equipped.”  He held out a hand.  “It’s good to see you again.”

Edmund removed his helmet to mirror Priam’s smile and shook his hand.  “Likewise.”

Lucius stepped forward and repeated the greeting, confirming their still-amicable relationship.  He had saved their lives back on the seventeenth floor, but then again it’d been his mark that’d endangered them in the first place.  Thrax, had it really been that long?

The Durne brothers looked much the same.  They’d picked up a few scars here and there—far less visible on Priam’s dark skin than Lucius’s albino.  The former seemed to have lost the tip of his left pinky finger, as superficial a permanent injury as Edmunds supposed there was.

Their outfits had changed entirely, at least on a piece-by-piece basis.  They still forewent armor for loose fabric that allowed for freer motion at the cost of vulnerability, but the garments themselves had changed.  Their shirts, dull green at a glance, shimmered with prismatic bands where the light caught them.  Their pants sat unnaturally still, the loose dark fabric seemingly immune to any but its wearer’s influence.

Edmund could’ve spent an hour analyzing and grilling the brothers on the details of their upgrades.  He obviously hadn’t been the only one to earn loot in the eleven floors since last they’d spoken.  But he realized after a moment that the Durnes looked upon him with the same intensity, no doubt similar thoughts running through their heads, and Edmund took it upon himself to change the subject.

“It’s been a while.  I’m glad to see you’re still standing.”

“I could say the same,” Lucius replied.  “We missed you on the twenty-fifth.”

Edmund sheepishly rubbed the back of his neck.  “Hub floors have gotten… complicated.”

Priam let out a sharp laugh.  “Complicated, he says.  What’s so complicated about evading a few kingsguards?”

Lucius shrugged.  “It doesn’t sound complicated to me.  Difficult, maybe.  A poor life choice to be sure, but complicated?”

“Oh, don’t be so harsh,” Priam said.  “Do you really think someone who makes poor life choices could’ve made it all the way here?”

Edmund raised an eyebrow.  “I think making poor life choices is a prerequisite to being here.”

Lucius grinned.  “Then consider us a band of fools.”

“Powerful fools,” Priam added.

“Deadly fools.”

“Talented fools.”

Edmund’s eyes flicked from brother to brother as the two went back and forth, stoking their own egos even as they acknowledged the foolhardiness of their presence.  He took the opportunity to survey their surroundings.

Harsh sunlight beat down from a cloudless sky, its celeste hue either the product of illusion magic or some other trick of Liam’s.  The air was dry, discomfortingly so.  The aridity more than made up for the reduction in smoke The Recluse wrought, at least as far as Edmund’s throat was concerned.

Cracked and dry earth made up the ground beneath his feet, compact enough so as to kick up dust with every step, but only just.  In sparse patches, the dirt gave way entirely to dull red stone.  Thanks to his trailblazer’s bonus, all of it would’ve made an acceptable source of moisture and nutrients for his rootmother’s sigil, not that he needed it between his ewer and the supply of hardtack in his camp.

The main feature, if one could call it that, was the thick tangle of briars that encircled the entrance at a ten foot radius.  Edmund imagined that defined the safe starting area.

The briars themselves seemed to be made of dried out, dark brown vines the width of Edmund’s arm, each lined with three-inch-long thorns, wide at their base before curving up to brutally barbed tips, the type to tear flesh rather than simply piercing it.

The vines twisted and turned and tangled into themselves densely enough that no sunlight reached the ground below them.  Edmund could only see some handful of feet into the mess, and unless they cut or burned their way through, there would be no passing through the briar.

If anything Edmund knew about the Eternal Depths held true, cutting their way through wasn’t going to work.

Going over the briars held some potential.  They only reached some ten feet high, a distance Edmund knew both he and the Durne brothers could leap.  They’d need, of course, somewhere to land before their mobility ran out, but that’s what scouting was for.

Alternatively, the intended path couldn’t have been more apparent.  Just slightly to Edmund’s left, the briars simply split, opening up into a four-foot wide passage that stretched some dozen feet before twisting out of view.  Individual vines crossed it intermittently, some resting along the ground while others hung in the air, but all could be easily dodged.  They looked to Edmund more like hazards to be avoided in the chaos of a fight than actual impediments to travel.

Finally noticing that they no longer held Edmund’s attention, the Durnes followed his gaze to the floor behind them.

“The thorns are poisoned, by the way,” Priam explained.  “It won’t kill you if you have the right resistances, but it’ll leave you paralyzed.”

“Of course it will,” Edmund grumbled.  With the Durnes here he couldn’t count on The Island to protect him, so he’d have to count on his health regeneration to overcome any damage the toxin dealt.  He hoped he could at least keep the paralysis at bay long enough to take one of the potions of curing he had stashed in his satchel, but Edmund didn’t want to count on it.

He supposed it was a good thing the brothers were there.  It may’ve cost him his Solitude-based bonuses, but having an ally at hand to administer aid should he misstep was probably for the best.

“How potent is it?” Edmund asked, searching for a feel of how effective his limited potions would be.

“Don’t get poisoned,” Lucius said, his voice flat with certainty.  “Don’t even touch the vines.  The big thorns aren’t the only ones.”

Priam nodded.  “There’re tiny spines all along them.  Your armor can protect you from those, but don’t let your skin touch near ‘em.”

Edmund narrowed his gaze at the briars.  So much for his heartwood idol.  He couldn’t view the plant’s memories if he couldn’t touch it.  A thought struck, and he looked back to the Durnes.  “From those?  You’re implying my armor won’t help against the big thorns?”

“They’ll punch right through anything without major protection against piercing,” Priam explained.

Edmund wondered how exactly they knew that, given that none of their gear looked remotely useful against piercing damage.  His own equipment, thankfully, fared much better.  “That’s pretty much just my boots, then.”  He didn’t mention that his pauldrons only had moderate piercing resistance, but he imagined that’d be enough for at least glancing blows.

Lucius blinked.  “Really?  You’re that protected?”

Edmund shrugged.  “Heavy armor has its advantages, and mine’s a bit above average.”  He tapped at his shoulder, or, more specifically the challenger’s mark obscured beneath his armor.

A pair of grins stretched across the brothers’ faces.  “Oh, we know,” Priam said.  As one they pulled down their shirt collars, revealing matching marks decorating their chests.

“I suppose we have you to thank for these,” Lucius said.  “We only asked for them after you showed us they were possible.”

Edmund blinked, his mind reeling with the new information.  Thrax, even Amelia hadn’t taken a challenger’s mark.  He’d known the Durnes were strong—they’d entered the Depths at a far higher level than he had—but the last time they’d met his mark had almost gotten them killed.  “D… do they stack?”

“No idea.”  Priam released his shirt, allowing it to cover the mark once more.  “We got them at the same time, and we’ve only ever fought together.”

“We may be about to find out,” Lucius added with a smile.

The confidence in his voice clashed against the chill that ran down Edmund’s spine at the idea of fighting a three-times boosted monster.  One challenger’s mark was already enough to make even the simplest of foes a deadly threat.  Three sent his stomach sinking.

“I hope not,” he said.  “It wouldn’t be fair.  If just one member of a group is marked, they all still have to fight empowered enemies, but only the delver with the mark gets the bonuses.  The only solution is for everyone to have it.”

“Oh, but wouldn’t it be exciting?”  Priam cracked his knuckles.

“No,” Edmund said sharply.  Thrax these two were cocky.  Had they always been like this?  He remembered them competing against each other back on the seventeenth floor.  He shook his head.  “Anything else I need to know?  How long have you two been here, anyway?”

“Barely a half hour,” Lucius said.  “Just long enough to run a few tests.”

“What else would you want to know?” Priam asked.

“What monsters to expect, where the exit is, how many potential paths there are to it, and how we could potentially neutralize the threat of the brambles.”  Edmund counted on his fingers listed off what he considered the bare minimum of intel.

“No idea, that way, one, and unless you’ve learned to fly since we last saw you, no,” Lucius rattled off answers.  “Hop up and see for yourself.”

Edmund didn’t hesitate, leaping as high as his Obsession powered legs could take him, followed by a pair of windsteps to garner enough altitude to peek over the top of the briars.

But for a sparse handful of clearings and the single winding path the the distant exit, the vines coated every inch of the vast level, reaching out in all directions as far as Edmund’s eyes could see through the especially thin smoke.  He found no walls to speak of, implying the briars themselves defined the level’s only boundary.  He wondered how Liam meant to stop flying delvers from wandering out of bounds.  Perhaps only those without such skills ever found themselves on this floor.

“What about those clear spots?” Edmund asked as he fell back to the desert ground.  “There’s gotta be something there, right?”

“Closest one is just under a hundred yards off the path,” Priam said with a shrug.  “If you can make it that far without getting pricked, you’re welcome to look.”

Edmund blinked.  “You can’t?  Eleven floors ago you were crossing a hundred feet in a single jump.”

“That was with a wall to run along,” Priam said, gesturing up to the open air.  “I don’t see any walls.”

“I’m more impressed you seem to think you can make it,” Lucius added.  “A hundred yards is an incredible amount of time to remain airborne.”

Edmund raised an eyebrow.  “Who said anything about remaining airborne?  I intend to run there.”

Priam’s eyes fell disbelievingly to Edmund’s drelnleather boots.  “In those shoes?”

“I have my ways.”  Edmund shook his head.  “But I can worry about that later.  Let’s clear the level first.  No reason for you two to wait around while I go exploring.”  He left unsaid his desire to get them out of the way of his Solitude confluences.

“Very well.”  Lucius smirked over at Priam.  “Race you?”

Priam mirrored his expression before echoing it to Edmund.  “Last one to the exit buys drinks at the next hub?”

“No,” Edmund said flatly.  “We do this slowly; we do this carefully.”

Lucius exhaled.  “You’re no fun.”

Edmund bit back his sigh.  “I’m not here to have fun.  There’s nothing fun about this place.”

“That sounds suspiciously like what someone who’s no fun would say,” Priam jibed.

Rather than dignify the taunt with a reply, Edmund simply slipped on his helmet, assembled his spear, and stepped towards the briars.  “You two coming?”

They scurried after him.

Credit where credit was due, as soon as the trio left the entrance area for the narrow path through the brambles, the Durnes bantering dried up.  Edmund set the pace, his spearpoint out in front of him as he led the way down the twisting trail.  His head swiveled to and fro constantly, peering as deep into the briars as the false sun would penetrate.  He searched for signs of motion, the pattering of feet or rustling of life within the vines.

The brothers, thankfully, joined in his vigilance.  Arrogant or otherwise, the two had survived this far into the Depths.

The path itself set Edmund on edge.  It was too exposed.  He could only see a sparse handful of feet in either direction, yet by nature of the briars, attack could come from all angles.  It was a tactical nightmare.

Were his flanks not vulnerable enough, the way ahead proved treacherous as well.  Though prod and poke at it as he might, Edmund found no traps hidden beneath the arid earth, the briars themselves offered hazard aplenty.  Loose thorns lay scattered about the trail, fallen from their source in just enough haphazard quantity to pose real danger to the unwary foot.  At random intervals, single vines reached across the pathway, most lying directly upon the ground, but some dangling through the air as high as Edmund’s chin.

All in all, too many directions demanded his attention.

In perfect sync, the Durnes froze.

Edmund stopped short.  “What is it?”

“Something’s coming,” Priam whispered.  “Forty degrees to the right.”

Edmund didn’t stop to question how they knew.  He sure as hells didn’t hear anything.

“Shit,” Lucius cursed.  “Left too.  Seventy degrees.”

The faintest of scraping sounds reached Edmund’s sigil-enhanced ears, the soft scratch of dust against stone.  Sure enough, it echoed from up ahead and to the right, just as Priam had indicated.

Edmund lowered his spear.

His challenger’s mark burned.

A sharp and metallic hiss screeched through the air.

By the time he laid eyes on it, the snake was already airborne.

False sunlight glinted off dull metal scales as the reptile shot through the air.  Edmund immediately gave up on impaling the thing, its six-inch diameter too small a target to safely depend on.  Instead, he swung his spear in a wide arc, slamming its length into the side of the viper’s head in a desperate attempt to redirect its leap.

