miling to show his gap tooth which made his brother’s lips pull back in obvious judgment.This made his brother snap, with anger coating every word as he leaned in close enough to fog his side of the mirror.“Abrupt? Abrupt?! You, that mouth demon, and the huntress invaded the capital and threatened the king with death, you rained enough cheese down on the town that my tower needed to be completely rebuilt in the years that followed! Even worse, I have to bear the shame of being related to such a criminal to this day!” Opopal roared, the mirror shaking with violent magical energy.Haldi just blinked and without missing a beat, shrugged.“I was angry with your king. I’m still a little peeved off at him, but listen, your tower was ugly. I did you a favor,” he said kindly.“Listen, I don’t have time for your antics. What do you want? Last I heard, you and your fellow circus clowns were condemned to a Mana-Void land and left to die and spare the Kingdom of you all,” the mage said flippantly as he reached for paperwork, doing work as if Haldi was only worth a fraction of his attention compared to the massive ‘job’ of running the local mage tower in the capital.Haldi frowned.“You didn’t even check on me? I mean, I was stuck being a little... mana-deprived, but you didn’t check on me once?” he asked, a little hurt creeping into his voice and Opopal raised his eyes to stare right into Haldi’s.“I did us both a kindness and presumed you dead,” he said coldly. Haldi inhaled once then just smiled; locking that painful statement away until the boys left his hut. Alpha didn’t need to see an old man shed a tear when he was relying on Haldi to bring him some comfort.“Very well, if you want to put manners and niceties aside, I’ll be blunt. Opopal TalentDragon-” Haldi drew himself to his full height and the old remodeled church he had turned into his home seemed to inhale as if Haldi was drawing on the space itself.The man in the mirror drew back, surprised.“I, Haldirian TheBigCheese, bar you from my territory as an individual; the power of my thrice name dominating your double title,” he thundered. Opopal spluttered as if he hadn’t been challenged like this since they were both boys.“I am the Archmage! Such rules don’t bind me! I go where magical issues arise! Not that I would visit your pig farm hovel!” Opopal screamed, eyes bulging.Haldi leaned in, channeling a piece of the hurt Opopal made him feel into a gleeful smile.“Oh? Then you’ll summon the Archmage staff or robes for me to check, hm? I can be so forgetful in my ‘hovel’,” Haldi said, voice dripping acid like molten cheese.They stared at each other and Haldi watched that gleam enter Opopal’s eye; the clever intellect that allowed Haldi’s brother to become as powerful as parts of the royal court.“You know.”The tone was both furious and... triumphant. Haldi didn’t look to the side, at Alpha.“I do. And you won’t come sniffing here for answers. It’s called karma and I think you should start looking for a new job title. Maybe try for Assistant-to-the-Archmage?” Haldi crossed his arms as his brother drummed his fingers for a moment.“I won’t lower myself to demand an answer. I know you are stubborn as you are foolish. You have no clue what you’ve invited,” Opopal warned darkly, his youthful face flushed.“Nothing because you won’t admit what you lost and people won’t come here for something they’re confident hasn’t left the capital,” Haldi pointed out and he frowned when Opopal laughed without mirth.“Again, this is why you may be a powerful wizard, but you are a terrible wiseman. The title of Archmage isn’t just clothes and a staff. It’s a fragment of magic itself, latching on to the strongest or worthiest magic-user to announce their name. Do you think it isn’t desired by forces so vile that I could barely leave my tower without facing attacks?” the ex-Archmage sneered.“I’ve faced things I had to purge my memory of. Your magic-addicts don’t worry me,” Haldi said confidently, shooting Alpha a wink.“Fool. You know nothing... nothing of magic. But... you are correct. I won’t be announcing where this new ‘archmage’ may be found,” Opopal announced with a scowl before he smoothed down his expression.“I warned you long ago before you sought to fight this enemy ‘within’ that another danger lurked within this world. Ignore me now as you did then, but I won’t continue to draw their attention any longer. I’ll be destroying this mirror after this,” Opopal said with a flat tone and Haldi tried not to bite his lip and ask what happened to them.Had magic torn them apart so badly?“Goodbye, Oppy,” Haldi said quietly. The man paused then turned away.“Goodbye, Hally,” the man said and the image cracked violently, distorting the image into a dozen fractures before it spluttered and the mirror exploded outwards.Haldi raised a hand to his cheek, coming away with his two fingers covered in redness, his cheek cut by a shard of glass.“One world threat at a time,” he sighed and turned brightly to his guest.“We should be all good now! He won’t bother you,” he told Alpha with his best jolly tone. He touched his cheek and a thin film of cheese spread like fungus over the cut, bubbling before it peeled away to reveal slightly pale but unblemished skin.“What was he talking about? The danger he talked about?” Quiss asked, suspicious and Seth just gave him a deeply concerned look.“Oh, nothing major,” Haldi promised as he pulled out platters of cheese to distract them from his next words.“Just that magic may have come into existence by luring a god into this world and shredding it into ingredients that ended up making the first magic-users near the beginning of humanity’s history,” Haldi said with a snort.“Morbid, but how is that dangerous?” Quiss asked as Alpha looked down at his hands with wide-eyes.“Just Oppy buys into this old myth passed down the various Mage Towers,” Haldi said, trying to stress how he didn’t buy into it given everything he had seen.“Pieces of this ‘god’ are bigger than others and certain cultists want to reunite it and worship it as an icon. So they want to kill all the Archmages in the world and take their titles into one person,” Haldi said before he plucked a particularly juicy piece of cheese on a stick for himself.“Cultists?” Alpha echoed.“Well, the first magic users kind of ‘borrowed’ that god from the actual people who believed in it. I don’t know anything more because Oppy was kind of ranting and raving when he told me this years ago,” Haldi shrugged; he had been more keen with dealing with the... uh... thing he wasn’t supposed to remember.“Trust me, it won’t come back to bite us,” Haldi said, confident and his three guests shared a worried look.---Across the lands, through the dark woods and past swamps of dark bubbling ooze and dirt, a ruinous castle rose up through skeletal trees. Against the moonlit sky, the castle looked precariously lopsided and tired.Deep within, many sublevels into the cold ground, a pair of red eyes opened inside a bedroom. It sat up slowly, feeling the changes in the gentle balance of magic.“...” she said, nothing more than a release of air escaping her throat, but it was enough to ignite the various torches around the room and awaken the still form in the corner of the room. The woman in the rocking chair that had been cobwebbed and coated over in dust stood up, smoothing down her servant’s clothes that looked like a mix of purples, whites and a black tight corset around her waist that allowed a white apron to flow down gently.There was a series of clicks and grinding gears before the maid righted herself and managed to smile.“Lady Altnis, are you finally a-a-a-a-awake?” the woman shuddered as her voice seemed to grind to a stop for a moment before clearing up.The young girl in the bed slowly turned to the woman, her red eyes turning pink and milky in the light, betraying her inability to see.“...” she breathed, moving her hands slowly in a one-handed series of gestures.“Yes, my lady. I am functional,” the maid bowed, making sure to make her clothes brush against each other to let her girl know what she was doing.More gestures and the girl sat up in her bed, barely a slip of a girl, but the paleness of skin and stillness of her movement betrayed her unnatural existence.More gestures.“Truly? A fragment is finally exposed?” the maid said with excitement and the Altnis signed more.“I shall wake the castle. Your loyal friend, Snugglebuns, remains at your side always,” the maid smiled, revealing a slightly stitched mouth and black ears that blended into her black hair as if swept back.The girl turned, flailing her hands in utter embarrassment. The maid merely hummed.“Twas the name you gave me as a young girl! How could I discard such a name, but as you command. Your loyal maid, Snug, is here for you! Snugglebuns in secret!” she clapped her hands, her wrists turned like locks in a machine.Before, Lady Sarah Von Altnis sagged as if exasperated and began to edge towards the end of her bed.It was time for the last heir of Magic to return their God to right!
