The other guards swear their oaths one by one, leaving no room for doubt. Catching BoShui as he staggers towards me, I take the knife from his hand before easing him to sit on the floor. “I’ll have the rest of my retinue do the same, and even have them swear they’ve not yet revealed it,” he says. “I didn’t set up a line of communication with the others, so no one will know, but please, you have to tell me.” Swallowing hard, he pulls me close and whispers, “You weren’t lying were you? To my cousin, I mean. You truly can sense... them, and even cleanse them, can’t you?”

Unwilling to comment, I pat his hand and say, “We’ll talk about it some other time.” Like never.

Shaking his head, he tightens his grasp. “No. I’ve given my oath to never reveal what happens here. You can tell me, you can trust me. I need to know. I felt it, I know you did something, please...”

Glancing around to make sure no one is looking, I explain the whole spiel to BoShui through Sending. Oddly enough, Blobby even agrees to make an appearance, condensing in the palm of my hand and even giving a happy little bounce for emphasis. Huh, Did Blobby grow? I swear it was only about the size of tear drop before, and now its almost the size of a grape. Weird, all it did was circle the waters once before coming back, all satisfied and energetic. Gerel said the pool was chock full of Heavenly Energy, but I thought Heavenly Water is supposed to emit Heavenly Energy, not absorb it.

My amorphous tenant has nothing to say, settling in and around the void. Who knows, maybe Blobby was hungry or something. It’s a mystery I don’t have time for, as I’m knee deep in shit with BoShui at the moment. “In conclusion,” I Send, “I didn’t have the Heavenly Water until I fell into the canals of Sanshu. I didn't even know about it before that, I just had a feeling. It's no wonder your cousin didn't believe me.”

By now, BoShui is looking at me as if I were the Mother herself, though his eyes fill with tears and regret. “Was she...?” he asks, unable to voice the rest.

“No,” I answer in a firm tone. “She wasn’t. She truly believed in her cause and thought she was doing the right thing.” Which makes her life, and death, all the more tragic.

Tears stream down BoShui’s cheeks as he struggles for calm, breathing in a shuddering gasp. “Thank you,” he says, bowing his head before handing me the black brick he took from the wagon. “There’s something wrong with it. Before we even entered the cavern, I sensed there was something here for me. When I touched it, I wasn’t myself. All I could feel was an overwhelming yearning for bloodshed and vengeance. I wanted to turn around and cut you down, order my men to fight to the death just to revel in death and destruction, until you...”

Studying the item, I feel nothing strange about it. If I wasn't seeing the entire process happening inside the cavern, I’d have thought these little bars were carved stone. There’s nothing metallic about them, no glowing sheen or ring when tapped. Weird. Neither Baledagh nor Blobby have anything to say about it either, so I head to the wagon to see what I can find out. The workers ignore my presence, going about their tasks like I don’t exist. Fear and resignation mingle with the scent of unwashed bodies, these people surviving on a dwindling cache of water and rations sitting in the corner. No matter how much I insist, they refuse to stop working, shaking their heads and mutter ‘I don’t dare’ or its equivalent. They don’t even have an overseer, so broken in spirit they might’ve worked themselves to death if we hadn’t arrived.

After a few questions, I find out the other tunnel leads to the blacksmiths, where the bars are forged into weapons and armour. I guess the secret cavern keeps people from finding out Yo Ling's secret, since not all of the Butcher Bay Bandits were Defiled. Heading back into the cavern, I check the closest cauldron, curious how they turn stone into liquid, then stone again, using only a pot sitting over a campfire. Peering into the first cauldron reveals nothing of note, merely a thick, viscous liquid almost ready to be poured out. Making my way down the line, the liquid lightens in colour with each station I pass, until halfway through, I spot something floating in the pot. Swallowing my revulsion, I grab the ladle and fish up the contents for a better look. Interspersed with rock fragments and Heavenly Energy infused-water are gleaming shards of white, almost like white jade but not. My stomach drops as I guess its origins, but unwilling to speak without proof, I ask, “Where do you get these materials from?”

“There, Great one.” Hurrying to show me, the nearest worker hurries toward a shadowy corner of the cavern. Lifting a previously unseen tarp, he reveals a desiccated corpse. Treated with something to keep the bones from rotting, it sits in a puddle of brownish-red filth, as if marinating before its time in the pot. “Mercy Great One, but the Lord has yet to send us more and we will soon run out. Without more ingredients, we cannot work, and if we don’t work...” The worker whimpers and cringes before lifting another tarp. “We tried adding the fallen workers, but it’s not working. The bones, they are not of the same quality. Also, the bodies, they are too wet and there also isn’t enough of the solvent to dry them. No one knows how to make it either, it’s always the Lord who prepares this for us, please Great One, you must speak to him.”

Numb to the horror of it all, my brain puts the pieces together and I’m not happy with my findings. The death and corpses don’t surprise me much, it’s fairly standard Defiled murder-hobo territory. What’s disturbing is the need for Spiritual Hearts and water infused with Heavenly Energy. Tranquility was made from the skull of a Meng-Zhua, some big, elephant looking mother fucker. Is it really all that different from what I’m seeing here?

If this is true, then the difference between us and them isn’t as great as I once thought, which means...

I dunno what it means.

I'm not sure how I feel about any of this.

Chapter Meme
