Sapphire pupils widening, the demoness ran her wrist over the marbled forehead. “Mmm. Yes, yes. He is very much alive.”

“Good. Can you… fix this? Fix Veron, I mean.”

Sythara barked out a laugh. “How do you expect me to do that? Clearly, the human has fused with this most fascinating tower of yours. In all my time in the plane, I’ve never seen anything like it. Frankly, I wouldn’t want to fix him even if I could. I want to study him,” she breathed.

“Study? Sythara—” he stopped himself. Sythara was a scientist, and if he wanted to recoup Veron’s condition, he needed to approach this like one. “Would this studying lead to findings that might give us some inclination on how to reverse his condition?”

“I don’t know. Maybe. It would certainly lead to some very interesting research,” she said distractedly, hands tracing every inch of the bisected torso. Elegant fingers ran from chin, to neck, to stomach, to where the waistline melded into the grate below.

“Fine, fine. An agenda item for later. Do you know why?”

Just as she was about to reply, Shiny stepped into the chamber. His amber eyes took in the scene, widened, and then hardened. He shook his little red head and turned his attention to Kairon.

“Master. Human at gate… They asking questions. Getting impatient.”

Sucking in a breath, the demon nodded. “So he is. So he is…” he trailed off. “Sythara, the human servant outside. The old one. Did he see anything during your… experimentation?”

“As far as I could tell, the man was oblivious. I told the little ones to keep him out. They did so, of course,” she snorted. As if the very idea of disobeying her was irrational. A moment later, she continued on. “Come to think of it, I did hear some shouting. But I don’t believe he actually saw anything. Honestly, child, it was hard to tell. I was quite preoccupied.”

“We’ll assume he didn’t. If he had, the man probably would have reacted more strongly.” The city lord gestured to his councilors. “Here is what we are going to do.”

Activating Sovereign Eye, he began mentally dishing out orders.
