They started making out, caressing each other's faces and kissing like there was no tomorrow. Lucy moved over a little, and she eased Ren back onto the bed. They kept kissing and Ren's arm ended up half-jammed under Lucy's weight. He didn't notice however, as his concentration was completely focused on how great Lucy felt as she nuzzled his neck. Lucy didn't notice, either... and when she shifted her weight to get more comfortable, it shifted Ren as well.

*POP*

Ren froze as a familiar sensation was felt in his elbow. It was the same feeling he'd had in his knee when he'd collapsed in physiotherapy. Lucy kept kissing him, and he responded in kind a moment later, but she started to notice that he was only using one hand, when he had been using two only a few minutes before.

“Ren, what is it?” Lucy asked.

“It's nothing.” He said and tried to kiss her.

“Don't lie to me.” She said and sat up. “I can always tell, you know that.”

Ren sighed, then used his still functioning arm to sit himself up... and his left arm flopped over the edge of the bed, the joint clearly out of place.

“REN! Oh my god!” Lucy exclaimed and got off the bed.

“It's okay, Lucy.” Ren said. “It's probably just dislocated.” He tried to pick it up with his good hand, but she bat the good hand away, and examined Ren's elbow as tears came to her eyes. She eased the arm onto the bed and felt around the joint. She wiped her eyes and went to the door, unlocked it, and hollered for the doctor. She came back to the bed and the tears flowed freely.

“I'm... I'm so sorry, Ren!” Lucy said and started to sob.

“I told you it's okay, Lucy.” Ren said. “It doesn't even hurt.”

Lucy cried and wiped more tears away. “That usually means... the... the nerve is pinched.” Lucy sniffed. “Can you move your fingers?”

Ren looked down at his arm, and as the ring finger twitched a little bit, he mentally cursed at it. The doctor and Denise came in and saw the state of Ren's arm. The doctor gave a stern look to both Denise and Lucy, and examined Ren's elbow. He checked Ren's pulse, and felt that it was weak.

“Can you move your fingers?”

Ren mentally cursed his hand again and shook his head.

“Nurse, get the sedatives. An immediate Reduction is necessary. We'll worry about the possible nerve damage after it's properly set.”

“I don't need sedatives.” Ren said.

“This is no time to be brave.” The doctor said.

“I'd rather be awake, if that's okay.”

The doctor sighed. “Nurse, a hand please.”

Denise stepped forward and Ren laid back in the bed. She held his upper arm steady, and the doctor felt around the now swollen elbow. He nodded to Denise and she gripped hard. Ren winced as the doctor gently turned his forearm back and forth slowly, and then the elbow popped back into place. The doctor checked that it was properly set, and checked Ren's pulse at his wrist.

“That's better.” He said and smiled. “You're lucky, Ren. We won't need surgery.”

“I'll get the sling and the wheelchair.” Denise said and left the room.

“I'll call X-ray and get the room ready.” Doctor Hobbard said and left as well.

Lucy had stood off to the side and didn't say a word until the doctor left. “Ren... I... I'm so sorry!”

“It's okay.” Ren said and flexed his fingers a little. “See? Getting better already.”

Lucy sobbed and came over to the bed. “I hurt you so badly, just from being around you.” She said and wiped more tears away. “I shouldn't... I can't be doing this to you, Ren.”

“Lucy, don't!”

“Ren... I can't... I can't see you anymore.” Lucy said and cried.

Ren reached out and put a hand on her face. “Please, Lucy... don't leave me!” Ren said as tears came to his eyes. “I love you!”

Lucy held his hand on her face and rubbed it like a cat. “I love you, too... but, I won't hurt you like this anymore.” She said. “ I can't let myself hurt you like this.” Lucy took his hand from her face. “G-g-goodbye, R-Ren.”

“Lucy!” Ren hollered, but she ignored him and left the room. A moment later, Denise came in with the wheelchair and arm sling. She gently placed Ren's arm in the sling, and Ren climbed out of bed and into the wheelchair. Denise tried her best to ignore his quiet tears as she pushed the wheelchair to the elevator to take Ren to X-ray. She gave Ren a tissue to wipe his face once they got there, and it didn't take long to confirm the doctor's prognosis. His elbow was damaged, but wouldn't need surgery. After only a few weeks in a sling, and some physical therapy, would have the elbow back to almost full function.

“What do you mean, almost?” Ren asked the doctor.

“Any kind of damage like this, there's going to be consequences.” Doctor Hobbard said. “In this case, your arm won't completely straighten anymore.”

Ren sighed. “Thanks, doctor.”

Doctor Hobbard pat Ren on the head and told Denise to take him back to his room. She did, and Ren climbed into bed, with a little difficulty.

“Is there anything I can do for you?” Denise asked.

“I'd like to be alone for a while.” Ren said.

Denise nodded and took the wheelchair back to the nurse's station as Ren let the tears flow again. A few minutes later, he wiped his eyes and glanced at the rollaway table, and on it was the only escape Ren had for his troubles. He pulled the rollaway table over and picked up his VR headset. He had a hard time getting it on with only one hand, but he managed it eventually and laid back on the bed.

“Flow Login Start.”
