“She's right.” Stella said after putting away the items in the drawers under the large counter that had double sinks. “We'll definitely need to get towels and everything.”

Ren nodded. “Thanks for bringing some for us.”

“No problem.” Stella said and put a hand on his shoulder. “I think I'll take the left one.” She said and smiled. “If you need anything, I'll be right next door.”

“Thanks, Stella.” Elise said.

“Goodnight.” Stella said and left them alone in the room. Ren got up out of the wheelchair and went over to the dresser by the bed. He opened the drawer and looked at the only thing in it; a set of red silky pyjamas. He thought about changing right there, but when he looked at Elise, he couldn't quite read her expression. He closed the drawer, climbed up onto the bed, and moved the pillows around so that both he and Elise could prop themselves up on them.

“Elise?” Ren said, and she kind of jumped a little. “Can you come here?”

Elise looked around and couldn't think of a reason not to get on the bed. She wasn't sure why she was reluctant to do it, though. Ren pat the pillows beside him where he had propped himself up, and she laid down beside him and propped herself up, too.

“Tell me about your day.” Ren said to her, and she blinked her eyes at him a few times.

“What?”

“I haven't heard your voice in so long, that I want to savour it.” Ren said. “Please.”

“I... okay.” Elise said. “Well, my day started like it always does.” She said. “I thought about you.”

“Me, too.” Ren said. “I mean, there's lots of things that normally go through my mind; but, you told me we were going to break in the new bed tonight and I... well, that's what's kept me going.” He smiled. “I can't wait to hear you moan with pleasure.”

“Ren, I...”

“What did you do next?” Ren asked her. “Did you have breakfast?”

“I did, technically.” Elise said. “It was only a cup of coffee and 2 pieces of toast.”

Ren closed his eyes. “What next? Did you take a shower?”

Elise looked at him to see if he leered at her and imagined her naked; but, she saw that his eyes were closed and she couldn't tell what he was thinking.

“Yes, I scrubbed myself all over.” Elise said. “But that was this morning. I've been sweating a little since then, especially after hearing about what happened to you.”

Ren took in a deep breath through his nose. “You smell wonderful, Elise.”

Elise lifted her arm and checked as she watched him. He didn't open his eyes and she sniffed herself. It was a little strong, but her deodorant was keeping it at bay and it wasn't too bad.

“The traffic was thick today, so it took longer than usual to get to work.” Elise said. “Some idiot cut me off to take the same exit I was, and I nearly ran into him.”

Ren kept his eyes closed and reached a hand out to touch her arm. “Are you okay?”

“I'm fine.” Elise said. “It pissed me off more than it scared me.”

Ren chuckled. “I wish I was there to see you lay on your horn and curse the guy.”

“How did you know I did that?” Elise asked, surprised.

“It was just an educated guess.” Ren said. “Tell me about work.”

“Ren.” Elise said. “Why are you...”

Ren opened his eyes. “I told you.” He said and looked at her. “I want to listen to you talk.”

“I thought... well, you... I mean...”

“We're on the bed, aren't we?” Ren asked her.

“Yes.”

“Together.”

“Yes.”

“Then even if nothing happens, and all we do is fall asleep... we can still tell everyone we slept together.” Ren said and smiled at her.

“So cheeky.” Elise chuckled. “What am I going to do with you?”

“Well.” Ren said and grinned. “We could do all of the things that I'm going to tell everyone we did anyways.”

Elise snorted a laugh, gave in to her suppressed urges, and kissed him.
