Niala, David and Linzy were just about to dig into lunch when someone insistent and in a hurry banged on their backyard door.

Jordo held up a hand just as David began getting to his feet. “No need, sir, please allow me.”

The golem was already moving for the door before David could say anything. He greeted the visitor, who, from the voice, was Leandro. From his tone, something was going on.

The large man marched into the dining room, in full Reign armour except for his helmet tucked under his arm. He bowed his head in salute, not waiting for their replies. “David, Niala, something happened up north.”

They looked at each other. David spoke. “From your tone, something bad. What is it?”

Leandro glanced at the door out back. “We should talk as we go.”

“That bad?”

He replied with a grave look.

The Marshall briefed them as he led them toward the Azure Guard compound, Sybil and Sammie bringing up the rear. “Yesterday, the crew working on the road north, toward the Living Vault, came into view of a burial site, situated along the path the road was being built. The foreman figured they would deviate by a few metres and build alongside it.”

David frowned as Leandro continued.

“According to the crew who got away, this morning, when the road crew's leading elements got close to the burial site, the above-ground caskets surrounding the mausoleum melted. They revealed tall, bald, white-skinned individuals who woke up, looked around, and began talking in an unknown language.”

Niala's ears wiggled. “Tall and white? Leandro, that sounds like-”

The large man nodded. “I know, like Rinka's story. She will meet us at the compound to confirm.”

“You said those that got away. What happened to the others?” She asked, ears dropping with concern.

A group of labourers coming from the opposite direction ducked to the side of the road, afraid they'd get trampled if they stayed in the large armoured man's path.

“They were captured by tentacles, is what the escapees said. White, fleshy appendages that burst from the ground and coiled around them. The victims yelled and screamed at first, but they apparently went docile or dazed within a few seconds. The ones furthest back were able to jump onto one of the autocars and raced back here. From a distance, they saw the captured workers get bundled, still bound in coiling tentacles, and the mausoleum quivered.”

Leandro turned the last corner, coming into view of what was shaping up to be a small fortress, once it was completed. He saluted the Azure Guards at the entrance, who let the group pass without any challenge.

Inside, they found Isaac, wearing his powered magitech armour, Angeline next to him, talking with the local Azure Guard captain in front of a map laid out on a table.

All around the compound, sergeants were yelling at troops to move faster and muster into ranks and files, each one geared for war.

Isaac looked at the new arrivals and dipped his head. Angeline smiled at her sister, who gave her a little finger wave.

The group walked up to the table. “Brother, good that you came.” He held a hand toward the Guard officer next to him. “This is Captain Bastonian, he'll be in charge of the Azure forces.”

The captain bowed his head. Isaac turned his attention back to his brother. “Sir Gustall told me you know of these interlopers?”

David nodded. “Old enemies of the Reign, apparently. Rinka will know more.”

Isaac looked over his brother's shoulder and pointed with his chin. “And here she is, along with the rest of your house guards.”

Under the group's gaze, the Magister joined them around the table, giving an awkward wave of the hand. “Huh, hi? This looks serious.”

David and Isaac shared a look. The younger brother cleared his throat and explained the situation.

Brow furrowed, Rinka looked at the map, and the pin that showed the relative position where the tall white freaks had surfaced. “A mausoleum and above-ground caskets. That is... unfortunately familiar.”

Isaac quirked a brow. “How so?”

She instead looked at David and Niala. “You remember I told you that the Hummers attacked in waves, and then retreated, going dormant for a while?”

They nodded. Niala's ears twitched.

“Right, so, they literally went dormant. After they retreated, and when the Reign sent scouts to make sure they had gone back to their territory, every time reports came back of new structures having sprouted overnight.”

She pointed at the pin on the map. “Always a sort of macabre building, like the mausoleum and caskets you described. Sometimes small, sometimes big. The size seemed to coincide with the number of Hummers going to 'sleep' in close proximity.”

Isaac frowned. “And you didn't feel it worth informing my brother of that?”

Rinka threw her hands to the side. “It's been thousands of years! How would I know they could sleep for that long!?”

The young noble looked at her with furrowed brows for a moment before grimacing. “Right, well, what can they do? What are their capabilities? What do we need to watch out for?”

She blinked and stared at him. “I, huh, I'm not sure. We've never seen the tall freaks fight. They were the diplomats, or messengers, maybe? But one thing we never saw them without was one of their flying whales.”

Isaac squinted. “...Flying whale?”

Rinka nodded. “Yeah, like your airships, but made of meat! Meat ships!” She said with a smile, which fell as fast as her attempt at humour did. She looked downward. “So, huh, yeah, I don't know specifically about the tall freaks, but the tentacles, those were common on Hummer battlefields. Always came from a burrowed creature of theirs nearby. Far as we knew, they were used to drain people of mana.”

Everyone around the table exchanged gazes. Niala looked at Rinka. “Are they... magivores? Fels?”

The woman lifted her shoulders. “A magivore, maybe, but we're not even sure those beasts were alive. The few that were captured and dissected didn't have the organs that a living thing should have. We always thought of them as machines made of flesh, instead.”

Isaac looked up to the sky. “Oh, wonderful.” He turned his eyes back down at the map. “Well, if we're unsure of enemy capabilities beyond burrowing mana-sapping tentacles...” He looked at the Azure Captain. “What do you think, Luther?”

The officer narrowed his eyes. “Small units, with cutting weapons, to intercept the tentacles, and liberal use of tremor step to break up and collapse the ground. If it's compacted, anything burrowing below will push the soil up, letting us spot their approach.”

Isaac looked at Leandro. “Do you concur?”

The large man rubbed his chin. “It is a solid plan, but we should send our strongest asset to the front. It should occupy the enemy too much for them to be able to properly respond.”

Isaac narrowed his eyes. “Our strongest asset?” His head slowly turned toward his brother, along with most everyone else's.

David stared back at them.

The younger brother sighed and looked back at Leandro. “I would rather have avoided bringing him into the fight, but it's true that we would be depriving ourselves.”

David quirked a brow. “Why would you leave me out of the fight?”

“Because you are the head of state. Kings do not stride onto the battlefield.” His brother explained.

David wanted to deny that, to say that in his country, the leader fought, but his noble upbringing warred with the thought. He shook his head. “Doesn't matter, I'm fighting.”

“Me too!” Niala piped up, ears erect.

David's head snapped toward her, mouth already opened on an objection, but her eyes shut that down.

If you're getting into danger, I'll be there to help you.

He slowly closed his mouth, let go of his apprehension, and smiled instead.

“I'm coming too.” Another feminine voice said.

All heads turned toward Angeline.

Isaac turned toward her. “Absolutely not!”

She lifted an eyebrow. “So my sister is allowed to go into danger, but I'm not? My dear Isaac, what sort of message is that sending?”

The young man swept an armoured hand to the side. “It's sending the message that people with no combat experience do not belong on a battlefield!”

Niala stepped forward. “Angeline, listen, I have... tools, abilities, that I can use to keep myself safe, and David will blow up the countryside before he lets anything touch me.”

The man in question nodded behind her.

Angeline smirked. “Well, I have an Isaac who will keep me safe, and, besides, if you need a negotiator, I'm the best, so I'm coming.”

Isaac, eyes nearly bursting out of their orbits, opened his mouth.

She held up a hand. “And I'll stay behind the guards, safe, like a proper lady.” Her eyes narrowed. “But I am coming.”

Isaac stared at her eyes, grumbled, and turned back toward the group. “We're mounting the autocars in ten minutes. David, you'll ride with me on the lead unit. Niala, Leandro and Jordo, on the second. Angeline, in the second-to-last. Any questions?”

Nobody had any questions.

Only worries.

With the road to the north paved all the way to the event site, the drive only took two and a half bells. The convoy of eight autocars, a mish-mash of military, cargo and transports, whatever was at hand, stopped before the last bend around a hill.

The guards disembarked, forming up into predesignated units. Rinka and Angeline were kept, with guards, at the back, while David and Jordo went up front.

While nobody really expected people who took prisoners first to want to talk, they figured they would at least try.

After all, the Luminous Reign was long dead, and, as far as they knew, so were the Hummers. If these were the long-lost remnants of that country, maybe they could be reasoned with.

With everyone ready, David and Jordo walked around the bend. Up ahead, the road continued before ending in a patch of levelled ground, strewn with discarded construction equipment. Just ahead was what David remembered to be the site of the caskets and mausoleum. Of those, only the mausoleum remained, though it looked... somewhat inflated.

Surrounding it were eight white, bald, tall individuals wearing equally white, flowing robes. Within the circle they formed, the roughly fifty members of the road crew were tied together with small white vein-like tentacles. Their heads were hanging low, and none of them seemed to be moving.

The eight figures caught sight of David as soon as he turned the bend. They turned to face him and tracked him with their heads, but stayed in place, eerily still, and unblinking.

He got up to maybe forty metres from them when the closest figure took one singular step forward, crossed their elongated hands and fingers over their lap, and spoke.

The language sounded like a bubbling, gurgling pot of viscous stew. David's skin crawled just from hearing it. He glanced up at Jordo, who shook his head.

David took one more step and spoke in Lumiran. “Greetings. I am David Allwarden. I have come to inquire why you captured my compatriots, and to negotiate their return to us in good health.”

The leading figure seemed to startle. They turned their head toward the rest of them, each looking to one another, as if they were having a silent discussion. Eventually, the closest one looked back at David and answered in Lumiran as well.

“You speak the tongue of the deluded ones. How?”

David quirked a brow. “Does it matter? If it allows us to speak, then we can ask why you attacked the workers, and ask for their release.” He pointed his chin toward the group of bound captives.

The figure's head shifted slightly. “There will be no restitution. You will provide more. We require mana. These vessels are insufficient and will soon perish. If you provide enough for our needs, they may survive.”

David's eyes hardened. “If they die, we'll take that as a sign of aggression. Release them, and we can discuss your needs.”

They adjusted their head by a few degrees to the other side. “There is nothing you can do. We can smell a large presence of adequate vessels nearby. Allow our Carnagh to feed on their mana, and we will release the workers.”

“...Only the workers?”

“The vessels beyond the hill are richer than these dregs. We will take them with us.”

David slowly shook his head. “That's not going to happen.”

“Your desire is inconsequential. If you will not assent, we will take. So is the will of the Sanctified.”

The figure's tone made it clear the discussion was over. A silent signal passed between the eight individuals, and two of them left the circle, toward David, and the hill behind him.

He and Jordo stepped in front of them, blocking their path.

But when they got to within a dozen paces, both of them stopped, frozen mid-step. Their heads snapped toward him, their eyes widening.

“Scion.” One of them said, half-reverent, half-exultant.

The other six stared at him instantly.

Eight long, snow-white hands lifted, palm toward him.

David ignited his mana at the same time eight beams of sickly-yellow energy slammed into him.