“I’ve done both,” Stuart answered. He was pulling off his boots. “Only a couple of times, though. The water that pools here isn’t enough for pleasure swimming, and I prefer hot baths.”

“But it’s a waterfall in the woods far enough from the house that you can feel like an explorer who found…a waterfall in the woods…I don’t know. It’s like you have to interact with it.” What am I trying to say, and why does it sound so much like something a little kid would say?

“You’re talking about playing pretend.” Stuart let out a delighted chortle and tossed down his second boot.

“I guess,” Alden said sheepishly. “I’m just into this waterfall for some reason.”

“Not into. You are beside it.”

“No, I meant I like it.”

Stuart rubbed the bald half of his head. “When I bathed in it, it was because I wanted to pretend I was a hunter donating the blood of what I’d caught to the stream so that it wouldn’t become angry. I’d just found out some people used to do that from a story my brother Kofa told. I made up a river-soothing song, too.”

“That’s the kind of thing I’m talking about! And you did it here in this part of the stream because the waterfall was here.”

“I did.”

“And I bet the stream never got angry.”

“It didn’t. Perhaps I saved my whole family from disaster.”

“You must have.”

“Not a single one of them has thanked me.”

As soon as their eyes met, they were both laughing together. Someone passing by who overheard them would no doubt imagine much funnier things had been said to warrant it.

When the moment ended, Stuart shoved his pants legs up above his knees and waded into the water. “I keep most of the patient creatures here. They’re from the river where I lived with my mother, and I made them my <<personal decoration>>. Showing them to you was one of the ways I thought of for explaining what becoming a hn’tyon means to me. When I was planning how this weekend might go—before Anesidora had troubles and I decided not to wait so long to invite you here as my guest—the explanation I imagined was very formal. And I thought I would make it artful, too. But I can’t talk to you that way now. It would be unnatural.”

“You can give a speech if you want.”

“I don’t want to. I just want to say it as clearly as I can so that you know my thoughts. Would you like to interact with the water like you said, or should I bring the patient creatures to you?”

Alden started pulling off his shoes. “I’m coming in.”

“Be careful. The rocks are slick.”

The rocks were indeed slick underfoot, and the clear water was brisk against Alden’s calves. He didn’t see any zansees. When he reached Stuart, though, he did see a collection of something that looked similar to sea urchins. They were covered in sharp black and gray spines of different lengths. All of them were larger than golf balls, and most of them looked like they aspired to be round without quite managing it.

“So these are what you embroider on some of your clothes and put on the front of your study journals. What are they called?”

“They have a species identification code instead of a name.” Stuart was bending down to admire them. “They’re not widely known. These are most likely the only ones on the Triplanets that don’t belong to an academic collection. My mother described them as patient creatures in Rityan, so that’s what I call them.”

He reached into the water and picked one up carefully. “I wasn’t allowed to touch them when I was little. A lot of the spines are still very sharp, despite their age.”

Stuart held his hand out, and Alden saw that blood was staining some of the water on his palm pink.

“You’ve stabbed yourself.”

“I’ve stabbed myself with these many times. The wounds are so tiny I can hardly feel them.” Stuart let Alden look for a while before saying, “What we can see here is the body of an adult that has entered the final stage of its life. Years ago, conditions in its home river were right for patient creature eggs to be fertilized, but then they weren’t right for young to survive. So they changed themselves into this protective form to guard the eggs inside them. They can wait for a very long time, and they’ll have to, because what they are keeping safe is delicate, and the river is almost always too harsh.”

“Patient creatures is a good name for them, then.”

“Will you ask the Contract to show you what’s inside? What a young patient creature looks like when the river is gentle.”

“May I see that, Contract?” Alden asked. “What he just said.”

A blink later, an animal that looked like a transparent jelly butterfly with long tendrils was drifting through the air in front of him. Its thin ‘wings’ wobbled in an invisible current, and something inside it pulsed like a glowing blue heart. His brows lifted. “I didn’t expect it to look so different.”

He reached out, wondering if he could touch it, and he felt a cool whisper against one finger before the patient creature eased away from him. It moved toward the water, and when his eyes followed it down, he saw that the pool now looked like it was full of them. Some of them floated just beneath the surface. Others swam slowly around his feet.

“They’re gorgeous.”

He wondered if Stuart liked zansees so much because of these guys. Not that anyone needed a special reason to think bioluminescent aquatic life was cool.

“They are lovely.” Stuart was looking down into the stream again, too.

He must be seeing what I am through his eye rings.

“During my choosing season, one of the thoughts that became an important part of my decision was about how the patient creatures have two different kinds of beauty. The more obvious is the beauty of a tender creature that’s born into a world of peace and safety. It will live in a good river, eat well, and move freely with others of its kind through the water. The other beauty…is this.”

The vision of the jelly butterflies who could live in the good river disappeared, and Alden looked at the spiny blob Stuart was holding instead.

“This dark, hard thing that can no longer move…it’s strong enough to endure the rough and poisonous waters. It pierces every threat that exists in its habitat, and even though it’s adept at that, sometimes it’s damaged by its struggle.” He turned the creature to show Alden a place where a couple of spines were missing. “When the river is finally safe again, what’s left of its body will soften to release the young and become nutrients for them. It will die like that. Some patient creatures live and die in good rivers. Others must become this to make that possible.”

He lifted his head and waited until Alden had done the same.

“It’s simplistic, but sometimes simple comparisons make things clearer,” said Stuart. “This patient creature in my hand suffers and it makes itself dangerous so that it can be a protector. That’s the beauty of hn’tyons. My mother and father. Sina. Evul, Jozz, Kofa, Emban, all of them… Both kinds of beauty are precious and necessary, but during my choosing season, I decided I wanted this one.”

Alden didn’t realize how long he stayed silent after that until Stuart spoke again, more quietly. “You think it’s beautiful this way, too, don’t you?”

Alden made himself take a deep breath. “Yes. The dangerous version is just…scary to me. In some ways. But it is beautiful. Very beautiful. And you chose it. I like that about you.”

Stuart put the patient creature back in the water. “I hope I am more selfless than selfish about wanting it. I’m not always sure I am. It’s just what I chose after much thought. Then everything else happened.”

Everything else probably includes depths of family drama I’ve never even heard about.

“If you jump off the waterfall, make sure not to land on these,” Stuart warned. “It would hurt. For you, not them.”

“I have to jump off the waterfall,” said Alden.

He wanted to say something better than that, but he couldn’t find the words within him. And that night, he couldn’t sleep until he took a potion.

Telling Stuart everything, telling him nothing—both felt so wrong.

Time is the only answer, he thought. I’ve been getting better with every passing day. I’m so sorry, Stuart. I just need a little more of it. Another month or two of sanity.

Maybe Stuart knew he’d been tossing and turning, because he let him sleep late the next day. When Alden finally got out of bed, he was sitting at the table. A basket full of husenots was beside him, and he was using them to build a brightly-colored pyramid on the table.

“What are you doing?”

“I brought these down because I thought they would be a good thinking tool,” said Stuart, positioning a green speckled husenot on top of the pile.

“A thinking tool for what?”

Stuart gestured at the pyramid as if the answer should be obvious. “A tower. Husenots are nicer looking than real stones. For now, though, I would like to stop thinking hard and just enjoy building with them. It’s been a while since I’ve done it. Do you want to help?”

“I do.”

They didn’t talk about anything more serious than rare husenot patterns for hours. Whatever spectacular things the other declared were doing now as part of their Welcome End celebrations went unmentioned. Alden thought it might have been exactly the sort of non-upsetting weekend day Stuart had wanted.

I hope it was, he thought that night while he lay in bed. He’s more than earned it.

There was only one more day left of the Artonan weekend. Alden had to go to school tomorrow.

So far, nobody had called Stuart to invite him to anything.

******
