The Enemy was evil and insidious, but they had no power over Huushal’s actions. Only he could decide the path he would take, and so long as he kept this in mind, then the most these Spectres could do was annoy him with their whispers.

Mind at peace with his actions and desires for the first time in months, he followed orders and eagerly awaited his next target, of which there were plenty to pick and choose from. After relieving the other Sentinel unit, he led his retinue to chase down a pack of garo riders who were positioned to cut off Major Xinyue’s cavalry. The wind whipped through his hair as he charged the Enemy position, no longer bothering to hide his glee or his appreciation for the strumming longbows singing out behind him. The thrill of battle filled his veins and for once, there was no guilt to accompany it, for he was a man in love with battle, one who lived for the thrill of the fight, but this was not all he cared for. He was Huushal of the People, son to Chakta, Elia, and Ghurda, Husband to Yesui and Yosai, and friend of Falling Rain. When this battle was over and won, he would check in on his friend before returning home with his mother and wives, where he would spend the rest of his life making certain they knew he loved and appreciated all they did. Hell, he might even dig deep into his pockets and treat the old geezer for a meal out, seeing how he worked so hard to keep Huushal sane, and while they were not family, they were at least related by blood. It didn’t mean much in his eyes, but it was something, and the old codger didn’t seem to have anyone else to care for him besides Ma.

All this would have to wait however, as Huushal had one more thanks to give. This one went out to the Heavens, for there, leading the Enemy cavalry, was a face he recognized, one which haunted his darkest nightmares. The Defiled Chieftain’s clothes were different and his hair oiled and braided, but there was no mistaking him for anyone else. “Vithar!” he howled, his voice ugly and twisted with hate. “Huushal of the People has come to claim your life!

And to his anger and delight, the Chieftain smiled back before veering to meet Huushal in battle.

The Heavens had smiled upon him, for now, he finally had a chance to avenge Uncle Kalil.

Watch me Uncle. The boy has grown into a man, one who bears a murderous, righteous rage.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Finally. Khishigs of the Bekhai, worthy opponents for Vithar and his tribesmen.

A much needed challenge, one he would savour and relish. The western province was a land of plenty once you learned how to uncover the hidden wealth beneath its sand, and his tribe had grown fat and lazy from luxury. A culling was needed, not because the tribe could not support such numbers, but because the ancestors demanded it. How could his people remain strong without struggle and conflict? Weakness was death, even in these rich southern lands, and Vithar refused to let his people become fodder for others seeking strength.

What a fool he’d been, to sit idle behind stone walls for so many weeks, lulled into complacency by soft beds and softer women. The searing sun was not a foe he was equipped to face, and though it was better to adapt and overcome the sweltering heat and become stronger for it, exposing himself to its dazzling rays left him barely able to stand, and from there, he let his weakness set in and take root. Succumbing to weak, southern practices, he covered himself from head to toe in comfortable silks and slept through midday while slaves fanned his naked, sweating frame. Most days he whiled away enjoying the many comforts the southlands had to offer, succumbing to temptation in ways he never thought possible. He drank often and ate as he pleased, took new tribesmen and Champions into his tribe, yet only fought over streets and buildings behind stone walls when the prospect intrigued him.

Weak. Careless. Vulnerable. Without a proper Enemy to face, Vithar had become all this and more, but still the Uniter kept his tribesmen back, and Vithar had not been quick to argue. There were explanations aplenty from the whelps Hideo and Gen, that his garo riders were difficult to train and the beasts too valuable to risk, but Vithar erred in not arguing against this coddling. He enjoyed and delighted in the experiences these lands had to offer, but he knew now that these luxuries amounted to a slow and pleasant death.

Thus, when he finally set out onto the fields of battle, he found a rude awakening awaited him in this land called Central. The southlander walls presented more of a threat than he first realized, and for days, he’d champed and chaffed at what he saw as needless caution, watching lesser, undeserving warriors charge out into battle and return with glory and spoils aplenty while he and his spent their days atop garos with little to nothing to show for it. However, Warleader Gongsun Qi could easily crush Vithar with a single hand, and such strength demanded respect, but the old Warleader possessed cunning and experience too, as Vithar soon learned.

The southlanders were not as weak as he’d first expected, and their Peak Experts a sight to behold. The castle walls hid threat and danger aplenty, with many a powerful Warrior standing ready to defend them while hulking contraptions delivered death from afar. Time and time again, he watched stronger, faster, and more impressive Chieftains scale the southlander’s defences only to die upon spears and swords, and even Blessed Transcendents fighting in large numbers were unable to force their way through. As much as Vithar yearned to test his own skills, a part of him also knew he would not fare better than many other Chieftains, and likely worse than most.

There were many names to learn here on the battlefield, names of formidable foes like Akanai, Du Min Gyu, Binesi, and more, but Vithar lacked the strength to tackle them head on. A thrilling experience, for back home and even in Imperial North, he’d played the part of garo while those he met were mere rodents. Now, he himself was the rodent, and though he did not like the comparison much, he relished the chance to taste the blood of a foe more powerful than he. Not too powerful, mind you, as Vithar yearned for a challenge, not assisted death, and now, the ancestors had brought him worthy foes to defeat, these Khishigs of the Bekhai atop their fierce and delicious beasts. Upon closer inspection, he recognized the one who called his name, the cunning half-beast whelp who plagued him so outside the stone-walled village his tribe’s allies failed to take. It was there Vithar sacrificed Kalil of the Bekhai and tasted his worthy foe’s flesh, even sharing with his weakest tribesmen so that they might take in the valiant Warrior’s strength. He kept the heart for himself of course, for a Chieftain must remain strong, but he’d found precious few worthy foes to sacrifice since, and yearned to taste it again so that he might soon become worthy to face even stronger foes.

This would be fun, a reckoning of sorts. The whelp escaped death that night, and would hopefully be stronger for it, but Vithar did not expect much from this particular foe, one who was only memorable due to his frustrating longbows and hit-and-run tactics. Vithar only sought out the whelp because of his good manners, initiating a challenge and even announcing his name before blades were met so they could fight to their heart’s content, without Vithar needing to worry if the whelp’s ancestors would know who killed him.

To his surprise, the whelp left his longbow untouched and closed in to do battle face to face. Courage aplenty, but lacking in sense, this one was no different from the hot-blooded youths of Vithar’s tribes. No, check that, the half-beast was formidable in his own way, wielding a massive slab of steel with only a single hand, while his other arm was clad in hard metal from shoulder to fist. Two powerful weapons and a host of his Ancestors to guide him, the whelp had come a long way since Vithar saw him last. Perhaps Kalil’s spirit was among them, and even responsible for their presence, which meant he might well be a worthy foe, for the Ancestors granted great power to those who listened.

They rode directly towards one another, and no other warriors saw fit to stand in their way. Trusting in the warnings of the Ancestors, Vithar released his grip on the reins and took up his axe in both hands to meet the whelp’s one-handed attack. Overpower in the first exchange, then kill on the return stroke, that was his plan, but as axe met sabre, the impact threw him off his garo and sent him sailing back through the air, his ears ringing, arms throbbing, and hands numb. Snarling as he righted himself and searched for a safe landing, he Lightened and set foot atop a tribesman’s shoulder, where he paused just long enough for him to regain his bearings. Launching himself high into the air, he soared overhead of the conflict with a howl of challenge, his blood burning from the shame and humiliation he’d just endured.

Unseated by a whelp, overpowered in a direct exchange, the Champions of Vithar’s tribe would see this and think him weak. For this, Huushal of the Bekhai would die a slow and painful death, screaming as Vithar’s tribesmen watched and laughed while his enemies bore witness to what he would do to them, should they ever find the courage to face him. The whelp cooperated by riding out to meet Vithar, clearing the way with powerful swings of the sabre, and only now did he take note of his foe’s irregular grip. Rather than holding the hilt itself, Huushal’s fingers were fastened around a metal hoop fixed to the base of the hilt. Hardly notable in Vithar’s eyes, but the Ancestors believed differently, enlightening him to the error of his ways. A minor change in grip, but a sizable change in timing, meaning his Deflection, Amplification, and Reverberations had all been wasted as Huushal’s attack arrived slightly later than Vithar anticipated. This was the reasoning for his loss, a trick for the weak to deceive the strong, but a useful one nonetheless.

This time, Vithar got the timing right, and it was the whelp’s turn to be unseated. Pleasing as it was to see his foe’s shock, his satisfaction was muted by the fact that he’d meant to kill the delicious mount with the follow through, but Huushal’s guard proved sturdier than expected and repelled his attack. The result of striking from the air, without firm ground or a sturdy garo beneath him to bear his weight, but now he and his quarry would fight on foot. The whelp was eager to die, coming to his feet and rushing in with an overhand sweep. Vithar deftly avoided with a sidestep, grinning as he watched his foe work himself into a frothing rage. Blessed by the ancestors this one was, and were he not a soft southlander, Vithar would have considered accepting this Huushal into his tribe, for he would make for a fine Champion. Aggressive, but not reckless, powerful, yet cunning, blessed by the Ancestors, but not subject to their whims, the whelp had the markings of a fine future Chieftain.

Which meant Vithar would take great pleasure in stomping this fledgling flat.

Thoroughly enjoying himself for the first time in weeks, he planted his feet and traded blows with the whelp, savouring the powerful impacts and planning how to best demoralize and dismantle this foe. The sabre was not the only threat, as the whelp used his armoured shoulder-guard to good effect, charging in shoulder first to hide the angle of his sabre attacks. Though unwilling to accept a soft southlander into his tribe, Vithar wasn’t above helping this worthy southlander Transcend, for the hallowed Transcendent were the will of the Ancestors made manifest. Lashing out with a grin, he slipped in a blow and left a shallow cut on the whelp’s cheek, just to let him know he was outmatched. As expected, this only infuriated the whelp even further, his rage and fury driving him to risk life and limb to return the insult in kind. No longer content to stand in place, the whelp backed out of Vithar’s range and stalked about the battlefield, left alone by the tribesmen and southlanders battling around them. This was a duel between two warriors, one Huushal’s comrades respected, which Vithar had never expected from weak southlanders. He heard Hideo say that these Bekhai lived in the far north of the Empire, where they endured freezing weather and sparse landscapes for many moons over a season. This was nothing compared to life in the homeland, but it was clear these ‘harsh’ conditions had born Warriors of repute within the Empire’s otherwise soft and plentiful borders.

Dragging the sabre through the dirt like a heavy burden, Huushal presented his armoured shoulder to Vithar as if daring him to strike. A trade then, a desperate gambit with his life on the line, hoping to accept a blow on his armour in hopes of delivering Vithar a killing strike, but he was not so foolish as to accept. Feinting a trade, he pulled his axe back with a smile and watched the whelp’s sabre flash harmlessly by. Unable to let this opportunity pass, Vithar put an end to this fight by delivering a single, crippling cut to the back of his prey’s legs and severing the vital tendons there. Blood spurted and the whelp let out a pained, helpless cry before tumbling into the dirt. Smiling as Huushal twisted about in a futile effort to bring his weapon to bear, Vithar hefted his axe, but stayed his hand from delivering the killing blow. This would not do, there was not yet enough fear and despair, so Vithar backed off and let the whelp stew in panic.

Only to cock his head in confusion at seeing Huushal push himself to his feet, his tawny eyes still burning with determination.

