Healing? How unfortunate. This would make defeating the whelp without killing him considerably more difficult. A challenge Vithar looked forward to, but in his excitement, he did not forget to keep a close eye on his tribesmen, and the battle was going poorly. More southlander cavalry had joined the fight, armoured from head to toe in unyielding steel, and now his tribesmen were caught between them and half the Bekhai, while the remainder gave his allied gajashias the run around. Fools, chasing after empty promises when a true battle lay so close nearby, but it was his tribesmen paying the price for his allies’ folly, so he no longer had the time to play.

Charging shoulder first towards him, Huushal’s sabre thrummed as it cut through the air, but Vithar did not stand to receive it. Stepping aside as if dodging a charging garo, he hamstrung the whelp as he passed, ducked under the wild, empty-handed strike, and shoved Huushal into the dirt again. Casually dismembering his foe’s arm, he sent it flying off with armour and all before leaving Huushal to writhe in the dirt, his strangled scream doing little to raise Vithar’s spirits. Yes, his tribe needed culling, but not like this, caught in a battle they could not win and ground into dust beneath the enemy talons. Charging into the fray, he killed two horsemen and a Bekhai warrior before rejoining his tribe, thinking it was well past time they withdrew to fight another day. Grabbing the reins of a blood-maddened garo, he jerked down to bring the beast in line, but the stubborn creature growled and snapped at his head. Backing away from the attack, he watched as the garo’s head burst apart as Huushal’s sabre struck it from the side, a throw which would’ve taken Vithar clean through the neck if not for the beast’s timely disobedience.

Yet another humiliation which must be answered.

Stalking over in a rage, he brought the whelp’s sabre with him and tossed it at Huushal’s feet, and was only mildly surprised to see him stand with all his limbs intact. Troublesome, this Healing ability, closing opened arteries and reattaching severed limbs, but better to avoid injury in the first place. Raising his axe without warning, he delivered a crushing, overhand blow which brought the whelp down to one knee, his sabre braced in both hands and held overhead to fend off the killing strike. A second blow broke Huushal’s right arm, and the sabre dropped, but he was still not yet ready to die. Blocking the third blow with his armoured left, he fell back into the dirt before Vithar’s onslaught, beaten, broken, but not yet defeated, his tawny eyes still burning with rage and desired vengeance. There was no chance to kill him slowly anymore, even with the gajashias finally lending aid to Vithar’s tribesmen, for the damage had been done and his people needed to withdraw, else he would become a Chieftain without a tribe.

Which is exactly what the Uniter wants.

Frozen in place with axe raised overhead, Vithar’s brow furrowed in bewildered confusion. Why would the Ancestors turn against the Uniter now? For many moons, the Ancestors urged Vithar to join forces with the Uniter, to bring bloodshed to the southlanders and reap rewards a plenty, but now they claimed the Uniter unfaithful?

How many other tribes have fallen before Imperial blades?

Why does he not share his wondrous armour and weapons with you and your tribesmen?

Did he not lure away the strongest members of your tribe? How many Chieftains and Champions still remain?

What has he given you besides that which you took yourself? Where are the rewards he promised?

“Ye gonna take a swing, or ye feel like standing there all day?”

Blinking at the wizened form before him, Vithar took five steps back and still felt unsafe. The aged, silvered half-beast appeared weak and frail, but the Ancestors screamed at him to flee and retreat. Dangerous, too dangerous, for the Ancestors had only warned Vithar like this once before, on the day he thought to plant his axe in between the Uniter’s eyes. “Fight’s over,” the monstrous elder said, glancing elsewhere as if tracking another. “Away with ye now. The girl plays at being hard and tough, but if mama bear sees what ye did to her pup, she’ll tear ye limb from limb, and that’d be a waste of a good whetstone.” Waving him off with a snort, the hunched half-beast turned his back on Vithar to check on the whelp, but even then, he lacked the courage to attack or even remain in place. Finding himself another garo, he ordered his tribesmen to retreat with all haste, and not a moment too soon.

Dark shadows emerged from darker clouds and the skies boomed overhead, but not with thunder to herald the coming of rain. No, this was the sound of Peak Experts arriving with all haste, and Vithar spotted billowing dust erupt from within his allies’ lines. Bodies flew as the ground exploded beneath this new arrival, hiding whoever had landed within, but the Warrior soon identified himself with a boisterous chuckle that echoed across the battlefield. “Gongsun Qi,” a crisp, high-pitched voice said. “Long have I, Mitsue Juichi yearned to test your mettle.”

Turning his gaze east, Vithar grit his teeth and growled, for there on the horizon, he spotted another army streaming towards them. Imperial reinforcements had arrived, and even Vithar knew the name of the Obsidian Shadow who led them, one of the most powerful Warriors the Empire had to offer. Even as his blood heated at the prospect of true struggle, his body chilled as two more voices sounded out and spoke names he also recognized.

“Come now, comrade Mitsue,” a dry, passionless voice began, “Did we not agree to give way to our junior and let Comrade Ryo Dae Jung have the first try?”

“Thank you for the consideration, Colonel General Shuai Jiao,” a third voice said, so plain and unremarkable Vithar would have difficulty identifying the speaker even if he heard it again, “But there is no need to quibble. I am more than happy to wait my turn, for there are plenty of Defiled here to keep me company.”

The Sword King and the Grasping Vine. Three Colonel Generals here on the battlefield, warriors to match Gongsun Qi himself. Though Vithar knew little of tactics and deployments, he suspected they’d overstayed their welcome and the Imperials would make them pay dearly for this.

Vithar had thought the southlands were ripe for the taking, but to his chagrin, this was a land of death just like the homeland he’d left behind. Death in a different form, a slow, lingering death, but death nonetheless, so perhaps it was time to rethink his options. Strength was his goal, glory and bloodshed his desire, but thus far, he’d found precious little of both here in the southlands. Returning to the Western province to resume old feuds and start fresh ones seemed far more appealing than being toyed to death by the Uniter and Imperials both, so perhaps it was time to speak with other Chieftains and see if their Ancestors had offered similar advice. At the very least, Vithar had no intentions of surrendering just yet, not to the Imperials, the Uniter, or even the whims of the Ancestors. He was his own man, a Chieftain and Warrior, one who’d forgotten the first rule of survival: to place personal strength above all else. The food, women, entertainment, none of it mattered, for without strength, anyone could simply take it all away.

Regardless of his decision, there was no point staying around to fight to the bitter end. Victory or defeat, Vithar was certain his tribe would not fall today, not with so many slower allies behind them.

Chapter Meme
