After the Number sees that his client is ok, he takes off into the woods, hunting down my friends.

I pray that I don't see them on the other side. The last thing I think about is, who was the Number comparing me to, another foe? Or was it someone strong who earned his respect?

**********

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

“What do you think, master?” I show off my quenched sword and set it down next to my knife.

“You changed the design of your sword,” master quickly spots the differences in my work.

“I liked my old design, but it didn't have the power I needed. I thought about making another katana, only this time making it three times as thick, but that seemed counter intuitive. So, this time I decided to make a scimitar. It will be bigger, heavier, and just as deadly as my katana," I explain my design choice to master.

“Is that wise? You’ll have to get used to a new type of sword.”

“I’ll just treat it as a new challenge,” I reassure him. “Besides, it won’t be my main weapon anyways. I’m sure the axe and hammer I make will be a much better fit for me.”

Master hums in agreement.

As fun as it is comparing notes with Master, I need to get a move on. I'm burning precious daylight after all. I spent the first half of the day working on the metal; now, I need to make the handles for my weapons and sharpen them.

The grips don’t matter that much right now because I plan to change them in the future. Unlike my katana, channeling magic into my new weapons won't do anything. I'll need suitable materials for channeling magic when I finally enchant my gear, but I'll stick with good old farkas bones until then.

The bones make exceptional grips after you carve a texture onto them. It also helps that master still has quite a few bones leftover from before the chameleon spiders took over the woods.

That's another thing I'll need to keep an eye out for. Now that everything is returning to the forest, the farkas should start showing up again, along with small bands of goblins. And unlike chameleon spiders, goblins and farkas aren't scared of rushing into the village to grab their prey. Though I doubt either of those beasts could do much to me anymore. I wouldn't even need any weapons to kill a lesser goblin; my bare hands would be more than enough.

To think just a few years ago I was terrified of goblins, and now I’m imagining ripping them apart as if they were nothing more than paper.

I think over how much everything has changed as I pick out the bones I need and cut them into shape. I'm not the only one who's stronger. The whole village has grown over the last year. If we had to redo the year again as we are now, the goblin horde would barely be considered a threat.

Thanks to all our struggles, I truly believe next year will be the best year in Spotted Creek's history.

Hell, having Sandra back basically guarantees the village’s success.

Last night dad told us how Sandra used earth magic to turn the soil in the fields over. She did what would’ve taken a dozen men a few days to accomplish in only a few hours. Apparently, Markus and Ezekiel were so surprised by her magic they nearly fainted.

Thanks to Sandra, the prep time to get the fields ready for sowing has been cut down substantially. Once the wortel is harvested, Sandra just needs to cast her spell, and the next day the next crops can be planted.

With magic, skills, and larger fields, the village is about to have more food than we know what to do with.

Everyone deserves it, I think to myself, as I secure the bone handles to my knife and scimitar. I gather up all the tools I need and move over to a bench to sharpen and polish the blades.

Falling into a light bout of Meditation, I don't notice the sun passing overhead as I complete my detailing work.

"I think it's about time you head home," master reminds me, bringing me back to my senses.

I look up at the sky and see the vivid reds of the sunset. Standing up and stretching out my limbs, I laugh. “Nothing like sharpening a sword to pass the time, huh?” I smile at Del.

Master smiles in agreement. “I’ll see you tomorrow, then?”

“Of course, I still have a lot more to do.”

“I thought so,” master yawns.

“Don’t worry,” I tell him. “After I finish my axe and war hammer, I think I’ll take a few days off before I start on my armor.”

"That's good; I thought you weren't going to stop until you burnt through your whole supply of kaglese," master light-heartedly jokes.

“Now there’s an idea,” I playfully grin at master.

“Goodnight, Aaliyah.”

“Night, master,” I wave goodbye to Del while grabbing my stuff and head home for the night.

I look like I'm heading off to war, not home. I have dad's axe in my left hand, my new scimitar in my right, and my new dagger wrapped in a piece of leather sticking out of one of my pockets.

The rest of the night flies by just as the last few days have been. Richard joins us for dinner, we laugh and talk about our days. I tell dad I don't need to borrow his extra axe anymore. Mom agreed to help me make sheaths for everything on my next day off, so long as I help her with Richard's wedding tassel.

Same old, same old.

**********

The next day, I shoot out of my bed as soon as the sun’s first light shines through my window.

Today is the day I make something new!

While I change into my work clothes and tie up my hair, I contemplate the type of axe I'll try to make today. I've made axes before, but most of them have been woodsman axes for felling trees. This time I want to make a double-sided battle-axe for myself, a monstrosity of a weapon that could chop a man in half even if he's wearing armor.

I thought about making a hammer ax hybrid but eventually discarded the idea. Sure, a hybrid weapon would serve more of a function, but changing battle tactics halfway through a fight is much more challenging than you would think. It would be terrible if you swung the axe part of the weapon in the heat of the moment when you intended to use the hammer side.

No, it's best to double down on your weapon of choice. A double-headed axe is perfect because you can switch sides if the blade gets dull or damaged in a fight.

I might try making a hybrid version later at some point, but for now, I'm keeping my weapons separated.

Kissing Mother and Father goodbye, I head off to Del’s clearing with my new scimitar in hand for defense. Is it wrong that I want a band of goblins to attack me just so I can try it out?

I also have my new knife strapped to my side much like I used to keep my old one. With little effort, last night Mom was able to help me adjust my old knife sheath to fit my new one, so I can carry my backup weapon without worrying about dropping it or accidentally stabbing myself.

“Morning, master!” I call out my usual greeting to Master Del as I enter his clearing.

Master greets with a wave and a yawn. He must have known I would be here early because this time, master already has the forge going, fuel set aside, and all the materials I’ll need set up neatly on my workbench. It must have taken him at least two hours to set this all up for me, meaning he must have been up before sunrise.

I want to thank him, but master cuts me off before I can try. "If you need me, I'll be on my bench sleeping."

Knowing he doesn't want my thanks, I utter a 'thank you' in my heart and get to work.

I have a lot to do if I want to finish my axe by the end of the day. First, I get the forge to the temperature I need it. Then I repeat the first few steps from yesterday, only with more metal. I used one kaglese ingot yesterday to make both my scimitar and dagger. Today, I'm using one and a half ingots of kaglese, along with the steel and mithril I'll be mixing in, to craft my battle-axe.

Like the spears I made for the army, the entire battle-axe will be made of metal, handle and all. I could save some kaglese if I only forged the axe heads from metal, but I don't have access to the proper materials to make a sturdy handle that would hold up under my Strength stat.

The axe I'm making would be physically impossible to wield back on Earth. I'm no historian, but I know I'm making an axe you would be more likely to find in a video game rather than in a museum. Real battle-axes only weighed around seven pounds; the behemoth I'm making will probably be over forty pounds and more suited to someone with my stats.

Once I have the first ingot properly heated, I move it over to the anvil and chop it in half. Then, I put all the steel and kaglese I'll be using into the crucible. There is so much in the crucible; I almost can't seal it.

I place the heavy crucible into the forge and move over to my workbench to sketch out my design really quickly. The design I'm going for is very much your general two-handed battle-axe you would find in any standard fantasy game. The axe will have a long handle with two overly large axheads attached to the top, and that was pretty much it.

I plan to make the finished product a lot nicer, but with this, I know which direction I'm going in. It's a good thing I have plenty of time to think over my design.

Getting the metals to bond properly takes longer because of how much metal I'm working with this time. It takes a whole two hours before I'm able to remove the crucible from the forge. Usually, I would have to wait a lot longer for the liquid metal to cool, but thanks to mana quenching, I can speed up the process a bit.

I get the metal to cool down to a point where it's solid but still hot enough I can immediately start working it.

Studying the lump of metal, I take note of its internal mana structure and plan which parts I'll use for the blades and which will be drawn out for the handle. There are a few micro fractures in the metal I'll need to take care of first, but I can generally see where everything will go.

I start by taking care of the structural issues I spotted first before then adding the mithril to finish off the alloy. Then, I start the long and arduous process of moving everything into its proper shape.

What proceeds is a constant shifting of my metal from the forge to the anvil and back again. Kaglese is strong, light, and flexible in its pure state, but when you add steel and a touch of mithril into the equation, you get a strong earth attuned alloy. I can work the metal without my skills as long as I put most of my Strength into my plows; however, finishing the axe that way would take me much longer than I was comfortable with.

I'm thankful my skills and magic allow me to do in a day what blacksmiths back on Earth would take several days to complete.

Six hours, eight hours, at the ten-hour mark, I'm still working on a rough version of my axe. My arms feel like wet noodles, and I decide to take a quick break. Master taught me to respect my limits and to realize that you'll produce nothing but shoddy work if you push yourself too hard.

Setting my rough work down, I move over and plop down on the bench closest to master and proceed to drain my waterskin.

"I was wondering when you would take a break," master remarks, lying down with his eyes closed.

“I didn’t want to,” I grunt. “I only have a few more hours until the sun starts to go down.”

"And is there some reason you can't finish your axe tomorrow?"

"I thought you wanted me to finish as quickly as possible?" I playfully quip.

"Don't try and use me as an excuse," master opens his eyes and gives me a serious look. "You're the one rushing yourself. You won't gain any extra experience if your work suffers from your impatience."

Sage Del comes out now that master has gotten a bit of rest. I joke, but I know he's right.

“You plan on using these weapons in the deeper parts of the forest, yes? You should be treating each one like the arrow you made for the general.”

I take a deep breath and let out a long sigh. “You’re right,” I admit.

“I usually am,” Master smirks with confidence.

I snort at master's remark, and we both share a quick laugh. "Don't complain when I come early tomorrow," I tell him.

“Wouldn’t dream of it.” Master closes his eyes again.

I rest until my arms feel better and get back to work, slowing my pace, making sure everything is perfect as I progress through the rest of the day.

**********

“What day is it now?” Master asks as I walk up to him.

“Six,” I inform him with a smile.

“Gods,” master exclaims.

Though I find master's antics funny, I have to agree with him. I’m quite tired myself.

Yesterday, I managed to finish up my axe and got the metal ready for the war hammer today but it wasn’t easy. I think my fatigue is compounding on itself. I slept like the dead last night to the point Mom had to wake me up this morning, it was the first time she had to do that in a while.

“You think you’ll finish today? Master questions me.

“Honestly,” I let out a long yawn. “Probably not.”

"I expected as much. You want my help?"

I'm tempted to take master up on his offer, but I need to be the one to make my weapons. Only I can see the metal's mana structure, and after spending so much time on this project already, I’ll be damned if I don’t finish it properly.

“That’s ok,” I reluctantly shake my head. “I got this.”

"Alright, let me know if you need anything."

“Will do,” I promise.

Master moves off to the side, giving me room to work. I already have a large ingot prepared from yesterday, so I just have to heat it back up. Placing the metal in the forge, I mentally prepare myself for what comes next.

