?????????? Point of View:

“When will they be here!? We’ve been sitting here for two days!”

“We should’ve moved closer to the village.”

"Quiet, all of you! I paid you, so you do what I say! Now shut up, or I'll cut your tongues out myself!" I snarl at the two filthy bandits, releasing a small part of my killing intent to establish authority.

The two bandits next to me cringe back in fear.

It's annoying I have to deal with such rabble. Once this job is done, I'll take great pleasure in silencing each of them.

I usually only work with my three men, but this job is different. Mr. Grey hired us to kill someone under the protection of a Number. The average person doesn't know of their existence, but people in our field are painfully aware of the private high-leveled soldiers the Silver Herd company employs to deal with its problems.

Silver Herd might not be considered one of the major trading companies yet, but they’ve adopted the practice of recruiting ‘problem solvers’ since their conception.

The Numbers, as they're called, are sent out to take care of the darker sides of Silver Herds business. We're on the outskirts of Olebert, and there aren't many who do what we do. Killing, kidnapping, extortion, spying, we do all of it; only the Numbers are said to do it better.

I don't know why a Number is escorting a nameless merchant I've never heard of, out here in the middle of nowhere no less, but that doesn't matter. We're not paid to ask questions; we do our job as ordered and nothing more.

And because of the difficulty of this job, I had to bring in some fodder.

The bandits don't know who they'll be charging at, and that's how I'm going to keep it. All of them are meant to die, so long as they buy us enough time to complete our mission.

The Number may be the most challenging aspect of the job, but he's not our target. We were promised a bonus if we could kill the Number; however, our primary goal is to kill the merchant known as Kervin. But unless the Number severely falls under my expectations, we plan to kill the merchant and flee while the Number murders all the idiots we brought along with us. If any of them survive, we'll catch them at the meet-up point and finish off the survivors.

I have no intention of dealing with the Number unless I absolutely have to.

Mr. Grey informed me I should be close to his level, but that means little in our line of business. A young man at level 10 can easily stab and kill someone three times his level if he has the necessary skills. Ours is a job of surprise; whichever side who can surprise the other the most usually wins.

That's why we're three days away from the village instead of waiting for them by the forest's entrance. If, for some reason, Mr. Grey is wrong and the Number knows about the contract on the merchant, switching up our plans will be the best strategy.

I let out a soft sigh so quiet the bandits don’t notice. Facing off against someone who knows your usual plays are the worst.

The bandit closest to me swats the back of his neck. “Damn bugs! Why did we have to set up so far into the woods?!”

Moving forward, my arm stretched out, I resist the urge to strangle the smelly man. Thinking about how easy it would be to kill him, I only pause my advance when I hear something faint on the wind.

The bandit levels his spear at me to defend himself, but my senses are trained elsewhere. In the distance, I hear the mating cry of a forest finch; only forest finches don’t start their mating season until mid-summer. That’s the signal the cart is approaching!

I turn my attention back to the bandit cowering in front of me. I make a fist and point two fingers down the road. The bandit and his friend’s eyes widen in understanding and move to take their places.

I'm sure my other associates detected the signal and are moving the other bandits into position as well. We'll attack the cart from each side with a four-prong attack.

After signaling us, Dennis will have his group let the cart pass and ambush them from the rear. Jake will attack their left flank while Oren moves in from the right. I’ll take the front, and they won’t know what hit them.

We’ll let the bandits charge forward and wait for the perfect chance to kill the merchant. Then we’ll make our escape into the woods.

The forest is silent as the sound of a cart jostling down the forest path grows louder. Any moment now, we should be able to see it.

As soon as the cart comes into view, I move to signal the bandit's attack, but freeze upon seeing the cart is empty! The reigns controlling the four silver bivol are loosely tied to the cart, and the pack animals are steadily marching forward on their own. In the bed of the cart, there are three crates next to one another but nothing else.

Damn, did the Number sense us!? Did they abandon the cart and cut through the forest!? It would be nearly impossible for us to find their tracks and catch up to them.

First, we need to inspect the cart for any clues.

I signal for the confused bandits to move in. My men and I will hang back, just in case they booby-trapped it.

Seven of the nine bandits move from their hiding spots and slowly approach the cart. Where are the two that were with Dennis?

My instincts scream at me that something is wrong, but I don't have time to call back the bandits before they reach the cart.

Two of the crates' tops fly off, and two men in hide armor burst out wielding bucklers and swords. With the viciousness of cornered animals, the two bodyguards swing their swords, instantly killing the four closest bandits.

Shit, they had their own ambush planned for us! That means!

The hairs on the back of my neck stand on end. I roll to the side, just as a dagger slices the air where my neck was a moment ago.

“Good instincts,” I hear as I roll and spring to my feet, drawing my short sword.

I stare down at the man who materialized next to me without making a sound. What stands out the most to me is how calm and happy he appears to be. He has a sadistic grin plastered across his face, enjoying the fact I survived his first strike.

Damn the gods! With my luck, I got one of the crazier Numbers. He must have circled around us. I can only assume he's already killed Dennis because I don't see the bandits that were supposed to be with him. Did the Number know our signal, or did he wait for Dennis to signal us, kill him, then circle around to the front, all in under three minutes?

I hear the screams of the bandits we hired, but I don't take my eyes off the Number in front of me. The rest of my team will have to take care of the rest while I stall this monster. They know we need to focus on killing the merchant. If the Number is with me and the other two guards were hidden inside the crates, it stands to reason the merchant is hiding inside the third one.

"I'm curious, how much did Grey pay you? Not enough, I suppose, if you only brought this riffraff with you." The Number taunts me.

He might be fishing for information, so I keep my face neutral.

"Silence, huh? You're no fun. I'm sure she would banter in this situation," the Number flicks his wrist, throwing the dagger in his right hand at my face. I move my head to the left and hear the thunk of the blade hitting the tree behind me.

The Number rushes me, drawing another dagger to replace the one he just threw. I parry the new dagger in his right hand with my short sword and use my free hand to grab his left forearm, stopping him from stabbing me with his other blade.

I try to knee him, but he raises his leg to block me. Each of us pushes against the other, testing to see who is stronger. I have more Strength, but he has the better footing.

While we're locked together, I take a split second to glance at the battle around the cart. All the bandits lie dead already, with Jake and Oren squaring off with the two bodyguards. They've ditched their bows for their swords. The remaining crate looks like a pincushion, meaning we only need to confirm the body inside before we can retreat.

I need to gain some distance from the Number.

I stop pushing back, letting the Number push me over. As we fall, locked together, I bring my foot up to his armored chest and push with all my might as soon as I hit the ground. The Number is launched over my head, through the air, backflipping before landing on his feet.

I quickly scramble to my own feet before he can catch me with my guard down.

"You're decent, but not very original," the Number sheathes the dagger in his right hand and pulls out a different one that was hidden near his back. The new dagger has a sheen on the blade's edge, most likely poisoned. "You haven't fought that many assassins close to your level, have you? It shows in how you approached your ambush. If I weren't with them, 99 out of 100 times, you would've easily killed everyone, but I know how you operate. When you're facing someone you can't beat in a fair fight; you need to be extra creative. I once watched a girl blow herself up to kill all her attackers. That's creativity!"

This man is pissing me off! And who does he keep comparing me to?

This time I take the initiative to attack the Number. I slice at his right side, and as expected, he blocks with his poisoned dagger, but he isn't the only one with a knife. In one fluid motion, I draw my own knife and slice at his face.

The Number takes a step back, narrowly avoiding me nicking his eye. His cheek starts to bleed, but he ignores the wound. Instead, the Number tries to stab me with his non poisoned dagger after I missed my mark.

I step back with my left foot and bring my dagger in close for defense. Our blades meet again, and I can feel his superior weapon digging into mine. Unlike him, I don't have a wealthy backer throwing money into my equipment. My short sword is my best weapon, but I can't risk getting cut by his poisoned dagger.

Again, we’re forced into a tense stalemate, only momentarily breaking off from one another to catch our breaths. I'm breathing more heavily than the Number, and that isn't a good sign.

Come on, Jake, Oren, I need the two of you to hurry up!

The Number recovers faster than me, and I'm forced to retreat as he advances on me. The longer we exchange attacks, the more the Number seems to be enjoying himself. His strikes are becoming sloppier, but they're coming at me faster than before and are much more difficult to predict.

He dances around a tree and rushes at me with both of his daggers raised like a snarling farkas. I try to switch my stance to better parry his strike, but he’s on me before I can properly root myself in place. With my stance broken, I can't block both of his strikes, so I make a split-second decision and use my short sword to perry the dagger in his right hand.

When our blades meet, the Number steps forward and slices at my elbow joint, where there is a small gap in my armor. He doesn't hit anywhere near anything vital, but I can feel the blood start to leak in between my skin and armor.

The Number backs off after his successful strike and gives me a predatory grin. "And it's my win."

“This isn’t over yet!” I break my silence, getting my feet back into position.

"Oh, but it is," the Number holds up the dagger in his left hand. The sheen on the dagger is unmistakable.

“But when?” I ask, the color draining from my face.

His smile says it all. He must have switched his daggers when he moved around the tree.

I don't know what kind of poison he's using, but it doesn't matter at this point. Looking at Jake and Oren, I see they're still being held back by the guards. Damn, Grey told us the other two wouldn't be a problem. I guess he was wrong about everything.

"Jake, Oren, retreat!" I shout. Both of them don't even spare me a glance as they follow my orders and dash into the forest in opposite directions.

I grimace as my arm starts to feel like pins and needles are erupting from my skin. Gritting my teeth, I turn back to the Number who's still smiling at me. I’m probably already a dead man, so I need to hold him off until the two of them can get far enough away.

I ready myself, but the prickling sensation that feels like frostbite is steadily spreading throughout my body.

"Painful, isn't it?" The Number taunts me with a smile. "I this was going to be more of a challenge, so I used one of my best poisons. I call it Winter's Bite, It's a rare type of ice attribute poison. It mixes in with your bloodstream and freezes everything it comes in contact with. Your very blood turns into ice crystals, which shred your body from the inside out. Your organs will slowly fail you as it feels like you’re walking through a snowstorm naked.”

“Sick, bastard,” I mutter through chattering teeth.

"I wonder if your comrades will make the same expression as you when I corner them?" The Number turns his back on me. He must think there’s no more point in fighting me, he’s probably intending to hunt down Jake and Oren.

Despite the overwhelming pain and cold I'm feeling, I force myself forward. One strike is all I need to take this bastard with me!

Sadly, as soon as I move to stab the Number, he dodges me. He was expecting my suicidal charge, damn.

I can't react with my dulled senses as he stabs one of his daggers into my side and the other into my shoulder. Dropping to the ground, I lose the little feeling I still had in my limbs.

The Number turns his back on me again, sure that I don’t have anything left in me and shouts to his companions. "This one is finished. Be on the alert as I hunt down the other two. Oh yeah, you can come out now, Kervin."

It's hard to move my head as everything goes cold and dark, but I manage to see our target crawl out from underneath the cart. He wasn’t even in the crate; he was hiding near the cart's axels. The third crate was just another decoy. Everything was a total loss on our part.

