"Refugees!" Adam's voice cut through the room. His Shattered Star glowed ever brighter, and he hovered in the air as his wings expanded. He rose above the Culturist and stared down at anyone daring to dispute him. "We deal with the matter of the refugees before anything else."

As the Gate Lord looked toward the center of the room, Shiv pointed at Still Water, who was standing next to him, and Adam gave a nod. "Right now, we have approximately 4,000 new individuals coming into the gate. Four thousand that need to be housed. However, thirty or so are to be kept on the side of the Tutorial until preventative measures can be applied to keep the plague from spreading."

"Plague?" Still Water asked.

"A parting gift delivered to the people of Blackedge by the hands of Vicar Sullain," Adam spat, his hate spilling over into every word. And that was all he needed to say for Still Water to understand. "We'd like to make a formal request to Weave and the Biomancers at Cradle. Though some of the orcs have applied their efforts, they were unable to cure the plague. I understand that your people are facing their own sickness, but if you have any expertise you can spare, I would gladly pay any cost to see it prepared."

"I think we both know that you've already paid that cost several times over." Still Water scoffed without rancor. "In fact, I think the Composer will order us to treat your people just like our own. I think she might even get involved herself if it means seeing them cured."

"And that is more than I can ask," Adam replied with gratitude ringing clear.

"I think your other problems are going to be easier to solve too," Still Water continued. "We managed to salvage plenty of material from the ruins. We can build temporary housing, and then actual housing in a short time with our Geomancers. We were preparing to devote some of that to the defensive emplacements when the vampires came, but now that the Deathless has killed our problem out of existence, we can use that material for something more useful instead. Food's not going to be a problem either for a few days. Still got a lot of Court Leviathan meat kept in cold storage, and quite a few shipments arrived from Weave before our bloodsucker problem became terminal, keeping us sustained logistically on that front. What we're mainly lacking right now is fresh water."

Adam frowned. "Null Mont said something about your water processing plant being sabotaged. Was that something done by the First Blood as well?"

"Honestly, we're not sure. We suspected it was the vampires, but it doesn't fit their modus operandi. Mainly because the plant is still working and uncorrupted. If it were the First Blood, they would have probably injected some kind of disease into the spell patterns and had us drinking virus-filled water that would see our organs liquefied or something. Instead, it just seems like some of the spell patterns aren't working right. Like, we can't quite process water in the atmosphere here without something breaking down. Our Hydros have no idea what's going wrong. One of them said it might be because the Mana Core is saturating the atmosphere with a unique kind of magic. A kind they have no experience dealing with."

That made Adam frown deeply. "Sounds like I might be the cause of this problem, then. I'll go see the processing plant as soon as I can."

"I'm going with you," Rose said. Before Adam or anyone else could rebuff her, she pressed on. "Look, I might not have most of my skills right now, but I've got more memory of magical theory and spell patterns than both of you put together."

"That's not fair, Mother," Adam muttered. "You're just comparing all your experience to me, since Shiv doesn't know anything at all. In fact, I wouldn't be surprised if he has some kind of magical anti-theory skill that causes conventional wisdom to break down when he's around."

Shiv exploded into uproarious and fake laughter, slapping his knees and making several people around him jump in fright. He then held up his middle finger. "Hey, Gate Lord, what's this pattern mean?"

Adam sneered, as if he had been proven right by Shiv’s outburst. A few meters away, Roland looked embarrassed on Shiv's behalf, but his wife held the exact opposite reaction. She was trying not to double over from laughter.

"Yep," Rose gasped. "I know that pattern pretty well."

Valor shook his head congenially, letting everyone enjoy a bit of lightheartedness before he pulled the meeting back on track. "Now, now, settle down, children. Adam. Onto the next item."

"Right. The orcs." Adam locked eyes with the Culturist and didn't turn away.
