He nodded once, as if to settle the matter, then added, “And obviously don’t worry about me. Or any mature people. Mom and dad both have tattoos. From Triplanets work and from the demon suppression. Everyone who helps with that gets a secrecy one. And Lexi’s little sister has eight now!”


“Half of them are turtles,” said Alden.


Haoyu laughed. “Lexi won’t admit it, but he’s super worried that his parents are wrong and they won’t actually wash off. I think he’s already planning to murder anyone who says anything about the fact that Irina is blue.”


******


They headed back to the dorm in the dark, and they met a rolling cafeteria delivery drone on the way that had half of Haoyu’s supper in it.


“Listen,” Haoyu said, walking backward while he pleaded with the slowly trundling box, “that’s my vegetable rice. I’m Haoyu Zhang-Demir, Garden Hall, Suite 208. That’s me! My name’s on your lid display. Give it to me, and I’ll get to eat it sooner and you’ll get to go back to the cafeteria sooner. It makes sense!”


Beeeeep, the drone said angrily when Haoyu moved to block its way again.


“Not beep! Rice. My rice. I want it!”


Alden was trying not to lose it. “I don’t think it understands you. It probably can’t give it to you until it reaches the room.”


“It’s such a slow, dumb one! Why does CNH have slow, dumb drones?”


Alden coughed. “You want me to pick it up?”


“They make a huge racket and report you to drone operations if you interfere with their delivery for more than a second or two, and then an operator scolds you,” said Haoyu, stepping out of the drone’s path and rolling his eyes.


“No, I mean…tell me to pick it up.”


Haoyu blinked. “You mean with your skill?”


“I recover from fatigue quickly, so it will work for this. And the drone can’t beep or report if it’s preserved, right? We’re just going to help it get to our room faster.”


“That’s crazy. Drone operations is going to think it learned to teleport…let’s do it! Pick it up!”


Alden swooped down on the drone.


A few minutes later, laughing like dumbasses, they set the rolling box down in front of the doors to Garden Hall then hid behind a planter watching it.


“It’s so freaked out,” Haoyu whispered, watching the box sit there silently.


“How did I get here?” Alden whispered back. “Where am I? I am full of rice and confusion.”


“You’re so weird.”


“Shut up. You’re hiding behind a pepper plant with me.”


“Peppers! Are these ones we can take? Oh, it’s figured it out. I’m getting a delivery notice.”


He bounced over to the drone, and it’s lid popped open.


“You two look happy,” Lute said when they stepped into the room shortly after that. He was lying on the chesterfield, reading one of Haoyu’s Chinese comic books. “Downright vibrant compared to Lexi. He staggered in, ate some of the food in the cooker, and he’s been in the tub ever since. Does he bathe with his whip?”


“Maybe. He’s a Meister. They do things like that,” said Haoyu, setting his container of rice on the counter and lifting the lid on the chicken-onion dish he’d concocted. “This doesn’t look bad!”


“It’s really good with ramen,” said Lute.


“It is?! I have to call my mom!” Alden told himself he was content with the liquid salad he’d bought on the way out of the gym and the bean burgers he was microwaving. He carried his plate into the living room and took Lexi’s favorite armchair.


“The self-mastery wordchain was fantastic,” he told Lute between bites of burger.


Lute dropped the comic book on the ottoman and rolled over to look at him. “It’s cool, right?”


“I don’t think I’d want to use it every day, since this shirt now has a hole burned into the back of it that seemed like a completely reasonable thing to do at the time. But it was so good in the gym. It ran out about the time Big Snake started pelting me with deathballs.”


“Deathballs?”


“Tennis balls at deadly speeds!” Haoyu called.


“I know I was only my normal self again, and my normal self is pretty good at running around and ducking. But I felt so awkward all of the sudden. Like my limbs got stupider.”


“Yeah, I’m always disappointed in my natural state of being when it fizzles out, too. Do you still want to learn it?”


“I need to pay the debt. Can we do that tonight?”


Lute looked at the plate on Alden’s lap. “Sure. But not while you’re eating. I bit my own finger doing that once.”


Haoyu sat down with them a minute later, with a pile of food he’d very obviously tried to make photogenic. “We’ve done it. Our first official day of school.”


“You cute little first years,” said Lute.


“You’re a first year, too!” said Haoyu.


“Yeah, but I’m a grizzled old veteran first year. I bet you two don’t even know which of the toilets on campus have spells and gag flushes on them.”


Haoyu and Alden exchanged looks.


“I feel like we need more details,” said Alden.


“Absolutely not. It’s a right of passage to figure it out yourself.” He looked at Alden’s plate again. “You finished your burgers. How much fun can Haoyu and I have at your expense?”


“What do you mean?”


“As a friend, I should tell you to go get in bed for the night before I drop the debt on you. But…as a friend…I think you should let us observe you a while instead.”


“Is he going to be funny?”


“He’s going to be so funny.”


Lute was grinning. Haoyu looked excited.


******


Alden Thorn was pretty sure he’d done it. He’d just become a great roommate.


Would a not great roommate let two teenage boys who were laughing like hyenas watch him try to wash dishes when he was in this state?


He didn’t think so.


The feet are more important, he told himself. Pay attention to your balance.


He stood firm.


The cup he’d been washing fell out of his hand into the small sink and sent soapy water splashing onto the floor. For the third time.


“What the hell?”


It came out sounding like “Whadell?”


His tongue now had a disturbing habit of skipping over sounds. He accessed their roommate group chat.


[Alden: Lute, did you somehow give me a triple dose of this shit!?]


Haoyu was on the floor mopping spills with a kitchen towel they only owned thanks to his mother and her assistant explaining that kitchen towels were a must-have item. Lute was lying on his back on the table, clutching his stomach. They were both howling.


[Alden: I can’t even talk! This can’t be normal.]


It wasn’t exactly that he couldn’t talk. With careful effort, he could talk, stand up safely, or move his hands the way he wanted to. But doing all three at once was suddenly rocket science.


Lute had even insisted on checking the water temperature before he put his hands in the sink. Apparently with this half of the wordchain, you could be minimally aware of the fact that you were boiling yourself.


“I p-promise it’s only one!” Lute gasped. “After you finish the dishes, let’s…let’s try brushing your teeth!”


[Alden: If there’s a fire tonight, I’ll die. I’ll never make it down the stairs.]


“We’d carry you!” Haoyu said from the floor as another stream of bubbles slopped over the edge toward him.


Lexi, scowling, stepped into the kitchen right then. He was in pajama pants. He crossed his arms over his bare chest. “Why are you three so loud, and what did you do to—?”


“Hi,” said Alden. “I’m fine.”


His arm overshot the drainboard by a mile, and a fork clattered across the tile counter.


“Don’t fall!” Haoyu shouted.


I’m not falling, thought Alden.


But Haoyu was on his feet suddenly and Alden was being caught and set upright, so he must have been falling.


Lexi walked over to the sink, his eyes wide. “Are you drunk?” he hissed in Alden’s ear. “Did you two get him drunk?!”


“Yeah that’s it,” said Lute. “Just look at all this booze we’ve got lying around.”


“I’mnah drunk! I’m jethnah master now.”


Probably “I’m just not the master of myself right now” was an overly ambitious sentence.


“He is drunk! He looks just like a drunk person on television! He sounds just like a drunk person.”


“He’s not drunk,” said Haoyu, trying to square Alden’s shoulders from behind like he was straightening an unruly shelf.


“Are niffing?” Alden asked as Lexi leaned toward him and inhaled.


[Alden: He’s sniffing me. Stop it, Lexi. I don’t have beer breath. ]


Lute started cackling again.


“It’s a clumsiness wordchain,” Haoyu said. “That’s why he sounds fine on the room chat but not with his mouth. It seems pretty strong. Lute gave it to him.”


“Pretty strong?” Lexi asked, staring as another tricky fork made a bid for freedom.


“We aren’t letting him wash knives.”


Lexi frowned. “Should you be letting him stand up?”


[Alden: I’m a good roommate. I’m washing all the dishes by myself!]


“Haoyu’s keeping you upright.”


[Alden: He’s a good roommate, too.]


[Haoyu: Thank you! That’s not a dish you’re washing though. It’s the pear you knocked in the sink earlier.]


Alden looked down to see himself scrubbing the peel off a green pear with the dish brush. He set the fruit aside with as much dignity as he could.


Lexi looked at them all, then he sighed and went to fetch the forks.


After the dishes, they all three followed Alden around while he attempted to go through his nighttime routine. Equal amounts of teasing and mother-henning were involved. They wouldn’t let him trip over the edges of the rugs—maybe he shouldn’t have bought quite such thick ones—and bust his face. But they absolutely all stood there snickering while he tried to get toothpaste out of the tube onto his brush.


“Don’t waste it!” said Haoyu as Alden stared down at the tablespoonful of green paste oozing down the sides of the brush onto his hand. “Put it all in your mouth.”


“It’s not a mistake, you guys!” Lute said. “He wanted that much. You should have seen what he ate for lunch.”


“Anesidoran social dynamic,” said Lexi. “Spit goes in the sink.”


[Alden: Et tu, Lexi?]


“Why do we randomly say ‘Anesidoran social dynamic’ to Alden sometimes?” Lute asked as he finished brushing.


Alden glanced at them all in the mirror.


Lexi’s expression was neutral.


[Alden: Because I whined about Lexi keeping Anesidoran social dynamics to himself when he knew I was ignorant. I was being a dick.]


About Lute. He felt even worse about that now.


“Compared to Lexi?” Lute asked. .


[Alden: That time I was.]


Lute gasped in mock horror. “Cool! Anesidoran social dynamic—remember you have to pee before bed. For real.”


Lexi and Haoyu both looked startled.


“What kind of wordchain is this?” Lexi asked for the third time.


******


Alden wasn’t sure about the lack of bodily awareness being great for sleeping. He might just have been tired after the day he’d had. But he was drifting off easily, right on the brink of unconsciousness, when the notification came in:


[Video call from Twenty-seven Hundred and Sixty-third General Evul-art’h, Artona I. Connection fee waived.]


Alden stared at it.


Stuart was calling. Early. It shouldn’t have been much of a surprise. Alden was up in the middle of the night a lot, and Stuart knew that.


But I’m in bed. And my tongue is broken.


He reached up and slapped at the switch for the reading light over his bunk. When he finally got it on, he accepted the call with a thought.


Evul-art’h’s black hair and pale pink eyes appeared. She was in her cushioned window seat again.


“The human is very <<loosey-goosey>>today, Stu,” she reported. “He’s in bed.”


Loosey-goosey? Alden was going to have to look into the word that was being translated that way.


“Did we wake him up?” Stuart inserted his face between his sister and the tablet. “Did we wake you up? I’m sorry. I called as soon as I got home. I wasn’t thinking about the time as much as I should have been.”


Evul-art’h gave them both a curious look.


“It’s all right,” Alden said slowly in the least loosey-goosey Artonan he could manage. Think only about the tongue. Only the tongue. “I’m on the bad half of a wordchain now. Do you mind if we send text messages instead? Or talk in the morning? My mouth—”


Stuart smiled. “Go to sleep. I’ll call back later.”


“He means I’ll call back later,” his sister said dryly.


“Thank you. Both of you. We can talk all day tomorrow, Stuart. If you want. Night-night.”
 


Unauthorized reproduction: this story has been taken without approval. Report sightings.


“The human just said night-night and hung up on you. And me,” said Evul-art’h in an intrigued voice. “Mostly me, since it’s officially me calling.”


“He has a name.” Stu-art’h perched on the edge of the lounger beside her.


“I know. It’s your fault for naming your pet after him. Now I don’t know what to call either of them!”


“Alden. And…Other Alden.”


“The Ryeh-b’t and the other ryeh-b’t. Not confusing in the slightest.” She shoved herself back into her cushions. After a moment, she said, “Stu, are you all right these days?”


He sighed. “I would be much more all right if you would all stop wanting things for me that I don’t want for myself.”


She smiled. “You’re still angry with me. I don’t know why you thought I wouldn’t side with the others. It’s only the small matters I allow myself to be careless about. You are not a small matter.”


One of her hands rummaged under a golden yellow pillow and pulled out one of her lungsticks. She held the dark tube out to him, and he lit it with a flick of his fingers.


