“Come now, little hero, come. This is just the way of it, no harm done.” Bulat speaks quietly, trying to push me away but I stay rooted to the ground. The others begin crowding around me, trying to draw me away as the laughter dies down, the mood growing tense around us, the sky darkening as if it senses my mood, the clouds rushing in to set the tone. Fatty's face begins to turn crimson as his beady eyes narrow, staring back at me in a pitiful attempt to cow me, but I have stared down worse, the twins are more intimidating than him. Watching the sweat form on his brow, it moves down in a slow path, trickling past his brow and cheek, hanging at his jaw for a full second before dropping down, into the pot.

Fuck it, I'll bring them to the Sentinel cook fires. “This isn't worth it, the food's ruined from this pig's sweat anyways. Pot-bellied fucker, probably the reason we're low on rations in the first place.” Making no effort to lower my voice, the cripples and I leave together, none of us having received any food. “Whose idea was it to put the fat man in charge of food anyways? Probably nowhere else for him to go, the ladle and pot-lid his weapons of choice.”

A roar sounds out from behind me and I turn to watch the fat cook stomp towards me, throwing off his apron and cracking his knuckles. “Fucking runt, I'll tear you to pieces and cook you alive. Come greet your grandfather, Maota and learn your place.”

Motioning for the others to back away and leaving my bowl in Ravil's hands, my face breaks out into a smile as I step towards Maota. Cracking my neck, eager for some exercise, I approach the cook as the crowd gathers around us, chanting and cheering, eager to see a fight.

Roaring once again, he charges me with arms outstretched, looking to grapple me into submission, an idiotic approach. My mind focuses and his approach slows to a crawl, as if he were moving through molasses. A single step takes me in front of him, my elbow driving into his gut. The air expels from his lungs at the impact, his head swinging forward. My palm shoots upwards, cupping his face to cushion the blow, sending his head backwards in an arch. His feet lift off the ground, weightless for a fraction of a second, before he comes crashing down at my feet.

The silence is complete, broken only by Maota's pained gasping, the match over in an instant with not even enough time for proper wagering. Calling Bulat and the others over, we march towards the pot, our bowls held out to the new soldier holding the ladle. After a brief hesitation, the ladle dips deep into the pot and fills each bowl with a hearty serving, a wry smile upon the soldier's face as he doles out each measure.

After a short jaunt away to a private area, our group of cripples eat in silence, the mood stifled from the conflict, the harsh truth too heavy to put aside. Feeling angry and more than a little guilty, I eat mechanically, barely tasting the meal that I fought for. These men had come to terms with their disabilities, simply accepting that it was their lot in life to be stepped on and ignored, but until their dismissal, they could at least pretend they were still soldiers. That illusion was just shattered by me, the strain between them and the healthy soldiers now clear as day, a line drawn in the sand. We might end up having to fight for every meal now, and that's just asking for trouble.

My meal finished, I sit in silence, ruminating on my anger until I can't keep quiet any longer, the words being spoken despite my better judgment. "What's the matter with all of you? Where's your fucking pride? You lose a limb, your eyes, or whatever, and you just let everyone walk all over you? 'Just the way of it', that's fucking bullshit.”

“Leave it, boy. I like you, but you be crossing a line now.” Bulat's tone is no longer friendly, his eyes downcast and refusing to look at me.

“Explain it to me then, because I don't fucking understand. You live, laugh, and drink, yet you act like your lives are over once you're discharged from the army. The army isn't everything, there's more to life than soldiering.”

“Easy for you to have hope!” The words erupt from his mouth, rage clear on his face as it turns crimson, his eyes bulging out as he yells. “We all have eyes, see your arm growing by the day, the treatment of an expert healer. The little hero is worth fixing, but old Bulat and his friends?” He thumps his chest hard, puffed out with pride. “We trained, we fought, we served and sacrificed, and for what? To be judged worthless and cast aside. What pride is there to be had in being a cripple, unable to work, only a burden to those around us, to beg at the general's table, praying that she drops some scraps for us to eat?” His anger deflates, his shoulders slumping as he waves me away. “Better had we fallen in battle as warriors, so that we could keep our pride.”

Looking around, I see nothing but agreement and resigned acceptance in each of their faces. Soldiers, once proud and strong, reduced to this. Akanai offered them help, but charity is not enough, not to make them want to live. They still hold to the scraps of their pride, their identity tied to being a soldier, a warrior, an elite. Strength is everything to them, and I can help.

“Alright, gather around and keep quiet.” My decision is made, despite Akanai's orders. What's the point of coming up with an amazing healing technique if I can't share it? “What I am about to tell you cannot leave this circle, agreed?” After a round of nods from everyone, I continue. “I am not being healed by some expert, I'm doing it on my own and I can teach you.”

A loud snort sounds from Bulat. “Bah, better to tell us that you can shit gold and piss wine, that would be more believable. Healing is no easy task, regeneration as complicated as it gets. If you are truly healing yourself, then you be a genius, but Old Bulat ain't the reading type.” Despite his words, he edges closer, his hope for redemption stronger than his cynicism, and the others crowd in as well, cautious optimism on the faces.

Patting him on the face with a smile, I quip, “As much as I would like to see your lips move while you struggle to read, that isn't needed.” Taking a moment to gather my thoughts, I also say a tiny prayer to the Mother, hoping that Akanai doesn't find out.

Even if she does, seeing hope in these soldiers eyes, makes it worth the punishment.

Well... Maybe. Whatever. Too late to stop now.

Better to beg for forgiveness than to ask for permission.

Chapter Meme
