The world seemed to rumble, but it wasn’t his imagination. The city around him shook as he felt something that wasn’t Star Power drain, even as he felt his Constellations change and shift as he became a Divine. His stolen fragment of the heavens made itself part of him, a raw and ragged thing, but sufficient to make him Divine.

People finally started to listen to him and he noticed three Divines with red sashes hurriedly walking to him blades already drawn.

The Ku’Ru family’s people and longtime rivals of the Tur’Bfa family.

He didn’t need to know if they had done this. He didn’t care, they would die all the same.

Stepping forward, his Star Power flooded into his first Constellation that enhanced his speed which let him cross the distance between himself and the guards in a mere three steps. His new Divine-level power was stronger and the power raged through him like his hatred.

His blade cut down two of the three men before they could react, but the final man jumped into the air and started running on nothing.

Ra’thala cut his legs off and he tumbled to the ground before he got more than three steps away.

“The—”

Ra’thala plunged his blade into the guard's neck, cutting his words off.

“I don’t care.”

***

Peak True God didn’t have the same bottleneck to Almighty as Celestial had to Divine had but as he stood among the burning flames of the main lineage of the Ku’Ru family, he finally gathered enough True God power to advance.

His mission of vengeance was complete.

With that realization, he felt the Sky within him fracture and break as the rage imbued in it was finally sated and like a Heart Demon he felt its loss take something important from him.

Dropping to his knees, he finally let himself grieve properly.

His connection to the Sky above was… damaged. Broken, even. The fragment of the Divine within him had crumbled, leaving him profoundly empty in a way he couldn’t express. He expected to feel himself crashing to the ground as a mortal once more, but it seemed that he had spent so far above the ground his spirit had learned to fly. Still, he felt as though he couldn’t transcend further into the heavens without the tether pulling him on.

He had avenged his beloved and her family. It had taken almost three hundred and fifty years, but he had done it.

But he now had nothing left to live for.

He might have been unable to turn back the clock to stop the Tur’Bfa family matriarch from being killed stopping a Monster Den outbreak, but he had avenged Bfa’Sula and her family.

It was the only thing he could do.

But it felt so empty.

So, so empty.

Ra’thala felt nothing and so wandered and took Sky Bridge after Sky Bridge until he arrived at the strongest world he had ever found.

Settling down, he knew he once he reclaimed his connection to the Sky and broke through to Almighty he would be everlasting, but he wasn’t sure he wanted to.

Living forever seemed like so much work and he was so, so tired.

Instead, he wandered. Even on this world where Almighties existed, his power as a Peak True God was enough to earn respect, allowing him to settle down and start his own Constellation Imbuement shop. He was no Master Imbuer by any means, but his connection with the earth was enough for him to learn the basics in a matter of years and it kept him busy enough to keep his mind off how empty his life was.

He spent almost five hundred years wandering from place to place taking odd jobs, which made him nine hundred hundred years old when the thread of the Sky within him healed.

As if the world was mocking him just days after the heavens within him were once again whole and thrumming with power, he encountered a troupe of traveling minstrel’s being waylaid by an Almighty in perfect white robes.

He quickly understood the issue. The Almighty had seen a beautiful woman and wanted to take her as his.

Ra’thala didn’t want to get involved but he couldn’t look past the fear in her eyes as she tried to refuse.

It wasn’t his place, but he couldn’t help but wonder if Bfa’Sula had had the same expression when she was killed.

Reaching down, he commanded the ground to form into a sword. It wasn’t a good one, it was quickly made with his latest Constellation but it would do.

With a swing, he sent a wave of pure Star Power arcing just in front of the Almighty, startling him.

Looking over, the man in white glowered at him. “Are you the one who dared to stop me?”

An Almighty’s power ripples pressed down on him, trying to suffocate him and make him pay obeisance.

Standing, Ra’thala moved to walk away but the man flashed and stood before him with his hand in a glowing claw.

With the realm difference the speed was hard to follow, but honed through years of combat, Ra’thala reacted in time, blocking the attack.

They exchanged blows but Ra’thala was on the losing end and knew that if the fight continued, he would die.

That was what changed his mind, and he broke through to Almighty.

Power coursed through him and he didn’t hesitate and cut the arm that was threatening his life a moment before cleanly off.

“Ahhh.”

Blade flashing, Ra’thala cut through the man's head in a swift motion, ending him.

The leader of the troupe screamed in terror. “Do you know who he was?”

Ra’thala just shook his head. He knew, but he didn’t care. He was more embarrassed that the leader was more afraid the man was dead than that one of his people was going to be snatched.

“She was just a mortal woman. Who cared if he took her? Why did you kill him? He’s the only son of the Origin of the Ist’ar family. Now we will all die for her sake.”

Ra’thala turned and walked away, continuing down the road.

“They will come for you!”

Ra’thala looked back, finally acknowledging the coward.

“Let them.”

***

Ra’thala stood before the True Origin of the Ist’ar family, his marble blade dripping blood.

“Was it worth it? All for a rapist of a son? I—”

Ra’thala stopped speaking as he ended the man's life.

He had wanted to spare him but, in the end, Ist’ar had tried to ambush him despite being defeated.

The power of the Heavens Beyond freezing the man before he could make his move, allowing Ra’thala to finish him off with a lazy swing of his marble sword.

At that point, the move had been for their watchers. To show that Ra’thala could have ended the fight from the very beginning but he was trying to give Ist’ar a way out. A chance to reform himself.

Except he hadn’t taken it and instead tried to ambush Ra’thala the moment his attention wavered.

Why? What was the point of all of this?

Endless vengeance and feuds.

It was like the world only existed for pain and terror.

The problem was Ra’thala was starting to enjoy it.

Not the bad things but the power. The advancement. The endless challenge.

Looking eastward, he felt the next Sky Bridge.

He was at a crossroads. He knew that now he had reached beyond the Sky, grasped the Aether within, and crowned himself with that, he could leave his plane of existence but did he want that? Did he want to chase endless higher peaks that probably never ended?

Did he even want to stick around?

He genuinely didn’t know.

***

At the peak of the True Origin himself, Ra’thala felt the draw. It was an inexorable pull upward, like ice in a cup of water.

If he advanced any more, he would leave the plane of existence he knew and… tolerated. He surely didn’t love it but he had been there so long. Home didn’t have to be a nice place to form attachments to it.

He had stayed at this equilibrium for almost a thousand years and he had been content to live as a mortal among a dozen different peoples but now he felt something as he spent two mortal lifetimes watching a tree grow.

The harmonization of himself and the world that Captain Ak’aran had talked about oh so long ago.

He knew one of his thoughts on watching the tree had triggered it, and he even knew which one it was.

The tree was growing but he wasn’t.

He had reached the peak of power and had grown stagnant and it was eating him alive.

Ra’thala hadn’t wanted to ascend because what was the point? But now as he felt his power advance beyond True Origin into a new Realm, his Constellations were being perfected as the Origin energy entered him in a wave. Now, it was too late to have second thoughts.

He was an ice cube that had become too buoyant for his glass and he was… Rising.

Ascending.

The world around him began to fade, but not in the way Sky Bridges so often did. This was more akin to feeling the world around him becoming less real. It was insubstantial, immaterial. For so long, he had felt it pushing him upwards, but now as the threads binding him to it fell off, he arose.

The weight of a mountain fell off his soul, and there was light.

He was everything.

He was nothing.

He was… within a mountain range.

This new place felt far more solid, far more than anywhere he’d ever been before, but he felt much the same. He had crossed the Sky, transcended the Aether, and now instead of a mere fragment of each it seemed as though the entirety of the heavens dwelled within his soul. His body glowed with power, and while the light faded after a moment, the power remained.

There was much to learn about his new self, he could tell.

But what was more immediately interesting was the massive city he had found in his exploration. The world he had landed on was weak; it should have only supported a few hundred True Celestials at most, but what shocked him was that every single person was a Celestial. The only mortals he found were children too young to harness the power of the stars.

They also had magical implements like he had never seen before. Even the lowest level Celestial had or used a few.

Which was a fact his mind started to get stuck on once more. There were also so many Celestials. Half a million just in this one city on a world that should have supported tens of thousands at most.

He was still reeling from those facts when six people at his same still unnamed realm appeared next to him soundlessly and without a ripple of Star Power.

He had known people who could walk through the stars, but none had been so good at it or able to move so many.

Excitement like he hadn't felt in a long, long time bubbled up in him.

That people of his own realm found him so quickly was ultimately a good thing and he nodded to them, letting the ground around him flow into a set of clothes he copied from the city below.

It was always smart to fit into local cultures until you knew what rules you could break and which you couldn't.

The first thing he noticed was the man in front of the group next to a woman with a Sky Sword.

A sword.

At least these people weren't barbarians and used proper weapons.

Ra’thala had worried about that before, but now he had an answer.

The two rippled with power in a way that made Ra’thala’s throat tighten and his missing blade tremble with excitement.

The man seemed… more somehow.

Ra’thala got the feeling he was a raging star pouring out Star Power like a spring bubbled up water. He also seemed to ripple with physical strength in a way he didn’t fully understand.

A woman with a flaming bird on her shoulder stood to the side and had a spear in her hand. Which was odd as Ra’thala felt she was just as strong as everyone else surrounding him, so he didn’t understand why she would use a mortal weapon by choice.

Maybe her manifestation was about that? He had met a few unfortunates like that before but even still, few chose to use a mortal implement once they were a Celestial, let alone beyond a True Origin.

The woman with the features of a fox was interesting as was the man with Constellations rippling around him, but what drew Ra’thala’s eye was the woman with her very skin covered with the image of countless Constellations.

It was foolish to give so much information about one's Celestial Guide but it was the most beautiful thing he had ever seen and he struggled to tear his eyes away for a long moment. He wouldn't want these people to think his ignorance and fascination with their culture rude.

The first man’s hands glowed and Ra’thala felt a burst of Star Power cover them all and suddenly he could understand everything the Origins were saying.

The first man, the one next to the swordswoman, said, “We want to welcome you to the Empire. If you would come with us, we can—”

He was cut off by the sky beauty. “Fuck that.” Turning to him, she said, “Yo, our boss wants to see you.”

Ra’thala had no reason to refuse and nodded. “I accept.”

“See, it was that easy.”

Before he could do anything, power rippled around him and he felt himself pulled an unimaginably long distance through the stars themselves before he stood before a man with golden eyes whose every glance made the plane tremble.

He knew that power because he held it just minutes before even if it was now so far away. If that wasn’t confirmation enough of his vast power, the man standing in front of him was invisible to all of his senses besides sight.

Ra’thala idly wondered what that realm was called but he wasn’t able to go too deep into it before the man spoke.

“As my Ascender was trying to say before my second Ascender skipped it all: Welcome to the Sophron Empire. My name is Emmanuel, and I am the Emperor. You have a lot to learn if you are willing to learn it.”

Ra’thala couldn’t help it.

He smiled.
