Before he could get too excited, Captain Ak’aran said, “Good, now we need to get back to camp before people start to get suspicious.”

Before Ra’thala could react, a fist landed right over his eye. A second and third fell, and he could already feel his face was swelling.

“Wha—”

“We need a reason to have left camp. And punishing you for interfering with my battle is about the only excuse we have.”

Knowing that reminded Ra’thala that what they were doing was illegal and he shut his mouth, not wanting to offend a Great One even indirectly.

Once he was well-tenderized, he was led back to the camp while the Celestials explained what he needed to do. Once they were there, he noticed soldiers pointedly avoiding looking at him, fearing to earn the ire of the Celestials as well.

No one would speak of this evening's walk, which he realized was the point.

The next day, Ra’thala followed the orders he had been given and publicly stood outside Captain Ak’aran’s tent and proclaimed that he had understood the universe and had become a Celestial.

That drew a crowd and publicly Captain Ak’aran and two other Celestials, not any of the ones from the evening before he noticed, tested him by pressing their hands to his lower chest.

Thankfully all three of them proclaimed him a Celestial and even from the corners of his eyes he could see the envy of the others.

Once he was led inside, he got a few more suspicious looks from the other Celestials but he kept to the story Captain Ak’aran had insisted he repeat a dozen times last night on their way back to camp. Thankfully the Celestials were satisfied after a little more questioning and gave him his Celestial Guide.

With its guidance, he learned of the way to pull in Celestial power from the stars above and how to layer the accumulated Celestial power to create the ever-moving Constellations that would be empowered by his Star Power and drive his Stars.

Today was the first day of his new life.

***

Ra’thala looked at the peak of the mountain where the very tip seemed to stretch. He could feel the Star Power power brimming from deeply hidden wells of Star Power scattered around the area in a shape he didn’t fully understand.

As a True Great Celestial, he had reached the peak of his home world thus, if he wanted to advance further, he needed to leave.

The Nine Skies Map he had been given had gotten him through the early days of his power accumulation, but he had reached the first major bottleneck, the Blank Sky that separated True Great Celestials from Divines.

Since reaching the peak of power, he had traveled far and wide looking for how to fill in his Blank Sky, but he had had no success. No one on their world had completed that step in generations, but, in his travels, he had repeatedly heard rumors that those who had claimed a fragment of the Sky, making it a portion of their very being, had left to go somewhere.

Unable to progress, he decided to try his luck and so sought out the passages between worlds. Most of it was hearsay and easily proven wrong, but after two years of searching he had finally stumbled upon something… different.

He wasn’t even sure it was the right thing, but it was where the rumors said Divines disappeared into and none of the others had checked out. Still, he wasn’t reckless, and so returned to the nearest city and paid a few messengers to spread the news that there was in fact a Sky Bridge in the mountains.

Duty to anyone who wanted to follow in his footsteps complete, he trekked back up the mountain to where he found the Star Power layered thick.

He felt nothingness between his feet and where the mountain should be but suppressed his fear to press forward.

At first, nothing seemed to be happening other than the oddity of walking on air and the ever-present worry that he was about to fall to his death when this invisible platform vanished or simply ended, but before too long, he started to notice the world started to… melt.

The world started to blend together before his very eyes and with excitement he trudged forward until the blob of colors was a uniform gray. He walked for what felt like years in that empty grayness, but just as he was starting to lose hope, the grayness started to have blotches of indistinct shape and then color.

That color turned into recognizable shapes and after walking over what must have been a continent, he once more found himself standing on a mountain range.

Except this mountain wasn’t in snow covered mountains but was instead in a desert that stretched across the horizon but none of that caught his attention. The air was full of power but of a richer sort than he was used to. Divine power.

If he wasn’t at the peak of the Celestial realm, he felt he could have become a Divine with a short few years of absorption. Just feeling the greater power made his Constellation pulse with power like a thirsty man gasping for air.

He was brought out of his exhilaration as he noticed people flying through the air a few dozen feet over the rolling sands.

Even from where he stood, he could feel their power was greater than his True Great Celestial.

Divines.

Jumping from rock to rock, Ra’thala quickly descended the mountain. The Divines he had seen were long gone but he must have been on a trade route of some kind because he quickly found another group.

Two women and a younger man. The two women were Divines but the man was like him, a True Great Celestial.

From the resemblance between the man and one of the women he suspected they were related. A family with multiple Divines?

That was amazing in a way that he didn’t have words for.

Even True Great Celestials on his home world struggled to have their children become Celestials without disgraceful methods like he had used.

Seeing him, the group slowed down letting Ra’thala see that they weren’t actually flying but riding on sticks that glowed with Star Power.

His Constellation method only had two abilities he had worked tirelessly to recreate but he had been working in rearranging his Star Power into a new ability unique to himself.

The fact they had ways to use Star Power that wasn’t reliant on abilities was amazing and his attention was pulled away as one of the women, the oldest, said something in a language he didn’t recognize.

He had anticipated this and had studied all known languages from his homeland to at least a beginner level and so tried a few of them while keeping his hands away from the stone blade at his hip.

Finally they landed on a language both of them knew. In his world it was an old trade language, but with an established method of communication, he was able to explain who he was and what he wanted.

“You. Come. Stand. City.”

Knowing that was the best they could do and he needed to trust they weren’t going to kill him, Ra’thala stood next to the young man where he was indicated to go.

A suction force locked his feet onto the sticks and before he knew it, they were sliding a foot above the sand faster than he could run even if going at his full speed while activating his Speed Constellation and burning all of his Star Power.

Still, anything could become mundane before too long and he was just trying to keep the sand from pelting him in the face while they crossed an endless ocean of sand.

Thankfully, before dark they arrived at a massive city nestled next to a winding river that created greenery in the otherwise barren landscape.

At the city gates, the two women, being Divines, were let through the gate without being stopped but Ra’thala did notice that both guards were at his same rank. From the peak of his world to simple guards.

The thought was scary yet exhilarating.

Inside the city they quickly entered an estate where he was given a room and an older man, a servant if Ra’thala wasn’t mistaken, came and cycled through languages with him until they found one they both knew fluently.

With that basis, he explained his situation and was offered shelter and information on the world in exchange for a month of lodging and a favor.

Favors were dangerous, but Ra’thala had little other option.

As it turned out, those seeking to claim their fragment of the Sky were far from unknown upon this world, and many were thus stalled. The young man he had traveled with was in fact in the same situation and the Tur’Bfa family was happy to let him go through the same efforts in filling it in that they were preparing for their third young master.

It was in fact what the city itself was for.

An entire city dedicated for True Great Celestials to connect to the Sky. It was a mind-boggling thought but having an answer to his greatest puzzle placed before him so quickly was exactly what he had been hoping for.

Sadly, their answer wasn’t so helpful. The Sky was infinite, and many could claim the same portion of it, but the means by which one claimed their fragment of the heavens were dependent entirely upon the individual. To transcend mortality, to become Divine, a God, True God, or even the everlasting Almighty, was a path one must walk alone.

Once he had a grasp of the language, he and Bfa’Fan entered the city, their blades ready.

***

Three years later, Bfa’Fan and Ra’thala stood over the groaning bodies of their defeated foes and roared their victory to the sky, basking in the pride and adoration that was their due but as they were getting into the second verse of their roar, Bfa’Fan’s voice cut off abruptly.

Ra’thala reacted quickly, ready to attack whatever had ambushed them but instead he felt a pulse of Star Power and power as Bfa’Fan claimed a fragment of Sky and became Divine.

The spectators cheered, and Ra’thala pulled his best friend into a hug before hoisting him onto his shoulders.

They returned to the compound as heroes as the Tur’Bfa family now had one more Divine.

The party they held that night had half of the city move in and out of the estate, few Celestials made the jump to divine a year and it was always a celebration no matter who it was. but in a quiet corner, Ra’thala sat with Bfa’Fan’s older sister, Bfa’Sula the second Divine he had met when he arrived to this world.

“Ra’thala, do you feel anything? I’m willing to wait, but my family won’t agree to our marriage if you aren’t also a Divine. Let us just slip away in the night. No one will come for us, and we can settle down. Maybe go back to your world.” Bfa’Sula’s voice was like music to his ears, but the words hurt all the same.

Ra’thala knew she wasn’t trying to put pressure on him but the pressure was there nonetheless as the weight of his love warred with his inability to grasp the Sky.

Each day that passed made him wonder if he would be one of many who never claimed their fragment of the Sky and forever stayed a True Great Celestial.

Eyes hardening, he gripped Bfa’Sula’s hand and caught her gaze. “These mock fights aren’t working for me. Give me two years and I’ll come back with a Divine with my own piece of the Sky.”

Bfa’Sula face drained of blood as she shook her head. “Ra’thala, you can’t enter the Hidden Zone. It's far too dangerous. Even with hundreds who enter every year, few come out.”

He knew that as well but he also knew that it was his only choice. He needed something more than mostly friendly duels to cross the bottleneck.

Ra’thala didn’t know what he needed exactly but he knew it was not here. Not if he wanted to be able to stand beside Bfa’Sula with honor as a Divine.

***

Ra’thala stood over three other corpses, his marble blade dripping with blood, the gold fruit glowing brightly in his hand acting as a beacon.

The Solar Fire fruit wasn’t useful for reaching the Sky but it was said to be useful for upgrading Constellations related to heat and flame, which made it invaluable for the Tur’Bfa family matriarch.

Even if he couldn't cross the threshold of the Divine himself, he might be able to trade it for Bfa’Sula’s hand in marriage.

Still, he often felt as though he dreamt of the open Sky, that he was growing ever-closer to transcending the realm of the Celestial and enter the heavens of the Divine. Half-remembered visions of the mountains below him, the solid ground, these were the things he meditated upon and grasped for. Yet there were days that he scarcely remembered, the trials of the Divine too much for his mortal mind to comprehend.

Returning to Sky City, he stood there dazed as he looked at the still smoldering remains of the Tur’Bfa compound.

He didn’t need to wonder if Bfa’Sula was among the dead as her corpse was impaled with the rest of the local family branch who had been at the city at the time. The bodies were also weather worn and scared from the birds pecking at them which told him they had been there for days, which implied the locals were unwilling to cross whoever had done this.

Laughing, he felt tears run down his face but he didn't care. He also didn’t care as his clothes were stained with soot and ash.

All that filled his vision was Bfa’Sula’s charred body.

Rage filled him.

Rage of the falling mountain, of the trembling ground.

Hatred like he had only seen in monsters consumed him.

If only he had listened to her and ran away when they had the chance.

She would have been disgraced, but she would have been alive.

He wasn't strong enough, sturdy enough, he—

The Sky within him bled as he tore it. He clawed his way above, gripping the shard of the heavens so tightly he could practically feel the ‘bones’ of his soul creaking and bending, but he cared not.

What was there beyond the sturdy earth? Rage. There was anger there, and pain, and Ra’thala grasped them both wholeheartedly as he roared out for the lover he had lost.

“Tremble!”

