highest gets it,” Grim sniffed. He reached into his pocket and rolled them. They froze in mid-air. Even Delta was surprised.Kemy’s eyes glowed.“Faulty dice is dishonest,” she said and Grim blinked.“They’re my ancestor’s lucky dice! He always won… with them,” he trailed off and then went red.“Oh… okay. Those are getting burned,” he sighed. Delta felt bad.Kemy smiled softly.“Don’t worry. Mighty Dungeon Delta, we request your fair and just dice,” she called. Delta looked at her with utter bafflement.“Uh, Kemy, sweetie… I’m not sure what you-” she began then began to feel like something was stuck in her nose. The Dungeon shook just a little.Orange mana circled in the room, rapidly forming object. Delta sneezed and there was a flash.“That’s not dice,” Amenster pointed out. It was floating screen with all their names. A word flashed.Combat rating.Kemy’s name began to grow a soft golden bar which outpaced the rest. Deo was red, Amenster was pale green, Poppy was blurple, Grim was orangey brown.Grim’s bar was the smallest.Another word appeared. Teamwork.Kemy rose higher as did Deo. More words flashed and Delta stared.She had… a perfectly logical and controlled system function as her random loot roller? And her normally safe and stable monster creation and upgrades were random instead?!As the ratings flashed on, Grim did outpace Poppy as the System rated their ‘total effort given’ and then Amenster as the System judged them on ‘total potential used’. Grim nearly matched Deo.The board flashed and turned a familiar blue.Deo: Your big heart is only outsized by the headache you give.Poppy: I swear you make entropy look active.Amenster: Do something exciting for once. I keep forgetting your name.Grimnoire: Have a snickers.Helakemya: You did good for someone whose name sounds like a mountain far away.Kemy wins the loot review. Any complaints should be given to the nearest Menu that cares. Hint: It’s not this one.Delta gaped.“Your name is Helakemya?” Amenster asked and the girl looked pained.“Call me Kemy…” She whispered.“IT’S A NICE NAME!” Deo said excitedly as the cloak floated to Kemy. Grim was looking at her with wide eyes. He looked… upset.“Why are you called ‘Curse on our love’?” He said and the room went quiet. Delta frowned as the word translated slowly now that she focused on the board. The word was from an odd language that put the end of the meaning in the middle of the word or phrase with details following.‘Hel’… was curse. ‘A’ was close to ‘on’ but the translation wasn’t perfect, it could be used in several ways to show ownership or direction of the subject so it was ‘on’ and ‘our’ depending where you used it. Kemy was… love.Kemy was love.Holy crap… Delta could translate things really well and so could Grim! His tongue must be some conduit for her translation power that Grim learned. Shame he hadn’t borrowed Delta’s tact…“Because, those who are in the monastery of Truth are never lied to. I was given up because as an arranged marriage, my birth parents needed to present a first born male to command the family lines. Without one, they would be seen as shameful. I was shameful. So they named me in the ancient tongue of the truth goddess and left me with her worshippers. There was nothing more to it, but having been named, the followers of my home could never lie to me and say it wasn’t my name. They didn’t mean to be cruel, hence why they called me ‘Kemy,’” she said quietly.“What? Why was that so important?” Amenstar blinked. Delta listened in.“It’s like you and your Dad. Strong blood carries on power. Those with powerful or gifted parents often produce stronger children. A daughter meant I’d be married off and they would lose me to another family for maybe a small connection or piece of land, not worth it when Dungeons are the most fertile way of making money,” Kemy explained as she wrapped the cloak around herself, the thing flowing nicely with her white cloud robe.Powerful people… children… passing on strength.Oh god… Delta understood.These families were trying to grow their spores by breeding with other strong people. The thing the Siblings were trying to fix!And also, eww. Curse on their love? How about a blessing on their horrible souls? Kemy’s bio-parents were getting a strongly worded letter once Delta exploded reality and let mushrooms become all and one.Also, Delta focused on Kemy and saw that while the girl glowed with truthly goodness and strong kind vibes, in her soul was a firm pulsating black spore. Every second, her orange mana flowed into it and took such an amount that a nanobot would have to squint to see.That was gonna take forever to remove!Delta tried to urge Mana in but she was told System was locked due to people in the Dungeon. Hm…She knew the lost sibling made most life on the world and hence why everything had a piece, people more than anything, so how would she go about scraping it off people she liked?Her mind wandered to an orange well she had recently gotten.Delta knew that getting fresh mountain air was good for you… so maybe injecting it right into ones soul would work even better! She had to get Kemy down to the third floor if her body could stand it.Delta paused.Grim and the others lacked Mana and thus got overdosed. But why did normal people struggle? What if their spores grew stronger and let them fight off the invasive Mana trying to remove the Spore?Could it be that letting Dungeon Mana damage the spore before going back outside to recover let it regenerate and grow stronger?Was… was that why Dungeons developed lower and lower floors to keep people inside longer? To develop stronger Mana and longer duration to get their spores? Was that why people hit an apex or a ‘prime’ of their power?!Delta was having a slight panic attack.Wait… she had an idea!She would just keep doing what she was doing! Like a vegas casino with no clocks or windows! Delta would make them stay longer because she wasn’t killing them, just emptying their evil god wallets, so to speak!She went to speak with the quiet Mushy who lingered in the tunnel and only then noticed that Vas… hadn’t taken part at all but instead was delightfully sharing pottery tips with the regal mushroom.Delta stared for a long moment.Vas… she’d completely forgotten about him. The golem had been too busy just being as still as a tree or statue, speaking softly to Mushy.She cleared her throat and Mushy repeated her words to the group.“Delta says that there’s a free lunch for all of you at the bar! Please remember to hydrate and feast for an hour before moving on,” Mushy announced.It was time to show this ‘lost brother’ what a real spore was.
