"I've helped a few planets get back on track after a middling start, but you're people have you, right? They'll be fine since you're wayyyyy ahead of the curve."

I raised my brow.

"Maybe. We have a lot of rifts on our planet since Earth's on some kind of dimensional fault line. There's a lot of issues with the Old One's too."

Opal shook her head.

"One thing at a time. First of all, the Old Ones? You know what they are?"

I shrugged.

"I've fought several of their avatars and killed them. They're a nasty bunch that seems hellbent on shaking things up. You know, if mass murder and the elimination of all life is keeping things fresh."

A bead of glowing liquid fell from her brow. It looked like sweat.

"That's...That's crazy. The luminari have heard of and had contact with an Old One before. Baldowah, I think it was called. It took a few of our earliest successors and, well, we really don't know what happened to them."

I frowned.

"They're probably insane puppets with no minds anymore."

Opal pointed at me.

"Welp. That sucks. I haven't really heard of anything good coming out of contacting them, but a lot of people do when they get desperate."

A tight grin came over my face.

"That's a great way to make a bad situation worse. My opinion withstanding, of course."

Opal perked up.

"That aside, I know this sounds crazy, but the extra dungeon thing could actually be pretty lucky."

Skepticism dripped from my face like a caustic poison. She let out a laugh.

"Ok, come on. I know it's hard to deal with, but those dungeons are an untapped resource. It's like having diamond mines grow out of the ground."

I raised my brow.

"Yeah, sure, if the diamonds were alive and trying to eat you."

She waved a hand.

"Diamond mines were dangerous in pre-system eras anyway, right? They were for us, at least. My point is that Earth is a planet that will experience changes over time. Mana will grow. The actual planet will grow. Even the power of the eldritch will grow."

She poked my chest, her tone playful.

"It means your people can get ahead, level fast, and become real players on the galactic scene. Other races will have to wait millenia before they gain that kind of autonomy. You could even find some newly integrated worlds and conquer them instead of being conquered. That's pretty rare considering how Schema does things."

I shook my head.

"The problem with the dungeons is that a lot of people are going to die."

Opal let her hands flop against her sides.

"Everyone is going to die. That's life. It's how you live that matters."

I took a moment, soaking in what she said. I frowned, my primordial wake enveloping us.

"The people who will die are individuals who can contribute various skills outside of fighting. When they pass, we lose their mental resources, abilities, and ingenuity."

My psyches settled onto the topic.

"And not all geniuses will be excellent fighters, so when they die fighting monsters, we lose what they could offer us."

Opal stopped moving.

"Dude. You sound totally different all of a sudden."

I peered at her.

"I am? How so?"

She shivered.

"For real, you're like a totally changed person. Woah. Weird. I feel like I'm publicly speaking, and that's not exactly my forte. Also, I'll, uh, I'll think about what you said."

I shifted my aura back to The Rise of Eden and set one mind on the conversation.

"Me too. I think you're right about it being an opportunity, but I don't want a bunch of people randomly dying. But I do get that some people will die regardless of what I do. For now, I’ll make the difference that I can. Speaking of, do you know what we can do to help with the dungeon transition or maybe stabilize reality some?"

Opal scratched the side of her face.

"That question is way above my pay grade. That being said, you can plan ahead. Make sure that people are aware of what's going on and that the changes are something they've accepted. If you can make everybody aware, then there will be way fewer casualties."

She moved her hands as if capturing something.

"Something I've also noticed with failing worlds is a lack of dungeoneering. There's actually a specialized class for it that a lot of people can get. It's a variant of the Speaker class, and even a few of them can make a huge difference in a world's development. For example, they can help chart out the physical growth of a planet as rifts rupture."

I furrowed my brow.

"Wait. There are professions that revolve around broken rifts?"

She peered up.

"Hm. I wouldn't say they're about broken dungeons per se, but just dungeons in general. Managing them is a huge part of a guild's responsibilities, and they're always valued in any territory or empire. If you run an efficient program, you can really amp up the long-term value and control of your territory that way."

She turned a hand to me.

"As a Fringe Walker, I work heavily with a lot of local governments to get control of those dungeons, clear out infesting eldritch, and create sustainable programs moving into the future. We don't just clear out the eldritch. We keep them cleared out. Well, a good Fringe Walker does."

My psyches swarmed with thought.

"So far, I've been using my rings and golems to help out my people. I've passed on some information about my build and skilltrees, but I haven't invested a ton into dungeoneering. You're saying that should change?"

Opal scoffed.

"Your guild is one of the strongest combat-centric empires I've ever seen. Especially if you consider how early into the system you guys are. For real, you guys rival forces who've had millennia to build themselves up. It makes talking with you all so lopsided."

I smiled.

"Ah, like we're ignorant brutes with big clubs?"

Opal shook her head.

"Oh no, more like you're just getting in contact with people. You're fresh and have interesting perspectives, too. Very pre-system from what I've gathered."

I pointed at her.

"I was going to ask about that. How do you get any idea about the general state of Schema-based empires and guilds?"

Opal laughed.

"What a weird question, but I can see why you’d ask it. So far, I’ve seen that you guys lack perspective. How do you get it? Well, the answer kind of sucks because it's all about time. The luminari have been an established force for thousands of years. We owned three planets and spent most of our history developing those worlds. That let us establish contact with dozens of empires, and they've really helped us understand what average is."

She puffed her chest out, her tone self-mocking.

"Not to brag, but yeah, my Fringe Walking was kind of a big deal for all that."

Her voice turned normal.

"For real, Fringe Walking is a large part of why we know so much about other empires. It's actually one of the reasons why I chose to be one in the first place. It's a universally respected profession, kind of like a healer."

I put the last bit of stuff I bought into my personal storage.

"I can see why. Fringe Walkers don't fight people. You fight monsters on the worlds that need that the most. There's honor in that, and it demands respect."

Opal laughed before rubbing her fingers together.

"And money. Lots of it."

I tucked a few ideas away as she said that. For example, my golems could act as Fringe Walkers, and I'd be able to develop lots of galactic connections using them. The money didn't interest me, though I wasn't opposed to making some. Instead, I'd help people and establish Earth across the cosmos. Unlike the credits, I valued those connections highly.

I spun a few other strategies up in my mind until the cashier interrupted my thoughts.

"That'll be 394,029 credits, sir."

Ouch. It was more than I expected, but I ended up taking most of their inventory. Using a mental command, I siphoned my credits to the shop. System-based exchanges were quick, efficient, and secure. Schema didn't even take a tax or subscription for the service. It just made life better that way, and it was a great reminder that the all-knowing AI wasn't all bad.

It could just use a lot of improvement in a lot of ways. And yeah, we all could, right?

Anyway, I left the store with lighter pockets and a fuller dimensional storage. The interesting enchantments would feed cipheric thought among the many Daniels who studied runes all the time. In fact, they did so as I moved and walked. How? Well, any animus of mine could interact with my pocket dimension whenever.

They moved the runes and viewed them along with many of the older sigils I found forever ago. A few of my extra psyches already broke some of the enchantments down and spread the information amongst my cipher studying Daniels. That process increased my knowledge of runes with each and every passing second.

It would leave a normal person exhausted, but I held a near-infinite amount of mental energy. Not using it was wasteful, after all. With that gear in tow, I stood tall outside the storefront.

"Alright guys, I think it's about time to leave."

Besides the fixture shop, Chrona, Hod, and Amara ate at one of the luminari restaurants. They all came over with disappointment on their faces. I had to pull Chrona out since she was back in the pocket dimension, and she shook her head.

"You'd think they would eat actual food," Chrona said.

Amara hissed.

"There is no blood or flesh. Just sticks."

Hod puffed out his chest.

"Hod bring sandwich. Hod two steps ahead. Hod always two steps ahead."

Opal stepped in front of everyone.

"Did you not enjoy the diar jouve?"

The enunciation sounded french. Amara raised her hands in frustration.

"Dair jouve? Dair jouve? It's a damn glowstick."

Opal's cross grinned.

"Of course. Diar jouve or more commonly called a glowstick. Whichever term you prefer, they're simple, easy snacks that are delicious even on the go."

Amara made a strangling motion.

"It's not even food, you walking advertisement. You're trying to feed us party props."

Opal shook her head, peering off in the distance.

"A party prop? That sounds like one delicious party."

I raised my hands.

"This may sound unrelated, but have you ever heard of something called a rave?"

***********************************************************

The sun set atop Phorescia's farthest desert dune. The ravine city was built along the line of the setting sun this time of year, and it bore down onto the place from dawn till dusk, making a line across the city's top. We watched that sunset from outside the city, the vast and desolate desert whipping wind in the distance.

We were covered in tourist attraction merchandise from head to toe. They really did get us; our credits were swindled, and our eyes were glittering. Too brightly, I might add. It was truly our first time being torn apart by an alien capitol, and it surely wouldn't be the last. The sheer volume of light trinkets was nauseating, and to my human eyes, they all looked the same after a while. Despite that, even after twelve hours, Opal gushed about all the attractions and stuff we hadn't done.

But yeah, I'd seen enough.

"Opal, we're about to leave."

She stood at attention, her jovial mood shifting in an instant.

"Oh, ok. Sir, yes sir."

I pinched the bridge of my nose.

"Please don't call me that."

Opal nodded.

"Yes sir."

Amara and Chrona laughed, and Hod stared at the sunset. He took in a deep breath before closing his eyes.

"Hod love and hate it here. It feel like home. Like...Like old world before monsters come. They reach us. They poison air. They poison mind. This place like world before monsters. Before seas dry. Before air burn when Hod breathe."

His voice was an iron curtain.

"Before Hod lose everyone. Even Hod."

We listened, and we grew cold. Chrona, finally outside of her dimensional restraints, leaned her head against Hod. Chrona murmured,

"It's ok. I lost my home as well, but I have learned that a haven is where the heart is. As I have found mine, we shall find yours, wherever it may be."

In that moment, two lost souls helped each other grieve for their lost home planets. Like that, we waited until darkness came over us, the air solemn and silent. During the night, they rested while Opal and I glowed. She did so from her natural composition, and I did so from world-ending amounts of mana. My aura was back to full strength, and it compressed my timeline to a standstill.

Hours into my honed focus, Opal leaned over and telepathized to me.

"I was worried about this trip, but you've got some good people with you."

I smiled, my eyes closed.

"I do."
