"What if you incentivize people to create parts of that illusion, and then you had the illusion's contents made with the express purpose of hacking someone's neurochemistry? Imagine if it took advantage of your basic, primal emotions and reactions? You'd buy-in, especially at a young age, then become dependent on the neurochemical stream."

Amara shivered.

"Individuals would deteriorate into mere drones. You would effectively construct an artificial world that the species would fight to sustain."

I scoffed.

"Or, you know, social media. Same thing, really."

I explained what that was as we walked around. We got into a few discussions about it before reaching the next attraction. Stepping into a series of rooms, we joined other luminari surrounded by mirrored chambers. Opal explained it to us.

"These are called trances. You go into a room with a finely attuned sculpture at the center. Once within, you’re blasted by lights. You then bask in the reflections and shifting patterns. It's a shared experience that brings family, lovers, and even friends closer together."

I furrowed my brow.

"It sounds like sitting around a fancy disco ball."

Opal pointed a hand at me.

"Whatever you just said, I don't like the connotation behind it. I promise that a trance is way better than just some, er, disco ball thing."

It turns out, it was in fact, a fancy disco ball. Above what looked like a huge, empty hockey rink made of enchanted ice, a molded sculpture of glass rotated. The ice smoothed to a point where it reflected light like a still pond, and they darkened the entire room and flashed many lights into the chiseled model above. This created intricate patterns all over the walls where embedded gemstones furthered the display’s brilliance.

Ergo, a disco ball.

We walked in, finding many luminari floating, running in spirals, or sitting at the rink's edge. It was strange. Like a shared experience, the luminari basked in the flashing lights, and once again, the volatile color shifts left my eyes metaphorically bleeding. The luminari fell into those flashes, their bodies humming and resonating with one another.

Their spiritual reverence contrasted the gaudy, flashing display, but I had to hold down a long sigh. At this point, I wasn't so sure about actually wanting to tour the rest of the park or the luminari's attractions. This wasn't my cup of tea, and I planned on cutting the tour short. Before I could, Chrona marveled at the sculpture at the center of the room.

"Oooh. Marvelous craftsmanship. It's difficult to get glass to mold that way when blown," Chrona said.

Opal shrugged.

"We take a giant sphere and use lasers to carve out the models. We've had millennia to practice, so we're pretty precise at this point."

Chrona nibbled at her protective collar before peering at me.

"May I?"

I walked over and ruptured space. With enough room to get out, Chrona's hulking form wormed its way out of the pocket dimension. She took up about one-twentieth of the ring, but no luminari spoke up. They were entranced by the light above, so they kept relishing in the experience despite the sudden intrusion.

And Chrona added to it. She reached the center and tapped the glass sculpture with her tail. Opal took a step forward to stop her.

"Hey, that's fragile-"

I reached out a hand. I smiled.

"Just let her do her thing."

At first, Chrona's taps messed with the spinning sculpture's momentum, and the luminari despised her meddling. Dissent spread through the crowd, a few luminari almost leaving their trances. After Chrona used some temporal manipulation, she continued her attempts at music.

Those attempts matured over the next few minutes. She began with a light chorus of resonant notes. They built in volume and body, eventually swallowing the sounds of the entire ring. She condensed her primordial mana further, arresting control of the space around her. Augmented by time, she gained the edge she needed to master the newfound instrument.

She built on the tones, creating a melody. The melody expanded until it became something like a song. It kept building in its splendor, becoming a marvel of sound and sight alike. She balanced her taps so that the spinning wasn't interrupted but instead improved. The flashing slowed and became something subtle and no longer paralyzing.

Chrona let herself go, and she released wave after wave of beautiful, resonant ringing from the glass. It was like hearing a drummer that used windchimes, and Chrona wielded her tail to enact it all. She floated through each movement like a dance, and after several minutes, her music sang. It was like being in a different world for a moment, one that made everything seem brighter.

After half an hour, Chrona stopped her melody. She pulled herself down from her impromptu symphony, and she smiled at us.

"Ah. It feels so good to warm up my tail with some music. It's been far too long since-" She frowned. "Are you alright?"

The people around us clapped, and Hod cried, tears leaking from his eyes.

"Hod so happy. Silver dragon lady sound like mother stew after long day of hunting in desert. Sound take me back. Wayyy back."

Amara peered away, moved by the performance but unwilling to admit it. I clapped my hands.

"Wow. That was incredible. You really should do that more often. It brightens the world."

Chrona blushed.

"Thank you, guildmaster."

Opal spread her hands.

"You know, we haven't reestablished our celestial orchestra, so our people are starved for this kind of thing. We'd love to have you have a few performances for us. The fact you can make that happen even during a trance makes it truly special. Actually, I promise you that the luminari will fall in love with your artistry. I know I have."

Chrona peered at the glass sculpture above.

"I may, but only if you're willing to give us a few of those molds. They're so intricate, and they give any musician quite the breadth when expressing oneself with them. Normally, we gialgathens use ice in place of glass, but that was due to limitations in their construction, so I'd very much enjoy giving a few of them to other gialgathens. Ah, Maple would love one of these. She's far better at music than I am."

Opal pulled her hands together.

"Ooooh, this is going to be so, so good. There's other gialgathens that are half as good as you?"

Chrona scoffed.

"They are far, far better. You should've heard Meatrix. She was a legend before we lost her on my home planet during one of Lehesion’s raids."

Several luminari stopped their trances to walk over and thank Chrona, most of the individuals in Phorescia having seen a gialgathen before. As we left, Chrona beamed with a radiant grin from within her pocket dimension.

"I have never been complimented so thoroughly for my music. Seeing so many people enjoy it...Wow. I'd almost forgotten how satisfying it can be."

The light behind her eyes left, and she established a private, telepathic connection between us.

"I understand that I have many more years in our contract. If you say so, I shall cease these discussions and-"

I raised a hand and sent my thoughts back.

"You're totally fine to spend your time doing something like this. If anything, you could become a diplomat for the gialgathens and luminari. Strong relations between the two species would be great for my guild, so yeah, go get after it. However, there's one caveat."

She winced.

"And what would that be?"

I raised my hand.

"You have to let me know when your first performance is. I want to schedule a date with Althea to see it."

The light returned, and Chrona let out a roar. She turned to me.

"Thank you, Harbinger. I shall make the most of this opportunity."

I smiled.

"Not a problem."

We strode out of the mirror chambers, having thoroughly enjoyed ourselves. After experiencing a few more pleasantries, we walked out and explored on our own. We ended up in a petting zoo. Unlike the zoos on Earth, the luminari cultivated these tiny floating light balls. They had large eyes, made squee sounds, and even felt like the cold side of a pillow.

They were heavenly.

We walked out of the park pretty satisfied overall. Sure, it had its ups and downs, but it carried such a breadth in experiences that I couldn’t help but enjoy myself. Besides that, it had been a long time since I spent a day of leisure like this. The sheer novelty of it all also carried the hard parts and really sold the best aspects of it all.

Afterward, Opal took us to a fixture shop. Though it said fixture in the front, it was really a lighting store. It was a bit repetitive after all the other luminous attractions, but I will say this - they went all out. Thousands of different lighting solutions lined the walls. Did you need lamps? They had a thousand models all set up with various bulb make-ups, alternate shades, and complex filaments. What if you preferred a more homey solution? Their candle selection was second to none.

It was honestly pretty boring at first. Aside from the repetition aspect, I never liked shopping, and to me, it was a necessary evil. In old Earth, I spent thirty minutes a week at Walmart to get everything I needed. Outside of that, I may have spent an evening once a year at a thrift store to replace socks and underwear with holes in them.

I hadn't even contemplated doing something similar since getting my armor as it would've been a total waste of time. This store felt the same. I mean, I could literally glow, so I didn't need lighting solutions. However, upon closer inspection, the luminari had enchantments in and on everything. Those magical inclinations got my attention.

For example, the candle's wax was made in special cauldrons so they burned longer. The wicks were woven with schemic runes to enhance their visual flare. They changed the colors, heat, scent, sound, and even temperature of fire and light alike. The lamps mirrored that complexity. It also led to some satisfying personal victories.

In a twist of fate, Hod grabbed a dozen candles, each of them various shades of blue. He held them over Amara. Hod boomed his voice.

"Hah! Luminari make light cold. Hod knew it!"

Amara shivered before sniffling.

"You win this time, birdman."

To my surprise, I bought several thousand credits worth of goods here. In essence, all of this was possible by humans too, but the desire simply wasn't there. Lighting wasn't something we took so seriously. By comparison, this was a life and death-arena for the luminari. They researched entire fields dedicated to the task, and that desire showed in the products they produced.

Every piece carried an admirable level of ingenuity we wouldn't match for centuries, if ever. We wouldn't need these kinds of products just to live or impress, but that was also where a lot of the vivacity stemmed from. In going down this rabbit hole, the luminari also achieved impressive magical feats. As an example, I held a lamp that literally siphoned light away from its surroundings. It was twelve credits.

"How in the world did you guys make this?" I asked.

Opal leaned back.

"Uh. I don't know. I just buy this stuff. It took a lot of luminari a lot of research and a stupid amount of years to do any of this."

Her lack of curiosity was surprising, but Opal was focused, if anything. She shared what she loved, and she cared most about fighting, experiencing, and exploring. It was why she became a Fringe Walker - she could devote herself to those passions exclusively.

Either way, she didn't seem so bad. That is until the questions began. As I swiped dozens of goods into my dimensional storage, Opal began questioning me about how I fought. Where she expected my solutions to revolve around technique and refinement, I told her the truth. I was a simple man who worked within two domains: endurance and brutality.

I left little to the imagination, mentioning how a few unique advantages enabled my fighting style. Despondent, Opal let out a long sigh. It sounded like a sizzling spark coming from her lips. Or cross thing. Er, whatever it was.

"I really expected a refined warrior. It's kind of disappointing that you muscle through everything."

I put another dozen advanced light enchantments into my dimensional storage, floating each in its own gravity well.

"That's the thing - you can do it in your own way too. I have advantages, and I'll be the first to admit that. However, what I do isn't impossible. In fact, I think most people could do what I have done if they were in the same situation."

Opal let out a light laugh.

"What? Nonsense. You're insane, you know that?"

I had a sad smile on my lips.

"You don't know the half of it. I've got to be if humanity wants any chance moving forward."

Opal’s hair dimmed.

"Huh. Whenever I saw Earth, I didn't see anything too out of the ordinary with it. What's got someone like you so anxious?"

I began shoving stuff into my pocket dimension with gravitation.

"Remember, our planet isn't even a decade into the system."

Opal's cross widened.

"Oh yeah. That's right. It's easy to forget, but your world is as green as they come. Huh. That means the eldritch are super high level for how much time has passed. You have a lot of rifts too. It's about the same number of dungeons that you'd expect twenty thousand years into systemization."

I clamped my jaw tight for a moment. If humanity had that kind of time to face the eldritch of today, we'd be doing a lot better than we were. I shook my head before Opal crossed her arms. She tilted her head, staring at the ground.

"I get it. I really do. I've 'fixed' plenty of worlds, and there's always a sad story behind each of them. Some are like your planet with a lightning-fast eldritchification. It makes keeping up hard. You're generation experienced the culling, too, huh?"

I nodded. My voice was gravel.

"Yeah. We did. That, and a bit more. If I’m honest, it just keeps coming."

She peered away.

