Amara eyed it all.

"I will admit...It is stunning to see what they have created."

Opal's cross brightened.

"If it's any consolation, your approach has led to a revitalization of the luminari. I'd love to show you all that we've accomplished with your support."

I spread my hands.

"Then let's see what the luminari are all about."

Chapter Begin

We floated from one outcropping to the next while exploring the dozens of shops. We oohed and aahed at everything all the while, and for once, I didn't attract the most attention. The luminari, to no one's surprise, were perplexed by Chrona's floating head, something that Hod made all the worse by perching on her most of the time. Still, it stopped people from gawking at me, and that was a bit of attention I could live without.

As we stopped in front of a glassware store, I shrunk myself down to the necessary size for walking in. Baubles, vases, and mugs lined every wall and every shelf while carefully positioned lights pierced through every piece. They created a cascade of ambient illumination. In fact, glass was used for nearly everything along with neon lights that cast a soft glow over the store. It was a feature of the luminari as a whole since they loved light over the privacy of more opaque materials.

I raised my hand over one of the vases.

"I’m guessing the luminari have these kinds of stores all over the place?"

Opal gestured to the back of the store with pizazz.

"They are, and in fact, they’re so common that they don’t draw any attention. That’s why this is actually the back entrance to the best theme park in Phorescia. Trust me. The owner and I go way back, and if you come through this way, you can reserve special passes so that you don't have to wait so long in the lines. My friends and I go there all the time."

Amara glared at the desolate tunnel at the back of the store.

"It looks like a portal to a biblical hell."

Opal's cross marking curved upward.

"Appearances can be deceiving. It's designed this way so that other luminari won’t search out the entrance. That’s why it's all icky and dim. It’s repulsive to most of us."

The store clerk gave us a nod. I pushed my wake through the entire building, and my psionically loaded mind gave me a subtle understanding of the place. I shrugged.

"Opal's right. It leads to a different ticket booth."

As we stepped through the storefront, Hod hurled himself from Chrona's head and began stealing everything off the shelves.

"Hod love shiny things!"

The store owner walked up to Hod. He was a stylish luminari in a suave waiter vest and slacks. As he spoke, he clasped his hands together.

"Uhm, excuse me, sir. These aren't samples."

Hod kept taking parts and pieces, his mind beset into a rampage. He was well beyond reason, so I pinched the bridge of my nose.

"Do a comparison between this morning's inventory and whatever Hod leaves behind. I'll cover whatever the difference is."

Opal gawked as Hod rampaged through the store, breaking bottles, baubles, and busts. Opal coughed into her hand.

"He seems...Unique."

I frowned.

"He has an eldritch half, one that has eaten a large part of his mind. We're trying to find some way of returning his full faculties, but reversing anything done by eldritch sources is slow going. Personally, I just take him as he is since he's a great fighter, loyal, and has a great sense of humor."

Hod tripped and knocked over a stall holding many glass trinkets. He began pocketing the broken shards. I winced.

"He can be a bit much, sometimes."

Opal raised her palms while nodding.

"I'm sorry...I shouldn't have asked."

Amara hissed.

"You must know your pack. How else is a wolf to hunt?"

Hod kept destroying the store before the clerk hit me with a bill for 30,000 credits. I paid for it before we headed down the empty tunnel, Opal chatting away about how awesome the park was. After crossing an earthen crossway, we reached another employee who carried a circle across their face. They gave Opal a wink with their facial marking.

“Ah, Opal, are these...New friends of yours. Huh.”

They gawked at Chrona.

“That’s one big lizard.”

Opal put a hand on her forehead.

“Uhm, listen Kil. This is the guild leader and several of his followers. They’re responsible for saving our species.”

Kil just about passed out before scrambling for any apology he could send. He had nothing to be sorry for, but we still walked out with special lifetime passes in tow. Stepping past a checkup line, we entered the park after barely squeezing Chrona's head through the main entrance. The park itself was a mixture of the old and the new.

The place separated into a dozen different spaces with large, expansive tunnels connecting them. Across every surface, lamps, torches, neon signs, beacons, and bulbs flashed with different colors. The sheer volume of lighting fixtures left the place awash in dozens of blurring shades. It was like walking into a candy shop, the many bright, vibrant colors clashing and harmonizing in tandem.

In the corner areas, plenty of darker spaces held attractions that reminded me of haunted houses. Walking up to the largest one, Opal gestured to the attraction.

"This is The Lamentation. It's the best leythra out there."

My guildmates and I peered at each other before Chrona frowned. Our gialgathen tilted her head.

"Why would you name a bright, bubbly attraction after the cries of the damned?"

Opal spread her hands.

"Because it's a tactile, storytelling device. You really have to experience it to know. Just trust me."

We walked past a line of people who waited to enter the place, and they gawked at us. Opal calmed them down by blowing imaginary kisses at the crowd, which surprised me. Why would the luminari hold any regard for a blown kiss? They fed on light, so wouldn't light work better? Were my glowing runes sending weird signals that I didn't know about?

Those incredibly important questions burrowed through my mind as we waited. The luminari kept gawking even after Opal's gestures, so I raised a hand, crushing crystallized quintessence and tossing it to the waiting people. They scrambled for the shards before Opal stared at me. She tilted her head.

"A generous patron, aren't you?"

I smiled before raising my hand. Mana oozed from my palm, crystallizing into chunks of quintessence. They clattered on the ground as I laughed.

"Hah. You tell me."

We kept walking before Opal ran to the quintessence. It was our turn to gawk at her as she squatted down and tossed the crystals into her ring's storage space. When she finished, she walked over.

"What? A woman has to eat, doesn't she? Besides, there are energy rations right now, and this makes it a lot easier to live through them," Opal said.

Hod sorted his shinies.

"Hod wonder why park so bright if light so rare?"

Opal took a breath.

"It's...It's complicated. We try to be fair, but you know, nothing’s ever perfectly equal. Some people get more and others less."

Amara smiled.

"Ah, the sweet, sweet scent of governmental corruption. Oh so delicious, like a lamb waiting for the slaughter."

Opal stood up.

"Hey now, we can't fix everything."

Thoughts whirled through my mind.

“I think making everything perfectly equal requires a degree of control that is far worse than the lack of equity in the first place. Either way, let's see what this lamentation ride is all about."

We were shuttled by employees, sat down, and readied for our own personal ride. It was like getting strapped in for a rollercoaster, and the tunnel leading to the full attraction glimmered with many gemstones.

Keeping her with us, I pulled Chrona in a gravity well as she couldn't fit on the ride. We struck an odd scene to put it lightly. Either way, Chrona marveled at the bright lights.

"It's as if we're being moved through the stars themselves."

I shook my head.

"Not at all. This isn't hot, and there's no gravitation. That's the craziest part about stars. They're heavy enough to crush you just by being near them, let alone within them."

Everybody gawked at me. I shrugged.

"I used a star with a portal once. I called it a starthrower."

Amara nodded.

"A blunt name...But fitting."

I shook my hand at her.

“Exactly.”

Before questions rained in, the ride began. We passed through innumerable tunnels at around Mach 3. Fast, flying, and bright, the tunnel made me want to vomit. The twists and turns blurred the flashing colors together into a rainbow soup, and in a pre-system era, this would've been a one-way trip to a seizure or brain damage.

Despite the sheer volume of colors, the novel experience was fun in a demented, only-do-this-once kind of way, so Hod and I raised our hands. We both yelled for no real reason. Amara frowned with her arms crossed, and Chrona grew bored by the end of the ride. Opal had an entirely different kind of reaction.

She wept.

By the time we ended our ride, she was a total mess. Glowing tears ran from her cross, and her hair crackled in every direction. She wiped her face.

"Gah...I just love that last part. The way they separate but on such magnanimous terms. It’s...It’s just so wonderful. What did you guys think?"

Hod took a breath.

"Hod think second scene best one. Lots of purple. Hod like purple."

We stared at Hod for a moment before Opal put her hands on her hips. She pondered aloud.

"I never thought about it like that. There's a lot of depth there that I haven't actually unpacked. Huh. You're a lot deeper than you look."

Hod puffed his chest out.

"Hod must say...Hod deep like purple."

Opal's cross narrowed, her gaze intense and her words serious.

"Wow. That's...Profound."

I smile before pointing at the colorful tunnel.

"I don't mean any offense by this, but the way we experienced that ride was totally different. To me, that felt like it was designed to induce motion sickness. I’m guessing you see more from the light than just the blur?"

Opal gestured to it.

"The luminari see and communicate our emotions through color. This ride was a recent innovation done by one of our leading artists, Celest Kolus. He has taken the initial concept of an emotion-laden journey and added subtle layers to it. That turned a wild ride into an interpretable story, one of star-crossed lovers who aren't able to make their relationship work."

I leaned back.

"Ok, so it's kind of like a video."

The luminari squinted her cross.

"Video? Like the system's screens? The luminari have never been interested in them since they don't use actual light. They beam interpretable information straight into your mind, so it never resonated with us."

Chrona shook her head.

"The videos he speaks of are very different. I've seen the restored tapes from humanity’s old culture. They wield plasma within tiny, miniscule cells, and they turn them into shifting shapes with ease.”

Opal’s cross widened.

“That sounds incredible.”

Chrona peered off.

“It was. In that regard, what they lacked in strength, they made up for in their boundless creativity and resourcefulness. These videos were no different."

Chrona furrowed her brows, her gaze growing distant.

"In one of their ancient ruins, I found a device called a DVD. It showed an enormous and extensive illusion. It carried many ideas, people, even imaginary worlds. I saw my kin covered in scales and known as dragons. It was all quite interesting."

Opal bunched her hands together.

"Oooh, sounds like fun."

Chrona's let out a contented sigh.

"It was. So much so that I found myself lost in the history of these tapes. I kept watching and watching until I found days and weeks had passed in the blink of an eye. It was as if the person who designed these small discs had done so with the express purpose of trapping any individual that started watching them."

Opal leaned back.

"So it was an advanced illusion that wastes an individual's time? That sounds like a few stalling devices I know about. They never worked on the battlefield, but they were extraordinarily effective against politicians and other noncombatants. We had to create some censorship in our obelisk network after a few of those illusions ran rampant in the luminari populace. Several luminari’s even died from a lack of light exposure."

Chrona narrowed her eyes.

"Hmm. I would say that these DVDs were like that yet unlike that as well. It was certainly made to stall an individual, but I couldn't decipher what it tried to delay you from. Eventually, I decided that it was a means of taking oneself closer to death without experiencing existential dread or boredom in the meantime."

Opal covered the bottom half of her face with her hands.

"My goodness. That sounds terrifying. If someone mastered illusions like that, they could trap someone in a meaningless, alternate reality from birth and have them waste their time until their death. To have my entire life wasted on nothing-"

Opal stared at the ground.

"It's a fate worse than death."

Chrona's face crinkled.

"And there's another insidious element that makes it such an effective illusion. Never, not even once, did the feelings of the creator feel ingenuine. Whoever designed the device did so with a love for the medium. They believed in it. They thought the world of what they created, as if it would change the world for the better."

Chrona's eyes widened.

"And I still cannot fathom what drove the creators to design it."

I gawked at them, not knowing how someone could be rendered this distraught by a simple movie about dragons. Amara chimed in.

"Creating a voluntary illusion, one large enough to consume lives, isn't feasible. You would need an enormous collective of people incessantly churning out material for the fantasy. Otherwise, people would grow bored and leave it. Even the creators would succumb in time."

I smiled, feeling mischievous.

