“I may be able to help you, but you might find it a little disconcerting,” Lira said, hiding her amusement for a moment. It had been a while since Mato had last used Tree Meld to advance his class, and the first time was always disconcerting for non-sylvan beings. However, for someone like Kerrin, there would be no real danger, and diffusing her form into the mana-enriched sap of her tree would most likely accelerate her development greatly. Even better, dear Aliandra had so thoughtfully left her domain suffusing the entire area, including her World Tree, and imparted the extraordinary learning enhancement of her tithe to a substantial portion of her forest.

She really is so thoughtful.

“I’ll do anything,” Kerrin declared.

“Oh, dear! You should not say such things to anyone, much less a deity class. You never know when they may have selfish motives,” Lira said to a suddenly wide-eyed Kerrin, who clamped her hands to her mouth in shock.

Lira winked at her.

“What I can offer you is something called a Tree Meld. You will be drawn into my World Tree and infused with my mana. It will feel very strange at first, but if you relax, it will feel a bit like meditation or a dream. The experience will allow you to partake of a small portion of my mana and it should definitely accelerate your trait development. It will be like an acceleration for your mentorship enchantment.”

“Oh, can I try that?” Kerrin asked, her shock giving way to curiosity. “What do I do?”

“Of course. Here, take my hand,” Lira said.

The young Druid reached out eagerly and grasped her hand, soft, warm flesh meeting bark and sap, and then Lira drew her into the tree. To her credit, Kerrin only struggled briefly near the end, but once she found herself within the tree – and realized she had no need to breathe – her mind began radiating awe and sheer amazement.

“Let’s begin,” Lira said, focusing her skills and mana on teaching, while tempering her instruction to match the fragile capacity of the novice druid’s fluttering mind.

She will grow well.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
