That was until Gate’s Rest got their awakening machine… thingy.

The news stations had talked about the devices that gave magic powers, but Kai, like most people of the mandatory age, was nervous. Not that they could refuse. Apparently it was obvious to tell those who had been awakened from those who hadn’t, and anyone who refused was forcefully put into the machine and then fined for their troubles.

The stories the news stations broadcasted about the awakenings were mostly positive, not strictly positive like Kai would have expected with media companies being shut down, but it generally leaned that way. Save for a few pieces about people getting seemingly boring powers, like the one lady whose power cleaned stubborn stains easier.

There were a few rumors about people who had seemingly bad reactions, but they were rare. Far more common were all the people who got fantastical powers. The 18 year old girl who could now fly, and was now something of a minor celebrity, or the 25 year old man who could fix broken items with a touch so long as they were recently broken.

What Kai paid attention to was the few reports about architects. There was apparently one 14 year old who had gotten the ability that made it so any buildings off blueprints he created were stronger than normal.

Even a quick scribble was enough to make a suspension bridge made out of twine and thin sticks hold ten full grown adults. The kid had been given a full-ride scholarship to a prestigious university to get his architecture degree the moment he graduated high school.

No one said anything, but everyone at the firm felt the pressure. How could they compete with someone like that? Who would want their work when someone else’s work was appreciably better than theirs?

Kai didn’t know, and from the glum silences, no one else did either.

He just hoped that, despite the records saying otherwise, that because of his dedication to his craft, he would awaken a similar Talent thing.

Kai and seemingly half the town went to the facility, a massive building that had been converted from a warehouse.

Kai sat down and went through a dozen screens telling him not to share his Talent with anyone, and after confirming that he was sure he understood, he felt a rush of something enter him.

It was… more.

Kai couldn't really describe it, but it was like he had a sense that had been asleep all of his life, and now it had woken up. He thought Awakened was just a word but he realized it was really the perfect thing to call it in absence of a better description.

The feeling faded quickly, and a beep from the screen next to him brought his attention down.

Kai looked at the result blinking on the screen in front of him. It was unbelievable, unacceptable. And apparently unchangeable.

He felt sick.

Sure, they said it was random and to not be disappointed with whatever you got, but he’d figured that just meant they couldn’t predict it, that he’d still get something related to architecture, the thing he’d devoted his life to. How was this awakening anything within him?

Tier 1 Talent determined.

Pigments you mix are more vibrant or subdued, depending on your desire.

Pigments? Like paint? Kai had never painted in his life, nor had he mixed pigments before. He didn’t even know how.

What was that Talent?

Kai wandered back home, not knowing what he should do.

In the end, he didn’t have any better answers than try to cling to his well-paying job for as long as he could before those with related Talents pushed him out, but he did stop by an art supply store on his way to his apartment and bought a few tins of oil paints.

He had no idea what he was doing, and felt stupid as he squirted paint onto a disposable plate.

Letting his eyes wander, he looked for a color and decided on the olive green of his jacket.

Holding the color in his mind Kai dipped his brush in the yellow and then into the blue but in a lesser amount. Smearing the brush around, he found himself staring down at an olive drab that perfectly captured part of the jacket that was a little sun and wear-worn.

It was perfect, exactly like the jacket.

It was useless.

What good was mixing paint colors?

Any idiot with an instruction manual could have managed the same, even if it took them a few attempts. Suddenly Kai didn’t care about his Talent shenanigans any more and with a bit more force than he should have used, he threw away the oils he had just bought.

Instead, he cracked open one of his advanced architecture books after ordering a dozen books on magic architecture and formations. If he couldn't get a Talent that would magically make his buildings better, he just needed to do what he had always done. Work twice as hard as everyone else to ensure he remained relevant.

He just hoped that it was enough, but a small voice whispered that it wasn’t and his efforts were futile.

Kai knew that voice and shoved it down ruthlessly. It had been a few years since he had heard its malignant whispered but he had refused to wallow in his self pity before and would do so again.

***

Trebor was watching the interview with this duke of theirs with bated breath. Finally, after far too long spent on unimportant topics like healthcare or economics, they got to the import part. The thing he had to beg his uncle to ask.

“So, does the Empire have any special policies on pets?”

“Pets? Well, if one of them harms someone then you’re held highly responsible, is that what you mean? Outside of that, pets are fine.”

And with a relieved sigh he pulled his fluffy buddy even deeper into his embrace. As he started rubbing his cat's chin, he was at peace.

***

The reveal had been as large a shock for the Weekly Tidings as it was for everybody else, but Kenneth’s journalistic senses had kicked in before most others had stopped panicking. This could be his paper’s big break, to finally establish themselves as one of the big names in the Palkar Union’s media battlefields if they jumped on it.

Just minutes after the reveal he and his dozen most dedicated employees started scouring the hideously dense multi-thousand page introduction book that was made available to write a summary for their website. Technically, they were justified in doing so. In that it was now apparently illegal to get anything even slightly incorrect when reporting on breaking news and they needed to translate ten thousand pages of legal jargon into a basic summary outlining the most important things for average people. But that wasn’t an excuse to just delete the article off their site. The move by the new government had certainly given the IT guy a minor panic attack as he wasn’t even able to tell how they had accessed their systems or why they couldn't reupload the document.

Their questions were answered when not fifteen minutes later, someone working for their new overlords showed up at the office and gave them the short version of the ‘official media standards and guidelines’, as well as another overly thick book that had the rules explained in full.

It was as clear a euphemism for censorship laws as he’d ever seen. They had given the rules the briefest skim possible before moving onto the next story: coverage on the whole magical ‘Awakenings’ thing. There’d been a report of somebody outright disintegrating, crumbling into dust instead of getting superpowers, but nobody was talking about it. Rumor had it that they’d just scooped the unfortunate kid’s former body into a bucket and tossed it in the river, but getting a definite answer was hard.

This time they went straight to paper, once it was out there they assumed it would be way harder, hopefully impossible, to remove. Except when the order to the printer was sent, it got ignored. They tried everything, from different formatting to putting it on a data stick to manually typing the article on a computer directly attached to the printer, but nothing worked.

That was until they tried printing something completely unrelated. Then the printer worked just as well as it had before.

That was about the time the unease started setting into Kenneth’s gut.

It wasn’t hard to figure out what had happened. Especially when some backchannel talk with some of the rival newspapers showed they had similar experiences. Even printers on a completely isolated network refused to print things that didn’t comply with censorship laws. One of the bigger newspapers who actually had their legal teams dissect the censorship laws in detail claimed the laws normally weren't that bad and mostly required things to be provably true, but that some kind of emergency provision was active only temporarily to ‘help reduce the chaos of integration’.

Kenneth and most other media companies didn’t buy that, this was censorship plain and simple. He figured these ‘emergency measures’ would be rescinded in several generations at best when everybody was their obedient little puppet, and just never at worst.

He wasn’t going to sit idly by and do nothing when a fundamental truth was being stamped out.

Determined to get the news out there he spent a good chunk of his personal money and bought an antique printing press. Completely manual, down typesetting the pages by hand, one letter at a time. In hindsight it should have been obvious that digital methods were doomed from the start. Just look at how swiftly their conquerors had subverted the internet, but they had been trying to be fast and hadn’t considered every angle like they should have.

That was why every part of that attempt had been done off the web. The payment for the printing press was cash, the article was hand written— this time on how atrocious the mortality rate of delving was— composing the pages was even done in the basement, where there physically were no cables for a camera or other surveillance system to connect to. Even the walls of their old building had enough steel in them to make any wireless connection a futile attempt, as had been bemoaned by many an employee who had to file things down there.

Only when they tried to print their first copy, nothing happened. The press hit the paper, laden with ink and did nothing. The ink refused to adhere. When they with trembling hands rearranged some nonsense on the press, everything worked fine.

That was when the unease turned to fear. They weren’t just watching their networks. They were watching them.

But Kenneth wasn’t quite deterred yet. He wanted to make one final attempt. In the privacy of his own home and without telling anybody, he started writing a grocery list. Halfway through he switched to writing a flier about the oppression the press was enduring, but two sentences in, his pen stopped writing. When he resumed the grocery list, so did the ink. He looked at his wife, playing a board game with friends in the other room.

That’s when his fear turned to dread. They were watching him. Everywhere. At all times. And they could reach him through magic bull-shit so it wasn’t even like running to somewhere even more secluded would help.

When Kenneth shared the news at work, complete with an announcement they would from then on follow the guidelines, Miranda and Taylor, his two best journalists, started raising an uproar over how they shouldn't surrender. When they announced they’d shout the news from the rooftops if they had to and started walking to the door to do just that, the fist of the overlord stepped out of thin air and arrested them.

In less than five seconds they were there and then they were gone.

He sat there listening to the dreadful, ever increasing silence wondering if he had made the wrong choice, already knowing the answer deep in his heart.

***

Thaddeus looked up to the man who floated in the sky and felt desire like he had never felt before.

Kev, Michel, and Amber were with him, as they were every Tuesday night. Tuesday nights were their sacred game nights. Daggers and Damsels had been a constant in their friend group since they had found each other in middle school, and it had kept them together for just over a decade at this point.

Amber let out a small whisper as they watched the man create his magic spell. “My desires manifest!”

The phrase was said in high plains elven, which Thaddeus only knew a few phrases of, but he knew that phrase as it was the sorceress' call-to-arms in Daggers and Damsels. What he didn’t expect was the words to be translated and projected into his ears.

More proof that magic was awesome. Even a fantasy language was translated into a known language.

It was even better than Elvish Ears, and he knew that if they ever bothered to play make pretend again with real magic at their fingertips, he would need to buff the in-game spell to match this.

The four of them shared a look, and knew that they would be following the path the man laid out.

Real tangible power they could reach out and grab if they were brave enough to turn themselves from damsels into those that gripped the dagger of destiny.

Accordingly, they were the first ones to the awakening building that week. They had, in fact, camped out in front of the building, and were the first ones through the doors.

Sadly, none of them got combat abilities.

Michel got an ability that made any place he marked as a safe zone to let them recover slightly faster, which seemed useful for days spent in a dungeon crawl, but the rest of them got nothing obviously useful. And that was saying something, considering they were all munchkins of the highest order.

Even Thaddeus couldn't see how to make his Talent for making clothes cleaner when washing by hand useful in a dungeon. According to the little that they had learned, these dungeons just weren’t big enough to typically need days to clear and the effect didn’t linger long enough to be useful for a rogue.

