Kev’s ability to hold his breath for longer than normal might be useful, but it was easily replaced by a self-contained breathing system that any firefighter like Kev had ready access to. They did some testing but the obvious ways to exploit such a power didn’t seem to apply.

Amber had been hoping for actual magic, but instead just got the ability to change the color of her clothes at will. Theoretically useful, but easily replaceable by a simple trip to a military surplus store as it just took too long for her to make any substantial changes.

Still, they were determined to go into one of the dungeons and start leveling up.

They had dreamed about it for years.

If only it was that easy.

Their new ruler, Baron Hastra, had instituted a rule that no one was allowed to delve into a dungeon without passing a certification of capabilities.

Daggers and Damsels didn’t have such things, and the four of them endlessly complained that the new government was adding bureaucracy to magic, but they weren’t willing to go to one of the dungeons deep in the woods that weren’t monitored.

A few people they had talked to had done exactly that. Or, that was their intention the last they had heard from them, for not a single group who did that returned.

Baron Hastra at least recognized the issue with such a rule, and brought off-worlders in to help train them for a nominal expense.

Thaddeus had expected the training facility to be packed to the brim, but it was surprisingly empty. Oh there were others, dozens of other groups in fact, but his own excitement for real magic had blinded him to the fact that most people were content with their mundane existences.

They and another three groups were assigned to a woman with sunrise colored skin who looked no older than thirty, but said she had a hundred years of experience at training new groups how to fight properly.

Thaddeus had been intrigued by the incredible lifespan, but Michel was practically drooling the entire time Uvelt was going over her qualifications.

From there, they were led into a private room, one group at a time.

The four of them talked about their roles and prospective builds, but there was too much they didn’t know and so they had defaulted into their normal game roles.

Amber wanted to follow her typical class and go for a magic user of some kind, but from what they had been told, magic was incredibly expensive, at least for your first few centuries.

Centuries. The thought boggled the mind and all of them had a hard time processing such a thing.

Kev wanted to be a barbarian of some kind, since his time as a firefighter had given him a large build and he knew how to wield his fire axe incredibly well. He kept asking them if he could get a magical axe that had fire properties but they were as clueless as he was and could only humor him.

Michel was split between a typical sword and board combo, with a dagger as a side weapon, or going for a rogue build, but Thaddeus was trying to convince him to be on the frontlines together. While he rarely got to play, he always preferred the defender archetype. Protecting one’s friends from the dangers of what was trying to nibble at their toes while being a beacon of morality.

Their argument was cut short by the door opening and them being waved inside.

Once they entered Uvelt indicated to the side of the room. “Grab whatever weapons and armor you think you would like to use. Once you are ready, we'll do a little test and demonstration to see if you want to change your mind.”

Amber picked up one of the magic gloves while the other three struggled to get into their armor.

Michel tried to flirt with Uvelt and inevitably ended up talking about Daggers and Damsels, but instead of the cringes Thaddeus was used to, Uvelt seemed genuinely interested and listened attentively, even while helping them when they got stuck on a complicated part of the armor.

It took close to twenty minutes for them to get fully suited and for Amber to get the knack of using the fireball glove, but they finally stood before Uvelt who said, “Get ready and treat me like an enemy. Come at me!”

Thaddeus felt awkward and shuffled forward, his shield raised but his sword lowered. He knew it was blunt, but he didn’t want to hurt the nice lady.

Michel, who had gone with a dagger build, slashed at her well before he was in range. But instead of reacting, Uvelt just deflected the attacks with a rapier Thaddeus hadn’t noticed was at her waist.

Things seemed normal until Michel started to scream. Blood started to run like a river down his arms from where his wrists were cut through to the bone.

Thaddeus was still processing that when he felt a blow strike his shield, and the top of the shield bashed him in the face from where she had kicked him out of her way.

His world went white as pain blossomed over his head as his nose was shattered.

He could hear a gargled scream from someone and a wave of heat that burned through the gaps of his armor.

When his vision cleared, he saw that Amber was crying as she clutched a shattered knee, the limb bent and twisted into the wrong shape in a way that Thaddeus just knew was crippling.

Kev, on the other hand, laid in a puddle of his own blood, his legs separated from his body trying to crawl to his axe.

Uvelt, the seemingly normal woman just moments ago, turned from Kev’s body to Thaddeus, and with her rapier still dripping blood, slashed out.

Thaddeus didn’t know when he had raised a hand or what he had done it for, but he felt a new white hot pain flash as the fingers holding his blade spun through the air.

Gasping, he felt the world going black and wondered what the point of going through the motions just to kill them was for.

Why were these people so intentionally, pointlessly cruel?

Gasping, he found himself sitting on the floor of the practice room, still in his armor and not in pieces.

Patting himself all over, he made sure he wasn’t injured and then looked to his friends.

When he confirmed they were similarly fine, Thaddeus looked to Uvelt, who nodded. “A useful illusion to help you acclimate to the reality of what being a delver entails. It's not all fun and games. It's pain and blood. Yours or your enemies. If you want to withdraw from the course, you are entitled to a full refund. And if you need to talk to someone. There is an onsite therapist who can help you process what just happened. Delving isn't for the faint of heart, and sadly, your society didn’t prepare you for violence in the way ours does.”

Amber gasped out even as she clutched her perfectly fine knee, “Does it get better?”

Uvelt cocked her head before shaking it. “If you are asking if the pain hurts less, the answer will probably disappoint you. No. If anything, it gets worse. As you Tier up, your senses get better. You just learn how to push through it. Just be grateful that you were smart enough to sign up for these lessons so you could learn this in a safe environment. No one can save you when you are in a rift, and there, the wounds will be very real.”

Kev turned to the side and vomited, but instead of looking angry, Uvelt just waved her hand, and a wave of light blue magic removed all traces of the bile. Even the smell vanished as if it had never been, and Thaddeus was once more reminded that magic was very real.

Despite the memory of pain, Thaddeus wanted that. He wanted that so bad he felt he could taste it, even though he was pretty sure that was just blood from where he had bitten his cheek while under the illusion.

Thaddeus looked to his friends, the terror of death still lingering in his bones like a cold chill, he wanted to be strong for them so he put on his best confident look. They didn’t seem anywhere near as shaken as he felt so he shoved those feelings deep down to be examined later when he was alone in bed or in the shower.

Uvelt must have read their silence as acceptance and willingness to stay as she said, “Good for you four. Now, let's talk about your weapon choices. They can work, but might not be ideal. Your game is a good basis for some things, but real cultivation doesn’t have so many rules. Amber, you need more armor. Same for you, Kev. There are spells that empower you based on the damage you have taken, but healing is expensive, so they aren’t recommended. Michel, if you want to use daggers you need to not only learn how to use them, but learn how to read the battle. Frankly I don’t recommend them for beginners, but I can train you on the basics. Thaddeus, that shield is not only your lifeline, but the rest of your team’s as well. Hold the damn thing like you mean it, that kick shouldn't have disabled you like that. Really I recommend that you all take some time to try and break free from your fixation on your game classes and instead pick which actually suits you and your Talents best.”

When they made it clear they understood and would think over her suggestions Uvelt continued. “Now, because everyone always asks for it, we'll go through a little weapon training today but you all will need serious physical conditioning before you are ready to go into a rift. Spread out and we'll start from the top.”

Thaddeus wasn’t sure if this was a dream come true or a nightmare but this is what he had always wanted, what he had dreamed about. He wasn’t going to let something as mundane as pain, terror, and the threat of death stop him.

Standing up he prepared to face the future no matter what it might bring feeling his friends take their spots at his back.
