Adam stepped into the room then, his teeth bared in a snarl. “You are absolutely incapable of not being a bastard sometimes, aren’t you?” He wasn’t even using mental communication anymore.

Shiv just sneered. “How else do you think this was going to go? What kind of peace do you think I can offer? She asked to talk to me. Well. This is the talk.” He turned and stared at Rose. “What do you want from me? An apology? A declaration of self-hate? To spit your misery at me? Fine. Let’s do it. Let’s do this shit because there are other things I have to deal with. I don’t hate myself. I’m glad I was born. Yes, I feel like shit that you and your daughter got butchered by my parents. Fuck them for that. But also fuck Roland Arrow and most of Blackedge for what followed. They could have gotten rid of me. Sent me off in exile or something. Hid my identity and had me monitored. Something other than just using me as some kind of hate puppet.”

By the end, Shiv was growling out his words. The bitterness was back in him. But this time, he noticed—his Psychology Skill activated. Talking about this—thinking about this made him angry and feel like shit. But just because he felt like shit didn’t mean he had to react to it. It’s like pain. But this isn’t arithmetic. It’s like calculus. I don’t know how to do calculus. Shit.

Shiv drew a deep breath through his nostrils and threw up his hands. Nothing for it. Confront the problem head-on. Take the hurt and beat it down, just like with any enemy.

“I don’t know what you want to hear from me, Rose. I don’t know what I can give you for your pain or loss. I’ll tell you what I told Adam before: If I could have done something to spare you or your daughter, I would have. But not at the expense of my own existence. I’m responsible for you, for Adam. Hells, even for Roland and Blackedge. But I’m not sorry. And if that’s not enough, then I don’t have enough regret to give you. Because it doesn’t exist.”

Silver Tongue 24 > 25

Psychology 8 > 10

Both Rose and Adam were silent. The Gate Lord was shaking slightly, but he seemed less pissed than a moment before. Rose’s lip was curled, but she was holding herself. Alright. That’s the ugliest part. Maybe… maybe a bit less brute force now? Could that help? I’ll just tell them how I actually feel and what I think we should do, I guess.

“Look. I’m sorry for going into this rough. I don’t really know any other way.” He looked at Adam first. “I don’t want to be a bastard, but it just—I don’t know what else to say, and this thing fucking pisses me off too, alright? You think about losing your mother, losing your sister. I'd never fault you for that. I think about being hated, getting beaten half to death in front of a church with no one caring, and eating rats in an alley. I’m not strong enough to be noble about this. Not yet.”

Adam’s gaze softened, and he looked away.

Shiv pressed on. “I’ll cook for both of you later or something if that’ll make it better. It’s the only thing I know how to do beyond killing. It’s basically the only thing I can really offer. I can’t undo anything that you suffered. Either of you. I’m sorry about that. But if this is the topic, we’re all going to get hurt. There’s no way out.”

Adam bit his lip and let out a quiet breath. He looked at Shiv again, and something about his gaze made the Deathless feel like a complete piece of shit. “Just be gentler. I know—No, I don’t know. We had this talk before, I just turned from it. I ran from it. It’s not all your fault. It’s some of mine. I used to think that justice was seeing you hurt and hollow on the streets of Blackedge, that the System had some kind of sense of honor, perverted and sick though it was. But I was just trying to use my hate to feed my grief. It didn’t work. My father, he—he should have done something else. We should have done something else. But—you don’t know what it’s like, waking up from a nightmare as a child, but then walking away as quietly as you can from the crack of your father's bedroom door as he sobs into your mother’s old clothes.”

“I don’t,” Shiv said. He looked back at Rose and realized she was silently crying too. “But maybe Roland will get to see the real deal again instead. That’s the best I can do as an apology.”

Adam looked up at him and gave him a nod. “I’m sorry for calling you a bastard.”

Shiv managed a slight smirk. “I am a bastard sometimes. I should’ve kept my bitterness in check and had my shit together. She didn’t deserve any of that. I think we should give this topic—and her—more time. It’s too much, too fast.”

“Right,” Adam said.

Shiv turned to leave the room, but Rose called out to him. “Wait.” He paused and looked back at her. “I… Whatever else is between us, know that I, Rose Van Erren, daughter of Errol Van Erren and Alicia the Least, am in your debt as a noblewoman and Pathbearer. You have returned to me my life. And another chance to be with my family. My son. My love. I don’t—what your parents did to me—I need time. But I don’t just hold hate for you. Not after what you have done. You’re a Pathbearer of honor, holding to your word, freeing me without hesitation. And that makes you more than them to me already. Whatever my gratitude is worth.”

Something lifted inside Shiv. A rock formed in his throat as well, so he just nodded. “It’s worth enough. More than enough.”

He walked out of the room.
