“Yup.” Erick handed out copies of the spell, saying, “It worked. Is everything okay with you two? I want to experiment some with this new spell before we head back so I can meet with Ratchet and Arial.” He looked to Poi, “I also want to get in a meeting with Irogh. Can you make that happen, today, if possible?”

Poi barely read the box before he dismissed it and sent off a tendril of thought, saying, “Of course, sir.”

Kiri read the box; her eyes going wide like she had seen an unexpected monster enter her life. She breathlessly said, “A real Domain.”

Erick laughed. “I have another! [Domain of the Withering Slime].”

“Well, yes!” Kiri said, “But that one is an aura, and thus automatically resistant to most [Dispel] attempts because you can just keep casting it.” She poked at the blue box, dismissing it, adding, “But this one is literally [Dispel] proof! It’s right there in the text. I didn’t know you could do that.”

“I didn’t either, but I guess you can, but besides: An aura is the next step.” Erick smiled, adding, “I want to experiment with this one, though. Care to experiment with me?”

“Of course!”

The first tests were shadow magics. Kiri was the one who took front and center, here, since Erick continued to be unable to create a Shadow spell on his own, without creating some unknown spell effect that was more akin to annihilating force, than Shadow’s Willpower-based damage effects.

Kiri didn’t stand front and center for long. Her first attempt, [Shadow Bolt], fizzled from her outstretched fingers, turning into naught but green sparkles. She tried with other workings, including a [Force Wave]-based [Shadow Wave]. That spell spread green sparkles into the air around her, and nothing more.

Just to be sure, Erick’s own Shadow attempts resulted in white sparkles.

Erick tried a few other spells.

A fireball burst against a nearby dune, like so much confetti in a parade, with just as much effectiveness as confetti. A [Radiant Bolt], however, became something much more.

Cast normally, the Light-based Bolt would simply splash against the sand like normal Force, sending a scattering of sand into the air. But inside this Domain, the Bolt that ripped from Erick’s fingers splashed against the dune, like a cannonball launched from a ship. A meter-wide explosion sent gouts of neon-orange sand in every direction, like Reality was more liquid than not.

Kiri tried a [Firelight Bolt], next.

Erick had seen her [Firelight Bolt] before. He knew what to expect; a Bolt of incandescence that turned a part of the world to fire. In this case, a very small part of the dune in front of them would likely melt.

What happened, was exactly that.

Kiri tried a [Radiant Bolt] spell next. What she got, was exactly what Erick expected from his own, normally cast [Radiant Bolt].

It seemed that [Domain of Light] worked for his own magic, and not for anyone’s else. Kiri could still cast all of her Force Spells, but anything Altered that did not have a nod toward Light, became nothing more than green glitter.

It was here, that Erick began to realize the depth of what he had created. Of what it meant.

Of what it meant, if he were to use this inside Ar’Kendrithyst, or against a Shade.

But there was still more experimenting to do.

Erick looked up, at the clear sky. The clouds from before were gone. So he chose to fix that with a [Call Lightning].

Roiling masses of illuminated clouds flowed from out of nowhere to dominate the heavens like an upside down glowing sea. Flashes of radiance, brighter than the rest, flickered here and there. But nothing was Blinding in this Domain, not even when Erick had dropped his [Greater Lightwalk] and saw the sky with his own fleshy eyes. Mana Altering for Light normally created Blinding secondary effects, but he had created [Light Shift] by separating Mana Altering to Light into both a [Light Shift] and [Blinding Shift]. [Blinding Shift] laid fallow in Erick’s Status, for now.

Erick called down a bolt of lightning a kilometer away. If it was possible to be blinded in this Domain, it would have happened then. Instead of a tendril of illumination that shook the world in its passing, a pillar of light, five meters across, smashed into the ground with a breaking force. The targeted dune burst into light, scattering that part of the world, cratering the luminescent ground into a meters-wide crater, flecked with melted, black sand. Thunder rocked the sky, sending waves across the inverted sea of clouds, as a shockwave disturbed the tops of every dune, scattering sand like it was glittering topaz.

Erick turned to [Lightshape] experimentation, after that.

… It appeared, that inside a [Domain of Light], [Lightshape] was more like [Everything-shape].

And it also appeared, that Kiri’s own [Lightshape] worked fine, but normally. It was not as Erick’s own [Everything Shape]. It still worked with light. But all of her other shaping spells? [Stoneshape] and [Fireshape]?

Those just turned to more green glitter.

Erick’s other shaping spells were white glitter, so he wasn’t much better off in that regard.

Upon seeing Kiri’s restrictions under [Domain of Light], Erick felt a little more safe, a smidgen more secure in his chances of surviving Shadow’s Feast, a bit more able to take on the challenges of the world, while not having to rely on luck or talent to make it through a difficult encounter. He was not his daughter, after all. Jane could go up against anything and both feel and be secure in her chances for victory. Erick had to prepare. And so he would.
