Ratchet eyed Erick, too, adding, “People’ve asked me what you’ve been making, but I don’t like too much gossip. I got a theory, though! It’s that ‘coffee’ you talked about before. Am I right? Was it?”

Erick chuckled, saying, “It’s not coffee, but that’s not too far away.”

And then he got down to business.

There was a major reason he came into ‘And Dessert!’, and it wasn’t just because the place was new and he wanted some puff puffs. Seeing Mrs Skytouch in charge of this place, and Ratchet, too, solidified his decision to share his chocolate with ‘And Dessert!’, well before the topic ever came up. He knew the topic would come up, though. If they hadn’t spoken about it, he would have, because Ratchet was a good business woman well versed in spices, and Mrs Skytouch was a good cook who baked all the bread for ‘Meat! Bread! Cheese!’ next door.

Jane left to go get lunch, while Erick sat down with both of the older women, to speak of chocolate. Half an hour later, Erick left ‘And Dessert!’ with a huge basket of samples, a tray of puff puffs, and a meeting time for both Ratchet and Mrs Skytouch to come by the house. He also learned Mrs Skytouch’s first name; Arial.

- - - -

There were a few things to do before Shadow’s Feast. One of them, was to unlock the extra points from creating a spell of tier 7, 8, and 9, and in the process, become a true archmage, in the usual sense.

Inventing a whole new school of magic was one thing, but every other archmage got that designation by creating a tier 8 spell; an accomplishment that very few could ever hope to achieve. Spells usually exploded in both cost and danger to their caster, when they got to that level. Even if one managed to make such a spell the first time, it was often too expensive to cast more than once.

Erick had joked about how he ‘wasn’t a real archmage’ more than a few times, to Kiri, to Jane, to Poi, to others. But, if he were being honest with himself, gaining his title without actually having struggled for it, made him feel an odd sort of way. Like he had stolen a seat at a table where he did not truly belong. He didn’t really care about the validity of his title, and every archmage he knew treated him like one of them, but it would be nice to be a true archmage, in the usual way. So, to that end, it was time to become a real archmage, in the usual way.

Erick stood beside Kiri, in his mage tower. Before the two of them were blank chalkboards, while in their hands was chalk. Poi stood to the back. Erick would have liked to have Jane here, as well, but she was off doing her own thing right now, whatever that might be.

Poi said, “I still think that [City Shape] is a good tier 8 spell.”

Erick frowned. He had considered [City Shape] enough to research it, and that was all. That spell began with a tier two spell called [House Shape] that was [Stoneshape], [Watershape], and [Force Wave]. Most people bought this spell, though Erick figured he could make it himself. But to get to [City Shape], it was Mana Shaping for 500, six times in a row, each Shaping further and further expanding the spell’s area of effect. Shapings for 500 was one of the few ways one could continually expand the scope of a spell without having to break it down and start all over, as one would need to do with Alterings.

But no one tried to make [City Shape] that way, because Mana Shaping for 500 got multiplicatively more expensive the more times you used it in a row to continually do the same thing, such as increase the area of a spell. There was apparently this whole chain of spells, from [House Shape] to [Village Shape] to what was eventually [Town Shape], and then [City Shape]. There was also a [Metropolishape] at tier 9, but you had to make that one yourself. [City Shape] was the first iteration of that spell line that rearranged the Underworld to bring up water from below, but only if that water was nearby. You couldn’t just [City Shape] anywhere and expect to get water.

[Metropolishape] held no such water restrictions, and while that was interesting, Erick was not interested enough to get archmage certification by buying his way there. Now that would truly make him feel like a fraud.

Erick said, “I’m not doing that. I don’t want to make cities for nobles.” He said, “But [True Plasma Bolt] as a [Meteor Shower] type of spell? Now that seems useful.”

Kiri went to the board and wrote Erick’s idea down, saying, “If all you want is the points and the true title of ‘Archmage’, you should try for something you’re willing to give up. Leave ‘[True Plasma Shower]’ for when you’re sure you can make it work.”

“… True.” Erick changed tracks, saying, “I suppose a [Force Bolt] run through seven alterings would be enough to gain tier 8. But that seems... Boring.”

Kiri giggled, as she wrote down ‘Bolt through 7 Alters’, and said, “That’s one way to get it done. It’s not as easy as you might think. Other archmages have done it this way—” She paused. “Oh. There’s a lot more than six elements. Right. Hmm. Actually. That might be a lot more feasible than I had thought.”

With a small laugh, Erick said, “The only trick to being an archmage is knowing more than other people.”

Kiri stood stock still for a moment, before uttering, “Huh.”

Erick smiled as he thumbed toward Poi, saying—

Poi laughed, sudden and only partially unexpected.

Undaunted, and with a larger smile than before, Erick said, “I bet our guy Poi over here is a secret archmage.”

Kiri waved a hand, saying, “Impossible. Everyone knows that Mind Mages never go above tier 4.”

“… I didn’t know that.”

Poi said, “Not everyone knows, but most do.”

“Really?” Erick asked, “Why limit yourselves—?” He stopped, mid-sentence, suddenly aware of the answer. By limiting themselves to tier 4, they stayed away from archmage-levels of power, because for a Mind Mage to seek power and fame seems like exactly opposite of what their entire hidden society desired.

Kiri said, “They’re already hiding themselves from wrongful prosecution. Becoming archmages would just put another target on their backs.”

“Correct,” Poi said.

But there were still facts that didn’t add up.

Erick almost frowned, concluding that a great many of his better spells were only tier 2, like [Prismatic Ward] and [Summon Ophiel], but he let that tangent lie, and returned to the discussion at hand, asking, “What’s the best way to achieve tier 9?”

Kiri shook her head, saying, “There is no ‘best way’. Almost all magic gets too complicated around tier 5 or 6. Each shift from the Base Spell either unravels or harmfully mutates the intent and scope of the working. But… with your particular understanding of magic...” She frowned. “Maybe that’s not exactly what’s happening? Maybe the harmony is just coming apart.”

“Well... If I was designing a magic system so that wizards and whatnot couldn’t go around destroying everything anymore, I’d put a cap on maximum mana churned through, or whatever you want to call it.” Erick added, “Probably have to make multiple plateaus of power. The normal limit could be around tier 4, with higher limits at tier 6, which is where I first fucked up with [Death Spiral Plasma].” He added, “It seemed to be going well at the time, but if I recall correctly, I had just used Mana Shaping for 500 to get [Endless Plasma Wrap], and I poured 500 more into a second Shaping, hoping for a good [Death Spiral Fire]. I got a decent version, but the mana cost skyrocketed from 1100 to 17,000.” Erick said, “Knowing what I know now… One possible explanation is…

“Take an auditorium.” Inspiration struck, as Erick continued, “Take an auditorium. A stage. For all the world’s a stage, don’t you know. Take this stage, and compare it with the power of your spell. If the size of the stage is good for the music you wish to cast upon the space, then it reverberates well. The sound echoes, the music builds. Magic happens. But if you spend 500 mana just to increase the size or scope of your spell, without adjusting the music itself in the process… Then the volume of your music has to be drastically increased in order to fulfill its intended effect.”

For a long moment, Kiri looked as though she had laid eyes upon a difficult math problem that she couldn’t instantly solve. Slowly, she said, “… Stringing together multiple Shapings is one of the easiest ways to trigger a massively increased cost, unless you’re perfect with it.”

“Exactly!”

“I don’t know, Erick.” Kiri added, “But you have that bargain of trade with the red harpy, Ryul. I remember hearing about him at Oceanside, and he got to archmage status as a pure Force Mage, well honed in the art of Shaping.”

“… That’s a good point, but...” With a small dismissive wave, Erick said, “I’m not going to bother him with that. My idea is in its infancy, and Ryul is a part of Nelboor politics, and I’m pretty sure I can figure out Shapings on my own. Besides, after hearing about Styles, and remembering that Syllea also spoke about Styles, and how Styles are all the rage over there… I think that’s what I’m going to consult him on. You know. Eventually.” Erick said, “But back to the power limits of magic:

“We know that spellwork gets harder as scope increases. In addition to this, I’m guessing that there are set limits in the Script at certain points, to prevent abuses of magic. For whatever reason—” Erick smiled, remembering something he heard long ago, back when he was first starting out as a mage in Spur, after he made [Call Lightning]. “For whatever reason, mages are at tier 4, or the ability to cast Super Long Range spells, whichever you manage to make first. At that level, a true ‘mage’ is required to defend whatever city they inhabit.” He looked to Poi. “Or maybe that’s just Spur?”

Poi answered, “Not just Spur. Every major city on Glaquin and most other cities in other parts of the world, all require known mages with either tier 4 magic or Super Long Range damage spells to report for duty in defense of their city versus monster attacks. Some cities even require compliance versus all attacks. Warriors also have the same requirements in certain places, but they’re not as globally regulated as mages.”

Kiri said, “But that’s… That’s such a low bar. No serious mage would think of tier 4 or ‘SLR’ as a true bar to entry. It’s more of a rite of passage.”

“That may be true,” Erick said, “But it still counts as a bar to pass.” As Kiri reluctantly hummed, then agreed, Erick continued, “So taking that into account, archmages are at tier 8. Therefore, there must be a meaningful limit between tier 7 and 8, which is similar in scope to the limiters between tier 3 and 4.” He added, “But that’s just a guess.”

Kiri said, “This is the Script we’re talking about. No one really knows how it works. All we have are ideas based on practiced evidence. Some ideas work better than others, but since all magic is partially subjective, there are multiple paths to power in the Script.” She added, “I’ve said it before, and I’ll say it again, but each tier you go up is supposed to allow your working to access more power. This is the only thing that most every scholar agrees upon.”

“Well. Yes. That is a very good point, Kiri.” Erick said, “So how about this: Maybe, costs rocket and spells malign when your creation attempt does not coincide with the power available at those tiers? Maybe there’s a limit to the size of the stage you can create, and the depth of the music.” He added, “Well… Maybe not. A lot of my spells are low tier.”

Kiri said, “I was just about to say: A lot of your spells are only tier 2.” She added, “And [Control Weather] is Basic Tier.”

“[Gate] is basic tier, too.”

“… True.”

Erick said, “I don’t know if you’re going to be able to buy my [Control Weather] at tier 1. I might be grandfathered in on that one.” He rapidly added, “Or. Wait. You’d call it ‘immortal’d in’.”

Kiri had tilted her head in thought over Erick’s words, but at his explanation, she shrugged, saying, “Maybe so. Won’t know for another year. But [Call Lightning] might be there next month.”

“All you need is the Class.” It was Erick’s turn to shrug, as he added, “You’ll likely need to make [Call Lightning] yourself, like I remade those [Teleport] magics. You already have all the rhymes and intents and particle knowledge, though, so that shouldn’t be too difficult.”

Kiri chuckled.

Erick conceded, “Well. Yes. Maybe it will be difficult. But you’re young! And you have Sunny to help.”

Kiri smiled, as happiness seemed to fill her form. She shook her head a little, then turned back to the blackboard, saying, “But anyway! Back to archmage certification. Going off of your analogy, we could conclude that there is a limit to the size of your magic based on the stage you set…” She paused. “I think you’re missing something.”

That knocked something else loose in Erick’s memories. He turned to Poi. “What’s ‘magnitude’?”

“I cannot say,” Poi graciously said.

And that was it. No more words came from the sapphire-scaled man as he returned Erick’s look of disapproval with his own look of complete, practiced indifference. Erick gleaned no information from that look, except that it was Poi’s usual look, taken to an extreme Erick had seldom seen, except for when Poi accompanied him to places like the Wayfarer Guild meeting, or the meeting with Syllea, or with Baroness Pirazel Xelxex.

Erick turned back to Kiri, saying, “Okay. So. Magnitude is the maximum power level of any given spell.”

Completely disbelieving, Kiri gasped, “He told you?!”

