Ancient Martial Arts were nothing more than compiled volumes of physical Skills that would make one’s attacks stronger. But, since everyone relied so much on their physical Attributes and Class Skills, very few had ever developed Martial Arts worth being passed down. And that’s why they were so rare and hard to find—an enormous treasure that would change the life of even a Noble Family.

Furthermore, Ancient Martial Arts would benefit both Marcus and Lucianus—as well as any children in their respective families—by offering a wider range of Classes on Class Day to those who began training early. Since Lucianus was looking to secure an heir, Marcus believed he would welcome such a treasure himself: neither of their family currently held any powerful Ancient Martial Art. With Lucianus’s family resources, his friend could nurture a child who might one day become the Champion and ultimately supplant the current woeful [Pope].

But Lucianus’s drive to overthrow the [Pope] went deeper than simple political ambition. He was fueled by personal vendetta—the man had murdered his sister, a midwife who had assisted in delivering the [Pope]’s firstborn. After her disappearance, her body had never been found; yet, through unconventional means, Lucianus had confirmed that she had been killed by him.

When Lucianus had confronted the [Pope], the man had neither admitted nor denied the murder. No, when Lucianus had pushed it, the [Pope] had simply said something he would never forget.

“All that you cherish, Lucianus, exists by my permission; I can strip it away with a single breath. Never forget that.”

Meanwhile, Marcus had imagined that fighting a few monsters would have brought them to some weird elixir that would bring a child to his friend and his friend’s wife.

That’s what Lucianus’s source had told him. And while neither had known they’d have to face a Death Knight, and one stronger than those normally found in the Dead Lands, Lucianus hadn’t exactly divulged the whole truth to his friend, afraid that Marcus would otherwise pull out of the expedition.

“I should have known better,” Lucianus whispered to no one in particular because he knew that this pyramid was intended to be more than just a Dungeon; it served as the final resting place for something far beyond humans.

“Fascinating,” a haunting voice, echoing from unseen depths, whispered into the cold air.

That was enough for Marcus to pass out on the spot and fall to the ground, crushed by that being’s Soul Pressure.

Lucianus screamed. He clutched his ears. The pain was absolute, unbearable.

A pressure like he had never witnessed before bore down on his soul, threatening to crush it.

The most talented caster of the Church, the youngest Patriarch of the Gens Claudia, stumbled forward, blood pouring out of his every orifice.

Every adventurer they had hired had just died while fighting to reach the end of the Dungeon. Apparently, he and Marcus, the only survivors of the expedition, were next.

The pursuit of the forbidden had ruined them.

How is this aura doing all this damage?! My [Meditation] is at the Grandmaster Stage!

“How low have your people fallen,” the voice said. Its tone was mild, but it might as well have been daggers stabbing right into Lucianus’s ears. Lucianus fell on his knees, already suffering the first signs of brain damage. As his vision blurred, he noticed an inscribed symbol on the outstretched palms of the mysterious being – a circle with a cross within, entwined by two serpents. A symbol he had seen in one of the ancient tomes of the friend who had pointed them here.

“First, tend to your wounds,” the being made an inviting gesture with his marked palm.

Lucianus wasn’t a man known for his hesitation. Immediately, he felt the tremendous pressure that had cut off his magic removed, and his own Radiance Magic enveloped him, repairing the damage.

Sneaking a glance, he cast a healing spell over Marcus. Whatever thing they had awoken didn’t complain about it, though, filling Lucianus with relief.

I can’t let Marcus die.

“Impressive healing for a dweller of a fallen continent and a non-[Healer]. Still, transgressions shall be punished,” the being spoke chilling words that froze the blood in his veins.

Lucianus opened his mouth, but he couldn’t speak. The air was too thick, too dense to transmit any sound. He felt as if he was underwater.

The being’s gaze bore through the mortal, feeling like a thousand nails had been driven through him.

Lucianus’s mind raced.

Is this the end? After everything, will it all end here?

“I can see you consorted with the children of the pages to find my shrine. But only I remain above the Abyss, and only because of my simple yet inevitable nature. Lucianus Claudius, tell me, would you like to live?”

Lucianus felt his body seize, and blood poured from his eyes, but he still nodded eagerly. But… he’d never told him his name.

“Then, we shall have an exchange of old. Three lives for three gifts. Do you accept?”

Lucianus hesitated, every fiber of his being screaming at him not to.

But somewhere in the back of his mind, he couldn’t forget their true purpose: overthrowing the wretched [Pope], no matter the cost.

Truth be told, however, any man who dared to attempt such a feat would have to be a merciless cutthroat.

So, too, would his heir and future Champion.
