Variant completed, but the imprint is full. Make space or select a new chapter.

Variant: Eternal Reverie added to Imprint: Wildflower.

Knowledge flowed into her as her magic unraveled the puzzle, encoding the runic imprint into her Grimoire. A brilliant, glowing Grimoire that Ali instantly jumped on, desperately trying to cover it with her body. Lying there in the bloody dirt, Sage of Learning finally connected the pieces. Carefully, Ali flipped back a few pages, studying the runes, and, to her amazement, she finally found understanding blooming within her mind.

It’s not a mana leech.

She watched, curiously, as the final flower slowly drew mana from her. The cold, azure flames of its petals grew brighter and brighter, and then, to her surprise, it stopped. In the center of the flower, a small drop of nectar glistened.

She almost ate it right then, knowing what it most likely would do, but her better sense stopped her.

The others, she thought. Carefully, she plucked the flower from the plant, holding it gently in her hand, and then rushed out, searching for more. While she could make them, she knew her summoning magic wouldn’t function properly in this strange place – about half of her skills had failed. If her suspicions about this place proved correct, she knew exactly why – and besides, it didn’t take very long before she had three more flowers in her hands.

With a slightly trembling finger, she reached out and captured the tiny droplet of nectar and placed it on her tongue.

An explosion of pure sweet nectar burst in her mouth, a taste that recalled the purest of ringing bells and the freshest spring breezes.

You have gained Eternal ReverieYou feel grounded in the present moment, an unshakeable connection to now.You are immune to nightmares.You have greatly increased resistance to mind-altering magic. Magic – Duration: 5 minutes.

Instantly, the blasted landscape, the rocks, the bloody ground, and even the dark mist all shimmered, fading away in a second, and she found herself sprawled on the cold stone terraced steps of the amphitheater beside a discarded water bottle.

Standing over her, Mato raged, flecks of white foam falling from his mouth as his claws lashed through dozens of Parasitic Nightmares. Several writhing masses dug their tentacles into his back while Malika and Calen fought furiously beside him.

Ali glanced about, seeing many more floating eye orbs drifting about above, but when her eyes found the Well Guardian, Baaoht Yll’shuum, she suddenly found she could see him. Identify no longer felt like jagged shards scraping through her brain. And her mind did not break.

“Malika, Calen! Eat this!” she shouted, holding out a glowing azure flower to each of them. “And then help me feed one to Mato.”

They would have five minutes, and they needed to kill this monster within that window. Quickly, she began deconstructing the mounds of corpses strewn about her, replenishing her mana and channeling it right back into her monsters using Empowered Summoner.

Time to fight for real!

Calen had no idea how Ali had done it. But as usual, the tiny Fae’s contribution had sparked a titanic shift in the course of the battle.

The little droplet of azure nectar had tasted divine, a blissfully sweet, tingling drop of pure clarity. And now, he could look at the boss without fear. He unleashed volley after volley of arrows as he returned to Cinderstrike and his task of eliminating all the creepy eyes of Baaoht Yll’shuum.

Explosive shots filled the air with blasts of light and fire intense enough to rival even the storm of lightning continually blasting down upon them from the Dark Souls floating overhead, while the second volley dragged the remaining eyes to the ground, tethered by glowing chains of light, where they were ripped to shreds by Ali’s minions.

Shooting his eyes definitely screws up his aim, Calen thought as the last eye popped under the heavy stomp of the berserker troll’s giant foot. The tentacles lashing out from the main body of the boss flailed wildly, no longer striking with their former devastating accuracy. Still just as powerful though, he thought, dodging a stray attack that pulverized stone nearby. Let’s do this!

With the remaining eyes destroyed, Calen spread his motes of light throughout the dark amphitheater to better see the nauseating, mind-warping shifts and shimmers as the boss twisted and writhed from the well. As soon as his light reached all Ali’s minions, he burned Righteous Fury, turning his arrows upon the never-ending spawn of Dark Souls, and with every single volley of arrows he made certain that at least two or three struck the boss, taking full advantage of Malika’s ludicrous accuracy curse.

Malika’s fists flickered in the dark amphitheater, thudding as they slammed into the resilient, leathery undead flesh of the eldritch monstrosity. She barely had enough strength to do any physical damage to it, but her Soul Magic was an entirely different story.

The flickering blasts of Soul Strike burned deeply into the eldritch trunk as she dodged toxic patches of poison and wildly flailing tentacles that desperately strove to dislodge her. Flames of soul magic flickered hungrily, spreading across its skin – lingering Soul Burn damage that was her gift from Zor’kan. Within its body, her Soul Mark curse stacked close to a hundred deep as her attacks accelerated and the hulking monster failed to reliably block them, thanks no doubt to Calen’s diligence in blinding it, and Ali taking care of the parasites.

And the mind-warping nonsense, she thought. Whatever that nectar stuff was, it certainly worked. Here was a creature that had relied on its mind-magic defenses so much, it had failed to invest in the dexterity it needed to dodge.

Eagerly, she pushed more stamina into her body, accelerating herself yet again. Her muscles began to sing, and the steady blue-white radiance began to illuminate the dark stone and eldritch flesh as her magic made her glow.

Now let’s see if I can break a hundred. Soul Mark was already making her Soul Strike vastly stronger, and she could see Ali’s witch doctors taking advantage of it with the occasional beam of Soul Drain whenever he could spare the time. Still, it was the accuracy boost that likely added the most to their offense. Every massive strike of Tol’brekk’s twin greataxes, every swing of the holy avengers, and every spell and strike that landed upon the eldritch monster had been made vastly more accurate by her simply maintaining her curse and stacking it higher and higher as her magic accelerated.

Soul Mark+5% Soul damage taken.+7% to accuracy of all attacks targeting you.Curse – Duration: 30 seconds.

Malika grinned, feeding even more stamina to Divine Step as her body accelerated.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
