Yet Randidly felt a turbid bubbling in the pit of his stomach. The lance of Todd’s accusation crossed the distance between them and struck at his heart.

Thankfully, a distraction emerged. Through the crowd, Randidly saw a strange monster woman with which he felt a certain kinship- in the same literal way that the Alpha Cosmos was his body, she was a part of his Nether Core foundation. But weirdly, she began to raise her arms and shriek as they made eye contact.

As with Todd, the currently sensitive and raw Randidly felt directly impacted by the significance between them. However, the woman came with a confusing array of images and aggression. Her primary bond seemed to be to the long shadow that Randidly cast across the Alpha Cosmos, than any direct interaction.

But that’s the thing, isn’t it? That shadow is me. Randidly’s eyed glittered as the force of that woman’s image spread out, a grey scythe preparing to sweep forward and lash out at him. Wind began to stir and the rising image quickly caught the attention of the powerful individuals on the beach. Some twisted around, marshaling their own image. Bodies swayed, wanting to move but kept still by the sheer number of people crowded on the beach.

One in particular, a man who had apparently been enjoying the party so much that he had leapt into the sea without taking off his linen suit, now shoved his way through the crowd to interpose himself between Randidly and the woman. In the process, he knocked several people to the side, “An attack! A non-human attack!”

Randidly scratched his cheek at such a dramatic response. He, the Moirae of Ripples, deftly reached out at the power that woman aimed at him and just smoothed it away, leaving the air placid as the surface of a swamp.

The wind died. The truly powerful individuals sent a meaningful glance at Randidly as they sensed the edges of what he accomplished but then continued on without addressing what had happened. Meanwhile, most people hadn’t noticed the quick shift. They were concerned with more mundane matters.

“Hey asshole,” One woman got up off the ground, brushing sand off herself. She jabbed a finger at the man with the soaked linen suit. “What the hell do you think you are doing?”

Randidly set down his serving tongs and took a step back. As much as it would be painful, he needed to speak with Todd.
