Even though I’ve consigned myself to being left behind by all my peers, I’ve noticed that progress along the Martial Path varies greatly amongst warriors. Some continue to improve at a steady rate like Alsantset and Charok, while others stall and stagnate for no discernible reason, like Fung and Zian. It doesn’t have to do with reaching milestones, because all four of the above have hit all of them short of Domain, but despite my previous meteoric progress, I never did quite close the gap between me and Alsantset while my talented brothers-in-arms have shown no improvement over the past year or so. Granted, a year isn’t exactly a long stretch of time and Fung spent most of it idling about, but Zian’s circumstances are hardly unique. The Imperial Army is filled with people like him, former stand-out talents who got stuck at a certain level of strength and just... never moved on.

Why?

If this were the regular world, I’d say it’s because there’s an upper limit to each person’s talent, but when you throw Insight into the mix, that hardly makes sense anymore. Does the Mother or the Heavens just stop doling out free information once each person reaches their cap? Why is the Martial Path so inconsistent? Taking a step back, why is the Martial Path limited to only one percent of the population? I used to think it was merely a matter of knowledge, time, and resources, as everyone else was too busy eking out a living to bother with practising the Forms, assuming they even had someone to teach them, but experience has proven otherwise. I’ve been keeping up with reports from the north, but even though my schools and orphanages provide lessons in the Forms for free and enough food for all to eat, the number of potential Martial Warriors is still pitifully low. Learning the Forms isn’t enough, and no matter how much guidance I provide, most still fail to pass Core Creation, which is the first hurdle along the Martial Path.

In my experience, Core Creation was hardly a difficult task, so I simply don’t understand how the overwhelming majority of people fail at it. This is without taking into account that the entire Defiled population easily reaches Core Creation, or at least their version of it, and even accounting for the fact that those who fail are killed and eaten, it doesn’t explain the significant disparity in success rates. Even if ninety percent of Defiled children die before Core Creation, which is an absurd, unsustainable number that would’ve seen the Defiled go extinct long ago, this would still mean their chances of success in Core Creation are ten times higher than the Empires’s, and that’s a conservative estimate. It could be as high as fifty percent, and what’s more, the Defiled rate of improvement in the early stages is significantly faster than most Imperial Martial Warriors, while their ratio of Aura users to non-Aura users is also considerably higher. For every hundred Defiled, there is usually one Aura-capable individual, while amongst Imperials, that number is closer to one in a thousand. The only measurements in which the Defiled are inferior is in the number of Peak Experts and total population, but the former doesn’t matter because Demons make up for the lack of Peak Experts while the latter matters even less since the total Defiled population easily outnumbers one percent of the Imperial population, which are the important numbers to look at when talking about warfare.

Interestingly enough, even though Yo Ling’s Butchers were all Defiled, the ratio of Aura users in his army was closer to Imperial standards rather than Defiled ones, which means his people were lacking a certain quality that true Defiled share. It’s always good to pay attention to the discrepancies, because once you figure out the reason why things are different, then you have a better idea as to how things work. Take wine and vinegar for example, two distinct liquids which are made through fermentation, yet are different in taste, texture, and a myriad of other ways. The difference? One contains alcohol, and the other doesn’t. It’s a little more complicated than that, but knowing the how allows you to easily control what comes out of your barrels.

Which means if I can look at the Defiled and figure out how they go from basic human to full out Defiled, then maybe I can apply that to Martial Warriors and streamline the whole process from pleb to Peak Expert.

This is a subject I’ve been sort of obsessed with since shattering my Core. If I can’t repair what I’ve got, why not make a new one? A far stretch since I’d have to get rid of my broken Core first, but even if this isn’t possible and I remain crippled for the rest of my life, if I can pioneer a simple method of training Martial Warriors and increase that one percent to ten percent, then maybe we’ll have a chance of defeating the Defiled on open ground and people will stop with the pitying stares. Those are harder to deal with than snide or hurtful remarks, and there will be plenty to go around later on during Du Min Gyu’s welcome banquet. Mom and Dad decided to use tonight's events as a litmus test of Bekhai support and invited anyone who’s anyone to join the festivities and show that we are not a third-rate power to be trifled with.

Fun, fun, fun. No party is complete without a show of force.

Regardless, the idea of a streamlined Martial Path is already halfway done thanks to Dastan and BoShui revealing their whole Natal Soul shtick, which covers the latter two Milestones along the Martial Path in general detail. Create a Natal Soul (preferably without a personality of its own), park him or her in the Natal Palace, merge with said Natal Soul, and then Develop your Domain. Can’t get any more basic than that, and while there’s still some testing to be done, this leaves only Core Creation and Aura Condensation to simplify. The Defiled seem a better place to look for answers regarding those two milestones, so all I have to do is take the best of both Imperial and Defiled practises and put them together in a way that doesn’t create murder-happy rage maniacs.

Easy peasy, right?

Unfortunately, without Defiled children to observe or really any idea how to move forward, I’m stuck at an impasse, or I was until I remembered someone else tried to do the same thing around eight-hundred years ago, an Imperial Scion, scholar, and monster in human skin by the name of Zhen Shi. While it might seem crazy, desperate, and downright stupid to take notes from a man named True Corpse, who by all accounts was a psychotic butcher who tortured people until they turned into Demons for ‘science’, he was also known to keep meticulous records of his so-called experiments, which means his notes may hold the key information I need to move forward or even complete my methodology.

While anyone who’s ever heard the story knows his research documents exist, not many have a copy to call their own. It’s not illegal or forbidden to read through, but macabre fascination with anything Defiled is not only frowned upon, but generally grounds for suspicion, and suspicion tends to lead to unpleasant things, like death by torture and nine familial extermination. I couldn’t really go around asking if I can borrow Zhen Shi’s notes, and since I probably would’ve remembered reading something like a torture journal while perusing through Taduk’s library, it means he either doesn’t have a copy or keeps it safely hidden away, but luckily, my instincts were on point, and the first trustworthy person I asked indeed had a copy and was happy to lend it out.

Fung’s manservant/torturer is one scary S.O.B, but say one thing about Fu Zhu Li, he works quick. Since I didn’t want anyone to overhear, I passed him a written note and watched him toss it into the fire without so much as batting an eye, and the next morning, Red Two (who was formerly Red One until Kuang Biao took his place as top dog) handed me eighteen volumes of Zhen Shi’s notes, neatly wrapped and titled ‘Traffic logs for Shen Huo’s twelfth district’ followed by a bunch of nonsensical dates which are too convoluted to figure out. No idea why anyone would carry these volumes around while touring another province, but I didn’t ask and Fu Zhu Li didn’t say, so I’m going to leave it at that.

I only had time for a brief look through the volumes this morning, but from what I’ve seen, Zhen Shi’s notes are laid out rather well. Age, gender, physical measurements, appearance, torture methods, and results are merely the tip of the iceberg as he goes into great detail regarding his process and procedure, though he leaves out any and all speculation or definitive conclusions. It’s horrific, stomach turning stuff, but with luck, it’ll be worth the effort and I won’t damn myself and the Bekhai simply by having them in my possession.

Had I known a Justicar would come calling today, I probably wouldn’t have brought the matter up. I should probably ask Fu Zhu Li to take the books back and hide them somewhere safe, but even though the notes detail grisly and gruesome events, the information should not be condemned for this. Data is data, and while the methods of collection were undoubtedly immoral, the information itself isn’t inherently evil. Worst comes to worst, I’ll just say I found it on Yo Ling’s island and kept it for shits and giggles, but I can’t afford to give up on such a promising lead. Before the new year, I was happy to take things slow and recover at my own pace, but this is no longer an option. So long as I am weak, people like Yang Jixing will be circling the waters, waiting for an opportunity to strike. While my personal strength might not mean much in the grand scheme of things, if I’m back in the spotlight, then it’ll lessen the pressure on the Bekhai and our allies as a whole.

Is what I tell myself, but honestly... I mostly want to be strong again. It wasn’t so bad when I could barely keep my eyes open or think straight because of the drugs, but now that I’m clear-headed and mostly pain-free, I’m hungry for more. Human nature sucks, but I can’t help it. I need to explore this avenue, or I’ll never stop thinking about it, but I’ll just have to hope for the best and plan for the worst. If no one knows about Zhen Shi’s notes in my possession, then if things go south, they can honestly swear they had nothing to do with it, and all that’s lost is one crippled former talent.

No big deal, right?

Chapter Meme
