king as he had been. and Grim frowned.“No, but I taste something like regret and candy,” Grim said, his tongue fizzling.“Mana poisoning. You’re all underdeveloped to be here for long. A normal dungeon would have killed you, Delta’s mana is... holding itself back, but she can’t stop this for long,” Alpha warned and Deo turned with a frown.“LET’S MOVE ON. I DON’T WANT DELTA TO GET IN TROUBLE!” he insisted and climbed back down and ran around the core to push onwards through two massive gate-like doors that opened on their own.“Won’t the mana be deeper down there?” Grim yelled, knowing full well Deo wouldn’t be able to hear him.Alpha seemed to listen as if having an ear to wind.“There is... a guest space ahead. Delta assures me that we will be safer there,” he promised. Poppy eyed him then leaned in.“You smell like blood and tears,” she said bluntly and opened her massive pocket to pull a book out.“Wake up,” she said to the book and Grim had completely forgotten she had a talking book.“Where are we? I went for a nap and why am I soaking in mana? Dear goodness, is that a core?” Tom the magical tome cried before Poppy vanished as well. Amenstar patted Alpha once in a ‘she’s like that’ motion before he vanished as well.Grim wanted to follow but something stopping him. He took a step forward... then another...“Uh...” he said, alarmed before his own damn tongue yanked forward making him gag. He stumbled up the stairs and his tongue stuck to the core like he had licked the metal sign outside the school in the coldest days of winter.This happened a lot when he was trying to discover what powers he had from his father and grandfather. He put both hands on the core and tried to extract himself but his tongue was adamant on where it wanted to be.“Grim! You’re breaking so many rules! And also licking Delta! Stop!” Kemy said, speaking as she tried to pull him back.“I can fix this,” Alpha promised as he reached for his sword and Grim began to really panic.Delta’s core lit up with an ominous light.There was a static discharge that flowed through Grim, up through the hands of Kemy, before it jumped to Alpha.---Deo paused in his unfiltered gleeful staring of the ‘Free Heal Hall’ which had all the food ever! The torches on the wall flickered as if their power sources were having issues.They flickered once or twice before coming back to full blaze.---A screen flickered in front of them, despite the fact it had been directly messaged for Alpha. The shock must have scrambled the message badly. Grim’s hair was smoking, but he couldn’t stop looking.Alpha!You have reached Delta’s core and directly interfaced with the core! Two of the four are harmonizing. Please stand by!3...2...1...Alpha and Delta’s core began to glow.It filled the room.It filled... everything.---Zane slowly lowered the massive rump of some meat he had gotten off the butcher. He stared as from beyond the far treeline of the town, a massive orange pillar shot into the sky like a looklegendary dragon arising from some ancient prison.It shot into the sky, blazing like a beacon.---From the frozen norths, in a deep valley. Beta looked skywards, tossing the dead body of the Yeti-Hags that had tried to feast on the World Tree roots, the snow around her flashed orange and her eyes dilated.From the root, the old man kept her from simply flying off with intense knowledge of her greatest fight awaited...The old man and her word.---In the eastern seas, in the mile-high seaweed forests that the great sea serpent’s skeleton was visible, a creature with the upper half of a scaled-goblin and the bottom half of a fish cut through legions of crabions. Their blood turning the sun above red.The weapon in his hand shifted from a scimitar to a battle-axe like, melting between each shape with ease. The ocean, the very sky... flashed orange and the weapon halted, forcing the wielder to nearly break his arm at the sudden stop.“Uh... well... that’s odd,” the axe said, speaking with a vibration that was louder in the water.“Gamma, you swore your edge to end this war and get me my crown. You gave me your word,” the creature roared.“I said I would. I just never said I would try that hard or when or how or really what crown exactly...,” the axe said slowly.“And about being in charge? Uh, about that boss. Listen, I need to take a raincheck and to be honest... you’re not reeeallly king-material. Besides, you can handle these few hundred... maybe a few more... crab folk, right? Just do what you were doing before! Just without me... have fun!” the weapon announced and flew straight up, spinning hard enough to cut a space in the surface when it broke through.The warrior stared as an army emerged from the seaweed forest... and he had no weapon.---Gamma landed on a nearby boat, his mana drained from the flight he took. That would take a week to get back to full...The fisherman stared at the black and gold weapon that was now on his ship. Gamma didn’t have to try hard to make himself appealing.“By ocean’s decree... you are the chosen one... the king of all... he of pure heart... take me up and claim your destiny!” Gamma wailed, trying not to yawn. The fisherman hesitated and he saw he might have to sweeten the deal.“Claim your destiny and find the ancient treasure of the kings of long...long ago whos names are... forgotten,” he said gravely.“Is it a royal fishing hook? I don’t really need money,” the man said and Gamma was silent for a long moment then he morphed into a black and gold fishing rod.It was a weapon. Gamma had long learned if he convinced himself hard enough, anything could be a weapon. This did mean he had to do some work as an actual fishing rod just to get a ride back to the surface.The first thing he caught was a bisected mer-goblin looking furious in death. He looked like a big crab had gotten to him.“Looks like his meat will be stressed, throw it back,” Gamma insisted quickly.“It’s got seaweed on his head, that’s like a meal wrapped up!” the fisherman complained but listened to him.“It’s like a crown,” Gamma agreed brightly.When Gamma finally ditched the fisherman later as he docked by enticing a nearby cabin boy of his destiny to save a princess, he focused on himself.He felt pain and a fishing rod of gold was formed in the air behind him, landing silently by the napping fisherman who was far too trusting.Idiots like him were hopeless.

Gamma grumbled as the boy carried him off, talking about a sister and debt.Gamma could sense a ‘cutting’ detour to the debt owners house coming up before he really got on the road to that feeling of ‘two’ in the distance.The truly unnerving thing was his ‘quest’.It used to read as...

Now?It was a little different.

Was that normal?---Beta stared at her screen. Was this normal? Did quests just... change?

---I can feel him on my knee!” Delta whimpered as she watched Grim peel his tongue off with effort.Lorsa was staring at her and Delta stared back confused.“What? Did I miss something?” she asked, baffled.A weirdo was licking her knees, she was a little distracted!Shrugging, she was sure it was nothing important.Now... it was time to feast, celebrate, and defeat the rising undead army of dark god pieces and human cruelty using bone and metal as tools strike down all life in the name of the void.Delta was good at all of those things.
