Ren summoned Teepo and they went to the shop at a quick pace. Ren, Artemis, and Teepo went inside the back door on the second floor and up the stairs, then entered the third floor apartment. Artemis laid down on Anabelle's old bed in the living room and Ren went into the bedroom.

“My King.” Anabelle said. She wore a frilly one piece teddy that was solid black, and surprisingly, no panties.

“I hope you weren't waiting long.” Ren said and stored his clothing as Teepo flew up to land on the ceiling.

“I've been waiting for you my whole life.” Anabelle said, and Ren climbed onto the bed.

Ren spent the last 2 hours of the game night with Anabelle, then he, Teepo, and Artemis went back to the house in the Housing District and into the big bedroom upstairs. He told the succubi he would be gone all day and would be back that night.

“Suniva? Want to come this time?” Ren asked.

“I do.” Suniva said. “Since you've helped the Deity of Fire so much in so short a time, if I help this time...”

“Don't try and do it right away, okay? Small steps.” Ren said. “We don't want to overwhelm her.”

Suniva nodded. “I know.”

Ren cast a portal to the underground chamber in no man's land and Teepo dissolved into the ring. Ren, Artemis, and Suniva went through the portal, then he dismissed it and checked the spawn point building that was on Fire Dancer's nightstand with the All-Seeing Mirror. Ren saw that it was clear of obstructions, so he cast the Portal spell into the Fire Realm and they stepped through it.

Ren felt Fire Dancer's relief that he had shown up right on time and had kept his word, then he showed her that Suniva had come with him this time. Fire Dancer's mood was raised that much more to have her along, especially when she realized that Suniva could make herself humongous as well, just like Ren could.

They spent the whole time helping Fire Dancer in the Fire Realm, almost 7 full years, then they had to leave again. Fire Dancer's mood had stayed stable almost the entire time, and she wasn't as resentful when they had to go. Ren tried to give his word that he would be back, and she stopped him.

“Doing it once was more than I had expected of you, Father.” Fire Dancer said. “Don't push your luck by promising it again.”

Ren opened his mouth to promise anyway, then changed his mind and smiled. “I'll see you when I get back.” He said instead, and she nodded. He had her used to 3 second hugs now and let her go before she could tell him to, then shrunk down to normal size and opened a portal. Teepo dissolved into the ring and Ren, Artemis, and Suniva stepped through the portal to the underground chamber.

Ren absorbed the Everlasting Fire, then cast another portal to the bedroom in the house in Aurora. He dropped off Suniva and Artemis and did the same series of Sanctuary visits with the succubi and the Marilith Demon. With that out of the way, Ren summoned Teepo and equipped his best suit, then told Artemis to stay within his Aura as they left the house.

Ren had a very important date with Stella to get to.
