“I’ve had scouts report back this morning,” Rin said as we entered the war room we’d spoken in the day before. “Valrok has moved south. And there's no indication he’s actively attempting to get to you. He surely realized it was impossible once you were inside the city.”

“On our way here, we ran into bandits attacking a merchant caravan,” I said.

Rin nodded. “That has become… common.” She folded her metal fingers beneath her chin as she took a seat. “Some are deserters from our own forces. But most are northerners with closer attachments to the Iron March.”

Me and Grick climbed up into our respective seats, while Lily took her place below me and Fox pulled out a chair.

“Wait, does that mean some people desert the empire and join the Iron March?”

“There has been that as well, I’m sure, but it goes both ways. When our soldiers desert, they are in a position of no loyalty while knowing our lands well. That makes them useful to the enemy. Many bandits are more akin to raiders; the Iron March simply sent them south with their blessing to wreak havoc. And as for the Iron March’s main force…” She paused. “They are difficult to fight. Disciplined, but not structured like we are. There is no single command to dismantle, no capital to strike. They move constantly—mounted, mobile. You don’t defeat them by taking a city.”

“So they’re nomadic?” I asked

Rin nodded. “They settle as it suits them but they are not bound, which makes them a difficult enemy to permanently defeat.”

“Right, that makes sense,” I said, some history lessons in Lisha’s memories flashing through my mind. The Mongols sweeping across China, the Huns pressing into the Roman Empire. It sounded like the same kind of thing. “Your lands are too large, so they can just strike and retreat constantly. It’s impossible to unleash a true counterattack against such an enemy because they don’t have one high-value target you can focus on.”

I looked up then flinched as I realized how Rin was now assessing me. I sank into my shoulders, feeling slightly awkward about the scruitiny. Even Fox raised a brow at me. “W-What?” I asked.

Rin’s lips curved faintly. “You are remarkably perceptive for one so young. How old were you in your past life?”

My ears twitched. “Um. Fourteen. I think.”

“The daughter of a military family? Or perhaps nobility?” Rin questioned. “You’re clearly educated.”

I blushed and couldn’t help squirming in my chair a little. “It’s not like that. In… that other world, it’s just normal for everyone to be educated. Well, at least in the country I was from. But I don’t think of that as my past life. That girl is very different from me; I just have her memories.”

Rin didn’t seem interested in how much I identified with my past life as much as my education. “Commoners are taught military strategy as children?” Her head tilted slightly. “I see. This must have been a very militarized country.”

“No! It’s not like that. Uh… I-I mean, maybe a little? But it’s not like the average person was involved in the military or anything. We were just taught world history, and that also covered a lot of wars, so I know about war.”

“In any case,” Rin continued, “I’m glad you at least have a surface understanding of these things. It will make you a better soldier.”

My ears folded down. “Soldier…” I muttered under my breath. “I just want to save my family…”

Rin didn’t respond immediately. Instead, she stood up and slid a map across the table toward me. The main city sat priminently in the middle and outside its wallz were inked lines, small symbols, and clusters of red circles scattered across the southern regions.

“You may call it what you like,” she said at last. “But if you intend to act with purpose in a land at war, then you are a soldier—whether you wear the title or not.”

My ears twitched.

She tapped one of the red circles with a metal finger.

“These are the areas where bandit activity has been reported in the past week. Grick, make sure you get a good look at this.” The goblin instantly adjusted to stand up on his chair and leaned over the table with his hands flat against it. “Heading to this area here would be the best place to complete your quest…” Rin trailed off, hesitating as if considering something, then she glanced below the table and pointed a single metal finger towards Lily. “Should we let her see the map as well?”

I looked down to Lily who’s ears perked at her acknowledgment. “Well, she’ll never learn if we don’t include her,” I said.

Rin nodded, then looked around the room. “Very well. Please, gather over here.”

Soon, our entire group retreated from the table and formed a circle on the ground with the map between us, like kids huddled over a treasure map. Except for Fox who remained seated but simply turned her chair around. Lily looked around at us and then down at the map in front of her, clearly understanding it was supposed to be important but at a loss as to why.

“Now, as I was saying,” Rin continued, her tone maintaining its authoritative edge despite our less-than-regal arrangement, “this region here is where I would begin. The dense woodland make it a prime location for bandits to operate from with easy access to common merchant routes, or to prepare raids against nearby villages and less protected farmland. They likely have camps and safehavens set up deep in the forest. If you begin here, you’ll be able to complete your quest easily, I’m sure.”

She then went on to point out where we would be leaving the city from and giving us a loose path of what direction to head in. It was west of the river, which I was relieved to see as I figured if Valrok was still around it’d be extremely hard for him to track us from above through the forest canopies.

I couldn’t help but watch Lily as she’d look at Rin and back down to the map. It was hard to say if she really understood what was going on or was just mimicking her attention to where everyone else would focus. When Rin was done, she rolled up the map and returned to the table.

“Now, as for supplies,” she continued. “I can provide weapons, armor, and potions. But as discussed, Fox will remain here.”

“Hm?” Fox hadn’t even sat up, her cheek still resting lazily on her hand. “Aren’t I free to go?”

“For the time being, you are to remain within the palace. If you wish to make a formal request, I will consider it.”

Fox’s ears flicked. “That’s a polite way of saying no. But why? I didn’t do anything wrong. Explain your reasoning.”

“Simply put, I don't yet trust you enough to let you out of my sight. You're a high level monster, and I'd like to have an eye kept on you before I set you loose into the world.”

Fox smirked faintly. “Blunt.”

"You're also intelligent, capable, and, from what I have observed, selfish and opportunistic.”

My tail bristled at those accusations. Well, Rin wasnt exactly wrong—but still!

I sat up in my chair, and if I had hackles at the moment, they would be raising. "Hey! Genzo told me that we would be free to leave if we wished! I thought you were the good guys!"

Fox rolled her eyes. "Yeah, and your new little soldier here would have gotten snatched up by the bird if I didn't run my tail off to get to her when I saw that Valrok guy coming. No good deed goes unpunished, I guess.” She yawned. “Not that I didn't expect this."

“You will be treated as an official royal guest, with all the privileges of nobility, Fox," Rin said calmly. “I’ll have servants assigned to you, and your needs will be attended to at all hours.”

I slammed my hands against the table.

“Do you think that makes it better?!” I snapped. “She’s my friend, and you’re just—”

“Whoa, whoa, hang on, kid.” Fox raised a hand, finally sitting up. “Let’s not rush past that part.” She turned to Rin, suddenly far more interested. “When you say servants… are we talking food, clothes… or something a little more… luxurious?”

Rin tilted her head. “Do you have something specific in mind?”

Fox’s tail flicked as a faint blush crept across her face to accompany her sly smile.

“Let’s just say I once had a bit of extra gold and ended up at the Ashmound Hot Springs. Massages, full service, the whole experience.” She cleared her throat. “I’m just trying to understand what level of ‘nobility’ we’re talking about here.”

Rin smirked faintly. “I doubt we could rival Ashmound's famed hotsprings and resort. But yes—your attendants will exist solely to see to your needs.”

Fox leaned back, satisfied. “Alright. Yeah. That works for me.”

My mouth hung open as I stared at the fox. "Seriously?! They are holding you against your will, and a few luxuries are enough for you to just accept it!?"

Fox shrugged, completely unbothered. “I mean, it’s not like I had anything better to do. And it beats the hell out of sleeping on the ground in the forest.” She smirked. “Humans really know how to live.”

If she was happy about it, then I guess there wasn’t much for me to complain about… but it still rubbed me the wrong way.

"What about me," I said, shooting an acusing glare at Rin. "If I decided I didn't want to join the empire after all, would you just let me and my pack leave?"

"I'd try to convince you to stay, but ultimately, yes, you'd be free to go. I don't have the same concerns over a child that I would over an intelligent, high-level Vulpyr."

"But I'm a transmigrator. I could become powerful one day and then turn on you."

"That would be unfortunate," Rin said. "But it is not as though I can keep you prisoner here inside these walls for the rest of your life, nor do I plan to do that with Fox. You'd only be treated as an enemy at such a time that you've revealed yourself as one."

"But you're doing that to Fox! She didn't do anything yet, but you're already treating her like a criminal!"

"If I considered her in that light, then she'd be kept in the cells rather than the guest wing. Besides, it seems to me that she doesn't truly mind."

"Yeah, seriously, don't screw this up for me, kid." Fox blushed as her eyes gazed upwards and her tail wagged behind her, perhaps fantasizing about her future life of luxury.

I was out of anything else I could think to complain about, so I just sighed and decided to drop it. For the time being, I didn't know what else to do.

"Now, back to the matter at hand. You've got a quest from the emperor. For the time being, I'll be acting as your commander and advisor. You will report directly to me between quests," Rin said. "Of course, you're free to seek Fox's counsel as well, but I'll be able to direct you on how to efficiantly complete your quests. I see that you have a number of stealth skills, but none related to wielding any weapons."

"No, I won't need weapons or armor. But Grick might. When I do the quest, I'll be doing it in my dog form. Actually, by nighttime tonight, I'll be able to change my Path to an even stronger dog version of me."

Rin’s eyes narrowed slightly. “Are you implying you can change your Path at will?”

I blinked. "Well, there is a forty-eight-hour cooldown, and I only received that capability recently.”

"Fascinating…" Rin murmured.

“The one I’m on right now is the only one that lets me take a human form. But I also have a magic Path… and one focused specifically on hunting.”

My thoughts drifted back to Arcane Nightstalker. Part of me wanted to go with that one—just to have magic at my disposal again—but Whisperfang Juvenile would probably be better suited for the forest.

“Though I do have a question,” I added. “Back in the caves, I used crystals to recharge my elements. Do you have anything like that here?”

“I am aware of the crystals you’re referring to,” Rin said. “But they are exceedingly valuable and not worth allocating for a low-stakes task such as this one.”

I raised an eyebrow, realizing Grick had been getting ripped off even worse than I had thought. Even taking the merchants’ entire cart probably didn't quite make up for it.

“However,” Rin continued, “we do have a statue within the palace that serves the same function. You may use it freely if you wish. The advantage of crystals, of course, is portability. Once you leave the city, you will not have an easy way to refill elemental reserves.”

I nodded in understanding. "Okay, that's good to know. There is one more thing I want to ask. It has to do with the whole hellborne thing. You see, I have another path hinted that..."

"Aberrant Triune and Hellborne Firewitch. Yes, I saw those."

“Oh, you already know,” I said.

She nodded. “I know and I plan to help you achieve it. More so considering you have the gift of changing Paths at will.”

“Every fourth eight hours,” I corrected.

“In any case, I suspect it will be a powerful evolution.”

Fox whistled. "Damn, just how good is your Analyze skill anyway?"

"In my position, it is important to be as informed as possible, so I took care to focus on leveling relevant skills. Analyze is one of the most important for that purpose. My Tactician class helped greatly with it, of course."

"So what level are you?" Fox asked with a sly smile. Rin only returned a smirk that said she wouldn't answer. Fox grinned. "Okay, answer me one thing then. Are you in triple digits?"

"Nearly."

"Holy shit. Why didn't you just kill that Valrok guy, then?"

"It didn't feel particularly necessary at the time, and it may have caused some political tension with the Burning Steeps, let alone making the Bloody Peaks Tribe a permanent adversary of the Verdant Empire."

“The Burning Steeps… That’s where two of my brothers are.”

“And they may be the easiest to reclaim,” Rin said. “I’ve already begun looking into it.”

My ears perked. “You have?”

She gave a shallow nod. “But don’t get ahead of yourself. By that, I mean I’ve simply tasked someone with inquiring what the cost might be to simply buy them back. Yet, this isn’t something that would be done as a charity, of course.”

My tail drooped, and then I heard Fox click her teeth.

“I get that you want to groom this kid into your future weapon, but don’t you think that’s playing a little too dirty?”

Rin turned her red eyes toward Fox. “Pardon me?”

“You heard me,” she said. “You dangle her family in front of her now of all times? You just brought that up to flex your leverage.”

Rin regarded her unflinchingly. “Have I not been upfront about the empire’s position? I was simply letting her know we're serious about our side of it.”

“Don't worry, Fox. I get what the deal is,” I cut in before Fox could respond, then returned my attention to Rin. “But do you really think it would be as simple as buying them back?”

“If not, then other options will be considered,” Rin assured. “As it stands, it seems they will be the easiest to get back, one way or another.”

“But it still all hinges on how useful I am as your soldier?”

“Correct,” Rin confirmed without a hint of shame.

“Fine. Then let’s hurry up and get this quest done.”
