I blinked, "That being said, Lehesion leaned into the remnants as a new identity." I frowned, remembering Lehesion's eclipse attack. I simmered, "If you ask me, Lehesion was escaping all the mistakes he made in his second and first lives. He ended up killing his previous lover and committing many atrocities. He wasted his opportunity. I aim not to do the same."

Shalahora condensed and dispersed, his body turning more real or intangible as he did. It murmured, "A lesson, surely...You're next to announce yourself...Luck be given to you."

I smiled, "Eh, I'll try."

Schema spoke up through the crowd, "All of you know the golemites and their powers, so there's no need to elaborate further. The final and newest ruler class may step up."

The Overseer pointed at me. Unlike the other rulers, the ascendant Overseer snapped its fingers, sending over some kind of dimensional ripple. A chunk of the ruins and the air around me appeared on the ascendant plate of mana. I raised an eyebrow, remaining unaffected by Schema trying to jerk me around.

The other ruler class members whispered.

I hovered myself over to the ascendant plate of mana. As my feet made contact, the ascendant mana flooded into my body. It overflowed with the umbral crystal that Shalahora left behind. Through my feet, the energy flowed into my body. It left my skin glowing from its radiance, about three cipher's worth of power here.

My armor grinned as the energy writhed inside my blood and bones. The ascendant mana shouted out with madness, wishing for death and destruction. I tilted my head at the noise before quashing the lunacy of the tiny mana blot. I raised a hand, the ascendant mana flooding into my palm. I smashed it in my hand, arcs of lightning streaking out.

I took a breath, mana flooding into my body. I pulled my helmet off my face, breathing out the red mist. I smiled at everyone, a glint in my eye,

"I'm Daniel Hillside, the Harbinger of Cataclysm, but you can all just call me Daniel for short."
