“You could come over here and help me cut fabric.” The woman who was doing the sewing said. Ruck gave a 'thumbs up' gesture and he climbed down off the forge and skittered over to where she sat. Ren left the workshop and walked down the road to the house. It seemed kind of odd to not see Barnar and his crew working on the outside of the Keep. Ren nodded slightly to Golir and went through the gate and into the house.

“Nathalia?”

“I'm in the kitchen.”

Ren walked through the main room and into the kitchen. He took a breath in through his nose. “Is that cheese?”

Nathalia turned around and held a plate of cheese and sliced bread.

“Did you see me coming?” Ren asked.

Nathalia shook her head. “I assumed if you were going to take a break, it would be around noon.”

Ren smiled as she came towards him. “Where should we sit?” He asked.

“There's room on the couch.” She said. “If we sit really close.”

“That might make it harder to eat.” Ren said. “I might be too busy staring at you.”

Nathalia grinned. “I'll risk it.”

*

Elerlyth had her quarry well in hand. It had been child's play to secure him, as he'd never once suspected that she knew who he really was. Elerlyth had borrowed a cart to get him to where he was to be delivered. She pulled up to where the directions had said to go, and climbed down. She tied off the horse on the post there, and reached for the squirming sack in the back. It hit her arm and she punched it. She heard a grunt, grabbed the sack, and dragged it out onto the ground.

“Hey! Not so rough!”

Elerlyth laughed. “You haven't seen rough yet.” She said and dragged him across the ground to the door of the small shack. She knocked 3 times, then once, then 3 more times. It opened and a sword was thrust out to stop an inch from her chest.

“Is that really necessary?” She asked the hooded figure. “How else would I know to come here, if I wasn't invited?”

The sword dropped away, and the hooded figure stepped back. Elerlyth dragged the sack inside and the hooded figure shut the door behind her. She waited as he passed by and opened the other door. Inside was a set of stairs and Elerlyth grinned.

“Okay, now it's going to be rough.” She said and proceeded to drag the sack down the stairs.

“Ow.” “Ow.” “Ow.” “Dammit.” “Ow.” “Ow.” “Geez.” “Ow.” “Ow.” “For god's sake, stop!”

“Okay.” Elerlyth said as she stood at the bottom of the stairs.

“About time.” Another hooded figure said. “I thought you'd never find him.”

“Once I knew where to look, it was just a matter of time.” She said.

“He's waiting inside.”

“Lead the way, Emanon.”

“Hey, you know his number one rule. No names.”

“That's a stupid rule.” Elerlyth said. “Especially since you all know each other.”

Emanon smiled inside the hood. “But no one else does.”

“Fine.” Elerlyth said and rolled her eyes. “Lets go.”

He led the way into the next room and opened the door there. A chair was positioned in front of a desk, and pieces of wood were scattered across the floor. Elerlyth dragged the sack into the room and several hooded figures picked the sack up and sat it in the chair. Emanon flicked out a knife and cut the sack.

“Hey, that's my good sacking sack!” Elerlyth exclaimed.

“I'll pay you for it.” Tristan said, and tossed her a gold coin. “Here.”

“It was worth more than-”

“QUIET!” One of the hooded figures said, and Elerlyth frowned as yet another sword was held out towards her.

“I didn't come here to be threatened.” She scowled at the hooded figure.

“No, you were delivering a package.” Tristan said and pulled the sack down to reveal Micheal. “The wrong package, apparently.”

Elerlyth laughed. “I wouldn't be here if it wasn't the real target.” She said. “I didn't even accept the job until I was sure it was him.”

Tristan looked at Emanon, who nodded.

“Can you confirm...”

Elerlyth opened the message system and sent Emanon the info on the Call ID switch.

“Son of a...” Emanon started to say. “His Call ID's been changed. This really is 'Mitchell'.”

Tristan let an evil grin spread across his face and stepped up to Mitchell. “You failed to do a simple job, Mitchell.”

“Simple? Are you an idiot?” Mitchell laughed. “He tore me apart like I was nothing.”

Tristan laughed, too. “He was only Level 2 during the expedition. You're lying.”

“No, he isn't.” Elerlyth said, then covered her mouth.

Tristan looked at her. “So, we have a lie detector, do we?”

Elerlyth shook her head. “No. I can... feel his fear a little bit. It dropped when you asked about the fight.”

“Good enough.” Tristan said and turned back to Mitchell. “You took a marker for it, and never brought it back.”

Mitchell nodded.

“Where is it?”

“Obviously, I don't have it.” Mitchell said. “I went back to where he killed me, and it wasn't there.” He frowned. “He must have taken it when he took my short sword.”

“Goddammit!” Tristan said, and punched Mitchell in the face, mulching it. He'd used the hand with the enchanted glove, and dismissed the popup about killing a party member. Silence filled the room as he took several deep breaths.

“Sir, that wasn't necessary.” One of the hooded figures said, and Tristan turned to him.

“I'll decide what's necessary here.” Tristan said, calming down. “I need to find that marker.” He turned to Elerlyth. “You've done a good job by bringing me that.” He motioned to the slumped body that was starting to fizzle away. “I need you to find someone else.”

Elerlyth shook her head. “You didn't say this was going to be an execution.” She said. “I wouldn't have taken the job if you had.”

Tristan smiled and pulled out a sack of gold coins. “I didn't pay you for the job yet.” He said and opened the sack to reveal about 100 gold. “I'll double this if you can find him for me.”

Elerlyth looked at the gold with disgust. “Keep it.” She said. “I may be a thief and a scoundrel, but I'm not a killer. Doing it in fights or battles, or even during missions is one thing; but not... this.”

“Are you sure?” Tristan said. “I'll triple it.”

Elerlyth scowled at him. “Who do you want so bad that you'd spend 300 gold to find?”

“A little asswipe that's been a thorn in my side, for nearly as long as I've played.”

“Does this asswipe have a name?”

“Ren.” Tristan said. “His name is Ren.”

Elerlyth's eyes widened slightly, and then pulled her sword out from inventory, swiped away the one that held her at bay and jabbed her sword into Tristan's chest. If she'd thrusted first, it might have worked; however, Tristan had seen her move for the kill and he'd grabbed her sword before it was an inch deep into his chest.

“You will not hurt him.” Elerlyth said and pushed harder. The sword moved slightly, but Tristan had a hold of it with his enchanted glove. He smiled and made a fist with the glove, crushed the end of the sword, and pulled it from his chest and Elerlyth's grasp.

“You know him.” Tristan said with a maniacal gleam in his eye, then jumped forward and punched Elerlyth in the chest, right below the mounds on her breastplate.

“UGHH!” Elerlyth grunted and was pushed into the wall several feet away, then bounced off.

Tristan looked at his glove and then at her breastplate. “Very nice.” He said and knelt by her to examine the shape of his knuckles in the metal. “I haven't met anyone that survived it before.”

“Me, either.” Elerlyth said and tossed a palm-sized black spider onto Tristan's face.

“AhhhhhHHHH!” Tristan screamed and jumped away. “Get it off! Get it OFF!”

One of the hooded figures tried to help him, but when the spider felt hands grab it by it's body, it clamped it's enlarged jaws down on Tristan's nose.

“AAAAHHHHHHHHH!” Tristan screamed at the pain, then venom pumped into his face.

Elerlyth stumbled to her feet and thin hands grabbed her around the waist. She started to fight them off, but could barely move from the pain she was in.

“It's me.” Emanon whispered and helped carry her to the door. “Now get out of here.” He shoved her out the door and shut it. Elerlyth got to her feet again and walked as fast as she could to the stairs. She climbed them on hands and knees, and struggled the whole way. Once at the top, she pushed open the door to the outside, stepped out, and closed it behind her. She jammed a dagger between the door and the frame, essentially nailing it shut. She made it to the cart, untied the horse, and climbed into the driver's seat. Elerlyth looked at her Health bar and sighed. It had dropped dangerously low.

“I really hope Hailey hasn't used her Major Healing yet today.” Elerlyth said as she flicked the reins. The cart took off down the road and no one came out to follow her.

*

Ren had enjoyed spending some quality time with Nathalia on the couch. They'd only had one piece of bread and a piece of cheese each, before the makeout session had started. The half hour break was over before Ren knew it, and he grinned as he walked back to the workshop.

We never did get back to the bread and cheese. Ren thought.

“You were too busy nibbling on her ear, that's why!” Teepo chittered in laughter.

Ren laughed and entered the workshop, then continued his pattern of Ruck pouring molten metal into molds, sew sacks while they cool, store the metal bars, Ruck pouring again, sew more sacks, smelt more ore, and repeat. He did this for 2 more hours, and then used the last of the molten metal to make a large metal liner, in the shape of a bowl, to be placed inside the back of a cart. He then went outside and made a cart for the metal bowl to fit in, and Ren secured it with nails all along the edge, leaving the bowl part nice and shiny.

*

“You're really lucky, Elerlyth.” Hailey said. “If I hadn't been home...”

Elerlyth nodded as she got out of the bed.

“What are you doing?” Hailey asked.

“Leaving.” Elerlyth said.

“No, you're not. You're still hurt.” Hailey said. “My ability for Major Healing only brought you up to half...” She pointed to Elerlyth's breastplate. “...and you really should take that off.”

Elerlyth shook her head. “This thing saved my life.” He saved my life.

Hailey laughed. “Elerlyth, we die all the time.”

Elerlyth shook her head. “Not like this we don't. I never want to be in that kind of situation again.”

Hailey's eyes widened. “What are you saying?”

“I'm saying that the Dark Elf Mercenary is retired.” Elerlyth said and walked out of the room.

*

Once the modified cart was built, Ren gathered up more of the freshly delivered lumber and went inside to find Narhilda. He asked Nathalia where her mother was, and she told him that she was in her bedroom. Ren walked down the hallway to the door at the end, and knocked.

“Y-yes?”

“My Lady, are you all right?”

“I'm fine.” Narhilda said.

Ren leaned on the wall near the door. “It's okay if you're not.”

A moment later the door opened and Narhilda stood there with tears in her eyes. Ren opened his arms and she stepped into them.

“Everything is happening so fast.” She said and more tears flowed. “I have to be the Head of a House.” Narhilda sobbed. “I have so much responsibility now... and I've never had it before.”

“Shhh.” Ren said. “I know it's a lot to deal with.” He leaned back and looked her in the eyes. “Nathalia and I are here for you, Narhilda.”

“All these life changing decisions... people moving here... where to build everything...” Narhilda shook her head. “I don't know if I can do it.”

Ren wiped her tears away and smiled. “Narhilda, you've been doing everything right so far. Why are you doubting yourself now?”

She sniffed and walked back into her room, then came back with a roll of parchment.

“What's this?” Ren said as she handed it to him.

“It's an injunction from the Dwarf Council.” She said. “All work and petitions for residency currently taking place, are to cease until they can review our House's legitimacy properly.”

Ren frowned. “I thought they were on break...”

“They are.” Narhilda said.

“...and when will this review happen?”

“When the council goes back into session.” She said. “In 3 months.”

“Well, crap.”

“What are we going to do?” Nathalia asked as she came down the hallway.

“The same thing we've been doing.” Ren said and smiled at them. “We're going to show them how to do everything right.”
