“I believe I understand. If that is the case, anyone may be your friend. So then you care about everyone.”
“Because it’s the right thing to do. Because they’re people too. Because I can.”
“I have not heard that perspective before.”
“Really?”
Erin turned and looked around. She walked towards the edge of the roof and stared back at Klbkch, perplexed.
“Why wouldn’t you think like that? Where I come from—well, some people think like that. We’re all people, aren’t we? Shouldn’t we help each other?”
“I have heard it said Humans help only Humans. I have seen Drakes help only their relatives. Gnolls help their species, but seldom others. Each race has their enemies, their rivals. The Antinium see nations and politics as a competition for resources.”
“Well, I don’t.”
Erin stepped off the roof. She landed on the ground and looked up at Klbkch.
“Come on. I’ll make breakfast, and then you can help me.”
He leapt off the roof and landed next to her.
“Do what, exactly?”
Erin smiled. It was a big smile, open and without guile. It was her smile, and it lit up the world.
“Something awesome.”
 
——
 
Lyonette woke up as dawn broke. She got out of bed, feeling her muscles aching and exhaustion on every line of her body. Mrsha was sound asleep next to her, snoring gently. Lyonette would have liked nothing better than to go to sleep, but she had to get up now. She had to feed all her guests, get ready for the day.
She trudged downstairs, automatically reciting the list of chores for the day when she heard the pop and sizzle of meat frying. She poked her head into the kitchen and saw Erin, frying and cooking away a storm in her kitchen while Klbkch sat on a stool next to her and peeled potatoes.
“Morning, Lyonette! I’ve got breakfast started and Klbkch got us a lot of water already. Do you want to bring in the rest of the dishes and help me wash them before everyone gets up?”
Lyon blinked at Erin a few times. Then she nodded and got to work.
 
——
 
“I can’t believe it. Can you sense the ambient mana in the air, Pisces?”
“I can and do, Ceria. It is simply astounding—when I consider the ramifications of such a Skill—”
The next morning, the inn was in an uproar. Well, a quiet uproar. Mainly confined to all the mages, really. The other adventurers just stared at their magic-using comrades when they exclaimed over Erin’s new Skill. Ulrien blinked constantly as Typhenous raved about the mana in the air, Halrac ignored Revi, and Yvlon plugged her ears rather than listen to Ceria and Pisces discuss what had happened.
To show solidarity, Ksmvr put two of his hands over his earholes. Jelaqua and Seborn listened to Moore out of politeness, but the Selphid’s eyes kept wandering in different directions.
In the end, the mages congregated at one table where they could properly express their amazement and get back more satisfactory responses.
“So? What’s the verdict? Is my inn cool or is it magical?”
Erin smiled as she brought over a basket of rolls to dip in the honey. Typhenous levitated the soft butter up and sliced some off. He accepted a roll with a smile for Erin.
“My dear, your Skill is nothing short of extraordinary. Why, I consider it quite an achievement to have created for all intents and purposes a magical leyline in your own inn. When I think of the positive applications…”
“Yeah, it’s cool, but I can’t do magic. Does this mean all your spells are super-powerful now?”
Erin propped her hands on her hips as she regarded the mages with amusement. Ceria shrugged.
“It’s not as if they’ll become that much more powerful, but we could cast the same spell almost twice as many times here. And like Lyonette found out, if no one else is using the magic here, it can accumulate and boost a low-level spell to a great degree.”
“That’s super-powerful. Well, I’m glad it helps. I just hope it’ll recharge my door faster.”
“At the very least it will!”
Pisces seemed outraged by Erin’s lack of enthusiasm. He ripped one roll apart and dipped both ends in the honey, glaring at her.
“Do you understand—mph—what this—nmf—could mean? You could use the mana supply here to power any number of enchantments—”
“Ew. Don’t talk when you’re eating. You mean, like the [Field of Preservation] Skill?”
“It certainly seems that way.”
Moore smiled as Erin presented him with a roll that was more like a loaf. She thought about this as the mages’ conversation about what they might use the mana source for devolved into an argument over who would get how many rolls. But their conversation had given Erin an idea.
“Hey, Lyonette! Want to try an experiment?”
She called the young girl over and brought out an apple. It was a small one, and slightly wizened—not to mention expensive! Erin sliced it open and both she and Lyonette stared at the pale slice of apple.
After a while, Lyonette coughed.
“Um, shouldn’t we come back later?”
“Right…”
Erin slapped her head and left the apple. She bent down to catch Mrsha before the Gnoll could leap onto the table and grab the apple for herself.
“Hey there Mrsha, how are you doing on this fine day? Do you think my new Skills are cool?”
Mrsha licked at Erin’s face frantically, making the young woman laugh and let go.
“Hey! Stop that!”
“Mrsha, don’t bother Erin! You can play after breakfast.”
Lyonette pulled Mrsha back. As she put the reluctant Gnoll on the ground, she saw Erin giving her an appraising look, far different from yesterday.
“You’re pretty good at handling Mrsha, aren’t you?”
“Well…I suppose I have had practice.”
“Good! Actually, that’s great.”
Erin smiled at Lyonette, and the girl flushed with pride. Erin turned and frowned around her busy inn.
“Last night you told me you stole something else from those evil bees, right? Honey, dead bees, and…uh, what was it? A larva? Where is it?”
“Oh! I put it in my room so it wouldn’t bother anyone. I can go get it—”
“Why don’t you show me?”
The two Humans went up the stairs, Mrsha right on their heels. Erin peered at the fat, yellowish-white grub sitting in the bowl of slightly congealed liquid and shuddered.
“Aw. It’s so…gross.”
Lyonette giggled.
“Isn’t it? I was going to feed it to Klbkch, but then I got a [Beast Tamer] class! Um…”
“You want to keep it?”
Erin gave her the fish eye. Lyonette nodded.
“It grows on you. And it’s not hard to feed—I keep adding more royal jelly to the bowl. Actually, I’ll need a bigger bowl; it keeps getting bigger.”
Erin studied the slowly wriggling grub. She frowned at it pensively.
“Have you named it?”
“What?”
“You’ve gotta give it a name. How about Pudge?”
“Pudge?”
“Well, it sort of looks like Pudge, don’t you think? No? Okay, what about a bee name? It’s going to turn into a bee someday, so how about…Buzz?”
Lyonette frowned at Erin.
“I don’t know. Those names sound a bit…”
“Wait, I’ve got it! Beeyonce. That’s perfect! No—wait, that’s horrible. Let me try again…”
“It’s just a grub. You don’t have to name it yet.”
“Apis? That’s the word for bee in uh, Latin. I think. Buzzana? Buzzany? Is it a boy or a girl bee?”
Lyonette just stared. Erin tried out several more names, and then realized she was getting a funny look from Mrsha as well. She threw up her hands and walked away.
“Fine! You can name the bee whatever you want when it gets big. But for now I’m calling him Mr. Ugly Fat Worm. It is a him, right?”
Lyonette and Mrsha exchanged a glance. The Gnoll reached out to poke the big larva and Lyonette smacked her paw away.
“What are you planning on doing now that you’re a Level 30 [Innkeeper]?”
Jelaqua asked as Erin went around the room with a pitcher, refilling cups. Erin paused and then shrugged.
“I’ve got some ideas. I mean, I’m not going to expand or anything; this is plenty for me as it is. But I might do more with what I have.”
The Selphid raised her eyebrows.
“Oh? Such as?”
“You’ll see. In fact, you’ll see in five minutes if you wait. I might need your group’s help for something I have in mind.”
“Really now. In that case, I think I’ll have a refill.”
Jelaqua smiled and leaned back in her chair as Erin filled her cup and moved on. Seborn leaned over to her.
“What do you think she has in mind that involves us?”
“No idea, but I’m curious, aren’t you? I heard stories all over Liscor about the crazy innkeeper, but we missed all the action. I want to be up close and personal for this one.”
One table over, Zel turned his head to frown at Erin’s back. He wasn’t so positive as the Selphid, and his premonition only got worse when Erin marched back over to the table full of mages.
“Hey, can I ask you guys to do an estimate for me?”
“Of course. About what?”
Ceria frowned as Erin pointed to the door.
“Now that I’ve got mana coming out of the walls and stuff, how much do you think I’d be able to transport through the door? I mean, in pounds? Or is it kilograms?”
The mages glanced around the table and began to speak. Pisces was the first person to come up with a response that wasn’t immediately shot down.
“I would wager the door could transport, oh, sixteen to thirty bodies between Celum and Liscor on a daily basis. I say sixteen as a lower estimate given the increased costs based on weight and mass, you see. If you had a group of armed warriors, sixteen would indeed be…”
“Okay, that’s not bad. But what if you all added your mana to it? How many then?”
Pisces broke off, looking confused. Revi exchanged glances with Typhenous.
“Well, we could add a lot. If you mean like last night, to bring a lot of people through—”
“No, I mean as much as you can. What if you drank mana potions, and put in everything you had into the door? How many people could you transport then?”
Ceria frowned.
“At least a hundred. But why? Erin, you aren’t planning on actually turning your door into a big shortcut between the cities, are you? Because mana potions aren’t cheap, and neither are mages. We could do it once or twice, but adding our mana to the door isn’t that easy.”
“No problem. You’d only have to do it once. And I guess one hundred people is good, but not enough. What if you went and got more mages?”
“What?”
Erin leaned forwards and put her hands on the table as she stared at the astonished mages. The other Gold-rank teams had stopped eating and were listening closely. Klbkch, sitting alone at his table, raised his head and waited, uncertain of what was coming next, but certain that it would be ‘awesome’.
“Mister Typhenous and Miss Revi—can I call you guys Typhenous and Revi? You’re big shot adventurers, right? And so are you, right Moore?”
“I’d say so.”
“By some standards, yes.”
“Among local adventurers, we are somewhat well known.”
Erin turned to look at Pisces and Ceria.
“And you two guys are Wistram mages, right? That’s important too, isn’t it?”
The two Silver-rank adventures fidgeted. Ceria coughed, blushing slightly.
“Not as important as Gold-rank, Erin—”
“That’s fine. But if I asked you to, could you get all of the mages in Celum and Liscor to come here and charge the door?”
“Why?”
Everyone looked astounded, but Erin just grinned.
“I want to bring in supplies. And people! Adventurers, [Guardsmen], [Guardswomen] too—I know there are some in Celum, food, clothing, blankets, pillows…I want as much of it as this door can teleport, today.”
“Why? What is this all for? And where would you put it?”
Revi looked exasperated as she asked. Pisces’ mouth formed an ‘o’ of comprehension as Erin smiled at the Stitch-mage.
“Esthelm.”
The room fell silent. Halrac blinked, and Ulrien sat up at the same time Jelaqua nudged Seborn with an elbow. The Selphid’s whisper was quite audible.
“See? What did I tell you? Isn’t she great?”
“You want to send aid to Esthelm?”
“That’s right.”
Erin turned and met Zel’s eyes confidently. Revi frowned.
“No offense Erin, but why would you want to do that? Esthelm isn’t your home, is it? Why would you waste your coin and energy helping them out? I heard they already had control of the city, anyways.”
“But they need food. I went through there the other day—they might be in control, but their walls aren’t great, and they need blankets, supplies—more people. If Celum and the other cities are too afraid to send help down the roads, why not come up from Liscor instead?”
“There’s still danger on the roads, though. The area around Liscor isn’t safe from Goblin attacks.”
“Yeah, but what if we sent a huge Antinium army and a bunch of Gold-rank adventurers with all the wagons to protect them?”
“What?”
Halrac and Jelaqua said it at the same time as Zel. At opposite ends of the room, Ksmvr and Klbkch sat up.
“My Queen would never allow—”
“Erin, I do not believe I could persuade my Queen to—”
Both Antinium broke off. Ksmvr shrank down in his seat while Klbkch stared, until the Antinium looked away. Erin stared around the room, frowning slightly.
“Well, why not?”
“Erin, you can’t just ask an Antinium army to go marching—and you want Celum to just hand over all the goods? Your idea is…I mean it’s crazy…”
Ceria shook her head, frowning. But to her surprise, Yvlon stood up.
“Why not?”
Everyone looked at her. Yvlon looked at Erin.
“I think it could work.”
Revi raised her eyebrows incredulously.
“You do? Because I think it’s crazy too, like Miss Half-Elf said.”
“I think it can be done. Celum has the supplies and manpower to send—it’s just a matter of convincing their leaders to act. And if Ksmvr and Klbkch talk to their Queen—”
“Um. I am technically banned from entering my Hive—”
“And I do not know if I can convince my Queen.”
Erin stared at Klbkch. He was giving her an odd look. She walked over to him.
“Are you sure?”
He stared into her eyes. Klbkch’s face was inexpressive, but Erin could tell by the way his mandibles opened and shut repeatedly that he was troubled.
“I…could try. But I do not have high hopes of convincing my Queen.”
“And are we just going to ignore the part where you get an army of wagon drivers to take everything to Esthelm? Where are you going to get that? And are you going to pay for all of this, or do you expect Celum to foot the bill? I don’t think Liscor would pay to help Humans.”
Revi kept talking, determined to point out the obvious. She indicated Typhenous, Ulrien, and Halrac with one hand.
“And what’s this about volunteering us to guard the wagons? We might be guests here, Erin, but we don’t work for free.”
“I’ll let you stay for free if you help. And I can pay.”
