It was still dark, still quiet, when the door of the inn opened. It was not night. But it was not day either. This was the brief moment before dawn, the quietest, most empty time. The sun had not risen, but the sky was no longer quite as black.
The door to the inn slowly opened, and someone came out. They moved very slowly; the rest of the inn was completely asleep at last, an hour after all the magic had occurred. As it turned out, even something as dramatic as an inn becoming a magical inn couldn’t keep people awake that much longer.
But the lone figure was still up. It closed the door and then peered upwards at the side of the inn.
This is what someone would have witnessed if they were waiting outside. A slight scraping sound, the sound of indrawn breath, scuffling. The figure climbed up onto the roof of the inn, muttering as snow cascaded down around them. But in the end, they were on top, and then quiet crunching followed their slow movement across the top of the inn.
A small flurry of snow swirled downwards as a small patch on the rooftop was cleared. After a few more seconds, the figure sighed as she took a seat, letting her legs dangle over the edge of the roof. Only then did she speak.
“Oh, hey Klbkch. I didn’t see you down there.”
Klbkch stepped out of the darkness and away from the wall he’d been standing next to. He nodded up at Erin Solstice.
“Good morning, Erin. I hope I did not alarm you?”
“I was about to scream, or throw something. I nearly had a heart attack. But why are you out here?”
“As a matter of fact, I was hoping to speak with you. But I did not anticipate you coming out here so early in the day. Or rather, late at night.”
The two spoke very quietly, their voices swallowed up almost immediately by the snow and night. But now Erin’s voice was filled with quiet amusement and astonishment.
“What, you were going to wait outside all night? That’s so weird. Why were you waiting? Come on up!”
It took Klbkch only a few moments to leap upwards and pull himself onto the rooftop. He was far more agile than Erin and stronger, too. She moved over and he sat next to her. Erin was still warm from the inside; Klbkch seemed like a cold block of ice.
“Was it something really important? You could have just woken me up.”
“No. That would be discourteous. And my issue was not so pressing…I simply found talking to you last night to be difficult, so I decided to wait outside while I determined what exactly I should say.”
“Oh.”
Erin fell silent. She turned her head and looked at Klbkch. He sat still, not shivering, more like a statue than a living thing.
“I’m sorry I didn’t get to talk. I really am glad to see you. It’s just I had so much to do…”
“I understand. And the fault is mine for expecting complete attention.”
“No it’s not. We’re friends.”
“…It is good that you are well, Erin. Your departure was alarming as it was mysterious.”
“Yeah. It was.”
Erin exhaled slowly, letting a small trail of vapor fly upwards. Klbkch watched it dissipate.
“I am told your skeleton was the cause.”
“Yeah. He was.”
“That is regrettable.”
“Yeah.”
Klbkch was used to maintaining both sides of a conversation. He had worked with Relc for years and was used to the Drake’s moodiness. But with Erin, he found it was easiest to wait. Or rather, he wanted to wait and hear what she had to say rather than talk.
“You know, I was surprised by Lyonette. She really changed while I was gone.”
“It was dramatic, certainly. I was not aware of her transformation until this point.”
“She really did do a whole lot. She helped save Mrsha, took care of the inn—she even learned how to steal honey from those evil bees. By herself! And she got me new guests to stay at my inn.”
“The Gold-rank adventurers are certainly a boon.”
“Yeah. I’m glad they’re my guests. But that Zel Shivertail guy? He’s important too, isn’t he?”
Erin’s face turned to Klbkch. He couldn’t see her exact features in the dim light, but he saw her eyes meet his. He knew what question was coming, or thought he did. If it were anyone else, Klbkch might have hesitated or considered an untruth or partial truth. But with Erin he just nodded.
“Yes. He is a Drake [General]. A famous one.”
She shrugged as if that made no difference. Erin stared out at the walls of Liscor to the west. They were gray, imposing, a darker blob of color amid all the snow.
“He doesn’t like me. He thinks I’m irresponsible, silly, and sort of a jerk. Which is fair. But he hates you, Klbkch. I mean, really hates you.”
Klbkch stirred, looked at Erin.
“You could tell?”
She just smiled a bit.
“It was obvious. I saw him look at you a lot while I was serving food and chatting. The innkeeper sees everything, after all. Just like the butler, the maid, and the kids. It was obvious he didn’t like you—or Ksmvr or Pawn. And you—were the two of you enemies? In the war, I mean?”
“Yes.”
“Okay.”
The two paused, and then the conversation moved on. Klbkch looked at Erin, but saw very little behind her calm, somewhat tired expression. He didn’t know how she felt and was…afraid…to ask.
“There were many guests in your inn. I take it these were all acquaintances?”
“From Celum, yeah. It was good to see them, although they did get a bit crazy and trash Octavia’s shop. I was happy to see they were all doing well.”
“Indeed?”
“Yes. Jasi’s doing well. So is Grev, which is great. I mean, he’s not stealing anymore and he looks halfway cute now that he’s cleaned up. Even if he has a big nose.”
“I see. Will you tell me who Jasi and Grev are?”
“Oh—right. You don’t know.”
Erin looked sideways at Klbkch. He stared back. She smiled, and the night lit up a bit.
“There’s so much that happened. I mean, I know there’s a lot that happened with you over here—adventurers and dungeons and new Antinium and stuff. But would you like to hear what I did?”
“I believe I would.”
The two sat on the roof and talked for a while. It was the first conversation they’d had that was really between the two of them just catching up. Talking. Briefly, Erin told Klbkch the story of how she’d started putting on plays in Celum. Klbkch listened, nodding a few times and trying to imagine this strange activity Erin was performing.
“Such performances sound quite extraordinary, not to mention profitable. I would like to witness one if the occasion permits. Indeed, the city of Liscor may be receptive to such activities as well.”
“Would your Queen like it, do you think? Would that be one of the things which helps your Hive—putting on a play for her?”
He paused. And then he shook his head.
“I do not believe she would care to view a play. And if she did, I do not think she would understand it.”
“Really?”
Klbkch nodded.
“There are many things my people do not understand.”
“Like what?”
“Friendship. Laughter. Happiness. Ambition. Joy. Tears.”
“Really? You don’t understand tears? I mean, I know the Antinium don’t cry, but you don’t understand them?”
“I understand it is an action meant to express sadness. I do not understand why those who weep feel better after having done so.”
“I guess it’s because being sad helps. And crying is very sad.”
“Intriguing.”
“Isn’t it? Us Humans are so intriguing. Except that I think Antinium are way more interesting.”
“That is a rare perspective.”
“I know. A lot of people don’t like the Antinium. Well, everyone, really. When I was in Celum I heard terrible things. And I’ve been told you guys are evil by all kinds of people. You know Lady Magnolia?”
“I know her, yes.”
“She doesn’t like you.”
“I am aware.”
Klbkch felt Erin looking at him again.
“Klbkch, will you promise me to tell the truth if I ask you an important question?”
“…Yes.”
The Antinium closed his mandibles slowly. He gripped the tiles on top of the roof, hard enough to crack one slightly as Erin stared at him. At last, she asked.
“What do the Antinium want? Really want, I mean?”
“To live. We want to live.”
“Oh.”
The two sat in silence as the sky grew a bit brighter. Just a bit. Erin shivered and mumbled about bringing a blanket. Klbkch sat in the cold, feeling it chill his entire body.
“If you guys want to live so badly, do you think you could live in peace? Not go to war, I mean? Be…nice to other nations?”
“It is doubtful.”
“Why?”
Klbkch shifted in his seat, dislodging more snow.
“Understand I speak of all the Hives, not just my own. I may be unfamiliar with recent events that have transpired, but I understand the way the Queens think. For them, peace is a strange concept. We do not think in terms of peace and war. We simply build up to wars, the next conflict. We have only known war, never peace.”
“So this isn’t peace. You’re really planning on going to war?”
“Some Queens are. Others think we should ally against our true enemy.”
“Who? Wait, what about your Queen? Would she be friends with the Drakes and Gnolls and Humans?”
“I do not believe she knows how.”
“Really?”
“Yes. She does not understand friendship any more than I do.”
“But you’re friends with Relc, aren’t you?”
“I am his partner. And I have been so for years. I have accompanied him on many occasions, and yes, I consider myself his friend. But I do not understand how I came to be one. And my Queen has no friends.”
He heard Erin take in a slow breath.
“Not even you?”
“Not even me. What we have is different.”
It was more than five minutes before anyone spoke next. Klbkch could see Erin’s eyes and head drooping. She was tired. So was he, but neither moved to get out of the cold. At last, as the sky grew brighter, foreshadowing the dawn, Erin stretched. Then she stood up. She stood on the roof of her inn and stared around the wide, open plains filled with snow. Everything was motionless, as if she was looking at a painting rather than reality.
“The world’s gotten a lot bigger, Klbkch. I know it’s usually the opposite way around, but I feel like every time I think I understand things, it turns out I don’t really get anything at all.”
Erin paused, and stared at the cold, pale snow stretching in every direction around her.
“…Or maybe it’s that I was looking at the wrong things to begin with. Does that make sense?”
Klbkch shook his head.
“Not at all. Your statement was quite incomprehensible to me.”
“Well, good. I don’t think I understand it well myself. What I’m trying to say is—did you know I leveled up last night?”
“I noticed an odd phenomenon around your inn and surmised this was the case, yes.”
“I got to Level 30. I’m a [Magical Innkeeper] now. My inn is also magical, or it has a lot of mana in it.”
“Congratulations. This is a great accomplishment.”
Klbkch inclined his head to her. Erin smiled a bit, and then grew serious.
“Yeah. It’s great. But—it’s strange.”
“How so?”
She spread her arms wide, turning to take in her inn and everything around it.
“Just look, Klbkch. I’ve got so much now. A new inn, a magical inn, a helper, friends, guests, a lot of money—even a magical portal door. And that’s great, it really is. But it’s not as important anymore as it used to be. Money’s just…money, now. What’s important is something else.”
“And will you tell me what that is?”
“People. We went past Esthelm on the way here, did you know? It was attacked by Goblins.”
“I am aware. But the city repelled them and retook the walls, did they not?”
“They did. But they’re hungry, Klbkch. Hungry. A lot of people died and they’re afraid the Goblins will come back. They’re going to fight to the death if they do, but this Goblin Lord is hurting everyone.”
“Yes. Over fourteen villages have been destroyed and a Drake city took heavy casualties fighting off a Goblin army to the south.”
“I didn’t know about that.”
“It is not a pressing concern. Such occurrences are common during calamitous events.”
Erin frowned at the sitting Antinium.
“No, you don’t get it. I didn’t know, but I wanted to know. I need to know.”
“Why? It does not impact your life here.”
“But people died. People are suffering. What happened to the survivors? Did anyone survive?”
Klbkch paused.
“I did not inquire. Such information would be obtainable I believe. Again though, I must ask why you wish to know.”
“Because I care.”
“You care about Goblins.”
“I care about a lot of people. I’d like to help them, if I can.”
“Why?”
Erin stared at the distant mountaintops, where something bright was rising.
“Before I went to Celum, I was really only concerned about surviving. But now—now I care about my friends. I care about people, Klbkch. I care about whether they live or die. I care that Jasi couldn’t find work and that Grev felt he had to steal to survive. I care about Rags and why people hate Goblins. And I care about the people in Esthelm, how they’ll do, and about Krshia and her shop, about Mrsha and Lyonette and you—”
“Why?”
“I guess because we’re friends? Or—no. Because they’re people. Because caring is important. Because I think I can help. Look at my inn. I’ve got money, friends…why shouldn’t I help?”
Klbkch stared at the young woman standing on the roof of her inn. He stood up and tried to see from her perspective.
“I do not understand, but I find myself admiring your perspectives. And yet, I must point out that aiding strangers has no benefit.”
“That’s a very Antinium thing of you to say, Klbkch.”
“Thank you?”
“Who cares if it doesn’t help me? If it helps them then I’m doing a good job. And then we might be friends.”
“Friends. How are friends created? How does friendship work? How do you make friends?”
Klbkch stared at Erin, wishing there were an easy answer. Something he could tell his Queen, tell the others, so he could change them. He did not expect a reply. But to his astonishment, Erin Solstice smiled and laughed out loud in pure amusement.
“Friends? That’s easy!”
“Really?”
She reached out and tapped Klbkch on the chest, right where his heart would be if he were Human. Erin smiled as dawn broke.
“All you have to do is give.”
“Give? Give what, precisely?”
“Something. Anything. Give your time to someone else to talk, give a bit of trust, or a helping hand. Give them a second, and maybe you’ll get something back.”
“But what if you do not?”
“Then you don’t. Maybe you’ll never get anything no matter how much you give. Maybe you’ll never be friends. That’s how it works. But to make a friend, you have to try. Just try.”
The Human and the Antinium stood on the rooftop for a while staring at each other. Klbkch stared at Erin, and then nodded.
