“This is so. And I am aware of the scrutiny of the other Hives at this instance, so I have attempted to reveal much of where the true effort of our Hive has gone. In fact, I hope you will join me on a small expedition to demonstrate the true value of the Free Antinium of Liscor.”
What was this? The Queen didn’t speak to contradict Klbkch, but her mind was awhirl. Pivr turned to Klbkch, ready to pounce on any imperfections.
“Indeed, Klbkch? Your absence speaks to a lack of resources in the Hive. Could not an Individual have performed such tasks? What is this errand which will occupy a Revalantor of the Hive when he is needed elsewhere?”
Klbkch gave Pivr a look that made it clear the other Revalantor was not worth the syllables in his name. He turned to face the others, especially, the Queen thought, Xrn.
“The nature of the upcoming mission at hand is simple. I, as well as a group of one hundred and fifty Soldiers and twice that number of Workers, are travelling north to the Human city of Esthelm, escorting a convoy of supplies. We will be staying in the city for several days to provide aid to the citizens there.”
The Antinium did not waste time on shocked silence. Instead, they all spoke more or less at the same time. Pivr was the first. He exclaimed, spitting a bit of venom in surprise.
“What?”
Xrn next. Her voice was flat.
“What.”
Tersk, spreading his arms, open, honest.
“I do not understand.”
And the Queen. She couldn’t help it. The word slipped out.
“What?”
Fortunately, no one noticed. Tersk addressed Klbkch, speaking for the others.
“Revalantor Klbkch, I would ask that you explain your Hive’s reasoning for sending aid to this city. I see no immediate merit in such an action.”
Klbkch nodded. He ignored his Queen’s furious mental probes and explained to the other Antinium calmly.
“It is true that the benefits of such an act will not provide us with any immediate benefits. However, there are intangible benefits to such an act, and it costs the Hive very little in terms of resources. What we give will be repaid in the form of goodwill, trust, and friendship. Concepts which mean little to the other Hives, but which I…and my Queen…have grown to understand.”
She could sense the Workers and Soldiers in the Hive moving already! So that was what Klbkch had done! The Queen fumed, but she couldn’t gainsay him, not in front of the others. Why was he doing this? She didn’t understand, not one bit. Rendering aid without reward to a Human city not affiliated with the Hive? Why?
“I see. In that case, I will follow and observe, if you will permit it.”
Tersk nodded. The Queen supposed that was a victory, but she dearly wanted the Antinium to clear the room so she could have Klbkch explain to her what was going on. But Pivr was already talking again, refusing Klbkch’s offer.
“I will not. I will stay and observe this Hive, and perhaps see what dangers lurk in this dungeon which consumes so many resources. An expedition is not what I came here to witness.”
A pity. But, the Queen thought to herself privately, she might be able to organize it so a monster broke through and slaughtered Pivr by accident. The Flesh Worms were quite lethal, even when she deployed many Soldiers to counter them.
“I will go as well.”
Xrn spoke up, and the Queen saw Klbkch’s mandibles part and raise in an Antinium smile. She really didn’t like that, but it was too late to stop any of them. She stared down at Klbkch.
“I wish you success on your task, Klbkch. Do not take too long, however. We have much to do…and discuss…when you return.”
He didn’t so much as flinch at the tone in her voice. Well, he wouldn’t. Klbkch bowed and left the room, leaving the Queen in the darkness to think.
And wonder.
 
——
 
“So tell me, is this what made you abandon our discussion last night and not return?”
Xrn’s tone was slightly acidic as she and Tersk—and their escort of lesser Antinium—followed him through the Hive. Klbkch nodded.
“There is merit in this, Xrn.”
“I understand that, even if your Queen and the others did not seem to. But I do not understand why you of all beings would see it.”
Klbkch made no answer. He clicked his mandibles together in embarrassment, the Antinium version of clearing his throat—although he could do that too.
“We will join up with the Antinium escort shortly. I have been specially approved by Liscor’s Watch Captain to take the force out of the city.”
“Oh? How exciting.”
“Yes. It is, in fact. As you will soon see. For this mission, I have chosen one of our newest Soldier units to escort the convoy. They are…uniquely prepared to foster goodwill and reduce alarm among the other species.”
That made Xrn pause, but she followed Klbkch out of one of the secret tunnels in the Hive and onto the snowy plain. The instant she and Tersk entered the sunlight they stopped and gasped.
All of the Antinium did. For a second, they paused and stared. Not because they hadn’t ever seen Soldiers before, but because they had never seen Soldiers like this.
Painted. Colorful. Some with every color of the rainbow—and several colors not of the rainbow—on their bodies, and some with only a few markings. But each one was unique. Distinct.
Individual.
Klbkch stopped next to Pawn, Belgrade, Anand, and Bird. They stood at attention, nervous, silent, in front of the ranks of Soldiers and Workers. Tersk and Xrn came forwards to inspect them.
“These are the Individuals? Well met.”
Tersk greeted the four. Belgrade, Bird, and Anand didn’t speak, but Pawn opened his mandibles until Klbkch shot him a look.
“These are Anand, Belgrade, Bird, and Pawn.”
“You did not introduce me to this Pawn before.”
Xrn spoke as she observed the Soldiers. Tersk had already moved past the Individuals, much to Klbkch’s relief. The armor-wearing Antinium’s voice was puzzled as he turned to Klbkch.
“Revalantor Klbkch, I am uncertain as to the reason behind decorating these Soldiers so. It seems to be a waste of resources.”
“Are you? I would assume the reason is obvious. They are Individual. Unique.”
Klbkch nodded to the Soldiers, not sure if he was lying or only telling a partial truth. Tersk’s breath caught and he closed his mandibles slowly.
“I see. I see. This changes much.”
“Everything.”
Xrn walked past the Soldiers as they stood in perfect ranks. Klbkch knew their attention was on her; the azure body of the Small Queen was as striking as their paint. She too was like them; completely separate from the nameless mass of other Antinium.
“I take it you approve?”
“I love it.”
She turned to him, and Klbkch saw the swirling colors in her eyes grow brighter. He opened his mandibles in a smile.
“I shall apprise you of the decision to paint the Soldiers as we march. We shall proceed, unless there are objections?”
She shook her head.
“None. Let us go see what defines the Free Antinium.”
 
——
 
Later that day, the road leading from Liscor north to the Human lands was empty. Empty, that was, except for one vehicle.
The lone wagon rumbled slowly down the road. It was a familiar group sitting in it. Ceria, Erin, Yvlon, Ksmvr, and Termin all sat, eating a quick mid-day lunch as they headed north through the snowy landscape. Well, Erin, Yvlon, Ksmvr, and Termin sat. Ceria and Pisces were more comatose bodies slowly chewing their food as they lay in the back of the wagon on some crates.
“I’m just saying, it makes no sense! Why wouldn’t you want to go see your brother at all? I get that you don’t want him to be annoying and fuss over you, but you don’t ever want to see him?”
Yvlon sighed and brushed away some crumbs Erin had accidentally spat on her.
“The instant he finds me, he’ll try to take me back to our home, no objections. He’s not just protective. He’d never accept me being—crippled and continuing to adventure like this.”
“Oh. But he’s got your best interests at heart. What if your family could help? I mean, with your arms…?”
Erin gingerly indicated the fused metal and flesh on Yvlon’s forearms, but the woman shook her head.
“If our family had a potion or artifact that could regenerate bones or limbs, we wouldn’t be a minor house in Izril. We’re known for having an adventurer or warrior in each generation—and having the first letter in our names be ‘y’. That’s all.”
“Well, I guess I understand. But you can’t run from your brother forever.”
“I don’t need to. As soon as he gets word of a village in trouble he’ll drop everything and run off. He is a [Knight].”
“Huh.”
“Hold up, you lot. There’s something on the road ahead.”
Termin suddenly called out in alarm, and Erma and Fox stopped in their tracks as he halted the wagon. All the adventurers immediately sat up, but they relaxed when they saw what it was.
“That’s not a monster!”
Erin chortled as she pointed at the creature that had caused Termin to stop his wagon. It was a beaver, sitting in the middle of the road.
“It’s a beaver. Why are you afraid of a beaver, Termin?”
Termin glared at Erin as he pointed to the beaver.
“That’s no ordinary beaver, Miss! It’s a Fortress Beaver, not one of your cute little rodents. See how large it is, even from here? It could bite my wheels in two in one go and probably take your leg off if you angered it. And where there’s one, there might be more. I’m not risking my wagon or my horses if I accidentally agitate it.”
Erin looked again, frowning. Now that she thought about it, the beaver certainly did look…big from so far away. It would be up to her chest—maybe up to her neck if she got close. She gulped.
“Okay, don’t pet the beaver. Well, can’t we get rid of it?”
Both she and Termin turned to look at the adventurers. Yvlon shook her head.
“I’m not killing a beaver.”
“I volunteer—”
“No, no.”
Erin hastily pushed down Ksmvr’s hand and turned in her seat. She poked the person lying behind her.
“Ceria. Hey, Ceria.”
“Wuh?”
One of the two comatose bodies raised its head. Ceria looked pale and exhausted, drained from using up all her mana, but she managed to get up to stare at the beaver.
“Can you get rid of it? You can talk to animals, right? Can you get it off the road so Termin can keep going?”
The half-Elf glared in outrage at Erin.
“Dead gods. Erin. Just because I’m a half-Elf, doesn’t mean I…well, I do, but why do you always turn to me to—”
She looked around the wagon. Everyone was staring at her. Termin cleared his throat.
“Well, do you or don’t you? I don’t speak beaver.”
Ceria growled, and pushed herself up. Grouchily, she stood up and moved to the front of the wagon, grumbling under her breath.
“It’s not like I want to learn this stuff. Fine, I’ll get it to move.”
She cupped her hands and took a deep breath. Erin was expecting her to chitter to the beaver, or make whatever sound they made, but Ceria just started shouting. The beaver’s head turned as she yelled at it.
“Hey you! Yeah, you! Piss off!”
The Fortress Beaver stared as Ceria shouted at it. It seemed to think about what the half-Elf had said, and then waddled off of the road.
“There. Done.”
Ceria let her hands fall and turned. Everyone was staring at her, Erin with a betrayed look in her eyes. Ceria shrugged defensively.
“What? That’s how you talk to animals if you want them to move.”
She sat back down and Termin flapped his reins, shaking his head. Erin felt a rumbling on the ground and looked around.
“Hey, hurry up Termin. I think the others are catching up.”
The Fortress Beaver, which had considered going back to take a bite out of the wagon anyways, felt the rumbling and made itself scarce. A good thing too, because the army of marching Antinium would have squashed it flat if the sea of wagon wheels didn’t do that before them.
As Termin got his cart moving, carts appeared in the distance behind him. Carts driven by Humans, Gnolls, Drakes, and in one case, driving itself since the driver had fallen off but the horses kept going. Each one was loaded to the brim with food, supplies, and people. There were more than a hundred adventurers, [Guardspeople], and other experts such as [Healers], [Masons], [Hunters], and more who had come to aid Esthelm.
And marching to one side of the road came the Antinium. Rows upon rows of Workers, dragging primitive wooden sleds loaded with materials of their own—nails, wood, hammers, but no food since what they ate was disgusting—led by a group of Antinium including Pawn at the front.
Erin beamed as the massive group began to catch up. Termin had left with a good lead on the others, but everyone was moving fast. It wasn’t evening yet, and they were nearly at Esthelm!
“You’re lucky so many of these wagon drivers have movement Skills.”
Pisces commented to Erin as he raised his head from his bed in the wagon. Termin cackled.
“Luck’s got nothing to do with it, necromancer. Around here you either move fast or you get eaten by something sooner or later. A Skill like [Continuous Rolling] is common for all us folk.”
The necromancer sniffed.
“Well then, she was lucky you all decided the roads were safe. Why did you decide to take the journey, pray tell Mister Termin? Surely you are aware such a convoy would be at risk of being attacked? Why not travel with an army from Celum?”
“Hah! Any army the Human cities could put together wouldn’t be half as powerful as an army led by Zel Shivertail himself! Add two groups of Gold-rank adventurers to the mix, the famous Horns of Hammerad—not to mention the Antinium Soldiers, and the Goblin Lord himself would look twice before taking us on!”
Before Pisces could open his mouth again, Erin leapt up in her seat and nearly fell off the wagon.
“Oh look, look! I can see the city from here! Wow, it still looks terrible!”
Esthelm came into view, and as soon as their wagon approached, Erin heard people on the walls shouting. But as more wagons were spotted, the shouting grew confused, and then jubilant. People began cheering and streaming out of the gates before Termin’s wagon had gotten close—then they saw the Antinium and ran back into the city.
In the end, Erin drove up to the gates. The people of Esthelm didn’t exactly shut the gates, but they met her and the wagon at them. The [Soldier] who had met Erin and the Horns of Hammerad two days ago was there, with a group of armed men who looked incredulously at the approaching force. Erin waved down at Umbral excitedly.
“Hi! Remember me? Well, I came back and I brought a lot of stuff to help! And a lot of people!”
His jaw dropped.
“You? You’re that [Innkeeper]! But how did—”
“It’s supplies and a relief force! From Celum and Liscor! And the Antinium! They’ve come to help fix your walls and guard your city!”
“The Antinium? Here?”
