They were cursing, trying to pull the blade out and angle it for a better cut. It hurt. Crusader 51 realized the Gnoll was going to pull the blade out and run him through. So he twisted the sword in the Gnoll and heard the scream. He kept twisting…kept sawing into the bloody flesh as the Gnoll did the same.
He was faster. Crusader 51 yanked the blade out and turned. He looked around. Where was Squad 5? Crusader 57 was dead again. Crusader 53 bashed in an opponent’s head as Crusader 51 heard Tersk shouting for them to advance, adva—
 
——
 
The Liscorian [Soldiers] were sitting around, chatting. Humans, Drakes, Gnolls. But they were not just their species. One Human was trying to cook his food over a fire even more than it was already.
“It’s not crisp enough.”
“Any more crisp and it’ll be charcoal. Listen, I’m a Drake. We invented Firebreath Whiskey and Fire Shots. You’re burning your food. It’s broccoli.”
“All the more reason to burn it.”
The Human retorted. He had a flaxen hair color and walked and moved with a kind of begrudging swiftness, except in battle. As if he had to force himself to do everything—but he did it just to keep up with you.
“Alright, Mister [Chef]. Satel, right? Does everyone in Esthelm burn their food?”
Satel glared as the rest of the squad, Significant Beavers, heckled him. He folded his arms.
“When you’ve got a city that makes a lot of metal, you learn how to properly cook stuff. Coal-fired ovens. It’s got a taste, you know.”
“I just bet.”
One of the Gnolls snorted. She shuddered.
“Remind me not to settle in Esthelm when I finish the war. I’ll go north.”
Everyone looked at her. Utel Silverfang was one of the many Silverfang Gnolls from Liscor.
“What’re you doing? Leaving after this campaign? Just in it for the money?”
Satel eyed her. Utel nodded instantly.
“It’s just for the money, yes? It’s good pay.”
“Assuming you can collect it.”
One of the Drakes, Jordes, commented sourly. He amended his statement when Utel looked worried.
“I just mean that if you’re dead, it’s not in your pockets. It’ll go to your family, don’t worry.”
Utel sighed.
“Hrr. That’ll be Silverfang’s tribe, then. Honored Krshia or Honored Elirr will figure it out.”
What did that mean? Satel was nearly done with his broccoli and chewing on it. He had [Tough Mouth]…which was the Skill that everyone made fun of him for. On the other hand, he could eat steaming broccoli and not blink twice.
Utel did not explain. She just cast her eyes northwards.
“I’ll go north with the money from this campaign, yes?”
“And do what? Travel? I’m planning on taking my money and putting a stake in one of the mines. With Pelt in Esthelm, I could be rich…if I get a good [Prospector] and find a seam. We get a mine, I buy the rights to it…then I retire early and have three kids. I want a family.”
Satel had his own plan. Jordes laughed.
“Wait, where’s the female Human coming from?”
The Esthelm Human hesitated.
“…That comes with the success of the first mine.”
“Riiight.”
“Doesn’t have to be Human. I’m not picky. I’m desperate.”
More chuckles. Satel grinned, but Jordes just started laughing…because that was a bit too honest.
“Maybe you’ve got a shot in Liscor. I’ll take you around if we ever get a break. There’s got to be someone who enjoys toasted broccoli. Me, I’m taking my levels and going to enlist in Pallass’ army.”
“Pallass?”
Everyone in Significant Beavers chorused. Jordes lifted a claw.
“Think on it. Pallass treats their [Soldiers] well. You can get citizenship in a Walled City if you serve…thirteen years, I think, for Pallass? If I’m Level 15, I can pretty much guarantee I’d get enlisted. Normally, it’d be too hard to get into Pallass, especially for a Liscor lad. But guess what we have?”
A magic door. Jordes had an entire plan that revolved around getting posted to one of the armies that didn’t see much action, spending thirteen years, and retiring on a fat pension. Utel was upset.
“Shut up. Shut up. You didn’t let me finish! I’m not going north just for the sights, scales-for-brains. I’m going to get a big job in my tribe’s specialty.”
“Which is?”
Jordes saw Utel Silverfang fix him with an exasperated look. She growled under her breath as the squad chortled. They didn’t think they were going to die, you see. Antinium were different.
Like the Antinium watching them. The evil one.
Crusader 51 had been listening in, and he saw the bad Antinium waiting for his moment to strike. But he was waiting to hear what Utel was going to do.
“Silversmithing. I get my pay—there are other Silverfangs in the army. Maybe some of them want to join up. Maybe some Gnolls from the city. We pool our money, join on with a caravan…and go north. All the way to House Byres.”
“House Byres? Where have I heard that one?”
Satel glanced up, frowning. He was toasting more veggies; Significant Beavers was savoring their lunch, so they weren’t through their rations.
“It’s a noble house. They have a big silver mine. You want to work for Humans?”
Another Gnoll frowned at Utel. She shrugged.
“We have Gnoll techniques and styles. I can ask Honored Krshia for all our knowledge. Silver has lots of uses. Yes, my tribe has access to silver mines too, but what about the north? If we have even one thing Humans aren’t used to, we’d boost production and demand. I’ll form a group of Gnolls up north.”
“What do Gnolls have that’s silver-related that the north doesn’t?”
“Ever heard of a Purity Seal? It’s where you take a lot of silver and a [Shaman] and create this structure that helps deal with bad poisons or other problems. Some monsters hate it, too. I bet Humans don’t use many [Shamans], right?”
“Huh. And you want to…”
That was when he struck. Crusader 51 saw a Worker walk forwards, and Significant Beavers all stopped as one. They looked up, surprised, as a Worker in armor with his helmet removed walked forwards. He had an odd, casual walk, even with shoulders not perfectly straight.
He was doing it again. Every Antinium not busy or napping looked over as Significant Beavers stirred.
“Er. Orders?”
That was the only reason an Antinium would bother the Liscor regulars, right? Jordes muttered.
“Aberration…?”
But it was only a murmur from an old Liscorian. No one really tensed, but Satel hesitated, mid-roast with his skewer. The Worker faced the others. Then he opened his mandibles, not in an Antinum smile where he would raise them, but almost mimicking a Human one. He lifted all four arms in an odd, expressive gesture.
And he spoke.
“Hey, I’m Kevin.”
Significant Beavers all stirred. The Worker walked forwards, hand raised in a casual greeting. He stuck two hands out for Jordes and Utel. The [Soldiers] looked at each other.
“Er…Kevin?”
“That’s right. I’m Kevin. ‘Sup?”
It was the most odd thing to hear an Antinium say, but the Worker had perfectly memorized his intonation and even his way of wandering about, at ease, chill.
Not that Crusader 51 had ever met Kevin, but the other Workers and Soldiers who had known him agreed it was a perfect replica. However, ‘Kevin’ was a bad Antinium.
“Mind if I sit down?”
“Er…no?”
Jordes glanced around. It was an Antinium. Significant Beavers didn’t mind them. Poor saps. Getting chopped up. But they were still…
Satel looked extremely uneasy, as did the non-Liscorians. For that matter, Jordes wasn’t at home with them that much—but Kevin shook his hand and kept speaking.
“Don’t worry, I’m chill. You’ll like me. I’m Kevin.”
That confidence! There was something so…engaging about it, and the way Kevin just sat down. He glanced at Satel.
“Got anything to eat?”
That bastard. Crusader 51 watched as Crusader 53 shook his head. Satel gingerly offered Kevin a taste, and the Worker accepted the food. He cracked a joke.
“So listen, guys. I’m an idiot H—Antinium. I made this mistake one time where I didn’t know Drakes were, y’know, Drakes. So I said something about Lizardfolk, and man—”
Significant Beavers listened, and, within moments, they were laughing and heckling Kevin. Line for line. He took Kevin’s energy! His jokes!
He took Kevin’s…Kevin-ness. Just to steal food. They offered Kevin-Worker more of their food, amused and perplexed by the Worker.
The other Antinium watched disapprovingly. This Worker had no morals. Kevin-Worker did it every time. He just sidled over, made the other squads laugh or found ones he’d already ingratiated himself with, and stole food.
That was so wrong. Those poor Liscorians! But Kevin had no morality. He was evil. Crusader 51 folded his arms, feeding his pillbugs some of his rations. Kevin even went back with two links of sausage and handed them out among his squad. He went back to Significant Beavers over breakfast too.
Kevin. How dare he besmirch the real Kevin’s good name?
 
——
 
Kevin-Worker found Significant Beavers in the smoking crater of a [Fireball]. The squad halted as the Antinium wandered out of the chaos.
“Hey…hey guys.”
Utel whirled, raising her bow.
“Who—Kevin?”
“Hey. Mind if I sit down?”
The Antinium sat down without asking, again. He was still smoking. Jordes looked around.
“What happened? Where’s your squad?”
They all looked past Kevin at the crater where the [Fireball] had detonated. Kevin didn’t say anything. He just sat there as Significant Beavers closed ranks around him.
“I’m tired. I’ll just sit here a second, okay?”
Crusader 51’s head was ringing. He saw Significant Beavers clustering around Kevin as Squad 5 picked themselves up. [Fireballs]. Tersk was reporting the location of the [Mage] to Commander Olesm and Maksie, demanding they be taken out…
Kevin just sat there.
“I’m okay, guys. I’ll just sit here. Okay?”
 
——
 
Another bad Antinium was Shelly. This Antinium actually got no less than Scout Leader Maksie involved.
Maksie might have been only a Scout Leader, but she actually had [Aerial Scout] and [Lieutenant] as a class, being from 4th Company. So she had a quasi-rank above her station.
“Why can’t Tersk or Dekass handle it?”
She didn’t like Antinium, but the Squad Leaders with her watching Shelly and his evil criminality shook their heads.
“We can’t talk to them. They’ll execute the Ant buggers or something. Besides, it’s…”
Well. It was embarrassing. Maksie folded her wings as she glared at the Antinium. Then frowned and peered at the group of complaining [Soldiers] and the jingle of coins. And…
Bowls?
Shelly had one trick. Every time they made camp, the Antinium would wander over to the Liscor tents and sit down. He and another Antinium would wave their arms, and Shelly would produce three bowls. He would also place a single coin down.
Sometimes copper, sometimes silver. No gold; he didn’t have gold. [Soldiers] would see. Oh! A shell game!
They’d walk up after some hesitation and ask to play. Shelly would look at them, then wave a coin. One coin to play? No problem…they had some back pay. The [Soldier] would hand it over and get the three bowls in return.
“We have to do it?”
A Drake laughed as Shelly patted his knees. He watched as the Drake, amused, looked around.
“Who’s got the fastest claws? Let’s teach this poor Ant a lesson.”
Shelly didn’t prey on Liscorians who liked him. He chose the ones who didn’t or were greedy. So the Drakes would whisper, and one would put a coin under a bowl.
“Okay, Ant. Watch it closely…”
They were cheating. Maksie’s eyes narrowed. She saw the coin vanish from the first bowl, and a second Drake subtly slid it into the second. So everyone focusing on the middle bowl was wrong. It was the bowl on the right…and you could follow the rotations. The Drake was doing it just slow enough so that Shelly wouldn’t get confused and pick the right one on accident.
“Okay? Which one is it?”
Shelly’s antennae waved. The audience of Drakes, Gnolls, Humans, and a few other Antinium waited. Then he pointed towards the bowl in the middle.
The Drake’s jaw dropped as Shelly revealed the right coin. He looked accusingly at his partner, and the other Drake shrugged.
“Another round! Damn it—”
Maksie’s brows shot up.
“I’ve never seen an Antinium gambling. What’s the problem?”
“That Antinium does it every night. It’s not…they seem to enjoy it, but that Antinium wins almost every game.”
Maksie blinked at the other Squad Leaders. But that Worker was letting other [Soldiers] do the game. And they were cheating; some were honest, but most cheated.
“Wait, he wins?”
One of the Sentry Leaders growled. The Gnoll shook her head.
“Yep. And guess what he does with it?”
As Shelly’s winnings piled up, he took a handful of copper coins and approached one of the [Soldiers] chewing on half their ration. Maksie watched as way too many coins traded hands for the half-ration, but Shelly and two other Antinium, a Soldier and another Worker, gathered around and gobbled it down.
The Shell Gang. The most hated Antinium besides Kevin! Crusader 51 watched them. Food.
It was all about food. Most of the bad Antinium had found a way to get more. Maksie figured out what they were doing after two more shell games. She rolled her eyes.
“Oh, Ancestors. You morons.”
The Squad Leaders looked at her. She pointed out how Shelly was doing it. The Antinium was watching the moving shells. But even when the Drakes tried to trick him? Even when they slipped a coin out or even hid it behind their backs?
Shelly 2 and Shelly 3 in the crowd were watching them. Their antennae waved energetically. Ironically, the honest player who moved too fast for all three Antinium to spot was the one likeliest to win.
“That bastard!”
The Squad Leaders exclaimed. One went to break up the gathering, and Shellys 1-3 scurried away, abandoning their winnings. Maksie watched in satisfaction, but she had to admit—an Antinium conman was really funny.
The Worker was a [Cheater]. Crusader 51 stared daggers at Shelly as the Worker went to sit with his squad. He was clearly biding his time till the next group came by that didn’t figure it out. Well, Maksie often saw other squads. She could point it out to them and that was that.
 
——
 
Shelly lay on his back. [Spearmaster] Lulv lifted his spear and cursed.
“They’re bombarding their own lines again! Fall back! Fall back!”
Manus’ soldiers ran back as arrows rained down around them. One—just one—was dead. An arrow through the Drake’s earhole. Lulv bent down, frowning.
“The angle—”
He ducked an arrow and whirled.
“Sniper! We have a sniper! Find it!”
He ran off. The [Cheater] lay on his back. Dead. After a few seconds, one of the Antinium lying next to him sat up. 
