“Shain! Keep up! Vess, you with me?”
“Yes, Velden!”
“Sergeant! Sergeant?”
“Here! We’re over here!”
The Drakes of Big Yam jogged forwards and saw a Drake waving at them. The Drake looked relieved.
“Where’s Commander Olesm? What are the orders? The cloud just came over us!”
“I don’t know! Stick to the plan! Attack the…”
The Drake [Soldier] and Velden looked across the gap, and Velden’s teeth parted. The Drake, wearing an armor with an insignia that Vess didn’t recognize, recoiled into her comrades. Both groups realized they were the enemy at the same time.
“Attack!”
Velden roared as the Drake raised her voice.
“The enemy’s here! Attack! A—”
Vess didn’t think. He raised his wand, triggered the spell, and the [Light Arrow] went through her mouth. The Drake toppled over, and he looked at the wand in his hand.
I killed her. The arrow spell was weak, but it cut deep even at his level. He looked at the wand, then Velden grabbed him.
“Fight!”
Vess raised his wand and…fought.
 
——
 
A struggling pair of Drakes, grappling over a spear. A Gnoll hacking at an opponent, not realizing the enemy was leaning on him, already dead, sword grasped in a dead man’s grip. A charging Drake, running onto a spear thrust from the side, never seeing it.
Vess fired a [Light Arrow] into the head of the Drake fighting with Velden, then turned. The wand blasted another arrow into a Drake’s armor, and the enemy barely flinched. It was a weak spell.
“Faces or skin! Big Yam! With me! With me!”
Velden whirled his halberd, and Big Yam fell in. They clung together in the fighting, advancing slowly, meeting the enemy in the chaos.
Twice, they nearly attacked the Alliance’s own. However, Hectval was more coordinated, and Liscor was falling back. In truth, Vess fought only three times.
The first, panicked encounter. Second? When a group of Gnolls and Humans ran into them, fought for one second, then fled backwards, shouting to regroup. Big Yam had taken no casualties so far, thanks to potions.
The first casualty was Shain. Someone realized he was gone. Velden backed them up—the [Sergeant] had never returned—and they found him lying on the ground.
An arrow was through his neck. Vess looked down at Shain.
“He didn’t raise his shield.”
“It wouldn’t have mattered. It went through the back of his neck. Was that friendly fire? Damn them. Shields up!”
Velden cursed. Vess raised his shield—and they ran into the Antinium.
Just four of them. Big Yam saw them marching through the mists and froze. The Antinium were staring around. They didn’t see Big Yam until Vess blasted one in the face. The Antinium didn’t fall—but Velden stabbed it in the legs, and another [Soldier] stabbed it repeatedly in the head.
It was a short fight, and two of Big Yam went down screaming as an Antinium shot a crossbow through one of their legs, and another slashed too fast to block. But they were outnumbered, and armor or not, it was four against one.
“That was [Quick Slash].”
Velden muttered after the battle. Everyone stood over the dead Antinium, and Vess didn’t stop shaking. One of the fallen Drakes got up; the other was dead. He’d bled out from the bolt in his leg.
“What do we do? If we’re near their lines…”
The other Drakes were afraid, but Velden raised a claw. He listened.
“Hear that? Someone’s blowing our signal. I say we fall back, find an officer.”
“What about the Ants?”
Someone had found a shield. Velden slapped it.
“Don’t take their gear! You want Antinium weapons?”
“We killed them. No one’ll believe it! We got them!”
But the Drake abandoned the shield. Velden hesitated. He looked down.
“That’s a good point. Hey—those things have…antennae. Someone cut them off.”
Big Yam looked at Velden, but the Drake pointed.
“Like Goblin ears. We’ll prove we got them. Hang back. Vess, you do it.”
“Velden! I don’t want to touch—”
The Drake protested, but Velden shouted at him.
“You want to advance into their lines? Do it! This way we can head back and prove we fought, instead of abandoning our officer!”
So it fell to Vess to hack off the antennae with a dagger. He stared at the Antinium as he did. They wore similar steel armor, and they hadn’t any eyes. They were giant bugs and horrific. That was his first encounter with the Antinium, and he held the bits of chitin until Velden let him put them into a bag. The [Veteran] patted Vess on the arm.
“You did good, kid. How many’d you take down?”
“Huh? I don’t know.”
“I saw at least six. You were a crack shot with that wand.”
Someone else in Big Yam piped up. Vess realized he had taken down at least…Velden clapped him on the shoulder again.
“You’ll level tonight. Maybe even get an award. No one else took down six. Let’s go.”
 
——
 
The rest of the battle saw no fighting for Big Yam. They retreated until they found the rest of the army in the darkness, and by the time an officer came to see the Antinium antennae, command had announced for all groups aside from the embattled ones to hold; they’d done their job.
Liscor was falling back. The Alliance had won.
Vess was the hero of Big Yam. Not only had his squad taken out the Antinium, they’d done a great job. Even their [Sergeant] returned! He’d apparently lost his squad and taken charge of another.
There was a round of good Luldem beer for everyone that night, and Vess rolled over and heard the voice.
 
[Magic User Level 12!]
[Skill – Recharge Minor Wand obtained!]
[Skill – Intensify Spell obtained!]
[Spell – Light Arrow obtained!]
 
Vess sat up with a yelp. He’d gained five levels, broken his capstone, and gained a Skill to recharge wands in a single night! Velden groaned when Vess shook him, but then he beamed.
“That’s great news, kid. Let me go to sleep.”
 
——
 
Vess’ chest was as puffed as could be the next day. Until he heard they were continuing the battles. That made him worried, but the excitement of five levels in a single day, more than he’d gotten in any one year, made him accept it.
Velden himself looked reassured.
“That new group of [Mercenaries] are all they claim to be. Apparently they killed a thousand Antinium in one go. Who are they? I’ve never heard of…what was their group even called?”
A thousand? Vess’ jaw dropped. That Gnoll with the spear had changed the Alliance’s fortunes with one attack. Even the top brass went to visit his tent, though they seemed disappointed as they left. However, that was Vess’ entry into the war. With the mysterious Gnoll, the mercenaries, it seemed like Big Yam had gone into the fighting just to see it turn around.
 
 
 
 
Lulv, [Spearmaster]
 
The worst losses were taken on the first engagement. Unacceptable losses, to Lulv.
“Five dead.”
Five, for a thousand. Not a bad exchange rate…in anywhere but Manus’ army.
“Any accounting for it?”
The officers under his command made no excuses. Lulv trusted each one of them. He listened as all five’s deaths were accounted for by eyewitnesses.
“No one can stop an arrow to the head. That might have been when Liscor volleyed on its own ranks. Brutal—but efficient.”
Lulv nodded. That was one of the few reasons his command hadn’t killed one of the Prognugators. He wasn’t risking a [Soldier] for that when he could try again. Someone in Liscor had cooler blood than he thought. Perhaps Olesm? He did graduate from Manus.
“Another was killed by 4th Company. We took a number of wounded there. Last one was a run-in against a lot of Liscor’s own before the squad got out. Lucky thrust from a spear.”
That was all understandable. Three was…well, casualties occured. If Lulv had hand-picked every single one of the four hundred out of Manus’ best, one or two dying would make sense.
However, those last two hadn’t just died—a single engagement, a single Antinium had apparently taken them out.
“Even Hensi? She had [The Veteran’s Second Chance]. So she got killed directly.”
[The Veteran’s Second Chance] was a Skill that meant the Manus [Soldier] should have walked away from anything but a direct, mortal wound. Even if she’d been hit in an artery, they might have dragged her away. At her level? She could have lost a leg and maybe survived ten or twenty whole minutes, even without a tourniquet.
“I think I saw that Antinium. With a sword? One looked sharper. I’m not sure if it died.”
Lulv growled. He shook his head as the officers went to corroborate that detail.
“We’ll aim for it. Maybe it was a higher-level one or…experimental. Alright. Pull fifteen.”
“From the city? Filter them in as [Recruits]?”
“You can pick from Hectval-Luldem-Drisshia—their damn Alliance if you want to. Make sure they’re decent, but favor trustworthiness over anything else. Mercenary outfit. Put them in a squad. Give them a minder and two regulars.”
“Yes, sir.”
That was how Lulv would return with an equal or greater amount of [Soldiers]—assuming those who joined up wanted to stay with Manus. They probably would, and they’d level or die.
Lulv thought about his next assault. Obviously, he wasn’t in charge, but Sokkel would help him get where he needed to be. He didn’t know if their [Sniper] had taken out ‘Belgrade’, but ‘Tersk’ and ‘Dekass’ were both priority targets. Unfortunately, they had actual amulets and officer-grade armor. So it would be tough.
Aside from that? Erase their forces. Erase them…and see just what they were made of. Lulv didn’t have to take part in every battle. But this special group of Free Antinium? They died.
When Lulv got word a thousand more Antinium had rejoined the army, he frowned. He didn’t take part in the next battle with Hectval; although, he let them have his archers, who calmly sniped Antinium. A thousand new Antinium.
Were they regular Soldiers and Workers wearing armor, or special? He hadn’t seen that much aside from a few Skills from the Free Antinium, but even one Skill made their Antinium unique, like every other specialist element a Hive had. Time would tell whether the Free Queen was willing to commit this finite resource to the war or not. Especially after the second assault’s casualties.
 
——
 
Lulv waited through two battles until Liscor dropped its guard, then had his forces assault the Antinium from a cliff with enchanted arrows. He watched as the enchanted arrows tore their lines apart and threw eighty javelins until they were out of range.
The next time, he attacked in the next battle and cut straight through one squad of Liscor’s own into the Antinium. Lulv used two [Spear Arts], went for Prognugator Tersk, and saw the [Strategist], Olesm, point at him.
The [Spearmaster] deflected the wave of arrows, took eighteen on his armor without damage, and his Wardstone Amulet took the last six. He retreated, cursing, watching his forces wipe out an Antinium battalion and fall back fast. Lulv debated throwing a javelin through Olesm; the Drake was unguarded. However, Hectval didn’t need to win this war, so Lulv fell back.
Four assaults later, Lulv frowned at the casualty reports.
Two deaths and four major wounds. That was two more than he expected, honestly. Manus’ [Soldiers] went in and got hurt, but…he eyed both reports, neatly noted down.
Arrow shot to the head. Both times. Neither one from the front. And Manus’ [Soldiers] wore helmets.
“Hmm.”
So eight dead. By now, Lulv counted another thousand Antinium in their graves. When the third wave of reinforcements came, he began to wonder if these Antinium were special at all. Until he saw the first Painted Antinium.
 
 
 
 
Theophilus, [Acolyte]
 
When a thousand Antinium died, the Hive did not just replace them. It was not that easy. A thousand deaths was a terrible thing.
However, the [Crusaders] had already been budgeted for, their replacements grown in the Grower Vats, and that was because Belgrade had reduced the Free Hive’s casualty numbers enough that there had already been a surplus.
A thousand more? That was not…easy. But the Free Queen had anticipated the need.
The cost, spiritually, emotionally, was greater. When Pawn had heard of the deaths, he had knelt in front of the Promise of Memory, as the wall of Painted Antinium’s markings was known, and looked up.
“Each one. I do not know their colors. They had no names. They were just…I sent them to their deaths.”
Theophilus and the other [Acolytes] had heard his pained whisper. The greatest Individual of their Hive, Pawn, the one who had discovered Heaven, who had known her, who had revealed the sky and the Painted Antinium…he had looked up.
“I wish I could weep. I wish I could. But when Bird does it, it sounds so silly. And I…I may be bound for Hell, if it exists, after all.”
That had made Theophilus shiver. For it was his first time hearing the word from Pawn’s mandibles, as an idea of something more than Rhir.
“Pawn?”
The [Priest] turned. Theophilus was one of his first acolytes. The Worker looked weary.
“It is only a feeling, Theophilus. I do not mean Rhir.”
“Why would this be, though? Are not all Antinium bound for Heaven?”
Pawn’s mandibles clicked softly as he touched Theophilus’ hands with his own. Two more [Acolytes], Zimrah and Jerimy, joined him.
They were named not as Painted Antinium, but based on one of the other stories Pawn told. Each held one of Pawn’s hands. They were [Acolytes]. Only Zimrah was a Painted Worker. She had gold butterflies on her cheeks.
She had Pawn’s kindness. Jerimy had learned almost all of Pawn’s stories. Theophilus? He had less of either, but he had been with Pawn when the [Priest of Wrath and Sky] had cursed Hectval. Had first summoned the guardians from beyond. Theophilus saw these things and believed.
It was easy.
Heaven was real…but the [Priest] murmured as he looked up from his disciples’ faces.
“Heaven is for all Antinium. It is promised, do not worry, Theophilus. Heaven is for any Antinium who was good, or just was. However young. The only Antinium who might not ever go there…it is an idea, but there is a place that is the opposite of Heaven. That would be Hell. Only an Antinium who did terrible things would go there.”
“Like an Aberration?”
Zimrah asked. Pawn shook his head instantly.
“What is an Aberration but a Worker or Soldier who sees the pain we are going through and rebels? They do terrible things, but they are suffering. That is what I believe.”
Heretical words—until now. Yet Pawn preached that Antinium were in need of something, that life was not good…it could be better. The other [Acolytes] had nodded.
“So if they do not go to a Hell…who would?”
Pawn’s antennae went still. He turned to Theophilus.
“That would be an Antinium who harms their kind deliberately. Who does…bad things that have no excuse.”
