“Hell is a place of suffering. There are no cats there. No dogs. Hell is…a wet place. Underwater. Hell is water and Crelers. And they eat paste. No, they don’t eat at all!”
He described a horrifying world of water where the bad people went. Where they would pay for killing [Crusaders].
And Crusader 51 listened and leveled.
 
[Crusader Level 17!]
 
By the time the Painted Antinium arrived, Crusader 51 and Squad 5 had stopped dying as much. Manus had gone…silent.
And Theophilus, Jerimy, and Zimrah were the icons around which the [Crusaders] fought. Not just because they had a place to send their foes.
Because…each one mattered.
Zimrah healed. She was so kind. Jerimy sat with them and gave his food until they made him eat, and he fought side-by-side with the others.
Theophilus was their voice. He condemned Hectval to wrath and suffering and named the dead. The sermons went from one minute to an hour each morning.
It was not that the nightmares ceased. However, Crusader 51 felt hope. Even Crusader 57 broke the curse of the zweihander. Crusader 51 hated him, because Crusader 57 cursed him and shoved people, but he survived battle after battle—probably because he was so mean.
The only mad person was Dekass. He lined up the poor Workers again and shouted at them. Crusader 51 recognized them.
‘B-Squad’ was their nickname. Crusader 51 recognized Archer B12 from Calruz’s training as the Worker lined up with the other Workers, their heads cast down. Dekass paced back and forth in front of them.
“Your numbers do not add up to your casualty lists! One of you is absent. I see it. I count your ranks in battle, and there is one missing. Is it mutiny? Desertion? We have rebellion in the ranks! Who is it? Who!? You? You?”
He pointed four arms at different Workers until Calruz stomped over to tell him to knock it off. Aside from that, even Tersk went around more and more, sometimes offering spare rations or listening to the sermons.
Then the Painted Antinium arrived.
 
——
 
The first indication of their appearance in camp was a sound. Crusader 51 was gambling with his squad. He put five pillbugs down and let Shelly roll the dice, watching the [Cheater]’s hands carefully.
All of them stopped and raised their heads when they heard it.
Click.
It was a unified sound. The snapping of two hundred mandibles at once. Crusader 51 looked up…and heard cheering.
The Painted Antinium marched into camp, and no less than Commander Olesm himself came to greet them. He looked for Yellow Splatters, or Purple Smile, but the Painted Worker who presented himself was neither.
“I am Starfold, Commander Olesm. In light of the new developments, the Free Queen, Pawn, and Xrn collectively agreed to send our forces to the front. We will fight and defeat Hectval. For Erin.”
He spoke. Starfold had a carefully-painted back and shoulders, like he was wearing a night-blue cloak of velvet, mixed blue and dark and painted with bright silver stars. It was the most advanced Painted Antinium that Crusader 51 had ever seen.
They were getting better at it. The Painted Antinium had armor, weapons, although some eschewed them to use their fists. Crusader 51’s mandibles softly clicked as he saw Starfold had a spear. An enchanted spear.
It was about the lowest grade imaginable, but it was enchanted. More of the Painted Antinium had such weapons and they didn’t stand in squads, but something more akin to how Free Antinium fought in the Hive. They were all so…animated.
Some waved at the Liscorian [Soldiers], who waved back, laughing. Others were peering at the [Crusaders], who’d all turned to see them. One was reading a book while he walked. The Painted Antinium marched into the camp as Olesm welcomed them, placing them under Tersk’s command. They walked over, introducing themselves to the other [Squads], offering gifts from home. Garry’s bread, some shaking hands, the Workers speaking freely.
Squad 5 hated them on sight. At first, they didn’t even realize they disliked the Painted Antinium because that was so foreign. But the longer Crusader 51 watched them, the more he realized how wrong they were.
They talked. The first time he saw it, a Painted Soldier walked up, and his arms flashed, his stubby fingers tracing a quick smile over his chest before a hand pointed at the dice cup. Four arms meant he could communicate multiple things at once, so he greeted them, asked if they were playing dice, and could he join?
The [Crusaders] looked dumbly at him. They had never known you could speak if you were a Soldier. Yet this Painted Antinium, Overstone, had learned how to.
“Mrsha-speak. We must teach you all how to do it. Here. Garry’s bread and some Ashfire honey. There is not much. The bee colony vanished, although one of our jobs is to resupply each week with sugar water. We get no honey, though.”
Starfold himself sat with Squad 5, talking easily with Theophilus and Zimrah, who sometimes came to calm Crusader 57 down. The [Cleric] eyed Crusader 51 and the silent Squad 5 playing dice with Overstone as he replied.
“I did not know this was a function of the Painted Antinium.”
Starfold smiled, and Overstone brought out something as he lost his game, and the pillbugs he’d been loaned were swept away by Shelly. He produced copper coins and offered them around. How much are these worth?
“We take jobs. Silveran employs some of us. This job was paid for by Mrsha herself. However, when we heard of the tragic battles on the front and Pawn asked who would fight, we all volunteered.”
The tragic battles? Crusader 51 looked at Starfold as Theophilus clicked his mandibles.
“Pawn is well, then.”
“Yes. He sends word for you to visit if you are able, Theophilus. We will help you end this war as quickly as possible.”
Squad 5’s heads rose as one, and they looked at each other. Overstone watched them politely, but funnily enough, the Painted Antinium could not understand the [Crusaders].
Since they wore helmets, their natural ability to sort of sense things was muted, and Squad 5 had a different sort of link. But they were alike in this.
End the war quickly? The Painted Antinium rose as Tersk demanded they show him how good they were. Crusader 51 watched as the Painted Antinium rose—and outperformed every battalion.
 
——
 
“Incoming attack. Left.”
The Painted Antinium pivoted as one to meet a charge from Drisshia. They barely needed Starfold’s verbal words; they signaled each other with sign-language, and they were so in-tune that they moved together.
But any squad who’d fought long enough could do that. The difference was…when the angry Drakes in armor came at them, the Painted Antinium opened up.
“[Long Uppercut]!”
A Drake went over as a Worker threw a punch. One of the Soldiers threw a javelin and called it back. A third calmly blocked a sword slash with gauntleted arms; the impact left no mark on the steel.
They had levels. Some were higher than Crusader 51’s level. Not [Crusaders], these, but regular [Soldiers], [Warriors]—even a few [Skirmishers] copying Ksmvr of Chandrar.
Because they watched television.
The Painted Antinium sent Drisshia packing. A wounded Painted Antinium was nearly run through, but five Painted Antinium jumped on the Drake trying to finish him off. Crusader 51 watched as the Painted Antinium lent their voices to the fleeing Drakes.
“Run! You must suffer for what you have done!”
“Flee to Hectval! Cowards!”
What made it worse was that they had morale through the roof, fought in perfect sync beyond even the regular [Crusaders], were beautiful in their colors…and had levels beyond all but the best [Crusaders], and they weren’t doing it on purpose.
They didn’t know they came across to the rest of the crusade as…arrogant. Perhaps the Painted Antinium realized they weren’t liked, so they went around sharing their possessions, even gifting them the last of the provisions they brought. They didn’t realize why that made it worse.
Nor…nor were they ready. Crusader 51 hated Starfold and his people. He hated them, simply because of what he knew was coming. The Painted Antinium were not fools. They knew death. They had come here ready to risk their lives.
But they did not know what waited for them. It was one battle. When they struck—Crusader 51 had the same nightmare as the first day.
 
——
 
A howl went up from Hectval’s lines. The Painted Antinium looked up, and a figure emerged past the wavering front line of ordinary Drakes and Gnolls.
A figure in black armor. The Painted Antinium rotated, pivoting to face him, and Theophilus shouted.
“Manus! Sound the alarm! [Archers]!”
“Bring that Gnoll down!”
Starfold pointed, and Painted Antinium [Archers] loosed arrows at the Gnoll. Two curved, and one split into two arrows, but the Gnoll knocked them down.
Was he grinning? Crusader 51 looked up as the two [Clerics] and the [Priest] pivoted. Tersk was roaring.
“Fall back, Zimrah, Theophilus, Jerimy! Olesm, volley on my front lines now! Starfold, hold! Hold!”
The Painted Antinium heard him, and they formed a line. The [Spearmaster] howled as he raced forwards, and four hundred of Manus’ [Soldiers] breached the Alliance’s line like a wave of shadows. They charged straight into the Painted Antinium as the skies opened up.
“Antinium! Break formation! Break formation! They’re in the sky—”
Maksie came screaming down from the heavens. The Scout Leader pointed up—and Crusader 51 saw a flash of light.
[Valmira’s Comet] hit the ground with an explosion. Crusader 51 lowered his sword as he saw more bombardment spells coming out of the sky. The [Spearmaster] charged Starfold, ducked an arrow that would have gone through his brain, and whirled.
“There. Kill that Antinium.”
A Worker with a bow on the cliffs lowered it. He whirled—and four Oldblood Drakes shot out of their hiding place higher up. They landed. The Worker drew a dagger—a Drake ran him through, and the corpse froze and fell off the cliff.
It happened so fast. One second the Gnoll was pointing, then Overstone raised a mace crackling with sparks and two more Soldiers leapt for him. Tersk had told them how to kill high-level enemies. Hold them. Drag them down and keep them from swinging their arms.
Lulv twisted, and his spear flashed up. Overstone fell down with a hole in his head, and the other two Soldiers dropped. The [Spearmaster] raised his spear.
“[Spear Art—]”
“No!”
An Antinium threw themself forwards. One of the [Acolytes]. Crusader 51 lifted his sword, and Squad 5 charged forwards, breaking out of line.
Lulv grinned. He ran the Worker through and then pointed.
“Target down. Now!”
A [Mage] ran past him as the Painted Antinium, stunned, fought with Manus’ [Soldiers]…and lost. A crackling bolt of [Chain Lightning] flashed down as Commander Olesm pointed at the sky. It struck their back lines. Another struck Battalion 4.
“Wyverns! Kill those [Mages]! Kill those—”
The [Mage] pointed down at the fallen Worker.
“[Acid Orb].”
A glowing orb engulfed the remains. Just in case. The [Spearmaster] whirled. Tersk was bellowing.
“Move formations apart! Battalion 1, split by squad! Battalion—”
He raised his shield as Lulv tossed a javelin, which exploded. One of Tersk’s amulets flashed. Five more arrows swerved out of the way. He blocked a second javelin, and his enchanted shield dented.
Lulv leapt. Olesm was riding at him—until a [Fireball] engulfed him. The Drake was flung from the saddle, saved only by Hedault’s charm. When Crusader 51 could see, Tersk was lying down. Lulv tried to behead him, but a dozen arrows made him dodge away.
“Target down, not necessarily dead.”
“Fight! Fight!”
He leapt, and Crusader 51 looked up. A grinning Gnoll soared through the sky as the Painted Antinium began to fall back. Manus’ [Soldiers] were falling too, but the Painted Antinium…
They were dying. Starfold raised his spear, and Spearmaster Lulv calmly deflected it. He landed. Looked around and spotted a second Antinium. The entire division was falling back, but Crusader 51 saw the Gnoll raise his spear—
And throw it.
“Target down. Two, three out of four? [Sniper]?”
“Dead, sir.”
“Good. Fall back. Hit those Painted Antinium.”
The [Soldiers] retreated, calmly disengaging as [Archers] with enchanted arrows aimed them at the Painted Antinium. Crusader 51 looked around and saw one of the former [Acolytes] left, kneeling, staring at the dead. The Painted Antinium fell back, dragging Zimrah away.
The next day, the Painted Antinium, less than sixty of them, left. And Crusader 51 lost hope.
 
 
 
 
Lulv, [Spearmaster]
 
“How good are they?”
The [Spearmaster] asked one of his officers as he watched the Painted Antinium’s first battle. His forces didn’t participate.
They watched the Alliance getting battered. Lulv was looking for important targets, but he didn’t see ‘Yellow Splatters’ or ‘Pawn’ in the mess.
“Sir. They remind me of Oteslia’s Wildfriend Scouts.”
One of his officers answered. It was an appraisal that few would ever give, especially a Drake from a Walled City. Normally, the line was that Antinium were rabble; dangerous, but more like beasts.
Lulv would have kicked whoever said that off a cliff. That comparison wasn’t an insult, either.
Scouting elites were dangerous and scary.
“Wildfriend? I remember them. Give me a comparison.”
The Drake shrugged, chewing on her lip.
“They’re…unified. See how they react so fast? Makes me feel like they have eyes in the back of their heads. Every damn bird is an eye for the Wildfriends. Let’s say less mobility, more numbers, and more toughness. But that kind of feeling.”
“Huh.”
She had just said they were as good as one of the veteran scouting groups from a Walled City. Lulv took it and agreed.
“They’re decent warriors. I want bombardment spells.”
 
——
 
Manus’ [Soldiers] watched as the Alliance sent a first assault in, and the Painted Antinium tore them up. The Luldem officer was screaming insults at Lulv, and he ignored him.
First wave tires them out. The hidden [Mages] were preparing to strike. When Lulv went through the enemy lines, he was grinning.
The Painted Antinium were the Free Hive’s best. Manus’ [Soldiers] came after him, roaring, their blood up.
You are warriors! We acknowledge you!
The first bombardment spells hit the Antinium lines as Manus went in. Bombardments, using the Alliance as a screen—
We know you’re good. So we’ll fight you with everything we have.
Two dozen [Soldiers] under Lulv’s command went down as the Painted Antinium threw their Skills against his. That damn [Sniper] died. Lulv threw himself into the fighting, ran through Tersk.
Killed two of those strange Antinium. The Painted Antinium didn’t seem to realize why they were losing. They were strong, high-level…
