A Soldier. Shelly 2. He was alive. He’d lain down after taking a glancing blow. He looked around. 
[Cheater]. He’d done it! He went to find Shelly 3 and Shelly 1. They had…had…
Shelly, the original, lay on his back, a bleeding green hole in his chest. Shelly 2 stood over him and saw Shelly 3 was dead, too, headless. 
So. They hadn’t learned how to [Cheat Death] yet. The Soldier stood there and then bent down. He placed two coins on each of the Antinium’s eyes and then lay back down. Curling up.
High overhead, Scout Leader Maksie looked down at another dead squad. Every single battle she saw it. She saw that Antinium lie back down, and that—
That rattled her.
 
——
 
The next day, Shelly was back. Only, it was a Soldier and two new Workers instead of the original. A new group of Liscorian soldiers who hadn’t heard about the cheater were complaining about the Antinium’s luck.
“What do you think it is? Maksie? I think it’s cheating, but I don’t know.”
Wing Commander Embria had noticed the odd behavior. She turned to the Scout Leader. Maksie looked at the familiar Soldier.
“…Don’t know.”
Embria eyed Maksie. She drew her aside.
“You alright, Maksie? Is it…getting to you?”
Even veterans could snap. However, the soup wasn’t that thick. For 4th Company, at least. Maksie blinked. The Oldblood Drake fanned her wings, and the [Aerial Scout] looked at Embria.
“No. Not me. It’s the Ants.”
Embria hesitated. The Antinium? Maksie shook her head. She kept looking at them.
“Don’t tell me you’re feeling bad for them.”
Embria half-joked, a smile on her face. She half-meant it. They were getting torn up, but she wasn’t prepared for the silent look Maksie gave her. She couldn’t even joke about it. Embria’s face grew somber, surprised, as Maksie jerked her head.
“Listen, Wing Commander. I don’t like Antinium. I listen to the old guard. I know Sserys got…listen. I didn’t feel bad even when they were wiped out. We’re on the same side, but I know they’re Ants. I saw them getting minced by Manus. I see it up there.”
She jerked her head up at the sky. Embria nodded, uncomprehending, and Maksie went on.
“It’s not when they die—just when they die—that gets me. I’ve seen last stands. They go down fighting. You have to be able to survive that or you quit scouting. Give away your position.”
“Right.”
It wasn’t easy, being the observer who called in data. You couldn’t break cover. So…Maksie looked Embria straight in her eyes, and her wings fluttered like her breath: quick, pained.
“It’s not that. What gets me is when they run away. The Ants. Or pretend to be dead. Or don’t move and just grab a buddy. When they break and run.”
She looked past Embria at Shelly. The Wing Commander thought of something to say. What she didn’t say, what was illegal to say…Maksie muttered.
“They look like Drakes.”
That comment would later cause a fight in 4th Company’s private tents with the officers, after which Maksie would stop showing up. As for Shelly? He kept stealing coins and exchanging them for food.
Crusader 51 wondered why other officers didn’t stop him.
 
——
 
He was not strong. [Faith is My Strength] only made him stronger. He believed when they heard the sermons. Heaven…Heaven…
But he was not strong. Just stronger.
Crusader 53 was strong. They ran into an officer leading Hectval’s [Soldiers]. He cut down Crusader 57 again. A sweeping flamberge. Enchanted. Another piercing, too-sharp blade. 
It met Crusader 51’s own enchanted sword, and the Drake backed up, cursing.
“Take out that Antinium!”
Crusader 51 fell back as spears jabbed at him, glancing off his armor, and he whirled his sword, slashing at the other weapons. But that left Crusader 53 exposed! The officer saw the lopsided [Crusader] and charged, his sword sweeping out for a cut straight through Crusader 53.
The [Maceman] turned. And his mace swung at the enchanted flamberge. The two weapons met—and the officer’s weapon went bouncing away.
“What—”
The Drake looked flabbergasted at the flamberge as it nearly juddered out of his claws. How? The mace was not enchanted! And yet…did it glow as Crusader 53 lifted it? How had it done that? How—
[Weapon of Faith]. Crusader 53 brought it down on the helmet, and the Hectval troops broke and ran. The Soldier happily patted his mace as Crusader 51 stared down at Crusader 57 again. 
 
——
 
“Enchanted flamberge. We will send it back to Liscor.”
Tersk announced the moment Squad 5 presented the weapon to him. Dekass agreed instantly.
“This is an enchanted weapon of acceptable grade. Too valuable to be lost.”
He looked at the squad of Antinium. You could not lose enchanted items. Those were in short supply. The same with valuable Antinium. Everything else?
He spotted Crusader 51’s sword and pointed at that.
“Tersk. That Antinium has an enchanted sword as well. A potent one.”
Crusader 51 saw Tersk focus on him. The Armored Prognugator clicked his mandibles.
“Ah. You are right. I had seen it, but Dekass, as someone who has been a Soldier without armor, I considered Squad 5 might benefit from it, as that is a weapon they use.”
Tersk tapped the side of his head knowingly. Dekass nodded but twiddled his thumbs.
“Yes…but would that sword not be lost when this Antinium dies? I suggest, Tersk, that we return both blades to the Free Antinium. They have already accounted for more worth than one squad…given their turnover rates.”
Tersk reluctantly looked at Squad 5.
“You may have a point. Crusader, hand over your gear. We will replace it. I will send it tonight via door.”
His sword? Crusader 51 slowly lifted his sword up out of its sheath. Tersk reached for it impatiently.
A giant hand fell on the Prognugator’s shoulder. Tersk went still, and the specialist assigned to their division rumbled.
“You will not.”
Calruz the Minotaur, with his one hand, regarded Crusader 53. And Crusader 51. He nodded to them as Tersk began to argue. The Minotaur had one huge axe strapped to his back. He did not have his little rats, but he was Calruz. Crusader 53 stared up at the Minotaur as he snapped at Tersk.
“You do not understand your soldiers. I thought you were beginning to learn.”
Tersk’s mandibles clicked shut. He took a step back, regarded Squad 5, and abruptly nodded.
“You are right. They should keep the blade. We will even give another squad the flamberge.”
“What? Inconceivable. Tersk, this conclusion is nonsensical!”
Dekass protested, but Tersk and Calruz were inspecting each other, and the Minotaur jerked his head. Tersk slowly nodded back.
“Dekass, it is a lesson Pawn taught me once. I will explain it to you many times.”
Squad 5 watched as he marched Dekass off. Then they looked to Calruz. He nodded at Squad 5. Calruz eyed the zweihander the new Crusader 57 held.
“Huh. That’s oversized. Someone made that for a truly large form. Even a Soldier would have trouble with it. I’d think twice about using it with two arms. Give it to me. We’ll replace it.”
He reached for the blade, and Crusader 57 smacked Calruz’s hand down. All of Squad 5 recoiled as the Minotaur blinked.
“Give that to me. I will replace it with—”
He reached out again, and Crusader 57 bit at him. Two mandibles clicked, and Calruz jerked his hand back. He and Crusader 51 stared at the new Crusader 57. Who was this?
Another bad Antinium. The Worker with the zweihander on its back refused to let Calruz take the blade. And when they were dismissed for food, he elbowed his way to the front of the line.
Crusader 51 disliked him instantly. What was a Worker doing with Squad 5? When Crusader 51 sat down to feed his pillbugs, Crusader 57 took one look at them and tried to eat one! When Crusader 51 grabbed his arm, the Worker didn’t hand the pillbug back, but flicked it into the distance.
Crusader 51 punched him in the face. The Worker bit his arm. Every Antinium halted as the two began to punch each other and roll around fighting. Crusader 51 saw Crusader 53 get up to help, but the smaller Worker should have been easy for Crusader 51, a Level 14 [Crusader], to beat.
However, he was so strong! And he punched and bit—Crusader 51 had used his mandibles as a weapon, but he had never encountered an Antinium who tried to bite as a tactic. He was pinning Crusader 57 down when the Worker suddenly spoke.
“oFF. GEt oFf ME.”
Every Antinium drew back in horror. Crusader 51 leapt away, and Crusader 53 raised his mace.
The first Aberration appeared in their ranks as a survivor of one of the decimated squads. Crusader 57 with the cursed zweihander. Worst of them all.
Aberration.
 
 
 
 
Calruz, [Honorbound Prisoner]
 
“It must die. I will execute it at once.”
Tersk drew his sword and advanced on the pinned Worker. Once again, Calruz barred his way.
“Why?”
The Prognugator looked at Calruz with pure astonishment. Calruz did not know what to think of Tersk. He was intelligent, sharp, a gifted leader with a mind for strategy, and had a lack of fear, even when Manus, a Walled City, tried to kill him battle after battle.
At the same time, he was arguably less intelligent than Rhata or Haldagaz. Calruz missed his pets.
They were with Selys. He would not take animals to a front. Calruz had not trained them for battle or subterfuge…if you would even train common rats to do that. He did have a class.
[Pet Owner]. It had surprised him that he could gain a class as a [Prisoner]. Perhaps, though…he was not one.
Calruz was fighting with no chains on him. He did have a tracking spell and a bracelet sealed onto his right leg. But Olesm had let him fight.
He did not lead forces. Calruz did apprise Liscor’s officers of impending attacks, but he was not permitted to lead.
He fought alone, from front to front. The Minotaur took no joy in it, but he did find a certain satisfaction. This, at least, mattered. One-armed or not, the Hectval Alliance had learned to fear a Minotaur with an axe coming at their ranks.
The House of Minos would look at me like a fool, the way I fight. All of the Beriad would call me insane, even the most foolhardy of them. 
One-armed warriors were not unheard of. Calruz had no prosthetic, but even then, he could have taken his position in an honorable rank of warriors if he were in the army. Yet he fought alone, charging into pikes and spears, trusting to his Skills.
[Steelbound Hide]. A relic from surviving Skinner, falling into the dungeon, and taking command of the Raskghar there. He had possessed [Thick Skin], then. When he charged the Crelers, it evolved.
Drakes would stab into him with mundane weapons, expecting him to defend—but his axe would crash into their ranks. Faster than they could attack.
Offense. Calruz didn’t think of it as a fair battle. Simply war. He would have challenged Manus’ forces for his honorable death…
If he thought he could kill any of them. They would shoot him before he got close. And besides…
The [Honorbound Prisoner] had realized he had to live. At least in this war. Not just so that Hectval would be punished.
For the sake of these poor warriors. For Tersk’s own honor.
“Why must that Worker die?”
“He is Aberration.”
Dekass said it as if it explained everything. Calruz frowned at him. Yes…if he thought of the two Prognugators in terms of his rats, Rhata was Dekass. She was a simple soul. Strong…Calruz had gotten a rare Skill as a Level 11 [Pet Owner]. He hadn’t expected to level so fast, but all he did in his cell was pet them, exercise, speak with Zevara, construct a miniature climbing gym out of scraps for the two rats, sleep, and so on.
[Pet: Best Quality, Refined]. A Skill for the House of Minos’ warriors to be proud of…for rats.
It was ironic, but it fit Calruz perfectly. Let them have a Skill most Minotaurs would be proud to receive. Rhata could drag a ten pound weight around when he tied it to her. 🐀
Dekass was Rhata. He was a simple leader. He did not understand nuance, but he was capable. Calruz even suspected he was better with his sword and shield than Tersk, who handled it less confidently. The Antinium did not seem to realize each warrior had their own best weapon. Or none, in the case of Artur, the [Flag Bearer].
However, Tersk was unto Haldagaz. Calruz’s white-furred little rat would sometimes sit on Calruz’s head, and the Minotaur would read a book to him. He almost thought Haldagaz understood; Rhata just ate while they read. Tersk was like that. Almost. Almost, and Calruz thought they would be warriors of different species, but on the same level.
Tersk was looking at Calruz like Haldagaz, trying to understand. Aware there was something he was missing. His mandibles clicked slowly.
“It…the appearance of an Aberration means they are a defective Worker or Soldier, Calruz. They must die because they will kill everything they see. They are not of the Hives.”
Calruz raised his brows.
“Do you see that Worker killing anyone?”
“He attacked Crusader 51.”
How could they tell them apart? Calruz recognized the sword-wielding Antinium, but the name? Crusader 51. He eyed the Soldier pinning the angry Worker with three more of the others.
“He also bit at me when I tried to take his weapon. But he did not try to kill anyone.”
“Ah, but he will. You are not Antinium, so you are unaware. We must execute the Aberration. The madness can spread.”
Interesting. Dekass was raising his sword, but the Worker thrashed.
“yoU. YoU. sTUPid DEKass. I AM [CruSAdeR]. i FIGhT.”
Calruz saw Dekass recoil and grabbed the Antinium.
“He speaks. This seems less like madness or…it seems more like an out-of-control [Warrior] to me, Tersk. A [Berserker] who has lost control of reason. Not desirable—but not deserving of death.”
Tersk turned to face Calruz.
“That is an interesting…idea, Calruz. However, my Queen’s orders are clear. I must kill any Aberration I see.”
“Do you know it to be an Aberation?”
Tersk was stumped.
“It clearly is one. It has behaved like every other Aberration I have slain.”
Calruz gritted his teeth.
“Yes…but do you know it is an Aberration? Tersk. Is there a way you could be wrong? Because listen to me. This Worker was a survivor of a squad that perished, all but one, yes?”
“Yes…we rotated them into Squad 5.”
The Antinium was very hesitant. Crusader 57 had gone still as Calruz tried to drip-feed Tersk an idea.
“Perhaps it is not an Aberration. Perhaps, if you are not perfectly certain, the honorable thing would be to let Crusader 57 be.”
“Why?”
Dekass laughed, a fluttering sound. Tersk was frowning at Calruz, his mandibles drooping. Calruz looked around. All the other Antinium were watching him.
