Every Antinium in earshot had gone still. Their heads turned to Olesm, and he saw Theophilus step back. Zimrah looked anxious. Tersk? Tersk tilted his head and watched the other Antinium thoughtfully.
That was Olesm’s first change among the Antinium.
 
[Leader Level 17!]
 
——
 
Levelling like an adventurer. Almost none as a [Strategist]…but as a [Leader]?
He leveled. His [Soldiers] died. Was it because Manus was in this war too? Or the sheer losses?
Olesm didn’t know. But he did know his orders had some effect on it.
He leveled again after he instituted a new command.
“All Antinium are to now receive standard Liscorian army rations. Moreover—each new reinforcement of Soldiers and Workers are to be fed, regardless of the time, before entering battle. I would also like to request any supplies of easy-to-read books or other materials from Liscor’s Council…with consultation from Pawn for the objects Painted Antinium use.”
He finished muttering and signed the order. And again, it was not kindness that dictated it, but that dark thought that this would make them stronger.
His officers objected. Wing Commander Embria brought it up with a frown.
“We’ve just shortened our supply line from weeks of reserves to a single week or less. We’ll need to demand far more supplies—which costs coin.”
“We’re ransoming prisoners to the Hectval Alliance. Someone get me Artur. Artur, tell Tersk…”
Olesm summoned the [Banner Leader], who was coincidentally hanging outside of his tent, and the Antinium trotted off. Embria, Bepol, and some of the other [Tacticians] and officers saw Olesm get up.
“Commander, this is a matter of morale.”
Olesm met Embria’s gaze.
“I’m sure. Why don’t we walk over to the Antinium camp? Tersk has agreed to show us something.”
“What? Which is…?”
Embria followed Olesm. The Drake steeled himself. He was not going to enjoy this.
“…Have you checked the supply listings of the Antinium? They never ship more of their food with their reinforcements. Somehow, amazingly, it doesn’t seem like they consume any of their inventory of food. In fact, I think they’ve added to their stock.”
Wing Commander Embria’s brows rose. She had not checked the roster. She and the other officers walked straight into Olesm’s trap. The Drake hadn’t had lunch yet.
He didn’t have dinner, either.
 
 
 
 
Embria, [Wing Commander]
 
She did not write this down, even as an imaginary letter to her father. She could not—she summarized it to the rest of 4th Company like this.
“I just watched Antinium make their food. They had some of their dead. Stripped them of armor—and then began stomping them into paste.”
Captain Vell stopped eating. Maksie was not present; she had stopped showing up at 4th Company’s barracks.
“Ancestors. Do you mean…”
Pielt gagged. Wing Commander Embria wiped at her mouth. She had not thrown up—with effort.
“Not just that. They had grain, edible plants…bugs…and some of the enemy dead. I wondered how the Antinium cleaned up the battlefield. I never saw them burning…”
“Commander. Stop.”
Lieutenant Kesa looked ill. Embria stopped, if for her own sake as much as anything.
“And they’ve been doing that all this time? That’s what they eat? I—there’ll be a revolt once the soldiers hear that.”
Wikir growled. Embria shook her head.
“No, there won’t. We’re switching over to full rations for everyone, remember? And I can’t say I objected after that.”
Commander Olesm had gotten no objections. Rather, when Dekass had objected to the waste, Olesm had told him that Liscor’s army might suffer an outright mutiny if they didn’t switch.
So that was what the bugs ate. It made them more monstrous to Embria.
More monstrous. Cannibalistic things that ate other people.
More—
 
——
 
“Scout Leader Maksie. Do you have anything to say for yourself?”
It was rare that Embria had to go to a superior to sort out discipline in her company. She was a Wing Commander. If she needed help, that was a failing on her part.
However, Maksie had gotten into a second fistfight with Vell, and this time it had attracted the attention of the regulars, rather than being a quiet brawl in the tents. Olesm looked at the black-eyed Maksie.
“No, sir.”
“Well, then, I am transferring your tent and command out of 4th Company. We’ll assign you with the rest of the regular [Scouts]. You are docked half a week’s pay. As is Captain Vell. Wing Commander Embria, your discretion for anything within your command.”
“Very good, sir.”
Embria saluted, and she and Maksie strode out of the tent. Neither Drake looked at the other until they were well out earshot. They stopped next to two flags flying in the center of the camp and began to argue.
“You’ve been with 4th for years, Maksie. What the hell has gotten into you?”
“What’s gotten into me? What’s wrong with you, Wing Commander? You and Vell and everyone else? Are you blind, or do I need to give you a lift up so you can see everything?”
Maksie was red, quivering—and it was a shock from the cool-as-glass [Scout] that Embria remembered.
“I’m not hopping in bed with the Antinium. But if Vell wants to run her mouth off, I’ll hit her again. I’m off.”
“You can’t leave. I’ll grab Vell. You meet us tonight and keep your fists at your sides. We’ll talk this out. 4th Company doesn’t split up. After the war…”
Maksie pulled away from Embria.
“After the war? I don’t know if I’m staying with 4th.”
Embria felt poleaxed. She staggered—someone leaving their company, Liscor’s army, was unheard of! It was so rare that only honorable discharges like Menolit or dishonorable ones were common.
Or…Relc.
Maksie looked like she’d stabbed herself as well. She faced Embria, breathing hard, and in a low, pained voice, hissed.
“I’m one of the army, Wing Commander. But they’re wrong on this. Can’t you see it?”
 
——
 
Wing Commander Embria had been a regular [Soldier] when she’d run away from home to join up. Liscor’s Army beat a lot out of you, like being an idiot, thinking you were the next Gecko just because you were his daughter…and they beat things into you.
Like Sserys’ history. Greatest [General] of their age! The veterans would tell stories of campaigns, give the newbies tips, even try to teach them weapon Skills.
Even tail-signs.
“What are tail-signs?”
Olesm poured Embria a cup, and she took a sip. She was talking with Olesm. Not because they particularly liked each other, although there was enough respect now. He wasn’t far behind one of Liscor’s [Strategists], and he was pulling double-duty as a commander.
But Embria had no one else to turn to. There was Ramia, Bepol, and arguably Belgrade. However, Embria could only visit one at a time given how they were split up. So she tried to resolve her issues with Maksie.
“Haven’t you heard of them? It’s when a [General] might be standing at the front, shouting…well, shouting whatever he wants. But everyone watches his or her tail. Sserys used to do it. It’s a simple feint.”
Olesm frowned.
“I think I recall…no. No, actually, I don’t think Manus teaches that. It sounds easy to break as an enemy [Strategist].”
Embria rolled her eyes. [Strategists] always thought of it in those terms.
“Maybe, but it could be a few seconds of difference when the enemy regulars hear you say ‘we’re charging down the center’—only for an entire army to go left. That’s the kind of thing we used to do.”
“Not anymore?”
“Well…they caught on. Besides, High Command is good. But we lost a lot during the First Antinium Wars. The core of the army Sserys took to end the war was Liscorian.”
Olesm nodded. Embria played with her cup.
“The old guard tells you about that. The bastard Antinium. Of all their horror stories—Crelers and Antinium were some of the worst. No one from that era doesn’t know a dozen people who died to them.”
There were more things the old guard told you. Things you didn’t reveal. Things the army did or had done—or just secrets about other commanders. Like…ah, well. Sserys was their hero, and that had never changed. Antinium? If Maksie had gone back to the rest of the army and said what she said, it would have been dangerous.
“They’re soldiers. Do you think it’s wrong for us to feed them regular food?”
“No. I agreed the instant I heard what they ate. But you’re feeding them before they go into battle.”
The Commander stretched out his claws, as he worked a cramp out of one.
“Absolutely. I didn’t realize it but…the reinforcements might not have eaten regular food. That’ll be their first and last meal. Oh—and I’ve told Tersk to announce the next meal to them.”
“What?”
“Like beans. Or fish stew.”
“No! That’s…”
Embria sat up, glaring at Olesm. She felt something and struggled to give voice to it.
“Even I can say that’s a kind of foul, Commander. Liscor’s army does something like that if we think we’re going into the soup tomorrow, but telling them what they get if they come back? Feeding them up before you send them into the blade trap? I wouldn’t treat cows or pigs like that!”
He was treating them like a [Farmer] treated livestock. Olesm raised his brows.
“I thought you weren’t on Maksie’s side.”
“I’m not!”
She recoiled instantly, but Olesm just leaned on his desk.
“I’d rather give them something than nothing. And they’re in this war because if the Antinium division pulls out…we might not be able to win. And Manus is assailing them time and time again, and they’re dying. If they were Gnolls or Drakes, what would you do?”
“I’d tell them to pull out and tell you this war wasn’t worth it. Not if we’re going into the meat-grinder. I’d expect the rest of the army to mutiny—unless they were war criminals or there was some other reason.”
Olesm gave Embria a bright smile.
“Amazing what being a different species does. How about Humans?”
She pushed herself back from the table.
“It’s Antinium. They’re the exception! They wiped out cities to the last Drake, killed Sserys, and would have butchered us all.”
Olesm nodded. He lifted his cup.
“Then should I send you a bottle each time we take over a hundred casualties? Why do you look so upset? I care about them, but I’m sending them to their deaths. What’s your problem, Embria?”
He was needling her. The Wing Commander refused to answer. She put her claws on the table, too upset to drink.
“Just tell me why. Not about me. Just…you. You don’t think like 4th. You grew up with them, but you’re willing to employ this strategy? Explain it, Olesm.”
The Drake toyed with his cup. He hadn’t drunk much either. He looked up at her, and his eyes shone by the candle’s light. Not his magical lantern, a more susceptible, flickering glow.
Fire.
“When I told Calruz I was going to continue sending them forth, he was not happy. But he didn’t stop me. Pawn knows what I’m doing, and he could probably stop the reinforcements. He doesn’t. I am requisitioning books, toys, whatever they could use in their spare time, and I’m even thinking of putting one squad with other divisions. Just…one squad, because Manus might retaliate to the rest. But when the new reinforcements come, they’ll eat good food and be promised more. I told Tersk to plan out bedding. A blanket or something.”
“Why?”
Doomed [Soldiers]. Olesm looked at the candle.
“Strike a spark. Light a fire. Do you know, Embria? This tactic was used once before. Just once, and the [Lady] who told me it said that it was one of the bitterest blazes she ever saw. It wasn’t Antinium. The regular [Soldiers]—they weren’t even [Soldiers], some were [Militia] or conscripted. They would have mutinied, but the [Lords] and [Ladies] went right with them. They were butchered, but a few embers caught. And the Goblin King never took the north.”
The Sacrifice of Roses. Wing Commander Embria rose and saw the scope of his plan. Very simply. She walked away from the desk and stopped at the tent flaps.
“Some day, there will be a Third Antinium War. You know it. I know it. Liscor’s army doesn’t go back to the city. We don’t go back, and we left you hanging to dry…even to the Humans. Because one day, Liscor will vanish and the Free Antinium’s Hive will be there. And High Command will send us marching back to burn it out of existence.”
That was what they believed. Olesm looked up.
“Harsh.”
“We begged the Council not to do it. You’re all sitting on a Tier 7 trap spell, and you won’t move. That’s how they always described it to me.”
Embria repeated the sentiments of Liscor’s army, word-for-word. Olesm just laughed at her. He raised a glass.
“Some day, Wing Commander, there will be a Third Antinium War! I think so too. The difference is? Liscor’s Army will march against the Hives. And when they do—the Free Antinium will be marching right with them. That’s what I believe.”
Embria whirled and stalked into the darkness. What a fine mess this was. He was employing the oldest tactic in the world. The one that had made the Tidebreaker. The simplest command—if you had the stomach for it.
Counter-levelling. A single spark for every hundred that went down. She hated him for it—and realized he’d won, maneuvered her right into his trap. Because to believe his strategy was working?
She had to believe the Antinium could actually level. And that meant…
 
 
 
 
Theophilus, [Acolyte]
 
At first, he spoke of the sky. Then, he tried to tell them of the good things they had yet to see. Theophilus realized he was failing when he began falling behind Jerimy and Zimrah. And when he saw that they did not believe.
There were some Antinium he had learned to recognize. The agony of watching them disappear and come back wounded and hurt? He clung to the ones he recognized.
Like Crusader 51, with the magic sword. The Soldier lined up each day with the others and listened to Theophilus’ sermon.
…And Theophilus did not touch him.
 
[Acolyte Level 18!]
[Skill – See Conviction obtained!]
 
One level over a week. Fast leveling, far faster than in the Hive. Slow, compared to Zimrah and Jerimy, both of whom were almost at his level—and he had been six levels above both!
Each one had a talent. Jerimy was the Antinium who was the most involved. Of the three [Acolytes], he would share his food ration with other Workers and Soldiers. He also read stories to them, from the book he’d taken from home, and he spent time in their company.
Zimrah? The most selfless. She would heal until she curled up and lay down. Healing was her forte, and she would even run to the squads coming back from the front to try and save another life. She had even asked for [Healers]’ bandages and such, for when her faith ran dry.
