Dekass…had never quite understood what Tersk was raving about when he reported to the Armored Queen. The Armored Queen, in her graciousness, had opined that the Free Queen had a chance, and that the other Queens had been less than welcoming to her, but she had expressed reservations that the Free Antinium could survive with their enemies using the city against them.
However, she had sent Tersk to see. When Tersk reported to her, she had sent Dekass with him. The Armored Prognugator had considered food the Free Antinium’s real asset; their leveling Soldiers and Workers had not impressed him as much as the Grand Queen’s secret project or other specialist Antinium.
After that day…he saw wonders.
 
——
 
Three Antinium walked the battlefield and did something that no one could believe. Observers from Manus’ divisions watched, rubbed their eyes, and raced back to report to their [Spearmaster].
Most of the Alliance’s soldiers just laughed in the faces of those who claimed to witness it. Or nervously checked if they were going up against the Ants tomorrow.
On Liscor’s side, Belgrade looked up at the sky and smiled. Liscor’s [Soldiers] whispered about it, doing much the same thing as Hectval, but encouraged by something.
Yet all those who saw it with their own eyes? Saw…
Zimrah raced forwards, and Dekass watched as an Antinium with nine cuts across their body jerked. There was a flash, and they rose.
The light looked like the sunlight upon the Grand Queen’s beautiful form the first time Dekass had ever stood in her presence. The Antinium did not know what it was, but the Soldier rose, wounds healed.
It was not a perfect Skill. Poisons—more advanced poisons, anything from a spell or enchanted blade, stymied Zimrah’s power. Yet it did not matter how severe the wound.
It closed. It healed in a flash. Other times, Zimrah would use a lesser Skill, because she could use this…miracle…all of twice before she fell over.
The other two Antinium were easier for Dekass to understand, but their powers were…weird. If he wrote to the Grand Queen now—a foolhardy task given that it would be intercepted—Dekass would say that the Antinium might have developed their own [Mages].
But what odd magic.
 
 
 
 
Vess, [Magic User]
 
“[Cursed Hands]. Suffer, Hectval’s [Soldiers]! You are evil! I curse you! As Pawn cursed you, I curse you with bad luck and gangrene! With a lack of cats! With death! Hell! You are bound for—”
The screaming Worker was scary enough. He had a flail and was wearing armor like the rest, but then Vess saw a hand reach up from the ground and try to drag one of the [Soldiers] in his squad down.
The screaming Drake hacked at the hand, but his sword passed through the long, spectral arm. It was semi-transparent, like a shadow come to life. Vess aimed an arrow and blasted it apart.
“Magic works! Get back! Get back!”
Velden bellowed, and Vess backed up—until he felt a cold touch on his leg. Something pulled him down hard, and he felt one boot trying to sink into the ground. He looked down and screamed.
“Help! Help—”
He pointed his wand wildly as more hands reached up. They were everywhere! In a circle nearly thirty feet wide, hands slowly reached up and tried to pull down every [Soldier] in sight.
It was not the most dangerous spell ever. In fact, the hands moved about as fast as a zombie’s, a slow grab. But when they grabbed you?
“My leg! My—”
A Gnoll was screaming as he tried to pull free—and he looked up as an Antinium ran him through with a sword. The hands were strong. Vess’ leg hurt, and someone broke a leg before they pulled free.
They were trying to drag them into the earth. Was something down there? Vess aimed his wand, shot an Antinium through the face, and backed up.
He was levelling up. Now he could throw over a hundred [Light Arrows] per battle, and his squad, Big Yam, were the one of the most successful in the Alliance.
Aside from the mercenaries. Where were they? Watching again? Vess took down another Antinium and then saw the third strange one.
He had armor like the other two, and a club in one hand, a shield in the other. But he pointed a finger at Vess as the [Magic User] whirled. Vess shot an arrow and hit the Antinium on the cheek. It tore chitin, but the Antinium pointed at Vess…
And shot an arrow back.
An odd arrow, a twisting crackle with an eerie, crimson glow, hit Vess in the chest. The Drake stumbled, gasping, and felt at his chest.
“Vess!”
It had gone through his armor. Velden whirled and put up his shield. Two more arrows struck it, and Vess thought the magic went through the shield. Velden grunted.
“What was…? Back up! Back up!”
The Alliance was retreating. Velden, the newly-minted [Sergeant], ran back with Vess, but the Drake was still firing [Light Arrows].
“We have to hold them. Get ready for another charge!”
Vess felt hot. He nodded and then stumbled as he turned. He was sweating. What had that Antinium said when he used that…he didn’t have a wand. What was…?
“Vess? What’s wrong?”
“[Sergeant]?”
One of Big Yam looked at Velden. The Drake was…wobbling. Velden, the [Veteran Sergeant], looked at Vess.
“I think we got hit with something. I’m…”
He was pouring sweat. Vess leaned over.
“I don’t feel well, Velden. I…”
The Antinium had said something. Vess recalled it as he saw Velden slowly collapse, and Big Yam explode into chaos as the squad fell back. Another Gnoll who’d been struck was so bleary on her feet she stumbled forwards until her friends yanked her back. What was wrong with them?
 
 
 
 
Lulv, [Spearmaster]
 
“[Arrow of Fever]. Are you sure that’s what the Antinium said?”
Spearmaster Lulv stood well back from the Drake boy with the wand, upwind, listening with his keen hearing. The fever wasn’t contagious, or so it seemed.
It had broken merely an hour after the Drakes and Gnolls had collapsed, but that Antinium had fired nearly three dozen off. The arrows went through ordinary armor, and they made those struck feverish.
“I have never heard of that spell in my life.”
Sokkel, Manus’ representative, muttered in Lulv’s ear. The [Spearmaster] growled back.
“Neither have I. Three Antinium. Do you have marks on them?”
“Yes. Each one’s got amulets and rings, though. Our [Archers] took potshots…nothing. The one that was screaming insults even has a diffraction barrier.”
“Huh. They’re definitely on the list, then. Speaking of [Archers]…I have to investigate that, later.”
“Captain Yulre?”
Someone was calling Lulv’s fake name. He grunted and saw an officer of Luldem approaching.
“Sir?”
The Drake wasn’t as insulting as Hectval’s officers could be, but he was smiling a bit too-wide.
“I trust our consultant and your troops heard that? More…irregularities.”
His tone lingered on the word. This entire war was one big irregularity to the Alliance. Liscor didn’t go for surrendering nearly as much. They fielded Antinium. They were out for blood.
Lulv nodded.
“Yes, sir. My forces are considering the issue.”
“Ah. Then you’ll be deploying with us the next battle?”
Lulv kept his face blank as the officer looked at him.
“We are debating our best plan of attack.”
“I see. I see. But you will be fighting with us? In some capacity? High Command would look askance, given the circumstances, if we didn’t have—”
Sokkel interrupted before Lulv could snap.
“I can relay your question to High Command, [Captain]. I will be apprising them of my thoughts. Rest assured, Mercenary Captain Yulre will be engaged in the best position for his forces.”
The Luldem [Captain] looked at Lulv and then smiled helplessly at Sokkel.
“Yes, sir.”
He walked away, and Sokkel leaned over.
“Idiots. They don’t like [Mercenaries], but they come to us whenever they run into trouble.”
“Hrr. Can’t blame them. I’ll let you know where I want to go.”
Sokkel nodded. Lulv didn’t miss the frustrated look Luldem’s [Captain] and the other officers gave him as he strode off.
He was an annoyance, he knew. Lulv was turning the Alliance’s battles around by his presence, but he did not fight in the most advantageous spots for the Alliance. He only engaged the Antinium in numbers, and when, twice, a commander had tried to order him to follow their orders, Lulv had ignored it, and then, faced with court martial, offered to quit.
Wytel’s Blades, as his unit was posing as, was too valuable, so High Command put up with it. That was standard [Mercenary] stuff, and Lulv felt this could pass as standard. The problem came when he heard about the [Slaver].
 
——
 
“No [Slave]-trading. Where did that bastard come from?”
He snapped at Sokkel. The [Strategist] had reported to him the instant he’d heard. Sokkel grimaced.
“Liscor’s lines. He made the offer to them first—then came over here. The Alliance went for it. He’s promising a lot of gold, and he wants Antinium.”
“I bet he does. The answer’s no.”
Sokkel hesitated.
“That’s going to be a real problem, Lulv. I can lean as hard as I can…”
The [Spearmaster] put his arms together.
“Liscor will never quit the field if their people are ransomed as slaves. We don’t know if the Queens can see through each Soldier and Worker’s eyes. If one is Twisted Antinium…and Manus doesn’t hold with it. Tell them my company walks off the field if they engage this [Slaver]. I don’t care if they have an agreement.”
The very idea made him want to spit. Of course, that didn’t help relations at all, but did Lulv care?
No. He was considering, after a month of fighting…giving up.
Not because Manus had lost too many troops. They’d kept their casualties almost non-existent, playing each battle safe. They killed enough Antinium to make anyone happy.
But are we doing any damage? Manus’ Security Council had had a theory when they sent Lulv into battle.
Those Antinium were Free Antinium specialists in some ways. Non-replenishable. Capable of levelling. Well, Lulv had seen some levels, but the Antinium had sent thousands of reinforcements.
And either they’re just regular Soldiers and Workers we’re killing or…
Or…Lulv had a dangerous thought. But it would be inconceivable to Manus’ understanding of the Antinium thus far. He hadn’t witnessed any direct evidence to suggest these Antinium were all leveling. But he had spotted more unique Antinium than he cared to count.
Belgrade the [Strategist]. Tersk and Dekass, Armored Prognugators. That damned, flag-waving Antinium. Now, three unknown classes. More Prognugators than any battle save for the first ones at the start of the First Antinium Wars had ever contained.
Lulv had to eliminate a few, but each one had artifacts, and he had let his [Archers] try and snipe them again and again, only to fail. Truthfully, Lulv had already known he needed to risk his forces and had been choosing which one to take out; the others might flee back to their Hive. That was when these three new Antinium popped up.
However, Manus’ forces hadn’t suffered from any of these individuals directly. Hectval’s Alliance did. None of the unique Antinium got near Manus or were dangerous enough to make Lulv nervous.
What did bother him was the [Sniper].
 
——
 
Manus had taken less than ten casualties in every engagement. Less than five in most. However, it seemed like they took one or two more than necessary. Lulv could have seen less than three deaths on average.
The same for the Alliance’s officers. Manus had statistics on battles and the average death counts for front and backline officers, and this war had a higher-than-average ratio. You could blame that on Antinium and a [Strategist] and 4th Company.
But arrow-related deaths?
“Standard arrow. Liscorian local fletching. No enchantments, nothing beyond steel arrowhead. Which is good-quality. Not every Drake city affords steel.”
One of his officers showed Lulv a bloody arrow pulled from a dead [Soldier]. It was grim, but Lulv inspected it carefully with gloves, looking for tricks to the arrow, as a [Mage] and [Alchemist] went over it.
“Looks regular to me.”
“Us as well. No telling what bow it came from, but they’re not always straight.”
Lulv nodded. The conclusion was clear, at least to him.
“We have a [Sniper]. Why isn’t it dead?”
He had spotted one a dozen battles ago, and Manus had met [Snipers] before. Oldblood Drakes, Gnoll [Hunters], Human [Rogues], it was a common tradition to inspire fear and yield high-value kills.
Yet, for some reason, this one kept coming back. One of the officers who had experience growled.
“I could swear it was a Worker, sir.”
“And you let one kill two of your men and just ran back?”
The Gnoll flushed as Lulv looked at him.
“No, sir! I ordered volleys on the target and magic the instant I saw it! I could swear I hit it…it must have healed up.”
“Me too. I didn’t let it walk away. I thought I killed it.”
Another officer opined. Lulv scratched at his chin.
“Always from range, though. I suspect some kind of survival Skill. It needs a close-range kill. It’s not Bird the Hunter…”
They had looked and the Prognugator wasn’t present. Moreover, Lulv suspected that Antinium would have shown itself. He shook his head with a growl.
“I will personally keep an eye out. Let’s focus on those odd Antinium. I want at least one dead. And given that Belgrade is on the right wing…here’s my list of targets.”
He was bending over a map with his officers. He’d seen enough. Lulv still had that odd sinking feeling in his stomach that told him he was missing something, but he was preparing to go in. That was when Sokkel burst into his tent.
“Lulv!”
“Code names and stay clear of the camp! You’re an attaché, you idiot!”
Lulv roared, whirling on the [Strategist]. Sokkel came to a stop, but he was vibrating. Lulv felt a moment of apprehension. Something about the way Sokkel looked…
He could sense new twists and turns in the war like any veteran. Lulv straightened, hand on his spear.
“What?”
Sokkel was panting. He’d run to get here.
“The Antinium have more reinforcements! Two hundred just came in.”
“So?”
Someone asked the dumb question. Lulv just waited. Sokkel looked at him, wide-eyed.
“They’re all Painted Antinium. They’re moving onto the left flank, and it looks like they’re bound for the next battle with the Alliance.”
The [Spearmaster] held very still. Then…after one long moment, he began to grin.
“At last.”
 
 
 
 
Crusader 51, [Crusader]
 
It had all gone so well. Until the Painted Antinium arrived.
There was something in Theophilus’ speeches that called to Crusader 51. After that day, the [Cleric] spoke differently. No longer did he speak just of Heaven or the good things in the world. He began to define…
Hell.
