That was why it was so hard to turn the [Slaver] away.
 
——
 
The [Slaver] of Roshal was a Drake. He had a tattoo of his city on his claw. To Olesm, it looked like a set of scales…but they seemed to change every time he looked at them. Never on one side. Never balanced.
Magical. Also, the [Slaver] was a Drake, though he had [Slave Bodyguards] of other species. In fact—no [Slave] was a Drake, and the [Slaver] was one.
That was just a kind of mental trick. Drakes would be more receptive to seeing that. Olesm knew Roshal did not have that many Drakes. But their agents in Izril?
“I am not selling any prisoners of war as [Slaves]. Liscor does not keep slaves, Slaver Cubol.”
The Drake offered Olesm a fine vintage of wine. Olesm pointedly ignored the proffered cup until Cubol sipped it. He never broke from his smile or took offense. Which made Olesm warier of him still.
“Liscor does not explicitly ban [Slaves], does it, Commander Swifttail?”
“We don’t keep them.”
Olesm frowned at the [Slaver]. Cubol raised one brow.
“Ah, but you don’t have a law in your charter banning them. Perhaps the sale or taking within your city, but certainly not the existence. That’s not a violation of your conduct of war either. I merely mention this as a fact.”
That was such a…Olesm put in an information request and did some reading himself. By the next time Cubol arrived, Olesm snapped at him.
“How did you know that?”
Roshal’s representative didn’t have a gift for Olesm to turn down. This time, he offered Olesm some news.
“Newspaper? Chandrar International. By a Rémi Canada. I order it from home. It is always nice to have another point of view, don’t you think?”
Olesm glared, but he let Cubol leave the newspaper because he wanted to know if it contained anything about Ceria. He was tempted to throw Cubol out of his tent and bar him from the army.
However, Olesm couldn’t arrest him, free the slaves, or touch Cubol in any way. Roshal was a foreign power, and they were notoriously protective of their [Slavers]. So why did Olesm listen?
Well, at first it was to argue over Liscor’s laws. Cubol had hit him with that before Olesm could tell him ‘no, and don’t bother me again’.
“How did you know Liscor has no anti-slave laws about them passing through the city?”
It was a notable lack. Cubol smiled.
“It would have been something I was briefed on. Few cities have that charter, Strategist. That would make them opposed to Roshal—whereas we can at least move freely. I believe Roshal does negotiate for that simple right.”
Olesm’s scales prickled. Did that mean almost every Drake—or most cities had that kind of opening in their laws? How long and how much had Roshal lobbied to do that?
He picked up the newspaper and flipped through it before he cursed and tossed it down. It was hard to tell Cubol just to get out, etiquette aside.
Am I under a Skill making me listen to this?
“I’m not interested in selling [Slaves].”
“Liscor could benefit very greatly from the sale thereof. I happen to know this war is not going…perfectly. A hundred enchanted weapons would turn the tide.”
That was why Olesm hated Cubol. If it were simply about [Slaves]…Olesm pushed aside the idea of buying a hundred Kaalblades and handing them to the Antinium. Wasn’t that fair? The problem was…Cubol looked at Olesm.
“I understand this is no normal war, Commander Olesm. I don’t visit regular city skirmishes. They do not tend to sell each others’ [Soldiers] into slavery. But this? Hectval? I don’t know all the details, but let me ask you one question before you throw me out. Your stance on [Slaves] or not—we don’t need to argue. If you hate my class and everything I stand for? All the better. Ask yourself this, Commander. How much do you want Hectval to suffer?”
He was good. Olesm looked up at Cubol and calmly picked up the newspaper. He had a magical lamp that he could use at night for steady illumination, but everyone had backup candles. He lit one, held the newspaper over it, and watched it catch fire.
Cubol watched calmly…until Olesm was holding a flaming bundle of paper in his claw. The [Strategist]’s face changed as he held the fiery bundle. It singed his scales. But he didn’t let go.
The [Slaver] watched as Olesm, in clear pain, stared into the heart of the flames. When the fire went out, he was holding ashes and his hand was burned. However—when Olesm looked up, the slight sweat on his brow rolled down around sharp eyes.
“That was a Skill. I’ve been taught how to break them, even adept ones like yours, Cubol. You are banned from Liscor’s army. Get out. If I want you, I’ll contact you. And I will never contact you.”
The [Slaver] frowned at Olesm, the polite veneer slipping away for the first time. Then he smiled ruefully and rose.
“I suppose the [Strategist] taught by the matriarch of the House of El would say no less. Although House El has sold [Slaves] to us before, you know. Even Maviola El had dealings with Roshal.”
Olesm’s head snapped up, but Cubol was already stepping out of his tent.
That was bait. Olesm refused to take the bait, but he was shaken by how much he wanted to.
Too competent by half, that [Slaver]. Olesm tended to his burned claw. He had more important things to do. Like realize that Artur had a talent for leadership.
Like…
Being a [Leader].
 
——
 
The morale of the troops was something Olesm worried about. He was no Zel Shivertail, and Olesm wished he could have taken lessons from the Drake. Each army was different, and each [General] had a different style.
For instance, Zevara was a leader who kept to her office, delegated to her trusted officers—but came out whenever it got hot. She inspired by competency but made a clear distinction between her and her command.
Olesm knew that Liscor’s army was more rough-and-ready, and high command would come down now and then. Zel? Zel would probably walk the camps. Ilvriss had been one of the delegators, the inspiring archetypes who [Soldiers] trusted by weight of his reputation.
Olesm…split the difference. He didn’t walk around clapping weary Drakes, Humans, and Gnolls on the backs, telling them to ‘keep their chin up’ or ‘fix that shield, son’.
He was young. It was a stupid look. Moreover? He didn’t think a lot of the army needed that. It was rough fighting. They were in the soup. But Liscor won more than it lost.
He went where he felt, instinctively, morale was hanging by a thread. Even when they won, it felt like they lost.
Olesm spent his time among the Antinium.
 
——
 
“I have eaten of the Rock Crab soup. It bleeds blue. The soup is filling and hot, and it tastes sour, such a deep sour as it makes your antennae wave, left and right. But the meat is so tough. So chewy. Some, I have heard, call it bad meat, but I have eaten of the Rock Crab soup, and my bowl was filled four times before I was sated. That is a soup you will one day have—if not here, then in Heaven. Believe that. Fight for that day and believe.”
Olesm listened to one of the [Acolytes] preach. Preach…it was an odd word, but it fit the odd style of address.
Nor did he quite understand what the Antinium was doing. Which one was it? He wore robes like Pisces’, white, trimmed with green, and all four arms were raised.
Theophilus? Olesm didn’t care about the words…he cared about the reaction of the [Crusaders].
They listened. However, Olesm saw a few staring more at the sky or at the food other [Soldiers] were noshing on than the [Acolyte]. It seemed Theophilus realized that too, because he had begun praying in more than single-sentence litanies.
Tersk, Dekass, and, to an extent, the three [Acolytes] and Calruz were the officers of the Antinium division. Olesm had far more than two main officers in every other division, but Antinium had no leadership, historically. A single Prognugator might command an entire army.
That needed to change. After the first bloody battles, Olesm walked around the camp and found himself…disconcerted.
The new Soldiers and Workers looked like they were settling in fine. They sat around, doing nothing but staring at the ground, plants, the sky…other [Soldiers], but the ones who’d been with the army from the start were more animated.
One lay on his back, just staring up at the clouds. Another was playing a…shell game? He seemed to be working it out with two other Antinium. Two Workers and a Soldier, squatting around.
Personality. Olesm thought that was a good thing. He scanned about and saw Squad 5, sitting around, idly watching pillbugs crawl about. One of the members caught his eye and earhole.
“…fUck. EAt pOOp. SEVer yOUR taiL. diE, DiE, DIE…”
“What is that?”
Dekass halted on Olesm’s tour of the camp.
“Ah. That is the not-Aberration, Crusader 57. We are watching him, Commander. Tersk has not allowed me to slay him, but if you would like to overrule that, I will be happy to oblige.”
“An Aberration?”
Olesm had seen and heard of Antinium going insane in his tenure as a [Strategist]. Workers going berserk and killing Liscorians…but mostly other Antinium. It was rare, but he knew how dangerous they were.
Yet when Dekass explained Calruz’s reasoning, Olesm looked around, glared at the Minotaur, and nodded.
“If he’s being watched…that’s your discretion.”
“Yes, Commander Olesm. I am pleased to report morale is high, as you can see.”
Dekass snapped his mandibles together happily. The [Acolytes] nodded, and one, Theophilus again, hastened to speak.
“We will fight and die to defeat Hectval, Commander. We will not mutiny or flee. Your concerns are unnecessary.”
Olesm looked at the Antinium, Tersk especially. He cast his eyes across the Antinium camp and shook his head.
“You’re wrong. Something is very wrong.”
Dekass looked puzzled, and the [Acolytes] snapped their mandibles together, worried. Tersk came striding up, putting on his helmet.
“Apologies, Commander Olesm. I was writing my own report to my Queen. Are you inspecting the troops for emergence of Painted Antinium or significant levels? They have not appeared yet, but my hopes are high.”
Painted Antinium? Olesm glanced at Tersk.
“Is that what your Hive wants? More Painted Antinium, Tersk?”
“Yes.”
“No.”
Dekass and Tersk spoke at the same time. Tersk glowered at Dekass until the other Armored Prognugator clicked his mandibles.
“Oh. I was employing, ah, sarcasm. We do not want that at all. That would be entirely distressing and not our goal.”
Olesm rolled his eyes. He turned to Tersk.
“I’d like that too. But I was just saying to Dekass—morale seems terrible in the camp.”
Tersk peered around as Dekass muttered, ‘subterfuge successfully employed’ to himself.
“…I do not understand entirely, but I also comprehend your meaning, Commander. Calruz has expressed similar concerns. Can you elaborate? This is my failing as a leader to grasp. Your perspective as a non-Antinium is entirely valuable.”
Olesm raised his brows. Tersk was changing. He nodded around the camp and illuminated it all. It was so simple.
“They’re not angry.”
The [Acolytes] and Prognugators looked at Olesm. Tersk’s mandibles opened wide, but Dekass laughed.
“Why would they be?”
Olesm didn’t answer him. He turned to Theophilus.
“Acolyte Theophilus.”
“I am not an [Acolyte]. That class does not exist. I am a [Healer]. You cannot read my class.”
The Drake was getting sick of Antinium lies. He ignored that.
“When you…spoke to the Antinium this morning.”
“A morale-building exercise. It has nothing to do with—”
“Silence.”
The [Acolyte] fell silent, and the Commander glared at him. He spoke crisply.
“Why aren’t the Antinium angry? Why aren’t you angry? A thousand Antinium were killed. By Manus—or Hectval, if we want to go down the official line. Those Soldiers and Antinium? They lost their comrades. That Worker is the only one having a normal reaction.”
He pointed at Crusader 57 and saw the Antinium look up. Olesm received four middle fingers, but it just illustrated his point.
“Angry…?”
Theophilus looked at his two other [Acolytes]. It was Zimrah who replied in a lighter tone than Theophilus. She? She spoke to Olesm.
“Antinium die in the Hive every day, Commander. It is a terrible thing. I weep for it, though I have no tears to shed. I weep in my heart and pray for a day when no one will die again. However, even a newly-born Soldier and Worker knows it is coming. That is our tragedy, and why we dream of better days. We are not angry; this war is terrible, but no worse than how we live normally.”
Jerimy nodded, and Olesm recoiled. He had never heard an Antinium talk like that! Aside from perhaps Pawn. Yet he replied just as quickly.
“That’s wrong.”
Zimrah’s clasped hands unclasped for a moment, and Jerimy raised one hand.
“Respectfully, Commander, this is what Pawn teaches.”
“Not anger? He tells you not to be angry?”
The others hesitated. They conferred, antennae waving, and Theophilus replied.
“He is angry at Hectval. That anger is in us all, without a doubt.”
“But not towards the [Soldiers] who killed the [Crusaders]. Because Antinium expect to die. You’re not angry. You should be. They’re out there. Don’t you want revenge? Don’t you want justice?”
A few Antinium were listening in, Olesm knew. Zimrah opened and closed her mandibles.
“We cannot think like that, Commander Olesm.”
“Why not?”
The [Acolytes] conferred. It was Theophilus who raised his head slowly. He looked at Olesm, and the words were dragged out of him with less confidence than anything else he had said.
“Because…because if we were angry about our people dying. If we were angry that we were killed, that so many die…we would be too angry. We would be…so angry.”
There was a warble in that last sentence. Tersk and Dekass turned to Theophilus, and Olesm bared his teeth. It was not kindness. He looked around at the Antinum and saw them eating their horrible paste.
“Don’t you award a ration to surviving battalions, Tersk?”
“As per your orders, Commander. We commend a battalion after every battle.”
“Huh. That bastard offered me enough gold to arm everyone. And food supplies. We don’t have a food shortage. We’re close enough to Liscor and the door…”
Olesm stared blankly at the Antinium slowly eating the paste. Tersk waited.
“Sir?”
“Commander?”
Theophilus was waiting for a reply too. Olesm turned back to him. He gazed at the [Acolyte] and looked around the camp.
“Be angry. They did this to you. Not monsters. Not fate. Hectval’s [Soldiers]. You’re here, fighting and dying, because they killed Erin Solstice. Because of them. You’ll meet them on the battlefield. Think of that.”
