He had placed Dekass and that other Worker behind their lines. However, he couldn’t hide them. Manus had struck their camp. Olesm had managed to threaten the skies—even down a Wyvern, damn him.
But the Painted Antinium died. Forty, counting the reinforcements, were making a final stand. No [Fireball] targets unfortunately; [Mages] were blowing every spell out of the air.
Lulv himself was watching his forces press in. He was waiting for a final trick, a teleportation spell. That was how he saw the Antinium.
“No class. Just like the others.”
One of his [Mages] pointed it out as it charged into Hectval’s lines from the side. Lulv turned his head. He frowned.
“I know that one.”
The other Drakes and Gnolls looked around. Lulv had thought it was dead, but there was no mistake.
Of all the Antinium fighting, even the squad rallied around the Minotaur with the axe, none of them were that…graceful with a sword.
It was no [Blade Dancer], but the sword parried a Drake, slipped through a gap, and sliced through bone. A single Soldier. No Painted Antinium.
“Mark it. Kill it.”
A dozen [Archers] pivoted and one gasped. Lulv turned and snarled.
“The [Sniper]!”
An arrow protruded from a chest. It was all chest-shots now. Lulv roared, searching around for it.
“Kill it and this time burn it to make sure it’s dead!”
A kill-team raced off, and Lulv turned back to see the Soldier swing his sword and chop a Drake in half.
“Strong.”
One of the officers muttered. He had a blade from Manus’ armories. Even so…was that [Greater Strength]? Lulv would never know; something about these Antinium meant you couldn’t read their classes.
“Alright, kill it. Loose!”
Eleven arrows shot at the Antinum. It was good; it ducked, but three curved and struck it. Deep wounds along the chest and stomach. It staggered…and seemed to look up at Lulv.
The [Spearmaster] saw the [Archers] nocked another arrow. He almost felt bad for it. A good warrior. But that was all. He was a Level 43 [Spearmaster]. It was probably Level 20 at best, a Painted Antinium-quality [Soldier].
If it had two dozen years…or just ten…? That was his job, to make sure they never got them. Especially the ones like that Worker trying to heal and failing.
The Alliance’s [Soldiers] charged, surrounding the Soldier and fouling Manus’ shots, the idiots. Lulv watched. One stabbed the Soldier in the side. He beheaded the Drake, whirled the sword up, stabbed a Gnoll through the chest, swept it through a spear, brought it down on a helmet—his shield deflecting a maul and axe.
“Dead gods, that one’s not bad.”
“Yep. If you have a [Guaranteed Shot]—loose!”
Carefully, two arrows flew. Leg hit, shoulder. The Soldier was bleeding, now. Staggering as the Alliance’s [Soldiers] hung back.
Yet it continued. Lulv had seen that, too. Heroes who kept fighting even when stabbed through the heart.
“Get me a javelin.”
He was going to end its suffering. Lulv grabbed the javelin impatiently and turned. He drew back—the Soldier looked up at him, and the [Spearmaster] threw.
The spear had such velocity that it punched through the Antinium’s left shoulder. It had partially dodged.
“Good shot, Commander.”
Lulv grunted as the Soldier fell back, pinned. An [Archer] took aim and stopped as a [Pikeman] lifted a spear to run the Soldier through. Lulv kept watching it as it lay, dying. He watched as it looked up, raised its mandibles…
And tore the javelin out of the stone. The pike struck the armor and glanced off. The Soldier rose, beheaded his opponent, and Lulv’s eyes widened.
“Counter-levelling.”
The Soldier raised his sword and slashed. A brilliant arc of metal struck every [Soldier] in front of him, ten feet across.
Had it passed out? Lulv turned.
“Javelin!”
It flew into his paws, and he took aim again. Consolidation? It had to be. But—it was one class—a handful of levels—
Lulv threw.
“[Impact Spear]!”
The javelin flew down, with enough force to splinter plate mail. The Soldier turned. It raised a shield and blocked the javelin. The sound was like thunder. Lulv looked down and saw it raise a sword. He didn’t know what it said—but then he felt something on his fur. Lulv looked up.
“What—?”
The clouded skies overhead split. A beam of light shone down. The kneeling Worker, the Painted Antinium, the regular [Crusaders] gazed up.
The Alliance’s forces threw their claws up and shouted. It was blinding! Lulv himself shielded his gaze.
“Light tactics! Special Antinium! I’m going in!”
He hefted his spear, blinking spots from his eyes, and saw the Soldier on the battlefield. He was impossible to miss, now.
 
 
 
 
Crusader 51
 
Did his armor shine like it was some precious metal? Was it his Skill? Was he taller? 
He stood alone as the Painted Antinium and Soldiers and Workers began to fall back. No one had given the order, but they all heard…a voice. Even through their helmets.
Zimrah rose slowly, looking at him as the Antinium turned. He was still wounded. The new class had cured none of his wounds.
“Let me heal you! Please!”
Dekass dragged her back. He was staring at Crusader 51. How did they all know his name?
“Run. We must retreat. He will hold them off.”
Manus’ [Soldiers] surrounded him. The Antinium whirled his sword through a helmet. He was so strong. He punched with his shield and shattered a skull.
Their magical weapons rose. One [Soldier] darted around Crusader 51 and aimed a sword straight at his unguarded back. The tip of the claymore met his armor.
Magic met faith. The weapon skidded off the armor, and Crusader 51 lifted his sword again.
Skywards. The pillar of light shone down around him. He lifted his blade higher, and it seemed like the light itself coalesced around his sword. Drakes and Gnolls looked up as a giant blade, far larger than Crusader 57’s zweihander, formed.
[Holy Blade: Sword of Judgment].
It crashed among their ranks, and even Manus wavered. How many Skills did he have? From one class consolidation? Even for counter-levelling—
 
——
 
They couldn’t hear it. The Soldier laughed. He knew his people were running. Listening to him. One of them whispered. Dekass.
“A Unitasis Network. You must live. Tell us how. How…?”
Yet they were all fleeing. Crusader 51 stood alone, and the enemy lines tried to force past him, chase after their quarry. They ran into a barrier made out of swords, glowing blades.
How?
He kept hearing it, between the blades striking his armor. As arrows rained down around him. Crusader 51 lifted his head as he heard a familiar howl. He turned to greet the [Spearmaster].
 
[Crusader Level 24—]
[Crusader Level 25—]
 
The [Spearmaster] struck him like a bolt of furry lightning. Faster. Crusader 51 whirled his blade. He was no master of thousand battles. Just one war.
He saw the Gnoll duck, spear sliding sideways. His thrust dented Crusader 51’s armor, and the Gnoll cursed as the shield clipped one side of his helmet. He rolled, and the shining blade split the [Soldiers] above him. Up, the spear exploded, stabbing Crusader 51, cutting off his upper right arm.
Lulv leaned out of the way of the blade, and Crusader 51 smashed his jaw with the hilt of his sword.
The [Spearmaster] grimly planted a dagger in Crusader 51’s neck, and the poisoned blade ate into the [Crusader]’s life. Still, Crusader 51 stood. He turned away from Lulv.
A sword obliterated Manus’ front ranks. [Soldiers] backed away from the gigantic blade and Lulv cried out.
“[Spear Art: Fangs of the Dire Wolf]!”
The first fang destroyed Crusader 51’s chestplate. The second ran him through. The [Crusader] raised his sword, a spear through his beating heart, and Lulv caught it. The Gnoll’s arm trembled as the [Crusader] tried to bring it down.
“What are you? Where is that power coming from? Kill the Painted Antinium! Don’t let them get away!”
Manus was hammering on the golden barriers. Crusader 51 tried to bite Lulv in the face and the Gnoll jerked his head back. The [Crusader] was laughing. One Soldier watched as Manus’ army lost their quarry.
If one can do that—he saw Lulv break away and felt an emptiness as the spear yanked out of his breast. The [Spearmaster] whirled. He raised the spear to throw. Sighting on Dekass’ back.
Crusader 51 reached for him, but two dozen [Soldiers] grabbed him. He fought, but they held him down, stabbing. Crawling over him. Sacrificing themselves against a high-level warrior.
One look. Lulv turned a snarling face to the [Crusader] and saw the Antinium smile. Strength beyond fairness? No. Well, maybe. It occurred to Crusader 51 he’d been onto something. Perhaps someone hadn’t thought things through?
But this was fair. This was just…a miracle.
If you believed, if you were willing to sacrifice everything and you were the right one—he could do it. The [Crusader] tilted his head back and listened.
 
[Conditions Met: Crusader → Templar Class!]
[Templar Level 25!]
 
[My Noble Virtue: Sacrifice declared.]
 
The world turned white. Lulv went blind. Everyone saw nothing…and everything.
He saw the first glimpse of a cloudy sky, the light peeking around a cloud, revealing the sun, brighter than—
When the light cleared, the Antinium were gone. The [Templar] lay, body ruined. Arms folded, at peace. Lulv, arm shaking, lowered his spear. He saw someone raise a hand to destroy the body and caught the arm.
“No. No…don’t touch it. We have to know. We have to…”
He looked around, rattled. For the first time in this conflict…
Spearmaster Lulv felt afraid. He had witnessed something he had no name for. Something different from magic. If he could have named it, it would be—
Faith.
