Theophilus was the preacher, the copy of Pawn.
…And he was failing.
Crusader 51 had a Skill, like most [Crusaders] who reached Level 10. [Faith is My Strength]. He was not…that much stronger. Some [Crusaders] seemed to react to Theophilus’ sermons, to the crucible of war. A shield that was unbreaking, or even, Theophilus had seen, an Antinium who could heal others, like the [Acolytes].
He used that as his example in his next sermon. Theophilus pointed from his pulpit, and every Soldier and Worker turned.
“Crusader 334 is my topic for today. Crusader 334 can heal. They have fought, and I have personally removed no less than eight arrows from their armor. Hectval attacked them and hurt them, and yet Crusader 334 lives. They stand against Hectval, for Heaven, and they are my example. If they still fight—so can you all!”
That moved them. Theophilus could see their conviction gathering. To him, his congregation was a sea of stars. Some faint, some barely glowing at all, like Crusader 57, the angry Worker.
Some blazed with faith, like Zimrah and Jerimy. Crusader 334 was one such, yet all the Antinium seemed to shine for a moment, as Theophilus’ sermon worked its magic.
 
[Acolyte Level 19!]
 
Theophilus smiled and slept the sleep of someone on the right path. He called out Crusader 334 again the next day, lauding his example, though it was not as effective…but Theophilus had thought he was on the right track.
After the second day, Crusader 334 was dead.
 
——
 
Theophilus stared down at his meal, untouched. Jerimy, handing out food to the others and speaking with them, looked at Theophilus.
“Theophilus? What is wrong?”
“Share my food ration, Jerimy. I am unable to eat.”
The [Acolyte] sat there, head lowered. Crusader 334 was dead. Manus had killed him. The [Spearmaster] himself.
Yet Theophilus could not make that sound good, no matter how he tried. The [Crusader] was dead. He had been brave, fought for Heaven, all the things Theophilus told them were right.
Yet he was dead. He had known [Heal Minor Wounds]. He could have healed Antinium and made them well as Theophilus, Jerimy, and Zimrah did. But he never would.
He was dead.
Olesm had told Theophilus to be angry. Zimrah was weeping quietly. She had clasped two hands together, and the other two hands were pattering down her upper arms, fingers tapping.
Like raindrops. Some of the Soldiers and Workers watched her. They had no idea what she was doing.
“It is Mrsha-speak. Of the Painted Antinium. I will teach you.”
Jerimy was telling a Soldier. Zimrah wept. Jerimy shared. Theophilus and Jerimy did not see where Zimrah went after that—if Theophilus had, he might have stopped Zimrah. But he was blind and deaf.
The [Crusaders] stood in ranks when Theophilus stumbled up to his podium, and their conviction was weak. It was not a darkness of unbelief…just the cold, grey mundanity of a world where Heaven was distant and death waited.
Theophilus tried. The [Acolyte] spoke.
“Today. I regret to tell you what you may know. Crusader 334, who was blessed with healing…perished in battle.”
The Antinium stirred. Just a slight movement. Crusader 51’s head was bowed low. He did not look up as Theophilus went on, speaking automatically, the words rushing out of him like blood from a wound in his face.
“The [Spearmaster] slew him. I am told Crusader 334 fought bravely. He was brave. Now he rests in Heaven. Believe that.”
He saw a few Antinium looking at him, clinging to his words. Many—too many—listened but saw no Heaven.
Heaven was hard to believe in. Even Pawn said that. You could not touch it. You could not see it. Yellow Splatters had died and told them Heaven was real, so Theophilus was filled with faith in his presence.
But Yellow Splatters was not here. The [Acolyte] went on.
“Crusader 334 was an example to us all. Despite the odds, he did not run or retreat. He was here to punish Hectval, to fight them. To protect Heaven and the Hive. He…he…”
The words did not come out. He could not glorify Crusader 334 enough. Theophilus believed he had been glorious. Yet…yet…
The [Acolyte] stopped upon his pulpit. The Antinium Crusade watched as Theophilus leaned on the podium, and Jerimy hesitated, hurrying up to perhaps pull Theophilus away.
Then Theophilus spoke.
“It is not right. He should not have died.”
The Crusade…stirred. Theophilus spoke, half to them, half to himself, in a muttering voice. Not projected with hope, but with something else.
“They killed him. That is what they do. Hectval. It is always Hectval. Some say Manus. But who took away our sky? Hectval. If not for them, we could be in the inn. She would be there, laughing. She would take my hands, and Pawn would laugh and smile. We should all be there. Instead, we are dying here. Crusader 334 is dead. Because of them. Hectval.”
Something was rising in Theophilus’ stomach. A kind of bile, but worse. Dekass and Tersk were used to his minute-long speeches, so they were hesitating as Theophilus went on. Jerimy had stopped, and, like the others, he was looking at the [Acolyte].
Every eye on him, Theophilus grasped at the podium.
“Hectval is bad. Hectval is wrong. Hectval is…”
He had talked about needing to fight Hectval but…now a word came to him.
“Evil.”
The [Crusaders] looked at each other. Evil? They knew the word, but they had never applied it to anything. Not Flesh Worms. Not Furfur. They had things that they disliked, even hated. But this?
The [Acolyte] on his podium looked around.
“Evil. Yes. Do you know what evil is? You do not. You, who have been in the Hives—we slay monsters. Facestealer is evil. It comes and kills us. Monsters? Monsters are bad. Hectval is evil. As evil as Facestealer. Why? Because you should not be here! Because you die! Because all of this suffering would not be if Hectval did not exist! That is what they have done!”
He struck his podium in a rage, cracking the wood slightly.
“Crusader 334! Your squads! It is all Hectval’s fault! That is why they must die! They are worse than Facestealer. That thing is a monster. They? They were born under the sky. They had lives, and they still killed her. They kill us. They have a choice. They…”
His breathing was disjointed, as if he were ill. The [Acolyte] looked up and hesitated. Faith shone in his gaze, brighter than ever before. He saw Crusader 51 gripping his sword tight. What was he saying? What was he doing? It came out of his mandibles in a flash.
“They will never go to Heaven. There is no Heaven for them. They are bound for nothing. Worse than nothing. They are…hellbound.”
Hell? The [Crusaders] looked at Theophilus, and he raised his arms.
“Hell! I have heard it spoken of! It is more than Rhir! It is where they will go. It is—”
He searched for what it surely was.
“—It is a place of suffering. It is a place where they will go when they die. The Humans have their Heaven and Hell. So do we. Ours is a place for our enemies to sink into. A watery grave. A place where they die and feel pain. They are hellbound, and you will deliver them to a place where they will be punished for every [Crusader] who falls. They are all cursed. Cursed! I mark you all for Heaven and they for Hell. Go! Send them there.”
His arms rose in a paroxysm of rage, twitching. Theophilus screamed at the Crusade—and then slowly toppled over backwards, onto his back. He did not hear or see what happened next, he just collapsed into a dead faint.
 
[Conditions Met: Acolyte → Cleric Class!]
[Cleric Level 20!]
[Skill – Weapon Proficiency: Club obtained!]
[Skill – Lighter Armor obtained!]
[Miracle – Cursed Hands obtained!]
 
It began. When Theophilus awoke, Tersk was standing over him.
“At last. I see it again. Pawn’s strange class.”
The Armored Prognugator looked down at Theophilus. He could not read the [Cleric]’s class.
[Cleric], not [Priest]. A class meant for…battle. Yet somehow, Tersk knew. He spoke, as Theophilus realized he was lying in the [Healer]’s tent.
“Your fellow [Acolytes] have advanced their class. They have fought on the front. Dekass does not understand. He will.”
Fought? On the front? Theophilus stood up and saw Jerimy.
The Worker had a flail. He also had two deep scars on his armor. And a new Skill. He was shaking with a fury, like many of the [Crusaders]. Theophilus hesitated as he saw Liscor’s regulars staring at the Antinium.
What had happened when he was out? Significant Beavers were pointing at the Antinium.
“Did you see them go into the fight this time? I thought they fought hard before—they were vicious. That little Worker with the huge sword bit someone’s face off!”
“Not the only ones. I thought they were going to chase Hectval into the Bloodfields. I’ve never seen one of the Prognugators—Dekass—have to order them to stop. Who was…she? The one who saved Satel?”
She? Theophilus looked around. He stumbled through the camp, as [Crusaders] stood about, the light of something shining in their gaze.
 
——
 
Crusader 51 was rolling a boulder half his height along, exposing a multitude of centipedes for his collection, marveling at his strength.
He believed. He believed or longed for Heaven, but what Theophilus had told him struck a chord even deeper. There was Heaven for him. And Hell for his enemies. That was justice. That…felt right. He wanted to believe in that.
 
——
 
Theophilus himself was grappling with what he had said. His new miracle, and the realization he’d had at the pulpit. He would fight. He was angry, just as Olesm had said. He would fight tomorrow, and levels had given him the Skills to do so.
Jerimy had felt his rage. He understood something that perhaps Pawn himself had not yet fully realized. Theophilus longed to speak with Pawn and hear his words, but there was something else.
For every dark mirror, there was a light side.
She stood among Workers and Soldiers—and Liscor’s regulars. Drakes were taking her hand and shaking it. Thanking her. Asking her questions.
Zimrah. The [Cleric] stopped when he saw the [Priest].
She had run into battle with the other [Crusaders], wearing only her robes. The unbearable wait had been too much for Zimrah, so she had found the wounded as they fell. And she had leveled in the battle itself.
Squad 5 was among those who had seen her appear. Crusader 57’s shaking had stopped. He looked up at Zimrah, holding one of her hands as she spoke.
 
——
 
What did you expect from her?
The [Crusaders] were hurt. Some were dying.
They had thrown themselves into the fighting, so intensely that some fought surrounded. Hectval was not Manus—but their blades were sharp. 
A mortal cut ran down Crusader 57’s abdomen, nearly splitting him in half. Crusader 51 and 53 were leading the squad defending him, but they had no more potions! 
The cursed zweihander lay across Crusader 57’s front. Though it had been a Skill—[Sundering Slash]—which had cut through armor.
That was when she appeared. A [Priest], her class’ name still ringing in her ears, running across the battlefield.
An Antinium in robes. Hectval’s [Soldiers] spotted her, and some marked her—but the [Crusaders] charged into them rather than let Zimrah die.
“Wounded? Where are—”
She saw Squad 5 and ran towards Crusader 57. The Worker was spitting.
“dyING. I’M DyinG. caN’t sAvE ME.”
He shoved her hands away. He knew her Skill. [Heal Minor Wounds]. 
“I am a [Priest], now. Hold still.”
He laughed at her. Crusader 57 knew Skills. So she had consolidated her class, right? Good for her. What did she have now?
[Heal Moderate Wounds]? He felt death eating him up from the center. The Worker began to curl up as Zimrah reached down for him. He looked up—and saw her dark brown-black eyes begin to shine.
They shone bright, a flash of color like the first beam of sunlight that Crusader 57 had ever seen. She grabbed his hand, and in that moment, as she spoke her new miracle, the Worker realized he had made a mistake.
He thought faith obeyed rules. The [Priest] grabbed him, and Hectval’s [Soldiers] saw a flash. A Drake boy, Vess, stumbled back as his squad retreated.
“Someone report this to command! Back! Back—”
Yet the Drake watched as the Antinium with the robes spoke in a…feminine voice? He thought he heard the Skill, but that couldn’t be. Because if he’d heard right, she said—
“[Cure Mundane Wounds]!”
 
 
 
 
Dekass, [Prognugator]
 
“What?”
Dekass slapped himself. Then he turned his head to hear again. Tersk repeated it.
“[Cure Mundane Wounds]. That is her new Skill. I am apprised of two Skills for combat that Theophilus and Jerimy have learned. They will employ them in the coming battle.”
Dekass just stood there. He knew how the world worked. He knew the intricacies of armored combat and the capabilities of his foe.
Nothing in his tutelage had prepared him for that Skill.
“Let us revisit Zimrah’s new ability. It sounds as though that would cure…mundane…wounds, Tersk.”
“Yes.”
The Armored Prognugator clicked his mandibles together a few times. He wondered if another good slap would help.
“Clearly my hearing faculties have stopped working. No, we are all under a [Confusion] spell. We must employ anti-illusion tactics. Tersk. That would imply she could heal all wounds that are mundane.”
“That is what mundane means, yes, Dekass. Hmm…yes.”
Tersk had a dictionary open. He tapped a word.
“Mundane. She insists on fighting, so I may put her in armor. She must be guarded. I have already told the Free Antinium to send artifacts to protect her and the other—”
Dekass walked out of the tent. He stared at the ground and tried to find the runes or hidden spells on him. He checked himself into the [Healer]’s. The Gnoll stared at Dekass and gingerly took his temperature. She felt at the cold chitin and hesitated.
“What is wrong with you, yes?”
“I am sick.”
“How?”
“I do not know. It is your job to tell me. If I am infected, kill me quickly. Have my sword.”
The Gnoll had a problem with taking Dekass’ sword. She’d never be a proper Antinium [Healer]. Olesm came to ask why Dekass was bothering her, and Dekass realized he couldn’t tell the Commander because it was a new Skill in a class he was supposed to keep secret. So he employed subterfuge.
“Nothing is wrong, Commander Olesm. I am coincidentally sick and nothing else of note has happened.”
The Drake gave him a long look as Dekass decided he might actually not be under a spell or sick. The Armored Prognugator walked back to Tersk.
“We must test this at once. I do not believe.”
Tersk opened his mandibles in a smile.
“Neither did I. But I am beginning to. That is the point. It is happening again. This is the potential of the Free Antinium.”
