Manus just had more levels, more gear, and more numbers. This was what Lulv had come for. Send me more Painted Antinium! They were a threat if you could field a thousand. Or ten thousand. A hundred and forty less walked the world.
Next time, he hoped they’d field all they had.
 
 
 
 
Olesm, [Leader]
 
He survived the [Fireball]. Tersk lived.
Theophilus was dead. Jerimy was dead. A hundred and forty of the Painted Antinium were dead and just as many of the regular ones. The rest were leaving, and Olesm couldn’t blame them.
It was something Tersk said, as he lay on the bed. He was wounded still.
“I am poisoned. I will live. I cannot command. Dekass will command. They are weaker. Weaker…you cannot let Artur or Zimrah near the front. They will die. He came for me. It hurts.”
He was mumbling as Olesm trudged into the tent. Tersk stared up at the ceiling, but he turned his head to Olesm.
“Weaker? How?”
“I do not know. Maybe I thought they were stronger.”
Tersk was holding the hole in his abdomen. Olesm just looked at him.
“Get some rest, Tersk. You did…all you could.”
Morale in the army was as low as it had ever been. That was the problem with hope. The Painted Antinium’s arrival had been turned into a resounding defeat.
Damn Manus. Olesm punched the nearest post and had to go back to the [Healer]. Was there no hope? Was there…
Zimrah was sitting in the [Healer]’s tent. When she saw Olesm clutching his split claw, she tried to heal him.
But her Skill or whatever it was didn’t work.
“Why was it them and not me?”
The [Priest] looked at Olesm. He shook his head.
“I’m sorry.”
He had to know how many they’d lost. Dekass was counting the Antinium when Olesm walked towards him, claw bandaged rather than healed.
“Squad 5! Muster! One, two…nine. Who’s missing?”
He looked around. Crusader 53 was gone. Crusader 51 was shaking as he stood in line. Olesm found Dekass.
“Commander Dekass. Tersk is unable to fight. I need you to count casualties…but you are a marked target. Please remember that. Keep Zimrah away from the fighting. I’m sending Artur to Belgrade’s side to be protected.”
Dekass turned. The Armored Prognugator looked at Olesm and nodded.
“I am not afraid to die, Commander. I will attempt to survive. But someone must lead the Antinium. We are bound to die, it seems. I request placing Tersk with the wounded in your camp. He has leveled over the course of this war. One of us will return to the Armored Hive.”
He turned back to counting. Olesm looked at Dekass. It was the most he’d ever felt for the Armored Prognugator. Not a hint of running after what he’d seen? Then he realized Dekass was counting each squad out loud. He normally did it just by looking.
“Come to my tent later. We’ll figure out how to stop this. And have a drink.”
Dekass paused, but Olesm walked onwards. He walked past B-Squad, down a Worker, silent, past the Painted Antinium who looked at that battlefield where their beautiful colors meant nothing. Starfold sat there as Olesm passed by.
“It is more horrifying. Did our levels, our identity mean nothing after all?”
Olesm turned. He addressed the Painted Antinium curtly. With all the pain in the world, but as a [Leader]. As…a [Commander].
“No. It matters. You are all Individuals. You level. You have classes and Skills, and you are each one of you a treasure of the Antinium.”
The Painted Antinium looked at the Drake. Olesm nodded over his shoulder bitterly.
“The problem is that you ran into people just like you. And they’ve been alive twenty, thirty, forty times as long as you.”
Starfold listened, then bowed his head.
“War is unfair.”
Olesm walked on. Yes, it was. The Antinium realized it at last. And still, some fought. That night, Dekass reported the first and only Antinium desertion in the history of warfare.
 
 
 
 
Crusader 51, [Bug Collector]
 
He ran away. He put his sword down around the blanket he’d been issued and was going to go to the latrine when he saw Squad 5 looking at him.
Crusader 51 froze. He knew they knew, and so he waited for them to shout for Dekass or grab him. But none of them did.
They were not the original Squad 5. He was the last one. Crusader 51 saw Crusader 57 spit at him.
“Go. gO, cOWard.”
That hurt. But he didn’t raise the zweihander. Crusader 51 felt a tugging at him, to stay, to fight with them. But Crusader 53 was dead.
And he was just…tired of it. So he walked away. No one stopped him. Antinium did not desert. He walked past their sentries, who frowned at him, calling out as they saw him walk into the darkness, with his rations on his shoulder. He’d left his armor behind, too.
 
——
 
Every step he took, Crusader 51 longed to go back. He thought of Squad 5, who would get replacements, but not him. He thought of Crusader 53. He’d seen the Antinium trip and fall, but not who killed him.
Crusader 51 just walked on, eating his rations, and then collecting edibles that Tersk and Dekass had identified. He walked and he walked, towards the ridgeline where the army had first passed through.
It wasn’t far. They hadn’t advanced that much, so after less than a day—a day of walking, and that was how far they’d come in a month—Crusader 51 stopped.
He had found a spot perfectly, from memory. He sat down and looked about. There was water nearby, a spring, and some food could be scavenged.
He sat down in front of a little anthill, and big, black ants spilled forth, biting at his legs, then deciding he wasn’t a threat and going about their business. Crusader 51 placed a bit of stale sandwich in front of the hole and watched them swarm over it.
 
[Bug Collector Level 8!]
[Skill – Bugfriend obtained!]
 
——
 
The little ants were one small hive in a world of dangers. Like anteaters. The first time Crusader 51 saw it, he’d gone for water. He came back, and the armadillo-thing was licking up ants with its sticky tongue, dozens at a time as they helplessly scurried about.
Like Manus. Crusader 51 kicked it so hard it went flying over a cliff. He sat back down, and the ants calmed. They needed water, too, so he brought them handfuls and watched them lap it up.
They could use a pond or something. Something to gather rainwater. He dug a hole greater than their entire colony to the side, and the ants…seemed to watch him.
 
[Bug Collector Level 9!]
[Skill – Vague Directive (Ants) obtained!]
 
——
 
By the end of the third day, Crusader 51 realized there was a queen in the Hive. He gave her orders.
The ant hive was intelligent enough to gather food, resources, defend their eggs and larvae, but they had no vision. They came out in a rush.
He made them into squads. Sent them exploring, organized a fighting group that rested rather than move about.
[Vague Directive] worked to also let them stop doing things he could do. Like expanding the potential area of their hive by breaking up the dirt with his hands. Crusader 51 killed an anteater and spared their hive the need to find food for two whole days. His big levelup came when rain fell, and he realized their hive was at the mercy of the water table and spent all day digging a drainage system as water rained down around him.
 
[Conditions Met: Bug Collector → Ant Farmer Class!]
[Ant Farmer Level 10!]
[Skill – Minor Telepathy (Ants) obtained!]
[Skill – Doubled Collection (Ants) obtained!]
 
…What was an [Ant Farmer]? Crusader 51 didn’t know, but it was honest work. He felt like the Skills were a bit…off, though.
For instance, he doubled the collection of the anthill. But what would a hypothetical farmer of ants want? Well, if they produced something, he could take it.
Instead, what they collected was other insects, plant matter. And they pulled nearly twice as much of it as Crusader 51 doubled their ant farm. In fact…was the queen pregnant? She always was, but was there something…special about this one?
The first ant with wings was born, and Crusader 51 stared as a new queen emerged—and promptly started trying to fight the first one to the death. He separated the impending bloodbath, and, bewildered, the ant colony split into two colonies…side by side.
They kept trying to fight each other, the silly things! He made them work together. Two hives were better than one! His real relief came when he leveled up again shortly after his ants killed a roaming Rockgnaw Goat, a relative of the feared Eater Goat. It wasn’t ready for thousands of big ants to swarm him—or one of the pit traps Crusader 51 had begun to have his ants dig all over.
 
[Ant Farmer Level 12!]
[Skill – Abler Bodied Animals (Ants) obtained!]
 
Yep, there was definitely something odd about his Skills. He felt like the notifications sort of…hesitated. Then added the (Ants) bit.
Sometimes, Crusader 51 thought back to his command. He felt like he could feel them, but that was probably just the sensation of being linked to three hives by now. They were simpler creatures than he.
However, his Skills were empowering them. By two weeks, Crusader 51 was Level 16, and his ants could drag a Corusdeer to their lair.
The local wildlife objected, naturally.
 
——
 
The ant-war made Crusader 51 sick. He walked away from stomping large centipedes, snakes, and watched the smaller Black Tide cover their foes, who’d joined up to stop the ant hegemony.
Was this what I wrought? Crusader 51 looked at his tribute, a pile of skinned snakes. Four queens directed their hives, letting their foes enter into kill-zones, as squads of bigger soldier-ants scurried out and the worker-ants retreated.
They were…getting bigger. He had [Larger Livestock], but perhaps these ants were evolving? Crusader 51 had seen them feasting on two slimes, even the mana cores, and other magical animals had fallen prey to them.
The ruler of the anthills sat, fed. The ants hadn’t learned how to start a fire yet, but they were getting close. They could do almost anything, pile up bits of wood, transport huge objects…
Just not create enough friction for a fire. He didn’t mind. He could lie on his back all day and never have to do anything again. But since he was restless, and the visions kept coming…he dug, and fought, and dreamed of them.
He could see Crusader 57 fighting, in his mind. Hear the Worker shouting insults. Squad 5 was still out there. They took losses, but they kept going onwards. Commander Olesm had gotten unexpected reinforcements.
Crusader 51 had been declared dead, and Squad 5 had refused to tell Dekass where he went. So the Prognugator and Olesm had given up on him since no one else had deserted.
Did he know that, or was it just a dream?
[Minor Telepathy (Ants)].
 
——
 
He was an Antinium. Had someone made a stupid mistake? Crusader 51 felt like these…dreams…were too real.
Zimrah had changed. She tried to fill Theophilus’ role, but she wept. The Painted Antinium were gone. The Crusade was in jeopardy.
Crusader 53 was alive.
 
——
 
No. No, he was imagining it. Just like he imagined Manus redoubling their assault, trying to cut off Dekass, kill the Painted Antinium. They hadn’t even managed to escape. Manus had attacked them as they retreated, and there were only thirty left.
Just his imagination. Just like he imagined a Crusader 53, sitting while Drakes in Luldem’s uniforms argued what to do with him and someone offered him a tin of jellied raspberry.
[Minor Telepathy (Ants)].
 
——
 
Stop it! Stop it! Crusader 51 sat amid a world of little ants, who created effigies of him. The queens scuttled around, and he heard the tiny thoughts of rebellion.
Why do we have to feed this giant ant? They were definitely getting smarter. Crusader 51 watched as the ant collective now spanned a thousand feet—under ground, at least. Lesser ant colonies joined the swarm, red ants, black ants, blue ants, yellow ants…there were a lot of insect-kind!
Aphids. They were tending to aphids. Crusader 51 had decided they needed a permanent food source, so the ants were tending to different plants.
Squad 5 was under siege. Manus was coming. Zimrah fought, ignoring Dekass’ orders and the Painted Antinium had received a group from Liscor via the door. It wasn’t enough.
Crusader 51 looked at his ant hive when the first rebellions began. A hive of ants poured over him, biting, tearing at him as a queen battled with the others for full control. One would rule all kinds of ants!
…The ants couldn’t hurt Crusader 51. He looked down, picked up the ant queen. The other ants, even her hive, scattered.
The Titan has declared wrath upon them! A queen was no match for the hand of __! Flee! Flee!
He looked at the terrified little queen. He could squish her. She would probably keep trying to usurp the others. All this death…all he had to do was…
Crusader 51 flicked her, and she went flying into the distance. Perhaps to start another colony; some of her hive went with her. Crusader 51 went back to listening for his people.
Faith. He hated Hectval. He believed in Heaven. Crusader 51 killed a Corusdeer with his bare hands. It tried to scorch him, antlers igniting, but he was so strong he tore the antlers off the head and snapped the neck.
He believed that Theophilus, Jerimy, and Zimrah had power. He believed in Heaven.
He also believed he would die.
The ants of sixteen hives scurried about as Crusader 51 put the deer down, and they cleared a space and then swarmed it. He did not tell them to leave any for him.
There. That was enough food for now. He’d completed his little bypass, and a spring ran close enough to the ant hives for them to collect water. Enough for them to grow, thrive, and create an ecological disaster.
But that was all. Food for a day, and Crusader 51 rose. He dusted off his hands, patted a queen on the head, and walked off. The ant hives watched him go.
A lonely colossus, heading back to the world of the titans. Crusader 51 followed the thoughts in his mind. Until they were louder. He walked, then jogged, then ran. He had left Squad 5, Battalion 1 behind. Left his friend, Crusader 53.
But deep down, he had always known he would never be able to leave while they were there. His people needed him.
What could one ant do? Crusader 51 prayed. He had never prayed before, not truly. As he ran, as he found the camp, snatched up a familiar sword as bewildered [Soldiers] looked at him, as he charged forwards, he prayed.
Not for Heaven. Not for the condemnation of his foes. Certainly not for the forgiveness of sins. He prayed for something else.
And the world answered him.
 
 
 
 
Lulv, [Spearmaster]
 
The Painted Antinium were gathered up on the hill as the [Spearmaster] watched the last push begin. The [Strategist]—no, the [Commander]—had done his best.
