“[Instantaneous Bombardment]. Pull the Antinium back.”
A hail of arrows cut down Hectval’s front line and stopped the cheering. The Antinium fell back, and after more fighting, so did Hectval.
Olesm lost over a hundred Antinium.
 
——
 
After that, Olesm began digging fortifications, creating forts of dirt using the Antinium. Just in time, too; he realized Hectval was spreading out further.
“Some groups are even trying to get around us. Not big. We could ignore them.”
Ramia growled as they studied Scout Leader Maksie’s reports. Bepol shook his head.
“They’ll hit us from behind in raids or our supply line. Or maybe just go after Liscor. I think we need to move out.”
“…That’s what they want. No. That’s what Manus wants.”
Olesm saw it, clear as day. The spreading out of forces could only help Manus in their goal to fight the Antinium. Bunched up, Liscor’s army was far more of a threat. Spread out…the Antinium were on their own.
It fell to him to make a choice. Olesm pointed at the map.
“Bepol, you and Ramia have the left, Embria’s roaming. Belgrade has the right.”
“And what will you do, Commander?”
Surprised, Ramia turned to him. Olesm bared his teeth.
“I’m going Manus-hunting.”
 
——
 
He did his best. He saw Manus coming. He saw the Gnoll.
Spearmaster Lulv. If Olesm had to guess who held that adamantium-tipped spear…he was no fool. He could guess based on the number of [Spearmasters] in Manus.
The Gnoll leapt down a steep cliff face, so steep that the infantry looked like they were charging almost straight down. Olesm hadn’t expected that, but he instantly assumed a Skill.
“Got you. Antinium! Turn and brace! [Archers]! Prepare yourselves!”
Olesm rode towards Manus’ lines, and Hectval’s forces saw a group of nearly two hundred mounted archers join the ones already under Bepol and Ramia’s command. He had been waiting to ambush them. Olesm’s claw aimed straight at the [Spearmaster], wavered, aimed towards Manus’ lines.
[Spearmaster] or regular [Soldiers]? You don’t try to snipe high-level [Warriors]. Bad idea.
Olesm pointed towards Manus’ regular forces.
“[Instantaneous Barrage]!”
And his claw jerked right towards Lulv. Olesm’s Skill attacked Lulv! A decoy Skill! A taunting Skill?
The arrows shot towards Lulv, and the [Spearmaster] blocked them. His spear whirled, deflecting the phantasmal arrows, and the rest struck his armor and bounced off or vanished as a charm flashed. Olesm howled curses as his [Archers] loosed a second volley, but then Manus was attacking the Antinium.
It was so fast. Lulv’s spear howled, and twin fangs smote Antinum down. Olesm saw [Soldiers] using Skills too.
A long slash from a sword. Four arrows, nocked and loosed in quick succession. A flickering figure that turned into a wavering mirage as the real body struck home.
A sword set an Antinium ablaze. A hatchet was deflected by a shield—but the Antinium began bleeding as the blow struck through the metal and into the arm. A spear passed through armor into the body beyond.
Enchanted weapons. Lulv was retreating with Manus’ forces after one clash. That was all they needed. They unloaded their best Skills and fled.
Good tactics. Simple, effective…Olesm looked past them at the Hectval Alliance’s forces. They came at Bepol and Ramia in an enveloping wave, once more taking advantage of the Antinium’s losses. Olesm shook his head.
“[Riders], on me! [Attack Formation]!”
He led them in a charge along the sides, not following Manus, but heading left. A group of [Riders] came to stop him, and the mounted archers knocked them from their saddles. Olesm drew them to a standstill and parked them behind Hectval’s lines.
“Volley! Volley—break away!”
The [Soldiers] ate two volleys of arrows to their backs. More than the losses, it was demoralizing. Hectval’s commander turned on Olesm in a flash, trying to box him in. He just raised a claw.
“[Rapid Retreat]. 4th Company, your position?”
“Inbound. Keep them on you for just six…”
Olesm cut the overeager pursuers to shreds when Embria came out to attack them. And that was how he felt it went.
Hectval’s Alliance stalemated or lost. Manus won.
They had some kind of intelligence. Olesm suspected aerial scouts that Maksie couldn’t see, or just plain [Scrying] spells. They were fast, hard to keep track of…and they made gaps or openings even when he tried to counter them. In desperation, Olesm resorted to a new formation in the next battle. He placed Antinium companies among Liscor’s, such that there was no one unified body of Antinium. They were scattered like a patchwork among his command, inefficiencies or not.
In response? He could only describe it as Manus punishing Liscor. Olesm’s casualty list after that battle listed ninety-eight dead among the non-Antinium. Three times that wounded.
 
——
 
The officers rebelled. It was a quiet, polite rebellion, but still. Olesm woke up and found a gathering outside his tent.
“I’ve asked for Wing Commander Embria to help settle the matter, Commander Olesm. But they were insistent on talking to you.”
Bepol’s voice rose slightly, to tell Olesm she was aware of the issue. However, the officers didn’t budge. They stood with the lower-ranked non-commissioned officers, sixty in total.
It was a Gnoll who spoke for all of them. One of the Battalion Leaders.
“Commander Olesm, sir. We don’t intend a coup or anything like that. Have the Wing Commander listen…we’d just like to say our piece. We can’t—won’t have the Antinium in our ranks, sir. It’s not us hating them. It’s just—we can’t. If we go into battle like that again, we’ll fall back. Not desert. We hope you won’t call it rebelling. But I hope you understand.”
Olesm looked at the grim-faced Gnoll, then around at the others. Embria rode up, casually holding her spear, with two of her squads ‘casually’ jogging up.
“Commander Olesm. Problem?”
He saw the Gnoll warily eye her and shook his head.
“No, I think, Wing Commander. What’s your name, Battalion Leader? It’s early, and it’s escaping me.”
“Podk.”
Olesm nodded grimly.
“Come on in, Podk. You and…six more. The rest of you can wait outside. Let’s settle this. Someone get me breakfast.”
 
——
 
In another army, Olesm might have tried this as a mutiny, because it technically was. Embria was glaring daggers, but Olesm had counted how many officers were there. He had a feeling they spoke for the group.
That was what Podk claimed. He looked awkward, even ashamed, but he spoke.
“Is it Manus that’s fighting us? That group led by the [Spearmaster]?”
Olesm had issued a clamp order on discussing that with the lower ranks. He stirred, but Podk went on.
“That’s what everyone’s saying, sir. No one had to tell me. I have eyes, and it’s not like I think they’re Hectval’s best, no. They’re after the Antinium.”
That too was obvious to anyone who had seen…the battles. Olesm gave a grudging nod.
“I understand you refuse to mix ranks with them. Can you reiterate why?”
“Not because we hate them!”
A Human spoke up. She clasped her hands behind her back, and all the officers nodded, some faster than others.
“It’s just that they killed nearly a hundred of us. Today. Tomorrow? If the Antinium aren’t…apart? They’ll do the exact same thing.”
“That’s war, soldier. They’re on one side, we’re on this one. Grab your tail and kiss it if you want, but figure out how to stab them if you’ve got time, not your own side!”
Embria barked, and Podk turned red, but he held his ground.
“It’s not cowardice.”
“Explain it to me, then.”
Olesm saw the Gnoll look around for support and get slow nods. He flexed his paws.
“It’s…I know the Antinium got a thousand reinforcements, sir. Saw them marching up myself. Brave Antinium. We got what, a hundred?”
“Mostly volunteers. Two days ago, yes.”
“Right. If the Antinium took…more casualties. Not that I want it—if they did, would a thousand more come?”
Olesm had a terrible feeling he knew what Podk was getting at. He put aside his rations and looked at the Gnoll.
“Are you putting the Antinium’s lives below yours, Podk?”
The Gnoll met his gaze, unwaveringly.
“Yes, sir. I am. I know they’re Antinium, and I don’t hate them. I saw them save Liscor again and again. But if a thousand of them die, the Hive comes up with more. Somehow. I’ve lived for thirty-three years. If a thousand of us die…Liscor will have more trouble coming up with us. And we will die, with Manus on the attack.”
His paws were clenched so tightly. Yet he said it. Olesm gave him that. If he danced, Olesm would have been tempted to ignite the Kaalblade hanging from his waist.
The [Leader] sat there and calmly picked up a biscuit. He began eating it as the officers watched until they were just uncomfortable enough, not assuming he was mocking them. Make them wait was Maviola’s advice. Even if they have you naked and are looting the mansion, make them wait.
Experienced advice. Olesm nodded.
“I’ll take your words to heart, Podk. Make no mistake—I’ve heard you. You’re dismissed.”
The officers stood at once. A scowling Embria let them leave, but Olesm called out.
“Podk?”
The Gnoll turned in the doorway with the rest, theatrically. It was about…Olesm sat there, looking up at him calmly.
“The next time you all decide to do this? Send Podk, and I will hear him any time. If you do it again like this, I will have the Wing Commander arrest and try you all as mutineers. Have a fine day.”
They left fast. Embria stomped out to shout at 4th Company to disband and turned to Olesm.
“That was handled as well as I could ask, sir. We’d send that lot into battle naked, but it might have gotten…difficult if we tried them all. Nasty business. What’s the plan?”
Olesm scrubbed at his face with his claws. He sat there, and the [Leader] thought he could see Erin staring at him. He looked at an [Innkeeper], a genius chess player, someone who could speak to Drake [Generals] and rub shoulders with famous people and Gold-ranks without blinking.
He wondered if she would have been a great [General]…or a poor one. Because he had always thought she would be the world’s finest if she had changed courses. Now? He wasn’t sure.
Because he was about to do something Erin Solstice would never do. Olesm looked up at Embria.
“Do? I’m going to put the Antinium division back, Embria. And let Hectval at them.”
He waited for her to smile, one hand on a fork. If she smiled, he stabbed her, and she probably cut off a limb.
To her credit, she never did.
 
[Leader Level 15!]
[Skill – Preserve Morale (Casualties) obtained!]
[Skill – Bloodthirsty Engagement obtained!]
[Skill – Detect Disloyalty obtained!]
[Skill – Hundredfold Arms Repair obtained!]
 
 
 
 
Belgrade, [Strategist]
 
It touched him, slightly, that his officers did not take part in that mutiny. He had no doubt they took part in the clandestine meetings he was aware they were trying to hide from him, but they did not join the group outside Olesm’s tent.
Still, they requested it. And still, Olesm acceded. And Belgrade?
He understood.
He understood, on the level a [Strategist] could, why Olesm did that. It was simple: the Free Antinium could replenish their losses. Just as was pointed out to Olesm, if this was a war of attrition, Liscor’s morale and soldiers could not withstand the losses that the [Crusaders] could.
The Antinium died. The Antinium were reinforced. The survivors wore the dead’s armor, picked up the weapons of the fallen or captured arms.
It was a cold-blooded maneuver. Belgrade wondered if Olesm had leveled from it. Certainly, the Drake had quietly informed Belgrade that there would be no need for him to order the [Camp Smiths] to repair a hundred of the damaged mundane weapons each night.
Such a useful Skill.
Belgrade hated Olesm. But he did not mutiny. He did request permission to take over the Antinium command and was denied. Again, for entirely salutary reasons.
“You are a [Combined Arms Strategist], Belgrade. It only works if you have a mixed force to command. Moreover—you’re an excellent defensive-line specialist. Hectval is taking the battle into a wider and wider front. I need you to handle the right. Can I trust you to do that?”
Belgrade saluted Olesm with perfect posture, as he had seen Embria doing.
“You can trust me impeccably, Commander Olesm. I will do my duty to my utmost.”
He meant every word. Olesm was right. He was also wrong, but he was right in every order. Just like shutting the gates on the Goblins.
That kind of right.
 
——
 
Belgrade did not see his fellow Antinium dying. Oh, to be precise, he saw one die.
Exactly one. He had a bodyguard of twenty [Crusaders] that he had requested. One died when an arrow struck him during the fighting that followed in the next month and a half. The rest didn’t fight that much. They were bodyguards.
Belgrade was a [Strategist]. He had been apprised of assassination attempts by Tersk, and the Hive had sent more artifacts. Belgrade already had officer’s gear, but he had donned a strangely made torc, a segmented necklace of solid metal with a rune drawn on each side.
It had been made by Xrn to protect him. Belgrade was an asset. He had command of the right wing of the army.
He did a good job. Belgrade read each casualty report, heard of the Antinium under attack by the Manus forces. It became routine to see a column of Soldiers or Workers heading up from the rear, sometimes bearing supplies.
He focused on the fighting men and women of Liscor’s right flank. He saw Olesm implementing tactics on the left with the Antinium division and wrote Olesm his own. They didn’t seem to have a noticeable effect. Belgrade could not save his people, nor was his class advancing in the right way to help them the most as of yet.
However, over the next month, the right flank of Liscor’s army drew Hectval and their alliance into hell.
 
——
 
Belgrade was now a [Combined Arms Strategist]. He assumed being a [Trapsetter Strategist] was inherently implied to be part of that.
He had only four new Skills after his consolidation, but Belgrade found each one was strong. As any good [Strategist] did, he experimented and made sure he knew what they did before testing them out in battle. He made a mental list and wrote a note he instructed a Worker to personally hand to Xrn, Pawn, or the Free Queen that summarized his findings.
Firstly, and simplest. [Army: Springwood Supplies]. Belgrade had wondered if they had some kind of supplies from a ‘Springwood’, which sounded very much like Ceria’s home forest. If she had a home forest? Had he committed a racism?
