“Because it is a poor precedent to execute a warrior in front of their fellows. It is not uncommon; the House of Minos has known the like, but not in modern day. The offense must be grave indeed, and we pride honor above all. We know there are reckless warriors, those with poor temper. We do not kill them for that, Tersk. What serves the Antinium, or Liscor’s army, in killing this Worker?”
“It would…eliminate a threat.”
“If this Antinium was going to kill, surely it would have already.”
“It disrupts Squad 5.”
Tersk countered, but his tone was…thoughtful. Dekass looked incredulous as Calruz knelt.
“Worker. Or…Crusader 57. You have caused a disturbance. If you refrain from doing so, will you fight and obey orders?”
The thrashing Worker slowed. It looked up at Calruz, and the strange, oddly quavering voice actually calmed down. Although that was saying a half-screamed warble turned into a molten hiss of unsurpassed rage.
“I…am obeying. Even your stupid orders. I fight Hectval.”
Calruz rose. Tersk looked struck.
“I…that is not what Aberrations do. Or say.”
“What is normal?”
The Minotaur was curious, not that he would ever return to Minos. But perhaps he could report it? Tersk shrugged.
“Curse the Queen. Swear to kill everything. Rebel. ‘I will not obey.’”
Calruz’s brown eyes fixed on Tersk, and the Minotaur felt his palm grow suddenly sweaty. Did the Antinium not know how it sounded? It didn’t sound like madness. That sounded like…
“Tersk. Will you let this [Crusader] live? His squad might watch him.”
“It is a risk to them and our division. Persuade me, Calruz.”
Tersk tilted his head left and right. Calruz met his gaze.
“I cannot give you a logical argument based on your Hive’s orders or history. I can only suggest this, Tersk. It would be dishonorable to kill this Worker. That is what I believe.”
Dekass rotated from Tersk to Calruz as the Armored Prognugator went still. He drew his sword.
“Alright then. Let us kill—”
Tersk grabbed Dekass.
“I see. Then we will let Crusader 57 live.”
“Whaaaat?‘
Dekass looked as flabbergasted as any Antinium Calruz had ever seen. Yet Tersk just nodded.
“Come with me, Calruz. We will dine as I believe is customary. You must explain more.”
The Minotaur agreed. They headed towards Tersk’s tent as Squad 5 stared down at Crusader 57. The Worker watched the Prognugators go, then tried to bite Crusader 51’s hand.
“Let go of me. Idiots.”
Crusader 51 jerked back. He rose and stared after Calruz as the Worker stomped back to his zweihander and sat down. He almost hoped Crusader 57 would die to the curse next battle. An Aberration was…?
Crusader 53 just watched Calruz, one-sided like him. The [Maceman] had seen Calruz nod at him. Thoughtfully, Crusader 53 sat down and began toying with his gear.
The next time Calruz saw Squad 5, the angry Worker was still alive. Oh—and the Minotaur did a double-take when he saw Crusader 53 had glued two makeshift horns to his helmet.
Poor little warriors. Calruz tapped one of Crusader 53’s fists with his own, looking in his eyes. He missed Rhata and Haldagaz. 🐁 But he fought that these children might live. Yet he—Olesm—they could not stop Manus.
Not yet.
Calruz could endure the losses of the Antinium because he had lost his team, his comrades before. He had lost his mind and honor. Rather than stop under the weight of it all, he fought harder.
He did not know how they dealt with it. Crusader 57 was a symptom, not an aberration. Even Antinium broke. And these…these weren’t mindless Soldiers or Workers.
They had a cause. That would make them weaker and stronger than any of their kind had ever been. But the suffering. You could grow numb to it. And that was the worst of all.
 
 
 
 
Artur, [Flag Bearer]
 
He saw it all. Like Maksie, like Crusader 51, he was there. The difference was that he did nothing.
Brave Soldiers like Crusader 51 fought. They survived and risked their lives on the front. Calruz jogged off alone, to fall on the enemy, one against a hundred.
Maksie flew through the sky, dodging spells and arrows, to call for reinforcements for the dying and wounded, to make sure their end was watched.
But Artur just held the flag. A useless Worker with no ability to fight. He held the flag he had been so proud of. It had the insignia of every single battalion he served with.
Even Liscorians. Even squads like Significant Beavers. They came up to him, the Worker with the flag.
“Er…we have a patch. If you want, we could sew it on?”
“Yes. That is good, please.”
Jordes recoiled as the Worker carefully retying the banner to the shaft of wood spoke. But then he handed the Fortress Beaver logo over, and Artur produced a needle and began to stitch it onto the flag.
It made the symbol of Liscor’s city look less…well, magnificent without detail, the icon of the city. Instead, the flag had dozens of little insignia, from cute to meticulously drawn. Like a children’s drawing.
Perhaps that bothered some of the people who saw it, because Artur had heard Olesm receive a petition that the Antinium not carry the banner. Or rather, that banner.
“Why in the name of the walls would I entertain that?”
He snapped back in a discussion with Bepol, who’d brought it to him. The Pallassian-trained Drake looked uncomfortable as Artur listened in.
He could get near the command tents. In fact, Artur alone could go wherever he pleased if he was in the right camp.
He was the [Flag Bearer], and as such, Tersk and Dekass rotated him from battalion to battalion. In fact, Olesm even sometimes requested Artur join a Liscorian section.
Because Artur had a Skill. Well, multiple Skills.
He could repair scratches and other small damage to the flag just by willing it, which was very important so that the patches didn’t need constant replacing. Nor would the flag get muddy or bloody; even water slid off the fabric. However, the Skill that mattered to all the officers was Artur’s first flag-Skill.
[Flag: Inspiring Sight].
He held the flag, and [Soldiers] saw it and didn’t break. They gazed at the flag and fought on. Weary limbs too leaden to move would rise—because they saw their patch flying on Artur’s flag. That was Artur’s first Skill, and it alone had made Olesm seek him out.
In that first battle when the cloud of darkness descended, Artur had stood petrified as Manus’ forces attacked. Liscor’s regulars and the Antinium crusade had looked for orders amid the chaos—and the flag had kept them rooted. When death surged around them and all was chaos and every officer shouted an order—
The flag flew.
What they didn’t understand was Artur’s guilt. He watched them die, sometimes right in front of him, sometimes from the rear. He was just a single Worker. Holding a flag that Bepol or someone found objectionable.
“It looks like a child made it, Olesm. There are laws in Pallass about disgracing flags.”
“This isn’t Pallass, Bepol. Besides…what’s the problem with it looking…”
Olesm looked around and didn’t notice Artur. Oh, the Worker had a giant flag, but he was standing with Liscor’s regular one. So it just looked like two flags were flapping in the breeze.
“…like children made it? Commander!”
“Children did make it. Do you know how old Antinium are?”
“Sir?”
“Do you know how old Antinium are? By any definition, Bepol…”
Artur watched as the argument turned into Bepol quickly exiting Olesm’s tent. The Drake looked patently uncomfortable with the idea Olesm was suggesting. Olesm emerged from the tent and saw Artur holding his flag. He eyed the Worker.
Artur held the flag.
 
——
 
The worst part was, Artur didn’t die. And yes, it was the worst part in a way. It meant he lived with the guilt of it gnawing at him each night.
Why? Well, even when Manus assaulted their lines, or Hectval attacked and the Antinium fell back and it was time for Artur to die…
They avoided the flag. It wasn’t that Hectval or the other [Soldiers] from Manus didn’t see him, it was that if they spotted anyone else, they went for that foe first. Because Artur held a flag and no weapons.
And because a flag wasn’t much of a target. At first, Artur suspected the very patches on the flag saved his life. It looked…less like an icon of hated Liscor, and more like that children’s flag Bepol suggested. So it just wasn’t a priority.
That was, until the other flags started getting destroyed.
 
——
 
Olesm Swifttail had a hundred thousand problems to juggle, and Artur sometimes observed him doing his [Leader] job. A lot of it was around managing the army as much as the strategy.
“He led us into a suicide charge. Commander…”
“He is your superior officer, and he thought it was an opening. I understand your reservations, Squad Leader. How open is the dissent?”
“I…kept a lid on it, sir. But I came to you as soon as…”
The Drake saw Olesm point at her.
“Keep a lid on it. That is an order. Bepol will transfer your squad across commands since you were chewed up. But I don’t want to hear any scuttlebutt. Any rumors. Is that clear, Squad Leader Nellb?”
“Yes, sir.”
The Drake looked relieved. Olesm was left cursing, trying to figure out how to arrange it so that Bepol didn’t see that the squads were being transferred out of his command because they’d lost faith in him. His eyes alighted on Artur as the Antinium stood in his favorite spot—next to the main flag in the command area.
“[Flag Bearer] Artur. You’ll be heading to Ramia’s command, and I’m assigning some squads to join you.”
Artur was a valuable excuse. The Antinium found himself marching with three battered squads, who didn’t exactly curse Bepol to hell and back…and he found Ramia’s forces as the Gnoll perked up upon seeing him.
“Three squads? Ah…not at full strength, no. But Olesm’s sent a flag? Wonderful. Er…what is his name?”
She whispered to one of the Gnolls, and Artur spoke.
“I am Artur. I have a flag.”
Ramia jumped and looked at Artur.
“Er—ah! Yes. Good to meet you, Artur. I knew we had a [Flag Bearer]…why don’t you tour our camps? Are you a non-combatant?”
“No. I am present in battles.”
Ramia looked relieved as she nodded.
“We will stick you with…Pricegougers. That’s Battalion 3. At the rear. You do have a morale Skill, don’t you?”
Again, Artur nodded, and Ramia exhaled.
“That will be very useful. Very useful. I will have one of our Squad Leaders show you a tour route. Squad Leader Nellb? Tell me—is there another, ah, reason you were assigned to escort our flag here…?”
The Worker left and toured the camp. [Soldiers] looked up, and a few pointed at him.
“Look at that. That’s the Antinium’s flag bearer.”
“Are there more Ants coming to our area…?”
“No idea. Hey, Squad Leader Kerone! Do we get more reinforcements?”
The Drake escorting Artur shouted back.
“You want more? Belgrade’s already hammered his side flat. Do we all have to come over and do your job for you?”
The [Soldiers] under Ramia’s command jeered good-naturedly. The Squad Leader looked more comfortable around Artur. So comfortable, in fact, that Artur spoke.
“Is Strategist Belgrade sending reinforcements to the center?”
Kerone jumped, like many who heard Artur speak. He hesitated, coughed into a fist, and replied.
“My squad’s part of a company that came to help fight, yes. The right’s going well. We destroyed an enemy camp, and they’re retreating hard. Division Leader Ramia’s forces requested some support, so Belgrade sent us over. Not that they needed us that much!”
Artur accepted this lie as a lie. He hung around Olesm. He knew Belgrade was doing better than any other part of the army.
Ramia’s forces…weren’t dying. Not like the Antinium. But the Alliance was showing its backbone, and she was not Olesm or Belgrade.
So it was the soup. Artur knew all that. What he didn’t realize was something trivial. Well, two things:
Firstly, Ramia’s forces had no flags left, aside from one standing outside her tent.
Second? There were no [Flag Bearers] but Artur.
It wasn’t as if [Flag Bearer] was a class Olesm had dedicated himself to creating. He had assigned [Soldiers] to carry a flag, but Hectval burned every flag they captured, just like Liscor would do to all three cities in return. They were not a critical resource, nor did Olesm request more flags from Liscor.
So Artur’s flag began to become a rarer and rarer sight. Indeed, he realized his Skill was one of a handful in Liscor’s army.
[Flag: Inspiring Sight]. As Kerone led him around Ramia’s command, [Soldiers] spotted it and some approached.
“Hey, is that the Antinium flag? What’s going on? Is the Antinium side sending Ants here? Or is it going so well we’re getting their flag? Can anyone add to it?”
Kerone shrugged.
“I don’t think so. Commander Ramia’s gotten three squads. A bit beat-up. The flag’s on tour for morale.”
A few Drakes, all of whom had an odd, strutting walk and an odd badge one offered Artur, frowned.
“Morale? It does feel…well, I feel a bit better looking at it. Fancy that. So no news from the other fronts?”
Kerone shook his head. Artur looked at him, then clicked his mandibles.
“We have received a reinforcement of two hundred and thirteen Antinium. Commander Olesm has also won a protracted battle on Division Leader Bepol’s side. We are also receiving a shipment of Corusdeer steak as premium rations, to be divided up per command tonight.”
The Drakes recoiled, and Kerone blinked at Artur.
“How do you know that?”
The [Flag Bearer] gave him a blank look.
“I heard it?”
He did not tell them about the bad things, like Crusader 57’s squad being wiped out. That was bad for morale. Or Bepol’s failed charge.
However, the [Soldiers] perked right up at the news about the steaks. One looked at Artur, and, to the Antinium’s astonishment, held out a claw.
“Do you shake hands? We’re from Liscor’s Players.”
That explained their badge, which looked like a stick-man with clothing. Or stick-Drake? Kerone was fascinated.
“You’re Liscor’s Players? Nice name. My squad’s Friendly Mold. Any relation to the actual thing?”
One of the Drakes chuckled, but with that note Artur had learned to hear.
“Any relation? Half of us are Liscor’s Players. Not the main cast…well, one of us was. We signed up after the first attack.”
“Why?”
Kerone didn’t know the connection Liscor’s Players had with…Artur kept looking at them, even as he toured on.
Each [Soldier] had a reason to be here. Sometimes it wasn’t much of a reason beyond ‘getting paid’, or that they didn’t know what else to do.
Sometimes it was a reason that had roots back to the inn. Artur kept repeating his news, because [Soldiers] asked and Kerone prompted him to.
