“Why would you be one of those Antinium, Pawn? Perhaps…Ksmvr might be one of them? Or Klbckh?”
Theophilus suggested, and Pawn smiled wearily.
“Perhaps. But I feel hellbound.”
“Why?”
The [Priest] knelt there, and his voice was leaden, resolved, and…bitter.
“Because I must send more Antinium to die. Or at least, I will ask it of them. And it seems…”
He checked Belgrade’s desperate missive, which had been handed to him after Xrn and the Free Queen read it.
“…I must ask it of you, my disciples, too. I cannot go. I must remain. To give Antinium a place. And…to pray.”
 
——
 
Prayer. Pawn prayed every day. He used to pray simply for Antinium to live and be happy. Now?
Now he prayed for Erin to live. He tried to level. He believed, Theophilus understood, that if he leveled, if he gathered enough faith…he might bring her back.
He apologized when he asked them for three volunteers to heal Antinium and lead the [Crusaders]. As if it didn’t make perfect sense for them to risk their lives while he remained.
He was important. Theophilus understood he was too, as an [Acolyte]. He could cast [Heal Minor Wounds], which was a miracle beyond spells.
But he was not Pawn, or Belgrade, or Anand, or Garry, or Bird. It was right that they not die.
The world made sense to Theophilus, that way. The Antinium who died were a tragedy that cut Theophilus until he felt like he were the sky when the sky was overladen with wet clouds of rain and they opened up and showered down. What a glorious sight. That was the fount of his faith; that such things could happen. As well as the sheer fact that Pawn had to live. That Heaven had to be guarded and created, on this world as it was beyond.
That one day, Erin Solstice would return.
Oh, and Hectval be punished. The anger Theophilus felt towards that city was a real thing, so he rejoiced when he was sent to lead the [Crusaders].
It was a very strange thing, going to the rocky, barren highlands, seeing so many [Soldiers], and following orders from Belgrade, who told them not to reveal their class. In a way….the highlands felt comforting. If only they could dig into the soil, Theophilus would feel safe.
Yet his duties were simple. He went among the wounded Antinium and murmured.
“[Heal Minor Wounds]. Heaven is real. Reinforcements are coming. I am Theophilus. That is Zimrah and Jerimy. Please, I have a little of Garry’s bread. Eat, in no particular expectation of anything but food tasting good.”
Zimrah used the same miracle and then touched a shaking Soldier with a third hand.
“[Touch of Gentleness]. You are brave.”
Jerimy and Theophilus turned to her. She had a Skill beyond theirs—and what a way with words! Neither one had thought to say that, but the Soldier stilled. Zimrah looked at him.
“What is your name?”
There was no answer, but then the [Crusader] tugged off his metal helmet and they touched antennae.
“Crusader 51. You are brave. Thank you for fighting.”
“Thank you. You are brave.”
The two other [Acolytes] echoed her, and Theophilus admired Zimrah and envied her way with words.
Zimrah. Of all of Pawn’s acolytes, she was the only female one. And the fifth female Antinium in the Hive besides Xrn.
One day she had said her name was Zimrah. She had taken a name and identity with the butterflies, but when Pawn asked, she had told him she was actually Zimrah. It was the first time a Worker had done that, changed identities, but Pawn had thought about it and said it was obvious:
You could get your name wrong. The same with everything else. Antinium were new at identity, so Zimrah was Zimrah.
 
——
 
“It is such a terrible thing. So many dead Antinium. We must do as Pawn would do.”
Zimrah, Theophilus, and Jerimy sat together, and all three Workers nodded. Theophilus had given out all of Garry’s fresh bread to the [Crusaders] and thought it had helped. They had healed until they were exhausted.
It was not like mana, what they used up, but it did tax them to use their miracles so often. It felt…draining. When Theophilus was out of the power, he felt as though the world lost its color. That all was grey and meaningless…until his faith rekindled itself.
He had a sea of faith, so he had healed at least forty Soldiers and Workers.
“We will heal as many as we can, every day.”
Jerimy agreed. Zimrah turned to both other [Acolytes].
“Yes, but Pawn would do more.”
Theophilus instantly agreed. Pawn would do more. Exactly what should they do? Well, after some thought, the [Acolytes] had a revelation.
That was how the ritual of morning prayer began.
 
——
 
Theophilus was nervous as the [Crusaders] knelt as one. Tersk and Dekass watched as the morning gruel was digesting in every stomach. The day after the battle, the first thousand reinforcements had yet to arrive, but already the [Acolytes] were doing what they could.
They would not fight; they were a valuable resource, and Belgrade decreed they stay back. They could help mend armor, do chores, and tend to the wounded in the meantime.
However, the one true thing they could do was spread the good word. Reinforce the knowledge, the faith of Heaven within the [Crusaders]. Give them hope, a fraction of what Pawn had given to the Painted Antinium.
Theophilus had been chosen to do the speaking. Jerimy said that he had a speaking disorder in his vocal chords that acted up even back in the Free Hive whenever he tried. Some kind of terrible birth defect in the Growing Vats. Zimrah had suggested Theophilus was older and had seen more of Pawn’s miracles, and thus was more qualified.
He had labored for a long time on his first sermon. Theophilus stood on a bit of raised dirt, robes swishing nervously, as Jerimy and Zimrah walked down the rows of [Crusaders], spreading sweet cinnamon incense with their censers. He clicked his mandibles together a few times, and then spoke with all the conviction and power in his voice.
“The sky…exists.”
One hand rose and pointed upwards at the blue, blue sky, filled with little clouds high overhead, which gleamed white as the sun shone down. Every [Crusader] looked up.
Theophilus stood there as they all drank in that effervescent sky. Slowly, he brought down his hand and clicked his mandibles.
They all looked at him. Theophilus went on.
“So does Heaven.”
He saw a slight stir run through the Antinium. Theophilus raised his arms and clasped all four together.
“Believe in it. Let us pray.”
 
——
 
His first sermon was a huge hit. Zimrah and Jerimy congratulated him when it was done. Theophilus felt a lot of pride in his words.
True, it was no Pawn, Upon the Hill, Cursing Hectval Unto Death and Decay a Thousand Times, but it had clearly moved the [Crusaders]. They looked up at the sky. Yes, look at that.
Theophilus swept up the camp, helped lay hands on a few confused non-Antinium [Soldiers], and felt good about himself.
Until the army came back, and he saw the gaps in their ranks. The dead. He ran forwards and laid his hands on wounded Soldiers and Workers. And Theophilus saw their heads turn to him as he spoke.
“Reinforcements are coming. You are brave. Very brave. Rest. Be healed.”
And he realized…tomorrow, he would need different words.
 
[Acolyte Level 17!]
[Skill – Sermon of the Believer obtained!]
 
 
 
 
Olesm, [Leader]
 
Olesm wrote a letter to Liscor’s Council every day and posted it via the door. He held a war council with his officers. He was at every major engagement, but the front was spreading out across the hills.
However, no one, not Selys, who sent him a gift of more potions, not the Council, nor even the other officers saw the entirety of the war. They saw parts.
Olesm saw all the dead. And what he saw was Antinium dying.
Not Liscorians dying. Not them losing the war. Antinium. Dying. He made the distinction in his mind, because if he said one Liscorian regular died for every ten Antinium, that was not hyperbole.
“Manus has entered the war. I can’t prove it, sir, but they’re in it.”
Wing Commander Embria was frank with Olesm the day after the first disastrous battle. He took counsel with her, Belgrade, and some of her senior officers. Olesm turned to Wikir.
“First Captain, you’ve been with Liscor’s army the longest, haven’t you? Can you corroborate that?”
Wikir growled, shifting from foot to foot.
“I was not with the part of 4th that clashed with them, but this would not be the first time, no. Manus does interfere in wars. Like every Walled City. This…this sounds like a bunch of their best operatives.”
Olesm’s scales went cold. He too knew the practice.
“I’ve heard of that. They want to quietly tip the odds—so they send a group in. Or fund an army, or hire a group like, well, Liscor’s army. I just never thought I’d see it. Wing Commander, are you sure that was…a [Spearmaster] you met? Not that I doubt you. You would know.”
Relc’s daughter inclined her head, and the command tent went through a simultaneous clenching of apprehension. A [Spearmaster]. If Olesm had seen one, he would assume it was Hectval’s champion.
Manus’ [Spearmaster]? Leading a group of veterans with magical gear? Even worse.
“What can we do?”
Ramia asked desperately. She had a bandaged arm, but she, Bepol, and Belgrade had all survived. In fact, they stood with Belgrade, rather than notably apart. If there was one gem amidst the filth of yesterday, it was that Belgrade had become part of the army for holding the line, even when seemingly mortally wounded.
4th Company still stood apart, and Olesm felt a flash of anger at seeing that. A thousand Antinium were dead…but he held his tongue.
“Let’s simplify the issue. The Mithril Razor, everyone. We can either retreat or fight on. Given the options? I choose to fight on. So the issue becomes dealing with Manus. Either we combat them, force them to retreat, or do it in a way other than warfare. I’ve already asked the Council to make a loud, public objection to Manus—and they’ve apparently denied it. However, it might force them off.”
His officers looked at him, and Embria grimaced.
“No proof. Manus probably won’t back off.”
“Then, we have to win. They’ve sent four hundred. It’s…a lot, but Hectval was on the back foot but for them. We collect ourselves, fight back, and account for their numbers. Especially if we can flank them or ambush them with [Archers].”
Elites or not, no one liked an arrow in the chest. Why…even a Level 40 individual died without Skills. In fact, even a [Lady]…
Olesm stared blankly at the table. He blinked when he realized he was drifting and spoke briskly.
“I also have to congratulate Belgrade on his class consolidation. I’m sure he’ll be an asset to the right wing. [Combined Arms Strategist] Belgrade…we’ll have to give you a party later.”
Belgrade lifted an arm as everyone turned, and a few officers applauded politely.
“When I am able to metabolize food without pain, I will gladly partake. My stomach was nicked by the poison arrow.”
“[Combined Arms Strategist]. Wonderful.”
A somewhat weak Captain Vell growled under her breath. She’d hauled herself up to participate in the discussions since she was out of fighting for at least a week. Olesm eyed her.
“Belgrade will now be making use of his new Skills in his command, and I’m leaving the right wing to him, not just one division. Ramia will serve under his forces. I trust Liscor’s 4th will do the same.”
Vell looked up and didn’t reply immediately, so Embria spoke for her.
“Absolutely, Commander. We’re ready to dig in. Now that Manus is here, we all have to curl up our tails and get to it. We’re in the soup now.”
Yes, they were. Olesm briefly nodded.
“In that case, let’s talk tactics. Captain Wikir…just how does Manus operate in groups like this? I’d love to say I can pull out a counter-strategy out of my pocket, but Manus studies strategy too. Let’s assume they’re coming at the Antinium. Now, how are we going to stop that from happening again?”
He was full of anger after the first defeat. He wanted to punish Manus for entering the war on Hectval’s side. Angry on behalf of the Antinium. Guilty, too, but angry. Olesm sent for Calruz. He stocked [Archers] up, creating a fast fire-group, and saving his barrage Skill for when Manus came at them. They could chew on arrows and see if the famous City of War had an antidote for that.
He didn’t even see Manus for two battles after the first. Hectval’s army was back on the attack, and they were feeling feisty after being bailed out by the City of War.
Olesm sent them packing in the first battle. The Antinium smashed a wave of Drakes, 4th Company led a daring charge into the center of enemy lines to snipe an officer, and Olesm gave the charge order as their entire vanguard fell apart. They ran, and only the surrendering prisoners stopped Olesm from taking a vast swathe of their army.
The second battle was more of a running engagement with mounted Drakes skirmishing with Olesm’s [Riders]. 4th Company got a bit battered, but he let the Antinium happily shoot arrows until the Alliance peeled off.
In the third battle, Olesm realized Hectval had adopted a new strategy. Instead of one battlefield…he had four.
“They’re coming from four vectors of attack and split up their army almost equally. We could hold in one giant formation…”
“…And be pincered.”
Lacking the ridgeline to put their backs against a wall, Olesm only had the sloping terrain. He hadn’t realized this would be a defensive battle, so, cursing, he divided his forces up as well. He put an Antinium force with Bepol, took command of one army, let Belgrade have a third, and put Wing Commander Embria in charge of the fourth. Olesm was halfway through watching his forces slam into Hectval’s when Manus struck the Antinium under his command.
“Archers! Archers!”
The first thing Olesm saw was a shower of frozen spikes of ice, like Ceria’s spell, explode among [Crusaders]. It showered off their armor and carapaces, but didn’t seem to do much damage.
More frozen ice exploded amongst them, then blooms of fire. The steam rising from their armor, the Antinium [Crusaders] lifted their shields as Olesm saw a force on a hilltop loosing arrows at extreme range.
His [Archers] tried to return fire, but they had elevation—and there weren’t more than…fifty?…with bows. But each one had an enchanted arrow. Olesm saw the ice melting to water around the [Crusaders]. He began to shout.
“Scatter! Scatter formation!”
The Antinium got the message and moved apart, but the third volley of lightning arrows struck the water and Antinium as Olesm watched.
Bodies fell to the ground as Hectval pressed in, cheering. Olesm saw them shouting gleefully, pushing past the gaps in the Antinium’s lines, and raised a claw finger. He aimed it at the first rank and spoke.
