It started out with such a silly thing for such a busy day. An [Innkeeper], a cake, a white Gnoll, a Hobgoblin, an Ashfire bee. And of course…
Bird.
If you added in a harried [Princess], you had a family. Dysfunctional of sorts, and Erin would admit that she already had a family. She didn’t think of them often. Her parents, back at home. She knew they must be frantic. And she had been gone for a long time.
Thoughts like that sometimes troubled Erin. So deeply she couldn’t sleep. But her mind, somehow, had seemed to develop a coping mechanism. Erin didn’t think of her home on Earth, and that was both a relief and a source of guilt when it came up.
She loved her parents. But if anyone asked her, she would have claimed this was also her family. It wasn’t fake, or a name. These were the people most precious to Erin Solstice. If Mrsha was Erin’s child in a way—so was Bird. Children of different sorts, but children who needed someone to love them. Which made Lyonette the…father. Probably. Or the wife?
If you broke it down into the ‘traditional’ family matrix you began to have problems. Erin and Lyonette were the parents if Bird and Mrsha were the kids. Which made Numbtongue…
“I don’t believe it! You’re in so much trouble, mister!”
Erin’s shout in the early morning of the inn roused the customers. They looked up and waited, expectantly. But Erin was upstairs. Shouting.
“Bird’s being punished! What is this?”
Numbtongue and Bird were frozen in the midst of eating two plates of eggs. And fried chicken. They also had a stein of beer. Bird slowly put his plate behind him.
“Nothing. We are just looking at the food, Erin. Not eating it.”
“Numbtongue! How could you?”
Erin stared at the Hobgoblin, now acting in the part of rebellious teen. The Hobgoblin shrugged, a bit guiltily. Erin had thought it was odd when he asked for his breakfast, but Numbtongue ate a lot, and she’d been happy to let him eat whatever he wanted. If she hadn’t come up to ask about Bird’s breakfast, she’d never have known what they were doing.
“You know Bird’s being punished! Numbtongue—”
Erin was at a loss for words. When Lyonette came up the stairs, she too stared, then propped her hands on her hips.
“Numbtongue! Bird!”
The Antinium Worker trembled.
“Please do not take away my bird hunting privileges. There are five days left.”
“Oh, we’re going to have to take it away for longer than a week. It’s gonna be—two weeks! You’ll have to hunt rabbits or something!”
“No! They do not fly! They are nice! But tasty.”
Lyonette was nodding. Bird was aghast. The [Princess] glared at Numbtongue. He was looking less nervous than Bird.
“As for you, Numbtongue—”
“What?”
The Hobgoblin folded his arms as he sat cross-legged. Erin stared at him.
“What do you mean, ‘what?’ You know what you did! Bird’s being punished.”
“So? Stupid punishment.”
Erin and Lyonette stared at him.
“He nearly started a war.”
“For shooting Wyverns. So?”
Numbtongue picked at his teeth unapologetically. Erin frowned.
“He’s not allowed in Pallass! He knew better—”
“Yes, yes. Bad Antinium goes into Pallass. Evil Antinium, not allowed there. Like Goblins. Ooh. Bad Ant. Bad Goblin. Must punish him. Don’t punish bad Goblin!”
The [Soulbard]’s voice was just a bit sarcastic. Erin faltered.
“That’s not—Bird knew what he was doing. And you know he nearly started a war—”
Numbtongue’s shrug was Goblin. And it had multiple answers on many levels to that. Erin hesitated. Lyonette took over, glaring sternly at Numbtongue.
“It doesn’t matter if you disagree, Numbtongue. This is Erin’s inn. And mine. And those were our rules. We’re going to have to—to take away your guitar?”
She sounded a bit uncertain here. The Hobgoblin looked at her.
“No.”
“No?”
Erin and Lyonette blinked at him. Numbtongue rose. He took his plate of food and walked past them.
“I am not a child. No punishment. Kick the bad Goblin out of the inn if you don’t like it.”
Not really a rebellious teen. His look made Erin falter. Lyonette opened her mouth—and Erin put a hand on her shoulder. She looked at Numbtongue. And didn’t talk to him like a naughty kid.
“Fine. But Bird’s different. Please let us make rules, Numbtongue.”
The Hobgoblin paused. He nearly shrugged, but then he nodded. He shuffled his feet, and then muttered.
“Sorry.”
Erin nodded at him. Awkwardly, the Hobgoblin left. It was the first time Erin could remember ever disagreeing with Numbtongue. She stared at his back. And she felt embarrassed, a bit hurt—and a bit happy. Aside from Rags, few Goblins had ever pushed back. But Numbtongue was changing, even if it meant he was metaphorically hiding behind the dumpster and smoking cigarettes.
“Enough with the analogies.”
“Huh?”
Lyonette turned to Erin. She was trying to get the plate of egg and chicken from Bird.
“Give it to me, Bird. You are in trouble. Numbtongue may have offered, but you know you’re doing wrong. And you’re being punished, mister.”
Bird slowly stood up. He looked at Erin and Lyonette, the plate still held behind his back.
“I am not a child. I will not be punished.”
The [Innkeeper] and the [Princess] looked at him. Bird’s antennae drooped. Slowly, he held out the plate.
“Please do not make me punished too long.”
 
——
 
“Everything alright up there?”
Palt the Centaur was standing by the kitchen, smoking, when Erin came downstairs. She glared at him, and then caught herself.
“Yes. It’s all fine. Why are you—”
“No smoke. I can put it out.”
The Centaur quickly fished the cigar out of his mouth. Erin eyed it.
“Why is that thing blue?”
“Ah, this is a very light plant from the sea. It’s called Mela’s Kiss, and it practically evaporates under a tiny bit of heat. And it doesn’t produce smoke, as you can see—”
The Centaur took a slow drag. Erin saw a tiny bit of vapor. Palt hesitated.
“If you want to—”
“No, it’s fine. Let’s go back to chatting.”
He was trying. Erin took a seat at the table and Palt trotted over. The Centaur hesitated, but he decided not to ask.
“Right! So, your door. As I was saying, just a few sigils around each one. I’ll mark the walls—no one will notice unless they know to look for it.”
“And I have to do what?”
“Just…give them free passage to wherever they need to go. Perhaps help them out. I’m planning on sticking around here for a while, so I’ll try to introduce you.”
“To criminals.”
Erin looked at Palt. He waved one hand.
“Criminals? No, no. The Ullsinoi faction doesn’t deal with criminals! Explicitly. Anyone who can see and read the sign is a friend of our group. Some of them may be a bit loose with the law, but we don’t treat with [Murderers] and [Cutthroats].”
“What have I gotten myself into?”
Erin rubbed at her forehead, groaning. Palt sighed.
“Miss Solstice, they’re good people. Really. I know what you must think of [Illusionists], and I admit we have a reputation—but we’re honest. Twisted, but honest.”
“Erin’s not backing out of our agreement, Mister Palt. She’s just learning to come to terms with it. Because this is what it means to have an ally, isn’t that right, Erin?”
Lyonette passed by the table, looking meaningfully at Erin. The [Innkeeper] sighed. They’d had a chat about diplomacy. One of the instances where Lyonette taught Erin about the world.
“Yeah. It’s fine, Palt. So—they’ll come here if they need transportation? Or help? How much help am I giving them?”
The Centaur took a puff of his blue cigar.
“…As much help as you see fit, Miss Solstice. By all means, give the minimum. But if you help them, we’ll compensate you for your time. That’s how the Ullsinoi faction does things. It’s a give and take. Sometimes, yes, some people might be coming through with trouble on their heels. You don’t need to shelter them if it’s bad. It’s under your discretion. But other times, if they’re looking for help, say, finding an adventuring team, or an item, or they just, say, really need to get somewhere fast—give them a helping hoof.”
“So I’m like…”
“An [Innkeeper]?”
Lyonette passed by again, this time with a large pitcher of wine headed for a table that held Montressa and Beza. Erin stared at her back. She turned to Palt. The Centaur was coughing into one fist.
“She’s giving me lots of lip these days. Okay, that sounds reasonable. So—if they see the sigil, or trace it, I know they’re from your faction.”
“Usually. There are a few phrases I’d like you to memorize. And we’ll leave you some way of getting in touch with one of our representatives. I’ll be here, obviously. And if you have any questions—”
“Right, right. Um. How long will you be here? What about Montressa and Beza?”
Erin glanced at the two [Mages]. They were day-drinking, which, apparently, wasn’t uncommon in Wistram. The two weren’t quite glaring at Palt. He twiddled his thumbs as he didn’t look their way.
“They have a vested interest in your door, Miss Solstice. And looking for more people like you. I think they want to negotiate with you on behalf of their factions.”
“Should I say yes?”
“I’d…like to hear whatever they’re offering. It’s your choice, but it could get tricky. And inter-factional politics in Wistram can get messy. But as I said, I’m not bound to Montressa. I can take time to help you, especially since the Elusive Lot considers you an asset. And anything you want to share…”
Erin sighed. She had responsibilities now. One of which was to give Palt and his friends some information about Earth. Apparently, there were at least two dozen people from Earth in Wistram! And that had been when Palt left! It boggled Erin’s mind. Ryoka had said there was one more person from Earth she knew of in Izril, but Erin had only known Ryoka and the kids at Magnolia’s mansion. Two dozen…
“I’ll make a list, Palt. I can probably get all the plays from Celum and stuff. And tell you about…basic things.”
She’d have to think about the bad things to tell him, like, say, bombs, and what she could give away. Was this what Ryoka had been so concerned about? Erin’s head hurt. Palt was nodding eagerly, though.
“Plays would be welcome, Miss Solstice. The Elusive Lot’s heard about your friends in Celum and they want to see these plays. There are some transcripts, but the originals would be well-received. Hah, I imagine half of them would like to put together a performance?”
“Really?”
Erin blinked at Palt. He smiled and winked at her.
“I don’t know what you know of [Mages], but like I said, we are a unique faction. The Elusive Lot love entertainment. And not just vices. One of my orders was to record the Players of Celum doing some performances. The Elusive Lot probably wants to duplicate the plays across the world. That’s good money. My master is an amateur [Singer] themselves.”
The [Innkeeper] felt a bit better about that.
“I can get you some plays! Hey Lyonette—the Players—”
“Fals went through the door late last night, remember, Erin? I haven’t heard from him. If Temile doesn’t show up in two hours, I’ll get him.”
Lyonette nodded. Erin smiled.
“Great! Then—”
“You and Palt can go into the kitchen. And you can make me a cake.”
Erin’s face fell.
“Wait. But I’m so busy—”
The [Princess] walked over with a big smile on her face.
“Talking. Which you can do with Palt! And whomever else comes by! But you’re the best [Cook] since I still can’t hire Garry or anyone else—and I’d like Garry. Since you agreed with that…I’m very busy, Erin. The staff can cook, but you have the most Skills. I need cakes. One big one for a celebration.”
“Of what?”
“Of you returning. The Players are going to perform tonight, and there will be cake sold! I need one big one—make it three, actually—and, oh, two dozen smaller ones. We’ll sell them in tiny boxes with a customer’s name or a message on them. I can do the decorations.”
Erin blinked. Lyonette was definitely getting a hold of the mercantile nature of the inn. Erin wanted to protest, but Lyonette had held down the fort and built the inn while Erin was gone. Slowly, the [Innkeeper] got up.
“Maybe we don’t need Garry. I mean, I’d be okay with any [Cook].”
“I can cook. And I’d be delighted to do something with my hands while we chat, Miss Solstice.”
Palt rose to his hooves quickly, smiling at Erin. She smiled back.
“Well—I guess that’d be okay. Sure. Lyonette, do we have—”
“Fresh eggs, I just got a delivery of milk—check which one, since we have goat’s and cow’s. Oh, and we have goose eggs and chicken eggs. Sugar’s ready, flour’s good…”
Lyonette waved them off. Bemused, Erin went into the kitchen. Palt trotted in after her. It was odd, being back in the inn like this. But good at the same time.
After a while, the inn began to grow more crowded. Olesm bustled through the door after the breakfast crowd had thinned a bit. The Drake wiped water off his scales as he entered through the doors. Lyonette blinked at him.
“Olesm! Hello! Are you here for Erin?”
“Yes. Sorry about the water. It’s raining a bit in Liscor.”
“Not a problem! I’ll put some towels out in the hallway on a rack. Come in! Erin’s in the kitchen.”
“Oh! Well, if you don’t mind, I’d like to chat with her. Just about—well, about the situation. Not officially, but I’d love to catch up.”
Olesm headed for the doors. Lyonette opened her mouth, but the Drake walked into the kitchen before she could say anything. She heard a muted exclamation, a short conversation, and then Olesm walked back out.
“Er.”
“Sorry. Erin’s talking with Palt. Have you met him?”
“I believe he was arrested, yes. Zevara mentioned him.”
Olesm’s tail swished back and forth, a bit agitated. Lyonette eyed him as he glanced towards the kitchen.
“Does Erin, uh, know him well?”
“He’s a friend of the inn. Why don’t you take a seat? Erin will have time to talk to you. While she’s making cake.”
“Oh? Well, I can help…”
Olesm sat down at a table. Then he migrated over to one of the dedicated chess-tables. Bird came downstairs.
“I am punished. The other Workers will not let me sit in my tower.”
“We asked them not to. If you’d like, you may have breakfast, Bird. Not eggs or poultry.”
The Antinium drooped.
“May I have acid flies?”
“Do they have wings, Bird?”
“…I will have a fish. May I draw wings on them with ketchup?”
Lyonette gave up and nodded. Bird brightened as he saw Olesm.
“Hello, Olesm. It is me, Bird.”
