The Hobgoblin stared at them. He was embarrassed—but one look at their faces made him shake his head. Erin looked at him, smiling with a hint of worry. He stood up.
“What happened?”
“Oh, Mrsha ran off. She broke a cake. We’re not mad—we just want to find her.”
“She’s not in the inn?”
The Hobgoblin looked at the two young women. Lyonette shook her head.
“She’s probably hiding. She jumped out a window. She might have hidden—”
“The basement.”
“Of course!”
The two young women hurried out of the room. Numbtongue stared around. He checked under his bed. He followed the two as they went into Erin’s new basement.
Mrsha was not there. But that was fine. The two young women assured Numbtongue he could go back to his room. Someone would have seen her from the walls of Liscor.
By this point, Garia Strongheart, the City Runner was helping search. And everyone else in the inn. Fals jogged back after having run ten minutes one way. Palt was coming back, having done the same. Numbtongue looked at Garia.
“Hi.”
“Hi. Little Mrsha’s gone, right?”
He nodded slowly. But there was nothing to fear.
Until the [Guards] on Liscor’s walls reported to Olesm they hadn’t seen a white Gnoll. And then—Numbtongue saw Erin and Lyonette’s faces. They conferred with Chaldion and Grimalkin.
And Numbtongue began to worry.
 
——
 
He was a [Goblin Soulbard]. A Hobgoblin, alone. He had seen his people die. His comrades had fallen. He didn’t know if Rabbiteater and Badarrow were alive. But he had buried Shorthilt and Headscratcher on a small hill where flowers bloomed.
Mrsha had helped with that. And she, Erin, and Lyonette, and Bird were the reasons why Numbtongue stayed. Someone had to protect them. Or were they protecting him?
Sometimes he forgot that. But now, as no one panicked over Mrsha, who had been gone for nearly half-an-hour despite everyone searching harder and harder, the Goblin felt his duties pressing. He closed his eyes as Erin went to ask for a Gnoll to help track Mrsha. One with a good nose.
“Let me try. I like sniffing things.”
Saliss was joking around in the kitchen. Lyonette made a sound of disgust. But Erin paused and looked at him.
“Please.”
“Don’t be so serious! Little Gnolls run off all the time. She’ll be back.”
The [Alchemist] laughed. But as Erin turned away, Numbtongue saw him reach into his bag of holding. The casual smile on the [Alchemist] vanished. He fished around and pulled out a small, marked vial. He opened it and downed the contents. Then he did take a good sniff.
The Hobgoblin watched him bend, sniff the cake, and turn. There was even a bit of white hair there. Saliss of Lights stood up, saw Numbtongue watching. He affected a look of shock.
“Goblin!”
He raised both hands. Then Saliss pointed.
“Nude Drake!”
He grinned. Numbtongue didn’t laugh. Saliss was giving him goose bumps. The Named Adventurer smiled. He wasn’t even wary of Numbtongue.
“Hey. ‘Sup? Nice class.”
He made finger-claws, pointed them at Numbtongue. Then he walked past the Hobgoblin. On a hunch, the Goblin followed him.
Upstairs Saliss went. He went to the room Mrsha had allegedly vanished in, and looked around. He sniffed again. Then his brows crossed.
“That is strange—”
He caught sight of Numbtongue watching him. Saliss grinned.
“That little Gnoll must be very good at hiding. Well, I tried!”
He wandered out of the room. He didn’t fool Numbtongue. The [Bard] stared into the room.
What did this mean? He was working with pieces. No one was worried. Except Numbtongue. And so, the [Bard] took this more seriously than everyone else who hadn’t panicked. He looked around the room.
“Pyrite.”
Numbtongue nearly used his Skill. [A Minute, Reborn]. But he decided to call on Pyrite’s intelligence and memories instead. His new Skill would bring Pyrite into his body, but he didn’t need Pyrite himself, just his perspective.
The Hobgoblin Chieftain had been intelligent. A brilliant mind. He had been stronger than Numbtongue, wiser. He should have lived. But he hadn’t. And now, he was in Numbtongue’s head. And whatever you might think—part of that Pyrite was glad to help.
Think. The other Hobgoblin was more focused than Numbtongue. Mrsha was gone. She had to have left the inn, as Lyonette had said. There were two entrances to the room. However, the young Gnoll was clever. She, fearing her punishment, had run away.
She could have run so far even Palt and Grimalkin and the Runners, making increasingly large rings around the inn, couldn’t find her. But—consider what Lyonette and Erin were too afraid to.
Consider the worst. Pyrite directed Numbtongue to look up.
How fast would a bird dive? Could a Razorbeak carry Mrsha off? Surely, not without a Worker Antinium noticing. That was the thing. A Wyvern had not gotten her, or the Antinium would have noticed.
Mrsha had used a Skill that could evade even what was probably a very powerful smell-enhancing potion Saliss had used. She had snuck away. And then…what? Had she run and continued to run? That was a possibility, but Mrsha having that level of fear was an odd bet. Pyrite kept thinking.
“I can find her.”
A voice spoke. Numbtongue’s shoulders stiffened. He didn’t look behind him. He knew who was speaking. Because it wasn’t a physical voice. It was in his mind.
“Let me help. If she’s in danger, I can find her at once.”
Slowly, Numbtongue turned around. He stared at the other Goblin.
Reiss, the Goblin Lord, stood in the hallway. He looked as he had when he’d died. A hole ran through his chest and he had been cut. He looked as real as anything to Numbtongue, though. But the Hobgoblin knew he was dead.
“Go away.”
The [Bard] gritted his teeth. Reiss shook his head.
“You need me. I can help you. I can’t leave. I’m—I don’t know what I am. Not a ghost. I thought I left.”
So did Numbtongue. He remembered the hill, and the Goblins disappearing. He had seen Reiss. The other Goblin nodded. He could read Numbtongue’s thoughts.
“So what am I? A soul? A fragment? A memory? Let me help you. That’s why I’m here.”
“No.”
Numbtongue folded his arms. Pyrite was telling him to be careful too. But the other Hobgoblin hadn’t said ‘no’. He had a list of benefits and potential consequences. But Numbtongue said no.
Reiss had killed Headscratcher. Because of him, Garen, and so many others were dead. Reiss nodded.
“But let me help you. Use me. You need my power. You have no idea what terrors rule this world. You need my power. I can find the Gnoll child.”
“How?”
Numbtongue glared. Reiss raised one hand, touched an eye.
“[Detect Life]. I can find her.”
“Other [Mage] could do. Go away.”
The Hobgoblin turned away. Reiss sighed.
“If you refuse, it will be like the Crelers. You need power.”
Pyrite agreed. Numbtongue told both to shut up. His shoulders hunched. Below, he heard Erin’s voice.
Mrsha.
“[A Minute—]”
The Hobgoblin’s shoulders straightened. He turned. Pyrite blinked.
Reiss was gone. Odd, that. The Hobgoblin spent one second thinking over why. Different class. Of course. The [Magestone Chieftain] nodded. Then he focused all of his power on helping Numbtongue.
“Gnoll is gone. No smell, not seen—”
He paced around the room, thinking it over. The odds of Mrsha escaping so many eyes and running so far was remote. Ergo, she hadn’t run. She also hadn’t been attacked. Blood smelled strongest. Think. What—
“Ah. The door.”
The Hobgoblin strode downstairs. Pure logic. He saw Erin disappearing into the magic door in Liscor.
“Have you seen Mrsha?”
He asked Olesm, who was going through to Liscor. The Drake jumped.
“Numbtongue? No! Erin was just going to check Liscor—”
“Ah.”
Pyrite nodded. He let the Drake go through and closed the door. Thoughtfully, Pyrite inspected the dial.
There were a few settings.
Liscor, Celum, Esthelm, Pallass. Also, the Bloodfields, and the red gemstone for the Goblin cave.
You could rule out Liscor and Pallass at once. Thoughtfully, The Hobgoblin shook his head at the Bloodfields door. Mrsha wasn’t stupid. He slowly turned the dial to Esthelm, then shook his head.
“Unfamiliar.”
That left one option—no, two. The Hobgoblin eyed the red mana stone. He switched to it, pulled the door open.
Nothing happened. It was dead. The Hobgoblin shrugged. He felt his minute evaporating. He switched the dial.
“Ce—”
“—lum.”
Numbtongue finished the sentence. Pyrite’s detective work had led him to the right conclusion. He thanked Pyrite in his head. Then he swung open the door.
“Numbtongue!”
Octavia’s shop was trashed. Numbtongue stared at the clutter, as if hundreds of people had been through here. But the [Alchemist] was beaming. She hurried around.
“How have you been, friend? I have had the best day ever! Let me tell you—”
The Hobgoblin smiled at Octavia. But he was looking around the shop. Pyrite was smart.
“Octavia. Did Mrsha come through this door an hour ago?”
The [Alchemist] stopped. She blinked at Numbtongue.
“Mrsha? No. Why? Is something wrong?”
The Hobgoblin’s face fell. Pyrite had been sure. But then—
“She’s missing.”
“Oh no. How? Let me help. Hold on—I’ll just lock the shop—”
Octavia hurried over to the door. Numbtongue nodded, gratefully. He saw a Goblin standing in the inn.
“Now.”
Slowly, the [Bard] turned. He glared. But Reiss just held out a claw. Numbtongue reached for it—
“Alright! Secure that door!”
Numbtongue whirled. Octavia froze at the entrance to her shop, key in hand. The Hobgoblin strode over.
“What’s—”
Guards, dozens of them, were converging on Stitchworks. One of them, the Watch Captain, marched up to Octavia’s shop. He tried the handle, then bellowed.
“Open this door!”
“We’re closed! What’s this about?”
Octavia looked at Numbtongue. He looked back at the inn. The door had closed. Someone had just used it! The Watch Captain hadn’t seen Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin crouched as the man bellowed back.
“Open up! By order of the [Mayor], the door to Liscor is confiscated! And Celum will no longer be doing business with the inn! Open! By order of the Watch!”
“You can’t do that! You—stay back!”
Octavia looked at Numbtongue. The [Bard], crouching, saw more [Guards] converging. They weren’t looking for a fight. But they had weapons and he was alone. Octavia was thinking the same thing. She pointed to the back of her shop.
“Window. Go!”
Numbtongue ran. Erin Solstice didn’t think to check Celum until ten minutes later. When she did, she found her door was confiscated. And the Watch Captain was dismayed to learn he’d only seized the portal stone, not the magic door itself. She stared at him. Octavia mouthed to her frantically. Erin’s brows snapped together.
“Where’s Numbtongue?”
But no one had seen him in the city after the fight. He was gone. And so was Mrsha.
 
——
 
The white Gnoll stared around a minute after she escaped Lyonette’s not-wrath.
She was lost. She remembered, vividly, the moments before Lyonette had opened the door. She had looked around, seen the open window, the table, the door, and—
The other door.
It had appeared strange. Faded wood and iron, and a brass handle, set into one wall. It had been different from the other ones in the inn. And it hadn’t belonged in the guestroom. It should have connected to the roof, so Mrsha had flung it open. But when she’d rushed through—
The door was gone. Mrsha was standing in grass. But shaded. Tall plants grew behind Mrsha, twisting vines, covering a…wall of sorts behind her.
The Gnoll sniffed the air. She inhaled the scent of nature, strong. Wild. No smells of fire or metal. Just—plants. The grass was interspersed with tiny flowers. And the…place she was in was shadowed. Partly. Darkness obscured the area to Mrsha’s left and right.
There was sunshine ahead. It poured down, and Mrsha saw more plants. Wild grass where she sat. She wriggled her toes.
But where was she? She only knew she’d been afraid, and the door had been here. Slowly, the Gnoll padded forwards. The first to step into a magical room, one that whispered in the faint breeze, where plants grew. A safe place.
The [Garden of Sanctuary].
