He sat down at the chess table. Olesm paused in the act of setting up the board—it looked like he’d been prepared to lure Erin out with chess. A cunning [Strategist]. But he blinked as Bird sat opposite him. The Antinium moved a white pawn.
“Um. Hi, Bird.”
“Let us play a game of chess.”
Olesm stared. He opened his mouth, but Bird was a member of Erin’s chess club. The Drake hesitated, and then nodded.
“Why not?”
They began playing. Lyonette, humming to herself, passed by Beza and Montressa’s table. She didn’t quite eavesdrop, but she was listening as the two talked.
“…telling you, Palt’s doing his own thing. What’s our purpose, Montressa?”
“I know what my orders are. Look, Beza. We don’t need to stick together. I made a mess of things—I have to sit and report on the inn and Antinium. If you want to split, I understand. Ulinde’s having a great time.”
The [Aegiscaster] looked down. Bezale, the [Spellscribe] Minotaur, harrumphed. She put one arm around Montressa and squeezed gently.
“I’m not abandoning you. Besides, I have orders to sit and watch too. Let’s just make amends. And when Palt gets back, I’ll threaten to dunk him in a horse trough until he cooperates.”
Montressa smiled.
“Thanks, Beza.”
A new cast, a new inn. Lyonette thoughtfully nodded to herself. Erin was a good [Innkeeper] in her own way. She was terrible at business, unlike the Drake Peslas who ran an actual inn. But Erin was better at people, and at creating moments. With Lyonette handling the practical aspects, they made a good team. And Lyonette could be the one who appraised people without Erin’s generous trust.
Three Wistram [Mages] would have been trouble back in Calanfer. Well, these ones weren’t the worst, but Lyonette knew what trouble Wistram could cause. She’d have to manage them…at least they hadn’t begun asking questions about her red hair. Montressa must have gone to Wistram young, which was a relief. It meant her magical acumen was strong, but her political instincts—real politics, not the cute games Wistram played—were probably undeveloped.
And indeed, the new cast appeared soon after Olesm’s game. Lyonette heard voices from the hallway and hurried to the double doors. She opened them and saw, down the trapped hallway, an argument at the magical door.
“Ishkr?”
The Gnoll was staring into the magical door. Every member of Erin’s staff was trained to check each opening of the door by turning the magic dial every ten minutes. They’d open it to Liscor, Celum, Pallass, Esthelm, and, if requested, the Bloodfields, where the road was continuing to be built.
Actually, opening the Bloodfields door only happened to let adventurers or workers in and out, and Lyonette had mandated the door not be opened unless some people with combat Skills were present. Also, the Bloodfields door was now located on a hill, far from the Bloodfields. It meant more of a walk, but no one was complaining.
However, this time the dial was locked onto a glowing yellow stone. Pallass. Ishkr was staring into the portal for one main reason. Lyonette stopped too when she saw what it was.
A…portcullis. Yes, a miniature one, made of newly-forged steel, was sitting in front of the door. Not the usual streets of Pallass. Instead of opening into Pallass directly, Lyonette realized the door had been moved to some kind of chamber. There was a portcullis that seemed to lead into the streets, but between any visitor wanting to enter was the steel gate…
And eight [Guards], half of whom had bows. They were staring at Ishkr. Not aiming the bows at him, but staring.
“Two to go to Liscor! Hold! No entry to Pallass!”
One of the [Guards] called out to Lyonette as she approached. She stared at them.
“What is this?”
“Security, Miss. Just a precaution. Mandated by the Assembly of Crafts. Please step back.”
A Drake walked over to the gates and began to raise the portcullis. Lyonette gaped. She knew it was a bit hypocritical to complain, since she’d insisted Belgrade make the trapped hallway for anyone wanting to attack the inn, but this felt a bit overdone on Pallass’ side.
Two figures waited as the portcullis rose. They stepped through and the [Guard] called out.
“Two to Liscor! Lower the portcullis!”
“They’ve overdone it a bit.”
Lyonette murmured as the other [Guards] shouted an affirmation and the wrought steel lowered quickly. Ishkr nodded, eying the door.
“They were not happy when I opened the door, Miss Lyonette.”
“Apologies. They’re new to the posting. They’ll relax in time, but I’m afraid the portcullis stays.”
A brisk voice spoke from the other side. Lyonette jumped. She focused on the two visitors and realized they were waiting for her to move out of the way.
“Oh, I’m so sorry—”
Grimalkin and Chaldion stepped through the door to Liscor. Lyonette blinked. The [Grand Strategist] nodded at Lyonette.
“Good morning. We’re visiting for the day, Lady du Marquin.”
Lyonette nodded to him. Then she turned dead white and froze. The [Grand Strategist] smiled.
“Is Miss Solstice around? Magus Grimalkin and I were hoping to talk to her. I would like to play a game.”
“And I would appreciate some time of my own. I also have a few sets of weights I’d like to deliver, to Sergeant Relc among others.”
Grimalkin’s body was still bandaged up, but he was as brisk as ever. Ishkr looked at Lyonette. She was still dead-white.
“Miss Lyonette?”
“I-Ishkr, could you show Grimalkin to—the kitchen?”
Lyonette didn’t even mention Palt. She just stared at Chaldion. As Grimalkin walked past them, the [Grand Strategist] waited. His one good eye was glinting as he adjusted his eye patch. Lyonette waited until Ishkr had gone through one of the open side-doors and then breathed.
“How did you—”
The Drake’s voice was quiet as he touched a ring. Lyonette felt some spell envelop them instantly.
“Princess du Marquin. You do not hide your heritage well. And you are using your first name. I would suggest changing both hair color and name, and buying a charm that wards against a basic [Appraisal] spell if you wished to keep your identity secret. I was not interested earlier, but circumstances have changed. This inn is being investigated by every Walled City, and that is the Drakes.”
“I—I—please don’t tell my family.”
The Drake regarded Lyonette. Her chest was constricting. The [Grand Strategist] shook his head.
“Pallass does not need to meddle in Terandrian affairs, Miss Lyonette. Your secret is safe…with me. But I would take precautions.”
“Yes! Absolutely.”
“Now, if you’ll excuse me…is Miss Solstice available?”
“She’s talking and there is a queue—”
“Of course there is. I will be content with a drink. And something to eat.”
“Absolutely!”
Lyonette rushed after Chaldion, heart pounding. What was she going to do? Change her name? Hair dye? Oh, dead gods—if Chaldion had found out, how long until…?
Chaldion found Olesm and Bird at the chess tables with a few of Liscor’s new board game aficionados. The Drake had thrown his hands up and the [Grand Strategist] made a beeline towards the game.
“How? How does this happen?”
“I am in checkmate, Olesm. That was a good game.”
Olesm stared at Bird. He didn’t look happy about his victory. Lyonette didn’t get why everyone was murmuring. Even Chaldion looked impressed as he stared sharply at Bird.
It took Lyonette a moment to figure out what had gone on. Then she realized that the finished chess game looked a bit like a bird, with black and white pieces maneuvered into place during the course of the game. Bird looked pleased. Then he glanced up.
“Oh. Hello. We have met.”
“Yes, we have.”
Chaldion stared at Bird. Lyonette caught her breath, but the [Grand Strategist] just looked at the board. Olesm went pale under his scales.
“Grand Strategist! Sir—”
He scrambled to his feet. Chaldion nodded to him.
“Olesm Swifttail of Liscor? Good day. And you are Bird the Hunter.”
“I am Bird. Am I in more trouble?”
The [Grand Strategist] narrowed his eyes.
“No. Tell me, Bird. Do you like chess?”
“It is fun.”
“Let’s play a game.”
The old Drake walked around the chess table. Bird obediently reset the pieces. Olesm looked at Lyonette; she was about as equally flabbergasted at the moment. Chaldion sat down and inspected a white piece. He moved it, and his one eye glittered as he looked at Bird.
“So, are you a Prognugator of the Free Antinium…Bird?”
“No, that was a lie.”
Bird moved a piece, as innocent as could be. Chaldion nodded to himself. He eyed Bird and grinned to himself in a way that would have made Klbkch’s cold blood run colder if he’d been there.
“Let’s talk about your Hive.”
It was a busy day. And Lyonette heard a voice from the kitchen. She peeked inside to see Grimalkin and Palt regarding each other as Erin threw up her hands.
“Either help me make cakes or get out!”
It was the beginning of a busy day. But the silly thing hadn’t happened yet. Lyonette went over to sit at a table for a second. Her head was spinning. She only looked up when she had a thought that trumped all others. Erin, secrets of the Antinium, her exposed identity—
“Mrsha.”
She stood up and checked the window. Nearly time! She hurried over to a place where she had some parchment and ink and a quill.
“It’s nearly time for her to come back. Krshia has the Council meeting…Apista!”
Lyonette scrawled quickly, drafting a message. At her voice, an Ashfire Bee floated lazily across the inn. Apista landed on the little podium Lyonette was writing on. The [Princess] tied the parchment up with a bit of twine, and put a loop of the twine over one of Apista’s legs.
“Take this to Mrsha. Understand? Mrsha.”
The Ashfire Bee didn’t nod, but Lyonette sensed its acceptance. She opened a window and it flew out. Lyonette didn’t see half of the inn staring at her. That was normal compared to everything else. The [Princess] sighed as she checked the door to Liscor.
“Come on, Temile.”
Maybe the Players of Celum had wigs she could borrow.
 
——
 
A bee flew across Liscor. Her name was Apista, and she was a recovering Faerie Flower addict. Ever since Lyonette had put the faerie flowers in her room, Apista hadn’t indulged herself every waking moment on the powerful nectar.
She was detoxing on regular flowers Lyonette had put around the windowsills in the planter-boxes. The [Princess] had even made a few boxes to hold mint, and other seasonings. Free money was free, and they added a pleasant scent. Apista, who now dined on those flowers, was a changed bee. She’d seen the error of her ways. But she dreamed of faerie flower nectar.
The bee flew through the air, towards the city just a little bit away. The air was clean and good, and no birds flew around the inn to threaten her. She flew, and thought deep thoughts. For a bee.
She was a bee, and she was as free as could be. Although for a bee living in an inn, that wasn’t very free. But it was good. Better than the other bees.
They were not free.
Apista buzzed, turning and flying about through the air. She could feel them, the other bees, calling out to her. But the bees were sealed in a very dark place. Without much room or light or space. They lived, on honey and things in the cave. For now. But they would die in time.
And there were dark things in the cracks in the stone of the cave. Air, and thus life, yes. But more. And they climbed up, time again and again. Driven back by fury and wings and stings, the knaves. But not forever.
The bee named Apista wished the others could be saved. But she flew on, because she was alone and their prison was made of stone. Apista could do nothing. Instead, she flew, to call the white thing she loved to the inn.
Back home.
 
——
 
Mrsha the Studious sat in Krshia’s apartment and learned magic. A magical tome sat in front of her, a book that was the font of an entire civilization’s worth of knowledge. For beginners. Well, that was how a Dragon thought of it.
For anyone else, it was an artifact beyond compare. Palt, Montressa, and Beza, who were focused on Erin like a magical laser thanks to Wistram, would have probably given up the door, Erin, and someone else’s kidneys for the magical book Mrsha was reading. But they had no idea it even existed.
That was life. And a little white Gnoll was reading spells written in the language of magic—well, one interpretation of it—that the Wistram graduates had never dreamed of. Mrsha the Magically Gifted stared at the book.
Then she rolled over and yawned. She rested her little head on the huge book, which was about as big as she was. She vaguely waved a paw as she decided to curl up.
“Mrsha, are you studying?”
A voice interrupted the little Gnoll cub’s nap. Krshia stared down at Mrsha, looking severe. Mrsha slowly sat up and made an unhappy sound in her throat. Krshia, [Royal Shopkeeper], and [Politician] by way of her new status as Councilmember of Liscor, stared at the white Gnoll. Then she turned to Elirr.
“What do you think is wrong?”
The other Councilmember and [Beast Trainer] looked up. Elirr was reading a book. Absently, the Gnoll put a furry finger in place and closed the book. He looked at Mrsha. She dejectedly slumped over the book.
“I think Mrsha is done for the moment, Krshia. Yes?”
“But she has barely started, Elirr. Surely—”
“She has the look of a cat, I say. One that will not be learning any new tricks. And she has been studying every time she comes over, Krshia. Let us let Mrsha play.”
The white Gnoll sat up instantly, wagging her tail. Krshia hesitated. She looked at Mrsha, sighed, and growled.
“I suppose. But—”
Mrsha leapt from the table, overjoyed. She hugged Krshia’s leg. The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] waggled one finger.
“But Mrsha, you must try to learn a spell, understand? It is important. At least a Tier 3! Within the next two weeks? Please?”
Mrsha’s face fell. Krshia looked at her and the Gnoll cub nodded reluctantly, avoiding Krshia’s eyes. At that moment, all three Gnolls heard a tap from the window. Mrsha looked up and saw a bee buzzing around the glass. Krshia blinked at it.
“Ah, Apista. She has a message?”
She opened the window. Apista buzzed on in and promptly landed on Mrsha’s head. The Gnoll grabbed the bee and gently held her. Krshia retrieved the message from the string.
 
Dear Mrsha:
Please come to the inn in one hour. Erin is baking a cake for tonight. Yours truly,
–Lyonette
 
“Ah, Lyonette wishes to have Mrsha back in an hour. Well, I suppose there is time to let her play. But if she…well, I will go see if there is anyone. Wait here, Mrsha. Elirr, will you send a message back?”
