She and Mrsha had become friends when Visma asked to paint Mrsha because she had such lovely fur, like a canvas. Normally she and Mrsha would quietly talk, but Visma seemed restless today. She stared at Ekirra.
“What’s that?”
“It’s my ball. Isn’t it wonderful?”
Ekirra showed it to Visma proudly. The Drake stared at the ball as Mrsha, signing, tried to ask her ‘how are you today?’ But Visma just stared at Ekirra’s ball.
Then she grabbed it. Visma yanked the ball out of Ekirra’s paws. She hugged it in her arms.
“Mine.”
Ekirra was so shocked he just stared for a moment. Then he tried to grab the ball back.
“It’s mine! Give it back!”
Visma turned around. Ekirra raced around her furiously. The adults didn’t notice at first, debating about Humans and when Gnolls had entered the city first. Visma glared at Ekirra.
“Mine now. Mine!”
“No! Give it back! Or else!”
Ekirra was getting angry. Visma refused to give the ball. He tried to grab it, but she had it in a death-hold. She hissed at him.
Ekirra stopped. He stood on two feet, raised a paw and made it into a fist. Mrsha, anxious, ran over to separate the two. She clumsily stood up, putting two paws out.
Don’t fight! Don’t fight!
Anxiously, she looked at her two friends. What was wrong with Visma? The little Drake girl glared at Mrsha, then looked at Ekirra. His fur was standing up.
“Give me my ball, Visma!”
“No!”
Visma punched Ekirra in the nose. He fell onto his behind. All the adults looked down in shock.
“Visma!”
Selena shouted at her daughter. The little Drake looked up, realized she was in trouble, and fled. Visma ran off with the leather ball. Mrsha was so shocked she just froze.
The Gnoll boy, sitting on the ground, staring in shock. His nose wasn’t bleeding or anything, but the blow and Visma racing off had stunned him. He looked around as Visma rounded a corner. Her mother ran after her, shouting. Ekirra looked ahead, looked at Mrsha, and then his mother.
He began to howl. Jeva bent down and grabbed her son. She nuzzled him.
“Shh. Shh, Ekirra! It’s not bad. How is your nose? Shh.”
Windows flew open as Gnolls stared out to hear who was howling. Gnoll howls were important. Plus, a single crying child could wake up an entire neighborhood of sensitive Gnoll ears. They grumbled when they saw only Ekirra. Elirr and Krshia called up, reassuring them.
“I am so sorry. She’s into her hoarding year and—where has she gone? Visma! Visma!”
Selena ran back to them, apologizing profusely. Mrsha ran after Selena as the other Gnolls hurried forwards. But Visma had run left down another street and she was gone.
“Hoarding?”
“Yes—she’s grabbed everything at home—I am so sorry, Ekirra. Let me buy you a treat. We’ll find Visma—where did she run off to? She’s probably hiding. I’m so sorry, could I trouble you to help me find her?”
Selena was upset, rather than worried. And the Gnolls, all of them, nodded. Ekirra stopped wailing as his mother put him down.
“Stop crying, Ekirra. Miss Selena will buy you a treat. Let’s find Visma, okay?”
Mrsha was already sniffing Ekirra and the ground. Elirr nodded.
“Mrsha has her scent. Let’s go find her.”
“Yes.”
Wiping his nose, Ekirra looked at Mrsha. She pointed and they ran forwards. The adults loped after them.
“Not too fast, Mrsha! Mrsha!”
The Plains Gnoll didn’t listen to the others. This felt like home! She raced down the street. Liscor had few horses because the Floodplains were so up and down and this wasn’t a street that allowed wagons. She raced past pedestrians, shot left down a street—Ekirra ran with her. Mrsha felt alive. This was primal, that spoke to their ancestral roots. Mrsha turned another corner, raced down a street—
And stopped. Ekirra skidded to a halt next to her. The adults, panting, caught up a few seconds later. Selena was worried, gasping for breath.
“What if she fell into the sewers?”
“They’re very clean these days. They were cleared out and I haven’t had a blockage in—”
Elirr paused in reassuring her. His ears went up.
Visma was standing in the street. She had Ekirra’s ball in her claws, but she hadn’t run any further. She was staring. Staring up at someone she must have run into.
A huge Gnoll with scars instead of fur across her body. She was big. As burly as—Mrsha’s heart stopped for a second—
A Raskghar.
But she wasn’t one. She was just a Gnoll. Mrsha breathed. Then she took in the Gnoll a second time. The Gnoll was bent, inspecting Visma. She had a nasty look. A nasty smell.
Like old blood. She was walking with two other Gnolls and a Drake. All of them looked…bad. Like Gnolls that the Stone Spears Tribe had to watch out for. Wanderers. The kind Urksh had told Mrsha not to go near.
She smelled like that. The two Gnoll cubs watched as the huge Gnoll woman looked at them. She noticed the adults.
“Ah. So this is the child’s parent. Ran into us, she did. Run along, little girl.”
The Gnoll’s voice was low. Almost pleasant, but it had a rolling quality. And she even sounded dangerous. Mrsha saw Visma turn.
“I am so sorry. Visma, come here!”
Selena, breathless, opened her arms. Visma fled into them.
“Ekirra, Mrsha, you too.”
Jeva called out, frightened. She was more worried than Selena. It was one thing if someone looked like they were a bit nasty. But Gnolls could smell it. This Gnoll—Mrsha saw Ekirra run backwards.
Krshia and Elirr stared at the female Gnoll. She was eying Mrsha, having spotted the white fur. The two Gnolls next to her reacted as they saw that Mrsha was completely white.
“A Doomed One?”
The first Gnoll leapt back. The second flattened her ears. Without looking at the two, the huge Gnoll swung a paw.
“Shut up. I heard there was one in this city. You must be Mrsha. Is that your friend?”
She bent low, grinning. Mrsha saw a huge face and held her ground. Whoever this was, she wasn’t worse than Nokha. She nodded slowly. The Gnoll woman grinned.
“It’s so nice to meet you, little Mrsha. They call me Bearclaw.”
She sniffed once. Mrsha’s hair rose. Bearclaw wasn’t a Gnoll name.
“Apologies for the little one. It is good to meet you, Miss Bearclaw. Are you new to Liscor?”
Krshia’s voice was strained. Her fur was standing up a bit. So was Elirr’s. The two Gnolls motioned and Krshia backed up. Bearclaw inhaled again. Her eyes flicked from Mrsha to Krshia. She stared at the Gnoll and then grinned.
“Honored Krshia, yes? I’ve heard about you.”
“Really? I am delighted. But I do not know you, sadly. Are you from the tribes?”
Krshia bared her teeth in a not-grin. Bearclaw’s smile widened.
“I was. I came to Liscor for business. Are you this Gnoll’s caretaker? I heard she had another.”
“Bearclaw, she’s white. Soot didn’t say anything about—”
Mrsha slunk behind Elirr as one of the Gnolls, who was nearly all-brown save for some tufts of silver around his ears, whispered in Bearclaw’s ear. The Gnoll cuffed him. Hard.
“Shut. Up. That’s just superstition.”
“We should be going. Apologies for bothering you.”
Elirr nodded to the other parents. They turned—and Bearclaw walked forwards.
“Why so soon? I haven’t met another Plains Gnoll worth talking to in a long time. Let’s talk. You can tell me what one of the white-furs is doing around here. I knew a few over the years.”
She looked at Mrsha and the little Gnoll looked up. Bearclaw smiled, but Elirr and Krshia did not.
“I think not. The children have to be at the park.”
There was always a [Guard] there. Mainly to watch out for accidents, although the parks had a lot of safety magic. But there was always a member of the Watch there. Mrsha remembered that all of a sudden. Bearclaw tilted her head.
“Am I bothering you?”
Whatever Elirr or Krshia said next might have gone a lot of ways. The two Gnolls and the Drake were staring at Mrsha and Bearclaw. She smelled like danger, and Mrsha’s little nose told her that Bearclaw had steel in either pocket of her vest. She wore leather, incidentally. And both leather and steel smelled of that old blood.
It could have gone a number of ways. But it didn’t, because at that moment someone clicked.
“Excuse me. I believe Councilmember Krshia and Elirr have pressing business. As do you all. Kindly move along.”
Bearclaw turned. Her smile vanished. Mrsha turned and inhaled a familiar, reassuring scent.
Klbkch and Relc stood in the street. The Drake [Guardsman] stared at Bearclaw and grinned, much like she had.
“So you’re Bearclaw. Hi. Klb told me all about you.”
The adults relaxed. And it was the possible [Thug]’s turn to stiffen as Liscor’s infamous Senior Guardsman pair strolled down the street. Bearclaw instantly swung around, putting both paws in her vest pockets.
“Hello, Guardsmen. What seems to be the matter?”
“You may move along. Now.”
Klbkch’s voice was flat. Bearclaw blinked. Normally, there was usually some byplay of ‘what have we done?’ Or something. But Klbkch seemed to have missed a line.
“We were just—”
“You will walk away. Now.”
Klbkch looked at Bearclaw. Her hackles rose.
“Is that an order?”
“I am in a bad mood. I would appreciate it if you refused to move along.”
Klbkch stared at her. The other Gnolls and Drakes stared at Klbkch warily. Bearclaw eyed the Antinium, his two swords, then Relc. She snarled, and spun.
“Let’s go.”
They walked off. Relc whistled. He called out after Bearclaw.
“Klbkch, my man—he has no calm! Normally I’m the bad guy. We’ll see you again, Miss! Tell Soot we said hi!”
She didn’t reply. Krshia and the others relaxed as a Klbkch marched up to them. The Antinium looked at Mrsha, and then crisply saluted Krshia.
“Apologies, Councilmember. We delayed stepping in, hoping that Bearclaw would reveal something. You were never in any danger.”
“You are monitoring her, Guardsman Klbkch?”
Shaken, Krshia looked at Klbkch and Relc. The two nodded. Relc waved at Mrsha and she waved back. Klbkch nodded, his gaze following the way Bearclaw had gone.
“Relc, follow them. I will catch up. Of course, Councilwoman Krshia. Watch Captain Zevara is investigating whatever she and her associates are up to. But we have no proof. And Bearclaw was able to testify under truth spell that she had not committed a crime…in Liscor.”
Relc jogged after Bearclaw. Elirr blinked.
“No murders?”
“She had committed. Yes. I must follow my partner, but I apologize for the delay. Bearclaw is, for the moment, a private citizen. Please lodge any complaints at the Watch House for Senior Guardsman Klbkch—”
Mrsha watched as Klbkch hurried off, following Relc. Ekirra and Visma’s parents watched as Elirr and Krshia came over, and then they all gathered together in an anxious knot.
“Who was that, Krshia? I saw Jeva’s fur standing all up on end!”
“She called herself Bearclaw. I think she’s a criminal. From another city. Or the wilds, perhaps.”
Krshia murmured. Elirr was nodding. Both looked tense after meeting Bearclaw. Mrsha saw Ekirra sidle over. He leaned against Mrsha, looking frightened. She patted him on the head.
“We shouldn’t allow such people in. Krshia, you should get the Council to amend the law about allowing in…visitors like that! Why was she let in to begin with?”
Jeva was speaking loudly, and anxiously. Krshia just shook her head.
“If their sentence is not murder, or something equally guilty, they are allowed into the city. That is the law. This Bearclaw, though—I think she would have proven cases of self-defense…or been present at murders someone else committed. Technicalities like that exist. I will ask Watch Captain Zevara to investigate, but we need not change the law. There are cases—”
“We should! She looked ready to attack Visma!”
“She wouldn’t have. And it was just a lesson for Visma not to run about, eh?”
Elirr murmured. But Selena was more and more upset as she realized who Bearclaw was.
“You have to do something, Elirr! That Gnoll woman—a murderer? And she was just walking down the street with those other [Thugs]! Change the law! If you won’t, maybe Councilmember Lism—”
“Selena!”
Elirr’s voice was hurt. The Drake paused.
“I’m sorry. I’m just trying to look out for—”
“Bearclaw is one Gnoll. We must trust the Watch. Senior Guardsman Klbkch was right there. Surely—”
The adults began to argue politics. Adult things. Mrsha, Ekirra, and Visma all looked at each other, dismayed. The visit to the park might be off. It was already eating into Mrsha’s hour before she had to go back. Ekirra looked at Mrsha, and then at Visma.
The little Drake was pale-faced. She looked at the ball she’d stolen, and then slowly, held it out to Ekirra.
“Sorry I took your ball.”
She shyly mumbled an apology. Ekirra licked her cheek. And that was that. Mrsha hugged her friends and they went to play. When Mrsha went back to the inn, her two friends came with her. Elirr had promised to drop both off at their homes.
He did not tell Lyonette about Bearclaw, and Mrsha’s tail wagged and wagged, almost as hard as Ekirra’s as Lyonette greeted them.
“Thank you, Elirr. And is this Ekirra and Visma? Hello! Will you be staying?”
“No, we have to go home. This is my ball!”
Ekirra announced loudly. Visma shyly waved at Lyonette. The [Princess] smiled.
“Well, ask your parents if you can come by tonight. There’s going to be the Players of Celum. And cake.”
Both little Drake and Gnoll grew excited. Mrsha ran around Elirr and he sighed as he bade Mrsha farewell. The little Gnoll signed to Lyonette that she’d had a big day! But the [Princess] was very busy.
She put Mrsha down after a hug and the Gnoll sighed. Krshia and Elirr had to go to the Council, Drassi was off work today, and Selys was busy. So was Relc. So no one could watch over her, not even Ishkr. But that was okay. She was going to get cake!
The silly thing had still not yet occurred, by the by.
 
——
 
“The Wandering Inn is back open!”
Fals, the City Runner, had had a good night’s rest in The Drunken Swordsman, one of Celum’s inns. He settled his bill, jogged to the Runner’s Guild, and delivered the good news.
The [Receptionist] at the desk pulled a face. Fals paused. He knew all the local staff, and he was on familiar terms with Esi.
“What’s wrong, Esi?”
“I’m sorry, Fals. I know it’s good news for you, since you don’t have to run back. But—honestly, the Guildmaster is not going to be happy about it. Neither should you, really.”
“Why’s that?”
The City Runner was mystified. Esi leaned over the desk, grimacing.
“Well—you delivered your package, right?”
“Yup. Long run, but the door cut me all the time going back.”
