“Right, but you got paid for the run. Even though there’s a magic door that could’ve done all the work for you. It wasn’t working until now, which is why you got the delivery. We ran tons of deliveries south to Liscor. Fat chance of anyone getting work now.”
Fals blinked at the young woman.
“But—I just used the door to come back. I did the entire run myself, none of Erin’s door. That’s her deal, remember? No using the magic door to deliver messages?”
Esi laughed.
“Oh, Fals! You think anyone actually does that? I’ve seen more Drakes this last month than I have in my entire life! All who want to post letters of packages going north! Guess where they came from.”
Fals’ jaw dropped.
“Wait. I didn’t hear about this!”
But it made sense. He hadn’t gotten any contracts to run south to Liscor in a long while, or even to Esthelm. Esi shook her head.
“I bet Liscor’s Runner’s Guild is just as steamed. And Esthelm’s! Normally, they go through Esthelm. Waypoints north. But ever since that damn door appeared—that’s a hundred mile route gone! And it’s costing Celum’s Guild and the runners money!”
She looked meaningfully around. Fals glanced about and realized there were fewer City Runners in this guild than there usually were. He straightened.
“I’m sure Erin doesn’t have any part of this, Esi. I can talk to her—”
“Who, the [Innkeeper]? What’s she going to do? Charge a fee for people using the door?”
Esi laughed and shook her head.
“Face it, Fals. It’s just less business. We do get outbound deliveries, so that’s something. But it’s just—not great. Sorry, I shouldn’t be griping to you—”
“Hey. It’s not your fault.”
Fals leaned over and gripped Esi’s hand. He smiled and she smiled back. The City Runner looked around.
“I’ll tell Erin, maybe see if something can be done. But the inn is back, and Liscor’s a fine city to go to. One step and you can be there, Esi. That’s something.”
“Yeah.”
She smiled a bit, but her smile faded as she looked to the Guildmaster’s office. Fals sighed.
It was strange. Everyone else he told the news to that day perked up.
“The inn’s back? I’ve been wanting some of those cookies! Promised my girl—she’s coming from Ocre—that I’d give her a bag. Damned expensive, though.”
A [Shoemaker] that Fals knew grinned as Fals passed by. The City Runner told a [Trader] and she brightened as he haggled for a spyglass. It was cheap, and, Fals discovered, made of glass instead of metal!
“This is so affordable. How’d you get it?”
“From Pallass, of course! I was one of the few people who signed up on that list they have. Walked through, did some trading—Pallass makes these. And even cheaply, I can make double the profit going north. You say the inn’s open? I’ll be there tonight! A few drinks—that Gnoll [Bartender] is a genius—and a play before I head north!”
“I think there’ll even be a door going to Invrisil.”
The [Trader]’s eyes widened as Fals paid for the spyglass. He almost thought about going to Pallass to get it cheaper—but Erin had told them it would be complicated after the Wyvern-Bird fiasco. She put her hands on her hips.
“Imagine that! Dead gods, I might just stick around, then! If I could jump all the way there I’d beat my competition without having to walk a mile! And the new trade route!”
Not to mention the savings in sending packages. Fals paused, and his smile slipped as he put away the spyglass. What would that do for Runners? So many parcels got sent north and south. The Runner’s Guilds all the way to Invrisil would lose money! No—all the guilds would lose money because you’d have to charge less if the route was that much shorter.
He began to see Esi’s point. Fals thanked the [Trader] and hurried away, thinking deeply.
Fals was, by his own admission, an ordinary fellow. A good City Runner, and he liked to think he was the best around Celum. Around Celum, though, and that was precarious now. Fals had been humbled by Ryoka. Persua had been a poke in the eye; she’d gotten lucky, not deserved her new Skill. And now Garia was running faster and faster these days.
Sometimes, Fals felt like an ordinary fellow running against special people. But he liked to think he was good at being a decent person to everyone he met. He had few enemies, and a lot of acquaintances and friends. That was valuable to a Runner.
He stopped by at an acquaintance’s shop on his way to find the Players of Celum, as he’d promised Lyonette. Octavia’s shop, Stitchworks, was normally a place of moderate business. But again, today, Fals found the unexpected. Octavia’s shop was wide open—and people were roundly cursing the door to Liscor.
By proxy this time. Fals pushed his way past dozens of…housewives. Younger [Bakers]. And at the front, arguing with Octavia, a group of some of Celum’s best [Bakers].
“Octavia! Hi! What’s the matter?”
Fals was just here for two stamina potions, but Octavia’s shop was flooded. The [Alchemist] was arguing with the [Bakers] as she tried to sell packets of white…powder. Fals stared.
“Fals! Excuse me! That is my merchandise! I have a right to sell! Yes, thank you! It’s eight silver per packet! Makes dozens of loaves!”
“You can’t do this! It’s just fake stuff! I demand you stop it! Who knows what it’ll do if you eat it?”
A burly [Baker] woman was shouting at Octavia. The [Alchemist] shouted back as the people in line wavered.
“Do? People have been eating it for months! Erin Solstice sells bread and cakes made with it in her inn every night! That’s right, step on up, folks! Baking soda, for sale at a very reasonable price! While stocks last!”
“Baking soda?”
Fals had to ask. One of the upset [Bakers] glared.
“That’s right. It’s this damn white stuff—makes bread rise, apparently! Some kind of [Alchemist] hoppycock!”
“Poppycock?”
“Whatever they use! I’m sure she’s ground it up in there! Probably bugs and worms and whatnot! But it makes bread rise and poof up! It’s an outrage!”
“Why?”
The [Baker] just cursed. Octavia, who’d shoved off the angry [Bakers], grinned and explained as she did business with the eager people in line.
“I sold some to a woman the other day. I’ve had it for ages, but only Erin ever wanted it, so I thought it wasn’t that good. But the woman came back—said it made her bread delicious and puff up! What do I know? I’m not a baker! Everyone wants it!”
“It’s not right! They didn’t earn the Skills to make their bread rise! I’ve got [Natural Yeast]! I apprenticed for years for my Skills! You’re selling a shortcut! Probably with negative side-effects!”
“Erin says it’s fine!”
Octavia bellowed back. She looked at Fals.
“She did say it was fine. I’d better, uh, check. But I’m doing mad business and I dare not leave the shop right now. Could you check for me?”
Fals blinked. The magic door was sitting there, and Octavia had left it open, but the door must have been linked somewhere else. He raised his hands as all the [Bakers], some of which he knew, stared at him.
“I’m afraid I can’t, Octavia.”
Rather than make an enemy out of Celum’s baking elite, Fals slid sideways. He saw a young man in line, trying to hide behind a few excited amateurs.
“Hold on. Don’t I know—”
“Shh! Don’t let them see me!”
The [Apprentice Baker] whispered to Fals. He had a hood on and was nervously clutching three packets of baking soda. Fals blinked and obligingly covered him.
“What’s the matter?”
“I want this powder! I could sell as well as my master with it! It’s wondrous! The other [Bakers]—they’re furious because it allows amateurs to make risen bread! Normally you need a yeast or Skill, and it’s a big secret. But now—”
“Ah.”
Another convenience. Fals saw the [Bakers], unable to stop Octavia without breaking the law, storming towards the door. One turned and shook her fist.
“This isn’t over! The Baker’s Guild won’t let this be silent.”
“Good! Shout it to the world, folks! Baking soda is on sale! And matches! Light a fire and bake some bread! But don’t put any flour in the fire. It explodes. Courtesy of Miss Erin Solstice! Visit The Wandering Inn! Next!”
Fals shook his head as he left Stitchworks. He couldn’t fault Octavia, or the apprentice. Maybe the powder was bad? But if Erin vouched for it…could an [Alchemist]’s powder really replace honest baking?
Fals wasn’t an expert, but he was glad Octavia was making money. He’d get his stamina potions later. And ask Erin about the baking soda. But he had one more important stop.
 
——
 
“Welcome, welcome to Blazehound! We have a practice session by the Players of Celum!”
A voice greeted Fals as he pushed open a door to one of Celum’s other finest inns. Blazehound. True to its name, the inn was merry and lit, and the charming innkeeper, Ulia Ovena, swept towards Fals. He smiled—this was a popular place for couples and people seeking the plushest experience. The Drunken Swordsman was more utilitarian, and larger.
“Miss Ulia, it’s me, Fals.”
“Oh, of course! Fals, good morning to you! Are you not on a run? I can set you up with a table, if you’d like. A room?”
“Actually, I was hoping to speak with Temile?”
The woman beamed. She had a few streaks of grey, but she was considered to be one of the most eligible bachelorettes in Celum. She pointed Fals to the stage.
“You and everyone else. I don’t know that they’ll let you see Temile, unless you have a delivery—and a number of Runners have tried that!”
“Well, I don’t have a delivery but I know Temile. And I have good news for him.”
“Oh?”
Ulia followed Fals. The Players of Celum had made an impromptu stage and backstage out of one of her private rooms. They’d clearly been here for a while; the full room at midday and Ulia’s pleased look, that of a very solvent cat, was proof enough. Fals smiled—then he had a premonition. You didn’t have to be a genius to see the third time coming.
He was definitely going to ruin her day.
“Er…yes, Miss Ulia. The Wandering Inn is back open. The magic door’s back, so Miss Solstice wanted me to send a message to—”
Ulia’s smile vanished in an instant. She grabbed Fals’ arm with surprising strength as he tried to make his way to the stage where a few [Actors] were practicing.
“That inn? Hold on now! You don’t need to tell them—”
“The news is all over, Miss Ulia. I’m just doing my job—”
The [Innkeeper] was trying to pull Fals back. One of the [Bouncers] was strolling over and Fals was about to cut his losses and let someone else tell the Players when he heard a shout.
“Fals!”
Temile himself had spotted Fals. The [Stage Manager] strode over and Ulia let go of Fals with a furious sound. Relieved, the City Runner gave her an apologetic look as Temile appeared.
“Fals! You’re back in Celum already? I saw you off days ago. Does that mean…?”
“Temile, hello. The Wandering Inn is back open. Miss Solstice sends her regards. She was wondering—”
The young man got no further because Temile let out a whoop that made all the Players stop practicing. He turned.
“The Wandering Inn is open! Pack it up, people! We’re rejoining our Liscor [Actors]! Get to Miss Octavia’s shop! I want everyone there in the hour!”
The [Actors] cheered. So did many of Ulia’s patrons. The [Innkeeper] hurried over, grabbing at Temile’s arm.
“Temile! Let us talk about this! You’ve had splendid performances in my inn! And Timbor was getting ready to host you in The Drunken Swordsman! He’s even prepared a stage! Do you have to go to that—that inn?”
The [Manager] gave Ulia an astonished look. Fals wanted to slide out the door. He saw the [Bouncer] glaring—less crowds meant less profits for the entire inn, even if it meant more work. But Temile was just shaking his head as Ulia pleaded with him. The woman was charming and she was turning it up—Fals felt uncomfortably hot, but the [Actor] and [Manager]—or was it [Producer]? One had evolved into the other—was adamant.
“We have half our new [Actors] in Liscor, Miss Ulia. And even if they were willing to work elsewhere—Miss Solstice’s inn is the place! She’s the architect of our grand tragedies and triumphs! I’m sorry, but we did say it was just until she came off holiday. Pack it up! Everyone, we will be at the inn tonight!”
He shook off Ulia and hurried off. Fals saw the [Actors] rushing to pack their props. He winced as the other [Innkeeper] stood there.
“That inn.”
She did not look so charming or pleasant now. Fals hurried out the door before Ulia could turn her wrath on him. Almost everyone was happy about the news.
Except for the Runner’s Guild. The Baker’s Guild. The City Watch, who feared Goblins and Antinium, and the association of [Innkeepers] in Celum. Timbor, owner of the very inn where Fals had slept, Miss Agnes, Miss Ulia, and more, cursed the inn. They cursed Erin Solstice.
Something had to be done about her. But Fals had done his due diligence. He hadn’t made a mistake.
 
——
 
The incident occurred about thirty minutes after Mrsha returned to the inn. She was prowling around, bored. She knew no one could take her into Liscor, but she wanted to have fun!
But she wasn’t allowed outside of the inn. Mrsha would have visited the Defenders of the Cave, but Lyonette was worried about Mrsha’s tendencies to fall into dungeons, find Creler eggs, and so on. She was overprotective. Mrsha was brave! She was Mrsha the—
“Mrsha! Stop bothering the Workers!”
Lyonette scolded Mrsha as the Gnoll scampered over the half-finished second floor. The Workers were making fast progress, but they paused to look at the white, fluffy little Gnoll. They were disappointed when Lyonette made Mrsha go down and scolded her for risking injury!
“I know it’s boring, sweetie. But everyone’s busy today. Tell you what—why don’t you ask if one of the nice people will play chess with you? Or Go? Or Shogi? Or—you could help the Players set up. Fals just came back and said they’re coming tonight!”
Mrsha’s tail wagged. The Players were fun! It was never boring when they were around, and one of them was teaching Mrsha how to tumble. She agreed to go downstairs.
That was when she smelled the cake.
Glorious. Oh, simply glorious. Mrsha was drawn to the kitchen without realizing it. A glorious cake was sitting on the new stone counter, cooling.
Lyonette had redone Erin’s kitchen, making it bigger. Allowing for more ovens, places to cook. It still didn’t have magic conveniences, but it could handle all the cooking the inn needed.
