Erin Solstice looked up from the frosting she was coating the cake with. She even had different colored food dyes courtesy of Octavia. And the cake—made with baking powder—was nearly done.
“I made a thing! See? Look, it’s an illustration!”
Erin pointed proudly at the cake. Mrsha, salivating, peeked over the edge of the counter.
The cake was big. As big as the oven could afford, wonderfully thick—vanilla—but that was one of the few flavors Erin could make. And she had outdone herself today.
It was decorated. Colored frosting, a first, had been transformed into an image of the inn on a blue-sky day. There was a green hill, brown inn and yellow windows and sun—
It wasn’t a great drawing. Erin wasn’t a [Confectioner], if the class even existed, and her artistic skills weren’t aided by her [Advanced Cooking] Skill. Even so—it was beautiful.
Mrsha reached for a bit of frosting. Erin lightly tapped her hand with a spatula.
“Ah! No frosting for you, Mrsha. Paws off. This is for tonight! If you sneak a snack, you don’t get any.”
Mrsha pouted. That was the rule Lyonette had made. And she was serious about her rules. Mrsha opened her mouth, begging. Just one little taste?
“No, Mrsha. I need to bake some more, anyways. Whew. But it’s hot in here!”
Erin was sweating, having used fire for the cakes and having to adjust the heat, rather than a conventional, convenient electric stove.
“Lasica says you can buy heating runes. Can I get some of those, Palt?”
“Absolutely. I can’t draw them, but ask Montressa or Beza. They can actually set you up.”
Mrsha noticed only now the Centaur standing to the side. He was helping with the cakes. The Centaur nodded at Mrsha, watching his hooves carefully around her. Erin spun.
“Wait. Really?”
“Yup. Beza’s a [Spellscribe]. That’s close to [Enchanter]. Anyways, a heating rune’s only difficulty is mana consumption and being able to adjust the heat. Surely you have some in this inn. Right? I mean, all the mana’s being absorbed by the door. But you have—”
The Centaur took his cigar out of his mouth. Erin stared at him. He stared uncertainly at her.
“I could draw a basic one. I know that Pisces fellow and Ceria were there. Well, she should be able to do cooling runes. If—wait. If she graduated. Any other [Mage]?”
“We had Falene—but she was a [Battlemage] and she said—and there was Moore. And Typhenous. And Revi I guess.”
“None of them knew basic runecraft? And you never asked Magus Grimalkin?”
Erin’s head turned. Mrsha knew Grimalkin was in the inn. She’d seen him demonstrating his weights to a female Runner who’d come in. Garia. He and the one-eyed Drake and Olesm all wanted to talk to Erin.
Right now, the [Innkeeper] wanted to talk to them, too. Badly.
“I need to talk to them! Now! Grimalkin!”
“Careful what you say! Don’t let them know—Miss Solstice, be cautious! They want to know—excuse me! Sorry!”
Palt hurried after Erin. Mrsha heard Erin shouting at Grimalkin.
“Hey! Rune me!”
It sounded like fun stuff. Mrsha grinned happily. She’d get to watch something funny! And maybe play with Apista. She could do that until the Players came. It wouldn’t be boring! She began to trot out after Erin.
And stopped.
The cake was right there. Still warm. Erin had placed it on a long piece of wax paper. And the frosting was in a lovely bowl. Mrsha stared up at it.
She wasn’t a glutton. But she hadn’t eaten sweet things back in her tribe much. At all, really. There were a few sweets for Plains Gnolls, but Mrsha loved cake. Like any child. And—she glanced out of the kitchen. Lyonette was busy, Erin was busy. Grimalkin was negotiating. What will you give me for runes? Montressa and Beza had seen their chance. Garia was flexing and Olesm was staring at her stomach.
This was her moment. And no one would notice if a bit was missing, right? Right? Mrsha wasn’t fat, anyways. Lyonette kept thinking she was, but Krshia said Mrsha was a fine weight. Gnolls were bigger than Humans! They didn’t get thin and—whatever.
The Gnoll crept up to the counter. She had a Skill. More than Ekirra, who was a Level 2 [Thrower] because he loved throwing his ball so much. Or Visma, who was a Level 3 [Shaper].
Mrsha was Level 5. A [Druid]! And…a Level 9 [Last Survivor]. Once, she had been a [Young Hunter] in the Stone Spears Tribe. But it had been turned into her other class.
Either way, she had a lot of Skills for someone her age. Like [Natural Concealment]. Now, Mrsha used it. No one would be able to see she was here!
Except Chaldion. And Grimalkin. And some others. And Erin if she concentrated hard—it didn’t matter! Mrsha was going to use this moment.
She leapt up onto the counter in a single bound. It was a big jump, but Mrsha grabbed the counter with her forepaws and pulled herself up. As she did, a bit of the wax paper the cake was on caught on her paw. She accidentally pulled—
And the entire thing went face-first onto the floor.
Mrsha froze. The cake went splat so fast she just stared. It landed, and the frosting smudged the kitchen floor. It wasn’t face-down either. It had landed at an angle, and bent, tearing along the center.
Oh no. Oh no. Mrsha let go. She dropped to the floor and stared. Oh no. The cake was ruined. Mrsha whimpered.
It took her a minute to process what had happened. First, Mrsha was shocked. Then she was upset. Angry at herself. Stupid Mrsha! Then she was sad. Tears welled up in her eyes. The cake Erin had worked so hard on. And then—
She was going to get in so much trouble. The Gnoll cub began to breathe faster and faster. She panicked. She was going to get smacked! Krshia would do it in a heartbeat! She was going to be put in time-out and never eat cake again. She was going to—
There wasn’t even a chance of salvaging the cake. It was ruined. Mrsha looked at it. She heard Erin arguing with the others. Mrsha crept from the kitchen.
“Look, I just want a rune. I’ll pay you. No favors! Who do I have to pay for a rune? Palt? Palt can do it! No, I’m not answering all your questions. Where am I from? Noneya! Noneya business! Boom!”
Erin self-fived and felt stupid. The others stared at her. Someone began to laugh hysterically.
“Oh, Ancestors. That’s good.”
A very naked Drake leaned against the door he’d just come in and wheezed. Everyone stared at him. Saliss took one look at Erin and guffawed.
“Noneya business! I need to use that! Hi. I’m Saliss.”
Erin turned bright red. She shuffled her feet.
“…I’m never telling that joke again. What do you want?”
“Excuse me!”
Lyonette shouted. She’d gone white at Saliss’ nudity. She looked around.
“Mrsha! Cover your eyes!”
The Gnoll had a heart attack as she crept away. Mrsha looked at Saliss. He posed.
“Don’t fear, Miss. It’s nothing unnatural—”
“Get out! Who is this?”
“That’s Saliss—”
“Mrsha, don’t look. Go upstairs!”
Lyonette hurried over to Mrsha. The Gnoll scampered up the stairs, her heart beating out of her chest. She didn’t know. Not yet. The Drake was arguing with the others in the inn, many of whom had never seen him before. He had an entire city to flash and he was starting with the inn.
But he was small potatoes. Mrsha was terrified. She nodded as Lyonette told her not to come down until she dealt with that Drake. Erin was pointing at her kitchen.
Mrsha hid in her room. Under the bed. For good measure, she put her paws over her eyes. She had good ears. Erin was letting Lyonette fight a losing battle with Saliss. [Princess] or not, she was outmatched by the peerless, nudist hero of Pallass.
A new cast, a new inn. Mrsha heard Erin leading the way into the kitchen. There was an exclamation. Silence.
And then a voice.
“Mrsha! Get down here right this instant, young miss!”
Mrsha shook with fear. She looked around as she bolted from her bed. She had to run! Erin was furious—then Lyonette heard. And she was worse.
“Mrsha? Down here, right now.”
The Gnoll shot into the hallway. At the far end, sunlight beckoned. Worker Antinium were constructing the rest of the second floor. But Mrsha could run across the roof—get off the inn!
“Mrsha! I’m counting to three! One! Two!”
Erin’s voice was loud. Mrsha ran. One of the Worker Antinium looked at her, and put out a hand.
“This one is not supposed to allow you onto the roof. Please return to the inn.”
He blocked Mrsha from going further. The Gnoll looked at him. She tried to jump. He carefully caught her and put her down.
“Mrsha, don’t you dare run away.”
Lyonette was coming up the stairs slowly. She wasn’t shouting like Erin. She was being very…serious. That was worse. Mrsha scrabbled as the Worker put her down in the finished hallway. Run! Run!
She fled into the nearest room as Lyonette appeared in the hallway. The [Princess] sighed. She marched over to the door. It was one of the rooms not occupied by Erin, Bird, Numbtongue, or Lyonette and Mrsha. The [Princess] was going to start letting people stay here as soon as the second-floor was finished. Palt, perhaps. Although stairs were an issue. But certainly…
“Mrsha, come out this instant, young lady.”
Lyonette tried the door handle. Then she frowned and pushed. The door was jammed.
Mrsha had pushed a chair under the knob. Lyonette’s brows shot together.
“Open this door this instant, Mrsha. Do you hear me?”
Mrsha was hiding under the other bed in this room. She was crying. It wasn’t her fault! Today was a good day! She was supposed to eat the cake with Ekirra and Visma! And now it was ruined for everyone!
She was so upset. And Lyonette was rattling the door. The chair hadn’t been perfectly placed and it was sliding out of the way. Mrsha looked around the inn, desperately. She had to go out the window! Run away until Lyonette wasn’t so mad.
“Mrsha, come out. I’m not going to shout at you. Neither will Erin. Mrsha? Don’t go out that window!”
Lyonette’s voice sharpened as Mrsha flung open the window. The Gnoll hesitated. But she was panicked. She looked back at the door and weighed her options. There was a breathless moment in time, like an [Immortal Moment], but made of fear as Lyonette pushed at the door and the chair slid. One more and it would come open. She was angry now.
“Mrsha! Go out that window and—”
Mrsha froze. She looked at the door. The empty guest room had a table, the other door, a chair against one wall, a bed, the window, looking out across Liscor—
Lyonette heaved at the door and the chair finally slid out enough for her to ram to the door open. She shoved the door wide.
“Mrsha! Don’t you dare—”
The [Princess] stopped. She stared at the empty room. It had a table, a chair, and a bed. And an open window. The [Princess] rushed to it. She stared around. But there was no white Gnoll. Not on the hill, not on the roof—the other Workers shook their heads as Lyonette called out to them. She looked around wildly.
“Mrsha! Come back! I’m not angry!”
“You’re not?”
Erin blinked as Lyonette came downstairs. The [Innkeeper] wasn’t upset. Lyonette glared at her.
“We’re not shouting at her.”
“I wasn’t! Okay, I was mad, but I wasn’t gonna hit her!”
“Who’re we mad at?”
Saliss leaned on Erin. She sidled away and he fell down. Lyonette ignored the Drake.
“She went out the window!”
She rushed out the doors and through the hallway. Lyonette flung the main doors to the inn open and stared around. But Mrsha was nowhere to be seen.
Lyonette had a good vantage point from the hill. She should have seen a white figure among the grass, even with Mrsha’s Skill. But if she wasn’t here—
The [Princess] ran about the inn, wondering if Mrsha was hiding from her. By this point, Erin, Saliss, and Grimalkin had all come outside. The [Sinew Magus] sighed.
“It’s just as well the cake was destroyed. That thing is pure sugar. And I was meaning to talk to you about a dietary plan, Miss Solstice—”
“Mrsha! Come back! We’re not mad!”
Erin cupped her hands and used her [Loud Voice] Skill. Not as ear-splittingly loud as she could, but loud enough. She saw no Gnoll. Grimalkin sighed.
“[Reduced Weight].”
He leapt and landed on the roof. Bird and the other Workers stared at him. The Antinium gaped.
“He can fly! Muscle bird! Look! Look—”
Grimalkin ignored him. He turned, staring in every direction from the top of the inn. He muttered another spell. And then he frowned.
“I don’t see your little Gnoll. Perhaps she’s hiding in the inn?”
“Mrsha! We’re not mad! Come back!”
“Yeah! Whoever you are! Who are we looking for?”
Saliss glanced about. For all he joked, he was peering about. More people came out of the inn. Palt was next.
“Let me trot this way. Maybe she’s running about—”
He began circling the inn. Montressa and Beza appeared. Eager to help out.
“Maybe she’s in the inn?”
“No, there was only one way out besides the door. The window.”
“Did the Antinium see anything?”
More people. Olesm got up. And even Chaldion came to the door.
“What’s this about?”
“The Gnoll—Mrsha. Chaldion, use your eye.”
Grimalkin sighed. The [Grand Strategist] shrugged. He opened his eye patch and to Lyonette’s horror, pulled out the blue gemstone and replaced it with a white one. It was clouded, but it glowed as Chaldion tapped it.
“[Scrying]. Mrsha. Last name?”
“Mrsha of the Stone Spears Tribe. That’s all we know.”
“Hm. I don’t think that will be enough. I’ll scry this area.”
The Drake sighed. He leaned on his cane as the others spread out. Palt decided to run down the hill, check some of the valleys out of sight. Grimalkin leapt down the hill and did likewise.
“This is pointless. Ishkr? Ishkr, can you get Mrsha’s scent?”
Lyonette went back into the inn. Ishkr obligingly sniffed the room where Mrsha had gone. But then he wrinkled his nose.
“I can’t find a new trail. Sorry, I’m no [Tracker]. Does she have a Skill?”
“Yes! At least one. But she can’t have gone far.”
“She’s fast. Gnoll cubs can sprint far. And if she was worried—let’s see. You took about one minute? And if she was still running out of sight—”
Grimalkin was doing a quick calculation. He glanced about. Erin shook her head.
“Mrsha’s not gone far. I’m sure of it.”
“How sure?”
Lyonette stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] opened and closed her mouth and frowned.
“…Let’s search.”
No one worried. It was one Gnoll cub. And Chaldion would find her. Until he didn’t. The Drake announced he couldn’t locate Mrsha anywhere around the inn.
So they searched the inn. Numbtongue, sitting in his room, embarrassed, was confronted by Erin and Lyonette throwing open his door.
“Is Mrsha in here? Numbtongue, we’re not mad—”
