rsing information were put to good use."So we're all agreed? That announcement was BS and something either hit the hotel or worse, exploded from within it," Sibylle said, somehow emerging as our de facto spokesperson in a matter of minutes."I still think it could be the manoeuvring thrusters. If there was a problem, they wouldn't just leave us here. We're highly valued employees!" Margot offered—she was one of the few holdouts who actually believed management cared about us, and rumour had it she was having a fling with the head of accounting. Most of us knew she'd always take Management's side, but some of us still nodded along to her placating words.That was potentially a very big problem."When the Titanic sank, officers held the people in second class and service staff below decks at gunpoint while the first class passengers were loaded onto the lifeboats," I said, and everyone looked at me in ways that made me feel uncomfortable. I knew I was supposed to stop talking, but I couldn't help myself. My opinion was relevant. I was relevant. "Only 1 in 4 passengers from the lower decks survived compared to 6 in 10 from the luxury suites."There was a long pause."I don't see how that applies to us, we're staff," someone said, and I barely resisted the urge to mention that on Empyrean we were by far the closest thing they had to third-class passengers."What's the Titanic?" someone else asked, and this time I didn't stop myself from sighing in exasperation when half the servers started talking amongst themselves about old movies and an older actor's penchant for women under the age of 25."You think they're evacuating the guests and leaving us here so we don't get in the way?" Phil—another waiter—asked loudly."It's possible," I said, "I don't want to leap to conclusions, but if I'm wrong, why hasn't Management interrupted us by now?"Everyone either looked up at the ceiling or down at their issued PAs. Management was always listening while we were on duty. It explicitly was in our contracts. AIs not-too-dissimilar from the ones generating suggestive Samurai footage listened to everything we said through our PAs—and in my case, through my augs—and would flag certain keywords, earning us warnings and reprimands depending on the severity of what was said.Stolen from its rightful place, this narrative is not meant to be on Amazon; report any sightings.Open talk of conspiracies and corporate neglect should have earned us some sort of punishment by now. Instead, nothing had happened and as the seconds ticked by, nothing continued to happen."Let's say, hypothetically, that something's gone terribly wrong with the Empyrean, and this Titanic analogy isn't that inaccurate. What's the worst-case scenario?" Phil asked."The Empyrean is about to explode and we're all going to die," Sibylle said dryly. Then she sighed with resignation when no one immediately decided to follow that up. "Come on guys, we shouldn't forget that while we all call it a hotel, the Empyrean is a space station. A very big space station, moving very fast, thanks to a lot of moving parts—some of which no human understands. And it's all surrounded by a hard vacuum that will kill anyone not wearing a proper suit within thirty seconds of exposure.""Well that's fucking cheery. Does anyone have a less terrible scenario?" someone added, earning a few grunts of agreement."Anything capable of surviving re-entry to Earth is going to be very expensive. You all know how much Management charges for an unscheduled shuttle flight…" I said, and this time there was a chorus of nods. "Given how much money they spent on staff quarters, I think we need to acknowledge the possibility there may not be enough escape pods for staff and guests," I answered, and this time you could have heard a fucking pin drop."Okay, let's not get ahead of ourselves. No one wants to lose their jobs because we worked ourselves up into a blind panic and then did something stupid," Sibylle said, and several of my colleagues shot unpleasant looks in my direction. "Nor do we want to sit around gossiping about all the things that could go wrong if something is actually in the process of going wrong with the hotel." She paused and this time there was a lot of solemn nodding. I felt a growing spike of envy at how easily Sibylle could control a room. "Fortunately, there's an easy way to test the severity of this situation, before we do anything rash."Sibylle wheeled her chair to the wall behind the bar, and after a brief pause, a squarish, brown bottle coated in fine layers of synthetic dust was removed from the top shelf by a robotic arm set into the bar. The robot set the bottle down on the counter with a near-silent clunk and everyone held their breath.I looked at the cameras in the ceiling expecting an infraction warning to come at any second. A chastising voice, and alert in my augs. Anything. But nothing came. Sibylle cleared her throat and stared directly into the nearest camera lens."I, Sibylle Eleanor Drum, intend to open this… 2.4 million dollar bottle of whiskey for personal use."The intercom in the ceiling remained silent and the camera did not move to focus on Sybille or the antique liquor. No one was watching us. I started to fear that I was right."Fuck," someone uttered, and several more waiters, waitresses, and card handlers echoed that sentiment."It could be a trap to fire Sibylle? Lord knows they can't get rid of her because of her chair," Margot suggested."Fuck off, Margot. Management's not going to waste 2.4 million dollars on an excuse to fire her. We're in space, there's no such thing as anti-discrimination laws in fucking space," I said, just as my friend popped the cork and poured herself a tall glass of amber liquid.I flinched. My long years at the Empyrean had conditioned me well, I kept expecting an urgent command instructing me to 'stop her' to appear in my augmented vision. But again, nothing happened. Sibylle took a sip, closed her eyes, and shuddered in her chair with visceral delight. Then she opened her eyes with a suddenly severe expression and spoke;"Okay, boys, enbys, and girls. Pour yourself a glass of something strong. Management isn't watching, and they'd only do that if they'd already written us off. Gwen's right. Something is very wrong with the Empyrean, and unless you've got a spaceship hidden away in your back pocket, we have a lot of work to do."I met her eyes and swallowed. Then I made myself a fucking margarita.***I was on my back with Sibylle lying practically on top of me. While the alcohol in my system was giving me ideas about my closest only friend's proximity to my body, any less-than-platonic thoughts were stymied by our rapt audience watching us work. I spliced the wires beneath the bar's computer console, and Sibylle plugged her augs directly into the exposed electronics. Together we hacked our way in. Or more accurately, I unscrewed things and suffered minor electrical burns while she did the actually difficult job of hacking through the hotel's security.About half an hour had passed since Management's announcement, and in that time we'd had no contact with the Empyrean beyond the casino's main floor. All the doors out were sealed. The bulkheads separating us from freedom were not something we could open by hand, and trying them again was just a painful reminder that we had all missed our opportunity to run with the hotel's guests.Some of us had hit the booze harder than others. It was literally a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to indulge and I couldn't blame them. I'd used a ten thousand dollar bottle of tequila to make my margarita, and I would swear till my dying day that it was worth every red cent. I suppose my bit of corporate theft paled in comparison to Sibylle's, but we'd crossed that line together and if anyone ever looked at the security footage on this floor, we'd all be very, very fired.My colleagues who'd decided to keep a clear head simply lounged around in the comfortable furniture we usually weren't allowed to sit in or paced anxiously while Sibylle and I worked. Some kept trying the doors or looked for air vents to climb through, but contrary to the action flicks we'd all been brought up on, the casino floor had narrow ducts and an extremely limited number of exits.Speaking of, if we don't get out of here soon. We're going to have a serious problem once the lack of bathrooms makes itself known."I think I've got it," Sibylle announced."Yay," I said weakly as she inadvertently elbowed me in the boob.A loud burst of static boomed throughout the speakers set into the ceiling. It was far louder than the last time, and decidedly more… casual."—this Dylanesque, pop, bubble-gum favourite from April of 1974; that reached up to number five, as K-Billy's Super Sounds of the Seventies—"Another burst of static interrupted the radio feed while Sibylle mouthed a 'sorry,' and everyone listening flinched. When the static faded and the voices coming through the intercom resumed. The volume was a little more tolerable, but it was clear that we'd tapped into the hotel's internal comms."—this is Engineering.""Engineering go, this is Empyrean Actual.""Actual, we've lost contact with the spa module, and we're still getting fire alarms and pressure losses spreading across the main concourse.""Engineering, we've told you before. It's just a drill. Stay in place and do your best to coordinate the remote DC drones. They're plugged into the simulation and will address those alarms.""Empyrean Actual… that's a no-go from Engineering. We're not stupid. We know something hit the station.""Engineering, respectfully, you don't know what you're talking about—""Respectfully, Sir, we do. Now please, open the bulkheads so we can make our way to the escape pods. The station is done, we both know that.""...Engineering. You are to stay in place and coordinate the remote DC drones. This is just a drill.""I have sixty people down here, you can't just leave us—"The engineer's voice cut out mid-sentence."Sibylle, did we lose our connection?" I asked."No, Empyrean Actual cut their comms," she answered."Well fuck, what do we do now?""You help me into my chair, and then we figure out how to get out of here."I nodded an action which is considerably easier when you don't have a hundred-and-twenty-pound woman lying on your chest. I slowly squirmed out from under her, making brief and extremely uncomfortable eye contact with the service staff who'd all gathered close around the bar. Phil helped me to my feet, and then together we finagled Sibylle back into her chair.I pulled up a map of the Empyrean on my augs, and then with a marker, I'd stolen from behind the bar, I started to sketch out a rough floor plan of the hotel."We're here," I said, pointing to a rough blocky section I'd drawn that was connected to the central spire of the station. "The majority of the escape pods are located here," I added. This time pointing to the base of that same spire. "We have to go down three decks to cross onto the central spire, and then another twelve to reach the escape pods.""If there are fires, we can't risk the lifts. That's a lot of stairs," Phil said, nodding towards Sibylle in her wheelchair."I'm a big girl. I can take care of myself," she snapped. "Besides, if we stick to the service corridors where the gravity is weaker, I'll be able to pull myself along just fine. I'm more concerned that we'll run into a room without pressure. We don't exactly have any vac-suits lying around.""Maybe we should stay put and wait for a rescue," Margot said, and everyone did the sensible thing of ignoring her."If we need them, we can always double back and get vac-suits from the nearest maintenance locker. There are only twenty of us, so if we hit a few along the way we'll have plenty. What we need is a way to get through the bulkheads. They're designed to withstand an explosive decompression so we can't exactly kick them down," Phil added."There's only twenty of us in this room. If Management has locked down the entire hotel, then there are hundreds of staff members just sitting on their hands waiting to die. We can't leave them," I said."So what do we do?" Richard—a twenty-something craps dealer—asked.There was a long pause while I worked up the nerve to share my idea."Two birds, one stone. We talk to engineering. If we can hack a comms system, then there's no way that many nerds can't hack a bulkhead. We explain what's going on, and get them to talk us through opening the doors. They can use their alarms to help us avoid the depressurised areas, and failing that, they're our best chance at patching a minor leak. That's how we save everyone," I said."Shit, the weird girl actually has a good idea," someone said, and I didn't know whether to feel flattered or insulted."Alright, Phil, Gwen, help me get back under the counter. I need to jack into the bar's computer," Sibylle groaned.***It only took Sibylle a few minutes to hack into the hotel's comms for a second time. Routing a call to engineering and then waiting for them to pick up, however, took much longer, and I personally spent those minutes filled with a growing sense of anxiety and dread.I was one of three people who worked on the casino floor who had both cybernetic eyes and ears. Of the three of us blessed with both sensory augmentations and the Empyrean hotel's monitoring software, I was the only one with some experience splicing wires. Sibylle sagely explained it would be relatively easy to forward a feed of my vision directly to engineering and that it might help speed things along.I was embarrassed by how easy it was for her to gain access to everything I could both hear and see. It made me want to take a really long shower with my eyes firmly closed when I considered how long I'd been working here. If it wasn't for Sibylle broadcasting the feeds to the screen lounge, I would never have known anyone was intercepting the signal. Then a