gain, the Empyrean made a lot of money off of deepfaking Samurai, and there was a literal floor of the hotel filled with sex workers, so I guess I was a rather boring option for any potential pervs in Management to spy on."Okay, Gwen, you're going to want to cut the red and orange wire coming out of the bus junction."I moved my paring knife to do just that. It was thoroughly unsuitable for the task at hand being designed to slice through lemons and limes with ease rather than plastic-coated cabling. For some reason, its designers had decided against giving it a rubberized grip that would allow me to cut through live wires in relative safety. To make up for its inadequacies, its already too-small-handle was wrapped in insulating paper napkins for my peace of mind if nothing else."Not that one! That's the maroon and orange wire. If you cut that you're dead, Gwen!" Nigel blurted out, his voice appearing only in my ears. I froze."That's red," I argued."It's maroon. If you can't tell the difference, you should hand that fruit knife over to someone who can. We've got a lot riding on this, Gwen.""I know, I know. You don't have to tell me for the third time," I said, swiftly cutting through the red and orange wire and very nearly dragging my blade through several more. I could hear Nigel's sucked in breath, and then his eventual exhale when I didn't combust in an explosion of electrically-propelled flames. "What next?""That's it. You're done. Try the release, and it should open. You've just got to do that on every bulkhead between the casino and engineering without ever making a mistake between red and maroon…""No pressure, right?" I joked."No pressure," Nigel awkwardly echoed after a brief delay.Obviously, there was a lot of pressure. It turns out engineering was too important to be locked away behind a standard bulkhead, and had its own set of Vanguard-grade blast doors in case of a reactor meltdown. For now, Nigel and his team were safe, but they weren't getting out anytime soon without the Empyrean Actual's help, or… well, mine. Failing an override from the bridge, they needed someone on the outside to physically disassemble some of the hydraulics, and we—the casino service staff—were the only parts of the hotel talking to engineering.Suddenly the twenty souls I had to ferry to the escape pods had ballooned to eighty, and we hadn't even left the room yet."Thanks, Nigel. We're coming for you," I said, preparing to mute our call."Don't worry about it Gwen, just save all our lives and we'll call it even," he replied. I could tell it was supposed to be a joke, but I didn't smile. Instead, I put myself into a 'busy' subchannel without properly dropping out. I pulled my attention back to my fellow waitstaff and card handlers acutely aware that everything I said and did was likely being analysed by sixty desperate people in the bowels of the hotel's engineering department.I swallowed my anxiety."The bulkhead doors should open now," I announced, and collectively my colleagues let out a long held-in sigh.We'd prepared as best we could, gathering water, clean cloths, a handful of fruit knives and not much else. Honestly, we had no idea what lay beyond the bulkhead doors besides potentially lethal pressure drops and uncontrolled fires. Living and working aboard what is essentially a glorified space station can be stressful at the best of times, but after nearly an hour of wondering what was on the other side of those reinforced doors, there was little that could be worse than our fevered imaginations.Sibylle rolled her wheelchair to the door's controls. She nodded once stoically and hit the emergency release button. With a loud hiss of the hydraulics, deadbolts retracted, and then Phil cycled the door. Despite Nigel repeatedly assuring us there was breathable air on the other side, we all breathed a little easier when the relatively fresh air flowed in with the opening of the door.The bulkhead swung open, revealing a familiar hallway the likes of which could be found throughout the Empyrean hotel complex. Only this one had something more than corporate art and fancy carpets to attract our collective attention.There, standing in the middle of the doorway on four muscular legs, was a model three."Anathema," I whispered.It cocked its head to the side, and then before we could even begin to close the heavy bulkhead, the alien surged towards us through the open door.***
