The surprising thing was, he meant it. Rain cared little for ingratiating himself with her old man, never asking for anything in return. The way he saw it, helping prolong the Marshal’s life was no different from helping a grandmother carry her groceries. No matter, whether he asked or not, Yuzhen was determined to help him here. “You needn’t worry, I will shelter you from her wrath. Now come, we cannot delay any longer. You will go humour Han BoLao, it doesn’t matter who you choose. Though the guilt weighs heavily on you, the fault lies not with you. I’ve already given the order, their lives are forfeit.”

“...What if I can do it? What if I can pick out the Defiled?”

Taken aback by the question, she blinked and asked, “Can you?”

“...Maybe? I don’t know. Things have been weird since I came out of the lake. With all the new skills and whatnot I showed you, I don’t understand how they work, they just... do, easy as breathing. I don’t even understand this purity nonsense, I’m just channelling chi normally. The weird thing is, when I fought the Defiled in the village, I felt a wrongness to them but thought nothing of it, almost forgotten it. Now... I’m not sure. Maybe I can sense them.”

Poor, naive child, tormenting himself by hoping to save the doomed. “If you can, and that’s a stretch, then you would save hundreds of thousands of lives.” His mood improved at her words but she mercilessly cut him down. “However, those here are still doomed. No matter how overwhelming the proof, I would still order them Purged. Then I would send you to meet with Imperial experts to determine the validity and mechanics of your skill. The Empire will accept no risk when it comes to a Defiled outbreak within its borders.” Sensing someone approach from behind, she stood and held a hand out for him, pulling him up gently. “Please, ignore your fancies of saving their lives and do as I have asked.”

“Hmph, what arrogance.” Striding out of the fog, the Shrike sneered. “To think, you truly believe yourself so blessed, to succeed where untold generations have failed. There is no method to determine if someone is Defiled.” No longer dressed in flowing robes, the Shrike came ready for work wearing a leather breastplate and trousers shockingly red in colour.

“Well technically, you can’t prove a negative.” Rain’s quip earned him a pleading glance from Yuzhen and an angry glare from the Shrike. Foolish boy, always poking the bear. Undeterred, Rain continued imploring the Shrike. “I don’t have all the answers, but that doesn’t mean I should blindly accept the solutions given. I’m sorry if I offended you, but my question still stands: who decided massacre and torture was the only way?”

“I’ll not listen to your nonsense any longer, there is work to be done.”

Sighing in defeat, Rain followed the Shrike with his shoulders slumped, Yuzhen staying close to his side. Before long, they stood in front of a crowd of unwashed peasants, their eyes pleading as they huddled together, too terrified to speak. Unable to stop herself, Yuzhen scanned the crowd with her chi and senses, praying for a miracle.

If ever there were a time for one, it would be now.

Shedding all his fears and doubts, Rain appeared a different person as he inspected the crowd. Expertly feigned disinterest, he strode into them and looked each over one by one. Sensing something was amiss, the poor souls pleaded with him, some throwing themselves at his feet while others begged for the lives of their children. Yuzhen’s heart trembled at the sight, her eyes misting as she looked away, unable to bear it for any longer. Prolonging this was cruel, these people knew what awaited them.

Rain continued unperturbed, his stony silence and scrutinizing glare silencing the crowd with little effort. The minutes passed slowly, with Rain's frown growing deeper by the second. Only after making his way through each person did he return, walking away and signalling for the Shrike to follow. Once out of earshot, he turned to face them with back straight and shoulders square, confident as he’d been during his first duel. “Something is wrong,” he said, his demeanour betraying no emotion. “None of them are Defiled.”

...

Oh dear sweet Mother, shelter this poor fool.

Chapter Meme
