I lifted my head and blinked. I couldn’t help asking, “So… are you actually translating for him or just… giving us the gist of it?”

Rin’s metal fingers suddenly tightened on the hilt of her katana. “You dare insult the emperor?”

“N-No! I wasn’t! I just…”

“Ribbit.”

Rin’s posture eased as she turned to the Emperor and inclined her head. “My apologies, Your Majesty.”

“Ribbit.”

Rin closed her eyes for a moment to compose herself. When they opened again, her crimson gaze fixed on me. “The emperor has a new quest for each of you. And he would like to assure you that it had been carefully considered and tailored toward maximizing your growth.”

I stiffened.

Why did that sound so ominous?

Then, there was one more “Ribbit” and a quest screen popped up in front of my face.

[Quest Offered!]Seek the Serpent!The crown has recognized the extraordinary growth and potential of the Nameless Hell Hound. Yet while your current strength is impressive for one so young, greater dangers loom, and you must be prepared to rise and meet them. To continue your evolution, you must step beyond prey fit for ordinary monsters and begin hunting those that stand at the threshold of true calamity.

Goal: Locate and overcome the Serpent of the Black Pyre.

Progress: Incomplete

Rewards:Major Experience BonusMajor Development Bonus

Epic Evolution Hint

My tail wagged when I read it.

The Serpent of the Black Pyre! That’s what I needed to get the Hellbourne Firewitch evolution. This is great! I was worried I’d be stuck killing bandits for months or years and struggling to get the kind of growth I was hoping for.

But then, I heard Grick say, “Grick kills more bandits?” He tilted his head in confusion.

I grinned. “No, Grick. We’re going to be doing something else now.”

Grick looked over to me, ears folding flat along his temples. Lily looked between us, sensing some tension, and she let out a low whine.

I raised a brow.

“What’s wrong?” I asked.

Then, it began to hit me. I used Pack Bond to check their stat screens and found that I could pull up their active quests as well. I had no reason to try to do this before, as we’ve always had the same quests thus far…

But not this time.

My eyes widened as I read through Grick’s quest first.

[Quest Offered!]Prove Your Worth Tier 2The crown recognizes the potential of the Bonded Rider Grick and the Shadow-linked Deceiver Lily. Yet potential alone is not enough to rise to the challenges that loom ahead. The forests remain plagued by disorder, and many threats still linger within the lands surrounding the Empire’s borders. Strength is forged through hardship, battle, and bloodshed. Continue the hunt and temper yourselves further beneath the shadow of the Verdant Empire.

Goal: Hunt and eliminate hostile threats operating within the forests surrounding the Verdant Empire.

Eliminate 15 more bandits.

Progress: 0/15

Eliminate 10 monsters level 15 or higher.

Progress: 0/10

Rewards:Major Experience BonusMajor Development Bonus

A low growl rumbled up my throat.

No.

No no no!

I immediately opened Lily’s quest, and found it said the exact same thing as Grick’s.

I raised my head toward the throne, fangs already bared.

Toward Rin.

Toward the frog wearing the tiny golden crown.

How dare they try to separate us like this!?

But then I felt a hand on my shoulder push me back down and force me to take a knee.

Fox talked over me before I could get a single word out. “Your Majesty. If I may interject. I don’t wish to question the wisdom of the throne. But… These three are a pack. A family. They’ve been through hell together so far and have pulled through. I urge you to reconsider and keep them fighting as one.”

“Ribbit.”

Rin looked back to the emperor, and for the first time, her expression actually softened.

Just slightly.

“The quests were not assigned by mistake,” she said.

My stomach sank.

“Ribbit.”

Rin’s gaze returned to me.

“His Majesty says the separation is the point.”
