That was the thin line which divided Experts from Peak Experts, one which appeared vague and obscure when spoken of in words, but to a Peak Expert, the difference was as obvious as night and day. Kyung was close, but still too reckless and restrained all at once, paying too much mind to his head without paying heed to his heart. Even now, as he ruthlessly cut down his foes in a brutal display of feral savagery, his expression and body-language spoke of a man subdued, too tense and doubtful of his own abilities to truly let loose and just fight. Fearless as he might be, he expected to die with each swing, when instead he ought to fight with the confidence of the dragon he’d become. Against weaker foes, Kyung had no issues doing just that, but against these Half-Demons, he went in believing himself as the lesser of the two despite emerging victorious time and time again.

Slowly but surely that was changing however, and Min Gyu could only hope that his troubled grandson could overcome the traumas of his past. There was a time when he thought slavery acceptable, especially since he himself treated his slaves well. So long as they behaved, then they were fed, clothed, and housed, a simple and constricting life, but there were plenty of free-people who lived worse. It was an exchange, obedience for security, but that was before Kai’s sins came to light, and even then, Min Gyu first saw this as a case of an abuse of power, which again, was not limited to slaves alone. This did not in any way excuse what Kai had done, but it didn’t change Min Gyu’s mind on slavery, it only made him think less of the man he once saw as his son and ashamed of what poor little Li-Li had suffered through. However, it wasn’t until Min Gyu truly came to accept Kyung as his grandson that he saw the damage a lifetime of slavery had done, for instead of the bold and confident Warrior he should have been, the half-cat was a meek and submissive mouse of a man who would rather die than lose what little joy he had left in his life. Min Gyu had thought himself a benevolent slave owner, but the Oaths themselves did far more damage than he ever thought possible, to say nothing of a lifetime spent believing one was inferior due to the circumstances of birth alone.

He hoped little Rain’s dreams of an Empire free of slavery would one day come true, but he feared it would be a long and arduous uphill battle in which he would have precious few allies to call upon. Worse, Min Gyu was certain he would not live to see it through to completion, and wasn’t sure if he would even make it through this battle today, for he was not idle while immersed in his musings and had his hands full keeping his precious grandchildren alive. While Yan was more than capable of fending off approaching Wraiths, this was limited to those below Peak Expert, and Kyung would be sorely outmatched by any Peak Expert of middling strength or higher. Hence why Min Gyu was standing here in plain view, offering himself up as a tempting target for the Enemy once more to keep the more powerful foes from attacking Yan or Kyung instead. Even crazed Defiled possessed that instinct of self-preservation, and truly skilled Peak Experts possessed pride enough to avoid trading their lives for Warriors even weaker than they were, meaning that so long as Min Gyu was present, they would not dare act against his grandchildren without dealing with him first. Already, he’d killed five Peak Expert Wraiths before they could even Cloud-Step into range to throw their knives or fire their crossbows, and he slaughtered six formidable Defiled Half-Stags who fancied themselves more than a match for an ancient old man once they joined hands. It was a simple enough matter to pick out the truly skilled Warriors here, all thanks to little Yan’s efforts to clear the battlements and hold back the Defiled tides, but sooner or later, Min Gyu expected the Enemy to send someone of note to deal with this significant threat she posed.

Hopefully sooner, for these last fifteen days of constant battle had left him drained and debilitated to the extreme. With the threat of death constantly looming overhead, he was exhausted in a way that no amount of refreshing rain or deep sleep would ever make right, a weary weakness that had seeped down into not only his bones, but his heart, mind, and soul as well. Resplendent though his appearance might be, with his straight back and dark, flowing beard and hair, he knew it for the façade it truly was. Just standing upright seemed so unnatural and exhausting, and his beard and hair were both dyed with their greyed roots starting to show. Were it not for Kyung’s continued insistence and diligent care, Min Gyu would have long since stopped grooming himself and gone to battle wearing only a loin cloth to better escape the oppressive heat, and even his Spiritual Weapons felt heavy in hand, to the point where he’d long since sheathed his sabre in imitation of little Li-Li, who similar to Kyung had inherited his domineering style and made it all her own.

Another brilliant Warrior to match anyone in her generation, and he’d been a fool not to see it sooner, perhaps because he was too busy turning a blind eye to Kai’s darker side. To make matters worse, the girl didn’t resent him for her struggles and even respected him enough to seek out his guidance on more than one occasion. Not that he understood why, because the way he saw it, Akanai was a far more capable teacher than he, having raised an entire army of capable Martial Warriors, including several stand-out talents who deserved to become Living Legends in their own right.

It was a disgrace that Akanai herself was only now receiving her due respect and recognition, because even if little Rain had not arrived in so spectacular a fashion, Min Gyu was confident Akanai would have led the Imperial Forces of Shi Bei to victory.

There was no more time for introspection however as Min Gyu’s senses warned him of a formidable foe approaching fast. Upon determining his foe’s trajectory, he Sent word to Yan and Kyung both to fall back as he himself plummeted down to stand between them and the approaching threat. Deploying his Domain in open threat, he set his Battle-Fan to twirling as he came face to face with his foe, an overbearing Half-Demon who appeared upon the edge of a parapet to look down on them from above. A slender and svelte armoured Warrior of middling height, he wore an arrogant sneer etched across his jagged, porcelain features and held a slim-bladed glaive in one hand while it rested upon his shoulder, so casual and cavalier as if he were standing amidst a crowd of admirers rather than alone on the battlements across from a hostile army. Even more disconcerting were his twin horns protruding out from under his open-faced helmet, two bony protrusions that emerged from the front of his forehead and curved back before jutting straight up into sharpened points, so similar to little Yan’s own half-beast markings which hammered home the point that her Sire stood on the Enemy’s side. Even she wasn’t sure of her origins, but given the recent revelation of the Bekhai ties to the Enemy combatants, it wasn’t difficult to imagine a tie between her and this half-brother here, though it would be a stretch to accuse the Bekhai of colluding with the Enemy given how the Empire might well have fallen if not for their presence.

The horned Half-Demon met Min Gyu’s eyes for all of a second before dismissing him as a threat. A calculated insult which might have worked five years ago, but the current Du Min Gyu was beyond such petty matters of pride. Exhaustion also did much to lend weight to his indifference, as well as his concern for Yan’s future prospects, though that seemed like a silly thing to worry about here and now given how formidable this Half-Demon appeared to be. Difficult to really say how he could tell, but his senses were warning him that this was not a foe to take lightly, for many reasons besides his appearance. The ease with which he made it through Yan’s barrage of Wind Blades for one, without so much as alerting her to boot, and his apparent lack of concern for the fact that he was standing well within range of Min Gyu’s sabre. Difficult to say whether this Half Demon was deserving of his arrogance, but he wore it so naturally it was part and parcel of his character, from the clarity of his cold, brown eyes to the almost palpable killing intent emanating from his presence alone.

For this was a man who slaughtered his way to the Peak, and Min Gyu would be a fool to take him lightly.

Whether the reverse would prove true was still a matter for debate, but the formidable Half-Demon seemed in no rush to engage with blade and fist anytime soon. Fixating his gaze upon little Yan peeking out from behind, he scoffed and said, “So young and talented, but foolish to fight for those who would not fight for you, sister.”

“I am Du Min Yan,” the girl replied, without even a moment of hesitation. “Grand-daughter of Du Min Gyu and sister of Du Min Kyung, meaning you are no brother of mine.” There was no heat in Yan’s cutting tone, only the cold fury of a child scorned, and Min Gyu heaved a sigh of relief. Having grown up an orphan, the girl valued family above all else, but it was difficult to predict how she would react when faced with true blood of her blood, and he was gratified to hear her conviction. Luckily, the Bekhai were well-used to non-traditional families and placed less emphasis on genealogy and lineage than the rest of the Empire, a fact Little Rain had already proven by scorning the Half-Demon who claimed to be his father in so casual a manner. Luckily for Yan, this set a precedent for her to follow without incurring too much criticism from the masses, but Min Gyu was relieved to see little Yan handling this so well.

A weight lifted off of his shoulders, one he hadn’t even known was there, and if not for the presence of this formidable foe, he would have turned around to hug his sweet grand-daughter tight. They’d both been searching for a family to love and cherish, and they stumbled across one another by sheer luck, which he supposed was why they bonded so quickly over a scant few weeks of travel. By the time they left the Northern Province, Min Gyu had already made up his mind to adopt the girl, a decision few could truly understand. It wasn’t his declaration to adopt her that made her family, for she already treated him so, and the declaration was merely an affirmation of their bond, so that others would know it too.

And now, she proved once again that his decision had been the right one, even after accounting for all the trials and tribulations it brought about.

“Say what you will, but you cannot deny the blood we share.” Raising his hand to tap his horns, he flashed a cold smile that was almost a mirror image of Yan’s own, except this one lacked any and all warmth or good cheer. “I am Junta, first blade among the Scions of Surkithyr, our glorious Father who sired us. You were lost, but have proven yourself strong enough to stand among us, so I come to make this offer on behalf of our merciful father. Join us, and he will overlook your ignorance and bestow upon you a true name, one worthy of his scion. Stand against us, and die.”

Yan’s answer came in the form of a Wind Blade, which spattered harmlessly across the Half-Demon’s armour and dissipated before even touching his skin. Good girl, bold as could be, and in doing so, she revealed just why Min Gyu was so wary of this Half-Demon before him. Junta too possessed a Blessing, for that was the only way to negate an Elemental attack so effortlessly, unless there were still more secrets abound. Possibly even a Blessing of Air, though the only proof of such would be the fact that he shared blood with little Yan, which was thin at best but all they had to go on. “I am not so generous,” Min Gyu declared, gesturing for Yan and Kyung to retreat even further just in case there were more Half-Demons lurking about. “So my offer to you is just this: die.”

His quick-draw attack sliced silently through the air faster than he could blink, only to rebound off of the base of Junta’s glaive, but this was merely the opening strike. Willing a Wind Chakram into existence, it bit deep into his foe’s Domain only a split second after his sabre landed home, but to a similar lack of effect. No, Junta was most certainly not Blessed by Air, for there was no stirring or movement about him, so utterly still Min Gyu had never seen anything like it. The Half-Demon’s counter-thrust almost took his head off as he dodged by the narrowest of margins with a tilt of his head, only for a gash to open up along the side of his neck where the glaive passed closest. A shallow cut all things considered, but angled enough to bleed like a stuck pig, and he had no choice but to devote some attention to stemming the bleeding as they fought. Rare for a fight to move past the opening exchange, but Min Gyu was not out of his depth just yet as he brought his sabre around to block the glaive as Junta pressed his advantage. A flick of the wrist was all he could manage in his haste to beat Min Gyu’s sabre to his neck, but the resulting attack was powerful enough to lift him off his feet and sending him flying to the side.

