At a hundred and twelve years old, Du Min Gyu’s star was shining brighter than ever before, but he had precious little time left to enjoy it.

His recent resurgence of fame and glory was all thanks to the Medical Saint, whose expertise and eccentricities made all the more sense now that his status as an Ancestral Hare was known to all, and Min Gyu was stronger now than he had been in the last four decades. Not solely because of his recovery, but also because his many discussions with little Rain had helped further him along the Martial Path than he ever dreamed possible. During these last two years of war against the Enemy, his achievements made him worthy of his status as a Living Legend of the Empire and Sanguine Tempest of Central, but a candle that burns twice as bright, burns half as long, and he sensed his end was close at hand.

For not even a Divinity as brilliant and talented as the Medical Saint could reverse the ravages of time.

No, if Min Gyu wanted to live longer, he would have to Shatter the Void and ascend to Divinity himself, but even a hundred years more might not be enough for him to reach such heights. Perhaps he was merely being maudlin again, for this was not the first time he’d felt the hand of death draw near. It started long before he ever even heard of the People, but he remembered it most poignantly during his first journey outside of Central in decades. The Defiled had just begun their coordinated assault on all three provincial walls, and Min Gyu opted to head north so he could support his beloved Disciple, and the rigours of travel nearly did him in. He persevered however, for Cho Jin Kai had been his pride and joy, a young man he helped guide to become a stand-out Warrior of Central. At just over forty years of age, he was already a Brigadier, the highest rank achievable by a Warrior without distinguished merit in military command. When the Defiled threat presented itself following the Society Contests, Kai saw this as an opportunity to accumulate said merit and used his connections to secure a temporary command posting alongside his personal retinue, which had been stationed nearby to discourage the sort of bottom-feeding scavengers the Contest prizes tended to attract.

To think, this was just over two years ago, when Min Gyu’s ailing health and crippling addiction to Dream Smoke left him unwilling to show himself in a public setting. That’s why he didn’t join Kai at the Contests, because even though there was some danger associated with the event, the ‘bandits’ were usually prudent enough not to kill anyone of note. Once Martial Law was declared and word of Kai’s ambitions made it back to Central however, Min Gyu saw this as his chance to do one last thing for his Disciple and help pave his path to success by taking command of the reinforcements dispatched to aid the North. After calling in every chit and favour he was owed however, high command chose Situ Jia Yang instead, a decision that shocked no one save for the deluded Min Gyu himself. Feeling as if the Heavens had been overturned, he set out North to join Kai and watch over him in the field, but his progress was slowed by his poor health and the rugged northern terrain, to say nothing of the ever-present threat of Defiled ambush looming over their head. By the time he caught up to his beloved Disciple, Kai was already dead and cremated, having fallen in battle during an Enemy attack which claimed the lives of many.

After reading the reports in-depth, he knew Kai’s death was no one’s fault, for such was the way of war, but Min Gyu struggled to accept this simple truth. Kai was more than just his most promising Disciple, more than the person who would carry on his legacy and prove to the world that he deserved the title of ‘Great Teacher’. Kai was the closest thing he had to a son, the person Min Gyu doted on the most, and while many unpleasant truths had emerged in the wake of the boy’s death, what was he to do? For decades, he saw this man as his family and heir, loved him like a father loves a son, so how could he simply let go of those fond memories and stop loving him now? The unpleasantness with Kai’s wife and son had since soured Min Gyu’s relationship with the Cho household, but he still missed his Disciple so, even if Kai wasn’t the man he appeared to be, so one could imagine just how distraught Min Gyu had been at the time of Kai’s death.

In truth, Min Gyu had almost given up on life, for he believed he had nothing worth living for any longer. In a fit of grief and fury, he attacked Akanai while her army was encamped in the field, and when the Justicar’s arrival put an end to their exchange, he even considered calling her out for lying and dragging her down to death alongside him. A move that would benefit no one, for she’d lied solely to keep his hide intact, since she could have easily told the truth and had Min Gyu censured at best, if not outright executed for instigating a life-and-death duel whilst under Martial Law in the field of battle. A move which was entirely out of character for him, but at the time, he was ready to go quickly into the arms of the Mother and start his next life anew. His most promising Disciple was dead, and Min Gyu’s best years were far behind him, so what more was there to do except die?

Thankfully, the Mother Above saw fit to inform Min Gyu that his sun had not yet set, and She did so by introducing him to little Yan. From the first day he accepted his mantle as a Teacher and Mentor, he’d kept an eye and ear out for any news of a youth Blessed by Air, but Awakened Warriors were few and far between. Even here in Shi Bei, where so many Peak Experts of the three provinces were gathered, there were at most two-dozen Awakened Warriors present, so for there to be two Blessed by Air was remarkable to be sure. Not only that, but his grand-daughter was a brilliant young Warrior who not only absorbed and processed all of Min Gyu’s lessons, but she also knew how to take from them what she needed to progress along her own Path. The people of the Empire were a simple bunch who celebrated her as having inherited his abilities, but Yan’s Chi workings were entirely hers and distinct from his own, even if the end result was fairly similar to the undiscerning observer.

Hovering in the sky above her, he watched as she launched yet another wave of invisible Wind Blades hurtling up and over the battlements, only to plummet down in an arc to target the charging Chosen, Wraiths, and Half-Demons alike. Though imperceptible to the naked eye, the rippling pressure fronts were clear as day to Min Gyu’s Spiritual Senses, thousands upon thousands of Guided blades all targeting the weaknesses of her foes. How she managed such a feat of extensive control was beyond Min Gyu’s understanding, but if he were to guess, it would have something to do with her superlative Spiritual Senses and Wind Domain both, which combined with her keen perception and nimble mind allowed her to pick out her targets with ease. There was no shame in admitting such a feat was beyond his skills, because each must walk their own Path, and it filled him with pride to see her progress with such remarkable style and confidence. There she stood, calm and collected as could be as she slaughtered hundreds of foes without so much as blinking an eye, a single Warrior stymieing the tides of Defiled and leaving only the armoured Half-Demons with the ability to advance. Her section of the wall was still and quiet as could be, a calm lull in the raging storm of battle as she twirled her battle fan to and fro, slaughtering without blinking an eye while her short hair and stylish clothes fluttered in the wind. A wind which only affected her no less to keep the sand and grit away, which made her appearance all the more impressive to the discerning observer, for it spoke of a familiarity with the Air and wind that went beyond even Min Gyu’s comprehension. So long as she did not focus too much on her Blessing at the expense of the Forms, then he suspected she would be a Peak Expert in less than a decade, if not half that, for she was exhibiting signs of such mastery with her Blessing already, while the rest would come with time.

Of course, seeing her valiant efforts made Min Gyu wonder just how incredible it would be to have an entire corps of Air-Blessed Warriors just like her. If that were the case, then little Rain’s Runic Cannons and massed crossbows would no longer be the future of warfare, and this vision was not so far-fetched as it might’ve once seemed. In the last year or so, Min Gyu grew to believe that there was a secret to Awakenings that the outer provinces were unaware of, because as far as he could tell, the Ancestral Fox Gam had birthed not one, not two, but five or six children with the same Blessing of Earth. Granted, whatever method she used was far from perfect, as evidenced by the fact that there were other half-foxes out and about who did not possess the Blessing of Earth. Marshal Yuzhen was the most prominent of the bunch, but there were at least a handful more Min Gyu had seen scattered about the provinces, an ugly truth which did much to cool his ardour for the beautiful and striking Ancestral Beast.

Not enough to keep him from behaving like a schoolboy of twelve whenever the thought of her crossed his mind, but enough to keep him from actively pursuing any sort of relationship. That, and Exarch Gam’s unwillingness to introduce them, for he was a wily one and had no intentions of ever calling Min Gyu ‘Step Father’.

Regardless, finding Yan was a Heaven-sent message from above which told Min Gyu that his work was not yet done. Not only was the girl talented and hard-working to the extreme, she was also loyal and trustworthy as evidenced by her own actions. Even though she clearly knew who he was and the benefits he could offer her, she still hesitated before accepting him as her Teacher, not out of fear or concern for herself or her future, but because she was worried that leaving would be seen as a betrayal to the People. When Min Gyu made his offer, she responded with disbelief, then glee, then alarm as she looked to Akanai for guidance, which was all he needed to know about the strength of her character. This combined with his grief over losing Kai was why Min Gyu made less than optimal decisions in the following weeks, because even though Yan was talented, hardworking, sincere, and devoted as anyone could be to someone they only recently met, he should have seen the folly of immediately declaring her as his heir and terminal Disciple, a blunder he was still paying for today.

A price well paid however, for it revealed the true face of his so-called family and friends, who even now sought to curry favour and get back in his good graces, but he could not be bothered with them any longer. When his blood relatives turned on him, Min Gyu found his real family, such as Kang Bin’s branch of the Du’s who still supported him, but mostly Yan, Kyung, and yes, even little Rain. A family he found far too late in life, but better late than never. He was so proud of them, for he’d seen them come so far in these past few years, further than he ever thought possible. Kyung was on the cusp of becoming a Peak Expert in truth, and would have long since stepped over the threshold had Min Gyu seen fit to put more effort into guiding him earlier. The boy had all the tools he would ever need and was only lacking experience, and these past fifteen days had seen him progress by leaps and bounds to make more headway than he had in the past two decades.

Even though Yan inherited Min Gyu’s oppressive, wide-scaled attacks which allowed him to hold a battlefront almost entirely on his own, Kyung was the man who inherited his domineering martial prowess. The world knew Min Gyu as the Sanguine Tempest, a title he held not solely due to his Blessing, but because of how he ran rampant across the battlefield to slaughter any and all elites in his path. Though less restrained than he was in his youth, Kyung embodied this mindset as he stood guard over his adopted sister, whom he doted on and cherished in his own shy and reticent manner. It warmed Min Gyu’s heart to see how fiercely Kyung protected Yan from the Enemy Half-Demons aiming to take her head. Each one was akin to a Peak Expert in terms of strength, skill, and mobility, but Kyung was holding his own with help from Min Gyu’s students by keeping true to the mantra of kill or be killed. Every time Kyung swung his sabre, he gave it his all, which sounded simple in theory, but in practice, there was nothing more difficult than this. No matter how skilled or resolute the Warrior, all living creatures possessed the base instinct to preserve their life, which meant that most would not be willing to put their lives on the line time and time again in battle, yet Kyung did so without hesitation. Not because he had nothing to live for, but because he had something worth dying for. That’s how he was able to push forward in the face of death without fear or hesitation and throw everything he had into each and every attack, an almost indistinguishable distinction which gave him the undeniable edge in battle as he cut his distracted foes down time and time again. One strike, one kill, and Kyung was not even a Peak Expert, for he had yet to wholly incorporate his unique Path into the core of his very existence.

