Such power… perhaps his Blessing had something to do with Earth to enhance his Reinforcement, or possibly Fire for Amplification. No matter though, for Min Gyu was well versed in fighting foes more physically powerful than he, yet he defeated them all the same. Though only the Medical Saint could boast dominance of the Clouds, Min Gyu was in his element fighting in this weightless manner, for he spent the better part of four decades labouring to Lighten himself in order to avoid the sharp pains that came from putting any sort of pressure on his hip. Letting his toes drag along the concrete battlement, Min Gyu shrouded himself in Concealment before springing back towards his foe with a diagonal slash, a wild strike powered by his Amplified toes and the Wind pushing along from behind him. Had Junta seen this coming, he could have lined his glaive up to impale Min Gyu as he approached, or at the very least blocked the berserk, unrefined swing that sacrificed poise for power, but the Half-Demon was caught unawares. Though aiming for Junta’s neck, the full force of the strike inexplicably veered into his shoulder-guard instead, but failed to shift him even a bit or cause him to blink. This was not a working of Deflection or Reverberation, but rather something to do with his foe’s unknown Blessing, a subtle and invisible one if Min Gyu had to guess, else the bastard would have used it offensively in a more direct fashion.

This time, when Junta’s eyes met Min Gyu’s, he did not look away again, and instead his eyes narrowed in focused displeasure. “So, more formidable than expected, but still a candle at the end of its wick.”

“Perhaps,” Min Gyu replied, pulling his sabre away with more than a modicum of effort, as if it were stuck in something invisible layered atop the Half-Demon’s armour. “But old ginger is spicier than new.” Rather than take his stance again, he pressed the advantage with a thrust, but his foe was quicker to act, for Min Gyu took the time to message Yan, Kyung, Rain, and even Li-Li. “Watch carefully,” he Sent, and that was all he said, for it was all he had time for. The glaive passed harmlessly in front of Min Gyu’s sabre, which he pulled back the moment he saw the parry take form, only to immediately thrust again once the way was clear to force his foe back. Putting his Battle-Fan away, he made a show of taking his sabre by both hands but instead unleashed a grape-sized orb containing the power of a whirlwind which exploded in his opponent’s face. No longer so calm and collected, Junta snarled as the blast rocked him back on his heels and sent him staggering away, with the Wind Chakram slicing ineffectively against his bared skin as he passed. Even though Junta’s Blessing protected him from the Honed Wind and the bulk of concussive force, the noise and pressure differential was enough to rupture his eardrums as evidenced by the dark red blood flowing down the sides of his head, one of Min Gyu’s favoured tricks to use in combat. From the outside, it appeared as if Junta was weak on his feet, when in fact he was struggling to stand upright solely because he couldn’t gauge where the ground lay beneath him, and Min Gyu was quick to use this to his advantage.

A one-handed thrust slammed into Junta’s throat, but again, his Blessing protected him, shunting the bulk of the impact aside as the sabre skirted across his throat. The Honed edge failed to pierce through the invisible layer of viscous Domain the Half-Demon kept deployed across his skin, but Min Gyu was not one to give up so easily. Ignoring the danger of his foe’s glaive, he stepped diagonally across the front of his foe and used both hands to press harder into the side of the Half-Demon’s throat. All-too-aware of the threat to his life, Junta responded by falling to his knees and rolling away, a response which appeared clumsy and humiliating yet was the optimal choice given his lacking options. A dangerous foe this Junta, a Warrior unburdened by pride or dignity which forced Min Gyu to rethink his next few moves. After escaping near certain death, the Half-Demon rolled back to his feet with his glaive a whirling, wildly fending off the expected follow up attack, only to be sent reeling once more by another Explosive Wind as Min Gyu hopped away from his foe before charging back in again.

How amusing. Junta Healed his ruptured eardrums in less than a second, only for them to pop once again, so Min Gyu could only imagine how frustrated his foe might be as their furious exchange wore on.

Strike and retreat, reposition and resume. This was a key skill Li-Li and Kyung were both lacking, the ability to come and go as the wind blows. Min Gyu was domineering not because he was capable of overwhelming his foes through raw power alone, but because he sought to engage only when he had the upper hand. Keep your foes off-balance and on the back foot and the battle was already half won, though Junta’s sturdy defenses proved more formidable than expected. No matter if it was his sabre or Wind Chakram, Min Gyu found himself unable to pierce through the Half-Demon’s unseen defenses, for they were not firm and hard like steel armour, but malleable and flowing instead. So maybe not Earth or Fire after all, and possibly Water, though there was also the possibility of an Auxiliary or Esoteric Blessing as well. Wood and Cloud were the first to come to mind, but neither one was a perfect fit for what Min Gyu had seen from his foe, which was infuriating to say the least. Difficult to guard against the unknown, but he would simply have to keep hammering away at his foe until one of them was spent.

A most unfortunate turn of events, for Min Gyu knew he was at a disadvantage in a battle of endurance. The moment his offensive should falter, he would likely fall to Junta’s glaive, which meant Min Gyu was in a battle against time itself. Amazingly enough, Luo-Luo’s musical strumming seemed to aid him in choosing his moments, leaving off-beat moments in her melody that made it easy to know when to strike and when to retreat. How she managed such a feat was beyond Min Gyu’s comprehension, but he yearned to explore it even further. There was so much he still wished to learn about the Martial Dao, so much more he wanted to know, like how little Rain was able to wield power enough to strike down a Divinity before even mastering himself as a Peak Expert. This was a fork in the Path that offered so very many possibilities, one the Martial Warriors of the future would need to overcome the cannons and crossbows of commoners. There was also the matter of little Mila’s Blessing of the Sun and the sheer versatility it provided, or Yan’s newfangled grasp of Min Gyu’s Talent that even he himself could not explain, and so much more to learn and discover.

The world was experiencing a rebirth of the Martial Dao and Min Gyu wanted to study it all to understand how it worked, to speak with little Rain, the Abbot, Akanai, and anyone else who would listen to him expound on the Dao. There were still so many lessons he still had yet to teach, like guiding Yan through the process of combining her Blessing with her Martial Abilities, blending the two seamlessly together to create something greater than the sum of their parts, or showing Kyung and Li-Li that the way forward was not always the best way to advance, as he tried to teach them here.

And all this was merely regarding the Martial Path. What of his other aspirations and ambitions? Da’in and Kyung’s ill-fated romance might never prove fruitful, but he still held out hope that his grandson would one day find love. What’s more, even though the betrayal stung, he knew his god-daughter had her own reasons for siding with Shuai Jiao over little Rain, but he’d been planning to forgive and forget once the boy emerged victorious from that struggle. Then there was sweet Kishi who everyone neglected so, a darling pup who wanted nothing more than to curl in someone’s lap despite being too large to fit, and Min Gyu had been so looking forward to riding her about the plains of Central or through the mountains of the Bekhai hometown to see what all the fuss was about.

Alas, there was a good chance none of this would come to pass, for not only was Min Gyu a candle at the end of his wick, he was also burning himself at both ends to keep up his erratic offensive. Soon enough, he would falter and the Half-Demon’s turn would come, and they both knew how this match would end should they every reach this point. That’s why Junta was wholly content to remain on the defensive now, leaving no room for Min Gyu to utilize a more powerful attack and finish this match before reaching the end of his rope.

No matter though, for he could feel the eyes of his grandchildren and students on him right now, watching him as he fought in what might well be his final duel. Even if he were to die here today, his legacy would continue on, something that seemed so much less important now than it did ten years ago. Now, his beloved grandchildren were his pride and joy, and his only regret was that they spent so little time together as one, happy family, but even then, what they shared was more than enough for this old man.

Chapter Meme
