Elise Stanford sat at her desk, sorting through all of the spam emails, complaints, solicitations, account updates, and everything else that was sent in electronic form to Sid Tec on a daily basis. She'd gotten to the point that sorting was almost automatic, and she barely paid it any attention at all. Everything was going smoothly until a particular email caught her eye. She'd clicked it and sorted it into 'personal' without reading the subject, but now her eyes widened as she saw who the sender was.

Ren! Why are you contacting us? Elise thought as she read the header, then clicked on it to read. Her eyes widened as she read what Ren proposed, and then she smiled. It's very crude and not worded well, but I understand what you want. She moved the message window aside and typed up a proper proposal, referring to Ren's email to get the details. She expanded on it slightly, giving more details, like filming Ren's physical therapy sessions, and footage of his bed-ridden state.

The little darling even offered his own personal recordings of him in the game! Elise thought with joy. I'll have access to thousands of hours of him! She took several deep breaths to calm down. Get a hold of yourself, Elise! She admonished herself. Finish the proposal first.

She finished it, read it over twice to make sure it was professional enough, and printed it off. She put it into a folder and stood up. Okay, girl! This is it! She took another deep breath and smiled. Now sell this idea like your life depended on it!

Elise walked over to the office door and knocked.

“Come in.” Edward said.

“Hello, sir.” Elise said and walked slowly into his office. “Sorry to bother you, but I just received an interesting proposal from one of the contest winners.”

Edward sighed. “Please tell me it's not another petition from that dancing swordswoman for her own show.”

“It's Mistress of Dance, and it's not sir.” Elise said. “It's from Mr. Haddon.”

Edward's eyes widened. “Really?” He said surprised. “What is it?”

“I think it's better if you read about it, sir.” Elise said and handed Edward the folder. He took the couple of pages out of the folder and read. He scowled, smiled, raised his eyebrows, frowned, then grinned.

“The little bugger is a genius!” Edward said when he was done reading. “Using the VR as a medical device to test motor responses, then using the recordings to stimulate the brain in real life!” He stood up and stared at his secretary. “The implications are phenomenal!”

“I thought so too, sir.” Elise said. “That's why I brought it to you right away.”

“You've done this company a great service, Ms. Stanford!” Edward said and walked around his desk to take Elise into a hug. “A great service!”

“T-thank you, sir.” Elise said, surprised at the familiarity.

Edward let her go and walked behind his desk. “How many units did he... hmm... only the one?” He shook his head. “You'd better send a crate. They've got several nurses there, as well as the doctor.” Edward sat down in his chair. “There's only Ren and one nurse that's agreed to do it so far, but if they can get me some good results...”

Elise nodded. “What about the film equipment?”

“Yes, take a crew over to set everything up, and use the automated cameras.” Edward said, then stopped. “Elise, are you going to be okay going over there again?”

She smiled. “Sir, I've been there several times already.”

“Not since that incident.” He said.

“I was forgiven for that, and you'll note I've only logged into the game a few times since then.”

“Yes, you've been restraining yourself quite well.” Edward smiled. “But now you're going back into the lion's den.”

Elise laughed. “I could have done without the fight to the death reference, sir.”

“Sorry.” Edward grinned. “Gather everything up and head over there.”

“Yes, sir.” Elise said and left Edward's office. She printed off a copy of the proposal for Ren and called the tech department. I get to see him again! In person! Elise thought excitedly, as she arranged for everything that would be needed at the hospital.

********

Ren actually had a good night's sleep this time. He woke up about 4 hours before sunrise, and slid out of bed. Nathalia stirred and opened her eyes, because his pervasive warmth was now missing.

“Where do you think you're going?” She said sleepily, and rubbed her eyes.

Ren tucked the blanket back over her. “It's time I started working on the Keep.”

“You've got a year to do it.” She said. “You can let it go another day.”

Ren chuckled. “I've only let it go this long because I needed to get the techniques down.” He stroked the side of her face. “Go back to sleep, My Love. I'll see you at breakfast.”

“Okay.” Nathalia said. “Give me a kiss before you go.”

Ren gave her a kiss on the lips.

“Not there.” Nathalia said and grinned. Ren chuckled and climbed back into bed. An hour later, Ren got dressed and crept out of the house and through the front gate. No one was around, so he had the entire place to himself.

Just like the old days! Ren thought as he ran to the workshop. It's getting downright crowded here now.

“That's because there's usually so many workers and carts moving around.” Teepo said. “You can barely move along this road, there's so many.”

Ren chuckled. Yeah, who would have thought a side project would turn into a huge operation like this. Ren chuckled. I thought I'd made the oven too big to handle it all when I started. He shook his head and went inside the workshop. I'm tempted to make another oven, just to handle the load!

“I'd tell you to pace yourself with starting more projects, but that's not you at all.” Teepo said. “All I'll do is encourage you as much as I can.”

Thanks, buddy. Ren thought, and went over to the forge. He started it up and smelted some ore, then picked up 4 of the paving tiles a few steps away, next to the wall and away from any prying eyes. Ren dug up the dirt underneath, like he did back in Aurora to make Teepo's living area, then used the smelter to make the same metal braces to hold the stones in place. He put it together and placed it over the hole, and you couldn't tell it was there at all.

Perfect. Ren thought and deactivated the forge.

“Why are you hiding the entrance?” Teepo asked.

I don't want everyone to know I'm repairing the Keep.

“Why not?”

Because they may try to stop me. Ren thought. If I don't finish fixing it before the year is up, I won't complete the promise made to Nathalia, or meet the requirements for the contract.

“Oh right.” Teepo said. “If you don't meet it...”

It would be bad for me, and could be bad for her.

“Then get your lazy butt to work!” Teepo chittered in laughter.

Sir! Yes, sir! Ren thought and built half a dozen large wooden crates to gather the dirt in. He lifted the paving stone entryway, and got inside. Ren dug down on an angle, until he was down about 20 feet, then dug out an area about 10 feet square and 7 feet high. He'd filled one of the crates with dirt already, and went back to the surface to dump it behind the gigantic pile of silt that was there. He went back underground and closed the entryway behind him. Ren went back to the open area he'd cleared and started to dig back towards House Neram, and put the dirt into the crates. He dug a path through the ground all the way back to House Neram Keep.

I think we're getting close, Teepo.

“I'd say so.” Teepo said. “The dirt's well packed here.”

Ren dug a little more, and then stopped when the mining pick hit stone. He cleared away as much dirt as he could, and revealed about 20 feet of wall and crumbling stone.

Damn, it's a lot worse than I thought.

“You're clearing away the dirt that's probably holding it together.” Teepo said. “I assume you're going to dig down?”

Ren nodded. It's the best way. Ren responded. Then I can do the entire bottom floor first, let it set, then build up from there. I can worry about the inside once it's all done.

He took out the plans for House Neram Keep and examined them. Yeah, if I dig along here, like a set of staircases, except instead of stairs it'll be ramps... Ren made a square motion with his finger and moved it downwards. I'll get to the bottom in... about 8 hours.

“You're not going to get there by just standing here.” Teepo said. “Hop to it!”

Ren laughed and started digging the staircase ramps, and each fourth landing brought him back in contact with the wall. He had to stop several times to build temporary walls to cover breaches and collapses in the stonework. The last thing he wanted right now was any unexpected visitors. After about 2 hours of digging, Teepo told him he'd have to empty the crates one last time before the workers started to show up. Ren nodded and ran all the way back up to the top of the dirt staircase ramp, went down the tunnel to the workshop, and climbed out of the hidden entryway. He went out back and dumped the 6 large crates of dirt, then went back inside and built a wall across the room to Dorcot's section, cutting the forge off from view completely. Ren had just added the door when someone came into the workshop.

“Hi, Dorcot.” Ren said. “How's your wife?”

“Still cute.” Dorcot said and chuckled. “She's also really happy.”

“It couldn't be because you're happy, is it?” Ren asked.

“Nope.” He said and laughed. “It's probably because we've been spending more of our time together... in the bedroom.”

“I hear that.” Ren said and grinned. “A happy wife is a happy life.”

“Ha!” Dorcot said and clapped Ren on the shoulder. “I'll have to remember to tell Angeilin that!” He said and pulled Ren over to his workbench. “Now that I have you here, I've found something neat in that crate you let me poke through.”

“Oh? What is it?” Ren asked.

“This.” Dorgot opened one of the drawers and Ren stared at the giant oval ruby sitting there. “It was near the bottom, hidden under piles of smaller crystals.”

Ren picked it up and marveled at it's deep red color. “I see you already cut it.”

Dorcot nodded. “Finding these is really rare.” He said. “I spent nearly all day yesterday working on it.”

Ren used Appraisal on it, and it came back as 'N/A'. “Holy crap!” Ren exclaimed. “It's priceless!”

“That's what I thought when I finished cutting it.” Dorcot said.

Ren shook his head. “I mean, I appraised it and there's no price.”

“Maybe you need to practice that more.” Dorcot chuckled. “It's worth about 150 platinum.”

Ren nodded slightly. “Yeah, I do need to practice that more.” He said and stored the gem. “I assume you're going to keep the pieces you cut off and not sell them to me?”

Dorcot nodded. “I've got an idea for Angeilin's wedding anniversary, and they'd make a nice addition to it.”

“When is it?” Ren asked.

“Next month.”

“If you need any blacksmithing done, let me know.” Ren offered.

“Thanks.”

“I have to go and eat breakfast.” Ren said at Teepo's prompting. “Talk to you later.”

“See ya.” Dorcot said and sat down at his workbench. Ren left the workshop and went into the house. He had another great breakfast with two of his favorite people and rubbed his belly afterwards. He looked at Nathalia, and then her mother.

“I sometimes can't believe how lucky I am to have ended up here with you.” Ren said. “The both of you.”

Nathalia chuckled. “We were just talking about that before you came in here.” She said. “About how lucky we were that you ended up here with us.”

Ren leaned close and gave her a kiss. “I could argue over who's luckier in this relationship.” He said and smiled. “But, we're all just lucky and I'll leave it at that.”

“That's good, because you'd lose that argument.” Nathalia said and grinned.

“Yeah, I know.” Ren said. “When there's two people in a relationship, there's the one who's always right, and the other is the man.”

Nathalia and her mother had surprised looks on their faces for a moment, and then they started to laugh. Ren laughed, too.

*

The guard from the mines entered the plush and ornate office. He glanced around with his eyes to try and drink in all of the gold detailing. There's literally a fortune in here! He thought as he approached the over-sized desk in the center of the room.

“You may speak.” The Lord of House Lodur commanded his guard. The guard looked at the other 4 faces around the desk. All the highest members of the House were there.

“It... it's true.” The guard held up the platinum coin Ren had given him. “Not only is he paying higher wages, he's also ignoring your work stoppage order.” The guard said, then sighed mentally. He felt a little guilty about informing his Lord about what was going on, but he was still a retainer for House Lodur, no matter who else paid his wages.

One of the 4 faces scowled and turned to the Lord of the House. “I thought you said he was a good law abiding citizen?”

The Lord chuckled. “He is, but this tactic didn't seem to work.” He turned to look at the men gathered around him. “Send the same notice to every Major and Minor House. House Neram is to get nothing else from them.” He sat back in the chair. “They don't have to give any money back, since we're only reviewing the purchases, not canceling them.” He turned to the dwarf on the end. “Get me a messenger.” The group dispersed and the Lord dismissed the guard.

Such rabble. He thought. So easily swayed by money. The Lord of House Lodur wrote out a note on a piece of parchment. The messenger came in and waited until the Lord was done. The parchment was rolled up, and a wax seal was placed on it.

“Deliver that to the Commander of the Garrison.” The Lord told the messenger. “Immediately.”

The messenger bowed deeply and ran out of the office.

*

After feeding Princess, Ren was back underground and kept digging the staircase ramp. He dug for another hour, and filled the crates that he had.

“Damn, now what?” Ren asked.

“If you want to hide the extra dirt, maybe you could dig out the moat around the Keep.” Teepo suggested.

“Teepo! That's a fantastic idea!” Ren exclaimed. “Once the pile is high enough, no one will notice!”

Teepo chittered in laughter. “That's what I'm here for. Brilliant ideas.”

