Ren laughed and ran back up to the surface. He left the workshop and walked over to the back of the Keep. I can only go down about 5 or 6 feet, but I can make it 8 feet wide, the same width as the drawbridge. Ren used his hammerpick to dredge up the 8 feet of moat, then shoveled it out to pile the dirt on the other side, away from the 200 feet of stone wall. He repeated this several times and got the pile of dirt up to about 5 feet high. Ren only dug the moat out at the back of the keep, and not all the way around. He took out the large crates of dirt and dumped them onto the piles of dirt and it didn't make any difference.

Awesome! Ren thought then went back into the workshop and started the forge. He smelted up some ore and let it simmer, then slipped into the hidden passageway. He ran down the path and then down the staircase ramps to keep digging. Once the crates were full again, he went back out to dump them, in plain view. No one paid him any attention and he went back and repeated this, over and over. During the day, he used the smelted ore to make 6 sets of full plate armor, dyed red. Ren mounted a 3 inch diamond oval in the center of each chest piece and enchanted it with Protection. He was tempted to enchant every piece of the armor; but his Mana Pool had emptied after he'd enchanted Elerlyth's armor, and he kept forgetting to get Nathalia to recharge it for him. Ren continued to dig and eventually reached the bottom of the Keep, nearly half a mile down. With the extra running around it had taken him 12 hours and not 8, but Ren accepted that as the price to pay for trying to hide what he was doing.

“Things are going to go faster now.” Ren said and ran back to the surface, and saw people were packing up to leave. He ran to the end of the road, and had each cart stop. He repaired their clothing and equipment, and they all thanked him profusely.

“It's the least I can do for all your hard work.” Ren said to each of the workers. “Have a good night.”

When they were all gone, he dumped out the large crates of dirt onto the pile and went inside the house to enjoy another meal. After he fed Princess, he went back inside to talk to Nathalia.

“I've got some Adventurer's business to take care of.” Ren said.

“I know.” Nathalia smiled. “I'll see you in a few hours.”

“Actually, I was going to delay going.” He said. “Maybe for about an hour.”

“Well! Don't just sit there, mister!” She stood up and grinned. “We've only got an hour!”

Ren took her hand and they went to the bedroom. 50 minutes later, Ren tucked Nathalia under the blanket and lay down beside her.

“Logout.”

********

Ren slipped off the VR headset and was met by a sight he didn't expect.

“Ms. Stanford!” Ren said, surprised. “What are you doing here?” He looked at his watch. “It's after 6pm!”

Elise smiled at him. “The boss loved your proposal.” She said and handed him a copy of it. Ren took the proposal and read it. His eyes got wider and wider as he read all of it, then he looked at Elise in surprise.

“Where did this come from?” Ren asked. “What I sent...”

“...would have been rejected without being looked at.” Elise said. “I took the liberty to pad what you wrote, and made it presentable.”

“But...”

“It worked.” Elise said and smiled. “He thought it was a great idea.”

“But...”

“Don't worry, everything is being taken care of.”

“But...”

“What is it?” Elise asked.

“Who are all these people?” Ren waved at the crew setting things up, and Stella watched them closely.

“They're just the setup crew.” She said. “Voice controlled automated cameras, recorders, and storage devices.”

“C-c-cameras?”

“Voice controlled automated cameras.” Elise smiled. “No one will be sitting here watching you.” She said. “They only record when you, Mr. Haddon, speak the command.” She said. “We're installing a microframe to store it all, too. Your laptop will be a terminal access point for it.”

“But...”

“We're doing the physical therapy room next.” Elise said excitedly. “New footage every day of how you improve while using the VR headset!”

“But...”

Elise turned and waved a worker over. He carried a crate of something in his hands.

“The boss liked your idea so much, he sent over 6 VR headsets.” Elise smiled as Ren's mouth dropped open.

“No way!”

“You were right about the medical aspect, and you're going to be our main data point.” Elise chuckled. “The VR recordings, analytics, and real life footage is going to be a treasure trove of data for the tech team.”

Ren looked at her, then sighed. “I guess... I guess it's okay.”

“That's great!” Elise grinned. “You just have to say 'camera record' to turn everything on, and 'camera off' to stop it. You'll see a red light when it's on.”

Ren nodded. “Thanks for coming over so quickly.” He said. “I expected a response after a few days, at least... not after a few hours.”

She chuckled. “The boss doesn't want to wait on this. When someone gives him a great idea, he jumps on it.”

Ren smiled. “Yeah, I know a few people like that.”

“Do you mind if I sit down?” Elise asked.

“Of course not.” Ren said. “Please, sit.”

“Thank you.” She said and sat regally in the chair. Her business jacket popped open and her large breasts jiggled, then shook side to side. Ren could clearly see her white bra through the white fabric of her blouse. He didn't stare at her chest, however.

“Excuse me for a moment.” Ren said. “Bathroom break.”

She nodded and Ren slid out of the bed and went into the bathroom. He cleaned himself up and went back into the room.

“W-what happened to your arm?” Elise asked as she finally noticed the white sling.

“Oh, this?” Ren said and lifted the arm in a sling. “It was just a dislocated elbow.”

She winced as Ren climbed back into bed with a little difficulty.

“I'm sorry to hear you were hurt.” Elise said, and Ren saw she really was sorry.

“It's okay.” He said. “It'll be better in a couple of weeks.”

“You're so brave.”

“It's more like battle fatigue.” Ren chuckled. “So much happens to me all the time, that this is just another little thing I have to deal with.”

“That kind of sounds like me at my job.” Elise smiled. “I do so many things during the run of a day, that I don't even really pay attention to them anymore.”

Ren smiled. “Yeah, that's what it's like!” He said. “When I broke my finger a month or so ago, I pretty much just ignored it.”

“You broke your finger?” Elise asked, surprised. “How?”

Ren went into the story of how it happened, and he watched Elise's reactions.

If I had Elerlyth's ability, I'd be able to feel what she's feeling. Ren thought, then smiled when he got to the part about the guy being arrested and Elise's face broke into a huge grin. She put a hand gently on his arm.

“At least he should think twice about approaching someone like that.” Elise said. “What happened with your finger after that?”

“Lucy had to set it back into place, of course.”

Elise cringed and tightened her hand on his arm for a moment, then relaxed. “I'm glad you're okay after all of that.”

“Me, too.” Ren said, then saw the crew packing up. “I think your workers are done.”

Elise nodded, pat his arm, and stood up. “None of the cameras will work until we get the tech guys back to the lab tomorrow.” She said. “It should all be up and running tomorrow around noon, though. I hope.”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, trying to get stuff done by a certain time is all I've been doing in the game.”

Elise grinned. “Well, on the plus side the VR headsets will work just fine.”

“That's great!” Ren said, then looked at the crate. “Can the nurses take them home, or are they locked to here?”

“They're just standard units, so they can be used anywhere.” Elise said.

“Nice.”

“What about the software?” Stella asked. “Are you developing something exclusively for the medical aspect?”

Elise turned to her, a little surprised. “We are, actually.” She said. “Can I assume you're Stella?”

Stella's eyes widened. “How did you know that?”

Elise nodded towards Ren. “You were part of the proposal for the medical research.”

“W-w-what?!?”

Elise chuckled. “Apparently, he didn't discuss it with you yet.”

Ren laughed. “I was about to, but when I took off the VR headset, there you were.”

“Ren, what did you do?” Stella asked, and Ren handed her the proposal. She read it, and flipped the page, and read that. She flipped the page back and read the whole thing through again.

“That's brilliant.” Stella said with admiration to Ren.

“I got the idea from you, Stella.” Ren said. “Elise ran with it, though.”

Elise blushed a little. He called me by my first name!

“Okay, then. You're both brilliant.” Stella said. “I hope I'm granted access to the data.”

“Access?” Elise laughed. “It's your data.”

Stella's eyes widened. “You mean...”

“This project is yours. And Ren's, of course.” Elise said. “We're just setting up the tech for you.”

Stella stood there in shock, with her mouth hanging open.

“We hope you can give us some good results soon.” Elise said and turned to Ren. “Thank you for bringing this aspect of the technology to our attention.”

Ren reached a hand out to her, and she took it. “That's me.” He said and shook her hand. “I'm just full of ideas.”

Elise grinned. “Well, keep them coming!” She said and let his hand go. “I'll send a message when the mainframe is tied in for the cameras.” Elise waved as she left the room.

Ren and Stella waited and stared at each other for a minute, then started laughing. “Keep them coming!” They said at the same time and then laughed harder. After a few minutes, and a few wiped away tears, Stella sat down next to the bed.

“Ren, thank you.” Stella said, sincerely.

“You don't have to-” Ren started, but Stella cut him off.

“I've dreamed about something like this my whole life.” Stella said. “Being involved with a project like this... it could have medical ramifications that could help thousands of people...” She shook her head. “Ren.” Stella said and took his hand. “Thank you very much.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said, then grinned. “I thought you might have been joking before about me being your guinea pig; but, now I have to be.”

“Yeah, you're stuck with me now!” Stella said and grinned.
