There was no way I could keep up with that level of abuse, of course. But fortunately, we’d thought ahead. Nix had managed to trade the corpses of the Ceaseless and the Elemental Ravagers to Stalwart before the news of the Kadren sprang, and secured enough coin for three dozen healing cakes. So, every half hour, I’d chomp down on a gritty, grainy cake that tasted of sadness and lavender – which honestly were the same damn thing - and enjoyed the sensation of pain lessening, even if it were only for a while, and I never healed fully before my next bout of pain.

It worked, though. That was the important bit. Whatever else you might consider, constant use of your skills got results. Sure, Cuilcis was right when he said that ‘safe’ skill use granted slower increases than those of combat situations, but even so. It worked. My regular movement skills saw increases across the board, along with Shield, Armor and Self-Heal. Smaller increases, granted, but they all went up by at least one. Also, apparently, our group had become interesting enough that everybody checked me over. Secrets of the Self went up by a full three points.

My masochistic endeavours were what really moved the needle, though. Pain Tolerance went up by three, and Fire Resistance by a full six points, landing me at nineteen.

The others saw impressive increases as well, with Nix actually winning out due to the many increases to all her magical damage and mana skills.

Yet, those gains weren’t what had us celebrating. When the marathon of a day finally ended and we conked out on bed rolls – without any bonfires, and with Scouts keeping watch everywhere, because we weren’t complete morons – both Haddock and I had something to show for it.

“This ain’t fair! I should be the one getting freebies left and right here!” Nix sat in Haddock’s lap, his big arms draped around her. She adjusted one of the arms and rested her head on it with a sigh.

On the horizon, the sun descended, draping the scenery in a bloody sheen, that felt like a heavy-handed portent of things to come.

I laughed. “Left and right is a bit much, innit?”

“What did you get? Sorry. I’ve missed half of what’s going on. I jumped in on one of those hide and seek games, and boy, do they take it seriously!” Steve said.

I grinned. “Well, Tiny here is salty because I got myself a higher rarity just for letting her set me on fire several dozen times today!”

Steve perked up mid-yawn. “Fire Resistance? That’ll come in handy!”

“Damn straight it will. And the increase really isn’t horrible either.”

Congratulations. You have unlocked the higher rarity of a skill:

You have survived fire damage that should have killed you five times over during a single day.

Fire Resistance evolves to Higher Fire Resistance.

Higher Fire Resistance

Rare Passive skill

Other magic schools are versatile and can be used for many different things. Generally, not so for fire. It burns, consumes and destroys. And it does that so very, very efficiently. You have walked through fire and lived to tell the tale. Every level in Fire Resistance will moderately decrease the damage received from fire magic.

In addition, once a day, you may activate Fiery Resurgence for thirty seconds. Any fire magic damage during this period will heal you instead of damaging you.

Steve laughed. ”That’s ridiculous! You’re telling me Nix can kill things around you and heal you with a Firebomb at the same time now?”

“That’s exactly what I wanted to use it for!” I grinned, pointing finger guns at him.

“You guys are way too excited about Liam getting set on fire.” Nix shook her head sadly.

“I agree.” Haddock rumbled. His face split in a huge grin before he continued. “Especially, when you should be excited about my Construction skill hitting my first Evolution!”

“No fucking way!” I shouted, then sent hushed apologies at other groups nearby. “No fucking way!” I repeated, much lower. “Tell us already!”

He obliged us.

Your skill Higher Construction has reached the first evolution threshold at Level 25. This earns you a choice between two different evolution options.

Please note. Due to Higher Construction reaching Rare, the evolution options are improved.

Option one:

Level 25 evolution:

You will be granted a single choice among three random magical schools. A single construction of yours at any given time may, at an increased mana cost, be imbued with magic from that school.

“Fucking ‘ell!” I breathed. “That’s ridiculous!” I blinked and realized what he was reading aloud. “Wait. You haven’t picked that one yet? The other option will have to be incredibly overpowered to beat that!”

“You’re not wrong.” Haddock nodded.

Option two:

Level 25 evolution:

From now on, you may re-establish contact to any of your temporary creations and alter them. The mana cost involved depends on the speed and severity of the alteration.

Steve frowned. “You’ll have to walk me through this one. The first one, you could get something like…”

“Curse magic.” I said.

“Curse magic.” Steve repeated with a brief nod. “You could apply that to spikes on, say, a spike strip, and every single beast to cross it would become cursed.”

Haddock. “Think so. Maybe it’d run out after one use. Or each spike could only be used once. Hard to tell.”

Steve nodded, ceding the point. “Also, it’d be hard to come up with exactly how the magic would work beforehand. What would, say, fire magic work like in constructions? Could you have an actual fire wall, or would it all be sealed within?”

“All speculation.” Haddock agreed. “No answers.”

“But that second one. Is that just to save the mana and time needed to construct something new?”

Haddock gave a low laughter and rubbed his hands together. “Oh no. It could be so much more.”

I blinked as some of the implications started to sink in. “Unless I’m misunderstanding this. That bridge you created, that the Ghastlings kept climbing. You’d be able to… tip the bridge?”

He beamed, eyes gleaming with dark satisfaction. “Tip them. Add spiked elements. Take a ceiling and remove the supports, letting it smash onto anything that’s underneath. Remove handholds. Rotate steps.” He pulled his beard as he grinned maniacally. “Trap feet in stone. I don’t know. So many possibilities. I can create a house and actually haunt it!”

I whistled softly. ”I get it. So, basically, you get the choice between gaining a magic school, that you’re bound to be able to find some excellent uses for, which could be truly powerful…”

“But we don’t know. Yeah. Or I’d be able to alter things on the go on anything I’ve already created. See my dilemma?”

Nix reached back, interlocking both her arms between his neck. She turned her head and looked seriously up at him. “Take the second one, love.”

“Alteration? You sure?”

She nodded. “The magic one might be all-powerful. But we can’t be entirely sure. You could end up with three crap magic schools, or have to spend ages learning how it works. The other one? We can already see a ton of uses for it. And you know where we’ll be in a day and a half. Long-term growth won’t mean jack, if we’re dead.”

“Damn.” Haddock grunted. “Survival is a pretty damn good argument. Alteration it is!”
