His next attack came immediately, and Elise barely got {Suggest} out in time to make that one miss as well. Frustration was visible on Telvir’s face as the next three attacks missed as well, but the sixth attack, he moved faster than Elise could {Suggest}, she was forced to {Move} instead. It wasn’t quite fast enough, and the wooden blade grazed the dummy’s arm, making Elise flinch as the stone in her hand shocked her.

The next attack came even faster than the previous one, and this time, Telvir accounted for {Move}, and his blade sunk deep into the dummy’s throat. Elise almost dropped her stone when it shocked her from the hit.

The elf still had almost two seconds left, but he pulled the blade out slowly with a smug smile and walked away. Behind him, the stone dummy seemed to partially liquify as the damage was repaired in seconds.

“Round 2 goes to Telvir as well,” announced Daryl, earning a smattering of applause from the others.

By this point, Elise knew that she had no chance of beating Telvir. Not at this game. In a real fight where she wasn’t holding back? She could do it. Not in this setting though.

She had no intention of giving up though. The spar was ultimately meaningless, so while it did sting a little bit that she was going to lose, it didn’t matter. What she really wanted to do was wipe the arrogant expression off the elf’s face, and even if she couldn’t fully accomplish that, she wanted to at least put a dent in it.

Telvir returned to his position behind his dummy, crossing his arms and standing with his legs slightly spread in a display of utter confidence.

“Telvir, you have thirty seconds to plan your defenses,” said Daryl.

Elise noticed that his voice sounded noticeably less excited than it had before. And while the others were still watching closely, there was no tension. Everyone present had gotten a pretty good idea of how the next few rounds would go. Elise took that as an added challenge. And if that wasn’t enough to motivate her, Telvir’s next words were.

“I don’t need it,” he said. “Let’s just get this over with.”

Elise shot him a glare as Daryl began counting down. During Telvir’s five seconds, he reinforced the armor, repairing the damage Elise had done and making it visibly thicker, but he did nothing else. He clearly thought he didn’t need to. And he was right. Elise’s next round of attacks consisted of a single modified {Ensnaring Roots}. This one was slightly different in that on top of trying to crush, it borrowed from {Vicious Bloom} and tried to dig into the armor, but it was just as ineffective.

Seeing the pitiful display, Telvir scoffed.

“Giving up?” he asked.

“No,” said Elise. “I was just testing something.”

It was an interesting problem for her, since for the first time, she actually had to use brute, magical force instead of falling back on her aether. She thought she had a solution though. Maybe. She was confident she could at least break through the armor on the next round, assuming that Telvir didn’t change anything significant, which she doubted he would.

Just breaking the armor wouldn’t be enough though. He was clearly not trying very hard, and was holding back just as much as she did. If she spent all her effort just to barely crack his armor, that would only reinforce his superiority complex. She needed something stronger. A bigger statement. And she thought she had just the idea.

The second round of attacks was a proof of concept. She was able to get the roots to penetrate the armor, but just like when she used {Vicious Bloom}, the roots wilted when they entered. She wasn’t completely sure how that worked, but she was fairly certain that the armor was absorbing the mana from her own attacks and weakening them. Even her {Magic Missile} was partially absorbed by the strange wood.

However, there was one thing that Telvir wasn’t aware of, and that was the fact that she had {Nature Mana Manipulation}. She hadn’t worked with it as much as she should have, but she was familiar enough with it to have gotten it to level 70, so she knew how to work with it. And with it, she was not confined to the limitations of her more basic spell Skills. She could get creative. And she would.

The second round of Telvir attacking went roughly the same as the first. Elise managed to fend him off for a little bit, though she had to get more creative with her {Suggest} to do it. In the end, though, he managed to stab it right in the throat again. That annoyed Elise, since she was sure she could have avoided him if he was attacking her instead of the remote-controlled dummy, and if she could fly.

“Eleanor, do you need any time to prepare your attack?” asked Daryl once Telvir had returned to his position.

“No, I think I’m ready.”

“Remember that this is an exercise in creativity, so don’t be afraid to take your time and try something new. Winning and losing doesn’t matter. Just try your best, and maybe try something new with nature magic that you haven’t done before.”

“Oh, I will,” said Elise. “And I’m ready. Let’s just get this over with.”

Telvir’s eyes narrowed at Elise using his own words being used against him, and he sneered at her.

“Then your final round of attacking begins in 3! 2! 1! Go!”
