The poor guy only became progressively clumsier under the weight of Alden’s nervous gaze. By the time the exam session was over, acid had eaten away part of the examinee’s table, and Joe told him he’d failed in an unnecessarily cheerful tone.

<<You’re too tense today,>> Sophie said later while they cleaned up the messes the students had left. <<You smell like prey.>>

“You sure know how to make a guy feel confident.”

Alden was scraping chunks of perpetually smoldering wood into a pail. He wasn’t sure if he was supposed to wet them or smother them before he added them to the rest of the pile they were collecting near the teleportation alcove, and Joe had left the lab to visit with one of the other professors.

“I’m fine,” Alden added. “I’m just practicing a wordchain, and I’m on the worrywart end of it.”

He did wonder how well Sophie could actually smell him through her helmet, though.

<<If I found you on my planet, I would hunt you.>>

“Would you really?” Alden asked. He had been curious about it. Grivecks were notorious for being culturally okay with murder in a wide number of circumstances. They weren’t mindless killing machines, despite their reputation, but their take on the subject was unique to their species.

<<I am being humorous. Obviously. It would be monstrous to slaughter you after giving you permission to contact me.>>

Like that.

A rule about not murdering people after giving them your phone number implied that if Sophie hadn’t given him permission to send her private messages, slaughter would still be on the table.

“That’s good. I like hanging out with you even if it is just for work. It would be a downer if we met again, and you killed me.”

<<We are unlikely to meet in person again. You’re too weak to handle the gravity on Sreeeakk. And I would like to see Earth, but your planet does not allow griveck tourists for some reason. I appreciate the sentiment, though.>>

About twenty minutes later, Alden was finishing up the work while the griveck kept him company. He was always the last one done, since many of the chores required fingers and Sophie didn’t have them.

“So only the S-ranks—I mean the topmost ranks—become Ryeh-b’ts on your planet? How does that even work?”

Alden was tightening all the caps on the bottles in the mini fridges. Because apparently the examinees were a bunch of privileged ingrates who were incapable of doing it themselves.

Sophie had been telling him about her planet’s Avowed, and it was blowing his understanding of the System out of the water. Her species had ended up with an entirely different class set-up from humanity. They only had two of them. And they didn’t even consider them to be classes. There were just bunches of Avowed who got to pick from a menu of hardcore combat skills and physical buffs, and a few overpowered Ryeh-b’ts who spent all their time trying to figure out how to turn their domestic helper skills into hardcore combat ones.

<<Our ancestors made the agreement long ago. Nobody wished to deprive our gifted cubs of the chance to become great warriors, but the Artonans insisted we have Ryeh-b’ts, at least, even if we refused all their other subclassifications of Avowed. We compromised by agreeing that the number of us chosen for Ryeh-b’t would be kept to the bare minimum and that they would be our most powerful members. That way their overall strength makes up for their other weaknesses in battle.>>

Alden suddenly wondered if the griveck felt sorry for him. Here he was, Mr. Totes Stuff Around, the B-rank Ryeh-b’t who was currently coming down from a self-inflicted anxiety spiral. While she was a rapid-regenerating organic tank.

He cleared his throat. “You know, Rabbit is a pretty popular class on Earth. Even if it’s not the best for combat, lots of people want it.”

<<Humans are damaged.>>

“And I can do things you haven’t seen yet. I can run pretty fast.”

Sophie tilted her helmet. <<Want to race?>>

Oh. He’d walked right into that one. “It wouldn’t be appropriate indoors…”

<<You’re an amusing—>>

A piercing whistle sounded, and Alden clapped his hands to his ears. His vision brightened alarmingly as text filled it, and a voice spoke the words simultaneously.

[EMERGENCY TELEPORT AUTHORIZED. ENTER THE NEAREST ALCOVE IMMEDIATELY OR BRACE FOR TRANSPORT.

TELEPORT IN 4…]

Alden was already on his feet and running for the alcove that they’d just used to dump all the garbage. His body was being driven more by adrenaline than thought.

3…

What’s going on?

[MINOR MEDICAL EMERGENCY. APPROVED RESPONDERS: ONE. PREPARE TO FOLLOW

2…

INSTRUCTIONS FROM SUMMONER ON SCENE.]

Alden’s heart was pounding. What was he about to be dropped into? Was he really going to be the only person responding? What if he screwed up?

He slammed into the alcove, barely managing to avoid smacking his head. The space was hardly big enough for a person. Alden wasn’t even sure it counted as a full-service teleportation device. Maybe it was just a direct connection to the dump, and the System wouldn’t even use it?

Wait, what am I supposed to do in a medical emergency again? Follow instructions. Right, the pills! I packed the bottle of emergency drugs this morning, didn’t I? I think—

The runes on the alcove lit up, and before Alden could finish his thought, he was outside in the humid air.

And he was falling.
