The streets ran with milk and honey. Someone had collided the wagon with the valuable sweet from the beehives. Laken Godart, on his return trip to Riverfarm, was greeted by the [Beekeeper] who was under arrest.
Mostly to protect the inept [Driver] from being murdered by the angry bee-expert, whose valuable work had been ruined.
“Damn. Is there anyone who can retrieve the honey without scooping up the dirt? Mistress Ezerre?”
Laken Godart had been looking forwards to the honey, which was a valuable trade crop. Miserably, the [Beekeeper] shook her head.
“Not that I have, your Majesty.”
“I’ll investigate at once. This is too much gold to be lost!”
Rie hurried off. The [Driver] was speaking to Prost; the [Steward] was handling the discipline. Laken Godart sighed.
“Maybe a [Mage] could…siphon it up? And we could strain it…someone get Wiskeria? Or Eloise, Hedag? Nannette? Not Mavika.”
“Honey! Who spilled all of this? Dead gods!”
A voice cried out in dismay. Laken turned, hearing the booming voice. He smiled.
“Durene!”
“Laken! It’s a disaster! Look at all this honey! And the bees!”
Durene walked around the honey spill, ignoring the bees that were sending everyone else running for cover. She was panting.
“I just got back. Just—did the first leg of the delivery. That salt…was sort of heavy. But it helped the horses.”
“How far did you go?”
To the [Emperor], Durene was just standing there. But everyone else could see the sweat staining the half-Troll girl’s tunic. Durene wiped her cracked, grey skin.
“Thirty miles.”
“You dragged a wagon thirty miles?”
“Yup. I’m building muscle. Like those Humans and Drakes.”
The [Emperor] laughed.
“Durene, we could buy you a weights set! I have one on order already, in fact!”
The [Paladin] shrugged, abashed.
“Yeah, well…they look light, those weights. And it’s not like we need to waste money on me. Hey, I heard we have Crelers? Let me get my shield and club and I’ll help smash them.”
She strode past Laken before he could object. And there went the Emperor’s consort. Durene the [Paladin]. People talked about her more than the Goblins, actually. But no longer in the same terms as before. They might dislike her—but Durene was mostly over it. And of late—
The former farm-girl had found a purpose. And a mentor. When she walked these days, some people walked wide of her. For Durene patrolled Riverfarm by night with the woman who had taken her under her wing.
Hedag. And no child but called for help in Riverfarm without Hedag being there a moment later. The merry [Witch] appeared now, with her classic, booming laugh.
“What a spill! But let’s not fret. Something of this sort can be mended quick as crying over it! Just give me a moment, Emperor—Agratha!”
She bellowed a name and a [Witch] with a little red pointed hat hurried over.
“Witch Hedag, please don’t shout!”
The [Witch Teacher] winced. Agratha was not one of the most powerful [Witches] who had come to Riverfarm to make a deal with the [Emperor]. But her coven was large, and she herself had come with nearly a dozen [Witches]. The first wave of them to make good on the [Emperor]’s bargain.
They had cornered the market on occult charms and magic in general. Moreover, even if they didn’t sell something, they came because they were protected from harm by the [Emperor]’s laws. A [Witch] would be punished for committing a crime—not for existing.
“Oh, a spill. The honey! I see, I see. A little sweeping spell should do it. Come on apprentices, this is a good test for you. Stand back, please.”
A few younger [Witches] joined Agratha. Laken listened and ‘watched’ as Hedag, Agratha, and four other [Witches] grabbed brooms. Hedag had to borrow one. They walked over and swept the honey back up into the overturned vats.
It wasn’t easy. The [Witches] grumbled and cursed and two had to borrow mops. Moving honey was hard work! The street was dusty, the honey didn’t want to move—but Agratha and Hedag marshaled the younger witches and eventually got it into the jar. Hedag yanked it upright, slapped a lid on it.
“There. Done as done! We wouldn’t mind a bit of that ourselves, your Majesty. Fair share for fair work!”
She winked, although Laken couldn’t see it. But Hedag had a wink in her voice.
“Your Majesty! That’s not fit to eat! It’s got too much grit and—”
The [Beekeeper], Ezerre, protested loudly as Laken Godart walked over, ignoring the milk which the [Witches] hadn’t bothered to sweep up. He opened the lid and Ezerre gasped.
The honey sat in the large, clay pots, without a speck of dust or grit in it.
“But I saw—”
“I find that staring at [Witches] isn’t very helpful, Mistress Ezerre. Happily, it’s not a problem for me.”
Laken Godart’s voice was dry. The [Beekeeper] hesitated and then blushed at the laughter that ran around the square. The [Emperor] nodded to Hedag.
“A pot, for your troubles, Witch Hedag, Witch Agratha. It is much appreciated.”
“Ah, what a fair ruler of men! Well, let’s have that honey. This pot. Agratha, I think we need biscuits.”
Hedag laughed again. The red-hatted [Teacher] bowed slightly to Laken.
“Thank you, your Majesty.”
The other [Witches] tipped their hats or copied Agratha. Hedag did not bow, but she touched the brim of her worn, brown hat. Laken Godart smiled.
Where would you be without [Witches]? Well, in much the same world, but perhaps a poorer, less interesting one. The unique spellcasters offered interesting solutions to problems. Wiskeria, for instance, had heard about the Creler-problem. She met Laken as he walked towards her—and the four individuals making their way into the town.
“Laken. I heard about the nest. If there are that many, we could try shaping the earth. We have enough [Witches].”
“To do what, bury the Crelers? I thought they were like cockroaches. Impossible to bury.”
The [Witch]-[General] shifted her hat. Wiskeria’s spectacles glinted in the light as she looked at Laken.
“They are. So let’s sink a cauldron. Poison the entire spot. It’ll kill everything there for three years—but better that than letting Crelers live.”
Laken grimaced. Wiskeria was good with poisons. However—he didn’t like that idea.
“Would it kill them?”
“No. Not Crelers. But it would kill a few, and weaken the rest. Your Majesty, if a hundred Crelers—even infants tunnel upwards, people will die. Even the Darksky Riders can’t handle so many swarming ones. The [Witches] will help but Crelers resist hexes.”
The blind man nodded. It was a tricky problem.
“I see. I’ll consider it, Wiskeria, but happily, a more expedient solution may have presented itself. I think…we have an adventuring team.”
“Really?”
Wiskeria’s eyes widened. Laken nodded with a smile. At last. He’d put out that ‘adventurers-wanted’ notice a long time ago and someone had only answered now. Of course he’d known it was a long shot. But he couldn’t pay Gold-rank teams the retainer they would want—or rather, he didn’t want to.
And he wanted a group that would take an offer like the one he had made. Especially the part about Goblins.
 
—-
 
Griffon Hunt surveyed Riverfarm, the Unseen Empire, the location of the first [Emperor] on Izril in living memory’s abode…with dismay.
“An [Emperor] lives here? It’s a nice enough town—looks like it needs a lot more paint—but…seriously?”
Revi looked at the wooden houses with dismay. Riverfarm was just now building out of quarried stone, but the first influx of people had demanded quick housing. They were good buildings, made by professionals, but paint hadn’t been high on the list of priorities so color was being added only now.
“We knew it was a risk. But if this is a hoax, I’m going to hit someone with my axe. Don’t copy mommy, Cade.”
Briganda jiggled Cade and he sleepily protested. Halrac said nothing as Typhenous enhanced his eyesight to peer at the village.
“First impressions often betray, Revi. I suggest we be polite.”
“I wasn’t going to be rude.”
“Ah, then you’ll keep quiet while we introduce ourselves?”
The [Summoner] reached over to punch the old [Mage] and nearly fell out of her saddle. The [Marksman] just stared at the village.
“Goblins. An [Emperor]. No wonder no team even considered the mission.”
The other three Gold-ranks nodded. Who would accept something like that?
 
Payment is minimal per week and may be negotiated, but a share of any treasure recovered will be awarded to the team. Food and lodging will be provided for free, as will most mundane supplies.
 
Minimal per week was not appealing. Negotiation was not appealing to most teams. What was peculiar was ‘a share of any treasure recovered’. That sounded confident.
It also sounded like bull’s crap used to entice a gullible team. The proclamation had carried all the warning signs. However, Halrac had accepted it on a hunch.
Because it mentioned Goblins. Also, because it related to his home. And his team had come with him.
At least the visit justified itself partly the moment Halrac rode into the village. They had given their names to the four [Riders] who’d somehow known they were coming. Now—Halrac heard a roar, a bellowing voice.
“Halrac, my lad!”
“Master Helm?”
The [Scout]’s dark expression cleared. He saw a huge [Blacksmith] loping at him. Master Helm grabbed Halrac up in a huge hug as the man slid from his saddle.
“Halrac! I knew you’d find us! Dead gods, lad, but you haven’t changed! And you brought your team? His Majesty will be delighted! I would have reached out to you, but I thought you were in Liscor!”
“Master Helm! I went to Windrest, but no one was there. I thought—”
Halrac gasped for breath; Helm was middle-aged, but he was a [Blacksmith] and felt stronger than the last time they’d met.
“They’re alive. Most of them. Old Kessy bit it with the Goblin raids. A bastard put an arrow in her—and we’ve lost a few. But Eldrim’s alive, and so is Turc—he’s married now. And Talaya wrote that she was fine—”
Revi saw Halrac’s face change at the last name. But the [Scout] composed himself. He opened his mouth—
And was instantly swarmed by more of Windrest’s villagers who had heard he was coming.
“Halrac’s here! Look at you! Still thin and unmarried, aren’t you?”
“You don’t [Message] us nearly enough! Fancy Gold-rank and you can’t even bother to spend a few silver on your village? You must meet his Majesty!”
“Who? I—hello, Miss Cena. I’ve been in Liscor—”
Revi and Typhenous enjoyed the sight of the stoic Halrac looking flustered as, without reservation, he was slapped on the back, hugged, and someone even tried to put him into a headlock.
“Are these your old friends, Halrac? You look relaxed.”
The [Summoner] grinned down at the Gold-rank adventurer, a local hero to his small village. Halrac gave her a glare, but Revi had reminded the villagers that they existed. The lighthearted mood turned into curiosity.
“Are you all Gold-ranks?”
A boy breathed up at Revi. She grinned, although she noted eyes on her stitching and looks of shock. Humans who’d never seen Stitchfolk before, let alone other species.
“That’s right. We’re Halrac’s team. He’s our captain.”
“Captain? You never said, lad!”
Helm was beaming like a madman. Halrac was swamped again. Briganda carefully handed Cade to Typhenous before getting down. The boy squirmed to be on the ground, wanting to run for the excited crowd. Revi and Typhenous more sedately waited for the chaos to stop.
As they understood it, Halrac’s family was dead. He had been an only child and had enlisted in the army where he had met Ulrien before becoming a Gold-rank adventurer. He didn’t speak of his home, but it was clear that they didn’t hold him in any reserve of emotion.
Master Helm seemed as proud as a father—despite having children of his own. Amid the scattered introductions, catching up and asking about the dungeon and whether Halrac had any treasure, the Gold-ranks picked up some information.
“So you all came here to serve an [Emperor]?”
Halrac looked at Master Helm in disbelief. The [Blacksmith] ran a hand over his almost completely-bald pate.
“It didn’t work exactly like that, lad. It was more of us running for our lives with that Goblin Chieftain on the rampage. Then—well—Riverfarm’s been good to us. There’ve been attacks—a Goblin Lord nearly overran us. We think it was a Goblin Lord, but his Majesty dealt with her right quick.”
Revi gave Typhenous a strained look. Goblin wasn’t the word of hatred it had used to be. Briganda on the other hand…had only met Numbtongue. But Helm’s next words made her pull an ear off to check it.
“His Majesty’s got some of them, though. In their own spot. The Goblinlands. A few hundred. Bastards have their own wall, but they’re almost civilized. We’d got used to them, which is an odd thing. But they have all the good iron, so we have to trade with them. His Majesty’s orders.”
“He has…Goblins?”
“Won’t let us kill them. It’s this entire thing, lad. Emperor Laken Godart, although it’s just Emperor Godart. I hope you’ll be respectful. He’s done right by Windrest’s folk, just you remember that. Myself as well. I’m a [Royal Blacksmith] now. Got myself a handful of new Skills, including [Perfect Temperature Control]! Won’t overheat my steel ever again!”
“You, Helm? A [Royal Smith]?”
Halrac’s eyes were almost wide. He looked around as some of the others began shouting about the things Laken had done.
“He’s got [Witches]. Good [Witches]! And he made a bee-place. Lots of bees—they stung me.”
“His Majesty can see everything! I’ve got one of the totems in my room, for protection. Did you see them? He can see everything, including bandits! Durene and Beniar smashed a group that came into our lands last week! They never saw us coming!”
“Halrac! Halrac, is that an invisible bow? Can I shoot it? Huh?”
The [Scout] was letting the father pry his daughter off Halrac’s back as he guarded his enchanted arrows when someone shouted.
“His Majesty, Laken Godart of Riverfarm!”
And everyone went silent. Halrac Everam, Revi Cotton, Typhenous, and Briganda Rishaw all turned to see the blind man walking towards them, followed by a [Lady], a half-Troll girl, a former [Farmer], and a gaggle of people. They stared at him. At Durene.
Then Bismarck plodded past with Frostwing on his back. He was lapping at the milk on the ground. Halrac stared at the Mossbear.
A problematic fact about Bismarck? Laken had tried, but the Mossbear still wasn’t housebroken. He pooed everywhere.
 
—-
 
