“Then we’ll launch the first attack if they’re not woken up. Dig twenty feet close; any closer and they’ll go for you. Typhenous and I will attack while Revi and Briganda cover us. If we fall back, we’ll all be fighting.”
Beniar nodded uncertainly. He gave the Gold-rank teams a dubious look. After a second, Beniar coughed.
“We could flood the hole. Divert the river; it wouldn’t take more than an hour or two…”
Revi saw Halrac adjust his grip on the arrow. She sighed. Silver-ranks. They thought they knew it all. She gave Beniar a fake smile.
“Crelers swim. We can handle it.”
“Hole’s done! We got about fifteen feet away. I think I hear them. Or maybe that’s just the dirt. What do we do, Beniar?”
A low rumble came from Durene. The other [Diggers] had hopped out and retreated past the defense line. The hole was encircled.
“Leave it to us. Typhenous—get ready.”
“If there is even a nest.”
Revi grumbled. She doubted this ‘[Emperor]’. Beniar watched as Griffon Hunt approached. He was clearly uncertain.
He needn’t have been. Two hundred Crelers was a lot. But they were apparently babies. And most crucially—
The adventurers had time to prepare. There was a motto among some teams that, with enough time, they could kill anything.
It was ambushes, crisis situations, where they fell apart and got in trouble. Since that wasn’t the case like with the Horns—Griffon Hunt had picked their fight and they knew their strengths.
“Do it, Typhenous. Revi—”
“Prepared to intercept. Just get back, Typhenous. Briganda?”
“Ready. I just better not get bit. I hate Creler venom.”
Halrac nodded. He had an arrow with a glowing tip aimed down at the hole. Apparently, the sloping tunnel would lead right to the nest. Laken had given the [Diggers] specific instructions; he was waiting from far behind the army. Now, he pulled back, not all the way—just waiting.
The outline of the invisi-bow as Revi had been taken to calling it to annoy Halrac shone in the setting sun. But the real light came from the staff.
Typhenous was preparing his spell. The [Mage] took his time, partly to show off, partly to gather his mana for the most efficiency. He could cast faster—but he was an expert. He didn’t rush. And when he cast the spell, the first huge ball of magic sailed with pinpoint accuracy down the tunnel.
“[Valmira’s Comet]!”
The first explosion chewed out a huge amount of dirt and caved in part of the tunnel. Halrac shot an arrow and blasted the hole deeper. Typhenous conjured another comet; he had a ten second delay. Revi stared into the hole. Smoke, dirt, dust, was clearing.
“I don’t see them. They had to have felt that. Maybe—”
Movement. Glowing bodies swarmed out of the dirt. Revi yelped.
“Never mind! Here they come! Crelers!”
The watching warriors reacted to her shout. The half-Troll girl swung a huge club up—but she never got the chance to strike.
“Typhenous.”
“[Speed Spell – Valmira’s Comet].”
Typhenous fast-cast the next comet. The first wave of Crelers disappeared in a flash. And on the heels of the detonation, Halrac fired an arrow.
Fiery oblivion followed the spell. The Crelers ran into both explosions. And the ones surviving, before they could even register both detonations—heard a voice.
“[Double Shot].”
Halrac the Grim aimed his enchanted bow into the hole, into the nest, and shot two enchanted arrows. His control of the Skill meant that he could fire them one slightly after the other. They hit the nest and detonated.
Typhenous threw another comet. Halrac drew an enchanted arrow and waited. The Crelers, massed together, with only one fast way upwards, had no chance.
Griffon Hunt took them apart at range. Only a few got past the explosive attacks—and that was just because Halrac stopped firing his enchanted munitions to save gold. He shot one with a regular arrow—and Revi’s summoned warriors attacked the remaining Crelers without fear.
Briganda smashed one down, hacking with her hatchet, and knocked another one away as Typhenous hurried back. And then? Well, it was just cleanup. That was surprisingly easy, thanks to the [Emperor].
 
—-
 
“Whoa. They’re so good.”
Durene watched as Griffon Hunt mopped up the stragglers. Laken was impressed too. The Gold-rank team had proven exactly why they deserved their rank.
More than raw power, they were just…smart. They had taken the Crelers down with minimum effort. They’d barely even gotten to the adventurers.
“Your Majesty, we need to make sure there’s not a single egg in the nest. We’d like to ask a [Mage] with [Sense Life] to help us, if there is one. Or a [Witch]. We could buy a scroll, but that’s more expensive.”
Halrac approached Laken. The [Emperor] inclined his head.
“Happily, Captain, I can do the work of a scroll. I sense fifteen Crelers left, not including the eggs bunched together. I will inform you of the locations—one is burrowing away at speed. Here…”
The Gold-rank team blinked as Laken casually followed one of the Crelers, which was fleeing through the dirt. Prost hurried after the [Emperor].
“Shovels! Not a one of those Crelers gets away!”
It took another hour to track down each Creler and destroy the eggs; the adventurers scorched everything in the area just to be safe. But they’d been impressed by Laken’s abilities, not just for finding the nest but the stragglers trying to hide or ambush them.
He in turn had been pleased by their abilities. So the next day, he decided to try out his true plans for them.
 
—-
 
“Investigate a cave? What are we, Silver-ranks?”
The next day, Revi was annoyed by the order, but she just liked to complain. Really, she was intrigued. The [Emperor] had known about the nest.
But this? It was just a cave.
“His Majesty needs adventurers to investigate anomalies on his lands. Ensure everything is safe. He could use [Soldiers] or others of course, but he believes Gold-ranks are the most capable of handling any eventuality. This would be the bulk of your duties.”
The [Steward], Prost, informed the Gold-rank team. Cade was safely in the village, playing with some of the children. Briganda raised her eyebrows.
“It’s not the worst. Just dirty work.”
“We do have some open-air baths. Upon your return. There are three spots his Majesty would like you to investigate.”
“I see. Well, we can look into this cave, Mister Prost. I’d advise you to return to the village in case we do find something and need to retreat.”
Halrac’s tone was dry, businesslike. The [Steward] nodded.
“Once you finish, our resident City Runner can direct you to me or the next location.”
He indicated the young man waiting at the cave. Revi raised her eyebrow.
“You have a City Runner on call? What about that Centauress?”
“Ah, Miss Charlay. She’s a valued guest.”
With how much she’d been drinking and eating, she had better be. Well, if the [Emperor] was trying to impress Griffon Hunt with his generosity, it still wouldn’t work. Griffon Hunt saw the [Steward] off and then investigated the cave.
“Halrac, this place is weird. I don’t have anything against the [Emperor]…much. But [Witches]? His ability to see underground?”
“I know. Master Helm had nothing bad to say about him, though. Keep quiet—”
The team moved forwards. Only when it was safe to whisper again did Revi grin.
“That was worth the trip at least, to hear someone calling you ‘lad’.”
Briganda snorted. Halrac ignored them as he led the way. The [Scout] was working. Typhenous was next—because he was actually quite deadly with his dagger—followed by Revi, their weak link in an ambush. Briganda brought up the rear, keeping watchful. The Gold-rank team investigated the cave, which stretched deeper, deeper…an area hollowed out by water over millennia…
 
—-
 
They found nothing. Well, in point of fact the adventurers found several monster-animals, including a really aggravated Rock Slime and some Rockmites, and a bug-thing that tried to take a chunk out of Revi’s leg.
Nothing threatening or really dangerous. Sometimes a cave was just a cave. Actually…most caves were like that, devoid of grand adventures and containing just a few critters and dirt.
“Well, that was fun. Do this all day? Why don’t we just sign up?”
Revi walked out of the cave, brushing cobwebs out of her hair. Halrac shook his head.
“If we were paid like this every week, I might think about it, Revi, so long as we could go on other adventures and bounties as they came up. That [Emperor] seems confident we’ll stay, though.”
“Yeah. About the Goblins…do you believe him?”
Halrac looked at Typhenous. Revi bit her lip.
“What if he’s…using them for something? Like, I dunno, target practice?”
“We’re not about to cause an incident, Revi. We’re not the Horns. Or the Silver Swords.”
“I know that. But maybe…we should look into it?”
“You’re that worried about Goblins? Look, I know you went to that inn, but how much did being in Liscor change you all? Did you all hit your heads? Or did someone replace Revi’s brain?”
Briganda stared at her teammates, askance. Typhenous wiped at his beard.
“Remember all the stories we imparted to you, Briganda? Consider that we didn’t use hyperbole once.”
“Hyper-what?”
“We didn’t exaggerate anything.”
“…You’re lying. Halrac, that can’t be true. Hey, Halrac! Wait! Typhenous is lying again, right…?”
 
—-
 
The next spot was…interesting. It was barely outside of the village. Again, the [Emperor] had found something and he had ordered his people to dig.
“It’s about twenty more feet down, Captain Everam, sir. My people didn’t want to dig further until you got here. [Emperor]’s orders.”
Beycalt, their [Supervisor], was waiting for the Gold-rank team. Bemused, Halrac gave her the go-ahead. Revi found herself sitting on a stool, sipping on some fresh milk as the team dug towards whatever it was. She was still dirty, but this was odd adventuring.
“Alright. Last five feet. Adventurers?”
“On it. Briganda, take the lead.”
“If I start screaming, yank me up.”
The [Shield Maiden] went into the shaft, grumbling. She had her buckler ready, and took the shovel. Revi heard cursing as Briganda and one of Revi’s summoned warriors dug. They could have just sent Revi’s summons down, but the [Shield Maiden] had volunteered.
“If I don’t pull my weight, what’s the point of rejoining the team?”
She shoveled dirt up—and then Revi heard a shout.
“Dead gods!”
“Briganda?”
The digging team heaved and the Gold-rank Adventurer shot up. Briganda’s face was pale—but not with alarm.
“It’s fine! It’s—well, come and see! But watch out—the body might come back to life.”
Slowly, the dig team and adventurers descended the dug shaft and found…a little room in the ground.
It was a cube of space. A neat, bricked-off room just…sitting there in the earth. Inside of it was a number of objects. Corroded coins, a mildewed painting, chair smashed to bits—and the body.
“What is this place? Why is there just…a room in the middle of the ground?”
Beycalt was pale as the adventurers brought up the mummified body. Or rather—Revi’s summons did. The [Summoner] had a motto:
‘I don’t have to do anything.’
The corpse was a mystery. But Revi saw that it had fresh boots and a belt that was unworn despite the deterioration of all the other clothing. Enchanted gear. She didn’t touch it, of course.
“It looks like a safe room. If I had to guess—this poor soul was a [Thief], or a gentleman—or woman—with a taste for privacy. Something must have gone wrong.”
Everyone looked at Typhenous. The [Mage] explained, with his background of knowledge.
“It’s a common tactic used by er—people with a need for privacy. One simply digs a hole in the ground—it need not be this elaborate—or finds a secret spot. Hollows out stone, for instance. And then you anchor a spell such that you can teleport into the space.”
“A perfect hiding spot. I’ve heard about those. Like them fancy vaults you have to teleport into.”
Beycalt nodded, eyes wide. Revi sighed.
“Those aren’t that safe, actually. [Mages] love trying to get in. In Chandrar…but it looks like this idiot made a mistake. See?”
She showed them a few details. The room had actually been broken in one spot. The bricks removed. And the dead person had been right there, submerged in the dirt.
“My guess is that this idiot didn’t charge the teleportation spell, scroll, or whatever it was. They ran out, and were trapped underground. Then they either suffocated, starved to death, or were buried alive.”
The Humans shuddered. That was a bad death.
“But what are the odds one is just here?”
Briganda stared at the dead body—and then at the bag of holding on its side. Or rather—box of holding.
“Eh. Consider how much time’s passed. There’re places like this everywhere. Sometimes you can’t walk two feet without tripping over a lost dungeon. Zeikhal—the Great Desert in Chandrar—has lots of that kind of stuff. It’s just finding it that drives [Treasure Hunters] crazy. But with an [Emperor]…”
The [Summoner] investigated the body—with her summons. They’d have to appraise the belt and boots and whatever was in the box of holding—but this was a haul.
And they’d made it a day into Riverfarm! She was about to celebrate—when she realized.
“Aw, damn. This is on the [Emperor]’s lands, isn’t it?”
The rest of her team sighed. But then—Emperor Laken Godart strode up.
“I take it you’ve found something. Excellent! I had hopes.”
Halrac Everam turned to Laken Godart. The [Marksman] hesitated.
“Your Majesty knew the artifacts were down there?”
He wondered if Laken was going to justify claiming it that way. But the young man waved it off.
“Not at all. I sensed something, but I didn’t want to investigate. Monsters, curses—magical traps—my people can handle some of it, but they aren’t experts. Adventurer Halrac, thank you for finding this body…”
He sniffed and coughed.
“We will look into the remains. And some of the [Witches] are quite adept at curses. When we appraise the value of the objects, I will decide what if anything, I would like to keep, rather than sell. Most objects I believe we will keep unless they are cursed. You may, of course, negotiate for your half.”
Halrac blinked.
“Our half?”
The [Emperor] smiled, though he couldn’t see Halrac’s expression.
“My request was clear. Any treasures found will be shared. It is dangerous, but since I know the locations of all these sites—anything of worth will be split. Half to the Unseen Empire—half to your team, Captain Everam. If you would claim something worth more—we can negotiate. Or bank the value against a further discovery.”
