“Come here, Cade. Don’t look. Leave him alone, okay?”
The little boy toddled back towards his mother. But not without another look at the silent [Marksman]. He looked concerned, but he didn’t cry. He was his mother’s son, and Briganda had taught Cade when he needed to be quiet.
Yet there was no danger here. Not anymore. Still—Revi, Typhenous, and Briganda, the members of Griffon Hunt watched the silent [Veteran Scout], a former soldier, now a Gold-rank team captain.
Halrac Everam was known as ‘Halrac the Grim’. A title that Todi had started more in jest than actually a name like the ones Named Adventurers received.
At the same time—Halrac was a name among the Gold-rank adventurers of northern Izril. His team had been the most renowned Griffin-slaying team a while ago. But either way—the name existed because it fit.
Halrac seldom smiled. He was eternally grumpy, as Revi described him. But by the same token he seldom showed his temper.
He was angry now. But—coldly so. His team kept back as their captain stared at the small village, a hamlet resting in a windy plain.
This was his home. The boy from Windrest had returned only a few times over the years. But he had come home each time to find not much had changed, and too much.
Lost loves. Families and friends moved away. Sickness, war, monster attacks—it had all done what it could to hurt his home and he had done what he could to protect it. More than once the Silver-rank adventurer had come back, or the Gold-rank sent something.
This time, he had been too late.
Windrest was ash.
 
—-
 
“It wasn’t the Goblins who did it. It must have been the wildfires we heard about. I heard someone set them. Drakes.”
“Drakes?”
Revi twisted in her saddle, as the Gold-rank team rode away from the scorched ground and burnt remains of houses that was all that was left of Windrest. Halrac said nothing. He led the way, riding ahead, his invisible bow drawn.
He did not want company. So the others rode behind. Briganda was riding her mare while Cade sat with his legs curled around the saddle horn, solemnly playing with his Box of Wonders. The [Shield Maiden] nodded.
“Drakes. Some kind of attack in retribution for Liscor. You two know anything about that?”
Typhenous stroked at his beard, silent. Revi just shook her head.
“No. But Liscor wasn’t exactly the heart of the Drake lands. If it was Drakes…”
She glanced at Halrac’s back. Not sure what to say.
“They could be alright. Didn’t you hear that most of Windrest had gone to Riverfarm, Halrac? That place is still standing.”
Briganda called out. Halrac didn’t reply. His face was set. Not merely ‘grim’, but gaunt. Bleakly dangerous. He rode forwards. And woe to any monster he might meet. Revi hoped there were villagers at this ‘Riverfarm’.
They were nearly there. As they rode, the Gold-rank team spotted another one of the strange monuments that had puzzled Halrac. He knew his home. And the totem of wood planted near Riverfarm was…new.
It was no Goblin artifact; they didn’t do this. Perhaps a [Shaman]—but it hadn’t been magical to Revi or Typhenous. It was carved with eyes, a crown, symbols of wheat—not magic, but glyphs indicating fertility. Protection.
Another symbol of how Halrac’s home had changed. As the adventurers took to the road again, they looked ahead. And they were spotted. Halrac kept looking around, searching for an ambush, although he didn’t feel danger. He just felt like he was being watched.
 
—-
 
“Someone is coming. A group of four. No—five. Two women, two men, and a child. I think they’re Gold-rank. They’re more…impressive than anyone I’ve felt in a while.”
The musing voice made the entourage of people stop. They looked at the blind man as his head turned. The [Emperor] rested lightly on his cane, using it out of reflex more than anything else. They had told him it didn’t fit his august personage; a simple white cane, however odd the material of it was.
He had, in a genial way, told them that since he wanted to use it, they had better get used to it. The walking cane remained. Besides, one with jewels or something would have been heavy.
“What should be done, your Majesty?”
One of the followers asked that. It was one of those stupid questions that immediately spoke to the character of the asker. Vocalizing a question that was already implicit without adding anything to the actual moment.
Laken Godart didn’t mind, but the [Lady] accompanying him did. Rie Valerund tsked and the former [Mayor] fell back, reddening.
“I believe this group should be welcomed. Some of the Blacksky Riders—four—should greet the group on the road. If they are friendly, they will ride back and we will greet them appropriately. Five Families willing, this is the adventuring team his Majesty requested.”
Her tone was pointed. This was how you should do these kinds of things. The others, listening, took note. Lady Rie looked to the [Emperor] and he nodded.
“Very diplomatic, Lady Rie. Thank you. I’ll greet them if there are no complications in time. With me, everyone.”
The [Lady] smiled, although the [Emperor] had not so much as glanced at her as he replied. Since that was normal, she nodded to the luckless [Mayor] who hurried off to arrange that.
The group walked on. It was about a 3:2 split in terms of men and women, not that anyone was counting too hard. About seventeen people though, which was large to all be following one man.
But they were necessary. It could have been forty hangers-on, or sixty sycophants, or a gaggle of good-for-nothings. Laken Godart had trimmed the number and Mister Prost, the weathered former [Farmer] leading the way with his sensible work boots but rather finer clothing than he was used to wearing, had found jobs for the people who just wanted to be around the [Emperor] rather than be helpful.
The remaining seventeen were made up of two sorts: leaders and followers. Well, that was endemic of the Human species, but it was especially the case here.
Prost, Rie, Helm, and Ram were all present at the moment. A [Steward], a [Lady], a [Royal Smith], and a [Head Farmer]—soon to be [Master Farmer] if he hit a few more levels, according to Rie.
They were all people who ran Riverfarm, the Unseen Empire, now a rather sprawling area. There were others of course, like Beycalt, the [Construction Supervisor], or [Witch] Wiskeria, Beniar, the commander of all mounted forces…
The rest were followers. A few former [Councilmembers], and the [Mayor], and yes, they had been leaders, but they were more like subdivision heads. They could, at any moment, take a job like welcoming the adventurers Laken had sensed. Others were just fast on their feet, like a former City Runner who was ready to run a verbal message anywhere Laken wanted.
One of them was Gamel, the [Knight] and bodyguard for the [Emperor]. One of three, now. The other two had a wand and bow, respectively. A weapon for any occasion.
They were touring the land around Riverfarm, hence the procession. People working the fields waved, or bowed, or saluted as they thought appropriate. Laken Godart waved back, a single motion of the hand. But he was working or else the other busy leaders wouldn’t be with him.
Of late, Laken Godart had begun sensing the individual…strengths…of people. He was blind, and had been blind his entire life, but his power as an [Emperor] had given him an…aura-sense. That was what Lady Rie had termed it, although Laken could tell there was a weed in front of him, how many people were bustling about Riverfarm—better to call it an empire-sense.
An [Emperor]’s senses, obviously. Laken could feel the new Gold-rank team coming up the road. They felt strong. One of them especially. Stronger than Beniar, one of Riverfarm’s best.
Not as strong as Mavika, though. Not individually—but close. That was Gold-rank, was it? Laken would be interested, if other teams ever came through his lands, to see how strong they got.
For now though, he put them out of his mind and expanded his senses. Laken Godart walked forwards, grateful for the shade even though they weren’t under a forest’s canopy. Gamel was holding a parasol up for him. Laken barely noticed these small luxuries these days, but he was properly grateful for them when he recalled them.
“Here we are.”
The [Emperor] announced as the small crowd stopped. He pointed. Almost exactly…
“There’s something here. About…eighty feet down? Quite a long ways, but I definitely sense something structural. Buried.”
“Mark the spot. A dungeon, your Majesty?”
“No…Not big enough for a dungeon. At least, I can’t sense more than…I’d guess it’s a home?”
“Buried that deeply?”
“Perhaps a cellar, or some other structure. I can’t tell. That’s the limit of my abilities.”
Laken shook his head. Prost had a flag planted and a [Councilwoman]—Beatica—turned to Rie.
“Lady Valerund, should I begin excavation?”
“Go only twenty feet down, Beatica.”
Rie inclined her head. Beatica, a [Councilwoman] from Lancrel, nodded and hurried to do just that. She had once been at Rie’s throat, but after the drama in the spring, she had jumped into Rie’s camp for protection as much as the opportunity to be given a trusted position.
Laken found that—troublesome. It was the kind of duplicity, the willingness to swap sides and compromise yourself for political gain, that he distrusted in the extreme. Lady Rie however, had assured him that Beatica was too valuable to just cast aside.
“She may not be trustworthy, your Majesty, but a reliable snake is better than one wandering about. I can put her to good use and so long as Beatica knows she is being managed—she will be an asset.”
The group moved on. Laken Godart went hm after walking for about ten minutes and talking to Prost about the crops that were shooting up like, well, plants, thanks to lots of water, Skills, expert tenders, and absolutely no pests thanks to the crow population.
“Here’s something. Groundwater—about four hundred paces that way. Looks relatively uncontaminated.”
“Good for a well, your Majesty. I’ll mark the spot.”
“Do that. Oh—there’s a cave that way. Blocked by some rocks…doesn’t look like much is alive in there, but I think I sense something not—rocklike. Some kind of ore, or mineral? Master Helm?”
“I can check it out, your Majesty.”
“Send a [Scout] or [Forager]. No need to go yourself, Helm. But as I said—the Goblins have most of the iron ore.”
“Of course, sire.”
Master Helm bowed. He cast a dark glance to the northeast, the base of the mountains. Some of the others muttered.
The Goblins. Their area, or the ‘Goblinlands’ as they were becoming known as, were heavily walled off. Guarded by a token force and disliked by most of Riverfarm’s population. They tolerated the Goblins as ‘his Majesty’s project’, or ‘the Emperor’s strange interests’. But they no longer slept with weapons under their beds these days.
It was a start.
“A true pity all our valuable ores and minerals just happen to be in the Goblin’s territory, your majesty.”
“Pity, Lady Rie. Who could have predicted that? Step lively. I think I found something else buried.”
Laken Godart ignored the look Prost and Rie gave each other. It was a busy day for him. He was busy, well…cheating. To improve Riverfarm.
The ability to ‘see’ in the way he could had been a blessing to Laken. A fulfillment of a wish. That was often how Skills worked; when you leveled, you got what you wanted. Or something random that tied into your class.
The [Emperor]’s senses had been impressive to begin with. Laken could spy on anything in his domain and now ascertain threat levels. But he’d had an even better thought a while back, and it was this:
If he could sense everything on his lands…what about stuff below it? That had led to a few interesting decisions. And today—
Laken Godart was cheating. Or doing something as unfair as Skills got, really. He was walking his lands and pointing out every buried object, possible dungeon, or just ores or groundwater supply for his people.
He couldn’t sense everything underground. A hundred feet was pretty much his upward limit and that was if he was standing right on top of it. Still—it was the kind of Skill any leader wanted. It was one of the reasons why he had sent for a Gold-rank team. And it did more than find a nugget of gold or something…
“Stop.”
The group halted as Laken held up an urgent hand. He had walked into the forest neighboring Riverfarm. Now his head snapped around.
“Thirty-some feet down. I think there’s a nest here. Crelers. Get me Beniar.”
Everyone leapt away from the spot Laken was pointing to. Rie’s face went pale. Prost turned to bellow—then lowered his voice to a hushed whisper.
“Go! Get Beniar!”
The City Runner gingerly walked off and then burst into a sprint. Gamel’s sword was already drawn.
“Your Majesty, we should move back now.”
“I doubt they can sense us, Gamel. They’re…growing. I sense only fourteen shapes moving. They’re…I’d bet those ones are eating. The rest are still.”
Even so, Laken backed up slowly. Prost blanched.
“Fourteen moving? How many are down there, then?”
“At least two hundred. And more eggs. It’s a hollow space—I want every [Mage] here. No—no, keep them back. Keep everyone back. Crelers sense food, don’t they?”
“Yes, sire. Demon-spawn’ll go for you. I say let’s keep well back until we burn them to ash.”
It was Ram who replied. The [Head Farmer] mopped at his forehead. Laken Godart nodded.
Thank goodness for Skills. This was just a nest of infants; in another decade there might be Juveniles, an Adult, ready to emerge and eat everything here.
“Let’s keep moving.”
The others stared at him, but the [Emperor] was walking off as Beniar galloped over to confer and plan. Laken Godart was busy using his Skill to benefit his empire. He’d located clay for [Potters], discovered a tunnel network of some kind of creature—Rock Mites, sourced alchemical plants for Wiskeria and the others—
And now this. Laken was proud of using his ability in this way. It was a good idea. And best of all—it had come from him. Not all of the moves which had propelled Riverfarm further had. Master Helm’s new class, for instance, had attracted a slew of expert-artisans who wanted a new improvement on their class. Laken hadn’t known you could do that. Until someone had told him.
Now, Riverfarm had wealth. It had land. And despite the wildfires which had nearly consumed the growing town—it had kept growing. The village that had been Riverfarm wasn’t a city—yet. But it was most definitely a town. And the domain of the Unseen Empire now included a number of towns and villages.
 
—-
 
