Laken Godart walked away from Bismarck’s pile of…well, suffice it to say he walked upwind to greet the Gold-rank team. He was impressed that they seemed to take Bismarck, Frostwing, even Durene and the chaos in stride.
“Your…Majesty? My name is Halrac Everam. Captain of Griffon Hunt. We’re here about your request.”
“Captain Everam. A pleasure.”
Laken extended his hand, which surprised the adventurer, he could tell. Most people were unnerved by his ability to shake their hand—as if it that was hard, even if you were blind. But Halrac had noted Laken’s closed eyes and the young man’s poise was uncanny.
He had met crazier Humans. But not as impressive as…an [Emperor]. Laken Godart seemed quite down to earth; he certainly wasn’t dressed in royal clothing. Then again—he had a bearing. And an air about him almost like Erin’s. As if the world turned on him. But where Erin made that happen with chaos, cakes, and luck, Laken Godart would insist on it.
“Master Helm informs me that you are actually a former villager of Windrest, Master Everam.”
Revi made a face behind Halrac. Oh great, they were going to be asked for a discount. Briganda and Typhenous elbowed her.
“That’s correct, your Majesty.”
“Laken will do, Captain Everam, if I may address you as ‘Halrac’. By all means, catch up with Windrest’s folk. I regret that their village was lost, but most of the inhabitants made it here safely.”
“So I understand. Thank you…Emperor Laken.”
The young man shook his head.
“It was only necessary, Captain Halrac. I’m grateful you’ve accepted my request—or at least come to investigate. No other Gold-rank team has thus far, and I have no need for Silver-ranks at this moment. Are all three of your companions your team? And the…child?”
He knew about them? Revi felt a chill run down her stitches as she saw the face with the closed eyes turn unerringly towards her. How was he doing that? A spell? But she didn’t sense magic. Typhenous looked puzzled as Halrac introduced them.
“…Cade is Briganda’s child. He comes with us, but we would leave him behind if we travelled into any actual danger.”
“Ah, I see. A [Summoner]? And a [Shield Maiden]—some kind of [Warrior] class? By any chance, does the class happen to involve…longboats? Water?”
Laken wondered if the class was related to this world’s version of Vikings. Something Scandinavian, at any rate. Apparently not, because Briganda laughed.
“I wish. I can’t even swim! Er—your Majesty. Bow, Cade.”
“Why? He doesn’t have a crown, Mom. You said he’d have a crown.”
The [Emperor] smiled as he heard Briganda trying to hush her son. He spoke to Cade—he hadn’t been able to tell it was a boy from afar.
“Crowns are heavy, Cade. I’ll have one made when I have time for one. Maybe a circlet. Welcome, to all of you.”
Now the introductions were done, the [Emperor] hesitated. Because he wasn’t sure what the etiquette was for negotiating with Gold-rank teams. But that was why he had helpers.
“Captain Halrac, his Majesty welcomes you, as does the Unseen Empire. Let us offer you refreshments, lodging—and then perhaps after you’ve finished your reunions, we might speak about a contract with your team?”
Lady Rie swept forwards as Laken looked towards her. He let her handle the Gold-rank team, just as he’d let Prost announce and greet them. It was inconvenient, especially since Laken just wanted to get to business. But that was an [Emperor]’s dignity.
As Laken waited, he reviewed the carrots he had to offer Halrac and what he thought of the man. Halrac seemed reserved, but he could just be a serious sort. Certainly, he wasn’t brash or incautious, like Beniar had been when Laken first met him. He seemed professional, which was good. But Laken wanted to trust him if Halrac was going to benefit Riverfarm. It would be a mutually beneficial relationship if he could be trusted. But first…he had to be certain.
Helm described Halrac in glowing terms once he’d broken away from the reunions.
“He’s a proper sort. Never got arrogant, sent money back—even came back to hunt some monsters when they cropped up, your Majesty. An expert with the bow. He could always hit targets well, and that was when he just hunted, before he went to join the army. He was a team with Griffon Hunt for a long time—hunted Griffins. With dogs. Griffons. That always confused me…”
Lady Rie’s impression was more reserved.
“Griffon Hunt is no stranger to its share of troubles, your Majesty. My investigation found that they caused the Griffin Plague two years back. A terrible incident. A spell or disease they unleashed to curb a Griffin migration got out of control and thousands died. They’ve also lost members; at least three. They might be desperate, but Halrac Everam is said to be capable—he’s known as ‘Halrac the Grim’, apparently.”
Laken turned to a [Witch] for the last piece of advice. Prost, Durene, Beniar—all had opinions, but the [Emperor] wanted a unique opinion.
“Eloise?”
The old [Tea Witch] was thoughtful and took her time with her cup before replying.
“They have at least one strong artifact. An invisible bow on that Halrac’s back. And they seem honest. That boy Cade is the key, your Majesty. Did you hear him?”
“Yes. What should I have been hearing?”
The [Witch] smiled.
“His laughter. He laughed, talked—even to you, your Majesty. If he had cried, or been sullen or quiet or afraid—that would have spoken more about the team than anything else. A poor team would not bring a child with them, or treat the boy well.”
The [Emperor] smiled and nodded to her.
“Wise words, Eloise. You’re correct. Send them in. They’re the only team that’s come, anyways. I’ll test them on the Goblins and then see if they’re willing to demonstrate their abilities. If they are—we’ll see.”
“Your Majesty, the issue of Goblins shouldn’t be a sticking point. Let’s entice them first—”
Lady Rie’s voice was pained, but Laken held up a hand, silencing her. He valued Rie’s opinion. As she had said—better the snake you knew than the one you didn’t.
And he was almost certain she was the one who had ordered the attack on the Goblins and tried to kill Magnolia’s [Maid]. Ryoka had put the idea in Laken’s head, and it made sense. He was still investigating why carefully, but she hadn’t ever led him wrong, exactly.
He put that out of his mind. He wanted to know what the team’s reaction was to the Goblins. They didn’t have to like them—just tolerate them. Laken was braced for their reaction. But he was still surprised.
 
—-
 
“…and we can offer you all independent housing. Food—materials like arrows or repairs to non-enchanted gear along with the weekly stipend.”
Lady Rie finished the presentation. Halrac saw the [Emperor] sitting on his throne. He had been silent, letting the [Lady] do the talking.
She’d done a good job. It was already impressive, having a [Lady] working as the negotiator here. Halrac wasn’t underestimating any of that.
It was just—well, no matter how you dressed it up, it came down to the amount of coin. Lady Rie had placed it in a bag, to make it more impressive, but Halrac didn’t have the memory of a goldfish. And he could do basic math.
“The sum is very low per week, Lady Valerund. With respect, few Gold-rank teams would consider such an offer.”
Typhenous murmured politely. Lady Rie smiled—and Halrac let Typhenous speak as he watched Laken and the room. ‘Few’ teams was putting it lightly. Todi would have left the moment Lady Rie announced the sum. It wasn’t worth it.
However, Halrac was polite since anything less would have upset Master Helm. He had to stay here at least a few days. There was a dance to this, and the [Emperor] seemed to know it too.
“Lady Rie, my thanks. I shall speak a moment.”
“Your Majesty.”
The [Lady] bowed and the [Emperor] stepped forwards.
“Captain Halrac, you’ve been quite silent. May I know your thoughts?”
The [Scout] stirred. Revi looked at him and grimaced; he nodded at her and Briganda, who was giving him the same look. As well as an entreaty to be careful. Which he was in his reply.
“Your Majesty, your offer is…intriguing. However, I don’t believe this sum is enough for me to justify entering a contract. Frankly speaking, we cannot afford to take work that cheaply.”
Laken opened his mouth but Rie jumped in hurriedly.
“Even without needing to act as law enforcement in any major capacity, Captain? I can assure you, our Blacksky Riders can handle most [Bandits] and monsters. You would only be called upon for large-scale threats and investigation.”
That was tempting. And if Halrac had twenty more years on him, this kind of semi-retirement would be a hefty lure. But Halrac as he was now wanted success. He didn’t miss Laken’s flicker of annoyance as the [Emperor] waved the lady back.
“Captain Everam’s complaint is valid, Rie. Captain Everam, am I correct in assuming that you would require…at least four times the amount offered to consider a stay of any duration?”
“That would be correct, your Majesty.”
Five times and he’d really think about it. But the fact was that keeping a Gold-rank team was expensive, even if they just sat around. And Halrac doubted they’d do that for a rural place like Riverfarm, no matter what Rie claimed. Fighting monsters without a bounty all week wasn’t anyone’s idea of a good job.
The [Emperor] nodded. And his next question caught Halrac off-guard.
“Let’s assume you accept my offer, Captain Halrac. Do you recall my request as it pertains to Goblins? Could your team accept a Goblin presence so near Riverfarm?”
Was he going to insist they work for him? That would be messy. Halrac saw Rie’s concern and Revi and Briganda glance at him. Typhenous was too busy making eyes and stroking his beard at the old [Witch], who was studiously ignoring him.
“Goblins are not a problem, your Majesty. We would not be…compelled to attack them.”
“Really? That is good, Captain Everam. My largest concern with a Gold-rank team was their attitude towards Goblins.”
Halrac frowned.
“If I may ask, what do you intend to do with the Goblins, Emperor Godart?”
Silence. Revi licked her lips. But Halrac…thought of some Hobgoblins and had to know. Laken thought and then shook his head.
“I’m still not sure. Allow them to live in their lands as they wish, for now. Trade with them, perhaps. They’ve begun mining and smithing; Master Helm is a better smith, but he needs their iron. I hope we can trade with them. Honey, perhaps.”
“Trade? But it’s your land, isn’t it?”
Revi spoke up. Halrac sighed. She’d done well guarding her tongue thus far. But the [Summoner] had her limits. She looked challengingly at Laken.
“Are you going to kill them? Or use them for mining? That’s what Halrac means, your Majesty.”
“Adventurer Revi, isn’t it? I don’t intend to kill the Goblins. I rather regard Riverfarm as one of the few places they can exist without being slaughtered. If I thought they wouldn’t be hunted down the moment they left Riverfarm—I would let them go.”
Laken turned his head towards her, giving her a close-eyed ‘stare’. Revi hesitated.
“But why are you doing this?”
“Because not all Goblins are monsters, Miss Revi. And I had to learn that. So must Riverfarm.”
Halrac started. It sounded like…he saw Typhenous glance at him and mouth a name. How strange. But this was what had drawn them here. A curious turn of phrase.
No Killing Goblins.
Laken Godart let the silence linger a moment before he turned to Halrac.
“Captain Halrac, I will suggest a compromise. Inform me if this is not to your satisfaction. I would like you to stay a week; I am sure Master Helm would appreciate it, as well as the people of Windrest. I will offer you five times the sum for this week only to justify your stay. After the week ends—if you accept—I would employ you at the initial sum, or some lesser, agreed-upon number.”
Halrac was surprised. That was a generous offer. He had been about to suggest working for a week before politely leaving.
“Your Majesty is quite generous. We accept.”
The blind [Emperor] smiled thinly.
“Good. I hope I can convince you to stay, Captain Halrac. But do not thank me just yet. Because I fear you will earn your sum. The first problem of my lands—and quite unexpected—is a nest of Crelers.”
“Crelers?”
Halrac’s hand tightened. It felt like everything was happening again. Only this time—it was his team. Revi sat up. Briganda looked worried.
“I want the nest destroyed today. You are free to refuse, of course. But I will be eliminating the Crelers one way or another. My army, the [Witches]—the Crelers cannot be allowed to continue. What do you say, Captain Everam?”
The Gold-rank Captain was silent for a moment. Then he nodded.
“One week, your Majesty. As for the Crelers—we’d have destroyed the nest even without pay.”
Revi sighed and Briganda nodded. Typhenous bowed towards Witch Eloise.
“Some monsters are the duty of adventurers to fight at any cost.”
He gave her a winning smile. She failed to tip her hat in reply.
 
—-
 
Eliminating the Creler nest was…interesting. Halrac, Typhenous, Revi, and Briganda found that Laken Godart had not been lying.
A small army surrounded the place where the nest apparently existed. What fascinated Revi was the fact that no one had seen the Crelers.
“Wait, it’s buried thirty feet down and you just ‘know’ that?”
She looked skeptically at the Silver-rank [Cataphract], Beniar, as the rest of her team watched the dig site. Some volunteer [Diggers], including the half-Troll girl who was apparently the [Emperor]’s wife—were digging very gingerly, ready to run at any time.
“His Majesty said so, so it has to be true, Miss Revi. He knows everything that happens on his lands.”
Beniar gave Revi a smile. She just stared at him as if he were insane. Which he might be. Silver-ranks.
“This is one weird place, Halrac. Do we have to do a week? A week of fighting monsters?”
“If it’s troublesome, we’ll politely leave after three days. It’s etiquette, Revi. We don’t need to offend a [Lady], much less an [Emperor]. Now, get ready.”
“Adventurer Everam, what’s your plan for taking out the Crelers?”
Beniar rode over to Halrac. The [Marksman] was checking his bow; he had an arrow nocked. Typhenous was leaning on his staff as Briganda flanked him. Four of Revi’s glowing Stitch-Warriors were waiting.
It was a defensive line, ready to fall back. More [Soldiers], a trio of [Witches] including a weird one with a bird-like look about her, and Beniar’s riders were all waiting behind the adventurers. Halrac looked up.
“You said there’s a nest of about two hundred?”
“Yes. And more eggs.”
