Right up until I walked into Fung’s rented room at the Goose and the Gander, which is a mid-tier establishment at best. It wasn’t the demand that my drunk friend pay his tab before racking up more debt which clued me in, a dumb business decision considering everyone pays eventually to avoid the shame of having the world learn about how they skipped out on a brothel bill and all the unsavoury rumours which would undoubtedly follow. Nor was it the six thugs looming over my friend in undisguised threat, something no lowly brothel guard would dare do to a young master of Fung’s wealth, status, and strength. Those were oddities which stood out, but what tipped me off to something fishy going on was the flawless Miss Ruo sitting on Fung’s bed, a gorgeous, country-destroying beauty who would never be caught dead cat-calling from a bordello window. All the cheap clothing and gaudy make-up in the world couldn’t hide her breath-taking allure, for even if she had been sold into slavery against her will, there’s no way a place like the Goose and the Gander could’ve afforded her. Miss Ruo is a classical beauty who, in terms of price, was likely worth more than the entire establishment which supposedly employed her, so how could the brothel afford her contract in the first place, much less put her up for sale?

Like c’mon, this girl is almost as gorgeous as Luo-Luo, and while no one would mistake them for twins or even sisters or cousins, they’re similar in so many ways. Poise and bearing for example, with the way they sit in the prettiest manner possible to emphasize their best features, or the fake demur act they put on to appear both shy and intrigued. They even have the same wide eyes, delicate nose, rounded cheeks, and pointed jaw, facial features which set the standard for beauty in the Empire. The major difference is my Imperial Consort has a lovely little beauty mark under her eye which really brings everything together into what can only be described as perfection. Also, Luo-Luo definitely has bigger boobs, so Miss Ruo just cannot compare, and personally, I find Mila, Yan, Lin-Lin, and Li-Li all more attractive than this basic jade beauty. I think Ruo is even supposed to be a homonym for ‘Jade’, though Fung’s drunken slur made it sound like he was calling her ‘Miss Meat’, which is rude and sexist, but still too funny not to laugh at.

Having noticed all this and more, it came as no great surprise when the thugs turned out to be assassins, though I admit I might’ve blinked once or twice when Miss Ruo drew her jian from under the covers. Sexist, I know, because I should’ve figured that a woman so flawless could only be a Martial Warrior, but I’ve yet to overcome my inherent bias about women being physically weak. Something to work on in the future, but for now, I have an assassination attempt to thwart, which isn’t as difficult as it sounds. Most assassins rely on the element of surprise, a powerful advantage when grasped in hand, but since I saw this coming from a mile away, I’ve been ready and waiting for them to act.

Even then, seven against one is a tall order to fill, especially while protecting a drunk and possibly poisoned Fung, considering it takes a lot of booze to make a Martial Warrior unsteady on his feet, yet another clue that something was off. As the blades lance towards me, I unleash an unconventional response, one that has a high chance of success and leaves me with other options should it fail in execution. A very logical and reasonable argument for going this route, but in all honesty, I’ve been dying to make this work ever since the idea came to me several years ago.

“MORTAL KOMBAT!!”

The sped up techno remix plays out like a thunderclap inside my assailants’ skulls, a musical performance delivered through an emphatic use of Sending. As my foes falter in place at the unexpected noise and chaos, I push Fung’s limp, falling body back into his seat whilst simultaneously hooking my foot around his chair leg, which I then use to drag him aside and back out of harm’s way, all to the beat of the catchy tune. My actions have the added bonus of keeping Yan preoccupied for the next little bit as she moves to catch Fung’s body, which will continue to follow the laws of physics and soon be launched off his chair as it comes to a sudden stop, a series of events I only witness and predict through the Scrying minimap I set up just before walking in. My bad for almost throwing my drunk friend into the wall, but even this minor gaffe doesn’t take away from the lofty sense of accomplishment from finally utilizing Weaponized Sending in an effective manner.

I used this particular tactic against Gerel once to score my first clean hit against him, one that would’ve seen him dead if we were on a battlefield. Then, I tried it a second time a few minutes later and the bald bastard lopped off both my legs and ruined my favourite pants, souring me to the whole idea of a Sending Broadcast Barrage. What a jerk. Regardless, Luo-Luo showed us that it’s possible to speak and Send at the same time, a skill me and the family have been practising to throw spies off their game, since most people stop talking when issuing or receiving a Sending. Even though Domain-capable Warriors can sense these unseen messages flitting about, it’s impossible to know if I’m Sending to someone beside me or a recipient half a kilometre away. In the same vein, there’s no way to narrow down which exact Martial Warrior is doing the Sending or receiving when they’re all gathered in a group, which is what makes Luo-Luo’s trick so useful. So long as there are other Martial Warriors about, no one knows she’s passing along Sendings at a rapid fire pace, which allows her to control or advise an encounter from wherever she pleases.

Of course, I, being the brilliant mind that I am, saw this and thought, “If I can Send and speak at the same time, why can’t I Send the same message to multiple people?”

Turns out, with a little bit of preparation and practice, I can, and when combined with an overabundance of Chi to max out the volume, it makes for a fun little surprise that no one can really defend against. It does no damage whatsoever and if you expect it and brace against it, it’s easy to ignore, but even Dad couldn’t spar with Grandma effectively while I was standing on the sidelines ready to blast him with a loud-as-fuck Sending. As for Miss Ruo and these thugs, they’re even less capable of dealing with my underhanded tactics, so disoriented and confused by the noise they have only just recovered from their surprise.

Can’t say I blame them either, because this song slaps. “Test your might!”

Not yet ready to give up, the thugs batten down their mental defences to ignore my blaring Sendings before launching yet another coordinated attack, but they gave me too much time to act. Tranquility comes out first, pulled off the leather hook on my belt and thrown lightly to hang between me and my foes, held not by Domain or Chi or any other mystical force, but rather just plain, mundane momentum as it spins in place. The reason for this is because my shield grip isn’t a handle like something you’d see on a mug, to be held in hand with the shield in front. Instead, Tranquility's handle is designed to be gripped in hand while strapped to my forearm by a loop of mundane leather. This sort of grip helps me better absorb blows and keep the shield in a protective position while fighting, but since the handle is off-centred, it also limits the shield’s effectiveness when not strapped in.

I can hardly call a time-out and ask these would-be assassins to wait while I strap my shield on, but here’s the thing. I am the Shield, and the Shield is me, so why would I even need the grip or leather to hold it?

Raising my hand as if gesturing at my opponents to stop, I palm Tranquility without touching it as it spins in place, the weapon affixed to my fingertips not through the air between my skin and the shield’s inner surface, but rather through my Domain itself, which occupies that same physical and metaphysical space. Even though I’m not physically touching the shield as it rotates freely through the air, my Domain is, which is only possible because my Weapon and I are one in more than just body, but in mind and spirit as well. Still not yet done, I exert my Will and Deploy my Domain through Tranquility and an invisible, intangible power emanates out of the smooth metal surface, one that instantly condenses and compresses itself into strands of all too tangible force. Those strands rotate along with Tranquility while stretching out towards my opponents' weapons, drawing them into the swirling vortex of force towards my raised defences, a reverse Domain Deflection that brings their blades on a headlong collision course with my shield.

All this takes a long time to describe, but it happens in the blink of an eye, and I cannot hold back my smile as four of the thugs crash into one another before their attacks even come close to my shield. The remaining two daggers glance off the spinning yet anchored Spiritual Weapon, their Reinforced, Amplified, and Reverberated attacks powerful enough to shatter steel plate rendered as ineffective as pissing into the wind, for the force behind them has largely been spent just making its way here.

A fun new defensive move I picked up thanks to Lin-Lin’s advice, suggesting I think about other things I could Domain Plate. My mind immediately went to Water Chi, but even before I set out to practice with my Blessing of Water, I stopped and thought, “Why can’t I just Domain Plate my regular Chi?

Turns out, you can, and it’s pretty damn effective. While I can’t use my Domain to grab any random thing just yet, but having seen Hongji fight with his blasts of Chi which he visualizes as fist and palm attacks, I’m betting I’ll figure that out eventually. More surprising is the fact that Domain Plating Chi is also a common skill, perhaps even one of the most common considering every Peak Expert is capable of doing the same. The problem is, most don’t know it’s called Domain Plating, nor do they realize the utility of the skill, because they only use it in one, extremely specific scenario: Cloud-Stepping.

The basic premise behind Cloud-Stepping is simple. All you need to do is solidify your Chi beneath your feet to provide yourself with a foothold to push off of while soaring through the skies. There’s a lot more subtle complexities involved, such as Lightening yourself to near weightlessness and Amplifying your steps to leap further in a single bound, but it all breaks down to stepping on solid Chi, or more accurately, Domain Plated Chi. How such a vital and wide-ranging use of Chi became cloaked in obscurity is a mystery to be sure, one I’m sure has an answer tracing back to the Imperial Clan, but that’s neither here nor there. Once I realized I could Domain Plate my Chi, I quickly concluded that my Domain Exo-Suit was simply the result of Domain Plating multiple Chi skills, and that this was exceedingly effective when Domain Plating one specific Chi skill, namely Deflection.

And thus, after taking much inspiration from Ping Ping and Pong Pong’s efforts, this defensive skill was born, one I practised until it was so familiar I could do it without thinking. I call it the ‘Maelstrom of Deflection’, which admittedly is kinda a stupid name, and not even an accurate one since I don’t actually need to spin the shield to make it work. The spinning just makes the skill easier to visualize since I can just anchor the Domain Plated Deflection to the surface of the shield itself, and the physical movement takes care of the rest. It’s stupid, but it works, so is it really all that stupid? I hate that I don’t understand it completely, but when you don’t know all the rules, sometimes you need to compromise and stick with what works.

If the Dao was music, and Martial Warriors were guitarists, I would be that one guy who can’t read sheet music, doesn’t know how to play by ear, and couldn’t name the chords to save his life, but I put together one banger of a melody that I can play really, really well.

My body moves before my mind even registers the attack as I literally bend over backwards and watch Miss Ruo’s jian pass mere centimetres in front of my face. Bridging over to land on my hands rather than flat on my back, I lift both boots off the ground in one, fluid motion and lash out with a vicious dropkick that connects firmly with her midsection, but it is not the soft and vulnerable target I expected to encounter. The impact numbs both my legs even as I use the momentum to ninja flip back to my feet and reclaim Tranquility, leaving me reeling in place and unable to follow through with my acrobatic counter to finish her off. Not sure how she managed to hide armour under her sheer, flimsy dress that leaves little of her pale porcelain flesh to the imagination, but I’d be much more interested in exploring that mystery if I wasn’t a happily married man thrice over.

That isn’t to say I’m not interested at all, but there is a time and place for everything, as well as very real consequences to be wary of. I love my wives and would never do anything to betray them, but that doesn’t mean I don’t sometimes think about sex with other women. It’s not on purpose, it just happens on reflex, like wanting to press a button that is clearly labelled ‘Do not press’. Even if you know the button will end all life as we know it, there’s a forbidden temptation to do that which you know you shouldn’t do.

Or maybe I’m just an incorrigible horn-dog who is beyond saving. Probably the latter, but what can I do? It is in my nature to be horny.

