Having recovered from my counter, Miss Ruo’s lovely features twist in rage and disbelief as she steadies her breath and readies her jian once more, time the six thugs use to fan out with remarkable coordination, a bad sign if there ever was one. We’ve barely traded two exchanges in the time it took for Fung’s chair to come to a stop, but my assailants seem ready to keep up this fast and frenetic pace until their goal is achieved. Though I would love to take them all alive for questioning, that seems like a pipe dream now that they’re taking this seriously, not to mention how Miss Ruo has already demonstrated her frightening speed which I can barely even track. Having put the facts all together, my decision comes easily as it boils down to us or them, and I will choose to protect me and mine every day of the week.

With barely more than a whisper of steel on leather, Peace shoots out of its sheath and buries itself tip first into the closest thug’s throat. Holding Tranquility properly now, I execute Balance on Windy Leaf and stop mere milliseconds before I dash headlong into the fray, because something about the way their eyes all light up gives me ample pause. For good reason too, as the thugs react faster than I thought possible and launch their blades at where I would’ve been, right in front of the closest target who stands ready to receive my charge without any care for his life. The man was ready to die to hold me in place for the daggers to strike, and all I see is immeasurable disappointment in his eyes as he registers the failed trade.

This fucker was not only willing to trade his life for mine, he was eager to do it. That’s messed up.

Miss Ruo’s lightning fast jian puts an end to my observations, and as I trade blows with the fake courtesan, I discover I am facing an accomplished swordswoman. Not even Ryo Da’in’s swordsmanship is so mechanically sophisticated, as Miss Ruo’s movements are fast and unpredictable while remaining fluid and linked. The opening thrust seamlessly shifts into a slash meant to open my throat, followed by a downward strike targeting my lingering knee as I backpedal away. Only a single step, because Yan is close behind, but one step is all I need unsling Unity from my shoulder and bring it up and around to meet Miss Ruo’s jian, which moves all too predictably towards the opening I left for her to take, as there’s no need to guess how your opponent will attack if you know where you need to defend. Even folded up in its sword form, Unity is still a little too unwieldy for the size of this room, which isn’t small by any measure, but far from large enough to fight freely. However, the same handicap applies to my opponents who are unable to close in after Miss Ruo took centre stage, a rookie mistake on her part made through overconfidence, inexperience, anger, or a combination of the three.

Even though her speed and swordsmanship is superior to Ryo Da’in, and her defences formidable to boot, it’s clear from our initial exchange that not only is she inexperienced in actual combat, she also lacks staying power. Overwhelming force has a quality all to itself, which I demonstrate by smashing Unity against her sword in a head on collision, the hefty mass of my transforming weapon easily able to blow away her lighter, more agile jian. This one move is all it takes to break through her defences, and she now stands before me with arms raised in an effort to regain control of her sword. Right idea, but wrong execution as she didn’t think to retreat first, and I show her the errors of her ways by smashing my elbow into her beautiful and delicate nose.

As the pain lances up my arm and Miss Ruo’s feather-light body crashes through the wall behind her, I curse my chivalrous restraint which kept me from punching her in the face with Tranquility’s twin blades. On the bright side, it’s a good thing I also went against my second instinct and didn’t headbutt her in the face, because if I had, I might well have given myself a concussion. Instead, I just fractured my left elbow a tiny little bit, not the worst injury I’ve ever taken, but more than what one would expect from hitting flesh and bone. To call Miss Ruo a jade beauty is fitting indeed, for there is no armour hidden underneath her sheer robes. Instead, it appears she possesses a body harder than solid rock, the result of Domain Plating if I had to guess. Though reeling from the pain, the implications frighten me even more, because her familiarity with the skill is several levels beyond mine. I’ve yet to reach a point where my Domain Plated body can even withstand a plain old regular knife, but judging by the swelling in my left elbow, a steel blade would probably snap before it pierced through her defences.

It’s almost like she’s shrouded in Chi harder than steel, because my Deployed Domain does not sense any movement from hers. Her Domain is also Deployed, but it is rigid and unmoving, covering her from head to toe like a suit of armour and doing nothing else.

All of which only makes me more eager to capture her, because now I really want to interrogate her, and not in any naughty sexy fun way either. I want to know all her secrets and learn the limits of her defences, and I can already see her strapped to a table while I poke and prod her with blades. My darker thoughts catch me by surprise even as I cut down another two thugs with a backhanded swing of Unity, their blades unable to stop my heavy pseudo-sword from cutting through them from shoulder to hip. Three down, four to go, but just as quickly as the battle began, our clash comes to an end as I realize the two dead thugs bought enough time for the others to escape out the hole Miss Ruo’s body made in the wall. By the time I make it over under a cloak of Concealment, they’ve disappeared out the window or into another room, and all my efforts to find any Concealed individuals come up with nothing. All I find is a quivering working girl laid out across the bed while her buck naked patron runs for the door, a sight I wish I could forget even as I gaze upon it.

Ogling the scared little lady a bit to ease my troubled mind, I grab a handful of gold bars from my hip pouch and place them on the table with a mumbled apology for the damages, thoroughly confusing and frightening the lovely working girl as I retreat to guard Fung and Yan. First to arrive is none other than my friend’s manservant and undercover bodyguard Fu Zhu Li, his features twisted in fury as he checks the health of his ward. “A paralytic agent in the wine,” he growls, his inner-predator showing through his normally mild-mannered demeanour as Kuang Biao and the other Death Corps appear just in time to miss everything. “This was a trap.”

I know it was, but the million dollar question I’d like answered is if he was in on it, as he’s the one who directed me to come get Fung. This isn’t the first time I’ve paid my heartbroken friend’s bills in recent days, and every time it’s been at the multi-talented half-weasel’s request, so I can’t help but suspect him of foul play. Unable to contain my suspicion, Fu Zhu Li catches wind of my Aura and snorts at me with sheer disdain. “Stow away your suspicions, whelp. If I wanted your life, not even your little wifey’s guard could stop me from claiming it.”

...And here I thought I was aggressive and arrogant. What the fuck man?

“How are you?” I ask, looking away from the scary half-weasel to check on my wife instead, who stands ready with battle-fan and shield and looks frustrated she didn’t get a chance to use either one.

“How am I?” Moving to stand between me and the hole in the wall just in case they come back around, Yan thinks better of it and instead herds me over to the corner where she can watch the door and wall both at the same time. “They tried to kill you!”

“Good thing they were terrible assassins then.” Shifting Yan gently aside because my pride and love will not allow me to place her in harm’s way just to keep me safe, I reach out and recall Peace back to hand, which is what I probably should’ve done instead of bringing out Unity. Too many options, not enough brain power to go through them all during combat, probably because I get distracted too easily. Case in point, while I should be on guard for another attack, I’ve let my vigilance slip and only now notice Yan and Fu Zhu Li’s incredulous stares. “What?”

“Terrible?” Snorting in disbelief, Fu Zhu Li Sends, “I’m surprised you survived, much less did so without taking injury. How did you see through their deception so quickly? While the courtesan Miss Ruo is a new addition, the street toughs have been working here since the young master arrived. I was even Scrying on the situation before you arrived, and they gave no sign of being anything besides what they appeared to be.”

“Too pretty,” I Send back with a smirk, before giving him the real answer, one he seems to have trouble believing. “Also, there’s no reason for the brothel to stop Fung from playing on credit, nor should street toughs possess enough courage to threaten a Martial Warrior, especially a young, rich, drunk one who could kill them without consequence.”

“All this suspicion merely because they refused to let the young master continue buying on credit? He already owes upwards of six-hundred gold, which might well be more than the owner earns in a month after expenses. Of course they cut him off and got angry when he said he wasn’t carrying any coin.”

Oh. “Well, the too pretty thing still stands, and besides, it’s not like I made a snap decision just because of one mistake. There were several minor discrepancies, so I kept my guard up.”

“Fair enough, young Legate. How did you stagger them all at once?”

“Trade secret.”

Having calmed down now that his young master is safe and sound, Fu Zhu Li reverts to his regular persona and simply offers me a placid nod of respect, while Yan has yet to let her guard down. Tugging at her sleeve, I Send, “We need to leave before someone sees us. Last thing I need is eyewitnesses telling tales of the Legate being attacked in a brothel, and I doubt it’ll help your career if they hear you accompanied me in.”

Unconcerned by the hit to her reputation, Yan argues that we should stay to collect evidence, but there’s no real need, because I already have a suspect in mind. Since his arrival, I’ve been ignoring Kuang Biao’s inquiries about what happened, because I get the feeling he already knows. The fight was fast, but not so fast that he couldn’t have rushed in right away from his post outside the door. Even if my would-be assassins threw up a Sound Barrier to cover up the disturbance, my four Peak Expert Death Corps guards should’ve immediately noticed something was off and come in to check, because I always inform them when I put one up to exclude them. Instead, they stood around outside and twiddled their thumbs until the fight came to an end, meaning they were probably ordered not to interfere.

Because if these killers weren’t trained in the Eastern Province, I’ll eat my fucking boots raw.

Miss Ruo and her thugs could be from the Tian family, who serve as Imperial spies and assassins, but I doubt it. Their approach was too amateurish and full of mistakes, even if Fu Zhu Li says the thugs have been working here all week. Then there’s the fact that Miss Ruo’s sword skills were superb, but not exactly in the style of an assassin, more like a duellist with minimal experience in actual combat, which combined with her last minute addition to the plan and breathtaking beauty leads me to believe she might actually be an Imperial Noble, a young woman with clout who wanted to get her hands dirty for once. Maybe she’s a Yang and related to Jixing, or a Liang who’s related to Shen ZhenWu, or maybe I’m reading things wrong entirely and she’s just a pawn, but I doubt it. Either way, there’s something off about this assassination attempt, something that makes me think the former Legate isn’t behind it, not directly at least. The plan was just so... basic, like someone came up with what they thought was a brilliant idea, and then laid in wait for a week or two without really thinking things through. Why have the six thugs stand in plain view instead of keeping one or two hidden in reserve? Because they were worried I’d see through any Concealment? Or because they knew Fu Zhu Li was watching and would notice someone hiding nearby? What about Miss Ruo? Why did she personally take a hand in these matters when it’s clear she’s a talented amateur at best? And what was their plan if Fung visited a different brothel? Did they have workers stationed at every one? I mean, it’s not like he has a favourite place or girl anymore, not since he started wooing Seoyoon, though it does seem like he’s doing his damnedest to make up for lost time.

Ah man, the poor guy is down bad. I wish I could drink the nights away alongside him and be more supportive, but I’ve been busy planning a war and whatnot, which is a valid excuse but still makes me a shitty friend.

Either way, there are just too many loose ends for this to be the work of the clever and crafty Shen ZhenWu, which is both comforting and disturbing at the same time. On the one hand, my former boss isn’t dead set on having me whacked just yet, and if he’s working with Shuai Jiao, that means he’s also willing to work with me again. However, if he’s not responsible for this clumsy assassination attempt, then that means there’s another player involved, namely whoever Miss Ruo answers to. If it’s the Yangs, then fine, I was going to have to deal with them eventually, but if the Xing, Di, or Tian family are getting involved, then stakes have gotten a whole lot higher.

