I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again.

Just because I’m paranoid doesn’t mean people aren’t out to get me.

In the days following my meeting with Shuai Jiao, I spent many a waking moment reviewing my memories and breaking down every possible nuance of every word, action, and expression. You know, normal stuff I usually do with every other social interaction I take part in, just more in-depth because it was a really important meeting. After the initial relief of having avoided murder and bloodshed passed, I discovered that no matter how I looked at it, the math just never added up. I’m not talking about means and motives or words and actions, but plain, simple numbers. Jeong Hyo-Lynn, Da’in, and Seoyoon makes three participants, four if Geom-Chi had come along to the meeting. Even though he didn’t, I’m still going to count him just because, while Shuai Jiao and Yong-Jin make six. Six people to sit in on the meeting, under the protective cover of a newly-built pagoda, one so new it didn’t even have a coat of varnish, though the table and chairs were finished and likely brought out from somewhere else. Now, I’m no expert on construction, but varnish seems like a pretty vital step for an outdoor structure made of wood, so it’s safe to assume the whole thing was really a last minute addition to the courtyard, likely to avoid getting shot by MuYang from afar.

So, my question is, if the pagoda was built for this one meeting, why bring out such a huge table and so many extra chairs?

The moment this thought crossed my mind, I almost immediately dismissed it, because there’s nothing stopping Shuai Jiao from using the pagoda for other meetings in the future, so why can’t he have a big table to throw dinner parties for... however many guests he can fit?

Then it hit me. I could not for the life of me remember how many chairs were at the table. Definitely more than seven, as I wasn’t sitting directly beside anyone, but the exact number escaped me. That was the first clue that something was wrong, my inability to remember this single, minor detail. The total number of chairs seems like such a small thing to forget, but once my attention was drawn to this discrepancy, I realized I couldn’t even remember how many chairs were between me and Seoyoon, or between Shuai Jiao and Jeong Hyo Lynn. I know there were definitely empty seats, as in more than one, but beyond that, my memory is a blank. I even remember finding it odd that the two parties sat so far apart, as it seemed like a strange way to discuss a marriage, but that’s as far as my thought process went. Maybe the pressure had gotten to me and I didn’t bother counting seats, or maybe I derped and dismissed it as an unimportant detail, except I was there for a decent amount of time telling my story and I spent the entire time on high alert.

Which means I spent all that time worrying about a fight breaking out without measuring the distance between me and my closest threats. No. Nuh uh. That’s not me.

Of course, once I found this loose thread, I was compelled to pick away at it until things made sense again. I obsessed over the details and questioned everything that happened, like why was Monk Happy there, ready and waiting to answer my question at the drop of a hat? At the time, I assumed it was because he was following me around like the busybody he is. I mean, he did it during the boat ride over while I was asking Dad about Mila’s disappearing and reappearing nausea, but what I didn’t notice until I looked at the facts with chairs in mind is that Monk Happy appeared behind yet another empty section of seats. Not too close to me but not too close to Shuai Jiao either, which was something I noted, and this resulted in dividing us into four, neat little groups, with myself, the Ryos, Shuai Jiao, and Monk Happy each occupying one fourth of the table.

Except I didn’t know Monk Happy was there until he dropped Concealment, yet I positioned myself as if he were already there, standing and Concealed at one quadrant of the table. If he’d accompanied me into Shuai Jiao’s manor, then it would stand to reason that his Concealment wouldn’t affect where I chose to stand or sit from the get go, and thus I’d have picked somewhere equidistant from both visible parties and divided the table into thirds. Except I didn’t, which leads me to believe that Monk Happy must have already been present and Concealed at the table before I arrived, a possibility which gave me an entirely new thread to tug at.

The why doesn’t matter. In for a penny, in for a pound, so either I can’t trust all monks, or they had a valid reason to be there. No, what’s important is that if Monk Happy was already sitting in on the meeting, then who else was there? I don’t mean other monks, because it makes no real difference if Monk Bones or the other Wisdoms were there too, but after reviewing everything in agonizing scrutiny, I now believe there was a fifth party present at the meeting. I’ve no real proof, but plenty of suspicions. While I got a big laugh out of seeing Shuai Jiao jump out of his chair when he noticed Siyar standing behind him, I didn’t notice how strange his reaction was until early next morning, when I was poring over my memories of the event and discovered yet another discrepancy in the facts.

I’m not talking about the jump scare, but rather his movements after Siyar’s big reveal, as Shuai Jiao’s initial reaction was not to attack or escape from his assailant, nor was it to cover his Disciple sitting to my right of him. Instead, he moved left to stand between Siyar and the empty seats and took a defensive stance, a move which makes no rational sense whatsoever. Why waste the effort to sidestep before turning to face his assailant? It wasn’t to dodge, because Siyar positioned himself between Jeong Hyo-Lynn and Shuai Jiao as an unspoken threat to both, meaning the Commander General would’ve been moving towards an unseen attack from a right handed assailant. Nor was it panic, because a man like Grasping Vine Shuai Jiao does not panic when faced with assassins, even after accounting for the fact that he is not accustomed to being surprised by Concealed enemies. No, he is a man who keeps cool under pressure, which means that as soon as he registered the threat, he made what he believed were the appropriate moves to guard against it. Or, more accurately, he moved to guard a bunch of empty chairs, which tells me there definitely had to be someone Concealed there sitting in between Shuai Jiao and Jeong Hyo-Lynn, someone important enough to make the Commander General risk his life and the life of his Disciple to save them.

Logic dictates that this means there was an Imperial Scion sitting in on the meeting, and I would bet my left nut that said Scion was Shen ZhenWu. If it was an Imperial Divinity, Shuai Jiao probably wouldn’t have been so worried, though I suppose even a Divinity can die to a surprise stabbing. It also could’ve been the Grand Marshal or Prime Minister or something, which would explain why Shuai Jiao wasn’t concerned about me going to the Disciplinary Corps, because he had real Imperial Scions sitting right there, ready to denounce all my ‘lies’ and turn the tables around on me. In fact, Shuai Jiao even revealed his entire plan, though inadvertently through his questions. He expected me to burst into the meeting raring for a fight, a hotheaded young man reliant on my high ranking supporters, deadly assassins, and powerful Ancestral Beasts to get my way, but I never had any intention of butting heads in the open. That’s why I expressly asked Old Wolf to keep the People’s Ancestral Beasts at the Northern Citadel, save for Hua Lie who never leaves Lin-Lin’s side, and barged into his manor with only Jorani in tow, where I introduced him as a distraction while MuYang played a similar role up on the rooftops without his Spiritual Weapon. I did all this because I wanted to give Shuai Jiao something to contend with so he’d be too distracted to find my real hidden dagger, Siyar and Pong Pong. Those were my reasons on paper, but I also wanted so desperately to make things work between me and the Commander General, because I did not want to order the assassination of a good man, which I showed through my actions.

A generous gesture which might well have saved my life, because Shuai Jiao’s plan was both simple and frighteningly effective.

See, for the last two months, I’ve been throwing my weight around due to Lin-Lin’s advice and relying more on the stick than the carrot to get my way. She thought I was too nice, and she was right, but I might’ve overcompensated a bit. Still, this new approach was working up until a point, and Shuai Jiao sought to take advantage. Assuming it was Shen ZhenWu seated between Jeong Hyo-Lynn and the Commander General, then barging into the manor with swords drawn and bows bent would’ve sealed my fate. Even though I hold the rank of Legate, if my former superior were to ‘fortuitously’ return to find me fostering dissent with the Commander General at the risk of civil war, then he’d have all the public justification he’d need to strip me of my rank, which would be the least of my worries. Had I shown up at the manor spoiling for a fight, Shen ZhenWu could’ve conceivably had me and all my supporters drawn up on charges for conspiracy to commit murder against an Imperial Scion, even though none of us knew an Imperial Scion would be present at the manor. The punishment for which, I might add, is Nine Familial Extermination, meaning they could’ve removed me and the most dangerous elements of the North in one fell swoop.

A thought which is both terrifying and rage-inducing at the same time. Come at me all you want, but why you gotta involve my family too?

The whole meeting was an elaborate trap set for me, my family, and my strongest supporters, one Shuai Jiao expected me to charge headlong into because I’d just spent so many weeks playing the part of a hot-headed, power-crazed fool. He even invited the Brotherhood to witness my crimes, or at least I assume that’s why they were there, or maybe he just wanted them close to keep them from warning me of the danger, though he couldn’t stop Monk Happy from revealing himself to offer me a clue. Either way, I can’t wholly trust the monks anymore, nor can I even trust myself, because I came to a realization recently, one that has chilling implications. Ever since I took up Lin-Lin’s advice, Luo-Luo has constantly bemoaned my aggressive actions and been advising me to ease back, but I was having fun going full throttle with my newfangled power and reputation. Was this a natural progression of events, or were my thoughts subtly guided towards conflict and aggression through some skill akin to Zhen Shi’s whispers? All of my actions and decisions these past few weeks seemed justified in the moment, but after stumbling across these disturbing revelations, I had to question every thought and decision I ever made.

Again. Because one master of mind manipulation wasn’t enough, so now I have to worry about an Imperial Puppeteer too. Seriously.

Have I been indulging in lust because I have three beautiful wives, or because someone wanted me to lose myself in pleasure?

Have I been swinging my big metaphorical dick around because it makes things easier, or was it all an effort to alienate me from possible supporters?

Is my ambition to retake the west driven by empathy for the captured prisoners, or a devious ploy to convince me to commit significant Imperial forces to a lost cause and create a weakness where there was none?

I spent days asking questions and searching my memories for signs of manipulation, but try as I might, I was unable to identify even a single intrusive thought or out of character decision, so if someone is influencing me, they’re a lot more subtle about it than Zhen Shi. Sure, I’ve been hornier, angrier, and more bloodthirsty of late, but I had good reasons to explain it all. Of course, being unable to find proof of an insidious plot against me wasn’t enough to lay my concerns to rest, as I’ve never needed proof to indulge in paranoia. Instead, I stayed alert and continued to push the envelope to make my enemies think that I escaped their trap through sheer luck and happenstance. All the while, I tasked MuYang with tracking every important Officer of Central and various luxury goods sold in an attempt to uncover solid proof of Imperial Scions being present in Central while continuing monitoring my foes for signs of deception, but alas, nothing came of our efforts. Well, Luo-Luo eventually was forced to take a stand and made me back down from having a merchant executed for failing to fulfill a much needed contract for rations, but she made a good argument and I went with it. Otherwise, the days passed without incident as my hyper-vigilance went unrewarded, leaving me to wonder if I was actually wrong and no Imperial Scions were out to get me.

