Lea looked to her mother, then to the core, then back. Finally, she looked at the swarm of incoming fliers and horde of bone-wielders. Her eyes finally returned to Tala. “Well?”

“Hmm? Oh, you’re ready for me to end this?”

“Yes!”

Tala grinned, reaching out and placing her hand on the core column, suffusing it with her authority, and rolling that out, across the entirety of the hold.

It was very different from how she’d dealt with her previous ether hold, but then, she was very different from how she’d been back then.

The creatures jerked to a stop, horror clear on their features as Tala ejected all the bones into the void. No need for those.

In the instant of their departure, the creatures seemed to decide that the bones were more important than the hold, and they somehow followed.

If Tala had to guess, she’d say that they snatched the bones from the fringes and carried them into the Doman-Imithe, avoiding the oblivion of the true void.

As a result, the hold was suddenly, entirely silent and devoid of life aside from mother and daughter.

Lea looked around, sword raised. After a long moment, she lowered it. “They’re… gone?”

“Indeed. It’s mine now.”

“Is that why they were all naked for a moment before they vanished?”

Tala sighed, closing her eyes and shaking her head. “They seemed to be very attached to the bones, so I banished those. It would have been a lot more difficult to move the creatures, whatever they really were. They chose to follow the bones and were helped along by an authoritative shove. More power to them.”

Lea grunted. “That’s… fair. Interesting.” She smiled a bit tiredly. “Thank you, Mom. I definitely couldn’t have done this without you.”

Tala shrugged. “You aren’t meant to. I was Fused when I entered an ether hold for the first time. You are only Bound, and still, you did great.”

Lea gave her an odd look. “Didn’t you only ever enter one before?”

Tala waved that off. “That’s unimportant.” She looked around unnecessarily. “The job is done, shall we go?”

Lea nodded. “Yes. Dad has his duel this afternoon, and I’d hate to miss it.” She frowned. “Funny how that slipped my mind earlier.”

Tala nodded. “I would have reminded you if we were cutting it too close. Take this as a lesson that even seemingly harmless mind-effects can have unforeseen consequences.”

“Yes, Mom.” Lea chuckled, turning toward the exit. “Shall we?”

“After you, daughter dear.”

“Let’s go watch Dad kick that rude puppy!”

Tala shook her head. “Don’t word it like that.”

“Yeah, I didn’t think about how it would sound until it was out of my mouth.”

“Fair enough. Onward!”
