Hethon was trembling. Jericha was watching him, and he knew Nanette was too. The Swamp of Oswenia tilted her head.
“Otterdogs. What are they?”
“Little—dogs who can swim in the water. Pets. They’re part of Oswen. They were bred for it. There are still some left. Lord Gralton’s got them and—but they vanished. That’s not what I meant.”
The Swamp’s avatar pondered this.
“Hm. I see. Animals. I could induce them to reproduce, perhaps. Will that do, Lord Veltras?”
“What about the rift in the ground? Oswen?”
“I do not see the issue, Lord Veltras. The swamp remains.”
It was such an astounding reply that Hethon raised his voice.
“The people are dead!”
The Swamp of Oswenia nodded wisely, clapping two muddy hands together as she got it.
“Ah, ah. This is House Veltras’ concern. I see. But the land is still the land. It was riven, yes; water rushed down deep, and things within died. Now they grow in the deep cleft driven down. It was well it was not a few miles deeper, or it would connect to the Water Below, which is death for all. But as it is, it is a new thing, and perhaps it will create new life. Think of that, Lord Veltras. The swamp is far from what it was, but it still changes.”
She smiled at him. As if she were giving him some kind of silver lining. Yes, Oswen’s gone and all the people who lived in the main town are dead. But there’s a lovely new rift in the ground, and the swamp will adapt. How lovely, right?
He stepped back, shaking, pale-faced, and Jericha bowed to him.
“Lord Veltras. You have heard the Swamp of Oswenia’s thoughts. Perhaps a moment to refresh yourself?”
“Yes, thank you, Jericha.”
Hethon heard a rushing sound in his ears. He walked back to Nanette; she was sitting at the table. When he pulled himself into one of the chairs, she patted his arm.
“You asked.”
“You’re right. It is all shit.”
That was all Hethon said. It was Nanette’s turn to give him a worried look.
“They have power, Hethon. They can help; they saved us, and they can do that.”
She indicated Viscount Visophecin. Hethon scrubbed at his face, then realized he was copying his father. He turned to Nanette and shook his head.
“I know. They’re an asset, and they have power, and it’s still an amazing thing. But it’s not…magical.”
Ryoka was magical. These Gladefolk were just old. Nanette patted Hethon’s hand, and they sat there, silent, growing older as they listened.
Hethon Veltras had never really judged his elders and, he had assumed, betters before. Now he learned to, and it was a bitter thing. He thought of Ryoka again, and Erin Solstice’s gardens, and when he glanced at Nanette, Hethon said the first thing that came to mind.
“When I grow older…I’d rather be like Lady Buscrei or Lord Swey or Ser Normen or someone like that. Someone who lives like things matter.”
Her head rose; her eyes brightened a bit, and she smiled at him, despite their mood. Nanette brushed at her hair as she sat up.
“That’s what being a witch is, I think. Some of them get tired and old like Hedag. She can do what’s necessary, but she’s like her axe. Sharp. Plain. Heavy and real. I want to be like…Alevica. Or Mavika, even, or my mother, or Erin. Not like Wiskeria. She’s the saddest of them all.”
A thought struck her as Hethon murmured agreement, and Nanette turned to him.
“Mrsha. She’s doing something wondrous and dangerous and stupid.”
“Sammial never does anything boring.”
They nodded at each other. Here they were trying to be older, when in fact…they looked around. How silly these old people were.
 
——
 
Of all the people Hethon and Nanette witnessed during the hours of arguments, it was, ironically, the least-qualified members of the negotiating committee they enjoyed.
Rhisveri could be eloquent and cited historical examples of the other great forests. Lyonette was a savvy diplomat and charming. Dalimont, Jericha, were both servants but equally adroit.
It was like watching two [Fencers] going at each other, then, when they engaged the Gladefolk. Both sides knew the rules, and they tried to wear each other down with nuanced arguments, point and counterpoint—but the problem was both sides were in enchanted plate armor.
So it was more like a war of attrition as they ground at each other, sophisticated wordplay devolving into a slugging match of opinions and jabs. It went nowhere, and it was what ‘negotiation’ looked like at times between the mighty who could not yield; a mere test of willpower disguised as something intelligent.
You know who had no patience for that? No training, nuance, or skill at words? And who was, therefore, massively entertaining?
Bird.
Todi.
Elosaith.
It wasn’t like Lyonette threw the three into the ring the first chance she got. In fact, they’d been told to leave the real talking to the experts, but after an hour, they got bored. And the Gladefolk sought any people they could to make their point.
One of them made the mistake of talking to Captain Todi. This is how it went.
“Right. So I reckon here that we have a good opportunity for business.”
“We must have the wand.”
The Tree of Sighs was trying to sequester Todi’s help. What it was not prepared for was for Captain Todi to awkwardly put a hand on its withered shoulder and steer the Tree of Sighs away. Todi lowered his voice conspiratorially.
“Right, right. That’s a Lyonette thing. What I’m thinking is—you’re one of the oldest and most powerful tree fellows ever, right?”
“I represent the Tree of Sighs, who grows—”
“Yeah, got it. So what I’m thinking is—and follow me here—there’s room for a side-venture. There’s this fellow who came to Liscor, Palt. Now, I don’t mind him. He’s a Centaur. Nothing against Centaurs. Hard to share a room with a lot of them, but I’m not judging. But he’s pretty much taken down the entire damn market in Liscor for relaxing substances. You know? Dreamleaf? A bit of Sunshine Pollen? Nothing like Selphid’s Dust. He’s got principles. I respect that. You can’t go to a [Dealer] in Invrisil without a little risk, but the market’s open.”
“…Dreamleaf? This is not a plant I know.”
The Tree of Sighs was completely lost as Todi tried to describe the plant.
“Right, well, it makes you happy. You smoke a bit, eat it, and you’re in a la-la land of your own for a while.”
“I do not know this land of ‘la la’.”
“That’s not a real place. Follow me here. You’re an old tree. I reckon there are tons of plants long dead.”
“A civilization of lost roots and trees, yes.”
“Right. So is it possible you could grow some, uh, super Dreamleaf? What we can do here is you get me a seed or cutting or whatever the hell it is. I sell it in Invrisil, find some [Gardener] to grow it. I come back, and we split the profits. I reckon if it’s something extraordinary, you could have ten thousand gold pieces inside the month. Think on that. That buys you at least a few [Mercenary] groups. Throw them at the problem and you’ve got a bunch of people to take the wand everywhere you want! What do you say?”
The Tree of Sighs was really trying here. Todi was glancing at Lyonette, who was ignoring him as she pointed angrily at an old map—and Nanette and Hethon were watching as he rubbed his hands together. There was a very good reason Lyonette had never told Todi about the box.
“I…could make this deal. It is within my power to resurrect some lesser plants. Dreamleaf. What is its nature?”
“Uh…relaxing?”
The Gladelord stared at Todi for such a long time the Gold-rank adventurer frowned.
“No, wait, I’ve got it. It’s…hallucinogenic. There you go. That’s one of those Wistram words.”
He smiled. The Tree of Sighs opened its mouth.
“No. What does it look like?”
“Oh. Hah! It’s green.”
“…How many roots does it have? When does it flower? What soil does it grow in?”
Todi stroked his chin with a thoughtful frown.
“Y’know, I think it has wide leaves.”
The Tree of Sighs waited. Todi gave it a hopeful look, then felt at his belt pouches.
“Wait a second…aha!”
He handed a bunch of powdered, long-dead green leaves to the Tree of Sighs in a wrapped packet. The Gladelord stared at it.
“You…dry it and crush it and carry it around?”
“And burn it in a pipe. I don’t partake of it regularly, but it makes a good gift. Er—”
Todi realized he had just handed a lord of nature what was effectively a destroyed plant subjected to as many offenses as you could. The Tree of Sighs gave Todi an open-mouthed stare, and Todi changed subjects.
“Corn. You ever heard of it?”
“What?”
 
——
 
Elosaith was following one of the Gladeladies around. She was uncomfortable.
“You are staring at me.”
“Merely admiring your form, Miss. May I ask how you were made?”
“You may not. I am the avatar of one of the Great Trees of the Vale Forest, not one of your puppets of calcified bone.”
“Ah, we’re all just puppets of calcified bone and meat at the end of the day, Gladelady. Can’t we talk about construction? I was gestated in the flesh-pouch of my mother after some very odd behavior. I could go into detail about it if you want. Did your creator use any kind of glue, or is it a purely magical means of animating you? I don’t wish to be rude, but one seldom gets a chance to admire masterful craftsmanship. Or craftswomanship!”
He beamed at the Gladelady, and she pointed at him.
“Are you not Human? Why do you not study your own kind?”
He heaved a huge, forlorn sigh.
“Oh, believe me, I’ve taken apart more people than I can count. But you don’t get as many ‘exceptional’ members of our people that you can put on a slab. I’ve never gotten to even see a Named-rank adventurer’s corpse. Though here’s hoping! Not that I want it to occur in the inn, but the odds are pretty good if I hang in there for a decade or two. But you’re even more beautifully made…”
“I wish to conclude this discussion now.”
Elosaith turned his attention to another, hopefully more receptive member of the Gladefolk. As he did, he passed by two giggling children and Bird. Bird was sitting at the table with the Skytree Orelic-Deyana. She was speaking to her.
“Lord Veltras and the child have sworn to aid us. You cannot refuse.”
She was trying to checkmate the situation with the indisputable facts that the Gladefolk had on their side. Lyonette, of course, refused to engage on this dangerous premise and pointed out she nominally owned the wand or shifted the grounds of discussion.
Bird saw the problem and nodded. She fanned her wings and leaned over the table.
“I see. You wish to make Nanette do something dangerous and possibly stupid. And Hethon, whom I care about less but would not wish dead. This is not good, Tree Lady. I am an expert on stupid things, and I think you are going to do more of that.”
“We…wish to restore a Dryad to life. It is a noble cause.”
“But you cannot use Nanette and Hethon for it. I say so; I am Bird, and my opinion matters because I think it does.”
“They have promised to aid us. It is not a matter for debate.”
Bird sat back, struck by this impeccable logic. Her mandibles opened and closed, and she wiped at imaginary sweat coming off her brow. She sat back in her chair, and the Skytree smiled in satisfaction.
“You see? Now—”
“I do see. So, what you are telling me, Skytree Orelic-Deyana, is that it’s war then.”
Bird sat back up and leaned over the table towards the Skytree, and the Gladelady’s ‘face’ went slack.
“What? That is not what I said.”
The Antinium nodded her head a few times, sad.
“It’s war. Very well. I will go and get an army. Hello, goodbye, it was very sad it came to this.”
She reached out, pumped the Skytree’s hands up and down a few times, and stood with a heavy sigh. Hethon and Nanette began giggling at their table.
Bird was back to her tricks. The Antinium innocently turned away, flustering the Skytree.
“You have misunderstood my conversation, Queen of Insects.”
“Aha. I am called an insect. So it’s double war, then. This is sad. I was going to ask, ‘is it war?’, but it is clear that it has already become a war. I shall inform the other Queens, and we will get an army of angry bug-people. We eat plants, you know. I eat potatoes all the time.”
Bird couldn’t wink, but she was waving an antennae in the direction of the children. Lyonette had overheard the conversation, and she was glowering as Ser Dalimont strode over, but she seemed to think this was worth a shot, crazy as it was.
However—the Skytree’s flustered countenance lasted about as long as a forest’s breeze. The confusion in the Gladelady’s eyes turned to cold acceptance in a moment. She nodded.
“I see. Queen of Foreign Peoples, it is war. Send your armies. There is nothing left to slaughter, but make your war on the Vale Forest. We are divorced from those broken grounds. Our bodies are no longer rooted in the earth. Slaughter every sapling and creature if this offends you, but leave your claim upon the Dryad child. Do we have an agreement?”
She extended her own hand, and it was Bird’s turn to hesitate.
“Wait. That is not what you should have said. I’ll do it. I’ll destroy the lands. House Veltras owns them. I think they like trees.”
“Then you are at war with the Five Families. If the Lord Veltras beseeches for aid, we will consider it. Bring your armies, Queen Bird. And I think, yes, you will meet a wanderer on your conquests as you step into the shade.”
Her eyes went to Taletevirion, and he turned his head, silver eyes cold. The Skytree just smiled, and her gaze was eager when she turned to Bird.
“You would do well to turn back. But send your armies and force him to draw his blade. Or burn it down until nothing is left. So little is left; it will grow from the ashes, in time. This matters. That place you call the Vale Forest does not. Is it then war, Queen of Insects?”
Bird had stopped smiling, as had the children. The Antinium looked the Skytree up and down and folded her arms.
“…It is not war. Because that would suit you. You are the least-funny tree I have ever met, Skytree. And I have met ones that explode.”
“Then we continue to negotiate. Sit down, Queen of Insects. What do you have to offer? Slaughter? Aid? I will take both.”
Bird slowly sat down, posture erect, oddly—intense. Nanette distinctly heard Bird gnashing her mandibles together, and then Bird said a word Nanette had never heard her say in any form.
“You itxcheiic-ing walking stick. Very well. Prove the wand is yours, then, for my people acknowledge no contracts made with House Veltras.”
The Skytree sat, still smiling with that empty face, and produced a contract written in bark. Bird snatched it, read it, and then tried to eat it. But the negotiations—
Continued.
 
——
 
