Captain Todi, Bird, Elosaith, as strange a gathering as you could want behind Lyonette. The Gladefolk certainly noticed. Lyonette heard murmurs from them too. Their voices were low, but not so low as to be inaudible.
 
“A new species. A new one, and old.”
“He has returned, the last of all. It is omened.”
“I do not recognize the two behind the mother. It has been told.”
“The child! There is a child encased in dead wood! Free her!”
“Hope. It shall be, again. It must be. It can be.”
 
They spoke, and Lyonette shivered again. Odd. It was so odd, for a few reasons. Even if these were spirits of nature, she had been told this was a meeting place. Therefore, a place of negotiations. She would have assumed even representatives of a forest would have better discipline than this.
The second thing was how they talked. They sounded oddly—young. At odds with their clear age. Everything about them was faded, but that tonal dissonance spoke of less certainty, less poise than, again, she expected.
Her answer came as Rhisveri slowed and hissed at them. He seized their arms again, in a death-grip.
“They’re not real. They’re not real.”
He subvocalized at them, and Lyonette cocked her head. She tried to respond and found she could; she just had to sort of think it and her throat would vibrate the words out.
“That’s what Taletevirion said.”
“No, no. I mean—they’re not alive. I realized what was wrong, Visophecin. Look at them! There’s no internal organs in there. They’re…puppets.”
All three heads swung back to the Gladefolk, and then Lyonette realized why she had been making those analogies in her head. Yes, that was it.
They were all fake in some way. The most obvious was the wicker woman. You could clearly see where her body was hollow on the inside, but there were other signs. There was one, a man of vines, who walked slightly awkwardly—because the roots of his ‘body’ that should have connected to the ground were torn. Severed.
“What does that mean, Rhisveri? I can tell they’re linked to magic.”
Visophecin was scrutinizing them harder. Rhisveri just shook his head.
“There’s nothing living on the other end. Believe me—I can tell. We’re staring at damn puppets. Of course we are! They’re the representatives of the forest. They wait here until someone comes by, and then someone speaks through them. But the forest is dead. That Unicorn said it.”
“So what are we looking at?”
Lyonette felt her armpits and palms growing clammy, and Rhisveri’s voice was as unsettled as she was.
“Puppets without anyone’s hand inside them. Be careful. They have a lot of magic in them.”
The warning came as Lyonette’s party was almost at the table. It was here that the first error was made—by Lyonette’s side. She should have briefed the party more, but she’d finally agreed to this meeting on instinct.
So, when Bird got to the table, the Antinium did what she always did when she saw an open chair. She pulled it back, a stone seat, and sat down.
The Gladefolk didn’t like that. They spoke, voices a flurry.
 
“Such rudeness.”
“The insect-woman insults us?”
“What does it mean?”
“The children came here with more manners, and they came in death.”
 
“—Good evening, hosts of the Veltras Forest! Gladelords and Gladeladies of Tauslech. I am Lyonette du Marquin. I come at your behest, with my daughter, Witch Nanette, and Lord Hethon Veltras. Will you speak with me?”
Lyonette curtsied, in one of the most impromptu addresses she’d ever given. It was no royal greeting, but she felt like that might be important.
Her entire kingdom post-dated these people by far. The forest spirits reacted to her presence, and after a moment, the woman of wicker roots spoke.
“So we gather in formal greetings once again. It has been two thousand, eight hundred, and twenty-nine years. I am designated speaker of this session. I am the Skytree Orelic-Deyana as you hear my name, whose branches stretch highest save one.”
She lifted a hand and made a sketch of a bow. Then sat. Next was the water-woman. She rolled forwards, her body a mass of brackish water much like a slug. She came before her chair, which was appropriately wet and damp; a stool rather than a high-backed chair, but she didn’t speak.
Instead, the Gladelady pointedly stared at the group, and Lyonette realized they were to alternate. She nudged Rhisveri, and he was about to speak, but Taletevirion beat him to it.
“Hey, it’s me. I’m here to mediate this, so let’s get it over with.”
He pulled a chair up and sat down. That earned him glowers from both sides. If they were keeping score of infractions, Lyonette’s side was rapidly adding up, and she didn’t know if it mattered. However, the Gladelady took it as her cue and offered a curtsey, despite having no real dress…or legs.
“I am the spirit of the water, whomst is called the Swamp of Oswenia, whose bounds stretch from the lifeless sea to the land betwixt called ‘Reizmelt’s Crossing’. I represent the gasp and bubble of secretions of the ground and water, the death and life of a million in each passing second.”
Okay, this was closer to what Lyonette had expected. Rhisveri once again tried to step forwards, but Bird raised a hand.
“Hello, I am Bird. Queen of the Free Antinium. Also, my species does not ask permission before sitting down so everything I did was purely good etiquette.”
Lyonette wanted to walk over and kick Bird, but to her astonishment…it worked. The Gladefolk glanced at each other, then hurriedly lost their peeved stances and scowls, as if they were on the wrong foot. The moss-cloaked man bowed next.
“I speak for the Tree of Sighs, who has never taken a name in any tongue. The tree rests in the chasm which split the air eight hundred and nine years after the Tree of Vale shed its first blossom. My bark is covered with moss, and my branches lie fallow of leaves.”
He hesitated.
“—Or—was—”
His face twisted up, and Lyonette felt a chill as the Gladefolk susurrated. The speaker of the Tree of Sighs hesitated, then sat without another word. Next came Elosaith, who whirled his staff down, much to Rhisveri’s annoyance; he spoke with such grandness that everyone focused on him as if he were a true member of royalty come here.
“I am Elosaith of Rheirgest, come at Miss Lyonette du Marquin’s request. [Necromancer].”
He sat so proudly that the other leafy heads at the table inclined towards him, and Bird, which was mildly hilarious. Lyonette now regretted not using her full credentials; this was a highly literal, highly odd people. They referred to where their trees were and what they were like in terms only plants would understand.
Not with sight, but with other qualities. Another speaker introduced herself as ‘the land that stretches from the ground of quartzite to the land across the River Elsweit’, and so it went. Two things occurred at the end as the last two people introduced themselves on Lyonette’s side.
Second-to-last was Rhisveri, who kept missing his opportunity to speak. When he finally came forwards, he executed that strange gesture with his fingers, then bowed. First, to each of the Gladefolk, then he placed his fingers on the ground, bent, and then stretched up towards the sky.
Like a flower’s petals opening. The Gladefolk rustled in astonishment, and Lyonette felt both nostalgia and approval. Rhisveri’s voice was husky as he gave his greeting.
“I am…Rhisveri sor Kerwenas, unsprouted of Fithea sor Kerwenas, rootchild of the Great Forest of Estiphole, rootless of any gathering, yet I claim the Kingdom of Ailendamus as my spread and the forest of Fitern as my growthland tended. I walk beneath your shade, Gladefolk of Tauslech. May the sun shine down and the rain fall.”
He sat, slowly and reverentially, and they whispered again, very much like the wind blowing through branches, a susurration of voices.
 
“A true child of the forest? How he speaks! The old speech of the north continent!”
“Impossible, impossible, he is no folk of any Great Forest. His nature is…so familiar…”
“Rootchild. Rootchild, he said. Could it be? Does one Dryad yet live? Have miracles twice sprouted?”
 
Rhisveri answered, his tone gravelly.
“Fithea sor Kerwenas is dead this last year. The last Dryad is dead.”
A rustling, again, and the Gladefolk murmured.
 
“So it is.”
“So that is what we felt.”
“His touch, the Winterbringer, and the passing of the last of green.”
“And one of the Oldest Travellers setting root here for such a brief moment—”
“It woke us up.”
“Fitting, this is fitting.”
 
They seemed—encouraged by Rhisveri. Though more than one was inspecting him oddly. Lyonette noted that the Gladefolk seemed to be completely ignoring Vaulont, Todi, Dalimont, and now even Bird.
They had interest in her, probably due to her carrying the wand, Hethon and Nanette from past encounters, and probably because Hethon was a [Lord] of House Veltras. Rhisveri they clearly acknowledged, though some frowned at him, as if trying to make something out.
But the last being they reacted to was Visophecin. He came forwards without copying Rhisveri’s ornate opening, but with a bow that would have set him perfectly in any court of Terandria.
“Your Lords and Ladies of Tauslech. I am Viscount Visophecin of the Kingdom of Ailendamus. I greet you and stand before you as an individual, on personal business, and beg your indulgence in the impending negotiations. With great honor, I join this gathering t—”
He was halfway through when the Skytree Orelic-Deyana—or what had been her vessel—raised a hand, and a root twice as wide as Visophecin blasted him off his feet into a network of vines and roots.
He tried to dodge, but the attack was so fast that his magic was flickering around him when pale roots grabbed him and visibly yanked the magic out of him. Visophecin writhed, going for his swords as he realized he was being drained of—
“Stop that at once!”
Lyonette leapt to her feet. Todi swore, launching himself out of his seat at the table with Nanette in his arms. Jericha had Hethon; Bird drew a bow and shot two vines ensnaring the Lucifen. Her arrows bounced off so she aimed at the Gladefolk.
“I remember, now. From the land of burning rock and the words that bind. I know his nature! He is sholitfel. In our glades!”
The Skytree cried, and the others, who had reacted with as much surprise as the mortals, suddenly whirled and raised their hands. Visophecin sunk into a cage of roots and vines, thrashing, then going alarmingly still as he realized he was ensnared. When Lyonette saw him, he was immobilized; mud caking his suit, hanging in a cage of vines and suspended like a bird.
She looked at Taletevirion, a finger on the crossbow by her side.
I thought they were going to negotiate!
The Unicorn seemed as unnerved as she did. He clearly had not expected them to have that much power. He spoke, voice quick.
“Hey, Gladefolk, put him down. He’s part of this side. You can’t act like this is the old days.”
One of them responded as they sat as one.
“We do not allow that kind at our tables, Taletevirion of Herd Houwel. They twist words and rules. We suffer him for he names himself rootchild of a Dryad.”
A jerk of the head took in Rhisveri. The Wyrm hesitated, visibly alarmed as he glanced at Visophecin. Seeing an immortal taken out in seconds was not doing Lyonette’s stomach any wonders.
Dead gods, what have I gotten us into? She relied on Taletevirion as she sat. And before she could lose any negotiating power, she spoke.
“I am the only party which you need concern yourselves with, Gladelords and ladies. It is well that I am a reasonable woman; elsewise, I would take offense to your actions. Attack another of my party, and I will hold it against you in our negotiations. Is that clear?”
They focused on her, and now she could feel that pressure. Unsettling, intense, and still, lesser than she would have expected from trees. Taletevirion shifted his seat as everyone sat down, Jericha right next to Hethon, Todi and Nanette whispering to each other. The Unicorn was on Lyonette’s left, Rhisveri on the right.
The Unicorn leaned over and whispered softly as the Gladefolk did the same. Clearly, it was allowed and even expected.
“Lyonette, they shouldn’t be that powerful. Either the death of a Dryad empowered them or something very powerful gave them some of their energy back. My guess is the Solstice.”
“The Winter Solstice?”
“That! Or the last Solstice. I felt a lot of power then, too. If something like another tree touched this ground, it could empower them.”
Lyonette had a bad feeling that Ryoka Griffin was to blame, again. She had a vague recollection from the Riverfarm tales of the fae that there had been some tree-person. She listened as the Gladefolk whispered; they weren’t good at keeping their voices quiet.
 
“So we are to negotiate with her? Of what?”
“Promises were made. Promises must be kept.”
“Beware the trickery of House Veltras, as ever, cunning wordsmiths.”
 
Oh dear. They really were trees if they thought House Veltras were cunning. Lyonette had higher hopes—until she saw Visophecin glaring at them from his cage of vines. But she realized they had made a mistake. There was a tingle on her skin, and she realized his spell was still active.
“This is Visophecin. Their magic absorbed my mana, but my barriers are not compromised. Nor do I believe they have done anything other than immobilize me. Rhisveri, transmit the spell to Taletevirion.”
Rhisveri brushed at the Unicorn’s arm, and Taletevirion whispered back for all of them.
“Okay, this isn’t starting off right. The last time I met them, they were almost withered away. You know what they are, right?”
“Dead puppets. Vessels without their trees.”
Rhisveri was unnerved, still staring. Taletevirion’s right eye twitched slightly.
“That’s right. They remained when the trees died. That’s why they’re so off. The real trees that spoke through them died long ago. These are like what would happen if a bunch of string puppets gained personality. They’re dumber than the beings who made them to communicate with House Veltras, but then again, the trees who spoke through them were weird as shit.”
“They just came alive one day?”
Lyonette was incredulous. Taletevirion shrugged slightly; he watched as the Skytree’s representative found a rock and began banging it on the table like a gavel.
“All that personality and power…it was a real shock to the first Dryads who found them. Scared them leafless for a month. They tried to fulfill their role for ages afterwards. Which is why I hate their guts.”
“What’s their role?”
