They called it the Veltras Forest or the Tauslech Woods. Within that land was the meeting place, which they called the Congress of Root and Steel.
Or, if you were even older, you’d call it, ‘that new Skill-place with the Humans’. Because it wasn’t old compared to the Vale Forest itself. If anything, it had been brand new, a pact forged with the first Humans to set foot on Izril during the Five Families’ migration.
Like the [Garden of Sanctuary], like a few Skills, like [The Courier’s Last Road], this was a location embodied in a Skill. Unlike the other two, there were strict requirements to access this place.
One of which was having the bloodline of House Veltras. The other was being on Izril, though how close you had to be to the Vale Forest was a matter of uncertainty.
Only Taletevirion knew this; even Jericha was struck silent as they walked out of the Floodplains of Liscor, over wet grass, towards that distant forest of vast trees. It was like a mirage.
Look at any forest, any vast wilds as yet untamed by any buildings or artificial structures. At evening was best, or morning, when mist ran through the trees. Keep staring, not at the ones you could see, but that distant skyline of foliage until your eyes focused on only that. If you thought, for a second, that the canopy extended forever and that if you went walking that way and might never come back for there were endless wooded lands beyond—
That was the Forest of House Veltras.
It took a long time to walk towards that treeline, and a short one. Time lost meaning; it was no instantaneous journey, but neither did it take days. When Lyonette thought to ask, it was Duke Rhisveri who spoke.
“Time dilation effect. It’s probably been five minutes. Feels like five hours, but it’s sped up for us. I don’t see why you’d have it both ways, but I don’t make Skills. Notice how it’s stopped raining?”
It was true. At first, the rain from the Floodplains had been overhead, drenching the ground, which seemed to be just a huge field of low grass, but as they walked, the grass grew higher, until it threatened to rise up to their chests, and the trees became taller.
Then the forest trail appeared.
It was a natural, winding track of dirt, unpaved, but smooth, wending through the dark fir trees that stood tall and unmoving. The party of visitors, ahead and behind Lyonette, hesitated.
They had come armed and in force. Of the lot, Vaulont the Ash and Jericha were ironically the most stressed. The Vampire assassin and former soldier were nervous, one because she had Hethon to care for and had no idea what this was, despite it pertaining to House Veltras, the other because this was not in his job description.
“Miss Lyonette, I need to call a halt. What—exactly—are we facing?”
He appeared by Lyonette, and the company slowed as they walked through the trees. Lyonette turned to Hethon, Nanette, and Taletevirion.
“I don’t know. This is the place where the children went during the Winter Solstice. Does this seem familiar?”
“It’s less wintery, but yes. This is the same path. If we walk for a bit, we’ll get to the meeting place. That’s where…they are. They told us to stay there for a while, then said it was safe enough and sent us back.”
“Mostly because Mrsha and I needed to find out what was happening at the inn. Lyonette, they want the wand. There are eleven of them, I think. Male and female.”
“What species? Levels? Weaknesses?”
Vaulont was insistent. Now they were actually on their way, Nanette was a lot more reasonable, and she considered the question.
“I don’t think they intend to harm anyone…”
Todi spat. He was looking around and was still, oddly, less stressed than Vaulont, even if he was tense, hand hovering near his sword and wand.
“Assume the worst.”
“—Then they’re probably flammable. All of them are made of plant matter in some way.”
Todi nodded.
“Oil flasks and fireballs it is. Douse ‘em and light them up.”
Doubly ironically, Lyonette’s face wrinkled up at the thought of immediate violence now she was actually about to confront this group.
“No one is to attack unless I give the order, understand, Captain Todi?”
He saluted her at once.
“Oh, aye, Miss Lyonette. Though just while we’re asking, what kind of levels can we expect for killing them? Snazzy new class?”
That was why Todi, at least, was more sanguine. He’d resigned himself to this encounter as his first major Solstice Event. So he reckoned he was either going to get a few levels—or die.
He might as well look on the bright side.
It was Taletevirion who snapped back.
“Don’t attack them. They’re not harmless, but they’re not overtly hostile.”
“Right, so killing them’s a step beyond what to expect? No fighting? We’re just here to show off some muscle for the negotiations?”
Todi relaxed a bit, and so did Jericha and Vaulont. Taletevirion hesitated and kicked at the ground as if he were in Unicorn form.
“No. Rather, if it does come to a fight, it’s their home turf, and they’re really going to be hard to kill. I don’t know how much magic they’ve saved up, but you’d better throw every [Fireball] you’ve got.”
Todi swallowed hard, and Dalimont adjusted his sword in its sheath. Elosaith scratched at his chin.
“Well, I’m having a splendid time. Here I thought I’d die and the most fun I’d have was being a high-level undead for the village to use. How do these tree-lords feel about a [Deathbolt] spell? I don’t sense any dead bodies to animate. This is an odd forest. My [Detect Life] spell is finding…nothing…even from the trees.”
His voice faltered and grew a bit tense. Everyone turned to Taletevirion, and the Unicorn exhaled. He glanced around the dark forest.
“It’s identical to the last time I came here. This isn’t a real forest. If it was, they’d have tried to grow a greatwoods here. It’s all fake. And real. Everything feels real, but even if you tried to start a fire or harvest the trees, it wouldn’t matter.”
“So the Veltras Forest, the great Skill of House Veltras, is all mummery? What’s the point of that?”
Even Duke Rhisveri was astounded, and he was the one gazing around with the most awe at the forest. For, of course, he had been raised by a Dryad. Taletevirion began marching, his voice brisk, cold, and he glanced back at Hethon.
“They made this for Humans. They’d never have put their children here.”
The boy shivered, and Jericha shielded him protectively, but the Unicorn’s gaze was merely hard, not hostile. This had to be difficult, and Lyonette inclined her head at him.
“Who are these Lords and Ladies of the Woods?”
“People meant to talk to House Veltras and other representatives. You know how Erin has her [World’s Eye Theatre]? It’s sort of like that, but a meeting place. There’s other aspects, but I doubt Hethon has access if he doesn’t have the Skills. This is like, well, a giant conference spot. In the days when the forests negotiated. The ‘lords and ladies’ represent the Vale Forest. Or they did until it was destroyed and everyone left. Then their purpose was gone.”
Hethon opened his mouth, then decided now wasn’t a good time to bring any other Skills up. Lyonette frowned at Taletevirion as she tried to picture these gladelords.
“Why didn’t they leave when the Vale Forest fell then?”
The Unicorn’s eyes were bright as shadows fell over his face, dappling turning to pure gloom.
“They can’t.”
The party moved on in silence, checking the forest, listening to the crunch of wood under their feet, but hearing no birdsong, nothing but wind moving the branches now and then. No insects; it was deathly quiet, and when Nanette pointed that out, Taletevirion again had an answer.
“If the Vale Forest were alive, you’d hear reflections of it all. It’s dead.”
“It’s still—”
“It’s dead, Nanette.”
More marching. After a while, someone began to hum, then sing.
“Oh, a marching we will go, a marching we will go. A—”
Lyonette spoke.
“Bird. Not the time.”
“Aw.”
Viscount Visophecin felt the need to interject a few comments at this point. He turned to Rhisveri and Lyonette.
“It occurs to me that we are entering my forte. Negotiations.”
Rhisveri turned his head as he stomped along.
“I really don’t think you get to say that in light of recent events, Visophecin.”
The Viscount pointedly ignored the statement as he unnecessarily adjusted his suit.
“…It would be wise to have some leverage beyond the wand. Have we anything to negotiate with?”
Rhisveri checked his pockets, shrugging.
“We’ve got a local, we can arrange payment, but we have what they want.”
“And we are bringing it to them.”
Everyone turned to Taletevirion again, and the Unicorn stopped. His hands were shoved in his pockets.
“Look, they’re not like other people. They are literally older than me, and they don’t do ransoms or anything else. If they were smart, they’d have let the kids go, but kept Mrsha until they got the wand. Remember they’re old and weird and desperate and dead. I told Nanette that they were bad news.”
“But they want to bring the Dryad back, right? They told us that, and I do believe them.”
The witch was uncertain as she licked her lips, and for a brief moment, Taletevirion became sympathetic. He squatted down and patted her on the shoulder.
“Of course they do. They’re on the same side as us. That’s the problem. Have you ever met someone who’ll do the right thing the wrong way and ruin it for everyone?”
The witch’s uncertain face turned into a grimace, and Taletevirion grinned.
“That’s them. We’re almost here. They’re going to do greetings first. Just do your best.”
 
——
 
Then, there they were. Without warning, the party pushed under a low blockage of branches, and when the leaves parted, it revealed a clearing in the middle of the woods. And the Lords and Ladies of the Vale Forest, the Gladelords of Tauslech, were here.
The meeting ground was truly small given the personages who might have once been here. It was the size of the common room of Erin’s inn, no more, and in the center of the glade was a round, stone table, just a flat boulder balanced on several stones.
Tall menhirs of rock decorated the grove, each one marked with an odd, branching series of symbols and faded colors of paint. There were bowls at the bottom of each, long-emptied of whatever offerings they might have had.
Everything in this glade was timeless, but still—the first impression Lyonette had was that it was like a perfectly preserved cupboard. She could not see the dust, but she felt the veil of time parting and the figures within jerk to readiness.
Yes, that was the analogy. Though she did not know why at first the phrasing in her head was like that. Until she realized the figures in the glade beyond were so…so…
Oddly humanoid. 
Yes, that was it. For beings of nature who represented some aspect of the Vale Forest, they just looked, like, well, what you’d get if you imagined tree spirits.
A wooden face, carved to resemble lips and eyes, if abstracted. A woman made of twisted and gnarled roots, like a natural wicker basket, faded yellow and orange leaves covering her innards. Even a face of leaves and stone with a cloak of moss, seeming like some formal military officer.
Tree-people. To Lyonette, they were oddly normal; for beings so old and ancient, she expected they’d either be perfect imitators like Taletevirion, Teriarch, Rhisveri, and Visophecin, or utterly alien.
She realized that they disconcerted someone else as well when she nearly walked into Rhisveri. He had gone still the moment he saw the strangers.
“They’re so—these are the Gladelords of Tauslech? What? They look nothing like Fithea’s stories of Dryads.”
There were exactly eleven of them, and all but three were wood- or leaf-themed. Two were oddly comprised of stones, one like a Golem, but made of small pebbles, shifting to reveal an attractive face. The other was fully carved, but had blocky limbs that moved, far less articulated than a Golem’s. And the last was boggy, wet; her body was running water and lilypads slowly drifting over the surface. She was virtually naked except for the detritus covering her; Hethon stared at two very accurate breasts. Just like last time.
They were waiting for the group to approach, but of course, everyone halted. Taletevirion just sighed.
“Yep, it’s them. Manners.”
His voice was low as Visophecin whispered to Rhisveri, using a spell to make his voice buzz as he touched Lyonette and Rhisveri’s arms, transmitting sound through skin rather than showing them his moving mouth.
“What’s wrong, Rhisveri? They’re more alien than Fithea was. Surely they’re not too different from Dryads?”
The Wyrm rolled one eye at Visophecin and replied.
“Fithea changed her body and used glamors for the children! Do you think she just looked exactly like Humans?”
Visophecin’s eyes flicked to the Gladelords. They stood around the table, on the far end, at twelve seats, clearly meant to represent the Vale Forests. There were plenty of chairs on the other side. Exactly as many as people had come, he realized.
The second thing Visophecin spotted was that, among the twelve chairs, the largest, most-central chair, was empty. A throne of wood was covered in dead-looking vines. Visophecin narrowed his eyes fractionally.
He was, of course, scanning the Gladefolk for weaknesses. He hadn’t missed that this place was somewhere you could be hurt; he’d pinched Rhisveri to test that the moment they’d entered the Skill. His magic was fully active, unlike a [Garden of Sanctuary]. And what he saw was utterly—confusing.
“Rhisveri, I don’t sense any magic coming from them. No, it’s all exiting their bodies. Some kind of powerful spell they’re maintaining? What do you see?”
The Wyrm was the greatest spellcaster of Ailendamus save for Fithea, and in terms of magical strength, incomparable. Visophecin lacked Rhisveri’s natural eyes and other abilities. The Wyrm took a moment to reply.
“—Something’s wrong. Something’s very wrong with them. Be civil. I’m figuring it out.”
Lyonette sensed it too, even without their magical abilities. She did move, though, when one of them, the first woman she’d seen, raised a hand of roots and beckoned.
“Lord Veltras. Little Witch. You fulfill your promises. It is well. Come forwards, come forwards, strangers. We invite you to the last meeting of root and steel. Bring the child. And bring the mother.”
Their eyes focused on Lyonette, and she shivered. Still, she advanced, chin high, as Ser Dalimont walked with her and her party spread out.
