“Shamblers? They are nothing like true beings of nature, little witch Nanette. We forgive your insult because you are a sapling and ignorant. What we offer Princess Lyonette is mere…what is the word? Compost compared to the great spirits.”
The avatar of the swamp took umbrage to that statement, and wet bubbles burst along her body as she rumbled.
“Compost serves its purpose. The vast spores still whisper to me, sometimes. Beneath compost. I know of the one of which you speak, little witch. Khoteizetrough is a fine example of a Vastlands Shambler. One born of the Gaarh Marsh, which is the greatest of the swamps not purged by Drakes. Even so, a Shambler. Worthless.”
Lyonette saw Nanette’s eyes widen and the witch’s back go up. Nanette fiddled with her jacket, looking down.
“You—may not know this, but the Earth Elemental, Khoteizetrough, died bravely saving his tribe, Spirit of the Waters. He was beloved; and not mindless, either. Are these Shamblers you summon different? Because I think if that is what they could become, they are then worthy of respect.”
The Spirit of Waters’ avatar had a kindly tone. For her. It sounded like the bubbling of putrid waters, so deep that Lyonette felt her earwax buzz as she spoke.
“They are the same, child. But that is all they become. The Shamblers we summon may have minds. Thoughts, primitive as they are. It makes them barely useful, barely able to carry out tasks.”
“So they’re alive? They feel pain? Do they have emotions?”
Nanette was giving Bird an unsettled look; she said she and Elia had killed a number of them. Lyonette was getting a bad feeling, and another of the Gladefolk tossed back a head of leaves.
“Perhaps. Does it matter? Their thoughts should be of devotion to the greater beings. If they feel, they feel little. Do you want them? It is a mean thing: we have gifted their like to our allies in times before. Raised armies of them. Your Skills do the same. Had we the Crown of Flowers, you would see them. Armies grown to do battle. But it was stolen.”
“Stolen by the Reinharts, curse them! Recover it, son of Veltras.”
“Yes, recover it! We must charge you with deeds. But first, payment. Then we return to our discussion of the wand. Does that answer your questions, little witch?”
The Gladefolk nodded at each other, smiling at Nanette, but she had gone abruptly silent. Her mouth was closed unhappily, and Lyonette’s heart hurt. Now, she recognized the quiet dismay that had fallen over Nanette throughout the meeting. At first, Lyonette had welcomed it, but…
Oh no. Nanette was experiencing the same lessons that a younger Lyonette had been taught by Ielane. It reminded Lyonette of the first time she’d spied on other [Ladies] her age and heard what they said about her behind a one-way mirror.
Not a lesson Nanette needed to have now. Despite their arguments, Lyonette would have spared her this. The [Princess] moved forwards unconsciously and gently touched Nanette’s shoulders. Wordlessly, the little witch gazed up at Lyonette and drooped. Lyonette felt her shoulders straighten, and she lifted her chin as she glowered at the Gladefolk.
“I believe it answers many questions, folk of the glades. I shall accept these ‘Shamblers’ in return for our efforts to recover the wand. They will be treated better at The Wandering Inn than elsewhere. And if one should one day become like Khoteizetrough, it will be an honor more than anyone here deserves.”
More than one of the Gladefolk seemed confused, but the Skytree and the Spirit of Waters gave Lyonette sharp looks, as if suspecting they’d just been insulted. However, the Tree of Sighs’ puppet merely bowed at the waist.
“Eight, then?”
Nanette opened her mouth to raise the number, but then she stilled as Ser Dalimont touched her arm. Lyonette’s face was too passive. She nodded agreement.
“Eight. At any given time as protection for the inn.”
The Gladefolk missed the wording of that one. They conferred, then spoke eagerly.
“The agreement has my consent.”
“And mine.”
“And mine.”
“So I…”
Only the Tree of Sighs seemed to catch something about the wording he didn’t like. He tilted his head, eyes ‘narrowing’ as the lights thinned, but then he seemed to shrug and gave his assent.
The Gladefolk murmured their acceptance, and Lyonette heard a rustling from the trees around the grove. She felt, suddenly, a sense of something completing. In her imagination, it was like the sound of ink being put to paper.
A contract being made. The Gladefolk instantly turned back to the wand.
“Now, the child. She shall go to the proper place to grow. By those we choose. Swordmaster, you are the one who can make the great journey. Heed our words, and do this in the name of the lofty branches you were born under. Princess, do not gainsay our will. We shall pay you to leave this matter to us alone.”
In this moment, Lyonette had a great temptation to let go of the wand and have done with it. This would be, ironically, what she wanted. The Wandering Inn would stay out of the Gladefolk’s affairs, and if they succeeded or failed—likely failed—it would probably have no blowback on the inn.
However, one look at Nanette’s unhappy, uncertain face and Hethon’s eyes on the wand and Lyonette knew her dratted conscience wouldn’t let her do that. She squeezed Nanette’s shoulders reassuringly, and it was again to her surprise that someone else spoke.
“And if the Dryad—the child is born? Where will you take her? I have an offer to make in that regard as well, Gladefolk of Tauslech. Allow my kingdom to shelter her. She will be safe to grow in Ailendamus. That I swear you.”
Duke Rhisveri sounded so actually genuine that Lyonette frowned at him. But he kept his face earnestly turned to the Gladefolk. They reacted predictably.
“The child will come here to learn from us!”
“To regrow the Vale Forest and awaken the Tree of Oteslia! Not to go to Terandria of atrocities and dead lands. We will not trust half-Elves with her keeping!”
Rhisveri chuckled softly.
“Not half-Elves, great spirits. I meant—the company of those who might understand her, raise her well, amongst equals.”
He was glancing around, towards Visophecin, but mostly at the others, Todi, Elosaith, Jericha, Hethon, Nanette, Dalimont, and Bird, all of whom had no idea what he was referring to. Lyonette had some inkling, and Rhisveri lowered his voice and stepped forwards.
“I may not speak it all here, but I swear to you by Fithea sor Kerwenas, upon her branches, this child would have a community. A—family. For that is what she would need, or else she would be alone. And to be alone is a terrible burden.”
He spoke softly, looking at no one and nothing but the swaying trees and darkening blue skies through their branches. Even Taletevirion peered at Rhisveri with silver eyes of sympathy for a moment.
The Gladefolk had none. They regarded Rhisveri with a mix of amused denial, hidden derision, or, Lyonette noticed, suspicion. More than one sniffed the air and frowned at him.
“Rhisveri…sor Kerwenas. Rootless rootchild you may be, but we do not accept any land can nurture the child but ours.”
The Skytree informed Rhisveri, and the man opened his mouth to respond, but Taletevirion broke in.
“So says a bunch of unrooted plants. You can’t even grow her seed. Sort that one out for me. There’s nowhere in the world you can even begin to sprout her. If you’re thinking Wistram has Archmages—forget about it. They’ve lost all their great magic. There are eleven [Druid] circles of any note left in the world, and if you gathered all of them, you might have a shot, but I doubt it’s even possible. As for Dragons or other great beings—”
His eyes flickered, but only Lyonette caught it as he went on smoothly.
“—Well, I doubt you’d trust them. Even if the old Dragonlord of War is still kicking about.”
The Gladefolk gave Taletevirion pitying, scornful looks. One ran his hand down the wand, as if trying to prize apart the ironbark shell.
“Foolish Swordmaster who has drowned his senses in drink—”
“Don’t call me that.”
“—Last Unicorn, have you truly not felt this world changing? No, we will not trust the child to any Dragon, let alone that monstrous she-thing of war. Let her slumber until she remembers her loyalty! Let the child grow into a mighty warrior—but we have need of neither! You, Swordmaster, are the third ageless champion of the Great Forests, a fitting third to shepherd this first of a new world forwards.”
They were coming to an inflection point. Lyonette could sense it; she was exhausted from the negotiations, but her temper had settled. But Taletevirion, ironically, had been losing his stomach for this debate. The Unicorn’s voice rose, and the grove shuddered as his voice echoed. Then he sounded like a champion shouting through leafy, ancient halls.
“I said I will not. The Greatwoods are dead! Abandon your dreams and go back to sleep!”
Even the Gladefolk flinched a second. But then the Skytree Orelic-Deyana whispered in a voice quiet with triumph.
“Wrong, Unicorn. One Greatwoods lives. Now, remember your oaths. Your charge is not done; raise your horn once more. There is a place in this world ready for this child. With the magic to grow her.”
“Impossible.”
Taletevirion’s face drained of color, and he stood there, shaking his head in disbelief like a horse. Rhisveri’s eyes slid to Lyonette, as if the [Princess] had any idea of what the Gladefolk meant. Even Visophecin seemed astonished. Lyonette spoke up, adding her voice to the mix.
“A Great Forest? Truly? At the bottom of the sea? Where? The New Lands? How could no one know about it? Surely a [Druid] like Nalthaliarstrelous would have heard of it.”
The Gladefolk of Tauslech eyed each other smugly. Their eyes fell on Lyonette, on Rhisveri, Hethon, Nanette, and Taletevirion.
Arrogantly, calculatingly, distrustingly, beseechingly, a mix of emotions and states, but without fear. Rulers as haughty as any congregation of monarchs that Lyonette had ever met. And like rulers—they really couldn’t hold their tongues. One pointed, and Lyonette saw, in the trees, the sun setting in the direction of the finger.
Her skin began to prickle. Every head followed the finger, and the Tree of Sighs spoke. His bark was close to black, and he was taller than many trees. Lyonette studied him and thought she could see a solitary tree growing from a rift in the earth long ago, barbed thorns skewering anything that dared to draw close.
Not a kind tree. None of them were. The ancient sovereigns of the land had been tyrants and monsters and rulers and—dead. Dead. They were just dead!
Lyonette’s group was speaking to ghosts. Puppets. Shadows, just like Taletevirion had said. The smile that cracked the Tree of Sighs’ face revealed yellow sap, and his eye sockets glowed with sickly yellow light as the leaves on his head rustled.
“Two great powers of nature have awoken. We feel it. The vast spires of the Crossroads…but they are no allies of ours, those folk of two kinds who war. They cannot grow a Greatwoods there in that strange land, not of the kind we are. The second was but a bud. Untamed, wild. It was merely a whisper of what was—until the day it changed. Did you not feel it? Did you not sense that day?”
Lyonette felt that terrible shivering grow worse, both from her and then from Nanette. The witch girl whispered a word, a name, with such certainty.
“Erin.”
It was always—even if it wasn’t her, it was somehow connected. They felt it. The Tree of Sighs raised his arms like some kind of [Oracle]. Declaiming to the others, to the sky.
“The world was silent. Then—we felt it. A great gathering of ghosts breaching the world beyond. Yet it mattered not to us. So few of our own returned, and they had no might. They came across the land, shrieking warnings of wars far beyond our concern. They spoke of war in lands we have never seen. It did not matter. But then—it grew.”
The other voices joined in, rejoicing.
“It grew!”
“In a moment!”
“From a sprout to a mighty land!”
“As if centuries had passed in the falling of a leaf!”
She knew. It was on the tip of her tongue. Consequences—an unintended side effect of a war between Seamwalkers and ghosts and the dead gods in the lands of the dead. The only thing to touch the realms of the living. The great disaster of Baleros. Lyonette’s voice was shaky.
“You mean—The Dyed Lands?”
She heard a gasp from Nanette, and the Gladefolk smiled. The Skytree inclined her head to Lyonette.
“Is that what you call it? It lies on Baleros’ shores. A Greatwoods. Wild, different—oh, so different. There are trespassers within the woods. Strangeness. Yet we feel it. Even the Treants, the traitors, surely sense and gather. That is the place you must take the seed, Last Unicorn. Plant it in the ground, and it will take the wild power from every grain of soil and plant and become the greatest of blooms.”
She turned, and Taletevirion stood there, rubbing at his face. None of the elation of her expression was on his. Just an even deeper weariness.
“Aha. I thought I’d missed something. But this…hah. Ha-ha. What a relief. Do you even know what you’re talking about? Do you even know what the Dyed Lands are? You don’t, do you? They’re a magical accident. Multi-colored patches of soil and monsters all the way down. It’s a damn Death Zone—fitting, I suppose—and something sped it forwards centuries in time. You want to plant a Dryad’s seed there? You are mad.”
The Gladefolk were unperturbed by Taletevirion’s comments.
“We know what we feel. What grows within a Greatwoods matters not. True, it is different from others, but each wood was ever different. Chandrar’s mighty Greatwoods were not trees as ours, and they grew among the heated sands. There were Greatwoods in the tundras of Terandria, in the seas. This one has grown; it has not created a World Tree yet. It is ripe. Fortune has aligned to give us all, you, one last chance, Last Unicorn.”
“Oh, aye. It has. It always does, if you live long enough. Another last chance. Like the last one.”
Taletevirion nodded and stretched. He turned on his heel and peeked at Lyonette, then towards the grove’s entrance.
“And if you plant it there, every company in Baleros will claim the tree, if they don’t chop it down first. Even if they left the tree unharmed, that little Dryad will do what? Come across the ocean to learn from you old fossils? Begin seeding Izril when her roots are on Baleros?”
“We would allow her to return to Baleros when she restored the Vale Forest. Within a decade, the first of her kin would sprout on Izril’s soils. Then we would reawaken Oteslia. Three Great Forests would arise within decades! Then—”
