“They think they’re meant to revive the forests and lead all the beings of nature back to a second Vale Forest. Oh, and they think they’re suave.”
On that note, the discussion began. The Skytree smiled at Hethon Veltras and spoke to him.
“Lord Veltras. You, who speak to the land once more, as promised, have brought the child unborn. The hope of us all. You have even brought the last guardian of the Vale Forest. Your other guests—”
Her eyes flickered around dismissively.
“—Are welcome. Present the child so we may see her, and we shall give you our judgment of what must come next.”
Ah, see, this. This was exactly what Lyonette had feared, and she felt vindicated as she cleared her throat. They ignored her as Hethon’s eyes darted to Lyonette, and he coughed.
“I think, um, Miss Lyonette is going to speak, Honored Gladefolk.”
Every head turned to her, confused, and the [Princess] smiled.
“Hello. I am, in this moment, Hethon and Nanette’s guardian. On their behalf, I thank you for saving them at the Winter Solstice. You have done me an incalculable favor.”
Even if you scared the shit out of me and I could have protected them—she erased that thought. The Gladefolk inclined their heads or lifted their hands in noble gestures.
Now she saw they were copying the people they’d interacted with; no wonder their mannerisms were so close. They answered in a jumble of voices.
 
“It is as promised.”
“To the Lord Veltras who speaks to us, we offer him aid. As he must repay us.”
“We felt death walking the land, as we have felt many things.”
“Be glad we interceded. That we have the power.”
“You did well to fulfill your promise. The child.”
 
They waited as Lyonette produced the wand. She put it on the table, and one of them reached for it. The vine-man’s arms elongated, and Lyonette snatched the wand back. Okay, they were either rude as they wanted to be, or—they thought this was still diplomacy.
“I regret that I cannot turn over the, uh, child to you. Which, to me, is a wand. Nor are you speaking to Hethon Veltras, Gladefolk. You are speaking to me, and I have a number of questions that require answering, negotiations to be made before I let you inspect anything, much less take this wand.”
The reaction of the Gladefolk was immediate. They stood, and their voices grew agitated.
“What? That is not what was promised!”
One shook a hand of pebbles at Hethon.
“Veltras! Changing your promises again!”
“No, I didn’t—it wasn’t my wand to give!”
“It is a child of the Vale Forest! There is no property but that of nature to nature! Your claim is invalid, mother of witch and Doombearer. Give us the wand.”
—Lyonette was beginning to see how negotiations between House Veltras and the Vale Forest’s spirits had really gone back in the day. Oddly, it made her wish for Nalthaliarstrelous. Maybe he was actually a canny, cunning, and expert negotiator…by their standards. She folded her arms.
“No. The wand is not your property either. The child within is…a child, and if she is anyone’s, she is her mother and father’s responsibility, and in their absence, I must choose what to do in her—their—stead. There are a number of individuals who wish to help, including her, and so we must discuss the matter.”
The hand-waving and voices grew louder. The swamp-puppet snapped, her voice deepening and echoing far more than any normal being could do.
“Mortal concepts! However, if it must be thought of in that way, each part of a Great Forest is connected to the other! The duty is still ours. Therefore, the child.”
She extended a hand, and Lyonette’s mind raced. Uh oh, they were alarmingly fast despite their emotional outbursts. She tried to think of a counter, and Ser Dalimont raised a hand.
“Excuse me, sirs and madams. But that logic I must call into question. Can you offer any substantive proof that this child is, in fact, a heir to the Vale Forest? Otherwise, the illegitimate nature of your ties to it calls into question your authority based on the logic presented.”
The Gladefolk froze—and Lyonette smiled at Dalimont. He bowed slightly to her, and Elosaith laughed. He was leaning forwards, listening, eyes sharp. Todi was mostly glancing around the glade, taking in the area. Bird was eating her chicken burger as she listened.
“The child is doubtless one of ours. For it was discovered on Izril’s lands, not far from where we stand.”
Dalimont shot to his feet.
“I must object! Circumstantial evidence like that is flimsy.”
“Give the child to us, and we can tell—”
Taletevirion spoke up for the first time, whispering in a loud, carrying voice to Lyonette.
“Or you could lie. I’d lie if I was them.”
One of the Gladefolk protested instantly.
“We would not lie!”
Her eyes were incredibly shifty, though, moving leaves with glowing pupils within, and even the other Gladefolk didn’t appear convinced. They were drawing breath when Rhisveri rose.
“Gladefolk of Tauslech, Miss Marquin. We are arguing too much over the issue of claims on the child when I feel we have begun on the wrong foot, or root, as it were. Let’s begin again. Why don’t we state our intentions towards the child, our competencies and desires, then come to a mutual arrangement?”
His voice was silky, smooth, and Lyonette nodded. She took a theatrical breath.
“That would be best, Duke Rhisveri. Thank you. Why don’t you go first, Gladefolk?”
She sat and gave the Skytree an inviting smile. The Gladefolk hesitated, sat down, and looked at each other. It seemed to dawn on them, belatedly, that they had gone from ‘give me the wand’, to having to justify what they were doing. The looks they gave Lyonette were of mixed awe and trepidation, and she tried not to smile.
They were a bit easy to dupe, but she didn’t forget Visophecin was currently hanging in a cage of nature because they distrusted his species so much. Which was…what, exactly?
“Very well. I am the Skytree, and I speak for all at this gathering. I shall explain what we intend for the child, since it appears this is not a simple matter of oaths made and kept.”
The Skytree’s voice was what Lyonette could only describe as ‘snippy’, and she splayed her root-hands on the table. Taletevirion whispered commentary as Lyonette sat forwards.
“Okay, listen. She’s their designated leader for the meeting. They rotate every time they meet. So the last time someone else spoke it was—well, over two thousand years ago. They’re going to regard anything you promise as binding, so don’t make idle claims.”
“What happened to the twelfth seat? Why is it empty?”
Lyonette asked, and Taletevirion grimaced and glanced at the throne.
“That was the Tree of Vale, their Worldtree’s seat. Its avatar died with it. Backlash, I bet. Too connected; it would have been the first among them by far. Good thing too; I heard it was stubborn as shit. And ruthless. The other trees were scared of it.”
“Scared? It was a World Tree. It protected the others; the entire forest grew up around it, in its aegis.”
Rhisveri murmured, incredulous. It was the Unicorn’s turn to give the Wyrm a long stare.
“Right. So it hogged all the water, sunlight, and soil it wanted. The other trees here? The eight you see here are all plants that grew up outside of its radius or survived despite it. The Tree of Vale starved countless other trees to death. Choked its enemies in the ground.”
Lyonette, Visophecin, and Rhisveri were staring at Taletevirion. He frowned.
“What?”
“But it was—a tree!”
Lyonette was astonished. Taletevirion rolled his eyes.
“Yes, and what do trees do? No one ever said the forests were nice. Ever heard of a magical tree turning around and slapping a child twenty feet because they stepped on its roots? Treachery, murder, incest—they did it all, just in plant-ways. Nature has always been bloody. It’s only half-Elves that are stupid enough to think they can live in touch with it.”
He regarded the others and saw Rhisveri’s face. The Wyrm had an expression much like a child of Earth being told Santa wasn’t real for the first time. It occurred to the others at the same time that Rhisveri’s tutelage by Fithea, the last Dryad, might have whitewashed some parts of the history he had taken at face value.
Taletevirion cleared his throat.
“Uh…sorry.”
Lyonette re-focused on the Gladefolk. Now forewarned, she decided to do a bit of forearming of her own. She spoke, voice clear and pleasant.
“So you understand my position, Gladefolk. I regard your aid to my children and those under my care as a personal favor done to me, in part due to House Veltras’ pacts with you. They have done their part; their aid in finding the child of forests, the seed of a Dryad, was your request of them. You now guarantee their safety, agreed?”
They hesitated, but nodded, more or less, around the table.
“As they are guests, here, yes. This is appropriately worded.”
Lyonette nodded at Hethon and Nanette. She saw Visophecin press a finger to his lips thoughtfully as she continued.
“Then Hethon’s part in this is done. So is Nanette’s. What we are discussing now is what will be done with the Dryad wand—the child. Taletevirion, Duke Rhisveri, Viscount Visophecin, myself, and Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner, are all inclined to help in this regard. But we first must know what is intended. Does that make sense?”
Once again, the Gladefolk reacted hostilely to her statement. One of the two beings of stone slashed a huge arm across the table, movements slow but crushing.
“No! No intrusion by mortals! This is a child who shall usher in another great forest! No one will prune her branches, make her a thing of theirs! We will not pact with you over her fate, not you nor House Veltras nor Roshal! Not again!”
Roshal. The word sank into the conversation like a stone disturbing a pristine pool of water, revealing muck and foulness, and Todi spat. So did Nanette. Rhisveri grimaced, and Lyonette felt her guts twist up. Even here they just—what had they done?
“Listen, Gladepeople. I can assure you, no one’s representing Roshal here.”
The Tree of Sighs’ representative snapped back.
“We will not bargain with foreign ‘nations’, nor any other power! The child will grow, tended by true guardians of nature! [Druids]! Ourselves, if we can but make the journey. And even—”
He hesitated, then a crafty look entered his eyes.
“Ah, then our interests do align. Taletevirion. You are the most fitting champion to undertake this task. You, in your wisdom and grace, understood what was needed, and that is why you are here.”
The others nodded, and they whispered in that odd syncopation that made Lyonette long for songs instead of this—at least songs would be entertaining and on-beat.
 
“Yes, it should be Taletevirion.”
“He who failed to protect shall now deliver.”
“We charge you with it, Last Unicorn. Last of the Eight Blademasters of Vale. The Cleansing Sword.”
“Champion of the Woodless. Protector of—”
 
The Unicorn stood fast, his face filled with anger. Lyonette was leaning back, eyes wide. She knew enough of Taletevirion to understand how much he wanted to hear that. And they clearly thought they were flattering him! The Unicorn barked at the Gladefolk.
“I told you not to call me that! Don’t call me—! Those are titles. Titles conceived of by those who came after. Who didn’t know me and made up names because they needed to make sense of what I was. I was there. I was never the best of my people, nor the bravest! I’m one Unicorn, not a hero.”
His voice took on that plaintive edge as she had heard in the theatre.
“I can’t work miracles for you. I can’t even defend a few hundred dying stragglers. Nothing I can do matches a thousand Unicorns charging. They could stop an army. I can’t. Don’t—don’t ask me to do anything. I’m just here to make sure no one does the wrong thing.”
He sat down and put his head in his hands. The Skytree’s voice was sympathetic, but, Lyonette thought, artificially so, like sweet maple syrup.
“Of course, we know how burdened you are, Taletevirion. But who else can be trusted? Let us begin again, again. We first must inspect the child, of course, to see if she is well. Then, if she is, we will move to plant her.”
The Unicorn’s bloodshot eyes rose to meet the Gladelady’s.
“Just like that? No question of whether she wants to grow into this world? She won’t bring the forests back.”
“She might. If it is a Dryad’s seed, it is a she. If she grows swiftly enough, her branches—”
“Grow her where? There’s nowhere to grow her!”
Taletevirion slammed his fists on the table, and Lyonette felt the reverberations. The Unicorn rose, and now she saw why he was so agitated.
“Were you going to have the children carry her off and plant her somewhere safe? Where? The heart of the Vale Forest? There’s not enough soil for that. All the other saplings are thriving on what little remains. To grow a magical seed, much less into a World Tree, you need more than just the seed. The ground isn’t ready. There are no guardians, no magical helpers. Who’ll do that? There’s only two Level 50+ [Druids] I know on the entire continent.”
He pointed in a random direction that Lyonette took to be southwards.
“Oteslia’s no good; their version of a World Tree never blooms. Whatever they did to make it grow, it’s kept it stunted for ages, unable to reproduce. Soulless, too. There’s no voice in it. So who’ll prepare the land? Treants? They’ve gone into the sea. Even if they wanted to help, the moment they walk onto land, half will snap and die or be destroyed by the local powers! But mostly, there. Is. No. Land!”
He jabbed a finger across the table at the nearest Gladefolk, and they didn’t lean back in their chairs. Instead, one of them, the darkest in bark, the most like a tree in form, but hollow like the rest, as if all the sap in her being had left her hollowed out, spoke with a smile.
“There was not. The Great Forests of Chandrar are all dead, smothered in sand. Terandria’s have been silent for ages. Izril’s are a graveyard. Baleros’ chopped down for Selphids, Gazers, or the Ironbark Forests felled for Dullahan fortresses. Now, though, there is a forest not only grown into the beginning of a greatwoods, but powerful enough to give this child all she requires to grow.”
Taletevirion’s face went blank. He sat down.
“What? Impossible. There’s nowhere. No way Rhir could have—an underwater forest? A coral reef? What? The New Lands?”
All eleven heads tilted at him, and Lyonette was fascinated. Yes, of course. Aside from concerns of how or if it should be done, it was clear Taletevirion had issues about even attempting this. But if it was possible…
