A cracking sound behind Lyonette made her turn. She heard Hethon shout in dismay and saw her chess-piece queen raise a flail with one arm—then shatter as the Skytree fired what looked like a spray of diamonds straight through its chest.
Well, it’s not perfect, but if I can do that every time someone breaks a contract—Mother is going to be so jealous.
In the more immediate now, the Gladefolk had thoroughly destroyed her Skill, and Elosaith and Bird were taking cover behind the table; his Woodcutter Bone Horror was submerged up to its neck in the ground.
“You will pay for that, Princess of Foreign Lands.”
The Gladefolk turned as one, pointing their fingers at her. They appeared tired, weary from their spellcasting, and when they saw Rhisveri, they hesitated. When Viscount Visophecin joined him, the Gladefolk took a step back. Then they raised their hands, faces wrathful.
A sigh ran through the glade. It was soft and seemed to come from behind Lyonette, in her ear. It smelled like stale wine, like the bottom of a bar on endless nights. It sounded like the oldest, most cynical thing she’d ever heard, and she had grown up in the Eternal Throne. Despite how much he tried, it still sounded vaster, grander, more selfless than the weary figure he pretended to be.
The Last Unicorn, one of the Eight Blademasters of the Vale Forest, the Cleansing Sword, Champion of the Woodless, whatever you wanted to call him—sheathed his sword.
Gently, with a click of metal meeting scabbard. But that was only how he looked.
For a moment, just one, Lyonette saw Taletevirion as he truly was.
A Unicorn, hooves to mane covered in silver fur, his eyes brown and intelligent. His horn…a pale dawn color on his head, glowing with a light that seemed to heal her even just by seeing it.
But not a being of pure goodness and healing. The Unicorn stood there, and Lyonette, who had ridden countless horses, stared at a being who would never be saddled. His eyes, his very nature scared her, because it felt like if the knowledge contained within those eyes spread, every animal, every beast of burden that the world took for granted would turn and walk into the distance.
His horn was not sharp at the tip, like the point of a razor. It was like a lance’s tip, long and tapering in a spiral to the peak. Taletevirion’s hooves were more graceful than a [Dancer]’s, and he lowered that head, before flickering into his half-Elven shape.
The Unicorn finished sheathing his blade. And the Skytree Orelic-Deyana, whose branches had risen second-highest of all the trees of the Vale Forest, reaching into the very clouds that she took moisture from—her avatar—gazed down at the rosewood of her chest.
“Oh.”
A bright, silver light glowed from the tip of her head straight down her body. It flashed once; such a beautiful sight. Lyonette saw the Skytree split in half.
Two pieces of charred wood collapsed, leaves and branches falling downwards. There was no magical light in the empty half of her face.
The Gladefolk of Tauslech turned, and, it seemed to Lyonette, each one expected to see the Skytree’s avatar rise. When she didn’t, when they realized what Taletevirion had done, they didn’t move.
They stood in complete stillness. Terrified as the Unicorn stepped forwards. He crossed through the air, not like a blur, but as if he had stepped out of reality and back into it, foot vanishing into the grass—appearing behind the Tree of Sighs.
The ironbark wand was in his hand. The Unicorn silently holstered it at his belt. The Tree of Sighs met his gaze, and Taletevirion spoke.
“Never again will I go to war for you. Nor shall you speak and send so many to their deaths for your meaningless visions.”
He turned, and they flinched backwards. Taletevirion walked past them.
“Speak to the boy, if he can stand you. Make whatever entreaties you wish. Not all have forgotten you as enemies. Use that power you have been granted as wisely as you can. But threaten them—spill blood in this place again—”
He turned, and his face was bleak.
“—And I will end you all myself.”
Then he looked away and kept walking. No one said a word. Lyonette was staring at the Skytree’s remains. She thought—surely there was another way—?
Rhisveri and Visophecin were, in a sense, more disturbed than the mortals. They stood aside as Taletevirion passed them. The Unicorn walked at the wall of thorns. Without slowing, he slashed his hand to the side.
They cracked and fell, cut at their bases. Taletevirion walked through the broken stumps, and then someone shouted at his back.
“You cannot take the last hope of the forests, Unicorn! What will you do? Deny that child life? Let her be used, drained of life? You will not live forever!”
Taletevirion turned at the exit to the glades. His eyes found the speaker, the Swamp of Oswenia, and he replied, curt.
“I will think. I will listen and decide. Not to you. If I decide there is no reason, I will take this child to the Dragonlord of Flames. I will ask him to hide the wand somewhere no one will find it, somewhere they can wait out the ages, until a time emerges when you, I, and this entire sorry world is changed. Let it be for the better.”
It was the Tree of Sighs who spoke again, and his voice boomed through the woods. It sounded like trees crackling, branches falling. Like forests dying.
“There will never be forests after this, Taletevirion! What happens when the world lacks for a single blade of green? When the beings of ash and steel cover each piece of it with their melted stone and heartless metal?”
Lyonette flinched; she could see that empty world. She thought of the Eternal Throne, of the visions of Erin’s world, so alien and without green life in places.
The Unicorn’s reply was simple. His lips quirked up, and his smile held not a trace of mirth or hope.
“Then let it be. That is the world they will make. We shall die on that last patch of grass, under the last shade of leaves. I leave that next world to the victors. May they enjoy it.”
He lifted the wand.
“Spare this child the heartache. Or would you condemn your worst enemies to our fates?”
He gazed from face to face, then nodded.
“Farewell.”
Then he was gone.
 
——
 
“Take Hethon and Nanette back. Before they come to their senses. Now.”
Captain Todi didn’t need further urging. Nor did anyone else. They were almost past the broken thorns when Nanette spoke.
“W-wait.”
Bird halted, but only to raise her bow. When Lyonette eyed her, Bird explained.
“I am going to hit her and knock her out before she says something stupid.”
“Bird…what is it, Nanette?”
The young witch was shaking. There were tears in her eyes, but she turned to Lyonette.
“Lyonette. You can’t leave.”
Lyonette knelt down and glanced over her shoulder. The Gladefolk were gathered around their fallen sister, not speaking. She thought they were in shock. Or perhaps communing silently. What could be said? They would never get that wand from Taletevirion, she was sure.
“Nanette, one of their own just died. They could be exceptionally dangerous.”
Nanette gripped Lyonette’s hands, urgent, and met her eyes. Her face was pale, and she seemed sick at heart. Lyonette wished Nanette hadn’t seen that. But the witch’s eyes were serious.
“I know, Lyonette. I’ll go. So will Hethon. But you have to stay.”
The words were like an uncanny echo in Lyonette’s head of her own thoughts. A quiet whisper that had been speaking the entire time. She listened to it, and Nanette.
“Me? Why?”
The [Princess] saw Nanette gulp.
“You have to stay because this is the moment they’ll be at their most desperate. And unsettled. They can’t stop Taletevirion—but you can talk to him. If ever there was a time to grind them, it’s now.”
Hethon gaped at Nanette with such a shocked expression that Lyonette almost laughed. But the [Princess] thought—
Dead gods, she’s right. It was a heartless thought. And it was a witch’s thought. Lyonette met Nanette’s gaze, and that angry girl arguing for the life of a Dryad was gone. Instead, there was a ruthless edge.
Oh, Nanette, you are a daughter of mine even if Califor will always be your mother. I wish…am I raising you correctly? She didn’t know, so Lyonette just stroked the ends of Nanette’s hair gently.
“A good thought. What do you think I should ask for, Nanette?”
“Whatever they know. About the Dyed Lands? About Baleros and Treants?”
“Mm.”
Lyonette had had the same thought, and she nodded. She turned back as Bird raised her bow over the [Princess]’ head. The Antinium paused as Lyonette gave her a flat look. She lowered the bow.
“No?”
Lyonette pointed at Todi; he nodded, and Jericha took Hethon’s arm. The two kept walking. Lyonette strode back into the gathering.
When the Gladefolk saw her coming, they flinched and drew back. But the [Princess] just spoke. She was flanked by Rhisveri, whose eyes lingered on the fallen Treelady’s body with a mortal agony. By Visophecin, whose smile had no mercy, and they shuddered when he adjusted his tie.
Bird and Elosaith both spread out on either wing, and Lyonette spoke slowly.
“Gladefolk. You have one chance to come to the table in earnesty and honesty and desperation on your part.”
“The table?”
They peered at it and at Lyonette, and she nodded.
“One chance—to have us represent your interests to Taletevirion before he makes good on his promise.”
“You cannot dissuade him. And he has slain Dragons—countless champions of levels and without. Even the two of them might fail.”
One of the Gladefolk pointed at Visophecin and Rhisveri, and Lyonette shook her head.
“With words, ladies and gentlemen! How else will you do it? With spells? We are the only ones who can hear your voices with ease, and you have made an enemy of House Veltras. If you wish to salvage the situation, you must offer us everything you have. Or we may simply leave.”
Her blood was ice, and she fancied that if her mother were here—Lyonette almost wished she had a puffer stick to light up just for the effect. The Gladefolk regarded each other, then one indicated the chairs.
“Very well. You are correct. Sit…sit, Princess of…Calanfer. And tell us what we should offer.”
She felt bad, she really did. They even pulled out one of the chairs for her, a stone chair, high-backed and crude.
It wasn’t the worst chair to sit in, but it was still, well, stone. And it was probably as ancient as this place. Thousands of years old. Lyonette stopped in front of it and rested her hand on the ancient chair. She paused as everyone watched her.
“…Ser Dalimont?”
[Declare Foe: Bane (Furniture)]. The Thronebearer cracked his knuckles and drew his sword as the Gladefolk stared at her in horror.
Lyonette du Marquin kept smiling.
 
——
 
A [Princess] walked back on that long, winding trail through the forest. The way out was harder than arriving. It felt like a long journey to the Forest of Tauslech. The way out was…harder.
The place where the Gladefolk lived was a time out of time where you walked in a pocket of reality divorced from your world. The way back was like lead in your bones; time resuming its ungentle hold on you.
It hurt in ways beyond pain, but the [Princess] kept her head high, though she was exhausted. Her throat was sore. Her back and shoulders hurt. Her heart hurt.
Her mother would be proud of her.
That thought revolved around in Lyonette’s head, again and again. It was that feeling, and the respectful looks that Vaulont the Ash and Elosaith gave her. The way Bird kept peering at Lyonette and back at the grove.
“I think they are still crying.”
“Tears from puppets. They know how to dance every game. I have seen [Traders] weep and tear out their hair to seal a deal.”
Elosaith’s voice was cold. Not cold as a [Necromancer], because they could be quite warm, for all they sniffed and postured. No; his voice was as impartial as any [Village Head] who had to fight for every copper piece in a negotiation for enough food to last the winter. He dipped his head to Lyonette. Her reply was distant.
“They are mourning, Bird. They are still enough like us to do that.”
“Only their own kind. They did not weep for Taletevirion’s sadness, or for the Otterdogs. Only for themselves, which I believe means they think they are the only real people. I do not like them. But they weep, and I am sad.”
That was the Antinium’s observation, and Lyonette agreed with that. The comment was barbed, though, perhaps intentionally—Vaulont twitched as he watched. So did the two figures walking next to Lyonette, who had been silent.
Viscount Visophecin and Duke Rhisveri…the Lucifen and Wyrm were exchanging glances over Lyonette’s head. If Bird, Elosaith, and Vaulont recognized the deals that Lyonette had struck from their perspectives, what of the immortals, who had ruled an empire?
Pacts. Dangerous things for anyone to agree to, let alone with a Lucifen or Wyrm, who were cunning, capricious, and had the means to enforce any agreement in blood and deed, flame and suffering.
It made them reviled as species. Untrustworthy because they were good at negotiating? It wasn’t their fault they understood how words worked. Of course, they had just witnessed a [Princess] making pacts of her own.
And she could enforce hers with, among other things, a giant chess piece armed with a flail that would beat you to death for violating the terms of her agreement. So, yes. The two immortals watched Lyonette with a kind of respect they so seldom tendered others.
She was like them. And the [Princess] had not forgotten either, oh no.
“We have an agreement then, gentlemen? Our silence will be sacrosanct. Truly kept secrets.”
“For whatever a mortal’s word is worth.”
Rhisveri snorted, but his heart wasn’t in it. Lyonette gestured to Bird, Elosaith, and Vaulont. The Antinium Queen, [Necromancer], and Vampire regarded Rhisveri.
“We all have secrets we need kept. Trust is imperative, and it is agreed, Your Grace. Need we commit it to full writing and magical pacts?”
The Wyrm hesitated, then jerked his head without much spirit.
“I may put together a formal contract just to have it done. Very well, let’s say I…trust your word. You have danced interestingly, [Princess] of Calanfer. Your silence could earn you a ransom, but you only require certain…guarantees of peace between us. Not even with Ailendamus and Calanfer.”
He was confused about that. He had rather expected her to force that into whatever agreement she made with him—and they had negotiated, because she did know he was a Wyrm.
Erasing her memories had of course been an option, but that was never perfect, and besides…she knew about the Dragonlord of Flame and Unicorn. Plus, she had a lot of gold. Even so, Lyonette’s voice was steady as she met his eyes.
