“There is a place. Which shall not be disclosed until we have the child and ensure she can grow. There must be a champion. If not Taletevirion, then Lord Veltras. The witch has also pledged her voice to the cause.”
Again, the Gladefolk turned to the children, and again, Lyonette spoke.
“No. That is unacceptable. The children are not ready for a journey of such magnitude.”
She waited for Nanette or Hethon to protest, but they didn’t. Relieved, Lyonette went on.
“I am sympathetic towards this cause, and if it can be done, I am willing to cooperate, but Nanette and Hethon will not be tasked with this. They may assist where possible, but if there is a champion, it would be Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. I suggest she take this on. Ryoka is fast, reliable, speaks to the wind, and can move at great speed anywhere in the world. Duke Rhisveri is also prepared to aid her, as am I.”
Lyonette decided to leave Visophecin off the list given how the Gladefolk were reacting. It was a good solution; let Ryoka be the Courier in a literal sense. If Nanette and Hethon could help in their way, it would let everyone go home happy.
A good plan. Rhisveri nodded at Lyonette, and even Nanette mimed tipping her hat. Taletevirion nodded, and there was just one hitch. The Gladefolk glanced at each other as they sat back, and then one said:
“Who?”
Lyonette’s heart sank.
“Ryoka? Ryoka Griffin? The Wind Runner? She speaks to the wind, and she’s friends with Winter Sprites!”
She received the blankest expression in creation from the Gladefolk.
 
“We do not know her.”
“She speaks to the wind. Are we the wind?”
“We do not speak with the travellers. They have ignored us and our pleas, the cowards. They were not there when the forests fell.”
“Give us the child, and we will find a champion. If not Taletevirion and the children…hmm. We must discuss this. Who else? A [Druid]?”
“A Circle? No Greater Elementals yet live who could bear the charge…”
“Are any other champions of the green world left alive? There is the child of Oteslia, but only a child…who else?”
 
They began arguing, naming people that Lyonette were certain were long, long dead. Lyonette put her head in her hands. Taletevirion gave her a sympathetic look. She rose to speak again.
 
——
 
Hethon Veltras sort of regretted ever seeing the damn forest. Not that he’d had a choice, but all the excitement of being, well, special, of having something Sammial didn’t, of feeling like he was chosen for greatness had worn off.
It had worn off when he’d fled the undead at the Solstice, when he’d realized this was serious business, not a fairy tale, and he, Hethon, wasn’t ready. Everyone wanted to be a [Hero] from the stories, like the first Veltras [Lord], the Hundred Heroes of Terandria, or a Named-rank adventurer, but Hethon always heard of slightly older people getting training and whatnot from mystical [Sages] or [Wizards].
He was just fourteen. He hadn’t gotten any high-level combat Skills. He wasn’t grown yet. He wasn’t ready. And when he saw the bound Viscount Visophecin, saw Princess Lyonette stridently arguing with the Gladefolk, Hethon felt rather like a fool.
If there was one consolation, his dismay was nothing compared to the crumpled up expression of Nanette. Normally, Hethon would have relished Nanette being taken down a peg or two since she drove him crazy at times, but he felt like she had already been knocked down a few pegs of late, between the [Witches] and Taletevirion. Now they were kicking her on the ground.
“Hethon, I think we made a mistake.”
That was what the little witch said as she watched the eleven Gladefolk arguing with Lyonette’s entire group. They were all joining in at this point, Bird, Jericha, Rhisveri, even Captain Todi. The Gladefolk refused to speak to Visophecin, but everyone else was engaged—and outnumbered. Lyonette and Dalimont were arguing with four Gladefolk, including the Skytree, and getting nowhere.
“I think we made a mistake too, Nanette. This isn’t how I thought it would go.”
Hethon confessed. He saw Nanette turn her head, cupping her chin in her hands as she sat heavily, hunched over the stone meeting table.
“How’d you think it would happen?”
He blushed, self-conscious, and scuffed a foot on the ground.
“We’d…give them the wand, and they’d thank us. Maybe they’d give me—us—something from the old ages, teach us some magic or tell us where secret treasures were hidden. Then they’d grow the Dryad seed or tell us where to plant it, and we’d do it and save the forest or some such.”
It felt childish to say now, but Nanette jerked her chin.
“I rather thought so too. I thought it was so clear it was a good thing. Instead…”
Instead, they were arguing over who owned the wand, who’d take the wand where, and whether Hethon and Nanette were involved. It was like listening to Ullim haggling with [Merchants] or Tyrion discussing border disputes with other nobles. There was a lot of fancy language, but it just boiled down to clashes of personality and opinion. Like children.
“They were kinder, before.”
Hethon remembered how grand the Gladefolk had seemed, and Nanette nodded.
“Patronizing. They were grand because we were frightened and afraid. Lyonette saw them for what they were. So did Taletevirion. That’s real witchcraft. I should have been more skeptical. But—”
He realized she was crying. Not sobbing; wetness was glistening on Nanette’s cheeks as a few big tears rolled down her face. She spoke as if not even realizing they were there.
“—I thought that there’d be some good magic left. Something uncomplicated I could trust. A Unicorn. Tree spirits. But it’s not. It’s all just bogs and cruelty of a different kind. Hanged bodies over a bog, sacrificed to the earth. That’s all it ever is.”
Hethon tore a handkerchief out of his pockets and handed it to Nanette, embarrassed for her. She regarded it blankly, then took it and dabbed at her face.
“Thanks, Hethon.”
“It’s not—you’re not wrong. You’re not wrong, Nanette. We’re speaking to ancient spirits—they should be grander! We shouldn’t be so petty!”
He got angry on her behalf. She didn’t move, so Hethon strode forwards. He walked towards the Swamp of Oswenia and Jericha. The two were arguing as Hethon approached.
“I am Lord Hethon’s guardian and instructor, a servant of House Veltras. Lady Oswenia, I beseech you to see reason. Lord Hethon is not of age, but if you present us with an actionable list of demands, House Veltras’ scions will hear it! Many are sympathetic to the will of the forest! We have been caretakers for generations! But please, not Lord Hethon, not yet—let alone Lord Sammial!”
Jericha seemed frustrated, which showed how annoying this was for her since she dealt with Ryoka, Sammial, and Tyrion on a regular basis. The Swamp of Oswenia stank slightly, in that familiar bog-odor, and her voice was bubbly.
“Only Lord Veltras can see us.”
“You mean Lord Hethon.”
“He is the Lord Veltras. The one who carries the Skill that was made by us through pact. His age is immaterial.”
“House Veltras has countless soldiers and agents—”
The Swamp of Oswenia shook her head, slow and ponderous.
“Lord Veltras must take our will. For that is how it is done, among Humans. You follow the [Lord]. Thus, we will charge him.”
That struck Hethon as a rather…simple way of looking at things, but exactly how a plant might understand Human society acting. Jericha hissed through her teeth and adjusted her spectacles.
“I cannot allow that!”
“Then we are at an impasse. But our claim is solid. I cite the Binding of Acorns, Provision Five.”
The Swamp of Oswenia had a tome of crude ‘paper’ script, more like bark with ancient ink, so old and corroded it looked to be dissolving on the spot. She showed it to Jericha, and the woman nearly tore her hair out.
“I cannot verify that! At least let us postpone the matter until I can verify the names of the scions of House Veltras who agreed to these terms!”
“It is written. He is sworn to help.”
“Can we renegotiate—?”
“No.”
That was mostly how it went. The Gladefolk were pulling old tomes or scrolls of contracts out to prove their points, which was mostly, ‘we want you to give us the wand and do what we say’. They were stubborn as well—trees.
Hethon cleared his throat, and Jericha and the Swamp of Oswenia turned to him. Jericha instantly ducked her head.
“Lord Hethon, are you tired? Do you require refreshments?”
Hours had passed, and Hethon was in that kind of agony of boredom where time passed, and you felt each grain of sand weighing you down, rather than being able to zone out or escape into an imagination land. He shook his head.
“I’d like to speak to the Swamp of Oswenia. If I may?”
Jericha hesitated, then pulled Hethon aside.
“Lord Hethon, they wish to have you make an oath in blood to deliver the wand and assist with the growth of this Dryad. Be very cautious; Princess Lyonette is avoiding any verbal snares, but you—”
“I’ll be careful, Jericha. I promise, but I must ask the Swamp of Oswenia something.”
“I—”
Jericha looked ready to pull Hethon away, but he fixed her with as serious a look as he had, like he was speaking to Ryoka, and he hoped Jericha listened to him.
“I have to ask, Jericha. Please.”
She hesitated, then stood back. The Swamp of Oswenia bent towards Hethon, and she smiled. With him and Nanette, she was grand and genteel.
“Ah, Lord Veltras. This…discussion is much in the old ways of things. Older Veltrases and their endless, nattering entourages came. But when Lord Veltras came along, when he was young, or she was Lady Veltras, she listened and acted and all was well. You remind me of those days. I hope you will see the trueness of our desire and earnestness of our cause.”
Two months ago, that would have made Hethon nod and promise that the Dryad seed was worth the cause. Today? He listened to how she said it.
“I’m sure a young Lord Veltras was easier to talk to, Swamp of Oswenia. Have you met many?”
“Many…many. Some spoke here long, visited many times. Some were little sproutlings. They found their way as you did, for it is in your blood, Lord Veltras. There was a Lady Veltras, once, who was very small. Very small. I have met at least a dozen smaller than you.”
Children, then. Boys and girls. Hethon imagined them finding their way in here, awed as he was.
“And you spoke to them?”
The marsh-lady hesitated, and Hethon saw her face droop, visibly sag, the brackish liquid and pond scum slip downwards as her face made an expression of dismay.
“The Swamp of Oswenia spoke through me. But yes. We gave them advice and duties, as we do now. But they were far more willing. They honored their pacts well.”
Jericha made a sound, but Hethon silenced her with a smile. It was a friendly, encouraging smile, and as Jericha knew—fake. It worked on the Swamp of Oswenia, who brightened as she saw the smile. She was as guileless as Sammial could be, and actually less perceptive.
“What became of the little Lady Veltras?”
“Hm? Oh. She crawled here once. Long, long ago. Three hundred and ninety-eight Speakers ago. It was my turn, in fact. She was covered in burnt wood and your people’s sap. And she wept and wailed and did not speak. We spoke to her. Fed her. You see, the trees and the Swamp of Oswenia did not always have time to be in us—after a while, she left. She came back, time and again, for our wisdom.”
Hethon felt his skin crawling as he tried to make sense of that story.
“How long was she here? The first time?”
“Mm. Long as a sapling takes to sprout to its first leaves.”
“So she grew?”
“Yes. We taught her, charged her, and she left. Then she returned and thanked us and told us of House Veltras’ trevails. She was dutiful as long as she was Lady Veltras. The last time I saw her, she had shrunk! Shrunk, and her leaves…all white. Her bark was shrivelled.”
She touched at Hethon’s hair, gently, and indicated his skin. He shivered again, and Jericha whispered.
“Lady Evista Veltras? Or…Lady Sitberka?”
Hethon knew House Veltras’ long lineage—at least famous members, and more than one had been famously connected to the forest. But it was one thing to hear of his ancestor-grandmothers who had strode around asking trees to get up and hit people for them and another to imagine a child escaping some sort of bloodbath, being raised by…
He met the Swamp’s ‘eyes’, which were two blooming orchids amid pond lilies at the moment. And they were fascinating, amazing, and suddenly, horrifying and monstrous.
“What was her name, Swamp of Oswenia?”
“Whose?”
“The Lady Veltras. The one you rescued and raised.”
“She was the Lady Veltras, of course. Oh, she had another name. She told it to me often. But I do not recall it. She was the Lady Veltras. That is what matters.”
The changes of Speakers in this grove, the location of where roots lay, the nature of who people were, like Hethon was Lord Veltras—he had no doubt the Swamp of Oswenia could tell him the history of the forests. But she could not name even the child whose life she had observed from start to finish.
It made him feel conflicted, for they’d saved him. Hethon steeled his back and put his hands behind him.
“I see. Swamp of Oswenia, I have a favor to ask you. Whether or not I bear the wand or assist in planting the seed of the Dryad, I petition you as Lord Veltras. In the name of the Vale Forest and my house.”
Jericha drew her breath in, and the Swamp of Oswenia’s eyes bloomed open further in interest.
“As is your right, Lord Veltras, I will hear you. Speak.”
His throat had a lump in it, suddenly. Hethon swallowed hard. He fought not to let himself cry or weep, but he had had a thought. He gestured to her body.
“The—the land of Oswen is gone. During the Solstice, something destroyed it. Jericha, my aunt, and her two sons—my cousins—are all that’s left. The Otterdogs, the tree houses, the entire town and the hot springs and everything else…”
The people. The children. It was petty to talk about the Otterdogs, but that is what Hethon remembered. That fun, chaotic swamp. He couldn’t think of Lord Somost or the others or he’d break.
“…It’s all gone. Can you bring it back? Not the people. I know they’re d…dead. But at least the place. There’s a rift in the ground. The swamp. Can you…?”
The Swamp of Oswenia was nodding, face sympathetic. She spoke.
“I sensed this, Lord Veltras. This cut to the swamp—just as I have sensed other changes. I am no longer the Swamp Oswenia; she is dead. Slaughtered just as the others were. I am her voice, here.”
“You can’t do anything? Please?”
