The Skytree’s voice was excited. Taletevirion’s voice cut in.
“Then someone would cut down a tree and you’d murder the poor bastards or decide you wanted more space for your trees. Then they’d come with fire, and burn all three forests down or take them from you.”
He smothered their excitement at once. Eleven heads turned and glared at Taletevirion. The Swamp of Oswenia grumbled.
“Not this time. We would make sure of that. We would have two Dragons and time to prepare. At least two! We know the Dragonlord of War is not dead and that another sworn to the green world remains! There was even the [Druid] of ancient days…but they vanished. Perhaps they will come again? The world is not as it was, but there is hope! We would not make the same mistakes twice.”
“As fun as it would be to see you make new ones in the old ways—no. No to taking that seed to Baleros. No to letting you raise anything. And no to this sorry mess. Thanks for telling me the Dyed Lands are an extra level of hell. Good to know; Lyonette, write that down and tell the Titan and all your friends about it. Small wonder Ryoka ended up there. Fate’s pushing her forwards. But even fate isn’t cruel enough to hand her that wand. I refuse.”
The Unicorn tossed his head, sighing. Taletevirion seemed—almost relieved. Like he’d been waiting for a blow, and now it had come, he was still upright. He looked in pain. And Lyonette wondered what the ‘return’ of a Greatwoods meant to him. His oaths?
However, he was determined not to give the Gladefolk anything, and in that, Lyonette was aligned. Taletevirion walked forwards, hand outstretched.
“You had your say. You put your plan out there. Great job on the entire ‘negotiating’ thing. Showing the other side your cards is how we ended up screwed over by the fleshfolk so many times. I’ll take that.”
He was reaching for the wand. The Tree of Sighs instantly recoiled, and the others closed ranks, blocking Taletevirion.
“Unless you agree, Swordmaster, we will not relinquish the child to you.”
“She’s not yours. Lyonette brought her here so you could tell if she—it’s alive. It’s a seed. Give it back.”
Taletevirion shoved one of the rocky Gladefolk, or tried to. He was reaching for the wand, and he was fast. Even if they were puppets of the old trees or spirits, Taletevirion was still a Unicorn. Another lunged for him, and he dodged, casually letting her tumble into the others. Another swung a hand—he ducked it, slid sideways, and plucked the wand out of the Tree of Sighs’ hand. Then he was dancing back, speed-walking at Lyonette.
“Hey, Princess. Let’s get out of here.”
“Taletevirion, I don’t think—”
“Unicorn!”
The moment he grabbed the wand, the air changed. The Gladefolk twisted, and each one raised their hands. What happened next, Lyonette wasn’t sure of. She heard a shout.
“Your Highness!”
Someone hit her; Ser Dalimont. He tackled Lyonette to the ground, and she heard a thump, a grunt, and felt the world shaking, twisting. Lyonette went rolling with a cry, reaching out.
“Nanette!”
Where was she? Lyonette kept tumbling and tried to scramble up, but it was dark and wet and smelled like…rotting leaves? She heard shouting, an expletive from Todi.
“Aw hells. We’re as fucked as a whorehouse on discount.”
Lyonette thought that was a funny way of saying—she pushed herself up and then saw what had knocked her over. A curl of earth; as if someone had rolled the ground up so the grass and mud and roots were curled in a frozen wave above her. Past that—she peered higher and saw a flower.
It was bright purple with yellow inner coloring. There were six petals, and the flower was open to the sky above. It was also…twenty feet high, and a jungle of roots, vines, and water was frozen around it.
At the very tip, snared by two of the petals of the flower which gripped him, wrapping their petals around his arm so tight red blood was welling from his arm, was Taletevirion. His sword was half-buried in the petal, and a wand was floating back in a bubble to the Gladefolk.
The spell had torn up the entire clearing behind the table. Lyonette searched around wildly and saw Captain Todi and Bird protectively standing in front of Nanette. The girl was on her hands and knees, shaking dirt out of her ears. One of them had yanked her to safety.
Jericha had pulled Hethon under the table and was training her wand on the Gladefolk. Rhisveri appeared; he’d used Visophecin’s cage as a shield.
“—Oh come on. [The Flower of Anapulis]. How the hell did—?”
The Unicorn was groaning. His sword kept slicing, trying to cut the petals loose, but they seemed incredibly tough and—were healing faster than he was cutting.
One of the Gladefolk smirked; she had the most flowers in her ‘hair’, and Lyonette noticed that one of them was the same color as the giant one holding Taletevirion. The Tree of Anapulis spoke.
“We have been empowered once more, Last Unicorn. You are not in control of us. Nor can you threaten us!”
“I offered to put you out of your misery, you stuck-up—”
The flower’s petals closed, and the Unicorn swore and tried to tear his sword loose. Lyonette whispered quietly.
“Dalimont. What tier of magic is that?”
“I think—at least Tier 6, Your Highness. We must leave—now. You are not safe, and neither is Lord Hethon or Lady Nanette.”
“Get the children out of here, Dalimont. I can’t go. Not without the wand—!”
Dalimont was dragging her up, and Todi, true to his instructions and nature, was already hauling Nanette towards the entrance of the glade. She wasn’t resisting, but the slight movement caught the attention of the Tree of Sighs. The Gladelord lifted a hand.
“You will not leave, mortals.”
A wall of thorns way thicker and more viciously sharp than any [Wall of Thorns] spell that Lyonette had ever seen rose, blocking the way out. Todi cursed, backing up, pointing a wand at the wall.
“[Fireball]! Shit. I knew that wouldn’t work.”
The [Fireball] hit the wall of thorns, and the backwash of heat made him throw up a hand and curse. It did nothing to the thorns.
Lyonette spun on the Gladefolk.
“Why are you preventing us from leaving? Is this how you negotiate, Gladefolk of Tauslech? Is this how you treat your servants, like Taletevirion, the Protector of the Vale Forest?”
“I’m not their servant! Also—don’t egg them on, Lyonette!”
Taletevirion shouted from above. The Gladefolk spoke, multiple voices from their throng.
 
“This negotiation is not over, Princess of Foreign Lands.”
“We are not done with you. We have little need of you, but the children?”
“The Lord of Veltras must be charged with the duty and place his House behind the effort.”
“The little witch promised to help. We shall hold her as surety that you help us too.”
“You are our guest; let us discuss terms.”
 
Aha. The pieces fell into place. Lyonette felt the situation change. Small wonder they’d welcomed these guests in, disparate as they were. This had never been a good-faith negotiation. This had always been a hostage situation, an unequal footing for striking a deal.
Her father had talked about how easy it was to be the person holding the sword at someone’s throat when signing a deal, and how hard it was to be in the position of the other side, who might have better rhetoric, morality, and all other kinds of advantages on his side.
“Brute force wins the day, Lyonette. If you can’t out-argue your opposition, hit them hard enough. Push your counterparts too hard and they will always try it.”
Strange. Lyonette wondered if Reclis would have seen this coming. For the first time in a while, she wished she had been talking to him; he might have foreseen this. At the very least, he would have had a good idea of what to say.
Again, it struck Lyonette that the Gladefolk were not actually good negotiators. Even if their trees were dead, these puppets were playing the old hostage card like they’d been there when it had been invented…which they probably had been.
And—she noticed they were not unassailable. It was subtle, but the Gladefolk’s confident voices belied a slight change in them. Which was…a deadening of the leaves around the Skytree’s hair. A fading of color in most of them. Or, in the case of the swamp or two stone representatives, a more fundamental change in their natures.
The Swamp of Oswenia’s watery ‘skin’ cleared slightly. Which Lyonette would have associated with purity in someone else. But for a swamp, clearer waters without moss or other detritus was dead water, wasn’t it?
The two stone Gladefolk had developed faint cracks on their body. All of that told Lyonette one thing.
“They do not have the capacity to cast spells like that unlimited times.”
“Visophecin! I was about to say that!”
The Lucifen’s mental voice was dry, and their speaking connection was still up.
“Neither do they have spell mastery here; they haven’t detected our communications. They are exceptionally dangerous, but I believe Rhisveri and I could match them in spellpower—if I were not bound. I am out of magic. Rhisveri is the lone combatant on the field who can match them. Stand behind him.”
Lyonette glanced at Rhisveri, and the Duke’s eyes flicked to her. His green gaze was oddly—distressed?
“I am not blasting a bunch of spirits of nature, Visophecin. Everyone shut up. Let me try and talk them down.”
Then he spoke in a normal tone of voice, soothing and grand, and again, the most humble Lyonette had ever heard from him.
“Gladefolk! This is surely a misunderstanding. I do not apologize for that foolish fellow up there; he’s not with us.”
Taletevirion was half upside-down now, fighting the flower trying to swallow him, but he still tried to spit on Rhisveri from above.
“Thanks!”
Rhisveri went on, motioning at Nanette and Hethon.
“Your goal is noble, and I can see your power is as mighty as all the tales of the Vale Forest I grew up on. Such wise beings do not, surely, need to take children as guarantees of anything? Allow them to withdraw, and I shall negotiate in good faith. You have two kingdoms here, and I shall convince our Unicorn friend of good sense.”
He smiled, giving them an earnest look. In reply—the woman of vines snapped her fingers again.
“I know what has bothered me the moment from which you entered, Duke Rhisveri. I do know you. I know what you are. Son of a Dryad? Child of the forests? Liar. I know you, worm. Worm!”
Her voice rose, and the Gladefolk cried out in outrage, fury—Lyonette saw Rhisveri pale and Visophecin go blank-faced. There was a sigh from above, and she didn’t get it.
Worm? Then her mind spelled the word a different way, and her eyes went wide. She heard Dalimont draw in a harsh breath.
Wyrm. Rhisveri’s face was pained as he glanced at her, then spread his hands.
“I—”
The first spells cut across the grove, and Lyonette felt Ser Dalimont push her down and saw him raise his shield. She heard a curse; a magical barrier flared to life as a stone like one from a catapult hit the magical wall with a crash of thunder.
“Stay down! [Shield of Cover]!”
Dalimont shouted as shrapnel from the spells exploded around them. Lyonette was shouting for Nanette, trying to see—she heard Rhisveri roaring, then a hiss—and then his voice.
“Enough! [Avalanche of the Stone Giant]!”
This time, she got a glimpse of the spell. The first thing she saw was a boulder shoot out, blast across the grove, and be caught by a giant fist of earth conjured by one of the Gladefolk. Then hundreds more blasted out, and she saw one draw a line, the earth split—
 
——
 
“—Nanette?”
The little witch pushed herself up, the taste of dirt in her mouth and blood from where she’d bitten her cheek. But she was alive.
She should not be alive.
Nanette was confused, dizzy. She had seen the eleven Gladelords facing off against Rhisveri and watched him fire off his first spell. Then they’d retaliated. Begun to hurl magics across the ground at them, and she should be dead.
A coughing Lyonette was the one who’d spoken. She was pulling Nanette and Captain Todi up, towards shelter. Hethon was already there; Nanette staggered over dizzily as Bird landed with a thump and a buzz of wings.
“Is anyone hurt?”
The answer was again ‘no’ somehow. Nanette looked around dizzily.
They’d gathered around Visophecin’s cage for cover. Multiple walls were protecting them. Not as impressive as the barrier of thorns blocking their escape, but Todi had used a [Wall of Earth] spell, Elosaith had added one of bone, and Jericha a [Forcewall].
All of them were dirty, but indeed unharmed. How in the world? Nanette whirled as she felt a whumph, then a roar.
“You fools! You nearly killed those two children! Are you mad? Desist! De—”
Rhisveri threw a tornado of fire horizontally at the Gladefolk, though he was shouting for peace. In return, one hurled what looked like a dozen lances of wood that criss-crossed through the air. The Tree of Sighs snarled, but Rhisveri parried the lances, snapping them mid-flight with explosions of compressed air.
Nanette had never seen someone spellcast like that! It was like a duel between Archmages! She saw shards of wood exploding towards her and covered her face, only for them to break on a prismatic barrier.
Rhisveri’s magic. He was shielding them as well! However…the man was dueling only five of the Gladefolk.
Only five? They were throwing spells so fast it was chaos, but Nanette clearly saw only five magical signatures. Then she saw a sixth figure slowly rising upwards.
The Swamp of Oswenia. She was…gathering together. Reforming her body from the waist up. Water rushed upwards, forming her torso and arms, clear proof she was immortal in some regard, at least to conventional harm.
But who’d cut her in half? And—Nanette saw the Skytree picking up one of her rosewood arms and reattaching it. A third Gladelord was trying to cover a burning hole in its head. Nanette stared at six wounded Gladelords. Something, someone, had taken out six of them.
“Who—?”
Vaulont the Ash appeared in a swirl of what seemed to be living shadows, clutching at an arm studded with fragments of stone cutting through his armor. His teeth were bared, and Bird nearly shot him as everyone jumped.
“Vaulont!”
Lyonette exclaimed, and the Vampire assassin took cover as several spells burst against the magical barriers around them. She’d forgotten his presence! Everyone had—the Gladelords hadn’t even seen him entering the glade.
And he’d chosen to strike at the right moment—but the Vampire’s bared teeth as he yanked pieces of stone out of his arm showed how satisfied he was.
“Artifact-grade blades and Tier 4 spells cannot kill them. I regret to report—failure.”
The assassin regarded Lyonette, then Ser Dalimont.
