“I went for the kill each time, but I have no confidence I can kill them even if they give me a second opening.”
The kill order? Who—Lyonette glanced at Ser Dalimont, and the Thronebearer snapped.
“Keep Her Highness and the children safe.”
“Got it.”
Vaulont ripped out another piece of stone from his healing arm and then rolled to the side. He pulled a crossbow up and took aim. Bird had her own arrow drawn, but Lyonette held a hand out.
“Wait! Wait—excellent job, Vaulont. They’re slowing.”
Indeed, the magical battle had subsided for a moment as both sides stopped hurling spells. It had been barely three minutes, but no one could guess how much magic both sides had just flung at each other.
Earth and stones and vines were everywhere—along with water. She could see and hear Rhisveri standing across from the Gladefolk. The Duke was, amazingly, in one piece. So were the Gladefolk; both sides stood behind magical barriers, which flickered and wavered, but had protected each from harm.
“Fuck, it’s a [Mage]’s duel. They’re pissing magic on each other. It’s a stalemate until one wears the other down, and we’re in the middle of it.”
Todi growled, and Jericha nodded.
“But that Duke can piss as hard as they can combined. Who is he?”
Everyone turned to stare at Jericha, and she colored a second, but then Lyonette realized what Jericha was saying was true. Eleven Gladefolk were standing across from Rhisveri. They made no sound, having no real lungs, but he was wheezing.
Panting for air. She guessed he’d cast four powerful spells, each one Tier 5 at least. The ground was torn up surrounding him, but he wasn’t harmed; a shimmering shield was flickering around him.
By the same token, the Gladefolk weren’t visibly damaged; they’d fended off his spells, but they appeared tired in their own ways. Both groups seemed incredulous.
“I have never seen Rhisveri lose a duel in magic.”
That was Visophecin’s rather-too-calm comment from his cage. Todi gave up trying to saw one of the roots in half with his sword. He turned to Lyonette.
“Well, we’re in shit creek, and I’m out of options. Your Highness, what do we do?”
“Continue negotiating, Captain Todi. Once they’re willing to see reason.”
He gave her an incredulous look, but Lyonette was busy checking Nanette for injuries. The witch girl was shaken, but unharmed. Hethon was white-faced. He hadn’t lived moments like this.
“Your Highness, we have to escape.”
Jericha hissed at Lyonette, and the [Princess] shook her head.
“If we are not safe here, within a Skill, then we are not safe outside. You heard them talk, Jericha. They’re looking down on all of us.”
She’d noticed that they barely gave her any credence beyond her status as a negotiator. The children mattered because the Gladefolk saw them as pawns. But aside from the three immortals—and she was sure Visophecin was some other kind of one—the Gladefolk hadn’t even glanced at Elosaith or Todi once.
Time for a reminder. She nodded to Dalimont.
“Dalimont, Master Elosaith, Bird? With me. If it looks bad, I will turn and use Major Khorpe’s crossbow. Do you think it would take out that barrier of thorns?”
Todi uttered an oath.
“Was that the damn bolt you were waving around…? Yeah, it’ll take the thorns out! And us with it! We’ll go there—let’s wall up again. It’ll cook this Viscount, but we can probably run through the crater out of here. Is that the plan?”
Visophecin didn’t seem pleased by the idea, but Lyonette nodded.
“That’s the fallback plan. Elosaith, can you give these Gladefolk something to think about? Bird?”
“I am armed with a very nice bow, and I have a [Lesser Dragonbreath] arrow with their names on it. No, wait. Let me write it down first. How do you spell ‘Oswenia’?”
Bird fluttered her wings as the [Necromancer] gave Lyonette a big grin. He seemed the most relaxed, possibly because he was insane. Or perhaps Elosaith was confident for other reasons. He spun his staff idly.
“I think I can give them a taste of their own medicine. When should I do it?”
“Whenever seems appropriate. Now—let’s go.”
Lyonette marched back across the ground, and Ser Dalimont opened his mouth to protest, but then caught the look in her eye and followed, shield raised.
Rhisveri and the Gladefolk were talking during the lull in the magical battle, possibly as both sides recharged for another sortie.
“I—am not your enemy! You’re being unreasonable! I swear on Fithea’s name. I only offered to take the child in. She raised me! She saved me—”
The Skytree’s voice was frosty now. Unfeeling as cold bark on a winter’s day. The hollows of her eyes were empty, and her voice seemed to cut the Wyrm far deeper than any spell.
“Raised. A Dryad. Your kind is unworthy of love. All of what you speak is poison, just like that one. You have no capacity to love, Wyrm.”
Lyonette drew in a breath as she approached. Because she saw Rhisveri flinch. Just a single twitch. He looked down at his feet, muddied shoes, his sullied outfit, and she remembered the silly bouquet he offered her.
His fake smile was gone. That air of contempt he had for everything, shining through his eyes and voice, had been stripped away. When he spoke, huskily, he sounded hurt. Hurt and…guilty, as if he agreed with them. As if he thought they were right when Lyonette knew they were wrong. For she was watching him.
“Perhaps I do not. Yet I remember it. And I never forget my debts. Let the children go. Or I will show you the magic Fithea taught me.”
He raised his hands, and the Tree of Sighs spoke.
“He is a mighty spellcaster, even without his true body.”
“One versus all. Do not harm the others yet—you, stand back, Princess. We shall dispose of this avatar before attending upon you.”
Lyonette was halfway between Rhisveri and the Gladefolk. She ignored his hissed warning to get to the side. She had a smile on her face that anyone who knew her well would recognize.
It was bright, fake, like a box with a fist inside, ready to punch you the moment it shifted. The [Princess] clasped her hands together.
“Ladies and gentlemen of the Tauslech Forest. I cannot help but notice that a bit of unpleasantness has arisen between your party and mine, as it were. I also point out that your rampant spellcasting has put Hethon Veltras, whom you are allied to, and my daughter in danger. Even by accident.”
They looked at her, and one motioned.
“To one side. We are not addressing you.”
The ground rolled, and Lyonette realized it was trying to literally move her to the side. She drew on her aura, wondering if she could stop it, when Elosaith raised his staff.
“[Unlife Tremor].”
He jammed the staff down in the ground, and black magic flashed across his eyes for a second. The earth went still. The Gladelord who’d raised his hand recoiled with a hiss.
“Thank you, Elosaith. Now, as I was saying—am I correct in my assertion that you are taking Hethon Veltras hostage until he meets your demands? And that, as I infer, he is in some danger here?”
Lyonette nodded at Elosaith as Bird walked a few paces left. The Skytree snapped at Lyonette.
“He is sworn to us by pacts, and he will uphold them! And you will listen to us! Do you think this is some pretty Skill of innocence, like a [Garden of Sanctuary] with that wretched Harpy? This place always allowed the strongest roots to choke the others into submission.”
The [Princess]’ sweet smile didn’t change. She nodded a few times, then stepped behind Ser Dalimont.
“That’s what I thought. My, oh my. I hope the old Veltrases gave you as good as you gave them. Or were they more convivial than I thought?”
The Swamp of Oswenia snarl-bubbled at Lyonette.
“They never brought a Wyrm nor Lucifen here! Even when they brawled in the dirt or threatened to hack at our roots! Few were ever strong enough to wrestle us, let alone him!”
She jerked her head at the empty seat that had belonged to the Vale Forest’s World Tree. Lyonette could just picture it. House Veltras [Lords] throwing hands with actual trees—facing the wrath of the forest.
And sometimes, one of them with the strength to quake the earth would grab one of the trees and shake the entire forest hard enough to make them listen.
Well, so be it. The [Princess of the Inn]’s eyes gleamed behind the Thronebearer, and she had a hand on the crossbow at her belt. But she didn’t pull it out. She just spoke. She was good at speaking. She had excellent diction, and sometimes—speech was all you needed.
“Thank you for clarifying, Gladefolk. I rather think I didn’t need confirmation, but it never hurts to hear it from the horse’s mouth. I must now inform you that you have violated the promise you made to me when we entered here. You swore that Hethon and Nanette would not be in danger. You broke that promise. You violated our pact.”
Her blue eyes were getting brighter with a luminescence more than one of the Gladefolk found disturbingly familiar. One of them protested.
“That was a mere agreement in words. We are in control—”
One of them raised their voice suddenly, struck by a memory.
“Pact. She said pact. Beware the wording.”
Too late. They were pivoting towards her, hands raised, but not sure what was coming. Lyonette du Marquin’s mouth opened, and she spoke. She’d been waiting for this…for ages. Everyone loved testing new Skills. But hers were hard to activate.
“[Enforce Pact: The Chessmaster’s Wrath].”
Behind her, Rhisveri’s mouth made a sudden ‘o’ of understanding. Visophecin just smiled, and the Gladefolk—
Flinched.
They recoiled, drawing their hands up, and a wall of stone rose in front of them, obsidian, shielding them from—what? Nothing. There was a moment of silence, and then Lyonette searched around.
The Gladefolk relaxed. One made a disgusted noise and spat sap onto the ground. The Skytree crooked a finger, and the ground began to soften, making everyone around Lyonette sink into the earth.
“Enough tricks. We are—”
Whatever she was about to say was cut off as a shadow covered her. The Skytree glanced up, dove—and the largest chess-piece Lyonette had ever seen hit the ground.
The [Princess]’ mouth fell open. She stared up at a ten-foot-tall chess piece in the familiar form of a queen. A sculpted, stone face, black with regal bearing—looking disturbingly similar to her mother, actually. The chess piece smashed the barrier spells to pieces. Then—it lifted a giant flail in its hands and a ball-and-chain of spikes began to whirl. It swung down, and the Swamp of Oswenia backed up as the flail thudded into the earth.
The Gladelady fired a piercing jet of water into the chess piece. There was a crack—the tiniest chip of stone flew away. The Swamp of Oswenia backed up another step.
Then the queen-piece hopped forwards, rising, moving, as if giant, invisible fingers had picked it up and placed it forwards. The flail rose. The Swamp of Oswenia’s avatar made a faint sound.
“What is—”
The splash of the flail sent her head and upper body scattering two dozen feet in every direction in a patter of mud and water. Lyonette winced; but the Swamp of Oswenia was already reforming. Another Gladelord tried to cover the base of the chesspiece with vines.
“We are—”
The queen piece hit him with a flail, and there was a crackle of ancient wood. She began laying around herself, and the Gladefolk scattered. Half of them tried to destroy the furious avatar of broken promises. The other half tried to attack Lyonette.
“Take her! Her!”
The Skytree was conjuring a rain of sharp leaves, which Ser Dalimont was blocking. Right up until Elosaith struck the ground with his staff.
“Arise and come to greet our guests, father and grandfather and great-aunt Augusta! Arise, Woodcutter.”
The Skytree turned, and a creation of bones, a mere seven feet tall, possessed of six arms, each ending in a hatchet or axe’s blade—or, in one case, a saw—advanced on her. She made a sound of outrage.
“[Necromancer]! You will suffer for that!”
The Woodcutter Bone Horror flew at the Gladelady, but then another of the Gladelords put out a hand. He opened his mouth, and Bird’s [Lesser Dragonbreath Arrow] touched the back of his throat.
It looked like the ancient puppet of sticks breathed lightning for a second. Lyonette’s vision went white, and when she pulled her hands off her ears, she saw mayhem.
Wrath chess piece, Woodcutter undead, Bird merrily shooting arrows off—the nearest Gladelady tried to attack Bird. A wicker hand rose, then fell to the ground.
The Gladelady jerked. She raised her other hand, and Vaulont the Ash’s cleaved it off. Then he rammed a burning blade through her chest, twisting it as it smoked red-hot. The Gladelady hissed.
“You—”
He beheaded her and then leapt away in a blur as the pieces of her body began to reform. Lyonette swore she heard a litany of curses; the Vampire clearly did not like fighting things that couldn’t die, but each tree spirit he met lost a limb, adding to their disunity.
Lyonette was tempted to keep watching, but then she remembered her objective and turned and ran.
“Rhisveri! Help me get Viscount Visophecin free!”
The Wyrm had been open-mouthed, watching the fighting, but when he heard her, he whirled.
“Stand back!”
He produced a thin, beige-green ray from one finger and pointed it at the cage. Visophecin moved as much as his body would allow; at first, Lyonette thought it was some kind of light spell.
Then she realized it wasn’t a ray, but a jet of liquid so thin and continuous it looked like a ray. It was, in fact—acid. An acid so powerful that the pressure alone sawed through the wood and the rest began to eat away at the cage, raising steam. Visophecin spoke as the first root tore away, writhing in what looked like agony.
“I would prefer not to be struck by that.”
“Shut up, you big baby. It only works on organic material.”
“—Your point being?”
Rhisveri severed one strand, then another, and Visophecin tore himself free after a few more seconds. He landed hard, brushing at the liquid on his suit, then turned.
“Now the flower—”
Rhisveri spun, and he and Dalimont blocked an avalanche of mud being vomited by a giant head of swampy material; the Gladefolk were rallying. However, Visophecin adjusted his tie, drew his sword, and it ignited.
Red flames cleaved the air, and he chopped [The Flower of Anapulis] down in an arc of flames that Lyonette felt. It seared her skin even from a distance, and she shouted in pain.
“My apologies, Your Highness. I believe I am a bit peeved.”
The Viscount snapped his fingers, and the heat abated. Then he strode over to the flower. A closed bulb of violet was moving slightly, and the Viscount bent down and began to slash at the flower petals.
