It felt like hours later. Lyonette sat, put her head down, accepted a drink from Dalimont, and finally snapped.
“How long have we been arguing with them?”
“Eight hours?”
She shot to her feet as Rhisveri massaged his temples. He clarified.
“It feels like eight; it’s been merely two. Time dilation, remember?”
That was still longer than she wanted! Lyonette paced around; she was in a gathering around Visophecin at one end of the glade. The Gladefolk at the other. Occasionally, one or a group would meet in the middle, talk, argue, retreat, and try again.
Eight hours of this. She was hoarse, and only whatever effect this Skill had on her was keeping Lyonette from needing to use the restroom or have a bite to eat. She growled at Taletevirion.
“They won’t budge. They want the wand, and they won’t give me any assurances they won’t turn around and keep it or charge a random [Druid] or Hethon and Nanette to take it wherever they want.”
In fact, they very strenuously refused to promise that in any way, shape, or form, which made Lyonette suspect that was going to be their second option if Taletevirion refused. In addition, the Gladefolk refused to even hear of Ryoka Griffin’s surprisingly good record on legendary deeds and keeping people alive. It was their way or not at all.
And they refused to budge. The Unicorn was self-healing a headache.
“That’s the problem with this lot. I’d almost forgotten—hah. You’d think two thousand years of not being around them would be long enough. The problem is, Lyonette, they’re trees or based on them.”
“So? Oh, dead gods—”
He nodded.
“Yep. They think this is the opening throes of a conversation. That’s why the Skill needs to accelerate time; House Veltras used to shout themselves silly to convince the trees to budge on a single damn issue. This is the fate of their entire people as they see it. They’re planting their roots deep.”
Hethon raised a hand, looking as exhausted as everyone else from the long discussion, and far less enthusiastic than he had been at the start.
“Miss Lyonette, I’m not suggesting that we just…give them the wand, but how are we to argue them into giving up on it? They’re trees. It seems to me that even my father wouldn’t be able to argue them down.”
He hesitated.
“Maybe. But we don’t have the time for this.”
Lyonette knew that was true, but she snapped back, reflexively.
“House Marquin are famous negotiators, Hethon. There’s a way, if I can just think of one. Marquin herself once argued down an entire army of [Barbarians], you know!”
Though, that was mostly by screaming louder than they could. At this point, a screaming match actually felt worth trying.
“Well, what do we want? We’re all here to see the Dryad seed planted, aren’t we? Or are we split on the ethics of that?”
Elosaith searched around, voice reasonable. Todi and Bird were playing cards to the side, and they looked up as Taletevirion hesitated. But the Unicorn sighed.
“…Let’s assume we at least want to check the kid’s alive. She could not be. It’s not like she needs air, but drawing on her magic for a wand over ages…I want to know where this damn mystic forest is. If it’s the New Lands, that’s confusing as hell, because magical seeds need magic to live, and I have it on good authority that place is as magically dead as you can get.”
“Really? Why?”
Rhisveri turned with sudden interest, and Taletevirion shrugged.
“Just something I heard from Magnolia.”
“Odd. I had heard rumors of that, but no place in this world is magically null by default. Something always has to take it…I wonder if there’s some vast artifact or is the seafloor…?”
The Duke scratched at his beard, then made an exasperated sound.
“Visophecin, you’ve been useless this entire time. Say something and demonstrate that acumen of yours.”
The Viscount, still immobilized in mud and vines, had an itch on his nose he couldn’t scratch for the last two hours. He replied as coolly as he could from his position.
“If we lack the stamina to force our opponents from their entrenched position, we must lure them out or accede in some request. I suggest a trade. Your Highness, ransom the wand.”
“What?”
“Ransom the wand. Surely that was your intention? Let them have it. They have no bodies nor a way to leave this place except by summoning someone. And the [Druids] and wardens of nature are weak in this day and age. Point this out to them—after they inform us of their plans and the condition of the child.”
The [Princess] considered the suggestion carefully. It had been on her mind, but she’d not wanted to be so—mercenary.
“Do you think it will impinge on future negotiations?”
Visophecin’s voice was dry.
“If anything, they might trust you more. I believe they regard House Veltras, and thus all mortals, as highly mercenary. Establishing what they have to offer, and thus threaten us with, may be the most valuable use of our time.”
That convinced her. After a quick discussion, Lyonette headed back to the Gladefolk, who met her as she made an offer.
“In light of this short span of negotiations, I must state that I have been moved by the—the ethical nature of this dilemma, and I am willing to turn the wand over to you, Gladefolk, for your appraisal. I have two demands for this to occur. First, I insist on knowing what you intend, in the spirit of aid to you and House Veltras.”
“That is acceptable. What else do you wish?”
The Skytree spoke for them, giving Lyonette a suspicious glance. The [Princess] adopted her best Reclis du Marquin impression and stroked her chin as if she had a beard.
“Well now, given the great effort and expense that The Wandering Inn has gone to as well as the hostile magics perpetuated against us, I believe remunerations are in order. In some small capacity.”
The spirits digested that. They regarded each other, and one of them, the pebble-being, spoke flatly.
“She wants payment. Typical. We merely sent signs to aid the children—”
“Hostile magics. The wand was not free. Regardless of what you thought, a poor [Enchanter] was in possession of the wand, and he had to be convinced to relinquish what, to him, was a Relic-class artifact. Is it not fair to ask for recompense for our expenses?”
After so long of feeling like she was literally headbutting a log, Lyonette took great pleasure in seeing and hearing a groan sweep through the Gladefolk.
“What…do you desire? The treasures of the Vale Forest have long been despoiled, Princess of Foreign Lands. We may grant you some gifts, as has been customary.”
The representative of the Swamp of Oswenia addressed Lyonette, and one of the representatives of stones added hurriedly.
“In return for the wand.”
Lyonette was sipping from some tea that Ser Dalimont had found from somewhere. It turned out not to be the Thronebearer’s foresight. Captain Todi was pouring it out of flasks. He apparently had a lot of water and several teabags in his bag of holding. When she gave him a startled look, his glower dared her to make a comment.
The [Princess] cleared her throat, far too used to this sort of thing to commit to verbal promises. The Gladefolk were decent negotiators at best, but she felt like their real ability was their sheer stamina. It was literally like arguing with a tree, and she imagined they could wear you down over time. However—she smiled at them like her father, and more than one of the representatives shiver-rustled.
Lyonette was heir to Calanfer. And politics was in her blood. She’d been raised for this kind of thing.
“The claimancy of the wand is a secondary matter. Regarding The Wandering Inn’s expenses and material efforts, what can you provide?”
The Gladefolk huddled together. Nanette tugged on Lyonette’s arm as they whispered.
“Miss Lyonette—be careful.”
Her excitement was gone, and Lyonette frowned at what she saw as the unnecessary warning.
“I don’t intend to press them so hard negotiations fail, but this is standard to—”
“No, Lyonette. Be careful what you receive.”
Nanette’s eyes were shadowed as she looked at the Gladefolk anew. She whispered as she gestured to the darkening woods, where shadows grew long, and at the caged Viscount.
“Now I think of it, not many [Witches] like entering the Vale Forest, even now. They stick to the outskirts. [Druids] and natural spirits are dangerous. Just like Miss Erin found. They don’t have the same cares or considerations as us. What they offer can be…different from what you expect.”
Like wishing upon a Djinni. Lyonette nodded slowly; this was witch wisdom she could get behind.
“I’ll bear it in mind, Nanette. But they have to have something. Or how would they motivate whatever agents they need?”
It was very clear the Gladefolk probably couldn’t leave this Skill. So that meant their powers were relegated to magical spells like they’d been using on the inn. Which was an actual concern. Those reaching hands of wood seeking the wand were merely annoying or disturbing. Lyonette could imagine a scenario where they could strangle you in your sleep—or even snap a neck.
When the Gladefolk came back, the Skytree’s representative spoke slowly.
“We…have some powers. We would be willing to enrich any land you choose within twenty-one thousand Redwood’s reach of the Vale Forest. Or bring natural wells of water or metals to the surface. Will that do?”
Twenty-one thousand Redwoods? Lyonette glanced around swiftly, and Taletevirion whispered.
“They mean an adult Redwood tree. About three hundred feet.”
So that was…what? Twenty-one times three hundred and…Nanette began scribbling on a piece of paper, and everyone did some math. Ser Dalimont whispered back.
“Liscor is well within range of that, assuming they’re measuring from the furthest edge of the forest, Your Highness.”
It was a warning; Lyonette nodded tightly. She had an image of asking for Colfa’s farm or Reizmelt to receive a boon of, what, fertility to the soil? Tempting, but she pretended indifference as she studied her nails.
“—That may suffice. Though we are in the rainy season of Liscor, and Esthelm brings enough minerals in. Do we have enough fertile soil, Ser Dalimont?”
Rather to Lyonette’s surprise, it was Hethon Veltras who jumped in, half-bowing to her. His disappointment from earlier was now hidden behind a youthful smile.
“Miss Lyonette, the [Witches] of Riverfarm and His Majesty, Emperor Laken, can enrich the soil. I’m sure the mighty Gladefolk can do even better.”
He gave the representatives a beaming smile and a wink meant to show he was on their side—and Lyonette saw Nanette’s mouth fall open as the Gladefolk reacted to the boy’s words in a show of pride. Even Jericha covered a smile, and Lyonette thought—
So he isn’t just like his father. She noticed that wary reserve in Hethon’s eyes and, she thought, wrathfulness. Cold, impartial. They had let him down and made an enemy, or at least, lost a friend. How had these folk never learned how House Veltras’ hearts moved? Fools.
The speaker for the Tree of Sighs responded instantly, ignoring the others’ attempts to shush him.
“Of course there is more. We could summon lesser beasts of hoof or wing. Or even split the earth. Send wild brambles to harm or hinder your enemies. Even summon lesser spirits into being—it is not the power of this we object to, Lord Veltras, but the cost. We do not wish to…pay for mortal needs.”
Lyonette kept her face straight as the Gladefolk nodded, but she glanced at Dalimont out of the corner of her eyes. Oh, I don’t like that. Seeing Visophecin ensnared made her feel like she’d been playing with more fire than she thought.
She kept her voice calm, polite, as she raised an eyebrow.
“Summon spirits? The Wandering Inn is always in need of protection. Do you mean some kind of natural Golem?”
A sneer from the wicker-woman, and several of the Gladefolk made crackling, snorting sounds.
“As the Terlands do? No. Ours are not silent, built hybrids yet unawakened. The true spirits of the forest are dead, unable to be born from the stunted saplings. Yet the gift of life remains. We sent sixteen of such as envoys to your ‘inn’. Warnings.”
Sixteen? Oh, wait—they must mean the things Bird had shot. What had Taletevirion called them? Not Earth Golems, then? And they could just make more of them? Taletevirion grimaced and whispered to Lyonette.
“Don’t. They’re more like wild animals—”
However, she was curious, and even Rhisveri was cocking his head, confused. So Lyonette asked the obvious.
“These creatures. How useful are they?”
“You would call them, in your tongue…what? The—”
One of the Gladefolk made a sound like rustling branches, and the others made disparaging noises. At last, one of them crackled her twig-fingers together in an imitation of snapping fingers.
“…Shamblers. Yes, that is the word one of the Ladies of Veltras once used. Will you take them? Eight for the cost of ‘buying’ the wand? They will serve your ‘inn’ until death, protecting the land.”
Shamblers? No one had a clue what those were, even Rhisveri and Visophecin, but it was Todi’s turn be helpful. He stepped over, whispering loudly.
“Must be Bush Shamblers, Miss Lyonette. I’ve seen them listed in the bestiaries on wooded monsters. Never fought one, but I have heard of them.”
“Are they dangerous?”
“Eh. They’re Bronze-rank threats or Silver-rank if they’re big. Imagine an angry bush coming at you. Some are mucky—they’re just like Snow Golems, really. If Bird here can take one out with a few arrows, I reckon they’re a one-[Fireball] problem.”
Todi hesitated, then growled as a thought came up.
“—Mind you, Shamblers get nasty depending on where they come from. Not a lot of big forests in Izril. But a Bloodfields Shambler is a Gold-rank threat. If they can make one of them, well, I don’t want to be near one even if it’s on my side.”
That didn’t exactly make Lyonette enthusiastic, but it was a curious thing to know that these Gladefolk could create life. Nanette piped up with the question on everyone’s minds.
“Excuse me, Honored Gladefolk, but if you can create these Shamblers, doesn’t it mean that the Vale Forest isn’t really dead? If you could make more of them, could you regrow the land? For instance, there was the Earth Elemental, Khoteizetrough of the Gaarh Marsh tribe. He passed away this year, but if you could make more of him—”
Discordant laughter, like the chatter of dead leaves on branches in the autumn wind, was her answer. Several of the Gladefolk threw their heads back or clutched their sides, stomachs, like Humans might do. They laughed for ten seconds—then fell silent.
Nanette stopped, unnerved by the display, and the Skytree’s avatar spat back.
