“I am a [Princess] of The Wandering Inn first, Rhisveri. If I gave up on everything I could ask for, it is because some things are in greater danger than my homeland. Calanfer can take care of itself. I am a mother first of all. And our goals are aligned.”
She looked questioningly at Visophecin for confirmation, and Dalimont shifted. The [Knight] still intensely disliked the Viscount, but the Lucifen half-bowed.
“Leave Baleros to me.”
“Interference. You’re lucky you were expelled from House Shoel or I wouldn’t allow it.”
“Yes. Lucky.”
Rhisveri glanced at Visophecin, then turned to Lyonette.
“You negotiate poorly after all, though, [Princess]. I shall remember you have a soft heart. You put the wellbeing of your child, that Gnoll girl, Mrsha, over everlasting peace with a nation. You traded the desperation of the Gladelords for magical favors. You could have left the Unicorn alone.”
All for promises. His eyes flashed, and Lyonette’s voice was steady as they passed out of the forest and along the wet grassland, covered in rain. Heading back towards that inn on a hill.
“She is in danger, Duke Rhisveri. Viscount Visophecin, I will have your aid ere you leave.”
“Mine alone. On my head be it.”
The Wyrm nodded simply.
“And mine. We are allies for this matter, Princess du Marquin. It is not a light thing to call two of Ailendamus’ beating hearts to your aid. But tell me, truthfully. How much danger could she really be…?”
His voice trailed off as he tried a reassuring smile and noticed how everyone else wasn’t smiling and was just watching him. Rhisveri coughed. He looked aside as rain covered his dark hair and coat. He was wet, his clothing muddy, and he appeared rather pathetic compared to how he had entered, bouquet in hand.
The Wyrm had met the Gladefolk of Tauslech, and his expression, as he held up one dripping hand in the rain, was wan. He murmured to himself.
“They were not what I hoped for. Parents and children. You did negotiate poorly, Lyonette. For a child’s safety. Do you think I’m so craven or honorless I’d besmirch all of Ailendamus’ name by refusing to cast a spell?”
The [Princess]’ lips quirked, and she hid it as Ser Dalimont held an umbrella over her head. She murmured into her hand.
“I suppose I am just a softhearted woman after all, Rhisveri.”
“I shan’t hold it against you. But truly? Guarantees of partial aid over anything you could ask of us?”
Partial aid. Visophecin hadn’t even promised that; merely to aid Erin Solstice and Ryoka Griffin. He glanced at Rhisveri, and the [Princess] smiled sweetly, eyes dancing far colder than the Wyrm’s blood.
“Oh, Duke. Great Wyrm. I shall defend the inn. I know how, just as I told you. I can do it—once. Maybe even twice, by myself, with all the favors and Skills and knowledge I have. But someday, surely, I will call out. As the [Innkeeper] did before me. Each time, it is always friends who answer. Today, I struck a bargain worth all the gold that has ever passed through the doors of the inn. All I will send you that you require, and more. It depends, of course, on the honor of a Wyrm.”
The Wyrm regarded Lyonette, and he nodded.
“Since it does, I will give you some credit for understanding the value of the contract, if not the terms. I must rest a few minutes. But when you find out what ails your daughter, tell me. I shall resolve it.”
She nodded, and the Duke raised his chin, a proud figure bathed in grit and rain. He still didn’t understand why the Antinium Queen patted him on the shoulder, or why the Thronebearer laughed softly. The [Princess] walked ahead, counting her allies and enemies.
But only one thing mattered. This was just—
Well. An interlude.
 
——
 
It was nightfall by the time the [Princess] got back to the inn. Hethon was waiting for her and ran out in the pouring rain.
“Lyonette! Are you okay? Did—?”
“We came to an arrangement. Several, actually. Have the Shamblers arrived yet?”
For answer, the young man pointed outside, and Lyonette saw eight drenched mounds slowly wandering around the base of the hill. The [Lord] burst out.
“I told Ishkr what happened, and he understands! But Miss Lyonette, it’s been crazy over here! There’s the scrying orb, and Ushar needs to speak to you now and—and—”
He gobbled for words, unable to explain what was inside. The [Princess] had almost forgotten the chaos from earlier in the day. The singing…but she spoke one word.
“Mrsha? Where’s Mrsha?”
She searched around, and Hethon hesitated, then pointed. Lyonette went striding forwards. She was tired, dirty, and a Wyrm and Lucifen followed in her footsteps. At least one of them was giving her a respectful look.
A weary Unicorn was having a drink of water at a table. When he saw her, he met her gaze levelly. Challengingly. As if he’d fight to the death without a moment’s hesitation, if only he could figure out why and where.
Lyonette locked eyes with Taletevirion and nodded at him. He had nothing left to protect. She? She had everything, and if only it were so easy. But to protect Mrsha—Lyonette began to run.
She’d do anything. But she didn’t know if she could. Terror. Uncertainty. A mortal stress beyond any anxiety, even fear for her life.
 
——
 
A parent’s love.
Oh, how the Unicorn envied her. He put down his head and tried to dream of the past. But all he could think, when he stared at the dull, iron-grey wand in front of him, shining with untapped magic and potential—
Was of the future.
 
 
[Princess of the Inn Level 38!]
[Skill – Royal Artifact obtained!]
 
[Title – Diplomat of the Tauslech Forest obtained!]
[Title Skill – Wildspeech granted!]
 
[Pact Skill – Defenders of the Inn (Shamblers) assigned!]
 
 
[Sariantfriend Level 11!]
[Skill – Basic Spell Proficiency: Nature Magic obtained!]
[Spell – Watertwister Orb learned!]
[Spell – Nature’s Stride learned!]
[Skill – Peaceful Gesture obtained!]
[Skill – Goat’s Kick obtained!]
