“Two hundred years? You don’t look a day over…forty-five? For a Human.”
“Ah, well—”
Was that a compliment or not? Half-Elves slowed their rate of aging once they hit their majorities; Ceria looked barely twenty, despite being in her sixties. Ceria clarified after a second.
“—If you were a soldier, you didn’t really visit many of the countries, I’ll bet. So you didn’t buy souvenirs.”
Scars. Sometimes, I’d buy things at a local market, but no, I had no appetite for it. Ierwyn was silent and then coughed.
“I, ah, appreciate seeing someone with a lust for the world, sister. I hope you find the Claiven Earth welcoming, even if we have noted differences in philosophy.”
Ceria glanced at her again, and amusement lit up her features.
“What, the fact that I’m from an older place? Don’t worry about it; it’s all playing pretend at being Elves anyways. But you should have kept travelling, sister. Two hundred years in a place like this? You’re covered in moss.”
Ierwyn didn’t jerk back, and her face didn’t change at the insult, but she did slow a step as Ceria strode up to her apartments. She was wondering how offended she should be. Ceria’s tone was light, even when she mocked their familiar address.
It sounded like a genuine comment, which was arguably even more upsetting. Ierwyn opened her mouth, fell back a step, and thought.
Covered in moss? Oh, she means covered in rust. Me? My swordplay hasn’t fallen behind, even when I fought Khelt’s Revenants.
—But we lost that war badly. Ierwyn had thought a lot about her mistakes and realized that if she had been her old self, she wouldn’t have kept fighting Fetohep’s undying legions at Jecrass. She should have taken a force of riders and attacked Khelt itself. Even if it provoked the full wrath of Khelt. Instead, they’d played into Fetohep’s game and wasted their energy and blood against his forces until he grew tired of the farce and crushed their will to do battle in a moment.
Was that what Ceria meant? Ierwyn eyed the half-Elf from behind.
What a strange sister of the forests. She treated Ierwyn like a familiar half-Elf, which wasn’t just because they were closer in levels than most. She was young; very young by traditional half-Elven standards, but she had both that timelessness and more understanding of the world than Ierwyn, at least in parts.
Yet she was young. And as they walked towards the door of the two-storied tree house set into the side of one of the great trees, Ierwyn glanced at Ceria Springwalker’s circlet. Or rather, the spot she knew there was a circlet—but which even the Herald’s eyes just saw as bare hair.
A relic-grade item. More significantly, a possibly cursed relic-grade item. The true stuff of old adventures. Ceria had stopped using the circlet as a literal doorstop, zipline anchor, and attempting to damage and mistreat it—probably because she’d gotten bored—but it remained a subject of debate among the leaders of the Claiven Earth.
Even Yvlon Byres, Ceria’s companion, agreed something should be done about it. Which was why, as Ceria entered the rooms, swigging from her canteen and calling out, Ierwyn sensed the hidden people.
“Hey, Yv! I’m almost ready to get out of here and find the lads! You ready? You won’t believe what I just bought at th—hm?”
She noticed, a beat too late, that the living room that should have held only Yvlon instead had a number of half-Elves concealed around the room. The Speaker of the Trees, Lastimeth himself, was crouched behind a huge, upholstered chair; Yvlon was sitting, facing Ceria, and the half-Elf’s skeletal hand instantly went for her wand.
Then she glanced at Ierwyn, who was at Ceria’s exposed back. The Herald of the Forests was one of the highest-level [Warriors] in Chandrar. A perfect trap; nowhere to run. Ceria glanced around, face cool, as half-Elves stepped forwards. Then Yvlon stood up.
“Ceria—why don’t you have a seat?”
The [Armsmistress] gestured, and there was a chair waiting for Ceria. Hidden half-Elves walked forward and sat down in a large circle. She eyed Ierwyn, then Yvlon, and groaned.
“Oh come on. Yvlon—”
“Why don’t you sit, Sister Ceria? Your teammate is very concerned about your wellbeing.”
The Speaker of the Trees had a very gentle tone. Ceria stared at him, the intervention of half-Elves, and then stared at the window. Ierwyn tensed slightly in case Ceria tried to jump out of it. Instead, Ceria just reached into her bag of holding and slowly pulled out a red canteen. She poured some water into it and began to determinedly slurp the cranberry flavor.
 
——
 
Uncertainty.
That was what Ierwyn beheld. A mix of startling, alarming experience and decisiveness fit for a Gold-rank team’s Captain and the fragility of someone who’d wear a cursed circlet for power’s sake.
“Sister, at least let’s agree that if you took it off for a day or two, it would clear things up.”
“Sure, absolutely. It’d be a load off my head—and go straight onto yours. Or go into the Claiven Earth’s vaults.”
The intervention was not going well. One of the older half-Elven [Earthtenders] looked appalled at Ceria’s suggestion as the younger half-Elf noisily slurped from her canteen and sat with her legs crossed. Everyone was trying to speak in reasonable tones. The [Earthtender] glanced at the Speaker of Trees, then the Mage of Rivers.
Very high-level half-Elves had gathered to have this intervention with Ceria. She didn’t seem impressed. Speaker Lastimeth glanced at another half-Elf, and Laiska Clearbranch, their [General of Bows], spoke.
“We can swear on truth spells we wouldn’t take your relic, Ceria. What do you think of us?”
Ceria picked at her teeth with a bone finger, and many of the half-Elves winced or looked away. Even her limbs were uncanny; Ierwyn wasn’t shocked. She’d seen half-Elves who’d had that happen to them before.
Is Soldier Thenalden still alive? He has a skeleton leg. Maybe the two should meet. Then again, he’d retired three hundred years ago, and he still had trauma from the battlefield. Ceria flipped the magical circlet in one hand, and Ierwyn stared at it.
It would be so easy to just grab—but that would eradicate trust, and Joreldyn, the Mage of Rivers and foremost magical expert in the room, had said it wouldn’t break the link. It had to be voluntary—and even then, it was unclear how much hold the relic would keep on Ceria even if she wanted it gone.
The problem being she didn’t want it gone. Ceria smiled at Laiska.
“Truth spells can be easily faked, General. As for what I think of you—I think none of you are active adventurers. The Claiven Earth’s very nice. Very tame, even your top-level warriors. How long has it been since any of you saw an Adult Creler? You’d be lining up to tap me on the shoulder for the circlet, then.”
An uneasy shiver ran around the room among those who’d hadn’t fought Crelers before. Ierwyn sighed. They’d done this for twenty minutes, and she could tell it wasn’t going to work. She glanced over as a Human woman leaned over, arms flashing metal.
Even when she was dressed in normal clothing, Yvlon Byres looked even more like an adventurer ready for the fray than Ceria. Her metal arms were bare and flexed in the soft light coming from the trees. Her voice was pleasant.
She made Ierwyn reach for the sword she didn’t carry. Especially when she gave Ceria a pleasant smile. It wasn’t just her reputation as the Silver Killer. It was the juxtaposition of that careful, even vaguely ladylike or knightly demeanor and the woman’s clear ability to kill.
Like…a War Golem trying to smile and sip tea with you. Yvlon did not help her impression to Ierwyn with what she said next.
“No one wants you to die earlier than you should, Ceria. Even if you die a bit sooner, I’d rather it was you rather than someone possessed by a cursed artifact, don’t you agree? We all think this circlet’s doing something to your mind. Can’t you take it off for a bit?”
A few half-Elves nodded until they paused.
No one wants you to die earlier than you—wait, what was that next part? Ceria just grinned in response.
“You’re all heart, Yvlon. Okay, here. Tada.”
She took the circlet off, waved it at the others, and put it on a coffee table. Ierwyn didn’t believe it. Ceria sat back, folded her arms, then looked around.
“See? You don’t even think I did it. I did. I’ve taken it off while I was a guest here, Yvlon. For a week, even. I already feel dumber.”
Joreldyn murmured.
“It still might be magically linked.”
Ceria rolled her eyes, then flicked the circlet across the room. It stopped and hovered as the Mage of Rivers raised a hand, and everyone else flinched away. Ceria put her feet up, sighed, and stared at the ceiling.
“Then I guess he gets to investigate it. Okay, you win. If I don’t get it back, I’ll chop down this entire damn tree. Two days, Yvlon? We have to go and get Pisces and Colth.”
“And Ksmvr and Vofea. Thanks, Ceria. Don’t worry. We’ll get the circlet back or I’ll help.”
Yvlon bounded to her feet with a smile. The other half-Elves stared at the two adventurers, and Ierwyn actually raised her brows.
Is that the real one? She mouthed at Joreldyn, who was holding the circlet away from him as if it were a coiled snake. The Mage of Rivers raised his brows at her and nodded fractionally.
That was strange. Ceria turned and gave Ierwyn a cool-eyed smile. And not one whit about her had changed. No, wait—she fumbled the canteen as she went to clip it back to her belt and tossed it across the room.
“Damn, I was trying to look cool. Hey, Yvlon. This thing tastes like cranberries if you put water in it.”
“Oh. Amazing. Who’s selling them?”
“Some shopkeeper. I bought out the entire stock. Which flavor?”
“Do you have lemonade?”
The two bent over, and she wasn’t different. That was why Ierwyn had suspected it was a fake. Yet Ceria had forked over the circlet…and it was still there. That smiling uncertainty. Confidence enough to talk back to half-Elves above her level. And a palpable frustration like she’d had the moment she’d woken up and demanded to know where her team was.
 
——
 
Weakness. It was like the constant refrain of Ceria’s life since she’d been in Wistram and watched her master go to her death, unable to do a thing.
The next day, she rolled out of bed and stood with only her underclothes on, planning her wardrobe for the day. She felt less sharp. Normally, she’d wake up with a new spell in her mind or plans for the day.
No circlet. Bad brain Ceria. If the circlet was still linked to her, she wasn’t near or wearing it, so the intelligence-boosting effect was off. The half-Elf spread out some of her clothes—then went to brush her teeth.
She wondered if the Mage of Rivers would find anything of note about the circlet. She doubted it, honestly. She knew he was over Level 50, but that artifact had belonged to The Putrid One, a [Necromancer] so famous and ancient that even the Claiven Earth had only found out that he was Bad News, which you capitalized and underlined and probably circled a few times for emphasis.
His circlet? Not something smart people wore, but Ceria had had it this long, and she didn’t see herself becoming that monstrous. She wanted it. Or else she’d fall behind…
Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] was standing on a balcony, practicing in the morning light. She turned—then put a glistening hand up.
“Ceria. Please put some clothes on.”
Ceria stared at Yvlon’s watery, metal arms as they rippled like they were actual liquid. No metal actually splashed down, but Yvlon’s arm undulated like water, deforming, and Ceria—smiled.
Stronger, again.
“I’m just looking for opinions. How’s this outfit? Or this one?”
She held up a set of jet-black robes with green highlights and then a set that was pale-white with red, pink, and orange. Yvlon stared at both.
“That one will make you look like a dread [Necromancer]. That one makes you look like some [Pyromancer]-[Illusionist]. Wear the white one.”
“Okay.”
Ceria tossed on the robes and turned. Yvlon massaged her face after a second, and her ‘water’ arm splashed all over her face.
“Eugh. I nearly drank my own—Ceria? Why is there a hole just above your butt?”
“Easy entry for a fun time? It’s a Drake’s tail flap.”
“Oh. Oh. It’s the clothing you stole from the Trial of [Duelists], isn’t it?”
Ceria winked.
“Yep. You can close it, I think. Here.”
It had a loop of cloth in case the wearer wasn’t a Drake. She turned and felt a wet piece of metal running across her butt. Yvlon tried twice, then muttered.
“Okay, fingers are really hard when my arms are like this. End Skill!”
Her arms became normal again, and she swiftly laced the cloth together. Ceria nodded and eyed Yvlon’s arms.
“So…how useful is the Skill? [Armform: Liquid]?”
Yvlon shrugged.
“…I think I could pick a lock or something? I was thinking about using it to suffocate a foe, but I can’t figure out how that’s better than hitting them.”
“I bet Bograms wouldn’t enjoy that.”
The [Armsmistress] sighed.
“True. But I was imagining what—shoving liquid metal up his nose? They’re my arms. That’s disgusting. Maybe a whip? Take a look.”
One arm began to ‘melt’, like water trying to drip down. Ceria took a respectful step back as Yvlon raised the arm, and it deformed, and she swung it. It was sort of like a whip; the metal didn’t go flying off Yvlon’s body, but she staggered as it stretched and she overbalanced.
“Yeah. That, uh. Looks really dangerous. What if someone cuts your arm off?”
“I probably lose all the metal? I don’t think it’s gone if it’s severed. Not right away. But if I swing it around someone like this—”
Yvlon did a more controlled swing, and her liquid arm wrapped around a chair and table made of lovely, carved wood lacquered and delicately sculpted into place. Ceria looked around as birds sang and half-Elves greeted the morning—sometimes in song.
They were in a district that allowed morning singing. Ceria wondered if it was someone getting back at them—she saw Yvlon’s arm constrict, and even without the circlet, Ceria could have said something.
She did not. Yvlon’s liquid arm spiked suddenly, metal thorns erupting like a porcupine, and perforated the poor chair and table. The crash of wood breaking made half-Elves on other balconies spin around, and Ierwyn stopped as Yvlon turned to Ceria.
“Just like that. Then—ah. Oops.”
She realized she’d just demolished the chair and table. Ceria just applauded.
“See that? That’s why you’re the Silver Killer.”
