Jecaina grew even more embarrassed.
“Oh, that. They’re a small group. Not like the Trickriders, who are established—they administer law in Jecrass. The war left too many displaced, and the Lawriders deliver food and help implement reforms—it is a class of its own. I am the [Queen of Covenant], and it seems I bestow my class upon others.”
“Wh—really?”
Pisces hadn’t known that. Jecaina smiled and stood.
“Yes, in fact, I do have some work to attend to. Will you walk with me a moment?”
Pisces rose, and they left the banquet hall. He noticed Jecaina glance at his hip and realized he was armed in arm’s reach of royalty. Pisces glanced at the bodyguards around Jecaina, but they didn’t seem to be staring at the blade. He decided to be very inoffensive.
“I, ah, would hate to distract you from your work, Your Majesty. King Raelt has already provided us a great service in taking us out of Medain.”
Even if we would have rather met with Yvlon, High King or not. Jecaina blinked, and then the Arbiter Queen looked embarrassed.
“I quite understand, Adventurer Pisces. Forgive me for indulging my curiosity with all these questions. I don’t want to take your time or inconvenience the two of you any more than we already have.”
Wait, now it sounded like she was apologizing for taking his time! Pisces tried to clarify.
“Not—not at all! I merely meant that surely, ah, the affairs of Jecrass trump two Gold-rank adventurers. Well, Named-rank in Colth’s case, Queen Jecaina.”
Her lips quirked ironically.
“If it were the business of Jecrass, I might agree. Though ruling selfishly and trampling over the rights of others is the kind of thing I’ve tried not to do—in this case, it’s purely selfish. My father wanted to strike a blow at High King Perric. He might have felt you two were in danger from the High King, but hosting you and dragging Colth around and wanting to duel are all of his desires. I’m almost glad of it; he needs the rest.”
Her gaze became far-off and regretful for a moment, and Pisces, dredging up his knowledge of Jecrass’ history, recalled that the King of Duels had been taken captive after his daughter’s kidnapping. Doubtless that was why Raelt looked so—burdened.
And now the Arbiter Queen’s father has returned, and there is a King of Duels and Arbiter Queen ruling Jecrass, who has lost land to Khelt and suffered the King of Destruction’s wars.
No wonder Jecaina seemed harried. Pisces was seldom sympathetic to anyone he had just met; he had a healthy distrust of people and a disdain to go along with it. Yet he had to admit, Jecaina was a real celebrity he’d read about and seen in the news.
He was a bit enamored with the fact that she was treating him like an equal. Not being spat on for being a [Necromancer] definitely helped. So he tried to sound affable as possible.
“Ah, well…we have dueled once before on the ship that took us to Izril. I was hardly a match for him back then. Even now, with a few new tricks, I’m sure I’m no match.”
His hand stole to the rapier he’d carried from the Crossroads of Izril, bone and steel, and brushed the little bell without a clapper. Jecaina blinked as she eyed the rapier.
That was it, he realized. She hadn’t been eying him, but his rapier! And Pisces recalled that Jecaina had a silver bell…
“I recall that duel. You did quite well. A shame if you don’t care for another. I have to admit, I would have liked to try my luck against you as well. We hardly had a chance to speak on Sand at Sea; I know all we did is talk, but there were so many of us…I’m not a tenth as good as my father with the blade, though.”
She bit her lip ruefully. Pisces saw Jecaina shift, and her own sword, bound in a black leather sheath, had a fancy wire handle guard, but was a standard rapier beyond that. And on the handle, which was bound with blue fabric, was a dangling silver bell.
It hadn’t made any sound in all the time they’d been in each other’s company. That was…rather impressive. Pisces blinked, and Jecaina’s gaze stole to Pisces’ rapier again.
“You’re a fellow Silver-bell duelist, aren’t you, Pisces? I looked up your record. Were you certified for yours or did you take it in a duel? I was certified. I think I’m worthy of it, but—”
“I won mine in a duel. It, uh—wasn’t the most orthodox of duels. I lost my original one, and rapier, actually.”
Sold it. And I earned that damn bell, even if I used magic. Jecaina blinked.
“Really? If I may—might I inspect your rapier? And your replacement bell is very—very interesting.”
She was eying the bell he’d received at the Trial of Shields, Pisces recognized. Instantly, he colored.
“What? No!”
“Ah, of course. Pardon me for—”
“No, no! I mean—it isn’t a silver bell!”
The most shameful thing Pisces could think of was that she thought he had a fake silver bell and was masquerading as a duelist. He practically yanked his rapier out of its sheath to show her.
“It’s a bell, but not silver. I lost my original, and I wouldn’t be wearing that like—it’s another kind of certification, I think. The Bell of Challenges. Just a keepsake. Nothing else.”
“Strange. It’s pale white. Is it metal? And it—huh. It has no clapper? And this rapier!”
Like any swordswoman, Jecaina was fascinated as she took Pisces’ rapier and instantly noticed the oddities. She exclaimed over it.
“Was it broken? It’s made of ivory? The balance is very good—did you make it yourself?”
“Er, yes. In a battle against a monster. Well, against some magical projections. I didn’t have time to replace it, and it’s very functional. The bell’s also a spoil of war. I didn’t think of how it looked. It’s magical, I think, but not in any utility sense.”
The Arbiter Queen’s eyes went round.
“Magical projections? Where was this, might I ask?”
“Oh, the Crossroads of Izril. They were Drakes who used swords—imitating [Duelists], actually.”
Pisces was so flustered that he completely missed what he was saying until he realized Jecaina was just staring at him.
“The Crossroads of Izril?”
Even some of her bodyguards and servants had turned to stare at Pisces. The [Necromancer] slowly recalled—belatedly—how he was sounding. Of course, it was true, it was just—even for other adventurers, it was an incredible statement.
For a [Queen] who’d never really left her nation, or people who never fought monsters? Pisces floundered. Then he tried not to enjoy the attention.
 
——
 
“—They were each armed with dueling swords, not rapiers. But their movements were that of trained [Swordmasters] and [Duelists]. Each one was quite capable of imitating a high-level [Warrior]’s movements or even a footwork Skill. One came at us with a backflipping slash—very showy. That was when I realized they were immortal; I cut the Drake’s neck, and it stitched itself together with magic before my very eyes.”
Fifteen minutes later, Pisces was giving Jecaina and a small crowd of people a blow-by-blow of the Trial of Shields. And yes, he was showing off.
So what?
It was his first moment when anyone beyond Mrsha or Selys had given him an admiring look. Well, Remendia, but that was ages ago. And he was having fun telling someone the better parts of the damn Crossroads of Izril.
Not that Pisces gave away the secrets. But the more he told them how damned horrible it was, the more his audience loved it.
“And this was with your other teammates separated and an invisible foe stalking you through the halls?”
One of Jecaina’s followers called out excitedly, and Pisces brushed at his hair and sniffed. He had the urge to say something impressive—and then thought of what Erin would do if she heard him.
Hit him on the back of the head. Pisces stopped as he recalled the visceral fear and frustration of fighting Bograms and lowered his sword.
“Yes, well…I was spared from fighting Bograms. Colth was the true hero of the moment, or Ksmvr, really. I can hardly recount his tale as I wasn’t there, but Colth was beset by Bograms the moment we were separated. Yet he was clearing traps and fighting Bograms—until Yvlon found him. By smashing through each trap she encountered, including a literal boulder of death. I daresay it slowed her down…for a minute.”
His audience oohed. Jecaina was shifting from foot to foot excitedly.
“By boulder of death, do you mean…”
“Ah, well, I could show you. Imagine this rolling towards you.”
Pisces embellished a bit because he hadn’t actually seen the boulder Yvlon had been hit by. But he made a suitably spiky boulder that she had said was almost as tall as her. The illusion made some of the audience gasp, and Pisces gave them a somber look. Then a quick smile.
“I gather it ran into her at full speed.”
“And she survived?”
“Well, she is Yvlon.”
Telling stories about the others’ exploits was almost more enjoyable than his own. But Pisces did omit some of the details. Such as how he’d gotten the bell.
Some things were secrets his team needed to keep or sell off. But what struck Pisces most of all was Jecaina’s expression as he spoke.
“Now that’s a proper adventure.”
The Arbiter Queen’s comment was accompanied by murmurs and looks of admiration. But Pisces saw Jecaina shift, then lift Pisces’ rapier and stare at it as if trying to envision the battles he’d had.
To Pisces, they had been miserable, desperate, filled with starvation, and yes, moments of glory he’d never forget—which is why he couldn’t stop—but the look of longing in Jecaina’s eyes made him understand the difference between an adventurer and someone dreaming of it.
—He didn’t hate the way she looked so wistful. He’d felt the same way most of his life. And what she said surprised him the most of all.
“I wish I could say I had done something half as incredible as that. It’s an honor to meet you, Pisces.”
The [Necromancer] blinked. Even some of the people of Jecrass turned, smiling—until they realized she meant it.
So that was what a lack of self awareness looked like. Here stood the [Princess] who had won respect for arguing justice on a scrying orb. Someone who was, Pisces would argue, more famous than most Terandrian royalty.
He coughed.
“Your Majesty surely jests. The Horns of Hammerad can’t equal the accomplishment of a ruler of a nation like Jecrass. Especially one who did so much in its darkest hours. And you were at the Meeting of Tribes.”
That earned him murmurs of approval. But Jecaina just held the sword up.
“I had help, Adventurer Pisces. I am my father’s daughter; I am hardly the King of Duels, who could fight the King of Destruction to a standstill.”
“You…convinced the King of Khelt to come to Jecrass’ aid. You freed the Daemon from its bonds.”
She had a wry smile on her lips.
“Yes, after Fetohep took on the might of the Walled Cities, and the King of Destruction led the charge against the Drakes. I know who the true powers of Chandrar are, especially in this region, Pisces. Even my own deeds are only enabled by his aid. Without King Fetohep, I imagine Jecrass might have fallen. Next time, I might not have that aid. I hope I will be worthy of my reputation. Let us put it like that.”
She lowered his sword and proffered the blade to Pisces, and he took it slowly, studying the Arbiter Queen.
What a strange person. Simultaneously older than her age, accomplished, and utterly unaware of how she looked to other people. Like Erin had been at one time, he supposed. Did she not realize that her—her deeds had so little to do with might of arms? That it was not why her people clearly adored her and he himself had admired her actions?
It was something, Pisces supposed, when one could not see their own noble qualities leaking out of themselves. For if it were ever a tangible force, he thought he could sense it from her.
A lack of ego with her father returned. Jecaina looked so dolorous that Pisces said something without considering the implications.
“Well then, Your Majesty. Would you care for a duel?”
Jecaina blinked. Her head rose, and Pisces froze at the sound of his own voice. But no—he meant it.
“Are you sure? I wouldn’t wish to impose after my father asked.”
Pisces blustered.
“I believe—we are closer in skill level. And besides—I believe I would enjoy it. I have not actually properly dueled anyone in years, so I might be a poor match, but—”
“No. I should be delighted.”
Jecaina’s eyes lit up. She touched the rapier at her side, and Pisces felt his heart leap. Not just because he was pleased to see her smile; the green-haired [Queen] tilted her head, and he felt a thrill on the back of his arms as she drew her rapier.
She was a Silver-bell duelist after all. But Jecaina drew her sword as if he had a golden bell, and from the way several of her bodyguards whispered to her, they looked at Pisces as if he might behead her.
“Your Majesty, what about practice blades—”
“Practice blades? With another duelist of a Silver bell? Absolutely not. Padded gear if you must. What say you, Pisces? Ten points?”
“Very standard. Why not? Magic? Skills?”
“Could we try without, just so I might see how an adventurer of Izril duels?”
“Naturally—”
 
——
 
And that was how Pisces ended up facing the Queen of Jecrass across a practice court, swords ringing as they advanced back and forth, circling the other, testing guards, and learning each other’s style.
They both wore padded armor, of course, but they had their own blades. Jecrass was not a rich country, but Raelt had invested in some Braces of Deflection that blocked swift strikes above a certain level of speed; they’d flash and emit a sound. Perfect for a man who loved duels and wanted to use a real sword for them.
Jecaina grinned as she stood, one hand placed on her hip, facing him side-long, pressing him in a series of fast thrusts and feints that was apparently her father’s style—then switching into very smooth, carrying footwork.
No wonder Raelt was able to keep pace with even the King of Destruction like this! It was a very polished style meant for wider spaces than a mere dueling court. Pisces didn’t feel like he was slouching either; three times, Jecaina made the mistake of crossing blades with him only to find that Pisces could land a point by breaking the lock and turning it into a parrying slash.
It was so much fun, in fact, that Pisces realized he was smiling after thirty minutes of sparring as he wiped sweat from his face. Jecaina looked equally pleased, and a servant hurried over to give her some water to wash her face—and then retreated.
