Jecaina had hazel-green hair, long legs like her father, and they even stood similarly, with a duelist’s light-footed poise. Her voice was more…authoritative. Strange, but Raelt’s was more conversational, for all he had the air of a weary general.
“I know High King Perric well, Father. But what is an agreement if neither side will honor it?”
“Perric breaks agreements as he pleases, Jecaina. Listen, our guests—”
“Are we Perric, Father? How much more blood need be shed? And who is—oh!”
At last, Jecaina spotted the kneeling duo. Her cheeks flushed, and she recoiled—then stared down at the two in surprise. Her jaw dropped, and Raelt smiled.
“I told you I had important guests. I didn’t dare send a [Message] until we were out of Medain. Jecaina, may we speak later? Privately? I present Adventurers Pisces and Colth. Of the team—”
“The Horns of Hammerad. Yes, we’ve met before! At sea! They’re back? How?”
Jecaina’s eyes went round. Pisces started. She remembered him? The Arbiter Queen looked delighted—then outraged as she wheeled on her father.
“Father! The High King has their teammate, Yvlon Byres! Did you even think—”
She wavered, glanced around at the uncertain subjects watching the two rulers argue, at Pisces and Colth, and compressed her lips. Then she gestured to Pisces and Colth with a smile.
“Welcome to Jecrass.”
“Welcome to Jec—ah.”
Raelt had been doing the same thing. Both monarchs paused, indicating their city, their palace, and their people. They fell silent, father and daughter, and Pisces and Colth nudged each other until Colth popped to his feet and executed his best bow.
“Your Majesties! We are delighted to be here! Might I beg a boon? We are, I fear to say, parched and starved from a month at sea, and Pisces may swoon if we don’t get food into him.”
He grabbed Pisces’ shoulder, and Pisces tried to stomp on Colth’s foot. But Raelt smiled, and Jecaina clapped her hands.
“At once! Of course! Father, didn’t you feed—”
“Well, we had provisions on the road, but we were outrunning Medain. Is there a feast prepared?”
“Of course! And do make sure to have the [Chef] prepare that orange peel cake you love so much.”
For some reason, Raelt groaned softly as Pisces and Colth followed the strange procession into the palace. That was their intro to Jecrass.
 
——
 
It seemed the King of Duels really did like his new guests. Enough so that he didn’t ride back to Medain to continue harassing Perric’s forces. Instead, he announced he’d be remaining for a while, and a banquet was thrown that very evening.
The King of Duels’ and Arbiter Queen’s presence obviously convened a lot of pomp and circumstance around their being here, in one place—a somewhat rare occurrence, actually, it seemed—but Pisces was astounded to realize he and Colth were the theme of all the celebrations.
“Colth! What do we do?”
He hissed at Colth as they had dinner, and it was a taxing affair—not only was Pisces dressed up in some clothes they’d outfitted him with—a black doublet, which he didn’t know if it suited him, especially with the damn ruff—but everyone was staring at him and Colth.
“Relax, Pisces. Leave it to me. Just don’t say anything too confidential.”
Colth looked like the perfect courtier in his clothing, and he soon was speaking at the royal table as both Jecaina and Raelt leaned over to listen.
“—Ah, someone has an illustration from the Adventurer’s Guilds. Avert your gazes, please, anyone with a sensitive stomach, but this is a Watchertree. Note the legs?”
Someone blanched at the table; there were River Wardens, the local nobility, highly-ranked soldiers, and members of the court who looked askance at the illustrations of the Bloodfields monsters. Colth kept his voice low and dramatic.
“Six of them were crawling down the road at us. We didn’t have a choice; we had to fight. Do any of you know how a monster like this fights, perchance?”
Pisces was relieved, as Jecaina speculated correctly about the Watchertree’s roots, that Colth was doing the showmanship. Not only was he good at it—Pisces had gulped down his food, and the rich meal after so long at sea was leaving him exhausted.
He had to confess, with a few unwary gulps of wine, he was almost out before the sun had begun setting. After the dinner, he tried to shake hands with River Wardens, but he was yawning and apologizing—yet they didn’t seem to take offense.
“Naturally, naturally one would be exhausted after riding with the King of Duels and surviving for a month at sea. But I trust we’ll talk again? Riverwarden Mulre. You must call upon me, Adventurer Pisces, and of course, we are delighted the pair of you are guests of Their Majesties.”
“Such a delight.”
Riverwarden…Cerani added. The older woman smiled at Pisces, and he gave her his best smile. If only they knew I was a [Necromancer]. He assumed that he had some fame, but clearly, they had omitted the detail about his class. Or why the smiles?
He was, in fact, dimly braced for all this celebration of him and Colth to turn to outrage or disdain. Pisces murmured.
“I’m delighted to be so well-received by Their Majesties. I am sure things are endlessly busy.”
Riverwarden Mulre nodded darkly.
“Oh, aye. Between Medain and the clashes with—the King of Duels has our safety in mind. And the Arbiter Queen our wellbeing.”
Riverwarden Cerani’s eyes flicked to him.
“One cannot help but support—both.”
“Indeed.”
The two fell silent and then beamed hard at Pisces.
“—Which is why your presence is such a delight. I hope you’ll stay and that the King of Duels has a chance to rest, Adventurer Pisces. He seems quite taken by the pair of you.”
In fact, Raelt was still talking with Colth about the monsters, gesturing with his hands as the Arbiter Queen hovered on the outside of the conversation, glancing at them for some reason. Pisces looked around.
“I may need to sleep soon…er, apologies, River Wardens.”
“Not at all. Not at all—servant? I believe Their Majesty’s guest is exhausted. One would think a [Necromancer] is more prone to the night, eh?”
Pisces’ head snapped around, but Riverwarden Mulre just grinned and looked at Cerani—and she gave him a reproving look.
“I do hope we’ll see some of your magic here, Adventurer Pisces. Oh, and I know Adventurer Colthei is the ‘Ultimate Supporter’, but what does that mean?”
Pisces stammered out something about Colth being good at everything, and he was so flummoxed a servant led him to his rooms. He almost collapsed into bed, but stared at the ceiling for a second then remembered something.
Wait a second. Chandrar doesn’t persecute [Necromancers] like the other continents. He had known it, but old habits died hard, and it was a culture shock to experience firsthand. That was such a relief that Pisces almost smiled.
Then he felt the scar on his chest, and worry and fear seeped into him. Then he thought of Eloque, Bearig, and the others and closed his eyes. Ivery was still out there. They were still out there.
Pisces slept like the dead, knowing he’d rise sooner or later.
 
——
 
It turned out Raelt Leysars really did like the Horns of Hammerad. Enough so that the next day, he dragged Colth on a morning ride with him to tour Jecrass.
Pisces made the tactical judgment to sleep in and therefore avoided the King of Duels. Whether or not that was what he preferred, it turned out that unless you woke up at dawn like a psychopath, you would be behind Raelt Leysars, who started his day training with the sword at dawn.
He and his followers, the Trickriders of Jecrass, were proper [Duelists]. Not just in the golden bell that the King of Duels wore, no, in mentality.
Pisces’ father was like that. Wake up, splash your face with cold water, and walk outside to do a thousand lunges in your underclothes even if it was knee-deep snow.
Pisces refused. He would not. Yes, he had rediscovered his love of fencing. Yes, he was a Gold-rank adventurer who had achieved his rank by hard work as well as courage and insanity.
The entire point of that, as far as he was concerned, was that he had every right to wake up at 1 PM every damn day, even if Erin gave him a hard time for it.
He would, the [Necromancer] swore, invent a style of fencing whose core tenets involved sleeping in late to achieve true mastery. And he said as much to Colth when the [Supporter] tried to get him up.
“Alright, be like that. Dead gods.”
Pisces went right back to sleep at dawn. When he woke up and sleepily crawled out of bed, the sun was rising, exposing a gloriously bright day in Chandrar. Pisces stared at the rolling savannas, and a herd of animals in the distance, out the window of the royal palace, past the sprawling capital city of Inamress.
He closed the curtains—that damned Colth had left them open—and went back to sleep.
 
——
 
At 10:23 AM, or so a custom-made clock told Pisces, he wandered into the banquet hall after several mishaps. It was uncanny.
“Adventurer Pisces, are you in need of refreshments? Breakfast has ended, but the kitchen staff will take any order you have.”
“I, ah, yes. That would be quite welcome.”
The first servant who spotted Pisces bowed and tried to lead him to the banquet hall. But he insisted he was fine. Five seconds later, another servant spotted him and tried to do the same thing.
It was almost like he was a welcome guest or something. Pisces had never had hospitality this good. Especially not in Erin’s inn. In fact, when he slid into a seat, the [Royal Chef] herself came out to ask if Pisces wanted anything, anything from home.
“Leftovers from breakfast would be quite salutary. I’m aware I was late to breakfast and even brunch.”
“Not at all, Adventurer Pisces!”
Instead of leftovers, he was presented with a spread of seven dishes within ten minutes, each one steaming. The first dish alone would have done, frankly. Pisces was staring at a pile of thin, savory, pancake-like foods, some Jecrass-dish, which you slathered in sauces and rolled in breading, be it meat, cheese, or even more grains.
His stomach rumbled.
This looks delicious. However, Pisces had a grave concern, and it was not only having an audience: the [Chef] was peeking at him, and the servants were watching as they circulated the room—
He had the issue of anyone being treated to generous hospitality, another somewhat novel experience.
Am I supposed to eat all of this? What about the leftovers? I shouldn’t be a poor guest!
The first ‘leftover’ dish had eight thin pancakes which, when rolled with the condiments, were like a burrito in consistency. That was one of seven. There was an entire crock pot of what might have been porridge in another. A waterfall of greens advancing in color until you had sun-roasted tomatoes fresh from a pan, tossed with oil, over some kind of relative of spinach and baked yams.
Pisces swallowed hard.
 
——
 
Rescue came for the poor [Necromancer] twenty-one minutes into his meal. Queen Jecaina, the Arbiter Queen herself, walked into the room, and Pisces nearly choked on his third pancake. She nodded to him as he began to rise.
“Oh, please don’t, Adventurer Pisces. You’re an honored guest. I hope breakfast wasn’t too scant?”
“Not at all, Your, ah, Your Majesty.”
Jecaina eyed the breakfast as if worried they were underfeeding Pisces. When she sat, the servants rushed over, but she simply indicated the meal.
“I shall have a small meal if that’s acceptable. My father has already left; I think he’s touring the new Kheltian border. He took Adventurer Colthei with him.”
“Did he? I, ah, thank you for telling me. Your Majesty.”
“Jecaina, please. If we may be informal.”
It was quite surreal. She was younger than he was, Pisces realized. Twenty-two? In other circumstances, he would have looked down on her for being too young, but Jecaina had a strange gravitas to her. The weight of authority, he supposed. Like Lyonette had developed after working with Erin so long.
Maturity. Yet she was still, simultaneously, youthful enough that he had the odd push-pull of formality with a powerful individual and the chatting cadence of two people meeting each other for the first time.
That added to his already considerably taxed nerves, but Jecaina seemed hospitable, nay, friendly. And she rescued him from one predicament.
After seeing her take a single pancake and modestly roll it up with some nuts and a bit of butter, Pisces dared to hope that him not eating more wouldn’t break the [Chef]’s heart. He sat back, and Jecaina nodded.
“I hope you found your rooms acceptable?”
“Very. This meal is quite, quite—delicious. I couldn’t eat another bite. I hope Colth didn’t impose in any way?”
Jecaina chuckled, and the dishes were swept away to Pisces’ relief. She leaned forward slightly.
Dead gods, she has excellent posture. You noticed such things, or at least, Pisces had been trained to. No slumped shoulders. Well, she was the King of Duels’ daughter.
Jecaina glanced at Pisces, then ate her rolled pancake delicately.
“Not at all. If anything, Adventurer Colth—is that how he prefers to be called—is amazingly good at keeping my father distracted. He kept up with the Trickriders all morning and my father’s morning practice. He rides like he was born to it.”
“Colth is good at almost everything.”
That show-off. Pisces patted at his mouth and hesitated. Jecaina paused, and they had that moment where they were sure the other was searching for a conversation topic and unable to find one.
“Fine weather for a ride.”
“What? Oh, yes. It is. I recall that Izrilians have a winter with longer snows and whatnot. For us, it’s usually more of the same.”
“I see. But Jecrass is so very—green.”
Pisces waved a hand out the window, and Jecaina smiled.
“One of the greenest nations of Chandrar. We owe it all to our rivers. Past our borders, you’ll see why they call Chandrar the desert continent. That is, if you’re not planning on heading north towards the Claiven Earth, where your teammates are. That…might be trickier, but so long as Father doesn’t insist on escorting you, it should be simple.”
“Ah, so the two of them are in the Claiven Earth, now?”
Pisces had been finally caught up on the location of his teammates, and Jecaina gave Pisces a brief explanation of how she understood Yvlon’s departure from Medain went.
“I’m relieved she escaped High King Perric. He is a dangerous man—I am not as furious at him as my father, but I don’t discount how dangerous he is. In fact, I think I understand more of the danger—”
Jecaina sighed, and Pisces tried not to step on any landmine spells like the clear rift between her and her father. But he had to ask something.
“The, ah, Lawriders of Jecrass I heard of?”
