“Something tasteful. Nothing too gigantic. It might help with that [Innkeeper] too…maybe we can get her to upgrade our <Quest> to find the Mines of Zethe? Er—Eroon…”
“Erin Solstice.”
“Right. Yes, her. What else?”
“An emissary from Reim, Your Majesty. A single rider is moving at speed for our border and bearing the flag. We, ah, are minded to let them enter?”
Perric groaned. Of course they were. No one wanted to cross Reim at this moment—damn the King of Destruction. He waved a hand.
“Yes, yes. Let them through wherever. How fast? Well, these magical carriages will equalize the playing field soon. No longer will Couriers and speed-specialists have that edge. Focus on the adventurers, fool.”
He was more interested in the Mines of Zethe and the Horns of Hammerad. You see, the High King had been hamming it up a bit for Ceria and Yvlon. This was, in fact, an exceptionally devious ploy that he had come up with. Yvlon’s flight had interfered a bit, but he’d actually worked it into the charade.
Perric didn’t need the Horns of Hammerad to find the Mines of Zethe by themselves. There were other teams, but you had to look at it from the angle of 4-dimensional chess. No…6-dimensional chess.
The Empire of Sands was a growing threat, even if they were expanding slower. Roshal, likewise, was mixed into this along with the Hero of Zethe and the King of Destruction. What was the through line with them all, even the Claiven Earth?
Why, the Horns of Hammerad. Even if Perric paid Pisces’ bounty, Roshal wouldn’t be done with the [Necromancer]. All his sympathies aside, Perric foresaw a clear moment when he could play his various enemies against each other. The Mines of Zethe would be a windfall for any nation that claimed them—even the King of Destruction would want it for his campaigns.
All was going according to plan. The High King was looking forwards to another day of Ceria Springwalker; she was far more entertaining than Yvlon, even if she’d apparently put some holes in his palace walls. What he failed to realize was that Yvlon and Ceria had already left the palace that morning.
 
——
 
“My head hurts.”
Ceria looked terrible in the morning light. Yvlon, who hadn’t had half as much to drink, was somewhat sympathetic. They were walking down the street towards the gates of the city, trying to look casual.
“Are you sure you want to use my plan, Ceria?”
Yvlon’s plan was simple. Pretend to be lying abed, then use Ceria’s ice spells to slide out the windows and just use a magical carriage to get out of Medain. A thirty minute head start would make them impossible to catch because all the magical carriages moved at the same pace.
The [Armsmistress] had help; a concubine of Perric had run a request to the Mage’s Guild, and one was waiting just inside the city gates, hidden by a huge piece of tarp in an alleyway. It wasn’t cheap, but they were available to everyone, and all they had to do was get outside and leave.
“Yep. The High King’s not that helpful to us. I had some fun. We saw his plan. Nuts to this place.”
Ceria stared around at Medain balefully, eyes bloodshot. Then she glanced at Yvlon. Either she was still ‘melted’ from last night or she was being more honest.
“And fuck that [Innkeeper] too. Last night really put it into perspective for me, Yvlon. What is she doing on the news today? Dancing and fighting a battle in Baleros? If anyone should be weeping for what she did, it’s her. She had every right to call us. But I’ve never seen her just keep going on without mourning the cost.”
“She’s a bit like you, then.”
Ceria drank from a bottle of water and spat the last mouthful out.
“Well then, that’s terrible. Come on. Let’s find Pisces and Colth before they do something stupid.”
They were halfway down the main street and thinking that Perric had missed them when there was a raucous series of horns blowing—drums began pounding—and a group of [Soldiers] wearing golden armor marched in front of the gates. Ceria sighed.
“Aw. Didn’t Maef say she’d try to distract Perric?”
“She also said it only takes half a minute.”
“Heh.”
Ceria chuckled, but then there he was. The High King of Medain himself strode behind his Golden Ranks, and they barred the open city gates.
Even from afar, Yvlon could tell he was smiling; he was spreading his arms and shouting something, but they were too far away to hear it.
“Hey, I think he’s smiling at us. He must be mad.”
Ceria shaded her eyes. Yvlon just exhaled.
“The carriage is down that street. See it? Oh, there are [Soldiers] behind us.”
She jerked a thumb over her shoulder, and Ceria turned and saw some apprehensive men and women approaching them. The half-Elf eyed Yvlon, but the [Armsmistress] just stood there.
“Captain? What’s the plan?”
“You want me to do the plan?”
“You’re supposed to be smarter with the circlet, right?”
That was the entire point of Ceria wearing it. The half-Elf studied the circlet as she took it off her head. She glanced at Yvlon, then murmured.
“Just so you know, circlet…Joreldyn, the Mage of Rivers, knows exactly where you are. If you get ‘lost’ or I get hurt and lose you, he’s definitely going to find you and either seal you ten miles underground or toss you into the sea. Or just break you. Give me some help. All or nothing.”
She held the circlet a second, then her eyes flashed as she put it back on her head.
“Sorry. Just had to [Threaten Object] for a second there.”
“Not at all.”
Yvlon was stretching her arms, then legs. Now Perric had found a speaking stone.
“—trying my patience, Ceria, Yvlon! Why don’t we discuss this over breakfast?”
His voice boomed across the rapidly-emptying street, and Yvlon glanced at Ceria.
“Those Golden Ranks are former adventurers. Most of them aren’t actual Gold-rankers, but they would be with their weapons and armor.”
“I know. Clear a path. I’ll get the carriage and handle the rear. Do whatever you want to Perric.”
“Anything?”
Ceria slapped her circlet, took another drink of water, and exhaled.
“Anything. We’re not coming back here.”
Yvlon began walking forwards, wearing a slight smile on her face. Ceria began raising walls of ice behind them. And King Perric—
 
——
 
High King Perric was beginning to get annoyed by how the two adventurers were treating him. He was the High King of Medain, and this was how his generosity was being treated?
“Should we bar the gates, sire? That messenger from Reim—”
“Later! I am busy. Golden Ranks! Arrest Yvlon Byres and Ceria Springwalker.”
He hadn’t called on the Conquerors of Rameid or anyone else for this. The day he needed other adventurers to subdue a single team was the day he lost his crown. Still…the Golden Ranks shifted as they saw Yvlon Byres begin walking at them. Then striding along.
“Can we injure her, Your Majesty?”
The captain of his royal bodyguard looked at Perric, and the High King sighed.
“Healing potions. We still have some stocks. Obviously, if she’s willing to be amenable t—ah. She’s running.”
Well, to be more precise, Yvlon was now jogging. But since it was straight at Perric and his Golden Ranks, the High King felt like it was something of an aggressive move.
“Yvlon! You won’t enjoy my displeasure, I assure you. The penalty for defying the High King is severe.”
Well, he might enjoy the rewards of her being a de facto criminal, but he’d regret it. Behind them, more walls of ice were locking down the street.
Good tactics. Except for the fact that Perric was here. With his Golden Ranks. And it was just Yvlon Byres and Ceria Springwalker. The Silver Killer of Izril was running now. Just…running…arms and legs pumping.
At them.
It belatedly occurred to Perric that he hadn’t put his armor on. And while he had his personal sword and shield…he took a few steps back behind another rank of his people. He’d seen images of Yvlon fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs, of course.
But she was a sensible woman. One did not offend [Kings] lightly! Hah!
…Hadn’t she said she was wroth with him? But there was anger and there was insanity. High King Perric’s head hurt. Then he wondered…
“Enough horns already! No more trumpets!”
He snapped at one of his followers, and they looked at him. Perric realized no one was blowing horns. It was all in his head.
[Dangersense].
The High King’s head snapped up. He stared at Yvlon Byres, and a thought occurred to the merely adequate King of Medain. The fastest royal lover of Chandrar. The—
Here he was with less than his regular armor on and his Golden Ranks and bodyguard…staring down a woman over Level 40. Coming straight at him. The half-Elf had just locked down the streets to the palace.
This was how monarchs met their untimely ends. Of course, if someone was crazy enough to—
“That’s the Silver Killer?”
She was running faster, now. The Golden Ranks were getting nervous. The ones holding huge, gilded tower shields in the front rank were staring at her, and they knew her level. Now, Perric swore he could hear something in the suddenly eerie, quiet street.
“—name is Yvlon Byres. I’m a member of the Horns of Hammerad, a Gold-ranked team. Some may call me—”
Was she—was she saying her introduction as she ran? Perric’s throat was suddenly dry, and he croaked.
“Bows. Aim for her legs.”
Bows raised, much to the relief of everyone, including Perric. A dozen bowstrings snapped—and she kept running.
“Uh?”
Perric made a stupid sound as Yvlon didn’t even break stride. Now, he realized her skin had changed colors. He was staring at a woman with grey, iron skin—sprinting at him. And her arms were beginning to morph—
“Golden Ranks! Stop her! Lower the gates!”
Perric bellowed, and he began moving back. Yvlon’s eyes were locked on his face. She wouldn’t—they had a connection.
“Your Majesty! The emissary from Reim! They’re almost here!”
Already? Perric was shoving people aside, trying to get out of the gates just in case. He ignored his screaming advisor and heard the Golden Ranks shouting. Then—
Yvlon Byres began to lose her temper. High King Perric shoved two [Archers] aside, ran past a flinching [Mage] aiming a [Fireball] at a giant Frostmarrow Behemoth rising behind him—and stumbled out the lowering gates.
Perric ran out his capital city’s gates, then began to turn, wondering if he needed to run further. The gates were lowering into place. Good, solid, enchanted metal. It would buy him time to rally the army and—
“Halt! Halt! The city is under lockdown!”
Someone shouted from above. There was a scream rising from just past the gates—the Silver Killer was running straight out at his soldiers, and something exploded—and she kept screaming, but a [Guard] was shouting at someone coming from behind Perric.
The High King turned. A single rider was racing at the gates, nevermind they were closed. Moved by a kind of kinship for anyone facing the Silver Killer, Perric waved his arms.
“The gates are closed, fool! Stop! Stop for the High King of—”
He stepped forwards, waving his arms, and saw the rider coming straight at him. But he was the High King; he was wearing his royal clothing and his crown sat on his head. They had to see—Perric saw a horse. He stared up at an armored figure, a shock of amazingly red hair—and the most bored expression in the world.
The rider’s horse passed by Perric, so close he felt the saddle graze his shoulder as he twisted. The boot kicked him in the chest and sent him flat on his back. Then the woman drew her sword.
Mars the Illusionist swung her blade, and the gates vanished.
 
——
 
Ceria was plotting her exit strategy, which was going to hinge on whether or not Yvlon actually killed the High King of Medain. She was giggling; Yvlon was crazy. The world was crazy.
Yvlon, screaming her lungs out, was almost on the Golden Ranks of Medain, who were full-flinching as they stared at her and the Frostmarrow Behemoth Ceria’s circlet had summoned for her.
Then—the closed gates split. Ceria saw a line slash through the enchanted metal, then the gates blew inwards.
It sent the braced soldiers flying. Yvlon slowed, and her morphing arms became a shield. She blocked a chunk of metal flying at her, and Ceria shifted her aim.
What the hell was that? Even she hadn’t expected Yvlon to go through the gates; she had been planning to make a ramp to get the carriage over them.
“Enemy attack! Attack!”
A screaming [Minister] fled down the street as more [Soldiers] and the Conquerors of Rameid surged towards the gates. Their captain, Raava, aimed a bow at Ceria and realized the half-Elf already had a wand pointed between her eyes. But both adventurers were staring at the gates.
“Who—?”
The dust cleared, and a figure strode through the gates. Ceria’s mouth opened, and Raava’s eyes bulged.
She looked like she was seven feet tall, was garbed from head to toe in silver armor, and carried a fantastic, flaming sword at her side and a shield covered by lightning on her other hip. Ceria had never laid eyes on this woman in her life—but that was because her appearance changed. What Ceria did recognize was the crest on her armor.
Her aura.
Ceria’s [Dangersense] rang one hollow tone like the bones of the earth shifting, then fell silent. Just a warning.
Mars the Illusionist strode through the gates and tossed someone ahead of her. High King Perric struck several of his Golden Ranks, and they fell over. The greatest [Vanguard] in the world planted her sword in the ruins of Perric’s gate and gazed around.
Her eyes found Yvlon Byres standing there, panting, covered in metal, then the Frostmarrow Behemoth and Ceria in a moment. The half-Elf felt a shock running down her arms. Mars smiled.
“There you are. That was easy. Come on. His Majesty of Reim is waiting, Horns of Hammerad.”
“Wh—wh—”
High King Perric looked like he’d just taken a dust bath. He struggled upright. He was one of the few people who could speak; Mars’ presence seemed to steal everyone’s tongues. One of the King’s Seven? In Medain’s capital?
“My gates! How dare you?”
Perric howled at Mars, and the [Vanguard] glanced at him.
“No one stops an emissary of the King of Destruction. High King Perric of Medain, Flos Reimarch has called for Yvlon Byres and Ceria Springwalker of the Horns of Hammerad to be escorted into his presence this instant.”
She dug an armored pinkie in her ear, looking bored at even having to deliver this brief explanation. Then she smiled at Ceria.
“He heard you had trouble in Medain and sent me. So bored is he that he’s broken off war with Nerrhavia’s Fallen for a time to meet you two. We’ll ride like lightning southwards. D’you have those magical carriages? Ah, good. Let’s be off, then!”
