Jecaina was trying not to laugh as Pisces’ skeletal horse continued to gallop without him. But King Raelt just gave the horse a thoughtful look, then summoned the royal hostler to him. Pisces was trying to show Jecaina how the Horns normally used the ice chariot to ride around in when Raelt whistled.
“Hey, it’s a bit dusty—but try this!”
Pisces looked up, and the [Hostler] appeared holding the strangest saddle he’d seen yet. It was far larger than normal and had a weird structure to it. In fact—when the [Hostler] nervously put it over the skeletal horse, even Colth stared.
“Is that a…saddle for a skeletal horse?”
Raelt just looked pleased with himself as Pisces shot to his feet.
“I thought I remembered seeing one once. It’s got a structure so you can sit on it like a regular steed.”
The people of Jecrass would ride any horse. Living or, as it turned out, dead. Pisces began to climb onto the skeletal horse’s back in disbelief, and Colth tossed him off it.
“Pisces, you just got twice as useful—”
The skeleton horse bucked Colth off, and the two began to fight until the rulers of Jecrass burst out laughing.
 
——
 
One final thing of great note happened in Jecrass. Even if it was unpleasant the entire way through for Pisces, personally.
It occurred as Pisces was doing the sensible, logical thing: sending a [Message] to Ceria, Yvlon, Ksmvr, and the inn to let everyone know he was well.
He knew Erin was alive. The sight of her in Baleros hurt—for reasons he couldn’t have articulated. Maybe just hearing how she spoke.
I have run out of regrets. 
He should have been faster. She looked like a stranger. They had to go get her, and Pisces was wondering if it was even worth getting Ksmvr’s sword. He’d rather have Ksmvr, Vofea, Erin—
“So you don’t know where Ksmvr is? Can I leave a [Message] for him, please? At any Mage’s Guild?”
“Certainly, sir…let me just calculate the costs. Once he sends a [Message], our new, Wistram-designed service will automatically flag a [Message] for him. Have you considered teleportation, sir? We’re also pioneering a magical carriage service.”
Pisces was standing at the Mage’s Guild in Jecrass’ capital. He was relaxed, at least insofar as prejudice about him being a [Necromancer] was concerned. As for the Mage’s Guild? They didn’t know who he was; it wasn’t like he was the hero of all of Jecrass, and Pisces’ voice was very dry.
“I have some experience with teleportation, yes. I don’t think even my team and I can afford it. What’s this about magical carriages?”
The [Mage] working the front desk looked actually excited, oddly, to tell Pisces all about it.
“It’s all new magic, sir. From the Terras faction. Imagine teleporting to another city at low cost! Or using a magical carriage like Magnolia Reinhart?”
That drew Pisces’ attention. This was more magic than he thought even a graduate of Wistram like Falene could do.
“Teleportation? Magical carriages? I thought Wistram was half destroyed.”
The [Mage] laughed a bit nervously.
“There are some setbacks at the academy, but I assure you, the Isle of Mages and, more importantly, Archmage Eldavin’s faction are going strong. Soon, we’ll be able to teach [Mages] spells at the Mage’s Guild far faster and with a far greater diversity of spells than before! Imagine learning a Tier 4 spell, sir!”
“Imagine.”
That was strange. Tier 4 magic had put Pisces ahead of even Wistram students. He was going to ask more when the [Mage] put a finger to his brows.
“Just one second while I send a [Message] to Liscor to see who’s available. We could even do a [Communication] spell if—”
The young Human [Mage] was smiling until his eyes flicked up at Pisces. He was rapidly casting lower-tier Spells, and Pisces saw his expression freeze. Then he slowly lowered his hand. Pisces grew a tad bit worried.
“Is no one there? Is something wrong at Liscor?”
Another damn dungeon attack? The [Mage] gave Pisces a hesitant smile.
“No, sir. Just one second while I confirm…”
He left the desk, and Pisces blinked and focused on the [Mage]’s magic. He could sense the [Mage] casting another spell, which Pisces tentatively identified as [Message], again. Then the young man whispered to a [Mage] under a [Silence] spell, hiding his lips with a hand, and both looked at him.
Maybe my reputation’s caught up with me. Pisces was identifying spells now, even as other people cast them. He credited his spellbook from the Djinni for that. He waited at the desk until someone opened the door.
“City Watch. Where’s the runaway [Slave]?”
Pisces’ eyes widened. The [Mage] at the desk pointed at Pisces, and the [Necromancer] felt his chest itch. Ah, and there it was. He drew his sword so fast the other patrons and [Mages] recoiled, and he spun as the City Watch stared at him and backed up fast.
Chandrar. Chandrar—
If not for the Slavers of Roshal, he’d love it so much more. Pisces lifted his blade, a spell on his lips, and the [Captain] took one look at him and shouted.
“Stop, stop! That’s the Arbiter Queen’s guest, you idiots!”
 
——
 
Level 3 [Slave]. Pisces’ class. Of all the ways for it to come out—Pisces should have known.
Colth was as upset as Pisces.
“I should have remembered. I should have damn well remembered—they test for that. Jecrass isn’t even that stringent, so it was just that addle-brained flunkie at the desk who ran a spell on you.”
“He didn’t [Appraise] me. He can’t.”
Pisces had a ring against it like anyone high level. Colth threw himself into his seat.
“He didn’t have to. They checked Roshal’s registry.”
Pisces had been slumped in a chair in a waiting room in the palace. He had not been arrested. The moment they’d realized an angry Gold-rank adventurer and Jecaina and Raelt’s guest was there, the City Watch had very immediately backed off and asked him to return to the palace.
Jecaina had been informed. And Raelt. Colth went back to the window and kept fiddling with it; they weren’t under arrest, and there were no guards outside their doors that Pisces could sense with [Detect Life]. But that might soon change.
“I don’t see anyone outside. I signal, and you go for it. It’ll lock behind us, and I’ve reinforced the glass.”
Pisces didn’t respond. He just sat there, and Colth grabbed his arm.
“Hey. Focus. Second move is the door. I’ll put a piece of metal on the hinges. Even if they’ve spelled it, I’ll crack the door off the wall. Got it?”
“They really will be hunting me, won’t they?”
Colth’s grip tightened on Pisces’ shoulder.
“We won’t make it easy. Going after a public adventurer like you isn’t easy for Roshal. We’ll make a stink about it; I know my friends will help raise your name in conjunction with them illegally enslaving you. We can spin publicity on it. Just—”
He stepped away from Pisces and gave Jecaina and Raelt a huge smile as the two walked in. A fake one; Jecaina and Raelt wore none.
“Pisces. Colth. I’ve heard the accounts from the [Mage] at the guild and the City Watch [Captain]. Neither group knew it was you. They were acting in accordance with our treaties with Roshal. Treaties which are hundreds of years old. As old as current Jecrass is. It’s rare to find an escaped [Slave] in the city, but they would have alerted the Slaver’s Guild of Roshal and held you until a slaver picked you up. I have informed the Watch, and Mage’s Guild, that any action against you will earn the enmity of Jecrass’ crown.”
Jecaina’s voice was tight, and Pisces looked up slightly as she stood in front of him. King Raelt of Jecrass stood further to the side, pacing with an orange of all things. When Jecaina turned, the King of Duels spoke.
“Hm? Yes. Absolutely. No one is to touch an honored guest.”
“An illegally enslaved guest, Father.”
“You can’t fight Roshal, Jecaina. Not at the moment. Every single advisor just said so—”
The Arbiter Queen was clearly at the back end of an argument. She ignored her father, turned to Pisces.
“I have not reviewed your entire case. But from what I did find—a [Slaver] imprisoned you moments after you teleported out of the Village of the Dead? That’s injustice. Every action afterwards is built upon that unlawful act, but Roshal hasn’t done a thing about it.”
Her eyes darted to her father, and Raelt sighed as he peeled the orange.
“Because they’re Roshal. Like Khelt—even the King of Destruction cannot bully them around. Pisces. I apologize for that. I wasn’t aware of the situation.”
The King of Duels seemed the more possessed, if weary, of the two in this moment. Jecaina paced, then threw herself into a chair.
“So this is what it is to be a ruler of a nation? How many of those River Wardens and advisors pleading with me not to even complain to the Slaver’s Guild of Roshal followed you into battle at Belchan?”
“Jecaina. We can discuss this later.”
The sharp argument between the two royals made Pisces’ own black mood—not lighten, but distracted him. Embarrassed, Jecaina turned to Pisces and sat there awkwardly. It was the King of Duels who tried the orange, grimaced, then threw it out the window. He turned.
“May I know your side of the story, Pisces? We don’t intend on arresting you or sending you to Roshal. We cannot and will not censure Roshal, if we even had the ability to—”
He eyed his daughter, and she crossed her arms.
“—But I would like to know. Simply as one captive to another.”
He met Pisces’ eyes, and the [Necromancer] slowly exhaled. Colth gave Raelt a big smile, then looked at Pisces.
“You don’t have to say a word.”
“Of course not—”
Jecaina half-rose, but Pisces nodded at Colth.
“I would rather tell someone sympathetic than leave it hanging, Colth. I…”
He stopped and stared at nothing. How did you even begin? The manifest injustice of it—the moments with the other [Slavers], from Igheriz and Riqre to the bland and boring bastard of Hrome…
Pisces was unable to speak until he looked at Jecaina. The Arbiter Queen sat there, not the former [Princess] with a sword, not the young leader.
The [Queen of Covenant] sat there, her face cold. Not hostile. But not angry either, at least, not visibly.
“Adventurer Pisces Jealnet. I may have no authority beyond these walls. We shall see. But if you speak, I would like to hear your version of events. And I swear, I will remember it.”
That cold expression was almost terrible—if Pisces didn’t believe that the scales of Jecaina’s justice were weighed by a morality he had seen. So—he looked at her and began to speak.
 
——-
 
Once, Pisces had told Numbtongue about some—some of what he had experienced in Chandrar. He still remembered that conversation in a bath house in Liscor.
With Tessa, Shriekblade. It had been one of the hardest things he’d ever done. It had been because Numbtongue had been a friend, because Pisces had to tell someone. Now?
Yes, he had been on a ship with Queen Jecaina, and Raelt was the King of Duels. Pisces admired him. But it should have been far harder to tell them what that scar meant, let alone show it to them.
It was not Colth that made it easier. It was partly Jecaina, who sat there, unmoving, a judge in repose, just like she had once judged Prime Minister Lyfelt of Belchan.
—But mostly? It was because the words had to come out. Pisces could barely hear his own voice. He knew it wandered and became inarticulate and lost until Colth added a detail or one of the two asked a question.
He should have been ashamed. No—the voice that sounded like Padurn Jealnet, Pisces’ father, would have been ashamed at his son’s tone. But Pisces had seen an Adult Creler die. He had gone back, once upon a time, when he could have run.
He liked to think he knew what bravery was, even if he mostly recognized it in other people. He was not ashamed when his throat closed up in mentioning Cawe.
How much sense he made, he didn’t know. He tried to begin with Igheriz and waking up as a [Slave] after teleporting to Chandrar—then surviving the long trek through the desert. Hrome. Then Riqre…
Colth stopped the tale by pouring a cup of tea that soothed Pisces’ throat. He blinked—and realized it was dark. Hadn’t the sun been up?
“…And then I suppose the rest you know. I—I escaped. With Bearig and Merr the Storm. Until we reached Pomle. The rest is a matter of public record, one imagines.”
Pisces gazed up, and [King] and [Queen] regarded him, faces so difficult to read. Jecaina sat in the same chair, facing Pisces, hands gripping the armrest, face schooled to impassiveness. Deliberately, her eyes glittering with what Pisces thought might be tension. As if, if she didn’t do this, she would be betraying her own role.
The King of Duels was even more imperceptible in his way. He stared out the window, a hand resting on the hilt of his sword. He didn’t look angry. He just studied the stars. His gaze roaming that brilliant sea of shining lights as if he had gone colorblind a moment and was searching for…
“And that’s all, I think, Your Majesties. My teammate is innocent. Not that you could prove it in Roshal’s courts of law. I am Named-rank adventurer Colthei the Supporter. I back his tale, and I guarantee his safety on Chandrar.”
The man with brown-green hair swept the two a smile and broke the silence. His violet eyes rose, and for a second, they glittered. He had a polite, formal smile on his face. Not the smile of a Demon. But the two shifted when he raised his head.
As if they could sense the threat. But once more, their responses differed. King Raelt just nodded shortly.
“That is the kind of insurance you will need if you linger, Adventurer Pisces. A Named-rank adventurer’s word is worth a good deal, even a foreign one. Thank you for telling me the truth of your adventure. I am sorry.”
Queen Jecaina half-twisted in her chair. She looked at her father, then at Pisces. And what she said was:
“Your story corresponds to the information available to me, Pisces. As well as my understanding of Roshal’s actions. There are no other survivors to ask, are there?”
“The other [Slaves], but they’ve scattered to the winds.”
Pisces murmured. Raelt favored his daughter with a frown, but she just brushed at her own green hair and nodded.
“I knew [Slaves] were sometimes unlawfully enslaved, but you never enjoyed their presence in the palace, Father. I wonder—how does it seem to pass a [Slave] in the street to anyone not born of Chandrar? I never thought of that until now. I am…indeed sheltered.”
She fell silent, and Raelt shrugged uncomfortably.
“It is a stain on Roshal’s reputation, what occurred with Adventurer Pisces. That Emir…”
He shivered. Then shook his head.
