Did you know what the Claiven Earth reminded Ceria Springwalker, a half-Elf, of?
Not home, that was certain. Hah!
She walked through the balmy forest underneath vast trees grown in imitation of the ancient forests, in hopes one day they might become Treants or World Trees—strung with bridges and even tree-homes built on the branches.
It looked like what you imagined a half-Elven city to be like. Arboreal. Filled with too much woodworking; wood bent or magically grown to do what you could more easily accomplish with steel. Lots of tree houses.
A nightmare for any half-Elves who were actually afraid of heights. If Ceria turned her head, she could see half-Elves striding along the central ‘city’ of the Claiven Earth set amongst the oldest trees. If she stepped down from these lofty heights, she could reach smaller sub-communities and villages, but the city here probably contained a third of the Claiven Earth’s population in this unique Chandrarian nation. Their vertical buildings had been built up two hundred feet off the ground already on the trees. And what trees.
Any one might be over four hundred feet tall, which was insane, but the Claiven Earth was a small plot of land. It had a lot of vertical real estate. Oh, and they were so wide around that you could find cracks or divots large enough to create homes in.
In fact! Giant trees like these were huge hazards to themselves. Consider what kind of species might be four hundred feet tall and have the diameter of a skyscraper from Earth. You know what a wood-eating beetle called that? Food for it and all its friends for the rest of their lives.
Thus, you had to understand that what was in the Claiven Earth wasn’t the glorious, magical trees of old, but freakish hybrids of overfed trees carefully and obsessively tended-to by their owners. Left alone, they’d probably turn into rotten, insect-ridden corpses split by lightning or wind within the decade.
Magical trees, or so Ceria had always been told, were scary as Rhir’s hells, and half-Elves honored to live amongst them were on their best behavior. Claiven Earth’s trees? Big. Had lots of chirping wildlife—few insects—some even bore huge fruits or had the scents from perfumed bark. Idealistic, lovely monoliths of a gentle forest.
“Grandma always said her great grandma remembered saplings of real magical trees would smack the heck out of anything that got close. Or had poison ivy bark. You pee on the wrong tree and a Dryad comes out and breaks your kneecaps. That’s a forest.”
Ceria idly spat some seeds over one of the tree bridges. She still liked the Claiven Earth; it was really neat. It was like what half-Elves thought real, ancient half-Elven civilization should look like.
As a representative of an actual half-Elven village, Ceria had to say: the Claiven Earth was a lot nicer-looking. Her village had trees, but they were ordinary, got rot and fungi, and the forests were miserable to live in as a kid with no bushcraft skills. These? She imagined she could walk into this forest and come out with a bounty of fruits and an animal companion.
In fact, Ceria actually tried that. She stopped chomping on a banana, and as she headed towards a bridge leading up to the house she and Yvlon had been temporarily granted, she held it out.
“Pst. Hey, you want a banana?”
A very cute passing bird with white feathers and a golden tail stopped, chirped, and instantly began pecking at the banana. It was clearly used to strangers, and Ceria watched as it hopped onto her hand.
“Aw, how cute.”
The half-Elf let it rest on her wrist. The bird rubbed its head against a finger as Ceria patted it on the head, then took hold of it by the wings.
“Now that’s an easy lunch.”
The bird made a shrill sound of alarm, and a passing half-Elf boy stared at Ceria in such horror that the [Cryomancer] let go of the bird. It flew off, shrieking insults, as every half-Elf in range stared at Ceria.
“Outsiders. She looks like us, but she has no respect for nature. Is she actually from a half-Elven village?”
One muttered in a tone meant to be heard. A half-Elf wearing an all-natural, all-plant dress with a flower and root-braid securing an amazing head of hair, with strands falling in every direction, turned her nose up at Ceria.
She had style. Her bare shoulders were tanned like most half-Elves’, unlike Ceria’s pale skin. She was beautiful like many half-Elves with access to an entire city’s worth of nature-made cosmetics, and she seemed horrified at Ceria’s treatment of nature; the Dove of Glory actually hid behind her in terror.
Ceria rolled her eyes and called back cheerfully.
“My great grandma was born before the Claiven Earth. You think a real half-Elven village lets an obnoxious, singing bird sit and break the monotony up? Half the elders would shoot the damn thing by breakfast.”
Her smile widened as the debutante gave her a look of horror and disgust. And incredulity; Ceria put her hands behind her head as she strolled onwards and upwards. She called over her shoulder.
“Real half-Elves in real old villages don’t dress up and wear all-natural dresses either, just so you know. What’s the point? You’re dressing up for the short-lived races and so people remember you. Forever is the same piece of clothing, in the same wardrobe, for a century.”
She’d had a neighbor who wore the same outfit like that. He’d gotten so disconcerted one time after realizing he’d sewn up one of his shirts with a visible seam that he’d gone and replicated the tear and repair on all his clothing just so it wouldn’t throw everyone off. The other half-Elves stared at Ceria’s back as she skipped ahead.
No, Ceria didn’t miss home at all. And the Claiven Earth reminded her why she hadn’t even lingered in other half-Elven nations like Gaiil-Drome.
The city. The way some of the half-Elves became nature-loving freaks. This was all in pursuit of a vague idea of what Elves should be. To Ceria, it was a more insidious poison than actual toxic beetles.
Who said Elves loved trees? Did they? Was it just one of them like the last Elf Queen? Ceria knew she was getting on the nerves of some of the half-Elves here.
She was, after all, a minor celebrity. She’d been fished up by a boat and instantly escorted here after the battle at sea. They’d patched her up, celebrated their ‘honored sister’ from afar, and then very carefully made sure not to publicly condone any of the actions she’d taken at sea.
Also—the Speaker of the Trees, Lastimeth, had used the last few weeks to grill her about the Crossroads of Izril. Not just him; all the older half-Elves had wined and dined Ceria both individually and in large groups and tried to pressure her into revealing something. Anything.
Since Ceria had her circlet and she was used to it, she’d kept almost everything private. But it hadn’t been fun gathering her strength until Yvlon showed up. Still, there were some perks.
“Captain Ceria! Welcome to the market! Would you care to look at our wares?”
The half-Elf’s ears perked up as she crossed through a commercial market area towards her residence. She stopped, turned, and saw something not unlike an open-air bazaar in Liscor. Half-Elves were displaying carefully arranged artisanal goods at stalls.
Even here, it was part of the act. If you needed a bulk-produced item from Medain or elsewhere, there were Human [Merchants] allowed in who could get you what you wanted. This was for people who took up crafting and enchanting.
The half-Elves here smiled at Ceria, not just because she was loaded with gold. The children Ceria didn’t scare peeked at her, and their parents tried to keep them from talking too long to the Ice Squirrel, a Gold-rank adventurer.
That’s me. Heroine and cool girl to everyone who doesn’t know what it’s like. Ceria scratched at her head as she trotted over to the [Shopkeeper] who’d called her name.
“Hey, what’s on offer today? Wait…are those enchanted canteens? What’s the enchantment? Taste? They make whatever’s inside taste weird?”
She picked up a series of wooden canteens, each one very light and wrapped with a bit of cloth that afforded a nice grip. They could clip onto your belt, but more importantly—the half-Elf [Shopkeeper] blinked.
“That’s, ah—that’s right, Captain Ceria. You have a very good magical eye. Water, in fact. Any water will taste differently. Would you care for a…”
He had a sample he was ready to offer and clean after—but the half-Elf winced as Ceria produced her own water flask, splashed water into a canteen, and took a long sip.
“Whoa. Juice!”
She smacked her lips appreciatively as heads turned. Among the half-Elves present, she was the most notable; you could see younger half-Elves wavering, a teenager only thirty-nine years old whispering excitedly to her friends, holding a bow, clearly wanting to ask for tips about being an adventurer.
No one was as iconic as Ceria. In fact, the people in the market barely looked at the half-Elf with white strands in her hair wearing a forest-green tunic embroidered with gold leaf patterns. Ierwyn, the Herald of the Forest, didn’t even wear her sword around on her hip; she kept it hidden in a bag of holding. She had lived here so long people treated her like any other half-Elf most times.
Well—they’d remembered who she was when she’d gone to war against Khelt. But every eye was on Ceria these last few weeks, and Ierwyn didn’t mind that. She watched as Ceria took another gulp and then made a quick decision.
“I’ll take, uh, fifteen.”
The trinket-maker stared at Ceria with a polite smile of disbelief—then of sudden eagerness.
“Fifteen, Captain Springwalker?”
“Sure. Why not? At sixteen silver? Eh, better make it thirty-five. The entire lot. Here.”
Ceria placed thirty gold pieces on the table. She estimated that was good enough. The trinket seller froze, and Ceria waited.
“Hello? Is that good?”
“I—ah—yes. Of course. Thank you, Captain Springwalker.”
Ceria happily began dumping the canteens into her bag of holding. It was another action that earned her the mild censure of those who had never seen an adventurer shop. That didn’t surprise the half-Elf who’d spotted Ceria and observed her.
The Herald of the Forests, Ierwyn, knew that Gold-rank adventurers could spend money like water. What she didn’t understand was why Ceria had bought up so many low-grade canteens, let alone what she did next.
The half-Elf was on an unholy shopping spree. One second she was collecting canteens, the next? She was making a run on bowstrings, packets of seeds, a pair of blown glass window panes, of all things, that reflected a blooming flower as the sunlight shifted over the course of the day, and so many magical items and even children’s toys that shoppers began frantically buying things they needed before Ceria emptied the stock.
“Captain Ceria. May I ask what you’re doing?”
After the eighth gratified and bewildered [Shopkeeper] was counting the gold pieces, Ierwyn approached. Instantly, Ceria looked up.
“Herald Ierwyn. Hi. I’m not in trouble for wrecking the local economy, am I?”
She gave the far older half-Elf an impish grin, and Ierwyn was reminded of…exactly no one at all. She’d met few half-Elves like this. Even her most energetic of cousins or the younger half-Elves she sometimes tutored didn’t have this spark of chaos.
“Not at all. If anything, I’d imagine everyone’s pleased. That is, if you didn’t steal something they were after.”
“Eh, I’ll be gone soon, and I assume more can be made. This is a nice canteen.”
Ceria had just tried the magical effect on one of the water canteens bound with orange-treated fabric that, yes, made the water taste like orange juice. She drank greedily, and Ierwyn raised her brows.
“You, ah, are aware the only effect is taste? It’s not enchanted to preserve the freshness of the water. Or condense more. Or anything else. If you are shopping for good gear, I imagine Medain might have a far better artifact.”
Ceria wiped at her mouth.
“Me? Artifact? Nah; I’m not interested in figuring out what will add to my magical limits for gear. This is just a souvenir. For friends.”
Ierwyn kept staring, and Ceria, with a chuckle, explained something that Ierwyn had never considered.
“It’s a nice canteen. Something that makes boring water taste like a juice? Everyone in Izril that I know would kill for this. Even people like Erin Solstice!”
The [Innkeeper] herself? Both Ierwyn’s and the [Shopkeeper]’s ears perked up at this.
“It sounds like a marketable opportunity.”
Ceria shrugged.
“Yeah, well, if you want to figure out how to mass-produce the canteens, get them all the way over to Izril, and whatnot, be my guests. Me? I’ll settle for thirty-five canteens made in the Claiven Earth. They’ll be a great gift to all my friends—however many there are left alive.”
For a second—just a second—her smile faded. Then she gave Ierwyn a huge wink and a grin, and the Herald exhaled slightly.
“—You are truly an adventurer to the core, Captain Ceria. Not a soldier.”
“I’m pleased you know the difference. The Claiven Earth really is peaceful, isn’t it?”
“It is our pride that even the King of Destruction did not affect us as much as some nations, both before and after his slumber. Though peace is a precarious thing of late. So you’re already thinking of your return to Izril?”
Ceria began heading out of the market, and the two talked as the half-Elves continued towards Ceria’s abode. The [Cryomancer] wagged a finger at Ierwyn.
“Izril? I don’t need to hang onto the canteens or ship them back home to get rid of them. I could probably go to Medain and find people who think these are the greatest ever. And sell them for double or triple what I just bought them for. You really don’t travel a lot for the famous Herald of the Forests, do you?”
Ierwyn was surprised by her own blush. Mostly because Ceria had hit the mark dead on. The younger half-Elf turned and grinned.
“It’s been a while, hasn’t it?”
“I, ah, two hundred years more or less. I did split my time between campaigning and home quite often when I was more active.”
“Roving around on the campaign as the Herald of the Forests?”
Ierwyn grimaced at the name, but she’d had this conversation literally tens of thousands of times.
“It was an old title that caught on. When the Claiven Earth was less…well regarded, I did indeed make war in distant kingdoms. I was grateful for an end to that, even when the King of Destruction rose to prominence.”
Her reputation, and the Claiven Earth’s earned neutrality, had been part of the reason they’d been spared his empire-spanning wars, even if they had fallen under his aegis. However, Ceria just exhaled.
