She whistled, and a horse delicately picked its way through the gates and trotted over to her. Yvlon was panting; her [Aspect of Iron] morphed back to flesh.
“Flos Reimarch wants us?”
Mars was standing there jovially, larger than life—but her sword rose and pointed at Yvlon in a heartbeat, and Yvlon raised her arms to guard herself.
“King Reimarch to you. And to you, High King of Medain.”
“You have assaulted the High King of Medain and destroyed my property, Illusionist!”
Perric roared, and Mars closed her eyes. Her lips moved, and she seemed to count to ten. Then she opened one piercingly green eye and stared at Perric.
“So? Listen to me, little man. I will be leaving with the Horns of Hammerad in moments. The only question to me is whether I take my liege your head for my troubles or not.”
She lifted her shield, and the Golden Ranks drew back a step. Ceria realized she had a smile of delight on her face. Perric went deathly pale. He stuttered.
“We signed a peace after—”
“And you are testing my patience. Only the thought of having to ride all the way back here with some soldiers to take control of Medain after beheading you stays my hand. Do you think this is yester-year, Perric? The King’s Seven have assembled. Nerrhavia’s Fallen quakes! Silence your tongue, stand aside, and watch what you say to my back. Or the Archmage of Lightning shall zip over to rain lightning down on your capital for a day.”
Mars’ voice rose with each passing sentence until it thundered around the city. Then she pointed her sword.
“Are you coming, Ceria Springwalker, Silver Killer? Or shall we make this a challenge like the Coliseum of Monarchs? You owe me a sparring session in good humor or ill, one [Gladiator] to another!”
She grinned; one of this world’s most powerful [Warriors] gazed at the two of them. Ceria Springwalker slowly slid forwards on a floor of ice. She passed by the High King, who was a frozen sheet of ice. Ceria was so tempted to grab his crown…
“Ceria. You are crazy. I was only going to kill him. Give it back.”
Yvlon was staring at Ceria as the half-Elf skated over to her and Mars. The half-Elf blinked down at her hands. A huge crown was in her hands. She started.
“Oops.”
That wasn’t even the circlet. Even it thought that was a stupid move. But the intrusive thoughts had won. She was definitely levelling up as a [Prankster]…Ceria hesitated, and Mars?
Mars threw her head back and guffawed. She stared down at Ceria, then jerked her head.
“Well, shall we be off?”
“Er—don’t you want me to give it back?”
Ceria showed Mars the crown, and the Illusionist winked at Ceria.
“My King only wants you and Yvlon Byres. Your two comrades as well, but he’s tasked someone else with finding them if I cannot. Take the crown if you don’t think it’s too gaudy. It’s a decent recompense for him wasting your time.”
No, no, no…even Yvlon was giving Ceria a stare. The half-Elf? She slowly put the crown on Yvlon’s head.
“You give it back, then. Alright! I’m ready to go.”
She practically ran for the magical carriage. After a second, Yvlon got in. Ceria gave orders to the magical ‘driver’ in the front seat, a spectral man.
“Follow, uh, follow Mars the Illusionist.”
“Error. Individual not located with [Appraisal] spell in vicinity—”
“Ah. Follow, uh, that horse.”
“Acknowledged. Thank you for riding Wistram Academy’s new, premier transportation service courtesy of the Terras—”
They began riding out of the gates. Mars was already galloping ahead, and Ceria sat back in the carriage.
“From one nation to another. Is this how it’s gonna be, Yvlon? The King of Destruction himself. Dead gods. At least we got away from one of them, eh?”
“Um.”
They looked out the window. Behind them lay the shattered gates, the people of Medain—the Conquerors of Rameid—Ceria blew a kiss at Raava and her team, then saw Perric. She waved at him as the man, his red hair a mess, clothes disheveled, stared at her. She blinked at Perric.
“Uh. Yvlon? Where’s his crown?”
Slowly, ever-so-slowly, Ceria’s head turned, and the Silver Killer of Izril shifted—and Ceria saw Yvlon had the crown in her lap.
“I didn’t feel like giving it back.”
The two stared at each other. Then glanced back—and they were already a hundred feet away from the capital and accelerating. After a second, Ceria slowly sank down in her seat.
“Can—can this thing go any faster? You’re crazy, Yvlon.”
“I’m crazy?”
They began arguing and blaming the other until they heard Mars laughing.
 
 
[Class Change: Prankster -> Trickster of Crowns class obtained!]
[Trickster of Crowns Level 21!]
[Skill – It’s a Joke, Not a Crime obtained!]
[Mischief Skill – Royal Slash obtained!]
[Skill – Copy Spell (Temporary) obtained!]
[Bound Item – The Crown of Medain ownership assigned!]
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet hoped Ceria and Yvlon stayed out of trouble. They were the responsible ones. Well, Yvlon was, and Ceria was a very canny leader for all she liked her jokes.
He hoped that was the case. For he and Colth had strayed into Khelt’s new lands in Jecrass. Functionally, they weren’t that different from Jecrass itself.
Their escort had left them, and the land had begun to reek of death magic. But not death magic that would kill crops…just a sign of the undead filling this place.
They were visible as well, marching squads of them—quite a lot, actually. It seemed almost as though there had been trouble.
The people looked remarkably adjusted to their new lot in life. At least, enough to wave at Pisces and Colth and ask if they were ‘more troublemakers’. When the two shouted that no, they were not and were seeking an audience with Fetohep—and they weren’t challenged by the undead—the people came hurrying over to gossip and talk.
Few people could move in Khelt who were not actually Kheltian. The former citizens of Jecrass who had decided to remain had already realized the undead were no threat to them, and Pisces saw vast fields being plowed by skeletal oxen.
He stared at a vision from the past, given reality, as a huge half-giant made of bones slowly turned a gigantic mill being built. More were dragging stones over, and a Human marshaling them raised a hand.
“Hail, friends. I recognize you, and by leave of His Majesty of Khelt, you are given leave to pass! I am [Death Commander] Lanodest, who leads the glorious dead and the living of Khelt; this outpost in Jecrass we hold safe. The troublemakers learned that long ago and left for Khelt itself. If you seek King Fetohep, you will find him there.”
Pisces and Colth hadn’t known if making the detour all the way to Khelt was smart. They’d hoped Fetohep might appear before them like he had before, but it seemed Khelt was occupied with troubles.
They were debating heading north to Medain after all, or continuing south, when the monarch found them.
That was why Pisces hoped Ceria and Yvlon were staying out of trouble. You see…he looked at Colth as the large escort of nearly two hundred people, all wearing veils and concealing clothing, set up camp.
They weren’t standing around the two adventurers in a guard, but one did not just turn and ride away from a waiting ruler. And this one had come into Khelt’s lands to find them.
Few people could do that, even the King of Destruction. Pisces swallowed, and Colth hissed in his ear.
“Remember. Don’t say anything without thinking it over.”
Then he ducked into the tent, put on his best smile, and instantly knelt.
“Quarass of Germina! We salute you! The Quarass lives! Germina endures!”
The youngest monarch that Pisces had ever met was lounging on a platform of cushions. The Quarass of Germina raised a hand, and the fans stopped wafting at her. She looked at Pisces, and he sighed.
He was getting really sick of royalty in Chandrar. At least the ones in Terandria left him alone. After Colth had profusely offered his compliments, the Quarass of Germina spoke. A child’s voice. An unsettling age to each word.
“I shall not take our time up with games, Colthei Lacment, Pisces Jealnet. The King of Destruction will soon have Ceria Springwalker and Yvlon Byres, and I have no mind to clash with his will in this. You will listen to my proposal. The King of Destruction has his desires; so too does the Speaker of Trees in the Claiven Earth, High King Perric, and the two rulers of Jecrass. You shall choose which ruler to aid in due time.”
Pisces swallowed, and Colth gave the Quarass a huge smile. Her bodyguards eyed him with great suspicion and wariness. Which, Pisces had to own, was probably appropriate.
“Quarass, we are to be in Baleros. The last thing we wish is to be involved in any trials in Chandrar!”
She smirked at him.
“Your Empress and her mighty consort would beg to differ, Colthei. I doubt they put reins on your actions.”
He stiffened, and she went on.
“My displeasure can be a dangerous thing. My favor is simple: I know where your companions are, Pisces Jealnet.”
He froze, and the Quarass smiled at him, then eyed Colth again as the [Ultimate Supporter] began to sweat. The Quarass fanned herself. Then spoke.
“I have something to offer Colthei as well, and my desires are more complex. I wish two things of you. The first will dovetail with the King of Destruction’s request. The second…have you heard of Chemath Marble?”
Pisces sighed as someone opened a box. He stared at a lump of magical stone, then at Colth, then at the Quarass. And he had only one real thought.
He wished Ksmvr were here. Vofea too.
 
——
 
On another continent, sitting on a rock and throwing stones at the stupid water as he stared at the wreck of Calanfer’s ship, Ksmvr of Chandrar, who didn’t actually even like Chandrar that much, eventually stopped hucking stones.
He eyed the [Knight] speaking with a bedraggled [Princess], [Hundredlord], and a weary crew as lost as he was, then looked to his right.
“So you can’t see what they’re doing?”
Vofea was chewing on a mango as she shaded her eyes and stared out at sea. She was concentrating hard, then shrugged.
“Argh. Fate’s all muddled. But it’s something stupid and complex.”
Ksmvr thought about this. Then he sighed longer.
“That sounds about right.”
