“Even Perric himself wasn’t half as—someday, when Jecrass is at peace, you will be able to visit the countries I did, Jecaina.”
“As a travelling [Queen]?”
He stared at her, and Jecaina blinked at him. Raelt went on, ignoring the question.
“—It will shock you when you return and remember the Slavers of Roshal and see them in a marketplace. Just as it does to see their ships far from home. Or to see a [Serf]—or see how Rhir treats its Demons.”
Colth twitched at that. The Arbiter Queen said nothing in response to her father’s words. She just looked at Pisces. Then she whispered.
“I have seen and heard the testimony of Pisces, Father. I wish…no. I can see how hard this is for you, Pisces. But I wish you had said it when we were on the ship.”
“It was too close, Your Majesty—”
Pisces murmured, and Jecaina cut in gently.
“No. Not for my benefit then. I wish you had said it in the company of five rulers of Chandrar. Before that terrifying Vizir, the Hero of Zethe, the Archmage of Chandrar, and Gazi Pathseeker. Then, perhaps, a fitting conclave would have heard the truth. With the weight to do something about it.”
She looked at her father, then exhaled.
“I cannot censure Roshal. Doing so publicly would be costly.”
Raelt nodded instantly, and so did Colth. Even Pisces.
“I would not expect that of Jecrass.”
“You should. Especially of me.”
She looked at him guiltily, then, and her father started. He looked at his daughter as if he saw a [Princess]. Not a [Queen]. It was Colth who couldn’t resist a chuckle.
When the others looked at him, the Ultimate Supporter had a twisted smile on his face.
“Pardon, Your Majesty, Jecaina. But if they needed Pisces to explain slavery to them—then that august meeting of mighty rulers truly is blind. They are all sons and daughters of Chandrar, aren’t they?”
Jecaina started a bit, then nodded and bowed her head ruefully.
“—Well then, if only because they would be more inclined to act if they knew someone personally. Selfishness is unto kingliness.”
She stood briskly and faced the others. Jecaina nodded, as if suddenly distracted.
“I shall have to write a letter…enough of my inexperience. What can be done?”
Done? They all blinked at her, and Jecaina’s voice grew a touch impatient.
“A letter of writ signed by yourself and me, Father. A royal proclamation? No, better not to draw attention to it. If Pisces is to leave Jecrass, he should not go without some small act. Or do you disagree?”
“Not at all. I simply…well, it’s worth something. We’ll get the royal scribe or whatnot to write something official.”
Raelt straightened, then strode to the door to yank it open and call for a servant. But Pisces started, and Colth’s eyes slid sideways to him. Pisces stared back blankly as Colth began to cough.
“Scribe. And a glass of water. No oranges in it.”
Raelt was speaking, and Colth coughed harder.
“Er—ahem—ahem. You could, ah, do something about his class, Your Majesties. Cough. Ahem.”
Pisces, Raelt, and Jecaina all stared at Colth. The [Ultimate Supporter] encouragingly hacked into a fist—then realized they were all staring.
“…Remove his class?”
He looked around. Then blew out his cheeks.
“You knew you could do that. Right?”
He stared at Jecaina with Pisces, who was suddenly wide-eyed. She shot her father an accusatory look. Raelt? Since he had no one to glare at, he stared out the window.
“What a beautiful night.”
 
——
 
As it turned out, neither ruler of Jecrass knew you could remove classes. Or rather…it so happened that Raelt vaguely knew what Colth was talking about.
“I knew that.”
His daughter actually tried to stomp on his foot. Raelt dodged, and the King of Duels gave Pisces an apologetic look.
“It’s highly uncommon. I recall something like that when my mother removed a [Soldier]’s class, but he was already a freed [Slave], and it was a formality. You see, how it’s normally done, Pisces, is that if someone bought out a [Slave]’s contract and freed them, Roshal would recognize it formally and send a [Slaver] to emancipate the [Slave].”
So they handled the class removal. Clever. Pisces gritted his teeth. Colth gave Pisces a significant look and a nod, and Raelt went on, scratching at his chin.
“Removing a class. No one’s needed to do that for ages. You can demote someone, and they lose it—huh. It must be voluntary.”
“Yes, Your Majesty. Or so I’ve heard when I spoke to a [Prince] of Terandria.”
Colth was very good at lying. Both royals accepted that he’d spoken to another member of royalty at face value. Pisces suspected Colth knew that a [Slave] could be freed from their class by royalty because he had had it done to him. By the Death of Wings or the Demon King.
Jecaina took the news far more straightforwardly than Raelt. She smiled and nodded at Pisces.
“Well, there’s nothing for it but to try.”
“Jecaina, if Roshal were to learn—”
“Who would tell them? How much umbrage could they have for me making a clear decision based on evidence I don’t think they could refute? They’d rather sweep that under the rug than force me to make a public announcement about my decision. Adventurer Colth, does this need to be a royal occasion or will anywhere do?”
Wait, was this happening? Pisces had gone from feeling hollowed out to disbelief. Losing his class…it had haunted him like his scars for so long he hadn’t gotten used to it, but it had become part of him. A bad part, but still.
Only Bearig’s lost his class, and that was because he became a [Rebel]. Could it be so easy? Yet Colth was already smiling.
“It should be somewhat formal, Your Majesty. You’ll need the weight of your class. Perhaps if Pisces knelt and you used your sword—”
“To stab—ah, as if he were being knighted. Yes. If you please, Pisces.”
Jecaina paced over to a chair, and Pisces knelt, somewhat confused and alarmed. He looked at the [Supporter], but Colth just gave him an energetic wink. He thought it would work.
“Jecaina—”
Raelt drew the Arbiter Queen aside, and they argued for a minute in a silence spell, lips moving. Pisces, trying to read them from the side, got bits and pieces of a very heated exchange.
 
“—think what you are doing—”
“—treating me like a child—”
“—Jecrass cannot afford—”
“—Fetohep would—”
“—me, then.”
 
And Raelt strode out of the bubble, drew his sword, and gazed at Pisces.
“I shall do it. A favor from the King of Duels to an adventurer I hold in high esteem.”
Jecaina blinked at her father, and Pisces looked up. Raelt rubbed at his beard, rugged from days on the road, but his eyes were direct as he nodded at Pisces.
“Hold still, if you please. Adventurer Pisces Jealnet of the Horns of Hammerad. By the authority of Jecrass, as [King of Challenges], I, in recognition of your contributions to the world and as a symbol of personal esteem, do remove your class of [Slave] unjustly put upon you. Now, I remove your cla—”
His voice was slightly rambling and rehearsed; he had clearly done this kind of speech before. But his sword was unwavering as he tapped Pisces on one shoulder, then the other. Like Pisces were being knighted.
The first tap was light, economical, and Pisces saw Raelt lift the sword, casually switching shoulders and avoiding Pisces’ head. Pisces waited, heart beating. It could not be so simple. And of course…
It was not.
Pisces saw the sword lifting, Raelt’s lips moving, and waited. It felt like forever was passing. Like each second was going by at, well, a blink of an eye and taking an eternity.
Wait…Pisces mind was locked in the moment, but a part of him, some other part, saw the sword slowly moving, fraction by fraction, through the air. Some…experienced part of Pisces recognized this.
This was like an [Immortal Moment]. Erin’s Skill, only instead of a moment of wonder stretched out forever, it was the eternity of sitting here, staring at Raelt’s moving lips. His sword—
And the King of Duels was having trouble tapping Pisces on the other shoulder. At first, he was just concentrating, moving his sword, and Pisces saw, in this trapped eternity of time, Raelt’s face slowly changing to one of strain. The King of Duels tried to lower his sword to tap Pisces’ shoulder. First his arm tensed—then his whole body. Then his arm strained—
—Time dilated, and Pisces wondered how long he’d been kneeling there, staring at the sword—Raelt’s eyes were focused on the blade, and his arm shook and shook until—
“—ss!”
Raelt staggered, and his sword missed Pisces’ shoulder. He brought it down so hard it slapped the ground, and Jecaina and Colth jumped.
“Father! What was that?”
Raelt was panting. Sweat was running down his brow. The King of Duels caught himself instantly, studied Pisces, and for a second, the two stared at each other in recognition of what they’d felt. Then Raelt backpedaled a step.
“It didn’t work.”
He didn’t have to get Pisces’ voice to confirm it. Raelt stared at Jecaina, sheathed his sword, and shook his head. The Arbiter Queen didn’t understand.
“What? You just missed his shoulder. Wait…you missed?”
She realized the incongruity, and Colth eyed Pisces. The [Necromancer] was breathing hard too.
“Time slowed. It felt like something was resisting—”
“Roshal. I tried, but—the full weight of Roshal is behind Pisces’ class. I think…no, I know it would have alerted them. Jecaina, don’t.”
The Arbiter Queen stared at her father, then drew her sword. She ignored Raelt’s grab for her arm and peered at Pisces.
 
——
 
Jecaina Leysars had experience with regrets. She told herself this might be one of them. But it was the right thing to do. She was the Arbiter Queen. People asked her to weigh in on affairs of import, act like a [Judge]; even compared her to other members of law. She’d received friendly messages from people like House Shoel of Ailendamus, critiques, pleas…
When she was on the scrying orb, sometimes she felt like she was just putting on a performance. Trying to improve Jecrass, to lay sewer systems and build more common-sense roads, that was true work. It was so frustrating that Raelt, her father, seemed so disinterested in all of it.
Had he always ruled like this? Was that what being a [King] was to him?
She knew this might be trouble. But she didn’t care. Jecaina drew her sword and pointed it at Pisces.
“I remove your class in the name of the Realm of Jecrass!”
That was what she tried to say. Halfway through the words, Jecaina experienced what Pisces and Raelt had felt.
It was like a great weight upon her sword arm. A leaden burden on her tongue. Jecaina stood alone suddenly, and high walls of a harbor wreathed in brilliant light stood before her. Beautiful, inviting, even.
Bound with chains.
Lailight Scintillation’s gates stood before Jecaina, but beyond them rose towers. High spires, and coming from each building, it seemed, were chains. Red and rusted, golden and shiny. Leather and metal—and thousands of hands. 
The sheer weight of Roshal, of the Slavers of Chandrar, was like a weight pressing down on Jecaina’s arm. She tried to keep her sword arm straight, but suddenly it felt like there was an invisible cord between her and Pisces.
She was trying to cut it—but Roshal’s animosity beat down on her. Cut the cord? Would she put herself against those gates, this city? Did she dare place her kingdom in the way?
Yes! Jecaina’s mind said it, but her heart wavered. She tried to hold firm, but a shred of doubt crept in. Her advisors had warned her what might happen if she openly made this an issue. Was this right?
Was she making her father’s mistake?
All it took was a moment of weakness. A twisting shadow seemed to slink out of the gates, twining around her arm. It pulled, and Jecaina’s arm wobbled.
The Naga of Roshal blinked at her, in her mind’s eye a huge serpent with glowing white eyes, and Jecaina—
—Stumbled back. Dropped her sword, and Raelt caught her arm. He steadied her, and Jecaina glanced up. Panting, she stared at Pisces and hung her head.
Once again, she felt like a foolish, young [Queen]. Worse still, Pisces just stood and bowed.
“It isn’t easy, Your Majesty.”
He wore a crooked smile, almost relieved. As if some part of him rejoiced that it wasn’t so simple. Jecaina stood there.
Ah.
She wished she could have given him something. But all Pisces took was a few days of slumber from Jecrass. Swapped stories. A single duel only he and one other remembered. Some food and drink.
Oh, and the bones of a horse. That was all of value the Arbiter Queen and King of Duels had to offer the Horns of Hammerad. Much to the shame of at least one of them.
 
——
 
Skeleton horse. That was how Pisces ended up riding out of Jecrass’ palace. And people still cheered and pointed at him. Colth had a real steed, but only because his [Rider] Skills needed a living horse.
Pisces, as a [Necromancer], had complete control over this undead horse. He might not have figured out Stellar Ivory—but this was almost as good.
“I wish I could take you towards Medain, but Jecaina’s pointed out it wouldn’t be wise. We’ll have an escort show you the new route along Khelt’s border to Medain. From there, it’s your choice what you’d like to do. Either skirt Medain, head through it to the Claiven Earth…I wish you the best of luck. Be careful—and remember what I said.”
Raelt shook Colth’s and Pisces’ hands, and then Jecaina offered Pisces a regretful hand.
“I hope you two will pass by once you find your teammates.”
“It would be our pleasure, Your Majesty.”
Colth swept a bow from his saddle, and Pisces smiled at Jecaina. Then…well, they set out to fanfare and began to ride west. After a while, once they were out of sight of the city, Colth punched Pisces in the arm so hard the [Necromancer] swore.
“What was that for?”
“You idiot. Yvlon’s sharper than you are.”
The Ultimate Supporter just shook his head and refused to elaborate further. Enraged, Pisces’ horse picked up speed, and he swung his sheathed rapier at Colth.
“What? What? Come back here, and I’ll hit you!”
 
——
 
One final detail: an hour after Pisces and Colth had left the palace, a poor [Junior Servant] stood in the rather sumptuous, tall guest chambers that Pisces the [Necromancer] had inhabited.
He’d left it clean enough. Yet still…the poor girl stared up at the ceiling where the clear prints of boots and even dirty handprints had stained the ceiling.
“…How do they do that?”
A senior [Cleaning Servant] passed the girl a long-handled mop and patted her on the shoulder.
“Adventurers.”
 
——
 
