It took four days to cross through Jecrass at a non-Raelt speed. Partly because Colth and Pisces kept being hosted at each place they passed by, but mostly due to the lack of speed Skills.
Their escorts were swift, and Pisces’ horse could gallop nonstop without problems, but even Colth couldn’t approach the speed of Jecrass’ finest.
Well, it meant that Pisces and Colth could actually talk to regular Jecrassians. They were just [Riders], a common class in Jecrass—Trickriders and Lawriders were too political, and no one wanted to annoy Medain.
However, one of the sixteen men and women was the son of Riverwarden Cerani, a [Noble Rider] almost as old as Pisces who hung on his and Colth’s every word. Their captain actually took him aside after the third night he’d begged and hinted at a duel—they lasted minutes even with Pisces and Colth taking it easy on him.
The chastened young man, Ladinel, or ‘Laddy’, still chatted with Pisces. The [Necromancer] didn’t mind using him as a source of information.
“So the King of Destruction is still pressing Nerrhavia’s Fallen? Is the superpower not able to hold him back?”
“He’s advancing—slowly. But he is the King of Destruction. The Golden Hordes sometimes press other armies back, but whenever they meet his Seven all together, they retreat.”
Colth muttered from the side as he cooked up some food in a pan.
“Makes sense. Including Flos, that’s six people over Level 50 on the same battlefield. Amerys, Gazi, Orthenon, the King of Destruction, Takhatres, Mars—no, wait. The rumor was Gazi was never the same level as the others.”
“She’s dangerous enough.”
Pisces shivered, distinctly remembering his run-ins with the world’s most famous Gazer. Laddy looked at Colth.
“Imagine fighting six of you, Adventurer Colth. I don’t think I’d want to be a [General] facing that.”
Pisces snorted.
“Six Colths isn’t that dangerous. He’s not Level 50, Laddy. Six Salisses, now…”
The two were throwing things at each other, and Colth was shielding the cook pot, when Laddy broke in with something he’d clearly been thinking of this entire trip. Unlike Jecaina and Raelt, the people of Jecrass had both a narrower view of the dynamics of countries…
…But far more of an actual understanding of the world because they talked and gossiped with each other, not received briefings in court. So, Laddy smiled hesitantly.
“Adventurer Pisces, you’re nothing like what I expected.”
“Oh, did you expect him to be sniffing more and acting pretentious? He’s gotten better under my tutelage.”
Colth grinned as he put Pisces in a headlock. That damn [Supporter] was too good at grappling. Laddy shook his head, half-grinning.
“No, I thought the Bane of Roshal, who’s killed a hundred [Slavers] and freed—hundreds of [Slaves], maybe thousands, would be more intense. How many of them did you kill?”
The other riders around the fire glanced up, not with alarm, but with a precursor to it. The [Captain] shot Laddy a glare, and the boy hunched his shoulders, but the prickle that ran down Pisces’ back resolved itself when he realized they didn’t know he was a [Slave].
So he kept his voice light and amused.
“Bane of Roshal? Someone called me that the last time I was here. That’s the most fanciful title yet, and my teammates are Ksmvr of Chandrar, Colthei the ‘Ultimate Supporter’, Yvlon the Silver Killer, and Ceria the Ice Squirrel.”
He grinned at the silly nicknames, and Colth added in.
“Except Yvlon. It completely checks out.”
“Ah, yes. Naturally. And Vofea has yet to get a name, but I imagine it will be suitably ridiculous.”
They were joking about, but the riders from Jecrass glanced at each other as if they thought this was serious. Laddy gave Pisces an uncertain smile.
“Yes, but—you’ve killed so many [Slavers] that they’ve put a bounty on your head. Or so I heard…”
They have? Pisces stopped laughing. He glanced at Colth, but kept his face straight.
“Well, I was responsible for several somewhat important ones’ deaths. Or in their vicinity while they died. I’m certainly no friend to Roshal.”
His tone and expression made the conversation switch quickly. Colth dished up some hot food and saw several riders kick Laddy subtly. But soon it was time to rest for another day of riding, and Colth saw Pisces roll into his blankets.
The Skeleton Champions were spread out around their camp; not for fear of danger of monsters. One was still holding its arms up towards the moons. Another was lying spread-eagled on the ground, moonbathing, and a third was prostrating itself towards the green moon.
Colth assumed Pisces had ordered them to do that. The [Supporter] pretended to sleep in a bedroll, keeping his body slumbering naturally, twitching, breathing slowly, not remaining suspiciously still. But he used [Dog’s Ears] to enhance his hearing.
Just as he’d hoped, the [Riders] had a gossip session that night, just like they’d had the last three nights, revealing rifts in loyalties between Raelt’s and Jecaina’s followers and their not-inconsequential fears about the future of Jecrass after so many losses. This time, though…Colth’s eyes narrowed as he heard the [Captain] speaking.
“Don’t bring up his class and title, Laddy. If he’s a former [Slave]—naught good will come of it to mention past Jecrass. Their Majesties count him as friend. Act like your horse more.”
“I was only curious—he talks as if he didn’t kill that many [Slavers].”
Another voice murmured.
“He never stopped, is what I heard. I thought he was still on Chandrar. He’s killed more foes than the lot of us combined if even a half of those rumors are true. Mind your tongue, Laddy. That Colthei’s the friendly one…”
Well, that was objectively funny. Colth grinned until he frowned, but the voices didn’t elaborate further.
Odd. It wasn’t the first time he’d heard that, either. Colth brought the subject up to Pisces the next day, but the [Necromancer] had no other ideas than that Ivery might have continued to add to the impression he was still fighting on Chandrar.
They had to find the others. So, the two were heading north from Jecrass’ new border with the new Kheltian lands when they received bad news. Laddy shouted urgently.
“Pisces, Adventurer Pisces! Adventurer Colth! Ceria Springwalker and Yvlon Byres have left the Claiven Earth! They’re now in Medain’s capital! Guests of the High King!”
Pisces and Colth looked at each other. They wavered—then did the only thing they thought was logical. They left their escorts behind and headed west.
Into Khelt’s territory to seek an audience with Fetohep. It wasn’t long before they ran into more trouble than they were expecting.
 
——
 
Ceria and Yvlon had an easy time of it at first. It was hard to spy on the Claiven Earth except from very, very far away; the half-Elves guarded their lands zealously, and they had given the two good steeds.
The problem was that, even when they camped away from the road and tried to cover up, it seemed like all of Medain knew there were two Gold-rank adventurers about. Harder still—even with cloaks, it wasn’t exactly easy to disguise themselves.
Ceria and Yvlon both had fair skin, rarer on Chandrar. Ceria was a half-Elf with a bone hand. Yvlon had metal arms.
A passing traveller doing a double-take, an [Innkeeper] asking for an autograph, buying some firewood from a passing [Trader], and the two realized they were being followed.
The big clue for Yvlon was when a full escort of [Soldiers] rode out of a city after then, shouting, ‘stop in the name of the High King!’
“What’s the plan, Ceria?”
The half-Elf looked happy to be on the road; she’d been antsy in the Claiven Earth. She stood up in her stirrups and hollered back.
“We’re about the business of High King Perric! Halt, you fools!”
The [Prankster] winked at Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] sighed through her nose, but she had to admit—Ceria was better at this than she was. The desperate [Soldiers] slowed for a minute in confusion—but caught up in the next.
“Adventurers Yvlon, Ceria! We have orders to escort you to the High King as honored guests!”
“No!”
Ceria shouted cheerfully as they galloped down the road. This, once again, flummoxed the minds of Medain’s finest. After another beat, their commander shouted.
“Please don’t struggle! We are to take you peacefully to the capital!”
He emphasized the please—because it was two Gold-rank adventurers. But neither Yvlon nor Ceria wanted to fight an army or get on the bad side of a nation.
“Ceria, we’re not going to be able to outrun them.”
Without riding Skills, the others were catching up. The half-Elf just rolled her eyes.
“I know. Here. [Icy Floor]!”
She pointed—and ice shot over the ground behind them. The first [Riders] shouted in alarm and pulled their horses up, and the entire cavalcade slowed rather than ride onto the huge swath of ice. Ceria waved at them.
“Don’t hurt your horses! Tell the High King we were busy!”
She blew kisses as they rode away.
 
——
 
That worked six times in a row over the next few days. It was amazing how simple it was. You wanted to ride after the two? Ice floor.
You tried to sneak up on them in the night? Ice walls while the two struck camp.
You approached Ceria as she was asking for directions in the street? Ice anchoring your feet to the ground.
It was nonviolent, simple, and highly amusing to other people watching Medain’s [Soldiers] flounder. They were nearing Jecrass’ border, and Yvlon was relaxing, thinking Ceria would just freeze her way past a garrison, when their luck abruptly ran out.
“Something’s coming our way. Something magical and fast.”
Ceria twisted around in the saddle in the early morning, losing her usual grin. She dropped a Yellat she’d been nibbling on and drew her wand.
“An adventurer?”
“I’ll freeze them if they want to try grabbing us. It’s not a flying carpet—wait. There it is. What the heck is—”
Yvlon and Ceria both spotted something zooming at them from down the road, and their mouths opened. They spoke at the same time.
“Damn! Is that Wistram’s—?”
“It looks like Aunt Magnolia’s—!”
An enchanted carriage was shooting at them, made purely out of magic. It was spectral; semi-transparent blue mist had coalesced into a rolling carriage that was being pulled by ghostly horses. And it was fast.
A lot was said about the relative speed of horses, which was an acceptable metric for travellers to use. Yvlon was no expert, but this was a lot faster than any horse she’d ever seen outside of Tyrion Veltras’ mount himself.
It was still noticeably slower than her aunt’s famous pink carriage. But that was a lot of speed, even so. Ceria took one look at the first carriage, then saw another barreling towards her from another road.
“Well, tree rot. I hope their carriages have cushions inside. [Icy Floor]!”
This time, she spread out a huge swathe of ice across the ground. In fact, she cast a water spell first; Yvlon saw a narrow wave of water rush forward, then turn to ice. Not friendly ice either; instead of a nice, flat skating surface, Ceria added bumps and ridges, miniature waves and spikes.
Just the thing to blow a carriage’s wheels out. The half-Elf watched as the two enchanted carriages came on. Then she swore.
“Oh, come on—”
The first carriage rode over the ice without slowing or slipping. The wheels smoothly passed over a small spike of ice and turned on a dime. Yvlon gazed at Ceria.
“Did you say Wistram?”
“New magic. Even the Mage of Rivers was interested in it. Wonderful. Okay, this might get a bit hairy, Yvlon. Let’s ride! [Ice Wall]!”
Ceria threw up a wall of ice, and Yvlon saw the first carriage swerve to avoid it. They were escalating, it seemed like.
Fine by Yvlon. She just wished she could help. Ceria calmly raised another wall of ice, and the carriage juked again. It was very maneuverable, but the third wall of ice rose fast, dead ahead, and Yvlon hoped the carriages were shock proof.
Then she heard the loudest crack in the world, and Ceria, fixed on the second carriage, turned her head.
“Aw. Come on.”
The carriage burst through the wall of ice magic as it exploded into a shower of fragments. Something, or rather, someone had smashed it to bits in a second. Yvlon stared at Ceria as their horses slowed.
“Was your spell weaker—”
“No. It’s the strongest ice magic I had! I could stop Calruz with that—I get it now. Looks like we’re in trouble.”
Both carriages had reached the duo. One skidded sideways, and the huge doors opened; a group of four adventurers leapt out, holding weapons. Casually—but one look at their leader, the grinning Stitch-woman, Raava, and Yvlon recognized them.
“The Conquerors of Rameid. Gold-rank team angling for Named-rank.”
“Yep. That one’s got a pickaxe.”
Ceria spotted one of the adventurers who’d shattered her [Ice Wall] with a single blow. The other carriage opened, and a [Diplomat] or some equivalent flunkie stepped out. The man smiled and called out.
“Adventurer Yvlon? Adventurer Ceria, the High King cordially insists on giving you a royal escort to Medain’s capital. He is well aware of your pressing needs, but the High King is the greatest ally to adventurers far and wide. Won’t you join me?”
Yvlon looked at Ceria. Ceria just eyed the Conquerors of Rameid.
“So that’s Captain Ceria. Hallo, Adventurer Yvlon. We heard you were giving Perric’s soldiers the slip, so we volunteered to help introduce you to the High King. Unless you want to be rude to us, too?”
Raava was giving Yvlon a smiling-stare, and the [Armsmistress]—Ceria shot a glance at her friend’s face.
Yvlon Byres was as cool as a cucumber. Ceria blinked; Yvlon smiled and nodded at Raava.
“Hello, Adventurer Raava. My name is Yvlon Byres. We meet again. I’m a member of the Horns of Hammerad, a Gold-ranked team. This is my captain, Ceria Springwalker. Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but I assure you, the truth is I’m hardly so…”
Ceria began snorting as Raava’s face went slack, and then Raava gave Yvlon a furious glower, gnashing her teeth. Ceria? She just put her hands behind her head and sighed.
“Wistram. That’s not a Tier 4 spell, you know. It’s Tier 5.”
She didn’t see any [High Mages] or [Grand Mages] with this lot. And she doubted Wistram had sent over someone that high-ranking just to Medain. Which meant…Ceria’s eyes flickered.
“Damn. I wish I’d had him teaching me.”
 
——
 
Perric had wisely sent two carriages, so the Conquerors of Rameid and the two Horns didn’t have to share one on the ride back. And the carriages managed to get the two from the border to the capital in a day.
