“The Mines of Zethe are practically a dungeon unto themselves. I haven’t heard of much treasure there outside of the marble, but it used to have adventurers and artifacts from old Zethe when the beetles overran everything. Which is a dungeon’s haul in itself. And I, of course, shall be extremely generous with whatever you find.”
“—And if we need to find our team?”
Yvlon folded her arms, and the High King gave her a sad sigh and shake of the head.
“Yvlon, I am sure I could find and send them after you. But why don’t we negotiate first? I know money is a paltry reward for adventurers of your level. How about I settle Pisces’ famous debt as the ‘Bane of Roshal’? Pay off his bounty and [Slave] class—before you head out. Then you can peruse my treasury for the artifacts you’d like to claim upon your triumphant return.”
Remove Pisces’ [Slave] class? Yvlon opened her mouth, but Ceria cut in smoothly.
“Roshal doesn’t play that fair from what I’ve heard, High King Perric.”
He gave her an arched brow.
“Don’t they? If you have enough gold, you can free any unclaimed [Slave], Captain Ceria, and Pisces’ initial imprisonment was dubious, legally. It’s not a price I think you can afford—but for the Horns of Hammerad and your agreement, I’m willing to foot the cost. As an investment.”
Yvlon stood there, reminded of the Claiven Earth’s requests for Ceria. She wondered if Pisces and Colth had the same realization she was coming to.
When you were dangerous enough to be close to Named-rank—or the genuine article in Colth’s case—and worse, famous, everyone powerful who needed a favor thought of you. Ceria just rubbed her nose.
“I assume refusing is hard?”
“Quite difficult.”
Ceria sighed, drained her cup, and then smiled tipsily at Perric.
“Well then, we’ll negotiate—tomorrow. But you’d better have a better offer than some artifacts below Relic-grade. Paying Pisces’ debt off is a good opener.”
“What should I follow with, then?”
He grinned at her, and Ceria scratched her chin.
“…Got a battleship? We have to take a trip to Baleros, and maybe we could just sail around Chandrar. One of those, a flying carpet, your crown—”
He started laughing then, that High King, and took their arms to drag them back to his kingdom filled with promises and glory. Ceria laughed along too as Yvlon glowered through the party. Ceria was, after all, under a spell.
[Freedom From Morality].
It meant she could joke and play pranks and not feel as guilty about things. Be annoyed, perhaps, by the imposition. Wary of Perric’s displeasure? Certainly. Scheme? Yvlon thought that the disdainful looks some of the other adventurers were giving the sloshed half-Elf were already part of Ceria’s scheme.
—Right until Ceria Springwalker couldn’t. Right up until reality walked up and punched her in the face harder than Yvlon Byres could have. The [Armsmistress] hadn’t known it was even possible with Ceria wearing the circlet.
It was midday through the continuing celebrations after a quartet of [Fools] had finished a comedy routine that had most of the guests laughing; it was genuinely funny, but Yvlon Byres had been stone-faced throughout all of it.
Perric had been showing off the new Adventuring Rooms™ from Wistram; they were just one of the number of new magical innovations coming from the Academy of Mages, and he had all the traditional hits.
Magical illusions, music, even a play of Juliet and Romeo by some half-decent [Actors]; it was as if the man constantly watched what other nations were doing and copied them and felt insecure or something.
One of the things Medain took from other parts of the world came rolling forwards as Perric beckoned Ceria, Raava, and other high-ranking adventurers around him. It was all chrome and polished metal, and someone had even inscribed Medain’s crest on the side and given it a snazzy paint finish.
“—And you might recognize this, Ceria. It comes from around where you were adventuring. Have you seen…? It just arrived, and I believe I’m one of, if not the first, to receive a magical ‘bi-cycle’ from Esthelm! It’s near as fast as the magical carriage!”
Ceria had been stumbling from entertainment to entertainment, continuing to drink. But the moment she had heard the bell on the bicycle—and when she saw it, she stopped.
“Your Majesty! That is a peculiar contraption. What are all these odd pieces of metal?”
Raava and the others who’d never seen a bicycle before were enraptured. Perric called for a recording to be shown on a mirror.
“Surely you saw the broadcast on Wistram News Network about it? Ah! No touching—you’ll foul the ‘gears’. It moves with this Drake mechanism; you push down on the pedals and move!”
He demonstrated, and the bicycle moved. Of course it did; it was a high-end, magical version precision-smithed by Pelt and enchanted by Hedault. But—Yvlon saw a scrying mirror flicker to life, and she would have shielded Ceria if she could have.
The half-Elf didn’t look away as someone rode a bicycle over a ramp and balanced on one end. He grinned at the camera, and some words flashed up over a commercial.
Solar Cycles. And the person advertising the new bicycles, who could do wheelies and knew how they worked—
Well.
That was Kevin. He was dressed up as if he were cycling back on Earth: long, brightly-colored pants and a shirt. He’d even gotten a helmet to complete the look, and he was grinning and selling the bike.
Like it was all a kind of joke—but real. His eyes sparkled with the ludicrous thing only he realized: that he was riding a magical bicycle, wearing faux-Earth apparel in a fantasy world.
He was dead.
Yvlon knew that. She’d gotten a message from Lyonette that had told her who’d died at the Winter Solstice. She knew it—but she hadn’t been there. The Horns of Hammerad had been in the Crossroads of Izril. They had missed the greatest and most pivotal battle at Liscor.
Halrac. Kevin. Moore…the [Armsmistress]’ face didn’t change. She stood there, apart from the group of excited, chattering people around the High King, and he never noticed how Ceria stared up silently at Kevin, a half-smile on her face.
Maef was glancing at Yvlon, but the [Armsmistress] didn’t say a word. She didn’t let her face change.
These people didn’t deserve to see her react. And Ceria? When the commercial finished, she raised her cup, took a huge gulp, and laughed.
“That’s Kevin for you.”
“Aha, so you do know him. Liscor seems to be the place to be.”
Once again, all the attention focused back on Ceria, and Perric leaned over. Ceria took the bicycle’s handles as he ceded it to her, and she flicked the kickstand up. She sat on it and balanced naturally.
“Yep. I even know how to ride this thing. The guy in that scrying mirror? He taught me. This is a nice machine.”
“Machine. Well, I think I’ll use one—it’s rather ungainly, and you can fall off, but it’s a novelty. Even the mundane ones are backordered for months.”
Yvlon let out a soft breath. Ceria was still smiling, and it seemed like the circlet had done what it always did: nullified anything real. Yvlon was about to go and maybe just head to sleep or bathe when she saw Ceria glance up.
For a second, the half-Elf met Yvlon’s eyes, and the [Armsmistress] stopped. Then—Ceria chuckled loudly and raised her voice.
“Yeah, well, don’t hope for anything coming out of Solar Cycles fast, High King Perric. That guy on the mirror? Kevin? He’s dead.”
The laughter died down slightly, and High King Perric blinked. He glanced at Ceria, and he wasn’t entirely a buffoon.
“Ah—a friend of yours? That’s regretful; he was quite charming when I spoke with him. Was it that nastiness at the Winter Solstice?”
Ceria half-nodded.
“Yeah. I wasn’t there. But I was told Kevin was killed by an [Assassin]. Roshal, I heard.”
“R-Roshal?”
Someone laughed in the background, a touch nervously, and even the High King’s face went blank a second. He glanced at Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] nodded. The High King forced a smile.
“It could well be. But proof is always difficult. Was he an enemy of Roshal’s, by any chance…? Let’s not talk too much of worldly concerns, Ceria.”
She blinked, then snorted and laughed.
“Of course, Perric. I’m not blaming Roshal. It was probably them; I doubt anything but an [Assassin] could have gotten Kevin. The Draugr didn’t, and I heard there were thousands of them.”
“—Pardon?”
The half-Elf’s eyes flickered just for a moment. Then she smiled. That wide grin. She took a longer sip from her cup and gave Perric a strange look.
“…Because he was Kevin. I heard he took out nearly twenty Draugr with a baseball bat in the fighting. Come now, Perric. You’re supposed to be a fan of the Horns of Hammerad, and you don’t know Kevin?”
The High King could only spread his hands and smile as Yvlon stared at Ceria. But then Yvlon made her face go straight again. Was Ceria—?
“Sorry. I thought people knew the stories. I guess that’s being near Named-rank for you; you know how we conquered Albez and went into Liscor’s dungeon and such, right?”
“Yes, of course. Well, I hadn’t heard the story from anyone but Yvlon, and I did mean to get an, uh—an authentically interesting account from you, Captain Ceria.”
Ceria glanced at Yvlon and snorted.
“Well, Yvlon doesn’t tell good stories at all. Okay, so—did she even mention getting jumped by a Flame Elemental after running into a nest of Crelers and a trap door that teleported us into a pit filled with [Insanity] runes?”
“Nary one of them!”
Perric instantly waved a [Bard] over, and much to the annoyance of the Conquerors of Rameid, Ceria began telling a mostly accurate tale of Albez. Mostly accurate because she did make Yvlon sound better than she was. And one other thing.
“—So there she is, holding the magic door up like a shield with metal melted into her arms—and Yvlon’s shouting at us to run. I’m tapped out of magic, it’s hot as hell, and Pisces’ skeletons aren’t able to handle the Elemental either. Ksmvr’s taking pot shots at it, and we realize we have to get to safety before it blows up. So Kevin points to the pit, and we leap into it!”
“—So he was there? But he’s no adventurer—”
King Perric was hanging on every word. He glanced at the frozen image of Kevin he’d had put back on the scrying mirror, and Ceria gazed up at Kevin and smiled.
“Well, he’s not. We just dragged him around because he and I were, uh—well, you know. Good friends. But you know Erin Solstice? The woman who literally stabbed a [Prince] to death—and a Bloodtear Admiral? She and him come from the same place.”
“Ah!”
Perric exhaled, and he saw it. Ceria went on, telling more stories, out of order this time. And Yvlon saw it too.
 
——
 
“So there we are, and Kevin’s hitting the Adult Creler in the side with the baseball bat, and no one’s doing any damage. Then Yvlon comes running at it holding her own arm—”
That was how the Ice Squirrel chose to do it. Right or wrong—if they were alone, Yvlon wouldn’t have punched Ceria. She was just watching as Ceria told stories.
Skinner.
Face Stealer.
Albez.
And Kevin. It was, to the audience of adventuring fans, a true tale of adventure and woe. Incredible, insane, and stupid tales of bravery and luck and—Kevin.
He appeared in the stories. Not a main character; not like the Horns. Just like Erin—he was right there. Hitting a baby Creler with a bat. Luring away Facestealer by racing away from the monster on a bicycle—
Plausible things. Levelling up with the other adventurers. Inserted, for better or worse, into the understanding Perric and the rest of Medain had of the Horns of Hammerad.
Why? That was what Yvlon didn’t understand. If it was a prank, well, Ceria might well level from it. But you could either see this as a kind of mischief that bordered on malevolence or something else.
Kevin was dead. Ceria was eulogizing him into history; one of the [Bards] was writing all this down, and they had truth spells.
The problem was she had her circlet, and the truth spells didn’t even flicker when she lied. Yvlon didn’t care about Perric being tricked. She was only concerned with Ceria and the young man the half-Elf kept invoking.
After her final story involving Kevin—she didn’t add him to the Village of the Dead raid, which had been on the scrying orb—Ceria turned to Perric.
“So you see. He wasn’t ever the same as an adventurer. But he did matter. He invented bicycles, he helped us survive when we might have died—right, Yvlon?”
She turned, and mindful of the truth spells, Yvlon murmured.
“Kevin was certainly unique. There was even a Kevin in Liscor’s army when they fought Hectval. You didn’t mention that, Ceria.”
The half-Elf’s lips twitched at that.
“Well, that’s not adventuring, and we weren’t there. Perric, do you know what I’m thinking?”
She turned to the High King, and he was a lech, a buffoon, and worst of all, a [King]—but he caught on to what she was about to say.
“A statue?”
“A big statue. Or just have your [Bards] properly tell the story. The Ballad of Kevin or something. It’s not that hard for the High King of Medain, is it? Especially if you like the bicycles.”
“Oh, come now, Captain Ceria. A statue for someone who only hit Silver-rank then quit being an adventurer?”
Raava protested, and there it was already. Kevin, the Silver-ranked adventurer. Ceria threw her head back with a smile, and she turned to Raava.
“He was twice the adventurer you were, Captain Raava.”
“Now, now.”
Perric silenced the oooh and Raava’s sound of outrage. He seemed taken by the idea.
“A statue. Bard, take that story and at least submit it to Tales of Adventure and Woe. And let’s have a toast, shall we?”
Even if the statue never appeared, Yvlon wondered how much damage or—how many rumors had just started in Medain. Ceria seized a tankard of ale and leapt onto a table. The nobles, adventurers, and commoners watching—Perric liked to broadcast his parties across Medain’s scrying orbs—peered up at her.
“Then let me raise a toast to real adventurers. Here’s to Halrac Everam! Halrac the Grim! Moore of Raithland! Ulinde! Real adventurers—and of course—Kevin!”
“To Kevin!”
Even Yvlon took a mug and raised it. She saw Ceria start giggling as she stood on the table, and they probably thought she was crying. The Ice Squirrel laughed to herself, taking a drink, then pouring the rest over her head to hide the fact that she wasn’t actually crying.
That chaotic [Cryomancer] pulling pranks just because it amused her. As she had said, doing this to be remembered. The same for Kevin. She was laughing to herself, and Yvlon saw her turn to that image of Kevin.
