“Magus Joreldyn does not have a book on my circlet. I’ve seen his library; there are, like, a hundred books tops.”
Lastimeth held the case of scrolls up serenely.
“Of course not. But the Mage of Rivers is a wonderful spellcaster. With Skills. [Enigmatic Clue: Spellcraft] is one of the Skills that any great [Mage] might learn to…”
Research magic. Ceria closed her eyes.
“…There’s a book?”
“One he claims references your very relic. Astounding. Why, I would never condone wearing such a potentially dangerous relic. But a text does exist. In Chandrar. If you were to, say, help the Claiven Earth—”
Ceria stared at the Speaker’s bright smile. She stared at the box of contracts.
“I’m not promising anything.”
“Of course not, Captain Ceria. And I know you need to go. I doubt we even have time for tea. Here.”
The Speaker handed Ceria the box. She took it, gave him a glower, and he gently patted her on the shoulder.
“I do consider you a dear sister of ours. By the way, if you changed your mind about the Crossroads of Izril and the passphrase…simply let us know. Farewell. Have a safe trip.”
Then he gently pushed her, and she went over the balcony’s edge with a shout. The damn Speaker smirked as he did it too.
 
——
 
“I hate old people. They’re mean as shit.”
Ceria Springwalker had forgotten that nice, welcoming kindred of her species could be devious foxes. Yvlon was just amused as the two rode out of the Claiven Earth’s territory.
“Well, it’s not like we have to help. We swore we’d keep the Passphrase of Imlerith secret, but we could get a contract for the Claiven Earth, maybe. And if we don’t? So what?”
The Ice Squirrel turned her head as she gnawed on some fruit jerky.
“I want that book, Yvlon. It’s going to drive me insane if I don’t get it! And it might help us find out what my circlet does, for better or worse!”
“I would like to rub your nose in it. But they were very hospitable to us, and since we got away without anything but an offer, I think this has been far better than Medain. I had to sneak out of there, remember?”
That was true. The two were riding fast along one of the roads heading out of the half-Elves’ territory, across Medain’s border. They didn’t have the right of entry to the lands of Jecrass now held by Khelt, and acquaintances of the King of Khelt or not…Ceria wasn’t keen on testing his infamous ire.
So, through Medain they went. Both adventurers had fresh steeds from the half-Elves, and they were inclined to avoid High King Perric’s hospitality. They were on their way to link up with Pisces and Colth at the one spot they knew the two to be at.
Jecrass. Ceria just hoped those two had stayed out of trouble.
 
——
 
The first thing Raelt of Jecrass had done after cutting down Medain’s escort for Pisces and Colth to the capital was dismount and shake their hands.
“Adventurer Pisces. I’m glad we caught you before the High King did. With me. I hope you can ride; we’ll be headed to Jecrass before his patrols catch up.”
Pisces and Colth had stared at the King of Duels standing with a band of over a hundred [Riders] wearing face-covering scarfs, swords drenched in the blood of Perric’s soldiers.
Colth had glared a hole in Pisces’ head as the [Necromancer] had weakly smiled. As troublesome starts went—this was not good.
 
——
 
Pisces liked to think of himself as an informed amateur in the realms of politics, alchemy, literature, fashion, cuisine, and anything else he turned his mind to.
With his deep understanding of the affairs of nations, the public-facing images of royalty, and the pragmatic backroom deals between world powers, he understood that being in the company of a rival King who’d just murdered High King Perric’s people and was conducting clandestine raids into Medain…
…Was possibly a bad look. However, in the moment, he’d weighed offending Raelt of Jecrass with the High King and decided to go with the flow.
They spent nearly three days riding out of Medain and into Jecrass at breakneck speeds. Raelt and his Trickriders of Jecrass, the elite warriors famous for their acrobatics and unique fighting style, kept a blistering pace with their Skills. Every now and then, a group would break away and come back, usually with signs of battle.
“We are at peace—but that doesn’t mean we can’t strike at the High King, and his armies can’t catch our forces. I fear for Adventurer Yvlon’s safety; if he holds her hostage, we will have to see what can be done, but his capital is unassailable. Once we reach Jecrass, we can assess the situation.”
Pisces and Colth were increasingly uneasy as Raelt took them across the border to Jecrass. Not because he wasn’t friendly; he seemed to hold them in great esteem from their meeting at sea, and he’d ordered a return to Jecrass with a bulk of his Trickriders escorting the two.
No, it was the fact that he was entangling them in politics that made Pisces so nervous. But the King of Duels was, simultaneously, well, the King of Duels.
One of the most famous figures in Chandrar, at least if you watched the news, and Pisces’ personal target of admiration. When Raelt came riding past the first village in Jecrass proper, it almost exploded with cheers as people flocked out to see their beloved king.
—Yet he was changed. Pisces remembered a gaunt man standing on the bridge of Sand at Sea, doubting if he was even seeing reality. The King of Duels now was far healthier; he’d regained his lost weight, and he had the air of a general as he rode with his Trickriders in tow.
What Colth observed, though, was his temperament.
“Now there’s a man with his heart set on vengeance. Take it from me, Pisces.”
“I don’t have to. I saw him killing Medain’s soldiers. This seems to be almost a bloodier and more personal war than his battles with Flos.”
“Well, he was tortured by the High King for months. Take it from me, that’s not fun.”
The [Necromancer] felt like some of Colth’s personal assurances didn’t need to be said. One look at Raelt’s face when he talked about Medain, or the fact that the Trickriders were showing the villages bloody flags they’d looted from the High King’s forces—Pisces was just grateful they didn’t have grislier trophies.
“No peace while King Perric lives! Jecrass still rides with the King of Duels!”
That was one of the refrains that Pisces heard taken up on their ride to the capital city of Inamress. With each place they passed, young men and women would ride up, demand to join the Trickriders, and be told they had to reach the right level and pass training.
The amount of national spirit was, in fact, at odds with the clear deprivations war had taken on the Realm of Jecrass. It was in little things from the soaring prices Pisces saw in marketplaces, to closed businesses in towns, displaced people trying to put new roots down—
And the dead, symbolized by a white armband. Yet still, Jecrass’ sons and daughters were ready to enlist. Pisces couldn’t decide how he felt about it.
“Jecrass seems like it’s rallied to keep fighting. At least, in this unofficial war with Medain.”
Pisces muttered to Colth as they rode, and the [Ultimate Supporter] wrinkled his nose.
“Eh. Raiding each other is a peacetime occupation. They’d not be so enthusiastic if they were still fighting Reim. The sentiment’s only strong because we’re with the King of Duels. See?”
Not everyone flocked to Raelt’s banner. Signs of the war were everywhere: newly-made houses sprawled out from existing settlements, and Pisces saw wreaths of white flowers symbolizing death hung on doors. The King of Duels himself met with those who’d lost soldiers, and Pisces saw his guilty countenance—but that refrain followed him.
“King of Duels!”
“King Raelt of Jecrass!”
“Raelt and the Trickriders!”
“The Arbiter Queen and her Lawriders!”
Pisces’ head turned as he heard someone shouting that. There was a susurration amidst the Trickriders. They had a banner of a rearing horse, one leg on the ground, a kind of sub-crest of Jecrass’ own flag. But for a second, Pisces saw someone heft another banner into the air. A simple one with a set of scales balanced over a horse’s back. Then the flag was yanked down. Pisces glanced at his teammate.
“Hmm? What was that?”
Colth had seen it too. Raelt had looked up briefly, but he didn’t seem as bothered as his people. Colth glanced at the Trickriders, then at Pisces.
“Trouble is what that is, Pisces. How good are you with diplomacy and playing nice?”
Pisces sniffed. Colth held a finger under his nose, and Pisces swatted his hand down.
“I consider myself a passionate amateur in—”
“So you suck at it.”
The [Necromancer] bristled as his teammate, the [Supporter], Colthei, ally of Demons, Colth of the Demonic Smile…and, Pisces would own, friend and fellow freed [Slave] gave him a sardonic look. The two had been in each other’s company for a month after the battle at sea, and they were just grateful to be on land and not always in each other’s company.
But they were teammates, and so Pisces folded his arms haughtily.
“I may not be practiced in the nuances of actual…negotiations in person, Colth. But I posit to you this: would you rather be with Yvlon, Ceria, Vofea, or Ksmvr?”
The [Ultimate Supporter] thought about this. Then, as they saw Raelt riding back to them, Colth gave the King of Duels a big smile and threw his arm around Pisces’ shoulder.
“Pisces, you’re the best teammate to be here! Well, shall we be going, Your Majesty?”
 
——
 
Three days of riding left Pisces with thighs so sore that when they reached Inamress, he had to walk. The Trickriders were amused but understanding, and Colth, that bastard, just gave Pisces a shake of the head; he was completely unaffected because he could use [Rider] Skills.
However, Raelt dismounted, and the two talked after the cheering and welcome for the procession of riders had mostly stopped. It was still uncanny to be walking down the street with voices chanting Raelt’s name and needing a [Silence] spell to just talk normally—but that was a [King] for you.
“So, ah, how have you been, Your Majesty? Since the Meeting of Tribes.”
Raelt swept back his light brown hair as Colth visibly winced and mouthed ‘really’ at Pisces behind the [King of Challenges], but Raelt gave Pisces a faint smile.
“Call me Raelt, please. I feel as though we know each other, Pisces. I still wake up and see that ship coming over land and wonder if it was all a dream since…”
His smile flickered, and his long stride slowed. He touched a hand to his sword, and Pisces saw that golden bell hanging from the hilt.
“What have I been doing? Ah, seeing how Jecrass has suffered. We lost a third of it to Khelt. Jecaina did the best she could, but Perric, Flos—I’ve been fighting.”
Pisces waited a beat, and Raelt glanced at him. Colth. Ahead towards the smaller palace.
“Yes. Fighting. There are too many that Perric’s harmed. People on the border of Jecrass have no love for him, and his armies suffered greatly fighting Khelt’s. Progress is slow, but each soldier we bring down is one he’s lost. He still has his adventurers and too much damn land. A sizeable blow is needed to unseat him, but it’s possible. Ah—I heard of the conflict at sea. I didn’t imagine I’d find you washing up in a village. How are the Crossroads of Izril?”
He was like a drawn blade. So focused that Pisces and Colth exchanged a glance. Colth took over.
“Ah—empty, Your Majesty. Empty and dangerous. Wonderfully eerie and deadly. We ran into strange threats the entire way, the least of which were monsters from Izril’s Bloodfields.”
Raelt half-turned.
“Really? I should love to see images, if you have any.”
“Sadly, none of us have a mage-picture. But we can show you the Bloodfields monsters. And there was a Sword Crab—”
Pisces turned red, but Raelt’s eyes lit up.
“A Sword Crab? The best dueling monster in the world? I’ve always wanted to see if they’re truly as good as they say.”
“Ah—one bested me, Your Majesty.”
“Really? You? Then they must be as good as they say. Come to think of it—you both must be exhausted. And hungry. The palace awaits! I forgot—”
Raelt turned to one of his Trickriders.
“Did anyone go ahead to tell them to ready a bath, food, and whatnot? Go check. As for the Sword Crab, what kind of style was it?”
Pisces hesitated, but blurted out.
“It actually fought like a [Fencer]. Side-on, with one claw. But when it faced forwards, it was using both claws, and it would both snip and lash out—it knew how to parry.”
“Dead gods. I imagine the reach on that thing—how large?”
Pisces tried to approximate it, and Raelt began smiling. Then he became a man again, and for a second, the two adventurers saw the man who had been King Raelt Leysars, before they named him King of Duels. Slightly awkward, long-legged, a fencing-loving [King]…
—Before a voice called out, strident, unhappy, and Raelt stopped and closed his eyes.
“Father!”
Someone was storming down the road, and a cheer rose. Pisces felt the [Silence] spell drop, and Raelt turned—and Colth kicked Pisces in the backs of his knees. The two knelt as Queen Jecaina of Jecrass, the Arbiter Queen, strode towards the dust-covered Trickriders and the King of Duels.
Pisces didn’t need to be told this, but the two were not married. Raelt was young, but Jecaina was his adopted daughter, and a trick of circumstances had led her to being crowned Queen of Jecrass in his absence.
Now, the cheering rose at the sight of both Jecrass’ rulers, but Pisces heard the chanting again and began to see the picture.
“Raelt and the Trickriders of Jecrass! Long live the King of Duels!”
“The Arbiter Queen’s Lawriders! Queen Jecaina—”
She had her own escort of [Riders], and each one had that set of scales of judgment motif, rather than the dancing horse crest of Raelt’s Trickriders. Pisces didn’t remember any ‘Lawriders’ mentioned during the war. He gave Colth a look, and the [Supporter] grimaced.
“Jecaina, look who I found on Medain’s coast—”
Raelt was gesturing at Colth and Pisces, but Jecaina missed the kneeling two as she strode up. She was irate; she wore royal clothing, albeit ones that kept her mobile, and she had a silver bell at her side and a rapier herself. She strode towards Raelt.
“Father, you attacked Medain again? We are at peace! Does the treaty mean nothing to you?”
Raelt’s shoulders hunched as the cheering faltered.
“Peace is just a moment between wars to Perric. You should know that.”
