At first, they’d had a huge audience, but the cheering and voices had rapidly annoyed the two, and Jecaina had dismissed most of the audience, much to their regrets. It was, perhaps, for the best. Pisces actually felt more stage fright at the duel at first, and when they began using Skills, he was glad not to show his abilities too openly.
[Queen of Covenant] or not, it was clear after they began using Skills that Pisces had Jecaina on levels. He had both a [Mage]’s techniques, like invisibility, the ability to cast off-hand, and his own [Duelist] class—Jecaina had been a [Duelist], but only one on par with Pisces’ secondary class.
“I fear I’m not much of a match. My father will be dying to spar with you, Pisces.”
“Well, I’m not much of a match for him.”
Pisces had won three bouts against Jecaina, each time with a new trick. He was debating using his newest Skill, [Joveln’s Parry], but it almost felt like showing off. However, Jecaina raised her hand.
“One more bout, please? I fear I’ll have to cheat a bit—unless you object?”
“No, not at all. All’s fair for an adventurer.”
Pisces thought Jecaina meant she was going to use an enchantment on her blade or armor and was braced, but the [Queen of Covenant] smiled, held her guard up—and spoke.
“Very well. [Rule of Combat]—not one step back!”
He blinked, and she advanced at a slow walk. Reflexively, Pisces tried to step backwards—and he could not.
“Ah—”
Disconcerted, he stepped sideways, and Jecaina burst into a flurry of offensive steps. Pisces swayed, stumbled—and she touched his chest.
“Apologies. I had to win one point.”
She gave him a bright smile as her supporters cheered. Pisces blinked at Jecaina—then his eyes lit up.
So this was the power of a [Queen of Covenant]?
“Another bout?”
The second time, Pisces understood how it worked, and he advanced in a rush like Jecaina. If you couldn’t step back—the two nearly collided, then stepped past each other, swinging around to face the other. Jecaina was far more experienced with this rule than Pisces, but she was equally bound by it. She provoked him into a reflexive sidestep, and as he wobbled, unable to step backwards—she struck lightly with her rapier.
[Joveln’s Parry]! Jecaina’s eyes went round as a tail appeared behind Pisces and he flicked his sword. Her blade went wide, but she used a Skill and recovered fast—Pisces stepped forwards and shoved as they crossed blades.
His instincts were good. If you weren’t able to step backwards, what happened if you were literally shoved? The answer was you fell flat on your back. The Arbiter Queen exhaled as her back hit the ground, and she stared up at Pisces’ rapier pointed at her throat.
“A Gold-rank adventurer can beat a [Queen], it seems. I knew it, but it still stings.”
Pisces realized he was aiming a sword at royalty and lowered it hurriedly, but the applause and Jecaina’s own smile showed that the audience and the Arbiter Queen had quite enjoyed the match. Jecaina brushed at her armor as Pisces had to ask—
“So that Skill. Is it just for footwork? Or anything else?”
“Oh, I can make it any number of things. Nothing too egregious like ‘you must fight only with a rapier’. My Lawriders have their own tricks like that. Rules in combat. Such a quaint, ludicrous notion.”
“Rather like fencing is.”
Pisces murmured, and Jecaina grinned.
“A style of combat entirely unfit for proper warfare—and I have a class to enforce it. Yes, quite. I thought it was apt, especially because I’m not my father, who can actually fight in battle regardless of the circumstances.”
It was impressive. Pisces was surprised that Jecaina showed him a few more rules she had tried—the one where she declared ‘no parries’ was particularly nasty, but as she pointed out, she had to get used to the rules herself or she’d still be taken out by a better swordsman.
Even so, with that Skill, she was far better than before. Pisces saw how some might consider it cheating, but as someone who’d happily let his undead do the fighting for him, he just found it fascinating.
After their fifth experimental duel, they stepped back, and Pisces had to say it.
“One last duel, then? No holds barred?”
The Arbiter Queen seemed like she’d had the same thought. She brushed at her hair, dripping with sweat, and her guards stirred, but one look from her made them desist.
“Properly. Don’t hold back anything on my account, please. If it’s five seconds—I shall count it as a lesson.”
That was what he was supposed to say. Pisces had no idea how he’d counter her dueling Skill—but he wanted to try. He lifted his rapier, and Jecaina offered him a flick-salute.
The [Necromancer] paused—and then his sword traced a pattern in the air. A remembered salute, given to him by that Drake in the Trials of Blades. As his sword moved, something caught the light shining into the practice court, flashing. Jecaina’s eye found the source and she remembered what he’d called it.
 
——
 
The Bell of Challenges. It had been on Pisces’ rapier this entire time, just a little bell attached where his signifier of rank should have been. Quiet, just like silver and golden bells were supposed to be.
As Raelt, Jecaina, and any [Duelist] could have told you—completely inauthentic as a measure of Pisces’ actual level. It wasn’t silver, after all, even if it sometimes looked like it. An adventurer’s pretense towards a bell, you might imagine if you saw Pisces wearing it. Like a nobleman trying to copy true talent.
The Arbiter Queen would never have accused Pisces of that, even before she had seen his skill in the courtyard. But she had wondered about it. It was too beautiful to be a mere keepsake. She hadn’t had a chance to stare at it closely, but she’d sworn it was a pale white metal with the teensiest of etching, as if someone had taken a toothpick and worked on it.
—It had no clapper. It could not ring. So why—
Jecaina shook her head slightly as Pisces Jealnet gave her a salute that made one of her bodyguards, another Silver-bell duelist, start. Jecaina’s own eyes widened.
I’ve never seen that salute in my life. It was beautiful, flowing, and showy, ending with a cut to the side. It intimidated her slightly, as did the techniques he’d used. But—Jecaina shook her head again.
“Something wrong, Jecaina?”
Pisces’ voice was excited. He held his rapier on guard, poised, ready to begin. And Jecaina’s own arm was about to explode into action. But she held up one hand and turned her head.
“What is—”
Her eyes focused on the Bell of Challenges, and then Jecaina looked in bewilderment at the few people watching the two of them spar. None of the bodyguards or servants peeking in reacted; they were all watching her and Pisces. Jecaina swung her eyes back to the [Necromancer], and he raised an eyebrow.
“I thought you said spells were allowed.”
She had noticed him casting a few spells. But one of her rings could pierce illusions and invisibility—no. Jecaina blinked at Pisces and laughed, incredulous.
“Can no one else hear it?”
She glanced around, and everyone stared at her. The Arbiter Queen eyed her arms, covered in sweat, and between the practice cloth padding, she saw goosebumps on her skin. She gazed up at Pisces and met his eyes. Then stared at the swinging bell.
It was ringing. 
Pisces’ own eyes widened a fraction, and he glanced at his bell. Everyone else watched Jecaina, deaf. To her? Jecaina closed her eyes a second and shivered.
It was the most fantastical sound she’d ever heard in her life. Terrifying. Wondrous. A call to arms or flight. She opened her eyes—
Then she did feel like an adventurer facing down a legend from another continent. Slowly, the [Necromancer] offered her the same salute from a dead city. Jecaina’s sweaty hand took a tighter grip on her sword.
What a strange adventurer. Far, far too humble. She grinned with all her teeth, and the bell rang and rang—until their swords met in the purest tones yet.
 
——
 
They talked about the duel between Pisces Jealnet and the Arbiter Queen for the rest of the day. Even when Raelt came racing back to find an exhausted duo, even that night and for days thereafter, Jecrass was abuzz with the topic.
Not that anyone had seen it. The few servants and guards who had actually witnessed the duel gave different accounts of what they had seen and not heard—and no one had recorded the damn duel.
It had been one of the most engaging and fun duels of Pisces’ life. He was smiling even at dinner as Raelt tried to hint that he too was a duelist, you know. But Pisces’ arm hurt, and he doubted they could reproduce that moment.
It had been genuine. Jecaina seemed so pleased and was so friendly with Pisces that he felt actually sad about the fact that they’d have to leave to find Ceria and Yvlon.
Maybe we can swing back this way? Pisces was inspecting his sword in his rooms later, wondering if he actually needed to buy a better blade. It had held up very well in the duel, and he could manipulate the bone part of the sword. Then again, a once-broken sword could be a liability, and this one wasn’t enchanted.
“Well, well, well. Look at the Necrolad. Famous duelist! Everyone’s talking about your duel with the Arbiter Queen. You know, I was going to give you tips on how to impress royalty, but you managed the first part. The rest?”
Colth opened the door, and Pisces sat up with a wince. Potions were a good way to undo any muscle growth, so he had gotten a liniment for his sore muscles, but still.
“I know, I know. I turned down the King of Duels—it was spontaneous, Colth.”
The [Ultimate Supporter] leaned sardonically against Pisces’ door frame after closing the door. He was in his early thirties, but he looked very young for his age. Annoyingly, he often acted as if he was far older, which he was in adventuring terms—but it could get on Pisces’ nerves.
He was doing it right now.
“Oh, I know. I’m sure it was…spontaneous. Unexpected. Everyone’s talking about it, you idiot.”
Pisces frowned at Colth as he sheathed his blade.
“I don’t think I made us look bad, Colth. And it was a mutually satisfactory occasion.”
Colth covered his face.
“I’m sure it was. You idiot. Our first nation and you get us entangled with the rulers. Raelt’s bad enough, but I leave you for one second and you get seduced by a [Queen]?”
Pisces’ eyes bulged.
“What?”
Colth gave Pisces a long stare and sigh.
“Okay, rookie Pisces. Here’s a tip since Ksmvr isn’t here to give you lessons. When you act on your own volition, you drag your team into things. See? That’s called responsibility. So when you and Jecaina—”
Colth made some exceptionally lewd hand gestures, and Pisces, red-faced and spluttering, finally shouted.
“We dueled, you fool!”
“Sure, sure. I’m sure you did. How many ‘matches’? Was it first-touch or full-contact? Please tell me you had protection.”
Pisces threw a pillow. Colth caught it and tossed it back so fast it hit Pisces in the head. Spluttering, Pisces waved a fist at him.
“We dueled with swords!”
“Which sword? And so what if she had one too? You can buy them at shops. I’m not judging—”
At this point, Pisces actually got up and tried to hit Colth, but all he ended up doing was chasing the [Supporter] around the room. Colth ended up tripping Pisces and sitting on him on the floor.
“Well, maybe you didn’t hop into bed with each other if that’s your reaction. But from where I’m sitting, that might not be more than a second duel away. And if you do that—”
“She’s a [Queen]. We were having fun!”
“—I’m sure that helps. [Queens] and [Princesses] have gotten Named-rank adventurers to do quests for a single night. That’s a bargain, sometimes. For you—eh—well, Jecrass is poor right now. I’m sure she has to get discounts.”
Pisces fired a weak [Deathbolt] spell, and Colth leapt off him and clung to the ceiling. He climbed around like a spider as Pisces swore at him and tried to stab the ceiling with his sheathed rapier.
“I am not interested in the pursuit of her loins, Colth!”
The [Ultimate Supporter] landed on Pisces’ bed, arms and legs crossed.
“Good. Because if you did promise her anything, you’d better be prepared to break those promises. They’re still [King] and [Queen], and promises mean too much to them. They can enforce even idle promises, Pisces. And King Raelt? He’s got dangerous requests.”
Pisces blinked. He calmed down a second and frowned at Colth.
“What do you mean?”
Colthei’s eyes glinted, and he glanced at the door.
“Let me give you the rundown. I’m sure Raelt will find you; he’s not subtle about what he wants. Promise him nothing.”
Just like Ceria and Yvlon, Pisces felt a moment of unease as he realized his presence in Jecrass had more significance than their last visit to Chandrar.
 
——
 
“High King Perric must die. Be dethroned at the least.”
Raelt delivered that to Pisces in the late morning the next day as the two were warming up so the King of Duels could test Pisces’ mettle. Pisces opened his mouth, glanced at Colth, who gave him a fake smile, and tried to act oblivious.
“Er—is that the will of Jecrass, Your Majesty?”
Raelt blinked at Pisces.
“Will of…ah. Well, Jecaina agrees, but she’s too bound up in her new class.”
He bent to tie his shoelaces, then pointed a finger at Pisces belatedly.
“Which I’m grateful for! But she’s young, and Jecrass needs stability. Flos aside…”
His brows darkened.
“Perric is a monster. Unfortunately, Medain is vast, and he has too much support. I could kill his soldiers for a decade and not do enough damage. However, if an adventurer were to persuade some of his top Named-ranks to switch sides, or uncover a weakness in Medain…I’m asking you discreetly. I’m prepared to reward your team handsomely. Yours is one I hope I can trust.”
He smiled at Pisces, and the [Necromancer] stared at one of his inspirations…who was asking him to sabotage an enemy kingdom. Pisces swallowed.
“I, ah—I don’t know what I could do, Your Majesty. Could you give a more concrete example?”
“Ah—I—he has to have secrets. Enemies. He has a dungeon filled with his enemies. If your friend, Yvlon, found something out. Or if Perric has some plot of ambition he confides in you. Maybe if he hires your team to do something—that sort of thing. Do you use a parrying dagger?”
“I use spells in my offhand.”
Pisces replied weakly, and Raelt nodded as he flipped a parry dagger in his hand.
“Good! I can’t wait to see this parrying Skill. Is that a silver bell?”
“Er—no, Your Majesty.”
