It did not ring for Raelt. Possibly because Pisces was so taken aback; he thought he put up a good show, enough to make Raelt happy, but he was so alarmed by the request that he mostly fought on reflex, which probably made him do better than if he was psyching himself out over the fact that he was fighting the King of Duels, his personal hero.
After the duel, Pisces dragged Colth aside.
“Dead gods, Colth! What are we supposed to do?”
“Smile and nod, Pisces. Smile and nod. We can commit to helping without giving him an actual promise. He hates Medain; I can’t say I blame him.”
It was clear that King Raelt’s enmity was more than a mere grudge. In fact, his interest in Colth and Pisces became a negative thing quickly; in between showing Pisces around the kingdom and offering him refreshments and hospitality, Raelt would have sudden impulses. Like—
“There’s a Djinni. Maef. She might help. She’s…she assisted me while I was in his palace. No one’s suggesting you free a Djinni. But if you liberated her—”
Or he’d snap his fingers while riding to show them a herd of magical horses.
“Frieke switched sides. Would one of the other Named-ranks do that? We can’t offer them much, but even if they joined Khelt or another kingdom—”
He didn’t know how, but he definitely knew what he wanted. Pisces began to realize Colth had done him a favor by keeping the King of Duels occupied; every time Raelt floated a new idea by Pisces, the [Necromancer]’s stomach hurt.
Pisces was leaving a bathroom, one of the places he could escape Raelt, when Jecaina found him.
“Pisces. I know my father’s dragged you all over Jecrass. Would you like to have lunch together?”
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
Pisces was not expecting to have lunch together, as in just him and her in a more private dining room. Jecaina picked at her food, then looked him in the eye.
“The King of Duels is a different man than King Raelt, Pisces. The man who raised me and the [King] of Jecrass are…hard to reconcile, sometimes. I know he’s asked you to sabotage Medain. He rules Jecrass. Well, so do I, and neither one of us can relent or acknowledge the other as supreme. I would if I thought it was wise. Attacking Medain is not. I hope you and Adventurer Colthei will refuse his requests. Adventurer Colth seemed to understand that when I spoke with him.”
Pisces swallowed a lump of dates hard.
“I, ah—did think it was a rather aggressive request, Jecaina. I was honored by his trust.”
Jecaina’s lips twisted.
“Perhaps it’s wrong, but we know you from that strange adventure at sea. It still sounds like a fairy tale. Riding a ship from Khelt to fight the Walled Cities? I wake up some nights and wonder if it happened. That is purely Fetohep, though.”
Fetohep. Pisces was indebted to the Eternal King himself, and Jecaina’s worried expression relaxed as she spoke of Fetohep. She smiled, then looked at Pisces.
“Jecrass is not well, Pisces. I’m sure you haven’t missed Khelt’s lands?”
The third of land that Jecaina had traded to Khelt was not visibly demarcated—yet—but it lay across a river, and Pisces had sensed death magic coming from that area. He was curious about it, but even the King of Duels had avoided that place.
Khelt ruled it, and no one would go against the Eternal Kingdom. Not the Claiven Earth, not Medain, not Jecrass.
“His Majesty of Khelt is a remarkable figure.”
“Yes—and a busy one. I wish I could speak with him more, but I cannot rely on Khelt alone. Jecrass is weakened, and perhaps I sold our future to survive now—”
Jecaina’s lips compressed, and Pisces wondered if that was quoting Raelt verbatim. Then she went on softly.
“—We did not survive by sheer might of arms. The King of Destruction attacked Belchan, and we went to their aid. Whether we should have or not, two nations collapsed against each other. We should have gone to Germina and Hellios’ aid. We should have been a nation among allies, not one of the proud few. Agh, I have a small request of my own, Pisces.”
Uh oh. Pisces’ heart began to race, but Jecaina just glanced at him.
“If you meet foreign rulers on your tour of Chandrar—I imagine you will go to the Empress of Beasts for your sword—would you speak to any rulers you meet? Just speak and indicate I would like to communicate with them.”
“For—matters of state, Your Majesty?”
Jecaina half-shrugged.
“For matters of state and to simply speak. Chandrar has fallen out of the habit of speech when one can simply grab a sword. I have not sent a [Message] spell to any neighbor outside of a hundred miles away. Neither has my father or his father or grandfather! Why, when magic exists? Why do we not talk and, when a common crisis emerges, communicate and band together? For all they spoke of a ‘grand alliance against the King of Destruction’, it fell apart the moment he looked at them sternly. I know you are an adventurer, and I wish to ask nothing of you that would endanger your team. Just that if you meet anyone of note…mention my name?”
It was far, far more reasonable as a request went than Raelt’s. Mindful of Colth’s warning, Pisces could only murmur.
“I, ah, could see what occurs, Your Majesty. But I doubt I’ll meet that many rulers of note.”
Jecaina blinked, then eyed Pisces with amusement.
“You think so? I imagine many would be keen to meet the Horns of Hammerad.”
“…Why?”
Pisces gave Jecaina such a blank look that the Arbiter Queen burst out laughing. After a moment, Pisces gave her such an abashed grin of gratification that something slipped out of his mouth.
“I will try, Your Majesty. As a personal promise.”
She blinked, and Pisces bit his tongue. He’d meant it. Jecaina looked relieved and happy and nodded.
“Thank you, Pisces. And I wish to say that I hope you’ve found Jecrass—pleasant. I read a report of how you first came to Chandrar. Laws were broken to take you as a [Slave]. But Roshal refused to accept they had broken any law, and Arbiter Queen or not—”
Her face fell.
“—It seems some are above even the laws of kingdoms. That has weighed on me too.”
Pisces felt his heart constrict and scars on his chest burn for a second. But Jecaina’s guilty look—he forced a smile out.
“Jecrass has been hospitable to me, Jecaina. Do you keep many…[Slaves] in Jecrass?”
“Not many. My father detests them, and we allow them, but no. We love horses more than people and water more than both. Still, I had not thought long on it until I spoke to Fetohep of Khelt.”
“A wise man.”
Jecaina smiled briefly.
“Yes. He is.”
 
——
 
It was safe to say that after a mere two days in Jecrass, Pisces and Colth felt like they were friendly with the rulers of Jecrass. What a thing!
Mind you, Colth and Pisces were as friendly with Raelt as a [King] was to two adventurers who were really nervous about him getting them involved in a war. Jecaina and Pisces had what he thought of more as a bond.
“Just so long as that’s bond and not bond…age, Pisces.”
Colth kept needling the [Necromancer], and Pisces was getting sick of it. But they weren’t just eating well and schmoozing around the palace. They were preparing for their departure.
“Colth. How’s your new Skill?”
Colth was practicing a sword-form in the grass outside the palace. The practice courts were too cramped, and people stared at them too much. Pisces bet they were watching from the palace, but at least here they could talk.
“Eh…I can’t do it right. Give me a few days and I’ll master it. I’m ready to go; I didn’t lose my swords, though I wish I’d stolen Iert’s, the bastard. Or his bones. You could have made a great undead out of that bastard’s corpse.”
They hadn’t spoken as much about those moments, fighting in the cold, freezing waters with the Gnoll. What was there to say? They had been the longest moments of Pisces’ life, and that had been before he’d seen the Witch of Webs standing at the bottom of the ocean, staring up at him.
“I don’t think you’d want me to make an undead out of his bones, Colth.”
Pisces murmured softly, and Colth paused. He shivered, imperceptibly, and lowered the sword and a practice buckler he held. He’d been imitating a stance and been practicing even on the raft, but if he didn’t do it exactly right, his new Skill didn’t work.
“…No. Perhaps not. But those Skeleton Champions of yours need work.”
Pisces gave Colth a hurt look, and five Skeleton Champions all swung their heads around. They lived once more! He’d managed to save them from the battle at sea, and all of them gave Colth a hurt look as well.
“They did pretty well against [Pirates].”
“I could dice them all up myself. Pisces. Pisces. Pisces. Where’s the Stellar Ivory death machine?”
Colth began poking Pisces in the cheek, and Pisces exhaled.
[Manufacture Stellar Ivory]. Pisces’ new Skill. Well, one of them. It was the only Skill he had that he didn’t really understand.
“I’m trying, Colth. We haven’t exactly had room or time to practice. Skills don’t come with instruction manuals!”
And Az’kerash hasn’t contacted me, so I have no actual idea how to use this Skill. Colth just gave Pisces an arch look.
“Necrolad—”
“Stop calling me that.”
“Sniffmaster Pisces, we are guests of two rulers, at least one of whom would like to engage in nighttime duels with you. This is the moment to figure out how to make some and create an undead that will kill any [Slavers] of Roshal we run into.”
He had a point. About the Stellar Ivory. Pisces realized he was just—nervous. After all, he was a [Necromancer]. What if—
 
——
 
“A new [Necromancer] Skill? Of course! Whatever you need.”
Jecaina instantly approved Pisces and Colth using space or materials, within reason, to try and make some. Colth gave Pisces such an arch look that Pisces kicked him under the table.
Thus began the manufacture of Stellar Ivory! Pisces cast the Skill over a pile of bones in his rooms.
Nothing happened.
 
——
 
“Maybe we have to give you tools. Here. Hammer.”
“Nope.”
“Fire?”
“Nope.”
“Spellbook? Mana crystal?”
Colth was arguably one of the greatest experts in the world for uncovering what a Skill did. One of the first things he had Pisces do was hold a bunch of objects and see if they provoked an instinctive response. If Pisces could make this Stellar Ivory, most Skills would hint at how if he had the right materials.
Unfortunately, nothing worked. Pisces’ instincts said he needed ivory and…
“The moon? No—nighttime.”
For some reason, he felt like night, or perhaps starlight, was important in making it. Colth instantly decided to try that.
“We’d better kill something and put it under the moon and stars, then. Or experiment with bones. Maybe soaking it in water infused by the moonlight? Does it need two full moons? Dead gods, that would limit it. Come on, let’s make a bunch of tests for tonight.”
Pisces protested as Colth outlined a pile of bones in various formats to see if any jogged his instincts.
“Colth! I don’t have that many bones! Unless you want to deconstruct a Skeleton Champion—”
All the Skeleton Champions shuffled behind each other, as if trying not to be the first in line. Once again, Colth gave Pisces that insufferably know-it-all look. He patted Pisces on the shoulder.
“Pisces. Pisces. Pisces. We can acquire as many bones as we need for your little undead and our experiments. Guests of Jecrass? Horse kingdom? Come on. Let’s find a [Herder].”
 
——
 
Horses died or had to be culled or put down. It was a fact of life, even if they were the most well-cared for. That was a lot of bones if they found a graveyard for horses. Colth found a [Herder], and the friendly woman pointed down at a pot.
“Bones? Sure. Got ‘em right here.”
She lifted something up, and Pisces and Colth stared at a huge, thick bone, which was currently in a steaming bowl of…
Horse marrow stew. Colth’s face went slack. Pisces stared at the [Herder].
“You, ah, eat horse bones?”
“Well, not the bones themselves, but the marrow? Sure, sure. Horse blood goes in tea, and the marrow’s good for all sorts of things. Frying, soups, or you just suck it out of the bones—graveyard? We don’t have that sort of thing. It’d be disrespectful, not using all the parts of the horse—”
Pisces stared at Colth, and the [Ultimate Supporter] turned red. He kicked at the ground.
“I hate this country.”
 
——
 
Leaving the bones under moonlight didn’t work, anyways. Submerging them in water didn’t work; even having a naked Skeleton Champion standing on a roof of the palace all night with its arms spread to the moon above did nothing other than have people walk up to Pisces every few minutes to ask what was going on.
It got so bad that Pisces found himself drawing a pentagram in horse’s blood on the ground, and a pile of ‘fresh’ horse bones sat there under moonlight. Then he stood, trying to activate his Skill while five people stood around the pentagram, wearing hoods and robes.
One of them was Colth.
It was his idea. As it turned out, Colth also had experience in being a [Cultist]. He led the congregation in a summoning ritual and kept chanting in the dead mage’s language, which Erin called Latin.
 
“Necromantia, necromantia! 
Inmortui oriri!
Valde terribili!
Formidulosus ossa!”
 
When King Raelt of Jecrass wandered by the royal courtyard, munching on a pear and giving them a very strange look, Pisces turned beet red, and even Colth pulled back his hood.
“Damn. That always worked in the cults I infiltrated. You know how hard it is to sound good while chanting?”
The one good thing about all this was that Pisces learned that Jecrass really didn’t care about necromancy. If anything, the two monarchs found it fascinating. Jecaina was especially interested.
“Necromancy fell out of fashion after Az’kerash, but it does seem useful, if dangerous. I saw the Frostmarrow Behemoth, Pisces. Do you have more unusual undead?”
“Well, he sticks to skeletons of people because he’s unimaginative, Your Majesty.”
Colth slapped Pisces on the back, and Pisces snapped his fingers.
“I can do horses as well, Jecaina. I just choose not to. We could use a ride to find Yvlon and Ceria. And my horses don’t tire.”
A skeleton horse arose from the pile of bones they’d fruitlessly been using, and both Jecaina and Raelt stared at it. Pisces grew worried again because this was a horse-loving people—but Jecaina’s eyes just lit up.
“How fast is it? Want to race?”
And that was how Pisces ended up racing on a skeleton horse’s back for about four minutes. Then Colth walked over as Pisces covered his groin.
“Hey. Pisces?”
“Argh. Argh—”
“Sitting on a bony horse isn’t fun. This is why you use a chariot.”
