Just for a second, as High King Perric wiped his eyes and people toasted the dead—Yvlon saw Ceria’s features freeze. She looked at Kevin, and something real flitted across her face. Something like agony.
Then it froze, and the half-Elf smiled. She turned, laughing, and Yvlon Byres spoke.
“I get it.”
She snapped her metal fingers and figured it out.
“You’re wearing your master’s mask and freezing yourself. You idiot.”
 
——
 
[Ice Mages] could freeze anything. Anything in the world, including themselves. Ceria’s master had once been famous for wearing a mask of ice to conceal her damaged features.
In the depths of night, Yvlon hauled a dead drunk half-Elf back to her rooms. Ceria had been singing, unable to stand, and was drenched in sweat and drink.
She was so cold that Yvlon’s metal arms hurt.
“To Kevin! Hey, do you think Perric will be hiding in my bed?”
“I think you scared him off with your tree rot. Ceria, you’re cold. Can you at least walk?”
Even for Yvlon’s strength, the flopping, lolling half-Elf was hard to maneuver. A [Servant] spotted the two and hurried away—the one time Yvlon could have used some help. Drunk adventurers were doubtless dangerous.
Ceria hadn’t stopped smiling all night. She slid down a wall as Yvlon caught her breath, exasperated. Ceria’s voice was slurred as she spoke.
“I have to stay cold, Yv. Cold or I’d break the act.”
Yvlon Byres stopped. She bent down, on a hunch, felt at Ceria’s smiling face. Her fingers dug slightly into Ceria’s ‘skin’—and some of it came away. Yvlon rubbed at the flesh-colored ice.
“A new spell?”
“Nah. Just [Ice Armor]. Smiling makes your face hurt. I’m genuinely drunk. And I had a good time. See?”
Ceria half got up and slid down the wall, trying to arrest her movement with the side of her face. She flopped onto her back.
“See—see—if you have this circlet, you don’t feel bad about morality. Right? And if you freeze sadness, then the world’s great. Anger, too.”
She tapped her head, and Yvlon stared down at her. Ceria was still smiling, trying to push herself up. Yvlon breathed onto her hands to warm them up; they got cold at night, and she opened the door to Ceria’s room.
“I see. Here. Stay there for a second, would you?”
“I can do that. Hey, do you think I can just…pass out here?”
The half-Elf was almost unconscious by the time Yvlon came back, but the [Armsmistress] helpfully tossed some water over Ceria. Then she bent down and put something on Ceria’s chest.
“Ow. Ow. What the hell is that?”
Ceria sobered up a bit. She looked down at her chest, jerked, and tried to knock a glowing ember off it. It couldn’t burn her enchanted clothing from the Trial of Shields. And Ceria’s skin…warmed.
Yvlon looked down at her friend.
“Just checking you really want Kevin to get a statue in Medain. I could find Perric and tell him you lied.”
Ceria was panting. She didn’t knock the ember away; it wasn’t burning her, but steam was rising from her body, as if her entire body had been frozen. She looked up at Yvlon, and some heat, like the ember, entered her voice.
“Why? A statue won’t harm him. Are you mad about the lies? Making Kevin look better? He’s dead, Yvlon. No one cares about a [Mechanic]. They might remember him in a decade because of this.”
“I know. That’s why I haven’t punched your head through a wall. I get it, Ceria. We haven’t talked about Halrac or the others.”
Yvlon squatted down. There hadn’t been a good moment; they’d been separated when they reached Chandrar. Ceria met Yvlon’s eyes bleakly.
“What’s there to say? Erin called. They went. That brave idiot, Halrac—he looks so cool and calculated until you realize he’s more of an impulsive hothead than you are. Moore. Moore should have retired.”
Yvlon bowed her head.
“Yes.”
Ceria was dry-eyed as the ember turned black on her chest, but she was panting harder now, though she was merely lying there, hunched against the wall.
“They were adventurers. Soldiers got killed. Seve—I feel bad about Seve. But even old Tekshia knew what she was doing. That’s how we die.”
She took a labored breath.
“But Kevin—Kevin was just some guy. A baseball bat smashing Draugr to death? Did you see them eat that up? He was an idiot. If he saw a Draugr, he’d piss himself and run at the same time. And you know why? Because that’s normal. He was a normal guy.”
That felt like…both an accurate thing and wrong to say of Kevin. But Yvlon didn’t interrupt. Ceria’s voice rasped.
“Damn it. Damn it…he was supposed to be just someone who stayed at Erin’s inn. I didn’t love him, you know.”
“I know. You said it was just a relationship.”
Ceria’s head jerked as she nodded. Her pale blue eyes, changed from their original color, seemed to be turning green slightly. She muttered to Yvlon, to herself.
“That was how it was going to work. Someone to fool around with. The safe one. No adventurers. Someone I didn’t have to worry about dying. Why him?”
Her eyes glistened. Then froze. She was trying to cast more frost magic, but she was so drunk that even with her circlet…Yvlon went back into her room, came back with all the coals in the fireplace, and dumped them on Ceria’s chest.
The half-Elf swore at Yvlon. She tossed a few at the [Armsmistress] with her skeletal hand, then lay there. Panting.
“Is this what you wanted to see, Yvlon?”
“I just wanted to know if it was the circlet or you, Ceria. You can’t keep this in forever. Berr taught me that.”
The half-Elf hissed at Yvlon, clenching her fists. Freezing despite the burning rock on her chest.
“My magic is glaciers as old as time. Not yours. I can freeze it into an iceberg over millennia. Do you want to hear honesty? Fine. I can still feel sad. It doesn’t help. I feel weak and helpless, Yvlon.”
Her head fell back, and she stared upwards.
“So weak. If I were stronger, a better leader, I would have said it the moment we escaped Bograms. Before. When we saw those Watchertrees and realized there was a gate…I should have said we’re going to Liscor. Straight through the Bloodfields.”
“They were fully active. We didn’t know where the gateway was, if it was even accessible. Vofea knew we had to go to sea to help Erin.”
The half-Elf just shook her head.
“We would have been there at the Solstice. But I couldn’t say it. Yvlon? Ksmvr’s catching up. I think I’m the weakest Horn of Hammerad. I will be, soon. This thing is slowing me down. But I need it.”
She held the circlet up, arm shaking. Yvlon looked down at Ceria.
“You don’t need it.”
“I do. I surely do. I can’t learn magic as fast as Pisces without it. It’s a Relic, Yvlon. They don’t grow on trees. I need it—do you care about Vofea? Really? I don’t.”
She tried to switch topics, and Yvlon sat cross-legged.
“I do. She’s like Ksmvr. She needs us. I hope Ksmvr’s alright. You don’t care about her?”
Ceria put the circlet back on her head.
“I can’t. Or else I’ll worry too much about another Ksmvr trying to get himself—herself killed. If we’re lucky, she’ll take an arrow meant for Ksmvr.”
She meant it. Yvlon’s arm twitched, but Ceria was holding onto the circlet—hard. Her lips moved.
“Even with this thing, you’re stronger than I am, Yvlon. If I could find out what this thing does—maybe I’ll get stronger. That’s why we have business in Chandrar. Not just Ksmvr’s sword.”
“Yisame. Zenol. We’ll pay our debts.”
Ceria was staring at nothing. Then she cursed.
“Dead gods damn it. Omusc. I don’t care about her, either. She was just some [Pillager]. I don’t care that I screwed Revine over. I don’t care about Pisces’ fellow [Slaves]. I never met them. What a crock, though. I can’t forget about them. Even with this.”
She lifted the circlet and smacked it against her head, glaring.
“No morality. But I wake up at night and wonder about Vofea. About other people. I just—wonder if I might care about them as much as you all. This stupid circlet doesn’t even work.”
She began gnawing on it, then smacked it against the wall a few more times. Yvlon hadn’t known that. She looked at the circlet.
“Maybe the people who wore it before you had less…of a conscience than you did?”
“The Putrid One? That checks out. I wish I could trade more of me for power. If I hadn’t gone overboard first, maybe Seve would be alive. Maybe we’d all be together, in Baleros, or back in Izril with Erin. I’m trying. But even when I cheat with this, I can’t catch up, Yvlon.”
The half-Elf wasn’t crying. But she was melting…and she was drunk and mourning Kevin, in her way.
She needed Yvlon to say something. The adventurer knew this was a moment when she had to tell Ceria something that mattered, even if the half-Elf forgot most of it the next day. The [Silversteel Armsmistress] sat there and thought for a while, then spoke. She said:
“Hello. My name is Yvlon Byres. I’m a member of the Horns of Hammerad, a Gold-ranked team. Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but I assure you, the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous. I got my name fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs in Chandrar, and my team has fought everything from Adult Crelers to monsters in dungeons like the Ruins of Albez.”
Ceria’s eyes rolled up in her head, and she groaned. She tried to curl up, and Yvlon continued.
“I’m a Level 44 [Silversteel Armsmistress]. One of the higher-level members of the Horns of Hammerad. Not too long ago, I was a lot lower level and the weakest member of the Horns. My arms were constantly infected and breaking, and I was a lot like you.”
The half-Elf paused in curling up. She looked up, and Yvlon continued, voice steady.
“I was a weak adventurer in the company of geniuses. A three-year-old Antinium who was doing his very best, a [Necromancer] genius, a half-Elf who’d stayed to fight Skinner—and me. My arms were gone. I was afraid you’d put me with a [Healer] or just abandon me. But my team never gave up on me. So I kept trying, and one day—I gained a new class.”
She flexed her arms. That was indeed the moment things had changed. Yvlon looked down at Ceria, then pulled her upright so the half-Elf was at least sitting.
“All I know to do is to keep trying, Ceria. It worked for me—it’ll work for you. I just wish—”
Yvlon faltered, and she stared at Ceria’s circlet resting lopsidedly on Ceria’s head.
“I wish—you were the same captain who could cry and laugh with us, genuinely. Be part of us, even if you were weaker. I followed that Ceria to death’s door. This one makes it harder.”
“Sorry about that.”
Ceria sat there, meeting Yvlon’s eyes. It felt like the first time they’d talked in a long while. After a moment, the half-Elf closed her eyes.
“I wanted this circlet. It’s not just a shortcut. I don’t see a path beyond Illphres, Yvlon. My master studied magic for longer than I did. She was more talented than me. I saw where she stopped, and it’s not that much higher than where I am. I’m no Pisces. I need this.”
“I get that. But do you have to be a [Prankster]?”
That was a partial complaint that Yvlon had. Ceria was chuckling. She shook her head.
“The world’s a big game, Yvlon. Someone has to be the idiot, the trickster, the one having sex and pulling everyone’s noses and looking like a fool. Colth’s no good at it, for all he tries. And Ksmvr’s too genuine. Pisces…Pisces is just silly, and you’re hilarious on accident. I’m the one who needs to do it.”
“Why do we need someone like that?”
Ceria reached out and grabbed Yvlon’s metal arm with her bone one. Her eyes opened wide, and she snarled.
“We need it or else we’ll scare the normal people. The ones who don’t realize we’d rather drag ourselves over broken glass than stop. So High King Perric can joke about jumping into bed with you or me instead of realizing it’d be the last thing he’d ever do.”
She took the circlet from her hand and looked at Yvlon. Seriously. Ceria was covered in condensation, wet—melted. But her eyes were still frosted in places. She’d changed, Yvlon realized, like they all had.
“I know this is bad for me. Joreldyn can’t tell if it’s actively controlling my mind, but guess what? I know this thing has a will. I’m not stupid, even without this thing on, Yvlon. I’ve heard all the stories about cursed artifacts. I still want it. I still need it.”
She began to tap the circlet against the wall hard, then harder, and Ceria raised her voice.
“I know it’s tricking me. Does everyone think I’m stupid? Do you? I know there’s a cost! I KNOW YOU CAN HEAR ME.”
The half-Elf was punching the fragile-looking circlet into the wall. A [Guard] peeked into the room, saw Ceria and Yvlon, turned on his heel, and fled. Ceria snarled at the circlet and then at Yvlon. She punched the circlet into the stone wall, crumbling pieces of masonry off it with each blow.
“What I don’t get is—I’m in a fight for my morality or my soul or whatever it’s doing to me. Yvlon. Why. Do. You. Think. I’d. Lose?”
The [Armsmistress] sat there. After a few more punches, Ceria lifted the bloody circlet—she’d cut her hand—and put it on her head. The [Armsmistress] just held out a hand and helped Ceria up.
“We fight as a team. Only idiots solo monsters.”
Ceria staggered to the door and looked up.
“Fair enough. Here.”
She reached up, and her hand jolted away from the circlet for a second. Ceria snatched it off her head and handed it to Yvlon.
“Yeah, it really didn’t like that. What do you think?”
Yvlon turned the circlet over in her hands, inspecting it. Did she hear a voice saying ‘put me on’ in her head? No. She gently lifted it, ran her hands down the polished bone—then twisted it with all her strength.
She thought she heard a faint cricking sound, but it wouldn’t break. After a minute, Yvlon calmly raised the circlet and punched it into the palace walls. There it sat, embedded in the masonry, as Ceria fell into bed and Yvlon went to her own.
It was a good talk.
 
——
 
Medain ran on days of partying and hangovers. More tended to be done on the hangover days—the early dawn was servants bringing around potions and cleaning up the messes.
High King Perric had an exceptionally bad one, but everything was set up; his adventurer push on the Mines of Zethe was his big project, but he kept an eye on Jecrass, Khelt, and of course, the King of Destruction.
“We’ll have to take Jecrass to task sooner or later. Were it not for King Fetohep, I would have done so already. What else?”
“The statue, Your Majesty?”
An advisor was running over news for Perric so he could recall or undo things he’d decided on. The High King scowled.
