“At least we know there’s better transport than horses. Dead gods, this is fast. It’s going to change the world, Yvlon.”
The Silver Killer of Izril said nothing. Well, she’d said everything she needed to Ceria already on the ride. She’d described Perric, the capital, the disposition of rival teams, and what she’d gathered from her brief stint in Medain.
“The High King is simply desirous of another meeting, Captain Ceria. And there is to be a banquet—”
“I hope Pisces and Colth are having a more fun time in Jecrass.”
“Mm. Pisces sent a [Message] saying he was heading out two days ago, right?”
“Yep. We’ll see if they come after us.”
“—Any guests of the High King will be treated with great respect. Jecrass is, sadly, a country of raiders and—”
“Yv? You cool?”
“Yep. You take lead on this one, Ceria. I’ll…back you up.”
The two adventurers smiled at each other. The flunkie that Perric had sent kept trying to interject into the conversation; they just ignored him.
 
——
 
There was another parade when they entered Medain. And a banquet. And the High King himself strode out to greet them, arms spread, beaming.
All this wealth and ostentatious partying actually made it less impressive. There were flower petals being thrown, people staring at Ceria as she waved and at least had some fun; she even decided that instead of riding into the city, she’d disembark and, using an ice spell, skate over the walls to cheers and shouts of delight.
The Ice Squirrel was more of what High King Perric wanted in an adventurer. Yvlon just sat or stood there, face blank, until they got past what she considered to be the unnecessary parts she’d already seen.
She had two questions.
One. How were they going to get out of this circumstance? She had some ideas.
Two. Why was the High King dragging them back? There were obviously numerous angles, including how he eyed Ceria from top to toe appreciatively as she skated over to him. But was it just that?
“Yvlon, Captain Ceria! I apologize for the insistence, but you left so quickly I couldn’t give you my full hospitality. All this trouble—I’ve already met Yvlon, and we are on first name terms. Captain Ceria, I am the High King of Medain. Former Gold-rank adventurer. And you are every bit the adventurer I hoped you were!”
He held out a hand, and Ceria flashed him a quick grin. She offered her skeletal, right hand, and he blinked—then laughed out loud and shook her hand.
“Thank you, High King. I was hoping to find my team, but I suppose when a [King] insists…I’ll take your hospitality. I hope you don’t regret it. The Claiven Earth might have, a bit.”
“Anything that tweaks my neighbor’s nose only makes you more charming in my eyes, Captain Ceria.”
Perric kissed Ceria’s skeletal hand, and she looked highly amused. She raised her eyebrows at Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] nodded.
Yep. He’s like that. Perric turned to Yvlon and gave her a rueful grin.
“I hope you’ll suffer Medain a bit longer this time, Yvlon. We have yet to charm you.”
He smiled at her, and Yvlon Byres…did not smile back. She stood there with the Conquerors of Rameid, Perric’s Golden Ranks of former adventurers, and his servants and people around him and looked the High King in the eye.
“High King Perric. I left last time as politely as I could because I had to find my team. I hoped you’d understand. You’ve brought me back a second time against my will. This time—I’m getting angry.”
Perric’s smile faltered, and the people around him stared at Yvlon, aghast. But the [Armsmistress] just folded her arms. She gazed at Ceria, and the Ice Squirrel winked at Perric, all smiles.
“You heard her. Now, what’s there to eat?”
The two Horns of Hammerad were insolent and chaotic by turns. The Conquerors of Rameid, a good, solid Gold-rank team, were respectful and jocular with the High King. Yvlon was not-quite-glaring at Perric, and Ceria saw someone coming with a tray of drinks. She took one before the High King and took a huge gulp.
—And they wondered why the High King found the two Horns of Hammerad far more fascinating, nay, enjoyable than the Conquerors of Rameid.
 
——
 
One benefit of glaring at everything and everyone who came near her was that Yvlon got to skip the re-introduction to Medain. Perric was more focused on Ceria, anyways, and the Ice Squirrel was loose in Medain’s capital. For once, Yvlon had no desire to rein Ceria in.
“Is that your teammate? She’s funny. I like her.”
The only people who kept Yvlon company were, ironically, Perric’s concubines. Not just the Djinni Maef; nearly a dozen had emerged from their chambers to meet the Silver Killer.
This time, Yvlon took a pulse on Medain herself. Her ride along its border while skirting Khelt’s new outpost—they hadn’t been sure if Fetohep would react poorly to a crossing without permission—had shown the [Armsmistress] that Medain’s borders have been damaged by war.
Far less than Jecrass, she guessed, and Medain’s capital was in full swing with parties and Perric flaunting his wealth. But it felt a tad bit performative to her. As if he were distracting people.
The Claiven Earth had fully escaped the fighting despite their losses. Medain? Everyone was laughing, drinking, singing praises of the High King, or adventurers, but whenever Jecrass, the raids, or the King of Destruction were invoked, the mood went nervous and quiet.
Medain’s people had little stomach for another war, it seemed. Whether the High King agreed or not, Yvlon couldn’t tell. But most of her attention was on Ceria, as were the concubines, in between asking Yvlon for gossip on Pisces and Colth.
They stood and watched as Ceria, well, Ceria’d around.
“She wasn’t always like this. The circlet changed her. I think it did.”
Most people in Izril forgot or didn’t know about Ceria’s circlet; in Chandrar, people had put two and two together. The sword, the circlet; Maef eyed the two rings on Yvlon’s hand. But mostly they watched Ceria causing chaos.
She was definitely playing up her personality for Perric and the public, who were crowded around the palace, and some were even being let into the banquet. Apparently, that was normal; Yvlon had been so uninteresting there hadn’t been a crowd after the first day, but Ceria?
“I am the Ice Squirrel of Izril! Ice magic!”
—She ran to a balcony, leapt onto the railing, and a wave of frost coated the ground below her. Snow began falling, and she started shooting snowballs into the cheering crowd. Chandrarians, who had seldom seen snow, loved Ceria.
She was doing it partly because she was a [Prankster] and loved the attention. Partly, Yvlon guessed, to annoy the Conquerors of Rameid, who were trying to show off in their own way. But they were old news; Ceria went skating down an ice ramp and did a flip off the edge—or tried.
“Oooh!”
The sound of her missing the jump and landing on her back and sliding down the other ramp—to more cheers—just showed that Ceria’s strategy was working, fails and all. But then the High King insisted on copying her and made the jump.
That was it—they were both showboating attention-seekers. The High King would toss handfuls of gold coins out like Ceria tossed snow. The difference was that Yvlon respected Ceria, for all the half-Elf could drive her insane.
Perric…no.
 
——
 
You would be forgiven for thinking Ceria was all just laughter and games. She was fending off one of the ministers when, panting, nursing a few scratches, and definitely drunk, Yvlon found her.
“His Majesty wants me where?”
She was speaking loudly, and the [Minister] was trying to be clandestine about the High King’s offer to add Ceria into his harem. But even here, Yvlon managed a smile as Ceria took a sip from a cup.
“That’s brave of him to assume I don’t have more bones down there.”
She waggled her skeletal arm, and the [Minister] hesitated.
“His Majesty is quite interested in a meeting between you two. If I may say so, you seem rather open to the idea…?”
Ceria took a deeper gulp.
“Oh, absolutely.”
Yvlon frowned, and the [Minister] brightened up and began to signal to Perric. Then Ceria lowered her goblet.
“—He does have a good [Plague Healer] though, right? It’s too late for me, but I think he’ll survive one night. Just so long as he’s okay with the smell.”
“The—smell—?”
The half-Elf was not lowering her voice. But she did lean over and place an arm on the [Minister]’s shoulder.
“Listen, we all have fun. We’re adventurers. Well…full disclosure since you’re doing this for the guy. I’m completely down to have some fun. All I’m warning you is that there’s, ah, well—you know, you have too much fun, you’re not careful, and things happen.”
“What, ah—I believe I understand—we have cures—what things?”
Ceria kept her face straight; some of the other adventurers, including Raava, were beginning to give her horrified looks.
“Remember the Yellow Rivers? Well, it’s not that.”
The [Minister] relaxed. Ceria paused.
“…It’s more brown. Nonstop, really. And it does sort of smell, but I have a charm for that. Bag of holding down there for the leak—you know how half-Elves say ‘tree rot’ all the time? Well, they never say where it rots from, y’know? But just give me fifteen minutes and some drying powder and I am good to go.”
By now, the [Minister] was trying to get as far away from Ceria as possible. The [Prankster] gave Perric a huge grin and thumbs-up—he copied her until the [Minister] dashed over, and Yvlon savored his alarmed expression.
“You’re having too much fun, Ceria.”
Yvlon murmured as Ceria used a privacy spell. Ceria just whispered back.
“Yeah, from what I’ve seen, he deserves it. Not that I care, Yv. This is all just a waste of time.”
“I’m glad you think so.”
Ceria took another gulp of wine.
“—He wants something from us. Not just to pop both of us—well, you, now—in bed.”
That drew the [Armsmistress] up short.
“Are you sure?”
Ceria nodded.
“The Conquerors of Rameid are one thing. But I spotted both Named-ranks you mentioned in the palace, still. Requiel, Three of Arms, and Chorteal the Djinni Master. See how many Silver and Golds are among the party?”
She pointed them out to Yvlon, and the other woman scratched her chin with her metal fingers.
“…They could just be here for the free food and Perric’s favor?”
“Not the two Named-ranks. Or do you think they’re having that much fun?”
One look at Requiel, looking bored and drunk and talking with the court mage, and Chorteal, wearing a clearly fake smile as he talked with one of the lesser [Kings] of Medain, and Yvlon frowned.
“Okay. What are they here for?”
“The same thing we are. Mind you, the High King seems to just like us. Let’s find out, shall we?”
Then Ceria was dragging Yvlon over to the High King, who backed away a step.
“Captain Ceria, you jest too often! That was a jest, right?”
She gave him a huge wink.
“If you want to find out, High King, be my guest. But there’s no escaping the dungeon the moment you challenge it.”
He stared at her, then guffawed hugely and raised his voice.
“This is why I’ll never get sick of adventurers! Ah, Ceria…your entire team should be here! I know, I know, I have been rude—but such is kingliness. To save myself from Yvlon’s glower, I might as well mention one of the reasons I’ve brought you here. Come, come.”
He swept a hand over, and Ceria and Yvlon followed him out of the main hall and towards a war room of sorts. The High King was somewhat tipsy, and he waggled a finger at them.
“This is just because I want to whet your interest. Some of the other teams, especially Requiel and Chorteal, are in the know. But yours is one of the best…take a look at this map. Do you know Chandrar, Ceria, Yvlon?”
“Only the south parts. Ah, you’re doing something to the west. Zethe?”
Ceria’s eyes found the map in the center of the room, and both she and Yvlon saw a number of markers and pieces set around a nation clearly labeled there. Yvlon’s neck prickled, and she glanced at Ceria, but the half-Elf was just smiling.
The Hero of Zethe?
His identity and whereabouts had been concealed after the voyage with King Fetohep. Was that it?
No…the High King of Medain gave Ceria an approving look.
“Zethe it is. Have you ever heard of Chemath Marble? One of the rarest and most valuable building stones in the world, you know. It made Zethe a fortune. Of course, the country went to seed when the mines were overrun by monsters. Gigantic beetles—and the revolution by the Hero of Zethe. That’s all old history; older than the King of Destruction, even. Recently, though, you’ll not believe what’s been happening—”
“—Someone’s been selling new Chemath Marble.”
Ceria broke in, and Perric looked slightly put out.
“Ah. Er. Yes. Not Zethe; they ran out of their reserves long ago, and the mines are restricted. Literally collapsed. Under so many hundreds of thousands of tons of debris that [Geomancers] gave up uncovering the main shafts. But a certain nation has been selling the stuff and making such a profit…Medain’s annual income might double if there’s a new mining spot with Chemath Marble. The problem is—no one knows where it is. All the spies and explorers I’ve sent have, ah, run into trouble, and the Chemath Marble isn’t high quality. Yet.”
He even had a sample of the stuff he tossed at them, and Yvlon sighed. Buried wealth. Geopolitics in Chandrar. Ceria was just nodding along as both saw where this was going. Perric went on.
“There’s a fortune of fortunes to be made there. You see, it would be one thing if Zethe was selling the Chemath Marble. But they’re not. And they have a, shall we say, loose control over the old mining region? Another power is selling the marble, and they have no technical right to do so. Hence, if some adventurers were to stake a claim and find a new mine shaft…”
“Which nation’s selling the Chemath Marble?”
Perric took another draft of his drink, and his expression soured.
“You may not have heard of them outside of Chandrar. The Empire of Sands…I don’t have the inclination to challenge the soldiers they have lurking around the mining shafts. But a single team of Gold-ranks is worth ten thousand men, anyways. So! I plan on using these fantastic magical carriages to send as many adventurers as I can to Zethe in two day’s time.”
He smiled at Yvlon and Ceria.
