“Huh. You’d think that would be the most respected in times of peace. And that it’s the widest field imaginable. Anyone can be good at it.”
Ceria noisily bit into another ripe mango, and Joreldyn didn’t look up from his delicate copying of the spellbook. Unlike Ierwyn, the Mage of Rivers refused to rise to the bait.
“Perspectives differ in the rest of the world. Even we are not like the Village of the Spring, Adventurer Ceria. You hail from the oldest place of all. I confess…”
“I know, I know. I’m nothing like what you expected?”
Ceria licked her fingers, having eaten the mango. She fiddled with her outfit and robes, and the old half-Elf smiled to himself.
“No, you’re rather like the other Springwalkers I’ve met. The ones who leave are all prone to adventure. And often mischief.”
She didn’t like that. Joreldyn could hear it in her tone. Cloth rustled as Ceria grumbled.
“Really? Is that our reputation?”
“Only to me and perhaps those who have the lifespans to remember the others.”
“Well, no one’s left since I was a kid. Sixty years. The last one left over a hundred and fifty years ago, I heard. I mean—properly left. Some come back once every few decades. They talk about it like the ones who left just stepped out the door. I wish I’d met the last one—but she died.”
“Entanglement.”
Ceria paused as the word that had significance to half-Elves lingered in the air. A warning? A lesson? Joreldyn liked to let her draw her own conclusions. He wasn’t about to lecture.
“You’re doing well for someone who got entangled with Khelt of all places.”
“Higher levels tend to let one survive mistakes. Which Khelt was.”
If he lived another thousand years without having to duel the Vizir Hecrelunn, it would be too soon. Joreldyn treasured his old age. Old age meant he was a dangerous, hidden asset of the Claiven Earth in an age of weaker magic.
Old monsters from even older times made him sweat. He was a gifted [Mage] who had reached an apex few [Mages] of any era could boast of. But Joreldyn had never aspired to be an Archmage or some hero of mythical spellcasting. He knew his limits.
Still, he knew he attracted young spellcasters like Ceria Springwalker. She walked closer, and he was almost done copying the spells. She had an impressive aura for someone her age, a strong command of battle—and she had powerful artifacts and a decent array of spells. However, Ceria’s voice had a familiar note. Of…frustration and uncertainty.
“Yeah, well, I’m about to hit Level 40, but I got my ass kicked by a bunch of Humans, and no matter how hard I struggle and cheat, I can barely keep up with my team. They’re all monsters or geniuses. While I’m here—would you mind giving me some tips? Not just about the circlet. Water magic and ice magic are close, and I could use more spells.”
The Mage of Rivers had expected that. He sighed as he put the quill away and stoppered the ink bottle. He spoke while he closed the spellbook and floated it away to his bookshelf.
“Adventurer Ceria. Every half-Elf who passes by the Claiven Earth makes that kind of request of Ierwyn and I, if they know we exist. With due deference to your significant level and achievements, if you won’t tell us how to access the Crossroads of Izril, what would you have to offer me besides your circlet? Wistram is beyond both of us in spell knowledge at the moment.”
“Oh, I have a few ideas.”
She sounded amused, and only when Joreldyn turned around did he see…absolutely nothing. Nothing, including clothes. Ceria Springwalker folded her arms below her breasts as the Mage of Rivers blinked at her.
She’d removed the magical clothes, which he’d frankly found more interesting than her. Joreldyn stared at them puddled around Ceria’s feet, then at her wide smile.
“Ever seen a Springwalker do that?”
The Mage of Rivers looked Ceria Springwalker up and down and paused before responding.
“Twice. But never before the first date.”
Her eyes widened, and she let out a laugh. The Mage of Rivers heard a knock at his door, and before he could cast a spell, someone opened it.
One of Joreldyn’s younger apprentices was at the door. A young half-Elf of a hundred and twenty years with flare-red hair and a tan from casting outdoors. Volehs was responsible for casting and maintaining most of the magics over Tier 5 that the Claiven Earth needed. Apprentice Volehs stopped, saw Ceria and Joreldyn turn, and instantly shut the door. The Mage of Rivers closed his eyes, but Ceria just called out.
“Come back later! Well?”
She turned back to the old half-Elf, and he eyed her sternly.
“Is this how you approach everything you want, Ceria Springwalker?”
Her eyes glittered far too calmly.
“What’s the problem? I want something, I think the deal’s beyond fair—and even if I had a problem with it before, which I don’t think I did, I really don’t now. Well?”
She gave him a huge grin, and the Mage of Rivers wondered how many rumors would start if he cast a tidal wave spell and people saw her being tossed out of his door buck naked. Clothing spell first. Now, wouldn’t that be a handy spell to learn from the Terras faction?
She gave him an expectant smile, and he reached out and gently patted her on the head. Her robes floated up, and the Mage of Rivers smiled.
“Come back when you’re past Level 50 and try again, young woman. Equals in magic are far more attractive. [Greater Invisibility]. [Tidal Wave].”
“Ah sh—”
She tried to freeze the water; she had good reflexes. Joreldyn heard Ceria cursing—then the sounds of her being tossed off of the balcony, several hundred feet high.
He was almost sure she knew how to cast [Featherfall]. Wistram wasn’t that deficient. The Mage of Rivers went back to studying the circlet. After a moment, he sighed.
“I should just throw you into the sea. But we need her cooperation.”
Destroy or hide this away for her own good or let her walk a tightrope with it on? The Mage of Rivers knew which was the ethical choice. But the Claiven Earth needed her aid. That kind of thinking made him feel old.
He wished, perhaps, that he were kinder to Ceria Springwalker. The old [Mage] worked, then, when he was certain the magics in the relic were eluding his brief time frame, he used a Skill, made a short note, and informed the Speaker of Trees they had their leverage.
Then he summoned Volehs to tell his best apprentice they needed to consult their cousins in the New Lands about the soil issue. Not Joreldyn’s specialty, but he would need reagents to try and create some magical fertilizer that could nullify the problems in the groundwater.
“Volehs? Volehs—”
After waiting twenty minutes, Joreldyn walked towards his apprentice’s adjoining cottage. He opened the door and heard loud giggling. A woman’s voice. The Mage of Rivers paused and began to leave surreptitiously—then his eyes narrowed.
He strode into the bedroom, threw open the door, and felt a lot less bad about his lack of kindness towards Ceria Springwalker. Especially when his apprentice froze in bed with said half-Elf.
“Master! I—I—”
The Mage of Rivers gave Ceria a narrow-eyed look as she winked at him. Ceria was writing in a spellbook, and one look at his apprentice from Joreldyn made the younger half-Elf quail. Then he exhaled.
“Well done, Adventurer Springwalker. I trust it was worth it, Volehs. See me later. I have reagents that I need finding.”
He strode off, sighing. Now that was youth.
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker had a shiny new incantation in her spellbook. It turned out the Mage of Rivers taught his students how to scribe spells almost as fast as he did. The next day, she accepted her circlet and gave the Speaker of Trees, Lastimeth, a bright smile.
He gave her a faintly disapproving one.
“It seems Magus Joreldyn could not identify much of the circlet’s workings or true nature, Captain Ceria. And with deference to your desire to find your teammates, we will escort you to our borders and provide horses. We are at odds with Medain and cannot offer you more than sanctuary if you should return. Though I hope you will consider our requests…should you be willing, sister.”
“You’ve been very hospitable, Speaker Lastimeth. The Claiven Earth is very welcoming to fellow half-Elves. As for any favors…the Adventurer’s Guild can handle any requests. I can’t commit to anything until I find my team, and some of my teammates are in Baleros.”
Ceria was perfectly braced to turn down whatever he wanted. The Speaker of Trees had invited her into his own humble home; it seemed to be a motif here, and he poured her more tea.
“Surely it wouldn’t hurt to hear us out?”
“Oh, not at all. Please, go ahead, Speaker. I’m just stating my position.”
Ceria was glad she had the circlet. She felt sharper, and she already had it memorizing her new spell, which she felt would be invaluable in Chandrar:
[Conjure Tidal Wave].
Not just [Tidal Wave]. That was so easy that Ceria could have mastered it herself. No; [Conjure Tidal Wave]. As in, even if it was dry as a bone, conjure magical water out of nowhere to fight with. Or freeze.
Last time, Ceria had been hampered by the lack of water in Chandrar and suffered for it. She could carry water like Revine Zecrew, the Siren of Savere, did, but this spell would be an excellent tool.
And all it took was one night and a really besotted apprentice. Ceria might not have as much charm as some half-Elves, but being the wild adventurer from another continent seemed to work.
She considered this all a win, especially because she’d also gotten some appraisals for her clothing from the Trial of Shields. But her wariness was at its peak right now.
The Claiven Earth wanted something. Ceria had expected them to turn the thumbscrews up about how to access the Crossroads of Izril. Hold her circlet or her and Yvlon hostage for it, perhaps, but they actually seemed to not want to be that…unpleasant.
The copper coin dropped as the Speaker of Trees shifted. He wasn’t a master [Diplomat]; he was more of an expert in internal half-Elven politics, Ceria gathered, and spoke to foreign leaders less than most. A real Fetohep in his way.
Still. Speaker Lastimeth fixed Ceria with a calm eye.
“I shall be direct, Captain Ceria. When you leave the Claiven Earth…I have no doubt that you are keen to find your teammates. But would I be wrong in assuming your travels might lead you south to, say, Tiqr? In search of another relic of the Village of the Dead. A sword that the Empress of Beasts possesses.”
Ceria winced. The problem with having famous teammates and adventures was that everyone knew your goals. And if he knew it—her enemies did too. Whomever they were. Probably Revine.
“We might be visiting other Chandrarian nations, yes. But if you had an adventuring request—my team’s not in the market to hunt monsters or take on another dungeon yet.”
Was that what he wanted? Ceria still didn’t get it, and she didn’t see why the half-Elves would want that, anyways, with the amount of dangerous people they had. To her surprise, Lastimeth smiled.
“Ah, that is not our concern. Rather, Captain Ceria, I know one of your teammates is a [Necromancer] of some renown. Pisces Jealnet, a rarity in this day and age. And your team has ventured in great company. Why, the King of Khelt and King of Destruction were both in your company at one point.”
Wait…Ceria blinked at the Speaker. She hadn’t expected that.
“Uh—more like we were in theirs. But yes…Pisces? What about him? He hasn’t done something stupid in the last two days in Jecrass, has he?”
Lastimeth stood up and took his cup of tea to the window. He indicated the city of half-Elves as Ceria stood.
“Not at all, Ceria. Rather, he is held in great regard, as are you, Yvlon Byres, Colthei—one imagines that of the few adventurers in the world, a [Necromancer] might even attract the favor of King Fetohep of Khelt. Whom Adventurer Pisces has met. You may be aware of the—difficulties between Khelt and the Claiven Earth of late. Even during our peace, one of the Jaws of Zeikhal rampaged towards the Claiven Earth. Ierwyn and Joreldyn rebuffed it, and it did the most damage to Medain, but we are concerned about Khelt’s disposition. And the King of Destruction continues to wage war—these are not things the Claiven Earth has ever desired, you see? And if in your travels…”
Ceria realized what he wanted and instantly compressed her lips.
“Oh no. I’m sorry, Speaker, but have you not been watching me? We would be the worst—”
“If you would simply speak well of the Claiven Earth. I have a few documents you might show to other leaders of nations. The King of Destruction himself might listen to a friend—”
“I barely know the man. In fact, I made fun of him the entire time! I called him a bandaged mummy! And I think I spat on him.”
Joreldyn’s smile was too wide.
“He is a man of deep and abiding friendship to those who catch his ear. I know it would not be a light thing to ask, but if you could convince him—”
He was proffering a case of scrolls, and Ceria had an itching feeling on her back. She brought up her hands.
“Apologies, Speaker, but even if we go to other nations—shilling for my brothers and sisters here is not on my list of things to do. Tell you what, I’ll talk up the Claiven Earth, but making a contract?”
Absolutely not. Playing diplomat as an adventurer was a bad, bad, bad idea. Halrac, Jelaqua—no team leader that Ceria had ever met, not even crazy Ylawes, had ever gone for that. There were stories of how you got into trouble.
Worse, though, Ceria could see why the Speaker of Trees was insistent. With Khelt and Reim…the two leaders would snub a [Diplomat]. But Flos Reimarch might actually listen to Ceria.
She had no incentive to do this, or even take the scrolls. Ceria knew she had the upper hand and that the Speaker couldn’t threaten her into helping…but she didn’t expect the bribe. Speaker Lastimeth sighed dramatically.
“I can see you are a pragmatic woman, Captain Ceria. And I well know how difficult it is to forge an alliance or gain anything in writing. The scrolls are marked for each nation you might run into, from Tiqr to Hellios.”
He swiftly opened the case and chased Ceria onto the balcony as she tried to escape. She shouted as she tried to put a foot over the railing.
“There’s three dozens scrolls in here! Nope! No thanks! Yvlon and I will be on our way. Goodbye—”
She was about to swan dive off the edge of the Speaker’s house when, like an [Actor], he called out.
“Ah, well. I suppose the Mage of River’s book on your circlet will have to wait.”
“…Shit.”
Ceria closed her eyes as she straddled the railing. She turned and gave the Speaker a long, hard stare.
