—And above her in levels. The Level 44 [Silversteel Armsmistress] gave Ceria a shamefaced look. The Level 39 [Arctic Cryomancer]—and Level 19 [Prankster]—gave Yvlon a huge grin.
Maybe the circlet has slowed down my levelling and it’s why I can’t hit Level 40. But dead gods—Ceria saw Yvlon flex one arm.
How was she supposed to keep up without it? Ceria sighed.
Well, she had some ideas.
 
——
 
Ceria’s new clothes were more than a fashion statement. Actually, some of the clothing looked hideous, and some were amazing, fantastic works of art. Ceria had stolen the Trial of [Duelists]’ complete clothing inventory, and she suspected it was a mix of clothing meant for aspiring applicants to the City of Shields’ elite whatever and therefore highly magical, highly valuable cloth made in an era of true power…
…And some of it was clothing no one wanted to wear.
Ceria wondered which her new robes were. They were certainly beautiful and eye-catching.
“It’s so soft.”
“It feels like I’m wearing a cloud. Dead gods, Yvlon, your fingers are cold. Stop poking!”
Half-Elves were admiring Ceria’s robes, even as flashy as they were. Ceria shooed Yvlon away, but the [Armsmistress] wore a rare look of envy.
“I know you took more than robes. Give me some of the clothing.”
“No. Not until I figure out what they do. Plus, you’ll just break them next time you tear out a [Pirate]’s throat and go for a two week-long walk underwater.”
“I will not. Well—if I do, I need good clothing. Mine wore out. I had to change clothing three times underwater. Naked!”
A passing half-Elf turned and stared as Ceria and Yvlon walked together, talking, so amazed by what he was hearing that he actually walked into a guardrail and nearly pitched over. Yvlon’s arm stretched, and she dragged him back as he clung to it.
“So what do these robes do?”
Ceria shrugged. She did a twirl, and the fireburst design on the white robes’ edges lit up. Magical flames appeared around her, and Yvlon stepped back. Ceria twirled harder—then nearly lost her balance.
“The faster I twirl, the more flames appear. Weird, right? I’m pretty sure it does other things, but some of the robes have key words or you have to do a gesture. I’m cataloging the effects. Tell you later.”
They were both conscious of the eyes on them, and Ceria grinned as Yvlon sighed.
“I want two.”
“I want something nice in return. You could have scammed the Trial of [Duelists] out of clothing too.”
“I was fighting Bograms. When Colth and Pisces hear about this—”
“They’ll agree with me that you’d just tear up your clothing. Pisces could use some of the robes. I think they’re unisex. And Colth might use some clothing if it doesn’t interfere with his armor. Ksmvr’s obviously getting some of the clothing, and I think Mrsha and Erin and Lyonette could all use a pair. But you? Hey! Stop it! Stop—”
Ceria tried to leap away, but Yvlon grabbed her and dangled her over a balcony, shaking her as she held Ceria’s feet. The vertigo of staring down three hundred feet finally ended when Yvlon realized people were staring at her and flushed. Yvlon put Ceria back on her feet and made a show of patting Ceria on the back.
“I, ah, have to go. We’re leaving tomorrow if the Mage of Rivers can’t identify your circlet, right?”
“We were going to leave yesterday, but sure. If the Claiven Earth lets us. They still haven’t pushed on the Crossroads of Izril thing after we refused, Yvlon. But they’re not hinting we should stay. They mentioned a job.”
Ceria was worried about that, too. The half-Elves were awfully chummy. Maybe they took her being a ‘sister of the forests’ seriously. She felt like everyone knew it was ironic. But Yvlon had needed to escape Medain…
We’ll see. Yvlon glanced around, then waved politely at a woman waiting for her.
Ierwyn, the Herald of the Forests, had a colorful expression as she watched the two adventurers’ antics. Yvlon turned and smiled at Ceria.
“Ierwyn seems very honorable. Like Ylawes. I can’t imagine she’d be part of any duplicity.”
“Yeah…okay. Well, have fun sparring with her.”
That was probably part of the colorful expression. The Herald of the Forests had tried to be a nice, welcoming person to Yvlon and made a mistake.
Yvlon strode towards the higher-level half-Elf. And she was higher-level, definitely. But Ceria just smirked as she wondered how much fun it was to have a sparring session with a woman whose arms exploded into spikes and who was trying her best to practice against a worthy opponent.
Well, if you had the chance to learn from the best—Ceria strolled off to her appointment as well. It wasn’t like she and Yvlon could afford to waste their time here.
 
——
 
They called him the Mage of Rivers. He looked like most older half-Elves, white-haired. It was a mark of status. If you had naturally white hair, unlike Feor, you were ancient.
In Joreldyn’s case, age had marked him far more than Ierwyn. He was probably…what? Ceria guessed at least eight hundred years old.
Her grandmother had been far, far older, but she’d lived in a timeless half-Elven village. Joreldyn had begun to get that shriveled look and slightly hunched back along with the frailness of true age. He was also balding slightly—and yet time both clung to him and was unable to drag him down at the rate of other peoples.
When he looked up in his humble tree home, one of the highest in the entire Claiven Earth, Ceria paused at the door, and her skin hummed slightly.
He didn’t have a great, magical workshop like the other Archmages or her master had possessed at Wistram. There was a single bookshelf, a small spell circle, and a few magical artifacts like a staff and scrying orb littered around the room.
It looked like the belongings of a common [Mage], even a hedge mage, set in a very humble home. A small house.
But each object in the room made Ceria feel like it was beyond regular artifact-grade. The circlet that the Mage of Rivers was inspecting was hovering, and he had drawn a magical diagram in the air.
“Tree rot. Is that a three-dimensional spell circle?”
Ceria blurted out as she stared at the shimmering lines in the air. The old half-Elf nodded to her as Ceria walked into the room.
“I thought Wistram had stopped teaching that. When I last visited, they were arguing about teaching it in class when a simple, inscribed spell circle was good enough for anything under Tier 5 magic. Welcome, Adventurer Ceria.”
Ceria stepped forwards, staring at the suspended circlet. The older half-Elf was reading a book and, occasionally, drawing a line from the hovering magic to the circlet. It seemed to be doing nothing; instinct told Ceria that he was cautiously probing it, trying to elicit a response. He had more protection spells than anything else.
He’d looked like an ordinary old man when she’d seen him sitting outside chatting with his fellow half-Elves. But look him in the eyes and you might be washed away by the power to drown cities.
And Yvlon wanted to spar with Ierwyn. The scariest half-Elf just sat here. Ceria had heard he was one of the reasons Khelt’s Revenants hadn’t advanced before Fetohep himself had come racing north.
Mage of Rivers in dry Chandrar. Ceria wished she didn’t feel so damn nervous without the circlet. One of the things it helped with was moments like this. But she was still able to conjure a [Prankster]’s smile.
“When you last visited Wistram. When was that? Five ages ago?”
She wondered if he’d be a crotchety old half-Elf and get mad, but the Mage of Rivers just stopped—then gave her an amused smile.
“Merely four.”
He went back to working as Ceria stood there, flummoxed. Joreldyn frowned to himself.
“Ah. A new age has begun hasn’t it? I’ve lived in five, after all. They pass faster these days. The King of Destruction did not warrant a new age. When I was a boy, they proclaimed the Age of Departures. That was after the end of the Creler Wars and the Age of Reclamation. The only thing to herald a new era after that was the march of the last Treants into the sea from the Vale Forest.”
Okay. He was old.
Ceria shivered gently as the half-Elf lifted his hand, and the circlet spun. It was morphing in her vision, and she knew it wasn’t happy.
She could vaguely sense it now. Ever since she realized it had a personality and will, Ceria had slowly picked up on its own thoughts.
It was…wary. Nervous. It kept morphing, first being the bone-white circlet, then a gaudy crown. Then a simple loop of wood.
“Controlling your circlet’s appearance is simple. Deactivating the circlet’s individual enchantments—far harder. I am old, Ceria Springwalker. What you have brought me is older than the Creler Wars. Far, far older, I think.”
“…You can turn it off?”
The Mage of Rivers snapped his fingers. A dozen strands of magic touched the circlet, and Ceria suddenly felt nothing at all from it. The old half-Elf eyed Ceria.
“It is still an artifact. You sensed…nothing last night?”
“Nope. I had indigestion from eating too many curled Yellat fries.”
Joreldyn smacked his lips together absently.
“Yes. A curse from abroad. Far too much oil. Then you might actually be safe from its influence if you can’t feel a difference now. At least, direct influence. I have no doubt it’s altered your perceptions. But this is functionally inert; there is no magic within or without. I cannot selectively alter its enchantments yet. Nor do I know its true nature.”
He actually picked up the circlet now, and Ceria saw it was the bone white circlet. So that was its true form? Or just how it looked at this moment?
Joreldyn had similar doubts. He showed it to Ceria, then touched where the circlet had formed faint, decorative curves along the edge.
“The style is unknown to me. I wish this were a helmet—but whenever I change the appearance, it cycles between half a dozen ancient styles. I do not have a book on magical fashion—I used to, but I traded it to an Archmage, and I believe it is lost on the upper floors of Wistram. This is still enough to go by. I would look up whomever used magical ivory like this.”
“Oh. That, uh, narrows it down to probably tens of thousands of artificers ever.”
“A good place to start for a mysterious Relic.”
She had the impression he was making fun of her; his faint smile seemed to indicate that. Joreldyn sighed as he lifted the circlet.
“…I do not think I will be able to uncover its power by the end of the day. But I will keep trying. Did you have something you needed, Adventurer Ceria?”
He wasn’t being rude, exactly, but he was dismissive. As one got to be when you were this old and accomplished. Ceria shuffled her feet; she knew she didn’t hold a candle to him.
She was behind her old master, even now. Even with the circlet, maybe. And Ceria knew that Illphres would have refused to go up against this ancient [Hydromancer], even though [Cryomancers] should have had every advantage.
“Sorry for interrupting you, Magus Joreldyn. I, ah, just wanted a quick word. I recently lost to a [Hydromancer] at the battle at sea, and it’s been weighing on my mind.”
That Human and those warriors from Rhir. They’d been very, very good, but seeing a young woman of, what, twenty? With the spellcasting force to take Ceria out, even if it was an ambush—
That hurt Ceria’s pride. It was a reminder that even at Gold-rank, she could lag behind. Joreldyn simply flicked a finger.
“I can spare some time. This is a good break point. Would you care for some fruit? I have to do some spell scribing, anyways.”
There was a small basket of fruit on a table. Ceria saw it float over and snagged a mango. Then she saw the half-Elf unrolling four new spell scrolls and begin scribing them into what looked like a personal spellbook.
If Ceria thought she had a chance in heck of stealing his personal spellbook, she would have. Instead, she stood on her tip-toes and tried to edge around the Mage of Rivers. He let her—a magical spell was transcribing itself so fast in his spellbook that Ceria’s heart sank.
Even with the circlet, I doubt I could even memorize—then her eyes widened.
“Wait, does that spell scroll say [Efficient Teleportation]?”
The Mage of Rivers gave Ceria a pleased smile.
“Ah, good, Wistram still teaches reading. Yes, indeed. It seems Wistram has discovered old magic. Old magic—this comes from the Terras faction. A gift, in fact. I daresay I could visit Nerrhavia’s Fallen once I master the spell. Even I didn’t know this one; I used to conjure a river or hire a flying carpet. These days, my bones hurt too much.”
Ceria’s mouth opened. She stared at the spell scroll, then the wax seal in the upper-right corner. That wasn’t part of the spell; the scroll was in fact vanishing as Joreldyn copied it. The symbol was a curious orb…a planet, maybe, with a great tree sprouting from it and a staff, scrolls, and other magical paraphernalia hanging off the limbs. An expensive damn wax seal given the detailing for a new faction of Wistram.
Terras.
And they were giving away magic of a grade that had even Joreldyn copying it. He turned his head.
“This new Archmage of Memory is a [Mage] to watch, Ceria Springwalker. This is a complimentary gift from him; I have been trying to come up with a thank-you gift of suitable value. He will take us into a new magical era. Archmages Verdan and Nailihuaile are dead; he has replaced their contributions to magic a hundred times over.”
Of all the times to be an outcast student of Wistram…Ceria sighed. But she noticed the old half-Elf copying over the spells with ease. You had to understand magic to scribe it, even if he was only copying it to study later.
Assuming that was Tier 4 magic—and it was almost certainly not—Pisces took a month of studying himself to death to learn one spell. These days, we could probably master a Tier 4 spell…in two weeks while on the road.
Doing it in about three minutes was showing off. And it was why Ceria was here. She exhaled, then smiled at the old half-Elf.
 
——
 
He knew she wanted something from him. Of course, the Claiven Earth wanted something from the Horns of Hammerad, so the Mage of Rivers humored Ceria Springwalker as she made her ploy. She stood there, giving up on copying the spells he was transferring to his personal spellbook. When she spoke, her voice was bright. Interested.
Young. But dangerous. Adventurers always were.
“So you’re the greatest [Mage] in the Claiven Earth, Magus Joreldyn? They gave the circlet to you, and I can’t imagine anyone better.”
He pondered the question idly without the ego she expected.
“For war, yes. A very narrow field. Ill-respected in times of peace.”
