Matt thought for a second before saying, “Give me five hours. I want to fix the blade up half decently, since it can help counter spells getting more expensive. But I don’t want to take the half a day that it would normally take to really plan everything out correctly.” Thinking about it some more, he changed his mind. “Actually, I don’t want to change the current enchantments with the floor theme. So, for now, I’ll just add spells to the other side.”

Before he got too far into it, he pulled out a stack of talismans and handed them out, saying, “Attack talismans.” He pulled out some of the items he had prepared for Minkalla in case they got this floor and continued, “And attack items. The bracelets have simple [Mana Bolt] enchantments, but if we play it slow, it should be enough to not rely on our skills at all. I have staves with more varied skills. Let me know if you want them instead.”

Liz mirrored his action with a few potions. She didn’t have that many universally applicable ones, but not many still wasn’t none, and they could use all the versatility they could get.

He wasn’t willing to use his AI on this when it could be such a decisive advantage against other delvers in the very near future, but Luna had seen to it that he could make something worthwhile without it. A few additional spells added to his suite could help out immensely here, and it wasn’t like they hadn’t prepared for this floor beforehand.

For the time being, Matt applied a few temporary enchantments to his blade, free handing the runes required by copying them straight off of a spare staff. They weren’t his best work, not by a long shot, but they’d serve him well enough for the time being as a backup, just in case they ran into any more spatial locks.

His first choice was [Fireball]. It was a simple spell that had endless uses, and he actually knew the rune form of the skill without the assistance of his AI, since he used it more than a few times with his talismans.

His other choice was [Mana Barrier]. It wasn’t a flashy spell, but he wanted a defensive spell in case Minkalla decided that his use of talismans was cheating once more. As far as he knew, items were never hit with the same restrictions as consumables, and were the main way people dealt with the floor.

Matt finished up with a bit of a grimace. It was far from his best work, and half the runework had a decent shot of blowing out, even if Minkalla didn’t impose any restrictions on them. But he didn’t want to hold them up any longer. His crafting skills were already taking up a truly obscene amount of mana with each cast as Minkalla began exacting its toll. The others had spent the time familiarizing themselves with their Boons and new growth item features as well, but none of them could really afford to waste skill casts at the moment.

Further unfortunately, none of them had gotten any Boons or growth item upgrades that would help them in this situation. Liz’s Boon gave her skills something of a mental effect which made it harder for people to notice they were bleeding or feel the wounds that her blood inflicted on them, Aster got the ability to affect more kinds of ice with [Ice Manipulation] in a way that Matt didn’t fully understand but was assured was quite important, and Susanne gained the ability to ‘cut’ light with her Concept sword, making herself invisible for brief periods of time.

Matt still hadn’t figured out what his Boon did beyond the upgrades to his Manipulation skills but he could feel it was there.

Still, they would make do. It was a slow trek, as labyrinths and traps were nearly synonymous, and none of them were crazy enough to walk forward without checking for danger.

Liz took point, using her elephant summon to lead the way in the hopes it would trigger any weight-based traps. Matt, meanwhile, used a fifteen-foot pole to probe suspicious-looking spots while Susanne and Aster watched their rear, keeping an eye out for illusions.

It didn’t take them long to encounter their first trap.

As the elephant walked over a seemingly normal spot of floor, there was a loud crack in the air as a flurry of spikes appeared embedded in the wall, causing a few metal chips to ping against Matt’s armor and causing the elephant to dissipate in a burst of mana. The holes they had flown out of definitely hadn’t been there a second ago.

Considering that Matt couldn’t even scratch the wall with [Metal Manipulation], those spikes weren’t normal, and neither was the trap.

Carefully, he tried to use the holes they created to get a grip on the walls of the labyrinth, but once more, his spell slipped off as if it wasn’t metal at all.

Susanne whistled. “Well fuck that. How quick was that attack? A millionth of a second? No way to react to that at our Tier.”

Matt shrugged; he simply didn’t have an answer for her. None of them kept their AI running, as even reserve AI would slowly increase in cost, so wasting that build up time would be stupid this early.

After checking the area for even more traps, they found nothing, and they stopped to look at the trap's mechanism.

Even after checking the holes in the wall with a mirror and seeing they were empty, Matt felt incredibly uncomfortable being in front of them. Thankfully, they weren’t attacked when they removed the spikes or when they passed the holes in the wall.

To their surprise, when they passed the danger zone, they actually felt a small stream of Genesis Energy flow into them from the walls of the labyrinth.

Being rewarded for passing the trap successfully wasn’t unheard of, but it was surprising.

It also caused their wariness to increase a hundredfold. The mirror that had broken every illusion they encountered beforehand didn’t even react, which meant that the traps weren’t hidden with magic. Either that, or they were simply stronger than the mirror. Matt added on a possibility after a little thought; Minkalla could just be suppressing the mirror to ensure that its challenge was completed without their bypassing the true nature of the test.

Matt shifted his grip on his stick and moved forward, checking each step until they had walked hundreds of feet forward in the plain, concrete hall.

It felt like an eternity, but they eventually found themselves at a crossroad as the path they were walking ended suddenly, prompting Aster to hop up and make a mark on the wall with a bit of chalk.

Everyone looked at Liz as she consulted her spherical compass. “It’s pointing in a sort of right direction.”

She hadn’t sent her elephant more than half a dozen feet down the new corridor when a stream of flame came out from the floor, scorching and burning the elephant half to death before it managed to escape.

They shared a glance as Liz dismissed and re-conjured her summon, and Matt tapped the newly-revealed rune with his pole, prompting another plume of fire.

Liz retrieved a few handfuls of dirt from her spatial garden and tossed it onto the ground. With a pulse of his Concept, Matt sent the loose soil skittering across the ground, unveiling a checkered pattern of runes across the floor.

Liz took the lead, with her phoenix bloodline giving her the best chance of skill-less fire resistance. She tiptoed across the safe zones with a [Water Bubble] talisman clenched in her hand, reaching the other side after only a few hair-raising moments.

Before the others followed, they double-checked that the runes hadn’t moved, which, they were happy to see, had not. With Matt and Susanne’s superior physical cultivation, jumping between safe zones was eminently doable.

Once they had reached the far side, Aster whined and tapped her paw twice on the floor, indicating that she had something she wanted to say. Susanne pulsed her AI on to receive the message, and smiled as she translated, “All this stress is bad for my fur. Can we go back to killing monsters?”

Matt fully agreed. He was decidedly not having fun with this ruin.

It seemed that Aster had jinxed them, as not long after she said that, a horde of Tier 14 kobolds came bursting out of the wall and attacked them.

Seeing them, Matt cursed the other portion of this floor theme and how it changed their encounters. Monsters would come in packs to push them towards using spells in their engagements.

Matt cast three [Fireball]s with his sword before he swapped the form over into his old melee enchantments.

Cutting down, he cursed the fact he hadn’t left either [Mana Slash] or [Mana Charge] in the melee form, as he was reduced to using his sword as a mundane blade while casting [Mana Bolt]s with the bracelet on his left wrist.

Thankfully, he and Susanne were able to fight the monsters with assistance from Liz and Aster as they cast basic spells from behind.

The kobolds did have spells of their own, but Matt and Susanne both had plenty of experience fighting the little monsters. Despite them being Tier 14 inside Minkalla, they didn’t have any new tricks; just their normal arsenal of [Mana Claw], [Bite], and [Fire Breath]. With that small collection of spells, as long as they were on their toes and ready to dodge, they were able to retreat and avoid every attack.

Which was exactly how they handled the two dozen little monsters. With Liz and Aster watching their retreat to prevent ambushes, and keeping them out of the flame runes, they were as safe as possible while also not using any spells that would increase in cost.

Matt did use his gauntlets twice to prevent attacks from landing on Susanne, and his own repulsive field once when he was too slow in dodging, but they still made it out of the fight without taking a single hit, which he considered a win.

As they cleaned up the battlefield, Matt smiled as they got four essence stones, two items, specifically a spear and a ring, and a skill. For being nearly swarm level, the monsters were generous with their deaths.

Aster chortled as she used the mirror to inspect the area the monsters had come from, where a hissing, mechanical room expanded from the labyrinth's normal tight corridors, and a decently large metal box sat conspicuously in the center.

Inside sat a greataxe enchanted with [Mana Slash] and [Acrobat’s Finesse], which Liz tossed into her ring alongside what the kobolds themselves dropped, for later depositing into their loot vault.

After about a day of maze-hunting, Liz called their attention to her compass, which was flickering between two different directions as though it couldn’t decide which was more valuable.

Matt wasn’t surprised that they’d run into another group- floor 5 was small, usually about the size of an average moon- but that they had both appeared in the same ruin as them was a bit unusual.

Carefully, they crept up to the intersection and checked for traps, not wanting to use the elephant in the hopes of not giving away their presence.

They didn’t find any, but Matt used a small mirror to check around the corner. A few hundred feet down the corridor, there was a team of Monster Collective delvers.

Two were beasts, a very obvious lion and a deer, while the two humans with them were basic, as those things went.

Pulling back, they had a whispered conversation and decided to announce themselves in the hope of avoiding a fight, which was likely to happen if they kept quite this close to the other team.

Liz directed her elephant to audibly approach the intersection, its footfalls preceding its entry to the intersection of the two corridors. Once it actually entered into the open space, a voice called out in the beast language, “Who is there?”

Liz responded in the Empire standard, “Empire delvers.”

There was a long silence, but eventually, the same voice called out and Liz translated for them, “We don't want a fight. Who moves first?”

“You can go ahead, and we'll move back into our corridor further so there’s no suspicion,” Liz called back, directing her elephant to return to them.

It took a few seconds, but the other voice called out, “Ok, that works.”

After the lion checked that they had in fact moved back with a quick peek around the corner, the team moved across the hall after checking the ground for traps.

The four of them waited until they couldn’t hear the group moving forward anymore.

Matt used his pole to stretch the mirror around the corner, where they met eyes with the four delvers who had decided to wait in ambush.

With their trap exposed, Matt opened the fight with a pair of talismans, bathing the corridor in flames as he cast [Fireball] through his sword. The deer’s antlers sucked in the fire and came alive, flickering like they themselves were red-gold tongues of flame.

Then, the fire rebounded, and a wall of red-gold fire flew down the corridor at them.

Matt gritted his teeth and cast [Bulwark], blocking the attack in exchange for functionally weakening the skill for the rest of the floor.

Then, he let the barrier fall, and he and Susanne rushed forward, using their physical boosts to close the distance. Susanne pushed past him with a burst of wind, her sword aimed at the lion. It dodged the attack and pounced on Matt with a single movement, claws glowing, but Matt sidestepped the attack with a flickered teleport and brought his sword down on the lion’s head.

Flesh and bone split under his blow even as he flicked both layers of [Cracked Phantom Armor] for half a second, blocking the knife the second human was driving into his ribs.The second layer of his spell blocked the attack, and his gauntleted fist hit the man in the face, crumpling his helmet and sending him tumbling into the wall.

Susanne engaged the deer, blocking a pair of attacks before swinging her sword in an odd way that seemed to obscure Matt’s view of her, vanishing into thin air.

