A [Blood Bullet] from Liz whizzed by him and struck the deer on the flank. It didn’t react, preoccupied as it was with looking for Susanne and bathing everything in front of it with golden flames, but it still met its end a moment later as she appeared behind it, grabbed a hind leg, and hacked it in half with a few brutal chops with her sword.

The final man tried to run, but Matt made a quick calculation and shot him with a [Cracked Mana Spear].

There was no retreat after trying to kill his people.

After the man fell, he got back up to his knees, but a [Mana Bolt] from Aster caught him in the heart and through his spine, ending his life.

Kicking the lion's body, Matt asked, “Why be greedy? We were nicer than most. Fucking idiots.”

He knew why, but he was still angry.

The Monster Collective wasn’t hostile to the Empire, which didn’t even give them the excuse that the Republic, Sects, or Federation cultivators had. They were just greedy, and confident in their combat prowess.

Too confident, as it turned out.

Grabbing the lion's body, he felt around the mane and looked for the spatial item that he assumed was there.

It was a necklace, as he suspected, and he sent a thought into it to find a relatively normal assortment of items for beasts, along with a number of natural treasures and other items from Minkalla.

Aster ripped a similar necklace from the deer as Liz came back with the ring and gear of the man who he shot.

“Can you help me? The antlers have some special metal on them, and it seems like I can’t just pull it off.”

Matt wasn’t happy with mutilating a sapient's body for their items, but he still brought out a small hand saw and cut the antlers at the skull. If they didn’t take it, Minkalla would just eat the items, and he really wanted to know if the antlers and their fire absorbent properties were a natural treasure, or something more ephemeral.

He continued his search for whatever the compass had been pointing for, and found a loaded skill shard holster. His curiosity got the better of him, and he pulsed his AI to try and identify it. Annoyingly, it took a few seconds before his AI returned any results, pulling up a secondary data pack that Kurt had passed him in preparation for Minkalla.

[Kar’tan Greets his Foes] was an air-aspected area debuff skill, usually only found in the Monster Collective, but had been picked out as especially good for Aster. It was like the opposite of [Tailwind], inhibiting the motion of enemies even if they tried to use their Concept to part the air in front of them.

He happily tossed the shard to Aster as he continued his search, eventually coming on to a small ruby containing an even smaller flame within. None of them recognized it, but it was packed with enough essence to warrant later inspection.

The humans didn’t have anything so impressive on them, so the four of them continued their trek into the labyrinth.

After another day of spotting and avoiding traps, fighting monsters, and navigating the maze, their compass suddenly started spinning like it couldn’t figure out where it ought to point. It took about an hour, but they eventually uncovered a hidden trapdoor set into the floor below them, opened by turning a nearby pipe knob three and a half times exactly.

It swung open, revealing a lush, green room containing a single, larger bush sitting atop a small hill. It bore a single blackberry streaked with a lighter purple.

Liz was the first to say something, though from Aster’s whines, she probably had recognized it about the same time. “Oh! A void blackberry! That’s a nice find.”

“A what now?” Susanne poked her head in.

“A void blackberry,” Liz repeated with a smile, before relenting and elaborating. “It helps with internal void resistance. Lots of people with void-aspected bloodlines or who otherwise have void affinity can suffer from health problems, but void blackberries help mitigate them… a lot, actually. It’s also key in a lot of potions and enchantments that utilize void mana, makes them more resilient and less likely to corrode. Really good alchemists can even brew void resistance potions from them. So yeah, it’s nice and valuable.”

Matt quipped, “Also, the flavor is apparently divine. I’m almost tempted to take a nibble just to find out what all the fuss is about. It wouldn’t lose much from one single drupelet missing I’d bet.”

Liz whirled on him. “Don’t you dare!”

He laughed, “I’m kidding, I’m kidding. None of us would do that. That means you, Aster.”

He nudged the fox away from the trapdoor before her drool could drip down onto the bush below, and she tapped twice on the ground while yipping. Liz translated her message this time, “It smells like cold and sharpness and ice and nothingness and ice cream and…”

Liz dropped down into the room below, carefully coaxing the bush into her garden orb. In the instant before it vanished into the expanded greenhouse, it dropped its fruit into Liz’s hand. He couldn’t tell if the bush itself had survived- natural treasures were notoriously difficult to transplant and grow- but he hoped it had. Maybe Liz would be able to crossbreed it with normal blackberries, preserving the flavor if not the magical effects.

He was really curious about what made it taste so good.

Reaching down he gave Liz a hand back into the main labyrinth, and they carried on their quest for the exit.
