“Hold on.” Jen said. “You were serious? You want 600 homes built?”

The crew stared at him, and Ren nodded. “I'm tempted to add a retaining wall to that, but I need to decide how high to make it first.”

Her mouth dropped open, and he laughed.

“Why else do you think I said I didn't want a discount?”

“We're going to be working for you again?” Jhulune asked.

“Hopefully.” Ren said. “Once the city is finished, of course.”

“I... I'd be happy to!” Jhulune said, and several people laughed.

“We can worry about the details later.” Ren said and looked at the crew. “Thank you all for your hard work.” He said. “Now keep going and make the beds.”

Most of the crew stared at him, and he grinned.

“There's still an hour before quitting time.” Jen said, and they groaned.

“Is it okay to tip them again?” Ren asked.

“Only if you don't overdo it again.”

“Is a gold coin overdoing it?”

“Yes.” Jen sighed.

“Then I'm sorry in advance.” Ren smirked at her, and gave them all a gold coin.

Jen shook her head. “Good lord, what did I just say?”

Ren laughed, concentrated on his Command Aura, and turned to them. “You've got a lot of work ahead of you to repair the city.” He said. “I know you are all up to the task.” He waved at the huge building behind them. “You'll have Aurora back to it's glory in no time!”

“Yeah!” “You said it!” “Let's make those beds!” “Yeah!”

Most of the crew turned around, grabbed more supplies, and went back inside the Refugee Center.

“How did you do that?” Jen asked. “Even I wanted to go and make them.”

“It's my inspiring presence.” Ren said and switched to his personal Aura. “Sometimes, people can't resist it.”

Jhulune gave him a hug and whispered in his ear. “Some of us are trying really hard to.” She let him out of the hug and stepped back. “Thank you...” A smile spread across her face. “...for everything.”

“It was my pleasure.” Ren said. “Bye, Jhulune.”

“Bye.” She said, walked towards the Refugee Center, and picked up some more supplies herself before going inside. Brian followed closely behind her and did the same thing.

Ren turned to Jen. “Is it okay to go to the mansion and tell the people about this place?”

“Yeah.” Jen said. “There should be enough beds for the people that need them.”

“Thank you.” Ren said, and Jen shook her head.

“You can stop it with the gushing gratitude routine.” She said. “You're not going to seduce me like that.”

“I wasn't trying...” Ren started to say, then changed tactics. “What would seduce you?”

Jen stared at him. “Wh-what?”

“I was just thanking you and you took it as an advance.” Ren said. “Now I'm curious. What would you consider an attempt to seduce you?”

She stared at him, and clamped her mouth shut.

“Shall I try blindly?” Ren asked. “I'm not trying to seduce you, by the way.” He said. “I've got more than enough action in that regard; but, you've piqued my interest.”

Jen took in a deep breath, but kept her mouth shut.

“Would telling you that I made an exact duplicate of the warehouse you restored, in another kingdom count?”

“You... you built...”

“With my own two hands.” Ren said. “I also built a 48 foot long and 24 foot wide workshop with help from a friend, and built the walls inside.” He said. “Then I made a huge 2 storey building. By myself.”

Jen stared at him with wide eyes, and Ren continued.

“I even used a new technique.” He said. “I made a mold out of wood for the walls, added metal rods in the middle, and filled the space with liquid rock.”

Jen started to breathe heavily and put a hand over her heart, then sat down on one of the chairs.

“When I took the mold apart, the walls were harder than the rock they were made from. I built the massive roof rafters and mounted them all by myself, 2 stories above the ground.” Ren leaned close to her and whispered. “It was all me, bare hands, and luck. No safety lines, either. Then I made the roof.”

“St-stop...” Jen said. I can't take it! Oh, god, that... that's so... so manly!

Ren knelt in front of her. “As you can see, giving you gratitude, or tipping your students, was not an attempt to seduce you.” He said and took her hand. She grasped it tightly, and stared at him. “If I put my mind to it, I can usually come up with something a little more creative than 'thank you'.”

“I...” Jen took a breath and tried to calm down. “I believe you.”

Ren stood up and tried to let go of her hand; but, she held onto it as her face flushed a little red.

“K-k-kiss me.”

Ren looked at her with a single raised eyebrow, and she smiled.

“Now that you've satisfied your curiosity...” She blushed a little more. “...let me satisfy mine.” She tugged on his hand. “I only saw you as this cute boy, making things happen around you, sometimes unintentionally... but... but now...”

Ren leaned in close. “As long as you know, nothing will happen after this.”

“Of course it won't.” Jen said. “I don't want anything else. Just... just a kiss.”

With Jen sitting down and him standing, Ren was only a few inches taller than her. He shook the hand she still held, and she let him go. He gently cupped the sides of her face, as if he was holding a fragile butterfly, and she closed her eyes as he kissed her. Several seconds later, her eyes flew open.

Oh... oh my god! Jen thought, as she went.

Ren felt her tense up, and stopped kissing her. He stepped back, thinking she didn't like it, and she grabbed at him desperately with a hand.

“You... you can't just... leave me like this.” Jen said, and he glanced down at her other hand, and saw she held her hand over a growing wet spot in her pants.

“I'll take you home to change.” Ren said, and took out a bolt of cloth, cut a good portion off, and stored the bolt. He wrapped Jen in the cloth, picked her up and stored the chairs. “Where do you live?”

“L-l-lumber mill.” Jen stammered at Ren's show of strength, then held onto his shoulders. He ran down the street and around the corner, and took her inside the lumber mill. Ren put her down and she grabbed onto the cloth. “I... I'll be right back.”

“Bring me back any soiled clothing.” Ren said, and Jen stared at him. “I'll clean and repair it.”

“Oh!” She exclaimed. “O-okay.” She disappeared around a wall and Ren took out the two comfy chairs he'd made for her, then waited until she came back. She wore a similar pair of pants and clutched a small bundle of cloth to her chest.

“H-here.” Jen said, slightly embarrassed.

“It's okay.” Ren said, then stored the clothing into his inventory. “I'm an Adventurer.” He took out the pair of pants and gave them back to her.

“Hey!” Jen nearly shouted. “You can't keep my underwear!”

“Your wh-what?”

“My underwear was there, too!”

Ren opened his inventory, and sure enough, there was a dainty pair of underwear. “My sincere apologies.” He said and took them out. “I didn't realize you gave me two things.”

“That... that's okay.” Jen said.

Ren took out his Master Tailor Sewing Needle. He used Repair on both items, and they reformed themselves and looked brand new.

“Oh my god!” Jen said, and held the pants and underwear up to marvel at them. “They're brand new!”

Ren chuckled. “I better check the table saw while I'm here.” He went over to it, and used Repair again, and got a popup.

Stat Change!

Repair Level 5 (Intermediate 0%)

Metal Repair Level 5 (Intermediate 0%)

Ren sharpened and polished the blade, and went back to Jen. “I'm sorry things... ah... went a little farther than I thought they would.”

“Me, too.” Jen said. “Who would have thought something like that would happen, just from a kiss?”

Ren smiled. “You were turned on a lot more than I thought you were.”

Jen snorted a laugh. “You pushed nearly all of my buttons, that's for sure.”

He grinned and held up his hands in surrender. “I'm not going to try and guess what the last few buttons are.”

Jen laughed and took him into a hug. “You just keep doing what you're doing.” She said. “You'll find the rest of them eventually.”

Ren widened his eyes at her, and she ran her hands through his hair.

“Get out of here.” Jen said. “Before I ask you to tell me what else you've been building.”

Ren took her hand, bent over it, and placed a light kiss on it. “Yes, Ma'am.” He left the lumberyard and ran down the street.

*

Once he was a hundred feet away, Jen took a deep breath and sat down on one of the chairs.

“Oh, my god.” She sighed. “Why did I say all of that to him out loud?” She rubbed her hands over her face. “Thoughts like that are fine... but...” She shook her head, then stopped moving her hands and took in a breath through her nose.

They smell like him.
