“Silea Mera,” Reka said with some consideration, then sighed and looked at her hands. “This is not how I imagined our return trip. Fuck. What about the residual magic and its effects?”

“It’s been identified as Curse magic of the Fae Path. Anyone at a Path of Modest strength and above should be able to withstand its effects.”

“Defenses?” Reka asked.

“Devotion and Runic Paths are preparing joint protections for the expedition, in case the effects of the curse are stronger the closer we get to Lyrie and Leiveen. Some of my magic should help too, at least temporarily. Perrion is the first target, then Lyrie,” Hayden said.

“An expedition force,” Reka murmured. She slowly nodded to herself. “Yeah. If you two are sure about this.” She glanced at Veron.

He considered.

Curse magic. Villages wiped out, and unknown creatures moving in the forest.

It sounds dangerous. But so does the dungeon.

He sighed, and smiled to himself. Just like with his previous decision to stay, this one too seemed like an easy choice in the end. I care about them. I want to know what happened. I want to check if Ian and the others are safe.

There was more, and Veron did feel a little bit embarrassed about it. A massive expedition to go explore this phenomenon. Maybe it was the main reason why he chose to join. He didn’t want to miss it.

“So we’re going?” Hayden said.

Silvie grinned. “Of course. Veron?”

“Yeah. I’ll join,” he said. “Gotta make sure you don’t lose your second arm.”

“That’s my modest man,” Silvie said. “Reka?”

Reka sighed and then smiled. “Fuck me, and here I was looking forward to finding a shop to buy. And now there may not even be any of them left. Yeah. If everyone is in agreement, we’re going on an expedition.”

“Very well. They leave tomorrow morning. Let’s go and sign up before they’re full,” Hayden said.

“Yeah. Let’s get our gear, and check out,” Reka said.

Veron leaned back and then stood up. He breathed in deep and gathered his things.

An expedition to the south. Not what I expected.

He smiled to himself. At the very least, it meant he could stay with the Silver Wolves for a little bit longer. Or for a lot longer, depending on how this goes.

They prepared the gear that they had left, checked out of the inn, and started making their way through town, southwards and towards the harbor on the Karrian river. Already, they could see other adventurers walking in the same direction, some of them talking about the boats or the Fae magic. The atmosphere was infectious. All the waiting, the pent up frustrations of not knowing, and now they had an outlet, a goal, and a common purpose.

“What kind of beasts do you think the scouts saw?” Silvie asked.

“No idea,” Hayden said. “I guess we’ll find out when we’re there.”

Their pace soon slowed, getting into a throng of people going in the same direction.

Queuing up.

“Silea Mera, was it? The one to lead this venture,” Veron asked as they waited.

“She is one of the many heirs of the Mera. She’s made a name for herself amongst adventurers, having led several expeditions into the dungeon,” Silvie said.

“Not just into the dungeon. Into the far north too, and even the deserts south of Sor. As far as experienced expedition leaders, there are few who would qualify more,” Hayden added.

A Mera. I wonder what she’s like.

“And the other one you mentioned?”

“Edmund Glainsplit. The Glainsplit family aren’t just the best vessel and relic vessel makers in the world, they’re essentially the enforcers of the Mera.”

“Whenever the Mera don't want to get their own hands dirty. You don't want either of their attention,” Hayden said.

Important families in Leiveen. I guess they’d be the local nobility?

“Do you have any clue how powerful their Paths are?” Veron asked.

“Of course not. Beyond anything you should think about. Some of these people have been around when my grandmother was born, and they’re still ruling,” Silvie said.

“They get older than other people?”

“Everyone gets older with a stronger path.”

Now that’s news to me.

And it changes a whole lot of things. Not something to think about right now though.

But I do wonder then, how old is Ivera?

They walked a few more steps.

“How old are we talking here?”

“I don’t know, Veron,” Silvie said.

He smiled at her. “Sorry. I didn’t know that.”

“Are you sure you’re from this world?” she asked in an exasperated manner, obviously distracted by a team of armored adventurers riding past, calling for people to clear the way. They wore gold badges.

“What if I told you I wasn't?”

“I would hit you with my remaining arm.”

By now, onlookers were cheering on the queuing people, and hurling remarks at them from balconies and from the side of the street. When they finally reached the harbor, they found hundreds of adventurers still waiting, iron, silver, and gold badges glinting on their gear.

Three large enchanted vessels similar to the ones Veron had seen on the river in Perrion were waiting, two floors on each and thick hulls of dark metal protecting them. They looked more like war ships than trade vessels.

Veron’s attention was drawn upwards when one of the Eskir flying ships arrived to dock at a nearby tower.

“We’ve got an airship joining,” Silvie said with a grin.

He could make out a few people standing atop the vessel and looking down. One of them vanished which made him blink.

“I hope there's enough room for us,” Hayden said.

Hundreds of adventurers going onto armored ships. It feels like we’re going to war.

My first expedition. Earlier than I thought. Ian, Ivera, I hope you’re still alive out there.
