“I like the idea, but I don’t want to have reporters following her around like it’s a publicity stunt. The priority should be helping people, not being seen helping people.”

“The good thing is, that’s the right approach for image as well. It’s better publicity to just do it and have people find out, which they obviously will. You can’t blanket cities in miracle healing without people investigating what happened.”

“I’m not opposed to the idea, but we need to prioritise our actions the right way. Places that need what we can offer the most.”

“I completely agree. I’ll have the team put together a plan.”

“The team?” Jason asked.

“Once I joined this little operation, I started putting together what is essentially a think tank. We have the opportunity to make incredible changes. You and your people have the power to change the world. The key is not doing more harm than good, so we’ve been planning out how to do that. Our core approach is to identify potential areas where you could do some good, and then start consulting with locals. Figure out what the people on the ground need and determine if that’s something we can provide.”

“Instead of deciding what they need and imposing it on them?”

“Precisely. We’ve been extremely tentative at this stage, while waiting for you to arrive. Now, it’s time to start moving in earnest.”

“Who is this team, exactly?”

“I’ve been quietly recruiting, with the help of your grandmother. Experts in all manner of fields, many poached from the UN. World Health Organisation, Food and Agriculture Organisation, UNESCO. People I know to be capable and reliable. That’s the core brains trust. The goal is to build local organisations in any areas of operation. The Cabal tends to hold sway in areas of greatest need, and they’re actually way ahead of us on this. The work they’ve been doing since going public is incredible. I only realised how much once I connected with Boris Ketland.”

“This all sounds more ambitious than I thought you would go for.”

“We have a unique opportunity, Jason. You can do whatever you want, essentially without consequence to you. We need to figure out how to use that, without the consequences falling on the people we want to help. Maximising positive change while minimising harm.”

Jason leaned forward in his chair.

“Okay,” he said. “It sounds like you’ve been busy while I was crossing universes. Catch me up on everything.”
