Ren felt the woman's happiness, and her feelings of severe dependency. She needed someone to take care of her, and Ren sighed mentally. Now he had to find someone to take care of her, just so Artemis wouldn't be stuck with her; and then he had a brilliant idea. He asked Princess to take them back to the first town to visit Valercia and her father. They would know what to do with her and could find someone to keep an eye on her.

Ren explained what had happened when he dropped the woman off, and she had clamped her arm onto Valercia to avoid the soldier. Valercia's father assured Ren that she would be looked after, and Ren promised to check in with them later.

With that out of the way, Ren's tasks for the day were done. Princess ran as fast as she could to bring him home while Artemis flew with them. They landed outside the Main House in Walin County and Ren thanked Princess by buying her more fried dough.

“Thank you, My Lord.” Princess said, even though her mouth was full, and she went into her house to lay down.

“I'm going to the warehouse.” Artemis said to Ren and kissed his cheek, then walked across the street.

“Now's a good time to send those forms.” Teepo said.

“Good idea.” Ren said and went into the Main House and up the stairs, then into the apartment.

“Hi, Ren!” Andrela said and waved, and Ren waved back.

“You're in a good mood.” Ren said.

“You're back.” Andrela said, and believed that was good enough of an explanation.

Ren chuckled, and then he asked the maids to do him a favor. When he told them what he wanted them to do, they readily agreed and he gave them the 4,000 petitions, or 800 each, and enough platinum coins to cover any fees that might come up. He used the All-Seeing Mirror to check the hallway in front of the Hall of Records in the Dwarf Kingdom, cast the Portal spell against the wall, then gave Frikara a wand to cast Permanent Illusion over the portal on the other side to hide it.

“It's going to take hours to file all of these.” Frikara warned him.

“I'll keep checking on you the whole time you're gone.” Ren said as he kissed and thanked them, and they walked past him and entered the portal. He watched the All-Seeing Mirror as Frikara covered the portal with an illusion of the wall behind it, and saw them as they entered the Hall Of Records.
