Thwoom. Saliss landed on the ground and posed. Tada! Wrymvr turned towards him as the jars Saliss had used [Delayed Throw] to toss into the air hit the charging Centenium.
Fire. The Centenium turned into a fireball. The Magmagel, the Potions of Blaze, everything—Saliss saw an inferno consume the Centenium in a moment. And Wrymvr screamed.
For a moment. Then Saliss saw a burning shape turn towards him. He saw a flicker—
“Burn my stitches!”
Another curse from his second home. Saliss dodged whatever projectile Wrymvr had just shot at him. Exactly like an Adult Creler! But an Adult Creler—
—Would have died. Wrymvr? Charged. And now Saliss was running from an angry Centenium that was on fire.
“Would you die?”
The Drake unloaded a second arsenal of potions, mainly to slow the Centenium down as Wrymvr took off. Lightning, fire, boom!
The Centenium was knocked out of the air again. So Saliss could stop it from flying! He turned, a jar in hand—
Klbkch the Slayer stood to his left. The Drake froze.
The adventurers were gone. Oh shit. Wrymvr was getting up. Saliss whirled—
“I am not fighting.”
The Slayer walked away. The [Alchemist] stared at him. And then he felt it again.
Something was wr—
Wrymvr lunged across a hundred feet like an oncoming missile. Saliss exploded another vial of air to blow himself away. This time he used up his entire supply of spiderweb vials. That cost over a thousand gold pieces even with my discounts! Slow down, you damn—
The Centenium tore through the webs after about ten seconds. Unstoppable, unstoppable. Saliss didn’t see a damn scratch on it. However—his mind was shrilling at him.
Something was off. He should be dead! Unless—
Again, Wrymvr came for him. Saliss turned—and began running in the opposite direction. [Haste], Potion of the Gecko, Windcutter’s Gel. He zoomed in the opposite direction, turned back.
Wrymvr shrieked as he came at Saliss. He was…slow. And—Saliss narrowed his eyes. He’d barely gotten Mivifa after all that time. Was the Centenium taking it easy? He looked for the Slayer. Maybe. But also, maybe…
Was the Centenium not really that strong? It could destroy armies. But Saliss—remembered—
 
—-
 
He’d gotten away from the Antinium. Saliss, panting, clutched the crying Drake girl.
“[Message]. Emergency. Adventurer Oliwing—emergency. Antinium has destroyed…”
Somehow, he’d survived. The thing had nearly killed him after finding him. But he’d gotten away. Had it let him go? Or was it off to destroy another town?
He kept wondering as the Pegasi found him, coughing and trying to neutralize the acid in him. Acid, crushing strength—but he’d managed to keep his distance. If he’d gotten close for a second—
 
—-
 
“Okay. You’re…a Zel Shivertail, aren’t you?”
Saliss straightened. Ah, it made sense now. It wasn’t like the Slayer at all. How silly to think so. It really was like the Tidebreaker.
Nearly invulnerable, incredibly deadly up close—dodgeable. Probably able to chase you forever, unstoppable.
“Let’s see just how unstoppable.”
The Drake pulled out a vial. It was custom-made, and he regarded it as Wrymvr closed the gap. He’d even put a label on it. This was…well, an angry bull-man, drawn on it. Saliss closed his eyes.
They called him Saliss of Lights. As if that was his specialty as an [Alchemist]. He was good at battle potions. Explosives. But that wasn’t his main focus. His greatest achievements, his passions, all of it—
That was transmutation. The Drake downed the first potion. Then more. Wrymvr slowed as Saliss drank them down. Klbkch watched.
“Ah.”
Saliss felt his body burning. His scales moved. His flesh bulged. Rearranging. No! Yes. No, yes—
He hated this.
This was how she’d found herself.
But it wasn’t Onieva who appeared. His true self. Remember that. Remember—
Potion of Haste. Draught of Giant’s Strength. Shapechanger’s Tincture: Scaled Minotaur. Potion of Steelscales. Overdrive Formula—
 
—-
 
The Drake was growing taller. Klbkch and Wrymvr slowed. The form was changing into something halfway recognizable. But no species they knew.
Minotaur in form. But—scales? It was like armor. The two Centenium halted as…Saliss…opened his eyes. And for a moment, Klbkch’s mandibles opened.
“So close.”
As close to an Antinium Shaper Queen as he had ever seen. Of all the alchemy Klbkch had known—this drew something like admiration from him.
From Wrymvr too. The Centenium was curious. It waited as the figure turned. Klbkch hesitated.
Was the Minotaur-Drake hybrid…bleeding?
 
—-
 
Overload. The [Alchemist] felt his body burning, wanting to dissolve. Blood was running from his mouth instead of saliva.
“[Vessel of Alchemy].”
Time limit. The bombardment resumed as Wrymvr moved. Saliss charged.
Grimalkin—
“Support Saliss!”
Spells landed around them as Saliss found the closest part of Wrymvr and hit it. He was no [Martial Artist]! But strong? And fast—he grabbed the mandibles of one of Wrymvr’s maws. They were trying to close on his armored arms. The magic might as well have been water on Wrymvr’s shell!
“Ancestors, just die!”
He ripped the mandibles off the Centenium. Wrymvr screamed. It spat acid on Saliss—but it couldn’t burn him! Saliss grabbed another appendage. He fought—and tore it off.
Green blood spurted from both wounds for a moment. Saliss punched again. He felt the Centenium trying to grab him, tear him apart. He heaved—Wrymvr moved back.
Pull it apart! Like a bug! Saliss wrenched at a jaw. He felt the shell cracking. Then—resistance! He heaved again and Wrymvr shrieked.
Something stabbed into Saliss’ side. He leapt away. Break the shell! He was stronger than the Centenium! He knocked aside a scythe-like blade, severed the arm. Hit Wrymvr in the side. Crack! Saliss heard it!
The Centenium threw him back. Saliss skidded. He made a sound. Like a roar and hiss at the same time. He could do it! He could—
“Stop.”
Someone grabbed his shoulder. Saliss felt a familiar claw drag him back. He whirled. For a second he thought he saw a glowing eye.
Chaldion. The Drake looked at Saliss. It was like a cooling splash on the Drake’s head. He saw the Skill fade—and looked back.
Wrymvr was waiting. Coiled up, bleeding. But—Saliss focused on something.
The cracks—
Were closing. As soon as he’d damaged the armor, it was closed. Where had he ripped off the mandibles? The Centenium wasn’t even bleeding anymore. Saliss wavered as a second wave of spells hit the ground around the Centenium. And he realized what Chaldion was trying to tell him.
I can’t kill it—
Saliss reached for a potion. He put it into his mouth—and everything exploded out of him.
From every orifice, nasty as that was. Saliss vomited and fell to his knees.
Potion of Complete Purge. The overload of alchemical effects left him—worse than poison. Saliss gasped as he got up.
“How much time did that take off…?”
Wrymvr advanced. Saliss flicked a Potion of Haste into his mouth again. A second Antinium landed lightly on the ground.
“You were right, Wrymvr. Of them, this was the best one.”
“It was not enough.”
The Centenium spoke. Saliss jerked. Wrymvr the Deathless was watching him. And—Saliss saw—
Healing. It was regrowing the limbs he’d torn off. Not just closing the wounds.
“[Regeneration].”
Of course. Saliss closed his eyes.
“Whew. Well, you got me. Congrats!”
He applauded them. Klbkch and Wrymvr studied the Drake. Saliss spread his arms.
“You know what, I know when I’m beaten. Why don’t you just eat me? Fair’s fair. I did my best, I lost. So I’ll just roll myself up, slather myself with butter, and—die, would you?”
The [Alchemist] threw his potions. How many? As many as he could grab, as fast as he could. Magnetic attraction! Bottles of lightning! Potions of Blast! Cyclones of wind! Just blow the damn Antinium and all of Izril into ash and fire!
[Combination Attack: Lightning Tempest]. [Combination Attack: A Thousand Fireflies]. [Combination Attack: Winter’s Freeze]—
If it could regenerate, he’d blow it to bits! Destroy it so fast it wouldn’t have time to recover! No quarter, no mercy!
He was Saliss of L—
The Drake stopped, bottles in hand as the continuous explosions kept echoing for another ten seconds. He advanced—the two Antinium retreated.
“Get back here.”
They were a hundred feet away. Watching him. Wrymvr was much slower than Klbkch; its armor was torn. But they were moving away as Saliss advanced. The [Alchemist] pointed at the ground.
“Get back here and fight.”
“Do you have enough potions to kill Wrymvr, Saliss of Lights?”
Klbkch stood at a remove. Saliss bared his teeth.
“I still have potions. Enough. I’ll bill Manus later. If they can afford it. Come over here and let’s find out which one of us is dying.”
He waited. Wrymvr was making a sound. Ice and fire and lightning and acid and…so many effects that it had taken its mark. But the damage was healing. And then…
And then the Centenium spoke.
“[Body of Change: Alter Resistances]. [Threefold Elemental Body] [Greater Resistance: Acid], [Greater Resistance: Fire], [Greater Resistance: Electricity].”
Saliss dropped a potion. He picked it up, then looked at Wrymvr. The Centenium fluttered its wings. And it started laughing at him.
Wrymvr the Deathless. Centenium had levels. You just didn’t…
…need to speak Skills to use them.
 
—-
 
Klbkch did not expect Saliss to crumble. But neither would he have been surprised if the Named Adventurer did. But Saliss of Lights—proved again why Wrymvr had remembered him from their encounter. He swore, put the potions away, and then raised a single claw.
“That just means I need four elements. Come over here and let me experiment. Kill me if you can, Antinium.”
He spread his arms wide, nude, panting and injured. Klbkch looked at him. Wrymvr laughed again. But neither drew closer.
“That one could kill you, Wrymvr.”
“Perhaps. If I was careless.”
“Wrymvr, Klbkchhezeim. Our link has ended. There is a second group of Drakes approaching. It is time.”
The two Centenium turned. The Twisted Queen’s warning was followed moments later by Wyverns and Pegasi, riders on foot.
Reinforcements. To evacuate Saliss? Or finish…? Klbkch saw the Swordsman of Six, as well as Shriekblade.
“I wonder if that is what the other Antinium seem to the Walled Cities, Wrymvr? Where as we are like…”
Klbkch nodded at Saliss. They were trying to get him to run. The Drake was watching them. He wanted to kill Wrymvr.
Wrymvr the Deathless and Klbkch the Slayer faced the small army of Drakes. They were standing off. Neither one wanted to speak. If they did—this was clearly more than an ‘accident’. If they did, this was not war.
And Klbkch did not want war any more than the Walled Cities did yet. He shook his head.
“Wrymvr. The willpower of the last of the Centenium—has worn thin after thousands of years. These last few decades more than our struggle, more than the time since She died.”
“Yours, perhaps.”
Klbkch punched Wrymvr in one of his ‘faces’. The Drakes stopped their tense standoff to watch. The Antinium spoke again.
“I mean that even so, I still see something admirable in the best of Izril’s warriors. If that Drake lives and dies ten more times, perhaps he would understand what it is to be us. Certainly—he is stronger than me.”
Wrymvr nodded at that. Klbkch rubbed at his wounds. Even with his Skill, fighting one Named Adventurer was hard enough. Wrymvr had his old body and his Skills. Klbkch had needed to focus to avoid dying every moment of the engagement, even with Saliss not doing his best to kill Klbkch. The difference…was clear.
“Antinium. This exchange has cost both sides. Will you let us collect our dead and leave or will it be further hostilities?”
One of the Drakes called out. The Centenium nearly laughed again. What rules these other species came up with. Klbkch stepped forwards and the group tensed.
Gold-ranks. High-level warriors. Commanders and support from afar. And on the other side?
Klbkch the Slayer.
Wrymvr the Deathless.
“Would you fight with us? Who are you, Drakes?”
The [Commander] bared his teeth.
“The Walled City’s finest. Enough to kill even you, Centenium.”
Klkbch and Wrymvr exchanged one more look. Klbkch shrugged and sheathed his blades. Then he remembered and took off the belt. He looped it, and his swords, around one of Wrymvr’s appendages.
“That sounds appropriately fearsome. Wrymv—”
 
—-
 
The jaws closed with a snap. At first—Saliss just stared. Half of the Slayer’s body crumpled as his upper half clung to the bloody mandibles.
“Wh—”
The Drakes started. Was it an accident? The—Wrymvr the Deathless had just bisected—
“Heh.”
Klbkch’s mandibles moved. Wrymvr opened his maw. He spat part of his comrade’s body at the feet of the stunned Drakes. They had no idea what was going on.
“It seems I’ve been mortally wounded. Time to flee.”
The giant Antinium gently grabbed Klbkch’s upper half with its pincers and leapt. Everyone braced, but the Centenium was turning—turning—Klbkch fumbled for a potion.
“How dangerous.”
Wrymvr had to concentrate hard to stop from laughing and dropping him.
 
—-
 
“Klbkchhezeim!”
The scream was echoed across multiple voices. The Hives were in disarray. The Antinium refocused as the Drakes saw thousands of Antinium coming at them in a sudden, maddening fury. They fled, not knowing what had happened.
Neither had the other Queens. They had only known when Klbkch took a mortal wound—until then, his vague location.
Except for one. The Twisted Queen sat upright, listening as a flurry of panicked voices broke out.
“Accidental injury? Report the damage.”
“Stay calm. He is not deceased. Stay calm—”
“We must immediately repair his body! The upgrades were not enough, not enough—”
The other four Queens were panicking, to say nothing of the Free Queen of Liscor. The Twisted Queen added her words of fear, resolve, and so on.
The Free Queen was gifted. But she was one Queen. Even if he asked, they might have bickered or held something back. Anyways, upgrading was harder than remaking from scratch.
Well, well. She waited until Klbkch was safely in the Silent Queen’s Hive and then sat back. Drake raids. The damage to the Armored Antinium’s Hive was a problem, but it was…resources. She had been more concerned with the lives of both Centenium.
Let the Walled Cities be confused. The fallacy of their thinking was that they thought this war was about resources, the lives of many. They had won their victory.
So had the Antinium.
“The end. We all win.”
The best of all scenarios. The Twisted Queen, in her twisted way, hoped the Drakes were happy while it lasted.
 
—-
 
Saliss of Lights was…tired. Just tired.
