“Saliss, I tried to make her go away, but she says Chaldion’ll come after this and it’s actually really important.”
Erin was upset. The [Alchemist] sighed.
“He probably will. So you’re the luckless Drake come to get me?”
“Yes sir. High Command is waiting, Adventurer Saliss. Please, allow me to escort you to them.”
For a while, the Drake sat there, head bowed. Then he looked up.
“And who are you, exactly?”
The Drake maintained her perfect salute.
“General Shirka, 3rd Army of Pallass. Blackwing’s Gold. An honor, Adventurer Saliss. I believe we met once before. At—”
“Right. I’m coming.”
The Drake picked himself up slowly. Erin hesitated.
“What’s ‘Blackwing’s Gold’? Is that your title or something, G-General?”
She peered at the female Drake. Shirka turned to her and put her hands behind her back, standing at parade rest.
“New designation, ma’am. Formerly we were known as the ‘Pallass’ Gold’. After General Thrissiam fell…”
Someone else fell down. Saliss lay on the ground.
“Oh no. I’ve fallen and I can’t get up. You should tell High Command I can’t make it. Do that, will you, please, General?”
Erin eyed Shirka. Even she had the urge to toss a bit of dirt at Saliss. But of everyone so far—the Drake was the most patient. She turned back to Saliss at once and threw another salute.
“Adventurer. The City of Invention has need of you. Won’t you answer them again?”
She was so patient with the Drake. Erin looked at General Shirka. At Saliss. The Drake refused to look at Shirka.
“Oh.”
Her eyes widened. The Drake [General], Shirka, was the youngest Erin had ever met. And that was extraordinary because, well, she was like Embria. And since one was a [Wing Commander] and somewhat famed for that—
On a hunch, Erin looked at Saliss as he slowly got up, brushing dirt from his scales. He muttered.
“I’m coming. Give me one second.”
“Are you sure, Saliss? If you don’t want to, I can—”
Erin made a punching gesture and Shirka coughed into her claws. It looked like she was covering a smile. Saliss hesitated. Erin meant it. But he waved a claw.
“Nah. They’ll just send the old man. And if you punch him, he’ll probably die.”
“I could challenge him to a chess game. He’d lose.”
Saliss laughed. Genuinely laughed at that. He stood up, shaking his head.
“No, he wouldn’t give up. Fine. Let’s go, General. Let me just…thingy…”
He was sighing and checking his belt. Erin saw Shirka step back. The [Innkeeper] followed her. It was a hunch that made her ask the next question.
“Where did you come from, General Shirka?”
“I rose up from one of the allied cities to Pallass, ma’am. I was offered a position in the City of Inventions a year after receiving my [General] class and took it.”
The Drake was so polite. Unlike Grimalkin or the [Senators]—and rather like Chaldion—she had entered Erin’s inn to ask if she could speak to Saliss once, to do her job. It was hard to refuse that.
“One of the allied cities?”
“Allied with Pallass, ma’am.”
Shirka watched as Saliss, muttering, brushed dirt off his tail. Erin studied her face.
“Do you…know Saliss? From before coming to Pallass, I mean?”
The Drake gave her a sidelong look. She didn’t need to answer this time. And her voice wasn’t as crisp as she replied.
“I…did know Adventurer Saliss in his earlier years. As a girl, in fact.”
Erin looked at Saliss. The Drake threw up his claws.
“I’m older than I look. Stop judging me! And I was young. A proper, decent adventurer.”
“Oh, I get it.”
Erin softly remarked. She watched as Shirka escorted Saliss to the door. He didn’t protest—much.
“What is Saliss supposed to do?”
“Confidential, Miss Solstice. A job for the Walled Cities is all I can divulge. Thank you for your cooperation.”
“Is it that bad?”
Erin stopped by the door to Pallass with Saliss. He was still clearly the worse for wear, but he was going. He shrugged.
“It’s not going to be fun.”
“But—no, never mind. I guess it’s hard, huh? At least—maybe you’ll be able to beat an Armored Crawler this time. Faster, right, General Shirka?”
That was all Erin could think to say. It wasn’t the most—tactful—of things to say. But if Saliss was afraid or reluctant…
“Armored Crawler, Miss Solstice?”
The [General] turned her head and gave Erin a blank look. She saw one of Saliss’ closed eyes open. Erin looked at him.
“Not an Armored Crawler?”
“It must have been a different monster.”
Shirka looked sharply at Saliss. Then she nodded once and thrust open the door.
“Excuse us, Miss Solstice. Two to Pallass! Open the checkpoint for Adventurer Saliss!”
They disappeared. Erin stared at Saliss’ tail. It could have just been a mistake. But…every other detail appeared to be correct. She wondered why that was off. And then she got nervous. But that was all.
 
—-
 
Saliss of Lights was not Erin Solstice. As he stumbled through Pallass, ignoring the dirty looks and playing up his miserable state, he harassed Shirka. But mildly. It didn’t seem to be working and besides…
“You don’t know how I adventure. I used to be like those silly adventurers. I went to other continents. On Chandrar—I was a proper, crazy adventurer. These days, I’m here.”
“Yes sir. It’s not for me to say, sir.”
He scowled at General Shirka. The sunlight was hurting Saliss’ eyes.
“If I were doing actual adventuring, they wouldn’t send you. I’m not going to find any of you, there.”
She twitched at that.
“Not for this mission, sir. But you did find me.”
What was he supposed to say to that? The [Alchemist] said nothing more. Damn the old man. He would have happily kicked General Edellein into the pond.
 
—-
 
High Command had been waiting for forty minutes. They were behind schedule and very upset. That alone was enough to make the [Alchemist] smile as he walked—naked—into the war room. He threw a perfect salute, and was rewarded with a glare from none other than the [General] he had been thinking of.
General Edellein of 4th Army, General Duln of 1st Army, General Shirka of 3rd, were exactly half of the room. The other half were Chaldion, one senior [Strategist] who was probably here to learn, despite being in his fifties, and a [Mage].
Not Grimalkin. But one of the senior [War Mages] nonetheless. They all turned to Saliss with some level of glower.
Except for Chaldion. He just regarded Saliss. And it was Chaldion that Saliss ignored; everyone else he could get a rise from. So with his salute, he barked in an approximation of a [Soldier] reporting for duty.
“Assassin Saliss, here at your disposal, High Command! Or is it exterminator this time? Give me my orders!”
“[Alchemist] Oliwing. You are late. And is that alcohol I smell?”
General Edellein snapped. Saliss happily saluted.
“Yessir. I call it a Potion of Alcohol. I think it’ll change the world. Anyone want a try?”
He heard a snort from the [War Mage], who immediately covered his mouth. General Duln turned his head—Shirka was behind Saliss, but he heard nothing from her.
Edellein’s scowl deepened. Before he could say anything though, Saliss was already lurching over to the table.
He knew the map well. It was of foothills. Elevated terrain. Only—three dimensional. After all, the enemy wasn’t just limited to surface encampments. It was more detailed this time.
“Your orders, Alchemist Saliss, are to proceed to the following coordinates. As last time, your equipment is provided here—”
Edellein tried to launch into the briefing. But Saliss—well, they’d done this song and dance before. The Drake grabbed a scroll and heard a sound of outrage from the older Drake. Saliss eyed the magical scroll, reading the label.
“Yeah, yeah. [Earthquake]? [Lesser Teleport]…mhm, I get it.”
“Alchemist, you are to listen to the—”
Saliss turned away from the [General] and looked around the room.
“So how many Queens am I killing? If I get into the right spot, I can probably blow up a Hive. Sounds good? One Adventurer for a Hive.”
And suddenly the amusement drained away. High Command looked at each other. General Duln put his head on his shoulders, suddenly grave.
“Those are not your orders, Adventurer Saliss.”
The Drake waved the scroll at Duln. The Dullahan was cooler in temper than Edellein; he didn’t even blink as Saliss pointed at it.
“So I’m supposed to damage a Hive and not kill a Queen, huh? Kill thousands of Antinium but no Queen because that’s a step too far.”
“Would you listen to the briefing, you nude idiot?”
Edellein snarled. Saliss turned his head; the other [General] was visibly flushed under his scales. Saliss considered this.
“Go eat your tail, Edellein.”
He lifted a claw for emphasis. The [General] left his seat in a moment. His hand was on his sword—but he hesitated as Saliss put up his fists.
“Someone stop him! Before I kick him off Pallass’ walls! Because I will! Come on, slash me!”
He hopped in place, swaying, making weak jabs into the air. Daring Edellein to actually draw his sword.
“General. Sit down.”
Chaldion spoke for the first time thus far. Edellein was breathing hard. But yet again—the [Grand Strategist]’s fake eye flashed and the Drake sat down.
Saliss was disappointed. But not by much.
“What’s the stupid mission, old man? And would it kill you to provide snacks?”
He flopped into a chair as Shirka took a seat. Chaldion ignored that.
“This is not like other assignments, Adventurer Saliss—”
“Gold coin.”
The younger [Strategist] stared at Saliss.
“Adventurer?”
The [Alchemist] flexed his claw impatiently.
“If I had a silver coin for every time I heard that…gold coin. Give. It’s always ‘not the same as all the others’. Why would this one be different? I go in, I destroy things and—”
“They’ve developed a new type of Antinium.”
The Named Adventurer paused, mid-rant. He looked back at Chaldion. Sat up a bit. Shirka saw Saliss’ claw flash.
She was fast. But even she barely saw the way he flicked a bit of tonic onto his bare scales from a belt pouch in—well, fractions of a second. Duln nudged her.
‘Sobering potion.’
[Memo] Skill. Shirka nodded slowly. Saliss ignored that as he looked at the venerable [Grand Strategist].
“So what? That’s what they do.”
“This breed is greatly concerning to the Walled Cities. Read your report.”
There were documents Saliss had been ignoring. For the first time, the Drake picked them up and read. There were illustrations too. Chaldion continued.
“Giants. Wistram caught a glimpse of them in the Armored Antinium’s Hive in conjunction with the Free Antinium delegation. Temporary name—‘Steelclads’, as designated by the Armored Queen. There are at least two dozen confirmed active and hundreds allegedly in development.”
“So you want me to wipe them out. How did Wistram learn about this? The scrying orbs you were screaming about?”
The [Generals] shifted. Chaldion had indeed made them aware of the issue; the Walled Cities had all had a conniption over the intelligence.
“We’ve switched to artifacts that can block attempts to take control of them. The Antinium have no such defenses. To our understanding, Wistram has eyes into three of the six Hives; the others must be using more advanced artifacts.”
“This is a lot of detail for a scrying object.”
This time, the [Alchemist] looked up and the [War Mage] and [Strategist] blinked. You could be fooled by the act. Chaldion smiled mirthlessly. He tapped the highlighted area of map.
“This is the area the growing sacs are forming in, according to our intelligence. Manus and Fissival have been using dedicated [Scrying] spells based on the coordinates Wistram gave us. Thanks to them, we have intelligence of specific locations in the Hives, where we were unable to find…anything before, even with magic. Which is why you are going to hit it and we will monitor the results.”
Saliss’ eyes narrowed. He snapped his claws and sat up.
“Ah. So I blow up this extremely valuable growing site and we get to see how accurate the data Wistram gave us is. And overhear more intelligence! That’s…why you’re [Grand Strategist], hmm? And my job is just to walk in there, cast a spell, and walk out, right?”
He put his feet up on the war table. There was a growl.
“That scroll is to be used in conjunction, not alone, Adventurer. We would not trust—or risk a Named Adventurer on this mission alone. Your job is support. You’re moving out in five minutes. We’re already delayed and Pallass will not be the Walled City that—”
“No.”
The [Alchemist] spoke to the ceiling. Edellein nearly choked on his own spit.
“What?”
“I am not Pallass’ weapon of war. There are Antinium in that inn I like. I refuse this time.”
High Command didn’t exactly susurrate. They weren’t the susurrating type. But they did exchange significant looks. Chaldion sighed.
“High Command, we will recess for five minutes.”
The others didn’t need to be told twice. Well, Duln did nudge Edellein before the [General] heaved himself out of the room. Saliss was staring up at the ceiling.
“You can’t make me this time.”
Chaldion didn’t immediately reply. Both of them knew how this worked.
“Six.”
“No.”
“Six and three months is my offer.”
The Drake stared upwards.
“It’s not a give and take.”
But of course—it was. No one had to say ‘or else’. Chaldion leaned on his staff.
“Three months. I’ll have the entire City Watch devoted to other matters. You cannot refuse this time, Saliss. The [Generals] will not stand for it.”
“They can eat my tail. I can always leave the city.”
That was an empty threat. Chaldion shook his head.
“Six Drakes on the wanted lists, three months.”
“You couldn’t order them to stop, could you? But I forget—‘you can’t do everything, even as Grand Strategist.’ Eat your tail, old man.”
Saliss flashed Chaldion a bitter look.
“That is the most I can do without making it overt, Saliss.”
The [Grand Strategist] saw the Drake make a few gestures at him.
“I hate you, old man.”
“That is fine with me. Stay at that inn. Make friends with the Antinium. They are not the same ones as the Hivelands produces. You are not being ordered to attack the [Strategist], Anand, for that reason. Or the other individuals in Liscor.”
Saliss paused.
“That would be—”
“I vetoed those suggestions.”
“You?”
“The Antinium are not a united threat. Liscor has always been the wildcard Hive. These Steelclads are a threat—if only to morale.”
The [Alchemist] stared up at the ceiling. When he did speak, it was without looking at Chaldion.
“Why don’t you have the guts to order me to destroy the Grand Hive? Because I could. I could probably get a Queen. Even if one of the Prognugators is there.”
