Old friends. Mirn had known his old friend before Saliss had gone to Chandrar to study abroad. Onieva had come back. Saliss, to quote Onieva, was the adventurer, the [Alchemist].
The unhappy one. The one who was Pallass. Oh, people talked about how Saliss of Lights was a public nuisance, a nudist, a disgrace…but they’d not have tolerated the Named Adventurer if they were really all that.
Other cities had Named Adventurers who were proper, entire disgraces like Shriekblade. No one talked about them. They were managed, and not given the free lease Saliss was.
Saliss of Lights was both annoyance and hero at times. The Wyvern attack had been the last big proof of that. Anyways, the thing was…
Mirn looked away. Old friends they were, but Saliss scared the daylights out of Mirn sometimes. Onieva told him stories about what Saliss did that kept Mirn up at night.
“Anything else you need, Mirn?”
“That magic door in Liscor?”
The [Alchemist] smiled.
“Not for sale. Not even old Xif could get ahold of that.”
“Pity. You know what we could do with a door like that…?”
“Nothing.”
“You mean, not a bar a thousand feet underground that—”
Saliss looked up and sighed. He leaned on one claw, a pudgy, alchemically-wrought face suddenly serious.
“Nothing, Mirn. Because Pallass can tell where teleportation spells are. Liscor—you could hide for a while. Pallass? You’d be painting a huge target on your back.”
Mirn felt an unpleasant chill run down his scales. He scratched at one arm to settle the sensation.
“Ancestors. You didn’t think to mention that?”
“You’ve never tried it before. Onieva would have brought it up.”
Back to the numbers Saliss went. Mirn shifted.
Neither one was going to do anything as social as bring up the past. What had been said—again, Onieva was the social one who’d complain or cry or rage. Mirn picked at the wyvern steak—rather cheap and plentiful even so long after the attack thanks to storehouses that preserved the meat. He looked around, a habit, for watching eyes.
The dive bar they were in was cheap, unobtrusive, and both Drakes were used to making sure no one was following them. And even if there was some kind of [Spy] in the room?
They…might be in trouble. Saliss saw a glassy-eyed [Server] leaning against a wall. Two customers were talking in that space-out way about…the future…
“I think we’ve just contaminated this entire bar.”
Mirn exhaled another plume of glittering haze. Second-hand it might be, but it was enough to affect everyone else. Saliss copied him.
“Good point. Let’s split. Onieva will get in touch. Where now?”
“4th Floor. Unless we have to move twice.”
“Got it.”
They left it at that. Mirn walked out and vanished into Pallass. The other Drake remained a while. He left a large tip; enough to delight the disoriented [Server]. Then he too walked out.
It was an unfriendly goodbye. Saliss dwelled on that for a little while as he gulped down a potion and felt his body shift.
The issue was not that Mirn was any less…Mirn when Saliss was Saliss. But it was just—different. Worse, really.
Saliss felt worse in his scales when he was around Mirn and it wasn’t his friend’s fault. Only that Saliss knew who he should be and it was never stronger then.
Well—a few moments later, a Drake emerged from an alleyway. He took a few breaths, then stretched.
“Ancestors, I’m tired!”
The Drake strode down the street, with considerably more energy than before. Being a pudgy Drake slowed you down. He hopped through a radius of light coming from a magical streetlamp, feeling lighter.
The streets of the City of Invention were never entirely empty. A few passersby hurried about their business—not with fear, but with that instinctual reluctance some species had to attract attention at this point in the day.
Saliss had no such inhibitions. He strode forwards. At one point he passed by a trio on patrol.
“Hey, Guardspeople.”
They reacted to Saliss warily. One Garuda muttered.
“Nak—oh. Alchemist Saliss.”
Their faces changed from bored tiredness to wariness at the nudist approaching them to wary resignation. ‘Please don’t make our lives any harder’, was the impression they were desperately trying to send Saliss.
The Drake considered it. But it was late, and even Saliss needed to sleep. So he just pointed two finger-claws at the [Guards].
“Keep guarding stuff, [Guards]!”
They stared at the finger-guns Saliss had picked up from Erin. He chortled and gyrated into the night. Saliss did have fun, contrary to what Mirn believed.
For instance, just half an hour later, Watch Captain Qissa paused in the beginning of her day-shift and looked up at the Drake posing in the doorway. She closed her eyes.
“No. Get out. Please?”
“Don’t be like that, Qissa! Aren’t we friends? You arrest me, I dance naked in public—we have a relationship!”
Saliss slid through the doorway. The Watch Captain saw the desk-sergeant giving her a hopeless look. In theory, 6th Floor’s Watch could have stopped or arrested Saliss. But they only did that now and then and the [Alchemist] was one of Pallass’ assets.
The desk sergeant and other [Guards] left the sacrificial Watch Captain to her fate. Qissa resigned herself to a long day. If there were omens for how your shift was going to go—a naked Named Adventurer before dawn was a bad one.
“Alchemist Saliss, please tell me you haven’t melted something.”
“Nope!”
“Destroyed public property?”
“Not recently.”
“Offended a foreign dignitary? Killed or discovered a monster? Caused a public disturbance?”
Qissa brightened up as Saliss shook his head to the most-common reasons he’d appear in her office. She saw the Drake dig around in a belt pouch.
“Actually, Qissa, the reason I came here was…tada!”
He slapped something on the table. The Watch Captain craned her neck to see…rows of numbers and little names of potions. Saliss half-crawled onto the desk and looked pleadingly up at her. She resisted the urge to shove him off.
“Please check my math? I’m bored. Also, the Merchant’s Guild is closed.”
Qissa, resigned, looked at the Drake lying on her desk. Out of all the Watch Captains in Pallass—why her?
She knew why. Pallass was many times larger than Liscor and had multiple Watch Captains per day/night cycle. There were at least four on duty at any given time and Pallass had a Watch Commander. However, Saliss of Lights had different relationships with each one and he ‘liked’ Qissa.
It was advantageous to have the Naked Drake of Pallass as a friendly figure, not an unfriendly one. Saliss could be uncooperative if he chose to be. So, Qissa reached for the list with a sigh. And like so many of Saliss’ antics, she saw the method behind the annoyance.
“Potions? Potion of Blaze, Potion of Barkskin, Potion of—”
They were combat potions. Saliss’ specialty. The Drake stared at the [Alchemist]. He was now lying face-down on the floor.
“I’m tired. What?”
“Alchemist, what are these numbers?”
“Math.”
The Watch Captain picked up an empty inkwell, threw it at Saliss, and watched with resignation as he rolled and it missed him. She decided to get her answers from the paper and went down the columns. After a moment, she reached for her abacus and a quill.
“The numbers…look right.”
Five minutes later, Qissa concluded that it was sound math. And—based on the numbers, the [Alchemist] was about to make a thousand such potions. Or more! That was the sum he was using to calculate, though.
“Thanks, Qissa. They’re good numbers. Which one earns the most?”
According to his calculations, the most cost-effective was the Potion of Arrowshield. Qissa knew that one. You took a drink, and you had a second ‘skin’ or shield that would deflect some arrows. It wasn’t as great as it sounded; if you tried to walk through a volley of arrows you’d still get stuck, just less.
“All of these potions are lower-grade, Alchemist. Are you intending to sell them to Pallass? The Watch?”
The Drake had been sleeping—or just resting on his face. Now, he swiveled and like some nude model, propped his chin on one elbow as he posed on the floor, facing her with a grin. Qissa didn’t even blink. The nudity you got used to.
“Do you think I can get a larger fee for one of them?”
Ah. So that was why he was here. The Watch Captain blinked. Then she reviewed the lists.
“We…could really use Potions of Barkskin. Potions of Blaze would be army-only. Not that it wouldn’t sell four thousand—”
She shuddered. Imagine fighting Pallass’ 2nd with four thousand potions tossed at you by [Slingers]? Well, they did have heavy alchemical support. Saliss winked at her.
“But would I get more for Potions of Barkskin?”
Qissa hesitated. She pushed the paper back across the desk and the Drake rolled over until he could sit up and snatch it.
“I’d consider it a bonus for the Watch, Adventurer Saliss.”
She tried to speak to the Drake currently lying right below the eye line of the desk. It was certainly true. The Watch had to handle local monsters in conjunction with the 1st Army—and it was just as often a luckless [Guard] who had to fight a sewer monster instead of the army, which tackled bigger local threats. A quality Potion of Barkskin, the kind Saliss could make rather than a Level 16 [Alchemist] who’d just learned the recipe?
Incomparable. An [Alchemist]’s brews got stronger with their levels, and a Potion of Barkskin made by Saliss was as good as a lesser [Alchemist]’s Potion of Ironscales. Well—close.
“Interesting. Interesting. I’ll give it some thought! Thanks for checking my numbers, Qissa. Ooh! I got the prices on Potions of Arrowshields wrong? This is why you’re the Watch Captain.”
Qissa said nothing. If she rose to the bait—any of it—he’d just stick around to annoy her. She watched the Drake roll across the floor, still refusing to get up. He opened the door, slithered out on his front. Then he shuffled around—rolled down the hallway.
Thwap, thwap. Qissa heard his tail slapping the floorboards with each rotation. Then Saliss went down the stairs, thumping…it sounded like he rolled out the door of the Watch House.
The Watch Captain sat back. She wrote down a message to the other Day Captains, telling them to hold off buying Potions of Barkskin in the near future, and to the Watch Commander, advising him there might be an opportunity to buy some quality potions if the Watch was willing to invest their potions budget for the next few months into the buy. She called for a Street Runner, and sat back with a sigh.
All in all—that had been one of the best Saliss-visits to date. Even so, she stretched as the sun rose and she walked over to the little bulletin with a sigh. She crossed out the hopeful tally—which had been ‘eighteen’, and marked it to ‘zero’.
Days since a Saliss incident: 0
Watch Captain Zevara and Liscor might think their insane Human was the worst. But Pallass had the original.
 
—-
 
Saliss got bored of rolling after about three hundred feet and got up. He rubbed at his back, stretched, and laughed.
Life was good right now. Or rather, it had the potentiality to be good. Amazing. New potion ingredients, a fun inn…for Saliss, it was as good as it got.
Day by day, that was the most Saliss asked for. Not fame, artifacts—perhaps fortune—but this was as close to an ideal as the [Alchemist] wanted. Because he was an [Alchemist]. An adventurer sought more artifacts because that was how they got stronger. A [Warrior] could train, but they really leveled by hitting things. Saliss lived to experiment and create.
Anyways, they were exciting times. A door to Invrisil, that interesting Human and her friend—neither of whom had levels—that Saliss had briefly seen, a Courier, and Erin Solstice herself. The [Alchemist] hummed as he skipped up towards the 9th floor and his shop. He used the grand staircase; it was good exercise.
Someone passed by Saliss at speed as the [Alchemist] climbed. He registered a screaming Gnoll clinging to a rather large board with four wheels crash on the 7th floor and wipe out, taking half a dozen pedestrians with him. Saliss heard the Watch rush to the scene, saw the Gnoll flee—he had been wearing a padded helmet and armor—and his friends cheering him on before running as well.
“I really want to try that.”
The Named Adventurer grinned. Oh yes, life was even better of late for all the fun things happening. He’d ask about it when he visited the inn—he did so at least every other day, now. He felt like he was missing out if he didn’t check at least that often. Just a quick nap and then…
“Alchemist, Alchemist Saliss!”
The [Alchemist] sighed. And here came a Drake he knew well.
“Chesy!”
“Chesri, Alchemist!”
The [Salesman] looked hurt. Saliss gave him a patient smile.
“What does the Merchant’s Guild want this time, Chesy?”
The younger Drake was the newest victim appointed to his position. Saliss, as an [Alchemist], had all kinds of people who wanted to sell things…that he’d made. Chesri was the latest in the line of many liaisons to Saliss on behalf of [Merchants], [Auctioneers], and so on, who inevitably quit. Mainly because you had to first find Saliss to convince him to do something and that sometimes meant camping outside of his laboratory for weeks on end.
Which Chesri had done. The Drake was persistent—and as always, he had something that would make his masters and perhaps Saliss a lot of money.
“Alchemist, I am so glad I caught you. This business in Oteslia—”
“What?”
“The [Strategists], Alchemist! The ones from Baleros? The Titan’s students?”
“Um…doesn’t ring a bell.”
Saliss lied. Of course he knew. Chesri hurried after him and Saliss picked up the pace. Time to get to his laboratory and shut the door while he napped.
“Alchemist Saliss! Please, just hear it out. It’s fantastic publicity for Pallass—and a handsome sum for the cure! The students have been getting other [Alchemists] to attempt the cure, and they have had some success, but if you consented to perfecting the antidote—”
“I don’t wanna.”
“Alchemist, you are the leading figure in the city! We’re projecting an income of—”
Saliss started running. Chesri ran, panting figures after Saliss. The Named Adventurer shouted over his shoulder.
“I told you no the first five times, Chesri! Get Xif to do it! He’s great at boring jobs!”
His voice might have woken up people—if the [Alchemists] of the 9th floor ever slept. Saliss raced for his secret laboratory’s entrance as Chesri ‘tripped’ on a pebble someone threw under his foot. He sprawled.
“We approached him, Alchemist! But if you’d—”
