The door shut and Saliss breathed a sigh of relief. Vultures! At least it was only Chesri. Sometimes you could get eleven of them following you about; the young Drake was new and thus persistent. Why did they want multiple cures, anyways? Maybe…ah.
“Multiple cure-alls for Drowned People’s blowfish poison probably sell really well at sea. Or they can charge premium for the best one. Or they want me and Xif out of the way and competing…”
The [Alchemist] sighed. He stretched in his laboratory’s ‘living room’, where he kept stores of snacks, the more fragile objects not stored in his blast-proofed working environs, and other important paraphernalia. He tossed the spreadsheet onto a bench. Potions of Barkskin it was. He’d put in the order later today. As for the cure—
“Someone else can make it.”
It wasn’t as if they needed perfection. If they knew the formula, you could get dozens of Pallass’ [Alchemists] to make it. Chesri and his employers just wanted the attention. Saliss sighed.
“Now what do I do? Make the second Potion of Reverse Aging and see if the first has worn off? Have another go at the Potion of Youth with the flowers? Harass Erin’s new friends? Wait…did Octavia and those two [Mages] who wanted me to sell my stuff in Liscor have one of my cigars?”
Saliss vaguely remembered that. He wondered if something entertaining had happened and rubbed his claws together. He could do all of that! And but for the Potion of Reverse Aging, Octavia’s shop had all the tools he needed too!
The Wandering Inn was the place to be. The Drake liked it there. Saliss liked it there. Humming, he looked around for something interesting. He always had his supplies of potions in his custom-made belt, but…Ryoka Griffin was interesting. Was she just like the Admiral of Supply in Zeres? Or…had she beaten his [Eyes of Appraisal] like that strange Antinium?
The Drake wandered past the single chair he liked to doze in, next to an empty bag of chocolate and a glowing piece of parchment. He rummaged around for some extra gold—then backtracked.
Glowing piece of parchment? That—wasn’t supposed to be there. Saliss stared at it.
His smile vanished.
Saliss’ laboratory was harder to get into than most places in Pallass. Grimalkin’s home was probably easier to break into. Especially because the [Sinew Magus] considered that magical protections were amply backed up by a punch from him.
Grimalkin couldn’t have broken in here in the time Saliss had been gone. The [Alchemist] did not play games with his secret formulas and recipes. Octavia couldn’t have gotten back in, even though she was his apprentice. That master-[Thief] that kept hanging around Erin’s inn, even though he had a ring that kept Saliss from seeing his exact level?
None of them could have gotten in. Only one other person had free access to enter and leave this place. And that was…the reason he’d have walked in here…
Saliss stared at the glowing piece of parchment. He did not want to read it. He knew what it meant. But he did read it anyways. He read the note, wished he hadn’t, and then abandoned his plans.
Determinedly, Saliss found a white cigar in a special box—to prevent it from actively decaying when exposed to regular air. He took it, lit it with a breath of oxygen, and then found Firebreath Whiskey. An entire bottle. He looked at the note—a summons, really, with a date and time. Then he did his damnedest to forget he’d ever seen it. It was calling for Saliss. Not the [Alchemist], not Saliss the Nude.
Saliss, the Adventurer.
 
—-
 
It was time for something exciting. A big event. Something dramatic, that would change things. If that was vague, it was because the idea, if not the minutiae, was spreading across multiple factions at the same time.
Look at where we are now. Look at all this potential. Time to do something about it, y’know?
…Well, ironically, one of the people who didn’t feel this way was Erin Solstice. Saliss also qualified—that feeling of ‘it is time’ was for those who were discontent with the way things were.
The Archmage of Izril was awake, the door was connecting cities. It was today. The reasons differed.
For instance, the blue Antinium hiking out of the Free Antinium’s Hive had her own reasons for taking a walk. She had a slice of pie she was nibbling at.
“Pie. We did not have pie. We should bring this back.”
She was going on a little walk. An outing. That was remarkable in itself because Xrn did not normally do such things. But it was today.
Also—someone had arrived that Xrn had been waiting for. Oh, for a while. A short time, compared to the long time she had waited. But with some impatience.
The sun was still rising as the Small Queen walked up the hill towards the inn. She saw a Worker happily singing to birds, luring them in, and smiled.
After an interesting encounter with a white Gnoll, the Small Queen walked upstairs. She scared the hell out of an [Architect], and found the right door with magic. She walked in.
“Mrsha, I’m really t—”
Ryoka Griffin looked up and saw a giant blue bug smiling at her. She froze.
“Ryoka Griffin. Hello. My name is Xrn.”
The City Runner stared at the Centenium as Xrn walked forwards. She tensed up, opened her mouth—
Xrn tapped her on the head. Ryoka felt her heart skip a beat—
Mrsha raced into the room, determined to find the fascinating Antinium and find out what she was up to! She looked around.
…Where did Ryoka and Xrn go?
The Small Queen stood on the grass, and looked back at the inn in the distance. Ryoka, sitting in the exact same position as she’d been on her bed, started. She scrambled to her feet.
“Wh—”
“Let us go for a walk, Ryoka Griffin.”
Xrn smiled.
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn was busy as the sun rose. Of course, Erin wasn’t in the middle of serving guests. She and Palt had spent all night helping Montressa, Octavia, and Bezale detox from the Saliss cigar incident. Now, she was yawning.
An hour’s sleep would be two hours. So…two hours would be four. Was two hours good? Erin was trudging upstairs when Mrsha ran over to her, panting and signing rapidly.
“What is it, Mrsha? Is Ryoka not feeling well?”
Erin blinked as Mrsha told her multiple things.
“Blue Antinium…Xrn? And Ryoka’s gone?”
The [Innkeeper] blinked. Of course, Ryoka could have just gone for a morning run or something. But Mrsha was insistent. Xrn had come into the inn and Mrsha had maybe tried to steal a morsel and been glued to the ceiling—
“Wait, what?”
And then—the little Gnoll waved her paws to get Erin on track of what really mattered—and then she’d followed Xrn after the spell had worn off and Xrn had been in Ryoka’s room, she was sure of it! Mrsha had been hot on her heels but both were gone!
“Huh.”
Erin sensed shenanigans. She narrowed her eyes. Neither Xrn nor Ryoka were in the inn—and Erin’s [Dangersense] wasn’t going off, but she knew the Small Queen.
“Xrn’s pushy. Can you tell where Ryoka went?”
No. Mrsha shook her head. Ryoka’s scent had vanished. As if she’d disappeared. Erin rubbed at her head.
“Okay. Okay, let’s get Palt. And maybe Bird has seen something? And Pawn, or another Antinium…”
She hoped it was just Xrn doing something silly-but-not-serious. Because Erin was not in the mood for more drama!
And unfortunately, both Montressa and Bezale were down for the count so Palt was the only accomplished [Mage] who could help Erin. He was only too ready to help—right up until he heard ‘Xrn’ and ‘find Xrn’ in the same sentence.
“Um. Erin. You mean the—Small Queen of the Antinium?”
“Yep.”
Erin was briskly arming herself with her standard ‘in case of anything’ gear. Frying pan, knife, acid jar. Mrsha was inspecting her gear too—Erin saw Lyonette sneak up and grab her.
“Oh no. Not this time.”
Mrsha the Ryoka-Rescuer fought valiantly by squirming and protesting as Lyonette dragged her away. Palt was still blanching.
“Erin, I couldn’t scry Xrn even if Montressa and Bezale weren’t comatose! And—that’s the Small Queen. She eats [Mages] like me for breakfast!”
“Don’t be silly. She’s n—she’s c—she’s probably not homicidal. To us. I need help! Can you find Ryoka, at least?”
Palt actually made a whining sound. He danced on his hooves—but his refusal was marred by Fierre and Salamani.
“Have you seen Ryoka, Erin? I checked on her, but she’s already gone.”
The [Innkeeper] brightened up. Reinforcements! And a Courier-[Mage] and a Vampire! Palt closed his eyes as Erin told them about the possible abduction.
“I can try to scry Ryoka.”
Salamani volunteered. He immediately failed of course, which prompted Fierre and Palt to take immense interest in the issue. Meanwhile, Erin went looking for more reinforcements.
The Honorable Hatmen still hadn’t come down for food yet, but they were bound to be up soon for breakfast. Erin had been meaning to talk to them anyways. In the meanwhile, she decided a visual search would be best.
“Bird? Bird, I need your help. Have you seen R—”
Erin opened the door to Bird’s tower. There she found Bird, the [Bird Hunter], standing in his tower.
And a naked Drake, flapping his arms and clinging to the tower-in-progress. Erin stared at Saliss. He was demonstrating to Bird a flapping technique no actual bird in history had ever employed.
“But have you really tried to fly? Like this, see? Dare me to jump! I’ll do it! It won’t even hurt!”
The Drake was trying to cajole Bird…Erin’s head slowly turned to the Worker. Bird had crossed all four arms and he looked, well, peeved.
“Please get off my tower.”
The [Innkeeper] rubbed her eyes. Suddenly, Saliss was here. He turned to her.
“Oh, hey Erin. Do you think I can fly if I flap really hard? I know that Gnoll keeps trying it. But does he believe? Believe I can fly. Go on! I’ll do it!”
He flapped energetically. Erin stared at him. He was naked. Yup. And he was here. Yup. And very intoxicated if the fact that he couldn’t even stay upright was any clue. And she did not have time for this.
She wondered if this was how Zevara felt about her. Erin resolved to bake her a cookie tray. Once she got more chocolate. Or oatmeal.
 
—-
 
Saliss of Lights was higher than…something really high. Also, drunk. He had finished the bottle of Firebreath Whiskey—or put enough of it away that he didn’t remember where the rest was.
If he had any objections, it was that he was still conscious. But this worked and it was extremely hard to give Saliss enough of anything to knock him out. Moreover…he had a thing about being put to sleep from adventuring.
So this worked. Erin Solstice was here! Saliss tried to get her to do something amazing for him. But she was busy and left after telling him to stop giving people cigars.
“Spoilsport. You and me, Bird. We know how to have fun, right?”
Saliss threw an arm around Bird. The Worker pushed his arm off.
“Please get off my tower. This is the sixth time I have asked. You are disrupting my hunting.”
Saliss giggled to himself.
“Buddy! Don’t be like that! You and me—I like you, you see? You annoyed all of Pallass. All of it. I’ve only done that like…”
He tried to count and gave up. Bird sighted down his bow, looking around for Ryoka. He saw a blue figure and called out.
“Ah, that is X—”
Saliss grabbed Bird urgently.
“Listen. I’m annoying, I know.”
“Please let go of me. I must tell Miss Erin—let go. Now.”
The Worker struggled as Saliss held onto his shoulders. Bird tried to hurry downstairs as Saliss clung to his legs.
“I’m sorry for being annoying! It’s my default! I do it because being serious is…stupid! Look, I really wanted to talk! What’s it like being Antinium? Is it—are you really people? Because if you are, that’s a problem. For me. Not for you. For me.”
He was speaking to the ceiling. At some point Bird had shaken him free. A white Gnoll stared solemnly down at Saliss. He hiccupped.
“Hi, Mrsha. Is that Goblin around?”
A second face crowded into view, above Mrsha. Numbtongue. Saliss raised a thumb in greeting.
“Hey. You going to kill me today?”
“Probably not.”
The adventurer laughed. Goblins. Goblins—they got it. But Antinium?
Bird was heading upstairs as Erin led her posse outside—and was promptly sent back inside.
“You can’t exile me! I’m Erin!”
“We don’t need trouble with Xrn, Erin. Anyways, it’s dangerous. Fierre?”
“Let’s go get Ryoka.”
“Hey! You need me! Hey! Oh, hey Ratici. Good timing…”
Saliss got up and followed after Bird as Mrsha wavered, torn between great options, and scampered after the Ryoka rescue team. Numbtongue went after Erin; he didn’t fully trust the hat men, for all they played cards well.
And Bird? He stood in his tower as Saliss tried to explain.
“Look, I’m drunk. Also, I had this cigar I make to really knock myself for a loop.”
“I am aware. Your breath is a color. The birds are staying away from you. Please leave.”
Saliss stared at the fugue he was emitting. He sat down.
“But I need to talk. Look—when I’m this high, I don’t feel like me. And that’s important, you see? I can’t stop rhyming.”
Bird considered this. Some of Saliss’ breath was still floating from when he’d come up about forty minutes ago to harass Bird. A rather large cardinal had flown through it by accident and was now on the ground, staring at the sky with wings folded.
Bird aimed at it, and then lowered his bow because it wasn’t that fair. He shot the Shield Spider creeping up on it instead, then reluctantly acknowledged Saliss on the basis that this might make the Drake go away.
“I rhyme. That is how I sing. What do you wish to talk about?”
“Antinium. Are you people?”
Bird considered this.
“Maybe?”
Saliss laughed.
“And if you are—does it matter? Because if it was Gnolls…no, that would make a difference. But you’re the Black Tide that came from Rhir. Enemies.”
“That is true. May I shoot you?”
Bird turned his bow and aimed one of his hunting arrows at Saliss’ arms. The Drake laughed.
“You could try. But I’m an adventurer. It’s too e—”
The Worker loosed an arrow. He saw and heard it thunk into the wood. Not Saliss’ arm. The Drake poked at the quivering arrow shaft. He had moved about a foot away from the arrow in the time it took to strike the floor of Bird’s tower.
“See?”
Bird looked at Saliss. He checked his bow, then the arrow.
“I see. You are dangerous.”
“Yup. And I’d really like not to exist right now.”
Saliss tottered upright. He leaned against the balcony of Bird’s tower. He waited for Bird to say or do something, but the Worker went back to protecting the drugged-out cardinal from the Shield Spider nest.
“If Antinium are people…do you cry? When an Antinium dies, you mourn it, right?”
