The old Drake sat there. His eyes flickered. Cold—and terribly intelligent. Saliss did not like Chaldion and the feeling was mutual. But they were both aware of what the other could do.
“The Walled Cities will need Saliss of Lights in the decades after I am dead. Even more than they need to destroy the Antinium’s Hives. You are Pallass’ pride and greatest [Soldier]. And their greatest disgrace. Try to act like the hero some of our citizens believe you to be.”
The Drake twisted in his seat. He fixed two burning eyes on Chaldion.
“My name is not Saliss. You know that. Say my name, Chaldion.”
“Onieva.”
The [Alchemist] fell out of his seat. When he got up—Chaldion was watching him.
No hesitation, no waffling at that moment. If there had been a ‘…Onieva’, a hint of scorn—Saliss might have destroyed the entire command room and slapped General Blackwing silly. But Chaldion was smart. That was why he could handle Erin when [Senators] were too prideful.
He’d been dealing with Saliss for too long to be a fool—at least in doing what they wanted to get his way. Saliss hesitated. But Bird had been right from the start.
If it mattered—Saliss probably wouldn’t have asked. He had his price. So—
He went.
 
—-
 
Saliss of Lights stood on Pallass’ battlements. Not all of it was siege weapons and war. There were some areas designed for unusual purposes. He stood there, calmly, bitterly too.
“Once, I was an actual adventurer.”
The group of [Soldiers] was just there for show. And of course, they’d seen Saliss since they lived in Pallass. That joke. That nudist [Alchemist]. Until you remembered he was also—
A Named Adventurer. Saliss made it easy to forget, though, right up until he reminded you.
The other Drake—far harder. She stood with her mount, wings folded. Her wings made even other Oldblood Drakes stare at them in awe. She was another Named Adventurer, but not of Pallass. She had been waiting for Saliss for forty minutes—well, fifty by the time he arrived.
They were behind schedule. Still, certain rituals had to be observed.
In times past, there had been more. But Oteslia and Fissival still had winged mounts along with the Oldblood fliers. And in this case—the Pegasus was moody as she pawed the ground.
“Concealment spells are nearly complete. Your flight route is the same you came in on, Adventurer Mivifa.”
“Understood.”
The Named Adventurer nodded. Saliss strolled over. The Pegasus was smarter than your average horse—a lot dumber than your average unicorn. She snorted at Saliss. He waved at both.
“The Oldblood of Feathers. Hey Mivi, how’s it be?”
Mivifa, the [Pegasus Flier] of Oteslia and her companion, Feathi, or her ‘official’ name, Erafeathithius since the Walled Cities didn’t want to acknowledge the cute name Mivifa had given her friend, both regarded the [Alchemist] with a critical eye.
“Saliss, have you been drinking?”
“What? Me? On an important day like this?”
“…There’s vomit on your tail.”
“Oh. I had to purge myself.”
The Drake scrubbed at his tail, completely unabashed. Pallass [Soldiers]—again, ornamental—shifted. He made their city look so bad compared to the female Drake, the Oldblood of Feathers, Mivifa.
And her feathered wings. She had not been born with them. But such was the bond between her and her Pegasus that she’d grown them.
Another interesting facet about Mivifa was this: she was in her forties. Not unusual for Named Adventurers, and not rare either, necessarily. Unlike Gold-ranks, Named Adventurers were aberrations, each and every one.
But quirk of quirks—she was one of Saliss’ clients for Potions of Youth—at a discount, and illusion spells so she looked…eighteen?
It was personal. Saliss didn’t ask. Nor did Mivifa treat him with scorn. Like Shirka—she knew Saliss.
“We’re about to fly. Mind supplying the potions, Saliss?”
The Drake shrugged.
“If you supply the wings.”
He hopped on Feathi’s back with Mivifa. The Drake tossed a vial to Mivifa, who in turn offered it to her mount. The Pegasus snorted, but took it after a huge lump of sugar before—and after. Bribes. She whinnied—then took off.
It was true, what they said. You couldn’t go across the continent easily. From Invrisil to Reizmelt, heck, from Liscor to Celum alone was a hundred damn miles. But it was also true that there were exceptions.
Pegasi and Saliss were those exceptions. The [Alchemist] threw his arms up.
“[Haste]. Whee…”
Feathi flew. She vanished almost the second her hooves left the ground thanks to the concealment spells. But you could feel her wake as the wind blasted across the walls. The [Guards], reminded of the Frost Wyverns, shuddered.
But they were flying. The two Named Adventurers sped towards their destination. They spoke little. Not because they were focused with grim concentration. Mostly…because it was really windy all the way up there. Also—cold.
 
—–
 
Speed. Few people could make it across even a small section of a continent in a week’s time. Oh, industry could do it. Organization—teams of horses, carriage services, magic and so on if you had the coin, manpower and motivation.
But people? Those you counted. Kept track of. In the past, they had been the insane, closer to [Explorers] who would battle monsters. Take months to arrive in the most bygone areas. In time, over a long period, they organized. Changed.
Today they were called Couriers. But if you read a book—the [Trapmaster Assassin] closed his. His name was—Ferin.
Not an important name. The kind of name he could replace. Tomorrow he might be Damocle, or Even. Names—didn’t matter.
[Assassins] now—if you read the right books, the secret histories that few [Historians] knew or would dare to record—you’d know something about [Assassins].
The [Trapmaster] listened. He heard shouts of pain. A scream.
One, then.
Black-clad figures rushed past him like a stream. Countless bodies, flooding across the ground. The [Trapmaster] held back. What had they said, now? That famous line.
Couriers outbound. But the thing about bragging, announcing it meant that everyone knew where you were.
First Landing. Well, eighty miles away from it. It was depressing. They’d been going down the roads. Maybe they thought it was a numbers game.
Well—countless [Assassins] were pouring towards their targets. And dying. Ferin could see bodies flying around, the flashes of light. But the Ranks, the expendable [Assassins], didn’t stop.
What you read about in the Guild’s annals, and what was common—Ferin checked his annotations on the worn book of the guild’s history.
 
Complacency – Arrogance – Decay. Ferin, [Trapmaster Assassin] of Izril.
 
Just a little note for the future [Assassin] who might check out the book. He didn’t dare write anything more. Certainly not the essays from [Assassins] who had possessed this book a thousand years ago.
Ferin twisted the book sideways, opened up the attached sheaf of folded parchment someone had actually added to one passage.
 
…I have slain Dragons with my blades and I will be known as the greatest name of the Guild for tens of thousands of years. I am [Dragonslayer]. I am almighty. My name is…
 
Well, that part was harder to figure out because someone else had scratched it out. As Ferin had noted—so he hoped that in the future, some great [Assassin] would look at Ferin’s short observations and say ‘that was a smart [Assassin].’
You could hope for nothing more. And as the [Trapmaster] closed the book—he heard a voice.
“Lancel…Lancel, run. Don’t look back.”
Ahead of him, six Couriers were fighting. Trying to run.
Couriers outbound. They knew the Guild would try to stop them. So they’d taken twice as many Couriers as last time. And notably—the legend herself.
Mihaela Godfrey. She was…choking. Gasping for air. Perhaps because of the poison gas. Ferin adjusted his cloth mask. Enchanted.
One Courier down from the explosive tripwire trap. If they were dead—but if they were alive, they might stay alive if they were wise enough to surrender. The remaining five were running. And the Courier who’d accepted the contract, the one with a ‘bone to pick’ with the Guild, Lancel the Leaper, was running.
Into another world. Even Ferin felt a slight chill as he saw the gateway opening, admitting four of the Couriers. The last—Mihaela—blocked the way.
Lightning. Ferin held back and he saw the Guildmistress and every figure around her for thirty feet vanish. But they were the Ranks.
As for the [Assassins] holding back like Ferin—six.
Six Faces for six Couriers. Seemed fair? Ferin watched as more of the lesser [Assassins] ran towards their deaths. And after the Couriers. The remaining Faces moved forwards to deal with the Guildmistress.
“We warned you, Guildmistress. This time—the contract matters.”
It wasn’t fun killing Couriers. The Garuda threw a dart which exploded before it reached Mihaela. She didn’t bother with a retort. She would have charged forwards, but there were too many bodies in the way.
“They keep coming!”
A voice from the closing portal. [The Courier’s Last Road]. A Skill with few flaws. But one was—you could follow a Courier into it. At a cost, of course.
The Ranks were charging into the doorway. And dying. Mihaela backed up. She stared as someone flung an explosive and the [Assassins] at the entrance of the portal were torn apart. And still the others charged, flinging their dying comrades aside.
“Madness.”
She coughed. Ferin shook his head. He adjusted the mithril strands in his left hand, nodded to the others.
“You should have studied the Guild, Guildmistress. The Ranks do not fear death.”
She stared at him. The white-haired [Assassin] was bare-headed despite the mask he wore for protection. A mark of pride. He was old enough to have white hair.
“Do you know how much an [Assassin] of this level costs? Four gold coins. Equipment is extra. A lot—and a little. You can buy one of us in bulk if you know who to ask. The issue isn’t cost, for that matter. It’s supply and demand.”
More Ranks, pouring out of carriages that were more expensive than they were. How many had the Guild decided to spend? For this many Couriers…
“They could become one of us. Rise out of the Ranks to become a Face. All they have to do—is kill a Courier. It’s that or die.”
They poured after her, into a world without oxygen or light—for them.
“The Runner’s Guild will not bow to [Assassins]. You never—Reinhart owned your Guild. Why did you stop?”
Mihaela gasped for air. The Faces watched her, not without sympathy. She was gathering her strength. They were waiting for her failing lungs to weaken her further. Ferin shook his head.
“You should have never stopped running, Godfrey. You lost your edge. We’re [Assassins]. We live to kill.”
It was all the answer she’d get. Mihaela moved, leaping for the portal. The [Trapmaster] flung the mithril thread as the others opened up.
The Assassin’s Guild had a new master now. Also—it was under new management. The old Guildmaster was dead. No one knew that outside of the Guild.
As for why? History. [Assassins] learned from the past. And the lesson that played itself was the same.
That was what Magnolia Reinhart hadn’t realized. She’d tried to tame the Guild by overfeeding the Guildmaster, by making [Assassins] fat and dull their teeth. It had been well done. If they had let her—she would have killed them with peace within a single generation, made them inept, redundant.
But a scorpion lived to sting, a wolf to hunt. She was too used to the breed of [Assassin] like Ressa. For all she had become a Face during her time at the Guild, she was a ‘volunteer’. Ferin and the Ranks hadn’t been asked, or even offered training. Death by peace did not appeal to them.
The Couriers ran. What they should have remembered, though, was that an [Assassin] was diametrically opposed to their way of life. Couriers were usually spontaneous, brave, quick. [Assassins] laid traps. They had seen this group of Couriers coming. The rest was easy.
 
—-
 
Saliss of Lights walked towards the rally point, at the edge of the Hivelands. The last few miles he had to hike with Mivifa and Feathi. Cover and all that.
“I’m bored.”
“Would you stop drinking?”
“I’ll sober up.”
That might be true, but it didn’t stop Mivifa’s glare. Saliss kept complaining.
“We keep getting jobs like this. I bet Human adventurers or…or Garuda adventurers don’t have to do this.”
“They’re not part of the Walled Cities. And no adventurer is completely autonomous.”
The winged Drake deflected a bit. It was certainly true that other adventurers were hardly apolitical. Some fought in wars, everyone took sides…but adventurers who came from the Walled Cities were different. Sometimes they were assigned missions by the High Command.
“Well, this sucks. I’m bored. My actual adventures don’t take this long.”
That was also true. Saliss of Lights, Named Adventurer of Pallass—had the most boring encounters of any adventurer.
“Did you have any recently?”
“Just last week.”
“I didn’t hear about it.”
“Eh. It was those angry freak-things. Bulls with snake heads. And bitey teeth, you know?”
“Medurulls?”
Saliss pointed at the other Drake. It was late night—they’d been flying for hours, even with his [Haste] potions. He nearly tripped over a rock.
“Yes! Whoa! That! A herd of them! Attacking people on the roads outside of Pallass.”
“How long did it take?”
“To get there or finish the job? Uh…three hours all around.”
The encounter had probably lasted all of five minutes. Mivifa shook her head. Saliss had a motto, which was ‘acid is a solution to 90% of all my problems’. A joke so bad it had gotten him booed out of both the Alchemist and Adventurer’s Guilds multiple times.
A true statement, though. Most of Saliss’ monster-extermination jobs ended within seconds of him tossing a vial at the problem. And most monsters weren’t acid-proof, or at least not against his specialized acids.
It was when he had to toss more vials that it got interesting. People told stories about those adventures.
No one would tell stories about this mission. Nor was it happening. Mivifa was not here. Saliss was not here. Everyone was so ‘not here’ in fact that all the Walled Cities would shout you were a liar and toss you in prison if you dared to spew such falsehoods.
Mivifa was used to it. So was Saliss. So, as Named Adventurers did, they began talking about work as they drew close to the meeting site. No fear of being attacked; not yet.
“Took you longer than normal. What, trouble with Chaldion again?”
“I hate him. Let’s not talk about Chaldion. How’s Oteslia?”
