The Worker said nothing. Saliss watched him take down thirty two spiders, of various sizes. Teensy tiny ones that the cardinal was trying to flap away from. And the Worker did it, lancing them all with arrows on a whim.
“Hey. Are you listening? I said—do Antinium feel bad?”
Saliss waited. At last, as the cardinal managed to take to the skies again, Bird looked at Saliss.
“Does my answer matter?”
The [Alchemist] blinked. He looked at Bird. The Worker tilted his head back and forth.
“You asked Numbtongue the same question of Goblins.”
“How do you know that?”
“He told me.”
“Ah.”
The Drake blinked. Goblins and Antinium. Bird took aim at another bird, not the cardinal, and shot it from hundreds of feet away. He produced a small bag and opened the trap door to go retrieve it.
“I do not believe I have an answer to your question that matters, Alchemist Saliss.”
“Oh, come on. I’m dying to know.”
The Worker looked up.
“If I answer you, will it change anything?”
And to that, the Drake said nothing. Bird nodded to himself.
“Yes, that is true. Xrn told me about you.”
Saliss’ eyes focused on Bird. He sat up a bit.
“The Small Queen talks to you, does she.”
“Yes. I am going to pick up my bird, now. Goodbye. Please go away.”
The Worker opened the trapdoor. Saliss reached for his belt.
“You like to hunt birds because you want to fly, don’t you?”
Bird paused.
“Yes. I have flown once before.”
“Really? How?”
“I was flown by Miss Viceria Strongheart and other mages. I will someday fly again. I have been promised.”
Saliss smiled.
“Well, Bird, what would you say if I told you anyone can fly for a while? If they have the right potions.”
Bird turned.
“I would say that is correct. However, potions are expensive.”
“You don’t say?”
“That is my understanding, yes. If you would like to prove this to me by flying, I do not wish to see it, thank you. You are not a person I would enjoy watching fly.”
Saliss laughed. He patted Bird on the shoulder.
“I wish I enjoyed flying as much as you.”
The Worker brushed the claw off his shoulder. It seemed Saliss had actually succeeded in annoying him, and that Bird was truly annoyed by Saliss. Or perhaps that he found nothing about Saliss funny.
…He’d never let go of his bow once while Saliss was there. And he always had a second arrow ready to shoot. Perhaps that was just Bird. Or perhaps—well, he was certainly smart.
Bird was climbing downstairs when he noticed something was wrong. He was moving his legs, but he wasn’t going down. Mystified, he stared down.
“My feet are not touching the ground.”
The Drake gave him a huge wink. Bird tried to pull himself down. Then—he realized what was happening, panicked, dropped his bow, flailed for it, and one hand knocked against the side of his tower.
Bird overbalanced and went over the railing. Saliss saw him dip in the air, but he was floating a few feet off it, even as he ‘fell’ onto his back.
“Aaah. Aaaaah! Aaaaaaaaa—I am flying!”
Saliss saw the Worker float down off the roof, to the amazement of some of the Worker Antinium marching up the hill. They parted as Bird floated down past them. The Drake chuckled, then guffawed.
He laughed, to see the Worker levitating just off the ground, waving all appendages and screaming happily at the top of his lungs.
A Potion of Levitation. Not flight—Saliss didn’t make those potions. Couldn’t rather. He’d never been too interested anyways, so he hadn’t looked into the recipe.
But this—well, it was a few hundred gold pieces down the drain for about ten minutes of levitation. Worth it, to hear the Worker exclaiming. Saliss laughed at his little prank.
He could laugh, genuinely laugh, when he was like this. It wasn’t because he’d done ‘a good deed.’ It was entirely selfish, as Saliss would happily have admitted. But it did make him feel better.
…The feeling didn’t last long at all.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice was having a weird day. Ryoka Griffin was found—at least, Xrn hadn’t blasted Fierre, Salamani, or Palt, but she was still out with Xrn. The Honorable Hatmen duo were playing cards with Numbtongue, and she had informed them she did not need them to help take on the Small Queen of the Antinium today.
Her problem was Saliss. She thought he’d left after using a potion that had made Bird levitate around for ten minutes. Certainly, she hadn’t seen him for another hour. But two things had happened.
Firstly, a Drake had come asking about Saliss. Well—six Drakes. In the last hour. Each one had come from Pallass despite there being a ban on everyone but immediate friends of the inn.
“No, Saliss isn’t here! I think! And no, you can’t come through!”
“Miss Solstice, this is a matter of Pallassian—”
Erin shut the door on Drake #6. All the other five had wanted to come through, but Erin was adamant. It was only the second day of her Pallass ban and look at all these people trying to get through!
But while they could demand to see her when the door was checked for the few people who could enter, like the Halfseekers, Maughin, and so on, they could not physically step through the doorway, much to their chagrin.
“Are we sure Saliss isn’t here, Erin?”
Lyonette looked worried. Erin hesitated. It was possible.
“I can check. Let me use my innsense.”
“Your—you can’t call it that, Erin. Your [Aura of the Inn], you mean.”
“[Inn’s Aura]. What’s wrong with innsense? I came around to the word. You will too!”
“It’s stupid. And why don’t you know?”
“Finding specific people is hard, okay? I need to concentrate! I’m not Maviola! Hold on. Saliss! Finding Saliss…beep, beep, beep…”
Lyonette folded her arms. Erin stopped because she felt silly and because Ishkr’s sister was cracking up at the two’s argument. She did wonder what was with Saliss. She’d been busy with Xrn, but she’d caught a hint of the Drake’s emotions. If he was still h—
“No way.”
Erin’s eyes shot open. Lyonette sighed.
“He’s here, isn’t he? Where?”
“He can’t be—hold on. That jerk’s gonna—and just after my mistake too!”
Erin hurried down the hallway. She missed the smirking Gnoll, Liska, Ishkr’s sister, open the door to Pallass and blink as someone pushed past her. Erin was already in the common room.
“Imani! I’m coming in! Don’t be alarmed, okay?”
“Erin, I’m fine. And don’t come in here and start rummaging around! Tell me what you need! I’m making that fondue you wanted to try!”
Imani scowled at Erin and blocked the [Innkeeper]. The [Cook] was ruler of her kitchen, but Erin still pushed past her.
“It’s not me rummaging, Imani. I just have to—why don’t you step away from the stove?”
Imani looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] stared as Erin peered at a cupboard and beckoned Imani. The [Cook] stepped back. Erin opened the thin cupboard—
Saliss stared at Erin, folded up into the cupboard.
“Hey, shut the door will you? I’m trying to hide.”
The [Cook] screamed and leapt back. Erin recoiled just as fast.
“Saliss! How did you get in there?”
The Drake didn’t answer. But his posture was answer enough.
If you removed the wooden panels in the cupboard, it was possible, if you were very nimble and flexible, to squeeze yourself in there. Even then—Relc would never have had a chance. Saliss had managed it despite Erin’s compartment Skill not working on living matter.
“I—I didn’t even see him—”
“He makes potions of invisibility. Saliss! You would have given Imani a heart attack! Get out!”
Erin grabbed at Saliss’ tail, one of the more acceptable appendages to grab, and tugged. Saliss tumbled out of the cupboard and onto the kitchen floor. He immediately curled up into a ball and rolled into a corner.
“I’m invisible. Pretend I’m invisible, please, or I’ll have to use a potion.”
The [Innkeeper] had had enough. She swatted at Saliss—and punched the edge of the kitchen counter. Erin danced around, waving her hand in agony. Lyonette grabbed at Saliss and Imani poked with a broom. Somehow—they missed.
“Why are you doing this, Saliss?”
Erin reached for him. This time—since it wasn’t a blow, she actually touched him. Lyonette saw the [Innkeeper] recoil as if she’d been shocked.
“Saliss?”
“Can’t I hide?”
He uncurled. Erin looked at him, then around.
“…Let’s go to the [Garden]. If you do need to hide—sorry, Imani. Saliss—”
The Drake obediently followed her into the magical garden. He stood, looking around at the grass and plants…
“You know, I wonder who had this garden last. If it was me, I’d have turned it into an alchemical garden. But you just found it with plants, didn’t you?”
“Mhm.”
Erin was inspecting Saliss. The Drake nodded.
“…Probably not the King’s Gardener, then. You’ve heard of Tottenval?”
“Um. Vaguely.”
It was an odd conversation topic to suddenly bring up. But Erin was willing to entertain Saliss right now. He looked blankly past her.
“He would have turned this place into a farm. To feed people. I met him, on Chandrar. He was a good person. Never took a single life. Grew food to feed people. I thought—that was a good person. But he served the King of Destruction. This was back when I was just an apprentice, by the way. A long, long time ago.”
“He does sound good. He just fed people? That’s…important.”
Saliss nodded. He stared around the dome, at the vines on the walls, the circular opening which admitted sunlight. Then he looked at Erin. Straight at her.
“But you know—when he died, people celebrated it. Because he fed the King of Destruction’s armies. The Walled Cities were happy that the first of the Seven had fallen. So was he a good person or not?”
“Mm…I never met him. But he did good things it sounds like, doesn’t it?”
The Drake looked at Erin. He smiled briefly, ruefully.
“That’s a good way of looking at it. Well, sorry about scaring your [Cook]. I was just playing at hiding, anyways. I’ll sit here until I have to go.”
“Who’s coming for you, Saliss? Is something wrong?”
For answer—the Drake put his claws over his eyes and sat down. He sat there, in that curious pose, with his back to the dome’s walls. Erin hesitated, but Saliss spoke before she could ask.
“I once saw a Drake girl do this, you know. She was as young as that little Visma. Sit in a corner and do just this.”
The [Innkeeper] stared at Saliss. He seemed to be as random and silly as people thought he was in this moment. Certainly, drunk and intoxicated. But she knew something of Saliss because she…liked him and felt a connection. So she listened as she sat down too.
“Why was a Drake girl sitting like that, Saliss?”
The Drake didn’t lower his claws.
“She was hiding from a monster.”
He peeked at her. Erin felt her skin grow cold. The Drake lowered his claws.
“A monster killed everything in her town. It left her—not because it missed her, but because it wasn’t hungry. She was just sitting like this. I nearly missed her. That’s the kind of thing you see when you adventure, you know.”
It was a familiar story. A horrible story. Imani—Erin looked at Saliss.
“You saved her, though? And you got the monster.”
He nodded after a moment.
“I killed it. It was…you know those half-things? Crawlers? Armored Crawlers, that’s right. It was a whole one. An Archmage’s experiment. If they eat enough, they complete. And it—had been complete before it attacked. Went right over the walls. It ate everything and began dividing itself.”
“What did you do?”
He bared his teeth.
“I killed it. That’s not the hard part.”
“How, though?”
“I don’t remember. I burnt it away. Melted it. Froze it, and blasted the pieces. And the little ones. I killed it dead—but the town was gone.”
“And the girl? What happened to the Drake?”
The [Alchemist] sat there. Erin was aware of voices coming through the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary], talking, arguing. Saliss looked past her.
“I took her to safety. I…don’t know what happened after that. There are lots of them, I’ve saved. Allegedly ‘saved’. Then I saw her again.”
“Where? Is she okay?”
The Drake didn’t answer.
“Zel Shivertail would know where she went at first. He saved a bunch of Gnoll children—like that little Mrsha. There are more of her tribe out there, probably. I’ve been meaning to tell you. They would have been given to other tribes—but white fur? Drake cities, like that little Drake girl.”
Erin Solstice froze.
“Others? More of Mrsha’s tribe…?”
“I heard there were more. I did ask once I met her. Other cities. But I never heard where they ended up. You’ll have to do the rest.”
The Drake trailed off. Like Montressa and the others, he was in multiple places at once. He focused on Erin.
“Sorry. I know you’d never have thought of it. But I could ask. Just couldn’t—didn’t find them. In case I…forget I wanted to bring it up. I’ll keep looking.”
“Saliss, what’s wrong?”
For something surely was. The Drake exhaled, slowly.
“Stop me, Erin. Can I tell you a great secret? I want to.”
“If you think I should hear it…”
The Drake looked at her, searchingly. Then he laughed.
“Are you…? No, it’s not about being a good person, is it? I know a lot of good people. Or people who do good things but—never mind. Never mind. I’ll just sleep. Wake me when it’s time.”
“Saliss. What’s the matter?”
The Drake gave her a self-aware look for a moment. Then he exhaled and closed his eyes.
“I have to go to work, Erin. I don’t want to. That’s all.”
 
—-
 
He was still under the influence when he woke up. Of course—that didn’t matter. And he knew, when he opened his eyes, it was time.
And who the old man had sent was obviously the right choice. A [Path to Victory]—well, he didn’t need it, did he?
Damn him.
Arguments had clearly ensued whilst the Drake had slept in the Garden. But for once, the [Innkeeper] had lost.
Fundamentally. She had not prevented the figure from appearing here. But cleverly—neither had the intruder offered physical resistance or made threats. She had simply appealed for this chance.
The door was open. Saliss saw the figure walk through as the [Innkeeper] followed.
“You get one shot, alright? Then you have to leave.”
“Yes, Miss Solstice. Adventurer Saliss?”
“Go away. I’m not here.”
The Drake nearly put his claws over his eyes—then jerked them down and sobered up. He heard a breath—and then saw a pair of boots. Saliss opened his eyes.
A young Drake was standing there. Young—well, older than Erin. She stared straight ahead as she saluted him. Her armor was polished, enchanted. Saliss read her name and level and Skills.
“Adventurer Saliss. I’ve come to escort you to your briefing, sir. Please come with me.”
