Sometimes, you just had to wake up in the middle of the night to pee. It was a common phenomenon that varied in regularity depending on the bladder strength and deepness of sleep between people. But almost everyone experienced the need to get up and urinate, especially if they’d had too much liquid and not enough pre-sleep restroom time.
This was not normally a problem. However, exceptions occurred, such as being camped on the edge of a mountain’s cliff, sleeping in close proximity to a monster or group of people hunting for you, and so on. This was where the danger quotient of nightly urination came in.
In a certain Centaur’s case, the problem with night-peeing was stairs.
Stairs, the bane of four-legged beings such as himself, especially when said stairs were made for two-legged people. It bothered Palt.
“Moore gets a custom outhouse and chairs and tables, and no one can build a damn ramp?”
The Centaur kept his voice low as he tried to navigate down the stairs, sometime between dawn and midnight. He wished, for a moment, that he had Erin’s affinity with the [Garden of Sanctuary]. He was allowed in, but…
But he didn’t have the ability to sprint at a wall, leap through, and come hurtling back out into any destination without fear of snapping his neck. Like Mrsha, Erin, and a few others had. Palt thought it was about trust—how much you were ‘part’ of the inn—and so on. It would have really been helpful for moments like these.
In fact, Palt had a small inn-secret on that topic, value uncertain, which was that Numbtongue didn’t even use the garden as a shortcut down to the outhouse if the nightly urge struck him. He just walked into the garden and peed there, usually in the jungle biome. A fact Erin Solstice might not appreciate…
Palt nearly slipped going down the stairs and caught himself on the handrails—at least the inn had them—with a muffled curse. This was not fun. And he had no desire to be found in a tangle of broken legs and perhaps a broken neck the next morning, or wake up half the inn by falling down. Everyone still gave him grief over falling on Erin. As if he wasn’t mortified.
Of course, it was ironic that a talented, accomplished [Illusionist] and [Mage] of Wistram had so many problems emptying his bladder. In theory, Palt had a lot of ways to accomplish this without navigating stairs.
Teleport yourself outside? Magically empty your bladder? Fly out the window?
You see, the thing about laypeople was they thought magic worked like that. All those ideas were stupid—Palt knew because he’d thought over each one in times like this before.
Firstly—Palt clung to a railing as he gingerly felt with his front left hoof for a good spot to lower himself onto—teleportation took a lot of concentration and magical-math. You had to know your coordinates, calculate—a single wrong spell and you’d end up twenty feet up in the air. Or try to teleport twenty feet into the ground.
Well, modern teleportation spells were good about preventing that, but trying to cast [Lesser Teleport] while distracted, sleepy, and so on wasn’t fun and it was a lot of work. Still a good desperation move, but…Palt would rather pee into a chamber pot first.
Emptying your bladder with magic was even dumber. Firstly, Palt was not confident enough to teleport a liquid out of his body. Or siphon it? And what would he do with it, shoot it out the window? Just get a damn chamber pot! Again—Palt needed to buy one. He was not about to ruin his bag of holding over—
Someone was awake downstairs. The Centaur’s rant about how he couldn’t cast [Levitation] and how would he fit through a window came to a stop as his sleep-addled mind focused on someone sitting in The Wandering Inn’s common room.
“…Montressa?”
The Human [Aegiscaster] was sitting in a chair next to a table. She…was sitting by a candle. Nothing magical, no [Light] spell. She didn’t really react as Palt finally got to the floor and trotted over.
“It’s late. I didn’t expect to see you up.”
“Is that you, Palt?”
Montressa finally turned her head and stared at him, sounding very far away. Palt stopped in front of her. He recognized her vacant look at once. Also—the smell.
“Have you been smoking? That’s not one of my cigars.”
The young woman blinked at Palt.
“…Are you here, Palt?”
The Centaur [Illusionist] stared at Montressa. He felt at his face.
He just wanted to go to the outhouse. But that kind of question deserved some kind of answer.
“Yes, Montressa. Is something the matter?”
The [Mage] nodded slowly. Then hesitated—and nodded again. Hesitated—nodded once more…
“Did I nod?”
“Yes. Three times.”
“Really? I don’t think I did. Did I?”
The Centaur looked around. He did a little dance on his hooves, and then sighed.
“I can see this is going to take a moment. Give me five—give me one minute. I need to pee.”
“Okay…?”
The Centaur hurried out of the common room. Lesson #1 of Palt Crisis Management: go pee first. You never knew when things would get hairy and how long you’d be caught up.
 
—-
 
“I don’t believe…tomorrow is real. Or yesterday. It’s a huge problem, Pelt.”
“Palt.”
Montressa stared blankly at the Centaur. She spoke, very determinedly, trying to get something across to him.
He was feeling more relaxed, less urgent. Now, Palt could decipher why one of his friends was sitting in the common room, looking—well—stratospheric at the moment.
“You don’t believe what’s real, Montressa?”
“Everything. Is—am I a [Mage] of Wistram?”
“Yes…are you doubting that?”
The [Mage] nodded seriously and gave Palt a wide-eyed look.
“I don’t believe it’s real. I know it should be! But—did I really meet this [Necromancer] character who got kicked out of school? And a half-Elf? And…and…and…is Wistram really ruled by Golems? That’s…not real, is it?”
“According to most people, yes. What have you been smoking?”
Palt liked to think he knew drugs. You could even call him a bit of an expert on the subject. And this looked like a Grade-A bad high to him. He checked Montressa’s eyes, the way she was unsteady as she tried to track him with her entire body…
“Not Dreamleaf, then. Same family, though. Might be Arrowsmoke. Montressa, this is important. What were you smoking? Eating? Where’s Bezale?”
It bothered him Montressa had clearly been in touch with something strong and chemical—and it hadn’t come from him! What was the point of travelling with Palt if you weren’t going to make him your source of cigars, edibles, and so on? Disloyalty, that was what it was. And here was the result.
“Montressa, Bezale?”
“She’s…somewhere. I think. Is she real?”
The Centaur resisted the urge to smack his friend. It might help, though. Him, at least. He raised a fist and then sighed.
“Montressa, who gave you this? It wasn’t me. Eaten, drunk? Some other method of ingestion?”
His rollups and so forth were calibrated to avoid this scenario. He didn’t usually sell anything this strong to clientele. If it was…edibles as opposed to his usual smoking merchandise, it was to a discerning customer.
“Smoking. I mean…we thought it’d be fun. Look, Pelt.”
“Palt. I will hit you.”
Montressa giggled.
“We were trying to have fun. It’s just—it was him. We were coming back from Pallass and he said…him said…”
“Him?”
The Centaur thought of the one person who might conceivably have the semi-illegal drug—especially in the Walled Cities. He groaned as it all made sense.
“Oh, no. You don’t mean…Saliss?”
“I’m almost certain he’s not real. I mean, he was pretty real, but who’d believe a naked Drake is the Named Adventurer of Pallass?”
The Centaur put his head in his hands.
“There are others. Saliss is just the most permanent. Dead gods damnit, Montressa! Are you insane? I wouldn’t smoke anything Saliss handed me!”
“It was just a…puff? Only a few.”
Montressa tried to defend herself. The Centaur decided Montressa needed her head dunked in some cold water, food, and company. Not necessarily in that order. He also needed to find Bezale. He stood up and shook his head at Montressa. Talk about stupid ideas.
“You smoked something that an [Alchemist], Saliss of Lights, personally uses for his enjoyment. And you thought nothing would happen?”
“Palt…Palt…it wasn’t just me. Bezale thought it was a good idea too. I think she was there.”
The Centaur closed his eyes.
“I know. Was anyone else with you?”
“Octavia.”
“Oh, slap a saddle on me—where is she?”
 
—-
 
“I’m—doing the same thing over. I just did that. Didn’t I?”
Octavia Cotton, [Alchemist] and Stitchgirl, looked blankly at the rows of glowing potions. A Minotauress, half-unconscious, jerked a bit.
“Wh—”
That was all she really said. Octavia stared blearily at her shop’s rows of potions behind glass.
She was counting and recounting the ingredients in her stocks. Going down the inventory, then checking again because she didn’t believe she’d actually done it. She was aware…she’d done this about twenty two times. But she couldn’t stop.
At her level of narcotic intake, reality became fiction. Also—time slowed down. It wasn’t that Octavia moved faster, it was that the world was on a loop. She felt like she’d been sitting here for years. And yet she didn’t believe she was sitting down. Or that her name was Octavia. Or…
Palt delivered all of this in a whisper into Erin’s ear as the [Innkeeper] stared at the two victims sitting in the dark shop.
“We should get them into light, get them something to do. Stare at leaves in your garden, maybe.”
“And they’re high.”
“They’re…intoxicated. A drug, smoked, ingested, alcohol or anything else is a foreign substance, Erin.”
“Is this what people enjoy?”
The [Innkeeper] put her hands on her hips. The [Illusionist] sighed. He had two clear cigars which would sober up people—except they’d only halved Montressa’s high. Whatever Saliss had given them was a grade above what Palt sold. He hoped they still had the cigar lying about.
“Not to this extent. I think Saliss er—forgot that his relaxatives aren’t what normal people would enjoy. Or even casual users like Bezale and Montressa.”
Erin blinked a few times as Octavia tried to count the line of potions again. She rubbed at her sleepy eyes, then raised a fist.
“If I hit you, will this make my problems go away?”
Palt nervously sidled away from the fist.
“Not my fault! It was Saliss—”
“This is what comes of having drugses in my inn! Is she going to be okay?”
“In a day or two at most, yes.”
“A day or—where is Saliss? I’m gonna kill him!”
 
—-
 
“Let’s see. A bushel to a solid ounce is…dead gods, I hate math. If I buy two point four bushels…let’s call that two point four six, and divide it into solid ounces…multiply the gold, silver is twenty per one gold piece…that’s a profit of…divide per hour…and here’s my math.”
Saliss of Lights removed the purple cigar from his lips as he worked with an abacus on a math problem. He was trying to calculate the most profitable potion to mass-produce in the next few days, and deriving gold-per-hour equations rather than just what each potion sold for.
It was the level of math which required advanced mathematical knowledge because not only were there unit conversions involved, but each alchemical ingredient had a cost, potions tended to devalue themselves the more you made of them, oh, and you had to remember that it was ten copper or bronze coins per silver coin, but twenty of them per gold piece.
And [Merchants] gave discounts in bulk. Saliss flicked a few beads on the abacus and scribbled down the number in the column. He puffed again and exhaled.
The same cigar that had downed two [Mages] and his apprentice [Alchemist] was nearly out. Saliss was pleasantly content to do something as tedious as math; not impaired yet.
Neither was the Drake rolling his eyes and puffing on the same brand of cigar. Not because he was more intoxicated than Saliss; long years of experience had given Mirn a level of toxicity resistance that even other [Alchemists] lacked—to this particular brand of drug, at least.
“Math, Saliss, is a chore. I don’t know how you can stand doing all those numbers.”
“Years of keeping books. Apprentice yourself to an [Alchemist], Mirn. The smart ones keep track of their numbers. The stupid ones don’t know how much they have or where everything’s kept.”
“And yet, some of the stupid ones create miracle potions.”
The [Alchemist] exhaled a plume of purple particles that hung in the air in the dive bar they were eating a…meal in. Breakfast? Dinner? It was the pre-dawn food those who kept odd shifts or no schedule at all knew.
“Those are the same [Alchemists] who can’t figure out how they made said miracle potion and spend the next decade trying to replicate it because they didn’t take notes, Mirn.”
“Fair enough.”
Mirn settled back and contented himself with a few more puffs. It was rare, for him and Saliss to be in the same place.
Onieva, now, Mirn knew. Onieva was a friend, a regular client/confidant who usually came by to get drunk, complain, and help…the cause. Mirn’s moving bar, which had no name, no set location, and no clients. If you asked about who came to the bar that was already a sign for Mirn to get a club ready to bash your brains in.
It was a place for nobody. Especially people that Pallass officially didn’t have.
Turnscales. That was Mirn’s job. But Saliss…
Well, it wasn’t Saliss who was sitting across from Mirn right now. Not the obvious, yellow-scaled [Alchemist] and Named Adventurer, Saliss of Lights, Saliss the Naked, the Insane [Alchemist] of Pallass.
This Drake was portly, having a lot of extra weight, middle-aged, with dark green scales, and a long coat, opened for the night’s heat, and clothing. Not Saliss at all. But because it wasn’t Onieva, he was still Saliss.
Onieva was only one person. Anyways, the reason the two were sitting together was because Saliss was business. Mirn had a bag stuffed with gold burning a hole in his side. Funds—and sixteen potions he wouldn’t have had access to in Pallass’ army, even if he’d been promoted three ranks.
“Everything going well with the potions game? I don’t check in.”
“It’s fine. I’m on a breakthrough. Just trying to fund it.”
The Named Adventurer spoke briefly, grimacing and crossing out a potential potion. Mirn raised his brows. It had to be something if Saliss was counting coins.
“I haven’t seen Onieva around.”
“Busy.”
Only then did Saliss look up. And Mirn—for a second their eyes met.
