The Antinium smiled. He looked at Saliss, and then continued in a conversational tone of voice.
“Since your involvement in the Antinium Wars, where you survived an encounter with Wrymvr and achieved your Named Rank status, you have continued to adventure sporadically, but most of your employment outside your profession of [Alchemist] has been undertaking missions on behalf of the Walled Cities, from raids on the Hive to dealing with particularly dangerous monsters.”
Saliss threw a jar of lightning at the Antinium. Klbkch blocked it with the cloak. It fell down onto the ground, the glass perfectly intact.
Fun fact. No one, not Erin or anyone else, could just throw one of Saliss’ jars like the Gold-rank adventurers had assumed. You could toss one at a wall and it’d probably stay intact. The glass was strong and expensive. To make them break, Saliss used [Remote Detonation]—
The jar exploded at Klbkch’s feet. He blocked the lightning with his cloak. Damn, but he was fast with that Potion of Haste!
The two stood there for another moment. Klbkch opened his mandibles.
“Recently, I understand you have been frequenting The Wandering Inn at Liscor. Hence my investigation into you.”
Saliss glared. This was a different kind of annoying than Wrymvr. One didn’t bother to dodge or block Saliss’ attacks. Klbkch struck Saliss as the kind of enemy that would die in one good hit—if you got that hit.
“Why are you telling me what I did? Come on, fight me! I’ll take you on, barehanded!”
He made two fists and jabbed—Klbkch swatted the invisible jar back at Saliss and the Drake ducked with an oath. It exploded behind them and set some of the webbing on fire.
The two stared at the flames in silence. Saliss turned back to Klbkch.
“That’s alchemy-boxing. Completely legal.”
Again, the smile. But Klbkch didn’t lower his guard.
“To answer your question—I am telling you because I want you to try and kill me. Wrymvr thinks you are dangerous. However, you seem surprisingly unmotivated.”
Saliss tossed an explosive at Klbkch. The Slayer vanished and leapt lightly out of the way. He paused, waiting.
“If I was Wrymvr, you would have thrown dozens more potions at me.”
That was true. Saliss threw up his claws.
“Will you let me fight him? I’m not interested in you.”
That was true for two reasons. Firstly—Saliss felt like fighting Klbkch would waste his inventory, and he needed every potion to take on that monster, that damn—
And secondly, he couldn’t conjure the same hatred against Klbkch the Slayer as Wrymvr. A month ago? Saliss would happily have burned the Antinium’s face off.
Erin. What would he say to her? Bird?
“I’m getting soft. This is your last chance. I’ll kill you. I’m just taking it easy on you because I don’t want to explain why I killed you to a certain [Innkeeper].”
Klbkch wavered. It was just a tiny flicker—and Saliss tossed the bottle down. Aha!
A huge plume of smoke erupted from the vial. Not everything Saliss made was designed to kill. Just…most things. Saliss shuffled across the web, drinking a Potion of Muffle. Klbkch’s voice echoed from the smoke.
“I left Liscor, but somehow she followed me even to war with Drakes. But Erin Solstice helped me reclaim my strength. If you won’t fight me—”
Something lanced out of the clouds. Saliss twisted, but his [Greater Dodge] Skill failed him for the first time so far. He felt at the burning line on his scales. Enchanted dagger. His eyes narrowed.
“Answer me one question.”
The Slayer stood in front of him, sword raised. Saliss bit back an oath.
“How did you find me?”
The smokescreen was absolute and he was sure Klbkch had been finding him based on the grass, or other context clues! The Slayer smiled.
“You are fighting on the Hivelands. Like your evacuation team—we listen.”
“I’ll pass on the message.”
Saliss held very still. He had a Potion of Haste in him too and [Greater Dodge]—but Klbkch had just scored him. Saliss was prepared to use one of his escape tricks and the detonation would force Klbkch to retreat—but if he used [Recaptured Sublimity] now…
“What’s the question?”
The Antinium didn’t move, save for his mandibles.
“They call you one of the Walled City’s best adventurers, even among Named Ranks. I am inclined to agree based on what I have seen. But why did an [Alchemist] become an adventurer after that first encounter?”
Saliss shrugged.
“I had to earn money somehow.”
Klbkch stepped in like a [Fencer]. Saliss dodged, cursing, jumped away. Klbkch cut through the smoke again and halted. Saliss had a pile of glass jars at his feet.
“Come over here and I’ll whisper a secret.”
He beckoned. Klbkch tilted his head back and forth.
“If you won’t answer—you will not get a chance to slay Wrymvr. He will kill your friend, the Oldblood of Feathers. She cannot dodge his acid forever.”
Saliss’ eyes locked onto Klbkch through the smoke separating them.
“You’d let me go and kill him?”
“I would let you try. Tell me—why did you volunteer for this mission? I heard you. You would run across the border yourself and challenge the Hives alone. Why do you fight the way you do?”
He seemed genuinely curious. Saliss bit his lip. Then he spread his arms, and laughed.
“There’s an easy answer. I didn’t care about this body getting hurt.”
It was a relief to tell someone. And his enemy? Saliss kicked the potions ahead as he walked at Klbkch. Go on, swing. Neither of us will be left.
The Antinium held still. Saliss passed him. He tapped his chest and grinned.
“This is just a vessel for me. It’s all fake.”
What irony, that he could tell an Antinium that before anyone else. Saliss was braced as he sauntered past Klbkch. For that movement, he’d detonate half of his supply—
Klbkch didn’t swing. Saliss walked on and the Slayer called out after him with a fluttering sound. Laughter? Saliss stopped as Klbkch spoke.
“Then we are two of a kind. I thought so.”
Saliss whirled. The Slayer looked right through him. Right into him, like—
The jars on the ground exploded.
 
—-
 
The last Gold-rank adventurer vanished. Shriekblade stabbed an Antinium through the face and swept her blades around.
“Shriekblade. Retreat. That is an order.”
The Swordsman of Six, Zeter, gasped. Shriekblade saluted, touched a bound spell, and vanished.
All the adventurers on the ground had escaped, save for him. Zeter stood amid chaos. Spells were detonating around him.
Artillery. [Mages] were throwing spells from vast distances and—he looked up—they’d gotten the adventurers to a safe place.
The last [Wyvern Rider] of Fissival caught Shriekblade as she appeared two hundred feet up, outside the range of all but one Antinium. Instantly, the flier wheeled and sped away.
“Adventurer Zeter, one minute!”
“Acknowledged! Where is Mivifa?”
“Engaged with Wrymvr to buy the evacuees time!”
Above, another rain of acid drifted down. Too weak to go through the ring Zeter had worn just for this occasion. But he had heard Mivifa fighting Wrymvr.
Really—dodging the Centenium to distract it. But Zeter feared—he had heard her cry out more than once. Wrymvr the Deathless spat more than liquid poison. Gas…
He whirled his sword as an Antinium charged at him. Some vast, scuttling thing. One of the Flying Antinium’s line breakers! He lanced it four times—once with his sword, another with a phantom copy of one of his blades, and the two dancing swords he carried.
“Adventurer Zeter, hold your ground! Forty seconds or less to Wyvern evacuation!”
“Where is Saliss of Lights? I won’t evacuate without—”
Thwoom. Zeter whirled. He’d felt that.
Even amid the other bombardments, the giant explosion tore a hundred foot radius of sound and space apart. Zeter saw the nearest Antinium—and those in the air—go flying as the shockwave knocked them to pieces.
“Saliss…?”
A Drake stomped out of the cloud of dust. He tossed a few bottles and the confused Antinium in front of him vanished. Zeter stared as Saliss walked past him. The [Alchemist] looked up and narrowed his eyes.
“Excuse me. I’m going to kill that Antinium.”
He pointed up. Then leapt. Zeter called out for him.
“Saliss, wait—”
He spun. The Slayer lanced out of the darkness with two swords drawn. Zeter saw him knock aside one of the dancing blades, slash with his other sword as he blocked—
“Slayer!”
The Drake twisted before the sword cut more than the tip of his armor. Enchanted gear—he dropped the greatsword and it vanished. Change to—
The shortsword and shield wasn’t what the Swordsman of Six used often. It was, however, gear he used for killing enemy [Duelists]. He slashed and his two dancing blades cut where his shortsword didn’t.
The Slayer’s blades moved in a whirl. He was slower than Zeter! Still fast—but both had [Haste] spells on them and unlike Saliss, Zeter was a [Warrior], a [Bladesmaster]. He charged, shield raised.
Strike it, strike it, strike it—the shield would deliver a lethal retort if Klbkch did. The Slayer refused and slashed at Zeter’s stomach. Again, his sword cut armor before Zeter slashed with a roar.
He caught the Slayer! The Antinium staggered. He regarded the cut on his arm, touched it, shrugged.
“Poison is ineffective.”
The Swordsman of Six had forgotten that. He gritted his teeth. No time to change to the other swords. Time to use his best Skill.
[Sixblade Slash]! The Swordsman of Six blocked a slash and lashed out. Six swords—but the Antinium was moving out of range.
All six strikes cut the air as Klbkch stepped out of range. Zeter stared. The Antinium had just…no, wait. Klbkch flexed one arm.
The giant scimitar and the Drathian blade had caught him just at the edges. Lacerated his carapace despite the leather armor he was wearing. The Slayer must not have been able to guess how fast the scimitar cut or the invisible cutting radius around the delicate, single-edged blade from the Drathian isles.
“Hm. Deficient, still. You have the edge on me, Swordsman of Six, Zeter. Speed, equipment—not skill. I wonder about strength?”
He brought a sword up and down. Zeter raised his shield, and realized it was a feint. The Named Adventurer deflected the second sword with his shortsword with an oath.
Strong! The Antinium wasn’t as strong as Zeter either—Klbkch flexed one arm, visibly disappointed.
“Stronger than my Worker form by far. About…three times? I was quite slow. Goblins could stab me. When I let them.”
Zeter heard someone shouting in his ear. He ignored it. This was his chance! He raised his sword. [Sixblade Slash] was a variant of [Grand Slash]! He could use it more than once!
“[Recaptured Sublimity].”
The Swordsman of Six raised his shield and tried to back up too late. He screamed.
“[Perfect Parry]—Manus, teleport me now!”
Klbkch’s blade cut him. The first blow struck the shield and activated the explosive retort. Klbkch wasn’t there to receive it. And the second—Zeter twisted desperately, trying to readjust—
Klbkch ran him through halfway. The Swordsman of Six slashed, screaming, and Klbkch vanished with his swords again. Zeter broke a potion against his side.
“Healing potions.”
The Slayer reappeared, looking annoyed. Then he vanished again.
“Full bombardment! Target the Slayer!”
Arrow-spells were hitting the ground around Zeter. They were trying to cast [Lesser Teleport] to get him up! If he dared reach for a scroll—Zeter was turning, watching as the Slayer kept vanishing and reappearing, dodging spells.
“Countdown! Twenty one, twenty, nineteen—”
The Slayer lashed out, but Zeter caught the first blade, took a non-mortal wound. Heal up! Heal up! He smashed the bottles against his scales, inside his armor.
“—nine, eight—”
The Slayer looked annoyed. Then he seemed to have a thought.
“I wonder if I can use my Skills.”
He raised his sword. Zeter shouted into the speaking stone.
“[Silver Illusion: Whirlwind of Blades].”
The Antinium blurred. He leapt—and crashed, nearly headfirst into the ground as Zeter vanished with a scream of terror. Klbkch lay there for a second. Then he got up. He dusted himself up, and looked around.
“Alas.”
The adventurers on the ground were gone. However…Klbkch thought this was fine. Most of the Twisted Antinium in ambush were pursuing the other Drakes in the area as the Queens directed them onwards. Everything was still fine. He waited for Wrymvr to finish his fight. Or die.
“…Heh.”
 
—-
 
Mivifa and Feathi were melting. They dove, as the Centenium closed in. Wrymvr was not fast. Or rather—he had little agility in the air. He could go fast in a straight line, but the Pegasus and her rider were too agile for him to catch.
But—the acid. The Centenium kept spitting it. Gas, acid—too much to dodge. And Mivifa’s weapons hadn’t left a mark. Now—they were dying and it was closing in.
Wrymvr the Deathless flew at them, spitting from half a dozen orifices the nearly-invisible liquid in the night sky. Then he exploded.
Saliss landed as the fireball encapsulated the Centenium. Wrymvr fell from the sky. Mivifa halted, aborting the dive with effort.
“S—S—”
He hit her in the face with a splash of liquid. The strongest base he had, as if she’d been doused by Acid Fly acid. Feathi too.
“Get out of here, you two!”
They took off, silently. After a second—Mivifa winked out of existence with her mount. Saliss hoped Manus had a [Toxin Healer] ready to help her. In the old days—
 
—-
 
He was coughing. His lungs were burned. The [Healers] were trying to apply potions to him—Saliss tossed a vial down and knocked them aside as the smoke cloud covered him.
His potions. His treatments. And his lungs—unlike Mihaela Godfrey and so many other’s—survived. He had the right resistance, the right treatment. They based future cures against the Flying Antinium and Wrymvr’s toxins on his research.
Too late to do anything to Mihaela’s lungs, though. It had melted vital parts of her breathing organs, and the toxins were etched into her body. Saliss had thought as he recuperated, his broken bones mended—
 
—-
 
“It’s an [Alchemist] who’s best to kill you. And you would be our worst nightmare. Or the biggest challenge.”
Wrymvr the Deathless rose from the ground. Unharmed by the hundred foot fall, despite the small crater it had created.
It, he? Klbkch had said ‘he’. Could the Centenium reproduce? Magical Antinium now—
Magmagel, my entire supply. Saliss hurled it all at Wrymvr. This time the Antinium seemed to try to block it. It lanced out with appendages, so much like a damn Creler, but the gel burst and covered it. It roared, multiples mouths opening, and charged at Saliss. He tossed a vial down.
Pressurized Bottle of Air—
