The mind refocused on the battle with the Twisted Antinium, and the other Antinium now coming at the adventurers from the other side. Now—it wasn’t as chaotic. Everything was slower, easier to process. And the Antinium—
 
—-
 
Twitched. Mivifa saw a Soldier dodge an arrow by moving its head left. The Antinium kept running. She put another arrow to her shortbow, loosed it.
Too fast to dodge. So the Antinium just ran into the arrow as it detonated. Good! But that movement—
“Damn! What’s—”
The [Shieldbearer] with the mace had been clubbing down the Twisted Soldiers as they came at him. Suddenly, though, two came at him from either side.
Still an easy fight. Only, these two dodged his swinging mace. They weren’t physically faster, but they reacted incomparably quickly. One struck the Drake between the eyes. The other grabbed his arms. They were going to throw him out of formation—
“[Sword Art: Serpent Dance]! [Mages], Forcewall! Buy us time!”
A sword flickered around the Drake screaming for help and cut both Twisted Antinium down. Mivifa lowered her bow and saw one of the dancing, hovering swords of the Swordsman of Six return to him. He bellowed and the [Mages] threw up [Forcewalls].
Instantly, the Antinium rushed at them, battering at the barriers as the [Mages] groaned and poured more mana into the spell. Mivifa saw the Antinium moving—no longer crashing into each other, but moving like a dance.
“Ancestor’s blood. They’re being led by Queens! We need to get out of here now!”
Even the few Antinium with bows were aiming like Level 23 [Marksmen]. Mivifa shouted.
“Feathi, stay high! Stay out of reach!”
The Pegasus stopped dive-bombing the Flying Antinium in the skies. Sixswords looked around.
“Shriekblade, take our flank! Do whatever it takes to keep them off us! Mivifa—get to the air!”
“But you need me—”
“Just keep them from landing on us! Rally to me! Manus, we need to get out of here! Where’s Saliss?”
Saliss? The other adventurers looked around. Mivifa realized—in these first minutes of fighting for her life—she hadn’t heard or seen the systematic explosions that was Saliss of Lights. The Antinium closed in as Sixswords took the front.
“Saliss? Keep an eye on the Prognugators! Saliss?”
Shriekblade was fighting with the same perfect grace and lack of emotion as the Twisted Antinium on the flanks. Mivifa launched herself up, diving past a Flying Antinium as she readied the lance she carried. Damn, damn—
Wrymvr the Deathless leapt. The Centenium had been still after the first encounter, like the Slayer. Now, he launched. Straight at Mivifa.
“Mivifa! Get down!”
Zeter turned as he saw the Centenium launch. The Oldblood of Feathers twisted. She lifted her lance, but what did she even hit? The thing was huge. It looked like the Antinium version of an Adult Creler. Feathi dove, as Mivifa tried to climb. She was going to d—
 
—-
 
It took twenty bottles at least, each one with a lightning charge, and an amplifier that increased the magnetic pull of electricity to you at least. Of course, he’d tossed more than that.
[Combination Attack: Lightning Tempest]. It was rare for someone to be able to pull a combination Skill off by themselves. But this was a bit different.
Saliss was rewarded by a bolt of lightning hitting the huge Centenium midair, and countless more striking the huge shape. At the same time, multiple Potions of Fireblast hammered the Antinium from all sides. [Delayed Throw], [Curved Arc], and so on were your friends for that trick.
The impact threw Mivifa, but Saliss spotted her climbing higher. And Wrymvr the Deathless?
“Damn.”
The Centenium had hit the ground hard. But it seemed only stunned. It looked around as Saliss watched.
Same as last time. That same Skill had made the Greater Wyvern blink at least. Saliss jogged away as the Antinium around Wrymvr rushed forwards, creating a shield.
Adventurers were nice and protected. But the Antinium were assaulting from all sides. Saliss flicked a claw. You didn’t have to speak Skills. He had no idea why people did it, then. Just to show off?
[Remote Explosion]. The bottles he’d tossed on the ground began to detonate, blowing the encircling Antinium to bits. They might be fast—but even led by Queens, regular Antinium couldn’t dodge an exploding cask packed with bits of iron and propelled by a fiery explosion.
The adventurers were shouting—but fighting on as the Antinium milled about then refocused. That idiot, Sixswords, was shouting for Saliss.
Meanwhile, the [Alchemist], Saliss of Lights, peered at Wrymvr from behind a stunted tree on the edge of the Hivelands. Let’s see now…
The Centenium was shaking itself, casting around for him. The damn bastard. He didn’t even look hurt. Just a bit stunned and wary. Credit to the Gold-rank teams; they were throwing up every barrier they had, as if it was an Adult Creler. And sure enough, Wrymvr surged forwards, crashing through two walls of thick steel.
Saliss hurled a potion. The little bottle arced up, up, and down. It struck Wrymvr as he tore at a [Threefold Barrier] spell and reduced it to shreds. Saliss saw a little crack of splintering glass in the darkness with his night vision…
Instantly, the Centenium whirled. Saliss saw smoke rising from the top of the Centenium’s body, where the liquid had struck. He frowned. It was smoking, smoking, which was what you wanted to see—then after six seconds, the acid stopped dissolving the carapace.
Stitch my smile, what the hell was that? That was his most potent acid, three times as strong as when he’d met the Centenium the first time. He knew he could burn the thing’s outer shell! But his best acid…
Saliss tossed a few more bottles as he thought. He saw them curve up and down, landing in impossible arcs among the Antinium. They had no idea where they were coming from; the bottles detonated and broke up the attack on the adventurers. The Antinium cast around for Saliss, but they didn’t attack him as he watched Wrymvr trying to do the same.
Incidentally, Saliss was [Invisible] at the moment. Not just invisible, but rather chilly too. His scales were coated with a gel that suppressed his body’s heat. One of the scent-destroying potions that Gnolls loved…
He’d applied it instantly, the moment he’d realized the Twisted Antinium were here. If it hadn’t been for the two Centenium, and Wrymvr especially, Saliss would have just gone out potions blazing and blown up everything in a mile’s radius.
But it hadn’t worked the last time they’d met. Saliss glared at Wrymvr. Did it think like Bird? Was it a person like Erin’s Antinium?
Did it remember—
 
—-
 
The Drake girl was very brave and silent. Saliss was panting and trying not to breathe. The Jar of Air he carried took his exhaled breath; he held it to the Drake girl’s mouth and she inhaled, exhaled.
Invisible. Odorless. But somehow the thing had seen him. Saliss used his good arm to transfer the Jar of Air to himself, then the girl as he watched the shadow the giant Centenium was casting.
His other arm was shredded. Even with his [Resistance: Acid] Skill, his scales had been burned by the acid the Antinium had spat. What the hell was that thing?
The Antinium Wars, as they were being called, had begun three months ago. The Old Man and Pallass were under siege. And this—for a moment, Saliss had thought it was a regular monster. But it was the Antinium that was wiping out settlement after settlement way behind the battle lines.
He had to move. The Drake gave the girl the Bottle of Air. He crept out, moving around the Antinium. Acid had scored its armor. He just had to get around it and hit it in the eyes—he thought the tiny holes in its body were eyes? He was sneaking up from the side when it turned and he realized it had been watching him—
 
—-
 
Heat vision. Saliss had researched after that fight and concluded it was heat vision, or the ability to ‘sense’ the area around it like some animals had. But Wrymvr had tracked him even when flying, so he thought a tremor sense was unlikely.
Then again—it could be like damn bats. [Invisibility] spells didn’t work on bats. Fun fact. Bats did something where they could tell you were there even when you weren’t there.
Which was why Saliss was hiding behind a tree. Let’s see. Explosions? Failed. Lightning? Failed. Acid? Failed. He’d tried snap freezing Wrymvr the first time…but he had a lot more levels since then.
Could go Grimalkin on it. How thick is that armor? Plan: See if I can overheat it with enough gels. Test how invisible I am…
The other Antinium clearly couldn’t find Saliss. They’d passed this tree twice, so that meant Wrymvr was the wildcard. Saliss had a gel which, when applied, rapidly ignited because the gel itself got far beyond oxygen’s level of combustion. Pelt had demanded it for his forge.
The adventurers were fighting, perhaps dying, certainly taking wounds. But Saliss refused to rush out. He had only one enemy who had to die.
Wait. Wasn’t it two? The Drake ducked.
The silvery sword passed through the trunk of the tree. Klbkch slashed one of the jars in half, but it detonated anyways. He leapt out of the cloud of smoke and saw half a dozen jars crack in midair.
Saliss crouched, motionless, as the Slayer emerged from the second detonation area. Damn, double damn. He was quick.
Worse, that was an adventurer’s trick. The Slayer had dodged the first explosion on pure speed, but he hadn’t even needed to use whatever Skill he’d demonstrated in Liscor. Saliss read it now.
[Recaptured Sublimity]. Oh, dead Ancestors. It was unique. The Old Man was going to throw ten kinds of shit. And it sounded…
“Saliss of Lights.”
Klbkch the Slayer spoke. Saliss refused to move; the Centenium was scanning around. He whirled the thing that had saved him from the second explosion.
A cloak. Enchanted, probably blast-proof; he’d tossed it up and blocked everything. Antinium should not be allowed to have artifacts. They hadn’t used it in the First Antinium War!
…They hadn’t thought they needed to or they didn’t have any? Saliss was a statue. He didn’t move his head, or his body. Klbkch looked around. His antennae twitched and Wrymvr stopped moving towards their position.
Telepathy. Another win for the Old Man. The two Prognugators were clearly communicating. Wrymvr launched into the air and Mivifa and Feathi fled. Saliss had to help them. He just had to—
Klbkch tossed something at Saliss. Straight at him. The Drake dodged and threw the contained lightning bottle back. Up came the cloak—but the tiny vials of acid Saliss had thrown went wide and burst behind the barrier.
Saliss was on his feet, standing perfectly still behind another tree. His only exposed part was his head—so he could see.
The Slayer made a sound. His carapace was smoking, the acid eating away at him! Yes! Y—
His swords whirled. Saliss saw him slash parts of his body off where the spray had caught him. Blood ran, but the Slayer had already broken a potion. He’d cut off part of his shoulder.
The Antinium picked up the cloak after sheathing one of his swords. Saliss glared. The acid had done nothing to the silvery blade. It was actually eating away the scabbard—not the sword. Klbkch noticed and tsked.
“That scabbard is enchanted.”
And my acid should eat away mithril. Saliss saw the Slayer looking around. But—could he see Saliss or had that been a lucky guess?
“Strange.”
The Slayer’s voice was so calm. Saliss didn’t like it. Calm meant that he was prepared, not unsettled. Experienced. Calm meant he thought he was winning.
“You…don’t appear to be trying to kill me as badly as Wrymvr. Despite being able to.”
The Slayer was looking around. He…couldn’t see Saliss? No, don’t fall for that. The Drake held still. He was working on another trick. It was just annoying since you had to coat each potion in the invisibility juice…then toss them…
“In the Antinium Wars, they gave you your name—Saliss of Lights. You destroyed an army of Antinium as your city was locked under siege.”
Klbkch was still turning, calling out. In the distance, Saliss saw a flash. Teleportation. Reinforcements or adventurers falling back? Didn’t matter. Being alone meant he could fight without worrying about catching them in a poison gas cloud.
The Slayer was still talking. Saliss tossed another bottle as the wind blew; it slowed and hovered in the air with a bit of the Potion of Levitation. Invisible, stationary. Silly Bird. You used that potion on things, not people.
“When you were young, you earned your name slaying a nest of Sandworms alone. An [Alchemist] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen who halted a monster attack on a town and killed Gold-rank monsters—survived being eaten and acid burns of over eighty percent of your body.”
Why did he know so much about Saliss? And his history? The Drake saw Klbkch turn, frown.
Mivifa dove out of the clouds, howling as a rain of acid broke over her. Adventurers cried out—Saliss held still. They had anti-acid preparations because of the Flying Antinium.
“You killed more monsters than a Gold-rank team your first year. When you returned to Izril, you were considered one of the best solo Gold-rank adventurers as well as an accomplished [Alchemist]. Just in time for the First Antinium W—”
Shut up. Saliss detonated all eighteen jars of compacted spiderweb serum at once. The liquid expanded as it shot into the air, and filled the entire radius with the sticky adhesive.
Some of the jars had been behind Klbkch, others to the sides, forming a rough circle. Saliss leapt out, a jar in hand—
“Notched needles!”
He dove backwards and disappeared into the exploding jar of acid as Klbkch lashed at him. The Antinium had evaded the webs! No—
Saliss leapt into the nest of webs, panting. Klbkch halted, warily. Pieces of web were adhered to his armor. Saliss saw, at last, what was allowing him to move so fast. The Slayer reached for a bottle, downed it—
“That’s a damn Potion of Haste. You’re not allowed to use them! The files say you don’t use anything but healing potions and stamina potions!”
“Potions are for sale to everyone. True, I have never needed to use them before. Guarding Liscor is not very challenging.”
The Antinium calmly retorted. He still had the cloak, ready to block whatever Saliss threw. He eyed the Drake as Saliss checked himself in the nest of webs.
The Spidersilk serum had created a thick coating of the super-sticky stuff on the ground. But Saliss could have danced on it without a problem—so long as he was naked. Similarly, the acid which he’d leapt through to stop Klbkch did not burn his scales.
The Drake and Slayer eyed each other. Saliss slowly spread his arms, glistening with acid.
“Want a hug?”
