He didn’t pay attention to the debriefing. Or speculation, recriminations, thanks or apologies. He just sat there.
Later. Later, he’d get angry. Or try to find out how to beat a monster that could resist three elements at once and heal. And figure out how much gold he’d just lost—even if the Walled Cities were going to recompense him.
Hint? They would not. Maybe 70% at best. And that remaining 30% was suddenly a lot more than his actual payment.
At the moment—he was too tired to care. Just exhausted, really. The Drake walked away from the [Wyvern Rider] who dropped him off. Mivifa would live. Whether she would have permanently scarred lungs or complications from the toxins…he’d given them all of what he had to help.
He wasn’t even mad that it was ‘unfair’. Unfair? The word was the kind of thing children said. Saliss didn’t use it. Chaldion had taught him not to use it.
And the Old Man was smart enough not to greet him or…do anything. No one picked him up from the battlements. Which was what Saliss wanted. They were probably all being very afraid and anxious and making plans, anyways.
He was just…tired of it. Saliss was. This unending war. Duty to the Walled Cities. Days where you threw everything you had at a problem and it laughed in your face.
That monstrous…
Then we are two of a kind.
“Did you hear the news?”
Someone was babbling as Saliss pushed down the staircase on the 8th Floor. Anxious people. More bad news. He listened, for a moment, after he heard a familiar name.
Oh, they were watching one of the scrying orbs. Wistram News Network. It was Noass. No—monocle. Sir Relz. Whatever. Since Drassi wasn’t here he was reading the news. The Drake looked into the scrying orb gravely.
“This just in: news from northern Izril. Our latest report is confirmed—Mihaela Godfrey…was intercepted a hundred miles out of First Landing with five other Couriers by the Guild of Assassins. They…lost the battle. Two Couriers are dead. Lancel the Leaper and the Firedrake of—”
“No!”
Someone shouted. That was a Drake Courier. The person was shushed and Saliss heard the rest.
“—tress Godfrey injured badly. Both legs broken, but…the ah, [Lord] of House Veltras made an open appeal shortly after the news broke for a cure for his sons, who are believed to be poisoned…”
That was a different kind of evil. Wrymvr—you could look at it and see something that should die. It had been made like Crelers. It was Antinium—Saliss wondered if Shirka remembered.
This? Just another thing he’d erase off the earth. If it were that easy.
The Drake was just so tired, though. Saliss watched as Tyrion Veltras’ appeal was broadcast and shook his head. Then he walked on.
Not to his lab. It was a lonely place. The [Alchemist] walked a bit. Walked into a gate. Waited by a door. Walked through the door and tossed some gold coins into a jar since someone said you had to, these days.
 
—-
 
A naked Drake sat in a chair at a table in the corner of the room. An [Innkeeper] peeked at him.
“Hey, buddy…you seem sort of down. Everything…everything okay? Should I hit Chaldion gently or something for you?”
Why were they so alike? The Drake didn’t look up as Erin Solstice peered anxiously at his face. He was just tired. Drinking water, nibbling at fries.
The little Gnoll had come over to steal them, taken one look at Saliss, put the fries back on the plate, and gone to get Erin. Of course—she’d already been here.
“Is something wrong, Saliss? I’d like to help, if I can.”
“Can you make a multi-elemental explosive?”
“…N—maybe?”
He almost smiled. But he was frustrated. So—upset. The Drake’s head rose. He tried not to, but he snapped.
“I do it because I’m an adventurer. Supposedly the ‘hope of the Walled Cities’. But what about you? How do you do it?”
Erin blinked uneasily at Saliss.
“Make explosives?”
“Smile.”
The Drake looked at Erin. He shook his head. And had the guilty pleasure of watching hers wink out for a bit.
“Why are you still smiling after all the bad things that have happened?”
“Oh.”
The [Innkeeper] sat there. And like Chaldion—like and unlike—she seemed to know that a trite answer would mean Saliss tossing the glass of water in her face. So she gave it some serious thought.
“Maybe—maybe because if I smile, other people are more likely to, right?”
“That’s a good theory. It works.”
“Uh huh.”
Erin waited. Saliss smiled mirthlessly and looked up.
“There’s just one flaw in your formula. Someday. Someday, you’ll have too much bad in your life to smile. A mountain’s worth of crap for every good moment. Will you still smile then?”
In this moment, Saliss knew his words were prophetic. He looked at Erin. And his eyes said, ‘look at me. You think you’ve had enough bad days? They will come again and again. Will you be like me?’
They were rather alike after all. He was just older. So more had happened. And it had worn him down. Erin met Saliss’ gaze and shivered.
One Siege of Liscor? One Skinner attack? One skeleton and Creler nest? The Drake looked at her, daring to play the numbers game. Because he could probably name two for every one of hers. Ten?
That wasn’t the point. Erin closed her eyes again. It was also tempting to try to cheat. Give the [Alchemist] a Faerie Flower drink. A shot of glorious fire, happiness, if it was on tap.
But those were shortcuts, style that came from substance. Besides, he had a high tolerance for alcohol. So the [Innkeeper] replied.
“I choose to remember the happy days. I think I’d do that too, if I could. After all—the bad days suck. But that’s why I have happy days too, right?”
He looked up. Erin went on, spreading her hands on the table restlessly. She handed the plate of fries down to Mrsha; they were in the way.
“Back home—I had ‘happy’ days. But not as happy as when I came here. Because I never had days that super sucked. Well—a few. Still, I think it’s like that. I might have a lot of bad days in the future. I don’t want ‘em, but…”
She closed her eyes.
“My happy days don’t go away. They’re happier because of the bad days. That’s how it works. It’s like…d-diamonds in poo? No, wait. Diamonds aren’t actually that great. Daffodils in mud? Hold on…”
Saliss started laughing. It wasn’t complete, everything-is-well laughter. But it was laughter.
“That is the worst analogy I’ve ever heard.”
“What, ever?”
Erin looked embarrassed. But relieved. Saliss shook his head. He didn’t entirely agree. There could be lots of bad days. Enough to drown little flowers.
But when you were covered by it, you dug an irrigation canal and grew faerie flowers in muck. Or something. He’d work on the motivational quote. That wasn’t the point.
The point was…Saliss grabbed a handful of fries from the little Gnoll and noshed them down. Then he stretched, produced a potion, and poured it on the Gnoll.
“Thank you, Miss Solstice. For the advice.”
Mrsha the Floating wobbled past him, screaming silently. Erin almost laughed, but she was watching Saliss.
“Are you okay? I can get you more fries—you don’t have to go—”
He did the claw-guns thing at her.
“I have work to do! I’ll be back in a bit. Just—”
 
—-
 
He was just tired. Of that kind of pointless day he’d had. Saliss stretched as he entered Pallass. Daylight fell on his scales and he realized—he’d gone all the way back into the morning.
“I have not slept in ages. What a night, huh?”
He addressed a female Dullahan going for a jog. She stared at the nude, dirty, disheveled Drake with the huge grin, and turned her head all the way away and jogged off.
Oh well. Saliss kicked into the Merchant’s Guild as it was opening. He spread his arms—looked around, and then climbed onto the [Receptionist]’s desk.
Horrified, they stared up—and immediately stared down. Saliss turned to the crowd who stared in resignation at their city’s crazy Drake.
“Excuse me! I have an announcement to make! Where’s good old Chesy, huh? Have him come out here!”
The Merchant’s Guild looked for the young Drake, who was currently hiding for fear of…everything. But Saliss was beaming. He spread his arms, and legs, and with everyone determinedly not looking up at him, he shouted.
“I, Saliss of Lights, condescend to make the antidote for the [Strategists] from Baleros! I will be accepting their plea for aid. You may now applaud!”
Since no one would do it for him, he did it for himself.
 
—-
 
Later that day, one of the [Guards] on duty…in Liscor…had a horrible feeling. He nudged his companion.
“Tkrn. Tkrn. I have a question.”
The other Gnoll [Guard] looked up.
“What?”
The Drake gravely pointed up at something.
“Is that…Saliss of Lights dancing naked on top of our gates?”
Tkrn looked up. He shaded his eyes, then immediately looked away.
“Hm. Ew. Yes.”
The two stared not-quite-at the dancing Drake, who had a new audience trying to get him down. And throwing things. Tkrn rubbed at his face.
“Now there are two. Better get Watch Captain Zevara.”
Watch Captain Qissa had cause to bring over a fine vintage of wine from Pallass, a special exception that Erin Solstice agreed to. Pricey to buy, but the Watch Captains had had a whip-round so she could break the news gently to Watch Captain Zevara. It felt like the decent thing to do.
 
—-
 
Someday, there would be no reason to cry. Rain wouldn’t have to hide a thing. If you believed, that someday could take you through tomorrow and next month and…
After a while, Erin Solstice found a Drake waving at her from a table. She seemed friendly, and the inn wasn’t too busy. So Erin walked over.
“Hi, can I help you?”
“I don’t know, but I’d love to say ‘hello’! My name is Onieva. Hello, stranger! I hear you’ve met my weird cousin. And that he caused another scene. I’m here to pay his fine—if he has one.”
Erin’s brows shot all the way up.
“Your cousin? Waitaminute. You don’t mean…him? No way. He never mentioned—”
The Drake winked at Erin.
“I love Saliss. He’s high-level, famous, important—even if he can’t find a pair of pants to save his tail. But I’d never want to be him. Nor would he want to be me. Hi, I’m the family layabout who lives off of Saliss and Chaldion’s money. I heard this was a fun place to be, so here I am at last!”
At last indeed. Erin was confused by Onieva. Puzzled. Confuzzled. She seemed so familiar and yet…Erin was sure this was the first time she’d ever met Onieva.
Well—the Drake seemed a bit exhausted from running after Saliss. And Erin had to investigate a shortage of lumber that was suddenly plaguing the inn. Lots of wood going missing…only, the staff claimed it had been used by one of the Antinium. Not sure which one…Detective Erin was on the case. And Detective Mrsha, whose sidekick was Erin, obviously.
Onieva ate, and drank, and introduced herself to people with that bright cheeriness right before you passed out like one of the dead. After a while, someone came by to say ‘hello’.
“What are you doing here, Miss?”
Maviola El sat across from Onieva. The Drake blinked a few times at her. Ah. That was one of the reasons why she didn’t come here. The [Lady] smiled, resting her head in her hands. She looked…well, decades older.
And young at the same time. Onieva decided Saliss could guess what the duration was. She took another long drink of wine and exhaled.
“I just want to sit here and for the world to make perfect sense. Is that too much to ask?”
She waved around at the comfy inn. It was almost perfect. Almost. Montressa was sitting, staring at some potted flowers as Apista buzzed about. She’d been staring at them for the last three hours and hadn’t gotten bored.
Maviola followed Onieva’s gaze, and then gave her a nod. Tired, but in her own way. She brushed a hand across her face and looked at Onieva directly.
“Sometimes. But we have to go at some point.”
Onieva paused with a fork to her lips. Ah. Maviola rested on her hands. The Drake lowered her fork—then raised a claw.
“Up yours, Human. No one’s making me leave.”
Maviola El laughed and the two chuckled and talked for a while. Then—Onieva decided she was very tired. So she put her head down for a second.
She slept more restfully on a table amid the hubbub and in her body than she ever had in his bed.
