“Buzzing about those [Strategist] kids. Lots of trouble; people keep trying to steal those artifacts from Khelt. The First Gardener is in a state about it.”
“Bleh. I had a job offer about that. ‘Make a cure!’ As if every two-bit Level 30 [Alchemist] couldn’t whip up a blowfish poison antidote.”
Mivifa shook her head. ‘Two-bit Level 30 [Alchemist]’ was a phrase only Saliss could use.
“On that note…rumor is that you’ve got an apprentice. Tell me it’s not true so I can collect all the bet money.”
“Um…true.”
Feathi nudged Mivifa with a wing. Not because she was smart enough to…well, she was very smart. And magical cats and dogs could understand most conversations. And pick locks, some of them. The Drake stared at Saliss.
“Why? You told me you would never do it!”
“It was a favor. Are we there yet?”
The Drake ignored that. And if you didn’t rise to the bait…Saliss sighed after a moment.
“She’s a good kid. It’s nice to have an extra pair of hands, anyways. I’m doing a lot of experiments, she needed a bit of help—don’t make a big deal about it. She’s got a lot of potential. You know the plague?”
“The Yellow Rivers? It just reached Oteslia and it caused a huge uproar. I visited Zeres and it was bad before the cure arrived. Still is, but…what about it?”
“She made the cure.”
“Oh! That is something! No wonder you made her your apprentice!”
“Well, that and other reasons. It’s this entire thing…there’s this cool place I’ll introduce you to if you come to Pallass, and it annoyed Xif and…let’s change the subject. I don’t want to talk about it because the Old Man’s involved like he always is.”
The Oldblood of Feathers eyed Saliss, but she didn’t pursue that line of conversation. Some things you didn’t talk about. For instance—Saliss didn’t ask about why she was obsessed with her appearance. Nor had she volunteered that one of the reasons she could leave Oteslia for this mission—and that the First Gardener was willing to send her—was that Cire was happily occupied with the celebrities from Baleros.
“Lots of new experiments? Anything noteworthy and not confidential?”
Saliss brightened up after a second.
“I can talk about one of them, actually. You know the Potion of Haste you and your giant bird-horse drink like water?”
He waved the Potion of Haste at Mivifa—which only Saliss could supply in the quantities to keep Feathi flying nonstop to the Hivelands from Pallass. Mivifa nodded as Feathi glared at Saliss.
“Yes. What about them? Have you reduced the cost? Because if you have—please don’t sell them to adventurers. You’ll make every jumped-up Silver-rank try to compete with our bounties.”
Saliss looked hurt.
“I would never! I have my profit margins to think of. Besides, the army would buy my entire supply and then the Old Man would try to conquer everything. No, no, this is only for Named Ranks. You’re going to be the only ones who’ll afford it, I mean.”
“Explain?”
The [Alchemist] waggled the glowing vial at Mivifa excitedly.
“You know, this isn’t a real Potion of Haste. Or rather…I’m working on a Potion of Greater Haste. Maybe…a Potion of Extremespeed? A Potion of Time Acceleration? It’s really unclear, but it’s just Named-grade stuff. Beautiful.”
“Sign me up for one of them! Can I put a down payment on it?”
The Drake grew excited at the thought. That was your emergency-tool right there. The thing you pulled out when you were about to die—or you needed to kill something now. She began fumbling for her belt pouch, but Saliss waved a claw.
“I’m still reverse-analyzing it. Slow progress.”
“Oh. But when you do get it made…”
He smiled wanly.
“It’ll be a while, Mivi. I’m really busy. Making Potions of Youth. And other stuff.”
Oh. His big projects. Mivifa became somber. She had once thought that if Saliss hadn’t invested most of his budget and time into his greatest work—he’d have been an unparalleled [Alchemist]. Instead, he’d used his talents to create a relic-class potion. For the same Drake who’d sent him here and who caused Saliss so much anguish.
“If you want to talk about it—”
“Nope! I’m not listening! I don’t need motivation! I’m here of my own free will and nothing is wrong!”
Saliss put his claws over his earholes. Mivifa heard him humming loudly for a moment. She said nothing. After a moment, Saliss lowered his claws.
“You sure?”
He shook his head tiredly.
“Sure. I don’t ask, you don’t tell. Everyone’s got problems. It comes with being a Named-rank. We’re just broken people, Mivi.”
She looked at him. Mivifa hesitated and could have left it at that. She opened her wings and flapped them once, then had to say it.
“You might be. And some of the Named Adventurers are. But I’m not.”
The [Alchemist] looked at the [Flier]. And he grinned once.
“Well, that’s fine too. We can wait for you to join us.”
 
—-
 
Organization. The north had…concentrations of power. In individuals and Houses, different from the Walled Cities. The Walled Cities could cooperate and get Saliss to Manus via Pegasi supplied by Oteslia and coordinate attacks on the Hives.
Magnolia Reinhart could send her pink carriage anywhere she wanted. Or—she had. In the same way, the group waiting for Mivifa and Saliss had come here at effort and expense, but they were all here, and all on-time.
…Except for Saliss. He wobbled into the fortified ‘camp’ and counted.
Two faces he recognized, four teams, a bunch of [Mages], [Soldiers] under the command of an [Ambush Commander]—yep, the gang was all here. Also—largely silent, since they were on the bleeding edge of the border of the Hivelands. Professionalism, silence, readiness—
“I’m here! Sorry I’m late! Is that Shriekblade I see? Long time no stab!”
Half the [Soldiers] went for their weapons as Saliss shouted joyously. The Gold-ranks stared. Those who knew Saliss scowled. He strode over to a figure standing apart.
“Shriekblade! Killed anyone recently?”
Saliss would have patted her on the shoulder, but she would have stabbed him. Or…would have if the short Drake with many scars didn’t turn an expressionless face to Saliss and nod once.
“We are on duty, Adventurer Saliss. Command is silence and readiness.”
The [Alchemist]’s face fell.
“Well, hi to you too.”
“Hello.”
Shriekblade’s face didn’t change. Saliss lowered his shoulder-slapping claw and sighed. Drugged into perfect compliance-mode, then. Made sense for this mission. He didn’t like to see it.
Named Adventurers knew each other. More than others sometimes, but you tended to know names. The other adventurer was glaring at Saliss, so the [Alchemist] turned and spread his arms wide. The Drake with a huge sword on his back stared at the nudity and grimaced.
A perfect target.
“Is that Sixswords? Hi! How’s it going, buddy?”
The Drake actually tried to move away as Saliss bounded over.
“We’re keeping quiet, Saliss—”
“Isn’t there a [Silence] spell on the camp? Who cares if we shout? Heck, let’s all dance around naked! Haven’t seen you in ages. How is Manus? Didn’t you get married? Want a drink?”
The other Named Adventurer tried to fend Saliss off as the Gold-rank teams and [Soldiers]—provided by Manus for the mission, mainly as escort and backup if they had to run—stared in horror at the display of laxity by Saliss.
The Swordsman of Six, a Named Adventurer of Manus. Famed for his six unique swords which he could switch out at a moment’s notice, etc. etc…the least interesting Named Adventurer of the lot.
Mivifa and Feathi, the Oldblood of Feathers, Oteslia’s flier.
Shriekblade, infamous killer and unpredictable Named Adventurer of Salazsar, reinforcements and the Walled City’s contribution to the effort.
A squadron of Manus’ best [Soldiers] and a [Commander] to provide backup. For magical support—Fissival. Since no one from Zeres was here, Saliss bet it had been too far and the City of Waves was just providing financial support or some other contribution.
Three Named-ranks, and four Gold-rank teams all ready to deploy. Oh, and a stumbling [Alchemist], wandering around slapping people on the back.
“Adventurers. Adventurers, your teleportation target is right over the target. Barring any mistakes, High Command expects you to be able to evacuate within twenty minutes to this spot again, upon which time we’ll all use the second teleportation spell to move us away. If anyone is unclear as to their [Lesser Teleportation] jumps, or any aspect of the plan—”
The [Ambush Commander] and [Link Mage] were doing their best. Everyone else was listening seriously, with the heightened nerves of those before a fight. The four Gold-ranks were adjusting their gear, muttering reassurance, preparing themselves.
They were about to piss off the Antinium. This—was the kind of mission their Walled Cities asked for volunteers for. The enemy, the Black Tide owned the lands beyond here. They might die. But for their homes, the glory of—
“Yeah, yeah. We go in, we cast scroll, we run. Can we go?”
Saliss tossed down another gulp of whatever he was drinking. This time the Swordsman of Six couldn’t contain his annoyance. He spoke to the group at large, with an amazing display of passive-aggressive morale boosting.
“This is a group effort by the Walled Cities. I do not know you all—but my name is Zeter of Manus. I pledge to do my utmost to leave no one behind. However, we will only survive if everyone is disciplined and follows the plan.”
Mivifa saw her Pegasus mount put a wing over her face. Mivifa felt like doing the same. Zeter—or Sixswords as Saliss had dubbed him, and that was going to stick as a nickname, wasn’t the right personality type to gel with Saliss. The [Alchemist]’s head slowly rotated around on his neck with incredibly—unsettling—delight on his features.
He sauntered over and peered up at Sixswords. The [Swordsmaster] was wearing armor and taller than Saliss; the Drake peered up at Sixswords with a huge smile on his face that struck Mivifa and the others watching as sinister.
“Hey, Sixswords. Want to say that to my face, huh, huh? Why don’t you all go and launch this assault yourselves?”
Saliss poked the Drake in the armor. Sixswords glowered.
“Discipline, Saliss—”
“No, I get it. I’ll foul you up. Tell you what. I’ll cover you all running out, howsaboutthat, huh? You all go in. Three Named Adventurers and Creler-fodder?”
The Gold-ranks stirred. Was that them? Sixswords visibly hesitated.
“Adventurer Saliss—”
The [Ambush Commander] was not having a good time. Saliss looked at him.
“No, shush. You know why that’s not going to happen? Because you need me.”
He jabbed a thumb claw into his chest, overbalanced, and fell on his back. The Drake spoke to the sky as everyone stared at him.
“Because I’m Saliss of Lights. And all of you cowards are backing me up. But there’s no one stupid enough to attack the Hives on their own. Me? Give me the scrolls and I’ll do it myself. Go on.”
He waved a claw at Sixswords. The Named Adventurer said nothing. Saliss slowly got up, swearing, and grinned at the affronted Gold-rank teams.
“This is what it means to be Named Rank, you Golds. It’s not about being good at your job. Look at Shriekblade, over there! She’ll run into the Hivelands naked!”
“Is that the mission?”
Saliss laughed so hard he fell over again. Mivifa felt compelled to intercede at this point; it was that or let Saliss continue. And entertainingly painful as that might be—they were on a time limit.
“Saliss. Enough. We know the plan. We’re ready to teleport, [Mages].”
“Very well. Group One will begin casting immediately after teleport. After the spell finishes—your scrolls will warp our magic. Adventurer Saliss, with Group One, please.”
“On my way!”
The Drake rolled over the ground without bothering to get up. The Fissival [Mages] stared as he lay in the teleportation circle pre-programmed to the coordinates. Mivifa sighed.
Something must have gone really wrong in Pallass. She hadn’t seen Saliss in this mood for a long time and she’d known him since he returned from Chandrar. But he’d already been the top solo Gold-rank and then…
The Antinium Wars had turned him into Saliss of Lights.
Three [Earthquake] scrolls had been provided for the purpose of damaging the Antinium’s project. Shriekblade, Saliss, and Mivifa were all entrusted with one scroll each. They were Group One.
The plan was simple. Group One teleported in and began casting. The Antinium had no spellcasting might of their own and Xrn was confirmed in Liscor. Therefore, Group One would begin the [Earthquake] spell. Almost right after that, Group Two, with Sixswords and the Gold-rank teams would teleport away from Group One and cause a diversion.
Both sides would retreat the moment the Tier 6 spell activated. They’d reach the waiting camp, here, and teleport further way.
It wasn’t new to Mivifa. Or the Antinium. The Hives and the Walled Cities were at ‘peace’. But raids crossing the border like this were common. Killing a Queen or destroying a city—well, both sides had danced on the edge of war before. One mistake and it could be the Third Antinium War.
And even if not—the adventurers were pawns in this conflict. They could die and they wouldn’t have been here. No wonder everyone but Saliss was tense.
The Gold-ranks were muttering. They knew they were the diversion and the three Named-ranks were the real attack and thus the ones most at risk when the Antinium got angry. But Saliss was not great at making friends when he was being his most annoying.
“He shows up late, he’s drunk, and disrespects all our cities? Pallass for you. Do you think he’ll even throw straight when the Black Tide marches?”
Another Gold-rank snorted as he adjusted the glowing javelins ready to throw.
“We would have been better served by a [Slinger] with his potions. Just because he can make high-quality potions—”
It was just nervous-talk, and Saliss had certainly earned some ire. But as Group One’s teleportation circle lit up and they waited to be sent to their destination, someone felt compelled to speak up.
And that was the Drake with the huge greatsword on his back. He leaned over.
“Hey rookies. Shut the hell up.”
It took the Gold-ranks a moment to realize the Swordsman of Six was referring to them. They also then realized—the Swordsman of Six was glaring. He nodded at Saliss, giggling as the [Mages] snapped at him to lie still.
“Saliss is the most annoying Named Adventurer on the con—one of the most annoying. If he mouths off, ignore him or do something about it, but don’t speak ill of his fighting abilities. That’s Chaldion’s grandson. [Grand Strategist] Chaldion of Pallass.”
