The Black Tide. Saliss had killed Human [Soldiers]. He’d killed Antinium. Presumably, Humans had families, loved ones, hopes and dreams.
War meant you killed them and thought about it after. Saliss was here to destroy Antinium so they wouldn’t turn Izril into the Hivelands, slaughter millions.
He wished he felt guiltier about it, even so.
“I see Group Two! They’re right below us!”
Mivifa screamed. Saliss jerked. How long had he been in a trance? He swore, checked all around. Group Two! Were they—
Fine? They were racing across the ground, right on schedule. Saliss blinked. No casualties—wait.
“Potion of Eagle’s Eye.”
He flicked it into his mouth too fast to see. Saliss squinted.
Arrow wounds? Looks like someone chewed them up. Anand? Specialist archers?
B-Bird?
But they’d escaped. Saliss sat back. And he got more worried.
Was it really just a perfect plan that the Antinium couldn’t counter? True, they had minutes of warning at best. Or perhaps—how much damage had they done to the Armored Hive? Saliss was counting in his head. They were moving fast, having teleported in and [Haste]-speed and teleportation spells carrying them back to the evac point.
Time to escape? Six minutes.
A whole lot of time for things to go wrong in.
 
—-
 
Anand, known to some as ‘Anand the [Strategist]’, was a [Strike Strategist]. An expert in rapid attacks and retreats. But in this moment, here—
He had to admit he was still just a juvenile learner on a larger chess board. A pawn piece, who had yet to be promoted to a higher level to make an Erin-analogy. Then again…Pawn would have been very helpful.
Confusing, that. Anand picked his way across the Hive towards the Grand Queen. The first rush of adrenaline and chaos was over. Soldiers were dead.
So many dead, so fast. He had seen the adventurers destroying them like—like—nothing. Anand had tried, he had. But the few Free Antinium had barely scratched them even with Anand coordinating their arrows.
Also—he had feared to send in the Painted Soldiers. Feared that they would die without doing anything. They weren’t that high-level.
Guilt tore at Anand. He had been so relieved when the other Queens told him not to send his people in. But they were all his people.
All…
“Armored Queen. Your status?”
The Grand Queen was speaking into a mirror. The other Queens were speaking at once. Calmly.
“My Antinium are still following—we can attack the adventurers, but that Drake, Saliss, is destroying any cluster larger than six from above…”
“Stalking them, but their speed eclipses my fastest Silent Antinium.”
“My Hive…is intact, Grand Queen. However—my Steelclad project has been greatly damaged. I calculate…53% of the Birther sacs damaged and the rest disrupted…”
Great damage. Anand thought of the giant Antinium the Armored Queen had called her greatest folly. She herself—looked injured.
“You are bleeding.”
The Grand Queen observed. The Armored Queen felt at her sides; Workers were rushing to her with potions.
“Superficial injuries. My Hive’s progress has been set back greatly. Some of the forges were also damaged…”
A vicious blow. Anand felt for the Armored Queen as she visibly struggled to contain the chaos. How had they known? The Grand Queen was moving her feelers rapidly.
“Your position may be in jeopardy, Armored Queen. All of ours are. [Scrying] spells may have penetrated our Hives. I order all Queens to move their position.”
The Queens were frightened. Anand felt that too and that frightened him. And it wasn’t unjustified—that was a precision strike to the Armored Hive’s secret project. How had the Drakes known?
The [Strategist] thought and a few obvious answers came to him. Among them was the truth. But—he was working at a disadvantage. He had no way to know that there were [Mages] celebrating and toasting each other as they watched through the Grand Queen’s large mirror. Or Drakes who had the same intelligence. He could only suspect.
As the Grand Queen began moving towards a secondary chamber and the Wistram [Mages] began taking notes, Anand surveyed the other Queens. Two were coordinating attacks with the Grand Queen on the fleeing adventurer groups, albeit without much hope.
The Silent Queen and Flying Queen were occupied with that. The Armored Queen was refusing to move her position, devoting her every energy to saving one more Birther sac, one more forge…
And of course, that left two more Queens.
“Anand. You are safe and the Free Antinium delegation unharmed?”
The Free Queen spoke directly to him. Anand nodded.
“Yes, my Queen. We did not participate in the defense aside from attacks at range. I regret to say none of the…enemy were slain.”
Adventurers. No, the enemy. Here they were the enemy. In Liscor—they were adventurers. Like the Halfseekers or Griffon Hunt or the Horns…
The Free Queen seemed to understand Anand’s suddenly complicated thoughts. She nodded.
“Remain safe. You are an asset. Twisted Queen, is your Hive safe?”
She and Anand turned to the last mirror. The Twisted Queen sat there, unmoved throughout everything. When she spoke—she terrified Anand. He had had…nightmares…of her about to drop him in the Birther sac.
“My. Hive. Is most removed. No casualties. No. Disturbance.”
“I see. Then where is Klbkchhezeim? Anand?”
The Free Queen turned away from the Twisted Queen, as if speaking overlong to her bothered her as much as Anand. He hesitated.
“I do not know, my Queen.”
The Free Queen stopped.
“He would surely be first to defend the Hives. Was he injured in the attack? Find him.”
It was all happening so fast. Less than twenty minutes had passed since the attack. Anand nodded. He’d gather the Free Antinium, find Klbkch…he saw the Twisted Queen lift a feeler.
“No. That. Is not necessary. My Queen.”
She addressed the Grand Queen, who was reaching for the mirror as she prepared to move with a full-guard of Custodium around her. The Grand queen paused, and the other Queens looked up. The Twisted Queen smiled with her half of a mandible.
“I request a link.”
 
—-
 
Klbkchhezeim of the Centenium sat with an old friend.
It was nostalgic. He was not the same as he had been in those old days. In either form or spirit or…strength.
But at times like this, he remembered. More closely with Wrymvr than Xrn. They were more alike, in some ways.
“The Twisted Queen is informing the others?”
“Yes.”
Only, it wasn’t verbal words, but a mental word. Wrymvr had not been given the ability to speak in the same way as the other Antinium. He could—but that was an adaptation. It was far easier for him to speak like all True Antinium did.
“Time, then.”
The Antinium rose to his feet. The two familiar swords in his hands. They were rather like silver swords. A strange metal, Relc had once remarked. The Custodium bore copies of them. Only…well, you could call it metal if you wanted to.
They came from Rhir, and forges so strange to the sensibilities of other species. Klbkch lifted them now, feeling they were lighter than before. But still heavy. Once, they had been effortless to swing.
An appendage blocked his path. Wrymvr. The giant Centenium spoke.
“Are. You. Prepared?”
Klbkch started. A smaller mouth in one of Wrymvr’s maws. The…eyes…winked at him as the vast Antinium regarded Klbkch.
“Of course I am, Wrymvr.”
“You do not seem to be.”
Klbkch was astonished by the statement. Then—he saw what Wrymvr saw.
A slight, unique Antinium with considerable alterations to the standard Worker build. Bearing two swords. Not nearly as impressive as Wrymvr or Xrn’s forms. So different from when they had left home.
And also—the dissonance in how Wrymvr saw Klbkch. Form, without substance. Like an empty shell. That was how the Centenium thought of it.
“Ah.”
That was the blessing of the True Antinium and what had stopped the war between the first Hives of proto-Antinium before the First Queen had unified them.
See through my eyes. See my perspective. It made them closer than individuals trying to explain with faulty words what language had no expressions for. A people.
“I see what you mean. One moment.”
Klbkch stood there a moment. He had indeed been off. Though he had not realized it himself. Klbkch—it had been exceedingly odd to fight representatives of the Walled Cities. For Senior Guardsman Klbkch, that was.
The Slayer had no such qualms.
“Ready?”
The Centenium turned.
“Ready. Stick to the plan. Try not to die, Wrymvr.”
The other Antinium laughed as they emerged.
 
—-
 
“Everything’s going too well.”
Saliss looked around. Sixswords didn’t answer him. The other adventurers, Gold-rank and Named, slowed.
They were crossing towards the border of the Hivelands. Saliss’ scales were prickling. It wasn’t a Skill, but intuition. [Dangersense]—was little use here. The Hivelands were danger.
They’d nearly made it. The Antinium were pursuing, but as anyone could have told you, they’d fallen behind the Skills and spells and potions increasing the adventurers’ speed. Saliss shook his head.
He hadn’t stopped running as he repeated himself. Sixswords adjusted his grip. He looked up at Mivifa flying overhead with Feathi. They were flying past some large cumulonimbus clouds in the sky.
“Stick to the plan.”
“I could have run in there myself, blown everything to bits and run away. But no…you’re all so fragile.”
Saliss grumbled. He was the only nudist here; even Feathi wore custom armor made for Pegasi. But he felt like most of the others were naked.
“[Ambush Commander] reports all’s in readiness. Let’s go.”
One of the Gold-rank Captains snapped, coming off a brief exchange with the camp. Saliss gritted his teeth.
“Just get ready, alright?”
He ran with the group of adventurers as they surged ahead. Above them, Mivifa and Feathi were looking ahead. They flew into the large clouds above. Saliss’ head snapped up.
“Mivi?”
She vanished. The Drake stopped in his tracks. His claws blurred.
Damn. Potion of Jumping, Potion of Levitation could give him—
“Saliss?”
Sixswords and Shriekblade halted. Saliss drew two glowing potions from his belt.
Lightning. It was so damn hard to fight in the skies. Damn, damn, damn—they should have made Shriekblade or Saliss ride with Mivifa!
“Up there! Aim up—”
He pointed towards the cloud. The others whirled. Bows rose, wands pointed. Mivifa—
…Emerged from the clouds. She saw the adventurers braced, and swooped down.
“What’s wrong?”
“Oh. I thought—something was lurking up there.”
Saliss lowered the potions he’d been about to quaff. The [Flier] gave him a long look as the other adventurers relaxed, swearing.
“I send tracer spells into each cloud, Saliss. It was empty.”
“Sorry. I was just thinking of something that could fly.”
Sixsword’s grip tightened on his sword hilt. The others stopped. And Saliss felt a little surge of anticipation. If there was anyone he wanted to meet—
“Move out.”
Sorry, Saliss wanted to say. He’d say it later. It was just a thought. The adventurers ran on. Just over twenty minutes to the evacuation spot. Twenty one minutes of fighting since they’d been teleported out. Saliss had been ready to meet…
He’d told Erin one lie. It hadn’t been an ‘Armored Crawler’ in Shirka’s village. Those were bad. But that day, Saliss hadn’t killed the monster. He’d just saved a little girl. Barely escaped, really.
The temporary fortifications appeared in the distance. Sixsword shouted.
“Prepared to teleport out! Activate barrier spells as soon as the Antinium close within four hundred f—”
He stopped. The adventurers skidded to a halt. The camp, the glowing teleportation sigils set up, emplacements for barrier spells, was occupied. The people within it turned.
An Antinium with two swords turned and something spread its wings. Soldiers, misshapen, and little scurrying things turned. Saliss saw them clearly with his alchemy-enhanced vision.
Ah, so that was where they were. The worst Antinium to fight. The most active ones who raided Drakes for every attack on their Hives.
Twisted Antinium. They filled the camp. Of the Drakes, the [Mages]—nothing.
“But I just talked to the [Ambush…”
“Back! Form a defensive line! Manus, our escape route is cut off!”
The Swordsman of Six roared into a speaking stone. The Twisted Antinium moved forwards as one. They charged the stunned adventurers—
The first fireball blasted them apart. The Gold-rank [Mage] lowered her staff. Shriekblade threw a dagger, which split into seven. Antinium fell.
The two Centenium watched from the back. There were hundreds of Twisted Antinium and they didn’t fall into the neat classification. Worker, Soldier—
A bloated Worker lunged and Mivifa shot it before it could detonate.
“Twisted Antinium explode! [Archers], bring them down first!”
The adventurers were retreating. A wall of metal rose from the ground, and a barrier spell appeared. Defend—it was instinctual to them. The Walled Cities were sending fliers, reserves to their position.
Hold out and defend. Then escape. The Twisted Antinium charged. And again—they were obliterated.
 
—-
 
An enchanted arrow blew apart a cluster of Soldiers enhanced with the Creler-derived armor. They were sturdy—not that sturdy. The Twisted Queen felt them die; they were close enough to her position for her to coordinate them.
But one Queen was as effective as a [Strategist]. A Gold-rank adventurer was simply too strong.
Watch. She saw a Soldier punch a shield helplessly until the Drake brought the mace down and struck it. Some of the adventurers could literally be struck all day and night by the Soldier’s fists and it wouldn’t be enough.
Well…in another time. In another place, the Antinium would have blades to cut through magic. Speed unparalleled. And yes, flight. They had none of these things now among their forces, just remnants.
However, one thing remained. The Twisted Queen felt someone tug on her. Not physically. It was like a nudge. She smiled. And reached out.
 
Twisted Queen is here.
Silent Queen joins.
Grand Queen wills it.
Flying Queen participating.
Unistasis Network activated.
 
Four of six. Then—the individual voices were lost. The Twisted Queen ceased to be ‘her’.
Her body was there. But her mind was part of a whole and thus incomprehensible from the rest. A body was a piece, a vessel of knowledge that was ‘the Twisted Queen’. But the combined mind of four was superior to the parts.
Alas! For a moment, the network of minds spared, as it always did, regret. Because four Queens was such a small number! 
But it was possible with two, or more of the True Antinium, to join together. To share information, understanding across distance. And when a Unistasis Network formed…
