Rhys looked Ryota up and down. “Damn, Tier 4, low Tier 5 in less than a hundred years? That’s…” He coughed. Well, I’ve done it, and I’m trash, so I guess that’s not that shocking…? But somehow, most people can’t do it, so for twenty-eight… no, twenty-seven people to regularly do it is unexpected.

Ryota had the good graces to look embarrassed. “I am a prince. Even if Grandfather only half-heartedly supported me, the palace still saw to it that I received the best potions and materials to help raise my tier as quickly as possible. Certainly, some princes received better potions, materials, and tutelage, but totally neglecting one prince would be too overt favoritism, and would risk throwing a rift in the alliance, so even us disfavored princes still received the basic level of princely mage treatment.”

“Even though your grandfather had abandoned you…? Or had he not yet?”

Ryota snorted. “No, he’d already given up on me. Rather, he was probably hoping I was treated poorly in the capital, because then he could use it as an excuse to raise a stink and demand more investment in our territory… or something else like that.”

Rhys nodded slowly. “Ah, politics.”

“Without my Grandfather’s support, this whole time, I’ve been nothing but a paper tiger. The princes who don’t know see me as a threat, and those who do laugh behind my back. I’ve been thinking of pulling out of the battle to save my own neck, and simply fall into Grandfather’s plans and vanish from the public eye—ah, I mentioned that this room is to save our bloodline from ruin, but even were I to use it, I wouldn’t become my region’s heir. Grandfather doesn’t intend to hand over power anytime soon, and if he does, it’ll be to one of my cousins or their children… someone he likes more. That’s an archaic tradition that’s already died out.”

“Wait, hold on. You said that your family follows female succession, but the heir… if you’re a prince…”

Ryota waved his hand. “The king can be a queen, and sometimes, we preserve our bloodline through any means we can, whether that’s handing the family to a male line temporarily or using the male to create a female heir.”

“Ah, yeah. Typical noble stuff. Sorry, carry on.”

“Right, where was I…” Ryota thought for a second, then waved his hand. “Without Grandfather’s support, I don’t have much hope of being the next king. But you… you can fight back against the Fifteenth Prince’s men without breaking a sweat. Even the Shrine Maiden’s guards are no problem. If you back me as my retainer instead, I have a chance of being king. So, what do you say?”

“What, to backing you? Sure, but I don’t really care if you’re king. If I back you, the first thing we’re going to do is go beat up your gramps.”

“What? Why?” Ryota asked, shocked.

“Number one, that guys pisses me off. Who is he to decide who’s worthwhile and who’s scum? Scum gets to decide that on its own, dammit! Number two, I don’t like him. I wanna beat him up.”

“Isn’t that the same as number one?” Ryota murmured, mostly to himself.

“Number three, I’m not strong enough to make you king on my own, and if I did, your power would crumble the moment I moved on. You can try whatever you like, but eventually, I’m going to get bored and warp out, and there’s nothing you can do to stop that. So don’t think you’ve got me for a hundred years or anything crazy like that. Instead, what we’re going to do, is get you the proper backing of a region, the way you deserve. And that means…” Rhys looked Ryota in the eye, lowering an imaginary pair of shades. “Beating up your grandpa.”

“You just really like that phrase, don’t you.”

Rhys ignored him. “But beating up your grandpa means getting stronger. Sooo… are there any dungeons around here we could go raid? It’s time to get on that grind, bay-bee.”
