There was darkness. There was stone. And there was a pickaxe. Lit by a plum glow, the dusty steel head rose. The pair of hands gripping it lifted it up and back. For a moment, it was at the apex overhead. Then it swung forwards, an arc gathering speed and weight.
Momentum. The tip of the pickaxe struck the wall. The stone cracked. The sound sent little bugs scurrying. Rockmites. But the green arms paid no attention. The head stayed where it was.
Up the pickaxe swung again. A precise tool, for all its weight. A careless swing could be useless, a waste of energy. But the one who held the pickaxe aimed carefully at the wall.
Ahead and down. There was nothing special about the bend of wall where the miner stood. But he had been breaking into the stone for an hour now. Rocky fragments lay all around him, and he’d cleared the ground around his feet twice. Ahead and down. The glowing purple light of the mana stone, plum in color, told him that. He lifted the pickaxe again and swung it. He was sweating in the darkness. But he felt good. He was working. Working. A novel concept.
“When I was small, I learned to speak by stealing it. I stole words, hiding in the sewers of a town. Far, far north of here. Goblins can live in sewers. We can live everywhere.”
Numbtongue’s voice echoed slightly in his ears. No one replied to him. The Goblin didn’t pause as he swung again, digging out the wall.
“Humans lived above my head. Fighting, arguing, laughing…living. I watched them, sometimes. There was a place right outside the Mage’s Guild. Outside of other guilds too—I would listen there. But it was the Mage’s Guild where I learned all the big words. Sometimes they would argue or gossip about secrets where they thought no one could hear.”
Again, the pickaxe swung. The stone glowed; was it brighter? Numbtongue thought it was, but if so, the glow had changed without him noticing. Slowly, like memory changed in the head with time, sneaking up quietly.
“I learned to speak because I thought it would make the Humans listen. That if only they knew I could talk, they would stop hunting us. They knew we were in the sewers. Just not how many. One day, they swept the sewers with every adventurer they could muster. [Guards] and [Mercenaries] too. Even [Militia]. Trying to kill us for good.”
Who was he talking to? Himself? That was a waste of breath. Like tears. No proper Goblin would waste air like that. But Numbtongue was a [Bard]. And though there was no one to hear him, he imagined he was telling Erin. As if she were sitting on the ground, trying to pet one of the Rockmites, listening. Just listening.
“I spoke to them, then. Then I shouted. Pleaded and begged. It only made them come after me. I survived. There’s nothing else to say. That was how I met Garen Redfang. He rode down out of the hills. Before he had made the High Passes his permanent base, his tribe roamed until we were too strong to hide and the Gold-rank teams were following us. He saved me and those that fled. That’s how I became a warrior.”
Maybe he was practicing. Trying to tell the Erin in his head before the real thing. Because Numbtongue was still afraid of talking.
“So I don’t talk even though I can. Because Goblins are dumb. We do not talk. I didn’t need to with the others. Now I speak—but it’s still hard. Because I fear…I’m afraid no one will listen.”
Numbtongue turned his head. In his mind, the imaginary Erin smiled at him. But he saw only darkness. The Hobgoblin stood in the cave, feeling sweat sting his eyes. He wiped at his forehead. Shook his head.
“Goblin. Better not talk. Better talk like Goblin. Stupid talking to self.”
The [Bard] grunted to himself. That sounded better, somehow. More like a proper Goblin. But was he behaving like that because that was how the world expected him to be? If Headscratcher were here—
Numbtongue closed his eyes. If he were here, he would have poked Numbtongue in the side and grimaced. And that silent gesture would have been enough. It would have said to Numbtongue—no. Don’t do that. You can speak differently. Better. So do it. Don’t pretend to be someone you’re not.
“This is why I am a [Bard]. A Goblin of words and music.”
The guitar lay on the ground, out of range of the rocky fragments as they fell to the ground. Numbtongue said nothing more after that. He was saving his words. To talk to Erin. To talk to her tonight, maybe. If she had time. Maybe while she and he had a drink at her bar. At night, when no one else was around. His words were for her. He didn’t feel like sharing them with the others, adventurers, even Lyonette.
That was all Numbtongue wanted. A quiet chat at night around a table. A few minutes, an hour to speak with Erin. If he had that, he could be happy. And he could tell her too, if she invited him. His past, his fears…
And that he thought chess was really boring. She would laugh or be angry, and that would be—
Chink.
The sound as the tip of the pickaxe rang was different from all the other times Numbtongue had swung. It was louder. Higher-pitched. He’d hit something different. Instantly, the Goblin stepped back. He stared among the broken pieces of rock and dust. What had he…?
Translucent, white—no, grey. Oozing from the stone, a pale ashy glow. Numbtongue sprang back in alarm. Then he caught himself. It wasn’t a monster. And it wasn’t dangerous. He realized what it was as the memories in his head identified the liquid.
Mana sludge. The liquid slowly ran out of the gap in the wall his pickaxe had made. A slow, dripping substance as thick as paste. But It was semi-translucent and had an odd, inner sparkling quality. As if little motes of light were caught in the liquid.
Numbtongue stared at it, entranced. But if he’d been Pyrite, the older Hobgoblin would have just sighed and shook his head. Mana sludge. Not good. No one touch. Or drink.
“Raw mana. In stone. Bad stone?”
Numbtongue muttered to himself, figuring out how Pyrite would have phrased it. Mana sludge was the Hobgoblin’s word for it. He was well aware the stuff was magical, but to him it was about as appealing as dirt; hardly worth the effort of collecting. A failed mining expedition, in short.
But Numbtongue wasn’t so certain. He studied the raw mana sludge as it dripped to the ground. Some of the Rockmites scurried closer and then backed away, probably sensing the magic the stuff held. So did Numbtongue. He reached out and felt the slightest tingle in his fingertips as his fingers were bare millimeters away from the surface of the glowing stuff. He tried to recall all that Pyrite knew of it.
“Let’s see. Can’t eat. Will make Goblins horribly sick—goes straight through system. Comes out as…ergh. Touching not too bad, but depending on the color can be dangerous. This is…fine. Tastes like—did he eat everything he ever found?”
The Hobgoblin shook his head. He prodded the mana sludge and found it was neither warm nor cold. Eerily so in fact; it felt strange on his fingers too. Absolutely none of the mana sludge would stick to his fingers. He could feel it, and it almost felt like incredibly smooth stone on his fingers. But unlike water or other liquids, it stuck to nothing but itself. Numbtongue thought Mrsha would love to play with it.
He summed up Pyrite’s notes in his head. Mana sludge. Inedible. Could come in other colors, but generally this color. Useless to Goblins—children would play with it, but mana sludge was hardly better than actual mud, and given the dangers of eating it compared to mud, Pyrite kept it away from them. He’d found no other uses for it. But he did know of its potential.
Yes, potential. That was why Pyrite left it alone. Give the mana sludge years or decades and it would slowly condense, crystalizing. Into mana stones.
“Ah. Name makes sense now.”
Numbtongue nodded. He stared at the vein. He must have tapped into the top of whatever amount of mana sludge there was, because it had already stopped leaking from the hole. And there was clearly more. He frowned.
Yes, if he came back here in a few years, the mana stone would harden, crystalizing into a vessel imbued with magic. The air would take care of that. But given that there was no other mana source about, it would probably turn into a vein of lightly magical quartz-like mana stone. Plentiful, but hardly potent in terms of mana.
Numbtongue didn’t have years to wait, and Pyrite regarded the quartz varieties of mana stones as cheap anyways, so leaving it there didn’t appeal to him. What should he do with it, then?
“Scoop some up. Take it to the [Mages].”
Yes, that was the right choice. Because while Pyrite hadn’t seen much use for the mana sludge before now, he hadn’t ever thought of using it. Mining had been his hobby, and a fairly useless one in his mind until right before his passing. What would he have thought of the stuff now? How might he have used it?
Absently, Numbtongue felt about in his belt pouch. He pulled something out. The light in the caves changed, growing brighter. The purple glow of the mana stone was a consistent light, but it was dim compared to the bright glow of the bright, blue, almost viridian stone Numbtongue held in his hands. He stared at it.
“That’s not a mana stone. This is a mana stone. No. That not mana stone. This is mana stone.”
He smiled as he thought of Pyrite’s reaction to the mana stones used on Erin’s door. He would have called them ‘cheap’. The Hobgoblin only kept the most brilliant of mana stones in his collection, and this one, the brilliant blue stone, had been the one Numbtongue had taken from his mouth. The Hobgoblin studied it.
Pyrite had even known how to cut gems. This one had six facets; it was no perfectly symmetrical stone, but a lopsided gem that nevertheless sparkled, cut cleanly on all sides and polished. Pyrite had enjoyed cutting stones; he’d even done art or made dice out of rubies. A tiny emerald marble for a childhood friend that eventually became part of her necklace. She had died. Numbtongue could remember her smile.
The Hobgoblin dropped the glowing blue stone and pressed his hands against his forehead.
“Stop.”
He could remember the young Goblin’s nickname. He tried to push it away, but the memories flooded into his head. Too many, too fast to repress. Stickhair. She always had sticks in her hair. She was a [Scavenger]. She’d been part of Tremborag’s tribe, one of those sent to scavenge or steal as opposed to raid.
Back when he’d been young, Pyrite had been press-ganged into serving as both [Warrior] and [Scavenger]. Later, he’d become a permanent scavenger when they’d found he had a nose for finding pretty gems. The Goblin hadn’t seen the value in the gems that Tremborag loved so much and his lieutenants adorned themselves with, but he’d squirreled one away and carved it into a gem for Stickhair. And she had smiled, and he’d been struck with that.
They’d had sex on a day in the middle of fall. She’d jumped on him, and he, young and passionate, had wanted the same thing. They were still both growing, and both became Hobs around the same time.
The emerald marble was given a small hole for a necklace she wore, and each time Pyrite brought her a new stone, she would smile and sometimes that led to warm nights. Other times, she or he would find someone else. They were young. But Pyrite remembered the smell of her teeth, plucking a twig from her—
“Stop!”
Numbtongue shouted. The cave rang with sound, and the memories stopped as he pounded his head against the wall. His head burst with pain, and Numbtongue staggered back. But it stopped the memories.
Panting, the Goblin sat down. He stared blankly ahead of him, still remembering another Goblin’s life. His hands shook uncontrollably as he felt at his head.
“Too much. You gave me too much.”
He whispered at Pyrite. He wasn’t angry at him. But that rush of vivid experiences had been too real. The [Bard] sat there, panting, until the soft glow of the two gems and the mana sludge calmed him. He stared at the glowing liquid, felt around on the ground, and picked up the now slightly dusty blue mana stone. Numbtongue stared at it. Then he popped it into his mouth and chewed.
“Ow.”
After a few seconds, Numbtongue spat the mana stone back out. His teeth hurt. The mana stone was way tougher than your average rock. How had Pyrite ever eaten the damn things?
The memories were his gift. The experiences with Stickhair, knowledge of the earth, even information about what everything tasted like and how badly it would mess up your poos—all of it was Pyrite’s gift to Numbtongue. But it was the knowledge of gemstones that the Hobgoblin Chieftain had considered too important to be lost.
What Pyrite had known before his death was this: you could use magic without being a [Mage]. With gemstones. He had consolidated his [Mining Chieftain] class into a [Magestone Chieftain] one. He hadn’t found out the potential of the class, but he had entrusted Numbtongue with the knowledge.
But Numbtongue feared he wasn’t the Goblin that Pyrite was. He didn’t think as deeply. He had not lived as long. And he had no idea how to use the powers of the gemstones, even if he could figure out a way to crunch this one with his teeth.
How would a [Bard] use magical gemstones? How would anyone?
Numbtongue sighed. He wiped the saliva-covered blue gemstone on his clothes, spat out the dirt in his mouth, and had a thought. Maybe…he was doing this wrong.
“Pyrite ate gemstones. But Pyrite was a big eater. I don’t eat rocks. Anymore. So…what do I do?”
Numbtongue’s eyes went to the guitar lying on the ground. A Rockmite was investigating it. The Hobgoblin stood up, and the insect fled. He picked up the guitar and ran his claws down the strings.
A guitar. An instrument made by Gnolls, but very similar to the ones in Erin’s world. In fact, he recalled Erin comparing his guitar to one she was familiar with.
“Except, instead of an electric guitar, yours is actually electric, Numbtongue! Uh, don’t play it close to me. I don’t like static electricity.”
He smiled a bit and played a simple chord, plucking the strings with his long fingers. His nails were untrimmed, but Numbtongue had carefully bit them shorter on his playing hand because it made a better sound. Unlike Drakes, Goblins had something closer to Human fingers. Numbtongue had no idea how a Drake would manage a string instrument with their claws and very reptilian nails. He was impressed Gnolls could play, but then, their paws were actually quite dexterous.
“Hmm. Song. Song…”
Numbtongue stared blankly ahead as he searched for a proper tune. Then he had it. His random strumming became intentional. He began to play a quick, snappy tune. And the sound that came from his guitar changed.
