[Electric Chords]. No [Lightning Melody] because Numbtongue didn’t want to call down lightning in the cave, even if he could. But the sound the guitar gave out crackled, and the chords changed to something almost approaching the crackling of thunder.
The silent cave filled with sound as Numbtongue began to play faster. It was a self-taught riff; everything he played was self-taught, actually. He’d learned a number of songs from Erin’s home, but he’d had to come up with the melodies based on her vague humming. Numbtongue played low on the chords, an echoing beat.
He was trying to call on the power of the stone resting on top of the guitar. Numbtongue could see the gemstone glowing, a bright viridian. But was it glowing brighter? Was he calling on the magic?
Time to really play. The Hobgoblin’s fingers danced faster. And a different kind of light began to fill the cave.
Flashes of bright lightning. Sparks of electricity shot from the frets as Numbtongue played them, lighting up the cave in flashes of light. The simple strings flashed with blue lightning, lighting up the guitar. The Rockmites in the area scurried away in alarm.
Numbtongue grinned wildly. The cave rolled with sound for a minute. Then five. His playing reached a fever’s pitch. He began the most complex solo he knew, and the sound roared. And the gem—
Did nothing. Numbtongue stopped, looking at the blue gemstone with a miffed expression. He prodded it hopefully.
Nothing. Okay. Well, that was a new piece of information. Music was not the answer. At least, music from his guitar wasn’t doing anything to the stone. Numbtongue sighed and looked around.
“Maybe just ask the [Mages] what the mana stones do. Why didn’t I do that earlier? Oh. I don’t like Pisces. Or Falene.”
Too much sniffing and rolling of the eyes. And that superior tone. Numbtongue grumbled to himself. He actually liked Revi, though. Moore scared him. Ceria was…attractive. Anyone who knew what bugs tasted like was attractive to Goblins. But Numbtongue, er, liked her dirty blonde hair, it not being a color among Goblin hair. As for Typhenous—
“Gah!”
Numbtongue’s foot suddenly encountered a jolt and went numb. He leapt backwards, swearing, and stared at what his foot had just touched. What was—
The mana sludge? The mana sludge had shocked him! The Hobgoblin stared at it. The little puddle of liquid had just given him a jolt of electricity! Why? And—was it…yellower?
Yes! It was! In fact, it was now a very light yellow, and Numbtongue could swear the little lights caught in the liquid were now moving faster. Almost as if…he squinted, keeping his face back from the liquid. Almost as if there were tiny jolts of lightning running through the stuff now.
Slowly, curiously, Numbtongue reached out. He hesitated, but he’d already touched it once. So, carefully, he brought his finger closer, closer—
About two inches away from the mana sludge, Numbtongue saw a blue bolt of electricity arc out of the stuff and hit his finger. He jerked his hand back, swearing. It was electrified! He’d just gotten another jolt!
Shocking stuff. Numbtongue sat back, rubbing his ironically numb finger and foot and thinking. Well, he’d just turned the mana sludge into another variant Pyrite was familiar with. If the mana sludge was different colors, it had different effects. For instance, the Hobgoblin had once found a red variant of the stuff that had been so hot he could set fires with it. He’d had a wonderful time using it as an impromptu fire starter until an unfortunate incident with a forest…
“Electricity. Guitar. [Electric Chords]. Mana sludge.”
Numbtongue stared at the stuff. He stared at his guitar, and the strings which no longer sparked with lightning. Then he stared at the mana sludge. He grinned. He was going to need a jar. And…gloves.
 
——
 
The tavern was called Tails and Scales. Or maybe it was a pub. Erin wasn’t one for socializing in either, so she had no idea what the difference was. Nor did she like beer, a fact that had vaguely offended some of her friends. And her father. But Erin liked the drink in front of her. It was some kind of rum mixed with a sweet, chilled liquid that was separate from the rum. Every time Erin took a gulp, it ran down her throat, burning and sweet.
A bit of food went in her stomach as well. Bits of chicken, breaded and glazed, sprinkled with bits of crunchy pork. Each bite was delectable, and Erin felt it warming her up. But the food didn’t settle in her stomach or weigh her down; if anything, she felt more awake with each bite.
It was probably thanks to a Skill. And the drink was doing something to Erin’s mood as well. Each gulp made her feel better. She looked across the bar at a Gnoll with black fur streaked a bit with grey. He was a [Bartender]. Rufelt. And sitting next to Erin was Lasica, a [Chef]. The two were a married couple. They’d dragged Erin about the city before revealing they owned a very popular establishment. In the same business as Erin.
And they’d called her a rookie. Erin was half-fixated on that, half-frowning over something she’d realized, and a third half was listening to a commotion outside. Someone was shouting—several someones, actually.
“Wait, rookie?”
Erin looked at Rufelt. The Gnoll grinned at her, baring his teeth in a Gnoll’s smile.
“Oops. Lasica my dear, you might have offended Erin.”
“There’s nothing offensive about speaking the truth. Give me the bright pink stuff with that Balerosian white you did up last night.”
The Drake woman looked unconcerned as she pointed across the bar. Rufelt fetched a proper wineglass out, filled it with a white wine, and then added a shot of a vibrant pink liquid from a glass container. Erin blinked. The glass container had a spigot, also made of glass. And it was one of a row of similar vessels, all containing different liquids. All probably alcoholic. Some were glowing. One was resting on the top of the container, and it had been flipped upside down.
“Here you are. A Jungleblood Sunrise. I wish you’d remember the names.”
Lasica shrugged. She snagged the glass as it spun down the slick counter past Erin. The white wine (which was in fact slightly yellow and green, in defiance of proper sense) and pink liquid were spinning together. The Drake rolled her eyes as she drank half and sighed, visibly relaxing.
“Ancestors, that’s nice. But you know I don’t remember any of the silly names you and your bartending friends come up with. Can I get another? Iced?”
Erin opened her mouth to protest. Several things, in fact, but Rufelt was faster. He snagged another wineglass from behind him as he spun, filled the glass with pink stuff in the same motion, and then pulled open a drawer behind the bar. Erin blinked. Ice cubes, or rather, ice chunks since they weren’t nearly as tidy in form as cubes, appeared in the wine glass. The white wine poured on top, and the glass spun past Erin again.
Literally spinning. She watched as the pink liquid swirled up and the wine swirled downwards, forming a vortex around the ice. The glass came to rest perfectly in front of Lasica, contents still spinning in a miniature vortex. She did not look impressed.
“What is it with you and spinning your drinks recently?”
The Gnoll sighed.
“It looks like a lot of fun. And it is! And it’s not my ‘bartending friends’, love of my life. It’s all [Bartenders]. I didn’t invent the name; a Balerosian [Bartender] came up with Jungleblood Sunrise herself. A pity, because I would have called it something less confusing.”
“Mm. Why do they call it that? This is hardly the color of blood.”
Lasica pointed to the pink and greenish-yellow liquid.
“Uh, excuse me—”
Erin broke off, because she wanted to know the answer. Rufelt shrugged.
“Apparently, it’s not referring to blood, but a type of flower. You see, it weeps its…what would you call the stuff in flowers? Nectar? Yes, the wet stuff. Anyways, it weeps it in the morning, so when the sun rises, it catches the light and looks quite similar to that. Pink on yellow and green.”
“Fascinating. Also, completely pointless.”
Lasica drained her first glass and started on the second. Erin stared between her and Rufelt as he sighed. She waved a hand, and both looked at her. Rufelt grinned sheepishly.
“Excuse me, Erin. We sometimes get lost in ourselves. We’re not used to company before the bar opens.”
“Oh, no problem. Uh—a few questions. First, rookie? Second, I’m not used to people being nice to me and feeding me. That’s my job. Third, we call putting alcohol in ice ‘on the rocks’ where I come from. Do you do that? And fourth—is that stuff floating upside down? Is—is it antigravity alcohol? I’m fine with any of these questions being answered, by the way.”
Both Rufelt and Lasica looked at the upside-down liquid Erin was pointing to. They paused as they considered Erin’s questions. Rufelt eyed his wife. She eyed him back, and her tail wagged a bit, although her lips only moved up slightly. Rufelt stroked his chin thoughtfully.
“On the rocks? Hm. I like that. I think I’ll use that from now on. It has a…good sound to it, yes? And that is one of my magical liquids. I’m not sure about, er, anti-gravity, but it floats! It’ll go straight up, and it’s a devil to mix with drinks unless you can do it right. Want a taste?”
“Can I? Wait, how do I drink it?”
“Let’s find out, shall we?”
Lasica rolled her eyes as Rufelt snagged another tumbler. She leaned over to Erin, smiling a bit. She still had quite a presence, and Erin wondered if all middle-aged Drakes were like that. Tekshia was certainly intimidating, although she was even more no-nonsense and somewhat abrasive, too.
“We didn’t intend to drag you around, Erin. I apologize again for that, but we had good cause. We did want to meet you—that was always part of the plan. As for taking care of you, well, why not?”
“But that’s my job.”
Erin protested weakly. Rufelt was mixing two liquids in the tumbler before he approached the upside-down stuff. He paused there and took a breath. Lasica watched him with Erin.
“So? We see someone in distress, we usually invite them in for a drink. Especially if it looks like they’re having a bad day. Like you. I could practically sense that you needed some of my pick-me-up food. Have another bite, by the way. It’s [Comfort Food], designed to help. But save your appetite; I’ll make you a splendid lunch. Rufelt, you’d better not spill that! What was it, eight gold per fluid ounce?”
“Eight—”
Erin stared at the liquid in horror. But Rufelt only glared mildly back at his wife.
“Thank you for reminding me. Just give me one second. And here—”
His hand blurred. Erin saw the tumbler go up, and the half-filled liquid turned upside down. But before gravity could take effect, the spigot opened and a splash, just a splash of the upside-down liquid (bronze, semi-transparent, and quite quick), came flying upwards. It mixed with the other liquid, and Rufelt twisted the tumbler right-side up.
“Mixing.”
He had a strange metal rod about the size of a thermometer in his paw. He stirred the drink vigorously and then placed it on the bar and slid it towards Erin. She stared at the liquid—the drink was close to black.
“It’s basic, strong, and a bit sour. You don’t have to finish it, but mixing sugary stuff with the Dwarfrain isn’t something I want to do. But if you’re going to take a sip, make it quick.”
Rufelt advised Erin. She stared at him and then realized the liquid in the cup was rising up!
“It’s floating!”
“Well, what did you expect?”
“But how do I…”
Erin didn’t bother to wait for a reply. She lifted the cup, and the rising liquid floated up towards her lips. She sipped the stuff, made a face because it was strong and bitter, like one of those stupid lagers that Bevussa liked, and then gagged.
“Itsh!”
“Keep swallowing. Don’t let it win! It’ll give up after a second.”
Lasica laughed as Erin’s throat tried to force the liquid down and it kept coming back up. At first, Erin was horribly reminded of throwing up, but then it was actually sort of fun—until the liquid lost whatever was keeping it floating and it went straight down her throat. She began coughing as Lasica patted her on the back.
“Fun, isn’t it? Rufelt has a collection of these silly drinks. He’s not just a [Bartender], after all. He’s got an advanced version of the class.”
“Agh! It burns! What do you mean, advanced version? What class is it?”
“That would be telling, I’m afraid.”
Rufelt snagged the tumbler and took a drink of the liquid threatening to float past Erin’s head. She let him have it; one sip was enough.
“Telling classes is a bit too personal for people we’ve just met. Even an [Innkeeper] in the same line of work. But I’ll tell you for nothing that both he and I have…rare versions of our class. The kind you only get past Level 30. And so do you, I imagine. Rookie.”
Lasica offered Erin a sip of her drink. Erin took it, coughed again, and sighed.
“That’s good. I’m not a rookie! Am I?”
“You might have a lot of levels, Miss Human. But you seem like one to us. And it’s not about levels. Here. I know you can probably drink anything I serve all day and all night—my [Bartender]’s senses are telling me you’re probably immune to my alcohol—but have this.”
Erin blinked at the next cup that appeared in front of her. She sniffed it, tasted it experimentally, and found…it was water. She began drinking it down as Lasica offered her another peanut butter and chocolate ball.
“Snack?”
“That’s chocolate. Where’d you get that? No one I talked to knew anything about it.”
The Drake blinked in surprise. Rufelt glanced over as he cleaned the finished cups.
“You know about chocolate? Well, color me impressed. This came right from Baleros. A new thing—well, relatively. We’ve had cocoa for ages, but some [Chef] over there started experimenting, and, well, I got some with my latest shipment. We’ve a deal that sends goods straight from a [Merchant] in Baleros to the city. One of the things you need to acquire. Rookie.”
Erin peered at Lasica. She opened her mouth, and the Drake popped a piece of her breaded chicken in there. Erin chewed, at first with mild outrage, but then she realized Lasica was treating her like a kid. Rather than make her mad, it was almost pleasant. There was something affectionate in Lasica’s teasing tone. And she was twice Erin’s age. Then Erin thought about what she’d said.
“Wait, a trade route from Baleros? That has to be…”
