“Tonight. Over a drink? I learned a few recipes, although I have no idea how to make mine fly.”
The Hobgoblin gave Erin an odd look. She laughed. Then she turned.
“Lyonette! Hey guys, what’s up? Anything happen while I was away?”
For some reason, that got her the oddest look. But Erin was too excited to wonder why. She waved her arms, trying to get their attention.
“You’ll never believe what a day I had! Okay, first, I went through into Pallass, and guess what? I met this couple that—”
Erin paused. She stared at the gathered adventurers. They were all blinking at her. Erin’s gaze travelled across them. She stopped on Pisces. He blinked as she pointed at him.
“You could use some abs. You too, Ceria. Typhenous is old so he’s fine, and Moore’s cool since he can lift cows, but the rest of you need to work out.”
Erin turned. Her finger wavered as it went to the other [Mages] in the room. She wasn’t drunk. Definitely not. She definitely hadn’t gotten drunk because she was immune to alcohol, right? Unless she’d turned it off just to see what it was like. That…sounded like something she would do.
The others stared at Erin. Revi opened her mouth, but Moore spoke up.
“Lift a cow? How strong does she think I am? I could use a spell maybe, but with my arms? I’d strain my back!”
“Take it as a compliment, Moore.”
Jelaqua slapped Moore on the shoulder. She laughed, and Erin looked at Lyonette.
“So, did I miss anything?”
 
——
 
As Erin listened with open mouth to Lyonette’s story about Apista, Numbtongue presented his mana sludge to Typhenous. The old [Mage]’s eyes popped as he stared at the jar Numbtongue carefully held away from his body in gloved hands.
“You found that in the mountains? Why, it’s—magicore! Revi, come and see!”
The other adventurers looked up, scenting something interesting or profitable. Revi walked over, frowning alternately at Typhenous, the jar, and Numbtongue.
“What? What did you say he found? It looks like yellow goo, Typhenous. Mixed with dirt. Is it valuable?”
The old [Mage]’s voice shook a bit.
“I should imagine? To the right buyers, certainly. How much did you say you found, er, Numbtongue?”
The Hobgoblin met Typhenous’ eyes steadily.
“I didn’t.”
The old [Mage] paused. Then he coughed.
“Of course, of course. I was just curious. You see…it’s just, this sample? It’s raw magicore. That’s the layfolk term for it. It’s more like…unrefined raw mana, in physical form.”
“Incorrect.”
Pisces and Falene both spoke up at once. They glared at each other. Pisces held up a finger, Ceria elbowed him and interrupted Falene as well.
“It’s not raw mana so much as mana-infused rock. Close enough, I know. Shut up, Pisces. Numbtongue, Wistram prizes the stuff. If you apply the right magics to it, you can turn it into a mana stone of unrivaled quality.”
Numbtongue blinked at the magicore. You could? No, that made sense. But it wasn’t something useful to Goblins. Typhenous was staring at it.
“If you were to place a monetary value upon it…there is a difference in quality, but if there were a…a vein of it in the mountains, it might be worth…might I inspect it, ah, Numbtongue?”
The Hobgoblin studied Typhenous for a second. Then he shrugged.
“Here.”
He offered it in one gloved hand to Typhenous. The [Mage] grasped for it greedily and then let out an exclamation of shock.
“Ah!”
The jar tumbled from his hands as the [Mage] snatched his hands back. Numbtongue grabbed it on the way down. He chortled to himself as Typhenous shook out his hands.
“You ass. Typhenous, are you okay? That was hilarious.”
Revi alternated between a glare of concern and an amused expression. Typhenous gave Numbtongue a reproachful look. Ceria blinked at the magicore.
“Huh. I didn’t see that. Looks like it’s picked up some kind of focus. Electric, by the looks of it.”
Pisces sniffed. He opened his mouth, and Falene jumped in. The half-Elf gave Numbtongue a superior look and adopted a lecturing tone to the group.
“Not nearly as valuable, then. Raw magicore is free-form, transmutable. This now has an elemental quality; thus, its potential is shaped.”
She tapped one finger against the glass jar, and Numbtongue noted with irritation that she didn’t let it shock her somehow.
“Of course, any full [Mage] of Wistram would know that. Now, I would take this and—”
Falene went to pluck the glass jar out of Numbtongue’s grip. It didn’t budge. The half-Elf stopped. Numbtongue gave her a grin with all his teeth,
“Mine. Not yours.”
“I was merely making a point. If you’ll let me—”
The jar didn’t budge. Falene let out a slow breath. Ceria looked amused as she glanced at Numbtongue. Then she eyed Falene and jabbed her in the side.
The older half-Elf made a sound and jumped. She glared at Ceria. The [Ice Mage] had an innocent look on her face.
“Sorry, Falene. My hand slipped. But that is Numbtongue’s jar. And he can do what he wants with it. We can’t take it away from a fellow adventurer, can we?”
She gave Typhenous a pointed look. The [Mage] coughed.
“No, no, I just wished to see…may I ask if that was the only sample found though? Please?”
He gave Numbtongue an imploring look. The [Bard] hesitated, then relented.
“No. Probably more. I just hit upper part of vein. Opened hole—there’s more. Raw. This is…different. Made it electric.”
He saw the way the adventurers’ eyes changed at that. Falene glanced over her shoulder at Dawil, as if to signal him. The Dwarf raised a finger.
“I don’t mine! Up yours, pointy ears!”
Typhenous licked his lips.
“…How much more? And Numbtongue, I might be forward in this, but if we could strike a deal for however much more you could find…”
The Goblin bit his lip. He didn’t like thinking about money. It wasn’t something Goblins prized. Erin noticed and broke off from her conversation to ask what all the fuss was about. When she stared at the magicore and gingerly touched it, she yelped.
“Gah!”
“Erin, we said it was electric!”
Ceria looked amused as Erin waved her hand. The [Innkeeper] shrugged, still happily drunk. Or drunk and happy, which was even better.
“I just wanted to find out! Hey, is it toxic or something? What happens if Numbtongue takes it out of the jar?”
The half-Elf scratched her head.
“Toxic? Only if you drink it. Or if it’s giving off fumes. But in the glass jar, it should be fine. It’s not really a liquid, Erin.”
Pisces nodded. He looked down self-importantly at Mrsha and Ksmvr, the only audience he could find.
“Magicore is technically valuable, but I would put it far below gold, above silver in terms of rarity. Certainly not as rare as most gemstones of decent quality, but if Numbtongue could wheel away, say, a barrel of the stuff, he might earn several hundred gold coins for it. At least. If the quality were high, which from the translucency I deduce it is not, he might earn more. You see, magicore is easily appraised at a glance. The translucency, or rather, the lack of any detail marks it as highly unfocused, and it is that lack of focus, the raw potential that [Mages] interested in creating mana stones crave…”
Mrsha blinked up at him. Ksmvr was scribbling notes. He raised a hand.
“Question, Comrade Pisces. What is the use of mana stones outside of Miss Erin’s door? I am aware of their effects as mana reservoirs for [Mages], but have they any other effects?”
“Ah, Ksmvr, I’m glad you asked.”
Pisces smiled self-importantly. He gestured at Erin’s door.
“You see, those stones on Erin’s door are quite poor-quality. Which is good; they need not be more than simple, ah, anchors by which to guide the teleportation spell. But mana stones in general have any number of effects. They can hold an enchantment, allowing a [Mage] to weave his or her spells through the stone to aid in concentration, power mechanisms or fuel artifacts needing magic, or—and this is the most common effect in war—be used as a single-cast spell.”
“Ah, much like an [Alchemist]’s potions.”
Ksmvr nodded. Pisces nodded, and Mrsha nodded as well just to be included.
“Indeed. But mana stones are rarer, and depending on the size and quality of the gem, they can contain very powerful spells. I made a habit of studying a few, ah, in hopes of incorporating them with my undead creations, but sadly only a master [Gem Mage] would be able to use a mana stone without shattering the crystal itself.”
That caught Numbtongue’s attention. He wandered over to Pisces as Typhenous shocked himself again and Erin mused about light bulbs and batteries out loud. The [Necromancer] glanced up at Numbtongue and hesitated.
“Ah. Numbtongue.”
“Pisces.”
The Hobgoblin and [Necromancer] stared at each other for a second. Then Numbtongue reached into his belt pouch.
“You know mana stones? Can you look at this?”
“Well, I am only moderately studied in the subject. But I suppose I could look at—”
Pisces inhaled as he saw the glittering blue mana stone in Numbtongue’s palm. Half the adventurers turned their heads again. Typhenous craned his head, but it was Falene who exclaimed.
“Let me see that!”
This time, Numbtongue didn’t protest. He held out the stone, and Falene hesitated a second before holding her hand out. Numbtongue’s eyes narrowed, but he dropped the mana stone into her palm. The half-Elf paused.
“Thank you.”
She stared down at the mana stone and held it up to the light. Pisces, scowling, tried to see, but the half-Elf accidentally moved to get a better view and cut him off. Then she stared sharply at Numbtongue.
“Where did you get this?”
“From a friend.”
Numbtongue met her eyes without blinking. Falene frowned.
“Do you have any more?”
He gave her a Goblin shrug. Falene pursed her lips.
“If you do, I will buy them from you.”
“Let me see! Is that a pure mana stone? Without defect?”
“As Numbtongue addressed the question to me, I should see first. Miss Skystrall? I believe—Miss Skystrall?”
Falene held the stone out of reach of the other two [Mages] who squabbled over it. Ceria covered her eyes, and Revi pulled Typhenous back, hissing at him.
“Stop embarrassing yourself!”
But Falene’s attention was all on Numbtongue. When he reluctantly showed her another of Pyrite’s remaining stones, she very nearly gasped. She made him an instant offer, a number that made Erin’s jaw drop. Numbtongue just shook his head.
“Mine. I don’t want to sell.”
“But these are of no use to you. Numbtongue, is it? Listen to me. If you desire gemstones, I can provide them. But these are worth far more than simple jewels. These are high-grade mana stones. You have no idea what focus they have—or what use they might be. In the possession of a [Mage], they could be quite valuable. But they’re of no use to a non-[Mage], let alone—”
She closed her mouth abruptly. Numbtongue, who could fill in missing words, gritted his teeth. The inn fell silent. Erin glared.
A tankard banged at a table in the corner of the room. Falene and Numbtongue turned, and Dawil, sitting with Ylawes, Halrac, and Seborn, all of whom hadn’t deigned to get up, pointed at his companion. The Dwarf’s voice was a rumble.
“Falene, you’re a half-wit.”
The half-Elf’s cheeks turned red. She waited, eyes flashing at Dawil, but he only took a long drink from his tankard. Then he looked at Numbtongue.
“That’s all I wanted to add. Sorry about her. She’s slow. Carry on.”
Numbtongue grinned. He looked at Falene.
“Mine.”
He held out a hand. After a second, she dropped it into his palm. Typhenous cleared his throat.
“I would like to make an offer, Miss Skystrall’s notwithstanding—”
“Hey. What about us?”
Ceria raised her voice. She looked at Pisces.
“We could use those, right?”
“If one was so inclined…and we have ample funds…”
Pisces’ voice trailed off as he recalled where his team had gotten the funds from. Revi rolled her eyes. She looked at Numbtongue.
“You could just smash it.”
Everyone stared at her. Revi raised her hands.
“What? You could. I don’t know a lot about mana stones or advanced magical theory. [Summoner], remember? But I know some things, and I know that you can trigger a mana stone by smashing it. Looks like that one has a focus. So…keep it and smash it if a monster attacks. Who knows? You might get lucky.”
“That is the most idiotic—”
Falene ducked as Dawil threw an empty mug at her. She pointed, and it zoomed back towards his face. Ylawes batted it down with a reproachful look. Falene pursed her lips, but fell silent. Pisces coughed.
“As Miss Skystrall said—”
“Oh dead gods, not more [Mage] talk. Please say it in simple words, Pisces. Or I’ll hit you.”
Yvlon looked up from her table where she was dicing with Jelaqua and Moore. The [Necromancer] sighed.
“Fine. Rock goes smash, something happens. But no one can tell what. That stone could simply dissipate. Or explode. Or…”
He waved his hands and glared at Yvlon. Mrsha waved her paws as well, looking excited at the idea. Erin eyed the stone and edged back from it a bit. Numbtongue frowned. He knew all of this—okay, parts. He wanted to know how to use mana stones without being a [Mage]. He looked at Revi again.
“Okay. I can break the stone and get…something random. What about breaking it with my teeth?”
Revi stared at him.
“You mean…eating it? That sounds like the dumbest idea I could think of. I guess it would do something since all that mana would go into your body. But who would do that?”
Numbtongue stared at the stone. Pisces cleared his throat.
“None of these hypotheticals are strictly safe. Numbtongue, if I may offer a solution? If money is not your objective and I have no reason to believe it is—why not offer the stone to Octavia? She could brew a potion out of it. At least, I know some [Alchemists] use mana stones. She might charge you coin or one of the other stones, but if she could reliably harness the stone’s power, then you would have a brew you could at least throw or ingest, again assuming you could discover the effects. But happily, [Alchemists] have many ways of discovering a stone’s effects.”
Numbtongue brightened at that idea. That did sound good. Falene looked disgusted, however.
“Octavia? You would bring [Alchemists] into this? Please spare me such notions. There are two decent [Mages] among us and four untrained fools—”
“Gee, thanks.”
Ceria rolled her eyes. Revi copied Dawil. Typhenous stroked his beard.
“As much as it pleases me to have your respect, Miss Falene—”
The half-Elf cut him short with a look.
“I was referring to myself and Moore.”
“Oh. How unfortunate.”
