A painful silence fell as everyone glared at Falene or deliberately didn’t look at her. Ksmvr walked over to Yvlon and tugged on her arm gently. He didn’t bother lowering his voice.
“Miss Skystrall seems quite agitated. Yvlon, please explain her state of mind.”
“Well, you see, Ksmvr, some people are just sour—”
Jelaqua began, but Falene whirled. The Selphid raised her hands as Falene’s eyes flashed with more than just indignation. Her voice snapped across the inn.
“If I am upset, it’s in wasting over a month of time and effort to rush to Ylawes’ sister’s aid with little thanks and no reward. However, that would be enough, save for the fact that the other teams here have clearly benefited while we received nothing more than some gold.”
“We all participated in the lottery, Falene—”
Ceria broke off as Falene pointed a finger at her without looking.
“Do not lie to me, sister. I may not be able to see inside a bag of holding, but I can hardly miss Ksmvr and Pisces sitting in their rooms, rolling in piles of gold and gems.”
The inn fell silent. Numbtongue’s head turned with all the others to Pisces and Ksmvr. The [Necromancer] had turned bright red. Halrac closed his eyes, his sole contribution so far to the night. Yvlon banged her head on the table. Ksmvr opened his mandibles.
“Ah. We must have left the door ajar, Comrade Pisces.”
“Falene. You know we didn’t come here for treasure. If the other teams found…something, it was their discovery.”
Ylawes spoke up quietly. He didn’t quite look at any of the other adventurers, though. Dawil sighed. Falene stared at her team captain, lips white.
“If I wish for some small benefit, what of it? Numbtongue has no use for those mana stones. None at all. While I—”
Crack.
Falene blinked. She whirled and stopped. Numbtongue stared at her defiantly. The cracked blue mana stone emitted a burst of viridian light as he crunched it between his teeth. He closed his mouth, but the burst of magical light lit up his head from the inside.
“What did you do?”
The half-Elf [Battlemage] stared at Numbtongue in horror. But he was distracted. His mouth first felt slightly numb, and then he felt saliva gathering, as if the rock was actually tasty and hadn’t just cut open his mouth. But it wasn’t saliva or blood. Numbtongue’s cheeks bulged, and his eyes widened with alarm.
“Numbtongue?”
Erin stared at the [Bard] in horror. Numbtongue tried to say something or spit what was in his mouth out. A bit of viridian spurted out of his mouth. Falene recoiled.
The liquid never touched the ground. Halfway down, it turned to gas, a thick, clinging substance that hovered in the air. Falene gaped at it with everyone else. Mrsha took a step forwards, and Pisces pointed.
“No one touch it or inhale it! [Wind Blast]!”
The bit of magical smoke was funneled towards the door. Typhenous and Lyonette dove out of the way. Pisces cursed.
“Someone get the door!”
Half the adventurers moved, but Jelaqua leapt first. She didn’t need to breathe, so she hurled the door open. Pisces pointed, and the wind blew the smoke out. Then he turned to Numbtongue.
The Goblin’s cheeks were bulging. There was more liquid filling it! Pisces’ eyes grew round.
“Someone get—”
Numbtongue knew there wasn’t time. He was about to have the liquid whatever-it-was spurt out his nose or he’d swallow it. Neither option appealed to him, so he looked around and grabbed something. A jar. Numbtongue tore off the lid and spat.
The Goblin made a bleh sound as the blue-green liquid poured from his mouth into the jar. Part of it turned to gas on the way down, but most of it landed squarely in the container he was holding. He coughed it out, corked the lid, then stared at the jar.
“Do you see how dangerous it is? Who knows what effect that gas would have had on your lungs—or on us all? There is no telling the effect. As for your reckless—”
“Falene.”
Ylawes interrupted the half-Elf as she began to shout at Numbtongue. It wasn’t just the gas Numbtongue was still exhaling. It was the jar. The jar full of electrified magicore. And now, blue liquid. Numbtongue saw the two liquids mixing. And both were glowing brighter. The liquid was turning to gas inside the jar and expanding, and the cork was starting to tremble…
He had smashed the cork back in. But now the entire jar was shaking. Numbtongue exhaled more viridian in horror.
The adventurers took cover. Moore pulled Mrsha behind him. Falene, standing closest to Numbtongue, backed away in horror.
“Falene? What’s about to happen?”
Ylawes had his shield up. The half-Elf looked at him.
“I don’t—”
“Falene?”
The jar was shaking. Numbtongue felt the glass expanding. His arms shook as the electricity suddenly became twice as strong. He looked at Falene. She shouted.
“I don’t know! Toss it away, toss it—”
 
——
 
Two Drakes climbed the hill towards The Wandering Inn. One was male, the other female. Selys was leading Olesm, urging him to climb faster.
“Come on. I’m sure she has time for you. The adventurers are at her inn all the time. You can at least apologize, and if she clocks you, well, wouldn’t that make you feel better?”
“She doesn’t want to see me, Selys.”
“Yeah. Probably not. But how long are you going to avoid her?”
The [Strategist] shook his head. He stared up at the inn on top of the hill.
“I shouldn’t visit her now. The door wasn’t working. She’s cut Liscor off, Selys.”
“She’s not mad anymore, Olesm. I think. She was never angry, just sad. Look, let’s just go up there and if—”
The door opened. Olesm and Selys saw something blue blast out followed by a gust of wind. They blinked up at the inn and heard a shout. Then nothing.
“Uh…”
Someone appeared at the door. Numbtongue. He raced outside, a glass jar in hand. He threw it as far as he could—straight towards them. Both Drakes saw a tiny, glowing jar filled with yellow, blue and green, hurtling towards them.
They ducked.
The jar landed in the mud in front of them with a wet thump. Both Drakes breathed a sigh of relief. They stared at the jar. Then they noticed how it was shaking. They looked up at the inn in alarm. A half-Elf appeared in the doorway. Her eyes went round as she saw them.
“Run, you idiots!”
The two Drakes stared at the bottle. Then they turned and ran. Three seconds later, the jar exploded as the pent up liquid turned to gas and mixed with the magicore.
Selys heard something hiss and then a bang of sound behind her. She half-turned, and a glass shard flew past her face. She stopped and stared as Olesm tripped and tumbled in the mud.
The glass jar had burst, but not with the force of, say, an explosion. It was just that the blue-green gas laced with crackling volts of electricity was expanding too fast for the jar to contain it. Now, it grew into a huge cloud, twenty feet in diameter. It hovered in the air, like some kind of strange earth-bound viridian cloud. Selys could see miniature bolts of lightning earthing on the ground below the cloud.
Selys stared at the cloud. Olesm picked himself up from the mud. They looked at the cloud and then at the inn. Selys forced saliva into her dry mouth.
“I think that was an accident, Olesm. Honest. But…just in case, let’s come back tomorrow.”
 
——
 
Ceria was busy listening to Falene shout at Numbtongue when she felt a poke in the side. She yelped and immediately realized why all of her friends hated when she did that to them. She turned to glare—but softened it when she realized who was doing the poking.
“Captain Ceria, may I ask what tomorrow brings?”
Ksmvr stood politely at attention, armed with his short sword, dagger, and other gear. He even had his cloak on and the bow strapped to his back. Ceria had to smile; he was always ready. She turned and saw Pisces and Yvlon looking at her. The [Wounded Warrior] raised an eyebrow.
“I was wondering that myself, Captain. We’ve been sitting in the inn a long time. Time to get back to work?”
“We have a lot of money. But I suppose we have to wait to get it exchanged in a big city.”
Ceria mused to herself. She looked at Pisces, and the [Necromancer] shrugged.
“We do have an Ashfire Bee contract. But I would not be remiss if we took more work on. However, if our lot calls for sitting and eating to excess, I would not object.”
He said that, but the look in his eyes was a challenge. Ceria smiled.
“I suppose you’re right. We could go to Celum tomorrow. Take a few local requests on.”
The Horns brightened. Ksmvr stood straighter, his mandibles opening and rising with delight. He hurried over to the table where he had been sitting and grabbed his pack. Ceria laughed.
“Ksmvr, we’re not going yet!”
“No, but I must be prepared. I am already prepared, but I wish to make sure. At last. I have been sitting here in readiness for the last nine days. I am pleased that my rations are not yet completely spoiled.”
He was pawing through his things. Ceria blinked.
“Your rations? Wait. Did you buy rations? Ksmvr, that was a waste of money—”
He looked affronted and shook his head.
“Captain, that would be a waste of funds. Of course I did not buy any. I kept the rations from our last expedition.”
“…What last expedition? You mean, to the dungeon? Ksmvr, that was weeks ago. Unless you mean when you were going to rescue me—”
“No, I refer to the moments when we last ventured with Griffon Hunt.”
Yvlon frowned.
“How long ago was that? Ksmvr, let me see—”
She bent to reach for Ksmvr’s pack. The Antinium obligingly opened it to show her, and Yvlon’s face changed halfway down. Ceria had never seen someone turn green that fast. Yvlon staggered back, slapping the flap shut.
“Silver and steel!”
“Oh dead gods, what now? Has the Antinium kept a Creler as a pet?”
Revi threw up her hands. Ceria shook her head. She hesitated and looked at Ksmvr. The Antinium stared innocently at her.
“Ksmvr. Hand me the pack.”
He did so. Ceria hesitated. She could smell…something. But the sturdy leather concealed whatever was inside quite well. It had done so for a long time, apparently. She stared at the pack. Slowly, she opened it.
Pisces and Yvlon recoiled. Ksmvr had little in the way of olfactory senses, so he just peered at his rations.
“Ah, they are nicely decomposing. Perfect for renewal if they grow fungi. On the other hand, they can be an appropriate lure—”
 
——
 
“One more try. It was an accident. She doesn’t hate me. She doesn’t hate me—”
Olesm approached the inn. Selys was using him as a shield. He stared at the closed door, saw it open. He hesitated.
“Erin?”
A bag flew out the door. It clocked Olesm on the chest, spilling its contents all over him. Selys took one look at it and fled.
Inside the inn, Ksmvr stared at his rations and then at Olesm turning over to throw up as he scrambled to get them off him. He turned to Ceria. She was giving him a look that told him he had made some mistake. The Antinium wilted.
“Ah. I take it this was another mistake on my part? Comrade Pisces—”
Erin watched all of it happening. She looked at Numbtongue, who was ignoring Falene as he plucked at his guitar. At the other adventurers, debating over what the smoke had been and how useful a weapon it might be. At Apista, riding Mrsha’s head, at Lyonette, poring over some plans for the inn. And Erin did something that made it all that much better.
She laughed.
 
[Miner Level 6!]
[Skill – Grinder Teeth obtained!]
 
[Bard Level 29!]
[Song – Lightcaller Harmony obtained!]
[Song – Peaceful Melody obtained!]
