“Thousands of miles? Difficult to get someone to regularly ship from the ports all the way to Pallass? Expensive? If your answer was all of the above, that’s only half of the problems. Whenever the Drowned Folk start raiding ships, or there’s a war, we get cut off.”
“Which is why we have a huge store of everything Lasica and I need in a part of Melinni’s private warehouse. The one we didn’t show you and not many people know about. That’s something else you need. I’d say a warehouse or some kind of area with runes of preservation first, right, Lasica? Connections second.”
“Oh, agreed. Here’s what most [Innkeepers] we know agree on, Erin. The ones who’re actually smart, anyways. First, you need to lock down a healthy supply of food. Not just enough for next week, but for months. Enough rare ingredients to weather any storm. Of course, you’ll expand your inventory slowly—”
Rufelt held up a cautioning paw.
“—don’t rush your rare ingredients. We did that once and sold for far too little. Focus on, say, a basement with runes of preservation and basics like milk, grain, meat—enough for six months based purely off that. It is vital in case the supply of food plummets.”
“How?”
Erin couldn’t imagine that happening in a city like Pallass, with huge storehouses full of preserved food. Lasica grimaced.
“Easier than you think. Melinni’s got runes of preservation, but they don’t stop insects. In fact, fresh meat makes it worse. You can still contaminate food—it just stays preserved, which means entire batches of meat we thought were good can be off if, say, the cattle were all sick. And in times of plague or general famine…”
“Pallass can feed itself, but with millions of mouths, it still has to ration. And it does not open its gates to other cities. It couldn’t if it wanted to. There are simply too many mouths out there. I wish we had more storehouses, but Melinni and Pallass’ [Quartermasters] are working off of centuries of investment. So food first. At the very least, you won’t be short of meat or so on during the winter. Oh, and stock up on firewood. I hear that’s an issue around Liscor.”
Rufelt sighed. Erin looked between him and Lasica. The shouting from outside was still going on. Someone was calling for the Watch.
“Um. I have a basement full of corpses, so I don’t know about the basement thing. But I have a [Field of Preservation] around my inn—”
“What?”
Lasica shot up in her chair. She stared at Erin and then at her husband. Rufelt’s jaw dropped open. The next moment he was glancing at the door. He leaned forwards, and Erin leaned back a bit at the expression on his face.
“A word of advice, Erin? Don’t mention that again. There are people who would target you for that Skill alone.”
“Field of—that is such a cheap Skill—”
Lasica groaned and covered her face with her claws. She looked at Rufelt.
“Imagine how much gold we could have saved with that! And how many accidental—the number of times we’ve had a rune scratched and not noticed it, I can’t count!”
Rufelt nodded. He looked at Erin seriously.
“I appreciate the trust, but I don’t think that was trust so much as naiveté, Miss Erin. Be warned; we could have been the wrong couple to tell that to.”
“Oh. I’m sorry. I didn’t realize.”
Erin blushed. Rufelt was scolding her, albeit gently. The Gnoll nodded, still half-frowning.
“No other mention of Skills, either. I’d hate for a wagging tail or tongue to reveal something truly important.”
“Basement full of corpses?”
Lasica had caught onto the first bit Erin had said. She stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] gulped.
“I’m not a serial killer! I, uh, just have a Selphid guest—”
“—and she wants to store bodies in your inn. That’s fairly ingenious. Melinni actually had a similar offer, but she wasn’t about to have dead bodies lying next to her merchandise. But in an inn? If you were in Baleros, I’d first ask how much you wanted to be the Selphid-only inn. But if you were fine with that, you could make a fortune just renting your place out to dead bodies. But that’s a specialized type of [Innkeeper] I don’t think you want to get into.”
The Drake [Chef] shook her head. Erin hesitated.
“Wait, so what kind of [Innkeeper] do you think I should be? Because I’m…er…well, I can’t say, but I’m something.”
Rufelt eyed Erin.
“Hm. A class consolidation? That means you’re at least Level 20. No—don’t correct me.”
Lasica nodded. There was a slight flush to her cheek scales, whether from excitement or the drink, Erin couldn’t tell.
“This is all above-board advice, Erin. We like you, but we’ve known you for about an hour. So let’s continue down the list, shall we, Rufelt? First storage. You should invest in some runes of preservation. They’re worth three or four times the gold you spend, even if it’s a pain to get an [Enchanter]. And if some Ancestors-damned, lucky [Innkeeper] gets an entire field of—”
She put her head down on the bar. Rufelt patted his wife on the arm and took over.
“You might have levels, Miss Solstice, but an inn, tavern, or any establishment like ours thrives on more than that. You need to be original. From what I understand, your magic door is a first step there, but you should cultivate some signature dishes. Lasica and I boast the widest variety of dishes in Pallass, mainly because of our Balerosian ingredients. Plus, alcohol and dinner being prepared by experts in the field is a tough combination to beat.”
“Even if a certain [Innkeeper] can give his clientele a night worthy of any [Lord] in a Terandrian mansion for a fraction of the price.”
Lasica grumbled under her breath. She sat upright, sighing.
“But I mean what I said about finding a connection. Ours was a chance meeting, but we sprang on the opportunity to have a highly-leveled friend in Baleros. And it’s paid off for us—and him. Cultivate friends. Your clientele is a good place to start, but there are always people looking out to make strong friends, and an [Innkeeper] as famous as you might start getting some offers. Be careful of whom you trust.”
“But don’t turn down a good opportunity. We could have been affiliated with one of the largest Gnoll tribes in the continent if we hadn’t let that opportunity slip us by.”
Rufelt sighed. Erin’s head swiveled from him to his wife. She felt like she needed to write this all down!
“What’s next, Rufelt?”
“Security? Guests. Hrm…ah, investing money.”
“Right! Security. You want—”
“There he is, officer! Walking around, just like that! Arrest him! It shouldn’t be allowed! There are children on the streets! I don’t care if he’s—”
A loud voice from outside cut the Drake off. She frowned at the door then shook her head.
“Ah. I think I know who that is.”
“Who?”
Erin peered at the door. There were glass windows, and she could see a crowd gathered outside. The loud voice had come from right outside the door, and Erin saw several of Pallass’ [Guardsmen] escorting someone past them. Guardsmen for a reason as it turned out. Erin saw a figure in the center of them, being pushed forwards. Two of the [Guardsmen] were holding a blanket up, but it slipped, and she caught a glimpse of…
“Aw.”
“Dead gods!”
“Hey.”
Erin and Rufelt recoiled, the girl in shock, the Gnoll in disgust. Lasica just raised her brows.
The Drake being arrested was very naked. He had dusky yellow scales, and he was slim. Erin could hear him protesting loudly to the [Guardsmen].
“I just misplaced my clothes! It was an accident! I would have put them on. Eventually.”
The [Sergeant], or whomever was leading the group, glared at his ward, making sure only to meet his eyes.
“Yeah, yeah. How many times is this? Come on, you’re spending another night in the cells. Move it along, people! Nothing to see here.”
There was a burst of laughter from outside, and the [Sergeant] flushed. A female voice—a Gnoll, in fact—shouted loudly.
“There’s everything to see! This is absurd! Disgraceful…”
Erin stared as the nudist Drake was finally taken out of view. She turned to Lasica. She looked amused and resigned. Rufelt was just shaking his head.
“Who was that? Or what was that? No, wait. My question is: is that normal?”
“Only if he’s about.”
Rufelt grumbled to himself. Lasica nodded. With a mix of shame and twisted civic pride, she pointed at the door.
“Erin, that was our resident Named Adventurer who just got arrested. Saliss of Lights. I’d explain, but…okay, security. You want at least a few good [Bouncers], [Guards], or whatever. I heard a rumor you’ve got Hobgoblins working at your inn?”
“I—I did. I only have one now. But hold on, that was—”
“Okay. Well, you want someone. Even if you have Skills, you want someone. That goes for staffing as well. Finding a good support [Barmaid] or [Barkeep] or someone to take up the slack really helps. I suppose it’s less pressing for you since you are an [Innkeeper]—”
“A Named Adventurer? And he’s a stripper?”
“That would imply he normally has clothes. Right. I don’t know if you know this, Erin, but [Innkeeper] is a generalist class in a sense. You see, it’s not like a [Bartender]. Rufelt has some overlap with your job, but his area of influence and tasks are more specialized. So he’ll make far better alcohol than you, but he doesn’t have a skill that affects the entire tavern. Or gives him a stupid field.”
“But I can make some fantastic drinks. And some of them have effects. Like the one I gave you at the start. I can cheer someone up, make a drink that gives energy or knocks someone out, and I can even handle liquids that normal bartenders can’t. For instance, a Level 20 [Bartender] couldn’t even mix that floating drink I gave you.”
Erin stared at both husband and wife. She looked at the door, pointed at it, and gave up. The Drake and Gnoll stared at her, friendly, helpful for no other reason than…they were good people. And utterly determined not to answer any questions about the naked Named Adventurer. Erin sighed.
“Okay. Fine. What about guests? And, uh, do you have a piece of paper?”
 
——
 
“…and a dedicated clientele is important. You can be open to all, like we are, but you’d better be the best. From what you’ve said, it sounds like you want adventurers as your main revenue base, is that right?”
“I…I mean, it’d be nice.”
An hour later, Erin’s head hurt, but she had two full pages of cramped and slightly blotched notes from all Rufelt and Lasica had told her. They were full of tips, and Erin had realized she was full of questions.
“I didn’t know there was so much to know. I mean, about being an [Innkeeper]. I just got my class from cleaning a room. In an inn, obviously, but still. I had no idea how much I’ve missed.”
Rufelt laughed lightly.
“There’s nothing you need to know about being an [Innkeeper], Erin. That’s why you’ve done so well. But there’s experience, tips from others. And somehow, we doubted the [Innkeepers] in Liscor or Celum had been helping you out.”
Lasica nodded, absently reading over Erin’s shoulder.
“Adventurers travel about, which is a problem, but your door solves some of that. But you do need better security. And your golem idea is novel, I’ll grant you, but it is a pricey investment. If you break one, that’s a lot of gold gone in a moment. Just look into some [Guards].”
“Got it. Maybe the Antinium?”
Lasica and Rufelt shuddered. Erin looked up.
“They’re nice! Really!”
“I find that very hard to believe. But then, I lived through the Antinium Wars. I do hear the Hive around Liscor is different from the rest. But let’s just say I won’t test that theory.”
“I’m going to bring Pawn through to Pallass someday. With Numbtongue. And Mrsha too, I guess. Uh—okay, that’s written down.”
Lasica squinted at the parchment.
“If you say so. Your handwriting is atrocious.”
“Hey, I’m drunk!”
“No you’re not.”
“…You’re right. Okay, what about the innkeepers? Why wouldn’t they help me?”
Lasica and Rufelt exchanged a look.
“Ooh. She doesn’t know, Lasica. In that case, we should probably introduce her later.”
“To the good [Innkeepers] in Pallass, at least. For another day.”
Erin waved a hand in front of their faces. She didn’t mind the husband-wife talk they did, or the fact that Lasica’s tail twined around Rufelt when they stood together, but—okay, it was obnoxious sometimes.
“Know what?”
“Innkeepers talk amongst each other. That includes tavern owners and people who manage hostels and so on, by the way. It depends on where you are and who you know, but I could, say, get in touch with someone in Celum if I had an issue that extended there.”
Lasica explained matter-of-factly to Erin. Rufelt nodded.
“It’s all informal—nothing like the Merchant’s Guild or Mage’s Guild or so on—but it does exist. In some cities, [Innkeepers] work together. Like in Celum.”
“Liscor’s not like that. But they do share something. And we know this because both groups don’t like you very much. Celum especially.”
Lasica sighed. Erin blinked at them. She remembered Miss Agnes mentioning there was a group of [Innkeepers] in Celum, but it had slipped her mind. Rufelt nodded sympathetically.
“They might cause you trouble, but you shouldn’t worry too much, yes? You have a magic door and they don’t. Just bear it in mind.”
“Great. Something else to write down. Thank you, by the way.”
Erin grumbled to herself. Lasica laughed lightly. She looked at Erin, then at the window.
“Hm. We’re into early evening. Almost time to open up. And I need another drink.”
“Water for you. You need to cook Erin one proper meal, and one more drink would make you too tipsy for your best. Besides, we have a business to run tonight.”
Sternly, Rufelt handed Lasica a glass of water. She sighed, but sipped from it. Erin looked at the two.
“No, seriously. This is so helpful. Thanks for being so nice. And I—I didn’t do anything to deserve it.”
“Besides save a city? Besides building your inn from practically nothing? Don’t be silly, girl.”
Lasica walked past Erin. She had a wet cloth in hand, and she was polishing something in the center of the room. Tails and Scales was very bar-focused, but it had a number of tables. And, Erin had overlooked this, one of the tables in the center of the room was quite strange. It had no chairs around it, and the top was flat and black. It was a solid block, not a table at all, in fact. Erin stared as Lasica checked something, opening a door in the side of the black…whatever it was.
“But—still. Thank you. No one’s been so nice to me before. I should—I mean, I can’t pay you, but I’ll return the favor—”
