Erin stammered. She caught Rufelt looking at her oddly. Lasica just shook her head and turned to filling the door with something. Wait. Coal? But Erin was looking at Rufelt’s odd expression.
“What?”
“Erin Solstice. We don’t want money. And you may consider this a favor, but we would rather you didn’t. We did this because we wanted to meet you. Even without that, if I had seen you crying on the street, I would have done just this. Do I need a reason to make you a drink?”
The Gnoll looked at Erin. The young woman hesitated.
“No. Of course not. It’s just…it’s been so long since I met someone who just wanted to…help me.”
Rufelt’s eyes widened a bit. He looked up, and Erin knew he was meeting his wife’s eyes.
“Has it really been that long?”
“No. Yes. I’ve met great people. Who helped me out a lot. The Horns, the Halfseekers…but they’re guests. The last time someone just…helped me when I was in pain was—maybe it was Klbkch and Relc?”
A soft intake of breath from behind Erin.
“The Slayer and the Gecko of Liscor?”
Erin laughed at that. She felt incredibly sad and welcomed at the same time.
“No. Just Relc and Klbkch! Klbkch was—he gave me a healing potion for my hand. And Relc? He’s a jerk and a good guy sometimes. And I think he’s better. He killed the closest thing Numbtongue had to a father, and Klbkch is really mean to Pawn. But they helped me without asking for anything. So did Krshia, but that was back then. Since then, I help people. I have friends.”
“But you’re the one who supports them most of the time, isn’t that so?”
“I guess.”
Erin looked down at the bar’s countertop. It was very smooth. Very beautiful wood. She heard a footstep and then felt a light touch on her shoulder. Lasica looked down at her.
“That’s what an [Innkeeper] is. They give shelter to their guests. The best ones do more. I’ve never wanted the job. A [Cook] only has to do one thing. A [Barkeep]’s job ends with their shift. I think you need a break, Erin.”
“I do. I know.”
Erin stared down at her inky, messy notes. A paw reached out and gently tugged them away from her. Rufelt put them behind him.
“Well, Erin. Consider this an invitation. Whenever you wish, for whatever reason, you may leave your inn and come here. Don’t worry about debts or payment. When you need someone to look after you, come here. You’ll always be welcome in Tails and Scales.”
“What he said.”
Erin looked up at a smiling Drake face. She saw Rufelt leave the bar. And her eyes overflowed. But they weren’t bad tears. She was just a bit overwhelmed. Just a bit tired. So Erin cried at the bar as Rufelt panicked a bit, and Lasica found her a warm towel to wipe her face on. Then there was another comforting drink.
And the tavern opened. By the time the first Drake [Barkeep], one of Rufelt’s apprentices, came in, Erin’s tears were dried. Two [Servers], a Gnoll and Drake, joined the mix. All of them introduced themselves to Erin.
“This is my apprentice, Usshi.”
Rufelt introduced the [Barkeep], who gave Erin a smile that made you want to smile back. And the two [Barmaids]. People were already waiting at the door when the Gnoll [Server]—a class for someone who was just starting out their career in that area—opened the door.
“Erin Solstice. We meet again.”
The young woman blinked at Maughin and several of his fellow [Smiths] and apprentices. She stood up to greet him, then Xif, and to Lasica’s displeasure, Melinni. They’d all come to talk more about the Pallass issue, but after a quick discussion where Lasica leaned in, they didn’t invite Erin. They filled the tables, talking to Lasica as more Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and even a Garuda couple came in.
Some were [Mages]. Others [Scribes], [Weavers], [Potters], and others that Lasica and Rufelt knew by name. There was even a [Hauler] who’d reached such a high level that he’d become a [Cargomaster]. The Garuda pair were [Aerial Dancers]. Erin met them all. Rufelt served drinks, some plain shots, others glowing, magical, wine and spirits and, occasionally, juice.
He did it quickly, with a flourish, sometimes suggesting a change in the order that was always accepted. He knew his customers. And he was flawless—except for his fondness for spinning the drinks about. He only stopped that when Maughin complained about the third in a row.
And then Lasica started cooking some appetizers or an early dinner. She didn’t go into the kitchen. Rather, the kitchen came to her. A [Line Cook] came in to learn from her, and Erin saw why.
“A hibachi grill!”
“A hot plate table. Hands off.”
Lasica corrected Erin. She had been throwing coal into the furnace at the bottom of the table, and now she lit it. Erin stared as she tossed some oil on the table and then some thin strips of meat. Almost at once, they began to cook, and she flipped them onto a plate.
“It’s—but—how? That’s from home! From my…how did you—”
Rufelt grinned at Erin’s face.
“If there was ever a way to burn their food, Drakes would surely find it. Just be glad Lasica’s not cooking flambé. And order what you want! She can cook you up a wonderful bowl of these noodles with some meat and fried vegetables…”
“C-can I have an egg?”
Lasica laughed. Erin had her egg. She had a lot of food, actually. Her stomach seemed to have forgotten its usual dimensions as she ate Lasica’s hot, delicious food greedily. And she found herself sitting next to Maughin, then Xif, and then others, talking to them. Not as an [Innkeeper] did to the guests, but as someone with all the time on their hands to pester Maughin about what was under his armor, or ask Xif about magical food, a topic he was only too happy to work with her on.
Erin laughed as Rufelt showed off at his bar, serving a flaming drink to a brave Gnoll, and then a crowd favorite—an alcohol that turned the entire glass invisible too. They let him make six drinks and then searched for them. Erin found one, and it turned her tongue green as a bonus surprise.
Then the Dullahan walked in. Not one of Maughin’s [Smith] friends. Her armor was ceramic, painted white and green, and very beautiful. And she held a cello.
“Ah. Our [Cellist]. I almost forgot we’d asked her to come in tonight.”
Rufelt leaned over the bar. Erin stared as the Dullahan musician set up. There was a little stand for her head with a pillow, a stool, and she was ready. She sat at a corner of the tavern, almost like an afterthought.
Until she began to play. And Erin realized she had a Skill. There were other instruments playing with the Dullahan. But she was alone, and the song that filled the tavern was slow and beautiful.
It changed the atmosphere of the room. From energetic, the room grew thoughtful. And then Lasica abandoned her grill. She let the [Line Cook] take over, and Rufelt stepped out from behind his bar. They moved to a clear spot in the room and began to dance.
They weren’t the only ones. The Garuda got up, and so did some other couples. Erin looked around. She saw the Dullahan [Cellist] play on as the tables, and chairs were pushed back. The Drakes and Gnolls danced slowly, not with skill for the most part, but just lost in each other. The music invited that kind of slow, quiet moment. Those who didn’t dance just sat back, drinks in hand, or ate quietly, savoring the music.
On her stand, the Dullahan’s eyes were closed. Her body played on. Erin envied the quiet, serene look on her face. And she envied the way Lasica and Rufelt smiled at each other as they occupied the center of their home.
“Doesn’t it make you jealous? As Gnoll and Drake couples go, theirs is one of the most famous in Pallass. Everyone knows of Tails and Scales. Normally, you have to be invited to come in by a regular.”
Erin looked around. Usshi, the young [Barkeep], was serving drinks. She looked at Erin.
“A drink?”
“Oh—what should I get? Uh…”
Erin didn’t want to ask for something that would require Rufelt. Usshi waved a claw.
“Ask me for anything. Rufelt has a Skill that passes on some of his talents to me. [Bartender’s Gift] or something. I only hope I won’t need it. And you don’t need to pay anyways. How about something cold? Have you seen this?”
The Drake pulled a tumbler out and filled it with some rum and juice before Erin could protest. Then she went over to a counter in the back of the bar. Erin stared as she placed the tumbler of alcohol on it. Erin saw the sides of the tumbler frost over—the [Barkeep] took it off and quickly handed it to Erin.
“Ice-cold. And just wait—”
She pointed. To Erin’s astonishment, the alcohol hadn’t turned entirely to ice. Rather, it had become a slushy. Usshi handed Erin a spoon and wooden straw. Erin nearly cried again because it was from home. She stayed in the tavern, drinking, eating, talking. And for one evening, Erin forgot she was an [Innkeeper].
 
——
 
Numbtongue eventually got the electrified mana sludge into an empty bottle with a big cork with the help of some gloves, a small spade to shovel the liquid into the jar, and a lot of patience. And some shocks. But he didn’t mind the effort. He was pleased with himself. So pleased that on the way to the inn and back he didn’t notice the change in the cave. But on his final trip out, he sensed it.
The Rockmites were agitated. They were scurrying up and down the walls. When Numbtongue passed through their main nest for the third time, they turned towards him.
The Hobgoblin froze. Too late, he realized that his performance with the guitar, not to mention the electricity, maybe even the mining, had upset the insects. They had ignored him earlier, but now they were registering him as a threat. They scuttled off the walls and onto the ground.
Run. Or fight. If he could call down lightning here, he could probably fry them all if he didn’t collapse the cave or hit himself. But as Numbtongue was reaching for the guitar and sword he carried, he hesitated. The Rockmites were agitated. But this was their home. Was he going to kill them? He had intruded here.
He looked down at the jar of liquid magic stone he’d wrapped up as the Rockmites advanced on him. It was his. The Rockmites had no need for it. He’d made this. In a way—he’d mined it out of rock with Pyrite’s memories and the help of Erin’s door and the Rockmites—but even so, Numbtongue had stolen this from no one.
It was one of the first things Numbtongue had ever made without stealing. Besides that and music. Was he going to taint it by killing?
“No.”
The word made the Rockmites hesitate. They were advancing in a rolling wave, preparing to surround the Hobgoblin, engulf him in one movement. They held back as he set his burdens down and lifted his guitar. But the strings did not flash with electricity. Numbtongue played slowly. The music was quiet, gentle, not like the hard thunder of earlier.
Because he was no thief. Not a killer. Not even scary. Not here. Not today.
The song that filled the cave was a soft tune at first. Soft, gentle plucking on the strings. So soothing that even the Rockmites sensed something was different. They held back, waiting, confused. And then Numbtongue began to sing.
 
“It was a flash of white waving
We followed her together
Laughing as if we knew
My brothers came to rest in the mud.”
 
The tune was slow to come out just right, the words painful. And he played to insects who knew nothing of him. But it didn’t matter. They held still. Numbtongue sang, as he could only do when he was alone. To them, to himself.
 
“Blood has long spilled
Now and then, again
I’m tired, so I’m asking
When will we stop?”
 
They approached him and drew away. The Hobgoblin bent, and they scuttled back. He tried to make them understand. He was a [Bard]. If he couldn’t play to all species, both monsters and people, what point was there?
 
“I came here not to harm you
Or for you to hurt me, listen;
A Goblin asks for peace. Will you agree?”
 
They did not respond. How could they? Maybe they didn’t even understand. But as Numbtongue kept playing, he walked forwards. He sang, and the Rockmites backed up.
The lyrics didn’t match the tune on the guitar. The pacing was off. Numbtongue improvised the fourth verse. And the fifth. But it didn’t matter. He knew this song by heart.
It was the same song as he’d sung in the inn. It wasn’t about the words. It was the message.
Peace. At least for the moment.
The Rockmites probably barely thought, and they might not even hear Numbtongue’s words as such. But they listened, an audience as he sang a universal song. And they let him go.
If you were cynical, you could have said they were just confused by the music, wary of Numbtongue with guitar in hands. But if you believed, as Numbtongue did, maybe the music had meant something.
“Could use more work. Needs better words.”
He grunted to himself as he approached the door. The purple mana stone went on the door. He opened the door, scowled at the stone wall, and leaned against the cave’s entrance. He closed his eyes.
“Tomorrow I’ll go higher.”
And he played his song again.
 
——
 
Late in the evening, Erin Solstice walked back through her door into her inn. Her home.
“I’m not drunk! I just drank a lot of alcohol! But it’s okay since it’s me!”
Erin protested as the surly Drake [Guard] shut the door in her face. She glared at the wooden door.
“Jerk.”
She stuck out her tongue and felt happy about being so silly. She looked back at the door. She’d gone to Pallass looking for…something. Instead, the city had jumped out at her. Surprised her. Made her actually like it this time around. She sighed.
“Okay Pallass, you win round one. But next time? I’m gonna rock your socks! …Do Drakes or Gnolls wear socks?”
Erin was caught up in that thought for a second. She wasn’t drunk, in point of fact. But she was happy. And excited to the point of being silly. No, she’d remembered she could be silly, and she was rejoicing in that fact. She was almost debating opening the door to heckle the Drake some more, then she remembered to set it to purple.
As soon as she did, the door opened. Erin jumped as Numbtongue strode through. He blinked as he nearly ran into her. She smiled up at him.
“Oh. Numbtongue. How was your day?”
The Hobgoblin was dirty, sweaty, and looked tired. But he looked at peace. He hesitated, then gave Erin a half-smile.
“Good. You?”
Erin hesitated. Then she grinned.
“I had a great day. But what happened to you?”
The Hobgoblin hesitated again. He looked around the inn. There was some kind of commotion; everyone was gathered around Apista, and Lyonette was talking with Pisces, Ceria, and Falene for some reason. He shook his head.
“Later. Maybe tonight we can…talk?”
The hopeful look in his eye didn’t pass Erin by. She nodded.
