I didn’t deactivate my stealth skills until I was sure I was safe by entering another shop. It was emptier, as it had a sort of niche market.

This shop was dealing in the selling of wine gourds, it seemed. Just the gourds, not the wine itself.

I wasn’t sure why, but at least the only people present were older, middle-aged men. They didn’t notice me entering at first, but when the stealth deactivated, they seemed a litlte surprise.

Looking me up and down, they nodded to themselves and went back to looking at the gourds.

Weird…

Since I was there anyway, I figured I might as well take a look.

However… how interesting could looking at gourds be?

They seemed really focused on them, though. Were they comprehending some sort of gourd Dao? Even if they did, doing so in a shop was hardly a good idea.

It felt like any sense of normalcy went out the window the moment I stepped into this pagoda.

After looking at the gourds for a whole five minutes, I’d figured that there was nothing interesting for me, so I went back into stealth and disappeared.

That shop didn’t have any prices either. I was beginning to feel this floor was more like a tourist trap than anything.

My theory was only further confirmed when the third shop I’d visited had the same condition.

I didn’t even care about the weapons; I just made my way out and tried to get over to the second floor.

A gate separated the two floors, and of course, there was a guard. He was a fat, bald man who raised an eyebrow when he saw me approach. There were many people going back and forth, but of course he had to stop me out of all the people there.

I was beginning to wonder if the best way to go around was just to pretend to be a Reaper Sect member.

Perfect Disguise could do that for me; I was pretty sure. As it was, I stood out too much.

“Halt.” The bald fatty said, and well, I had no choice but to do so. “You’re not a sect member, are you?”

I shook my head.

“The entry fee is fifty tokens for non-sect members.”

I paused, surprised for once that the person talking to me was reasonable.

“Sure. How do I pay?”

“Just tap your temporary token on the here place, and you’ll be good to go.”

That was easy. I told myself and did just that, then hurried inside before Elder Su came back to sneak up behind me again.

I allowed myself to let out a sigh of relief as I’d walked onto the second floor, and was surprised to see that there were many more people from outside the Reaper Sect there.

Just as I was about to take a step forward, a creepy voice made me shudder.

“Oh dear, why did you leave like that? I was just about to take care of that nuisance for you.”
