The scaling back was small — a slight compression of the fourth answer, holding the Surge's full quality and the Six of Six perception off to the side, offering the edges rather than the center. She was not certain Vasic noticed. She was not certain Tomás would not notice, if he had been in the Hall. She held the partial answer and felt the gap between what she had nearly said and what she had said, and catalogued that gap as information about herself.

"The perception is active during Harmony Skill activation," she said, "and has passive elements that strengthen at higher RES values. The range extends with —" She paused. "It's difficult to describe accurately."

Vasic wrote something. She did not press on the difficulty. Instead she moved to the next question: "Has the perception included anything your party experienced as new information? Information you did not have through other means."

Solenne thought of the two seconds in the Floor 10 chamber. The shape of the full chord. *Almost.*

"Yes," she said carefully. "In one instance."

Vasic looked up from the notebook. It was the first time she had fully stopped writing. She looked at Solenne with the measurement quality fully forward, and underneath it — very briefly — something that looked like the expression of a person arriving at the thing they had been navigating toward.

---

Miriam closed her clinical notebook.

Not put it away. Closed it, both hands flat on the cover for a moment, the gesture of a diagnostician who had arrived at a conclusion. She looked at Vasic with the quiet attention of someone who had been taking inventory for the last ten minutes and was done taking it.

Vasic glanced at her. A brief acknowledgment — another marker on whatever map she was building — and returned to Solenne.

"The coordination mechanics," she said. "In combat, when Harmony Skills engage. I've seen reports of call-and-response patterns in Harmony pairs. Whether that's deliberate communication or something else."

"Both," Solenne said. "It develops over time. The deliberate part becomes less deliberate as the mechanism gets more established." She considered. "Like any other skill."

"Like any other skill," Vasic repeated. She wrote it. Then she looked at the notebook for a moment, and the look had a quality that was private — the internal processing of something that had just confirmed something else. Then she looked up, and the measurement quality was back, and the private quality was gone.

She produced a folded piece of paper from her jacket's inner pocket. One fold. She held it out toward Solenne.

"I said I had questions," she said. "I also have something you should see. Or —" A brief hesitation, the first Solenne had observed. "More accurately: something you will encounter, and it would be better if you had context before you do."

Solenne took it.

The paper was standard weight, slightly warm from the jacket pocket. Folded once. She opened it.

The System tag was visible immediately — not a stamped notation but an ambient display, the faint amber overlay of System-recognized documentation:

```stat-screen
[SYSTEM REFERENCE DOCUMENT]
  Origin: UNKNOWN
  Classification: Reference
  Contents: [COORDINATES — FLOOR 17,
    QUADRANT NW, ALCOVE 7-B]
```

The coordinates were there. Floor 17, quadrant NW, alcove 7-B — specific in the way that architectural documentation was specific, bearing and alcove designation rather than vague directional description. Below the System tag, in the lower half of the paper, a set of notations in script she did not recognize. Small, precise characters arranged in columns that might be numerical or might be a writing system she had never encountered. Her linguistics training activated immediately and produced nothing useful — no Indo-European cognates, no Semitic root structures, no familiar morphological patterns. Something without a known ancestor.

She looked at Vasic. "What is this?"

"Coordinates for a locked room," Vasic said. "The lock will not open for any standard Skill or System key available to any current climber." A pause. "But I have reason to believe your party is — specifically — different in ways the System will recognize."

Solenne looked at the notation again. The script was not Tower architectural text — she had seen Tomás's copies of the text from the sealed spaces on Floors 5, 6, and 8, and this was not the same. Different stroke patterns. Different character density. Same principle of being a thing that should not exist in a physical artifact and did anyway.

"Where did you get this?" she said.

"Research," Vasic said. The non-answer again, the same precision of deliberate incompleteness. She was already moving — not away, but closing the notebook, capping the pen, the motion of someone who had said what she came to say. "Floor 17. Northwest quadrant. The alcove is marked 7-B in the Tower's partition system." She looked at Solenne directly, and the measurement quality was gone. What was left was something more difficult to name — not warm exactly, but less guarded. "Don't lose it."

She looked at the party — the full sweep again, taking inventory. At Dayo, standing near Solenne's elbow with the First Boss Coat on and her hands steady. At Nadia, against the west wall, arms folded, the expression of someone who had made a decision and was sitting with it. At Miriam, still and watching. At Vesper, who had stopped working at the Field Forge and was looking at Vasic with the focused expression she brought to problems she was calibrating.

"Thank you for your time," Vasic said.

She moved toward the lower door with the same efficient motion she had arrived with.

Dayo did not move from Solenne's elbow until Vasic was through the door.

---

The Hall was quiet for a moment.

Then Tomás stepped through the upper door.

He stopped just inside the threshold. He looked at the door Vasic had used, at the party's positions, at the paper in Solenne's hand. He had been gone for forty minutes. He had not been in the Hall for any of the conversation.

"You had company," he said. Not a question.

"System Scholar," Solenne said. "She asked about composite resonance perception and handed me this." She held up the paper.

Tomás looked at it. He crossed the Hall, and Solenne held it out, and he read it — the System tag, the coordinates, the notation she couldn't identify. He spent longer on the notation than the coordinates. His eyes tracked the characters in the columns the way he tracked terrain — reading shape, direction, pattern.

"She asked about Harmony activation rate," Solenne said, watching him. "RES variance. Composite perception." She paused. "In that order."

Tomás looked up from the paper.

"She asked about composite resonance perception," he said, "before she asked whether you had it."

The phrase landed in the room with the flat clarity of a true thing precisely stated.

"Yes," Solenne said. "She did."

"She already knew you had it." He returned the paper. "The questions were confirmation. Not inquiry."

Nobody said anything for a moment.

Vesper, at the Field Forge, set down the casing she had been examining. She looked at the coordinates Solenne was still holding. "Floor 17," she said. Her voice had the focused quality it carried when she was running a practical assessment. "Northwest quadrant, alcove 7-B." She looked at the notation. "The bearing is extremely precise for someone who claims not to know what's there."

---

Nadia had pushed off from the west wall.

She moved to stand near the group, though not quite in it — slightly outside the radius, her arms still folded, the green scarf catching the amber light. She looked at the paper. She looked at Solenne. She looked at the door Vasic had left through.

"So," she said. "To summarize." The timing in her voice was active — not the timing of a prepared joke, but the real-time timing of someone finding the shape of a thing through speech. "The Tower was built for us specifically. The System traveled an unknowable distance to put us in Chicago at the exact right time. And *now* a stranger shows up, asks precisely targeted questions confirming things she already knew, and hands us coordinates for a floor we haven't reached yet, with a note in a language nobody alive can read." She paused. The pause was precise. "I feel like we're being studied for a paper we didn't consent to peer review."

Dayo made a sound — not quite a laugh, something shorter, something that acknowledged the accuracy without committing to whether the accuracy was funny.

"She had a notebook," Miriam said.

Everyone looked at her.

"A physical one," Miriam continued, in the measured sentences of someone reporting rather than editorializing. "Writing things during the conversation. But she wasn't writing what Solenne was answering — she was writing around it. Filling in categories she had already established." A pause. "She was interested in whatever Solenne said about the one instance. The perception that carried new information." Miriam looked at Solenne. "The one you didn't fully answer."

"I scaled back," Solenne said.

"I noticed." Miriam said it without judgment. "She noticed too."

Another silence. The amber light did not change.

"She didn't ask where we were going," Miriam added.

This landed differently from the rest. She said it without emphasis, the tone of someone adding an observation to a list rather than delivering a conclusion. Then she opened her clinical notebook and picked up her pen.

Solenne looked at the paper. The coordinates — Floor 17, quadrant NW, alcove 7-B — in System-tagged precision. Below it, the script she could not read, the notation that was not Tower architectural text, arranged in columns that her linguistics training classified as *structured* without being able to classify anything else.

A second writing system.

The Tower had a first one — the text built into the sealed spaces on Floors 5, 6, and 8, the six qualities in a language no one alive should be able to read. And now there was a second. From a source that was not the Tower. From a woman who had researched them specifically enough to know what questions to ask in what order, who had information Solenne could not trace to any public source, who had left them coordinates and notation they could not yet use and had said *it would be better if you had context before you do.*

Solenne turned the paper over. The back was blank.

"She's going to come back," Nadia said.

Solenne looked up. "You think so?"

"She didn't say she was done." Nadia's voice had settled out of the joke-timing into something more direct. "She said she had questions — past tense, asked and answered. But she didn't close the loop on why she was giving us the paper." She glanced at the door. "Someone who knows that much doesn't show up once. That's not what you do when you know that much. You — you build a relationship with the data."

Nadia had a way of arriving at things through the route of the absurd. This was not the absurd route. This was something else — the route of someone who had been studying what it meant to perform while someone watched, and had recognized the shape of that performance in the woman who had just walked out of the Hall.

Solenne filed this. She filed all of it: the question ordering, Miriam's three observations, Tomás's one precise reframe, Vesper's note about the bearing. She felt the weight of the paper in her hand and the fact of Floor 17 being three floors away and the script she could not read and would not be able to stop thinking about.

"Level up," Nadia said, and her Status Window chimed.

---

The notification arrived mid-thought — the System's characteristic timing, its interpretations of significant moments not always coinciding with what Solenne would have called significant. Both Nadia and Miriam, simultaneously, which was either meaningful or efficient.

```stat-screen
[LEVEL UP — Nadia Volkov-Baptiste]
Level: 9 → 10
  Class Auto-Bonus: +3 AGI, +3 INT, +1 RES
  Milestone: Jester Flourish (Passive, Tier II)
    — Successful Stumble: +10% AGI for 8s
    — Pattern Break: free activation once per floor
  Free Points: +3 (unallocated)

  AGI: 25 → 28
  INT: 24 → 27
  RES: 17 → 18
  HP: 218 → 232
  MP: 385 → 408

  Class Aptitude Assessment:
  "The one who sees the absurd and names
   it before anyone else does. Not because
   she is careless — because she is paying
   very close attention."
```

```stat-screen
[LEVEL UP — Miriam Osei-Bonsu]
Level: 9 → 10
  Class Auto-Bonus: +3 WIS, +2 RES, +1 VIT
  Milestone: Mending Touch — Maximum (Tier I)
    — WIS x 3.4 + RES x 2.9 HP per cast
    — Partial curse removal unlocked
    — Note: Tier I ceiling reached.

  WIS: 28 → 31
  RES: 21 → 23
  VIT: 16 → 17
  HP: 268 → 280
  MP: 400 → 420
```

Nadia read her Class Aptitude Assessment. She read it twice. Solenne watched her read it, watched the specific quality of attention she brought to the last sentence — *because she is paying very close attention* — and watched what the sentence did to her face, which was not a joke and was not nothing and was very quickly sealed off behind the expression of someone who had decided that whatever this was, she was not addressing it in a Transition Hall in front of five other people.

Miriam read hers. She looked at the ceiling. "Tier I ceiling," she said. "The highest I can go without class evolution." She said it as a fact, not a complaint, and clicked her pen.

She wrote something in the clinical notebook. Then she closed it.

"Congratulations," Vesper said, to both of them, and she had been watching Nadia with the particular quiet attention she brought to watching Nadia — the Artificer's patient observation, the quality of a craftsperson studying a material that would be important later — and she did not look away when Nadia noticed, which was a thing Vesper had not been doing until very recently.

Nadia noticed.

She made a face at Vesper that was technically a smile and was actually a flag: *I see you seeing me, I don't have words for this right now, we are going to be fine.* Vesper received it. The quality of her attention settled.

"We should move," Dayo said. Not urgently — she was still working through the armor cloth on the eighth dent's edges, methodical. But the word *should* had a specific weight in Dayo's voice, heavier than *could* and lighter than *need to,* the weight of someone looking at the door to Floor 12 and doing the math on how far they were from Floor 17.

Solenne looked at the paper in her hands.

Floor 17. NW quadrant. Alcove 7-B. Script she could not read.

She folded it once, along the existing crease, and put it in the inner pocket of her utility belt where she kept the compass that no longer pointed north.

