Barbara's husband nodded, because Ren had eased some of his worry. They made idle chit-chat to pass the time until Elise came back with the food orders. They all stayed outside and ate their meals, and the light breeze brought the smells of flowers and trees to them. The sun in the sky was slightly covered, so there wasn't any danger of excessive heat; and the patio tables had umbrellas to unfurl if it was necessary.

“This place is great!” Ren said when he was done, and sat back in the wheelchair. “I can't wait to move in and get all my stuff in here.”

Denise laughed. “You might... might... fill a corner of that room closet upstairs with all of your stuff.”

“Then I'll have to pick up more stuff.” Ren chuckled. “I might need some help when I go shopping, though.” He said and looked at Elise. “You're the resident shopping expert. What do you think I should get first?”

“A new wardrobe.” Elise said. “If you're going to be more active like you are today, then you'll need new clothes to reflect that.”

“That sounds like a good idea.” Ren said. “I should be able to move around on my own in a few days.” He said. “If I could possibly recruit you again next Sunday, I'd be happy to monopolize your day off again.”

Elise laughed. “You want me to give up my only free day to take you around shopping and dress you up?”

Ren nodded.

“If that's the case, then...” Elise grinned at him. “...I'd be delighted!” It's like all my dreams are coming true!

“So, who's up for checking out the guest house?” Ren asked. There were a few grumbles of being tired after eating, and Ren chuckled.

“We can rest here for a bit more, but...” Ren smiled. “...just so you know, we haven't seen the garage, either.”

After another 10 minutes of small-talk, they all went back into the house and out the front door, then walked up the driveway past the main house. A three car garage was at the end of it, with a path to a back door in the kitchen. They went into the garage, and looked around. Even though there were only three garage doors, there was room for 5 vehicles inside. They left the garage and walked along another path to the guest house.

“Okay, this is getting ridiculous.” Denise said. “That's not a 'guest' house! It's a normal house!”

She was quite right. A two storey house stood there with all the trimmings. A porch, a balcony, it's own small one car garage, and a patio with set of the same furniture as the main house. They went inside and looked around.

“It really is a standard house.” Elise said.

There was a living room, bathroom, kitchen, and dining room downstairs; and upstairs was a small bedroom, two closets, the master bedroom with an attached bathroom the same size as the other small room, and a stairway to the attic.

“It's actually a really nice house.” Ren said as they went out through the front door. “It's the kind of place I always dreamed of growing up in.”

Everyone went quiet, and Ren held a hand up. They stopped walking and he looked at Barbara's husband.

“Sir, there's something I need to talk to you about.” Ren said, then looked at the three women. “Please give me a few minutes.”

The women nodded and went into the main house.

“I know what you're going to say.” Barbara's husband said. “It's kind of obvious.”

“What do you think I'm going to say?”

“You want Barbara to move in with you full-time.” Barbara's husband said. “This is a bit too far for her to travel twice a day.”

“You're half-right.” Ren said. “It is too far for her to travel; but, I don't want her to move in with me.”

“You don't?” Barbara's husband frowned. “Then why are you showing her all of this?” He said and motioned at the property.

“I wasn't showing it to her.” Ren said. “I was showing it to you.”

“Wh-what?”

“Sir, I know Barbara taking care of me every day has been hard on you.” Ren said. “It's also been hard on Barbara.”

“But...”

“She's getting paid well, I know that for sure; but, she works hard and she's earned it after all these years.” Ren said. “When I found this place, the very first thing I did was offer her the guest house.”

“So you do want her to move in.”

“No, sir.” Ren said. “I want you to move into the guest house with her.”

“Excuse me?”

“I'm growing up, and I'm becoming more independent.” Ren said. “I've been kind of forced to do it before I was actually ready to; but, Barbara has always been there for me when I needed her.” He smiled. “This is a big event for me. It's a whole new, and kind of scary, adventure. I want to have Barbara as close at hand as possible.”

“What... what are you saying?”

“I want the both of you to move from where you live to come here, and stay in the guest house.” Ren said. “No rent. No bills.”

“Son, are you crazy?” Barbara's husband asked, and Ren felt a well of emotions spring up. He knew that it was just an expression, and her husband probably called everyone son; but, no one in real life had called him that in years. He had always seen Barbara as a mother figure, but he didn't think twice about that kind of making her husband like a father figure... until now. Ren kept a straight face, but his voice wavered slightly.

“S-some people s-say so, sir.” Ren said, then took a deep breath to try and calm down. “I know this is a big decision, and I know it's kind of out of the blue...” He sighed. “...please, let me give you a house to live in, and please make it a home for her to love.”
