The shrine answered the slate the way a lock answers its key.

He placed the device on the pedestal — the same concave slot he'd seen in the place where he'd woken — and the eye symbol lit. Instantly, as though it had been waiting for the contact and the waiting was the only thing preventing the glow. The two-note chime sounded — deeper here, fuller, as though the earth itself was resonating with the tone instead of just the device.

The ground split.

A rectangular section of grass and stone slid apart, revealing a shaft that dropped straight down into blue-gold light. No stairs. No ladder. A platform rose to meet him — smooth, geometric, humming with the same patient energy as the pedestal. It stopped at ground level and waited.

He stepped on.

The descent was slow enough to be deliberate. The surface world receded above him — grass, sky, the warm disorder of wind and birdsong — replaced by stone walls carved in the geometric precision he was learning to recognise. The same spirals. The same eye motifs. The same sourceless blue-gold illumination that pulsed like something breathing. But brighter here than in the place he'd woken. More active. The patterns on the walls moved — not physically, but the light within them shifted, flowing through the carved channels like water through an aqueduct.

The temperature changed. Not colder — neutral. The air had no temperature at all, as though the concept of heat and cold had been engineered out of it. No smell. After the Plateau's grass and cooking smoke and the sharp ozone memory of the machine's beam, the absence of scent was itself a sensation. Nothing had lived here. Nothing had died here. Nothing had changed.

His footsteps were the loudest thing in the chamber. Each one echoed off walls that had been carved to carry the sound of a single person walking, and the echo came back to him with a precision that felt like attention. The shrine was listening.

The chamber ahead was small. A pedestal at its centre — different from the entrance pedestal, taller, with a flat surface that glowed orange. Behind it, a gate: floor-to-ceiling bars of blue light, translucent, humming. Beyond the gate, more chambers. The trial.

He approached the pedestal. The slate hummed against his hip, vibrating with a frequency that matched the pedestal's glow, and his hand moved without him deciding it should. He placed the slate on the surface.

The transfer was physical.

Not a sound. Not a visual. A sensation — vibration first, running from the slate through his palm and up his forearm, then warmth, spreading through his wrist and into his shoulder, then something else. An expansion. As though a sense he hadn't known he lacked had been switched on. The world gained a layer.

The screen flashed.

```stat-screen
    SHEIKAH SLATE UPDATED
    ---
    Rune Acquired: MAGNESIS
    Manipulate metallic objects using magnetism.
    ---
```

He looked at his hand. Then at the room.

A metal plate on the floor — heavy, square, dull iron — was glowing. Pink. A colour that hadn't existed in his perception ten seconds ago. He could feel it. Not with his fingers, not with his eyes — with something between the two, a new faculty that registered the plate's weight, its density, its willingness to move. The metal was there the way the ground was there. Present, tangible, real in a way that bypassed his normal senses.

He raised his hand.

The plate rose.

Not smoothly. It wobbled, tilted, nearly crashed back to the floor. The pull was real — he could feel it in his forearms, in his shoulders, in the muscles of his core, a phantom resistance as though he were lifting the plate with a very long, invisible arm. His teeth clenched. The plate steadied. He moved his hand left. The plate drifted left, trailing pink light.

His arm was shaking by the time he set it down.

The gate behind the pedestal opened. The blue bars dissolved into nothing, and the next chamber waited.

---

Three rooms. Three problems. Each one slightly harder than the last.

The first: a gap in the floor, too wide to jump. A metal plate on his side of the gap. He lifted the plate — steadier this time, his body learning the invisible arm's weight — and extended it across the opening. A bridge. He walked across it. The metal groaned under his feet. It held.

The second: a metal door, thick and heavy, blocking a corridor. He grabbed it with the rune and pulled. The door slid sideways on tracks he couldn't see, its weight resisting and then surrendering, and the resistance was physical — a drag in his forearms that made his shoulders burn. Behind the door, the next chamber opened. He stood for a moment, flexing his hands. The phantom sensation lingered, the ghost of weight where no weight had been.

The third: a chest. It sat beneath shallow water at the chamber's edge, glowing pink through the surface. He pulled it up — the water parting around the metal as it rose, streaming off the lid — and set it on dry stone. Inside: a sword. Short-bladed, simply made — a traveler's weapon, meant for the road. But real metal, real edge, and when he picked it up his grip settled with the same unconscious precision the bone club had provoked, but faster. More certain. His hands knew swords better than clubs.

Near the final chamber, a metal crate sat beside a wooden dummy — straw-stuffed, human-shaped, propped against the wall. He didn't plan what happened next. He reached with the rune, lifted the crate, and dropped it.

The dummy exploded. Straw and splinters burst outward. The crate bounced once, dented, and settled.

He looked at the crate. He looked at where the dummy had been.

The rune was not just a key. It was a weapon he could use without touching anything.

---

The final gate opened onto a raised platform at the chamber's end.

On the platform sat a figure.

He stopped. Not from fear — from instinct. The same instinct that had straightened his spine in the temple with the broken roof. This space commanded something from him, and his body provided it before his mind could object.

The figure was ancient. Not decayed — preserved. Dried skin over old bones, but the posture was deliberate: cross-legged, hands folded, spine straight. Meditation, not collapse. Robes draped the narrow frame — dark fabric marked with the same geometric eye symbol that decorated every surface of this place. A tall hat, conical, wrapped in more of the same cloth. The figure was human-shaped but barely human-scaled, as though ten thousand years of stillness had burned away everything unnecessary. What remained was purpose.

The figure did not move. Its eyes did not open. But something communicated — a pressure against Link's awareness, not from the slate, not from the shrine's humming systems, from somewhere older and more direct. A presence, patient and deliberate, pressing against his mind like a hand against a closed door.

Then words, arriving without sound.

*Your resourcefulness in overcoming this trial speaks to the promise of a hero.*

The figure began to glow.

It started at the hands — a soft gold light, warm, alive in a way the shrine's blue-gold illumination was not. The glow spread. Up the forearms, across the narrow chest, through the robes and into the face he hadn't been able to see. The light intensified. The shape softened. The details of cloth and bone and ancient skin dissolved, particle by particle, into radiance.

He watched a person unmake itself.

The process was gentle. That was the worst part — the gentleness of it. No violence, no struggle, no sound of pain. The figure simply came apart, the way smoke comes apart in still air, and where it had been there was light, and where the light had been there was a single sphere. Small. Warm. Heavy with something he could not name.

The sphere drifted toward him. It settled into the slate with a sound like a held breath finally released.

```stat-screen
    SHRINE OF TRIALS
    ---
    Oman Au Shrine
    Trial: Magnesis Trial
    ---
    Spirit Orb acquired.
    Spirit Orbs: 1/4
    ---
```

He stood in the empty chamber.

The platform was bare. The robes were gone. The light had faded back to the shrine's steady blue-gold, and the space where the figure had sat was just stone — smooth, clean, as though nothing had ever rested there. But the warmth was still in the slate. Heavier than its size suggested. Not physically — metaphysically. This had been a person. This had been patience, distilled into a gift.

He didn't understand what had happened.

A person had dissolved. A glowing sphere had floated to him. The words — *the promise of a hero* — meant nothing, because he didn't know what a hero was. He only knew that someone had been waiting here, in the dark, for longer than waiting should last, and when the waiting was over the someone had stopped existing and the thing that remained was warm in his slate, heavier than its size, settling against his hip with a weight that had nothing to do with mass.

He looked at the empty platform for a long time. Then he turned and walked back through the chambers he'd solved, past the metal plates and the empty chest and the scattered remains of the dummy, and the elevator carried him back toward the surface.

---

The world came back in pieces.

The elevator rose and the stone walls fell away and the sky appeared above him — blue, wide, marked with the long streaks of afternoon cloud. Wind hit his face. It smelled of grass and distance and the faint sweetness of the wildflowers near the temple, and the smell was almost violent after the shrine's sterile nothing. His lungs filled with it. He breathed out and the breath was visible in the cooling air.

Metal glowed.

He hadn't turned the rune off. Or rather, the rune had not turned off — it was layered onto his perception now, a permanent addition, and the world was different because of it. A rusted sword half-buried in the dirt near the shrine entrance glowed pink. A metal chest behind a crumbled wall, thirty paces away, glowed pink. The rivets on a wooden platform near the treeline — tiny, hidden, insignificant — glowed pink.

The Plateau had not changed. He had.

He pulled the rusted sword from the earth with the rune. It floated up, trailing dirt, and drifted to his outstretched hand. The blade was corroded and weak, but it was metal and he had found it with a sense he hadn't owned an hour ago. He tucked it into his belt beside the axe and the bone club and the new sword from the chest.

Four weapons now. None of them permanent.

He walked.

The Plateau in the afternoon was golden. Low sun through the trees cast long shadows across the grass, and the light caught the dew on the wildflowers and turned them into small fires. A hawk circled overhead — slow, patient, riding a thermal with the kind of effortless precision that made his body ache with recognition. Something about the circling. Something about the patience.

He passed the clearing where he'd fought the creatures on his first day. The camp was empty. The fire pit was cold. The crude platform stood in the grass, unoccupied. But near the tree where he'd found the branch — the branch that had broken, the first weapon this world had given and taken away — two more of the creatures were rooting through the underbrush.

He drew the new sword.

The fight was different this time. Not desperate. Not a scramble for survival with a stick that wouldn't last. He moved between them with a control that surprised him — footwork precise, weight centred, the sword an extension of his arm in a way the branch had never been. One creature swung its club and he stepped inside the arc and struck twice, short efficient blows, and the creature dissolved into smoke before the second blow fully landed.

The second creature threw a rock. He sidestepped it. He didn't think about sidestepping — his body moved, his feet adjusted, the rock passed through the space where his head had been. He closed the distance in three strides and put the creature down with a single strike.

The Boko Club in his belt — the bone club, the one he'd carried since the first campfire, the weapon that had survived his first fight and the old man's campfire and the long terrifying sprint from the machine — cracked when he used it to pry a stone loose from a fallen wall. Not in combat. Not in service of anything that mattered. It simply broke, the handle splitting along a grain he hadn't noticed, and the pieces fell into the grass with a sound like punctuation.

He looked at them. The splintered ends. The drying marrow in the bone.

Everything here had a shelf life. He was learning to stop being surprised by this.

Between the two shrine glows, he built a fire. Not because he was cold — because the act of building a fire had become a rhythm, a marker between efforts. He roasted an apple on a stick the way the old man had shown him. The skin split and the juice ran and the smell was sweet and smoky and good. He ate it slowly, sitting in the grass with the shrine's amber glow behind him and the second shrine's glow ahead, and for a few minutes the Plateau was just a place where a person could sit and eat and watch the light change.

The machine was visible from here.

Over the treeline, past the temple ruins, the Eastern Abbey sat in the middle distance. The dome. The articulated legs. The dark eye. From this distance, it looked like a stone — just another piece of rubble in a landscape full of ruins. But he knew what it was. His body knew. His hands remembered the shaking and his chest remembered the heat and his legs remembered the flat animal sprint that had carried him clear.

He looked at it. Then he looked away. Then he looked at it again.

The second shrine was near the Abbey. Not inside it — nearby, on the hill above it. He would have to walk past the machine to reach it.

The apple core went into the fire. Weapons gathered, belt adjusted, the glow ahead steady and waiting. He walked toward it.

---

The second shrine was identical.

Same pedestal. Same descent. Same blue-gold light, same geometric precision, same sourceless illumination and timeless, scentless air. His body recognised the ritual now — slate on pedestal, chime, elevator — and the repetition was almost comforting. The surface world, with its wind and its machines and its breakable weapons, fell away above him, and the shrine received him into its clean, mineral stillness.

The rune pedestal waited.

This time, when the transfer hit, it felt different. Not the expansion of perception — Magnesis had been a new sense, a new way of seeing. This was the addition of force. The vibration ran through his palm and up his arm and settled in his hands, and his hands felt heavier. Not with weight. With potential. Something had been added to what he could do, and this addition was not about perception. It was about destruction.

