

Liam placed a hand on the nape of his neck as if deeply offended.  “Me?  Planning?  How dare you!”  Edmund noted how Liam hadn’t actually answered the question.

William snorted.  “I figured you’d have a hard time procuring supplies after the stunt you pulled.  Friend of mine told me you’d been asking after portable camps, then Liam here let slip your budget.”

Edmund glanced down at the figurine.  “And how much would you’ve charged for this if Liam hadn’t given me three mithril a floor ago?”

“For this?  Three mithril.  If you’d only had two and a half, I would’ve brought you something worse.”

Amelia raised an eyebrow at the worn-looking tent.  “It gets worse?”

“Oh, lass, it always gets worse.”

Edmund didn’t like the sound of that.  He especially didn’t like the way Liam and William had clearly conspired to force him into this deal.  He leveled with Liam, trusting he, at least, couldn’t outright lie.  “Is this a trap?  Is this a bad deal?  To your knowledge, is there a reason I shouldn’t accept this?  I want a straight answer or I’m leaving.”

Liam counted on his fingers as he rattled off answers.  “That’ll be no, not especially, and several.  You could purchase exactly this for half the price if you went to the right place.”

Edmund blinked.  “And that right place would be…?”

“Patchy’s Portals in Revarsted.”

“In the capital?”

Liam turned up his palms.  “Hey, you asked where the right place was.”

Amelia raised an eyebrow.  “What about Harrowed’s Hearth?  If we’re going to be there next week anyway…”

“Ooh, good idea!” Liam chimed.  “Shop for supplies in the same twenty-four hour window that every other delver is in Harrowed’s Hearth.”

“With the guards after us?”  Edmund shook his head.  “No way.”  He turned to William.  “This is all you have on offer?”

“Unless you want a few thousand kebabs.”

Edmund mulled it over.  He would’ve preferred to spend the money on something with actual combat utility, but if didn’t take this deal, there was a real chance he’d never get to spend it at all.  While there certainly was quantifiable benefit to getting consistent rest, he more so had eyes for the storage and rations.  At long last, he could replace his rootmother’s sigil.

“Alright.  Fine.  Better something I can actually use than three coins wearing a hole in my pocket.  I’ll take it.”  He handed over the precious mithril and snatched up the wooden tent.

William collected his fee and offered a hand.  “Pleasure doing business with you.”

Edmund shook it.  “Thanks.”

He spun around and flipped the figurine onto the ground, from which sprung a ramshackle doorframe with a worn door that sat angled in its hinges.  Edmund pulled it open.

The space within just barely accommodated a six-foot-long cot, a single chair, a washbasin, and barrel presumably stuffed with the aforementioned dry rations.  Edmund deposited his satchel on the chair, stepped outside, and promptly recollected the wooden carving.  The door vanished.

William raised a bushy eyebrow.  “All good?”

Edmund nodded, pointedly ignoring Amelia’s disappointed look.  She had different standards.  “It’s perfect.”

“Great.  Can I interest you in a kebab for the road?”

“No, thank you,” Amelia said, collecting her own portable camp from the bed of moss.  “We have a swim ahead of us.”

Edmund nodded.  “Apparently we’ve got a date with some rusalka.”

“A word of advice,” Liam said, “don’t date the rusalka.  They might look good, but they’re crazy.  Every last one of them.”

Edmund blinked at him.

Liam snapped his fingers.  “Right.  You’re crazy too.  Maybe you’d be perfect for each other.”

Edmund ignored him.  “Well, it was good to see you, William.  I imagine it’ll be a while before we run into each other again.”

“Oh, I wouldn’t count on it.”

Edmund didn’t bother trying to unpack that one.  Instead, he turned to Amelia.  “Ready?”

“Ready.  Nice to meet you, William!  Goodbye Liam.”

“No, no, no.  Don’t say goodbye.  I’m right here.  I’ll always be here.”

Amelia faltered.

Edmund just left.

She followed.  Only once they were both clear of the hollow did she speak again.  “The dungeon is closing for maintenance?”

“I’ve given up on calling Liam on his bullshit.  It’s either some scheme, or a deal he’s struck with someone.  Maybe your father’s behind it, though I’m not sure what he could possibly offer Liam.  The steady stream of kingsguards coming down here is already exactly what Liam wants.”

“Maybe it has to do with you?” Amelia offered.  “He mentioned an extradimensional being or four.  Seems like an oddly specific number.”

Edmund shook his head.  “Don’t read into it.  That’s what he wants.  He can’t lie, so he misleads you with subtext.  You can only take the literal meaning of the words he says as truth.  Anything else is a game.”

“If it’s a game that means it can be won.”

“Not against him it can’t.  He’s been playing longer than any of us.”

Amelia exhaled.  “Anyway, rusalka.  They’re simple enough.  Stab them if they swim at you.  Waterbreathing and mental resilience take care of the rest.”

“Not if my challenger’s mark has anything to say about it,” Edmund said as he followed her to the shoreline.  “Expect surprises.”

“Always.”  Amelia smirked.  “Right this way.”

She downed a potion, tossed the vial off to the side to be reclaimed by the dungeon, and dove into the frigid waters.  Edmund donned his swelter ring to fight off the chill and promptly joined her.

Amelia led him down along the lakebed, shoving the odd piece of seaweed aside as she swam.  The water grew dark as they descended, the eternal twilight of the forest above failing to pierce fog and water alike.  Even his lesser darkvision made little more than silhouettes out of his surroundings.

It didn’t take long for the first rusalka to appear.

She hovered in the water, somehow hauntingly lit despite the gloom around her.  Jet black hair drifted in the current.  A sheer white gown clung to her form.  She held out a hand, palm up and open in a welcoming gesture, a look of longing in her eyes.

Edmund’s mark burned.

The rusalka vanished.

Edmund blinked.  He’d expected some sort of projectile.  It was always some sort of projectile.  Invisibility?  Teleportation?  Those weren’t so easy.

“Edmund!”

He spun to find Amelia entangled in a web of grass.  Cordlike stalks bound her arms and legs as she flailed for freedom, reaching desperately for the vine tightening around her throat.  She screamed and thrashed and looked to Edmund with wide and frightened eyes, lip quivering in an expression of sheer, unfathomable terror.

Edmund almost laughed.

Without its mind-altering effects at work, Edmund could practically count the ways the illusion fell flat.  It was too well lit for the dark environment, she’d somehow shouted his name while underwater, and he could still see Amelia’s silhouette in front of him.

Worst of all, Edmund knew Amelia.  He’d seen her fight.  He’d seen her flee.  He’d seen her hanging a ring in the ceiling as shadowhounds devoured her party mates below.

He’d never seen her terrified.

They swam on.  The rusalka didn’t follow.

It didn’t take long before the pair surfaced in a torchlit grotto, the splash and rush of air of their entrance nearly drowning out the faint chime that rang.  More interestingly, the temporary mark on his hand tingled.

Side by side, Edmund and Amelia climbed the shallow incline onto the dull brown stone.

As with the other hidden exits Edmund had found, the space contained little more than an open exit and a chest upon the ground.  Amelia gestured towards the latter.

“All yours.  I’ve been here before.”

Edmund nodded, realizing she’d probably had an even safer swim than he, given she’d technically already cleared the floor.  He moved for the chest, a strangely ratty-looking thing constructed of soft, rotting wood and rusty hinges, a poor appearance but for the golden trim that still shone in orange torchlight.  It left the distinct impression of something once grand lost to time and disrepair.  Edmund opened it.

Within he found a basic jug, crafted of plain brown clay and lacking decoration beyond its simple handle.

Everflowing Ewer

Conjures potable water.

“Oh nice,” Amelia said from over his shoulder.  “I have one of those.  It’s a lifesaver.  Really expensive too.”

Edmund picked it up and inspected it.  “It’s also useless,” he grumbled.  “I could fill my basin here and it’d last for weeks, and until I replace my rootmother’s sigil, I don’t even need water.”

Amelia shook her head.  “You can’t just fill your tub.  Plunder rules, remember?  Setting it down in your camp still counts as setting it down.  Dungeon will take back anything you try and store that way.  As for your sigil… I don’t think Liam would give you this if he wasn’t about to give you a chance for a new sigil.”

Edmund groaned.  “You’re right.  It’s bait.  Between this and the portable camp, I want a new sigil especially much now.  So far today he’s incentivized me to rush, and to take risky fights for hope of a new sigil.”

Amelia blinked at him.  “You know, you really are incredibly cynical.”

“I’m careful.  That’s why I’m still alive.”  He stepped away from the chest and conjured the door to his camp, depositing the ewer safely within before recollecting the enchanted carving.

Amelia’s eyes fell to the mark on his hand.  “Did it count this floor?  You technically cleared it after receiving the mark.”

“It did.  I felt it.”

She scowled.  “That’s not fair.  I got mine after clearing this floor.”

“I just got something you entered the dungeon with as a piece of loot, and you’re talking about fairness?”

“Good point.”  She stepped up to him.  “Guess I’d better get started on the next floor as soon as possible.”

Edmund matched her motion, moving in until they stood nearly chest to chest, his head tilted down to meet her gaze.  “I guess you’d better.”

She kissed him.

He pulled her into the kiss, one last embrace, one frantic moment of affection before they inevitably separated and walked once more into the darkness.

Edmund was the first to pull away.  “Be careful.”

“You too.  Try not to die.”  She stepped back, moving towards the exit but not yet turning towards it.  She held up her left hand, calling attention to the ring on her finger.  “Stay in touch.”

“I will.  I promise.”

She smiled.  “Perfect.  I’ll see you upstairs.”  With that she spun, looked to the exit, and left Edmund alone.

He let out a breath.  In her absence, the smoke billowed in, wafting from the torches on the walls and hanging thick in the air.  Edmund welcomed it.

He too needed to move on, to get started on the level rush before time ran out, but not before he claimed his other prize.  Without bothering to sit or lean or otherwise move from where he stood, Edmund shut his eyes and envisioned his constellation.

Edmund knew he wanted to combine Wrath with another of his tier fours, of which The Fissure and The Tactician came to mind.  The Fissure was slightly higher resonance, but it was already level three, and Edmund had found Magma Fissure, while powerful, to bit a bit too situational for his taste.

The Tactician, in contrast, synergized well with his careful nature, while also offering an opportunity to level up The Philosopher.  The tier three had proven entirely useless thus far, but Liam had promised it became remarkably powerful once leveled up.  Loath as he was to invest in future strength at the cost of much needed immediate power, if he never leveled up The Philosopher, he’d be left with a dead Aspect forever.

Driven by curiosity perhaps more than he’d have liked to admit, Edmund focused on Wrath and The Tactician, and formed his new Aspect.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Guerrilla - Bronze Resonance

Level 1 - Take reduced damage while executing a non-conventional pre-crafted battle plan.

Edmund grimaced at the vague description, only for his disappointment to fade as he noted the Aspect’s resonance.  Wrath and The Tactician should’ve created something tin-plus  or lower.  His challenger’s mark plus some affinity for the Aspect must’ve raised its power.

Even better, three Aspects changed descriptions.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Tactician - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 2 - Deal double damage when executing a pre-crafted battle plan.  Gain lesser mana regeneration while executing a pre-crafted battle plan.

Lesser mana regeneration wouldn’t change his life, but Edmund certainly appreciated it.  He couldn’t have expected much more from a single level.  The other two differences were more noticeable.  The Philosopher, for the second time, changed entirely.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher - Silver+ Resonance

Level 3 - Glimpse the alternatives.

Edmund, not actually being a philosopher, had no idea what that meant.  He did know, however, exactly what his other new description meant.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 20 - They’re coming for you.

That one, at least, made perfect sense.  Of course they were coming for him.

The other affected Aspects, Wrath, War, The Recluse, Elements, and Solitude, all increased in level without any complex changes to their abilities, gaining power in whichever, unquantifiable way they tended to.

Rather pleased with his latest upgrades—if not with his loot for the floor— Edmund closed his constellation and set his sights on the path ahead.

Seven days, Liam had given him, seven days before he fell once more into the kingsguards’ hands.  It wasn’t long, but it was something.

The ploy was obvious.  Liam wanted Edmund to rush, to take risky fights, to forgo training and practice for the sake of speed.  Worse yet, if Edmund didn’t hasten on, he’d be sent to the surface without the tools to stay hidden, exposed to soldiers who’d remove him from the Depths, remove him as a threat to the dungeon’s continued existence.

Either way, Liam won.

But not forever.

With every floor he cleared, Edmund grew more powerful, his skills more refined, the smoke more pervasive.  Each time he stepped into the darkness, he inched closer to the day the Eternal Depths, the day Liam, would finally lose.

So Edmund did just that.

With a target in mind and a threat looming on the horizon, Edmund left the twenty-fifth floor hub behind, and stepped into the darkness.

Hivemaster Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 26

Tier 1 Aspect: Wrath - Red Resonance

Level 5 - Provides access to the Brutalize active ability.

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

