Edmund burst from the darkness between levels to the crunch of leaves beneath his boot.  Through the slots in his helmet he glimpsed little more than twilit gloom and a few barren trees before a bored voice pulled his attention away.

“Congratulations on reaching the twenty-fifth floor hub.  Before you move on, we’d like to ask you some questions abou—by Thrax.  It’s him!”

“Quick, use the—”

Edmund didn’t wait for the kingsguards to use whatever countermeasure they’d prepared to ensnare him.

He Broke Through.

The whir of magic and the snap and crunch of something striking against the forest floor rang out as Edmund shot past the startled soldiers onto the uneven cobblestone path beyond.  Half-buried in leaves and soil, its cobbles splitting apart at odd angles where erosion took its toll, the way wound delicately through the dark woods, lined every few yards with lampposts spitting black smoke through the cracks in their glass enclosures.

“After him!”

He didn’t keep to the path for long.  He knew it would lead to whatever marketplace defined this hub, right into the waiting arms of the entire garrison.  The ones already sprinting after him were enough of a problem.

Edmund waited until a bend in the road placed a tree between him and his pursuers to adjust his course, gaining an extra second or so over the guards as their own turn lagged behind.  Still, without fear, they followed him into the forest.

Four, Edmund realized as he counted the voices and the footsteps behind him.  Four was a good number.  The accords set the party limit at five, so the soldiers could at most receive a single man as reinforcements, but that’d mean sending someone wandering through the woods alone.  No guard would ever do that.

Edmund would.

A thick moisture hung in the air, pervading the senses to near stifling.  His eyes watered with the winter-like chill as the fog grew thicker, wrapping the world in a once-white blanket turned sickly gray with the smoke that entangled it.  Breath came slowly to his nose and mouth, a viscosity in the atmosphere that seemed to coat his throat in a layer of ichor.  It even colored the sounds that reached his ears, ever so slightly softening each noise, rounding out their rougher edges and smothering their reach, leaving Edmund with the distinct impression that if he made it far enough from the settlement at the floor’s center, nobody would hear him scream.

With every droplet of water suspended in the air came the essence of rot.  The almost pleasantly earthy scent of decomposing leaves, the mosses and the lichens eating away at dying logs, fallen or otherwise, the fungal funk of mushrooms and their kin breaking once-mighty trees into their most base components all reached Edmund’s nose, all played across the air upon his tongue.  Here was a place of endings.  Here, decay ruled.

The guards were gaining on him.

As effective a fighter as he’d become, Edmund had invested little into speed.  Solitude offered a lesser increase to celerity, but lesser was exactly that.  His most critical passive movement ability came from the path of the azure fox, but as useful as increased agility was for maneuvering within the context of a fight, it did precious little in an outright sprint.

The guards, in contrast, clearly had something.  Whether they’d invested into the confluences of Agility itself or wielded some enchantment or potion or simply ran less encumbered than Edmund, they grew closer with each passing moment.

He needed a monster, something to which he could Reckless Charge, something that would allow him to bring his superior maneuverability to bear.

None came.  Liam, for some reason, chose that particular moment to stop trying to kill him.

The soldiers drew nearer.

Okay, new plan.  If Edmund couldn’t run any faster, he’d have to make the guards run slower.  He had just the tool.

A brief moment of rifling through his satchel later, Edmund, still running, twisted his shoulders back towards the guards with a slingshot in one hand and a transparent orb in the other.

He fired.

The first kryax balloon flew long, sailing over his targets’ heads.  The slingshot, apparently, packed more of a punch than he’d expected.  Edmund adjusted, grabbed another glob of resin, and tried again.  This time he fell short.

He cursed, wishing he’d trained more with the tool.  The trouble was, he only had a total of fifteen kryax balloons, a limited resource he’d dared not expend on target practice.  Then again, it wasn’t like he’d had much opportunity.  His last chance to breathe since obtaining the slingshot had been Vlaevia’s lair, and he couldn’t exactly have been shooting weighted projectiles around in there.

It was the fifth shot that finally hit, a bull’s eye right onto the leader’s left knee.  He tumbled as the resin solidified, locking the joint in place.  One of his compatriots stayed back with him.  The other two pressed on.

It took three more attempts to land another hit, but when he finally did the resin washed harmlessly against the guard’s chest, solidifying in a place that failed to impede their forward motion.  Another four tries later, he got one in the ankle, sending a second soldier tumbling to the forest floor.

Edmund kept running another few paces, stopping just close enough to watch the unharmed guard help the other up silhouetted in the fog.  He exhaled, stashing his slingshot and tying up the sack with his three remaining kryax balloons.  They wouldn’t chase him alone, and they certainly wouldn’t abandon a temporarily crippled comrade to fend for themself.

Edmund turned, ready to vanish into the mist, when a sudden chill ran down his spine, and the dungeon itself reasserted its presence.

His challenger’s mark burned.

Shit, Edmund cursed, assembling his spear and spinning back to back to eye the two guards still within view.  They’d yet to notice anything was wrong as one supported the other as she avoided standing on her locked-in-place ankle.

Edmund had lured them out here.  Edmund had ruined their mobility.  And now, Edmund had empowered the coming monster.

He couldn’t leave them.

He inched closer, assembling his spear and pulling his shield from his back as he eyed his surroundings.  The air grew cold, moisture crystalizing upon Edmund’s armor.  He thought, for a moment, to don the swelter ring before deciding against it.  He dared not further incentivize the beast to target the vulnerable soldiers over him.

The guards started moving, limping awkwardly back the way they’d come.  From a safe distance, Edmund followed.

A flash of motion caught in his periphery, little more than a shadow in the smog passing between two trees.  Edmund stared at the trunk in question for several tense seconds, his heart pounding in his chest as he waited for any sign of whatever lurked behind.  None came, at least none before he had to avert his gaze.  It wouldn’t do to leave the guards unwatched, nor to leave his flank exposed for long.

Edmund and the mystery predator stalked the guards together, the former hanging back in the mist and the latter lurking within the trees.  He caught glimpses every once in a while, the edge of a billowing cloak here, a blurred silhouette there.  Edmund couldn’t quite figure if there were several of the things or only one that moved frighteningly quickly.  He’d get his answer soon enough.

The reason for the creature’s delay in its attack struck him the moment the other two guards came into view.  It smacked of cheating to Edmund, of gaming the system to ensure a deadlier encounter, but when had he ever expected better from Liam?

The accords limited encounter power based on group size.  With four guards and Edmund fighting together, they’d count as a full party, face the deadliest base monsters the level had to offer, all with two immobilities, the fundamental desynergy of Edmund working with others, and his challenger’s mark empowering their foes.

Instinct screamed at Edmund to leave, to abandon the soldiers to their fate and set off once more on his own.  Alone, he could overcome anything the floor could throw at him.  Besides, these guards had known what they were getting into.  They’d set themselves against him, and chased of their own volition off the beaten path.  What real courtesy did Edmund owe his foes?

He caught himself.

Those were Liam’s words.  Those guards were human beings just doing their jobs.  To their minds they hunted a dangerous fugitive guilty of kidnapping the heir to the throne.  They’d hurt no-one, at least not to Edmund’s knowledge, and here he’d lured them into a deathtrap.

He couldn’t leave them.  He couldn’t let the bitter rot that infested this place corrupt him so.  Not yet.

As if on cue the smoke responded to his thoughts, thinning and softening as he rejected Liam’s rhetoric and moved to defend his pursuers.  The Recluse piled on, brightening the fog to alabaster sheen as the guards shifted from enemies to allies, if only temporary ones.

A crack echoed from Edmund’s chest, joined by a burst of light that swiftly faded.  His heart raced as he glanced down at its source.

His Frostfang Talisman had gone on cooldown.  He hadn’t even seen the spell it’d blocked.

He did see the one that flew for the guards.

From the trees flew an icy blast, invisible to the eye but for the way it cleared the fog around it, flash-freezing the moisture into a puff of snow that rained down to the forest floor.  One of the uninjured guards caught it on his left forearm, a flash of golden light repelling the brunt of the projectile even as its chill continued on.  Before Edmund’s eyes the man’s hand grew purple.

Rebuffed or not, the supercooled air didn’t stop when it struck the guard’s defenses, bouncing back and onto the forest floor where it blew up a flurry of leaves and frost, within which, at last, their foe materialized.

Human in shape but not in spirit, it stood some five feet tall, skeletally thin and pale as the fog around it beneath the ebon cloak it wore.  Wispy threads of black and gray sprouted from its head, a thin and unstyled mess of hair that inflicted a ragged, windswept appearance.  Most important to Edmund’s eyes, however, were the claws upon its fingertips and the two fangs that hung from its mouth as it hissed its outrage at the group of guards.

Even weakened under The Recluse’s influence, the smoke still offered a name.

Feral Vampire

Edmund ran in, disassembling his spear as he ran through everything he knew about vampires.  His bracers and Rebellion would protect him from its hypnosis, leaving its strength, speed, and magic to contend with.  Its transfiguration seemed to be that burst of supercooled air, something his frostfang talisman had already repelled but wouldn’t again.

He slipped on his swelter ring.  The guards would sweat, but that was better than freezing.

Edmund drew his sword.  As the folklore went, vampires died one of two ways: a wooden stake through the heart, or decapitation.  For lack of wooden weaponry, Edmund would have to aim for the latter.

Only once he’d swapped weapons, donned his ring, and crafted a battle plan did Edmund mark his Target and activate Reckless Charge.

The beast transformed again.

Edmund’s cutlass found only empty air.

He skidded to a halt as he charged right through it, craning his neck to watch the path of frost shoot away from the party and up into a tree.  It rematerialized up in the branches.

“Where’s the bat?”  One of the guards cursed.  “For Thrax’s sake, there’s supposed to be a bat!”

Edmund didn’t offer an answer.

“What’re you doing here?” Another guard, the one with the resined knee, pressed him.  “Where’s the princess?”

“I’m saving your lives,” Edmund growled back, eyes fixed on the vampire up in the tree.  It stared back at him.

“It’s just a vamp,” the other unhampered guard insisted.  “We can handle it.  Where’s the princess?”

“Not this one, you can’t.  Two of you are down, and I promise you that’s no ordinary vampire.  And her name’s Ameli—”

The vampire burst into action, rocketing down from the tree at blistering speeds for the bickering fighters.  It spun through the air around them, forcing the impromptu party into a defensive ring to cover all sides.  The tactic implied it hunted alone, searching for an opening rather than depending on a partner to create one.

One of the guards caught the ice blast on his arm, the same defensive enchantment repelling the strike as Edmund’s swelter ring fended off frostbite.  The guard swung, but the vampire transformed again before cold steel could meet its flesh.

Again and again it came at them, sweeping through the air at speeds beyond Edmund’s ability to track, seeming to pop up out of nowhere to spread its chill, to draw blood with razor claws or threaten to break through even the slightest gap in their defense.  Again and again Edmund and the soldiers repelled its attacks, hemorrhaging health, stamina, and precious mana in each exchange, only for their retaliation to find naught but frigid air already arcing away.

Every few strikes it’d stop in one of the trees, snarling at them as it evaluated the damage it’d done and plotted its next attack.  Edmund took each opportunity to lob Firebolts at it, particularly pleased to find himself against an enemy actually weak to his slew of fire-based attacks.  None of his spells struck true.

The guards, similarly, failed to land hits.  They’d come better equipped than Edmund, wielding crossbows and enchantments against ensorcellment and whatever holy barrier on their bracers repelled the beast’s repeated attempts to ram them.

The thing was just too fast.  It reacted with inhuman speed, vanishing into a puff of air before any projectiles could find purchase.

For a time, they stood at an impasse.  Neither side could deliver a decisive blow as the vampire consistently outsped them and the party’s defenses held firm.

But there was no escape.  There were no reinforcements.  And piece by piece, it whittled away at them.

Nearly ten minutes had passed before the first guard fell.

Exhaustion and blood loss from a dozen cuts drained upon him, raising his reaction time by but a handful of milliseconds.

A handful of milliseconds proved too much.

Before the swipe of a sword could force the beast back, its claws raked across the guard’s throat.

Edmund didn’t see it happen, his eyes focused ahead, ready to repel an attack of his own.  He didn’t need a sightline to hear the muffled scream echo into the fog.  He didn’t need his eyes to interpret the desperate gasp, the curse from a comrade’s mouth, nor the telltale gurgle of air escaping from an unnatural route.

The dungeon hadn’t even claimed his corpse before they closed the hole in their defensive ring.

