Edmund’s mind raced.  They couldn’t hold forever, especially not dripping blood onto the forest floor.  Much as he lamented the soldiers’ involvement, he needed them.  They’d started this fight as a group of five, and it’d remain at that difficulty level until it ended, one way or the other.

There’d be no winning it alone.  It could circle him faster than he could turn around.  With nobody to watch his back, he’d fall just as surely as the others.

He met the beast’s gaze as it perched again in one of its trees, tried to parse through its thoughts, scrambled, desperately, for a weakness.  Hunger stared back.

As surely as that guard had fallen, they would lose this war of attrition.  They needed to end this.  As the next barrage of attacks concluded and the creature paused once more, Edmund realized what he had to do.

“Cover me,” he muttered to the kingsguards beside him.  “I need to get something from my bag.”

“No way,” a man barked.  “I’m not getting between that thing and you.  For all I know it’s on your side.”

“Yeah,” another scoffed.  “It’s not like any vamp I’ve ever fought.  Three months down here and I haven’t seen anything like it.”

“Do you think I’d be here helping you if that thing belonged to me?  I could’ve just left you to die.  You want to end up like your friend?  Cover me.”

“Grima didn’t get a breather and neither will you,” the first guard insisted.

“What do you have?” the second asked, trepidatious hope coloring his voice.

“No,” Edmund said.  “It can hear us.  You’ll have to trust me.”

The conversation devolved into a series of grunts as the vampire returned to its assault.  Its claws snaked around Edmund’s shield to score two deep gashes across his left wrist.  One of the guards let out a sharp breath as a claw found him too.

“Alright, fine,” the third guard broke her silence.

“No, not fine,” argued the first.  “He’s a dangerous fugitive.  We can’t just—”

“Go,” the second guard interrupted.  “I’ve got you.”

With a nod Edmund sheathed his sword and stepped back, keeping his shield up to cover as much area as possible as the kingsguards braced for the next volley.  It came within seconds.

Edmund raced through his satchel, splitting attention between it and his shield as he fought to help cover his temporary allies from the ongoing assault.  One of the guards reeled back into him, but Edmund’s footing was stable, offering a solid base to help keep the guard on her feet.

When at last Edmund pulled out the small vial of amber liquid, the first guard—the one to his left—scoffed at him.

“A potion?  All this for a potion?  Thrax, if you have any stamina potions we all need them.”

Edmund ignored them.  He sliced through the wax seal a pointed finger of the crimson hand, popped the cork, and downed his entire supply of heartwood sap.

The world cried out in agony.

All around him pestilence and decay did their horrid work, eating away at bark and branch and root, feeding upon the little spark of life that dwelt in torment within.  It was wrong.  It was wrong.  It was wrong.  Rot unchecked, insidious and pervasive in its hunger, stifled any chance at recovery, at healing, at growth.

Edmund felt it.  He felt the worms burrowing through his trunk, mycelia spreading its inexorable web, poison flowing through his xylem.

But even in their suffering, the trees rejoiced.  Hope had arrived.  A Strethian had come.

And vengeance, or at least some tiny fragment of it, could be claimed.

The vampire continued his assault, grinding further into the soldiers’ defense, whittling and whittling the next one inevitably fell.

Except this time, when it pulled back to reevaluate its foes, when it stopped what it believed to be a safe distance away, perched in the canopy like a leopard, it’d find no escape.

Edmund called, and the forest answered.

The vampire rematerialized among the branches only to find life where it’d been certain of death.

A thorn, stiletto sharp and as long as Edmund’s forearm, burst from the tree and pierced the creature’s heart.

A scream, agonized and sharp and feral as its source, resounded through the fog, sending the very leaves upon the ground dancing with resonant motion.  Moments later, the beast dissolved into a pile of ash, before that too disappeared to feed the dungeon.

“Don’t move.”  A blade pressed against Edmund’s throat.

“I just saved your—”

The sword dug in, hard enough to silence Edmund’s protest, yet soft enough to avoid drawing blood.  “By order of His Majesty Francis Gluhmbridge Morathian, High King of Linaria, the Songwalkers, and the Southern Cities, I am apprehending you on charges of kidnapping, violence against members of the kingsguard, and treason.  You will return with us to his majesty’s court for interrogation followed by a trial and your prompt execution.  Any attempts to resist will be met with lethal force.  Do I make myself clear?”

“If I kidnapped Amelia, why isn’t she with me?” Edmund asked.  “I could’ve left you to die there.  Instead I came back, put myself at risk, and expended a valuable resource saving your lives.”

“A fact you’re free to bring up when you beg for leniency at your trial.” the man snarled into his ear.  “That vamp only found us because we were out here chasing you.  Grima is dead because of you.”

“Grima is dead because the Depths are no place for manhunts,” Edmund countered.  “Nor are they a place for captives.  You think I could’ve made it this far with Amelia at knifepoint?  What about you?  How far do you think you’re going to make it with a sword at my throat?  Two of you can hardly walk, and I’m out of heartwood sap.  I can’t repeat that trick.  Do you really want to have a captive in tow when the next vampire shows up?”

“Reese, maybe he’s right,” another guard argued.  “He came back to help us.”

“We should leave him,” the third added.  “That special vamp didn’t show up until he did.  I vote we cut him loose and get back to the path before another one shows up.”

The mean one—Reese, apparently—looked back and forth between his two squad mates.  “You can’t be… He’s the whole reason we’re stuck down here.”

“Amelia’s the reason you’re stuck down here,” Edmund said.  “That and her father’s need to assert control over both her and this place.  He has neither.”

Edmund’s confidence grew as the fog around him darkened, turning brown and then sickly gray as the guards turned on him.  Even divided, the sword at his throat declared their intent.  No more did Edmund stand surrounded by allies.  He stood amidst his enemies.

And against them, he stood alone.

Edmund focused on it as the kingsguards bickered, their conversation falling on deaf ears as he tuned them out to revel in the smoke, to return to its warm embrace.  When he heard the first cough echo behind him, he knew he’d already won.

“What’s—cough—what’s going on?” the second guard rasped.

“There’s something in the air,” said the third.

“Cool it,” the first guard kept his demeanor steady even as he fought back coughs of his own.  “It’s a trick of some sort.  Come on.  We’re getting him back to camp.”

Despite his words, he didn’t move.

Edmund kept the victory from his voice.  “Could it be a monster poisoning the air?”

“No,” Reese wheezed.  “There are no such monsters on this floor.”

“Just like there aren’t any vampires that powerful?”

The guards fell silent, at least as silent as three coughing soldiers could manage.

“How about this,” Edmund offered.  “You let me go, and in return I’ll draw the monster away so you can make it back safely.  Does that seem fair?  Your lives for mine.  Thrax, there’s even three of you and only one of me.  You can tell your commander I escaped.  I am a slippery one.”

He hated how much he sounded like Liam.  Never in a million years would he’ve thought to refer to himself as “a slippery one.”  He supposed that’s what happens when one goes for weeks on end with only a bloodthirsty dungeon with a middling wit to talk to.

“Reese, come on,” guard three spoke in a sharp whisper.  “You know we can’t fight like this.”

A moment passed.

Reese coughed.

Edmund faked a cough of his own.

“Fine.”

The sword lifted from Edmund’s throat.

“But only because my compatriots are wounded,” Reese said.  “Know that we will find you, and you will be brought to justice.  Maybe not today, but you’re going to have to leave this place sooner or later.  The Depths may not be the place for manhunts, but the surface is.”  He sheathed his sword and spun on his heel.  “C’mon.  Let’s get the hells out of here.”

Edmund lingered for a few heartbeats as he watched them disappear into the smog, the echoes of their coughs the final trace of their presence before they too faded.

Edmund let out a breath as the exhaustion caught up to him.  He wished, against all hope, for a place he could rest, but he knew the only safety to be found within the hub would be near the market, near the garrison.

Unless, of course, he had a portable camp.  Such things previously had been, of course, well beyond his budget, but with the mithril coins he’d won on the twenty-fourth floor, perhaps that possibility had opened up.  That still meant, unfortunately, venturing into the market, where doubtlessly a hundred pairs of eyes all searched him out.  Now that those guards knew he was on the floor, any hope of slipping in undetected had dried up.  They’d be on high alert.

That left one option.  Edmund may’ve had no camp of his own, but he knew someone who did, someone who, according to her message, was hiding out on the northeast bank.

Now Edmund just had to figure out the northeast bank of what.  He’d seen no rivers on the floor thus far, though presumably the moisture in the air came from somewhere.  Come to think of it, Edmund had no idea which direction was northeast.  Compasses proved of dubious value in the generally confined floors of the Eternal Depths, and that was when they worked at all.

So in practice, all he had was a tree hollow on the water somewhere.  It wasn’t exactly the best of instructions, but he’d take what he could get.  At the very least, he had a destination in mind.

First things first, Edmund took stock.  His mental map put him somewhere close to the left wall, well off the beaten path.  From the way the guards had returned, he had a rough estimate of where they were garrisoned, or at least the cobblestones that led there.  It stood to reason Amelia had hidden out on the opposite side of this supposed river from the garrison, so all Edmund had to do was find the river, cross it, and walk the bank until he found the right tree.

Oh, and stay alive.  That was a given.

He’d little hope of taking on another feral vampire with neither the guards to watch his flank nor the heartwood sap to take the kill, but theoretically any such encounter should be significantly easier engaged solo compared to with a full party.  Theoretically.  Edmund hated the uncertainty, hated not knowing how different the next vampire would be from the first.

Well, as Liam would say, there’s no fun in being certain.  Edmund wasn’t quite sure what fun had to do with any of it, but he set off nonetheless.

With far more care than his mad dash from the kingsguards, Edmund turned ninety degrees from the way they’d left and began his trek.  He didn’t bother poking and prodding at every little thing—there were far too many to even consider the possibility—but he kept a close eye on both the smoke in the air and the leaves upon the ground.  It was among the latter that he found his first trap.

A ring of mushrooms, pale in stalk and gray in cap, perfectly encircled the five foot gap between two trees.  Edmund walked around.  The folk tales told of at least six different ways a mushroom circle could trap and or kill, and Edmund had no intention of finding out which one Liam had gone with.  In case the trap hadn’t been obvious enough, the air above the mushroom ring hung completely clear, untouched by the ever-present smoke.

Odd or otherwise, Edmund made the intelligent decision not to mess with it.  If even the smoke refused to enter, neither should he.

He counted three more of the fairy rings in under ten minutes as he walked on, concluding in their plentitude they probably weren’t hiding anything of value, yet to Edmund’s mind they made little sense as traps.  This far into the Depths, Liam was under no obligation to make his traps so apparent.  No delver who’d survived this far would ever fall for it.

It wasn’t until his challenger’s mark tingled once more that Edmund realized their true purpose.

Edmund dove the moment he felt the slightest chill pierce the aura of his swelter ring, hitting the ground hard and rolling on his side as the burst of super-chilled air flew overhead.  He pushed himself to his feet in time to spot the vampire.

It was thinner, ragged and more feral than the other one.  It returned to its humanoid form on the ground, more exposed than its predecessor in its perch, and it lingered far longer—not long enough for Edmund’s Firebolt to strike true, but longer.

The smoke slowed it down, a gray morass in the air that helped hinder its flying form, slowing it down just enough that Edmund could raise his shield in time.  That didn’t help him get the kill, but it helped him move, kept him upright as he advanced towards his target.

Nearly three full minutes of blocks and dodges and narrow misses, Edmund reached the nearest fairy ring.  He turned his back to it, raised his shield, and waited.

The vampire obliged.

As little more than cold air, it shot right at him.

Edmund ducked.

A furious screech echoed from behind him.

Edmund stepped forward and turned to find the vampire, fully corporeal, beating against an invisible wall just above the ring of mushrooms.  He took a satisfied breath.  “It’s not a trap for us,” he muttered to himself.  “It’s a trap for them.”

Seemingly unable to transform, the ensnared vampire caught like dry kindling from a single Firebolt.  Within moments, but a pile of ash remained.

Edmund continued on.

Twice more he encountered the wild bloodsuckers amidst the haunted forest, and twice more he lured them into a fairy ring and dispatched them with ease.  Some half hour later, the leafless trees came to an abrupt end as Edmund reached a stony shore.  Ahead, mirror-still water stretched as far the eye could see—or at least as far as the fog would let it.

