Tendrils of steam wafted off the lake, thin wisps that danced about like so many spirits on Remembrance Day.  Though the mist concealed it, the sounds of civilization betrayed its presence, the voices and laughter and merchants’ cries carrying across the unmoving water.  To Edmund’s ears, they came from his right, precisely where the path would’ve led had it kept fairly straight.

Edmund went left.  Amelia’s hollow had to be around here somewhere, and the further he got from the king’s garrison, the better.

At long last, it was poking and prodding time.

Edmund progressed at a glacial pace along the shoreline, keeping a safe distance from anything that might’ve been lurking in the water as he stopped to circle each and every tree large enough to hide a person.  It was, as per usual, an excruciatingly slow process, but a level of thoroughness to which Edmund was long accustomed.

It proved to be for naught when he found the tree in question.

Nearly two hours of travel along the lakeside, Edmund spotted the remains of what must’ve once towered above the landscape.  The rotting trunk stretched nearly twelve feet across yet only eight tall, jagged at its tip where it had broken.  The log that’d once made up this mighty behemoth was nowhere to be found, long decayed to little more than dust.  Only this shell remained, covered in moss and fungal shelves and somehow still sprouting a handful of narrow shoots from its top.  No doubt that little spark of life was the only reason the trunk yet remained.

A narrow gap on the side facing the lake allowed Edmund passage into the hollow, wherein he found an open space, a bed of moss, and wooden door standing freely.  He removed his helmet and his swelter ring, stashed them in his satchel, and knocked.

Before he could even blink there was a dagger to his throat.

“Edmund!”  Amelia’s eyes widened as she withdrew her weapon.  “Sorry.  I didn’t know you were coming.”

He shrugged.  “I’m getting used to blades at my throat.  Yours isn’t even the first of the day.”

Amelia’s gaze hardened.  “The guards found you?  They didn’t follow you here, did they?”

“No, but they know I’m on the floor, and they’re looking for me.  They didn’t seem to know you’re here though.  How’d you manage that?  They had the entrance pretty locked down.”

She smiled that teasing smile of hers, the one that seemed to cut clear through the smoke in the air.  “I have my ways.”  She audibly sniffed.  “You stink.”

“My last bath was in saltwater.  At depth.  Surrounded by rotting sailors.”  Edmund shuddered.  “Is the lake safe?”

Amelia shook her head.  “Not remotely.  Come on.  I have a wash basin inside.  Just take your armor off so you’re not tracking grime into my tent.”

Edmund narrowed his eyes at her as she leaned smugly against the doorframe, blocking his way in as she crossed her arms and looked straight at him.  From the look of it, her insistence had little to do with “tracking grime.”

He didn’t complain.

Piece by piece he stripped away his armor, handing it over to her to deposit on some designated space for later cleaning.  Even once at last he stood bare in the hidden hollow, the soft moss against his feet and cold air raising goosebumps across his skin, Princess Amelia Morathian, heir to the throne of Linaria, didn’t let him in until he planted a kiss, warm, firm, and full of longing, upon her lips.

And somehow, after all the running and the fighting and the long search for this particular hollow, Edmund found the energy for just a bit more physical exertion before he could finally fall upon the pillows and claim not only the sleep, but the rest he so desperately needed.

“Wait, he really tried to arrest you?  You’d just saved his life!”

“That’s what I said,” Edmund chuckled.

The two of them lay together in Amelia’s luxurious bed, Edmund on his back and Amelia on her side as they held each other close, a full hour after they’d finished their breakfast of fruit and pastries and two full hours after they’d awoken.

“I’ll have to talk to my father,” she replied.  “Can’t have kingsguards going around acting like that.  It’s so… rude.”

“I don’t think your father much cares how polite his guards are.  He wants you.”

“Well, he’s not gonna get me.  I’m not his to have.”

“No.”  Edmund pulled her in tight.  “You’re mine.”

That earned him a kiss on the neck.

“So,” he changed the subject, “I have a bit of a dilemma I was hoping you could help me solve.”

“Let me guess: you have money to spend and no way to spend it with my father’s men after you?”

“That about sums it up.  Any ideas?  You said you have your ways.”

“Nothing that’ll work long enough to get you in and out.  Especially not if you want to actually talk to whomever you’re trading with.”  She let out a breath.  “I’m sorry.  It’s my fault they’re after you.”

“Apology accepted.  I knew what I was getting into.”  He planted a kiss on her forehead.  “I guess I could always give you up.  You think they’d offer a reward?”

She smacked him gently across his chest.  “Don’t joke about that!  They’d probably take you off in chains.”

“That sounds like them.”  Edmund sighed.  “I guess there’s nothing for it.  What about the rest of the floor?  Find anything interesting?”

“Other than this hollow?  Only the most important thing.  I found our exit.”

“That’s great!  The sooner we get away from all these guards, the better.  Where is it?”

“The bottom of the lake.”

“I take it that’d be the lake you referred to as ‘not remotely safe’?”

Amelia grinned.  “That’s the one.  There’s a small cave with an air pocket and everything.  Just have to get past the rusalka.”

Edmund furrowed his brow.  “Rusalka?  Like the spirits?”

“Exactly the spirits.  Malevolent tempters that lure the lonely and the naive to their watery deaths.”

Edmund blinked.  “Isn’t it temptresses?”

“The ones you see probably will be.  They change forms.  Anyway, all you need is a way to breathe underwater, a way to stay warm in the icy lake, and something to fend off their magical influence.  I have potions for all three if you need them.”

“No, I’m… actually all set.  Do they pose any sort of non-drowning threat?”

Amelia shrugged.  “They have teeth like any other predator, but from what I hear you’re an old hat at underwater combat by now.”

“That sounds like a challenge.”

“Race you to the exit?”

“No,” Edmund said sharply.  “We go slow, we do it right.”

“You’re no fun.”

“The fun stays in here.”  Edmund gestured to the spacious camp.  “Out there, it’s about survival.”

“Well then,” Amelia leaned over to whisper into his ear, “I guess I’ll just have to wring as much fun out of you as I can.  You know, while we’re here.”

Edmund didn’t falter.  The rusalka, the exit, the Thrax-damned Eternal Depths could wait.  For a rare, precious moment, Edmund had something less important to worry about.

Two hours later, Edmund emerged from the portable camp fully equipped in a sparklingly clean set of armor, only to find the hollow no longer as empty as it’d once been.

It took scarcely a handful of heartbeats before Amelia somehow darted past Edmund, around the wooden counter and sizzling grill, to raise a dagger to the new arrival’s throat.  “Move and you die.”

The one-eyed man, kebab in hand, seemed entirely unperturbed by her immediate threat of violence.  “Edmund!  Fancy meeting you here.  Your lady friend seems fun.”

“William.”  Edmund nodded courteously.  “Amelia, you can let him go.  He’s harmless.”

A sharp and familiar laugh wafted in from outside the hollow.  Liam peeked his head through the entrance.  “You have no idea how funny that is.”

Edmund glared at him.  “Are you going to tell me?”

Liam looked to William.  “Should I?”

William idly spun a kebab in his hand, drips of sauce flying off in all directions.  “What’s that about my eye?”

Amelia, her blade still to William’s neck—if now lightly dusted in a few droplets of kebab sauce—flashed Edmund a confused look.  Edmund shrugged in reply.  She took that as her cue to pull away.

“Hello again, Amelia,” Liam said.  “How are those earplugs I gave you?”

Edmund furrowed his brow.  “Earplugs?”

“Oh, I forgot to introduce you,” Liam changed the subject.  “How rude of me.  Amelia, this is William, the kebab king himself.  William, this is… Amelia.”

Somehow William’s title of kebab king took precedence over Amelia’s as crown princess, exactly the sort of twisted Liam-logic that somehow made perfect sense to Edmund.

Edmund dug through his satchel for a handful of coppers and stepped up to the counter.  “I’ll take two.”

Amelia gaped at him.  “You’re just gonna… buy some?”  She rounded on William.  “Who are you?  How did you get here?  Why are you here?”

William flashed a crooked-toothed grin.  “Well, I believe my esteemed colleague has answered that first question.  As for the others, I got here by walking, and I’m here to sell kebabs.  Two coppers.”

Amelia stared.

Liam materialized a pair of coins from thin air and waltzed right up to claim a kebab of his own.  For some mysterious reason, he waited until his mouth was full before he spoke again.  “You really should get one.  They’re the best.”

Edmund nodded, polite enough to keep his mouth shut as he enjoyed the panoply of spices and sauces upon the juicy kebab.

Amelia flashed one last trepidatious look at Edmund and Liam actually agreeing on something before reaching into her pocket for a few coins of her own.

“Alright, Liam,” Edmund said as he put down his second empty skewer, “what do you want?”

“Why do I have to want something?  Can’t I enjoy the displeasure of your company.  Those glowering expressions of yours are truly something special.”

“And here I’d thought I’d finally gotten rid of you.”

“No you didn’t.  It’s not my fault we haven’t had much opportunity to chat lately.  Do you have any idea how difficult it is to snark while underwater?  I do.  The answer is ‘very.’”

Edmund groaned.

Liam snapped his fingers.  “You know, now that you mention it, I do have something for you.  A warning, of sorts.”

Amelia scowled.  “What kind of warning?”

“I’m so glad you asked.  In about… a week or so, the Eternal Depths will be shutting down for maintenance.  All delvers, merchants, and gatherers within ejected and unable to return for a period of twenty-four hours while I touch up a few of the public floors.”

Edmund froze.

Amelia dropped her kebab.  “Twenty four hours?”

“You can do that?”

Liam smiled.  “It’s something I do every few decades or so.  You know, whenever things start to get stale.  You two will just have to make do on the surface for a day.  I’m sure you can manage it.”

Edmund blinked.  “In Harrowed’s Hearth?  The guards will find us.”

“Oh, it’s not the guards you need to worry about.”  Liam paused then looked to Amelia.  “Well, you need to worry about the guards.  He has bigger concerns.”  He turned back to Edmund.  “There are a handful of… entities, out there, that have taken an interest in you.  Down here, you enjoy my protection, but—”

Edmund interrupted.  “Enjoy?”

“Sorry.  Down here, you suffer through my protection.  Better?”  Liam chuckled.  “Since you’ve thus far refused to sign a pact, once you return to the surface, you’ll be… up for grabs, as it were.  I can smooth things over as best I can, but it may fall to you to convince an extradimensional being or four that you aren’t worth killing.”

“I—what?”

“Best of luck.”  Liam picked up another kebab, gesturing with it through the air as he spoke.  “The good news is, in my benevolence, I’ve given you time to prepare.  Better yet, I have a deal for you.”

Two squares of translucent film appeared in his hand, each bearing a matching image of a dark hooded cloak.  Liam slid them across the counter towards Edmund and Amelia.  “These’ll only last the week, so you’d best make use of it.”

Thin as it was in Amelia’s presence, Liam’s somehow thickened the smoke enough for it to offer a description.

Delver’s Mark of the Shrouded Gauntlet (Temporary)

Rewards loot of the Shrouded category based on the number of floors cleared while the mark is worn.  Prize to be granted at dissolution of mark.

Time Remaining: 7 days.

Amelia pulled a glass lens from her pack and peered through it, presumably finding the same information Edmund had.  She looked up at Liam.  “What’s the catch?”

Liam looked to Edmund.

Edmund sighed.  “The timer is the catch.  He wants us to rush, clear as many floors as possible as fast as possible, in the hopes we slip up.”

Amelia shrugged.  “Sounds fine with me.”  Without hesitation she snatched one of the marks from the countertop and pressed it to the back of her left hand.  Within seconds the film dissolved to nothing, leaving only the image upon her skin.

Liam grinned.  “I like her.  She’s way more fun.”

Edmund grumbled and followed suit, similarly opting for the back of his hand, more for convenience’s sake than anything else.  With the guards already on his tail, a visible mark couldn’t possibly draw more negative attention, and he preferred to avoid stripping off his armor again just to hide the mark beneath it.  This way, he could more easily track how much time he had left.

“Good.”  Liam clapped then rubbed his hands together.  “Now that that little piece of business is taken care of, I believe you have some shopping to do.”

“Yeah, but I can’t…”  Edmund trailed off, his eyes sliding from Liam over to William.  “You wouldn’t happen to have…”

The one-eyed man’s knuckles rapped against the countertop as he deposited a single item, a wooden carving, about an inch long, of a single-pole field tent.  It wasn’t the solid gold replica of a massive command tent Amelia kept, but cramped quarters of a foot soldier, ragged and uneven in its build, lending the implication that the slightest breeze might knock it over.

“One military-grade portable camp, complete with a cot, washbasin, and enough dry rations to last a year.  Taking into account procurement costs, travel expenses, my own personal fee, less of course the discount for repeat customers, the total comes to…”  He paused and looked up with his good eye while his glass one remained level with Edmund.  Moments later, as if finished with some complex calculation, he spoke again.  “Three mithril.”

Edmund flashed his best glare, making sure to share it evenly between William and Liam.  “You two planned this?”