“Sort of. One step down from the real thing. Revine’s just a monarch who’s a bandit. So…[Bandit Queen]. But there’s an actual [King of Bandits] or [King of Pirates]—the real deal. They’d rule everything. It’s a legend among our class. Nigh impossible to create. I might be high-enough level, and Maresar was, but there’s not enough of us to turn Revine into a true [Queen of Banditkind] or whatever the fuck her name would be. Same for the sea. You’d need seven, eight [Pirate Ladies], and maybe Rasea counts, but I doubt she has the exact class. It’s very complex. Revine’s made her kingdom, and that took a lot of doing. But we’re not exactly world-class.”
“Yet.”
That made her grin. That huge, satisfied grin of someone who wanted to be recognized for what she was. Then Merr went back to gazing out into the night.
“…Revine didn’t know much. Only that it was probably a Face. They’ve got a title, of sorts. It’s probably not their full title, but they were known as…the Ringer.”
She waggled her eyebrows at Pisces, and he hesitated. Almost sipped from his cup.
“Is this like, uh, how you make fun of Mars with her title? Because it doesn’t sound—”
“Nah, I was so mad. The Ringer? C’mon. It’s probably code or something, but does that mean they’re, like, the one who you send in to seal the deal? That kind of ‘ringer’? Or is it like giant bells?”
“One assumes that would be noticeable.”
Merr chuckled, then went serious.
“Anyways, just so you know. If they’re in the area, they might come after you.”
Pisces hung his head. That twist of fear in his guts…he wondered if his team was safe. And Merr noticed. She slapped his shoulder.
“Hey, you did what you had to do. Don’t worry, your team’s not stupid. Nor are we. Think I’d let you talk me into more attacks if it was suicide? You lose people in every fight. As for your team…Casep. You said you pulled a memory crystal of something earlier, right? Show it.”
Casep turned from the people, waiting for the speeches to be over. She proffered a crystal and spoke.
“[Recorded Vision: Playback].”
It wasn’t the best quality, but it was of a scrying orb. Pisces saw none other than Ceria Springwalker, Colth, and…he blinked.
“That’s my team. What are they doing with—me?”
Pisces Jealnet was sniffing as he and the Horns of Hammerad marched towards a rather imposing swirl of moving sands. Merr grinned.
“That’s a Sandworm.”
It erupted out of the ground moments later, and Ceria went skating away as Colth opened fire with a shortbow. ‘Pisces’ went running, even [Flash Stepping] forward and swung his sword at the Sandworm when it lunged. The fight sped up as Casep hit a few buttons—Pisces was watching himself. The false Pisces was good with a sword, but he had a feeling…
Then Ceria was there, ruffling Pisces’ hair and speaking to a [Mage] interviewing her.
“Yeah, the real Ice Squirrel’s here, and the real Pisces, too. Don’t mistake that schnozz anywhere! It’s all fake, television stuff these days. You know illusion spells exist? First poor Archmage Amerys falls for it, now this. Dead gods, you Stitch-folk can wear anyone’s face! Or did all those other Banes and Scourges not clue you in?”
She laughed hugely, and Pisces felt his chest tighten and ease at the same time.
“So that’s what she was doing.”
“Nice act; who’s playing you? Can’t be the Silver Killer. She wasn’t showing her face.”
Casep nudged Pisces, and he frowned.
“I think it’s…Prince Zenol.”
“The [Prince]?”
They were all amused, but it made sense to Pisces. The fake him was nimble and used that rapier well. He’d even cast [Flash Step] and [Deathbolt] in the battle.
“I bet Ceria and Colth found scrolls of the spells; he’s around my height, and Elena could do his makeup.”
“Who? Ain’t no way a Human can change skin or faces that well.”
Merr refused to believe it. But either way, it was enough. Plausible deniability. Pisces exhaled, then Casep covered her memory crystal.
“Boss, your turn.”
Then Merr strode forwards, and Pisces listened to that old refrain. The [Bandit Lady] did not give a long speech. Just one that seemed timeless.
“They weren’t [Bandits] to shake cities. Nor did we ride with ‘em long. So what? They were ours. They might have been. So raise a glass, all of you! Raise it, and drink to what might have been. If you’re going to cry, cry. We’ll miss ‘em. Next time, we’ll give the bastards what they deserve. But their killers are dead and lie with them. That’s enough for the likes of us. Here’s to our girls…”
She never glanced at Pisces, but he felt the eyes of the Dustbandits on him. They’d died for him, and Pisces drank the burning drink down and coughed, wiping at his mouth.
He didn’t give a speech, then. That was not appropriate.
It came out of him later. Merr’s Dustbandits stayed up, tending to injuries, drinking into the night. He wanted to keep attacking Roshal, but the deaths, the exhaustion, had driven some of the glamor from this.
Merr hadn’t sugarcoated it. She’d told him that if he wanted them to join him tomorrow, he had to give them a reason. Be it gold or levels or…
He sat there, near the flameless embers as they warmed him, and he spoke.
“It’s just one girl. A Drake girl, eight years old or so, in that city. Halqued. I couldn’t do anything. Everyone was holding me back, and I knew it would be true suicide to do it.”
Casep lingered with the [Slaves], drinking before she hit the road. Chimes leaned out of her saddle, listening and nearly falling out, and Casep’s voice was acerbic.
“So you chose to hang yourself instead of takin’ the axe?”
A murmur, not entirely agreement, but the women focused on Pisces, and Merr’s face was unreadable as she lounged across from him. Just listening. Pisces peeked around, and he clenched his hands on some sand.
“I know it’s nonsensical, Casep. But when I looked at her—Lleta—I saw Mrsha. Or Visma. They’re kids from my city, Liscor. And if it had been them…I couldn’t walk away. But neither could I do—anything.”
His voice broke slightly, and Casep spat and glanced away. But Pisces regained his composure after a second.
“I’m just a coward.”
A Dustbandit with dyed blue hair sitting next to Pisces stopped drinking and rubbed a finger in one ear before checking her drink. Pisces nodded at her.
“I am. Truly, a coward after all I’ve done and whatever they call me. Gold-rank adventurer? If I wasn’t, I would climb those walls and set her free. No matter what came between me and her.”
His rapier’s hilt sat there, a worn piece of metal as eyes fell to it. Pisces shook his head.
“…But I didn’t. Because my friends would be put in danger. My team—I couldn’t do that. And yet, at the same time, they will not stop. That girl is innocent, and they took her, just like me.”
His voice rose, not to a shout, but he was gazing away from them. Towards that distant city. Then Pisces regarded the Dustbandits.
“I am not blind to what I’m doing. I just snapped. It feels righteous. I only hope, when this is over, that Roshal only comes to kill me. My team is innocent. That’s why I’m doing this. Caught between the thing I should do and what I know will destroy everything.”
Casep was leaning against her horse. She was doing something, one of the [Bandits] assigned to her escort duty realized.
She had memory crystals she could fill with her [Captured Vision], which allowed her to create free recordings. Perfect for a scout in any role, or someone casing a caravan or spot for a break-in or raid. She was doing that now.
“Hey, Casep, what’s that for?”
Casep whispered back.
“Shurrup. I’m just recordin’ it.”
“Why?”
“You didn’t see Ksmvr of Chandrar doin’ the rounds? It’s still the most popular ‘movie’-thing. You think this might not be worth something?”
Good point. The [Bandits] fell silent. Pisces went on, unaware anyone was saving this for posterity.
“I’m a coward indeed, because I want to live. When this is over, I do want to go back home and…not die. That’s the cowardice. I can’t do this until I die. There’s a city where it rains all spring and floods. Drakes, Gnolls, Humans, Antinium—you have to see it to believe it. I want to take you there, Merr. To see the Floodplains and have you say something funny about it. I want to bring everyone there.”
The [Bandit Lady] stirred, and he smiled at her like Pisces. An expression she might have never seen on his face, except once. The man he was in another continent leaking forth from the Scourge. Then Pisces looked around.
“Chandrar is beautiful too. Grand and majestic. So harsh and unforgiving as well. The Great Desert is terrifying. Yet it has so much magic. I think I could love this place except for Roshal. But for that and I could truly enjoy my time here. I cannot sleep because of that harbor and what I’ve been through. I know it sounds judgemental, but for that one thing…”
He trailed off, then someone spoke. Another Dustbandit, an older woman, was re-bandaging an arrow wound on one arm. She was a Garuda and flightless; her wing-feathers had been clipped when her clan expelled her. She met Pisces’ gaze directly.
“Not badly said. But tell me, Adventurer, [Necromancer]. What will you do when you find your home or elsewhere is just as bad as our land? When the Walled Cities do something as foul, if not to you, then someone you love?”
Pisces returned her gaze, then he gazed up at the glorious stars. Then he nodded.
“Ride towards it, I hope.”
A pause, then he smiled for reasons no one could understand. Pisces kept staring up at the stars.
“Yes. No matter what it is, I hope I will not flee it. However, even if I look away or halt, it doesn’t matter. For I know she’ll pull me onwards and make me see.”
Aha. A sigh seemed to run through all present. As if a great puzzle made by a master had finally been solved by the critical piece. The Garuda glanced at Pisces.
“Who’s that? Your lover?”
Pisces gave her such a blank look. As if he had no idea what she was talking about. Then he smiled.
“No. My [Innkeeper].”
Such an odd answer it provoked a hundred questions. Thence he sat there, and after a while, Chokin’ Casep finished recording and tossed the memory crystal to a friend.
“Put that in the loot chest and discreetly find someone that might be worth somethin’ to. Shame I’ve gotta ride out. Or I’d have to shoot my shot with him. Bad as Barelle the Bard, that one.”
Then she was gone, riding into the darkness, and chuckling. Pisces? He just smiled as he talked about home. Utterly oblivious to why they found him captivating. That was, in the end, part of his strange charm.
 
——
 
The next day brought a lot of changes to the world. In the night, dozens of ships set sail, though the journey was treacherous. Some said impossible.
But what was a ship to do but brave the journey? Nevermind if they crashed and sunk—better to have sailed for wild adventure and that distant horizon than not at all.
Aye, and this was a harder journey than most, and the wars at sea were fierce. But the fleet burned gloriously.
Merr was amazed, in fact, how oblivious Pisces was to all of it. He even remarked as much to her the next morning.
“Your Dustbandits are very friendly, Merr. More of that cultural divide between us and Izril.”
“Ah, you’re finally awake. You think so?”
Her face was utterly straight as she watched him eating breakfast. He nodded.
“Half of your gang wanted to get in a steam tent with me; I realized how filthy I was, so I used [Cleanse] since it was so late. I also received a number of offers to stay warm at night. By, ah, sharing bedrolls.”
Not a twitch. Not a glimmer of a smile or a moment of self-analysis. One of the [Dustbandits] was pouring tea over her hand and staring at him. Merr took a bite of breakfast.
“That’s us Chandrarians, open to sharing everything. You didn’t take them up on it?”
Pisces sniffed.
“Well, it’s my foreign sensibilities. I’m just a bit of a weaker traveller. No offense given, I hope.”
“None at all, Pisces m’boy. None at all. You ever want to hop into the sheets together, you say the word, and you’ll have plenty of volunteers. Let me know if you want to give it a go with me.”
He thought about that.
“Maybe that would get me used to the idea. I’ll consider it, Merr.”
Merr the Storm watched a [Bandit] begin choking to death behind Pisces. She nodded at him.
“Anytime.”
 
——
 
You see, that conversation did make Pisces feel better. He’d been searching Merr’s face to see if she was laughing at him or he had it wrong, but he concluded it had been an actual offer of sociability, not…romance.
Because he’d been thinking Colth was going to laugh at him if he made the same mistake again, and he had been picking up on a certain amorousness to the proposals. However, then Pisces had thought about it logically.
Was there a Dustbandit who might be open to a certain assignation, even while on the trail? Naturally, but that many?
No, no. It was obviously a prank, which wasn’t a problem so long as he didn’t fall for it. But the offers had been so genuinely worded he had to assume it was actually cultural. Because if your ego was extreme, you might assume, what, four ladies might be into you at one time?
But that many? Pisces’ ego was not Perric-sized enough to assume that. Merr had just confirmed it. He wiped at his brows, relieved he’d been honest about this one and gotten ahead of it.
 
——
 
That was the funny part about the morning, and yes, one of the [Bandits] did get that on a recording crystal. It would later become legend, and Pisces would see that recording in his nightmares.
But then it got…less funny.
Very quickly.
Merr was not sold on a second day of rides despite Pisces’ increased popularity with her gang. She was checking her news sources, making plans, when Scarlips returned.
“Hey, boss, we got our band to safety. No problems. But, eh, uh, you calm?”
“Who the fuck asks if I’m calm?”
“Just siddown, boss.”
“I’m on horseback.”
“I know, but maybe get off and sit down? I, uh—”
Scarlips was very nervous, and she kept glancing at Pisces. Merr slid off her saddle and walked over to confer with Scarlips as the woman showed her something. Another recording crystal; [Bandits] loved them for the ways they avoided scrying orbs. The Singer of Terandria was huge among them despite Revine’s grudge against her, apparently.
After five minutes, Merr came striding over to Pisces.
“Hey, Necrolad, we’re hitting Roshal like we’re a [Pimp] and they owe us money. Dustbandits, we ride!”
