Prince Weith was excited until Pisces replied calmly.
“What ride, Your Highness? I killed no one. I was simply lost until Her Majesty sent me that [Message].”
“Even if I didn’t have [Detect Truth] spells, I would call that a lie, sir. I shan’t spill secrets, my royal word on it! We must socialize—after some food. Refreshments? But first, a bath.”
Pisces realized he did sort of stink of sweat and blood and corpse. Everyone else was sitting as far as possible from him, and he sighed.
“I could cast [Cleanse].”
“What, like some barbarous [Mage]? We shall have a bath drawn up and repast, then ride back in the night. Drinks, yes! Yosoc?”
“I wouldn’t mind refreshments with the Scourge. ‘Twould be a tale.”
Yosoc, Lithic, and Weith were here to soak up the fame. Wildcard tried not to visibly sigh, and Kusal mimed putting two fingers to his temples when no one was watching. Pisces said nothing; this was the least of what he’d known was coming.
Humor them. He was no Yvlon. He just kept staring out onto the street. Being here…he wished they’d taken him to any other city. Any other one.
 
——
 
The irony of ironies was that the very same mansion he’d first stayed at with the Horns had been re-opened to his company. Pisces took a bath and watched the water turn interesting colors. He scrubbed with all the soaps until whatever pungency he had was probably gone, or at least, less pressing.
He would have taken as much time as he dared, but he’d rather leave, so he scrubbed fast. Unfortunately…not fast enough.
“Adventurer Pisces? It’s Lareceina. Do you have a moment?”
He paused in toweling himself.
“I’m not clothed.”
“Okay.”
She thrust the door open, and he promptly turned invisible. She squinted.
“I can sort of see you there. The magic makes you visible, but it’s not as obvious as I thought…can you hold that spell?”
“Please leave.”
She closed the door and cast a spell that made his ears pop instead. Pisces frowned as she turned. Then she spoke.
“Purely between us adventurers…I went to the Slaver’s Guild just now. They were quite worried about you and relieved we were taking you away. No one has entered or left Halqued since you began your attacks.”
“Speaking as adventurers, I believe you’re mistaken about who did what. I was attending weddings.”
Her lips quirked.
“Yes, quite. I did ask, and no [Slaves] have left the city.”
His heart leapt in his chest. Right before Lareceina stared down at her fingers and twiddled her thumbs.
“However, there’s no Drake girl in their rosters. I was in the market for a [Slave]. She appears to have been sold to a [Slave Trainer] who raises prospective [Slaves] in the city.”
Pisces re-appeared, and Lareceina jumped; he was not where she thought he was. His robes were mostly on, and he stood there, adjusting them.
“I see.”
“I just wanted you to know.”
She peered at him, face very deliberately blank, and he ruffled his wet hair. Pisces avoided her eyes.
“I wish you hadn’t told me that.”
“I’m sorry. I thought you’d want to know. I was wrong, then.”
After a second, Lareceina ducked her head, and Pisces turned away.
“No—I appreciate you checking. Thank you.”
 
——
 
Perhaps the royals realized Pisces was not in the mood for sociability when he emerged from the bathroom, because they traded a look as he came downstairs.
“Do you wear the same clothing, Scourge?”
“I think this is clean enough…yes. Should I change?”
Weith sniffed the air and shrugged.
“It doesn’t reek, and it fits. Just a strange life to wear the same clothing day in, day out. Ah, adventurers. Where to, then?”
“A restaurant? We could set out for Tyrant’s Rest if you wanted.”
There were enough refreshments on the table to have fed everyone, but the two [Princes] and [Princess] scoffed instantly.
“Without repast and conversation? Unthinkable! Come, take your pick of the city. The finest restaurants…or perhaps another establishment? Say the word and we shall attend it together.”
Ah, so they wanted to be seen in public with the Scourge of Roshal. Kusal rolled his eyes and, unfortunately, made the mistake of many people. Because the Nerrhavia’s Fallen royals might be haughty and powerful, but it didn’t mean they were stupid.
Prince Weith’s brows snapped together.
“You shall not attend, adventurer.”
“Your Highness, I apologize for Kusal, but we are hired to escort Pisces back to Tyrant’s Rest—”
Leonardo intervened with a strained smile, but Prince Weith’s hand stole to his side, where he carried a curved shortsword.
“Are you implying my [Bodyguards] or myself need your help, adventurer? You are only here by courtesy to our cousin, Queen Yisame!”
“I—did not imply that at all, sire.”
“Good, then I take little offense. You both may stay behind. And the [Mage] if she has a comment?”
Wildcard’s two members bristled, and Lareceina bowed.
“I would defer to whatever His Highness wishes, Prince Weith.”
He relaxed a bit.
“Good. Then I permit your presence, since some concessions to a Gold-rank team must be made. Now, Adventurer Pisces, where to?”
He clicked his fingers, and servants brought a map of the city with every notable eatery circled. Pisces stared at the valuable map being defaced in bright red ink. He eyed Lareceina out of the corner of his eye.
Definitely good Yvlon wasn’t here. At the same time, he wished she were so Weith could speak to her like he’d just done to Leo.
Maybe the Yvlon method was truly egalitarian and ahead of its time and Pisces hadn’t realized it. He really did miss her. Ceria and Colth too, but Yvlon would have gotten a lot of this. She would have liked Merr, Pisces bet.
Since it was Pisces the Sniffmaster of Dead Slavers and not the Silver Killer, he tried to be a bit more…accommodating. Charming. Even if he felt like repeatedly kicking Prince Weith in the groin until the man had to change genitals.
He still felt like doing violence. More than before, actually.
Not good, not at all. Pisces thought as he studied the map. His eyes narrowed.
“What would be appropriate for members of your station, Your Highnesses? I’m afraid I haven’t been in Nerrhavia’s Fallen long enough to know.”
That pleased them, and Princess Lithic clicked her fingers.
“A good answer. You are more capable than the Killer. As I knew. Naturally, a restaurant doesn’t suit us.”
“Naturally.”
“A Midnight’s Society of some kind is far more appropriate given our ages.”
Pisces had no idea what that was, and Princess Lithic frowned, perplexed.
“Do they have none in Izril? Ah, perhaps they come by another term. An Open Lodge? A Nightspot?”
There was a mutter from Leo.
“Oh, a nightclub.”
“Ugh, what a terrible name. Is that some kind of weapon a [Blackguard] might use? What we are referring to is an establishment that caters to those of a younger age who wish to move about, dance, and have time for both music and socialization and food!”
“And who can do more than one at a time.”
Yosoc murmured, and they laughed. Pisces had an image of Wishdrinks—which he assumed pretty much fit the bill. Drinks and a more casual atmosphere, though he doubted the royals were going to be as casual as Selys and her friends.
Even so, he understood. From the way Weith smiled and shifted, there was more to this than mere games. The [Prince] added after a moment.
“The nightspot might have [Slaves], and it shall have entertainment, collared or not. I trust the Scourge can hold back his bloody nature with us?”
It was not really a question, but perhaps the [Prince] wanted to see Pisces lose it. The [Necromancer] reminded himself to not Yvlon instantly. He smiled at Weith.
“We’ll see, Your Highness.”
For a second, Weith appeared uncertain before throwing his head back and laughing uproariously. When no one but his bodyguards joined in, he scowled.
“Well, if you have a preference, state it. Otherwise, we’ll choose the best of…eugh.”
He ran his eyes down another list of nightclubs in the city. Clearly, it was below any standard he held, but Pisces just blinked at the list and had a thought.
“Do you have another list I could read?”
Rather to their surprise, he conferred with a servant who nervously found a little directory with a Skill, and Pisces checked it and then the list of popular establishments. He found a name he recognized, confirmed it was right, and pointed to it.
Mystified, Prince Weith read the name.
“The Djinni’s Hour? Whatever suits your fancy, Scourge. There’s naught remarkable about it.”
“Call it the name. I’ve run into two Djinni, now, who’ve wanted to kill me.”
That drew their attention at once, and they began asking about the encounter with Seemutor that they somehow knew about. Their escorts moved ahead, clearing the road and demanding service at this place they definitely didn’t have reservations for.
When Captain Leo and Kusal went to join them, they were reminded they’d stay here. Leo threw up his hands.
“Lareceina, call us if you need a hand with—anything.”
“We are perfectly capable by ourselves, Captain!”
Weith shot back, and Leo glanced at Pisces. He nodded after a moment.
“Of course you are, sire. Have fun.”
 
——
 
Pisces had never been to The Djinni’s Hour, and it was somewhat decrepit on the outside. A very old building laid on stone so ancient it had clearly been rebuilt ages ago. Most cities tended to go like that, buildings staying up until they were condemned and a new one being made on the rubble of the first.
Nor was it that fancy—by royal standards. Pisces blinked into the room filled with magical light spells to give it a dimmer atmosphere shot through by bright illumination spells for the stage where performers would dance or sing—there was even a haze in the air like a Djinni’s body.
It was roughly semicircular with an area to dance on the left side and more tables and booths on the right, the stage being in the center and back. The kitchens were equipped for any meals you could want, though a bar seemed to be the real draw for people.
The instant the royals entered, conversation stopped, and they were announced—loudly. There was bowing, applause, and they were given a booth in the center of the room where Pisces was sat.
In view of everyone else. But rather than shoo everyone away, the younger Stitch-folk were allowed to come by. Well, the Silks—the Cottons were instantly thrust backwards. The Hemp serving staff, if there were any, also vanished.
No one but the finest cloths to join the royals, who were a step above Silk. They wanted the attention, but didn’t want the company.
By now, Pisces had formulated a few hypotheses about what the royals wanted from him and how this conversation might go. His simplest guess was that they were simply bored and wanted him to entertain them.
However, they might also be trying to use him or feel him out for their games in court. Another possibility was that they wanted to get him riled up to humiliate Yisame or endanger her—or they just wanted the prestige of saying they had met the Scourge and hung out with him after his rampage.
Pisces didn’t really care, only developed a few plans about how to deal with problems. He didn’t want to be here.
This nightclub or nightspot might have been fun if he were in Liscor, with friends. Not with strangers. Lareceina was the only person whose company he even tolerated, but she was playing up the ‘I am against killing [Slavers] card’.
There was a pop song playing in the background, too, not so loud they were deafened, but loud. Only a silencing spell on the booth made it possible to talk coherently, and Pisces saw [Dancers] performing on stage.
Stitch-women and Stitch-men with not a lot on doing quite provocative things with bright bits of cloth. Some had collars and chains.
Prince Yosoc started staring and only stopped when Prince Weith lifted a hand.
“Bah, too carnal for my tastes. Other performers, now.”
He clapped his hands, and the [Dancers] instantly left the stage. No one objected, and he leaned forwards. The Silk audience and royals were all intent on Pisces.
“Unless you came here for such things. There are more refined places, even for youth.”
“This will do, Prince Weith. Are you hungry?”
Pisces had been reading a menu, and he was hungry-ish. Not really, but he knew his body needed it. He ordered a burger and wondered if it would be like Erin’s. Funny it had come all this way…it was listed under ‘New Foods’.
Weith waved a hand.
“Hm? No, I’m full.”
Pisces nearly cracked the lacquered menu of wood in half. Princess Lithic laughed.
“Drinks, then! Let’s have a round of Firebreath Whiskey in honor of our Izrilian adventurer. Then something actually palatable. Djinni’s Tears.”
Pisces checked the bottles, and there was a high markup on the cheap Drake drink—but that was nothing compared to one of the most pricey bottles on the menu. From the way Lareceina winced, she was aware this was a hundred-gold bottle coming around.
“Gah, it burns!”
Weith almost spat out his Firebreath Whiskey drink, and Pisces pretended to take a shot, grimacing, then went to water. Same with the Djinni’s Tears.
Only Prince Yosoc even got the Firebreath Whiskey down; Princess Lithic coughed, and Lareceina pretended to spill her cup.
“Drake swill, eh? Now…let us talk, Pisces. I give you leave to use my name without titles. The same for you, uh, Lareceina. I know you have met Prince Zenol abroad, and we cannot be less sociable than he, eh? Especially not for such a famous adventurer.”
“Am I so famous at the moment, Prince Weith?”
“At this moment? You might be more famous than Torreb. I have said his name to travellers from other continents, and they have not known him. But you—everyone saw your attacks on the [Slavers]. Come, come, tell us why you did it then and there. And no lies! I am generous, but I grow impatient with all this prevarication.”
Weith waved a finger at Pisces as he took more of the Djinni’s Tears and some of the appetizers for the table. Bits of it were genuinely delicious-looking. There were little shells of wheat or some other bread filled with meat and spices.
Flatbreads and colorful dips—some of which were clearly magical. A noble’s version of common fare. Lareceina kept trying to put some floating dip on a cracker. Pisces wasn’t that hungry, but he made a show of eating and drinking while not really touching much.
Especially not the liquor. They refilled his cup often, watching to make sure it was being refilled, but Pisces was a Wistram graduate.
