He didn’t try for sleight-of-hand to toss it or let it dribble down his front. Rather, he used the simplest trick he had: he cast [Cleanse] every time he pretended to take a drink. Lareceina probably noticed, but he doubted the royals or bodyguards could tell what he was casting, even if they noticed the reduced spell. Unlike the regular [Cleanse] spell, Pisces could mitigate his mana usage to vanish only a mouthful’s worth. Training paying off.
My personal dimension is going to be filthy again. A small price to pay. Pisces tried to engage the [Prince] and pretend to loosen up a bit.
“I doubt I could tell many stories unlike the first, Prince Weith. I could recount a hypothetical raid on a [Slaver] caravan once. The rest is more a matter of tactics.”
“Ah, so killing a man is like killing any other? Is that bravado or humility?”
Pisces hadn’t been disarmed of his rapier, a sign of the royal’s confidence. He didn’t reach for it, but felt it in his hand, the shock of striking flesh and bone.
“I would say just honesty, Your Highness. If, hypothetically, I had done all you thought, it would feel the same.”
Again, there was that pause. Longer, this time. The nobles and people watching the booth peered at each other. One of the [Bodyguards] had a hand on a blade and kept watching Pisces. After a moment, Prince Weith forced a laugh.
“See, this. This. Named-rankers will not speak so to me, though they are often so interesting…but it is hard to talk to them. You know, I envied Prince Zenol. I thought him a fool, having to go adventuring given how his poor house had no real prospects. Do you know his story?”
“His father was killed in battle, and his house fell on harder times. I only knew him briefly.”
Princess Lithic broke in.
“His father was a gifted warrior. Not a diplomat. It plays well in some circles, but not the Court of Silks. A shame; Prince Zenol has made his mark as an adventurer, though.”
Her words made Prince Yosoc and Weith bristle and check their blades. Weith snapped.
“Yes, well, somewhat. House Isphel is not beyond trouble, and House Quarein is a dangerous foe, however the Silver Killer has humiliated that idiot. We would be fine allies of Zenol. If we chose to be. But there are a hundred [Princes] and [Princesses] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. How not with such a vast nation?”
“Does having so many royal classes devalue your status, Your Highness?”
—And there came Lareceina with an unexpected jab from the side. Prince Weith froze up, clearly uncertain how offended to be, but Princess Lithic replied smoothly.
“Say rather that we are a sign of greatness in this nation, and a [Princess] is still a [Princess], is she not?”
Everyone agreed at once. Lareceina ducked her head and sat back; Pisces spoke.
“So you aspire to be an adventurer like Zenol, Prince Weith? Is that why you came to meet me?”
The [Prince] was restless. He ordered a dessert from the menu, glancing around in irritation; the bar rushed more drinks out, and a backup performer was coming out on the stage. He snapped back.
“Honestly, Scourge? I meant to save you from yourself as courtesy! To bridge this foolishness—I would not see you dead, and dead you will be in a week if you continue this madness. Cousin Yisame has done much for you, I am not sure you know, in forbearing her wrath. But I intend to broker sense!”
That surprised Pisces, genuinely. Princess Lithic covered a smile with her fan.
“Myself, I am here to get a measure of the Scourge as well and see if he might serve my House’s interests. Yosoc, what about you?”
He was the most shy of the trio, and maybe a bit intoxicated already—he was wiping at his brows. He failed to meet Pisces’ eyes twice as he muttered.
“I…just wanted to meet the Scourge. It may be the Horns of Hammerad can serve my House’s interests, yes.”
Weith waved a finger at Pisces.
“There, you see? Curiosity for all, but we are royals of the Court of Silks; we lie, of course.”
“Of course. I am flattered, naturally, Weith. I do not discount a Nerrhavia’s Fallen [Prince]’s help. Ksmvr would be dead—and many good adventurers—but for Prince Zenol. Yvlon too, perhaps, when she fought Beton Doomguard. You could do anything conceivable.”
That pleased Weith, and he leapt up, striding about the booth excitedly as he took down another shot of his drink.
“This pleases me and annoys me. Zenol…I admit, my own heart leapt when I saw him fighting in the Village of the Dead. But he is just—a lesser [Prince]. I am far above him, not that I expect Izrilians to understand rank. However, look at my cloth!”
He flung out a tawny arm, and Pisces eyed the literally tawny color. Not just the skin tone, but something truly between yellow, orange, and brown. The color of an owl’s feathers, but oddly…luminescent?
“What cloth is this, Prince Weith?”
“Copperheart. Ah, it may sound common to you, but it is of the magical cloths. Strong enough to withstand a steel blade slashing without harm. Zenol is Silk. I am not.”
The Silk-folk in the audience were probably rich for Halqued. But Prince Weith’s words made them sigh with a longing that told Pisces this was a rich fabric. Princess Lithic leaned forwards.
“I am Night’s Sigh cloth. Which has little as remarkable for durability. But it is prized for its ability to regulate temperature and delicacy—the weave is ten times tighter than silk. My brain was woven of it.”
Another murmur. No wonder she felt sharpest of the lot. Pisces wondered what kind of advantages you got from making a brain out of better cloth.
Yosoc lifted a hand.
“I’m Reithread. It’s…good.”
Everyone eyed him and realized he might not actually know what his cloth did. Weith turned to Pisces.
“You’re Human and thus not expected to know this, Adventurer Pisces. But here you sit with three of the most powerful young folk in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“Four.”
The [Prince] glanced around, blinking, and Pisces pointed at Lareceina.
“Her team matched mine in combat.”
The [Compression Mage] blushed slightly, and Weith waved a hand.
“Ah, yes…but we are interested in you. I wish nothing ill of your team, despite how you treated a fellow [Prince]. I never liked Esceit. The Silver Killer? Fascinating, even if I would not shake her hand. But you—you are not said to be a fool. You knew when you struck at Roshal you were damning yourself, and perhaps your team, to execution or enslavement, did you not?”
Then every eye turned to Pisces. He stared past Prince Weith at a dancer who didn’t seem any less provocative; she came onto stage in a colorful dress, then promptly took her top off.
He really had to stop staring at breasts. Pisces thought of Merr and averted his gaze.
“Perhaps. But nevertheless, I allegedly did these things. What of it, Prince Weith?”
The [Prince]’s eyes gleamed, and they all watched him, bodyguards, Silks, Lareceina.
“You are a man who is Named-rank in popularity, if not yet level or deed. Are you a madman, then? What drives the Scourge?”
“Isn’t it obvious? The story should be known enough.”
“I want you to tell it.”
Pisces hesitated, cup lifted to his lips. He put it down and shrugged. Then he began to speak.
 
——
 
The Necromancer was a strange one. The Djinni’s Hour was on its head—not just because three royals had visited, but because the Scourge who had terrorized the city’s roads was here.
He was a bit disappointing, though. Yes, that was the word for it.
They kept probing him, the royals, the audience, seeking that hint of madness that Torreb and any great name had. Nor were they idiots, for all they were nobles.
The three members of royalty knew high-levels. If, say, they’d had Orjin of Pomle in here and he’d refused anything rich, going to practice standing on one leg in a corner—well, he might be unsociable, but he would be entertaining.
High-levels were all erratic. The fun was in figuring out who they were. The rest could be politics, but Pisces? He was polite enough and played decently with the light verbal sparring. But he wasn’t…anything.
He wasn’t crazy like the Silver Killer, who had you checking you knew the fastest way out a window, or the spirit of mischief like the Ice Squirrel, or just amazingly talented and knowledgeable like Colthei, who was, if boring, still Named-ranker material.
Was this all this man was? A bit of cleverness, a talent with the sword, and a unique class? If so, the Stitch-folk would be mightily let down.
Because such a man was fodder in a nation as filled with talent as this. What even Lareceina, who did not care for these situations, but studied them like a class, had picked up was this:
The worst thing Pisces could be was boring, right now. Unfortunately, he wasn’t giving them anything to work with.
He kept his summary of his enslavement light, sparing any juicy tidbits. When he finished with the chance meeting of the Death of Chains, there was a sigh. Princess Lithic ordered more cocktails as she took a Potion of Sobering to keep going. She poured Prince Yosoc one; he seemed to be holding his liquor badly.
Or maybe he was just bored. Prince Weith was shaking his head.
“Perhaps it’s well I came here.”
He got up, stretching his legs again. What a waste if this was all this was. But he’d done his good deed for the year and turned.
“You, Pisces, have a reason to your anger. I say this. I would be wroth beyond ages if anyone enslaved me. My fury would know no end, and Roshal would tremble for it. Is this not so and fair?”
Everyone nodded at this. Then the [Prince] waggled a finger.
“But—as that stuffy Drake said on the television, one [Slaver] is not all Roshal. This anger you have, you must relent enough to exist in our nation without forcing Yisame’s hand. You had done well until now. What changed?”
“I suppose my team left me and I lost my leash.”
Pisces muttered. For a second, Weith hesitated, and Yosoc sat up a bit.
“What are you, their dog? Their [Slave]?”
“Whatever you care to call it, [Prince]. Perhaps I misspeak at times. Consenting adults can use leashes, or so I’ve heard.”
Princess Lithic spat her drank across three members of the audience and coughed. That had Weith laughing, and he grew more animated. Pisces just kept staring at his drinks.
“Hah! But I shall not be distracted from my point. You would war against Roshal had you no fear for them or of the crown, yes?”
“In the interest of not giving a definitive—hypothetically, let’s say I would.”
Pisces picked up another fry, played with it, and put it on his plate. Weith nodded, then paced around again.
“But I tell you that if not more than, eh, a tenth of Nerrhavia’s Fallen owns a [Slave], then almost every single person interacts with one or is served indirectly by one. It is part of our economy. You would remove something that brings in more gold than the spice trade! I am not always interested, but this I understand. The same with the King of Destruction’s armies. They exist purely on that gold. He could win a hundred battles and starve for only taking weapons and armor.”
Pisces nodded.
“The economic argument isn’t lost on me, Prince Weith. The next thing you will say is that it is what you believe, I suppose. And I should respect that?”
“Bah, am I that much a fool? Listen—I am telling you Roshal is no Sariant Lamb. You have pushed them, and a Djinni is the least of what they have. Yes, they have done you a great disservice. How many have you killed? A thousand? Time to make some peace. Time to let them make amends. Or have you not thought to let them try?”
Pisces raised his eyebrows, surprised.
“What, let them pay a blood debt? You think that will solve it?”
“No, I am no fool. Not enough to allow for you to be nice. But to part ways without you dead and Roshal bled? Surely. This is just politics as even Esceit can play. Better yet, why not let them sell you [Slaves], eh?”
This time, the Scourge froze over, but Weith waved a finger.
“Ah, ah. Don’t rage at me yet, Scourge. Hear me out. You escaped Roshal with a few [Slaves], eh? Some might still be out there, like Merr the Storm.”
“…Perhaps.”
“Then why not let this be a solution? Let one go to Roshal, even I. And say to them, ‘we shall never be friends. Cross me and I shall kill you. Walk in front of me and I shall spit on your shadow. But we are quits if you make it right’. Then have them sell you, eh, Merr the Storm and whomever else was in your party. And two dozen more for good measure.”
Prince Weith clicked his fingers, and even Lareceina sat up. Pisces blinked at him.
“After all this? You think Roshal would simply do that?”
“They are a nation of [Merchants]. Better to pay off the lion than have to hunt it. And in this analogy, they have wronged the lion, and well they know it. It is bad business what they did. You think they want to be castigated day after day on television? But that is sense, is it not?”
Even the Scourge nodded after a moment. Which did not make him more interesting…but he sat forwards.
“And then we would stop.”
“It would save your life, your team’s lives, and the other [Slaves] who will know no peace from here till the edges of the world from their [Assassins]. And more. You could choose, eh, Izrilians. Drakes or Gnolls or what have you.”
Then Pisces flinched. Prince Weith appeared mightily satisfied and nodded around so that all marked that he had made the Scourge of Roshal blink. His voice became more energetic.
“You might free them, then. Which I expect you would. But I would say to you, Scourge, if you could take such actions as I think any reasonable man could do—then I would invite you around Nerrhavia’s Fallen. To friends of mine, or just acquaintances, that you might see those who ‘hold chains’ are not your foes. Just people.”
The young man froze over, and then there was that hint of…not a [Dangersense]. Princess Lithic sighed, disappointed.
The Silver Killer would set off a [Dangersense]. Pisces just paused. She turned and began studying the dancer on stage, who was quite good, nimble, flexible. Too lewd—Lithic twiddled her fingers to indicate she wanted another, or at least a male dancer for parity.
When she turned back, Pisces was arguing politely.
“It would appear that in time, I will be quite receptive to slavery.”
“Pisces, Pisces…do I argue like a [Sage] to say it is all good? No! Perhaps it is ill, perhaps it makes one unkinder to their fellow cloth. Perhaps. But when you pass by my schoolteacher on the street, she, who labored as the Hero of Zethe never did to ensure I understood the world—you would not see a heinous slavemaster!”
Prince Weith clapped a hand to his chest, tears coming to his eyes. He shook his head.
