Andra grimaced as she felt the gears she endeavored to oil snagging on a grain of sand. Twitched as her half-dead body tried to correct her beloved machine of a nation, oiling it with blood and gold.
Thatalocian turned away, counting the numbers and smiling as they led him back to that number again. Erin Solstice. He had warned them all.
And Pazeral? The laziest of the [Slave Lords] focused on Pisces’ face, and he arose from his bed and indulgences in wrath and fury. Magic tore the air as he focused on the [Necromancer]. Not that he recalled Pisces personally. But he saw the same enemy he always had. Just wearing a different face. He raged as he gave orders.
 
——
 
—And the broadcast was spreading. Pisces didn’t know that. He was glancing skywards, knowing there were [Scrying] spells, but urgently talking to Merr.
“Merr, we still have plenty of daylight. If there are reprisal forces from Roshal on the roads—”
“Pisces, we’ve taken out three caravans. We’re not Golems! We’ve bled for this. Let it lie!”
She was tired. He was reminded she’d ridden nonstop to get here, and this pace…the Dustbandits were seasoned veterans, but three running battles? Even a [Soldier] of Reim would have looked askance at more.
Probably. Yet he was arguing.
“This is our window, Merr. If you’d just—”
She hissed at him as they argued in front of the Dustbandits.
“Listen to me, Pisces. You don’t know the business of raiding or how much attention we’re drawing. The moment I lead us into a bad engagement, my girls die, and that’s on me.”
She jabbed a thumb at her chest, and the Dustbandits nodded; they were very worried about just that. Pisces glanced around and sensed the mood was against him.
I could go on alone. But…he stopped, and his mind seemed to unfocus from its target for a second. He studied Merr, thoughts racing, then stepped back. Nodded.
“You’re right. I do trust you, Merr. This has been your war—I left Chandrar, and I don’t know how this works. Not only did you come all this way out here, but I’m putting you in danger.”
She fixed him with one grumpy eye.
“I can hear the ‘but’ louder than a horsefly crawling into my ear to lay eggs in my brain. I’ve said my piece. I ain’t changing it, Necrosniffer. I’m tired. You might be full of righteous anger, but it wears off. I ain’t keeping up. And if I’m not keeping up, none of my girls are.”
“I can do it, boss! I’m good for—ow!”
Chimes raised one hand, and the others threw rocks and dirt at her. Laughter, and Pisces smiled along. He hesitated, then slapped Merr on the back. She almost threw an elbow at him.
“Sorry. But that is funny, Merr. You crossed into Nerrhavia’s Fallen and how far to get to me?”
She wasn’t falling for it.
“I’m not falling for that trick. I’m a [Bandit], not some Gold-ranker who rode across Izril in that Crossroads of Izril. You’re used to a team of Level 40s. Drop it.”
He frowned, and Pisces went pacing away from Merr. The Dustbandits were mounted in a rough circle, eying him. A few jeered or shrugged, but he glanced at them, then went striding back to her.
“It’s true, Merr. We crossed from the Great Plains to the western shore in mere days. We went across the entire New Lands faster than anyone but a Courier. That was a function of the Crossroads, though.”
He did that? Dead gods. The Dustbandits shifted. If it was bragging—well, damnit, it was hard to argue about that. But Pisces wasn’t done. There was a twinkle in his eyes, a faint mischief there.
“That was because we had to get to Erin. It was the second-hardest journey in my entire life. But when we crossed the Glass Straits, fleeing Emir Yazdil? Fighting our way through every [Slaver] caravan we came across? Raiding the Glass Bazaar without weapons or more than a handful of [Bandits] and the [Slaves]? You were there, Merr. That was worse, wasn’t it?”
She wanted to glare. But her heart did leap, and Merr kicked the ground.
“Right, I suppose it was. No fancy magic, just those damn monsters shooting eye-lasers and, what, one Skeleton Lord with a rock? Damned hellish. I don’t want to do it again. So—”
Pisces was nodding, and he cut her off with a smile.
“So that’s why I take your point, Merr. You’re tired. But I also know that Merr the Storm takes it easy. She’s a [Bandit], after all. Merr don’t work hard. Merr don’t wipe before she shits. Er, something like that?”
He vaguely recalled her Merr-isms. Several Dustbandits began choking on their masks, and Merr herself started laughing, then took a swipe at him.
“You idiot, that’s not what I—well, exactly. I take it easy.”
“We’d have reached Izril’s coast in half the time if we were with you.”
“Yeah, well—I have movement Skills. Reckon I’d like to see this Crossroads, anyways.”
“I’m sure you’d thrive. If you wanted to, you could do another hundred—no, two hundred miles in a day. If you had to. I am aware we’re tired. But what makes for a better story, Merr? The woman who took down three caravans in a day? Or four? Five? How much is a level worth, do you think?”
She was staring at him. Grinding her teeth, trying not to appear happy. The Dustbandits were glancing at their fearless leader being talked up by the Scourge of Roshal. Merr rolled her eyes. Feinted a kick at Pisces. Mouthed ‘I know what you’re doing’—stared at the sky.
Then at his earnest grey-green eyes. He was smiling. Merr ground her teeth together more, then snapped.
“Argh. We could at least scout around for—girls, get ready to ride!”
She swung herself into her saddle, rolling her eyes ostentatiously. She jerked a thumb at Pisces.
“The new girl’s having her first rampage. You know how it is. Casep, get me a [Scouting Report] on anything around us! Holta, query Savere for intelligence on what the Guild is doing—”
The Dustbandits were eying Pisces. He just got back into a saddle, happy. They knew what he was doing. He knew what he was doing. But, well, it worked.
Like a certain [Innkeeper] complimenting you to your face. Same with a pot of curry to the eyes. Just because you saw it coming didn’t mean it wasn’t effective.
And it was in the blood, now. This madness, this crazy—how far could they go? [Bandits] were adrenaline-junkies, just like adventurers. They lived for the feeling of riding past any limits.
“He’s gonna get us all killed.”
Casep grumbled, and Merr heard her. The [Bandit Lord] rode past her.
“Not on my watch. But you wanna talk him down? Go ahead, Casep.”
The [Dustbandit] glanced over her shoulder, then spurred her mount forwards.
“Hey, no one wants to live forever, boss. Uglier faces than that have gotten me killed. Like yours.”
Then they were riding forwards. A shouting storm—
They weren’t stopping.
 
——
 
It was a long day. Merr fought hard on multiple fronts. Fighting, well, that was tricky enough. Roshal knew she was coming, but there was only so much prep they could do against her Dustbandits and Pisces’ undead.
Even so, calculating who to hit, and how, was the easy part. The harder, harder part was breaking Pisces out of the shell he was encased in.
He had been half-dead, a man staring down his end, when she’d found him. Glorious enough, but even after rest, his eyes would be focused on the horizon or locked on his next quarry. She’d seen that expression on plenty of faces, both [Bandit] and [Rebels].
Who’d argue it wasn’t deserved? Not her. But she still set to the task of unearthing the man instead of just riding with the Scourge.
“Pisces m’boy. Have a bite of this wrap. The girls all take turns making food, and some of them ain’t shit. Good?”
She tossed a delicacy of the Dustbandits at Pisces and nearly beaned him off his undead horse. He fumbled the burrito and inspected it. It was a simple recipe with infinite variations: a bit of hot meat, sauce, and your filling of choice.
In bad times, it was Yellat with salt. But Merr didn’t allow that kind of thing; empty stomachs lowered [Bandit] morale like nothing else. She’d broken out the good vittles and had the [Bandits] who were best at cooking put on lunch duty.
Purple, sticky rice with little bright green herbs chopped into the mix, along with some rich Izrilian beef, drizzled with a honey sauce, and all stuffed together with peppers in a custom Ashwheat wrap that had bits of cheese baked into it.
“…Who made this?”
Scarlips rubbed her nose self-importantly.
“My own tortillas. Not bad, ain’t it? We looted the rice from a caravan carrying Drathian goods a while back, and the beef’s straight from your continent. Th’ good stuff. All you gotta do is keep ‘em toasting next to a heat source and it’s fresh, even when riding.”
They watched as Pisces took one bite of Scarlips’ Custom Wrap, and his face lit up slightly. He took another bite; he seemed famished. Merr watched him chew, then snagged it back.
“Hey!”
She took a huge bite herself.
“Gulping down a good wrap’s a crime, Pisces. Good, though?”
“I could use one myself.”
She beamed at him.
“Excellent! Then you’re up.”
“I’m what?”
 
——
 
They stopped for a moment between the raids, even setting up a little work station. And gave Pisces one of those silly cook hats so his hair wouldn’t get in the food. Very important. Then the Dustbandits sat back and watched him argue with Merr.
“Merr, we have to keep moving—”
“Dustbandits don’t ride on empty stomachs, Pisces. Plus, we need to vanish at least a second or they know where we’re going. And we’re out of wraps. You used to say you could cook. Well, c’mon. If we don’t like it, we’ll throw it back at you.”
He turned and saw dozens of hungry [Bandits] waiting for him to impress them. Pisces eyed the tortilla wraps, some of which were exclusive to one [Bandit] or another. He peered at the food, then did a slow circuit.
“This is a lot of food…!”
Merr had [Perfect Preservation: Loot]. Another reason she was so highly sought-after among gang leaders. It meant she could steal some prime ribs six months ago and have some for a food of choice now. Several of the [Bandits] sauntered forwards, ready to save the food if Pisces mucked it up, but after a moment, he looked around.
“There was that heating stone. Do you have pans?”
She had an entire field kitchen. Soon, Pisces began dicing up some fish. He wasn’t…bad with a knife, actually.
He managed to debone two fish with very careful movements until one of the [Bandits] with dagger Skills came over to help. Pisces had her cube the fish and marinate them in a bowl—he’d taken an unpopular sauce from a jar, sniffed it, and his eyes had lit up.
“Ugh, this might be shit after all.”
Someone kicked Casep as she complained. The [Necromancer] had stopped staring like one of his undead. In fact, one of his Skeleton Champions ended up meekly stirring a pot of rice grains. With the hat.
“I was thinkin’ a wrap, Pisces. Fish don’t do…eh, I’ll bite. You ever take cooking classes?”
Merr herself wasn’t a bad [Cook], and she talked with Pisces as he concentrated.
“I’ve observed a lot. And there was a [Chef], Imani, who taught some classes. Especially to Erin. Lasica too. Erin used to have me debone fish sometimes. She had trauma from cutting her palm open.”
“Hah! What’s with the sauce, though? It’s damned sour.”
“It’s a fish paste. I think it’s from Liscor? Gnolls make it all over.”
Pisces’ concept was simple, but he thought it’d work. Instead of trying to beat the Dustbandits at their own game, and they were masters of this, he was making something Imani had once served in Erin’s inn.
Namely, a burrito with a thin wrap of crisped lettuce and batter that crunched pleasantly, filled with rice, fish, vegetables, and topped off with a sauce of choice.
“It’s like a damned sushi, but big enough to eat!”
Merr grunted as he offered the first one to her. She dipped it judiciously in the sauce, took a bite, then slapped him on the back.
“Hey, it’s not shit!”
“I thought it was well done, actually, given you gave me no prep—”
“It’s average. You think you’re hot shit because you have a new idea? Hey, Casep, get down here and start using Skills like you run your mouth!”
Chokin’ Casep sauntered down and quickly identified two parts where she could use the two cooking Skills she had: [Splendid Marinade] and [Makin’ It Almost as Good as the Rest].
The Dustbandits quickly came up with an assembly line for Pisces’ sushi-burrito and handed him one that tasted noticeably better than what he’d made. He would have sulked, but they were complimenting the food, even agreeing to add it to their rotations.
He won some points as well when it came to cleaning up; they didn’t have many dishes, but there were still cutting boards and the like. He just cast [Cleanse] and whereupon set off an argument.
“See, boss? See? It’s so handy. If you’d just buy us one of them familiars or somethin’ to clean with—”
“Shut it! I’m not paying for a damn cleaning spell! It takes five seconds with soap and water! Someone break out a mat. I’m full!”
There were limits to Merr the Storm’s generosity. She didn’t like arcane familiars, which were fragile, expensive, and probably spied on you. Pisces was about to ask if they had wasted enough time here when he saw a Dustbandit pull a long mat out, toss it on the sand, and…
 
——
 
Sixty-plus [Bandits] lay on mats in the sand under a little cloth canopy that cut the sunlight from burning them. The desert’s heat was intense around midday, and they were full. But the mats were enchanted with cooling spells. Not all; Merr had the nicest one, so the Dustbandits crowded around her. They…
Siestaed. They just flopped down, closed their eyes, and napped off their meal and tiredness. Curled up, lay on top of each other—like dozens of cats.
Pisces Jealnet lay, arms crossed, in the center of the horde as Merr rested a leg on top of Scarlips’ stomach. She was snoring softly. He stared skywards.
After an indeterminable amount of time, someone poked him. He shifted—but it wasn’t time to get up. Instead, it was Scarlips. She was silently ruffling a deck of used cards. His head rose as she pointed to him, then two other [Bandits] who’d rolled over. Chimes, Scarlips, Pisces, and another [Bandit] took a hand of cards. Played silently. The heat from above was warm, but the cool air blowing from the mats cut the hot sands. Pisces did feel himself getting drowsy after two hands.
He was nodding off when Merr shouted.
“Okay, back to work!”
He almost complained until he remembered that was the point—Pisces staggered up as the mats vanished, and the Dustbandits rode.
 
——
 
