“[Voices on the Wind]. Idiots never think I can use it on them. Morale’s good. You have to check on it constantly. If you ever lead people—well, you got a taste for it when we were freed, but a full-time group needs you to have a finger on the pulse nonstop. ‘Specially [Bandits]; they just leave when they think something’s bad.”
He didn’t know what to say. She’d shushed him, and then the rumors—Pisces had been all gratitude, feeling solemn even, this massive weight lifting as part of his vow of months past had finally been fulfilled moments before his death by seeing Merr.
But instead of that, he blurted, red-faced.
“I did not sleep with Jecaina, and I do not conduct myself like—like—we did get to the Crossroads, but I didn’t know we were in the sky! Was it that magical road? Vofea told us it was magic! Should I clarify to them for your good reputation?”
He would have ridden back this instant to clear this up, but Merr threw her head back and laughed. Then she reached over and slapped him on the back.
“There’s the fellow I came to rescue. Less of being an adventurer out of stories, more this. Let ‘em yak. It does my reputation good. Mystique. Don’t play it up, mind. Just don’t talk to the underlings about stuff you don’t have to. Dead gods, we’ve too much to say to each other. So you did meet the Arbiter Queen herself? How many [Bandits] is she hanging per day?”
“Er, uh, what? None that I saw. She does have new courts she told me she was building, and she was laying out cities to be rebuilt or restructured with the money King Fetohep gave her—and she has Lawriders—”
Merr was pulling on a lip.
“Yeah, I heard. Bandit world’s all abuzz about Jecrass. So no mass-hangings?”
“No.”
“Hmm, might be worth a shot, then. Y’see, the thing is, you hear Arbiter Queen and you imagine a lot of things. Gallows, headman, guillotine, being tied to a pole and set on fire—Nerrhavia’s Fallen loves that, and it is a bad way to go—so most gangs are avoiding Jecrass. Lawrider…do they have a class?”
Pisces thought they did, and Merr shuddered.
“Anti-crime classes. Gah! Hate them! Shivers those timbers I keep hearing about. Well, I’m not keen on going through Jecrass anyways. There’s good money stealing horses, but they’re always mounted, and I hate fast pursuit. So she really hosted you?”
“Her and King Raelt, yes. They were very hospitable.”
Merr listened as Pisces gave her a garbled account of the events that had led him across Chandrar to find his team. He realized she didn’t know about the rest, but in fact, she even knew about him and Colth coming off the undead ship. She tapped one ear now, knowingly.
“You think I don’t have an ear to the wind, Necrolad? Gossip about you is all but free, and the [Rebels] have no end. So you were there, dueling her with rapiers—yeah, I see how someone says that and you get the wrong impression. She wasn’t interested in you?”
A huge hesitation which made her head snap around.
“Well, I mean—Colth told me after the fact—but I didn’t see the alleged signals he said were out there. And besides, she was a [Queen]—”
Merr started laughing even harder. She clutched at her sides, nearly falling off the Nightmare, whom Pisces realized was laughing at him as well.
“Oh, dead gods! Argh, pop my stitching, this is what I’ve missed! The man loses a chance with a real [Queen]—hey, girls, guess what? This fool missed his shot with the Arbiter Queen and didn’t even know she was flying the freaky flag! Turns out both of ‘em flirt as well as camels!”
Instantly, the Dustbandits started howling with laughter. Pisces spluttered and remembered, too late—
Merr could be hurtful. He went to shove her lightly, and she jostled him.
“How’d you end up so late to Chandrar, eh? The Ice Squirrel washed up faster than you, and the Silver Killer walked, but nooo, you were a week late! Bearig was chewing a hole through leather by the time you showed up!”
He hissed at her, red-faced.
“That wasn’t my—I didn’t know we were supposed to be enchanted! The Death of Magic cast a spell on the driftwood we were on, but I thought a ship would—”
Merr had been laughing. Then she gave him a puzzled grin.
“Oh, pull the other leg, I’ve got spares. The Death of Magic? Please, I know the Arbiter Queen was real, but what, were you romancing her?”
“What? No, she actually cast a spell on the driftwood that Colth and I were on. She—”
Pisces did not mention the fact that Colth was actually in league with the Demons and an agent of one of the Deathless, but Merr only stared at him. She realized he was not joking.
“Wait, you’re not fooling with me? Because if you are, say so now or I’ll hit you, no jokes.”
“No jokes, Merr. On Cawe, that was her—”
Merr drew in a breath. Then she recoiled, glanced around, and waved back the Dustbandits coming over to laugh at Pisces up close. She drew over, hissed at him.
“What?”
 
——
 
The Death of Magic was a level far beyond even meeting and failing to romance the Arbiter Queen. Oh, one might sound like the other, but Merr was actually an individual worldly enough to understand that the Death of Magic was at the top of…everything. It was the most rattled Pisces had seen her.
“Zeikhal swallow me ‘n spit me out. You actually…they blocked the scrying spells when she appeared, you know.”
“I know. I’ve seen some of the battle. Hard to follow.”
Most of it had been other ships being boarded or chaos. No one had even mentioned the flying Dragon, though some of Teriarch’s magic and fire had been seen in the chaos. Merr rubbed at her nose.
“Was she…was she as terrifying as they say?”
“I don’t honestly know. It was so much like—like armageddon at the end that she just sort of fit it. I can’t imagine how many spells she was blocking or dodging, but they were firing them at Erin.”
“Your [Innkeeper], yeah. Saw her too. It was the first time I’d laid eyes on her, y’know, after she came back? You did it, I remember thinking. But I never got a good look at her. Me and scrying orbs, we’re like distant lovers. Can’t mix or I get hunted down since we know Wistram sells locations on bandits. But I saw the recording, and I thought…yeah. Yeah, she fits the woman who had you do all that. Flaming hat, knifing Bloodtear Captains like they were rookie [Deckhands]. She okay?”
Pisces’ head bowed, feeling oddly gratified to hear Merr speaking of Erin like that. He wondered how they’d interact if they met. He wished it had happened.
“I…yes?”
“I heard she was in Baleros. With the Titan. Safe enough. Woman took a city in battle.”
“Yes. I—I heard. If that’s her, it’s good she’s safe.”
Merr was glancing ahead; she was following some kind of internal map, taking them in odd directions now and then, perhaps to throw off pursuit, and some of her Dustbandits would fall back then gallop to rejoin or go ahead. Erasing tracks? Scouting? Pisces couldn’t pay attention. Now, she twisted around.
“If that’s her?”
“It doesn’t seem like her. I think it isn’t.”
He had no proof of this. Lyonette, Mrsha, the inn had contacted his team and said all was well, but he’d thought maybe there was a hint of a lie? Ceria wasn’t sure, but she’d said it was all too possible. Pisces only had the Erin he’d seen on the scrying orb for confirmation, but…he felt like it wasn’t her.
Plus, she hadn’t contacted him. She’d sent [Messages] to Ceria and asked about him, but he felt like the real Erin would have done something. Maybe. Maybe it was him, not…he only told Merr this because he felt like he had to.
Like he could tell her anything. Then Pisces worried he was blabbing, but Merr just nodded.
“Interesting. You know her best. And your teammate, Ksmvr. He ain’t here. We don’t know where he is. Did he…”
“He’s alive. Baleros. Lost in the jungles. We’ll find him and Vofea. We just have to finish our business first, but we’re headed there right away.”
Merr exhaled and squared her shoulders.
“Right, well, that makes sense why you came here. Had to grab that Relic-class sword, right? You’d best steer clear of Savere. The Siren still hates the Ice Squirrel for the stunt she pulled. Reckon you want to meet Bearig; his force is slower than mine, but he’ll be moving. Qshom’s with him, and so’s Rophir. Kid talks now, you know? Once in a blue moon. So, once a night. Eloque’s not with either, but you came for ‘em. Just like you said. I miss anything?”
“Um, Yvlon’s friends, but she did rescue them—”
“Seems easy enough to do, the sword aside. At least you’ll find the Empress of Beasts easy; she’s got a real army, even if I think she’s still more fucked than a lone heifer in a bull pen. Getting that sword from her? Good luck. I could get you a [Thief], but—eh, that’ll do. Got anyone else who wants a ticket to Izril? Bearig, Qshom, Rophir, Eloque are the real crew. Few others who turned out good, but those were the ones you wanted, right?”
“And you, Merr.”
She blinked at him, then grinned.
“Me? I’m Merr the Storm, Pisces. A [Bandit Lady]. Look at my gang. We’ve been raiding, I’ve rebuilt the Dustbandits better’n before—I came here to help you, but I’m fine.”
He met her gaze, and Pisces said the things he’d waited so long to say.
“Even so, Merr. I’ll charter a ship to take you and all your Dustbandits to Izril. You, all these [Rebels], and Eloque too. I don’t want any of you where Roshal has power. I want to find Ksmvr and Vofea and get to Erin, but you’re on that list.”
She stared at him, nonplussed, wide-eyed, and then turned her head abruptly.
“Now I know you’re a Gold-ranked adventurer. Too big for your damn britches. You rescuing [Bandit Ladies] because I’m weak? Who’s got a higher level? C’mon, whip yours out and we’ll measure ‘em! You think I wasn’t levelling?”
“Merr, I didn’t mean—don’t kick me! Merr!”
He protested, but she was very nimble in the saddle, and he had to ride away from her as the Nightmare did the same. The Dustbandits watched as Merr cursed at him, and one whispered.
“Hey, anyone got a Skill that lets them talk to Savere? Tell ‘em to open up a betting pool on the Boss and the Scourge.”
“Done and done. On whether they’re a thing or will be?”
“Why not both?”
 
——
 
Pisces levelled up in his sleep that night. He did sort of nod off by the end of his ride; it was longer than he thought. Merr wanted to get out of any pursuer’s range, and that included more Djinni.
He was exhausted, but when he woke, he found the Dustbandits already making breakfast. Pisces was not a ‘morning person’, but he’d grown used to it during his raids on Roshal. To his surprise, he didn’t turn into his usual lethargic self in the morning. He felt…
Well, he met with Merr straight off. She was relaxing around a smokeless ‘fire’ that showed him she really had rebuilt her fortunes, because it was bandit-tech.
Namely, magical stones that acted like embers. No smoke, but you could grill anything. Perfect for not being detected. They had a pot that erased scent, anti-scrying charms, lucky talismans, even a loot chest.
“It’s Beithday! Anything in the chest goes to the Siren! She’ll teleport it out via her Skill, so empty your pockets!”
A [Bandit] tasked with making sure the Siren got her cut and the most valuable items were converted to gold was stomping up and down the tents, waking people up. Another was strolling about.
“Anyone got an infected cut or some shit? Shout it out or you’re dead the next time we use a potion, and if we waste one on you, we’ll kill you!”
She daubed anyone with an infection with a bit of orange on their right shoulder. Efficient. Pisces sat down.
“I forgot you’re so good at this.”
He didn’t know many leader-types. Merr kicked him as she chewed on sausage mixed into some grits.
“Shut up.”
“What did I—”
“How the hell do you have six levels on me? I’ve been fighting damn wars with Bearig, and I hit Level 40 last month!”
She was very upset. Merr had been in her mid-thirties before being taken as a slave, and her rise since then had put her on the map of top [Bandits]—but Pisces had been through a few adventures. Merr grumbled as he smiled.
“At least my class is better than yours. [Ladies] always are harder to level.”
“Er, Merr, you’re a [Bandit Lady].”
Another kick.
“A [Lady]’s a damn [Lady] no matter what! You’re just some [Necromancer of Reclaimed Grandeur]. Sounds stupid.”
“I can animate structures!”
“Oh, structures. I’m so afraid. What, are you gonna animate a wall and have it fall on me?”
He glowered until he was handed breakfast, and the hot, fresh food cheered him up instantly. Merr relented.
“Argh, fine. Don’t get sniffy with me. Do you still do that? All the girls want to see; none of ‘em believed that was a thing. I like your undead. Ivery’s a hoot, and I came around to Bearbones. Saw a few more corpses of late, and I see your point. Rotten flesh? Yuck.”
Another thing about Merr was her complete unfazedness when it came to undead. She actually really liked them, and Pisces almost sniffed, saw everyone turn to stare at him, and let out a breath instead. They sighed.
Oh, this was strange. He felt so light, but he did gaze at her.
“I should have animated the [Slavers] I killed, but I was too tired.”
She waved it off.
“Eh, we’d have outrun them.”
“I could have had them run through the night. The undead don’t stop moving, and they can follow me even when I’m asleep.”
She raised one eyebrow at that.
“Oh? Even the zombies can run? Interesting…I’d have probably vetoed the suggestion anyways. A running zombie can be marked or followed, and some of my Skills for speed or stealth only affect the Dustbandits. But hey, we run into any bastards between here and Bearig’s group and we can do that. Though I’d trade ten zombies for one Ghoul. Can you do that? Can you…upgrade undead or mash the low-tier ones into a single good one?”
The thought hadn’t ever really occurred to Pisces, and he hesitated.
“I know some [Necromancers] would keep body piles together to form better undead. One can upgrade them—I’m decent at that with my Skeleton Champions, and I did reclaim most of their bones. But you mean change their actual…species? I’ve never tried.”
You could make Wailing Pits and Crypt Lords out of piles of the dead, but that was just natural undeath. Merr winked.
