Padurn appeared confused by the question. Then he focused on the scrying orb. He lifted it closer to the camera, and it was frozen on a shot of the nineteen Pisceses attacking the [Slaver]. He pointed to one of them in the lower-left corner, with a rapier, one of six.
“Yes. I would and do. That’s him. The others are wearing disguises, but half have breasts…Stitch-folk. This is Pisces. I am sure of it.”
He peered around. Sir Relz, the camera team in Ailendamus interviewing him, everyone had frozen. Padurn raised one eyebrow.
“Was this in doubt? I can testify to law enforcement if—”
His next words were cut off, because at this moment, Princess Ozena of Ailendamus tried to execute a flying knee to Padurn’s face.
Which he dodged. The broadcast cut off and Sir Relz was left there with his comb tangled in his neck spines a second before Drassi nearly pulled herself through the screen to scream at him.
But that was the news, eh?
Who said it had no consequences.
 
——
 
That was the final raid that Pisces and Merr participated in. Not just because a [Message] came from Nerrhavia’s Fallen within ten minutes of Padurn’s broadcast going out.
No…
He stood on the ground, avoiding the red sand, and there was the familiar death magic in the air. But it felt wrong to him. He didn’t take the power. Didn’t animate any of the bodies.
He told death to let them rest. Merr finished kneeling by the body. She put it next to the head sitting on the pile of rocks. But she didn’t bury Casep. Just stripped her of her armor, her blades, her bag of holding, and turned.
“We’ll pour a drink for her later. Dustbandits, get ready to move.”
“Casep…”
Scarlips kept staring at the head of the woman sitting on the pile of rocks. Blood hadn’t stained the stones. She had already been dead when someone removed her head.
A message. The other [Dustbandits] were all dead too. Pisces peered around. He’d known some of them, like the one called Chimes…but Casep had been the one he’d known well.
All dead.
The [Slaves]…they’d been meant to check in after dropping them off. But they’d never reported in, so Merr had sent someone to look for them, and the cell of [Rebels] here. They’d found this.
“It’s a slaughter inside, boss. They’re all dead. Or…”
Merr looked up as a grim [Bandit] emerged from the hidden cave along the rocky pass. It was remote, and unless you knew to look, you’d just assume no one lived here. Let alone find the hidden entrance. How had they discovered Casep? Had she been tailed or…?
“No bodies of [Slavers]? No [Slaves]?”
“No, boss. So they were re-captured or…”
Disposed of somewhere else. Merr spat and wiped her mouth.
“We don’t know how many Casep took out, then. Damnit. She knew to cut her losses and ride, and they were on horseback. Was the cell dead and they were just waitin’ here…?”
She shook herself. Seemed to come awake.
“We can’t waste time speculating. We’re in danger. Ride.”
They were on their horses, and Pisces glanced back at the dead Dustbandits.
“Should we—”
“They’re not our comrades. Just cloth and flesh and bone. Ride!”
He kept peeking back at the woman’s head. Casep’s face gave nothing away. Her teeth were bared in a death-rictus, grim, as if she saw her death coming. He wished he knew how to ask her…
I’m not high-level enough. If only I could do that, like Numbtongue. What a poor [Necromancer] I am. He whispered, and Merr turned her head.
“Let ‘em lie, Pisces. Just…”
“I will. I’m making sure they don’t rise.”
She eyed him, then dipped her head.
“Thanks.”
 
——
 
They drank for Casep and the others. It was such a bitter taste on Pisces’ tongue this time, worse than the last. The hardest part of all was no one having words for him.
“It could have happened to anyone. I blame the Ringer or—fuck. Whatever that bastard’s called!”
Merr punched a rock where they were camped. She strode off. Pisces would have gone after her. To…apologize?
I wanted this. I knew what I was doing, and her people are paying the price. The Dustbandits watched him, and he spoke.
“I am sorry. I wanted it to be only upon me. Ancestors, it was all ever for me. I did it all for none but I. The Drakes sing that. I…I wish it worked that way.”
Scarlips spoke after a long moment.
“She was laughin’ at you before she left. That’s worth a lot to [Bandits]. Could have been something else entirely. There’s nothing to say, Pisces, unless you want to go for a tumble. Reckon that’d cheer someone up.”
He just studied her.
“Even after I’ve killed so many of you?”
Scarlips grinned, then, with a [Bandit]’s cold mirth.
“We’re all dead women when a nation catches us. A poisonous flower smells sweetest of all, kid. [Bandits] die chasing dreams. Go on, then. Just ask yourself how far you want to lead the boss. Where she goes, we go.”
In that moment, they sounded like Pisces’ team, and that hurt, because he missed them. And he realized Merr really did have a—a crew.
How far would he ask her to go? He thought about that. Pisces was glad to have the choice taken out of his hands. Because he received a [Message] spell that blared into his mind, ending his journey.
 
The Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Etrikah: Pisces Jealnet, by order of Her Majesty, Queen Yisame Beziin, Ruler of the Freed Cloths of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, you are to refrain from any action against the Nation of Roshal, the Slavers of Lailight Scintillation, the Slaver’s Guild, their property or associates thereof at once.
Any actions unprovoked will incur the full wrath of the Crown and its servants. You will furthermore cooperate with the agents of the Crown sent to retrieve you.
 
When he broke the news to Merr, she just exhaled.
“That’s that. Your father gave her no way out. It’s politics. I sort of get it; Revine’s like that too. She can lie and pretend she don’t know until someone calls it to her face.”
She was more understanding than he’d thought. When Pisces began to apologize, she changed subjects.
“Guess we’ll make sure you’re heading back then…scarper. Some piece of work, your old man, huh? Mine just abandoned me.”
“He’s…managed to become a problem despite how far I’ve gone.”
Pisces muttered, and Merr nodded.
“If he ever vacations in Chandrar, I’ll ensure a camel shits in whatever he eats. Bandit’s promise.”
They said nothing, and she turned.
“I know it’s weird of me to defend her, but…that [Queen] really was letting you go wild. Hand’s tied, though.”
He nodded. It was kind of Yisame. He knew how much trouble he’d caused. It was just…
Over.
 
——
 
The Dustbandits were aware a scrying spell had located them, but they just rode Pisces down the main road. People stared, yet Merr was speaking to him.
“Shame Bearig and the others didn’t make it, but they had to be careful. Don’t worry about us.”
“What if the Ringer or…”
He was worried for her, but she smiled tensely.
“The first thing we’re gonna do is ride, Pisces. It’s hard to catch pure speed, and believe me, no one’s going to figure out where we’re going with my Skills. I might be out of range for a good damn while, but…hey, you gave them a bloody nose.”
Barely that. Suddenly, the caravans he’d destroyed, all the fighting, felt hollow against such a vast and sprawling organization. It really had just been for his own ego. It hadn’t saved the person he’d meant it to.
Just bought her a few days at most. Pisces hung his head, but Merr embraced him with one arm as a fast-moving carriage shot down the road towards them.
“Wonder who they sent. Listen, I’m glad to do that. It meant something to the ones we saved. And you haven’t changed. Well, you have, but only in good ways. Cawe, she’d be proud.”
He gazed at her and hugged her impulsively. Pisces usually didn’t squeeze anyone in a hug, but he gripped her tightly.
“Merr…”
“Hey, c’mon, your team’s out there. I’m just the [Bandit Lady].”
“I wish you were with us.”
That one comment made Merr’s face twist up. She hesitated, glanced at Scarlips, and then gently patted him on the shoulders.
“Nah. You just feel that way because I’ve been on my best behavior. Go on.”
He backed up a step, but his eyes were on her as the carriage doors opened. The Dustbandits muttered.
“Back it up, those’re adventurers…”
“Fuck, royal escort. There’s a [Prince] there. Not the adventurer—”
Shouts; the carriage must have had a royal escort like last time. The Dustbandits were riding, but Pisces whispered.
“I have a message from Cawe.”
But he only thought he’d had courage to share it when they were together. Merr’s eyes widened, and she searched his face, then gripped his arm.
“Then share it when we’re pouring out one—together. I ain’t playing messenger with that. This isn’t over, Nerrhavia’s Fallen! Dustbandits—ride!”
She turned her horse and began galloping. Pisces almost smiled; she sounded like some storybook villain for a second. His eyes never left her as she rode into the storm. Then he didn’t turn his head as a haughty voice spoke.
“Filthy [Bandits]. That one was pretending at being Silk. Ah, Bane of Roshal! You live up to your name! I am Prince Weith of House Dabrei, and with me is Princess Lithic, Prince Yosoc—we are here, by will of the [Queen], to escort you back to Tyrant’s Rest. I have been interested in meeting you.”
“Hello, charmed. Do forgive me, I’m still longing for the blood of enemies. Some call me the Scourge of Roshal, but it’s actually the Bane of Roshal. The truth is I’d rather just murder every [Slaver] in Chandrar.”
Pisces muttered without turning his head away from Merr. Prince Weith laughed, a touch uncertain.
“A-ha! Haha! Well, I can see your dandruff is up. Humans, so fascinating. Come, come, I’m sure once we wash the blood off—eugh, he does smell of it. And to ride in such company…perhaps a break in the city? We’ve even brought a fellow Gold-rank team to avoid unpleasantries—not that we needed them!”
More laughter and agreement from the royal escort. Pisces assumed murdering them got you in a lot of trouble. He thought of the [Prince] that Yvlon had threatened to kill…three was probably enough to get him a super-speedy execution.
Back to Tyrant’s Rest. I can do no more. The heavy logic fell on him as he turned…but something clicked in his head.
The team sent to…?
A suspicion crossed his mind a moment before figures left the carriage from the other doors, avoiding the royal escort of three royals and their numerous bodyguards. Pisces blinked—and saw a hesitant hand wave at him.
Captain Leo, Kusal, and Lareceina, the members of Wildcard, were eying Pisces like he was a stranger. They arrayed themselves, almost like they were expecting him to fight.
Prince Weith was like a shorter, less dangerous version of Zenol, though he clearly fancied he was just as good a warrior. He might be, if all the artifacts on his body did the fighting for him. His bodyguard had a more realistic expectation of how a fight with Pisces might go and were tensed, hands hovering near their blades.
But Pisces just focused on Wildcard, not the other two royals. He nodded at Lareceina, who inspected him as she flicked a glowing marble of magic up and down. She shrugged at him, and he tried to smile.
 
——
 
Wildcard being the team sent to grab him made it all a tiny bit better. Captain Leo was up front as he shook Pisces’ hand—after all the royals had done so first.
“We’re being paid to bring you back to Tyrant’s Rest, Pisces. No fuss.”
Sorry. Kusal mouthed, but Pisces got it. Lareceina was far more direct.
“Your actions against Roshal—or at least, this last, confirmed action after so much uncertainty—has set the Court of Silks on its head. As a lawful adventurer, I condemn your attacks on Roshal, Adventurer Pisces. I trust you won’t cause any trouble?”
He almost smiled at her, but managed to turn it into a surly grunt. Prince Weith forced a laugh.
“Ha-ha! Enough baiting the Scourge. Adventurer Pisces, you needn’t ride with this Gold-rank team. They’re competent enough, but less entertaining than you. I did not come all this way to listen to adventurers argue.”
It was a bit weird. It became clear that the two [Princes] and [Princess] weren’t actually part of Yisame’s escort. Or to be more accurate, they’d added themselves to her authority, but they were a power in themselves.
“Your Highnesses, we could depart at once if—”
“No. The Scourge smells a bit poignant, and my legs hurt from the ride. We shall have some time in the city, then leave.”
Leonardo shot a look at Pisces, and the [Necromancer] realized there was a great irony about to occur. By ‘the city’, Prince Weith meant the closest one. Princess Lithic glanced at Pisces with great interest and leaned over.
“It should be amusing. They were quite scared of you, Scourge.”
That was how he found himself rolling back into the city of Halqued, which went silent as he passed by. The carriage door was open to let Pisces see the people and vice versa—because they had insisted. The royals laughed like it was some huge game, and to them, it was.
“Sorry, Pisces. They forced themselves into the trip, and they can sort of do what they want so long as they don’t go directly against Queen Yisame. Offending them would be really bad.”
Leo whispered to Pisces as Prince Yosoc lifted a hand and got an instant wave of applause and cheering, unprompted. Pisces was reminded of his conversation with Yvlon about commonfolk…
He just sat there, hoping not to see that girl in the crowd. And wanting to find her.
Lleta.
Had she been sold despite everything…? He barely paid attention to the gossip in court. Only one thing caught his ear.
“Yvlon’s not been seen?”
“Oh, an hour or two. But she vanished, and no one’s seen her since. Resting?”
Weith spoke airily, but for a moment, his expression became calculating. Princess Lithic flicked a hand-fan out and cooled the entire carriage in a moment.
“If she is taken ill, perhaps she might only have an ‘hour or two’ for quite some time. Months, perhaps. A year or more, I have heard.”
Pisces stared at her as she chuckled, and Prince Yosoc appeared mildly apprehensive; he sat furthest from Pisces in the carriage, behind Wildcard. The [Necromancer] spoke softly.
“You mean if she’s magically ill.”
Lithic’s fan didn’t waver as it idly moved back and forth.
“Did I say that, Adventurer? My, you Izrilians are direct.”
“I get it from the Silver Killer. So we’re departing?”
“In a moment, in a moment. I should rather like to hear of your ride across this region. How many [Slavers] did you kill? Not that I approve.”
