Another group—[Traders] carrying [Slaves]. They might not have been Roshal this time, but Pisces didn’t care. However, he took more note of the looting.
Merr was a [Bandit], in the end, and he had promised her a reward for helping him. Not just her; her Dustbandits were stuffing coin and valuables into their pockets as they broke open crates, hauling everything away from the wagon.
They’d been very sparing of the valuables in the fighting. Nor did they fight; they just grabbed and ran.
Only afterwards did they pause to divide up what they’d gotten. There was a complex share-system where younger [Bandits] got less loot, but everyone got a fair portion. No hiding the best away. A lot went to the Loot Box for the Siren of Savere, anyways.
Merr grabbed a bracelet she fancied from one of the chests and grunted.
“You want anything, Pisces?”
“No, I’m fine, Merr.”
Pisces wasn’t sure if the looting troubled him. He’d hung out with people who broke the law many a time before coming to The Wandering Inn, but he’d been a relatively upstanding adventurer after that. This would have made him a pariah of the Merchant’s Guild. But it was Merr.
She jerked a thumb at the road, still in chaos from their attack.
“If it wasn’t [Slavers], we’d run off the idiots instead of killing them. [Merchants] are like golden geese. Don’t kill ‘em, just steal their eggs. Okay, this haul’s done. Reckon we can hit a few more caravans on the road. Just [Slavers], mind. See if any have [Slaves], girls!”
The Dustbandits whooped and set to with more alacrity. Also, it wasn’t very hard to find more [Merchants] with [Slaves]; they were rich enough to have them, and they didn’t have to pay a [Slave].
 
——
 
Between three caravans and the other targets they passed on the road, there quickly came a point where the Dustbandits were so saturated with loot they’d have to hide it, teleport it to Savere, or just stop raiding. Pisces was worried, but Merr simply threw up a hand.
“Looks like we’re full up. What we need now is…a nice, honest [Merchant] or [Trader]. Pisces, y’mind finding one for us?”
She glanced skyward, and one of the birds that Pisces had animated from days prior was circling overhead. He was still using his undead, albeit more experimentally than before.
Because of how fast Merr’s Dustbandits moved, even Ghouls had trouble keeping up. Pisces still animated the zombies and had them run, but they became a slower, secondary group that Merr used to distract from where they were, or linked up with to hit a target.
His real undead fighting force was now the thirteen Skeleton Champions, each of whom was mounted on a zombified horse. Added to that were two Bone Horrors, both of whom were customized for speed. The Ghouls were supplemental, but the real experimentation was in the undead animals.
The horses had custom bone-plating that Pisces had added, even protrusions of bone like lances. The Skeleton Champions would charge them into the fighting before leaping off. The zombie horses feared nothing, so they acted as weird [Lancers]; they’d slam into an enemy, impale them with bones, then back off, circle around, and do it again.
Same for the sky. The zombies had rapidly deteriorated with wear and tear, and some were closer to bone, now. Pisces had tried to animate one of the bird’s skeletons and give it six wings, thinking it’d help it catch more air.
The flapping, six-winged skeleton bird actually flew. He had to make a kind of invisible ‘mesh’ of death mana that replaced the feathers it had lost. But it flew like a drunken [Storm Sailor]. Merr had laughed for ten minutes seeing it try to flap around.
It glided nonstop, though. Merr shaded her eyes.
“What’s Silly Sixwings got for old Merr, eh?”
“Please stop naming them.”
However, Pisces sighed and cast around. Merr wanted a [Trader] or [Merchant]? One not carrying [Slaves]…
Most had either heard or sensed the raids happening down the road and so were pulling off the roads or moving away at speed. Pisces spotted several larger ones, and Merr took her Dustbandits towards them. But he noticed one trio and blinked.
“Wait, I know this group…”
Merr cocked her head with interest.
“If it’s a [Trader], any’ll do. Bigger’s not always best. Take us in. Girls? No eyes. Go deal with the big [Merchant] Pisces saw that way.”
The Dustbandits streamed rightwards. That left Pisces and Merr, who vanished as they activated [Invisibility] spells to dodge whatever scrying spells were searching for them. And he rode and quickly saw a familiar trio, swearing and trying to push their wagon out of the pothole in the ground…
 
——
 
“Hurry! Hurry, you idiots!”
Trader Hexata was exhorting her two older brothers who labored with their family’s pack mule to free their wagon. She’d heard there were [Bandits] on the road, and they’d gone off it to hide. They just had to go on a day-trip to make some coin. They’d done the right thing, or so they’d thought. But now they were sitting in the open!
They were almost free of the divot in the sand when someone coughed behind Hexata, and her stomach dropped.
“This lot? They’d be dead if a Level 6 [Raider] with a broken dagger jumped ‘em.”
“They helped me. Trader Hexata—”
She screamed, whirled, and Pisces lifted his hands. The Scourge! And—she went white as Merr the Storm, one of the [Bandit Lords] of Savere, appeared behind her.
“I—I—I swear we haven’t anything of value! Just curios, oh great and munificent [Bandits]! Spare us!”
She dropped to her knees as her brothers froze. One thought about going for his shortsword; Merr half-turned her head, and they threw up their hands. But the [Bandit Lady] was amused and chuckled.
“I don’t knock down [Traders]. Not worth my time. Today’s your lucky day, Trader Hexata. My lad Pisces here and I are looking to make a deal.”
Ah, one that involved me giving you everything I have? Hexata’s face turned waxy. She told herself the story of meeting Pisces the Scourge was worth this…bad turn, so long as they were allowed to keep their wagon. They had money in the Merchant’s Guild and she had a few other bets—Pisces looked worried.
“Merr, what do you mean…?”
The [Bandit Lady] strode forwards, then slapped something down as she pulled an entire crate out of her bag of holding. Then another. Then—she felt at her back.
“Argh, this shit is heavy! Pisces, help me!”
Six crates that Trader Hexata recognized as belonging to the Merchant’s Guild of Chandrar, with their seals still intact no less, sat in front of Hexata. One had bolts of silk that made her eyes bug out. Another? Gemstones from Salazsar…
The richest loot that Merr had found. The [Bandit Lady] rubbed her hands as the three [Traders] stared at more wealth than they’d ever made in their life.
“I’ve just acquired some goods to sell. As a businesswoman myself, I’d love to offer them to you at splendid rates.”
“I—I am honored, Merr the Storm. But I can’t, um, afford this?”
Hexata squeaked. She didn’t have enough gold to cover this, even with all her merchandise! Worse—her brothers paled as they realized what Merr wanted.
If they ended up with a bunch of stolen loot from the Merchant’s Guild, they wouldn’t just be expelled from the Guild, they’d be flayed alive and—Pisces was whispering to Merr, having the same thought. But Merr was beaming.
“Nonsense! Normally, I’d give this lot something cheaper, but any friend of yours is a friend of mine, Necrolad. Here. For you and you and you…damn, I need more cards.”
She handed three black cards out, and Hexata blinked as little words appeared on them. It said…
 
City of Cheklam — Andos, Weaverstreet.
City of Halqued — Labroi, The Cutting Edge.
Town of Jivs…
 
It was a list of local cities and towns. The clearly magical card—Hexata had seen [Merchants] with the same. But this?
“What is this, Lady Merr?”
“Just a card that lets you talk to someone who’ll offload the goods. Can’t have you doin’ it through open markets. And just in case you were wonderin’ how, you obviously don’t bring this into the city. Sometimes you can get it past the [Guards], but that’s a fool’s game. Leave your wagon outside, nip on in, and have a word. They take it, they slide you your cut, and that’s that.”
Smugglers. Pisces’ mouth was open, and he closed it along with Hexata and her siblings.
“You, uh, do this often, Merr?”
She sighed at him.
“Pisces, Pisces. Loot is heavy. Plus, the Merchant’s Guild isn’t dumb. The bigger [Merchants]? They just turn the crates back over to the Guild in exchange for a fee. The one my girls are talking to will get us a cut. Less than we like, sometimes—so we go back and raid ‘em or just don’t work with them again. But Trader Hexata can get better rates if she sells this on the market. Heck, if I like her, I’ll sell her more goods myself!”
She winked and turned.
“It don’t hurt a [Trader] to get in with the black markets, either.”
Wait, this card would let her talk to underworld dealers? Hexata’s eyes went round as she realized this might be a list of…
This was huge. Hugely dangerous if she gave away the card and they realized she’d put the market in danger; they had to have plenty of precautions. Probably a network devoted to monitoring local law enforcement and switching up who was listed on the card. Merr chuckled as she re-mounted her horse.
“Izril’s probably just as good at this. Maybe not as direct, but d’you think we’re all idiots? Say something reassuring to the nice [Trader], Pisces. I’m gonna check on my girls. Ten minutes! I’m feeling generous with all these profits.”
She rode off, laughing to herself, and Pisces offered Hexata a weak smile. She stared down at the fortune in front of her. One of her brothers fainted into the other’s arms.
Even if they only got 5% of what this was worth in exchange for smuggling it…Pisces half-turned to Merr, and his eyes lit up as they hadn’t in all the times Hexata had spoken to him before.
“I’m sorry about this, Hexata. Merr may have put you to some risky business, but I hope it is to everyone’s profit. She is good about that.”
“Not at all, Scourge. You look happier.”
That was all she managed. His head turned back to her, and he pointed at himself, confused. Happier? They spoke for a moment, and she still saw his eyes roaming the distance. Still saw the Scourge as he mounted his horse when Merr the Storm rode back to him. But when he nodded to her and they rode…
“Are they lovers, d’you think?”
Her eldest brother whispered as the Dustbandits rode after them, whooping and cheering. Hexata stomped on his foot, and he swore, hopping up and down, but then she sighed.
“I hope so. He looks better.”
This was not on the scrying orb she went back to watching when they’d passed. Watching and seeing his exploits. But to Hexata, that moment mattered most of all.
 
——
 
Many people saw Pisces Jealnet’s ride as more channels picked up the broadcast, and the popularity didn’t end. Accordingly, Wistram’s algorithm told them to make the broadcast a priority, and other news stations copied them. That might be one explanation for why Pisces’ face re-appeared on television hour after hour.
Or as Mrsha the Watcher could have told you, or Lord Molen…some things were just important and should be watched.
Many notable people watched the broadcast. From Fraerlings to the King of Bows to…
 
——
 
Ailendamus’ Court of Masks was in an uproar over the latest developments with the [Necromancer]. Full arguments that spilled out of the actual masked section into open conversation.
Because Ailendamus’ nobility were split.
“Look at him now! Fencer Padurn is lamentably correct for once. This proves why refusing to embrace him was such a correct decision.”
One of the [Ministers] of Ailendamus was shaking his head over the wanton slaughter. His opponent was someone who didn’t normally participate in the policymaking of Ailendamus.
Crown Princess Ozena Zessoprical did not enjoy the politics of court life, having grown up around it. She was a favorite at the magical academies, where she studied magic—and swordplay—and she was not allowed to become an adventurer like Princess Telleis or Duchess Greina.
But this was clearly interesting to her. So she was having a heated conversation.
“It may be unlawful, but it’s slavery, Goldcat! Ailendamus does not hold with slavery, does it?”
“Er, Your Highness, we’re out of the Court of Masks—”
She tore off her mask, embarrassed.
“Ahem. What I meant was that he was freeing children!”
“Yes…and I would be remiss not to point out that I favor the freedom of any child from—from—but it is the law, Your Highness. He is riding with common [Bandits]! That is the crux of the matter. Baron Regalius, your thoughts?”
Regalius was conflicted himself, but he was highly invigorated by all this conversation. It wasn’t all nuance, of course. Some younger people just loved adventurers, and Pisces Jealnet riding across Chandrar hacking down enemies appealed to a certain youthful rebellion. He was, after all, all scandal.
And Regalius had heard from a little bird that a certain [Princess] had gotten in trouble just the other day for trying to teach a class on basic necromancy…rebellion was a terrible thing in the young. Any time they did something their parents and elders didn’t expect or like, rebellion.
Regalius’ perspective, well, was that he’d been young once, and he’d rather like to not be set in stone when the young took power. But his personal views on this divide?
He played politics for once, deferring the question with a [Smooth Sidestep]. A combat Skill that you could parlay into social circumstances if you were quite good.
“I’m troubled by the legality question myself, Minister Freshaud. Obviously, one cannot deny the optics are good. Freeing children?”
“Embracing the Death of Chains? Madness! Baron, have you lost your mind?”
A noblewoman exploded at that. Regalius waved a finger at her.
“Extenuating circumstances, Lady Hiterto. We must remember he was unjustly made a [Slave]—”
“So the Drake alleges—”
“—A complex situation. But I think you will find Minister Sophridel has collected data showing Ailendamus’ populace has definitively positive feelings, even now. I bow to his data. Yet I hold the legal entanglements up as a greatly valid concern, especially for Ailendamus to embrace. Who better to address this than our guests from House Shoel?”
He pivoted and threw the conversation towards another group. The people around him turned and moved as Baron Regalius smiled at the grateful [Battle Princess], who went striding over to a unique set of guests.
