The first [Deathbolt] took a sentry out of one of the watchtowers. Then the storm was blowing over the [Riders], giving them cover as voices rose into screams, and the storm howled. But before that—
A glowing comet flashed over the oasis. Motes of color falling, and the [Slavers] screamed as they tried to bar the gates.
 
[Spell – Illusory Comet Learned!]
 
——
 
One last person saw the Bane of Roshal belatedly. But it took him time to punch through the mana-drain effect across the New Lands, and he hadn’t been paying attention.
Az’kerash was busy. Not entirely content; he was discovering too many flaws in his Chosen for his complete satisfaction. But they were levelling, and his accumulation of the newest resource he’d discovered would advance his attempt at forming a true army of undeath. There were limits to any [Necromancer], constraints based on how many bodies you had, your magical acumen…
This would solve at least one problem.
The only reason he checked the news was to keep up-to-date on magical innovations. The duel between Archmages had been very, very important, for example.
Automated magic. He required that. It would necessitate him waiting for the magic to spread, then capturing a spellbook or a caster. Of such things did the Necromancer of Terandria plan.
He would have ignored the news of the day except for the fact that two dozen spells kept alerting him to the Pisces Jealnet story.
“Troublesome.”
The Necromancer realized that this was a flaw from when he had been overly sentimental. When he had allowed his Human self free reign, before he had corrected his personality. Perril Chandler had been…overly obsessed with the young man he had seen himself in.
Az’kerash saw nothing to love in the image of Pisces. He was one [Necromancer] who knew Az’kerash’s identity. Trustworthy in that he had not revealed it, but a Level 30 [Necromancer] was useless.
…Level 40?
Hm. As useful as the Goblin Lord experiment had been, then. Far from optimal, and currently in…Chandrar? Part of Az’kerash’s mind found this interesting, but only mildly so. The Necromancer did not care as he sorted through a hundred different images of the adventurer, except to note that a [Necromancer] attaining such fame had not occurred since he had been alive.
He imagined it would hurt another man’s heart with some…emotion. He felt nothing as he dismissed the backlog of data. Useless, trivial, a waste of his t—
Then he stared at something and halted the playback. Conjured the image into the space in front of him.
“Master?”
The mines were dark. And deep. They were digging for treasure…Az’kerash whispered.
“Are those…invisible Skeleton Champions?”
He had a lot of recordings of Pisces. Not just what Wistram had broadcast. A while ago, Perril Chandler had realized that Pisces’ anti-scrying spells meant he would miss most of what the Horns did again. So he’d developed a custom-spell specifically tuned to Pisces’ personal enchantments. He’d wasted about seventeen days straight on it.
That was how Az’kerash saw one of Pisces’ raids on the [Slaver] caravans. He cared nothing for [Slavers], of course. Everything would die. But that spellcasting…
“Four concurrent [Invisibility] spells plus a self-spell on a caster. They keep reappearing…the Skeleton Champions are amply armored.”
Decent. They’d be a mainstay in his army, though he’d make Skeleton Knights, who were better-armored. But…Az’kerash isolated other images.
He came across the Bone Horror that Pisces had made and began to dismiss it.
“Ineffective design. Capable of only raking attacks and a multi-headed yawning bite…wait. The legs. Hmm. Designed to instill fear in equine species.”
There was a book which he recalled, belatedly, giving Pisces about optimal bone configuration to instill fear in other species. The familiarity of certain patterns while diverging provoked an instinctual terror-based response.
And the Bone Horror was quick. Az’kerash watched another image and saw the [Necromancer] charging up a ramp of bone to fire the laser-guided [Deathbolt] at…
“Ijvani. Do you use any targeting spells or Skills for your magic?”
“…Ijvani is dead, Master.”
After a moment, Az’kerash turned his head, and that hurt him. He paused, then nodded at another of the Chosen.
“Yes. What of you?”
The new mage of his Chosen bowed her head, or tried to. But she was not as humanoid as Ijvani had been. Far more mobile. She…skittered as she replied.
“My aim has sometimes suffered, Master. I have cast [Homing Spell], but that requires…”
“Try this.”
He demonstrated the concept and watched as the Chosen replicated it after some effort. Strange. He didn’t use the technique at all; there were other ways to correct a spell. But then Az’kerash stood there, watching for a while.
A [Necromancer] who scythed down the living like the chaff they were, then raised a horde. Az’kerash whispered as he gazed at the scrying spell.
“Yes. Yes…you do understand. Perhaps he was right in this.”
He smiled as he saw the young [Necromancer] riding on that steed of undeath. Then developed a puzzled expression and felt at his own lips. Az’kerash touched his chest.
“—Nothing. It is a logical conclusion to celebrate an ally.”
That was all. Reassured, he turned and saw Devail studying the image of Pisces. Another duelist with a rapier. Devail spoke.
“Master. Is he one to learn from?”
“He is not as proficient with the blade. Nor does he have your advantages, Devail. He is not a Gold-bell duelist, the enemy you aspire to surpass in all ways.”
Az’kerash nodded at Pisces, whose swordplay he could critique, even if that had always been the realm of Perril Chandler. He turned away, interest satisfied, and Devail murmured.
“His bell is beautiful.”
“You will take a better one, Devail.”
“Yes, Master. But you did not answer my question.”
Az’kerash regarded Devail blankly before he glanced at Pisces.
“He does not know the next step. Any foe above Level 50 will destroy him, and he has no offensive might. He is no Named-rank adventurer.”
“Yes, Master. But could he be?”
Az’kerash opened his mouth and stared at Pisces. Then he closed it and went back to digging. In the silence, Devail sat and watched the scrying spell that Az’kerash had left open.
 
——
 
Nineteen Pisces Jealnets came through the gate of the Waystation Zigot, each one armed with a blade. Some with rapiers, others with daggers—each swinging like madmen.
They tore through the [Slavers] so fast that they were fleeing street-by-street as the furious Scourges advanced. Blood spattering the ground, screaming [Slavers] pleading for mercy.
At this point, a ‘censored for viewer discretion’ image played over the recording, and Sir Relz sat back in his chair.
“Ladies, gentlemen, this is Sir Relz from Channel 1 News, joined by Noass.”
The two nodded at each other as Sir Relz sat behind the desk, and Noass, the disgraced [News Anchor] who’d won his way back to prominence, chinked mugs with Relz. They both said ‘#1 News’ on them.
The boys were back together. The dream team commentators. And what a topical piece but…Relz spoke to the cameras.
“A lot has been said on the Pisces Jealnet story. Roshal has issued a retraction of the video, of course—”
“Highly upsetting, Sir Relz; did you see it?”
“Not fully, Noass. Did you?”
The Drake rubbed at his face.
“Yes, and I’d love to have a memory-erasing potion. Does Saliss of Lights or Xif make them?”
Relz shuffled his papers carefully.
“Indeed, well, I have it from a spokesperson of Roshal that it was not sanctioned by the city, but the actions of a private individual—and we have heard copious condemnations by world powers. They’re still coming in. I believe our newsbanner is listing them?”
Both Drakes nodded, and Sir Relz went on.
“Nevertheless, the question arises…if that is Adventurer Pisces, and there are certainly a lot of questions given how many attacked this waystation…is it an ethical matter? The Adventurer’s Guild has taken his side, as has public sentiment in places, but we’ve had callers decrying his actions. Chandrarians don’t feel safe! While our esteemed colleague in Channel 2 begs to differ, I think she’s rather biased.”
An image of Drassi popped up, mid-coverage, and the two Drakes chuckled…until Drassi’s head rotated.
“—and I was s—I heard that.”
She leaned out of her frame and stared down at them.
“Well, well, well. Looks like I get to enact violence today after all. You two badmouthing Pisces? Where’s my brick? I’m gonna—”
They cut the image of her, and Noass adjusted his tweed vest; Sir Relz had on a suit and his monocle today, yellow and fire-red respectively.
“Terrifying how she does that. That’s levels for you, eh, Sir Relz?”
“Indeed, Noass, and if we are disturbed, rest assured we’ll try to be professional. Again, unlike some [Journalists]—”
The staff in the background were already preparing for an interruption, barricading the doors. Again, the Drakes chinked mugs, and Sir Relz leaned forwards.
“Candidly, Noass, I’m troubled by all this. Roshal has not, ah, covered itself in glory. They’ve made a rather strong argument for why they’re under attack.”
Noass nodded.
“Hard to ignore the fact that Adventurer Pisces was illegally taken as a [Slave]—I feel comfortable enough saying that!”
“Risky, Noass, risky; there’s been no adjudication. I think the Arbiter Queen wishes to litigate the matter, but some people have suggested she’s biased from her relationship with Adventurer Pisces…I digress.”
Relz steepled his claws together. Glanced meaningfully at the audience.
“Roshal has some individuals of truly deplorable action and morality. This is undeniable. However, I would hesitate to paint any one nation with a brush of one color, wouldn’t you, Noass?”
Noass frowned. He opened his mouth, peered at Pisces, then tilted his head slightly.
“I’m not sure I’m following, Sir Relz. Do you mean some of these [Slavers] aren’t the ones who took Adventurer Pisces hostage? Because yes, of course.”
“Absolutely. But I want to be more broad than even that. What I mean is…”
Sir Relz smoothed his neck spines and sighed.
“It’s a different culture, one that I don’t ascribe to, Noass, and the same could be said of most Pallassians, I assume. At the same time, I’ve met individuals from Chandrar and shared a cordial meal or conversation together. I didn’t press them on whether they owned [Slaves], and I found most quite agreeable. Some not, like any section of people. I’m just asking if this anti-[Slaver] rhetoric is alienating an entire continent’s worth of people.”
“Hmm. But not everyone in Chandrar are fans of [Slavers], Sir Relz. We had plenty of callers who were fans of Pisces’ alleged actions, even from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. He’s something of an icon.”
Sir Relz frowned at this and glanced at the doors where a certain loud voice was being raised, and a few members of staff appeared worried.
“Ah, that’s our unwanted guest. What I mean, though, Noass, is that this is a cultural issue, clearly. It’s a vast world, and if we all had the same beliefs and values, it would be mighty boring, wouldn’t it? Should we, from our literal armchairs, condemn this practice we have no context for?”
He frowned at Noass, and the other Drake sat back in his seat. Thinking with an equally troubled frown. Sir Relz took a long sip from his cup of purified water.
“I think we should perhaps wait to pass criticism or excuse a lot of deaths as acceptable, don’t you, Noass? Let alone condemning one of Chandrar’s biggest, if not the biggest, economies.”
He smiled at his friend as he sat back in his chair, and Noass adjusted his own positioning on the custom Drake seat designed not to let your neck spines catch on the back. He stared at Relz, then glanced at the cameras, then leaned forwards.
“—No, I think we’re above that, Sir Relz. Slavery, I mean. I don’t need to try it to know I object morally to it. And I’d say you’re above defending that like a coward.”
Sir Relz’s smile halted with his cup, raised halfway to his lips. The two Drakes eyed each other in dead silence as the cameras kept rolling.
 
——
 
“Let me in! I’m gonna rip both their tails off! Listen, I want you to screen me from the rest of the staff while I have it out with them—”
Drassi was prepared for a fight. Channel 1 and Channel 2 staff were pushing at each other in the hallways. Even with separate studios, the two fought so often that there were guards, but she was high-level, and she had a brick she kept in her desk she was inserting into a sock just for this purpose.
Her best [Reporters] and [Journalists] were ready to go, and Drassi finally caught sight of the desk where Channel 1 was broadcasting from. She saw Noass, Sir Relz, drew a breath to shout—
Then saw the two Drakes were sitting up in their chairs, hurling objects at each other. Noass clocked Sir Relz with his mug before the other Drake threw his monocle, his clipboard, then his chair—
Drassi halted, mid-shout, and gaped as the two Drakes kept throwing things. She backed up a step. Closed the doors as the Channel 1 news team turned. Then she went back to her desk.
“Er, sorry about that folks. Where was I?”
 
——
 
Ten minutes of peak entertainment later, Noass was gone. Sir Relz had a black eye and was missing his monocle. His neck spines, which had been combed down to look like hair, were askew, but he was pretending all was well.
“Apologies for that, gentlemen, ladies. Now I, ah, I think we’ll take a small intermission to restore order…we’re going now to Padurn Jealnet to comment on this entire issue with his son. Fencer Padurn? Your thoughts?”
He was prepared to duck out of frame and simply let the Human talk—and resume his shouting match—when Padurn Jealnet appeared on the scrying orb.
People began instantly trying to change channel. He had Wistram’s first negative ratings score for a guest on television. But since he was topical, they all waited a moment to hear something stupid.
Padurn Jealnet was staring at a scrying orb clearly showing the image of the raid on the waystation. His face was pinched. Nostrils flaring. Eyes wide with disapproval.
“Sir, this appears to be an attack on the [Slavers] of Roshal in broad daylight with your son’s face. Would you call this a lawless act, assuming it was your son?”
Sir Relz gave the man an intro, and Padurn snapped instantly. Too damn fast, like the [Fencer] he was. Relz cursed as he found a comb…
“I would. This is murder, an assault on a foreign nation.”
“If it were your son, then, would you condemn it?”
