“Forem. I knew your tribe had a funny sense of humor. Not bad. I’m no fool. I’ve done what I must. It only remains to be seen whether I’m followed by an army or just Prildor when I get Ceria.”
So she was driven. Miihey noted this down. Prildor wailed.
“I cannot leave Nuvityn, Tserre! You’ve put my position and his in jeopardy—”
“Oh shut up, Prildor. You know how fast Gold-rankers die, and Ceria’s in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. They eat her kind, and she’s just a teenager at best. You and I will do if we have to. I’ll deal with that circlet, and you can seduce a Djinni.”
“How dare you reduce me down to some—some lecherous half-Elf who sleeps with anyone! I’ll have you know I’ve only had a relationship with two Djinni, and they were astounding, magnificent ladies—”
Miihey would have given all his gold and his enchanted axe to have Prildor tell his tales of love entirely. It surely would have earned him a place in Forem’s small library of tales they deigned to commit to written stone.
But here was the thing, and Tserre seemed to note it.
“…He’s not as easy as other [Kings]. I’ve never served a King of Myths. He doesn’t want artifacts. He has too many. He’s truly angry, isn’t he?”
“He has lost a son, Magus. And you have kept him from vengeance about your own pursuits. If you had begged him, he would have been more gracious. Do you think he is heartless?”
Miihey spoke directly to Tserre, and her cold, sharp eyes found him, then she nodded once. She did not apologize, just turned her head to regard the sea.
“Well, perhaps I did it poorly. I do not…beg, [Barbarian]. How wroth is he?”
“Not enough to expel you, Magus. Not yet. But I think angry enough to go roughshod over other kingdoms.”
“I am in Chandrar. If I must…I will do what I have to, alone. I would prefer not to; I do not know this King of Destruction. Is there a risk of anything worse?”
Miihey met Tserre’s eyes with a smile wide and open.
“Yes, Magus. You may fear that he considers your task unworthy or you untrustworthy. You have met a [King] with principles. Far better had you met a lesser [King].”
She hesitated as a [Princess] in the distance flailed around in an ocean of jellyfish, desperately casting magic to stay unstung and failing. From this, Miihey saw her realize she had erred.
However, it would have also been wrong to say that King Nuvityn was a blind man. Miihey realized it was he who had also misjudged. For Prildor turned from the sight of a flailing [Princess] in the waters to greater things clearly weighing on his mind.
“You never have any tact, Tserre. This is just like the dispute with the garden. You just pick up a house and put it somewhere else, then cast an illusion so everyone can’t tell they’ve moved for thirty years. Miihey is correct; His Majesty isn’t as easy to bully as our neighbors. But while we’re here…”
He leaned on the railing of the ship. Prildor wasn’t armed. He seemed to forget his bow everywhere. He behaved like, well, a civilian a lot of the time. Despite being the [Royal Stockplier] of the entire Kingdom of Myths. But Miihey had noted that despite numerous folk of Erribathe having fallen prey to [Pickpockets] in cities, or scams or pranks, Prildor had yet to even lose money to the [Sailors] in any great amount. And he did gamble.
Now, he was just gazing at the harbor, so far out of sight it strained Miihey’s eyes to make out any details.
“I had wondered if I’d see it, but I suppose the statue’s not in the harbor. Or that’s not the capital. Do you know if it’s a lie?”
Tserre lost her expression of customary irritation as she kept an eye on Vernoue and turned.
“It’s a lie, Prildor. No one bothered casting a spell on the High King while he was performing. But there are no actual accounts of a ceremony, just a few entries any idiot can forge.”
What lie? Miihey took a moment, then remembered. Oh, High King Perric. And the marriage to—
He began to grin, but Prildor wasn’t smiling. He just put one foot on the railings as he leaned forwards.
“Good. But even so, she’s barely…I suppose she’s a bit older, but the Village of the Spring is sure to be in uproar when they hear about it. I wrote them letters explaining.”
“She’s a Gold-rank adventurer. They get entangled. She stole his crown, or the other idiot did. The half-made woman of metal. A real one after all this time. It’s politics, Prildor. I’ll sort it out.”
“I know that. But I did think, when I saw it—well, it would have been hard to catch a Courier’s ship while we were in Izril, but I thought if we were heading from First Landing I could do it. It’d only take half a year, and I could catch His Majesty. Since we’re here—he’s a [King], Tserre.”
“Mm. And?”
“It’s not right. Not to Ceria. She’s just a girl. But he is a [King]. I can’t talk to men like that without borrowing Nuvityn’s name. I feel as though I should disembark. Just in case he were to get ideas.”
“And you’ll do, what, talk to him?”
Prildor gave Tserre an insulted look.
“No. Of course not. I’m not good with words. But if he grabbed Ceria or something—it’d just have to be me. Dead, no doubt.”
Another huge sigh. But then Prildor exhaled, calmly.
“Even so, it would be unacceptable.”
Tserre gave him a second look, and Miihey felt at his arms. It was the youngest half-Elf who spoke up.
“One man dying to no good cause is a fool’s errand, just as I told the King of Myths, Prildor.”
The half-Elf blinked at Miihey as if he’d forgotten he was there and turned away, flushing.
“No, no, you’re right. I’m too old for that kind of thing. Perhaps it’s well His Majesty is here. A steadying influence who can talk to this High King. All I could do is shoot an arrow or two.”
At the High King? Prildor had bigger balls than Miihey thought—until the [Barbarian] considered what an arrow was to Prildor. Then he wondered how Prildor walked around normally. He had heard tale that this Medain had numerous armies of adventurers, fine folk in heavy armor like Voreca’s people.
He imagined a single half-Elf, upset over a [High King] carrying off a young—a child in Prildor’s eyes—[Ice Mage] towards his bedchambers. What might he do?
“Don’t be a fool, Prildor.”
Tserre’s voice was less snappish than usual. She put an arm on his shoulder, and Prildor exhaled.
“Of course I’m not an idiot, Tserre. I’ll just have a word with the High King if we get the chance.”
“Leave it to His Majesty. If he were assaulting Ceria in his palace, things would not be solved by you waving that bow around. She’s up to trouble in a far more complex place than this little kingdom. If it were just her being wed, willingly or not, I could take us off-shore, fire two spells, and be done with it. Nerrhavia’s Fallen has too many damn Djinni. There’s always someone over Level 60 hanging about too.”
Miihey turned from Tserre to Prildor, and the two half-Elves regarded Medain as they spoke carelessly. Medain who was ruled by the mighty High King Perric. A man blessed by luck indeed.
It occurred to Miihey that Nuvityn might be wrathful, but he was loath to lose someone of Tserre’s talents, or Prildor’s, whom he had specifically picked to accompany him. The [Royal Supplier] wore an unhappy expression, and Miihey edged away to tell some of the others that perhaps they should watch him. If only for the sake of High King Perric’s armies.
Forbearance was wisdom to Erribathe’s ruler, clearly. But even so, he had been slighted and his plans thrown into disarray. Nuvityn might make the best of the situation he had. But who could subdue the King of Myths’ wrath?
Not her. Not poor Miihey.
They spent some time thusly as the King of Myths brooded on his actions. He was so wroth he seemed to prefer to build his fury, and no one could alleviate it. Such was the concern of his council that they grew fearful of what might come next.
Until…he appeared.
 
——
 
It wasn’t the first day he’d appeared on the news. Or the first moment of someone paying attention to what was going on.
It was just…
Inconsequential, at first. Because, surely, it wasn’t important.
Of course, his was a famous name that ranked in the Top 1000 keywords for recognizable terms in popular culture. Which was crazy when you thought about it.
And Wistram Academy was all about its popularity algorithms. They were riding a wave with the television and popular media, and they were intending to keep on top of it until they got to the top. Archmage Eldavin and his Terras faction had it all figured out, of course.
“First comes scrying orbs. Advertisements. An ‘orb in every home’; well, we don’t have the industry for that. Yet. But then we’ll invent one of these, uh, music players. First, music, then we turn it into an all-in-one device. Phones. Within ten years, we’ll have Wistram Academy in every person’s hands!”
They were stealing from Earth. If there was a route to enslaving an entire world on mass media, why fix a winning formula? Eldavin had plans. But the key was boosting Wistram News Network to the max, and that meant good ratings were key.
They were inventing everything from how to analyze how many people had watched any given broadcast to how to ‘rate’ likeability. Random surveys, marking each scrying orb by watch time—oh, the [Mages] had lots to do.
But what this meant was the industry of television was growing, and certain players, like Drassi, Sir Relz, and Noass, were at the top. But there were new people trying to rise each day, and the quality of television was becoming a concern.
At the start, you could put a cat on a scrying orb and have it roll around or bat at yarn and your audience loved it. These days? The cat had better be a one-eyed kitten abandoned at birth who was experiencing its first magical ball of yarn—ever—and there had better be some good accompanying music.
Entirely disheartening. Some members of Earth, like Rémi Canada, saw this slide into the madness of his world and were trying to fight it, but this was a natural pattern. All of this meant that the things being shown on the news grew increasingly more…spectacular.
Not always pure action! Wars got coverage because they had to, but sometimes you got a [Nobleman] giving away ten thousand gold pieces of wealth. Or—or a Named-ranker caught fighting a monster of truly awe-inspiring proportions.
Silver-rankers virtually never appeared anymore. Gold-rankers had to be extraordinary to get a spot. The age when Liscor fighting Face-Eater Moths was newsworthy was gone. It wasn’t as spontaneous as before. Not as organic.
At the same time…that meant many broadcasts felt ‘fake’ for lack of a better word. What the curators of media decided was vital, like the crowning of a new [King] of Oztera or a noble’s ball, could fall flat on the many cultures who asked why this mattered.
A disconnect between what people wanted you to believe was important and what you felt. And Wistram at the heart of it. Eldavin was ruthless; if something wasn’t getting genuine traction, he fired the [Mage] responsible for the broadcast and blacklisted the organization.
Soon, people would be able to buy time. Soon, there’d be enough channels to have people able to purchase importance—but right now was a unique moment where things had to be genuinely captivating to get on television. It kept dedicated teams of news-people from Pallass to Wistram to every news-network hunting for good footage to air. And those teams were already being used—how culture shifted so fast.
That was why it wasn’t surprising he hadn’t been featured despite the news coming out. It was, after all…
Just Pisces. More than one person had reviewed the tidbits and seen summaries.
‘Bane of Roshal killing [Slavers]. Possibly him? Numerous caravans destroyed. People attacked on the roads.’
They looked at that briefing, did a bit of research, and concluded maybe this was real. But…so what?
The Horns of Hammerad were good for generating attention. People liked them. The Silver Killer of Chandrar? Amazing broadcast. Bloody, captivating—and she was so weird. You had her father, who was denouncing anything improper, which you could juxtapose with Yvlon Byres tearing through the Coliseum of Monarchs…great stuff.
But Pisces Jealnet? First, he was a [Necromancer]. Second? He was the Bane of Roshal. Or was it Scourge? Already, it was a headache to deal with the dual titles, and he was just killing slavers.
So what? He was sort of doing the thing he was named after. To someone like a [Television Producer], it felt banal. Played out. Why bother showing him when they could show…a new species? Something from the New Lands?
And that was why they were young still. These executives didn’t have an understanding of narratives. You see, people knew Pisces. The Horns weren’t just famous, they were liked. People might want to know what Pisces was doing. Morality?
No one considered the morality. Except a few individuals. Like, again, Rémi Canada, who might not have had access to Wistram News Network, but who had a certain power of his own. He was the first one to insist that it get a broadcast on Nerrhavia’s Wonders, the local broadcast channel.
It might not be Lundas, but Rémi was willing to take the risk and override his editor’s objections that this was in bad taste. He knew…stories.
The other person who had a relationship with Pisces, however fleeting, was in just as prominent a position. Drassi Tewing followed her instincts, and she had Channel 2. She was allowed to take risks, and they generally paid off. Channel 1 with Sir Relz and Noass got to do ‘big news’, but that meant she often found gems they’d overlooked.
Like the recordings. They came, she understood, via recordings of the caravans, who had been monitored. Anti-scrying spells meant you couldn’t tell where Pisces was, but you could get aerial footage of the caravans and see the attacks. A few were from the ground; people with Wistram Scrying Devices that had recording functions.
Drassi thought about it for ten minutes, then took a gamble on the thing that had brought her this far.
“Play it. I don’t care how many disclaimers we have to run. I’ll get on and apologize to our Chandrarian viewers if I have to—play it. Either I’m blind and heartless or you idiots don’t see…”
She leaned over the scrying orb and stared down.
“…I don’t even care if it’s him. That’s the story. Play it, and if I’m wrong, I’ll retire tomorrow. But I’m not wrong.”
She wasn’t so far gone into her class that she didn’t remember what it was like to be a regular Drake. And that young man…Drassi’s eyes stung, and she wished Selys were here to say something to him.
