“Nor was she that rich! This may astound all to hear it, but she is, in fact…Cotton. Because I chased every Silk tutor away. She might have never had a [Slave], but I gifted her with some when I came of age, for her great service. She treats them like family, I am told. Would you cut her down, Scourge? A woman in her sixties, whose hands have wielded a baking pin on dough at worst?”
His argument was good. Even if the discussion were boring enough to have Lithic yawning like Yosoc. She saw Pisces think about it. Then he heaved a huge sigh.
“Perhaps.”
The [Prince] of House Dabrei was nodding along, preparing his next point, when his head stopped bobbing. He turned to peer at Pisces.
“Ah, I suspect you misworded that too. My schoolteacher? An unarmed lady who has never mistreated her [Slaves] or any other? Perhaps you’d kill…her?”
The [Necromancer]’s gaze was partially obscured by the haze in the club. He lifted his cup to his lips.
“I try to be a reasonable person, Prince. But I cannot promise what I do not know.”
“…It would be of great concern if you killed innocent women passing down the street.”
“Yes. Which is why I am called the Scourge. When it comes to Roshal, I can be—unreasonable. Greatly so. Or did you think I was unaware of the consequences when I rode on that first caravan?”
The three royals sat back up, and the bored Silks and Cottons who’d been listening peered at each other again. The script they had been playing was suddenly not matching the words coming out of Pisces’ mouth.
Prince Weith leaned forward, despite his anger in defense of his dear old schoolteacher. Who may or may not exist. Who knew? Lithic thought it might be a true story.
“Aha, anger I understand. Is it because you are the [Necromancer], so feared in Izril? Perhaps it is because I am made of cloth, but I find undead that rot distasteful, skeletons a bit off—but I do not fear your class. The Necromancer never came here. You were expelled from Wistram and your kingdom. Are you just a…[Rebel] at heart?”
Pisces glanced up at the ceiling. At the dancer, at the [Prince], and shook his head.
“No. I thought I was. In truth, I was quite a bitter young man about two years ago, Prince Weith. I confess, I didn’t take accountability for the things I’d done. By the time I came to Liscor, there was a part of me that yearned to be hated just that bit more. To have no hand reach out for me. Then…then, a little part of me wanted to reach that lowest point. Because then I could follow in his footsteps and forsake my humanity and mortality itself. Then I could be like Az’kerash.”
It was a given, of course, that someone was trying to record this conversation for posterity, and gossip was flying as fast as Skills were thrown. But suddenly, the bored attention was riveted. Lareceina spoke.
“You did not do that, Pisces. What changed?”
“I found a place I was accepted. A boring answer for a boring man.”
He smiled at her, and this time, no one fell for it. Princess Lithic’s mind ran and came up blank, so she nudged Yosoc. He looked around, then blurted out.
“Well, I didn’t come to persuade you to like slavery. I meant what I said; I just wanted to meet you. To like you, perhaps. But I’m not so obsessed I want to lick the Silver Killer’s metal foot like my brother—”
His brother wants to what? Yosoc went on as he threw even Pisces for a loop.
“—I just want to know what went through your head when you drew on the King of Destruction.”
Silence. Pisces blinked at Yosoc and saw two earnest eyes as Yosoc yawned. Even the dancer on stage paused to listen in, and his lips quirked self-deprecatingly.
He’ll say, ‘I don’t know what I was thinking,’ Princess Lithic predicted.
“I suppose I thought I could take him. Until I came to my senses. I assumed Yvlon had Mars, and Ceria might get Amerys. So I was hoping Colth would get Orthenon, Takhatres, and Gazi.”
Dead silence—then the table exploded into laughter. Incredulous laughter. Weith slapped the table, and Yosoc gave Pisces a smile, almost disappointed. He thought Pisces was humoring him.
“Truly, Adventurer?”
The [Necromancer] smiled faintly as he lifted the cup he never drank from.
“Just a flash of ego. Maybe not. But I thought I had to try. Yvlon was going to, and he was not going to relent on a matter we were arguing over.”
“You were going to force the King of Destruction’s hand?”
“I had to try. Just like I had to sail an undead ship at the [Slavers] of Roshal and fight the Bloodtear Pirates. Or ride on that caravan. I had to kill the Adult Creler threatening my team, and I had to go into the Village of the Dead. My life is full of objectionable un-choices. So you see, Prince Weith, we tend to disagree on why things happen.”
The [Prince] frowned at Pisces.
“You are…eh, what’s the word? Semanticing. You have a choice in each case, you just claim not to.”
“Oh, no, I didn’t have a choice. I assure you. If I weren’t to do any of that, I wouldn’t be the Pisces that was allowed into an establishment far nicer than this. Oh, they might let me in at the door, but I’m sure the real door wouldn’t let me in. And I’d kick myself out in time.”
He was drawing in some spilled drink on the table. Princess Lithic laughed.
“You’re such a moral figure, then, Adventurer. How…amusing. Life must be so easy to plot if you follow such a compass.”
How sad. It made him predictable. Pisces shrugged.
“You would think so, wouldn’t you, Princess? But I am always amazed at where it takes me. I used to sneer at a fellow I thought was straight as an arrow and sharp as a brick. Ylawes Byres, a man of convictions. But though we disagree on what is right, I admire how hard it must be to live like that. He has not lived a boring life, either. I am told Stitch-folk change everything about them—that they envy us for having identities. It must be worse to be able to shift one’s priorities, to compromise, and never have an anchor to hold you steady.”
Princess Lithic took genuine offense to that. Her eyes narrowed dangerously, but Prince Yosoc’s laughter forestalled an outburst.
“Hah! I like that. Well, well. I have never hated you for killing [Slavers] of Roshal. It may be insanity, but you are closer to that than not.”
He sat back, smiling, as if he were suddenly satisfied. The other two—increasingly not. Princess Lithic’s smile was a touch venomous, now.
“You seem to imply we are living lies in fear of, what, Roshal?”
“It might not be fear, Your Highness. Just a healthy respect for fundamental forces of your economy. After all, the [Slave] trade is Nerrhavia Fallen’s most valuable pillar. You would be foolish not to acknowledge this.”
Lareceina was polite, and got two glares as Pisces agreed. There was danger in Prince Weith’s voice as he replied.
“Yet it seems close to being called a coward, even so. If I had true disagreements with slavery, I would, of course, act as I thought most moral. But I have not heard one. Nor seen one. Is it better to just put a man to death? Jail him for life? I do not find these things more moral. Death is an abhorrence, but perhaps a [Necromancer] fails to see it that way?”
Pisces twiddled a finger as he stared past the two incensed royals.
“I believe I have been too rude and erred in my communication. Perhaps if we relaxed? The, ah, floorshow is quite adept.”
It was a lithe and colorful woman in big, baggy trousers, a patchwork of colors with obvious stitching. Topless, yes, revealing brown skin, and her breasts were pierced with ornaments that caught the light.
It was very distracting. But what made her entertaining even for Nerrhavia’s Fallen, who might be used to your usual [Sultry Dancer], was that this one had a theme. The pants were, uh…weird. But then you looked at her hat with that starfish design and the little bells on them and you got it.
Ah, nude dancing clown. Pisces shook his head.
“It must be a trend or something.”
Prince Weith took one look behind him and growled.
“I don’t believe I care to ‘simmer down’, as perhaps you meant, Adventurer. Give me a reason I should favor your Izrilian beliefs. Or is it Terandria, Ailendamus, you harken to?”
Pisces re-focused on the angry Stitch-man, and he thought. Then he gave Weith a nod.
“I don’t believe I could best you in an argument on the morality of slavery, Prince Weith. If you have not heard one already…I would love to be so gifted, but I fear I cannot bring justice to the feelings in my heart.”
He sighed, and the [Prince] was dangerously close to popping a blood vessel, magical cloth-skin or not.
“Then you recant your words? Because the only other way to read it is an insult. Though we have been cordial, I warn you, I cannot stand that to my honor.”
“Nor I.”
The [Princess] put in, shifting her fan to reveal that it was actually a series of cunningly-designed stiletto daggers she could hurl. That made her [Bodyguards] begin to really sweat behind her. They were trying to figure a way out of this.
Setting fire to one of themselves, perhaps, and claiming it was an assassination attempt. They were drawing lots when Pisces leaned forwards. And there it was now, a faint smile on his lips. A bit like he was mocking them. Or found something hilarious only he could see. That little sneer that had used to make an [Innkeeper] want to commit pan-based violence.
“Ah, once again, I misspeak. I have clearly left out a point by omission. Forgive me.”
“Elucidate us then.”
It had better be really good. Lareceina was housing fries like they were made of air out of nerves. She was keenly aware that two more royal enemies would not be good—and that was if they all parted ways in this club without an incident.
But Pisces had, in Lareceina’s opinion, just locked himself out of the one argument he could make against [Slavery]: the moral argument where she thought he had the most weight.
However, the [Necromancer] had a plan. It had begun before he’d even walked into this club. He had been in the city of Halqued long enough to get some intelligence about the city.
Nothing like a local would have…but he had made use of it in conjunction with an idea he’d had. And in the course of their conversation, he’d led the two into his logical argument. Plus, when he’d been doodling on the table just now, he’d been drawing a spell sigil.
A simple spell circle, the kind that enabled death magic. Nothing like the Death’s Door he’d made. Even so, one of the [Bodyguards] had spotted it and told their [Princess] it was there.
She focused on it now, fingers tensing on her fan, prepared to kick back and activate barrier spells. Pisces’ eyes flicked to her. He held up a hand.
“I’d like to cast a spell, if I may, to illustrate my point. Don’t worry. It’s potentially alarming—not hostile to anyone present. I swear.”
“We have truth spells. Nor are we cowards, are we, Lithic?”
Weith glanced at her, and she bit her lip. She did not like this. But pride was a trap, as Pisces well knew. So she had to hold still as Pisces’ eyes began to glow faintly.
That was a lot of magic. A…lot. A few alarms cut through the music in the background; The Djinni’s Hour was an upscale place, after all. But the royals were just waiting, and Pisces was using the spell sigil as a focus.
What was he doing? If he was animating a giant undead, did that count as ‘not hostile to anyone present’ so long as it wasn’t hostile when it animated?
When your life was hanging on a question like that, you really wished you’d worded your statement to the Djinni better. Yosoc was just grinning as he sat back, eyes heavy-lidded. Pisces began talking.
“For the sake of argument, Prince Weith, let me concede that I cannot rid Chandrar of slavery. That my team, my friends, will be in jeopardy if I continue my actions. I think this is fair; I have inconvenienced them. I am a bit mad, I think. Angry and driven insane by experiences I think you do not understand.”
Weith drew breath, and Pisces gazed at him. The [Prince] subsided into his chair, and Pisces went on.
“However, let me also concede that there is no good and pragmatic reason to do what makes me the Scourge. Also, for the sake of our conversation and my respect for your royal name—let me concede that there is no moral argument I could utter that can sway you. I am not in possession of the words.”
He smiled ruefully and went on.
“I concede there are innocent people who hold [Slaves]. I shall even concede there are good, admirable, and just people who hold [Slaves] in this world we argue over. Whether or not that is true, for the sake of our argument, I concede it. And I shall also concede that the powers of Roshal, including Emir Yazdil, did not know I was illegally taken as a [Slave].”
“…I am fairly certain he would have known the truth. You needn’t concede falsehoods.”
The hair was rising on Princess Lithic’s skin, and she tried to make a joke of things, but she was trembling slightly. No, wait. She wasn’t. The table was. Weith had lost his expression of surety. Now, he was searching for those windows.
Too late. Too late. They’d forgotten he was the Silver Killer’s teammate, and fun fact—there were no windows where you could easily bail out The Djinni’s Hour. They were locked and bolted to keep the haze effect in, as well as the noise and ambiance.
The people watching the Scourge talking to the royals were edging for the door. A young Stitch-man tried the handle—then his hand leapt away.
“Hey, open it! Just in case—”
The Cotton Stitch-girl, very grateful for her being too unimportant to listen in the front row suddenly, hissed at him. But he just turned.
“The—the door’s shaking.”
He had them trapped in the building. A [Bodyguard] was sweating into her helmet. She was taking aim at him from the side with a wrist-mounted crossbow, and there were twenty men and women armed with artifacts.
She didn’t want to die here. She spoke out loud.
“Oh, what a long day. Full of overwrought emotions. A humble servant such as I longs to but go home to my younger brother, who relies on me for sustenance and home. It would be a terrible tragedy if I were to die and leave him without either.”
Pisces, Lithic, Weith, Lareceina, and the people in the club glanced at her. Another [Bodyguard] broke in.
“It is difficult indeed to care for two grandparents and one’s entire family—”
Pisces started laughing. He chuckled with such genuine good humor it made the bowels clench around him. Then he opened one eye.
“I don’t intend to kill anyone here. Prince Weith. I simply conceded all that because I do not need these arguments. A simple trick of sophistry I learned at Wistram. Surely, you realize there is one more that trumps all such arguments.”
