She set a pace so fast that Pisces was astonished. She didn’t even know where they were—and Pisces saw more and more [Dustbandits] getting mad.
As they rode with Scarlips. They glanced at him, began swearing—he tried to ride back, but Scarlips instantly rode away from him.
“Merr, what is it? What’s wrong?”
“Something on the scrying orbs. It’s televised. Don’t worry about it. Hey, get me a target! I know they’re in hiding—find me someone to stab!”
Merr shouted, and Pisces glanced at her. Then at the recording crystal.
“Merr…what is it? Is it my team? Yvlon? Was there an assassination attempt? On—on the inn?”
He began to get worried. Merr avoided his gaze.
“Nah. Not that.”
Then was it good news…? No. One look at her face and Pisces knew it was something bad. But what—? She gave curt orders, and they rode in silence before she twitched her head.
“It won’t do you any good to see it. Listen. Someone in Roshal hates you. You knew they’d do something. Well, I’ve never…no, I’ve seen rumors spread. But that’s low.”
“What?”
Merr chose her words carefully.
“You know how Bearig, the other [Rebels], use your face like a shield? They pretend it’s you so they, or their families, are not targeted?”
Pisces began to get a bad feeling. Merr stared ahead.
“Yes. What? Did they—?”
His mind jumped ahead, and she nodded once.
“It’s just someone with your face. Not even a great likeness. Doin’, well, depraved things to [Slaves].”
“…What things?”
He felt cold. Merr refused to answer. She just clicked her tongue, and the Nightmare rode harder, leaving a trail of flames on the ground where its hooves touched.
“Scarlips said that there were already denials occurring on the scrying orb. Your team, others—just ride, Pisces. They want to start shit? They’ll get it.”
Pisces was silent as he thought and imagined what someone from Roshal would do to…his mind jerked away from the possibilities. He didn’t go to Scarlips and ask to see. The answer was plain in the Dustbandit’s sudden silence and the pace Merr set.
He rode as the flames of fury burned hotter today. But what he didn’t realize was that the recording that Roshal had broadcast was worse than he could imagine.
So foul that it provoked that thing they seldom ran into.
Consequences.
 
——
 
Shaullile, the [Slave Lord] in charge of communications and Roshal’s image, was not as upset as Pazeral thought. He had expected her to be.
He was in fine good humor, laughing all morning about the revenge he’d orchestrated. It was not hard. If that adventurer thought to hide behind the most basic lies, well, another man could hire an actor and find some [Slaves].
None of them had even died. He was only disappointed the imagery hadn’t been broadcast worldwide. It had been censored, apparently, for ‘disturbing content’, and the broadcasters refused to even read a full description of what had occurred.
You could do worse. And he was already planning a sequel; more than one [Slave Master] had spoken to him about how amusing it was.
Pazeral’s one thought had been that Shaullile, that picky child born to one of the more recent eras, would throw a fit. She was always talking about Roshal’s image and what to do—it annoyed him endlessly.
He was the oldest of Roshal. He had well and truly dragged this Pisces’ name into the muck. No one would hear his name without associating it with—well, again, sequels.
It was the [Slave Lord]’s good mood that had him feasting with his favorite [Slaves] and laughing as he waited for the television-thing to turn on Pisces. He was eating as he broke his fast in fine form…which turned into puzzlement and silence as the opposite occurred.
Archmage Eldavin appeared in between broadcasts of that morning’s footage—well, recaps of it. He looked straight into the camera and spoke.
“I am Archmage Eldavin of Wistram. On behalf of the academy, I would like to state our findings. Firstly, the recorded image of ‘Pisces Jealnet’ engaging in heinous actions with several [Slaves] was indeed sent from Lailight Scintillation. Moreover, despite his appearance, I believe that this was not the actual Gold-rank Adventurer, and in fact a Stitch-man wearing a facemask to look like him. I personally denounce such vileness, and I have ordered a full moratorium on any information sent from Roshal. Wistram Academy is pondering other actions of censure.”
“He what?”
Pazeral leapt to his feet in a rage, overturning a tray of delights. This fool hadn’t said a word before—!
Wistram. Wistram. In Pazeral’s mind, it was a foolish community of exiles, not some grand ‘academy’. He was swearing oaths, demanding Roshal censure him, when another person appeared on the scrying orb.
“Is this damn thing on? Hello, yes, yes, I’m the King of Bows of Avel. I realize I’m not part of this affair, but I’m sending this thing in—what? We’re live? Well, anyways.”
A [King] sat on a throne. And he seemed angry, but most [Kings] were just uppity men before being collared. Pazeral recognized the bow, though. Itreimedes spoke.
“I saw those…images. And I’m aware there’s some adventurer breaking laws in Chandrar, freeing [Slaves]. Well, if that’s what’s happening to them, I see why. Now, someone in my court is going to say something about me ‘not getting political’. Well?”
He turned, and the Court of Avel, known for hurling things at him when they disagreed, were silent. The King of Bows blinked, then went on. He waved a shaking finger around.
“That…who’s responsible for that? I want them to stand trial for—you know what, just line them up and I’ll take the shot from here. All of this? It feels like someone’s taking a Gold-rank Adventurer’s name and smearing it through the mud. That’s a concern for the Adventurer’s Guild worldwide, isn’t it? If anyone can just impersonate someone and do that with—”
He was beginning to shout, growing redder-faced, before he went quiet. The [King] sat back on his throne, and then he mused for a moment.
“No, I’ve said my piece. Avel condemns any falsity, and as far as I’m concerned, I’m not even sure if Adventurer Pisces is in Chandrar. Is that what Roshal gets up to? We don’t trade with them, but no ship passes by Avel, for what that’s worth. Or it’ll see how well it dodges the Bow of Avel.”
He made a gesture, and the image cut off. Then Pazeral was still furious. Wistram, Avel, so what? Then—the image flickered again, and someone from one of the Walled Cities appeared. And he began to realize, perhaps…
He’d gone too far. It was when the Blighted Kingdom offered a condemnation of the broadcast that Pazeral’s good humor became uncertainty. Just for a moment.
“As if you don’t do worse with your own children behind closed doors.”
He snarled. But this wasn’t his era, was it? They were all polite and refined. That Terandrian [Slave Lord] had been closer to Pazeral’s nature but incautious. A fool. Pazeral swiped a hand out.
“Someone find me Shaullile. Ask her what’s going on. Doesn’t she have a Skill?”
For answer, one of his favorite [Slaves] purred in his ear.
“She already knows, Lord Pazeral. This is from her.”
The Jinn felt the kiss of metal as he tore around, reaching for his blade. He was fast, high-level—he beheaded the [Slave], but he still took the stab below the ribs, and it burned. Poison.
He was howling in the next moment, but it wasn’t meant to kill. The [Slave Lord] writhed on the ground, screaming for vengeance as he received how Shaullile felt about the situation. What he knew, though, despite his fury, was that she was a cautious woman.
If she ordered him stabbed—the others had allowed it.
 
——
 
Killing Pazeral was too extreme for his actions, Shaullile knew. They couldn’t lose him, but he had to learn a lesson. Which was never, ever do this again.
She sat in her tower and didn’t watch the scrying orb. It’d be too bitter.
“My Skill only works so long as you don’t break the cover, fool.”
The ghost wearing a Drake’s body didn’t want to calculate how much damage he’d done to her nation in a single action. Pazeral was an idiot who didn’t get diplomacy like this. He was used to his era.
In this one? Some things crossed the line, and then every nation, even ones who were allies like the Blighted Kingdom, had to stab you or be shown to be the odd ones out.
It had been…bad. No way to cover up that from any angle. Pazeral had done a splendid job of reminding people why they didn’t like slavery.
She hoped the poison really hurt.
“Idiot.”
Then she rose to try and mend bridges with the Serpentine Matriarch, and that was going to suck.
 
——
 
Baron Regalius watched as Ceria Springwalker blew down the doors of a Slaver’s Guild in Tyrant’s Rest and started firing spells inside. The Horns of Hammerad were reacting to the broadcast, well, like any team who’d just had a teammate being accused of that.
It said something how much one recording could change things. Like Ksmvr of Chandrar, only more dramatically—few voices in the Court of Masks wanted to take umbrage with Pisces Jealnet today.
An investigation was being launched on top of the extant investigation, but [Court Mages] had already assured His Majesty Itorin II that it was almost certainly a fake as Wistram had stated. Regalius was taking a drink to forget what he’d seen, despite the early hour.
It didn’t work, but he wondered how Roshal was that idiotic. Emir Yazdil was said to be a cunning man. That new power he’d heard about? Well…he glanced over and heard a calm voice.
“It appears sentiment has changed regarding Adventurer Jealnet. I do remind you all, though, he is still breaking the law.”
You had to admire someone who refused to change convictions. Lady Shierxun ignored the outraged looks and arguments and drove back to her point.
“The actions of Roshal reflect upon them. I simply remind you all that the crux of my argument was about his actions pertaining to the law. New evidence against Roshal has emerged, but I have made a judgement based on observable facts. He has broken the law. That is still criminal.”
“Until the law changes, you mean, Lady Shierxun.”
Regalius called out, and the woman turned and favored him with a slight smile. She bowed her head.
“Exactly, Baron. Thank you for understanding my point.”
He inclined his head and, that explosion defused, went on with his conversation. But dead gods—Regalius muttered.
“I miss Viscount Visophecin.”
He was a bit easier to speak with than some members of his family. But so went court life, and they were, at this moment, more focused on this one distant adventurer than the simmering war with the Dawn Concordat or anything else. That was people for you.
Unfortunately, it was not the blow to damn Roshal’s reputation forever, or even for long. Baron Regalius was a man who practiced soft power in class and studied it. His brother had always respected the role of diplomacy, but never understood it well.
But it could do so much. Even bend truth. Regalius had another scrying orb which he was glancing at. It had a broadcast that he was enjoying watching far less.
Nation after nation were lining up to condemn Roshal. It was a bad moment for the nation—but only for a moment. Within half an hour of the King of Bow’s angry speech, Lailight Scintillation had issued a condemnation of the video through the Mage’s Guild and every news network that would have them on.
That video? Unacceptable. It wasn’t sanctioned by the Masters of Roshal, their decision-making body, the Slaver’s Guild—anyone, really.
This abhorrent action was the product of a diseased mind. One which does not even belong to our great nation proper, but was meant to slander our good name and the laws and codes which protect all [Slaves].
A vigorously upset spokesperson was defending himself on air to anyone who would listen. He was righteously angry.
“This was not an action of Roshal! As a representative of the Slaver’s Guild, I condemn this. In fact, I believe the [Executioner] is almost ready. We have not caught the main perpetrator, but the actor in the videos, the [Mage] who sent this abhorrence under our name—”
The broadcast from Roshal cut to a platform just before the harbor waters. A crowd was gathered as a trio of figures were being led to a stained block. The image switched back to the representative for Roshal. He smiled as Baron Regalius’ stomach turned. He watched a figure with an axe stride forwards, raise it, and—
Dead gods, they were fast. Regalius glanced away after a moment and wondered if those really had been the actual perpetrators.
It didn’t matter, in the end. Roshal denounced the recording, and that was enough. The Blighted Kingdom maintained its condemnation of Roshal; the Archmage of Memories refused to broadcast the apology on Wistram News Network, but the furore of voices slowed.
It was harder to shout at Roshal when the nation claimed they were also victim to false narratives. Risky to point the finger—
“A damnably good play.”
It soured Regalius so much he had to take another drink of wine, feeling much like the dregs of it were in his throat. He reminded himself that the damage was still done on their side. It had still left an impact. When he gazed around Ailendamus’ courts, the mood was well and truly on the side of Pisces Jealnet.
A week ago, this would have been unthinkable even had I put every scrap of influence and Skill behind him. Between Pisces’ father and Roshal…Regalius sat back. He’d rather not overplay his hand, then. Just wait until one man could step upon the balance-beam and sway it all.
Why, Regalius almost looked forwards to the next raid, but when it came, it wasn’t what he expected.
 
——
 
A problem for Pisces and Merr. Not the reaction to the fake video about him. Pisces didn’t get a great image of the local populace’s perspective, but Stitch-folk weren’t idiots. Some might see or hear it and fall for it, but the fact that the ‘Scourge’ had already been known to be in multiple places at once was helping.
Rather, the opposite was true. Because every eye was on him, they kept being intercepted. Not just by scrying spells, but by the biggest problem of all:
Observers.
Merr was riding her Dustbandits hard, but even then, one of Wistram’s Magical Carriages still caught up.
“Adventurer Pisces! Is that you? I’m broadcasting—I’m trying to broadcast—hey, is it you? Just say so if—”
One of the [Dustbandits] pointed.
“[Wheelbreaker Stone]!”
The magical carriage hit a stone—and kept going. The [Dustbandit] swore until Merr came alongside the carriage and drew her sword. Then the wheel exploded in mana, and the person leaning out the window nearly fell out with a scream.
“Wait! I—”
