<I am taking a month-long break due to a death in the family and to rest. Read my announcement here—I’ll post a new chapter on October 3rd. Also the 2nd half of this chapter on Tuesday.>
 
 
Merr the Storm looked different than Pisces remembered. His nightmares were honest. His waking memories less.
He remembered an attractive Stitch-woman, body sewn up with Silk—even if it was looted and thus a tiny bit inconsistent—dark of hair streaked faintly red with brown skin, like the dunes of the Great Desert when the rising sun caught the sand just right.
In his nightmares, she was gaunt. Not starved; they hadn’t been starved, but humbled, a tired, dirty [Slave] trudging along with the rest of them. Again, his memories of her were different, and they matched the woman who had come to find him.
This was Merr the Storm, a [Bandit Lady] of Chandrar. Her cloth-skin looked even better than before. Not as smooth or like that of a [Lady], but almost…cleaner? The vitality of an adventurer rather than someone who kept their complexion up by illusions or makeup, if that made sense.
She was also heavier than he remembered, in sheer physique, another shock. Stitch-folk truly could change anything they wanted. She still looked and moved fast as she paced around, giving orders to her [Bandits], but she might have outweighed Pisces. Closer to Briganda, another high-level warrior.
The reason for that, too, became plain as Merr strode about the ruins of the bone maze and battlefield where Pisces had thought to meet his end. Some of the [Slavers] had been playing dead after the explosive dustcloud attack. But the [Bandits] were doing, well, cleanup, stabbing each body through the head.
You could survive a stab to the chest, maybe even two or three, hope to drink a healing potion or use a survival Skill. A chop to the neck was fatal, let alone one that destroyed the brain or Lifethread therein. As Merr strode around, a [Slaver] leapt up.
“[Claim Blade]! Don’t move or your leader dies!”
He had Merr’s sword, a scimitar, from its sheath in a second and tried to do the standard thing he’d probably read about in adventure books or had done with friends. Namely, grabbing Merr and putting a blade at her throat so he could back up and grab a horse.
He got the blade. He executed the grab. Whereupon Merr seized his chest, lifted him up, and slammed him flat on the ground.
He broke five ribs before she stomped in his face, and then eight arrows hit the corpse. Merr kicked the body, spat, and shouted.
“Make sure they’re fucking dead. Not bad, though, not bad. I think this is the best muscle fiber bundle I’ve gotten yet. Qshom’s levelling.”
She flexed one arm and half-turned. The [Bandits] cheered their fearless leader, and Merr called out.
“You won’t believe what Bearig looks like. Well, when he’s not wearing your face. Y’do know about that, right? We can’t send [Messages], and I stuck the last scrying orb we found up a bastard’s ass. Hey, you awake, Pisces my boy? Mana-burnt? You look too much the same, you know. Everyone’s gotten a makeover but you. That’s Humans for you. You don’t even have more muscles. Scrawny as can be. Don’t they feed you in Izril?”
Merr talked like she fought and operated. A storm of words, and she went over to prod him. He was swaying a bit—he was exhausted, incredulous.
Relieved. She frowned at him.
“Hey, someone get a good mana potion over here! And anyone with a healing Skill! We got any?”
“I think that was Zamanta, and she ate a crossbow bolt last week, Boss.”
“Damn, well, who’s got a healing potion?”
“Here! Here, Boss Merr!”
Someone came racing over, eagerly waving a potion. Pisces saw a unique-looking [Bandit] wearing silver bells for earrings and with a face painted white—with red lips and even a blue nose—dash over.
He stared.
Sometimes you knew you weren’t dreaming by how stupid the world was. Merr grabbed the potion and eyed it critically.
“What grade is this?”
“Um, high, boss? I took it off a [Mage].”
“Idiot, who are you again? No, wait, I know you. One of the new girls. Chimes? If it’s good, you put it in the loot chest.”
“S-sorry.”
“Don’t be sorry. If someone thinks you’re hoarding the loot, you get shanked in the night or someone steals it, and then I have to either kill you or break toes. Think!”
A cuff to the head, and Merr grabbed the potion and inspected it. She jerked a thumb at the cringing [Bandit].
“Look at what I’m working with these days. I can’t get any honest [Bandits]. Most are weirdos like this kid. See the face? Former [Performer]. It don’t even come off. But hey, you recruit some, you lose some…”
The [Bandits] around Merr were all female, Pisces realized, wore a hodgepodge of armor, usually light, and were looting the dead. One called at Merr, grinning as she tugged down her facemask to reveal a huge scar across her lips.
“Honest [Bandits] don’t wanna work for Merr the Anti-Slaver, boss! They’re nervous you’ll split them from head-to-groin for dealin’ in them, just like the Scourge.”
“Don’t call me that! It’s Merr the Storm, not—and I’m not one of the [Rebels]. I’m independent!”
Loud jeering from all around turned to yelps when Merr threw the potion meant for Pisces so hard she took one of the [Bandits] off their feet. She called back.
“Shut up, stop whining, and toss it back. Pisces, drink.”
“I’m fine, Merr. I don’t need to waste one. I’m just…it’s good to see you.”
She eyed him, then spun on her heel.
“Yeah, yeah. If you’re going to burst into tears, do it after we’re riding, would you? This lot will eat you alive if you get all sentimental. Hey, lookouts, any sign of reinforcements? Tell me that Djinni’s still leaving.”
She would have strolled off as Chimes glumly scurried the potion over to a lockbox of quality loot, but Pisces caught up with Merr. Now he was coming alive again, the feeling of strange calm leaving him. That had been when he’d been amplifying the death mana in him. A kind of reaching for something he had never…
He’d think on that later. She turned, put a hand out.
“If you hug me, I’ll kneecap you.”
She sounded half-serious, and amused, but Pisces just shook his head.
“Thank you for finding me, Merr. I would be dead without you. I’ve wanted to see you since I left Chandrar. I’m sorry how it happened, and now…I’m back. So, thank you, truly.”
She blinked at him with sable eyes, the rising light of dawn reflected in them, and then they were back there, together. Seeing the Death of Chains depart. Marching along the Glass Straits, fighting to find a path to freedom as Roshal pursued them.
Merr riding off into the distance only to return with reinforcements—
He had not known her long, but she was one of the few people in this world Pisces thought he could call a true friend. A number that had grown exponentially since coming to The Wandering Inn. But of all of the people who bore that dubious distinction—she, Eloque, Bearig, Qshom, Cawe, and Rophir were the only ones he’d befriended without being around Erin Solstice.
His friend.
She reddened faintly as they stood there. Then the wind blew around them, and dust covered her and Pisces. He shielded his face, and she spoke.
“Yeah, well…what am I supposed to say to that, idiot? C’mon, mount up, and let’s ride! Of course I had to come on by. Don’t make a big deal about it.”
She kicked him and stomped off. Pisces just smiled, and then he felt lighter. Truly.
 
——
 
Merr’s Bandits, or the Dustbandits as they were known, were highly amused by their leader’s reaction to meeting the Scourge of Roshal. Well, they’d wanted to meet the genuine article for a long time. You heard all the stories, of course.
It was part of Merr’s legend, and a [Bandit Lord] or lady was all reputation. It was sort of, well, like fan clubs in bandit society.
Okay, maybe that was a weird comparison, but Chandrar had lots of [Bandits] due to the wide desert and the literal bandit-kingdom of Savere. In other continents, you had a higher proportion of [Rogues] or so on in your criminal classes. But Chandrar had bandit culture.
Which meant as an aspiring [Bandit], sure, you might strike out on your own with a pointy stick and a dream to hold up an [Emir]—but that tended to mean you ended up as paste on the ground. Smart [Bandits] joined groups.
Many were exclusive, like the Bleakbeaks, who had been a Garuda group who hated…Garuda. Look, the gangs didn’t have to make sense. You found a crew, stuck with it, and if it didn’t work, tried to trade up. ‘Course, you had to offer your new crew something to get them to let you in most times, prove your loyalty.
Everyone who was in this for life knew that you had to be careful with tattoos if you weren’t a Stitch-person. Sure, the first bandit group you could tattoo your arms or a leg. But a cheek? What happened when your gang-for-life split up or the leader got axed? Then you had a giant-ass tattoo of your previous affiliation that you needed to cover up to get into your new one. Some poor loser shows up with sixteen gang-tattoos on their body and they didn’t exactly paint a winning record there.
…The point was that bandits had celebrity culture. Famous gang-leaders attracted people by their deeds, personalities, and of course other factors like how much gold they shared out, what kind of work they did.
But [Bandit] life was often short, hard, and it might be worth a few less silver in your pocket per haul to have a leader that got you or one you could admire. You savvy?
It was why Rasea Zecrew of [Pirate] fame had such a diehard crew. And it was also why Merr had her appeal.
Oh, regular [Bandits] didn’t stick with her much these days. Not enough profits, too much fighting Roshal—and they held a grudge—but she still got recruits, and she drew from the [Slaves] she freed.
She had a good rep in Savere. Sure, don’t cross her on the [Slave] thing, she’d gotten a bit ‘moral’ these days. But that’s still Merr the Fucking Storm. You ever see her blow through a gate after exploding flour dust across every [Guard]’s face? Her having freed herself and riding with Pisces the Scourge had only added to her reputation, really. Plenty of tough types got collared and never came out the same.
So, yes, Merr was popular. Her Dustbandits, the ones who rode in her principal gang with her, sometimes had it rough. They hadn’t liked a daring raid this deep into Nerrhavia’s Fallen. But dead gods, it was worth it to see her blush.
“I ain’t never seen the boss flush. You think she and he were a thing?”
Some of the veterans, who included Dustbandits from before the time Merr had been captured, were riding side-saddle, sometimes two-to-a-mount, and close together to gossip. One group even had dice rattling around on a tray held between two horses. They were good riders; Merr’s entire thing was hit-and-run, speedy assaults.
One of them was Chokin’ Casep, a Human [Dustrider Veteran]—a former Trick Rider of Jecrass, believe it or not. She hated her nickname, but her entire thing was the lengths of rope she carried on her belt and saddle. [Rancher]-style ropes used for corralling loose animals. Only, Casep’s trick was, uh, tossing a loop of rope around your neck and galloping off while she dragged you behind her. It was an effective strategy, but she resented the name.
Another old [Bandit], Scarlips, was grinning. They were all watching as Pisces and Merr rode together, he on his weird skeleton horse, she on a Nightmare, a magical horse that could turn invisible and liked eating meat. A vicious mare she’d nicknamed Toothie.
“Don’t let her hear you say that or she’ll swing on you. You talk to those [Rebels] often, Casep?”
“Bah, they’re too uptight. Can’t get ‘em to trade nothing good, and they got all offended one time—why?”
“Just asking if anyone’s heard rumors back when they were all [Slaves]. She’s never said anything went down, but the boss keeps that kind of thing close to the chest. Never loosens her stitching on personal affairs. Which I respect!”
Everyone nodded; that was just good business. You hated to see a boss sleeping around and getting all entangled. Scarlips went on, pursing said lips.
“Just…can’t think of an hour the last damn week she wasn’t telling us to ride faster to catch him.”
“True, true.”
Such interest. The Dustbandits were thinking. They were thinking this rescue of the Scourge put a target on their backs, even if Nerrhavia’s Fallen wasn’t after the [Necromancer]—yet. Roshal was, and he was crazy; he’d slaughtered hundreds of [Slavers] this week alone.
“So much for the boss sayin’ he wasn’t all that. You saw him facing down that Djinni? And from how many were dead before we got to him—”
“Well, that’s a Goldie for you. Stands to reason.”
“Sure, sure, but did you hear about the sea battle? Or the Crossroads of Izril?”
“They didn’t get to them, that’s a rumor; don’t be spreading lies, Hacksey.”
“Not lies! I have it from a pen pal I write all the time in Izril that they were in the sky itself! Everyone saw it!”
“Your friend’s a [Con Artist], Hacksey.”
“So? They’ve never lied to me a day in my life. Don’t judge people by classes; we’ve been pen pals eleven years—and the Horns were at the Village of the Dead.”
“Stands to reason he can fight. But if we’re placing bets on the boss and him—I heard he slept with the Arbiter Queen.”
“So? You know adventurers. Worse’n [Whores]. Male, female, you mark me, you ever shack up with one, you make sure they’re not carrying something nasty first.”
“All I’m saying is this had better not be drama with the boss. What if he’s sleeping with the Silver Killer?”
“…If he is, he’s probably lost his genitals. Problem solved. What makes you think they’re together? Is it that book you keep reading? You know that’s fiction. The [Writer]’s trash.”
“It’s by Heartslayi, and she’s amazing. I’m just saying I want to settle some questions for the record. Just so when we get to Savere I can tell everyone—”
The Dustbandits knew danger might come to them. But on the other hand—it was hugely entertaining. So things were looking up. Bandit life, bandit mentality.
 
——
 
If they were thinking Pisces and Merr were having some heart-to-heart talk or deep romantic exploration of past flames, the Dustbandits were dead wrong.
In fact, they hadn’t said a word for the last five minutes. Pisces was beet red, and Merr was rolling her eyes. She was listening to the voices of her Dustbandits, which were somehow blowing into Pisces and Merr. They eventually cut off, and she grunted.
