The judges of House Shoel were common enough, even if they didn’t care for prolonged conversation. There were a few of the younger members as well as older members like Lady Shierxun, still wearing white bands of mourning for the…events at sea. They’d been absent for not wanting to answer questions about that.
But today seemed to be an exception in many ways. For here was none other than Lord Uziel, Lady Maxtria, and Lord Galletil.
Three of the fairer members of House Shoel? Regalius hoped they were on the mend; they were certainly spritely enough even in their wheelchairs. One was actually standing and eating with good humor as a young man with darker, greyer skin supported him and tried to get him to rest.
“Judges, lords and ladies of House Shoel—have you kept up with the news at all?”
Minister Freshaud introduced the conversation, and it appeared it had already been a topic of debate. Because one of the Lucifen, Oelvix, twisted his lips. He was very young, twenty-two, but he spoke with great poise.
“A debate we ourselves have engaged in to great amusement, Minister. My fair cousins see it one way, though the eloquence of their arguments leave something to be desired. Nevertheless, I support their position.”
He nodded at Lord Uziel, whose eyes were sharp.
“Some things are simple, young Oelvix. I see a crying child, I object.”
Regalius smiled. People often forgot how sharp and canny the brighter half of House Shoel could be. They might be direct, cheerful folk, but when they wanted to be, they were as dangerous with words as the blades they could use.
“Yes, Lord Uziel, one cannot help but feel that element, but is it making us lose sight of the forest for the trees?”
“…In that we should not care about the safety or wellbeing of children for grander things, Minister? Do tell.”
That was Lady Maxtria. The Minister cast around for help and got it from Lady Hiterto, who turned to the judges.
“Legally, this adventurer has broken the law by slaying [Slavers]. If we are a nation of laws, should this not be clear-cut?”
Her attempt to end the discussion on stable ground resulted in a split. Lady Shierxun frowned.
“You have my broad support, Lady Hiterto. I fear the young disagree—”
She broke off as Oelvix spoke up, sharply and with a frown.
“You mischaracterize this as an argument split along age, Lady Shierxun. A lamentable predisposition I trust does not carry into your adjudication of law.”
Her brows twitched together.
“My position is that this young man is knowingly breaking the law. Prima facia, that is undeniable. Your rebuttal in front of the royal court, I trust, will be satisfactory and not based on emotion, Oelvix?”
He brushed back his hair, haughty as could be.
“Not at all. I argue three points. Firstly, our independent investigation of Pisces Jealnet’s imprisonment by Roshal suggests they took him captive as a trespasser when he landed after the Scroll of [Greater Teleport]. A ludicrous claim given he apparently landed outside of a city’s property. The allegation was made that it belonged to a local landowner—never listed—providing the pretext. I believe this is a baldfaced lie to obscure the truth, that he was a known Gold-rank adventurer and the [Slavers] took his unconsciousness to imprison him for their own gain. He would have faced a light fine, at best, in any other circumstance.”
Oh, he had done his research. Even Shierxun nodded at this.
“This action does account for his bias and previous pattern of behavior. It is not an excuse for current events.”
Another nod from the young man.
“This is merely relevant background, Aunt. To your actual claim, I would argue it thusly in court: there is precedent. I cite the Rights of Citizenry, Article 8, Subparagraph 5. Also, the Knightly Provisions with our three Knight-Orders, the Conduct of Law and Justice. In brief, we acknowledge that there are circumstances in which citizens—or [Knights], as a fine example—may take actions that are unlawful, but necessary as a course of action because to follow the law would create a greater injustice.”
“Those codes are usually applied for wartime insubordination, Judge Oelvix.”
Regalius barely remembered the sections, but he’d pulled out a book of law he had in his bag of holding and rifled through it. The Lucifen appeared mildly startled, and all turned to Regalius with faint approval.
“It may be a technicality with very little legal precedent, Lord Regalius, but I would argue it is not unsupported. This may be a less-recorded example, but there is a strong precedent for [Knights] to take up arms against a local noble, or even a crown—to halt a perceived injustice. Ailendamus has enshrined that likelihood into our judicial system as an acknowledged possibility.”
The listeners were fascinated. They probably hadn’t known the law existed, but another Lucifen sneered back.
“You are quoting popular sentiment of events ex post facto. There is no legal precedent for this!”
“Yes, because Terandria’s history of adjudication is limited to the crown or local nobility in almost every kingdom but ours! What I am stating is that the case exists—”
“And if we encourage such a belief, it would lead to rampant disregard for the law. That we have acknowledged exceptions exist does not make your argument work. Chandrar’s [Slave] laws lie at the heart of their culture. There is no ‘exception’ in this case.”
Oelvix’s head lowered as his face darkened, then cleared. He turned smoothly.
“Then I cede my third point to Lord Uziel and our cousins. Which is that the law that Nerrhavia’s Fallen and Roshal hold to be justice is, in fact, incorrect and abhorrent. Which is Ailendamus’ official position. Do we judge this adventurer on their laws or ours?”
Ooh. Then every head turned back to the Agelum, and however fast and sharp the Lucifen might be with each other, they hesitated before crossing blades with their fair cousins. But then they glanced at each other and swung into it with a certain delight.
They did love to war, after all. Lord Cilrephrix bowed to Lord Uziel.
“I am sure I take your point about simple morality already, Lord Uziel. You would have us throw out our respect for other nations before a single child?”
“Yes, Cilrephrix.”
The young Lucifen rolled his eyes at the others.
“Mm. And compromise our relationship with Chandrar’s largest nation?”
“You seem to think a nation should have no backbone. Loving an adventurer would not let two reasonable nations fight overlong, surely.”
Uziel’s voice was cheerful, and a titter arose from this. The laughter had Cilrephrix flushing. He snapped back.
“Yet the law is broken. Say what you will about our own perception of any injustices committed—and House Shoel has not ruled on slavery itself—what say you to whether this young man is in the right? What gives him the right to trample on other nations’ laws? His singular ego and morality?”
His eyes flashed in defense of the law, which could be cruel, inflexible, and existed to hold up nations. Even if he was not winning the popular argument in Regalius’ mind, you had to admire the integrity of one of House Shoel’s judges. Many were nodding or waiting, and Uziel thought for a long moment.
He sat back in his wheelchair, before his multi-pupiled eyes focused on Cilrephrix with that unnerving intensity. Not calm, but conviction. A raging conviction like cold fire that had Regalius shivering. He realized that Lord Uziel was far from calm; his enchanted wheelchair’s armrests creaked as he pushed himself up with enough strength to crack the tiles at his feet.
“Morality, yes. One man’s morality clashes with the laws of a continent. And it must win. Morality means nothing if it is not defended. The moment a [Knight] fails to shield the innocent, regardless of the rules or pressures upon them, they are no [Knight]. Our failed Crusaders on Chandrar’s shores were lucky to have been routed by the King of Khelt. Or do you think our [Knights] would walk past a child being lashed as a [Slave] and keep their class?”
The rebuttal struck many present, including Regalius, who wondered what the leaders of the Knight-Orders would have to say about this if pressed. Well, they’d find out, because people were running to drag them into this conversation.
Nor was it the final word on the matter, because House Shoel was fast and came back with a rebuttal within moments. But it left everyone talking. Voices raised and arguing…and Regalius thought that there was something to this.
Once more, it was an argument about Pisces Jealnet, a [Necromancer]. Excuse me, a damn [Necromancer], but in this case…
He might have won more allies on the basis of this framing. More than one person who’d consign any [Necromancer] to the gallows hesitated to take a side against him.
On they argued, through the night. And he did not stop. Twice more, everyone halted to watch the scrying orb glow with battle, and then the conversation grew twice as heated. Only when it was late at night did it go silent. Then they were just…
Waiting for dawn.
 
——
 
Six Dustbandits were dead by the end of the day.
Only six. Given how much they’d fought, it was a testament to Merr’s abilities. The undead went in, and the [Bandits] avoided scenarios that would get them hurt or killed, just like Pisces had.
Even so, they died. Pisces didn’t know them. They had all been junior members of the gang. Not Chimes; she’d made it and was preparing to take the final batch of [Slaves] away with Chokin’ Casep.
It was just fourteen this time. They’d hit a group of [Trackers] and [Hunters] trying to pursue Scarlips’ team. They’d been moving fast, trying to avoid Merr’s group, but they’d been geared for battle. Two of the Dustbandits had gone down to enchanted arrows in the melee.
The tracking party’s [Slaves] had been specialists meant to both fight and use their Skills. They could all ride off to find this group of [Rebels] that Merr seemed to know.
“Well, it’s not all one group.”
“There’s enough of them out there to have multiple organizations?”
Merr snorted lightly.
“You think we were the first, Pisces? Dodging Roshal has been a tale old as they are. It gets easier and harder. To tell the truth, now’s probably a bad time to be a [Rebel].”
“Because of Yazdil?”
She was watching as the [Bandits] poured something out from a keg. Drinks. They had none of their dead with them; the [Bandits] had left the women as they fell, only stopping to grab anything valuable they had. Even to Pisces, it was macabre. But that was how they lived.
Once you were dead, you were gone. There was nothing to mourn, physically. But this…they were toasting the dead. A thing common to gangs across the world, he’d learned. Merr spoke as the cups came around.
“Not just him. Those new [Slave Lords] are all dangerous, I’ve heard. Everything they touch gets more efficient. So your response force is a tick faster. Higher level [Guards], that sort of thing. Yazdil was already a problem; he loves his high-level [Slaves].”
“I know.”
Pisces felt at his own neck remembering the insane bids on him. Merr grunted.
“Time was, Roshal’d throw a Djinni, and that’s bad enough. You saw that. But you can survive, and Djinni aren’t exactly motivated. Yazdil, though, he sends agents. Spies. Finds a cell, infiltrates more, sweeps everyone up under the rug, and Roshal loves former [Slaves].”
This was not the conversation to have right now, but she was just staring ahead. She took a cup, and Pisces was offered one too. He waited as Merr spoke.
“They’ve been after Bearig and his lot, but to tell the truth, I think I was the bigger target. A [Bandit Lord] is more dangerous than even the man posing as you. A more valuable target, at least.”
“Have you had attempts on your life…?”
“Oh, aye. [Assassins]. Most are easy to deal with. [Bandits] can sniff out a traitor more easily than you think. And we’re of the gangs; we know how to deal with ambushes, most traps. The Faces are nasty. You know them?”
“I haven’t run into any myself, but Erin fought the Assassin’s Guild in Izril. We fought lesser [Assassins] only, though, and it was an open battle, not them trying to ambush or poison us.”
Another shift. Friends of the dead [Bandits] were giving speeches. Chimes, the younger ones, some with tears, but most just telling a joke, an anecdote, and those with them would drink. But the rest, like Casep, Pisces, Merr, just waited in the darkness. It was late and they’d eaten, but they were exhausted, and the chill of Chandrar was upon them. Merr whispered.
“Well, Chandrar’s where they came from. The Faces here mean something. Not to say the ones of Izril weren’t bad. But a Face of Chandrar isn’t…they have a reputation to uphold, Pisces. You know? I’ve heard not a one’s under Level 50.”
Now he shivered well and truly.
“They can’t…have that many.”
“Nope, even for a Guild that goes across Chandrar. But that’s why they’re a Face, eh? It takes some doing to have one of them on you. Wouldn’t surprise me if they had—ten?”
“Ten? The King of Destruction’s Seven aren’t all over Level 50!”
“He’s got vassals that high-level. Gazi’s the exception. It’s Roshal, Pisces. You think they’re some joke? The Blighted Kingdom could field fifty over Level 50, I’ll bet. Probably.”
Pisces thought about that. A kingdom at war with the Demons…and he knew how strong the Deaths were, even if only two of them had levels.
“So that’s the might of world powers.”
It was bitter he had to put Roshal in that category. Merr just nodded.
“Yep, well, I think one of them’s on me. Or you. It was a rumor I got from the Siren a while back. I communicate with her now and then. We have a trick, y’see. Can’t do speaking stones. Can’t do [Messages]. Losing those idiots was a trick and a half.”
She nodded at the sky; they’d dodged the final scrying spells after a lot of zig-zag riding and even a few duststorms to hide where they were going. Manually scrying a position to bypass anti-scrying spells was hard, but doable. Pisces gazed at Merr.
“So how do you…?”
“How would any cunning fellow do it? You tell me.”
He thought about it, frowning. Merr smiled.
“Nah, we don’t have time for that. It’s dead drops. The same trick I use to give her the tithe. She takes our artifacts, removes trackers and curses, turns it into gold. Takes her damn cut as [Bandit Queen], but provides me with recruits, magic, information. It appears in the chest. And she can drop a speaking stone. Temporary, warded long enough for us to chat.”
“Very smart. Is—I’ve heard Savere’s a bandit nation, and Revine is a [Bandit Queen]?”
Merr waved a hand.
