Pisces could count the number of times, in fact. It was just there, in the background, but the first time…he muttered.
“The first time was at the Adventurer’s Guild in Tyrant’s Rest. There was a young woman, a Silver-ranker there. Then after the Tomb of Yad’thuv, there was a performer. Right after Ceria made fun of Lareceina.”
“I remember that. She was topless, and you stared at her breasts, then vanished.”
Lareceina spoke slowly. Pisces nodded.
“I’m self-conscious about…they’re highly distracting. And they were pierced, I recall. Then I ran across a Slave-Adventurer. A [Clown]. She wanted to join me, but I said no. And then there was Chimes.”
A new [Bandit] with face-paint. Funny. Not funny at all, when you thought that. Pisces’ gaze slowly rose, and the last familiar face was on stage, shaking their hips.
Side to side, holding little colorful pom poms, which she juggled. Face painted white despite her familiar brown skin. Topless—but right now, he wasn’t focused on that. It was her clothing, which was like the iconic eye-sear of the [Fool]. The unfunny costume of the [Clown]. But perhaps a bit different?
The key was the hat. The jingling bells, why, they rang.
They rang, or should have, when she moved. But these were silent. And they were each one bright as silver, Pisces realized. A strange little silver bell, a bit too small you might say.
A [Jester] should have big clangalang bells. But these? Tiny. You could fit one on a smaller object. Like the hilt of a rapier. There were eight on her hat. And then he stared at her chest.
Well, she was waggling her breasts at him. Smiling as every head turned. And he stared at her nipples, which were pierced. A choice indeed. But when you got past that…he stared at what was hanging from each nipple.
A golden bell. Then he looked up, and she smiled and blew a kiss at him.
“Hello, Scourge.”
The Jester of the Assassin’s Guild bowed as he took hold of his rapier. Out of magic, without Wildcard or his team. Pisces exhaled.
“Wonderful.”
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
There was a period where I stayed away from cliffhangers. I stopped putting them down because chapters were so all-encompassing. But to write a shorter chapter, one must stand on the cliff’s edge.
Hey, it’s me. I’m taking a break until the 3rd of October…but I wouldn’t let you wait that long. This chapter is being split into two parts because it’s so long, but I will edit and have the 2nd half out on Tuesday.
It’s taken great effort, and I am not my usual self, but I think it’s a good chapter. Just in need of a bit more time. So just wait. Read my announcement if you need clarity, and…well, I’m going to rest.
But after the action and the chaos and the sniffing lie dead. Did you recognize the hints? I kept it subtle, but she was always there. Never trust the clown, the fool, or the jester. Wish me luck and energy, and Pisces victory. See you Tuesday.