“I cannot think of it. Tell me, but do not mock me.”
Weith had gone still. He was a pampered [Prince], a rich fool, perhaps. But not entirely a coward. He waited until Pisces pointed. Straight at him.
[Deathbolt]. Princess Lithic was waiting to hear that word next, which she predicted would be Pisces’ reply. Which went to show that her analytical mind might not have been always the most…rationally good at anticipating the future.
Instead, Pisces spoke as the trembling engulfed the building. They were all frozen now. Stomachs lurching as if being pulled downwards. What was going on?
“Halqued is an interesting city. I’m a bit of an amateur historian, but this city, because it is not the richest, has many old relics of a different age. It was built, like Tyrant’s Rest, on the bones of a terrible empire.”
“The Immortal Empire. Nerrhavia, the Undying Tyrant.”
Lithic whispered that, and every Stitch-folk felt at their stitching, which trembled. It was almost sacrosanct to say her name without a curse, but Pisces nodded.
“She kept [Slaves] too. She had so many. That is not the argument you think it is.”
She whispered to him, and again, he nodded.
“No. Of course not. But she herself is predated by another time. One I am sure you know as well. The first era, where Stitch-folk became a people. They were not. At first, they were Golems. It was Elucina, whom Roshal mocks, the Rebel of String, who won your independence.”
Now there was a sensation in the back of Lithic’s mind. She could see what he was driving at, but she was spellbound.
The walls. The magic was in the walls. Lareceina’s head was whipping back and forth. It was—she had never seen spellcasting like this. But the [Necromancer] just winked at her.
“The Immortal Tyrant first rose to power in an era of great discontent. When Stitch-folk were enslaved, as had gone on in the past. No one would argue she was a terrible [Tyrant]. But the moment that she seized was the mistreatment of the cloth folk. And under her reign, the cloths were equal. Equal to all be made [Slaves], of course, but…it was only when her reign became too abhorrent that people rose up against her. A shackled people against a master.”
“You are equating the bonds of nations to the chains of a class.”
Weith spoke, head turning. And now he was looking down. Pisces was grinning.
“Maybe it is not fair. But in my case, Prince Weith, I was a man who didn’t know about [Slaves]. I would have told you I felt some sympathy for them. I might have helped had I the chance, but it was only when I became one that I cared. That is my selfishness. My privilege as a Human who never came to Chandrar. I wish I had known more, done more, before this, but I did not understand. But you?”
“Your Highness. The nightspot. The building.”
One of Prince Weith’s people was outside, securing the doors in case of trouble. They rasped, and he snapped back.
“I shall not flee, fool! Enter if you are so afeared for my safety!”
“Your Highness, it’s not that. The building—it’s rising.”
Then Weith leapt up, and he realized the sinking feeling in his stomach was literal. The entire nightclub was rising out of the ground.
Rising on the bones of foundations older than the building. Coming out of the earth, bit by bit, like—like a zombie.
As if architecture was a body you could animate. And the walls! The paintings on the walls were shaking. The wood cladding was trembling, falling away and revealing something older. Behind it—stone. A façade so old it had been thousands of years since—
Pisces’ eyes were locked on the walls as he poured his magic into the spell.
[Monumental Animation]. [Unearth the Tombs].
Then he felt the building finally rise to its old height. In the street, people were screaming, pointing—Lareceina’s team were staring at the building risen in the distance. But the [Mage] herself was just gazing around.
Death mana. He had drawn all he had and put it into this place. Now, the building discarded its old appearance like dead skin. The walls shed plaster and wood and revealed ancient stone.
Not crude stonework, either, but something ornate. Metal tiles, partially restored, missing in places, like an undead’s flesh, but whole enough to reveal what had been there.
A beautiful building of stone and metal meant to last generations. What had it been? Some great office? A museum like the one where Pisces had seen a list of old buildings like this one where the foundations had been re-paved? Or a nightclub?
He pointed, and the [Prince] turned. Then he saw the figure standing at the wall behind him. It was just as Pisces had hoped from the museum.
It looked like a grinning Stitch-person. Their gender was unclear, and they were androgynous. No…perhaps they literally were without one. Because they were in the middle of being woven.
Fabric, depicted in excruciating detail, was being combined into an upraised arm. Not just silk; Pisces saw the deliberate patterns he associated with yarn, knitting. What seemed like reeds being spun upwards into the flesh of an arm.
It was a gigantic mural. The Stitch-person was…breathtaking. They filled the entire wall of the club, which had once been half again as tall as the current nightclub. There was even color, but Pisces’ magic was not perfect; it was just glimmers of vivid paint.
A Stitch-folk made of a dozen types of fabric and colors, smiling at the viewer. Not Silk. Nor Hemp. Nor one thing. Each piece of their body seemed important. Soft silk and tough and sturdy reed-hemp, layered in places, or mixed together.
A kind of Stitch-person unlike any that existed in this world today. Pisces stared up at them, and it was what he’d hoped to see. But the next image, on the other wall, was what he’d gambled on. Because it was the same Stitch-person reenacting the story of their people. They had on a strange pair of shackles. They seemed to go into them, like a puppet’s strings. Through their back, looping around their limbs.
A [Puppetmaster]’s creations. It made Pisces unsettled to see it. But the Stitch-person—was cutting the threads apart. Ripping them out. Yes, there. He spoke as Prince Weith gazed up.
“I am just a single Human in a war that has been going on for aeons. I am ignorant, and this is not my home. But you, Prince Weith? Rebellion is in your thread.”
He stood up and drew his sword. The [Bodyguards] jerked, but none of them shot him. Which was very good; Pisces planted the sword’s tip on the table as showily as he could.
“They call me the Scourge of Roshal. I do not deserve the title. The ‘Scourge’ is nothing more than anyone who longs to be free. I will not endanger my team. But nor will I compromise what I believe in. Let those who hold chains beware.”
His head turned around the room, and there was a strangled shout. It sounded, to Lareceina, like someone trying not to cheer. She was shaking in her chair, trying her utmost to be silent.
Because she could not be the first person to jump up and shout agreement, of course. She had to be the adventurer of Wildcard who objected to him. Once the cheering began—
The nightclub was thrumming with emotion and magic. The [Necromancer]’s eyes were shining, and he was breathing hard. He’d spent so much power to animate this building, but this display of magic unlike anything they had ever seen, his words—
They were winning the Stitch-folk over. Especially the young ones filling this building. Even the royalty were hesitating, swept up.
Princess Lithic could not meet the eyes of the Stitch-person on the walls. Every time she tried to come up with a sniping argument to undercut Pisces, she looked up, and it was like her very Lifethread was vibrating.
Maybe it was in their cloth. Some kind of memory that called to them throughout time and space. The voice of the first [Rebel of String] calling an entire species to fight for what they had not been given.
A terror to anyone of Roshal who could hear Pisces. A [Necromancer] far more dangerous than one who merely animated horrors. Anyone could make a killing machine. But he could animate thoughts.
Was it perfect? No, of course not. But he was swinging the nightclub around. Certainly, Prince Weith had nothing he felt able to say. He was just gazing up at the walls. Feeling at his skin, as if longing to know what that other body felt like.
Wiping at his eyes.
Pisces had the Cottons who stood by the doors, staring down at the drop between the entrance and the street. The Silks, who saw him, then, the Scourge. Prince Weith, Princess Lithic, Lareceina, Prince Yosoc—
Prince Yosoc was lying, head lolling back against the padded booth. His mouth was open, and he was breathing, but he was utterly passed out.
Pisces paused when his eyes flicked to the [Prince].
Odd. He hadn’t drunk that much. And he’d been excited to see Pisces. You’d think if even that failed, even Yvlon Byres herself would have opened an eye to see him resurrecting a building, sleeping sickness or not. The man’s bodyguards clearly agreed, because one was covertly shaking the [Prince].
“Your Highness. Your Highness?”
He…wasn’t waking up. Lithic broke off mouthing at Pisces and frowned.
“What? Is he that sleep deprived?”
“No, Your Highness. I don’t know what—”
“It cannot be a spell. Or poison. Is he allergic? Check, fool!”
The [Bodyguards] broke out of their trance, and Weith looked over. Lareceina’s head turned, and Lithic went on.
“It couldn’t be spell or poison; no [Prince] or [Princess] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen who is old enough to crawl goes around without protections against either. Even the sleeping sickness your enemies used on the Silver Killer wouldn’t work on him… ”
…So why was the [Prince] out? Pisces stared at the man and remembered Yosoc taking down the Firebreath Whiskey that had come around. He was the only man who had. He lifted the pitcher, and a [Bodyguard] hesitated.
“He’s asleep, Your Highness…”
“You cannot be immune to poisons, Princess Lithic.”
Pisces frowned, and the young woman waved a hand at him.
“I merely mean that our charms and protection spells would detect anything, Scourge. In this nation? It would have to be a master’s work to pass undetected…”
Then she went silent. And she too eyed the pitcher. Pisces felt a crawl on his back suddenly. And he was conscious how he’d used up so much mana just now—which didn’t matter, of course. He was safe in this city. Yisame wasn’t angry at him.
She wasn’t angry at him. She’d even sent Wildcard to protect him.
Two of whom weren’t here.
 
——
 
Merr the Storm was riding hard to lose pursuers or the Face who was after her. She was not happy. Having to say goodbye to Pisces like that left her angry.
So this was not a great time to get a dead drop from Revine containing a speaking stone. But the [Bandit Queen] collected her loot chests at random, when she felt like it, and the moment a [Bandit] passed the speaking stone to her, Merr growled.
“Revine, I’m not in the mood for chatter.”
“Well then, I’ll keep this short. Don’t speak back to me, Merr. I’m the one processing all this gear and keeping your Dustbandits out of trouble remotely.”
Merr bit back an oath. It was like a pissing match between her and Revine sometimes, and the woman didn’t even have a cucumber but she acted like hers was smaller. Not that you could get her to admit that.
“Fine, Your Exalted Majesty. What’s so urgent? You’ve got a fortune in Roshal’s goods; don’t tell me it ain’t worth nothing. And I want some of that to gear my people.”
“You’ll get it. Do you think I’m going to argue procedure? Shut up. I have a question for you. When did you start hiring capable members for your Dustbandits? You’re supposed to report it to me.”
Merr rolled her eyes.
“For the love of—it’s just Pisces! Have you not seen us tearing Roshal a second hole?”
A pause. Revine was probably mad about the Ice Squirrel; it was no secret she was itching for payback. But her voice was suddenly introspective.
“Really. Is he…truly that high-level?”
“He’s been throwing Skeleton Champions at problems like I have Dustbandits. I saw him take down a Silver-bell duelist in thirty seconds.”
Merr smiled despite herself, and Revine snapped back, as unpredictable as a winter storm.
“Not that, fool! He’s higher-level than even Colthei if what you’re saying is right!”
“Higher-level than the Named-ranker? I’ve never met him—no, he’s in my range.”
“Forties, then. That’s not who I meant. Who’s the other one?”
“Other one? What other—”
Then Merr got that bad feeling. The itch you got when you realized it was too quiet around the watering hole or the shadow you’d thought was just a natural one was moving oddly. She swallowed.
“Wait, I’ve not hired anyone high-level, Revine. If anything, we lost one of my best girls. That bastard got them. The Ringer. Took out an entire [Rebel] cell and our group.”
“…The who?”
“The—”
Merr nearly shouted as she swung an arm out. The Dustbandits slowed, confused; she waved an arm, and she was taking them around in a circle. But they had been riding since they’d parted ways with Pisces, and it was dark. They were so far away, but—her heart was pounding.
“The Ringer, Revine. You sent the warning about the Face, the one that was after us?”
“Oh, them. That stupid alias. The Guild loves playing word-games. I sent you the full file on them. Didn’t you get it last dead-drop? I know it was in your box, Merr. Ask your people! It’s not the Ringer, they’re called the ‘Jester’. And they…like to…”
Revine’s mouth seemed to catch up with her words at the same time as Merr put something together. She started galloping, shouting at the Dustbandits. But she was far too far away.
Far too far. If she’d been with Pisces, they’d be two high-level people with a gang of [Bandits] around at all times. Even a Face would hate those odds. Same for a [Necromancer] with a horde of undead.
But if he had neither horde nor [Bandits]? Then you waited for an opening. Hadn’t Pisces said—hadn’t he commented on that stupid new girl? He’d said—
 
——
 
“…There are a lot of odd performers around Nerrhavia’s Fallen. [Fools]. What’s that class Ryoka hates? [Clowns].”
Pisces spoke softly, just to himself, and Lareceina blinked at him. Princess Lithic glanced up; Weith was testing the unconscious Yosoc with his ring. But Pisces was just gazing at the drugged [Prince].
“What, Adventurer Pisces? [Fools]?”
“Yes, colorful clothing. Weird hats, painted faces?”
The [Princess] frowned at him.
“I don’t recall there being a surge in such individuals. That sounds like a Terandrian fancy.”
“Huh. But I swear I’ve seen tons of them.”
