Some of the kids were crying. That’d be a problem on the road, so Scarlips just shouted for someone to find a Calming Tonic. Chimes tried; the silly rookie began to juggle daggers and nearly speared herself through the hand. Merr snorted. No wonder she’d never made it as a [Performer].
Then Pisces walked into the conversation, and Scarlips fell silent. It was not the first time they’d done this; he’d seen Merr’s methods and told her how he’d just sent off the other [Slaves] with a prayer and naught else. But now…
“I’m sorry, Lady Bandit. I’ll get them silent. Children—children, hush.”
One of the men was trying to shut up a pair of Stitch-children with all the tact of a distant uncle, not actual parenthood. But Pisces just gazed down and held something out.
“Here.”
He offered a Stitch-boy and Stitch-girl a pair of objects. One was a handkerchief, fairly clean, for the tears and snot running down their faces. The other was a keyring taken from one of the dead [Guards]. They looked up at him and flinched.
“The Scourge.”
He paused, hearing the title, but he didn’t recoil or laugh it off as he did with Merr and her [Bandits]. Instead, Pisces knelt like a strange wading bird, white robes puddling around him. The only pristine part of him.
“That’s what they call me. You two are free. You all are. I cannot go with you; I’m sorry. But this woman will take you somewhere safe.”
He nodded at Scarlips, who hesitated and gave everyone an unconvincing smile. Many of the [Slaves] drew back, but the Stitch-boy took the key and turned it over.
“Sometimes they trick us. Giving us keys and seeing if we try to get free. They whipped the last man to death for it.”
His hair was black like charcoal, and he gave Pisces a wary look before his eyes darted to the dead [Slavers]. Pisces sat back on his heels.
“I see. This is no dream. What’s your name, young man?”
“Ultri.”
Pisces nodded. His gaze stole skywards, and Merr knew what he was seeing. Then he turned.
“Is this your sister?”
“Nah. She’s just a friend…our dads knew each other. Stupid idiots went together on a loan.”
The boy would have spat, but then he just turned away. Pisces glanced around.
“Where are…?”
“My dad got sold. Hers tried to escape.”
This was why you never asked questions of [Slaves] until you were good and damn ready for a cry. Merr tilted her head back, closing her eyes. Pisces was new to this. But she still listened. And what the [Necromancer] said was—
“I’m sorry.”
“Could—could you free him, Bane?”
“I don’t think I can. Not if he’s in a city.”
“Aye, well, it’s his own fault, and we’re freed. Nevrece, he’s the Bane. Stop crying. It’s probably not a trick.”
Probably. There was a pause, hiccupping, and Pisces spoke again.
“Scarlips, how are you going to take the [Slaves] to freedom?”
“Eh, well, we’re out of horses this time. Putting them in wagons is probably best. Short of an inspection, no one notices. We’ll have to rip off any tracking spells, but we’re decent at that. And we can spot a checkpoint. If we had more camels—well, we had to shoot them down.”
“Would undead camels work? Zombies would look normal at a distance. These…”
A gasp. Cries, and Merr opened one eye and saw more undead. Truly, necromancy had a tool for every situation and it was always reanimating a body. Scarlips sucked at her teeth.
“That might work. If they don’t go rogue we can run ‘em nonstop, eh?”
“I’ll lose control if they go out of range, but we could escort you? And I’ll bind them so they obey even when I’m away. They’ll lose their speed…”
They were conferring logistics. Merr was going to tell Pisces not to bother; her Skills worked on her Dustbandits in a certain radius. But then Pisces heard a whisper.
“Is it a dream?”
The girl, Nevrece, was gazing at Pisces. She flinched and hid behind her friend, and they both peered at the ground when he and Scarlips turned. But there was that doubt.
The little lad was being tough, Merr knew. Ultri, the other [Slaves] listening, all had seen the fighting. It probably wasn’t a trick.
But you didn’t really believe you were free. You expected the collars to come back, to be punished for defiance. Even wanted it, if they had you long enough. Merr had spoken to enough [Rebels] and freed [Slaves] to get that. And Pisces had to know it.
He sat down this time.
“I wish I could prove it to you. I wish I could promise it’s over and no one will ever come after you again. If there are more pursuers, if Roshal sends anyone on these roads, they won’t make it to you. That I can promise.”
Merr stirred. Madness. A caravan was one thing, and these had been prepared, if outnumbered and outlevelled. A force on the roads?
He’s making promises I don’t think I want to keep. But she said nothing. The [Necromancer] was ruffling his hair again, and Ultri spoke back.
“It’s a good dream, Bane. Even if I wake up tomorrow, it’ll be good enough for a long time. It’s the third time you came for me, y’know. This time feels realest of all.”
Then he smiled, or tried to, but his lips started to tremble. He swiped at his face, even punched his side, but the mask broke a bit; his eyes grew wet and shining, and he began to hiccup. Pisces’ face then wasn’t the silly [Necromancer] or the Bane of Roshal. Just a man in pain.
He looked around, to Merr, who was not going to insert herself into this conversation for a Relic-class item, to the other Dustbandits, who pretended to be busy adjusting boots, buckles—they were women who killed people, not dealt in emotional vulnerability—
And the [Slaves] who stared at him like a dream, painful and uncertain. Then Pisces closed his eyes and seemed to think of something else. He turned, questing around, and peered north. North, past the setting sun, and he smiled.
“Maybe that would do. I have a way to prove it’s not a dream, Ultri. Or as close as I can get.”
Please don’t pinch him. Merr glanced over, and the boy compressed trembling lips. He saw Pisces raise his hand and put forefinger and middle finger together like one of Erin’s silly gestures. He aimed at a forty-five degree angle, skywards. Then Pisces paused and glanced at the children, then at Merr.
She knew what he was going to do a second before he did it. Of course—[Mages] and their damn magic.
She envied that.
Then the Bane of Roshal fired a rainbow from the tip of his finger. A comet that arced up and shot skywards, glowing with all the colors burned into their memories.
It shone over the [Slaves]. Had the Dustbandits’ heads rise as one. Merr saw the falling Djinni in her memories and sighed.
“Great. Now everyone for a dozen miles can see us, Necrolad.”
…But she let him do it. Because that, of so many things, was proof, wasn’t it? The children gazed at the one symbol that Roshal wouldn’t dare copy. Those [Slavers] who avoided even rain showers caught by the sun like it was the world’s deadliest poison.
Pisces sat under it, his white robes changed to prismatic colors. He looked down at Ultri and Nevrece and, wordlessly, the boy handed the key back to Pisces. He bent to unlock their collars.
“Never again.”
That’s when the little lad hugged him. He threw his arms around Pisces and buried his face in the [Necromancer]’s robes, shoulders shaking. Pisces patted him on the back awkwardly, and then the girl grabbed him, and the children and the [Slaves] were clustering around. Thanking him. Gazing up at…
“So that’s the fellow you met, Merr.”
Chokin’ Casep broke Merr out of her trance. She turned and nodded to her Dustbandits. Now they were beginning to get it.
“That’s him. Instincts of a master duelist. Heart like a Sariant Lamb, however they tried to scar it. Nose as weak as a desert bloom.”
Her lips parted in a grin as she pushed herself up to shout at Pisces that he only had a few more minutes of hugs. Despite her weariness, yes.
Yes, that’s what she’d come to see. And what Pisces didn’t know as he picked up the boy and went to find a wagon for them to ride to freedom was…well, that was what mattered more than the violence.
More than the lives he took. This was the moment that captured the eye and any good and reasonable person who could place themselves in the shoes of another. What he didn’t know, of course, was that they were still watching.
Everyone.
 
——
 
That’s why the King of Myths kept watching until he stopped riding, and his army halted behind him. He was a man who had lived for two centuries, and he knew why he approved of the first part.
But the second was a reminder, far fresher than memory. It was not just Nuvityn, King of Erribathe, either.
 
——
 
Gazi of Reim hadn’t blinked for…at least ten minutes. Or moved. She was covered in blood herself, having been fighting along the fortress frontlines with her cracked armor. She had only retreated for a bowl of noodles in the Drathian style.
They were cold, still rolled up around her chopsticks. Trey Atwood, nursing mana burns from his duels with enemy [Mages], was watching her.
Everyone was out of the corner of their eyes. But the member of the King of Destruction’s Seven said nothing.
The same [Necromancer] she had once tried to kidnap, that adventurer who had crossed her path twice…her eye was fixed on him longer than it ever had been before. She gazed at him like she had looked no one else save for the King of Destruction himself.
A [Necromancer] standing under a rainbow.
“Gazi?”
Trey woke her from her trance. When she looked up, wordlessly, she seemed to notice the food in her hands. She put the bowl aside and beckoned him over.
“A foolish action. They will hunt him. No, they are already. He jeopardizes his team’s position in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Even Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s [Queen] must heed Roshal’s influence. He is far less cautious than I thought.”
She said all that, but her main eye kept focusing on the scrying orb. Trey spoke quietly.
“He seems pretty much like the last time we met. First he draws on Flos, then his team flies on a carpet out of Hraace…”
“Roshal is not to be made enemy lightly. He knows this more than anyone. A former [Slave] would.”
She rubbed at the gorget around her neck, and Trey remembered she had once been a [Slave] herself before Flos had bought and freed her. Trey talked a big game, and he believed what he said about slavery.
But Trey Atwood had never felt it. He almost envied Pisces his ability to captivate Gazi’s eyes. Even now, the Gazer was watching the [Necromancer].
“He is a much greater fool than I took him for. Of them all…I thought the [Innkeeper] was a fool to charm His Majesty. I paid no attention to the half-Elf. And he only had a single spell, I thought. My eyes are not perfect.”
Gazi sat there on the little bench, then peered around. A war was occurring behind her.
“Allow me a break. I will return to battle momentarily.”
“Of course, Lady Pathseeker.”
The [Soldiers] rose and bowed. She kept sitting, and her eyes gazed into the scrying orb, tracing the magic that was following Pisces Jealnet.
A scrying spell from Wistram. And perhaps Gazi fancied she could see the spells tracing back to Wistram itself. Flitting across the world…no, that was still far beyond her. But she wondered if she saw this, felt this—
Who else? Then her eyes were roaming to Trey, to a few other [Soldiers] who paused to gaze at Pisces. Searching for the same spark that lit her eyes. She rose suddenly.
“Where is His Majesty? Amerys?”
She wanted to show them. And then Gazi was asking about that silly thing she’d never asked about. The…what were they called? Chatrooms? She who had never cared for the applause or condemnation of nations was just hungry.
Hungry to know she was not alone. Even gleeful, for as she walked towards the King of Destruction…
He could not ignore this.
No one could.
 
——
 
Drassi Tewing just sat there on the scrying orb, letting it play. She had an expression that Gazi would recognize and which baffled some of her audience.
Selys Shivertail had frozen in the Assassin’s Guild. Calidus Reinhart was wiggling like a fish on a hook, having found another funny expression in his best [Guildmistress] to savor.
But what Selys saw on Drassi’s face was rarer than most people expected. And it was just…
Approval.
The former [Gossip] smiled at everyone. She always had a kind word to say, even if she hated your guts, and could fill any awkward moment with a fortress’ worth of verbal masonry. But she was rarely silent.
She just rested her chin on her claws, tapping the scales on the side of her cheek. Not quite smiling. But that approval…
“I’m not sure if we’re friends. We don’t know each other that well. He’s more like the friend of a friend. But I wish I’d gotten to know him better. That’s the Gold-rank adventurer I’m proud to say I’ve met.”
A little banner was moving underneath the image of Pisces as Drassi sat in the corner of the screen, a box in a box. It was a news-ticker running advertisements, clarifications, and a disclaimer.
 
Breaking: Scourge of Roshal attacks [Slavers], live coverage. Viewer discretion is advised. Channel 2 News does not condone the behavior of any individuals or sanction breaking the rule of law or murder…
 
Drassi paused, then leaned forwards and stared at the little banner. As if she had suddenly leaned through the television frame and—
[Television: Fourth Wall Awareness]. She scared half her viewers to death as she eyed the ticker tape and then sat back, sighing.
“Oh, yes, he’s breaking the rules and all that. Sorry, folks. Level 40+ famous journalist. Comes with being on the news every day. He’s going against Nerrhavia Fallen’s sovereign laws and Roshal’s…and in the spirit of journalism, I would like to point out that he was made a [Slave] for a technicality. I have never received a proper explanation as to why he was made a [Slave].”
Her eyes glinted.
“Believe me, I have asked. So yes, he’s murdering people. Freeing children. Highly illegal. This may be my Izrilian cultural bias. I’m sure I’ll get letters from our audience. But while we’re here, on my channel…”
She sat back. Went back to watching him.
“…I’m so proud of him.”
 
——
 
Five words triggered a panic in Lailight Scintillation. Where, yes, thousands of [Slave Masters] rushed to send in angry letters to Channel 2 news the moment they heard that.
It reached even the Slave Lords of Roshal, and all five of them paid attention to the broadcast, albeit to different levels.
Shaullile sighed like a woman overworked and made a few notes.
Emir Yazdil had been watching for days, coiled up with his favorite [Slaves], his eyes both amorous and frustrated. A serpent waiting to strike.
