He asked Nuvityn after two days of being on the damned rocking boats. They hadn’t landed yet, and the King of Myths turned a sour glance on Miihey.
“One would think you haven’t participated in the discussions of late, Miihey.”
“I fall asleep when I do, sire. Or go to play with Garban.”
“…The bear. You play with him?”
“He’s only thirteen, sire.”
“He’s a damn Dire Grizzlybear, Miihey. I’ve wrestled boars, and I wouldn’t do half the things you do with him.”
“Well, he doesn’t spoon with strangers, Your Majesty.”
A bark of a laugh. Nuvityn had to throw his head back and let one out, and in that way, Miihey considered himself a fine advisor. Garban was one of the ten thousand soldiers in service to Erribathe. Not one under Level 30. Fair; Garban had no levels, but he’d beaten three of Forem’s folk over Level 30 who’d wanted to come.
Ten thousand men and women. And a bear. Some might say it was a paltry number to go unescorted. Such people had no notion of what it meant when each one was over Level 30. Garban was a fine bear who could rip a man in plate armor apart like a child picked apart a straw dummy. A thousand Garbans wouldn’t be as fearsome as this army.
…A fact that Medain and the Chandrarians knew. Which was why Erribathe had yet to land. Nuvityn was pacing on deck, getting annoyed.
“I do not care if this King of Medain, High King Perric, has an engagement with Khelt. I might wish to see the paradise myself if it were allowed…though my instincts say it is in dire straits. I see…bright lights assailing a throne of gold. A crumbling crown of bone.”
He passed a hand over his eyes and for a moment appeared grieved, despite it being an undead kingdom. Then Nuvityn turned.
“But my folk are hungry. We require resupply, if nothing else. And if Tserre’s damn quest for Ceria Springwalker brings us here, we might as well see if we can find the girl before a mysterious hurricane blows us back ashore!”
That was the problem, aye. Miihey glanced sidelong at the other advisors, and Voreca grimaced.
“Sire, given her actions—”
“Would you have me put her ashore? She’d go directly to Ceria, and we would lose her and Prildor. I might be persuaded to lose a Level 60+ [Mage]…but not Prildor.”
Nuvityn’s mood was foul despite Miihey’s best jokes. And his temper, regardless of being a good [King] and reasonable in many ways, was not that of infinite patience. Like with Ailendamus…Nuvityn snapped.
“I grow tired of diplomacy. Take us ashore. Not to any capital. We disembark and stretch our legs! Resupply the ships and have them follow us.”
“And if the King of Medain takes it as an act of war, sire?”
“He would be a fool to do that with Khelt, the King of Destruction, and Jecrass at his door.”
Nuvityn barked at Andromeda, Iradoren’s former lover. Miihey listened with one ear, scratching at his bare chest. He had never liked Iradoren; the man hadn’t made Forem his friend. He’d had favorites among the many peoples. Nuvityn had none that he cared to express, even if Forem was clearly one of his. But Iradoren had played favorites.
Different men. Best not to disrespect the dead if you were someone of any culture. As Miihey was not, he thought the [Prince] had been foolish. Not deserving of death, but he’d had no one to put him in a headlock and tell him ‘no’. That was why he’d died.
Voreca was no sycophant of Iradoren’s. She was older, steadier, but she loved Nuvityn with that idealism of a girl raised in his shadow. Not like Miihey, who knew you could punch Nuvityn and he’d swear and bleed. She was quieter.
“If King Perric does object, Your Majesty? Or another kingdom sees it as an act of war? The King of Destruction especially?”
Then the King of Myths was silent a moment, and when he spoke, his eyes glinted, and Miihey’s heart thundered.
“Then let them make it upon us.”
Ah, yes. There was a man in pain searching for someone to hurt. Worse still, a man trying to be good, so looking for a reason. Miihey sharpened his axe. Ten thousand of Erribathe’s children would reap a bloody harvest through any nation they clashed with. Perhaps it would be for the best. He didn’t know. He didn’t count such things in grand politics or diplomacy. When the axes fell, they fell. Best to feel good about it in the moment.
 
——
 
The sand was such an odd feeling. Miihey lay on it as they disembarked, basking in the warmth. Then grew cold as night fell and rose, swearing, to clad himself in his bear furs. He savored this land, so alien to his sensibilities.
He was happy.
Nuvityn—not. The King of Myths had a thousand things to do.
“Supplies. We shall have some regardless where we sail. Prevail upon our [Captains] for what they need, Andromeda. I trust if gold is needed to soothe them, it will be spent wisely. Voreca, I would know if anyone is dogging us. Solkevoi—”
He named a [Mage] among another of Erribathe’s factions, the Tower’s Folk, who lived in a tower and swore themselves to silent study of magic. She bowed her tattooed head, and Miihey eyed her warily as Nuvityn asked her to scry and use her magics to great effect. Then he turned.
“Miihey—”
The half-Elf waited. King Nuvityn stared at him.
“…I’ve heard cacti are edible.”
“Really, Your Majesty? Then I shall inquire.”
Truly, the King of Myths used his subjects well. He sent Miihey on a task well suited to his capabilities. Namely, hacking apart the nearest cactus he found, then pricking his mouth with the damn thorns. Sucking at the juicy innards, grousing at the taste…
It might seem a stupid thing, but by the time Nuvityn found Miihey five hours later, the half-Elf was sitting with some locals who’d come riding to see this strange army. They had already taught him you could burn the thorns off to feed cattle and that the cacti were good sources of water, if not ones to be relied on to feed an army.
“Hoi, Your Majesty. It tastes more of fruit than you’d think. Too tart for I, too much like a bean, but food enough. Have some.”
He hucked a piece at Nuvityn, who ate it without checking for poison, to Andromeda’s horror. She and the other annoying Khendrothians scrambled to test the stuff, but it had been in Miihey’s hands, and Nuvityn visibly calmed.
“Miihey, you are the last thing between me and insanity at this moment. King Perric’s people are like vultures. The man is both arrogant and afraid; I sense him, even if he has ridden upon Khelt. I do not think him a worthy [King].”
He said this in plain view of Medain’s subjects, saw them, and swore. But Miihey just laughed.
“If he is a rancid turd unto a throne, it will not be the first on any continent.”
“…No. It reminds me why I do not attend social gatherings of monarchs in Terandria. My tongue is lax, Miihey, and I am angry.”
“Because we are so far from Izril?”
Nuvityn sat himself down, greeting the terrified folk of Medain with courtesy and less kingliness than they thought. Truly, then, this King of Medain was some ponce if they had no notion a [King] might break bread with them. Nuvityn did it grandly, like some wanderer bringing riches in, sharing his bounty and partaking of theirs with relish.
Was this not kingliness? Or was it only in riches? Miihey shook his head as Nuvityn chewed, sourly, on more cacti on bread.
“This is good. Chandrar…I have not seen it for over sixty years, and we barely visited a few spaces, Eithelenidrel and I. She wanted to see Claiven Earth and other half-Elven spots. Very impressive—but I didn’t get a chance to see the Glass Straits or Chandrar’s other wilder spots.”
“Time to see them then, Your Majesty? Your will is like the wind; blow hard enough and we follow.”
“I cannot fart hard enough to send all the half-Elves in the Claiven Earth to flight, Miihey. And I think they’re made of sturdier stuff than Gaiil-Drome. Already, they ask if I’ll visit. Politics.”
But Nuvityn did ease. And his great discontent waned…until he spoke to Miihey in confidence. Not private, for everyone eavesdropped on a [King], but their words were only directed at each other.
“In truth, Miihey, I am wroth at only two things. One is Tserre. I knew she was about her own ends, but no man enjoys being a pawn. How she attempts to mend bridges…bah. The second is the King of Destruction.”
Miihey’s pointed ears perked up.
“Has he said aught to you?”
“Not yet. And many kingdoms who fascinate me have. But the man did create an age of war. I wonder…if it would serve the world to make war on him. If we killed but one of his Seven, it might curtail his rise. Though it may see you, me, and our army dead. I think of such things. What better use for a fading King of Myths than to halt a dark legend?”
Ah, now here was a man who feared not his end and longed for it. Miihey’s skin prickled, and he put down his cup as everyone fell silent as if a wind had howled through their ordinary lives. For Medain’s folk, it was acceptable. But Khendroth? Andromeda to look shaken? Miihey spat at their feet. How could they advise Nuvityn if they could not talk to him man-to-man?
“I do not know this King of Destruction fully, King of Myths. It sours my blood to die just to end another continent’s legend. If we have good reason, Forem will die raking his face bloody. But do you know him well enough to commit us to the death?”
Nuvityn’s head bowed.
“…No. He was but a boy in my memories, and I thought sometimes he had the right of it. The man? No, I will judge him, Miihey. Your words are wise.”
“Bah, my words are ‘do not toss us aside like flies’, Your Majesty. If they are wise, you are surrounded by idiots.”
Bristling from Andromeda, and she threw herself down to argue. Miihey paid no mind to her. He kept the King of Myths company, but took from this a great discontent he told his friends and allies of. The King of Myths was not pleased. Best to find him a task or mend bridges with Magus Tserre before he did something rash.
The problem was…Magus Tserre was aware of her follies, but resolved her differences in a way Miihey found laughable. Just not funny.
 
——
 
“Your Majesty. Allow me to present your company with a small gift given our sojourn in Chandrar might be…long.”
The next day, Miihey saw Magus Tserre present Nuvityn with a gift. Namely…a kind of fanciful glider. Miihey had hurled himself off the foothills with crude hide kites that let you soar until you crashed, and Miihey had dreamed of asking the Flying Gnoll for a ride on his contraption.
But never had he dreamed of this. Nuvityn eyed the hovering object made of burnished wood and metal that resembled an odd…well, Miihey thought they were wings? But curved downwards, like a strange bird.
“What is this, Magus Tserre?”
“A Sandglider, Your Majesty. It races across the great desert. It would convey any [Scout] or [Ranger] in your army at speeds only matched by a flying carpet.”
An artifact for days of yore. Miihey itched to try it. Nuvityn just folded his arms.
“And you had this in your bag of holding, Magus?”
He was angry at her. But the half-Elf just sat on her walking cottage and blinked as her two chickens pecked around her.
“Oh, no. I created it from memory. I wagered it might fit your fancy? I also have twelve of these.”
She produced twelve jewels as brightly blue as the sea in Miihey’s dreams, not the salty stuff in reality. Nuvityn took them before Andromeda could object.
“And these are…?”
It was Solkevoi who choked and signed her answer. She wrote in the air; her people were sworn to silence.
“Your Majesty, these are Gems of Condensation! They draw water from the air forever; they are a prize to any Chandrarian kingdom!”
Even now, they were forming water in Nuvityn’s hand. He grimaced as he handed them off to Voreca.
“Another creation?”
“If it should prove valuable in any negotiations that would arise, yes, Your Majesty. I do apologize for the inconvenience.”
Tserre’s lined face was smooth and equitable as she spoke. The artifacts she had made were princely gifts, even to a Terandrian Kingdom, if Miihey was a judge. He bet no Archmage of Wistram could be so munificent. The problem was…Nuvityn’s scowl didn’t lessen.
“I take these gifts in the spirit they were delivered, Magus. Thank you. If you will excuse me…I am searching for a route southwards. Jecrass, perhaps, though the damned politics of even meeting the King of Duels are enough for ten men’s headaches.”
He turned brusquely, and Tserre didn’t lose her smile. She floated away as Prildor and her possible-apprentice, Princess Vernoue, hurried after her. No one else liked her enough to stay near, but Miihey lingered. Because one must.
 
——
 
“Tserre, are you mad? Nuvityn’s wroth with you. What are you doing?”
Prildor was the only man who had Tserre’s ear besides the King of Myths himself. No one else qualified. Vernoue tried.
“Archmage Tserre, what—aaaah!”
She was promptly teleported six miles out to sea. There was no pointing finger, no spoken spell. Tserre didn’t even glance at her. That was true magic, and Miihey, conscious that he wanted to live as a man, not a goat, listened from a distance. He admired the Thronebearers, though; they leapt into the water, armor and all.
Miihey hoped the [Princess] was levelling from her trials. But Tserre’s next words revealed she didn’t care for Miihey eavesdropping and her odd way of viewing the world.
“I’m aware Nuvityn’s angry, Prildor. I’ve weathered worse. We’re on the same continent as that girl, and that’s what counts. Hm, neither gift shifted him. So we’re at…negative 20.”
“…Negative what?”
Prildor spluttered, and Tserre shrugged.
“I’d call it -20 favorability. It used to be easier to raise it. A good gift gets you, what, five points? I just need to figure out what he likes.”
“You’re…you’re giving His Majesty a score?”
“Everyone’s personality can be broken down into numerical values, Prildor. It doesn’t always work, but it’s a useful way to expedite things. Let’s see. Maybe if I enchant some armor for him? It always annoys me, enchanting, and getting the metal smithed is a pain…”
She was trying to figure out how to ingratiate herself to Nuvityn in such blatant terms that Miihey was impressed.
Here is a monster so old she’s forgotten her graces too. She favored him with a look.
“Here to scold me about my conduct, [Barbarian]?”
“Mm. Not I, Great Magus. Only to say that I should love to know what a +5 gift to Nuvityn is. The image of his dead son forever preserved in a mirror?”
Her lips quirked as Prildor gave Miihey a gaze of horror.
