“Keep riding!”
Merr shouted, but the problem was that that magical carriage was one amongst many. Pisces glanced up and a group of Garuda were descending.
“That’s him! I’m Reporter Jil! I’m—”
One of the Dustbandits nearly shot the overzealous Garuda out of the air before Merr snapped.
“That’s it—[Call the Storm]! We ride!”
That broke off some pursuit, but their followers were on the roads, trying to get to Pisces. And you know what?
That made it really hard to maintain plausible deniability. Especially since everyone was analyzing footage to prove if Pisces was the real thing.
 
——
 
“Dead gods damnit! Those bastards in Roshal might have shot themselves, but they’ve still made it too hard to attack anyone without puttin’ your face on the scrying orb! And you need some cover or the Queen’ll have to deal with you.”
Pisces wasn’t sure what Yisame thought, but he agreed as they sat in sand-tents under a dune; the excited ‘reporters’ were racing around trying to find them. He shifted.
“We don’t have to hit Roshal, Merr. This might be—”
“Hell to that! There’s a watering station where Roshal drinks from along their Leashed Trails! We blow that in, they won’t have a guaranteed rest-spot for a hundred miles!”
They’d gone northwards, and this was where Nerrhavia’s Fallen began to border a smaller desert. Pisces glanced at her.
“That’s more than I’d normally risk…”
“It’s independent. We can tear it up, at least their people. But there’s dozens of fools waiting to see us do just that.”
The Slaver’s Guild was, rather cleverly, using the excited Pisces-fans as a shield. He tried to stretch out in the tent as sand pressed down on them. His undead had buried themselves too, and he was worried one chance breeze would reveal the lot of them.
“Well, what do we do?”
“I’m thinking. Maybe…”
Merr’s eyes flickered. Then she smiled, once, as she glanced at him.
“Maybe we give ‘em what they want, eh? If it’s the Scourge they’re after and everyone’s using your face…let’s give them the Scourge. But not just one of them.”
He blinked at her, and she reached into her bag of holding and pulled something out. Pisces recoiled as she waved a cloth face at him. It was meant to be sewn onto your features, and didn’t look as lifelike as when it attached to skin, but—
“Merr! Why do you have that?”
She gave him a puzzled look.
“What? You knew we were doing this. You think Bearig was the only one who…hold on, you gotta change up your fabric a bit. Otherwise, it looks really stupid or off. I mean it’s still really funny. Hey, girls! Who’s got a Scourge-face? Put it on!”
Laughter from the other tents. Pisces’ mouth fell open.
 
——
 
It was not like looking into a mirror. When Merr the Storm emerged from her tent, for one thing she was still brawnier than Pisces. Different skin tone—this Pisces was noticeably darker-skinned, but not like he had a tan.
Also—Merr hadn’t changed her body that much. This Pisces had breasts and feminine curves. Yet the part that threw him, left him speechless, was…it sort of fit.
Stitch-folk were geniuses of appearance. They took the image of Pisces and adapted his face to match bodies. It wasn’t like them wearing a mask with his face on it—it was too natural.
No less than eighteen different Pisceses, more than half female, were laughing at him. Nudging each other or trying to out-Pisces each other, sniffing, flourishing with rapiers…Merr-Pisces winked at him.
“You look like you’ve seen a ghost. Or your reflection. Pisces m’boy, how’s this for a distraction? If we all go together, who’s to say who’s who, eh?”
“Genius, boss.”
Scarlips was grinning, and Merr kicked at her.
“Shut up. I don’t need sycophancy when I know I’m right. Okay, get ready to ride! Is Casep not reported in? We could use the muscle for this one. It’s gonna get heavy.”
The Dustbandits cheered; they were angry on Pisces’ behalf and ready for a fight. However, Merr saw Pisces was still staring at her, and his face was so genuinely disconcerted she hesitated.
“Oi, Necrolad. You okay? You look sick.”
“Told you the breakfast sausage was off.”
Scarlips put in, and Pisces jerked.
“I—no, Merr. It’s fine. I—I knew Bearig was doing that. It’s just strange.”
His face. She blinked at him, and it was like himself in the mirror, only more feminine, and—he turned away.
“Hey, what’s the problem? Sick of your own look?”
She came over to give him a one-armed hug, but he retreated. Brushed off her arm.
“It’s f—I need a moment, Merr. I think I’m a bit disoriented. I know it’s my face, and it’s just to keep away from Roshal, but…”
He felt unwell. Vaguely nauseous. Merr was about to say something snarky when she peered at him, then turned.
“Hey, scissors. One second—”
She put her old face back on and then towed him to the side. Pisces was rubbing at his stomach.
“I didn’t think that’d bother you after all we’ve done.”
“It’s not. I just—I don’t know, it feels uncomfortable.”
It felt very uncomfortable seeing people joking around with his face. Imagining…whatever had been on the broadcast. Like Erin.
“It’s a good idea, Merr. I just don’t—I had a moment of worry for a second. What if it becomes a trend and people don’t realize who I am? Especially if there’s the television.”
What if the Pisces they got to know wasn’t him? Merr blinked at the Human man, trying to understand. She saw him shiver, and an expression of guilt passed over her face.
“Ah. I don’t know if I fully get it. I’m…we’re Stitch-folk, Pisces. Used to swapping faces or even changing what we look like entirely. You only know me as Merr; you’d have thought I was a different person as a kid. There’s Alterkinds, but even with regular Stitch-folk, I just stitched myself like a man for six years when I was first riding as a [Bandit]. Thought that was better before I realized I just wanted the respect I thought having a second sword between the legs gave me.”
That made Pisces’ head spin a bit more. He rasped.
“I don’t…I know that, Merr. I don’t begrudge Bearig. I’m just concerned…”
She patted him on the shoulders.
“Yeah, well, you think that we only do this for you? Plenty of people probably have fun with someone else’s face in bed. Imposters trying to pass themselves off as someone more important—it’s an entire thing in Stitch-folk culture. You truly never visited us long or you’d have seen it. It’s as easy as changing clothes for us…which is why we envy you Humans and other species.”
That was an unexpected turn to the conversation. It gave Pisces something to focus on, and he blinked at her.
“How so? You can appear as beautiful as you want, Merr. Do you know how many Human women would kill to roll out of bed like you?”
She elbowed him.
“Hey, stop flirting, I’m being serious.”
“I wasn’t—”
Merr the Storm just shook her head and regarded a little mirror she used to fix her stitching. She eyed her features and laughed.
“Any Cotton woman in the world can look this good. D’you know how worthless it is to look like this when anyone can copy a shape of the nose? Whereas your face—that’s set. That’s why it’s more valuable, Pisces. Everything from that weird sniffer to the color of your hair—”
She ruffled it and sighed.
“You’ve got an identity. Us Stitch-folk long to be someone who’s more than how we’re sewn up. Like a Torreb. That’s probably why Bearig came up with the idea. Because you’re more of a thing to rally around than he thought he was.”
“But Bearig’s inspiring. He’s the one who…”
The [Bandit Lady] turned her head as she rose.
“I know. But that’s the insecurity that comes of someone who can change. If it can all vanish with the snip of scissors, is it real? I suppose we didn’t think on how it feels for someone to take the only identity you’ve got. Sorry, Pisces.”
She ducked her head, and he realized she was bowing to him. It wasn’t a familiar gesture on Merr, and Pisces rose too.
“You didn’t…all’s forgiven, Merr. I was just rattled. I want to do this. Your plan’s good. Just thank you for understanding.”
She eyed him, then hugged him again with both arms.
“Argh, you could punch me, but I suppose that’s not your way. Good! Then I’ll tell the girls not to get feisty with each other with your face on. After you shot all of ‘em down last night, I bet one or two—”
He was so open-mouthed she hesitated.
“Eh, just pretend you didn’t understand that like the rest and we’ll be golden.”
“Wait, those were actually proposals?”
She stared at him. A few [Dustbandits] turned. They stared at him too. Toothie the Nightmare stopped munching on feed and stared at Pisces.
You had to admit, it did get his mind off the Pisces-face thing.
 
——
 
Merr laughed for nearly two hours straight. She nearly fell off her horse from lack of oxygen. That wasn’t the worst part. The worst part was her horse laughing too.
And the Dustbandits.
And many of them offering to correct Pisces’ misapprehensions. Which meant he was not entertaining any offers because everyone was laughing at him.
Pisces thought he heard skeleton jaws rattling along at one point, but when he glared, the Skeleton Champions were jogging along, straight-faced. Just his imagination, then.
There was only one saving grace in all of this, which was that it got him over the weird uncanny valley of people wearing his face. He was sure he didn’t make that expression when he guffawed—which was all they were doing.
Okay, two saving graces: when Merr paused to gulp air, she finally told him where Eloque was.
“I’ve got t’ tell her about this. I miss that damn lizard!”
“Where is she, Merr?”
Pisces had feared, from the way he’d heard Bearig and the others talking, that she was…not captive, surely, or they’d have said. But Merr just pulled out her stomach.
“This hurts so bad—get me another so I can keep laughing! Eloque’s just not with the [Rebels]. You couldn’t tear Rophir away from Bearig with mithril chain, for all the danger. And Qshom’s levelled. He made my thread, actually. [Freedom’s String]. He’s become so valuable that any Stitch-person would hire him and treat him like a Named-rank.”
That [Tailor] had become so high-level he could make unique string? Pisces’ heart leapt, and Merr nodded.
“Counterlevelling against Roshal…Bearig’s going to be our level soon, if he hasn’t spiked again. He’s a real monster in combat. Turns out a lot of [Cook] Skills work well in combat. [Cut to the Bone]?”
She shuddered, and Pisces winced. Then focused hungrily.
“Eloque. Where is she? Did she try to go home?”
Merr waved a hand.
“Nah. Too far, and she didn’t know where…if anyone’ll join you, it’s her. But remember how her scales were all sewn up?”
Igheriz’s work. Pisces’ jaw clenched, and she winked at him.
“Don’t ruin our good looks, Pisces. No, she wanted to do something, but she never fancied herself as natural at fighting as Bearig. And when we were gettin’ out of Pomle, she knew we needed allies, more than I or the [Rebels] could provide. So guess where she went?”
Pisces couldn’t think. Where did a [Slave] go to get support in Chandrar of all places? Some…anti-Roshal kingdom? Jecrass was a good example of a kingdom that Roshal didn’t like, and he doubted King Raelt could do more than turn his head.
Then he had it.
“Wait, did she join Pomle? Tiqr?”
An approving eye from Merr.
“Almost. She weighed both options, but neither nation exactly hates us, eh? The Strongest fought his damn war all because of [Slaves], so who’s she going to convince? Plus, she was worried about that Salii hatin’ her because she was Lizardfolk. Tiqr makes sense, but she might as well ride with Bearig since she’s no warrior. Nope. She’s doing that thing all the kids hate.”
Pisces had utterly no idea what Merr was talking about until the [Bandit Lady] leaned over and winked.
“Monking.”
 
——
 
Eloque had joined a monastery. It was the craziest thing Pisces could imagine until Merr gave it context.
“Not the Monks of Sottheim. They’re weird even for [Monks]. No, she found some nice place around the Great Desert. You get lots of [Monks] in isolation, and most don’t care for Roshal. Vows of poverty and all that. She wanted to make sure she was plenty tough, and who’s better than them?”
A [Monk] was akin to a [Martial Artist]; take away their weapons and most were trained to still be plenty dangerous. It made lots of sense to Pisces. He wondered if a [Monk] could literally rip enchanted manacles off their body.
Merr nodded.
“You get it. Not just that: she’s been working on the monastery she was sent to. Telling them her story and seeing if they’ll help. The Monks of…eh, what’s their name?”
“Galam?”
Pisces threw out the one [Monk] order he knew, and Merr snorted.
“That’s from that guy with the Stargnoll. Nice try. They’re the Monks of Abrein or something like that. Hand-to-hand monsters. Galam uses staffs, and Sottheim uses weapons too. She sends us news now and then. Well, it’s always some fussy [Monk] who wanders towards us for a month and delivers a bunch of Yellats they grew and letters. It’s helped her work on her, y’know…”
“Body? Class?”
“Trauma. The rest too, but they actually found [Thought Healers] for her. Hah! Imagine getting help for being made a [Slave]!”
They laughed about that for a second. Then Pisces sighed.
“I’m glad. I hope we can meet.”
“Don’t worry, Bearig sent news the moment you landed. She’s just far off. We’ll see her. Maybe not right away. But you’re not gonna go until you see her, right?”
“Of course not.”
Merr leaned over the saddle and smiled.
“The Monks of Abrein didn’t take a Vow of Not Seeing Shit, as far as I remember. She might have already seen all of this. So how about we give her something to remember, eh?”
The [Necromancer] smiled. Then he made a fist and extended it. He bumped fists with the female Pisces, who grinned as she drew a scimitar. They both wound a roll of cloth around their faces because the wind was blowing.
A storm was billowing upwards around the sand as [Riders] on horseback whooped…then they were going over the dune. And the storm—it raced behind them, threatening to overtake the first riders.
Before that, the [Slavers] manning the waystation got a good look at him.
Pisces Jealnet. The Scourge of Roshal was riding, swords raised.
All…nineteen of him. They pointed as the civilians waiting to see him raised their scrying devices and froze, uncertain.
He was coming. How did you know which…?
