He seemed so alone. She wished she’d asked him. Interviewed him. All she could do was order the recording played.
So that was how it happened. At first, it was just a single broadcast on Channel 6 of Nerrhavia’s Wonders, and Channel 2 aired a single short feature segment on a certain [Necromancer] at 19:30—a late night broadcast that ran twenty minutes.
But they were paying attention to the analytics, you see. When both channels saw a spike in viewer retention, letters to the studio, they did the obvious thing and featured another clip. Then devoted more time to…
Then they dug a bit and realized there was political drama here. The images kept coming in, and they were graphic. Rémi began to run his unaired piece on what had happened to Pisces, and Drassi thought of the adventurer who had come home and the rumors she’d heard and…
Then they felt it. A building momentum. An obsession grabbing the chat rooms, the audience who began tuning in no matter the hour. Demanding explanations. As ever.
As if they should have ever doubted him. So what if he was a [Necromancer]? He was one of the Horns of Hammerad. And this…
This is how it reached the bored, irate King of Myths, who was half-watching a scrying orb as he rode across Medain, pondering his next course of action. Magus Tserre’s eyes as she glanced over and heard a name she’d decided to flag as important.
“—ladies and gentlemen. I think—I think this is a confirmed event happening now. I am Drassi Tewing, and I encourage anyone under the age of, uh, sixteen to look away now! I cannot confirm this is the genuine article, but this is breaking news—a raid on another [Slaver] caravan of Roshal. That’s…Pisces. That’s him. And [Bandits]? Ancestors.”
Nuvityn’s head turned, and he knew that name. A teammate of Ceria Springwalker’s? He was annoyed, then saw it.
A tiny image reflected in a scrying orb as Drassi Tewing commented in a corner. It was an aerial view: a caravan racing across a road, leaving a visible trail of dust. Moving figures coming from the sides and rear.
Classic [Raider] ambush. Nuvityn had known war, and the enfolding attack didn’t surprise him. It was neat, tidy; mounted riders and undead flanking the—
Undead?
Then his eyes focused on the Skeleton Champions riding undead horses. Rampaging towards the wagons, ignoring arrow fire. Screaming [Bandits]. Desperate Stitch-folk faces locked in horror as the scrying spell zoomed in.
But ahead of them all a pair of figures. A young, Human man with a shock of brown hair riding forwards. Firing black bolts of magic from his offhand as he rode with a Stitch-woman whirling her scimitar around.
They came down on the caravan, and Nuvityn saw blood drawn. A beheaded woman—his eyes flashed for a second.
Murder. Then he heard what the Drake was saying. He recognized the sigil painted in red on the side of the wagons.
A band of people being hurried off the wagons. Linked by chains as the undead and [Raiders]…Nuvityn stopped. Then he strode for the scrying orb to see more clearly. And it was so tiny. An open mouth on the [Necromancer]’s face. Undead, the horrific monsters, bounding forward and slaying the living.
But only until you paid attention. Then you saw him. Pisces Jealnet lifting that rapier high. Swinging it at…
“Roshal?”
He continued to cut through them. Scything down [Slavers] like chaff. There was blood and gore, but Nuvityn’s eyes were fixed on that symbol. And he knew it.
“One of Ceria’s teammates. He’s slaughtering the Slavers of Roshal. I never cared for them. But they have a lot of power on Chandrar’s sands.”
Prildor was speaking, glancing around carefully. Nuvityn just murmured.
“They do. He must be mad.”
Roshal was a world power. He allowed none of them in Erribathe, but other kingdoms traded with them despite any influence he could exert. To kill their people in the open—madness. This was a slaughter. Actions befitting a common brigand, not a Gold-rank adventurer. And he was a [Necromancer]. A hated class. Nuvityn remembered when it had been celebrated.
Nuvityn was watching the young man riding into the center of the [Slavers], swinging that sword like a madman. [Slaves] being freed as a [Raider] slashed at their collars and chains.
“Your Majesty. If you wished to ride and—”
He held up a hand, and there was silence. Nuvityn, the irritable King of Myths, just leaned on the horse’s saddle, forgetting his wroth mood. Searching that desperate little figure for a trace of something else. Greed, cowardice, self-servitude. He just saw the [Necromancer] finally break free of the melee, his white robes shedding crimson.
Riding forwards. Chasing the [Slavers] until he turned and saw the collared men and women. Children.
They took children too. The King of Myths saw the [Necromancer] dismount. Fall to one knee; blood was running down his side, and the [Bandit Lady] was striding over to him. But he was reaching out. A key in his shaking hands he’d taken from a dead man.
Nuvityn said nothing at all. He just gazed down, watching, until the scrying orb turned into an ad. Then he turned his head.
“Has this been going on…long? Find me more recordings.”
That was all. He mounted his stallion and kept riding. But a few minutes later, when Voreca rode next to him, presenting a second scrying orb, his head turned. The grieving father, the King of Myths who rode for vengeance and justice…
Watched.
He was not the only one. And there was the blessing for hungry eyes.
If they had not noticed him before…
Pisces Jealnet had not stopped. He had a wealth of content to deliver, really.
 
——
 
Merr was bad for Pisces, he knew. Not because she was a [Bandit Lady] or nefarious, but because she knew him. And she made the impossible—possible.
They rode on the caravans he could never have caught nor found. Like a storm, yes.
They came over the ridgeline, and he ordered the undead forwards. Came down, forgetting everything when he saw that sigil. Just that roaring in his ears. That urgent desire in his chest. Terrible, terrible glory as he swung the rapier up and down.
Monster.
It was so easy. Merr the [Bandit Lady] was better at strategy than Pisces; she used his undead like expendable fodder, sending them in before screening their advance with [Bandits] and Skills. It meant he could just…listen to her instructions and fight.
Easier.
He’d figured it out when they’d been freed, though his ego had taken a second to realize it. Merr was a better leader. Now, Pisces was grateful. He could trust her with figuring out when to escape, who to hit, the plan of attack.
All he had to do was…
 
——
 
“[Deathbolt].”
The [Necromancer] saw the enemy [Slaver] dodge the bolt, but that opening left her on the backstep. Which meant when he lunged—he ran her through the side. It was not a killing blow, for all the blood ran over his hands. He heard a gasp and backstepped out of the return slash. The stumbling [Axewoman] swung furiously to keep him back.
But he was circling on the ground, and she was now bleeding. Advantage: Pisces. The clash of swords rang around him. Screaming. The undead assailing the living.
Pisces and his opponent existed in a bubble of their own. He was not blind to potential ambush or other combatants, but he focused on her. And she was wavering. Favoring her wounded side. Bleeding.
She went for a healing potion, and that was her mistake. He gave her no time to heal.
A slash at her neck which she ducked, potion at her lips as she drank, backpedalling. She was gulping the liquid when she saw his free hand pointing, below his sword.
[Deathbolt].
He fired it twice through her chest, and she fell over. Potion spilling until he grabbed the bottle.
Such were his duels. They were not honorable, not practiced as he’d been taught. But they were no less official for all that. Any hesitation and he was dead. But he punished them.
If you account only for my sword, [Deathbolt] will strike you. If you dodge that, you fall to my sword. Few foes could face both a [Duelist] and a [Necromancer]’s attacks.
But there were some…
 
——
 
“Pisces!”
Merr found him after the third raid. He was sitting on the ground, admiring the blade in his arm.
“The bastard got you—healer!”
She roared, and he murmured.
“He couldn’t get through my Stalker armor. He was going for my armpit. It would have worked—but he overcommitted. Silver-bell.”
The dead man was no [Slaver], at least, not one that wore Roshal’s armor. He looked like a hired [Mercenary]. A [Guard], maybe. He’d been good. They’d traded wounds, but Pisces had drawn the fight to a swifter conclusion than his opponent deserved.
“Stupid—you went for trades? You have the other bugger take it up the ass and never let them get a chance to do you the same way!”
She was scolding him; Pisces grinned weakly. He liked her colorful euphemisms.
“I knew…my armor was better than his. It wasn’t mannerly.”
“Forget mannerly. You’re alive. Hey, healer, I said! Get those [Slaves] moving, and let’s ride! Strip the carts!”
Merr was covered in sweat and grime and blood. She appeared—harried. And why not? They had been fighting all day.
Even for a seasoned group like the Dustbandits, three engagements in a day was insane. But they’d been in range of three caravans with Merr’s movement Skills. Pisces saw Merr extending a hand.
“Pisces, m’boy, you have to get up and—”
He rose to his feet without her hand. She recoiled, and Pisces’ head turned. He drank the rest of the healing potion.
“I know. Enemies?”
He looked around and saw no one.
They were all dead.
 
——
 
Merr the Storm thought about making a crack about Pisces’ bathing habits. They didn’t seem, uh, improved since last she’d known him.
He wasn’t using [Cleanse], and he’d been roughing it in the sand for over a week at least. To be fair, the sand helped a lot. It clung to the dried blood, and he did scrub the worst of the gore off. But he was starting to smell a bit like the corpses he created. In Chandrar, again, they didn’t rot badly. And he had no bathing equipment.
But dead gods. She knew her Dustbandits were giving him the same side-eye she was. He was breathing in and out as he finished a healing potion, rapier stowed at his side, undead rising, and he was controlling them. But like this you could see a man, blinking, a Human with messy hair you could rib.
Not so five minutes ago. Merr leaned over.
“Hey, Chokin’ Casep. You know movement Skills. That [Flash Step] trick…you ever seen a man run down someone on horseback with it?”
The former Trick Rider spat.
“Only th’ once.”
“Ah, right, then it’s normal?”
“Didn’t say that, boss. A Silver-bell [Duelist] did it one time. Tried t’say he’d beat us all in a footrace. Ended up breaking every toe on his right foot fifty yards in.”
“Heh. But he caught you?”
Casep finished looting a corpse. A dead [Slaver] stared up at Merr, face twisted in rage. She spat onto the face.
The dead [Slaver] sat up. Merr shouted, punched the zombie flat, then realized it was Pisces. She swore as everyone laughed. Then ducked her wrath. But Merr’s eyes were on the cut that almost made the zombie headless.
Pisces didn’t have an enchanted sword. His was sharp, but Merr had increased her muscle mass, and she was a [Bandit Lady] with an enchanted scimitar. You had to be mighty pissed to swing that hard with a regular blade. Her eyes stole around, counting.
“…nine…ten…right, how’d you see it then, Casep?”
The [Dustrider] was watching Pisces too. Trying to place the man here who jumped and flushed when Chimes snuck up on him with a laugh to the face of the [Necromancer] riding down on…
“Oh, that. That was His Majesty of Jecrass. He had the same Skill and heard about the [Duelist] cursin’ us out. So he had us race him. Gave us a head start, and when we were laughin’, he caught us. Went back and told the [Duelist] to practice his Skills like the blade. The Trickriders always had an inkling he was more’n he let on. But he said it’s not easy.”
“And that was a Skill, not a spell you’ve got to cast, eh?”
How hard was it to cast, what, a Tier 2 spell fifteen times in quick succession without hitting a rock in a fight? Merr didn’t know. But there was a new wariness to the Dustbandits around Pisces. Now they saw the truth behind the name.
But that wasn’t all he was. If it was, Merr wouldn’t have come out this far. She rose from her haunches and waited. Where…where…?
Ah, there it was again. She saw the [Necromancer] toss the empty vial down, finger-comb sand out of his hair, and then turn. Then he found them.
A group of Dustbandits weren’t doing the fun things like looting the dead or patching wounds. A grumpy band of twenty were talking to over four dozen people being unchained.
[Slaves]. They were standing together with that disbelieving expression of people encountering extreme violence. Civilians. No one over forty here, couple of children—Merr spat at a dead [Slaver] again.
Debtor’s run. This lot scooped up entire households. Roshal loved this trick in kingdoms that didn’t have laws against family being held responsible for debts. Even friends and cosigners on a loan. So many tricks to get you in their grasp…
The [Dustbandit] in charge of this mob was speaking loudly and impatiently. Scarlips was glaring at the sun starting to set in the sky. Three caravans and they were tired, but her work had only begun.
“Right, listen up. You’re all free people now—congratulations. But fair warning, soon as we get clear of here, those chains might go back on.”
The [Slaves] froze, and Scarlips snapped.
“As cover. They won’t be enchanted, but we’ve gotta pretend you lot are [Slaves]. We don’t have enough horses to get mounted. There’s a group of folk who’ll help you find a place to go. Leave the region, find new identities, whatever. But until we get there, we’re avoiding Roshal, and that means what I say goes. Anyone who tries to tattle on us is a traitor, and we shoot them dead. Got it?”
Her social graces were poor, but Scarlips had done this run many a time. It was not a fun task for the Dustbandits. It didn’t pay well, and getting rid of a slow-moving group like this while dodging the law was hard.
Merr would have to sweeten them with something nice afterwards. But, eh, what she was doing sort of worked. Being kind got you tears and arguments. Scarlips had the chastened [Slaves] bowing and nodding to her.
Still, there were tears. Merr turned her head as someone burst into hysterical sobbing. Faint questions—Scarlips snapped back.
“No, you’re not being resold; do you not see—we’re the Dustbandits, we don’t take [Slaves]! You’re free. Go celebrate later, but shut up and get ready to march hard! Damn, we’ve got brats too…”
