“Lookit me, lecturing [Necromancers]. I knew you weren’t thinking like a rat bastard without me. Okay, I’ll make sure to keep the corpses more intact. But best case is we never run into anything on our way east. We link up—I’m hoping Bearig’s not gone too far into Nerrhavia’s Fallen searching for us. We can find each other. Then we splinter. If you’re not wanted by Nerrhavia’s Fallen, you catch one of those damn Wistram Carriages back to your team, then we all move to wherever we agree on. We can talk ships and who’s on them when everyone’s there. Damn, forgot Eloque…eh, she won’t be part of the initial meeting, but we’ll send word. Deal?”
Pisces blinked at this plan. Merr drew it out over her own rough map, and she seemed to know approximately where everyone was. It was a good plan, but he shifted.
“I…do want to meet Bearig. And Eloque and the others, Merr. But I’m actually—I need to stay here. Around the city of Halqued.”
She stopped chewing on her food. The Dustbandits glanced up, and Merr leaned forwards.
“So you didn’t just start attacking Roshal at random. I thought you held it together well. [Rebels] wanted you to do more butcherin’, but I thought you knew the score. This was crazy, Pisces. So crazy I wondered if they’d tried to collar you or…what’s in the city? A teammate? A friend?”
Pisces was aware of every eye on him. He replied slowly.
“Just a caravan of [Slaves]. I couldn’t…I can’t fight in the city. I’d be killing Nerrhavia Fallen’s soldiers and guards. But I thought that if I hit caravans around the city, I could—”
Merr sat back, and suddenly she wore a pained expression. The Dustbandits began moving around loudly, but she just gazed at him. Not with incredulity as he’d feared his team might look at him like—excepting Colth—just pain.
“Ah, Necrolad. I forget you left Chandrar. To you, this has got to hurt twice as bad, a wound reopened. You still got that bastard’s scar on your chest?”
Pisces felt at it, and she gazed at him.
“Humans. Rophir’s got his, but even Eloque’s…you can’t save ‘em all.”
“I know that, Merr. I just—”
“You can’t save whomever that is.”
He met her eyes. For a moment, Pisces nearly said something harsh. He bit his tongue, turned his head. Stared at the ground and saw a headless corpse collapsing. Just a few more—
“I know. I know it was madness, and that was before the Djinni found me, Merr. But I’ve already done the worst. I’ve killed every single [Slaver] I could find. Not just caravans. The ones on the road, anyone—I should have done more the moment I landed, but I was afraid. I don’t want to go back to Tyrant’s Rest and get my team in trouble. When I do, I’ll pay the price, but right now, I—we’re here. You’re a [Bandit Lady], right?”
She nodded, warily, eying him. Pisces glanced around and saw, even here, a few marks. Someone with scars on their wrists. A [Bandit] joking with the others who had a mark around her neck or a brand somewhere visible. They glanced at him, and unlike the regular [Bandits], there was something in their gaze that spoke to him.
Like Merr. Like Colth. Something unifying that they could never forget. A hatred, a desire. Pisces whispered.
“But you’re one that frees [Slaves]. You understand.”
She opened her mouth, and he just glanced at her.
“I know you’re not a full [Rebel]. I know Merr the Storm has to do her own thing. That’s what you told me. But you understand, don’t you? Merr, I have to do this. I…”
He was gazing at the map, then around, and he didn’t realize it but it seemed suddenly, to Merr, as if the [Necromancer] were still hungry. Not for breakfast, but he was peering around like someone hunting for something. She sat back as her skin prickled, and she felt her heart pumping.
Agh, damn. She knew she shouldn’t have come here, even though she had to. Just like him—she was going back in time. Then he peered at her, both a memory and a stranger, one changed. But better. More sure of himself, perhaps. Higher-level.
“Merr. I need your help.”
“Doin’ what, exactly?”
Pisces glanced down at the map and saw where they were—far further from Halqued than he could have ever gotten alone, even with the skeleton horse. Merr was a [Bandit Lady] known for speed; her Skills had carried them far, far in the night. He drew a circle with one finger.
“They’ve kept all the caravans away from Halqued. Stopped, but they probably knew where I was, roughly. How many…are around us now, Merr? Or going north to avoid the city?”
They’d have to choose more roads along the Leashed Trails. Predictable ones. Merr gazed at Pisces, then sighed.
“I do this for profit, Pisces. I don’t go beyond certain limits, and you’ve pushed past them. Bearig and his lot are hunted, but even they didn’t dare do what you have. They’re not high-level enough. If we hit more caravans? They sent a Djinni after you.”
“Yes. But there are ways to lose pursuit, aren’t there? Your class is an expert in that. And they’ve hunted you all this time.”
They had to have. Roshal would never forget, and Pisces had thought Emir Yazdil especially would not relent. He’d only been surprised Yazdil hadn’t done anything until now. Merr drummed her fingers on her legs.
“We have them riled up. Every day we stay here—”
“Not long, Merr. Just a day. Two, at most. How many could we hit?”
“My girls don’t fight for nothing, Pisces. You could get me—”
He glanced at them. Over half Merr’s girls were former [Slaves]. Pisces eyed Merr.
“I can pay them.”
“Hah! You have any idea what a crew like mine runs? We need gold, more than even you’ve got without a Merchant’s Guild.”
“Then you can have the [Slavers]’ gold. I don’t want any. C’mon, Merr. You must loot them and know how much each one has.”
She was hesitating. Merr inspected her fingernails, glanced up at him, cursed, and stood up.
“Those freed [Slaves]—what did you do with ‘em?”
Pisces hung his head.
“I pointed them towards safe places and let them scatter or organize. I couldn’t…I didn’t know where to send them. I should have done more.”
Merr walked in a circle, muttering.
“Yeah, most might not have—no, you get inventive, and more make it than you think. But the smart move is to send ‘em to a hideout. Not your fault; you didn’t know. But we’d have to put them on horses, and we don’t have enough! Then you ride them at a [Rebel] group, but too many? Too easy to spot. I’d have to break up the Dustbandits, call in one of the peripheral bands, make contact with [Rebels] around here, or hire help and do small parties. D’you know how hard that is? And they will be pursued by the Slaver’s Guild.”
Pisces sat there, and he was trembling. Trembling with that same energy of the last few days. It hadn’t left him at all. It had just grown worse, if anything. And he saw it in her too, for all she sat and tried to dismiss it all.
“But you’re a [Bandit Lady]. If anyone can do it, it’s you, Merr. Besides…there won’t be as many pursuers, just scrying spells.”
She stopped gnashing on her cooling breakfast and gave him a look like he was genuinely stupid, full of actual irritation for once.
“How do you reckon that? Did you or did you not walk into an ambush that—”
“There won’t be any pursuers if we get them too.”
She stopped. Pisces sat there, and she shivered.
“We cannot fight that many. We don’t have the numbers, Pisces.”
“Not unless I start animating legions.”
Her eyes were flickering, and Pisces threw in one last thing.
“Doesn’t Roshal arm their retribution forces with enchanted items? I saw your Dustbandits looting the ones after me. Imagine it, Merr.”
He stared around at the group of eighty-some Dustbandits.
“You could have every single Dustbandit armed with an enchanted blade and armor. Every single one of Merr’s Bandits.”
The [Bandit Lady] rubbed at her nose, stared down at the map, then folded her arms. She gazed up at the sky, then cursed as she leapt to her feet.
“You think my crew’s just eighty bandits? This is only the core. I could have four hundred with me in a day’s time—we have plenty of enchanted swords!”
“We could arm all four hundred. If we kill enough [Slavers].”
She studied him, and he held her gaze, lips trembling almost like he was laughing. Madness…but then she put him in a headlock and tousled his hair.
“Argh. That’s damn good logic. I can only give you two days, tops! Dustbandits, get ready.”
There was a whoop, and Pisces’ heart leapt. He hadn’t actually thought she’d go for it, but he looked up at her, and there they were again. As if they hadn’t stopped. Chained together by something other than metal.
So, once more, as if he had never left Chandrar…
The Scourge rode with the Storm.
 
——
 
Some people had all the luck. In that however bad their day was, and it could really suck—a terrible boss, annoying co-workers, stepping in poop so bad it slushed into your boots and socks…
You weren’t being kidnapped into slavery or in the middle of a war. That didn’t make it better, of course. Everyone was the [Hero] of their own story, and being told someone else was being stabbed repeatedly didn’t cheer you up unless you really hated their guts.
That was why stories mattered for the people with all the luck. It was an escape. A window out of their world into another one that sucked more—and that was the point. Someone who was hurt worse than you or rising higher. A flying swallow screaming skywards or a falling comet burning its way into the bowels of the earth—
That was what drew the likes of Lord Molen to the television. Oh, he enjoyed the japes and jabs, the silly stuff. Videos of cats doing cat-things, and there were nearly a hundred catalogued cat subspecies, enough for a lifetime of cats. But that alone would sicken him, like a man who only ate ice cream all his life. He craved, at times, something to make him weep or rage. To feel alive, and for the moment, the television of this world was too honest. It delivered just that and needed no manufacturing.
…But why, then, did other men, like Nuvityn, watch television? The King of Myths needed no more grief. He was a man bereaved. A father on a quest of vengeance. A [King]. He, who stood at the height of power any being, mortal or immortal, might ever aspire to…why did he watch the same television as ordinary folk?
Perhaps to understand what they thought. To understand normality, Miihey believed.
Miihey was a half-Elf [Barbarian] of Forem, a tribe in the Kingdom of Myths. He was exceptional in every way. Not only was he over Level 40, but he was a half-Elf with such an uncouth class. He was a member of one of Erribathe’s diverse peoples; Forem were hillfolk, who wrestled bears—and befriended them. A half-Elf so divergent from others that he had set Gaiil-Drome on its head with his very presence.
Miihey was a half-Elf, you see, who lived with Humans as equals. Not ‘among Humans’ as half-Elves were known to condescend to do—with the other members of his tribes. He was just Miihey to them. Yes, he aged slower, but he brawled and talked with them as equals. No respect was given for his age. Forem had learned to treat the children of Elves as the same as all else, the lesson of millennia, and the reward was just creating half-Elves like Miihey. Ones who cared nothing for their age or blood.
It would not make him live long; in fact, Forem half-Elves tended to die pretty young given their penchant for punching a grizzly bear who’d started raiding their food supplies. But it did mean he was grounded. A trusted advisor to even the King of Myths. For who better to speak plainly than the [Barbarian]?
It was more than just lifestyle. Miihey embodied a certain savagery, a wildness and deliberate incivility. He rather resented the fine arts and crafts of ‘better’ folk and the pretentiousness that came along with it. Not that he hated people who were a certain way genuinely. He hated the thought it made you better.
For instance, he had not quibbled much with Calanfer, who played politics as a way to survive and whose folk could be genuine, for all they treated the Eternal Throne like the beacon of all that was good and holy. But Gaiil-Drome was a half-Elven kingdom that thought of themselves as true heirs of their civilization, purveyors of great culture and immortal lifespan.
Miihey’s first action in the Court of Leaves was to fart for four minutes and seventeen seconds. An act so vulgar it knocked out sixteen half-Elves and forced an evacuation of six rooms of the palace.
It had made His Majesty of Erribathe smile, so fulfilled two goals. And who could gainsay that? A barbarian could be cunning.
This was enough about Miihey. He had more depths and ambitions, as any man did, but it seemed to him that this was the King of Myths’ adventure. His story. Whether it would be a tale of vengeance, stained with blood all the way down, or a tale more fitting with Nuvityn, who had never seemed to Miihey to be a [King] fit for such predictable tales—remained to be seen.
Already, the story had diverged from expectations. Miihey had not enjoyed the sea. He had no experience with it and had been seasick for ages—far longer than he’d thought. When everyone had learned of Magus Tserre’s tricks, they had cursed her roundly, but Miihey had laughed about it.
Why not? Oh, many were roused to fury like Andromeda or Voreca, but the unpredictability tickled Miihey’s fancy. He defended himself to the other advisors and the army of ten thousand.
“Should this journey be an easy one? For the death of a son? For the King of Myths to leave home and duty behind? I say—no! From Noelictus to Calanfer, I praise every obstacle before us! If it were so easy to march a week, sail a week, then claim an [Innkeeper]’s head—would that satisfy anyone?”
He stood on a swaying table bolted to the floor and drank down a heady swill of beer; then the ships lurched, and he vomited half it back onto the floor. Even so, Miihey received cheers or his words were not taken as badly as the vomit—the many peoples of Erribathe listened to him. This was important, too; a King of Myths did not rule by authority alone. If he lost one faction, they would simply depart. So too for advisors; haughty Khendroth or mighty Osverthia could project their wills, but Andromeda and Voreca would find themselves leading a quarter of their army if they were not a bit diplomatic.
By these methods, Erribathe endured. So, Miihey was glad to come to land, despite it being the wrong continent. He knew His Majesty was not so happy, but Miihey was a simple man.
 
——
 
“Your Majesty, what of it? Do we land or not? Is it blood or not?”
