As they drew closer to the lake in the center of the valley, Jake felt more and more powerful auras to the level that he was actively on guard at all times. He hadn’t expected the Shaman, Virumancer, and three Warriors he’d initially met to be the peak of power of the Venusian people, but he’d still expected them to be at least in the upper echelons. That was now beginning to seem doubtful.

While there were many C-grades, there were even more B-grades. Very soon, Jake started seeing ones that were closing in on level 400, and not even a minute later, he felt a decently powerful aura that made him instinctively use Identify. It was a frog working on creating some article of clothing using the hide of a monster, just doing their everyday work.

[Venusian Artisan – lvl 411]

While Jake was confident in still taking down the frog, especially as it was a crafter, he felt from the many auras up ahead that this was only the beginning. As they progressed through the winding streets, the lake grew closer, the tents larger and more elaborate, with more colorful decorations.

Ahead, standing on a balcony of sorts, talking to another Venusian down below was one of the thin variants, giving off a particularly powerful aura that once more made Jake use Identify.

[Venusian Mistcaller – lvl 465]

It didn’t get better when Jake also identified the one the Mistcaller was talking to.

[Venusian Artisan – lvl 467]

At this kind of level... yeah, Jake wasn’t going to try to fight any of them even if he could. It would be way too risky.

In truth, Jake was beginning to feel a little nervous as he kept following the Shaman. He was surrounded by creatures, each likely capable of killing him on their own. There were hundreds of Venusians surpassing level 450, and to make matters more perilous, this was a Minor World with no connection to the rest of the multiverse.

He knew there were certain norms and “rules” in the multiverse that all the large factions abided by. That most certainly wasn’t true here. What’s more, his status as the Chosen of the Malefic Viper meant jack-shit in a place like this, which likely didn’t even know about gods.

All Jake could do was stay calm and maybe lean a bit more into representing some greater force. He kind of was, but that didn’t at all mean the Venusians couldn’t turn hostile very quickly if Jake did or said the wrong thing.

The rest of the journey was mostly silent, with only the Shaman occasionally greeting the other far more powerful B-grades. From that, Jake at least got the impression that his escort was of relatively high status. Actually, thinking about it, while Jake had seen a lot of powerful Venusians, he still had only seen one Shaman. Worth noting.

Finally, after what felt like far too long, they reached one of the walkways leading towards the central temple. There, Jake saw a large warrior standing with the first weapon he’d ever seen that seemed to be made out of metal. It was a halberd, and while it looked crude, it gave off a noticeable aura. One that its wielder was certainly more than powerful enough to make use of.

[Venusian Warrior – lvl 488]

“Hey, you back already?” the Warrior asked in a tone that sounded a lot less refined than the Shaman. “And who’s that?”

The Warrior stared at Jake, giving off a subtle pressure that nearly activated Big Game Hunter in preparation for a fight.

“A guest for the Oracle,” the Shaman said in a rather harsh tone. “On invitation.”

Hearing this, the Warrior immediately backed down and nodded solemnly before somehow speaking like the most cultured frog to have ever walked this Minor World. “Pardon me, please proceed inside with utmost haste.”

“We shall,” the Shaman acknowledged, motioning for Jake to follow into the temple.

When they reached the door, Jake noticed something was up with it right away. Rather than a traditional door, it was inscribed with powerful magic, and his increased sensitivity allowed him to pick up remnants of the space affinity. Jake guessed that this doorway was effectively a portal, a guess confirmed a moment later when the door swung open, revealing a giant circular room full of colorful decorations and painted walls. However, Jake didn’t have the capacity to pay attention to any of that.

Instead, he stared at the singular Venusian sitting on a bed in the middle, already looking back at Jake as he was assaulted with a powerful aura that made the hair on the back of his neck stand up.

[Venusian Oracle – lvl ???]

A-grade.
