Zach barked out a laugh that sounded painful. "I don't know. Maybe. But I've never really vibed with water mana." He looked up in Thomas's direction—well, in the general direction of Thomas. He was off by a few degrees. "Bro, thank you. I couldn't stop back there, and you pulled me out of it. But... how are you alive?"

"I figured out how to push my healing mana outward into a new sense." Thomas knew he sounded smug, but why not? He deserved it. "I can feel living things, including mimics. So I cleared them out as I went."

"Shit, that is so cool. And you're not even using your Gift? You just figured that out? Wait!" Zach suddenly stood in one fluid motion. "So you can see which of those mimics is the real boss? I was burning and burning them and coming up empty every time. I knew I was burning myself out, but that's part of the fire, man. It's almost impossible to stop once you start. I kept thinking I would get the real one, but none of them were. I think they were faces of people who were killed in here. Real twisted shit."

"Yeah," Thomas said, cutting across the rambling. "None of them were. The real boss was off in a corner sending its minions after you. I think it knew what it was doing to you, and I think it'll change up tactics once it realizes you're not burning yourself up on cheap copies. Maybe have the people attack or something."

"Shit," Zach said. "That's one smart level one boss; it has to be hella old. We got to kill it to finish this thing." He glanced in Thomas's direction. "So what's the plan, mana man?"

Thomas took a breath and made a decision. "I want to kill it."

Zach snorted. "Yeah, duh."

"I want to kill it," Thomas repeated plainly. "The loot on that thing is going to be significant. I need to be the one who takes it down."

Zach looked in his direction for a moment, and Thomas could practically feel the wheels in his head spinning.

"Right," he said. "Okay. What do you need from me?"

"Can you fight?" Thomas asked.

Zach took a long moment before he answered. "I don't want to use my fire." He sounded a little sheepish. "I still need to purge a lot to get anywhere near to baseline, and... this mana you gave me? It lets me sort of work around the fire."

"It's Adaptation mana," Thomas said.

"Yeah." Zach looked thoughtful. "Yeah, that makes sense. But I don't want to tip back over the edge. Uhh," he felt around himself as if just realizing he was missing his shirt. "My bag with the quarterstaff is gone, too. Man, I just got that thing."

"All right, take this." Thomas held out his katana.

"Take what?"

Right. He couldn't see.

Thomas grabbed his wrist and slapped the sheathed katana into his hand.

Zach's face registered surprise, and Thomas backed away as Zach unsheathed the weapon. Then Zach did a crazy figure-eight thing with the sword as if he were a master.

"This is wicked. Where'd you get it?"

In for a penny, in for a pound. "It was a loot drop, like all the crystals."

"We have got to have a conversation about that later." Zach rolled his shoulders. "Do you have any more whites? I think I can absorb them now. Air mana is all about the agility and movement. With this sword, I could work with that." He grinned. "I can adapt."

"All right." Thomas nodded, a plan forming. It was a stupid plan, but those were sometimes the best. "You can't see the mimics, but I can. Just listen and move when I say move."
