"Oh, don't give me that. Neither of you think I'm lying." Ashvali giggled again, then leaned forward and gave them a stunningly bright smile. "Tell me if you think your mentor would want to hear this..."

She whispered something to them. Both Flia and Damien shot from their seats at the words, eyes wide.

"You better not be lying," Flia said, her voice trembling.

"We won't forgive you if you are," Damien added, balling his fists.

"Such spirited children," Ashvali said, laughing. "Shouldn't you be happy? It's good news!

"After all, who wouldn't like knowing they're not the last of their kind?"

Cale was hesitating, and everyone knew it.

Already he really wanted to get back to the magic stuff. Maybe there would be an opportunity after this? The dungeon must have brought them here for a reason, after all. There would be some objective for them to fulfil other than just having a meeting.

Right on cue, the door opened, and a small, goblin-like creature with a clock for a head popped in. "Hello!" it said. "I am the butler! Master Merlin says I am to guide you to your rooms when you are finished! He also says I should tell you that he forgot that you were probably sent here for a reason, and that he knows what that reason is."

There was a long silence as they all stared at the... clock goblin? What was that thing?

"...And that reason is?" Cale prompted.

"Ah!" The goblin startled, like it had forgotten they were there. "Yes! Dragon."

"Dragon?"

"There will be dragon tomorrow." The goblin paused. "Dragon rain. Must prepare!"

Cale decided he would figure out what was going on with that thing later. "Can you just... wait outside, please?" he said. "I need to talk to my friends about something important."

"Yes! Clock will wait outside." The goblin nodded eagerly, then popped out again, slamming the door shut.

Professor Graystalk was the first to speak. "I suppose a bit of levity is appreciated," he said mildly. "Cale? If you are quite alright, I would like to know if I can help. I think all of us would like to know that."

The others all nodded in agreement—even Thorn, who didn't know him yet. Not really. Cale felt a small glow of warmth inside him, and it took him a second to place it, it was so unfamiliar to him.

Hope.

...Damn it.
