“The need to recover a student is important so I won't give up trying to think of a way to help. As a fellow educator, I value your commitment to your students,” Mr Jones said and Delta giggled and waved him off. What a swell guy.

“A kid, eh...” Ruli muttered and she seemed to be putting whatever was bugging her to the side to give it a serious thought.

“So, you’d be eternally grateful if someone was to rescue this little doe of a girl?” Ruli asked and Delta nodded.

“Indebted,” Delta said seriously.

“Betty... I will suffer to see her safely returned. To know that she's in the Abyss and can’t get out is something that is hurting me and I won’t rest until she’s out,” Delta said firmly.

Mr Jones smiled slowly.

“Okay, first, don’t say you’ll do anything in front of a demon again. It sends the morally wrong message,” Ruli said quickly.

Delta winced but Mr Jones just winked at her and Delta had to stifle another grin.

“Second, you could have just asked me. I have a legit door to hell cooked into me,” Ruli said with a sigh. Delta stared at her.

“You... do? I thought Mr Jones here said it was really hard to open a door?” Delta asked confused and the other demon was giving Ruli a bewildered look borderline close on horror.

“Not hard, just annoying,” Ruli admitted and rolled her neck.

“Ruli, a proper door requires procedure and proper respect given to both the demon king and the Brother for a bridge to be-” Mr Jones began and Ruli ignored him.

“YOU OLD GOAT, I NEED TO SPEAK TO YOU NOW!” Ruli boomed with a voice that was deeper and as coarse as hot coals rubbing together. Her voice ripped into the space before her, pushing Delta’s mana aside with ease.

In the gap where the mana parted, a flash of red fire mingled with shadows before a door formed out of red gold and dark jewels. There was a painting of a near-naked woman wearing a wolf pelt and little else holding a knife to a shadowy figure’s throat and looking both attractive and dangerous at the same time.

“Urgh... I told him to change that,” Ruli moaned.

The doors parted to reveal a monstrous being of colossus sizes and pressing power that made Delta want to break into mad gibberish speeches of random factoids.

“Dad!” Ruli hissed and the monstrous being shifted until a well dressed man in a suit and tie stood before Ruli with impressively dark hair and brown eyes so dark they tinged on black. Other than a strange feeling of inhumanness, Delta only felt a slight-

Delta’s cheeks tinged hot pink and she mentally began to recite the name of trees.

This was Ruli’s father? Who was a super demon?!

“Oh King of the Abyss, I bow,” Mr Jones said and Delta nearly screamed in panic. No one told her she had royalty coming! WHAT WAS THE PROTOCOL!?

“FERA! TEA AND CRUMPETS!” she hissed through the walls.

“Hello, love. You are looking more bloodsoaked and beautiful every decade I see you,” the man said and looked around the lake room with a slight curious smile. Waddles had lowered his duck head in the direction of the man as well.

The man turned, seeing a dozen children splashing in the lake

“Oh, look! Offspring by the dozen. I didn’t know they reproduced like frogs these days,” the man said with a clap of his hands.

“Dad, I need help,” Ruli said, but her voice was thick like she was swallowing a lemon. The man blinked then looked on the verge of tears. It was tragically beautiful and Delta wanted to paint a picture of the demon every time his face changed.

“Say the word, my little dagger. Their kingdoms shall be ash, their children orphans, their dogs free, and their stock markets crashed,” he said with a sweet tone and took Ruli’s hands who looked entirely done with the man already.

“Dad, what have you got against soup stock?” Ruli muttered and the man huffed.

“It’s the sign of an inferior chef! A true chef needs only the bones of thine enemies,” the king of hell said.

Wait... if he was the king... and Ruli was his kid...

Delta’s mind was exploding.

“Dad, this is my very special friend, Delta,” Ruli said and the handsome man turned to her and blinked.

“Oh, I will never forget a form like yours. It must have been nearly ten or twelve years ago. You look much more delectable in mana form,” the king smiled and went to kiss Delta’s hand, his own power making her avatar solid and firm.

“We’ve met?” Delta managed to ask around the urge to make cavewoman noises.

“You were unconscious, so sadly we couldn’t meet as fate would have intended. You were a soul orb, it wouldn’t have been right,” the demon king said with a sigh.

“Dad, let go of her hand,” Ruli said stiffly and the man laughed and obeyed. Delta felt as thought she had been denied some inner treasure as his warmth faded.

That was so... not like her! What the heck! She hid behind Ruli who seemed to grow more pleased as her father raised a brow.

“Is he an incubus?” Delta whispered.

“He’s the Demonic Avatar of Lust. Battle, ‘love’, treasures, and dreams. Pops can make people crave things so badly they’d bend the knee to him. He’s also the strongest demon in one versus one,” Ruli explained.

“What do you desire?” the demon king asked sweetly and Delta used Ruli as an anti-seduction shield in a panic.

“A child,” Ruli said and the demon king stood up.

“Not possible. I can never truly allow myself to ever give myself to another as I did your mother. And I gave myself to her a lot,” he said and he visibly sighed like a love-sick teenager. Ruli closed her eyes and seemed to be regretting this meeting by the second but she powered on.

“Ew, and we want one that’s already in the Abyss. A kid that’s near the Duck of Wrath place,” Ruli said quickly.

“Only if you agree to pass a message on to your mother for me,” the king said and Ruli hesitated then nodded.

“Her eyes are like exploding stars, her smile like the fangs of a marrow sucking worm, her shapely body like a-” he began to recite and Delta was enraptured by the sheer passion.

“Write it down, you weirdo!” Ruli ordered and the man actually meekly turned to pull out a quill and parchment. The man actually slipped into a blood soaked envelope and put a kiss on it as if to seal it.

“That much magic could turn a normal human to an upper-class demon,” Mr Jones muttered as the letter glowed.

“But it's like a passionate letter from long distant lovers of two nations. We have to respect it,” Delta said quickly and thought of the many books of a ‘demon king’ coming to seduce a normal single woman with three cats.

It was coming true!

“Give me a week to get her. I’ll need to get a loaf of bread for the Duke and his ducklings. It has to be the good stuff and for that I’ll need to trade with the Governor of Greed,” he sighed.

“But Betty might not last a week!” Delta said in panic and he brushed a thumb across her chin and smiled. Delta was upset because of... Bettlejuice or something?

No, wait, Betty!

“Back, you devious man of unholy unclean thoughts!” she warned and the man bowed as if it were a compliment.

“I’m telling mum you’re flirting with my friend who is like a teeanger to you. I bet that’ll impress her,” Ruli said and the king looked pained.

“I must go! I left the souls of the evil on a slow burn!” he said quickly, kissing Ruli on the head and vanishing through the door where it vanished with no hint it had ever been there.

Delta just felt worried about Betty. That girl was all alone.

---

“Feed me points! Evolve me! Fight me! Give me a hug!” Beta screamed as she hugged a flailing tentacle monster and crushed it, absorbing its essence into her as a near endless horde of mindless beasts charged her.

This was amazing!

In the midst of a hundred monsters, she spotted a rotted tree monster and her world went red.

“TREE!”
