Race: DemonActive Buffs: Demonic PowerClass: Hellfire Imp – level 55- Fireball – level 47- Hellfire – level 45- Flame Form – level 43- Accelerated Casting – level 35- Amplified Casting – level 35- Heat Vision – level 32- Demonic Power – level 35- Flame Shield – level 35- Fire Mastery – level 31- Ritual Summoning – level 22Aptitudes- Mana (Affinity): Hellfire- Languages: Demonic- Immunities (Racial): Fire- Vulnerabilities (Racial): +50% extra damage from Holy, Ice, or Cold- Imp's Cunning (Racial): +55 to IntelligenceAttributes- Vitality: 65- Strength: 16- Endurance: 39- Dexterity: 227 (+113)- Perception: 72- Intelligence: 495 (+247)- Wisdom: 241 (+120)Armor: 385Physical Damage Reduction: 20%Evasion: 462Dodge: 23.07%Resistance: 792Magical Damage Reduction: 33.96%Health: 650/650Stamina: 390/390Mana: 1928/2410 (482 Reserved)

Ali could see her companions staring at her new minion with curiosity, but they all waited politely for her to study it before interrupting her. She knew Calen would be itching to get the specifics written down in his notebook so that he could help optimize their strategies even further.

She browsed through the skills. Fireball – no surprise there. The second skill, Hellfire, seemed to be a versatile combat support skill, adding more hellfire to everything the imp did. Hmm, two meta-magic skills, she thought, reading through the descriptions for Amplified Casting and Accelerated Casting. The skills both functioned similarly, there was a small passive boost to cast speed and magical power, but the crucial part functioned as a support skill accelerating or empowering whatever spell the monster attached them to. It explained how it made the fireballs instantaneous or more than double damage occasionally. The two skills had a significant recharge time which further explained why they hadn’t been doing it all the time. Something to study. Extensively. She had the feeling that metamagic would be very useful in the long run.

She opened the details for the Flame Form skill.

Flame Form – level 43Mana: Turn into a form of pure flame. While in this form you are immune to physical damage and cannot cast any spells or activate skills. Teleport to any visible flame. While you are surrounded by flame, your mana regeneration is increased by +538% [skill + intelligence]. Duration: At will.Fire, Movement, Shapeshift, Intelligence

Oh, now this is amazing! It was a remarkable movement skill for a fire caster, and Ali finally understood how the imps were traveling within their own fireballs. It was quite an unusual mode of transport, but it granted significant mana regeneration and defensive protection. If it weren’t for the extreme speed of lightning, it was unlikely that they would have ever been hit in transit. Their Flame Shield ability meant they would do continuous damage to whatever was standing in the vicinity of their destination upon arrival. Unlike most Fire Mages she had encountered, these imps seemed robust enough to survive being up front in combat, and their Flame Form was a powerful escape tool if they needed it. I can’t believe it has no recharge timer. The little demons could hang out in fire all day, regenerating at an incredible rate while remaining immune to all physical damage.

Its other abilities were mostly defensive enhancements for resistances and attribute boosts. It had a similar reservation skill to Malika and Calen, improving intelligence, wisdom, and dexterity, making the imp quite a powerful and reactive caster. I wonder if that explains its ability to latch onto a just-cast fireball, she thought. It was quite a feat of reaction and timing.

The last skill on the imp’s list, however, brought her up cold, causing a chill of fear to run down her spine.

Ritual Summoning – level 22Mana: Summon an unbound Hellfire Imp from a nearby abyssal plane. Requires a planar rift to an abyssal realm, or similar connection within 22 [skill] km of the summoning. Cast Time: 15 minutes, Recharge: 5 hours. Duration: 24 hours.Fire, Ritual, Minion, Intelligence

This is dangerous, Ali thought. As she rapidly read through the ability, her mind conjured an image of Myrin’s Keep overrun by the cackling, pyromaniac demons as they summoned more and more of their kind. And they can use Accelerated Casting on this to make it instant. She had, in fact, actually witnessed one of the Imps do exactly that during the fight.

But why isn’t this dungeon full of them then? It didn’t make any sense. She read the ability one more time. Perhaps that 24-hour duration means the summons are temporary? Still, they could likely summon a literal army of the imps if they needed to.

Still worried, Ali scanned through the remainder of the abilities. The imp had weak armor, but strong resistances, making it most vulnerable to physical damage. But given its powerful movement skill, her Hobgoblins had had a difficult time pinning them down. Calen would like to know this though, she thought. Physical damage with conventionally crafted arrows might kill them even faster than his conjured ones.

Her eyes paused, scanning through the imp’s attributes, and then widened in surprise. Her heartbeat quickened. It had a staggering 495 intelligence, which surpassed her own by more than two hundred points! Granted it was boosted by its Demonic Power skill, but still. She did some quick arithmetic in her head. It must have a base of almost 240 intelligence. Obviously, it was heavily enhanced by its Imp’s Cunning aptitude – a massive racial boost to the attribute.

What are you doing, Ali? she thought, as she realized she was being stupid.

“Hey you, turn off your Demonic Power for a second,” she instructed, taking care to form the images and visuals of her intent due to the lack of a shared language. It cocked its little head at her and then the mana around it shifted. I was close. Its actual unbuffed intelligence number was 248.

Mine is 204 before my Empowered Summoner buff, she thought. Curious, she switched her minion target from her trusty Kobold Bone Mage to the Hellfire Imp, and her intelligence attribute leapt from 294 to a whopping 479.

“Holy shit!” she exclaimed and then clapped a hand across her mouth as her friends stared at her in shock. It reserved a prohibitive 355 extra mana just to keep the imp around, but the gigantic boost to her intelligence percolated through every skill she had, and nearly every single ability. It was more than a sixty-percent improvement. Arcane Insight was the only skill she possessed that did not explicitly list the intelligence trait. But the feeling of all her magic swelling with new power was what brought her up short. Ali dismissed the status sheet and looked at her companions.

“You seem excited,” Malika observed flippantly.

“This is a scary creature,” Ali answered. “We are fortunate they seem to be chaotic and disorganized, otherwise we would probably be knee-deep in hundreds of them. But I have a new walking buff – it is increasing my intelligence attribute by more than a hundred and eighty points.”

Mato gave a low whistle of surprise, an expression echoed on the faces of both Malika and Calen.

Ali shared the status sheet with all of them and a few moments later, Calen’s face blanched, paler even than his normal pale skin.

“I see what you mean,” he said. “Accelerated Casting with that Ritual of Summoning – if they chained those, they could have an instant army of imps, as many as were in range of their summoning.”

“I know,” Ali said. “I won’t be doing that; unbound demons are just as likely to just attack us as the enemy.”

“Didn’t we see an imp use that earlier?” Calen asked.

Ali nodded; she had definitely observed it in the first fight.

“You know, that means there must be a planar rift somewhere nearby,” Calen observed, his expression growing grave. “We should probably tell the Guildmaster, and maybe Commander Brand too. Open access to an abyssal realm could be very dangerous.”

He was right, if the rift were nearby, there was a good chance that Myrin’s Keep would be in danger from stray demons. Just one of these imps loose in the town was more than most of the residents would be able to handle.

“This dungeon has been here for a while, presumably,” Malika noted reasonably. “And we haven’t seen loose demons running around in all the years I’ve been here. I say we keep exploring, and if we find any portals or rifts, we will be able to understand any danger better.”

“Ok,” Ali said, getting to her feet. “At least I have my walking intelligence buff now.”

“You know you’re going be Mieriel’s least favorite person, right?” Malika said, eyeing the imp.

“What… why… oh!” Ali said, as she suddenly realized that walking into the guild hall with a hellfire demon would probably set all the couches on fire.

“Look on the bright side,” Mato said. “Zombies leaking on the carpet won’t be her biggest worry anymore. Come on, snack time!”

***

Several long hours later, Ali gazed ahead at a plain stone door set into an arched opening, clearly crafted through the rocky wall with advanced stone-working skills. There was nothing particularly remarkable about it, no runes of fire to put out, nor warnings, nor even carvings. It didn’t even seem to be locked, with no keyhole or similar binding devices in evidence anywhere. However, it was an artificial doorway deep into a fire dungeon that had spawned in the ruins of an ancient mine. Ali regarded it with suspicion – deeply justified suspicion.

It was significant, only in that it was the end of the long winding passage of caverns and tunnels. They had fought their way through numerous packs of Flamecallers and their minions, with many variations. Some having multiple hunters, and some adding spear users to the mix. The hardest one had been a group of two warlocks and nine imps. She had lost all her minions during that fight; save the two healers she had been able to protect, her fire-immune imp, and the Hobgoblins with their higher levels and decent health pool.

“Let’s see what’s inside,” Mato suggested, ever eager for action.

“I’m game,” Calen said, eagerly. “After all, this looks like it might be the end of this wing.”

“Should we be worried about a boss?” Ali asked. “The domain mana seems to be behaving a little strangely around here.”

“I wouldn’t be surprised if there was,” Malika agreed. “We should be careful, regardless.”

Mato stepped forward and tugged on the door. Surprisingly, it swung open easily, revealing a great cavernous chamber beyond, lit by a surreal shifting light. A rough-hewn set of stairs had been crudely carved into the wall, descending toward the expansive floor below.

As Ali entered the vaulted cavern, she saw it on the far side. How could she miss it? How could anyone? A jagged horizontal tear hovered in the air near the rocky wall, wide enough for all of them to walk through side-by-side and tall enough for even Mato to pass through with only a little stooping required. The edges of the tear were indistinct, shifting softly in continuous motion and throwing glittering multicolored light into the cavern in patterns reminiscent of aurorae. The ambient mana swirled chaotically, twisted and warped by the strange phenomenon.

She stared at it, gazing through what was clearly a rift in space to somewhere else. As she watched, something within shimmered and shifted, like watching an indistinct form moving through some turbulent lake or river. Then a small cackling creature appeared as it passed through from the other side, its horned demonic form wreathed in familiar hellfire. A whispering swoosh was all the warning she had before a rapid succession of dark arrows slammed into the imp, pinning it to the ground and killing it instantly. Ali’s eyes snapped to the far end of the room where an enormous Flamecaller loomed, dark flames fading from the still-buzzing recurve bow in its hand. A giant of its kind, its scales were of a deep red so dark the enormous monster almost vanished against the rocky backdrop. Were it not for the sudden attack and the sound of the bowstring, Ali might never have noticed it until it was too late.

“Raid boss,” Calen whispered urgently, slinking backward as if wishing to merge with the wall.

The rift shifted and swirled again, and this time a Hellfire Warg slunk through, to meet with a similar fate as the late imp – only this time with significantly more arrows required.

“Welcome to my hunt, I hope you will be worthy prey.”

The sibilant hissing voice, speaking recognizable Dal’mohran, echoed through the chamber as the monster’s forked tongue flickered in the shifting darkness.

Shit, it heard us.

Suddenly, Ali’s chime sounded.

You have been cursed with Mark of Prey+25% to all damage taken.Mark of Prey taunts every hostile entity within 100 meters to attack you.Curse – Duration: 1 minute.

Ali stared at the curse in horror. Another imp crawled through the rift, but this time, there were no arrows to greet it. As soon as it emerged from the rift, its glowing eyes locked onto her and it unleashed an accelerated and amplified fireball. A glittering golden sphere snapped into place around her body as her reflexes took over. It was just in time to block the deafening hellfire explosion and the body of the flying imp that appeared right in front of her face as it slammed spread-eagled into her barrier.

Ali flinched backward.

At the far end of the room, the Flamecaller’s bow exploded into black flame and let out a nail-scratching howl as it launched an arrow directly at her chest.

“You may run, little one. I will find you.”

Whistling through the air, the arrow slammed into her golden barrier with a power she had not believed possible. Cracks radiated through the sphere with small fragments falling like glittering dust to the ground. Urgently, she summoned a new barrier as another Hellfire Warg entered the chamber and let out a chilling howl.

“What is it?” Calen asked urgently as he drew his bow.

“Curse. Taunts everything!” Ali shouted, and then she shared the details in case any of them had the time to read it.

“Shit! Everyone, kill the Flamecaller. Ali, just focus on your barriers.”

Mato’s reaction was an immediate roar and a charge that launched him across a dozen meters of uneven ground in a flash, slamming himself into the immense serpentine boss with a great crash.

