An arrow flew in a strangely indiscernible direction, clearly obscured by illusion magic. Familiar illusion magic. The oversized serpent creature vanished, and five animated images of its form materialized, spread out across the chamber. Calen’s arrows filled the air, and Ali had the presence of mind to make her minions engage before she reinforced her barrier against the hellfire breath of a warg. Yet another imp arrived through the rift and immediately teleported to the hellfire breath surrounding her barrier and began summoning fire.

“Ali, fly!” Malika yelled as she punched a Hellfire Warg in the side of its left head.

Ali levitated herself in her spherical barrier, quickly removing herself from the range of the warg, but it was debatable if she was better off in the air. The two imps had clear shots at her and launched a pair of fireballs. No, three! Monsters were steadily entering the chamber and the more there were, the more precarious her position became. At least her hugely upgraded intelligence allowed her to track everything visible in the chamber effortlessly.

She heard the howling roar before she even knew what hit her. A bolt of hellfire crossed the entire chamber in an instant, punching through her barrier like a sword through gossamer silk, tearing through her body, and ripping her left arm clean out of its socket.

“Ali! No!” Malika’s shout was the last thing she heard before everything went suddenly black.

Ali came to as her body slammed into a rock about halfway up the wall. Her instinct to summon her barrier around her was the only thing that had saved her from the two Hellfire Wargs attempting to eat her. Everything around her swirled in disorientation as her wound pumped her blood all over the inside of her bubble of magic.

Must… fly… She willed her barrier to lift her above the wargs, and slowly it did, bringing with it a chunk of rock cleanly cut by the intersection of her bubble-barrier and the wall. She had no idea what her minions or her friends were doing. She had barely enough focus to lift her broken body off the floor and out of reach of the demonic wolves. A pulse of soothing holy magic coursed through her body, and then another. The world stopped spinning, and she looked around. She was still missing her arm, but the grievous wound was no longer spurting blood everywhere. The Hellfire Wargs were trying to scale the wall to reach her, their heavy claws scratching grooves in the granite. Up where she flew, she only had to contend with the fireballs and the boss’s arrows which were smashing into her barrier at a pace that boggled the mind. Fortunately, none of them were nearly as powerful as the Power Shot and Ambush combination that had taken her arm and very nearly killed her. She focused her will, channeling more and more mana into rebuilding and reinforcing her barrier magic.

As her mind cleared, she realized that the Flamecaller was not just attacking her. It fired six arrows at a time into the cavern, striking her minions, her friends, and the demons indiscriminately. But the demons had an advantage, the hellfire from its weapon did not damage them. In the case of the wargs, it was actively healing them. But not every shot was fire, and a rapid stream of dark arrows suddenly crossed the room, impaling her intelligence-boosting imp. Instantly, her mind sagged, suddenly struggling to keep track of every spell going off.

Ali stopped counting after the eighth or ninth demon entered the cavern, focusing her entire being on defending against the onslaught.

“You will be my prey.”

The voice echoed through the chamber, cutting through the noise of howls, cackling, and the detonations of hellfire. Every single demon in the room turned and looked at Malika.

“I’m it,” Malika said, her voice unreasonably calm in Ali’s opinion.

Crap… Ali felt a sharp pang of guilt at the relief that welled up in her when she realized the curse had swapped to Malika, followed by a sudden surge of worry for her friend.

Ali’s eyes met Malika’s and then she heard, “No barrier, Ali. Let me run.” Malika’s form blurred as she threw her body into motion, running straight up the rock wall of the cavern with blasts of fire detonating in her footprints.

As soon as Ali had said ‘taunt,’ Malika understood the fight. Almost everyone would be left alone, except for incidental area damage, while all the power of their foes would focus on killing a single person. And now she was that person, the mark in the Flamecaller’s deadly game.

She ran, sprinting up and around the cavern wall, using her Divine Step to put her out of reach of the wargs. Hellfire fireballs detonated on the rock all around her while powerful arrows of fire from the Flamecaller’s bow zipped by her ears. The fireballs were not nearly as much of a problem for her as were the arrows. The arrows were simply a lot faster and harder to dodge, all of them were conjured out of hellfire and she had to heal every time she failed to dodge one – and each hit was like a gut-punch, throwing her off her rhythm.

At least I can do it on the run.

But she stood by her decision to run instead of hiding in Ali’s bubble. For one thing, her skills were great for this. With room, she could dodge fireballs and even arrows, and she was fast and could stay out of range of half the demons. But also, Ali looked shocked and hurt, and Malika knew she needed time to recover.

If only the Flamecallers weren’t immune to fire, she thought as she discarded the idea of drawing the imps’ fireballs to target the boss. She simply dodged and ran, healing whenever she needed.

A vast surge of stamina erupted from a vaguely indeterminate location near the center of the chamber. She could see it with her Soul Sight, but for some reason, the exact location was obscured to her. I missed a teleport, she realized. The stamina pattern matched the other Flamecaller hunters’ Power Shot, and she prepared herself and concentrated to figure out the exact location.

There!

At the last second, she saw the shot and she tucked her body into a ball, falling into the ravening mass of wargs below. The howling bolt of hellfire whipped past her, missing by an inch and slamming into one of the wargs, smashing it bodily against the naked stone. Unfortunately, it too was immune to fire, so it simply shook its heads and got up, looking dazed from the impact. Malika leapt from the ground and hopped off the back of a warg and into the air once more. But this time, Ali’s barriers flickered in the darkness deflecting fireballs and arrows.

Catch me, if you can!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
