“Ten percent!” Aiden shouted.

“Stupid Goblin!” Havok yelled, smashing the Storm Shaman in the face with his glowing Holy Shield.

From the pristine lake of mana-purified water, yet another circular blast of water bolts shot out in every direction. Shields were raised, and defensive spells cast as the raid group reacted to the monster lurking down in the depths.

“Seven!” Aiden yelled again.

“Kill it!” Kaitlyn shrieked, her body sparking from channeling excess lightning mana as she unleashed a massive bolt at the boss.

The powerful Goblin, the last of its three twins, raised a sparking mace and a huge bolt of lightning ripped through the mossy ground, knocking several of the adventurers sprawling amid the massive crack of thunder.

“Two percent!”

Basil crouched behind his tree. As the only non-combat member of the team, his job was to hide and not get killed. All his work had been during the preparation phase, making healing and mana potions for the team – for this boss specifically – not a lot was needed on the spur of the moment.

Devan did something spectacularly noisy with her Wind Blades and buried her daggers deep into the Goblin’s back with a whip-crack of sound that might have been louder than the Lightning Bolt, and the monster keeled over to its left and collapsed. Its shield and mace clattered beside it, sparking as its potent defensive enchantments grounded into the dirt.

“Yay!”

“We did it!”

The battlefield on the lake shore erupted with hooting and hollering, but it was short-lived. The lightning pulsed once from the final shaman’s corpse and then rapidly discharged along the ground into the lake. From deep within the pristine waters, something began to glow. The waters swirled and began to bubble.

“Oh, shit!”

“That’s not good.”

Basil backed up, even though he was the furthest from the fight. High above the lake, a sudden flicker caught his eye, and a black shape appeared under a disk of golden magic. Immediately, he Identified it.

Warrior – Skeleton – level 4.

The incongruous undead skeleton plummeted upside down toward the water, with Basil unable to tear his incredulous gaze away.

Suddenly, the surface of the lake erupted as three epicenters of water bolts blasted out at the adventurers. And then the lake began to glow as rings of lightning pulsed from deep underwater, making the surface bubble and boil. Of the unfortunate skeleton, only smoking fragments of shattered bone rained down into the lake.

Brine Ooze – Ooze – level 19 (Water / Lightning) x3

As the cloned oozes slithered up out of the water, all hell broke loose, and the raid collapsed. Lightning cascaded in all directions, like the monsters were the living incarnations of the former Storm Shaman totems, all the while blasting everything with continuous waves of water bolts that shot in all directions.

Basil ducked as one hit the trunk of his tree.

“Run!” Teagan shouted.

Basil ran. Screams and shouts faded as the pops of escape skills and potions went off.

***

“What the fuck was that?” Aiden said, still panting, as he threw himself to the ground. The monstrous water-slinging, lightning-enchanted oozes had retreated into the lake, and the sorry, battered remains of the raid group slowed to a halt in a small grove of trees.

“The Brine Ooze picked up the Clone ability as soon as the Goblin died,” Teagan said.

“It was more than that,” Devan added. “It added the lightning affinity, too.”

“How the heck are we supposed to fight that?” Aiden said, throwing up his hands. “I still had that blasted vulnerability curse.”

“I don’t know,” Teagan said. “It was so hard to heal as soon as they reached the group.”

“At least everyone got out safely,” Basil put in.

“Yeah, but now we have to wait for the recallers to come back from town,” Aiden grumbled. “We need a full group to try again.”

“We’ll just get wiped out when we get to the second phase again,” Kaitlyn said. “That’s far too much lightning damage for us to handle right now.”

The group fell silent, each nursing their bruised egos or sitting with their thoughts.

Basil, however – his mind was abuzz with ideas. I wonder if Morwynne’s training would work on this? He had been studying the making of the fire resistance elixirs she supplied to Aliandra’s group, but there seemed to be no reason it wouldn’t work on other affinities. All he needed was a source of lightning affinity…

“Hey,” Basil said. “I have an idea, but I’m not sure it will work. But, in order to try it, I need some ingredients from over there. Do we have enough people to kill a few wolves while I go collect herbs?”

“Uh, I think?” Aiden said, seeming a little surprised as he surveyed the people left. “We don’t have a tank.”

“I can heal,” Teagan said. “And you have enough armor to handle a wolf or two, let’s go check it out.”

“Ok,” Basil said, springing to his feet. “Over this way.”

He led them around a few trees, back behind a ridge, and waited while they cleared out a low-level pack of wolves before he reached the flower garden. If I remember correctly, it should be… “Aah, here it is,” he said, kneeling in the dirt and reaching for a pretty white flower.

Arc Lily – Wildflower – level 8 (Lightning).

“You brought us all the way here to go flower picking?” Kaitlyn said, but when Basil glanced up at her, he found her grinning at him. “That’s so sweet.”

“Uh,” he said, feeling a bit of a flush creeping into his cheeks. “It’s a lightning-affinity flower, you see?”

It’s like I’m cursed with little-brother syndrome, he sighed inwardly. All the girls do that… so I happen to like flowers. What’s wrong with that? These are even her affinity. Mind, if he offered her a posy, he’d probably get his butt lightning-blasted. Basil sighed again. To work.

Retrieving a set of protective gloves and his tools, he quickly harvested several and then began to prepare them for essence extraction. “Three should be enough,” he muttered, crushing them together with some reagents from his ring and wringing the juice out into a vial. Then he pulsed his mana into Combat Potions and began to distill the essence while he added the proper reagents according to the recipe he had memorized. “It just needs a little change here… and here. Hmm… yes. Here we go!”

Suddenly, the concoction crystallized into a sparkling white liquid, and he knew he had succeeded. To his further delight, a familiar, vibrant green vine grew in his mind, the notification lettering neatly following its coils and curves as he read:

Adventurous Collector has reached level 18Combat Potions has reached level 17 (+2)Lesser Elixir of Lightning Protection – level 20Consume: +135 to resistance against lightning damage. Duration: 1 hourUnstable (This potion will lose potency in 3 hours)Created by Basil WatercressPotion

“Do you think this will help?” Basil asked, holding up his trophy for them to see. The contents of the vial glittered, casting bright white patterns of light that rippled across the ground.

It was far from as potent as the creations Morwynne or Eliyen could make, and his Combat Potions creations were always unstable. It was both a blessing and a curse – his creations never lasted more than three hours, which meant it was very hard for him to make money like a traditional herbalist or alchemist. But Combat Potions was far more lenient when it came to ingredients, proportions, and taking the proper time to brew – and it was hardly a problem when they intended to use them immediately.

“Ooh!” Teagan exclaimed.

“Impressive!” Aiden agreed, his soot-streaked face losing its downcast mien in an instant.

“How many of those can you make, flower boy?” Kaitlyn asked, her green eyes widening as she stared at the potion as if it were an elixir of eternal life.

“There’s a lot of Arc Lilies around here…” he murmured.

“Let me help you!” she offered enthusiastically.

“I don’t need those anymore, if you want to skin them,” Ali told Calen, pointing to the two remaining Hellfire Warg corpses. “Or the Flamecallers.”

Calen nodded, retrieving his skinning knife and setting about his gruesome task.

While Malika gathered up the various essences, and the items used by the Flamecallers, Ali tracked down the four imp corpses and deconstructed those also. Again, one of the imps dropped a lesser hellfire essence, so she called Malika over to collect it, rather than burn herself by touching it. She had just about enough of hellfire by now, but she was hopeful the uncommon drop would prove useful for opening the next rune lock and grant them access to the final wing of the mines and maybe – finally – they would eventually find the anvil and forge of Thovir Emberforge.

Imprint: Hellfire Imp completed.

There it is. Ali looked at the notification thoughtfully. She had not gotten much in the way of useful imprints in here, so she wasn’t holding out too much hope for this one either. She opened her Grimoire, but she already knew she had no free chapters left, the last one taken up by the Flamecaller Elementals. It was also her least useful imprint, but she was loath to simply discard the powerful curses possessed by the Flamecaller warlock – a variant she had just recently recorded in her Grimoire.

It’s not like I’m ever likely to be able to create them, she thought, staring wistfully at the imprint. Not unless something fundamental about her class or mana changed; they required fire-affinity mana to give them life. A memory drifted to the surface of her mind; Why not worry about the things you can do, instead of what you can’t? Her father had liked that pithy quote, and she had always thought it to be a little annoying when he would repeat it after she had struggled and failed at something that felt impossible or out of reach.

Now, however, she remembered his voice with melancholy and nostalgia. She missed him terribly, but she knew he would have been happy to know that his advice was helping her, even a little bit.

Quickly, Ali selected the chapter to replace the Flamecaller Elemental imprint with the new one for the Hellfire Imp, but then she paused as a half-formed thought bubbled up into her mind from somewhere obscure. “Can we stop here for a bit?” she asked. “I need a few minutes to test something.”

“Sure, no problem,” Calen said.

“I’ll get some snacks ready,” Mato added.

“Snacks?” Malika asked, incredulously. “We’re in a dungeon, it’s hardly a good place for a picnic.”

“Come on, picnics are always a good idea,” Mato said, offering fruit and prepared bags of nuts to everyone. “You’ll fight better on a full stomach, Malika.”

“Knowing your cooking, I’d… waddle!” However, she smiled, “I guess we’re burning through a lot of resources in these long, long fights. Bring it on. Something hotter and spicier than hellfire, please!”

Calen groaned, “Did you have to?”

Ali nibbled on a slice of pear as she paged through her Grimoire, tuning out their banter. Now, where was that… Oh, yes, the Bamboo Crawler.

She opened the Grass imprint to find the entry for the strange blowgun creature she had learned up in the jungle above the mines. It had possessed the strangest property, something she had barely registered at the time. A single variant with pages of runes shared across two imprints. She switched to the elemental imprint, studying her Grimoire closely as it reshuffled the pages to ensure her Bamboo Crawler was offered here too.

It's not a whole lot different than when I reordered the chapters, she thought. It had been this observation that had percolated up into her conscious awareness when she had looked at the Flamecaller imprint. After all, she had never been able to figure out why the Flamecaller variants – which were also elementals – had required their own chapter.

Idly, she reordered the chapters in her Grimoire, comparing the process with the strangely migratory pages of the Bamboo Crawler variant. It’s almost the same… if I just… Hardly thinking about the details, she pushed some of the pages around. There was a little resistance as if her Grimoire was hesitating, but then Sage of Learning chomped down on her mana pool, and with a little flare, the Grimoire responded with a surge of light.

Variant: Flamecaller Hunter added to Imprint: Elemental.

Wait, just like that? She stared at it in surprise, but then she swapped back and forth between the Flamecaller and Elemental imprints and, sure enough, her Hunter variant flipped back and forth between the two, just like the Bamboo Crawler.

Excited now, she sat up taller and flipped back, and with just a few thoughts, she received two new notifications.

Variant: Flamecaller Spear added to Imprint: Elemental.Variant: Flamecaller Warlock added to Imprint: Elemental.

Wait, what else can I do? Eagerly, she paged through her Grimoire, trying all sorts of combinations, but the resistance to her manipulation seemed far greater. It would seem she either needed to get something with a greater degree of compatibility or level her skill far higher. Still, she had just freed up an imprint, without losing anything that might one day prove valuable. Smiling, she removed the Flamecaller imprint, replacing it with the Hellfire Imp, and verified that she had indeed retained the other three variants.

With her magical tome already open to the correct chapter, she channeled her mana to create an imp. A few minutes later there was a pop, and a sizzle of flame along with a strong odor of sulfur, and a Hellfire Imp appeared in front of her, hopping up and down and cackling wildly.

Her friends’ heads all snapped around; their conversation instantly forgotten as their combat reflexes kicked in.

Hellfire Imp – Demon – level 55 (Hellfire)Your reserved mana has increased by +355.

Is it alive? “It’s mine,” she reassured them. She had been fully expecting it to behave like the elementals, after all, it was a creature of flame. But she supposed she was actually able to create the wargs, so perhaps this monster was similar.

Up close, she could see its leathery hide and the dark flames emitted from its small form. For once, she had a monster smaller than herself that wasn’t a cute lump of moss. Standing at full height, its horns reached only to Ali’s waist. If it wasn’t on fire, she could easily have patted the top of its head.

Why am I imagining petting a demon burning with hellfire? Idly she wondered if it was healthy that she found terrifying monsters suddenly cuter as soon as she could summon them.

Carefully, she slipped her mind into its awareness, recognizing the strange shifting and blurring of heat-based vision, and she called up its status sheet.

