Tim tried to follow that silent communication, but his attention was drawn to the hawk-like-phoenix resting on her shoulder, assessing him with terrifyingly sharp eyes.

As the bird's head cocked nearly sideways, Ascender Legion's other eyebrow joined the first, nearly in her hairline, as she turned her attention to him.

“Now that is interesting. Nice to meet you, Tim. I hear you are a budding alchemist. Want to trade notes?”

Tim spluttered. “I wouldn’t. I can’t. I umm. I’m happy to share, but it's not that impressive.”

Ascender Legion smiled, her deeply tanned skin with a golden glowing undertone magnifying the action into something blinding.

“We have time for that later. Why don’t you get unpacked. You are student two of two currently, but more should be arriving in the coming weeks. First step is getting you an AI, which we’ll do once you are settled.”

Tim was interested in this other person who could catch the Ascender's attention, but just nodded as he was led through what he realized was an estate.

Or, that was the only word he had for the compound they were in.

It almost felt like a school in that there were clearly classrooms and lecture halls, but those rooms were the exception rather than the rule, with far more rooms dedicated to crafts of all kinds.

He wasn't able to see too much, given the pace the Ascenders set guiding him to his room.

It was a suite of rooms which surprised him. He had expected more of a dorm room style. The common room seemed like a prime area for relaxing and socializing with the three other possible roommates, if the extra doors were any indication.

Tim wasn’t sure what he was expecting in his personal room. Ascenders running the place meant they could be the lap of luxury, or bottom of the barrel worst apartments, to discourage people from spending all of their time in their rooms alone.

With his thoughts running wild, he was mildly disappointed when he finally entered his room. It was nice, which was a relief, but not fancy, with no high Tier-tech only seen in movies. It did, however, have a full bath, along with one of the nicest beds he had ever sat on, let alone slept in. Even just giving it a few bounces, he could feel it reacting and adjusting its firmness to better cradle him.

He wasn’t sure what to do with the alchemy set, as that was the only thing he didn’t see a place for, but figured he could ask later.

Except, before he knew it, Tim was laying face down and getting an AI chip stuck into the base of his skull by an onsite healer.

At first it didn’t seem so bad, and he was going to argue that they didn’t need to wait for the rest of the tour, but he was soon proven wrong. Before he could even finish eating the meal he had been handed, he already felt the effect starting to hit him. The following three days were like the worst cold Tim had ever had, with him hardly able to think due to the pressure that felt like his head would explode.

If it wasn’t for the food delivered to his door, he wouldn’t have eaten the few spoonfuls he managed to shovel down before passing back out again.

Thankfully, after waking up on the fourth day, he felt perfectly refreshed and started playing with his AI, having heard so much about them growing up.

He was halfway through transferring his information from his pad to his AI when he felt several pulses as his Talent added new entries.

Checking in his AI was as simple as mentally bringing up his Talent.

Beginner AI Integration: 0/100 Proficiency — Unlock Cost: 2,000,000 Credits.

Beginner AI Efficiency: 0/100 Proficiency — Unlock Cost: 3,200,000 Credits.

Beginner AI Processing: 0/100 Proficiency — Unlock Cost: 5,000,000 Credits.

Tim just scoffed at the prices, but then realized they might not be so far out of his reach as he initially thought.

Millions of credits were nothing to a high Tier, let alone an Ascender.

Sadly, his aspirations of mooching off their credits that instant vanished as he met his roommate, who was doing a plank in front of the screen in the common room.

Sweat was dripping off his nose onto the towel in a river, but it didn’t seem to bother the other guy as he spoke without even seeming winded. “Hey! Name’s Stew. Glad to finally meet you. At least officially. We sort of met two days ago, but you were in an AI fugue so I figure it’s safe to consider this our first meeting.”

Finally, as Stew stopped speaking, his quivering arms gave out and he dropped to the ground with a small thud.

After wiping himself off, Stew proffered a hand and they shook, giving Tim a good look at the other man. Maybe a few years younger than himself, mid-twenties at max, but with an intensity that Tim knew would attract people.

He was even a little taken aback as his preferences generally trended to more effeminate men, and he had to wonder if that was Stew’s Talent. Strong social Talents were more rumors than anything else in Calafor, so Tim had never knowingly met someone with one, and he had to wonder if that was what he was dealing with.

Still, that was no reason to be rude or standoffish, so Tim asked, “What can you tell me of this place? I sort of accepted with minimal information and just got back onto my feet.”

Stew shrugged even as he sat at the central table, a plate of food rising out of it to leave Tim staring in shock. That was some of the incredibly advanced tech he had expected in his bedroom.

“I don’t know a ton either, but Ascender Titan said we’d be getting more information in the next few days as more people arrive. That was when they brought you back, so I assume that means today. I already had an AI, and so have been hanging around for the last month or so as everything got built.”

And Stew turned out to be correct as Ascenders Titan and Legion both arrived and gave them a tour.

With Tim’s new AI, it felt a little redundant, but he wasn’t going to say that to one Ascender, let alone two.

Once the tour ended, the two Ascenders looked to Stew which surprised him.

Ascender Legion, however, did the speaking. “You two are kind of our test bed for the next few weeks. We are going to have additional staff arriving in the next day or so, but until then, we'll be working with you guys more directly. Stew, you said you wanted to learn alchemy. Coincidentally, Tim needs to do the same, so we’ll start you guys both on that, as our alchemy teacher has arrived. At least for a few hours. After that, Tim is going to be busy with Matt. But first, we need to have you two see the deputy headmaster.”

Tim wasn’t sure he liked the sound of that, but followed along to a man Stew seemed already familiar with.

He was a similarly tall man who had a voice so deep it rattled in Tim’s chest. “My name is Vincent Marcone, Tier 30 and the deputy headmaster. I am also the Empire-provided advocate for all students. My duty is to help guide your schooling and ensure you aren’t being taken advantage of. I, and the career planner, will be the only ones who know of your full Talents unless you choose to inform others or are part of training that demands parts of your Talent be explained to the relevant parties. We strive to ensure that such things happen as little as possible, but it may occur depending on the Talents in question.”

An equally tall woman stepped forward, introducing herself, “Mertha, Tier 25, and I have a Talent that allows me to create the best training programs possible for Talented individuals such as yourselves. Such discussion will be privatized via a mind-alteration device that will prevent me from remembering anything once I leave the conference room.”

Tim thought the procedures were a little over-the-top, but went along with things as they progressed. Stew, as being the first student or whatever they were calling themselves, went first, but it only took ten minutes before he was out. Tim was led into the room where Mertha was sitting with a device on her head blinking merrily that she said prevented her from making long-term memories.

Having already gone through it once, Tim was able to more easily explain his Talent in a succinct way.

He was mildly amused when he got strange looks and finally was told she would need more time, and he was free to leave as she worked on a proper training program.

From there, the Ascenders led them to an alchemy room where a busy looking man was waiting for them and introduced himself as someone who had a Domain for teaching and specialized in teaching alchemy.

Stew seemed to be a true beginner, and so Tim knew quite a bit of the lesson, but he still tried to force himself to pay attention.

He was glad he did, as they were almost immediately handed a set of ingredients and told to try making the potion.

Just as they were getting started, the Ascenders came back in.

“Oh yeah. Sorry, we meant to give these out earlier.” Ascender Legion waved a hand, and six small racks of rechargeable mana stones hovered in front of them, three each. “If you look near the door of every room, they are equipped with mana chargers. Feel free to use as much mana as you want. At your current Tiers, these should be good for five or six refills before needing to be recharged. That, and the recharge time of the device means you should never really need to worry about mana. Go ahead and aspect them and get them charging. Then, feel free to try the alchemy. Best way to learn is to fuck up. Dylan will protect you from any issues, explosive, corrosive, or otherwise.”

Tim raised a tentative hand, and Ascender Legion nodded to him. “Should I buy the potion entry? It's only five thousand credits.”

Stew didn’t react or even look at Tim, which he assumed meant Ascender Legion had blocked him and the teacher from hearing.

After tapping her chin, she finally said, “Not today. We want to see if it gets cheaper if you already have knowledge of the process and what happens if you get proficient with the recipe first.”

Tim nodded, silently kicking himself for never having considered that, even if he could admit to himself he’d probably not have wanted to spend the money such experimentation would cost.

Not that his first few attempts were good. They were awful, and he was fairly sure that Stew was closer to succeeding than he was, clearly not being a true beginner either. Thankfully, after his initial awkward phase, Tim was able to start applying what he knew of alchemy to the process and nearly created a working potion, leveraging his experience in the two potions that created the merged healing and strengthening potion.

Checking, he was disappointed to see the entry hadn’t changed in any way even after his third successful attempt.

Shortly thereafter, when Ascender Legion brought out a spear to work with Stew in melee training, the phoenix led Tim to a teleportation array that brought him up to the moon owned by Titan’s Torch’s, where Ascender Titan was waiting for him.

Ascender Titan was grinning as Tim looked around.

“Welcome to Titan’s Torch’s headquarters. There are a lot of people who want to meet you and study your spirit and Talent. Especially the skill creation teams. They are incredibly interested in what your Talent might show them.”

Tim must have looked apprehensive because Ascender Titan said, “You can decline if you want, but this can help them, and in turn, they can help you learn more about your Talent.”

“I’m more than slightly weirded out about sharing my Talent so much and often. Sorry.”

Ascender Titan waved his concern away. “Oh I haven’t told them anything and you are free to share as much or as little as you wish. All I told them was you had an innate understanding type of Talent and might have things they can learn.”

Tim surprisingly felt slightly worse at the information, though he didn’t quite know why.

Part of him wanted others to know about his Talent and be interested in it, while another just thought the whole taboo about sharing Talents probably had some reason behind it.

“No, I'm fine with sharing. But do you think they will actually learn anything?”

“At worst, nothing is learned. When you look at it that way, the only real outcome is positive, or neutral.”

Tim felt there could be several negative outcomes, but didn’t say anything as Ascender Titan led him through a few clearly marked halls and into a laboratory that looked like it came out of a movie set.

The place was packed with nearly fifty people, but more than that was the machinery littered through the room. A few pieces were even suspended by cables that seemed far too thin to hold up that much weight, which meant high Tier. It shouldn’t have surprised Tim, but it did.

When Ascender Titan gave him an introduction to the group, their gazes intensified to the point Tim thought he could feel their spiritual perceptions, even though that shouldn’t have really been possible.

Then, contrary to his expectations, they didn’t ask him anything and instead started arguing. At first, the speed they talked was understandable, but slowly their tempo increased until the words only sounded like a high-pitched buzzing.

Finally, a woman with sparkling eyes stepped forward and asked him to enter a circle in the centre of the room.

With a slight whirring sound, rings rose out of the ground, spinning dizzying circles around him. His worry abated when he realized they moved slowly enough even Tim, as a lowly Tier 3, could jump out if he needed to.

His mind couldn't help but go to catastrophic failures like in a bad movie.

Before he could get too worked up, the woman called out while looking at a screen Tim couldn’t see, “Okay, can you start doing your skill creation method? We are ready on this end.”

“Do you care about the speed or anything?”

