“There is no one you can safely tell.” Poi said, “I have been checking with my people, and we are advising you to forget you ever heard what you heard. The worst case scenario is that you tell someone in charge, causing a chain reaction which ends in an eruption of the Quiet War. Side effects include the loss of your Avowed Pacifist recognition, or you directly participating in the Quiet War, and all the attendant fallout from there.”

“… What if I told Killzone or Silverite, and they worked over the Shades in Ar’Kendrithyst in order to fracture whatever alliance is going on in there. They cannot all be on one side of the Quiet War, right?”

“Ar’Kendrithyst is a fractious microcosm of Veird, with Shades of all people from all places. Most of them don’t care about the Quiet War, but some of them would, and they all care about stirring shit up. Maybe the Shades do want the Quiet War to happen. Maybe Bulgan and others silenced the opposing side in Ar’Kendrithyst. Maybe Bulgan is expecting you to tell Silverite and Killzone, and thus, by telling them, you are showing that you can be manipulated.”

Erick countered, “Or, Bulgan would think that I wouldn’t tell anyone, and he said all that to lay the groundwork to taunt me later. He even quoted some play, or something, to that effect. He even called me ‘his enemy’.” He added, “Maybe I need to tell someone his game plan, and uproot that small tree before it gets a chance to uproot my house, or whatever he said.”

Poi said, “Also a possibility.” He added, “But I have been checking with people, as I have said, to understand this specific threat that you have been given. This is the lay of the land: No one has directly heard from any Shade that Candlepoint exists to hone the Wasteland’s strength, or that they want to purge all humans from Veird and destroy Celes.

“I know what you’re thinking, and implications of Candlepoint’s placement near the Wasteland in regard to the Quiet War has been discussed at length, but it is one concern of many. If you were to tell anyone what you heard, then you would be infecting fertile ground, causing a cascade of unknowable but partially predictable results. Our best predictors are forecasting ruin if you speak this ‘knowledge’ to others.

“And just in case this was a memetic hazard meant to compromise us Mind Mages, you should know that this is an impossibility. We are well versed in dealing with threats of this nature.”

Erick frowned. “Fine… I guess I won’t tell anyone.” He pointed from Poi to himself a few times, saying, “This was an experience, and weird, but I am very happy that you are talking to me, since this could have spiraled out of control rather fast.” He said, “Thank you. Please continue to talk like this with me. It makes my life a lot easier.”

Poi couldn’t help but smile, but he kept it small, as he said, “Not many people mean it when they say that, but you did. Thank you.”

Erick nodded. “Are you ever going to tell me who your enemies are?”

“... You haven’t had that thought in months.” Poi said, “I had hoped I had avoided that conversation.”

Erick shrugged, joking, “If you want to deflect, that’s fine, too.”

“Yes. Please. I want to deflect.”

Erick lifted his head, and said, “Oh. Did I hear Kiri calling for dinner?”

Poi went along with it, taking down the sound disruption [Ward] around the library, as he said, “Possibly.”

- - - -

Back at the Guardhouse, Erick learned that searching for [Conjure Force Elemental] did not show [Familiar]s, or anything, that was not specifically [Conjure Force Elemental]. The same went for every other spell Erick tried.

But apparently people used the base [Force Trap] spell a lot. This was because making a stronger version than the Basic Spell was especially difficult. Mystery solved!

There was no catching the Blighter, or the Sword Summoner tonight, though.

- - - -

As the sun set over Spur, it was still an hour away from setting over at Candlepoint.

According to Kiri, Teressa, and Poi, all people who had been inside Ar’Kendrithyst, some for extended periods of time, sunset and sunrise were the best times to be in the shadowy places of the world. The middle of the day was the worst, because the strong light made shadows antsy, prone to fights, and very, very awake. In the middle of the night, shadows tended to be deadlier than usual. But when the sun draped everything in shades of grey, it was, perhaps paradoxically, the best time to meet a Shade, or a shadeling; they were almost like normal people, then.

You know, if not for the inherent killer danger they represented.

And so, Erick stood in his library, conjured an Ophiel, and tried an experiment he had never thought to try, but that Kiri suggested, due to her own experiments. He had Ophiel [Polymorph] into himself. ‘Erick Flatt’ was a valid choice according to his [Polymorph] spell, after all.

Ophiel transformed from a multitude of white wings and feathers and eyes, into something that was similar to Erick, but not quite. There were skin flaps made of flesh-colored feathers, which was only the beginning of the horror Erick witnessed. And then Ophiel squawked out of ‘Erick’s’ stomach and left arm, opening great rents, exposing guts and bones to the air as unhappy flutes and a violent guitar solo crashed through Ophiel’s assumed body, causing the flesh colors of the false form to flicker full white, and a hundred eyes to spread where eyes had no right to be.

Erick casually thought, ‘And there’s another nightmare for myself.’

Ophiel reformed into his winged body, and clearly wanted to remain that way, evidenced by his rapid checking on his wings and preening and flutes sounds, and how half his eyes were focused directly on Erick, in a rather uncomfortable stare.

Erick sat down in his chair, and once Ophiel calmed down, which took some small talk and assurances that Erick would never do that again, Ophiel went blipping down to Candlepoint.

- - - -

All around Ophiel lay empty desert sand and varied dunes, full of deep shadows from the setting sun to the west, except for the land to the east. The first thing Erick noticed about the Shade outpost of Candlepoint was a tower of smokey crystal in the center, surrounded by buildings made of dark stone, like dark marble. The second and third things he noticed, were the sheer heights of the place, and that it was fully adorned with bright, colorful lights, strung across every building and the top of the tall wall surrounding the small city. The only thing not fully lit up was the dark, crystal tower in the center, but even that glowed faintly with reflected rainbows.

Ophiel fluffed out to a meter height, not too big and but not too small, and floated forward, toward the tall walls. The sands under him swirled at his passage, casting shadows to join the ones ahead, as the sun dipped down behind him.

The gate was wide open, because there was no gate at all. There was just a hole in the curtain wall surrounding the place, where sand swept inside, but did not get too far. To the left and the right of the entrance, carved upon the wall, were the inscriptions Erick had read before, about what to expect inside the miniature Dead City.

But this miniature Dead City was anything but that. It was lively, it was noisy. It was active. It even had guards.

Guards in black armor with grey eyes stood to the left and the right of the ‘gate’, just inside the city, gossiping with each other and talking about Erick, or rather, about Ophiel, who had just come into their line of sight. Erick waited for a shadeling guard to come to him, but so far they were staying away, talking to each other, with lines of intent radiating from their head and multiplying in number, as another shadeling guard showed up, and then another.

Erick turned his attention to the streets in front of him, while the shadelings organized their response. He was the only ‘person’ near the gate, but he was not the only person in sight.

The street leading from the gate only went a block before it hit a perpendicular street, filled both with shadelings, characterized by their grey eyes and flickering shadows around their body, and normal people, like Erick would have seen any day of the week, walking around the Adventurer’s District. Orcols, humans, dragonkin, incani, all walked left and right down the street, on their way to wherever they needed to be. They had clear, unclouded eyes, while most of them wore armor of some sort. No one walked alone, except for the shadelings. The normal people might have been holding themselves a little more relaxed than Erick would have liked, but he knew enough about himself to recognize that he might have been projecting.

A shadeling walked out of the gathered clump of guards to the left. She did not wear their black armor, but instead, she wore a simple white and grey mage’s robe, to match her white hair, horns, and skin. Her eyes were the brightest clouds of grey that Erick had seen so far, but they were not the white eyes of a Shade.

Erick turned to her.

She said, “Welcome to Candlepoint, Archmage Flatt. How may we help you?”

Erick said, “First, I’d like to know who you are, then I’d like to know what your goals are, and how you intend to fight and win whatever war you’re planning.”

If the woman had a reaction, she did not show it. Her response came in an even tone, “I am Mage Justine Erholme, appointed to you for your convenience, for the duration of your stay, or for whatever length of time you decide upon. If I am not to your liking, then you may have another guide, or explore on your own. As for your second concern: There is no war in Candlepoint, and we hope there never is.”

Erick frowned, but Ophiel did nothing. Erick said, “I would love for that to be true, but I cannot believe you.”

“I understand. Your concern is a common one.” Justine said, “I hope we can ameliorate such thoughts during your visit this evening, in any way you feel like exploring. I just ask that you give those you meet the benefit of the doubt. Many of us are not truly ourselves, yet.”

“There’s a good segue: What is a shadeling?”

“A person displaced from themselves.” Justine continued, “A more academic answer would be a created soul or a lost soul who is given a body and is currently in the process of developing their mind, either to realize who they are as a person, or to realize who they were. For most of us, the ‘shadeling’ designation under the Script will pass, though the physical reminders will usually not, though that is a complicated topic. But we are still people, recognized by the Script. Real and growing.” She offered, “If you wish, I can show you my Status?”

Erick let whatever was going to happen, happen, and discuss what he found out later. He said, “Sure.”

Justine lifted her hand, popping out a blue box.

Justine Erholme

Shadeling, age 98

Level 51, Class: Light Mage

Exp: 1.242 e12/5.331 e12

Class: 9/9

Points: 2

HP

598/600

600 per day

MP

11,859/12,000

3000 per day

Strength

20

+0

[20]

Vitality

20

+0

[20]

Constitution

19

+0

[19]

Willpower

50

+0

[50]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Intelligence

15

+0

[15]

Erick eyed ‘Intelligence’, but asked, “You certainly don’t look 98.”

“The age of the soul is recognized more easily by the Script than the age of the body.”

Erick asked, “So how do you become an incani again?”

“I have already taken the first steps. If I chose, I could become an incani right now. But that would mean leaving the Clergy behind, and leaving behind my fellow shadelings. Since I will not do that, I remain here, to help others.”

“… Would you mind channeling mana through your Constitution or your Intelligence for me, and showing me the prominence that results?”

Justine held out her hand, and displayed a riot of yellows first, saying, “Constitution.” Next came a near invisible flicker of violet. “Intelligence.” She lowered her hand.

Erick was partially stunned.

It had been that easy to get her to show him the colors of two new Stats. Maybe they would answer all of his question in such an easy manner?

He looked on to the city beyond the gate. “Thank you.” He said, “I’d like to see a few other things, now. In particular, the Adventurer’s Guildhouse, one of your less nice restaurants, and the homes of those who have yet to ‘find themselves’, as you say.”

Justine said, “Most of that can be arranged, but I apologize, for we don’t actually have an Adventurer’s Guildhouse, for that would require international recognition, which we lack. We have a similar structure that fulfills a similar function. We call it the Garrison.”

“Acceptable.” Erick said, “Please lead the way.”

Justine nodded, then she walked forward. Her footsteps were muffled by sand, shadows curling around her feet, until she stepped onto the dark roadway leading into the city. Her light footsteps joined the sound of countless others. Ophiel silently floated beside her, his eyes pointed in every direction, waiting for a problem to appear.

Erick briefly split his attention back to his own body. Kiri sat in the other chair in the library, reading. She looked up as Erick shuffled in his chair.

“How’s it going?” Kiri asked.

“I’m in the city. I have an appointed guide.” Erick said, “It’s kinda weird. I’ll tell you more later.”

“Want me to make some coftea?”

“Yes. Thanks.”

Kiri nodded. She set her book aside as Sunny blipped away, from around her neck.

Erick returned to Ophiel, to float beside Justine as she headed left, joining the throng of people passing by each other, headed on their way to wherever they were going.
