Merit said, “We’ve got a small stack of missing people that could use your help, all asked after by concerned family members or loved ones, each request vetted. No stalkers or Hunters or otherwise, here.” She turned to Erick. “With the prevalence of [Teleport], in our high level community, we usually can’t do anything for these people except take down their names and likeness and then pray to the gods that they are delivered safely back to us. But since word of what you can do has gotten around, a lot of people have left these sorts of mementos with us, hoping that you could help.” She asked, “So, can you?”

Erick felt as though the world stabilized, just a little, as he said, “Yes. I’d love to help.”

Merit smiled wider, and said, “Thank you, Erick.”

Erick walked over to the table and picked up a plate of scales, and began.

- - - -

Merit had a small section of her guards who were primarily employed for their [Scry]ing abilities. At Erick’s displayed willingness to work with the Guard, Merit telepathically called for her [Scry]ers to get in on the action. It wasn’t long till tiny eyeball orbs hovered in the air around Erick’s map of Spur.

Erick telepathically communicated the locations of his other maps to one of Merit’s people, a man named Anneal, who further spread those locations to the rest of his team.

And then he got to work. An hour turned into two. And then it was over.

Finding people who were lost was not as rewarding of an experience as Erick expected it to be. Of the eleven people he searched for, the only one who was alive, was Zimmy. Two people were nowhere to be found, while the other eight were bodies, located everywhere from the remains of a burial site outside of Portal, to huddled and dead in a pile of rags in a rarely-used alleyway in Spur, to the site of a recent wyrm kill east of Vindin.

When Erick was done, he dismissed the maps outside of Spur, along with those Ophiel, and said, “Shit. I hoped at least one of them would have been alive.”

Merit had gone off to work on other necessary things, while Erick stayed in the courtyard and searched, but she had come back when he was nearly finished. She said, “It’s not the best outcome, but their family and friends will at least have closure.”

Erick said, “How long have some of these cases been open?”

“Weeks, some of them. Most people give up after five or six days of no contact, but since you searched out the people who attacked Spur, we’ve had a change in how long people are willing to keep their cases open.”

“I’d like to be alerted within a day, when these sorts of cases come up again.” Erick asked, “Do you have any other searching problems that I can solve for you?”

Merit nodded, saying, “Yes. There’s a lot of Spur-centric business we can knock out, if you’re willing?” She said, “A search for illegal magics across the city. Mainly [Force Trap] and [Invisibility], but there’s also a Blighter going around ruining food stores that we’d like to find. And a murderer, burglarizing homes with floating, summoned swords. They take gold, only, so searching for the killer has been tough. I’m wondering if you searching for [Conjure Force Elemental] would be enough to locate that problem, but if not, then we can try something else. Probably have to try something else for the Blighter, too.”

“Ah.” Erick was ready to hop on board, and then Merit mentioned murderers. “That’s… normal guard work... I should have come here and offered my services sooner.”

Merit smiled. “I’m just glad you’re here, now.”

“Yeah… Me too.” Erick asked, “What’s a ‘blighter’?”

“Ah?” Merit looked at Erick for a moment, then said, “Oh. It’s the opposite of [Grow], except it decays almost all organic material. [Grow] and Mana Altering for Decay. If you can’t search for it, then try searching for [Grow]. Maybe it would work like how I hope searching for [Conjure Force Elemental] will work.” She added, “The Blighter is a heavy nuisance, clearing out entire grocery stores every other night, but its not as important as the Sword Summoner.”

“Well. We can try!” Erick turned to the map at his side, and recast the spell, saying, “Let’s try for [Grow], first. Seems like the simpler spell to search for. I can try making [Blight] later.”

Merit smiled wide, as the white map shifted in front of him, and the [Scry] eyes of Merit’s [Scry]ers hovered around the spell.

Erick looked up [Blight] in the Script as the map shifted, to see what he was working with, but got nothing. “Is [Blight] not in the Open Script?”

“Nope.” Merit said, “Gotta make it yourself, and not many people are capable.”

Erick hummed.

The map of Spur remained white. Erick said, “Uh. Hmm. Well. I think I might have to leave it running. If the spell isn’t active, then it won’t show.”

Merit frowned. “Dammit. We'd probably only end up with farmers, anyway. Okay. That’s…. fine. Then… Please search for [Force Trap]. Those should be active.”

Erick switched the map. A good fifty or more blue dots immediately appeared across the hologram of Spur, scattered all over. Erick’s eyes went wide. He did not expect so many results. Shouldn't most of them have altered their [Force Trap] into something besides the base spell, anyway? Thereby making the search for the base spell useless? Maybe it didn't work like that? Erick needed to experiment more with [Cascade Imaging] to understand the limitations of the magic.

Merit chuckled. “Ah ha! Perfect.” She stepped into the spell to get a better look at the blue dots, the white map parting and reforming around her body, like mist momentarily disturbed. She pointed out two locations at the tops of two different towers. “Clear. Clear. The others are illegal.” She looked up to the [Scry] eyes, saying, “Deploy!”

Erick watched a dozen more [Scry] eyes appear in the air around his map, as he asked, “What’s going to happen to these people?”

Merit spoke as though reading from a lawbook, “Depending on the nature of their spell work —which, in the case of [Force Trap], is primarily used to indiscriminately kill people— the caster might face anywhere from a thousand gold fine, to exile, to execution.” She said, “We haven’t had a Trapper Killer in months, but it does happen. But besides that, any of these traps you’ve found could have accidentally triggered on a kid, killing them rather instantly. We usually only find out that some idiot has trapped their ‘treasures’ after they accidentally kill someone.”

Erick felt his heart beat hard as his skin turned cold.

Merit noticed Erick’s change. She looked from Erick, to the map, saying, “This might take us a good hour to fully clean up. If you want, you can go. I would ask you to switch this map to [Conjure Force Elemental], in an hour or two, and then leave it up as long as you can, if that would even work. The Sword Summoner likes to strike at midnight.”

“Yeah.” Erick was very okay with leaving the Guardhouse for the day. He was glad to help prevent [Force Trap] deaths, too. And he would be more than happy to find this ‘Sword Summoner’ for Merit. But he was ready to be done with this, for the day. “Sure.”

“We’ll pay you a fair wage, of course.” Merit said, “Other Guardhouses pay based on crimes prevented, but that would just encourage false reporting and unwanted violence. Spur pays a daily wage of 5 gold for unskilled people of your level, no matter what happens, as long as you work a full shift and adhere to all the proper rules of conduct. But with your capability, we can triple that, and cut the workload down to specific tasks.” She nodded toward Teressa. “Miss Rednail’s capability puts her at double pay, for a few tasks each day.” She looked to Erick. “I’d love it if you came back tomorrow. Whatever time works for you. We can work around your schedule.”

Erick said, “Sure.” He looked up, and saw the moons framed by four courtyard walls, upon a field of dim blue. It was not yet sunset, but it was getting late. The sun had passed far to the west, and draped the courtyard in deep shadows. “It is getting kinda late. We’ll take the short way home. See you around, Merit.” He held his hands out to Poi and Teressa, who had mostly stayed silent this whole time.

Merit nodded, saying, “Gods Luck to you, Erick.”

As his own guards took his hands, Erick said, “And you, too.”

Blip.

They reappeared in the foyer of the house.

“Hello!?” Kiri called out from the kitchen. “Did I hear people?”

Erick smelled something delicious on the air. He called back, “Hello, Kiri!”

“Oh, good!” Kiri appeared at the archway that led to the kitchens, briefly, before turning around and walking back, saying, “I’m making dinner. Chicken and cheesy rice. Be ready in half an hour.”

“Smells great.” Erick said, “Thank you for telling me about that, Teressa. Helping the Guard is something I have been putting off for far too long. Sorry if it was boring for you. I can probably just send Ophiel tomorrow— Oh!” Erick conjured an Ophiel and sent him blipping out to the Lake and the Ranch, to start a series of platinum and normal rains, as he said, “I need to keep up the rains, too.”

Teressa said, “It’s fulfilling work, for sure.” She smiled. “But I can do without chasing after thieves chasing after gold, when they could have just gone out and killed a few hundred mimics and paid for whatever they wanted, outright.”

“You don’t have to do that if you don’t want to.”

“Eh!” Teressa said, “I know. But I want to. Not every day is solving a murder. That’s actually pretty rare. Assault, though! Now that’s every damn day, and I am glad I am not a normal guard.”

Erick smiled. “How far is your [Witness] these days?”

She grinned, revealing lower fangs, as her eyes went bright emerald. “As far as it needs to be, and a good four days into the past.”

“Wow.” Erick said, “Holy shit, Teressa.”

She beamed joy, saying, “Thank you, Boss. I couldn’t have done it without you. Using it inside this house is like powerleveling.” She waved her hand through the dense air of the house, saying, “[Prismatic Ward] is tough to see through. Very, very tough.”

Poi said, “Sir. We need to talk.”

Teressa’s smile fell. She said, “Right!” She thumbed toward the kitchen, as she walked that way, saying, “I’m going to see if Kiri needs help.”

Erick said, “Oh, right! Teressa?”

She turned back to him.

“I was thinking of journeying up to the Wyrmrest tribes, or wherever Archmage Syllea is, to see about some magic. You’re from around there, right? Would you be interested in showing me around?”

“Absolutely!” Teressa’s eyes lit up, as she smiled. “Whenever you want to go, I’ll be there.” She rapidly added, “If we are able to go during Festival— You want to be there at Festival, Boss. It’s at the end of next month. 47 days away.”

Erick said, “I think I need to be there before then. But we can see about going again, later.”

Teressa smirked. “Fine by me.”

Erick nodded. Teressa turned away, and Erick turned back to Poi.

Poi said, “Let’s go to another room.”

- - - -

In the library, Poi conjured a sound disruption [Ward] into the space, and began, “There are two levels of infohazards. One is mundane, the other magical. Of the mundane threats, the primary ones are known as memetic threats, or hazards. What you learned from Bulgan is one such instance of a memetic hazard. It is the most basic, and most widely used form of social engineering used by the Shades. They tell someone something that makes them act differently than they normally would, in a way that may or may not have directly obvious benefits for the Shade.” He walked over to the library shelves, and pulled out a little green book. “This book is technically a memetic hazard created by the Shades, but you already knew that thanks to your daughter.”

“… This is weird, Poi.” Erick said, “I never told you about that talk with my daughter.”

“I know. But this has to be said, and I have been deemed the one to say it.” Poi continued, “And yes, I do mean ‘deemed by the secret Mind Mage police’, as you’re thinking right now.”

Erick went silent. He probably didn’t need to speak at all for this, did he?

“Not really,” Poi said. “But it does help direct the conversation along lines you choose.”

“What is ‘magnitude’?”

Poi frowned. He put the green book back on the shelf, as he said, “That is a memetic hazard, and you are not cleared for such knowledge.”

“… Fine.”

“The second type of infohazards are the magically induced variety, and there is some overlap of terminology. This second type is further split into many different categories, of which I do not have to go into. The one you are most familiar with is the anti-presence of Moon Reachers. Yes. That thing that they did to your daughter was a memetic hazard. Antimemetic, in this case.” Poi said, “Another magically induced memetic hazard would be the Puppet Minds. The creatures themselves are rather blobby, nothings of consequence. They like to nest under beds or in closets, or other dark spaces near where people sleep. You could kill them with a good stomp, if you are immune to their mental hazard. If you are not immune, you either become a puppet for them, or you forget they exist. If you are their puppet, you bring them food, and tell them about the world and your life, and when one of them knows enough about you, they eat you, and [Polymorph] into you, becoming a Puppet Master that spreads their young around.

“There’s actually a third type of information hazard, but since it’s based on lies, where all the rest are based on truths, or the clipping of truths from the world, this third type is not a true information hazard.” Poi said, “I only mention this third type because what you heard from Bulgan may be of this third type, but Shades hardly ever outright lie. If their words can be disproven by simply checking around, then their attempt at social engineering usually fails.

“Unless, of course, spreading the lie is the point.

“Convenient lies get around the world before truths have a chance to don their armor. More than one squadron has been taken down in Ar’Kendrithyst due to the lies of a Shade, and the infighting they are capable of causing, when they spy on us for weeks and months, and know our every weakness.”

Erick said, “That was all very interesting, and I’m glad to finally know what a Puppet Mind is, and eww! They’re Hunters but they’re monsters. Awful.” Erick asked, “But what do I do with what I heard from Bulgan?”

