Thomas had a ton of water mana crystals. He plucked two more level 1s for her. Then he glanced back at her and, on impulse, used his healing sight. He didn't see anything, but he had a hunch that went deep.

"Don't want to use too much of one kind of mana," he muttered to himself. "I have a friend who did that with fire, and it gave him some problems." He glanced at her again. Water was her base, which was pretty simple. "Fire or earth?" he asked.

"Excuse me?"

"What feels more natural to you? You've taken some water mana crystals, and even though you've used a lot, you've probably absorbed a good amount in your core. You'll need something to balance that out."

She looked at him as if he were crazy, but then, after a moment, she seemed to consider. "Earth."

"Excellent choice." He thought for a second about giving her one of his level 2s, but he wanted something to ground her water mana, not overwhelm it. Besides, he had plenty of level 1 earths. He added two B grades, then, acting on instinct, plucked up the last level 1 Adaptation mana he had left. It was a C grade, but it should do.

"Here. All this together, including what you already took, should get you all the way to level two, or very close." He scanned her up and down a final time. "Yeah, that's a good mix for you." He didn't know exactly how he knew, but he did.

"No, wait. This is too much," she said. She tried to hand the crystals back, but he just turned away and zipped up his backpack.

"It's not. We're splitting the loot 50-50, remember? Besides, I want to see you thrive."

Even as he said it, he felt something thrum in his core followed by a sense of soothing healing that washed through him. A pain he'd been only half aware of eased. He'd examine that later. "We made a good team in there. If you want to dungeon dive, call me any time. I'll give you my number. Besides, I'm keeping the bear totem, a skill shard, and the weapon. It isn't even an even split. Keep the sword," he said. "I kind of just flail around with it anyway."

She looked like she didn't quite believe him and seemed overwhelmed by everything he'd just pushed on her. But she was also smart enough to know that she was being given the keys to an opportunity.

"Dungeon diving, huh?" She laughed once to herself. "I never thought... No one back home would believe me if I told them."

"It's a brand new world," Thomas said. Then he pointed to the clear crystal, which was slowly shifting between brown and blue in her hand. "That's an Adaptation mana crystal. I think it will help you react to whatever comes your way."

"It has to be better than temp work, right?" she muttered, seemingly to herself.

Jo nodded again to herself, then pulled out her cell phone. "Let me send you my details."

****

Finally, Thomas trudged up the embankment to his car. The embankment to the road was a lot steeper than he remembered. But then again, on the way down, he'd been in shock, fleeing for his life, and possibly bleeding out internally. He had coughed up a bullet.

His life had gotten so weird.

His poor, bullet-ridden car looked like it had been in the process of being loaded onto a flatbed tow truck, but very likely on Applebaum's call they'd reversed that process. Now it was on the side of the road, parked between two National Guard vehicles.

There wasn't as much blood on the seats as he'd feared, though his windshield did have several visible bullet holes. He could still see around them well enough to drive.

Thomas sat down in his car, put his backpack to the side, and thought.

It had felt good to give those things to Jo. It hadn't been because he was trying to impress her, but because he knew deep in his heart that it would help her. Water, Earth, and Adaptation was a good mix for her and would allow her to protect herself and move forward in life.

It felt as though a burn he'd only been partially aware of on his own soul had been cooled and healed... a self-inflicted burn he'd caused himself by using healing to kill Grimm.

Thomas hadn't had a choice at the time. He knew that, just as he knew he would have done it again if put in the same position. It had been self-defense. Actually, more than self-defense, because he'd also saved Jo and Twitch. But he still couldn't shake the feeling that in doing it, he'd caused some level of damage to himself. It had been like a bad sunburn.

That same damage hadn't happened when he put the bear boss out of its misery. For one thing, it was a monster, and for another, it had been dying slowly and painfully. Allowing it some last peace was proper healing.

Zach's offhand comments about mana affecting personality and choices had made Thomas wonder once or twice if his hesitation to kill was mana-enforced or whether he simply had never been much of a 'Raaaah I Must Kill To Feel Alive' type, even before the System. But now he had an inkling of what it actually meant to go down the path of Healing mana. He could use healing to kill, but it would be perverting something that was inherently good.

Now was not the time to ruminate. He was still in control of his mind and his options, and he could slay monsters just fine the old-fashioned way with weapons. He was certain he hadn't burned himself by killing the first robber with the mace.

He had options. So instead, he focused on other things.

Opening his hand, he looked down at the skill shard. Grimm's skill shard. A part of the man's Gift lay in the palm of his hand. And once Thomas reached level three, he intended to incorporate it into his body.

That may not be a good idea, but he wanted the power. It resonated with him, just as Healing and Adaptation mana had. And it also bothered him that a part of Grimm's twisted soul was reflected in his own.

Nope. He was not going to overthink this or pre-guilt himself about it. He and Grimm might share the same inner love of finding valuable things, but they were not the same people.

Besides, Thomas couldn't use that skill shard until he reached level 3. So that was going to be his next goal. He was already a good way there. This whole experience had forced him to burn his core back down to a level two base, where he'd started to rebuild it by absorbing level 2 Healing crystals and then Wellspring mana. Thanks to all the loot drops, he also had an A-grade Healing crystal that would go a long way.

Now I just need to find some level 2 Adaptation mana. He looked inward, studying his core. Yeah, that was what he wanted. Healing, Wellspring, and Adaptation. That would be the proper mix to bring himself up to level three.

He started his car, and to his relief, the engine turned over with no problem. It seemed the hail of bullets hadn't hit anything vital... other than his chest. Healing could definitely come in clutch, even if it came with caveats.

Level 3 was his next goal, right after he set a thing or two right in his life.
