“Oh, come on,” I said as I blinked at the tiny Xs to close the pop-ups. A few of them tried to open up browsers right in front of me despite being closed. Had to shut those down in a hurry. The little fans on the cpu of my gear started to spin. It tickled the back of my neck.Daniel laughed. “Just endure it for a bit. Maybe keep your eye closed and use the other?”I glared at him.“Oh, yeah. Uh. Once we’re in, I can jack into your system and run an anti-malware sweep. Free of charge.”I weighed the offer. Daniel had pulled a few pranks before. That thing with the tiny cameras in the bathrooms had earned him a beating, but that had been years ago. And he was usually pretty alright.The dancing images of naked women in the corner of my vision made up my mind for me. “What's in it for you?”“I get to spend time with two pretty ladies and away from the kittens?” Daniel asked.“... fair enough.”The kittens in question were oohing and ahhing around the entrance lobby. It was a simple enough room. Large, and done up in sterile white and chrome, with holograms of New Montreal’s most popular Samurai hovering off to the side.I recognized Three Swipes, and Tiny, and Maplefly as their forms flashed by, but the others, especially those long dead or the B-listers, were complete strangers.Samurai weren’t my thing. If there was really a hierarchy of people who were important out there, then they were just a step below the CEOs and presidents of all the biggest megacorps in the world. The fact that half of those were Samurai themselves just blurred the line.I didn’t buy into the whole ‘superhuman’ schtick some of them put on, and their whole gimmick of trying to look like heroes while living in penthouses just rubbed me the wrong way. Lucy was way into them though, so I had picked some names up by osmosis.“Children,” Bitchbot said, snapping me out of my daydreams. “Please line up and present your identification chits at the gate.”The kids formed a rough line leading up to the security gate where an android smiled at them, checked their ID, and clamped a bracelet onto their right wrist before letting them through with a “Enjoy your day at the Rose Blair Museum, courtesy of Nimbletainment Inc!”With each repetition of the greeting and slogan, another kitten was let through the gate and into the next room over.I pushed Daniel up to the gate before me, and after sliding over an ID chit that was scanned by the android’s glowing eyes, he was let through with a shiny new bracelet. Then it was my turn.“Here,” I said as I fished my ID chit from my wallet and placed it on the counter.The android picked it up, scanned it, and placed it back down with a pleasant smile. “Thank you, Catherine Leblanc. Please present your right hand for your confirmation bracelet.”“I can’t,” I said.The Android paused for a moment. “Please present your right hand for your confirmation bracelet.”Sighing, I raised the six-inch stub that was my right arm. The burns and ugly scars weren’t visible under my tied off shirt, but I knew they were there. “Can you put it on this?”The android froze up for a moment, staring at the missing limb. “Please present your right hand for your confirmation bracelet.”“Can I give you my left?” I asked. I knew where this was going and hoped the primitive junk AI in the android could skip past the trouble.“Please present your right hand for your confirmation bracelet.”I resisted the urge to say something rude. “Can you verify my ID? Please check under the disabilities subheading.”“I can,” the android said. “By presenting your Id chit you have consented to giving Nimbletainment a current copy, in perpetuity, of your personal information. You have... two major disabilities. One missing right eye with mild-to-severe nerve damage. One missing right arm with nerve damage associated with mild-to-severe burns.”“Can I put on a bracelet on my right hand if I don’t have a right hand?” I asked.Lucy patted my back, a reminder to keep civil.“I will contact customer support. One moment. You are a valuable customer!”“Oh, fuck me.”Ancient pop music from the mid 2020s started playing from out of the android’s mouth and I stepped to the side, my only desire right then was to beat my head against the wall to the tune of some long-dead artist’s idea of sellable pop.This day was off to a spectacular start.***
