He saw her anyway, his eyes tracking her aversion. He asked, “A two in seven gift, perhaps? Do you feel we should pay Erick back in kind?”

“My humble opinion is surely wrong, Master Shadoweater.”

Bulgan turned and stared at her. “You weren’t even startled to hear that this came from Erick, were you?”

“It is my job to know such things, and the man you pressed into the ground informed me of this possibility, before you arrived.” Justine said, “Lemons were a variety of citrus not known to the accomplished farmer until after Archmage Flatt came along and created them.”

Bulgan scowled at nothing in particular, then turned to Justine, unerringly hitting her faults, as he said, “Lies. You didn’t know until minutes ago. You’re supposed to know more about your assigned archmage than most. Why did you not know this until now?”

She had been found out.

Oh well.

If she thought that answering truthfully would help, she would tell Bulgan a true answer; that Justine was not allowed to venture outside of Candlepoint in search of any real sources, Erick hadn’t spoken about lemons in any of the short times he had been here, and listening to the shadows of the Temple was rather hit or miss and a deluge of information all at the same time. Her God kept track of quite a lot, all at once, but Justine was not a god, nor even a Shade. ‘Lemons’ had likely come up once or twice before, but understanding the stream was not a perfect magic.

But Bulgan would not want to hear any of that. He likely didn’t want to hear anything that wasn’t groveling.

Justine dropped to her knees, dirtying her farmer’s dress further, as she put her hands on the dirt, saying, “Please forgive me, Master Bulgan. I try, but it is difficult to hear of every major thing.”

To call the existence of lemons a major or minor thing would, in either case, draw Bulgan’s ire. The Shade was wild and unpredictable in most ways, save for how he dealt with imagined slights against himself.

But it was only when the words had already passed her lips, that she considered that she could have said nothing; she could have just apologized and left it at that. As she stared at the ground, she wondered if she was already so far gone that she had allowed her mouth to run away with her life. Had she only mentally chided Mephistopheles before, because she saw in him her own fraying sanity?

“So you say this is my fault? This not knowing?” Bulgan’s voice rumbled with power.

With her face centimeters from the dirt, Justine had no idea what Bulgan looked like, or how mad he truly was, or how to possibly rectify this situation. But she dared not look up; that much impudence would surely end her, at that very moment.

Bulgan spoke, “Perhaps sitting beside the Well is not good enough. Perhaps I ought to throw you back into the deep, so that you can acquaint yourself fully with God’s Voice.”

Justine sat up, instantly, acting on impulse and need, rather than any modicum of self preservation. She stared Bulgan straight in his bright, white eyes, and spoke, “O’ Holy Daughter Rozeta, this lost one beseeches your sight, and touch. Save me, please.”

Bulgan’s eyes went wide and worried as he reached for her with every shadow in the soil, under the clouds, and even under his own, grasping hand—

But Justine knew only pain. Every part of her was stripped away in flensing, cleansing ribbons of light, that flashed to flame, all at once. Blood, flesh, and bone burned on the pyre of Justine’s soul, freely given, to other, brighter gods.

If she had existed for a few more seconds, she might have heard Bulgan curse, as he reached for her burning soul and burned himself for his greed, and need to crush. She might have seen his following wrath tear great chunks from the soil of the Farm expansion, and his arm fail to instantly regrow. He’d be sporting that look for a day, at least.

If she still existed, in any mortal form at all, she might have heard the shadows laugh.

- - - -

For a long while, Justine knew nothing. She was a space among other spaces, same as any she could think to inhabit. Perhaps she was in a room. Or on a cloud. Or in the black bowl of a long dead volcano. Or perhaps on the Silver Star, looking down upon Veird for the first time in her long, interrupted life.

She was many places, and nowhere at all, for she was being watched not through her own senses, but through those of other, greater eyes.

She saw herself as a person trying to make the best of a bad situation, and also as a traitor to every other life on Veird. Swiftly, came another thought: That the world is too small, and there was a chance here to expand, if only a chance would be taken.

Dark words boomed.

“Aren’t you tired of this tiny world? This is a compromise.”

Justine’s part in the debate was over.

She dropped down a level. Looking up, she saw ideas and touches and sights, argue in the not-spaces of the world, talking over each other and talking with each other, on multiple levels and through multiple times, adding harmonies and discords as they spoke for an eternity. Her own mind barely understood what she was seeing, and hearing, and feeling, but she saw and felt and heard it all. A part of her lamented; she would never be able to tease out the truths from the enormity she was witnessing. Remembering any of it would be difficult, and mostly impossible.

Ah… But she was no longer constrained by mortal bonds, here. So for now, she could experience. For now, she could participate. But she had no mortal body, and when she found her ability to give voice to her thoughts, her thoughts came out in an existent tumble, that were not at all eloquent or refined, and neither were they words.

But those truths she spoke sounded, felt, and were, something like this, “I want to live free of torment.”

Existence shifted. Countless voices saw her give voice to her primal need.

They put her aside for others to deal with, as the debate continued overhead.

Ephemeral became something more substantial. Solid. The nothingness and everything around Justine’s disembodied form became blue sky and white clouds. A silver moon occupied the world down below. Pink Hell and white Celes hung on opposite horizons; they were present, but not in power, in this space. They were merely observers, for now.

A man that was not a man stepped into the sky, to face Justine from meters away. His skin was pale purple, and fully on display, save for a simple wrap of white cloth around his sex. Tiny horns poked up from his head. His eyes were kind, but resigned.

A woman that was not a woman stepped onto a cloud beside Justine, close enough to touch. She wore a simple white dress, nothing special and completely utilitarian, but her skin was like a pearl; lustrous and solid as a wrought’s.

And finally, came a speck of darkness holding in the air to Justine’s side. It resolved into a blot upon the world; unknowable and untouchable, and somehow always in the corners of Justine’s sight.

Melemizargo said, “She is mine, by right of Pledge.”

Rozeta said, “She is mine, by right of Plea.”

Koyabez said, “She is mine, by right of Providence.”

An arbiter came forward, resolving into something more familiar. The same familiar white horns. The same familiar white skin. But this reflection held something Justine had not seen in an age; her red eyes. Seeing them upon another reminded Justine of a simpler time, when the daycrystal would light, sending tickling tendrils of brightness onto her own eyes, waking her for the day. She would spend a good handspan of minutes in front of the mirror every morning, putting up her hair, tending to her horns and ears, applying her makeup how her mother had shown her, before skipping out into town, back to the workshops, or to the herb gardens, or fields.

Justine hadn’t seen those familiar, unfamiliar red eyes in a long time. Not since the siege, and the breaking of her home city.

The next time she was existent, she had been pulled from the pile, from the Well, but her eyes were not there. She still remembered the day, much later, when she saw her reflection in the kendrithyst for the first time since death, when she saw that her once ruby red eyes, were now hollow, dark orbs.

Phagar, God of Death and Time, looked upon Justine like a being inspecting themselves, and said, “Pledge, Plea, or Providence. Your choice is thus. Each path is fraught with danger. Each choice leads to a different outcome. But there is another choice, and I give it to you, now:

“Abandon all hope and enter into oblivion.

“The End is a path outside of those laid down by others. If you have had enough. If you have felt enough horror and known enough despair, the End can be the end to all of this torment. Do not make this choice lightly, for it cannot be undone, but instead take heart in the mark you’ve left on those yet to come. In other lives, yet to exist. In other opportunities you have given those who have witnessed your life.

“But in the End, there is only you, and your life, and your choice. Though you might not have had many of those oft fabled ‘choices’ in your mortal time, you have this one.”

Four gods looked upon Justine, waiting for her answer.

For the briefest of eternities, Justine saw herself, expanded. Her life laid down in every direction, and every choice she ever made. It was yet another moment that she would never remember but always struggle to recall, like a good dream left too soon. There were nightmares in that time, of course, as there would be for anyone, and especially for Justine. But it was still a sight to behold. It was nice, it was awful, it was full of opportunity, and many times, it was full of hard choices between one horror or another. But it was still something.

Something was better than nothing.

Pledge, Plea, or Providence. Each choice left down a different path. Justine was allowed a taste of each.

To rejoin the Darkness. To give up her foray into other options, to come back to the fold, and be in a position to actually help Candlepoint, and those living within, from the inside.

To confront the Darkness. To join the war against Candlepoint. To speak to those who would listen, yet know that most would not. Most would look to end her life, and to cut her tongue from her mouth.

To speak to the Darkness, and hope for something better. A middle path. A confrontation with those who knew the most, both of the shadows and of the light. A life honestly given in the hopes of a more balanced future.

Justine spoke with her soul, “I choose Providence.”

Clouds vanished. Darkness pulled away. All that remained was silver land stretching from moon-capped horizon to horizon, and the world of Veird, high, high above.

Koyabez spoke, “I see you, Justine Erholme. Do not disappoint.”

The sky, the moons, and Veird, all tumbled together, as gravity took hold of Justine, and dragged her through the void, to her destination. Somewhere in the passage, she regained a body. Was it hers? She did not know. Hands flailed through the void, and she controlled them.

All she felt was a cold emptiness in her burning lungs.

A silver-ringed [Gate] appeared. On this side: nothing. On that side: A city full of enemies, a torrential storm of air, and something unexpected.

Justine hurtled through the silver ring like a white, naked comet.

- - - -

The world flashed white, and then resolved into the foyer of the house, everything looking exactly as Erick had left it. He dismissed his Handy Aura, releasing Poi and Ophiel, as he walked toward the kitchen, saying, “I’ll get dinner started—”

A crash shook the house. Erick startled as Ophiel squawked. Poi instantly went on high alert, holding a hand to his face, a dozen tendrils of intent radiating from his skull.

Erick started, “What—!”

“Backyard garden.” Poi rushed off in that direction, adding, “Something—”

Erick blipped to the door that faced the rear garden, and threw it open, summoning another Ophiel as he did, preparing to defend himself and his home from whoever had thrown the first punch.

As the door opened, dirt fell into the house, and dust filled the air. Erick blew the dust away with an [Airshape], partially revealing a crater littered with burning debris. The dense air of the house must have prevented much of the missile’s damage, but it was an indirect attack, anyway. It was never meant to destroy the house…

Did Erick have that right?

Poi spoke from behind Erick. “The Guard spotted the missile before it entered Spur’s airspace, four seconds ago. It was meant as a direct attack, but they deflected with some last second [Force Wall]s.” He said, “I think we were in the middle of a [Teleport] when the attack started.” Poi looked past the door, down into the crater, but he did not stick his head past the [Prismatic Ward]. “We’re on high alert, now. No other sightings. But… Uh. I think that was the end of it?”

Erick looked down into the crater, and saw what Poi had seen. “Oh!”

As pushed wind cleared the crater, the nature of the missile stood revealed. Down at the bottom of the hole, was broken, burned wood, and fruit covered boughs. Lemons, limes, and otherwise, had ruptured on the orange stone. Surely some rock had been thrown as well, but the missile here was mostly the heavy wood of the Myriad Citrus; tons and tons of it, if Erick guessed right.

Erick threw a [Tree of Light] out into the mess of burned wood, targeting the largest intact section of trunk and root in sight. Light glittered along white roots, but nothing happened. It was dead.

