After Erun told them about the other shelter cities, Elise and Charlotte spent the next week searching for the tunnels that lead to them. Erun assured them that they existed, and that they wouldn’t have to go through the central city, but their locations was one of those things that he couldn’t remember no matter what, and their locations were not at all intuitive.

The first one was caved in. With no idea what direction they were facing, Elise had dubbed the massive tunnel leading to the central city—and the source of the soul storms—to be north. They found the first tunnel almost directly to the east, and it was completely blocked by a wall of rubble a hundred feet high. Elise hadn’t even registered it as a former tunnel originally because it was piled so much higher than every other tunnel. It was like an entire sheet of stone had come off the wall and crumbled around it.

Charlotte had a Skill called {Geolocation} that she used to see how thick it was, and the Skill couldn’t find the end of the cave-in. With their magic, it still probably wouldn’t have been too difficult to make it through, but given the obvious instability of this part of the cavern, and how long it would take, they decided to find the other tunnel before making a decision.

The second tunnel was also buried, but in a much more accessible location. Knowing that one of the tunnels was due east, they scoured the area due west until Charlotte’s {Geolocation} picked it up. This time, Elise felt a little less dumb, since its location was not obvious at all. The first tunnel was in the wall like almost every other tunnel, but this one was in the ground, and it was buried under a collapsed building, so there was really no way for her to have noticed it on her own.

The collapsed building was large, but thankfully, the tunnel beneath it was clear, according to Charlotte. There must have been a convenient door or something to keep the building debris out.

It took another week to clear that out, and throughout both weeks, they went back to Erun every day to practice soul pulses. He greatly enjoyed the company, but after every session, Elise got worried. Every aether pulse they aimed at him had a negative effect on his soul, and while he seemed to bounce back after a night in the sarcophagus, Elise worried that they might have been accidentally damaging him more than he could handle.

Sixteen days after learning about the other cities, the night before Elise and Charlotte planned to set out on their expedition, they woke up in the middle of the night to the sound of a bloodcurdling scream followed by a crash that shook the entire cavern. Elise shot out of her house as Charlotte leapt from her cave, and they both ran to the entrance, peering out.

A cloud of dust rose from the distance as an Abyssal wyrm writhed in pain on the ground. They watched for half a minute until it finally fell still, and the dust began to settle. It was too far away to see clearly what had killed it, but a few minutes later, a lurching figure stumbled back in through the castle’s main gate, and Elise’s worst fears were confirmed.

In the more than a year since she had arrived in the cavern, she had never seen or heard anything like this. Erun had completely kept to himself in the castle, except for that first day she arrived when she accidentally got half the monsters in the cavern riled up hunting her. And yet just a few weeks after meeting him and starting to work on aether pulses with him, he had done this. It was no coincidence.

“Erun?” Charlotte muttered.

“He’s sick,” said Elise.

“He needs a healer?”

“…I don’t know if there’s a healer that can help him.”

Maybe if we can somehow get the Healer and Sage here…

Elise was able to get back to sleep after that incident, but it was a restless sleep, and when she woke up the next morning, she did not feel very refreshed. Charlotte looked to be a little more disheveled as well, and was not as chipper as usual. They weathered the soul storm together, then went toward the castle. Their original plan was to say their farewells to Erun before setting out, and they still wanted to do that, but it was a much more nervous visit than it otherwise would have been.

The castle doors were still open when they arrived, and as Elise had discovered was the norm, Erun was sitting down in front of the painting of Ber’Isel. Elise had only had one more dream of Ber’Isel in the past few weeks, and it was not at all coherent, so she was no closer to figuring out her connection than she had been. Still, every time she saw the ancient queen’s face, she was filled with an overwhelming sense of familiarity.

Erun had his mask off again, and when they opened the door, he didn’t seem to hear them. He had his left hand on his face, and was muttering to himself about something. From his aether, he seemed relatively stable, so Elise risked calling out to him.

“Erun?”

He turned to her, and for the first time, Elise got to see part of his face. He was a handsome man, with a sharp jaw and aquiline nose, and pale green eyes. He was not young, but he wasn’t old either. Elise would put him around 40, if they were on Earth, but knowing how this world worked, she wouldn’t be surprised if he had been significantly older when he lichified himself.

I know him.

Just like when she had first seen the painting of queen Ber’Isel, she immediately felt a sense of familiarity. It was nowhere near as strong, but she was absolutely certain she had seen that face somewhere before.

Was he in any of the dreams…?

“You again,” he said.

He never turned to fully face them, regarding them out of the side of his eye, but his expression was one of deep suspicion and wariness.

“We’re going to leave soon,” said Elise. “We wanted to say goodbye, at least for now. We’ll be back, but we’re not sure when.”

“I see.”

He put his mask back on and stood up, finally turning to fully face them. After seeing his expression, and witnessing what he had done the night before, Elise suddenly felt threatened. She had to force herself not to take a nervous step back as he approached, and mentally prepared to summon their final emergency teleportation scroll. He stopped a few feet in front of them.

“Charlotte,” he said. “And you… I don’t think you ever told me your name.”

“It’s Elise,” said Elise for what felt like the hundredth time.

“Hmmm… No.”

“What?”

He turned around without answering, going to pull the curtain back over Ber’Isel’s painting, then walked right between Elise and Charlotte, exiting the room. He went straight to his bedroom, Elise and Charlotte following and watching as he got into his sarcophagus.

“So you’re leaving now?” he said. “To the other cities to find the others?”

“Yes,” said Elise.

“And I’ll be alone again.”

“We’re sorry,” said Charlotte.

“It’s fine. I haven’t been quite feeling myself lately. Maybe some distance will be good for me…”

“Oh, maybe!” Charlotte brightened up.

“We’ll be back,” said Elise. “Whatever we find there, we’ll head back.”

“I wish you the best of luck.”

There was a moment of silence.

“We’ll be going now, then. Goodbye, Erun.”

“Goodbye.”

Elise glanced at him one more time, then turned to leave. It was not the farewell she had been picturing, but it wasn’t the one she was worried about either. As she left the castle with Charlotte, the stress she had been feeling faded, and her mind instead turned to something that had been vaguely bothering her for a while now.

She had idly wondered for a while now why Erun could never remember her name. His memory was shot, obviously, but he always knew Charlotte’s, and always seemed confused when Elise told him hers. It was strange, but until that point, it hadn’t been quite strange enough for her to really worry about it. Not with everything else that was going on.

Now, though… She had thought about it more, and decided that she had not dreamed about Erun. She could not remember hearing his voice in any of the dreams, and even then, recognizing his face after hearing his voice just wasn’t right. That combined with the fact that she had recognized Ber’Isel made her certain of one thing. It wasn’t just deja vu. She had known these people.

But how?

The answer came to her almost immediately. Maggie’s words from all that time ago, down in the dunnels beneath Everspring. She did not have the Rune of Fate because she was reincarnated. She was reincarnated because she had the Rune of Fate. She had already had it before she was born here. Did that mean she already had it on Earth? Or did she get it during that missing period between her death and rebirth?

If it was the latter, then at some point after dying, she had to have run into Ber’Isel and Erun… but that didn’t make sense. She had talked to Jessie and found that their timelines lined up. Jessie died exactly one year before Elise did on Earth, and appeared in this world almost exactly a year earlier as well. The exact timing was difficult to pin down, since Elise didn’t know if she had lost any days underground, and the memories of her earliest days somewhat blurred together, but it was very close. And Erun was still here, and had been the whole time, so she couldn’t have met him now. Unless time wasn’t actually linear and she had somehow met them in the past or future before reincarnating in the present.

But thinking about that made her head hurt, and it was pointless when there was a much simpler solution. She already had the rune. She had it back on Earth as well, which didn’t make sense in a world where, as far as she was aware, aether and mana didn’t exist. How would she have gotten it back on Earth?

I already reincarnated once. Why not a second time as well?

In that case, a lot of things suddenly made sense. Sort of. At least, a lot of things only seemed to only have one or two missing pieces, instead of a mystery number. If she had been someone from this time before, and had then reincarnated to Earth, then back here, that would explain how she recognized Erun and Ber’Isel, and it would also explain her Rune of Fate. Though at the same time, that implied that Jessie was somehow similar, which didn’t quite fit, unless there was one more factor.

Something else had happened with her reincarnation. She couldn’t remember who she was, and her only memories of the past had been in the form of snippets of dreams. She also couldn’t remember what happened after she died, which was another hole, but she suspected it was related to why she couldn’t remember her former identity.

So, she had been from this time, and had known people like Erun and Ber’Isel, and for some reason, her memories were being stifled. Meanwhile, Jessie’s weren’t. Probably.

Was she hiding them from me? Or does she not remember her past life either?

She would have loved to ask, but all the sealed heroes had completely blocked any kind of contact, including dreamwalking, and since Jessie was traveling with the Sage and Healer, she was unreachable too. There would be no way for her to find them. Not on her own.

I should ask Oberon. If anyone could find an ancient celestial who didn’t want to be found, it was him.

While still lost in her thoughts, they reached the tunnel leading to the other city, and while Elise kept moving, Charlotte came to a stop. Elise slowed down, looking back in confusion and found that Charlotte was also looking back.

“Charlotte,” Elise called. “What are you doing?”

“Is Erun going to be okay?”

Elise didn’t respond at first. Her real answer was ‘no.’ She didn’t trust Erun’s stability, but she trusted his diagnosis of his soul’s state. It had a hole in it, and it wasn’t getting better. He might stop getting worse without them bothering him every day, but he wouldn’t get any better. It was only a matter of time before he completely lost control and either descended fully into madness, or died.

But could she tell Charlotte that? Charlotte was still so young. She had never lost anyone. Would she even understand?

“I don’t know,” she said finally. “We can only hope.”

Charlotte looked back for a second longer, then finally turned and joined Elise on the way to the second city.

The tunnel beneath the broken building was pristine. It started with a set of stone stairs leading down before leveling out, and every inch of it looked almost brand new. The steps were barely worn, and there were no chips or cracks. There was barely even any dust.

The tunnel felt a little bit strange to be completely manmade, at least with how it sometimes twisted and wound, but if it wasn’t manmade, it was still man-polished. The walls felt almost like a marble countertop with how sleek they were, and the ground sometimes squeaked under her shoes when she walked. It felt wrong for such a place to be down here. Where were the monsters? Where was the damage?

It only remained like this for a half mile or so before things started to change slightly. It was not major, but there was finally evidence of other creatures having been here. Not much, but there were occasional scratches in the wall, and occasional biological waste or even blood. After about a mile, they saw their first monsters. It was a pack of Abyssal Rats, and Elise and Charlotte made quick work of them. Their presence largely answered the question of what happened to the monsters down here. They either died to the soul storms, or found there way over here and joined up with the pack.

They moved cautiously at first, but after three miles or so with nothing but empty tunnel and the occasional pack of rats, they decided to pick up the pace, floating above the ground and rocketing through. There were occasionally tunnels leading off to the sides that they investigated, but they never went anywhere. Just small rest stops or outposts or something. One had an Abyssal Mimic in it, which Charlotte wanted to fight. Elise wasn’t too keen on the idea, but Charlotte pleaded and promised to be careful, and Elise ultimately relented.

As it turned out, Elise did not need to be worried. The Abyssal Mimic’s soul was stronger than Charlotte’s, but it didn’t actually have any soul attacks, and its body was weaker. Charlotte just wove a quick web halfway down the tunnel, then chucked a glob of acid at it. It screamed and pushed out, running right into the web. The web was not strong enough to stop it, but it slowed it down, and the web was also full of acid that damaged its many tentacles.

From there, Charlotte just went in with her bare hands, literally tearing it to pieces until it stopped moving. By the end, its screams had turned from rage to pain, and Elise found herself pitying it to the point that she almost ended it early with a {Power Word Kill}.

Once dead, the mimic almost completely lost its shape, turning into an amorphous pile of tentacles and eyes with a giant, deflated mouth in the front. Charlotte gorged herself on the corpse while Elise flew over the top to see what was behind it. There was a room, and while it was only a small rest stop room, it had answered a question that Elise should have answered a while back. The tunnels with the mimics weren’t dug by the mimics. Not all of them, at least. That meant that if she went and killed the others in Erun’s city, she might find other things waiting behind. Probably not much, since the smaller tunnels didn’t seem very important, but perhaps she could find some clues to the city’s past, or something to jog her missing memory.

After killing the mimic, it wasn’t long before they reached another staircase, this one also leading downward, and at the end, there was a door. Charlotte’s {Geolocation} said that the door wasn’t blocked, and that there probably wasn’t anything waiting for them on the other side. Charlotte tried to push the door open, but it wouldn’t budge, and before Elise could tell her it was probably a pull door, she just reached her acid-coated hands through and tore a massive chunk away. Elise winced, the student in her lamenting the loss of a piece of ancient history, but the damage was done, and a way had been opened, so she kept her mouth shut.

On the other side of the door, there was a large cavern full of buildings. It was similar to Erun’s city, but much smaller. It was smaller even than the underground dwarven city, and it didn’t have a castle in the center. There was a palace-looking building on the leftmost wall, but that was about it. Elise was pretty sure this wasn’t the city they were looking for, but didn’t want to miss anything, so she and Charlotte spent the next few hours exploring.

Like Erun’s city, there was a large cave leading up to the center city, and similarly, it was full of significantly more dangerous monsters. Elise and Charlotte traveled a short way up, but when they ran into a pack of Abyssal Wolves, the evolutions of the Abyssal Hounds, they decided to turn around. The wolves were still within their ability to handle, but if there were other evolved versions of the Abyssal monsters, like gods-forbid a Greater Abyssal Wyrm, they wouldn’t be able to survive. Not yet, at least.

The small underground town had nothing of particular interest. Unlike Erun’s castle, the palace didn’t have any ancient liches living in it, and the interior had been destroyed by thousands of years of monsters spawning and battling. Almost nothing was intact except for a carved crest above the front doorway that Elise thought looked vaguely similar to something she had seen in Erun’s castle.

The next half of the day went almost identical to the first half. They found a tunnel on the opposite side of the one they had come in, they traveled down it for a while, killing the occasional monster and checking the offshoot passages in case of anything important, then emerged into another, similarly-sized town cavern. The tunnels seemed to be curving ever-so-slightly to the right, so while they had been moving one direction, Elise felt like they were probably more northwest of their starting point, rather than just west. It made sense in her mind for the cities to be placed in a circle around the central one too.

By her vague calculations, they had at this point traveled about a quarter of the way around the circle. If the major cities were equidistant from each other, the next tunnel would take them to their final destination, though she figured they wouldn’t have time tonight. Not if they gave this town a thorough scouring too.

She was a little impatient to reach their destination, but they also had no good reason to rush, and she knew she would regret it if she missed anything here, so just like before, they set out to explore the city. They killed some monsters, checked some old buildings, and double checked to make sure that the path to the center was as impassable as always, and then finally, they went to the palace.

The crest above the palace doorway was the same as the one above the previous one. Five stars surrounding an eye, carved into a circular stone. It vaguely reminder her of the five-flowered petal pattern that made up the Rune of Fate, and she suspected that wasn’t a coincidence.

They went inside, and found the interior much the same as the previous one. The wooden furniture had rotted to nothing, and the stone furniture was in so many pieces it was hard to tell it was even furniture. Surprisingly, though, there were no monsters. Not in the early parts. Elise sensed something in the back that she wanted to investigate, but they double checked all the front chambers first, just in case.

As they got closer to the back, the thing Elise sensed became clearer, and she realized it was not one thing, but five things. Five living creatures, all in one room. The room was near the back, next to what Elise thought might have been the bedroom, and for some reason, they were all standing in a perfectly straight line. It was a little creepy.

“Careful,” she sent to Charlotte with {Whisper}. “I’ll open the door on the count of three. They don’t feel too strong, but be ready to fight. 1. 2. 3.”

Elise pushed the door open, then froze, staring at the interior. There were five figures standing there, all humanoid, and all facing away from the door. They were wearing robes, and while it was too dark to make out the details, they all seemed to be looking at a painting hanging on the back wall.

Elise held up a hand to stop Charlotte from attacking, and at that point, the figures finally turned around to look at them.

They were not human.