“Surprised no one tried anything,” the Guardian said as he stood up straight.

“I’m not,” Jacob smiled in response as the two started walking down the hallway. “In such a setting, no one with enough sense to become a World Leader in the Holy Church would dare make a fuss.”

“People can be surprising and act unpredictably,” Bertram shrugged.

“True,” the Augur sighed. “Speaking of unpredictable, what’s the word from Kindroth?”

While the Holy Church was officially gone from the Milky Way Galaxy and Jacob had shut down plans to infiltrate and slowly try to regain control of it, that didn’t mean he had entirely cut off all connection to the galaxy. Kindroth, the elven World Leader of the most populous planet in the Milky Way Galaxy, was a follower of a god who often worked with the Holy Church, despite not being a member, and that working relationship had extended to his followers. While he didn’t directly work for Jacob, he did help provide information and keep the Holy Church up to date, allowing them to keep the semblance of an existence in Jacob’s home galaxy.

“Things seem to be going well for them. They’re still dealing with what’s suspected to be remnant followers of Ell’Hakan and Yip of Yore, but they’re handling it,” Bertram answered. “As for Jake, the latest news is that he recently did a dungeon with Casper before returning to Haven, after which Kindroth doesn’t know anything. I think it’s a safe bet he’s working on his profession as he’s yet to evolve.”

Jacob nodded, everything indeed being as they expected. Okay, he was a little surprised to hear that Casper and Jake had done a dungeon together, but it also made him a little happy. The two of them had always gotten along, and Jacob was glad to hear that they had the opportunity to spend some time together.

“With that covered, have you had a chance to look through that crystal you got last week yet?” Bertram asked in a teasing voice. “Now that you’ve reached B-grade, people are starting to find it weird you haven’t found one yet...”

Jacob glared daggers at his Guardian, who just chuckled in response.

“What? I’m just a Guardian; such things aren’t expected of me,” Bertram shrugged. “And I’m sure you can find at least a few pleasant ladies on that list. Even if you’re not interested, just doing something should buy you some time.”

The poor Augur wanted to protest, but kept quiet, just closing his eyes and sighing. He really wasn’t interested in any kind of relationship, but the external pressure to have one was growing. While it wasn’t anything that was forced upon anyone or a requirement of any kind, relationships, primarily with the aim of producing children, were highly encouraged by the Holy Church, and as the leader, people expected Jacob to set an example. Until now, he’d been able to use the excuse that he wanted to focus on reaching B-grade first, but that one naturally no longer worked.

With resignation and another teasing glance from Bertram, Jacob at least entertained his guardian as he took out the damn crystal while walking down the hallway toward the teleportation circle. The crystal was filled with what he could only describe as magical, overly detailed dating profiles, and going through them genuinely made Jacob feel weird. Sure, a lot of them seemed nice, but he really didn’t want to give anyone false hope either.

He was just skipping through names when he suddenly saw a familiar one that made him stop.

Inera?

The daughter of a Grand Master, leading a band of Templars, and was himself in B-grade. Reading that name brought back many memories of the Tutorial and the period just after, when he and Bertram had spent time with Inera and the Grand Master before returning to Earth.

In the profile, he saw that she was C-grade, and without thinking much, Jacob infused a bit of energy into the crystal, conveying that he was willing to meet her. If for nothing else but to catch up and hear what the woman who’d helped him a lot in his early days was up to... while also getting a lot of people off his back. Hopefully, it would at least buy him some time.
