“Good. That's good.” Artemis said and floated up into the air to rub the sides of his face as Dire Werewolf Ren calmed down. “Hey, Teepo. Are you okay?”

“I don't know.” Teepo said from Ren's shoulder. “I just froze. I couldn't move, or talk, or do anything at all.” He said. “I couldn't even think straight.”

“Teeeeeepo.” Dire Werewolf Ren said.

“Ren, don't ever take this form again.” Teepo warned him.

“Woooon't.”

“Then hurry up and change back.” Teepo said.

“Tryinnnng.” Dire Werewolf Ren said. “Harrrrrd. Connncennntrate.”

“We are not sitting here with you like this for another 5 hours.” Artemis said, and she felt surprise from the Pervarians. “Let me help you.”

“Hoooow?”

“I'm your touchstone, remember?” Artemis said and ran her hands over the top of his head and ruffled his mane and rubbed his ears. “So, touch me.”

Dire Werewolf Ren lifted his massive hands and looked at the huge claws that stuck out of them. “Dannnger.”

“Retract them, stupid.” Artemis chuckled, and she felt surprise from him.

“Rrrretrrract?” Dire Werewolf Ren growled, then he squinted his eyes and power flooded out of him.

Tatya gasped and trembled at the feeling and started to purr, despite her desperate need to fight it.

“Okaaay. Trrrry.” Dire Werewolf Ren said. After about 10 seconds, the claws slowly pulled back into his paw-like hands and then disappeared as if they had never been there. “Diiiid it.”

“Good job!” Artemis said and scratched his cheeks, then she dismissed the Full Illusion spell to reveal her bright and shiny metal skin. Everyone in the caravan felt Dire Werewolf Ren's reaction to seeing that, then Artemis slowly lowered her dress to reveal her breasts.

“Artemisss.” Dire Werewolf Ren said and he put a hand behind her back to hold her steady and used his other large paw-like hand to rub her chest. Artemis started to moan right away and Dire Werewolf Ren became very, very excited. Tatya saw the size of that reaction and felt his nearly endless desire, because in this form he couldn't concentrate and keep it restrained like he normally did. Her own body responded to it almost as much as Artemis did, and started to pant in time with Artemis' moans.

“Ren, I... I need you.” Artemis said between moans, then grabbed his hands. “The real you.”

Dire Werewolf Ren growled his frustration at being stopped, then all the power he was putting out slowed down, came to a stop, then started to recede. The Pervarians didn't try to hide their shock at the change in the power's flow, then it moved faster and faster as Dire Werewolf Ren sucked it all back in.

“Neeeeed yoooou!” Dire Werewolf Ren said and concentrated hard on changing back. “Cannn't waaait!” He said and lifted his head and howled an agonizing howl as he finally managed to swallow all of the power and they felt his pain from doing it so quickly. His Ultimate Terror Aura disappeared and his face started to cave in on itself, then Artemis floated down to the carriage floor as Dire Werewolf Ren's body deflated and became smaller and smaller. When she landed on the floor and had pulled her dress back up, Ren was back to his old self and he had collapsed to his knees.

Notice!

You have declared yourself 'King of the Predators' and given yourself that title. It has combined with your 'The Tainted King' title to become 'The Tainted King of the Predators'. Your skill 'Animal Affinity' (Mastered) has been upgraded to 'Beastiary Control' (Mastered).

Notice!

Submission Aura mastered. Personal Aura +150 feet.

“Artemis.” Ren whispered. His voice was hoarse and his eyes were full of tears. “What did I do?”

“Shh.” Artemis knelt in front of him and took him into a tight hug. She wanted to tell him it was all going to be okay; but, she had never lied to him before and she didn't want to start now, no matter how much she wanted to.
