“What was it that Stella said?” Ren asked, then smiled. “Oh, yeah. I'm the gift that keeps on giving.”

Denise chuckled and gave him another kiss, then scrubbed him clean again.

“Do you want a turn?” Ren asked.

“I... I do... but... not yet.” Denise said as she stood up to turn on the water to rinse him off. “I'm... let me go at my own pace, okay?”

Ren touched her hip, and she looked down at him. “You can go as slow as you want.” He said. “I'm not going anywhere.”

Denise took in a sharp breath, because that almost wasn't true. “Oh, Ren.”

Ren saw a tear in her eye and braced himself as he stood up. He gave her a hug and held her close, and since he was 4 foot 7 inches and she was only 5 foot 3 inches, he lifted his face so it didn't settle between her breasts and kissed her collarbone. Denise hugged him and held him up, and let the water pour over the both of them.

“Let's finish this shower.” Denise said and helped Ren sit down. “Lisa's not going to wait forever for you.”

“Yes, she will.” Ren said and smiled. “I'm awesome.”

Denise chuckled. “Don't get full of yourself.”

“I'm not.” Ren said and grinned. “I really am awesome.”

Denise laughed and made sure all the soap residue was gone from his skin, and turned off the water. She stepped out of the shower and grabbed a couple of towels, and dried him and herself off. She put him in a bathrobe and sat him in the wheelchair, then got dressed herself. She pushed him out into the bedroom and they saw Lisa was already there. She sat on the bed in a bathrobe and waited for him.

“See? I told you she'd wait for me.” Ren said. “Lisa, tell Denise I'm awesome.”

“Ren's awesome.” Lisa said and smiled crookedly.

“Geez, you could at least try to sound convincing.” Ren laughed and Denise helped him onto the bed.

“Where's the fun in that?” Lisa laughed, too.

“You wound me, dear lady.” Ren said and put a hand over his heart.

“A mortal wound!” Lisa said. “Please! Allow me to tend to it!”

“Should I bare my chest to such a wicked woman?” Ren asked.

“Only if you hate being tickled.” Lisa said and wiggled her fingers.

“You win! You win!” Ren said and pulled open his bathrobe instantly. Both Lisa and Denise laughed, and Lisa bent over and kissed his chest above his heart.

“Don't have too much fun, okay?” Denise said and pointed to the television and the countdown. “You only have 90 minutes left.”

“You're right.” Ren said and looked at Lisa. “That's barely enough time for foreplay.”

Lisa wasn't sure if he was joking or not, and Ren saw the skeptical look she had.

“I'm not kidding.” Ren said and grinned, and she shook her head.

“It's a good thing I only have a robe on, then.” Lisa said and started to undo the cloth belt that held it closed.

“What a coincidence.” Ren said and undid his cloth belt to reveal he had nothing on underneath. “Me, too!”

Lisa chuckled and kissed him, and Denise left the bedroom so they could be alone. She could have stayed, since she knew that neither Ren nor Lisa would have objected; but, she wasn't ready to go quite that far with sharing him.

*

Lisa went down to the kitchen an hour later to get them something to eat. “Hey, is there anything quick we could have for lunch?” She asked Denise. “I know it's short notice, but he wants to eat again before going back in.”

“Sandwiches.” Denise said and pointed. Lisa looked over her shoulder to the stack of already made sandwiches on the counter.

“That's great!” Lisa said and picked up the plate. “Thank you.”

“You're welcome.” Denise said, and Lisa stopped beside her. She put a hand on the other woman's shoulder.

“Thanks for giving us privacy, even though you didn't have to.”

Denise smiled. “I hope you used the time well.”

“Oh, we did.” Lisa said and took her hand back. “I still feel weird that he... ah...” She glanced down at herself and her face turned red. “He likes kissing... you know... down there; but, I'm not that fussy about it.”

“But you let him do it.”

“He's just so... earnest and... and thankful.” Lisa said and covered part of her face with a hand to try and hide her growing blush. “It's hard to say no when he asks so politely.”

“I know what you mean.” Denise chuckled. “I'll be up in about 10 minutes to get him changed to go online.”

“I'll let him know.” Lisa said. “Thanks again for the sandwiches.”

“Anytime.” Denise said and watched the happy and embarrassed young lady walk quickly out of the kitchen.
