“Maybe we should check first. Send reconnaissance. Olesm, you’re on good terms with Erin. Go through, check the Goblins.”
“I can’t, Watch Captain.”
Olesm shuffled his feet miserably. Zevara looked at him, and her brows snapped together.
“That was an order, Olesm. I know you have personal feelings, but—”
“It’s not that, Zevara. I can’t go through that door. Can you?”
The Watch Captain stared at Olesm. Then she stared at the doorway. Olesm heard Embria snort.
“What are you talking about? Of course we…”
She trailed off. The crowd gathered around the door looked at each other. They began to realize what Olesm had picked up on. Zevara stared at her feet.
“I can’t walk towards the door.”
“Me neither.”
“Or me.”
Olesm confirmed it. None of the [Soldiers] or [Guards] or adventurers like Keldrass could enter the inn. There were a few exceptions. Bevussa walked forwards, frowning.
“I’m fine. Look, see?”
She walked through the door, walked back, and then opened and closed the door a few times. Pisces appeared in the doorframe after the third time.
“You’re letting the cool air in. Please refrain from doing that.”
He shut the door. The others stared at the shut door. Aside from Bevussa, Mrsha, and Krshia, none of the others could open it. The real question they began debating was why.
“It has to be her aura skill. Erin told me she had one. And she’s using it now, I think. The door’s her property, and you heard what she said. Only Goblins and people who can be civil to Goblins are allowed inside.”
Miserably, Olesm stared at the door. He bet they could overcome the effects, but it would be detrimental to anyone going through. They’d have to fight just to stay in the inn. Embria scowled.
“Only Goblins? That’s racist.”
“Speciesist, you mean.”
“It’s ridiculous! She’s using an aura skill against us? And it’s not—I’m a Wing Commander—I can’t be held back by this!”
She took a step forwards and stopped. Olesm tried to do the same and barely got his foot to move towards the door.
It wasn’t so much of a physical barrier as Olesm strongly not wanting to put his hand on the door handle and swing it open. It wasn’t that he couldn’t—he just didn’t want to. And because that was the case, there was no fighting the emotion unless Olesm concentrated on why he didn’t want to go in. And even then, it was like fighting to keep his eyes open when he was exhausted; if he wavered once, he stepped backwards.
“That is a powerful amount of concentration. Impressive for an [Innkeeper]. No, it would be impressive for a [Lord] below Level 30.”
A quiet voice made Olesm turn. Ilvriss was studying the inn. The [Strategist] looked at him.
“Can you enter the inn, Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
“Of course.”
Ilvriss looked affronted.
“I can enter the inn. If I choose to. And I could repel the effects of her aura around me. The question is whether or not it is tactically viable.”
He strode forwards and opened the door, unimpeded by whatever was happening. He took one look inside the inn and shut the door.
“I see.”
The others waited as Ilvriss stood there, pondering for a second. Then the Wall Lord shook his head.
“Leave them. There’s no point to interference. If the Goblins leave tomorrow morning, all will be satisfactory.”
“And if they don’t, Wall Lord?”
Embria looked angry as she walked forwards, clearly determined to prove a point. She opened the door with effort and stared inside, narrow-eyed. Ilvriss’ voice grew cold.
“My understanding is that Goblins elect new Chieftains if the old ones fall, Wing Commander. Moreover, fighting with Miss Solstice’s aura impeding most of us would be dangerous. If the Goblins are here tomorrow—then we take steps. But as Strategist Olesm has said—what real choice do we have? Let us trust to Erin Solstice’s unique brand of…”
He trailed off. There was no word for it. Ilvriss turned. Zevara stared at the doorway and then turned.
“Get someone with a scroll of [Fireball] and put up some temporary barricades. Just in case. If a Goblin comes through, blast the door and seal it. Otherwise…leave them.”
She strode off. So did Embria, swearing a blue streak much like her father. Olesm watched them go. He stared back at the inn and tried to walk towards the door. But he couldn’t. Shamefaced, he turned away. The inn blazed as he climbed the walls and sat there, staring down at them. Below, the army of Goblins was mingling, campfires going up.
Tomorrow, they would be an issue. But tonight was for them. They sat around her inn, eating, mingling, flowing in and out of the building. The one place in the world they knew they would be safe. For one night.
 
——
 
At first, she asked no questions. She just marshaled her staff. Gnolls, Drakes, a young Human girl like herself. She sent them in and out of the kitchen as bodies filled chairs, serving drinks, bringing out food. Then she addressed the larger problem.
“There’s a lotta Goblins out there. Redfang—I mean, Redscar. Do your people have enough food for them? What about you, Spiderbite?”
“Spiderslicer.”
Numbtongue corrected Erin. The two Redfangs exchanged a look, which turned into a staring contest. Redscar put his hand on the hilt of his sword and answered slowly.
“Have food. Supplies. But hungry. Use more.”
He didn’t know how much food Erin’s inn held, but even if it was packed from floor to rafters, it wouldn’t be enough. Erin nodded.
“Spiderslicer?”
The Goblin kept glaring at Redscar. By now, Redscar had heard the news. Garen was gone. He’d been overthrown by the strange five Hobs. He couldn’t help but think he knew them. But that didn’t matter to Spiderslicer. Spiderslicer’s grudge against Redscar was personal. The Goblin grunted.
“Have food.”
“Okay then.”
Erin stepped between the two. She looked at both and then at one of the Hobs.
“If there’s not enough food, then we’ll just have to make more. Rabbiteater!”
Redscar jumped. Rabbiteater? He stared as one of the Hobs stood up. But Rabbiteater was a small Goblin! And this Hob who stood up looked—impressive. He had a cloak made of liquid, and his armor looked pristine. He looked like…well, an adventurer. He had been filling a goblet from his cloak, and the liquid looked like blood. Or wine. He walked over as Erin waved at him.
“Rabbiteater, get Pebblesnatch and your people to grab all the fish they can out of the water. Watch out for Rock Crabs—tell them to make a fillet. Something simple. As for here, I’ve got a lot of food. The Goblins can come in and out.”
She directed Rabbiteater, and the Hob nodded and walked out of the inn. Redscar stared at his back and then looked at the others. No. It couldn’t be. But then—he stared at their war paint, remembering the group of warriors that Garen had sent out of the tribe. His eyes widened.
“Headscratcher?”
One of the Hobs looked up. He stared at Redscar and then got up slowly.
“Redscar?”
The two met. Erin came back from a quick conference with Pebblesnatch and her fancy chef’s hat to see Redscar surrounded by the other Redfangs, sans Spiderslicer, laughing in delight. She watched as the former Redfang second-in-command reunited with his old subordinates.
It was a lot of backslapping and quick Goblin chatter that Erin couldn’t follow, but the body language was good. The five clearly knew Redscar and held him in some esteem. For his part, the smaller Goblin looked surprised and then happy to see them. What she couldn’t understand was his relationship with the scowling Goblin called Spiderslicer. They were both Redfangs, but there was some serious beef between them. Numbtongue had to explain it in the end.
“Redfangs. We are all Redfangs. Redscar’s warriors and Spiderslicer’s. But our tribe split. They left with Rags. And they went with Garen, our old Chieftain.”
“Wow. They went with Rags over that Garen guy? And wait—that means those two are enemies?”
Numbtongue shook his head. Spiderslicer was walking towards Redscar, hand on the hilt of his sword.
“No. Yes. Not enemies. Redfangs are always Redfangs. Now we are all on the same side. We all…left Garen.”
“So what’s the problem?”
“Spiderslicer was the third-best fighter in all of the Redfang tribe.”
“Okay.”
“And Redscar is second-best in all of Redfang tribe. Or was until he left.”
“Oh. Now I get it.”
Erin wanted to roll her eyes as Spiderslicer snapped something and the other Redfangs fell silent. The Goblins who’d entered Erin’s inn grew quiet as the two Goblins stared each other down. Redscar put a hand on his sword’s hilt, and Erin felt motivated to interject.
“Hey! I said no fighting!”
The two Goblins looked at her. Redscar looked at Spiderslicer, who growled something. The two looked at each other in tense silence, and then Redscar jerked his head. They began walking for the door.
“Wait, where are you going?”
Redscar paused to look at Erin.
“No fighting. In inn. So going out.”
Erin’s mouth opened, but Numbtongue grabbed her and whispered urgently to her.
“Will fight anyways. Has to fight. Redfangs have to know who is best.”
“Yeah, but they’ll kill each other!”
“No. They won’t use their own swords. Spiderslicer broke his falchion, and Redscar has an enchanted blade. It won’t be fair, so they’ll use other weapons.”
“Well that’s a relief—”
“They’ll use ordinary swords instead.”
“What?”
The fight went down on a hill close to Erin’s inn. She stood outside the inn with a crowd of adventurers. And Goblins. They stood there, eating and watching as the two Goblins stood in a circle of Redfang warriors. The two were using steel blades, shortswords of identical length. Unenchanted, as Numbtongue had said. But they were sharp and metal.
“They’re going to kill each other.”
Erin put her hands on her head. Earlia, who was snacking on some french fries, shook her head.
“Nah, not if they have healing potions. Sparring can be lethal, but it’s not bad if there’s potions nearby. The real injuries happen when you sever a limb or poke out an eye. Or crush bones. But experts can usually avoid that. Hey, anyone care for a bet?”
Heads turned. Pisces drifted over.
“I could back a few wagers. What’re the odds?”
“Redscar will win. Second-best.”
Headscratcher folded his arms. Shorthilt shook his head dismissively.
“Not certain. Redscar is best on Thunderfur. Riding. But Spiderslicer fights best on ground.”
“Spiderslicer doesn’t have falchion.”
Rabbiteater pointed that fact out. The other Redfangs nodded. Revi, staring down at the commotion, looked around.
“The one with the spider name looks good to me. Put two gold pieces on him, Pisces.”
“Oh come now, Revi. Surely you can stand a larger bet. Fifty gold on the spider fellow, young Pisces. How much will that earn me?”
Typhenous chuckled. Pisces looked up as the other adventurers whistled.
“I’ll give you even odds on both sides for the moment. Any takers?”
A clamor of voices arose, and Pisces began to take money or vocal bets from other sides. Erin looked disgusted as some of the Goblins began to offer Pisces bits of food as well or coins of their own. Then she saw a dour looking face appear at Pisces’ back. Erin drifted closer just in time to hear Halrac speak to Pisces.
“Two hundred gold on the one with the scar.”
Pisces paused. He glanced at Halrac and immediately adjusted the odds to favor Redscar. Erin slapped her forehead. The [Scout] met her eyes and shrugged.
The fight went down independent of the betting around The Wandering Inn. Spiderslicer and Redscar advanced slowly. They didn’t touch weapons or nod to each other. They just waited a beat and then tried to stab each other to death. Or at least, that was what Erin made of it. She couldn’t watch the entire thing; every time they leaned back and avoided a close cut or, worse, cut each other, she had to cover her eyes. They were indeed careful—but only to avoid killing each other. Blood soon ran in the mud, and Erin heard the shouts from outside.
It was over in minutes, which was a surprise to everyone who’d expected a quick match. Both Goblins trooped into the inn, having healed their wounds. Spiderslicer followed Redscar into the inn and sat at the same table as the scarred Goblin. He seemed…calmer now. Erin eyed both Goblins but couldn’t tell who’d won at a glance.
“Well?”
She walked over to a table of adventurers. And Headscratcher and Shorthilt. Halrac was drinking and counting the coins that Pisces had sullenly paid out—the [Necromancer] had taken a loss thanks to the big bet—and the others were animatedly discussing the fight. Bevussa looked up.
“Those Goblins are good!”
“Beyond good, I’d say. They actually look like they know swordsmanship. They’re better than almost all the Silver-rank adventurers I see practicing. Some of the Gold-rank ones, too.”
Earlia grumbled into her mug. She looked disgruntled, almost uneasy. Pisces nodded, sniffing knowledgeably.
“Their form is impeccable. The one called Redscar is clearly better than Spiderslicer, but both had superior posture, timing, and a modicum of grace. It was certainly a battle worth watching.”
“From Goblins.”
“Don’t underestimate them.”
Halrac admonished the other adventurers. Typhenous, who was sadly drinking from his mug, looked up at Halrac.
“You’re keen-eyed, Halrac. Share your insights with us. How would you rate them on a purely technical level against someone of, say, Ylawes’ caliber?”
He glanced slyly at the [Knight], who was sitting stiffly at a table and looking at the Goblins around him. Yvlon was sitting across from her brother, clearly displeased. But the two were talking. Halrac eyed Ylawes. He grunted.
“No comment.”
“Oh come on, Halrac.”
“I don’t gossip about my peers. Especially if what I say will get back to them and ruffle feathers.”
“Hold on, you don’t mean—”
The adventurers and Goblins sat forwards at the table. Halrac folded his arms. Erin rolled her eyes. She passed by their table and circulated the room.
A dozen conversations were happening in different spots at once. Erin saw Noears sitting at another table near the magic door, clearly studying it, Hobgoblins bickering over food with smaller Goblins—and adventurers, cautiously eating and watching them. But she wasn’t interested in them. She found one Goblin sitting with a group of female Goblins—at least, they all looked female to Erin.
Poisonbite looked up suspiciously as Erin grabbed a chair and scooted over. The young woman stared up at a large Hob with a helmet still on her head. The Hob stared down at Erin. She smiled.
“Hi.”
Then Erin looked at Poisonbite. The small Goblin stared up at her.
“What?”
“I’m told you know Rags.”
