All the female Goblins stared hard at Erin. She raised her hands.
“Hey, I’m not trying to start anything. But I knew her. Before she became your Chieftain. I think. She used to stay at this inn. She was…a friend.”
The Goblins kept staring. Poisonbite looked at the others.
“You knew Chieftain?”
“A little bit. But she never spoke. I don’t think she knew how. And she definitely didn’t have a big tribe. Heck, at first, I don’t think she had a tribe. She was just…Rags. How did she end up leading such a huge army?”
Erin’s question provoked a minor furor among the Goblins. Poisonbite hit the table with the butt of her knife and glared.
“Not army. Tribe. Flooded Waters tribe.”
“Sorry. But can you tell me about her? What was she like? How is she doing? Is she…okay? I heard she was missing.”
“Chieftain is alive.”
Poisonbite said it instantly. She glared at Erin as if hinting otherwise was tantamount to treason. She raised her voice.
“Chieftain is smart! Cunning! She rebelled from Tremborag of the Mountain. Fought [Emperor]! Defeated pink-death [Knights]! Spoke to him. Greybeard!”
“Greybeard.”
The other Goblins nodded conspiratorially and stared at Erin. She looked around blankly.
“Rags did all that? Rags?”
“Yes. She is our Chieftain. Worthy. You should know.”
Poisonbite sneered down at Erin. The young woman nodded.
“I should. So tell me.”
The smaller Goblin hesitated. She looked uncertain. Then the Hob with the helmet spoke. She rumbled, and Erin jumped.
“First Chieftain was in Flooded Waters tribe. First fight other tribes. Had crossbows. Very smart. Very deadly. Shoot in head very dead.”
The other Goblins nodded. The Hob fell silent, drank from her mug, and folded her arms. She was clearly done. Another Goblin took up the story. She had a very clear tone. Some of the Goblins were clearly very good at English, or rather, the common tongue, and others were not.
“Chieftain fought many tribes. Garen Redfang himself came to fight Chieftain. Fought. Won. Chased Chieftain and fought and fought. But then Chieftain lured into Shield Spider trap. Garen Redfang submit. Then Chieftain fight other tribes! Redfangs and Flooded Waters tribe, too strong! But Goblin Lord coming. So go north. Fight Goldstone Chieftain tribe. Get Pyrite—Goldstone Chieftain.”
“Pyrite.”
The others murmured his name. Erin looked around.
“Who was he?”
The female Goblins stared at Erin. They tried to explain. Erin tried to listen. It was a confusing story, made harder by poor grammar and an unreliable narrative structure. But Erin kept listening. The Goblins argued over the details, threw food at each other, but kept telling the story. And they kept looking at Erin, although the [Innkeeper] didn’t know why. But it was the expression on her face as they told her more of Rags, of her triumphs and failures.
She was smiling.
 
——
 
Noears sat amid some of the [Mages] and adventurers. Or rather, he sat at a table and they sat at their tables near him and stared at him. They couldn’t help it. Ceria wished she’d joined Pisces at his table, even if it meant listening to him sniff. He had a cold. Anything would be better than this.
“So I, uh, won my axe during that competition. Dead drunk, you know. Woke up with a splitting headache and the [Axe Champion] class. Never been able to get rid of it, for all I use a hammer. Damn class. I mean, the Skill’s nice, but it’s the wrong specialization. Maybe I should pick up an axe, but it’s just not my thing. So I’m screwed two ways.”
Dawil finished his story as he spoke to Falene, Ylawes, Yvlon, Ceria, and Ksmvr. The other adventurers nodded without much enthusiasm. Only Ksmvr seemed animated.
“That is a very poignant story illuminating the dangers of inebriation, friend Dawil. May I ask what Skills your class gives you? I am attempting to ascertain which class will be of most use to my team.”
“Ah, well, if it’s Skills you want to talk about, you’d do worse than following Ylawes’ example. He’s always blocking things with his shield. Or his face. [Knights] are a good class. Better than most [Warrior] classes. Right, lad?”
Dawil raised his voice and slapped Ylawes on the back. The [Knight] lurched and slopped some of his drink on the table. He looked around.
“What? I’m sorry, Dawil. I was distracted.”
Ksmvr nodded knowingly.
“Yes. You were staring hard at the Goblin without ears for quite some time. So was everyone else. May I ask what the issue is? Is he horribly disfigured or is this a mark of some kind of sexual attractiveness I am not aware of?”
The entire table went silent. Noears looked around, and the other Goblins at his table—including Badarrow—looked up. They stared at the adventurers, and Noears raised his voice.
“Black thing asks about this?”
He tapped his ears. Ksmvr nodded politely as Ceria tried to kick him under the table.
“Ow. Yes, I am Ksmvr. I am an Antinium and a member of the Horns of Hammerad. Ow. Captain Ceria, you are kicking me. May I ask about your missing ears? My companions clearly wish to, but have not broached the subject. I wish to ask so we may continue our discussion unimpeded.”
He stared at Noears. The [Mage] grinned and shot a spark from one finger to the other. Electricity danced along one claw as he stood up. The adventurers looked as he moved over, ushering a Goblin out of his seat. Noears tilted his head to show them the missing ears.
“Ksmvr Antinium wants to know why ears are missing? Other adventurers know. You don’t?”
“I have no idea. Ow.”
Noears grinned. He looked from face to face. Ceria couldn’t meet his eyes. Noears tapped the side of his head again.
“Answer is bounty. Adventurers get paid for Goblin ears. Two copper coins for Goblin ears. Good money, right?”
He grinned at the others. Ylawes stared ahead. Dawil looked into his mug and then drank. He uttered an oath. Ceria closed her eyes, remembering. Yes. It was good money, especially if you were starting out. If you got a request to hunt Goblins—or if you met some on the road, you could earn a few silver pieces easy. A request to subjugate a tribe? You added the ears onto whatever money you made. And you never thought twice about it after the first few times. You never—
None of the other adventurers would say anything. But it was Falene who looked around and felt the need to justify things. She pursed her lips and spoke, avoiding looking at Noears.
“It may be distasteful, but the practice of placing bounties has historically been a key motivator in culling problematic populations. Rural Adventurer’s Guilds lack access to truth spells, so the practice of collecting trophies is necessary, however—”
“Dead gods, Falene!”
Dawil slammed his mug down on the table. Ceria jumped. The Dwarf looked up as Falene fell silent. Her face was slightly paler than usual. Dawil glared at her and then at Noears.
“Yes. We know. It’s a thing adventurers do, lad. We kill Goblins and Shield Spiders and other monsters and don’t think twice about it. I didn’t until I came here. Then I started imagining every Goblin I ever killed. I’m sorry for it. But sometimes the Goblins were bastards. Other times…”
He looked away and at a group of Redfang warriors. They were sitting, eating, looking around, in good spirits. Only, now and then, Ceria had caught one of them looking towards the Silver Swords, Bevussa, or one of the other teams that had fought them. Just for a moment. But Erin’s peace held. Dawil shook his head.
“We fought Goblins on the road not a day ago, and they’re sitting here without so much as blaming us. I don’t know what to make of that, but I’d defend myself and my team again. But the ears—I can’t excuse the ears.”
The others fell silent. Ksmvr looked from face to face and then at Noears. The Goblin [Mage] shrugged.
“Adventurers kill. Goblins kill. But next time, make sure Goblin is dead. Or Goblins grows up and does this.”
He pointed a finger. A miniature bolt of lightning crackled up past Ksmvr’s antennae. Falene pursed her lips but said nothing. Ylawes looked down at Noears.
“I am sorry for your loss, sir. But enemies are enemies. I am aware that there are good examples of your species—once, my team encountered a group of—of noble Goblins in a city besieged by their kind and the undead. But can you speak to the depredations others of your kind cause? What other options is there but to make war against Goblins who kill or steal?”
“Silver and steel, Ylawes!”
Yvlon glared at her brother. He returned her look, sitting stiffly in his chair. Noears cackled.
“No, good point! Good point! Fair is fair. Goblins do wrong, get killed. So. Here.”
He slapped something on the table in front of Ylawes. The [Knight] blinked.
“What is this?”
Two filthy gold coins lay on the table. Noears grinned at him.
“Anyone who wants coins cuts off your ears. Don’t have to die either. Free coin! Fair is fair.”
He cackled, and lightning flickered from the tips of his claws. Falene eyed Noears as Ylawes flushed. Yvlon bit her lip, and Ceria saw she was trying not to laugh. Ksmvr eyed Ylawes.
“Monetarily, would it make sense to—”
“Shut up, Ksmvr.”
Dawil chortled. The mood at the table relaxed a tiny bit, odd as that seemed. Falene indicated Noears’ claws circumspectly.
“Mister…Noears. Are you an [Aeromancer]?”
“What?”
Noears stared at the half-Elf. Falene hesitated.
“A [Lightning Mage]?”
“Oh! Yes!”
The Goblin grinned. He shot more sparks of electricity, blackening the table. A few struck Ylawes’ armor and Yvlon’s gauntlets. Both winced. Dawil, who’d sensibly gone without his armor, swore and threw a piece of bread at Noears anyways.
“Cut that out, you no-eared bastard!”
Ceria sucked in her breath, but the Goblins at Noears’ table including him laughed. It was a genuine laugh, and Noears relented. He nodded at Falene, who’d deflected a few of the sparks meant for her.
“Lightning mage! Yes! Practiced with spells. Can shoot lightning.”
Falene shook her head, looking unhappily surprised.
“Fascinating. It was speculated that a Goblin could learn magic, but one of your level is…unprecedented. However, your control of mana is wildly inefficient. And the spells are twisted.”
“Yep. Look better that way.”
Noears agreed happily. Falene sighed.
“I don’t suppose there are any Goblins with a more complete grasp of magic? General magic? Not just a single school?”
Noears looked blankly at the [Battle Mage]. He scratched at his head.
“What, like stupid magic? Lifting rocks and things?”
Ceria snorted some ale out of her nose. Falene gave her a long look as the younger half-Elf wiped her nose. Ceria ignored her. She hesitated and looked at Noears, then raised her mug.
“Hey. You do lightning magic? I’m an [Ice Mage].”
Noears brightened. He looked inquiringly at Ceria, and she raised her hand. The Goblins oohed as Ceria coated her hand and arm in a layer of ice, her new spell. Noears responded by making a little ball of electricity which he shot at Ceria. She deflected it with her ice-covered hand. Falene sighed loudly.
“Elementalists.”
 
——
 
At another table, no laughter of any kind was going on, and the tension was of a different kind. Moore sat gingerly at the table—on the ground since there were no chairs built for his weight. He was surrounded by pillows that supported his back and allowed him to lean back a bit. He was eating gingerly. The other two sitting at his table, Jelaqua and Seborn, ate very little, but they’d been drinking into their cups.
“I can’t believe those Redfangs don’t hold a grudge. We killed a lot of them.”
Jelaqua spoke quietly after a few minutes of silence. Moore looked up.
“I asked Erin about it. She said they’re not happy, but apparently it was because they were fighting under Garen. His problems aren’t the tribe’s problems. So they let it go. They’re quite stoic about some things. It is surprising.”
“I don’t know how they do it.”
Jelaqua stared into her mug. The sight of a huge Raskghar hunched over was eerie, but the other two had learned to look beyond form. Seborn grunted.
“I don’t think they are. I think they just know that there’s nothing to be gained from starting a fight right now.”
He looked at a group of Redfangs. They all turned back in their chairs. Seborn nodded to himself.
“They’ll eat. But they’re memorizing our faces.”
“Let them.”
Jelaqua stared at her mostly untouched plate. She pushed it back and looked at the other two. Only now, a few hours into the night, did she finally bring up the topic they’d danced around.
“So. What he said.”
“I don’t believe it. How could Halassia do that? She always believed in the best of us.”
“She was a Drake, Moore.”
“They cast her out of their city. They called her cursed!”
The half-Giant looked distressed as he shifted, trying to sit upright. Jelaqua put a paw on his leg.
“Keep still. Healer’s orders.”
Reluctantly, he did. Seborn stared ahead.
“It doesn’t matter if they hated her. She was a patriot. So was Ukrina in her own way. They loved their cities. And they lived through the Second Antinium War, Moore. They grew up with that devastation. What do you think they would have done if they met Ksmvr? Remember how we never stopped at Liscor when we went from north to south?”
“Yeah. We’d take a ship and do guard duty instead, never mind how boring it was.”
“Even so.”
Moore looked down at his bowl. Jelaqua sighed.
“He might have been lying.”
“Do you think he was?”
“What, Garen? No. He’s a terrible liar. He might have exaggerated or twisted what happened, but I can imagine it.”
The Selphid fell silent. She traced on the table.
“It was Ukrina and Halassia, definitely. They’re Drakes. The Goblin King matters to them. To the others too, but you know Keilam wouldn’t say anything outright. And Thornst was new. He’d be keeping quiet. So it was them.”
“Why did they provoke him? Why not wait? He was offering the information. Why did they push him that far? Surely they did. Or was it him?”
Moore whispered. Seborn shook his head.
“I don’t know. They were right, though.”
The other two looked at him. Moore’s jaw dropped in astonishment.
“How can you say that, Seborn?”
The Drowned Man looked up.
“What? It’s a Goblin King. If I was with them, I would agree. One cannot reappear again.”
“Of course, but that’s not—”
Seborn gritted his teeth.
“Garen was in the wrong. He attacked them.”
“But if they were threatening to hurt him—”
“He. Attacked. Them. I remember what I saw. It was murder.”
“Seborn. Enough.”
