“Correct. They were trying to get to Celum so we had a route out, since those Drakes confiscated the mana stone. It would have worked too, but for those Goblins. Now we’re caught between a hammer and an anvil, because there’s a tribe of Goblins north of us that can kick the crap out of six Gold-rank teams without breaking a sweat.”
Dawil scowled. He drummed his fingers on the table, reached for his pasta, and then swatted a white paw aside.
“Not today, you thieving little mole rat!”
Mrsha scampered as Dawil roared under the table. His roar sent her flying, and the Dwarf looked quite pleased with himself as he turned back to Erin.
“Fun little brat. Where was I? Oh yeah, we can’t go north anymore. Which is a problem because going south takes us longer to get to civilization. And it takes us past the Blood Fields, and it is active in the spring. But there’s no choice, so we’re headed south. With another magic door anchor thing.”
“Oh. Do you need to get a mana stone?”
Erin looked at the door. Dawil waved a hand and coughed, looking embarrassed.
“Thing is…we’ve already got one. It’s the orange stone, see? Already in the bowl. I’ve been getting your [Barmaid] to check it every half-hour. The Flamewardens are lugging the door south, and they’ll trade off soon. We would have told you, but we decided they needed to go right this morning.”
“I see. So what’s the problem?”
It all sounded good to Erin. Well, not the Gold-rank teams fleeing Liscor, but if it was that or fight and maybe die, what choice was there? She hadn’t decided what to do either. She could take refuge in the city easily enough, but…the scope of both threats just hadn’t really sunk in for Erin. Having a second escape route would be good, though. Dawil shrugged uncomfortably.
“Nothing. In theory. But we wanted to let you know seeing as you had the door. However, if that fire breathing Watch Captain asks…don’t tell her we’re planning to leave. She’d try and stop us, and we’re not willing to die here.”
He waited, perhaps expecting Erin to object. She just doodled on her plate with a finger. Then Erin looked up.
“Do you think Liscor will fall?”
Dawil sighed.
“Honestly, lass? Can I call you lass? Sorry. I’m thirty-eight, and Humans feel so young to me. You’ve barely lived through any of the big wars, have you?”
“None of Izril’s. A few started where I came from. Not sure if they really ended.”
Dawil raised an eyebrow, and Erin kept her poker face up. She wasn’t sure what he knew, but Dawil was someone she trusted. More than Pisces or Olesm, about something like this, even. He struck her as honorable, more so than Falene or Ylawes in his own way. The Dwarf shrugged.
“Right. Well, it’s a bad scene. I’ve never been sitting in a besieged city, but I’ve seen the aftermath and heard the stories. Flying limbs, people getting slaughtered, and so forth. War is messy. And adventurers get killed in wars. We’re big targets because we can do a lot of damage, but we hunt monsters, not armies. Get it?”
“…Maybe? Could you explain that?”
The Dwarf nodded. He looked around and waved a hand.
“Ale?”
“Got it!”
Drassi passed by their table. Dawil blinked as an ale appeared in front of him. The Drake winked at Erin and passed her a cup of milk. Erin stared.
“Wait, how did you know—”
“[Server’s Prescience]! I got a Skill the other day! Isn’t it cool?”
Erin stared down at her drink.
“Very cool.”
“Hah! Now there’s a Skill worth having! Almost as good as the battlefield edition.”
Dawil drained a quarter of his mug, wiped his mouth, and then sighed.
“Okay. Wars. It’s an easy concept. I think you’ll get it better than the lad—I mean, my team captain. He’s a bit thick between the ears when it comes to things like this. Not exactly a tactical mind, if you know what I’m saying. Neither is the half-Elf, for all she’s Wistram. ‘Swhy I have to come up with the plans.”
He tapped the side of his head. Erin grinned, tickled.
“You, Dawil?”
“How else do you think we survived this long? Someone’s got to be the voice of reason, and it’s not those two. Anyways…”
He heaved a sigh.
“Wars. One last time. Adventurers have armor or we hit fast enough so we’re not in danger. Say we’re hunting a Chimera. Or some other monster. We can take them on—hell, we can take on a nest. A small Goblin tribe? Doable. But in large numbers, armor fails. Take my armor for instance. It’s steel, Dwarf-forged and strong. I can fight in it and guard my face. But in yesterday’s scrap? There are too many arrows flying and damn Goblins with fire paste in jars. And in a war—”
“You can’t defend yourself from all sides.”
“Exactly. We’re too fragile. Knew you’d get it. I know there’s a bunch of Gold-ranks with Tyrion Veltras’ army. But I’ll bet my beard—what’s left of it—that they’re under contract to only fight if he needs something taken and stay well clear of the main battle. Besides, it’s bad to get wrapped up in politics. Ylawes’ father is marching with the Humans…look, the point is that we don’t want to die. We think Liscor will fall. So when the army arrives, we’ll be going. And if you want, we’ll escort you to Pallass. You and anyone you care to bring.”
Dawil eyed Erin over the top of his mug. She hesitated. Rather than address his statement directly, she twiddled her thumbs.
“When will you be going?”
“On the day we see the army roll in. Or sooner. But we’ll carry the door as far as we can before then. We’ll still be at least a day or two out from the nearest city, but—ah, lass. When we go, it will be quick. Make up your mind before then.”
Dawil and Erin sat together in silence. Erin stared at the table. For some reason, Dawil’s words put the urgency of Liscor’s siege closer to home than anything else. She looked at him.
“If you thought there was a chance—there are the Antinium. And the Drakes are sending an army. Is there any way…?”
The Dwarf’s eyes were brown, deep and soft as earthy loam, and sad. He shook his head.
“There may be an army of Antinium. And the Drakes may get here in time to break the siege. The Humans may be stumped or they may win. But the cost will be blood, Erin. We won’t pay the price.”
“Okay. Thank you for telling me.”
Erin sat at the table, feeling tired and helpless. Dawil nodded. He got up, walked over, and patted Erin on the shoulder.
“I’ll be here all day. The other teams will. We’re watching your door—and the inn—so don’t worry about someone making off with the door like last time. If you have any questions, ask.”
He wandered off to his table. Erin looked around and saw Bevussa sitting at a table, along with Nailren and a few Gnolls and Falene. They were talking to each other, relaxing. And watching her. They turned as Dawil wandered over to them. Erin heard his voice clearly as she turned back to her drink.
“You lot are about as inconspicuous as a bunch of farting Dragons! She’s not stopping us, so settle down. And you can stop listening in, you pointy-eared git! I know you’re casting a listening spell when you get that constipated look on your face.”
The young woman leaned on her arms. She stared at the empty chair ahead of her as a third body slid into the seat. This time, it was Mrsha. The little Gnoll stared up at Erin, wagging her tail.
“Hey, Mrsha. How are you doing?”
The Gnoll raised a paw with the thumb up. Erin smiled at her.
“That’s good. Hey, do you want to play catch?”
The Gnoll cub smiled. Erin slid out of her seat as Mrsha ran to get her ball. She raced over and tossed it at Erin. The young woman caught it, tossed it back, and the two moved down the long common room. Erin’s [Grand Theatre] Skill was in effect, but there weren’t nearly enough people to fill the vast space. Mrsha and Erin cleared some tables and chairs and began to play catch. Just for a while.
“Erin.”
Ceria came over after a few minutes. She watched as Mrsha scampered after a ball, and Erin turned to her. The half-Elf had her hands in her pockets. She watched as Mrsha threw the ball back clumsily. She raised a finger, and the ball swung towards Erin. The [Innkeeper] caught it and threw it back.
“Hey Ceria. What’s up?”
The half-Elf looked unhappy.
“It’s, uh, about the door. I’ve been talking with the others.”
“You’re going?”
“Are you? We don’t want to leave without you, but—what are you going to do, Erin?”
Erin turned. The two stared at each other, Ceria unhappy and Erin uncertain. They looked at each other until Mrsha’s ball bounced off the side of Erin’s head.
So it went. Ceria wasn’t the last person to talk to Erin either. After the young woman had talked to her, there came Pisces, to offer unsolicited advice which Erin listened to. Krshia, to play with Mrsha, talk about Erin’s door, and about commitments and not to ask Erin so loudly that it hurt. Selys stopped in to check with Erin how she was doing and stare at the door for a second. A few Drakes and Gnolls came by to inquire about her door.
Her door, and the Goblins. And what Erin thought. The trouble was, Erin wasn’t thinking. She was deliberately not thinking of what was coming. Because if she did, she’d have to make a choice. Stay or go. Risk dying or leave. Which was better. Which was right? Erin didn’t know. But she kept looking north. She was talking with Jelaqua at midday when it happened.
“How’s the body?”
The Selphid was sitting at a table. By this point, the inn was getting more business, and Ishkr and two more Gnolls had come by to help work the tables. They stared at Jelaqua and kept clear of her. Because the Selphid was wearing the Raskghar’s body.
It was disturbing to Erin. The Raskghar looked bestial, compared to the Gnolls. It had a more hunched posture, a bigger body, and thicker fur. But the main change was the eyes. The Raskghar had been savage with a spark of intelligence. Now, there was a sharp intelligence looking out of the dead pupils. Somehow, that was even more uncanny. Jelaqua raised a paw and scratched at her neck.
“Fine. It’s a good body, actually.”
“Really?”
“Oh yeah. Lots of muscle fiber, great condition—a few pests, but they were mostly dead, and I got rid of the rest. My main complaint is that this body’s a bit too bulky for my tastes, but hell, the nose works wonders. The only thing is that I can’t go in Liscor without causing a panic. I nearly got stabbed by a Gnoll [Guardsman]—and that was just at the gate.”
“You are wearing a Raskghar’s body.”
“Yup. But there’s a shortage of other bodies, so what can you do?”
Jelaqua spread her paws in a Human shrug. Erin stared at her, and the Selphid grinned weakly, another very disturbing sight.
“Sorry. I’m a bit mixed up after yesterday. I…took a few hits to my body.”
“I saw.”
“No, I mean my real body.”
“Oh. Is it bad? Did you heal up?”
Jelaqua hesitated.
“It’s not quite that simple. But yeah, I’m doing okay. I think. Look, about last night. You really can’t tell anyone—anything. Not that it happened, okay?”
“What happened?”
The Selphid eyed Erin and nodded.
“It’s just really important, okay, Erin? Really important.”
“I got it. Lips sealed. About nothing.”
The Gold-rank adventurer nodded, but she was clearly still uneasy. She scratched at her neck again. Erin wondered if one of the pests had been fleas. She saw Mrsha staring at Jelaqua as she slunk around Lyonette, who was giving Jelaqua much the same look.
“Jelaqua. I wonder if it would be a good idea for you to say hi to Ishkr and Mrsha. Maybe that would make them feel better. Or would it make them feel worse?”
The Selphid grimaced.
“It can’t hurt. Showing them it’s me rather than my body usually helps. I had the same problem with bodies I got from executed criminals. I’ll have a word later.”
“Thanks. Uh—how’s Moore and Seborn?”
The Raskghar’s expression softened in a way that was true to Jelaqua. She looked towards the stairs.
“Resting. Moore’s too weak to get out of bed—or eat anything other than liquids. Thanks for all the soup.”
“No problem. What about Seborn?”
“He’s better. He just lost blood. But he’s not talking to me. I think he’s angry about what happened.”
“At you?”
Jelaqua shook her head.
“At himself. For letting Garen get away. He was right in front of us. But we choked up. And he spared us.”
Erin stared at Jelaqua.
“And how do you feel?”
The Selphid smiled with the Raskghar’s mouth.
“Me? It’s over and done with. Garen lost his tribe. They told him to his face he was a traitor, and he ran off. I’m alive, and so are Moore and Seborn. And we know a bit more of—of what happened that day. It’s all we can ask for, Erin.”
She kept smiling as Erin studied her. She was lying. But she did it with a smile, and Erin felt like pushing Jelaqua would be the worst of ideas. So she let it drop.
“You just let me know if you need anything, alright?”
“Sure thing. I’ll just have a few drinks, reassure the Gnolls, and check on the others.”
Jelaqua smiled. Erin smiled too and tried to ignore the sense of roiling emotions she was getting from the Selphid. If anyone was close to exploding…she made a note to keep Jelaqua away from Relc if he stopped by. Or Pisces. Or Revi. Erin stood up to accompany Jelaqua in case any of the Gnolls freaked out—or she did—
And then it happened. Erin’s head turned to the right. She stared straight towards the north wall, and she felt a tingle go down her spine. They were coming. And they were coming here. It wasn’t a bad sense, not like it had been whenever her [Dangersense] went off. No, it was more like a certainty at the back of her mind. They were coming, and they were tired and hungry and desperate.
Erin hadn’t known who they were in the morning, but now she was certain. And as they came across the Floodplains and Liscor sounded the alarm, Erin stood on the ruined roof of her inn where Bird’s watchtower had been and saw them pour across the muddy hills and valleys like a green wave.
Goblins.
 
——
 
At first, it was the Cave Goblins and Redfangs. The mounted warriors rode ahead of the Cave Goblins, a small army of elite warriors followed by the hordes of grey-green Goblins. That was enough to get Olesm’s heart pounding. But when he saw the second Goblin force emerging from the pass leading north, his heart began trying to dig its way out of his chest.
“It’s the Goblin Lord’s army!”
“It can’t be! They’re too early! They’re too early!”
