She had to get ready. Erin Solstice woke up on the eleventh day with that thought echoing in her mind. She didn’t know how she knew, or why, but she knew she had to get ready. They were coming. Whoever they were. So Erin opened her eyes, half-sat up—
And decided she could use a few more minutes of sleep.
 
——
 
“Morning, Lyonette.”
By the time Erin got up for the second time, it was mid-morning, uncharacteristically late. The [Innkeeper] pulled herself upright in time to see Lyonette carefully pulling out a plate of pre-made pasta covered with bolognese out of a cupboard. Since that was completely natural, Erin ignored it at once and focused on the young woman. Lyonette jumped and then turned guiltily.
“Morning, Erin. Sorry, did I wake you?”
“No. I was getting up.”
Erin yawned and stretched. She felt awful. Tired, lethargic, and sore. As if she’d spent a day lifting rocks and then having said rocks dropped on her back. She wondered why—usually she was able to get up no matter the early hour. Her [Lesser Endurance] Skill meant that she could keep ticking on less sleep. But not today. Erin remembered the events of last night and unconsciously ran her tongue across her teeth. She frowned as her tongue encountered nothing but smooth enamel.
“How’re the teeth?”
Lyonette put the room-temperature pasta next to the stove’s lit fire to warm it up. Erin shrugged, and her belly rumbled.
“Good. They feel different. I think so, but then again, it could be in my mind. I feel like they should be different, you know?”
“I’d imagine so. Pisces used bear teeth, didn’t he?”
“Yup.”
“Do they taste or seem…?”
Erin shrugged.
“Not bearish to me. But I keep feeling like they should be. I’m just amazed he fixed them, really.”
She ran her tongue over the caps Pisces had made to fix three of her partially broken teeth and winced. Her tongue was sore from doing that a hundred plus times. But the teeth were good.
“He should be a dentist.”
“A what?”
“Someone who fixes teeth.”
“Ah.”
Erin rummaged around in her nest that occupied one side of the kitchen. She saw Lyonette taking some utensils out of a drawer and opened a cupboard by her side. It contained Erin’s clothes. The [Princess] kept her back turned as Erin quickly changed clothes under her blankets. Too late, Erin remembered she should have asked if anyone was working this morning.
“Is, uh, Ishkr—”
“Drassi’s here.”
“Oh. Good.”
Erin breathed a sigh of relief. Now that she had more than just a few employees, the kitchen was filled with at least one person more often than not. And there had been a few incidents. Erin began stuffing her bedding into another cupboard as Lyonette checked the pasta’s temperature. She shook her head and then looked at Erin.
“You should really stay in a room, you know. There are some rooms available, even if the Hobgoblins come back. And Mrsha and I could share a room if you wanted one. There’s plenty of space. Mrsha does steal your blankets, though.”
“I should. I know.”
Erin made a face. She’d had the same conversation with Lyonette. It was just that—she sighed as she hunted around for her toothbrush. Which cupboard was that? Oh, right. It was the drawer. Erin pulled it out and grabbed the jar of toothpaste Octavia had made up.
“It’s just that I have so much to do, you know? And changing rooms is more work than I want to do.”
“Says the [Innkeeper] who just lost some of her teeth confronting a Goblin Chieftain and got twenty thousand Cave Goblins to run off.”
Erin grimaced as she applied some toothpaste to her toothbrush. It was a very astringent substance that Octavia sold, but it did make Erin’s teeth feel clean.
“They were supposed to go south. I have no idea what happened. Or if they’re coming back.”
Lyonette glanced out of the kitchen, and Erin knew she was looking towards the magic door. Her face wasn’t apprehensive, but there was a note of tension in her voice.
“Do you think the Goblins would come here? I mean, if they’re still hostile.”
Erin paused.
“If they do, we’re running into Liscor. The door’s set up. But Numbtongue and the others—they’re not back. And Jelaqua said they did something. The old Chieftain ran off. Garen. If they come back—we’ll see.”
Lyonette nodded. The two waited while Erin scrubbed at her teeth, then decided she had to spit and wash her mouth. She got up as Lyonette took the plate of hot pasta away from the fire. The smell made Erin’s stomach grumble. But…pasta? She pointed at the spaghetti, which had been seasoned with sauce, sliced sausage, and just a little bit of spicy peppers.
“Whof fhat for?”
She tried not to spit all over the plate. Lyonette stared at Erin’s mouth and the toothbrush sticking out.
“Dawil ordered it.”
“Fo? Fhe Filver Fwords fhare here?”
Lyonette opened her mouth and then gave up. Erin walked outside into the common room and thus began her day.
“Erin!”
A number of voices greeted Erin as she walked towards the door of her inn. The [Innkeeper] stopped, and the people waiting for her saw her turn towards them. A bit of toothpaste was dribbling down her mouth. Despite the myriad and pressing issues that demanded her attention, all those present agreed that she should attend to business first. So Erin stumbled out of her inn and went to the outhouse.
There were three, now. And each one was set far enough apart so as not to carry smells or, worse, sounds to the other stall. Unless someone was having a really bad day. That was an important design decision, which had required the outhouses to be moved when Erin had first discovered the issue. The third stall was huge, big enough to accommodate Moore. It was also the nicest, so Erin sat in that after knocking to make sure no one was inside.
“Toilet bowl, toilet bowl. This is…nicer than a toilet bowl, actually.”
Erin sat on the polished hardwood, having spat and washed out her mouth already. Her feet were a bit wet from the walk to the outhouse, but the grass had only been dewy, as opposed to rain-slicked and muddy. The rain had stopped. Now, the air was humid, muggy, and foggy. Erin liked it not one bit; nor did she like the way a lot of the hills had turned to mostly mud and water gathered in the valleys. But it still beat buckets of rain dumping from the sky.
That was why the outhouse had a roof. And it was better than a bathroom, at least in some senses. The wood was just as smooth as porcelain, but it didn’t get as chilly. As for the…other concerns, Erin did have a type of toilet paper at her disposal. The main issue was flushing, or lack of it.
If plumbing had been invented, it was too costly and too unknown in Liscor for Erin to obtain. So the outhouse was an outhouse, which meant that it accumulated rather than moved waste. Erin had originally solved the issue of acquisition by making Toren pour acid into the pit below the outhouse, handily vaporizing the problem. But since he was gone, she’d had to resort to other measures. She still used acid, though.
Octavia had a wonderful mixture that dissolved undesirable objects slowly. It was enough to keep the outhouses from needing to be emptied, and a lot of fresh-smelling herbs did the rest of the job. Erin looked at the bundle of herbs that Lyonette had placed just the other day. Not having to tend to the outhouse herself was another perk of being the boss.
Now, what did the evolving and dynamic nature of Erin’s restroom facilities have to do with today or recent events? Nothing. But Erin sat on the toilet for a good while. She had a feeling she was going to be busy if the faces that had been waiting for her were any indication. And she wanted to delay work as long as possible. She managed to hold out five minutes before she decided to go back. After all, she was mostly responsible and over half the people waiting on her were her friends.
And they were coming. Erin’s head turned north. She stared at the place where the mountain ranges parted to let travellers come through the pass. It was slightly obscured by a tall hill, but she saw no signs of movement. Yet. She shook her head and walked back to her inn.
“Erin!”
The first person to hurry up to Erin was Olesm. She smiled at him, and her face fell as she looked at Zevara. Erin threw a mock salute as she walked over to their table. The Drake Watch Captain eyed her.
“Human.”
“Hey, Zevara. Olesm. What’s up?”
“Where are the Goblins now? What do you know about their status? Will they attack the city? I’ve heard the report from the Gold-rank teams. Ignoring the fact that they were carrying one of your magical doorways north for now, explain to me how twenty thousand Cave Goblins and this new tribe aren’t a threat?”
Erin blinked at Zevara. Not even a hello. The Watch Captain looked anxious, if her swishing tail was anything to go by. Erin sat down and waved at Drassi.
“Hey Drassi, can I have some of our scrambled eggs?”
She waited until she got a wave and a smile from Drassi. Then she looked at Zevara.
“I don’t know. I don’t know. I don’t know, and I think they’re not a threat. Jelaqua said the old Chieftain ran away.”
“Garen Redfang. A traitorous former Gold-rank adventurer who slaughtered four of his former teammates. And nearly did for the other three. How is his absence supposed to reassure me?”
“Well, he’s not leading his tribe. Ooh, thanks Drassi.”
Erin picked up a fork. Zevara eyed her as if she’d gladly grab the fork and poke it into Erin’s eye.
“His tribe is still there. Or we assume so. They’re dangerous.”
“Yeah, but Headscratcher and the others are with them. They’re nice.”
The two Drakes exchanged a look as Erin began eating breakfast. Olesm coughed.
“So you’re saying we should hope that they move on, Erin?”
“Hm. Yeah?”
Erin looked up. The Drakes stared at her, one with wrath, the other appalled. The [Innkeeper] shrugged.
“Look, what other choice is there? What do you expect me to do about it? Open the door to the Goblin cave and solve everything myself?”
Zevara and Olesm didn’t meet Erin’s eyes, which told her that was exactly what they’d hoped she’d do. The young woman scowled.
“Tempting as that is, I don’t know those particular Goblins. And I don’t want to get my brains punched out again. Did you hear that I lost some teeth? Do they look weird to you?”
She showed them her teeth. Zevara sighed.
“They’re fine. Hearing about that was the only amusing news I’ve gotten all day. It was about time someone kicked your teeth in, with how many fights you seem to escape unscathed.”
“I let other people hit things for me. And I’m good at ducking.”
Erin scowled. But Zevara was right. She hadn’t processed her one-sided punching bag experience, but the memory of trying to fight that muscular Goblin guy stuck with her. She rubbed at her mouth. It had been terrifying, trying to get past all the Goblins with only the five Redfangs shielding her.
But it had to be done. Jelaqua and the Halfseekers had been in danger. But she’d nearly died herself. If it happened again—could she risk her life like that? Was it smart? Was she an idiot? Erin sighed. She barely noticed Zevara getting up.
“If the Goblins come back to the city, Miss Solstice—”
“I’ll try and talk to them. But I don’t know what’s going on. I’m not opening that door to their cave until I know. Sorry.”
Zevara nodded. She strode off as Olesm sighed.
“I should get going too. I’d stay and talk, but—we’re at full alert. It’s nice seeing you, uh, Erin.”
He stood up awkwardly. Erin blinked up at him.
“Hey, Olesm. How’re the defenses going?”
The Drake [Strategist] hesitated. He averted his gaze.
“I can’t say. Military secrets, Erin. We’re…doing good. We got reinforcements from Pallass, and we’ve found homes for them. And, uh, we’re meeting with Klbkch, checking the walls—it will be fine.”
The tone in his voice and his posture—not to mention his curled up tail—told Erin that was a dead lie. She stared at him and nodded.
“Okay, I won’t keep you.”
Olesm turned to go. Erin raised her voice.
“Olesm!”
He looked back at her. Erin smiled with more upbeat emotion than she actually felt.
“We’re, uh, cool with the me punching you and you throwing me in jail, right?”
For a second, Olesm stared, and then he grinned.
“We are. If you’re okay with it?”
“I liked prison food. And it’s a nice place when you get to know your cellmates.”
He grinned. Erin kept her smile until Olesm had hurried to the magic door and left. Then she sighed. She turned her head.
“Next!”
Someone else was already coming up to her. Dawil. The Dwarf slid into the vacant seat. He had a half-finished plate of pasta with him and was slurping down some noodles. The sauce got into his beard—well, part of his beard.
A good bit of hair was burnt off of Dawil’s face. His eyebrows, part of the hair on his head—and a lot of his beard. The sight of his chin and face was terribly disconcerting. Erin stared at Dawil and then averted her gaze. The Dwarf sighed.
“Go on, look. And have a laugh, why don’t you. That bastard Pisces was laughing all day about it, and the damned half-Elf—mine, not Ceria—wouldn’t leave me alone.”
“Are you okay? Does it hurt?”
Dawil shrugged. He scratched at his missing spots, where thick stubble was already growing. His voice held a note of complaint. Well, more like a symphony of complaints.
“It’s cold. But the healing potion did the burns right. I drank a hair-growing tonic, but it’ll be a week before my beard’s halfway decent. It’s not a problem compared to the shite we’re in, but it’s embarrassing more than anything else. But I didn’t come here to talk about hair to you, girl. We’re all in trouble, so I need to speak on behalf of the adventurers in Liscor. This is good pasta, by the way. Needs more meat, though.”
“I can have Lyonette cut up a steak if you want. Or some pork? A sausage?”
“Next time, maybe.”
Dawil slurped down more noodles as Erin finished her eggs. He wiped his mouth with a napkin—Erin used the back of her hand. The Dwarf was actually quite fastidious as he cleaned his beard. He even had his own utensils he packed into a small case—silver and gold filigree forks were a new concept to Erin. The Dwarf leaned back in his chair and looked up at Erin.
“Now, let me be blunt since no one’s said it. And you were in jail. We’re leaving Liscor. The Silver Swords, the Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt—and your Horns too, I imagine. Us and a good number of other Gold-rank teams, though I can’t speak for all in Pallass.”
Erin frowned.
“Okay. I heard about that from Lyonette. The Halfseekers were taking a door north, right?”
