It was a dream. The three felt certain they were in a shared dream or in some other reality where up was sideways and nothing was real. They nodded silently. Thunderfur whuffed, and the young woman eyed him.
“And I’ll get you some raw meat for your doggy.”
Doggy. Redscar opened his mouth, but the young woman was already moving into the kitchen. The three Goblins stared as they heard her clatter about in there and then looked at the Redfangs. The Hobs were eating already and chattering to Spiderslicer, gesturing around the room. Redscar leaned over to Noears and Poisonbite. The three looked at each other, lost for words. Then Redscar poked Noears. The Goblin yelped as Redscar’s claw poked his side. Redscar pinched himself and found that it hurt.
“Hey, is your dog okay with raw meat? They can eat that, right? Or is cooked meat worse? Tell you what—we’ll give him this steak for starters, okay?”
The Goblins started. The Human was back! And she had a steak. Thunderfur got up, and Redscar grabbed his fur to keep him still. The Carn Wolf wagged his tail as the young woman approached. She eyed its open jaws and large, large teeth.
“Oh my what large teeth you have, doggy. Sit.”
Thunderfur sat. The young woman offered him a steak, and Thunderfur drooled onto Redscar’s hand.
“Here. You can give it to him. I don’t have a plate that’s not pottery, so he’ll have to eat it off the floor. Don’t worry, it’s so clean you could eat your dinner off it. The tables too.”
Redscar blinked at the cooked steak and took hold of it with one hand. It was warm. And it smelled so good he wanted to bite it himself. But since the young woman was already coming back with another pot and bowls, he offered it to Thunderfur. The Carn Wolf practically tore the meat from his master’s hands and began to scarf it down.
“How do you feed those things without running out of food? Never mind. Here’s the borscht! And bread.”
A bowl appeared in front of each of the Goblins. And the young woman began ladling hot soup into each bowl. She put a loaf of bread on the table, some soft butter, and a blunt knife. The Goblins stared at the bread, round-eyed. The young woman smiled as she filled Noears’ bowl and stood back. There was silence. The Goblins didn’t move.
They knew how this worked. Now was the time when they would reach for bowls and find they were lying in a ditch, half-starved and delirious. It had happened before. This wasn’t happening. This was a happy dream, and so they didn’t move, trying to prolong the moment. They waited for ten seconds and then twenty as Thunderfur savaged the steak, and Redscar felt his stomach begin to try and stage a takeover from his belly. It was a dream. Right up until the young woman coughed.
“It’s getting cold.”
They looked at her. She smiled at them.
“Are you worried about the cost? No charge. It’s on the house tonight.”
She gave them a broad grin, and her eyes twinkled. The Goblins looked at each other. Then, slowly, Noears reached for the bread. It was pre-sliced into generous portions and puffy. It smelled fresh, not like the bread they found in adventurers’ rations or the stale stuff they sometimes looted. It was soft. And Noears’ claws trembled as he brought it to his mouth and bit.
He chewed slowly. Poisonbite and Redscar watched him. Noears’ eyes rolled up in his head, and they thought he was having a seizure. But no—he was just chewing. And chewing. And then he bit and chewed again. Every line in his body told them he was enjoying himself.
That settled it. Redscar picked up another piece of bread and discovered something else. It was warm. The bread squished in his claw, and trembling, he brought it to his mouth. He opened his mouth, bit, and the world changed. He began to chew the bread slowly and then with increasing speed as his salivary glands, already prepped, began working overtime.
He had never tasted fresh bread before. Poisonbite looked at Redscar’s face, then at Noears, and then took things a step further. Awkwardly, she spread some of the butter on the bread and began to eat it. And the wonders continued.
The young woman watched the Goblins eating the bread. They finished one piece and reached for another. She smiled.
“I make good bread, huh? Try it with the soup, though.”
They jumped and looked at her. She indicated the bowls, and then they realized that yes, they had soup! They tried that.
Sour. Warm! Complex flavors! None of them bad! Redscar had never tasted the like, even when he’d eaten horse stew or Eater Goats. This wasn’t just meat and water with a few extras thrown in. Even Rags’ filling soup wasn’t half as good. This was—this was cuisine. He began to eat and only remembered to dip his bread and try that when he saw Noears doing it. Another taste. Another experience!
Thunderfur watched his master eating, trying to scarf the food and make it last forever at the same time. He whined, licking his chops, and the young woman found another steak for him to gobble. The Goblins ate, chewing their way through one bowl, before halting for a moment. Their stomachs felt full given how much they normally ate, but they wanted more. And there was a pot. The young woman waited.
“Help yourselves.”
They looked at her. She indicated the pot. The Goblins peered into it and then at her. The [Innkeeper] nodded.
“We don’t do table serving here. Sorry. You’ll have to fill your bowls yourself. We do refill mugs. Want more milk?”
She indicated the mugs of yet-untouched white stuff, which none of the Goblins had quite been certain of. Redscar sipped from the strange substance, and his jaw dropped. He saw the young woman’s eyes twinkle again and her lips twitch. This time, Redscar recognized it. She was suppressing a smile.
“Well? Any good? I’ve got more, you know. If your friends can behave, there’s enough for a crowd. Not all of them by far, but my inn’s open for business.”
She glanced towards the door. The Flooded Waters Goblins stared at her and then realized she was talking about the others. The others. They stared at the full pot, realizing they’d been stuffing themselves while the rest of their tribe was waiting outside. Redscar got up slowly. He looked at Spiderslicer and understood in a flash that the other Redfang leader had been invited for the same reason. He looked at the young woman. She folded her arms, regarding him.
“Are you the Chieftain? My name is Erin. Erin Solstice. I run this inn, and I’m happy to feed you all. If you’re not here to cause trouble. I’m assured by my regulars—”
She nodded to the five Hobs, one of whom waved a hand. Poisonbite looked stunned.
“—that you’re actually good folk. But I had to be sure. How about it? No trouble? Food? Do we have a deal?”
She looked down at Redscar. Not by much; Redscar was tall for an ordinary Goblin, and she wasn’t the tallest Human in the world. He hesitated. Erin Solstice. She was nothing like he imagined or what Rags had said. But—her casual tone, as if she was speaking to another Human. The hint of a smile on her face, the twinkle in her eye that said she was laughing inside. And the sign. He looked at Noears and Poisonbite. And he dared to believe this was reality.
“Yes. Thank you.”
Erin jumped. She actually jumped. She stared at Redscar as he took a step back. Her eyes widened.
“You can talk? Wait, you can speak English?”
English? The Goblins didn’t know about that. But Redscar nodded.
“Can talk.”
“Me too.”
Noears raised a hand. Poisonbite nodded. Erin blinked.
“Wait—but I thought only Numbtongue—wow. Okay. Uh—hi. Pleased to meet you. I’m Erin. You knew that.”
She held out a hand. Redscar stared at it. He slowly took it, and Erin squeezed his hand. He squeezed back gingerly.
“Redscar.”
“Redscar? Hey, that’s like Redfang, isn’t it? Are you one of them? Wait—Numbtongue explained it to me. I’m going to get your name mixed up, aren’t I? Sorry in advance! And you are?”
Erin turned to Noears. The [Mage] blinked up at her, unusually shy.
“I am Noears.”
The young woman stared at the ragged flesh around both earholes.
“Noears? Well that’s—uh—well, that’s very accurate. Literal names, Goblins. Yep. And who’s your female friend?”
“I Poisonbite.”
The female Goblin bared her teeth challengingly at Erin. The young woman smiled.
“Poisonbite? Are your bites poisonous? Hah! I kid.”
Her smile made Poisonbite narrow her eyes. The Goblin reached for her sheaths, and Redscar and Noears tensed.
“No. This.”
She drew her blades. Erin took a step back as Redscar grabbed Poisonbite’s arms. The [Innkeeper] eyed the coated daggers and Poisonbite.
“I see. Well, keep your daggers sheathed, Poisonbite. And no fighting in my inn. No fighting, no attacking anyone else, no bad names, and no wolves peeing or doing the other thing in my inn. None of you do that either, got it? I have outhouses. If we can agree on that—you can stay at my inn.”
The three Goblins looked at each other. They looked at Erin. They had a thousand questions, a thousand things to say. And perhaps she saw it, because she just smiled. They had come a long way. A long way, and despaired. The journey had ground them down. But at last, at long last, it felt like they had arrived somewhere.
A little inn on a hill. Redscar took Erin’s hand again, and Poisonbite stowed her daggers. The young woman smiled as Noears went to the door and began to shout.
“One last thing. The Redfangs want to come through, so you’ll be sharing the inn with them. Like I said: no fighting. And you may have a few more guests.”
Redscar blinked, but nodded. Erin watched him and then nodded too. She walked over to the far wall, and Redscar saw another door, set against the wall. He frowned. Wait, but there hadn’t been another door on the outside of the inn. So what—
Erin opened the door. Redscar saw another place appear in the doorway. A city, with the sun setting behind it. He stared. The sun was at the wrong angle! He stared out of the window in the inn. And then he saw them.
A half-Elf. Humans. Drakes. A huge furry monster—and Gnolls. A small white one that hid behind a bird-woman with blue feathers. They stared at the Goblins, at Thunderfur. And at Erin Solstice. She smiled and raised her voice, beckoning them in.
“Hey, everyone! You can come back through! But only if you’re cool with Goblins.”
The people standing in the city—in Liscor—hesitated. Some of them turned away. Others backed up. But then a young woman came through. She tied her hair back and turned to the white Gnoll.
“You stay here, Mrsha. You can stay at Krshia’s place. Drassi, Ishkr? Let’s get to work.”
She walked through the doorway. A Gnoll, several Gnolls, and a few Drakes joined her. Some of them stared at the Goblins and one of the Gnolls sniffed, but the Drake just walked into the kitchen. And then a half-Elf followed them. And a young man in robes who sniffed the air much like Thunderfur.
“I trust you have suitable victuals for tonight, Erin? May I inquire as to tonight’s course?”
Erin rolled her eyes.
“Soup, Pisces. Don’t worry, I’ve got enough even with the Goblins. Although you’re paying. Krshia! I’m going to need as much food as I can get on short notice.”
“You’ll never feed them all.”
A haughty, dark-skinned [Mage] walked past the Human called Pisces. She had stitching running around her neck and arms. Erin nodded.
“Of course not. But I think they can feed themselves. At least, I hope so. There’s fish in the Floodplains—Relc told me you can just fish them out. But I’ll feed who I can. Who else is coming through?”
And they came. One after another. Adventurers, civilians, Drakes and Gnolls and Humans. They came into the inn, staring at the Goblins who began trickling through the doors. Some were uncomfortable. Others calm but wary. A few were openly at ease, and they were the oddest of all.
But they came, and the Goblins from both the Redfang and Flooded Waters tribe who entered fell under the same aegis as the people from Liscor. They were enemies, possibly mortal ones. But in the inn, on this night, and with her here, there was peace. And so the night continued as Redscar sat and more food appeared. The strangest night he had ever lived through.
The best.
 
——
 
“Well, that’s that.”
Olesm stared at the door as the Horns of Hammerad walked through and then the Silver Swords, following Lyonette and Drassi and the others. Mrsha circled Krshia, looking unhappy as the Gnoll shook her head, looking appalled and delighted by the amount of food Erin wanted. Olesm turned to the others gathered in front of the magic doorway. Bevussa looked appalled.
“So Erin’s just going to feed the Goblins? There are tens of thousands outside!”
The [Strategist] grinned weakly. He looked at the door and spotted Embria and Zevara staring at it. He tried to move towards the door and failed.
“That’s Erin for you. And we can go through, if we’re willing to dine in company, it sounds like fun. Anyone going?”
“Are you serious? They’re Goblins.”
Keldrass spat a few wisps of flame. He stared at the door, fists clenched. He looked around.
“We’re about to be under siege from the Goblin Lord and the Humans, and she’s letting them in! We just fought with Goblins! Killed them!”
“Did you expect anything else from her, Keldrass? And yeah, we killed them. They tore us up. If they’re not holding a grudge, I won’t. Not against them, at any rate.”
Jelaqua rolled her eyes. She looked at the half-Giant clutching his side.
“Moore, you want to go through? We can stay somewhere else or go to our rooms if—”
“I’m going through.”
The half-Giant shook his head and walked through the door. Keldrass made a sound of fury.
“This is an outrage. If we weren’t—”
He broke off, eying Olesm. The [Strategist] looked suspiciously at Keldrass, and the Drake cleared his throat.
“—That is, I refuse to enter that inn. And Erin Solstice is courting arrest or worse by letting the Goblins into her establishment, even if it is outside of Liscor’s jurisdiction! The doorway is connected to the city!”
“True. We need to close it off once everyone’s through. But it’s not that big of a risk.”
Olesm nodded to Zevara, Embria, and the small army of soldiers and guardsmen gathered around the doorway. The odds of the Goblins forcing their way into the city was remote at this moment. Keldrass growled, and Embria frowned.
“Still, isn’t this a good chance to…?”
She subtly indicated the door with a nod of her head. Olesm’s stomach twisted up. Zevara frowned.
“You think all of the Goblins’ leaders are in one spot?”
“Maybe. Watch Captain, this is an opportunity. If you want to risk it…”
The two Drakes looked at each other. Zevara gritted her teeth.
