Jelaqua interrupted him. The Drowned Man sat back, simmering. He sipped from the hard spirits in his mug, then drank down the water in another tankard. Drowned People had to watch out for dehydration on land, and that went double when drinking. Jelaqua waited until both he and Moore had relaxed a bit to go on.
“They should have waited for the rest of us. Regardless of anything else, they should have waited.”
No one had anything to say to that. Moore looked down and put his bowl on the table, no longer hungry. Seborn kept drinking. Jelaqua thought. At last, her lips twitched. The two looked at her, but it wasn’t a happy smile. It was bitter. Jelaqua looked up at the two of them.
“It doesn’t matter what we would have done. But think of it this way, Seborn. Even if we all agreed that the Goblin King’s treasure was too dangerous to give to the Goblins—what is it? Is it just a magic weapon or is it something else? We’d have to find out and bring Garen with us, probably. Especially if the treasure is something only a Goblin could find.”
“True. So what?”
Jelaqua shook her head.
“We’d have gone to get it and decided afterwards what to do. It would have probably taken multiple Gold-rank teams and maybe even Named Adventurers. The High Passes. Dead gods. But we would have gone looking for it. That’s what Ukrina and Halassia didn’t understand. Either way…”
Moore went pale. Seborn stared at Jelaqua for a long moment. Then he cursed and looked around.
“I need another drink. Drassi!”
He waved a hand. The Drake saw it and nodded. Seborn waited, but instead of his drink, someone else wandered over. All three Halfseekers froze as a Goblin with a scar on his face walked over. He sat at their table without asking and looked at them.
“Redscar. Second to Garen. Second strongest in Redfang tribe.”
It was an introduction, however curt. Redscar eyed the Halfseekers, and Jelaqua knew that he knew how many Goblins from his tribe they’d killed. She eyed the enchanted sword at his side and remembered the flails in her room. Seborn shifted, and she knew he was checking the positions of his daggers. Moore reached out.
“Seborn.”
“Not here to fight.”
Redscar looked at Seborn as he said that. The [Rogue] stopped.
“What do you want?”
The Goblin waited as Drassi came by with another mug and took Seborn’s old one. He looked at the two of them.
“Garen. He talked about old team to me.”
The Halfseekers looked up sharply. Moore tried to sit up again.
“He did?”
“Sometimes. When drank. Very few times.”
“What did he say?”
Jelaqua looked at Redscar. The Goblin shrugged.
“Sometimes said about how strong. Or one of them. Cunning [Rogue]. Strong [Green Mage]. Brave Captain. Drake made of ash who was beautiful. Sometimes curse and throw things. Sometimes old stories.”
He gestured, indicating the others. The Halfseekers were silent. Redscar looked at them.
“Heard from Spiderslicer what did. Traitor. Betray tribe.”
“We were a team. Not a tribe.”
Redscar shrugged as if to say ‘same thing’. He looked at Jelaqua, then Seborn, and then Moore. He hesitated, then came out with it.
“Was he good? Good teammate? Good…adventurer? Before?”
The three looked at him. Jelaqua saw a bit of anxiety in Redscar’s eyes. And it wasn’t about the Goblins they’d killed. It was about something simpler. His question. He was asking—was Garen a good teammate? Had he told the truth? Was anything true?
It would be so easy to crush those fragile hopes. To tell the truth, but in such a way that Garen became a monster completely in the eyes of his tribe. And part of Jelaqua wanted to. She saw Moore hesitate and close his mouth. Seborn was stirring. She met his eyes and said not a word. The Drowned Man opened his mouth. He hesitated, looked at Redscar, and shook his head.
“Was he a good adventurer? He was a terrible one. He betrayed his team. He could barely read. He got us into more trouble than any of our other teammates just by walking around the city.”
Redscar sagged a bit in his chair. Seborn went on bitterly.
“Adventurers started fights with him, he got arrested, started panics—if he’d started any of it himself, we’d have kicked him out from the start. But he never did. And he was strong. Aside from Jelaqua, he was the best in the group. When he found that enchanted blade, he became our front line.”
Jelaqua looked up. She saw Moore’s head rise. Seborn made a disgusted sound.
“Bastard. I nearly lost an arm twice thanks to him, and I had a rope around my neck one time. We were nearly lynched.”
He looked at his teammates. Jelaqua slowly smiled. The Selphid looked at Moore and then at Redscar, who’d glanced back up. She tried to remember, and surprisingly, the memory came into her head without hurting as hard. It still hurt like a needle to the chest, but Jelaqua spoke anyways.
“That’s true. Garen had a knack for trouble. But he was hardly as bad as Ukrina, was he? The number of times she got in trouble for her tail tickling the wrong young woman—remember the time we nearly got killed by that angry [Lord]? Lord Tourants or whatever he was called? Garen wasn’t with us—mainly because we were afraid he would get executed if he wandered around in plain sight.”
Moore nodded.
“There was a bounty on Goblins, and we couldn’t convince anyone even though Garen was Silver-rank at the time. So he was hiding in the forest with Halassia waiting for us to come back. When he learned we were being held prisoner, he attacked the prison with her. People were screaming about a Goblin army when it was him and a few illusion spells.”
The other two snorted. They’d nearly forgotten that detail. Redscar scooted closer, listening as Jelaqua fished for another memory.
“Remember the time he got tricked and paid that [Wagon Driver] in gold instead of silver? He got so mad when he found out he tore up half the city.”
“Or the time when he tried to beat a Minotaur in a fist fight?”
The Halfseekers laughed. They began telling stories. It hurt each time they brought up Garen’s name, much less Halassia, Ukrina, Thornst, or Keilam’s. And it hurt worst of all to remember a happy moment when everything was going well. It hurt because it was a good memory, poisoned by what had happened. It felt to Jelaqua like all their memories had been infected with it.
A slow, bitter poison. It hurt, coming out. But as Jelaqua spoke, the poison did drip away, leaving the wounds clearer at last. Not entirely, but some. Jelaqua paused in the middle of a tale about Garen, a flying boot, and a battle with a Creler nest and stopped.
“He was our friend. Our comrade in arms. I wish I could have stopped him. He was our friend, but there’s no forgiveness. Some things you forgive. But other things you can’t.”
The other two nodded. Redscar nodded as well. He looked at his arm, where a bit of red paint was beginning to flake away. He picked at it.
“Bad friend. Bad teammate. Bad Chieftain. But good one, sometimes.”
And that was it. The Halfseekers nodded and began telling stories without a second beat. So did Redscar and some of the other Redfang warriors. Garen had betrayed their trust. He couldn’t be forgiven and that couldn’t be forgotten, no matter how much time passed. Neither the Halfseekers nor his tribe could bury the past.
But they had liked him.
 
——
 
Goblins cycled in and out of the inn. A few, the lucky few, stayed. The Redfang five—Headscratcher and company—Redscar, Spiderslicer, Noears, and Poisonbite. But the others came and went, eating a meal, pausing to listen, to look around, or to point out Erin to each other, to listen to her shout obscenities as she lost a game of chess on her magic chessboard or try to teach someone how to play. They came and went, offering other Goblins a chance to see.
The myth was true. The legend was real. And the inn was safe. For a little bit. The Goblins were relaxed, more at ease than they had been in a long time. But they were still watchful. It was ingrained in the psyche. So they noticed the dark shapes marching out of the darkness and over the hills.
Of course, they’d come under the hills first. Goblins shouted in alarm and backed up. Many didn’t recognize the strangers, but they didn’t need to know the Antinium to be wary. They raced towards the inn as Pawn and a group of Painted Soldiers walked out of the darkness. The [Acolyte] swung a censer, and the Painted Soldiers walked ahead of him. But something was strange.
“They are Antinium. Not a threat. They are guests of the inn.”
Numbtongue insisted as Redscar stared down at the Antinium. The Goblin looked extremely doubtful, but he whistled, and the Redfang warriors backed up and quieted their growling Carn Wolves. The Goblins drew back, and Erin, who’d come to see, peered down at the Antinium.
“They didn’t come through Liscor. I wonder why?”
“They probably don’t want to walk through the barricades. But there’s still water down there. Aren’t they nervous? They could slip and fall.”
Ceria appeared at Erin’s side. The young woman peered down.
“No, they’ve got a light, and Pawn’s taking a good path. But—is that a lantern he’s swinging?”
The half-Elf’s eyes narrowed.
“No. That’s not a lantern. That’s a…what is that? It’s that burning thing you had him make.”
“His censer. It’s glowing.”
Erin breathed softly. The censer was indeed glowing. It was a soft yellow light, and it had seemed exactly like a lantern at first. But the light was too pure, and it never wavered. The Antinium shook it, and it lit up the area in front of him as he and the Painted Soldiers—eleven or so—walked towards the inn, past the staring Goblins.
“An enchantment? It has to be an artifact. Did they get it spelled somehow? But who would—no. Wait.”
Ceria’s voice faltered. She stared down at Pawn. Erin heard her gulp.
“Ceria? What is it?”
“There’s no magic. I can’t see it coming from the lantern.”
“What?”
Erin looked down. The censer was glowing, just like a light spell. Only, it wasn’t like a light spell, was it? The censer was glowing, not an orb of light. And Antinium couldn’t cast magic. At least, Pawn couldn’t. Ceria looked pale.
“How is he doing that? How—”
“I think it’s faith.”
“What?”
The Goblins looked at Erin. She nodded and stared at Pawn. She could hear it now. A faint click. The Painted Soldiers were marching rhythmically. And every ninth step, their mandibles would click together.
Click.
It was a hypnotic, gentle procession up the hill. And the light reminded her of…well, it reminded her of something. Erin stood with her noisy inn behind her and watched Pawn approaching. She whispered.
“Faith made manifest.”
“Then it is not faith, is it?”
Ceria looked suspiciously at Erin. The young woman turned.
“No. I suppose it’s not. In that case, I guess you’d call it…religion.”
The half-Elf opened her mouth to tell Erin the gods were dead. But then she looked down and realized there were no gods there. Just the Antinium. And the censer, humble though it was, small though it was, glowed. Any Tier 0 spell could do the same and make light just as bright or brighter. But it wasn’t magic. And that made Ceria wonder.
 
——
 
“Attention everyone! These are Antinium! They’re guests! No one scream or stab them! Thank you!”
Erin clapped her hands together. The Goblins looked up, stared at the Antinium, and kept stuffing their faces.
“Thank you, Erin.”
Pawn leaned his censer on a stick against a table as the Soldiers sat in the provided chairs. Erin saw Lyonette coming over with some hot, gluten-free food and smiled.
“It’s great to see you, Pawn.”
“And you, Erin. And you too, Lyonette. I wished to come tonight when I heard what was occurring. Will you please help me feed my Soldiers? I wish to speak with the Goblins.”
The Worker nodded to the Soldiers who were staring at the borscht and then looked around. He spotted the Goblin he was looking for quickly and walked over.
“Numbtongue. I have returned with Purple Smile. Yellow Splatters was forced to remain in the Hive as it is tactically unsound to bring both [Sergeants] in case we were attacked and killed. Shall we resume our chat?”
Numbtongue grinned. He looked at the curious Soldier who was waving with three of his four hands while one of them grasped a special mug designed for him. Purple Smile raised his mandibles, and Numbtongue waved over some of the curious Goblins. The Antinium and Goblins mixed, cautiously at first, and then with ease as they found that they could actually understand each other through sign language as much as words. Erin blinked, mystified.
“I thought they only met once. Since when did they become friends?”
Bevussa shrugged as she passed by Erin.
“A lot goes by that we don’t know about. Do you have any more beer, Erin? We’re all out.”
“Aw!”
The Goblins and Antinium sat together. Numbtongue pointed at Pawn’s censer. The Antinium admired the Redfang’s war paint. They were quite similar, for all they were different. And then Erin turned from a conversation and shouted the words that made the entire inn look up.
“Hey, you lot! Lyonette tells me you can dance! Is that true?”
 
——
 
“Fascinating.”
Pisces stood by the door with a drink in hand. Wine, unfortified and delicate. Taken from Rabbiteater’s cloak of all places. He supposed the location didn’t matter since the quality of the wine was a fine vintage, but he couldn’t help but feel that it cheapened the entire experience a bit. Well, free wine was free wine. He drank and looked at Ceria, Falene and Typhenous, who’d both gathered around Noears. The Goblin was flicking balls of lightning up which exploded harmlessly. But that wasn’t what had prompted Pisces’ rare outburst of admiration.
It was the floating orbs of multicolored lights that Noears had conjured with a single [Light] spell. Pisces admired the colors—the Goblin had an eye for pleasing aesthetics—and then looked at the other [Mages].
“You can see the spell was clearly boosted by the ambient mana. In fact, all of our magics tonight are. If you see—”
He flicked his fingers, and his wine glass turned upside down. But the wine within remained perfectly still, controlled by the telekinesis. Pisces lifted it to his lips and drank, letting gravity take over.
“You see? That would be far more difficult normally, especially as I am not well-versed in telekinetic magic. But the ambient mana in Erin’s inn is charged.”
“It hasn’t been until now. Why is that?”
Ceria frowned at the glowing light spell. Typhenous cleared his throat.
“I do recall Miss Lyonette mentioning a similar phenomenon. But why would it only occur now after so long? Unless…”
All the [Mages] looked to the magic door. Pisces stroked his chin.
