“When was the last time the door wasn’t teleporting someone to Celum every night? Or Pallass? How much mana does it take to send someone a hundred miles in a second?”
“We have been using the door today—”
“Only to go back and forth between Liscor. And the teams taking the door south. But Nailren’s team is only, what, twenty miles south of here? Thirty at most.”
“So the door isn’t consuming as much mana! Of course! Imagine the drain—how much magic is Erin’s inn producing normally, do you think?”
“Enough to make that spell possible.”
Ceria eyed Falene and Moore. The two were sitting together, and the half-Elf had conjured a floating procession of plates to move past Moore’s head while he sat back. Thus he could eat without having to sit up, and she could keep talking without having to look up at him.
Pisces waved that away.
“That is a spell fueled by Miss Skystrall’s magic. A product of ability. But that [Light] spell was overcharged. I wonder, how much power could you draw without the door present?”
“Wanna try? Blow up rocks?”
Noears grinned and shot a few tiny lightning bolts from his fingers. Pisces sniffed.
“Tempting, but I think that would be considered an act of aggression from Liscor at the moment. But I do wonder if we could—”
He was discussing spells with the others when he heard a sound break through the general hubbub. Goblins turned their heads as a Hobgoblin with a guitar struck a chord. Numbtongue played a riff and then modulated the tone. Instead of the crackling electric chords, he played something much softer.
Another sound joined him. A Cave Goblin on a pair of improvised drums. A pair of Goblins blew into flutes they’d carved out of wood. A third had a kind of violin. Pisces’ jaw dropped.
Cave Goblins took their places as a young woman waved a stick, mimicking a conductor without in fact lending anything to the performance. Numbtongue ignored her as he plucked at his guitar. The Cave Goblins played. Their instruments were crude. But the sounds they made were pure. After all, they’d listened to Numbtongue, and he knew what the other musical instruments should look and sound like, at least in theory.
The sound they made as a whole was discordant at first. The Cave Goblins hadn’t played in symphony, and this song was new. But they were Goblins. Cooperation was in their blood, and in time, they had a song going that was…close.
It sounded vaguely like something Pisces would hear in a ballroom in Terandria, albeit with a faster tune, more bass and drums, and a good deal more mistakes. But the resemblance was uncanny. He stared at the Goblins. And then he got the shock of his life.
The Painted Soldiers had turned at the sound of the music. They had stood up as one. Now, they stepped into the middle of the common room, which had been cleared of tables and chairs. Pisces watched them a tad bit apprehensively. He wasn’t sure what they’d do. What he was not prepared for was to see two of the Soldiers lock hands and begin to dance.
Not just dance. They began to step in pairs, in a classic ballroom waltz. Across the room, Halrac nearly choked on his drink as the Antinium slowly walked down the long [Grand Theatre], towards the dais at the back of the room. They turned, stepped, turned—their steps were perfectly in synch. Memorized, coordinated. As only the Antinium could do.
The Antinium—and a [Princess]. Lyonette spun past the Soldiers, Pawn holding her hand gingerly. Pisces rubbed at his eyes and stared down into his mug as Typhenous went to sit down and landed on the floor. Everyone watched as the song played on and the Antinium danced. For a minute, two, the Antinium moved to the sound of the playing Goblins. And then the music changed.
“Okay, Numbtongue! Hit it! Better When I’m Dancing! This is my song!”
Erin jumped into the middle of the dance floor. The music changed, picking up in tempo. It took a distinctly un-ballroom-like melody. Pisces saw Erin stop and then began shuffling her feet. She winked.
“I learned this one from Charlie Brown.”
She began to dance in a way that had nothing to do with memorized steps or patterns. It was individual, cheerful, and completely embarrassing. Pisces saw Revi snort, and the Goblins exchanged glances, unsure if this was comedy or something serious. Erin just laughed. She beckoned.
“Come on!”
There was a moment of hesitation, then a Goblin pushed her way through the crowd. Pebblesnatch looked around importantly, then handed her prized chef’s hat off to another Goblin. She began to copy Erin. The young woman laughed. The two began to dance, and then another Goblin came forwards. He struck a pose and that was it.
The dance floor began to fill. The Antinium Soldiers watched, then began to copy Erin. Pisces watched, dribbling wine onto the floor. Ceria laughed and laughed and then grabbed Pisces’ hand.
“Come on! You’ve seen Erin dance, Pisces! And they’re playing all of the songs on Ryoka’s music thing! How did Erin teach Numbtongue that?”
“No, absolutely not—”
Pisces raised his hands. But then Ksmvr was there.
“Comrade Pisces, will you dance with me?”
Ksmvr didn’t seem to understand the traditional gender pairing that went along with such things. Pisces was trying to explain it to him as Typhenous tried to muffle his laughter with his beard. That was when Erin grabbed his hand and towed the old man into the dance.
Bright music. The Goblins standing outside the inn waiting for their turn stared through the windows. They looked at each other and then shouted for the others to see. And the dancing spread. After all, Goblins were thieves. And stealing music and footwork was considerably easier than food. All they had to do was watch.
 
——
 
A pair of blonde figures sat at a table as Erin led the Goblins through the evolution of dancing throughout the ages. She had to describe some of it, not being capable of advanced moves like breakdancing, moonwalking, or anything past the electric slide, really. But it was a sight to see Antinium Soldiers doing that.
Yvlon had to wrench her eyes away from the mesmerizing sight. She looked at her brother and blew a bit of hair out of her face. Somehow, Ylawes was capable of ignoring even the most wondrous of sights. He frowned at her as he drank from a small cup, his face slightly flushed from the alcohol.
“It’s dangerous, Yvlon. All the adventuring teams are going south. They intend to go through Drake lands, but we’re Human. If it does come to war, we’d be in danger. I had another idea, though. If we go north, we’d run right into the Goblin Lord’s army.”
“That’s your idea?”
Her sarcastic tone made her brother grimace.
“Just wait, Yv. Yes, the Goblin Lord would be marching towards us, but Lord Veltras is pursuing his army. I doubt he’d let us come to harm. And our father is marching with him.”
Yvlon folded her arms.
“So you want to run to Tyrion Veltras. Just in time to participate in the attack on Liscor?”
“He wouldn’t demand that—”
“No? You’re a Gold-rank team, Ylawes. He’ll conscript you.”
The [Knight] paused.
“Perhaps we could talk him into negotiating instead. Or at the very least, ensure that the battle is merciful to the defeated if—”
“Dead gods, Ylawes! He’s going to sack Liscor with the Goblins! You think he’ll be merciful when—”
Ylawes signaled frantically as the aforementioned Goblins looked around. Yvlon lowered her voice.
“You think this is right? No! He’s going to start a war, and we’re on the wrong side. Father was an idiot for supporting him.”
“Don’t talk about our father that way.”
Yvlon’s older brother frowned angrily. Yvlon clenched one fist.
“Shouldn’t I? He’ll be part of the bloodshed, Ylawes.”
That made him hesitate. Ylawes took another drink from his cup.
“He is part of the army. He must cooperate or be seen as dishonorable. You can see the integrity in his decision—”
Yvlon tossed the contents of her mug at Ylawes. He dodged it, and an unhappy Goblin shook a fist at both of them. Yvlon snapped.
“You’re unbelievable. Integrity? Father threw out centuries of our family’s friendship with the Reinharts. You want to talk about honor, Ylawes?”
He held still, face red, but looking serious.
“No one is perfect, Yvlon. We try. I have seen a lot which has changed my mind, but the facts cannot themselves change. Liscor will be under siege, and I think you and I both know it will fall. Please think on what I’ve said. If not for yourself, then for your team.”
“Ksmvr’s Antinium.”
“But he is your team. And if you convinced Erin to go with you—”
“What about Selys? Mrsha? The others? Will you take them all as prisoners, Ylawes?”
The [Knight] shook his head.
“I could order you to go. I am your brother, and I outrank you.”
Yvlon raised her middle finger. Ylawes sat up straight with shock.
“Shove this up your ass, Ylawes. I’m not a [Knight], and adventurers don’t follow military command. That’s Drakes you’re thinking of. And I’m not your little sister. I’m a member of the Horns, and I refuse to—”
“Alright Gangnam Style! Follow me, everyone!”
Yvlon and Ylawes both looked left. They stared as Erin pranced across the room, doing a dance the armored woman could only describe as a horse prancing crossed with a wagon driver flapping his reins. Yvlon stared as Erin crossed the inn, singing a nonsensical song and dancing that ridiculous dance. Ylawes watched with open mouth as Erin showed the other Goblins how to do it.
The entire inn came to a standstill as they watched Erin lead the Goblins, Drassi (and a few of the Antinium) across the floor doing the iconic dance. Dawil laughed so hard that he fell out of his chair and couldn’t stand up for a good three minutes.
“What in the name of silver was…”
Ylawes shook his head, coming out of his trance. He looked at his sister and saw her getting up.
“Yvlon! Where are you going? We haven’t finished this discussion.”
“I’m going to try that dance.”
“That?”
Ylawes looked aghast. Yvlon smiled.
“Why not? And the answer is no, Ylawes.”
“This isn’t over.”
The [Knight] vowed as he got up. Yvlon stared at him. Then she turned her head.
“You can’t force me to change my mind, Ylawes. I’m with my team.”
She walked off. Ylawes saw her tap Ceria on the shoulder and try to drag the half-Elf onto the dance floor. Embarrassment hated company, but it couldn’t do without. He sat back down.
“I can’t force you to change your mind, but I promised I’d keep you safe.”
The [Knight] muttered to himself. He watched Yvlon and then shook his head. They called this dancing? It was…well, he might have given it a shot. If there weren’t so many witnesses. Or if Dawil wasn’t watching. The Dwarf still hadn’t stopped laughing.
 
——
 
As all things happened, it ended. Goblins fell asleep. In piles. Outside. Adventurers went to their beds. Erin stumbled about, trying not to step on bodies. And the adventurers looked at each other, deep into their cups. Not a little bit drunk, but still high on the remnants of the party.
A party. When all that had happened and was going to happen was in the air, they’d had a party. Ceria rubbed at her head. It was an Erin thing. But somehow, it was fitting. There had been a truce. She went from table to table, trying to find where her teammates had passed out. She found Ksmvr lying under a chair, moaning about water as some dripped from a cup onto his head. She decided he was fine. Then she looked for Yvlon. She found Pisces instead.
The [Necromancer] was sitting at a table, wine cup in hand. He was murmuring to himself. Ceria went to take the cup away. Pisces let her. She lifted him up.
“Come on, Pisces. To your bed. I can’t carry Ksmvr without Yvlon, but you’re light enough.”
“I resent that…Springwalker. I was deep—immersed in my thoughts. Creating art, if you must know. A reflection of this moment. In celebration.”
Pisces’ breath was full of wine. Ceria, none too steady herself, dragged him to the steps, avoiding a sleeping Hob.
“Oh yeah? Tell me another one.”
“If you insist. It is an opus of sorts, however unpolished. Ahem.”
Pisces cleared his throat. Ceria turned to tell him she didn’t want to hear, but it was too late. He began speaking softly. And perhaps it was her inebriation, but the poem was quiet and pleasing to the ear in the silence punctuated by soft footsteps and snores.
“What madness, what fright!
A terrible, glorious sight!
When traitor fled and Goblins rode
And came to rest, here on nowhere’s road
A strange thing happened; an inn they stayed
Where Antinium danced and Goblins played
Oh, how I wish I’d stayed
But too quick the night stole by
And I,
Had to bid the day goodbye
On this, a springtime
Miraculous night.”
He broke off, swaying, and Ceria stopped. She looked at him.
“That wasn’t half bad.”
“You think so? Ah, but I knew so.”
Pisces grinned blearily at her. Ceria rolled her eyes.
“Yes, yes. Don’t let it go to your head. Who did you steal that from?”
“As a matter of fact…”
The two went up the stairs, arguing quietly. The last of the Goblins fell asleep now that the noisy Humans were gone. They slept where they’d fallen, full to bursting, filled with alcohol and, strangest of all, feeling safe.
Safe. What a word. They were camped beneath a Drake city with the Goblin Lord and Humans hot on their heels. But…tonight had been a reprieve. A special moment. For a little bit, for one night in their lives, Goblins had been people and people weren’t any better than Goblins.
It was indeed a miracle. Or perhaps a changing of opinions.
A much quieter Human listened to Ceria and Pisces go upstairs. Erin Solstice looked around at the slumbering Goblins. It would be a problem tomorrow. It might be a problem in two hours, when the sun rose. She didn’t know what to do. Still. It wasn’t as if dancing or drinking could solve the real crisis ahead of her. And yet, she couldn’t regret tonight. It was needed.
One good night. Erin walked into her kitchen. She lay down and sighed. She dreaded tomorrow and hoped it would never come. But she knew it would. But at least tonight, she savored forever and let the night stretch on into one eternal, immortal moment.
[Magical Innkeeper Level 37!]
