“Because you still got a job to do from the bigger guys up top,” Shiv surmised. “Yeah. Figures. Well. Tell you what—I’m sure you guys have someone with a properly Delved Harbinger of their own, right?”

Where Pruduveral fell silent, Evanescia scoffed. “Of course they do. Hypocrisy is the way of every ruling power in all stories. But being without an ability your enemy possesses…” Her mind and emotions jumped—Shiv saw it happen in real-time. “Like how you keep leaving my dimension. How does that work?”

“You know what? For once, she and I got the same question.” Produveral regarded Shiv with a growing alertness. “Centauri has you listed as extract, capture, and register for developing a Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin skill. But there’s nothing about what you just pulled. I’m a Myth. My mind is spread across dimensions—a few of which are my own.”

Shiv gawked. “You have your own dimensions?”

Produveral ignored his question. “So, for you to slip out from my consciousness means that you’re either a hidden Transcendent-Tier Pathbearer, which… You know what, fuck it. Well done, Udraal: you played us all for fools again. Centauri will send a diplomat over to whatever hellscape you’re currently hiding on to grovel a bit and discuss what you want from us. But in the much more likely case that you have a highly abstract Unique Skill…”

"Which wasn’t a hard conclusion to arrive at," the Harbinger noted.

Nope. But I can still play this out.

“Might be more than one,” Shiv said, offering a playful shrug. Teasing Produveral both annoyed him and incensed his curiosity. “So. Here’s what I’m going to do—and you two tell me if this will work. I’m going to stay in the Fairwoods. I’m going to let Produveral here escort one of my bodies to wherever Chorus is. I’ll keep trying to escape from the virtuous Usurper-Narrator, the one true hero of Integration, while trying to prevent her from recapturing everyone who escaped earlier—and don’t lie to me, Evanescia, I can see your core is splashing about with molten hot excitement. You’re definitely coming for us.”

“I still have you and the Seeker marked by the Watchtower. I can draw upon you—and compel your forced return.”

“Yeah, but you won't, because that's not very climactic. Bad pacing and all that. Think of it this way: you can try to use the tower to re-summon us, and I suspect the effect will only be partial because, yeah, we do have Unique Skills, and that still hasn't been assimilated, right?”

He got his confirmation from Evanescia’s silence.

“Alright, so you're having a hard time fully assimilating us. Great! Even more attention on your part! You need to physically recapture us! On top of that, imagine the pacing of your story: If I manage to pull off this nasty little escape, you drag me in over the back, but there's still Adam outside. You're going to have to go after him anyway.”

The pale creature tilted its head at him. “Or I can use both of you as hostages to lure the Paragon in. I have tasted a portion of his changed soul. His nature is Heroism. He cannot abandon you.”

Shiv nodded, conceding the point. “He'd mount a proper rescue, but only after gathering as many Legends and as much support as possible. Adam's a lot of things, but hopelessly stupid he is not. If he gets himself captured, he knows that's it; we're not coming out of the Fairwoods. Never. So he's going to take his time, and while he's taking his time, you are going to be trying again and again and again, and worst of all, you're going to be on the wayside, watching us live through stories that you aren't a part of. That you're just a reader trying to recollect missing pages from her perfect book rather than a hero writing them out herself.”

Rhetoric [error]

A lightning bolt changed Shiv's Harbinger to his Rhetoric skill, and he felt a burst of levels pass and descend upon both.

“Nah, attention right now is good. Don't deprive yourself of that. Think about it: you've got pretty good odds still. You're powerful. You might not be able to leave the Fairwoods, but come on. You can't be without options. There are people who wander here, people who pass through. You can hire mercenaries. You can create vessels of your own. You can reach out and then put the fight on more even terms. Not entirely. You're still the Usurper-Narrator, but think about how close it has to be.”

And Evanescia did. While she did, however, the Farwalker looked upon her with a growing paranoia. It wasn't a near thing this time. He was fully aware of what Shiv was doing, and he gave Produveral a wink.

“Besides, I told you I'll be staying here. At least a version of me will. That'll keep this fight between us real personal. You can taunt me, and I can taunt you, and that can keep people turning the pages. At least keep you turning the pages. I got no reason to stay after all, but I stayed anyway because I mean to beat you in your own story.” His words left him in a vicious and senseless snarl, but the feeling of aggression came and went with the passing of a whistling gale. He leaned back, letting his posture relax. “Just the same way I'm gonna go on a trip with the Farwalker here. I want to see what this Chorus thing is all about. I want to face someone who's actually Delved their Harbinger to better understand everything you're talking about. I haven't agreed to let you do anything to me, but guess what? I can be convinced if you have the capability to convince me. You got every shot.”

Both Produveral and Evanescia fell silent, trapped in their own thoughts. It was an interesting arrangement: one on Shiv's terms, but also one that made things easier for them. They didn't need to go track him down or brave the mana threshold of Integrated Earth for one. He remained accessible. Stayed close to his enemies, and they close to him.

“What's stopping you from using that Unique Skill again?” Produveral asked.

It was a good question. Shiv countered it with one of his own. “What's stopping you from putting a hole through my chest or battering through my Magical Resistance using your psychomancy and taking hold of me?”

“Choice?”

“Felling courtesy, Pathbearer,” Shiv answered. “I'm self-interested, but not stupid. At least I'm trying to be less stupid. I know that there's no fight between us. Before, maybe I would've tried cutting you down somehow, dying over and over again, trying to win through attrition, maybe through vitality drain. I know that you're different. She's different. I'm cutting through the bullshit. I'm taking a different road. Since there's a part of me that's actually genuine, then maybe… maybe this can work for all of us.”

A beat followed.

Finally, the man pinched the bridge of his nose and sighed. “And that's why the Harbinger is a Restricted Skill.”

Shiv shook his head, indulging in pride and honesty in equal measure. “My Harbinger is mostly broken right now. Aside from being able to see your emotional cores and guess at what you're feeling and what you're thinking, it's not really letting me affect you right now. Everything I did and said to the both of you could have been done by a Pathless, so—”

Something struck his mind. He felt Uva's strings brush him, pull at him urgently, and she was never the type to directly lay hands on him when she could call out or whisper that there was something wrong. He needed to divert his focus back to the Tutorial—couldn't control multiple bodies at the same time with his Legion of Self skill damaged. “Hey, can you two give me a second? I got a problem on the home front that I need to deal with. If this body stops moving and talking, it's not dead; it's just… I'm not all here.”

“Another question I want you to answer when you come back,” Produveral said. “Are the multiple bodies a Deathless thing, or did you undergo a special version of the ritual?”

“Deathless,” Shiv answered tersely. “Also a Unique Skill.”

“Jesus, how many Unique Skills do you—”

***

The Farwalker's voice was cut off as Shiv shifted his focus back over to his Severed Shadow. His awareness blurred, and for half a second, he wondered what the problem was; why Uva needed him back so soon.

Then he understood, and the blood froze in his veins.

He and the others were back inside Courtney, aboard the Sky-Swallowing Carp. They also weren't alone. His Severed Shadow had arrived in the captain's quarters, which meant that his physical body had been moved after it was rendered comatose with him being trapped in the Fairwoods. Inside the room with them were a few familiar figures. One was Jessica, and she stood in an unmoving combat posture, Rusty drawn, manifested as a broadsword, and pointed toward the ceiling, or what once used to be the ceiling.

The space above them had been torn wide open, a chasm of gore and snapping ligaments that was being stretched wider with every moment, causing metallic ichor to rain down upon Shiv and the others, drenching them in blood in moments. Also in the room with him were Roland, Can Hu, Valor, and Hades Hymn for some reason. A good portion of Gate Piety's combat power was assembled inside the captain's quarters.

And Shiv knew why.

Far above, the rust-red clouds drifting across the Tutorial’s sickly sky parted as a crushing, metaphysical weight descended.

The Challenger’s scar-lined visage loomed like a wrathful celestial body, great enough to crush a world between his fingers and cast all who lived upon its surface unto extinction. The orc god’s eyes burned a pure, incandescent white, contrasted by the vile appearance of his flesh, skin marred in sprawls of countless burning mass graves, spilling a rain of rusted weapons and corpses down upon the world.

But where his flesh was as Shiv had seen it many times, nowhere to be seen now was the familiar expression, that cruel, sardonic smile upon his face.

This time, his eyes were intense, and his jagged teeth clenched tight. The rage inside the Challenger was true and heavy, heavy enough that the Harbinger cried out in agony, with Shiv following suit. It was as if gravity had increased a thousandfold, and it was crushing his soul into the bedrock of existence. He witnessed the Challenger’s heart against his will, and his thoughts went empty as he felt a hate, deeper than any sea, wider than a universe, loathing near-unfathomable, and beside it rage and cruelty and all the things that made a monster in paradoxically equal proportions to that first infinity. But the Challenger’s heart was vast. Beside the anger and the cruelty and hate, there was also intellect, and wanton curiosity.

"Behold," the Harbinger whispered, delirious with agony. "Behold the shape of true monstrosity! Behold the nightmare of nightmares! Behold the God of Strife! Behold the Challenger!"

Shiv beheld the Challenger, and he knew him to be displeased, but the god's burning gaze did not settle upon Shiv.

No, his loathing crushed the Deathless, wounded him, caused Vitae to spill out from his cracked Revenant, but that was simply a byproduct of his scorn, and every bit of his loathing was directed upon two comatose Pathbearers.

A few meters beside Shiv, Adam lay on his side, his expression tense and miserable, like he was fighting through some kind of terrifying dream. Though unconscious, he was likely still suffering from his Haunting Omniscience. His body, however, was shadowed by the Culturist’s immense, unmoving bulk, while Adam's mind was guarded by a dense nest of Psychomancy—Uva was residing inside him.

Shiv groaned. Heads turned to regard him. Hearts flickered with surprise and relief as to his return.

But then the Challenger looked at him, and Shiv nearly felt his fragile Harbinger turn to powder. “Godsdammit, Challenger,” he croaked, trying hard to keep his tone light. “What is this shit? I just got back, and you’re throwing a tantrum?”

Shiv's attempt to engage the Challenger went ignored. The orc god’s gaze passed over him for but the briefest of instances, before sliding away.

And the Challenger let out a breath. A breath that sent a colossal hurricane sweeping down from the sky. It smashed into the Court Leviathan, and the titanic beast let out a piercing cry of alarm. But just as fast as the hurricane came, it broke as the Challenger drew in a breath, letting the storm abate at will.

“You have overstepped.”

There wasn't the slightest hint of the Challenger’s true rage within his voice, but it was there despite. Shiv could see it, could feel it staining the air, choking the atmosphere like smog and ash that would drown a world and wither all life. And there was no question as to who he was addressing.

“I expected such impudence from the Deathless. It is part of the reason why I made him insufferable. But you? For you to obtain this power, and use it to take what is mine? For you to turn him, to purge my presence from the heart of my wayward son? And to do so with such delicious arrogance?”

And all too unnaturally, the fury that could burn a galaxy to ashes vanished inside the Challenger as he began to chortle with booming laughter.

“What unparalleled hubris! What true defiance! I have underestimated you, Adam Arrow. But now, I will remedy that. I will make your acquaintance properly.”
