“I've been dying to!” Suniva jumped to her feet and her armor opened up, then she unfolded her wings. “They are going to be so jealous!”

“That should be... delicious.” One of the succubi said, and everyone laughed.

“Let's go get Princess.” Ren said, then his stomach made a really loud gurgling sound. “Oh, damn.”

“Yes, you need to eat for today.” Artemis said. “Breakfast first.”

“I'm tempted to grab something quick, but I need to go see Nathalia anyway.” Ren said. “We'll have to put a couple of the tables together so we can all sit together.”

“What? All of us?” Seldanna asked, surprised.

“I'm not going to go in alone.” Ren said as Teepo dropped onto his shoulder. “Will you all join me for breakfast?”

“We would be honored.” Seldanna said for the succubi.

“Then let's go.” Ren said and they left the bedroom and went down the stairs. “Princess, we'll be heading to the county in a little while.” He said as they passed her door at the bottom of the stairs. “I'll grab you something to eat, too.”

“Thank you, My King.” Princess said.

Ren, Artemis, Suniva, and the succubi left the house and walked down the street towards the Artesian District and to the restaurant called Nathalia's Nourishment. The succubi took this opportunity to polymorph into their human disguises, as did Artemis. They weren't there to cause a spectacle like they normally did when walking through a crowd, they only wanted to eat with Ren. There wasn't much of a line at the restaurant this early in the morning, so they stood there and waited like they were just normal customers.

When it was their turn, the woman that sat people was surprised and happy to see him. “My Lord... um, I mean...”

“Just Ren is fine.” Ren said and she smiled. “There are 7 of us.” He said. “Can we push two of the tables together?”

“Of course... Ren.”

“There. That wasn't so hard, was it?” Ren asked, and she smiled.

“Harder than you think, your highness.” She said, then she chuckled because she hadn't used his name like he asked. “Right this way, please.”

Ren chuckled as well, then he and his group followed the woman to a set of tables that were kind of off to the side. Two of the serving girls came over and they put two of the tables together.

“I could have done that.” Ren said. “You didn't have to go through the trouble.”

“You are a customer and all you need to do is order and eat.” One of them said humorously. “...and pay, of course.”

Ren recognized her as the one that liked being treated like a lady. “Both I, and my party, thank you for your hospitality.” He said formally and took her hand, then placed a gentle kiss on the back of it. Her face turned beet red and her heart sped up, and her emotions flooded out and made the succubi catch their breath.

“Y-you're w-welcome.” The waitress said, completely flustered. “Um... ah... I'll be right back with your order!”

Ren watched her rush away and looked at the other waitress. “Could you remind her that we wanted 8 breakfast specials, please?”

The other waitress laughed. “I'll remind her.” She said and followed her friend into the kitchen.

“Now we wait.” Ren said and sat the 6 women down at the table and slid their chairs in, then sat down himself.

“Thank you for the waitress.” Seldanna said. “It was quite unexpected.”

“She definitely reacted much more strongly than the last time I was here.” Ren said. “I might have lessened pouring on the charm if I'd known.”

“Yeah, right!” Teepo chittered in laughter, then everyone at the table laughed, too.
