“At night, the bridge lights up like a ray of moonlight. We must see it, Ser Solstice! I say, they’ve gone all-out for us!”
Ser Markus called back, and Talia, Meisa, and Rabbiteater’s friends agreed. The Goblin had to admit—that was true.
Colorful petals were still falling from the balconies, and if he gazed backwards, he saw Shardele du Marquin still waving. He hadn’t really paid attention to her speech; like the [Generals], it had been welcoming the heroes and something something.
He’d been admiring the clouds. She stood, head uplifted, and seemed to be standing amidst the sky’s distant, fluffy clouds. Only, hers were of every color, chartreuse pink and lime green, swirling around her like some…vision.
Wild. And the citizens had cheered her, then continued to throng the streets, following the heroic [Soldiers] and [Knights]. Not just because it was fun; [Bards] were singing, composing verse on the fly, and there were stands of food being passed out to anyone for free.
Not just to the citizens; more than one tired soldier was more than gratified to receive a treat—or a kiss—from an admiring passerby. Rabbiteater just wanted the snacks, but all he got were some snappy verses.
“Ser Solstice, Ser Solstice entered the fray, and Ailendamus’ [Generals] all ran away! The Kingdom of Glass and Glory’s champions shat their pants and the Goblin Slayer saved the day!”
“No, I cut off their heads—”
Markus laughed, and Talia looked scandalized as Rabbiteater shouted at a [Troubadour] who twisted around, looking astonished. But the Goblin was quite pleased.
They even had [Jesters]. It was a concept Rabbiteater hadn’t ever seen before, and a class somewhat unique to Terandria. Right now, people dressed up as Ailendamus’ famous [Knights] were letting children beat them with sticks, pretending to ‘fight’. Calanfer was a riot of entertainment on the streets, but the Order of Seasons were accorded their dignified passage to the palace that housed the Eternal Throne.
Which was too bad, because the [Soldiers] looked like they were having fun. And—as they began to enter another plaza leading up to the palace, a few hurrying [Diplomats] intercepted the [Knights] and began to direct some away from the palace to the best inns and places to rest. That was when Rabbiteater began to realize there was more going on. Not that he cared where he slept, but the [Knights] did.
“Dignitaries? How many? Are we to be displaced by travelling [Negotiators]? We fought for the Dawn Concordat and shed blood and broke bones!”
Dame Talia was upset. On behalf of her fellow [Knights]. Apparently, only she, Dame Voost, Ser Greysten, and a handful of others had been given rooms in the palace. A huge insult or something—except that there was a good reason. Dame Voost herself held up a hand and Talia instantly fell silent.
“Peace, Talia. Our choice of where to sleep is hardly important. Six of our own will have rooms in the palace. Which is as many as they can afford. Nor are we being snubbed; Calanfer has called for a summit in light of what it is calling the great victory against Ailendamus. An unofficial one; the pretext is a banquet. But we have representation not just from the southern kingdoms but further north. These are not [Negotiators] but nobility and their escorts. Even royalty. Twenty kingdoms have sent emissaries.”
“Which twenty kingdoms?”
Ser Greysten, normally amiably uncaring of politics, glanced up suddenly. Ser Ilm had been chatting with the woman who had informed the Order of Seasons about the inconvenience. He actually took a second to re-confirm, then his brows rose all the way.
“…Cenidau of the northernmost kingdoms. Noelictus, Desonis, Nadel, Pheislant—as we are all united by common enmity, Summer’s Champion. But—I am told Taimaguros and Ailendamus have their own diplomats here.”
“The enemy?”
Meisa was outraged, but Ser Ilm shook his head.
“Calanfer would be in negotiations. What is outstanding is—the Kingdoms of Tourvecall, Samal, and Avel have all sent diplomats and representatives. And the Restful Three.”
Greysten’s brows had been rising, but at the mention of the ‘Restful Three’, he actually jerked in surprise. Talia was no less amazed.
“What? Tourvecall is notoriously reclusive! So is the Kingdom of Keys!”
“No doubt they felt it was too important to miss.”
“The Restful Three? Are you sure?”
The Summer’s Champion looked at Ilm, then shook his head.
“Well, if it’s true, we’ll see them soon enough. And all this with Ser Solstice here! Of all our number who shouldn’t be in the palace…”
He gave Rabbiteater a meaningful look. The Goblin had already been talking with his friends about the risks of being uncovered in the center of a Terandrian kingdom. Calanfer was unlikely to spy on him as he slept, but…there was a lot more danger here than at the Order of Seasons.
However, he had to admit, he was powerfully curious about these kingdoms. As Greysten conferred with Ilm and his senior [Knights], Rabbiteater poked two people.
Meisa and Markus didn’t know Goblin language, but both had picked up the ubiquitous Goblin sign. They stepped back, and Rabbiteater whispered.
“All those kingdoms. Who is they?”
“Who are they, Rabbiteater.”
Meisa corrected and got a poke in the side. She promptly slapped his hand. Ser Markus looked as amazed as Talia. He swept a hand through his hair.
“I’m sure we may meet them all. No, if you’ve been given a room, you will be invited to all the formal events.”
“Which is dangerous, because if someone flips up his visor or casts a spell out of curiosity—”
Meisa looked worried, but Rabbiteater tapped his visor.
“I have taken great precautions.”
“Such as?”
The two Spring Knights looked at him, and the Hobgoblin raised a thumb.
“I glued my visor shut.”
Meisa stared at Rabbiteater. He pointed at Ilm.
“He also enchanted my armor against spying. It sounds like fun.”
“Fun? I daresay there are as many trap spells…no, the Restful Three aren’t prone to war. But they are a touchy lot. Especially Kaaz. No wonder Ser Greysten is concerned. We’ll bleed more than on a battlefield if we’re not careful.”
Ser Markus shook his head. Rabbiteater stared at him.
“Who are they?”
For answer, Meisa grabbed his arm—the servants were waiting to show him to the palace.
“Let’s explain as we see them, Rabbit. It’s easier just to show you. Just know one thing. If you want a tour of some of Terandria’s most powerful kingdoms—a lot of them are here. But the Restful Three are the most powerful kingdoms in the center of Terandria. If Ailendamus is the power in the south—they would be the reason why Ailendamus hasn’t expanded north and why Taimaguros holds rather than make too many wars.”
“So they’re powerful?”
“…Yes, Rabbit. They’re powerful.”
“Just say that next time.”
 
——
 
It turned out that Rabbiteater did know more Terandrian kingdoms than he thought. As he strode through the palace of Calanfer, he found it was a chaos of servants, nobles, and the aforementioned dignitaries and their escorts, so that Meisa and Markus could point out each nation to him.
The chaos was due to the foreign kingdoms’ servants, not Calanfer’s staff. And the fact that the dignitaries were all-too-happy to talk to each other and ignore the people hoping to get them settled into their rooms. Also, there was a pecking order, and navigating a touchy [Baron] not getting his luggage in before a more powerful nation’s lesser [Lady] was—tricky.
Calanfer was managing it. Rabbiteater saw more [Diplomats] and related classes than he had ever seen in his life in the first ten minutes of being in the palace. Men and women, even, to his surprise, non-Humans like Gnolls, Drakes, and a Falcon Beastkin, all of whom were very good at being personable.
Not softly spoken necessarily; they had talents. For instance, one of the Gnolls had a grip like steel when he shook Rabbiteater’s hand, gave him a single look up and down, and growled.
“If you need an escort, we can find you one, Goblin Slayer, [Knights]. Otherwise, your room is numbered as 277. East Wing, Mercuous Suites.”
“Thanks.”
Rabbiteater appreciated the lack of fuss. And the Gnoll singled out another target for his straightforward approach. A [Lord] who looked both seasick and sick of being fawned over was standing, arms folded, with a group of four. The Gnoll’s conversation caught Rabbiteater’s ear as he saw someone wearing a velvet gown sewn with pearls…and a helmet almost like his, decorated with gemstones, pass by. He pointed at the Human wearing a helmet, and she turned to him.
She had gloves, high boots, and revealed none of her skin. But the helmet did not fit the elegant dress. Rabbiteater pointed at her.
“Whoa. Weird.”
“Ser Solstice!”
Markus stomped on his foot, and Dame Meisa bowed hurriedly.
“Milady of Tourvecall, please accept our deepest apologies—”
The [Lady]—if that was what she was—halted. Her servants looked oddly pale, not in skin tone necessarily, but…pale, as if they were about to faint. She was part of a group of eight, all of whom wore some kind of strange helmet. Each one was complete, and—unlike their servants who were bareheaded, they were all clearly noble.
One had a completely round…sphere over his head, as polished as a mirror, with two fake ruby eyes that were just cut gems roughly placed where his eyes would be. He also had, to Rabbiteater’s great hilarity, some kind of easily-wipeable ink, and he’d drawn a curved line like a smile under the eyes.
The laughing Goblin was pointing at the figure, and the [Lord] turned, wiped out the smile, and drew an unhappy line in its place. The [Lady] just offered a muted chuckle behind the helm.
“We take no offense. The famous Goblin Slayer is known to be quite—interesting. As we mask ourselves, so, likewise. We shall speak later, but our travels have exhausted us. Excuse us, [Knights].”
At this point, Markus was punching Rabbiteater in the side, but since that was how Redfangs expressed affection, Rabbiteater kept laughing. Meisa just stared at him, and Rabbiteater stopped laughing.
No sex. He coughed into his hand.
“Who are they?”
“Tourvecall. Kingdom of Incantations. They all wear helmets and seldom show their faces. They’re small…but unique. Rabbiteater, you could offend foreign powers! This will be a disaster if you cause an uproar—we would all be in danger of our lives!”
Markus was sweating. Unfortunately, he could swear Rabbiteater was grinning behind his helm.
“So? Nothing’s changed for me.”
Ser Markus whispered a prayer to valor as he considered Rabbiteater in a diplomatic setting. He had already seen how he did with the [Princesses]. Worse—Rabbiteater was not only desired, but if he stayed at the palace, it would be rude not to attend a gathering!
Meisa shot Markus a look that said they’d have to talk to Greysten, but they kept moving. As they did, the Gnoll [Diplomat] came back into focus, talking with the annoyed [Lord] dressed all in greens, a huge recurve bow on his back, and a familiar-looking crest. He was accompanied by four others, one of whom was being served by a porcelain…Golem.
“Milord Veltras. I can give you a personal escort to your rooms, and the Five Families have all been placed in the Beiten Suites. If you would prefer to find your own way…”
“At last, someone who isn’t trying to hold my hand. As for together—we could be apart.”
The other four nobles looked at the representative of House Veltras, who was none other than one of Lady Buscrei’s sons who had drawn the losing straw and had to play politics. Terland, Wellfar, El—even Reinhart—had sent a noble son or daughter, each.
“Yes, I’ve quite tired of my cousins’ infighting. But then again, we Izrilians will be the odd ducks out here. Tell us our rooms, and we will be off.”
A [Lady] with a not-quite-a-smile flicked open a lacquered fan, and a black serpent cast on lurid green stared at Rabbiteater on the fan’s back. He eyed the [Lady] and guessed at once she represented the Reinharts. As for Buscrei’s son—he frowned, then raised a hand.
“Is that the Goblin Slayer and the Order of Seasons? Some friendly faces! Hail! I’m Lady Buscrei’s son, Lord Palec of Oswen! Greetings, although if you’re going to try to hit me, Ser Solstice, I’d rather us keep our distance.”
It was probably his cloak. The red, billowing cloak—or his battered armor without a crest that made him stand out. Or his gold-jade axe or…Rabbiteater glanced at Lord Palec and grinned. He raised a gauntleted hand, and the other members of the Five Families peered at him.
“Ah, the redoubtable Ser Solstice. And the Order of Seasons, whom we—at least Wellfar and Veltras—are allies with in the war. The House of El salutes you.”
A sprightly [Lord] stepped forwards, the oldest of the lot, with white hair and a rather interesting vest festooned with pockets. He unbuttoned one, and the gold clasp fell away even as he shook Meisa and Markus’ hands. He was personable—even for a member of the nobility—but the reason became clear the instant he shook Rabbiteater’s hand.
“For you, Ser Slayer. And I hope to meet Ser Greysten at least, of the Order of Seasons. This is a little pamphlet, which shows in some delightful illustration our kaalblades and a few upcoming projects which include the Archmage of Izril’s own handiwork. For funding or private purchase.”
“Er—thank you, Lord…?”
“Heye. I will be speaking to all the groups present, and I encourage you to leave a note with my servants. I will speak to anyone as time permits.”
The man raised two white brows, and Rabbiteater unfolded his piece of parchment and whistled.
“Ooh. Nice magic. Expensive?”
He showed Markus the price tag, and the [Knight] paled.
“Eight hundred gold per blade? And that’s on orders of ten or more?”
“Perhaps a conversation for the heads of your Season, Ser Knight?”
Lord Heye spoke tactfully. Meisa thanked him, and the Lady of House Wellfar rolled her eyes and stamped a bare foot. She jerked a thumb.
“Shall we find our rooms and agree when to meet, cousins? I have a fleet of my family hounding Ailendamus at sea, and I have no time for El’s advertising. As for you, Ser Solstice—hello. Goodbye.”
She stomped off. Rabbiteater stared after the Five Families. On Izril, they were, he knew, the most important members of any political group in the north. Here?
They were practically lost amidst the other nations. Meisa folded up her paper as Ser Markus speculated on how many years of pay he’d have to save up for to buy some of the items the House of El were advertising.
