Her children had learned it was both a test and power-play of its own. When they were good, they sat in comfortable chairs. But even if they were sitting here, they should never look uncomfortable. If they were clever, they might arrange for another chair to be there.
It was the same trick Calanfer’s rulers and diplomats played on their opponents, even allies. Seraphel had forgotten about the damn chair. Even if she’d remembered…she just sat there. Her face wasn’t as carefully polite-blank as she had been taught. She rubbed at her back, and Ielane frowned at her.
“Are you some kind of invalid or have you pulled every muscle after riding into battle?”
Seraphel sat up silently.
“It was a long ride into the city.”
The excuse didn’t really pass water, but Ielane nodded as she tapped an item on the catalog. Her personal [Handmaiden] took a note, and Ielane flipped a page, searching for more dishes.
“So we note. Shardele has already retired to her sanctum and, to judge from reports, has consumed eighteen grams of Dreamleaf.”
Seraphel kept her face straight.
“She’s leveled up her hobby.”
Ielane flicked her off-hand, which was holding a long, thin puffer of its own and drifting with smoke. It was a sign of approval, like a smile, but a quirk of the lips was the real good stuff. She inhaled and exhaled from the cigar softly.
None of the commonfolk—or even the court—knew that she smoked anything. That was a weakness, and Ielane’s own children had mostly passed their majorities before they found out.
“That wit, Seraphel, is exactly why I hoped you would do well in Avel. Alas, war ends all dreams. Ailendamus, once again. And your sharp tongue becomes an asset. A battle-capable [Princess], with unique…insights. That is how we shall frame it. Who knows? If you reach Level 30, we may have a considerable increase in the quality of suitor.”
She tapped another item from the menu, and Seraphel sat there. Her mother, Ielane, was one of the most impressive people Seraphel knew. She personally dictated some banquets, and she knew what dishes contained allergic or undesirable foods for her guests. She played politics so well that Reclis, her husband, Seraphel’s father, often turned to her when he needed the steadiest hand at the negotiating table, and people took the Queen of Calanfer for granted all the time.
Still—even before leaving home for some many years, Seraphel had never aspired to be her mother. Ielane was…what Seraphel had once told Cara O’Sullivan her vision of a ruler was.
She was a tool to fit Calanfer’s needs. She hid her hobbies, did what she needed to keep the kingdom running and prosperous. She had her wants, her desires, and she used her power to get them—but if she molded the kingdom, the kingdom molded back.
Ielane had taught her sons and daughters, but her daughters especially, that they would one day be married. It was a fact, and it would serve Calanfer, and that was not the end of their service to Calanfer. She spoke of Seraphel’s failed marriage to Noelictus and future ones not as…chores, or burdens, but opportunities.
It shall help Calanfer. So why worry about anything else? Seraphel remembered the blank stare she had received when she had protested her second marriage to Ielane’s face.
“Nothing you can do will matter more, my dear. Anything you wish to do can come after.”
“What is your exact class and Skills? I have the transcript, but if you would care to add anything to the royal archive?”
She knew Seraphel’s new levels and class and Skills. She had probably known before Seraphel woke up and heard the announcement. Not that Ielane’s Skills told her exactly what her daughters had—it told her their relative value in terms of dowry or connection.
“I have several new Skills. One reputation-related. The other was…purple.”
Seraphel hesitated, and Ielane’s brows rose. She took another puff from her cigar.
“Authority-related. Proceed.”
It hadn’t used to feel so—raw. Sharing her private levels and accomplishments. Ielane jotted down notes, like she jotted down secrets of state, carefully, asking questions.
Seraphel’s Skills. They were numerous, and even for a class consolidation for a [Princess]—rather impressive, if somewhat controversial.
 
[Ghost’s Hand].
[Hearts of Courage].
[Reputation: Infamy, Now My Fame].
[Royal Bodyguard: Two of Life, Two of Death].
[Induction: Royal Bodyguard].
[Lesser Toughness].
 
“…[Ghost’s Hand] is unknown in our lexicon. The exact nuances of your version of [Royal Bodyguard] are unknown, but seem straightforward, sadly. At best, we could make it some kind of themed…death-type Golem? At least the [Bards] will have an easier time with your reputation, indeed. Battle and protection-theme. It may play well in Kaliv, or elsewhere. Do you know what [Ghost’s Hand] does?”
And here, Seraphel rebelled. For the first time since she was seventeen, she truly pushed back in a small way.
“No, unfortunately.”
Ielane waved away a bit of smoke.
“We will have a tutor investigate. Do you have two favorite Thronebearers to pick?”
Seraphel didn’t need to think.
“Ser Dalimont and…Dame Neranthei.”
She named the Thronebearer who still served her and had gone to participate in Cara’s music video. Ielane’s brows rose only slightly.
“Good. Let us hope you can name the two without some undead. If not? Perhaps the Skill will function if the two undead are seperated. If not, we must play the Noelictus angle. Does anyone know of the Skill?”
She was going to tell Seraphel to keep it quiet. Ielane didn’t think her daughter would ever give away secret knowledge of Calanfer—and her levels were that—but again, Seraphel rebelled.
“I…the Order of Seasons and the Goblin Slayer know about my Skills.”
Seraphel didn’t know why she said that. It was just petty. And somehow, a joy to see her mother’s face as those two level eyes rose and a note of exasperation entered Ielane’s voice.
“Why?”
“Because they were present, and Ser Ilm, a [Mage Knight], accidentally cast [Appraisal] on me. My tiara was out of protective power.”
Seraphel lied to her mother’s face. Which she could do because she was wearing wards against truth spells. Her tiara. But it could run out of power. Ielane stared at Seraphel over the catalog and then resumed smoking.
“They took it normally?”
“They were aware of the Noelictus connection, and Ser Solstice is—unique.”
“So Aielef reported. And Vernoue, who wishes to marry Archmage Eldavin, the Fall’s Sentinel, and Magus Grimalkin of Pallass. If she had a chance of the first in any real way, we would extend the invitation. As for the second—more interesting, but doubtful. Possible, depending on the outcome of our unofficial summit. For the last? Aha. No. We think she would marry Ser Solstice as well, but she was wise enough not to say that. Your sister’s antics have put nonsense in some of your younger siblings’ heads.”
Lyonette. Even now, Ielane didn’t mention her outright, which showed how angry she probably was. Seraphel saw none of it behind the perfect mask. More perfect than their guests from the Kingdom of Incantations, Tourvecall. Seraphel wondered how Ielane would do in the rumored Court of Masks in Ailendamus.
“How is…?”
“Alive. Promiscuous. Rebellious as usual, but she has leveled outstandingly. Dame Ushar did not gain a complete picture of how much, but—significantly. Perhaps in a rare class. She is refusing to return home, and we have allowed it given the circumstances. Your man, Dalimont, has apparently proven himself quite well numerous times.”
Promiscuous? Had Lyonette broken the cardinal rule of a [Princess]? Well…Seraphel hoped she’d made it worth it. But Ielane didn’t want to talk about Lyonette.
“Ser Solstice. Do you know what lies behind the helmet?”
“No.”
“Mm. Good. Whatever it is, we would prefer it to remain a secret. Instinct tells us we would prefer not to know.”
Now that was fascinating. Ielane seldom did things without a good reason, but the fact that she wanted Ser Solstice to remain masked…she tapped the cigar, and some ash fell into a tray expertly held out at the right moment.
“Extremely helpful, that one. Potentially troublesome, but cannier than Golaen’s bullies or Kaaz’s troublemakers. A consummate warrior. If he can be persuaded to stay…no, I would rather not deal with whatever lies under that mask. An honorable guest.”
More and more fascinating. Ielane had a kind of sixth sense around trouble. If she wanted Ser Solstice gone…Seraphel was more curious still. But the Queen dwelled on him, a rarity. She frowned at her catalog, snapped her fingers, and spoke.
“Dinner.”
Another catalog was placed in front of her. This should have already been set, but Ielane went over it again. She spoke out of the corner of her mouth.
“What kind of eating habits does this Ser Solstice have?”
“He…”
“…Does not remove his helmet. Of course.”
“No, but I have seen him sip drinks, and he’s made plates of food. He eats mostly anything, I think. Including bugs. He’s lived in the wilderness.”
“Intriguing. Odd. We have…no delicate insects? No, we do have fried crickets for Drathians. So why…”
Ielane paged through the catalog, frowning. Then she closed it.
“Strange. However, not worth the effort.”
“What is, Mother?”
The [Queen] glanced up at Seraphel.
“We cannot locate a satisfactory dish among the catalogs of our [Chefs]. Perhaps he is indisposed; his mood being contrary to any dish would do that.”
She could sense whatever made her guests happy. So Ser Solstice wasn’t going to love tonight’s dinner? Seraphel was nodding as Ielane glanced at one of the traditional sun-clocks. She stood.
“I must greet Cenidau’s representatives with His Majesty. He sends you his congratulations. Please select a present for yourself, but be mindful that we are at war. I expect we shall see each other at tonight’s banquet and other events. We shall speak after all the greetings to our diplomats and heroes of war are concluded.”
And like that, she was rising, moving behind a privacy screen to change into appropriate attire, a five-minute process with her experienced staff—and out the room before the next five minute interval. Seraphel sat there.
The meeting with her mother was over. Fifteen whole minutes. She coughed, and someone offered her a cup of tea instantly.
Naturally, if she had wanted something to drink, Ielane expected Seraphel would have requested it. Naturally, she had to go. Ielane’s day was cut up into fifteen minute chunks, and while her younger daughter, Ellet, still needed good portions of the day, her elder daughters could take care of themselves.
It was the most approving that Ielane had been in a while. Probably because Seraphel hadn’t objected or protested, but just gotten down to business. The [Princess] wouldn’t see her mother outside of public events—which were obviously staged—for at least a day or two, and they didn’t need to meet.
It was done. Her father was even more abrupt, but he sometimes talked about philosophy, so you could sit there an hour or two while he grilled you for your perspective on things. Seraphel sat in the dressing room as servants cleared up. It was only after a while that one of them, the very same Beacle from earlier, glanced up.
Seraphel du Marquin sat in the uncomfortable chair, perfect posture, her face perfectly composed—which was to say, engaged, attentive, not just a blank mask—her lips almost parted as if waiting for someone to finish their thought before she replied. She stared ahead, and it was a perfect act worthy of any [Princess] of Calanfer.
The only change, the change in Seraphel, in home and how she lived in it—were the two streaks of tears running down her cheeks and her chin. They dripped into her lap as she wept.
 
——
 
The only people having less of a pleasant time in Calanfer than Ser Solstice and Princess Seraphel were the representatives from Ailendamus.
Noble nations of Terandria understood that while war was war, in many cases, there was still room for diplomacy right until the enemy soldiers were battering the door down. Obviously, the lives of [Diplomats] sometimes were tossed into the mix as hostages—but Ailendamus was currently on the back foot.
They were facing multiple hostile nations raiding and attacking from various sides, and while the Kingdom of Glass and Glory was a powerhouse, their [Diplomat] had orders to throw a wrench into Calanfer’s pact making, lest they form a coalition. Oh, and also to report back on any clandestine affairs and endear Ailendamus to any potential allies abroad. Find a chink in the unified hostility.
All this for four poor [Diplomats]. They might as well have been asked to fly. Calanfer might be something of a laughingstock on the battlefield—at least until recently—but the Thronebearers were famously dangerous off the practice courts.
And they were mean.
Woolen sheets misplaced for your silks. Soup that was never hot. While you were walking over to shake hands with Nadel’s [Coastwarden] top [Ambassadors], you tripped and tossed half your plate of food into their hair.
Let alone the actual Skills. [Distracting Cough] didn’t sound bad—until, in the middle of an earnest speech, you and you alone heard the loudest, wettest cough in your ear and lost your train of thought.
Needless to say, the diplomatic wing in Calanfer was miserable, and they were relieved that they were rotated out monthly. Although it had been a lot more fun when Ailendamus was pressing in through Kaliv and they were treated like horned Demons—but treated very well, mind you.
Their [Diplomat of Envy] hadn’t been prepared for this. He was a man used to touring Taimaguros, fifty years old, and his Skills included showing off Ailendamus’ largesse. After his first night of running into hostile house cats during a midnight stroll, the man practically begged to be let go to the capital.
He had a personal connection to the crown, obviously. He could call up Ailendamus’ [Generals] at need, and the Kingdom of Glass and Glory was not blind; their [Ambassadors] sometimes weighed in on military affairs with a loud enough voice to rein in [Generals] if they thought the political battle would outweigh the military one.
However, it was the Duke, Rhisveri himself, who told the [Diplomat] he would be staying.
“Your Grace, there is no chance we will call an end to the war without the Dawn Concordat feeling as though it is pressed back! I am well aware of our military capabilities. Our foes are viewing this as a decade-long war. They may well change their minds in a year.”
