“Here. A bribe. You might as well get something after this debacle. I will see you—elsewhere.”
Vernoue brightened up. She took the cone, gave Seraphel a kiss on the cheek, and hurried off with her friends. As for Seraphel—her stomach rumbled, and she sighed. Then she reached back into the fridge.
“What’s this? Oh. Oh. Is this tapioca pudding? Custard tapioca pudding!”
Don’t mind if she did. Especially now that she had complete plausible deniability. Even Ielane made mistakes. And hers was not knowing how many desserts had been pilfered before she’d put a lock on the fridge. This might be Seraphel’s last free run on gelato.
So, if you could eat one pudding, why not two? And another ice cream cone. This one was peppermint.
 
——
 
Rabbiteater was upset. He hated the stupid food. He hated the banquet. But most of all—
He hated the food.
In fact, Ser Markus found Meisa loitering outside of one of the restrooms in Calanfer, calling out to Rabbiteater.
“Rabbit—how long is it going to be? It’s not even the third course!”
“Go away. This is your fault.”
It was definitely Rabbiteater in there. Ser Markus hesitated since it was, well, the toilets.
A word on lavatories in Terandria. Of all the aspects of the Eternal Throne of Calanfer, the one area where they might fall behind another city was…plumbing. The Eternal Throne had plumbing in its capital, but nowhere near the level of a Drake city.
A lot of households outside the capital just used traditional outhouses. While the nobility had toilets, some were, uh—manually emptied.
Not the ones in the capital! Nossir. However—if you understood how hard pipelines were to lay—especially amidst enchanted stone, which could not be replaced or easily altered—you might understand why there was a toilet problem.
Some of the guestrooms had personal toilets, but there were also communal ones. Why did this matter? Well, Pallass could afford and create internal plumbing for all. Calanfer?
Calanfer had toilet stalls for its many servants and guests. Quite a lot…and one Goblin was currently sitting in one having a bad time.
They were nice toilets. Porcelain, not wood where you risked a splinter. There was the scent of something in the air, an orchid, probably, and even washing basins with gold-plated knobs. Not that Rabbiteater was going to see them any time soon.
“Something wrong with our Ser Solstice, Meisa?”
“He’s protesting. He made it through two courses before he hid himself here.”
“No I’m not. I told you. Your food is bad.”
Ser Markus hesitated. A toilet was not a place for knightly…anything. Everyone had to do their business, but most preferred to act as though no one ever performed a bowel movement. He had never read a story where the [Hero] stopped behind a bush before fighting a Dragon.
Unfortunately, Rabbiteater had a tendency to bring reality into a lot of situations. Meisa opened her mouth to demand he come out of there—when a terrible sound made both her and Markus recoil.
“Dead gods.”
Markus promptly put his fingers in his ears and wished he had a nose plug. Meisa hesitated.
“…Was that you, Rabbiteater?”
“Yes. Your food is bad!”
“Oh dear, I think he’s not actually lying, Meisa. What did he, uh—eat?”
Markus muttered. Meisa hesitated.
The problem was…Rabbiteater had been enjoying Terandrian hospitality. Which, as he had observed, declined to eat ‘poor fare’. Which included Yellats, potatoes, and a lot of cheap food. In its place?
He got tripe, pudding, blood pudding—which the Hobgoblin had thought was properly cool—and Calanfer, in its richness, could afford a whole host of what some of the kingdoms considered exotic food.
Like oysters. The northern countries that were landlocked didn’t get lots of oysters, and even Cenidau held them in high regard. Steaks prime cut, cheese—all the cheese—and their liquid diet was wine and various alcohols.
Now, there was a bit more variety than some notably bad diets, but there was one more compounding factor in this mix, and it was this:
Rabbiteater was a Goblin. Goblins did not eat this kind of rich food. They would happily eat anything, but a prolonged diet like this was unheard of for Redfangs. Even Garen Redfang.
So—when you understood he was having a bad time on the toilet—
He was having a bad time. Dame Meisa pinched her nose. Something was overpowering the lilac scent. At this point, Markus was backing away.
“Should I, ah, tell Ser Greysten that Ser Solstice will not be coming back?”
“It’ll pass.”
Meisa tried to reassure him, but Rabbiteater croaked back.
“It’s all passing. Someone give me a sword.”
“Rabbiteater, don’t be dramatic.”
Meisa almost stepped inside—the bathrooms were mixed gender and mixed species; there were even some in the castle that could accommodate Centaurs and half-Giants. But she stopped and hesitated.
She had faced down Mothbears in their cave lairs with less trepidation than one step into that porcelain chamber. Meisa remembered her first battle alone, when she had heard the whoofing, growling sounds of the monster within.
She heard much the same noises, but more…gaseous. And what sounded like hubwigh. The sound of a Goblin Knight in agony.
Meisa asked one question.
“Rabbiteater? Are you…ah…urinating?”
“No.”
Ser Markus fled. Meisa backed away. Rabbiteater sat, clutching his stomach and praying for death. He hadn’t felt this bad fighting the Dame of the Hills. He had taken lesser wounds fighting Eater Goats.
“I, ah—I will check on you in a bit. Alright, Rabbit? Can I get you anything?”
“No. Go away. You did this to me.”
Rabbiteater heard Meisa retreat. The door closed, and he immediately regretted it. In his hour of need—had he thrust away the one person who could help him through his pain?
“Meisa? Come back. Meisa.”
He croaked, but he had not the strength—nor the confidence—to stand up. His…unpleasant experiences…were coming in waves. Every time he thought he was done, his stomach decided it was in fact, a bag of holding.
And the toilet paper! Calanfer had the good stuff. Rabbiteater had, as a Redfang, grabbed every leaf he could on a raid, even collected Carn Wolf fur. Calanfer had soft stuff.
It was going by fast. He got up, flushed the toilet a fifth time, and shuffled out of the stall. It was the most dangerous move he’d ever made. But he had to do it and risk his identity—
Mostly to loot all the other stalls of their rolls of toilet paper. He came back with an armful, sat back down, and groaned.
How long was he captive in the Dungeon of Porcelain? The prisoner did not know. He sat, held hostage by the seat.
Outside, a banquet was going on and people were eating the damned food that had sent him here. He heard laughter, cries of enjoyment—there was a play! Speeches about the war, sights and wonders beyond compare.
Rabbiteater’s experience of Calanfer’s hospitality was staring at the decorated toilet stall door. Even the toilets were decorated. This one had an engraving of Calanfer’s laws of the kingdom.
Rabbiteater familiarized himself with them. One by one. It was a crime to rob both a [Peasant] and a nobleman, but there were different penalties for both? You couldn’t spit on the street in the capital?
Nothing stopped his pain. He wished a Goblin Shaman were here. Meisa had thought he was joking when he asked her to find one. Goblin [Shamans] knew how to deal with bad poos. In that way, Rabbiteater realized they were superior to every [Healer] and [Sage] known to the rest of the world.
The world disappeared. There was only him. The drop below. Backsplash. Sound and pain and—unfortunately—sensation. Not much interrupted Rabbiteater’s silent war against the sewers.
Not to say people didn’t try to use the restroom. They did. Rabbiteater had run to the first one adjacent to the banquet hall, so the door opened quite often. Nobles, servants—technically this was not for the common citizen, but Rabbiteater couldn’t see more than the very bottom of the floor from his stall, so he imagined a brave servant would use this in their hour of need.
However—no one joined him. The first time the door opened, Rabbiteater heard a female voice.
“Oh. Eternal Thr—”
Then the door shut. Fast. The next time, a man walked in, made a choked sound, and removed himself. Rabbiteater suspected it was the smell. One brave soul actually got into a toilet, heard the sounds, and excused themselves. Rabbiteater didn’t blame them. It was one thing to fight side-by-side against a foe. Another to see a slaughter. Or at least…hear and smell one in the works.
Orangepoo was the bravest of us all. Rabbiteater’s misery had probably gone on for at least twenty minutes. Possibly forty. He was wondering if Erin had somehow, maliciously, used [Immortal Moment] on him. If someone had kicked open the door to his stall with a crossbow in hand, Rabbiteater would have smiled.
Then someone opened the door to the toilets. Rabbiteater heard a voice.
“Oh—”
A gagging sound. A moment of hesitation, and he expected whomever it was to run. Meisa hadn’t come back. He was going to die here. Of dehydration, if nothing else. He wondered if he was losing body mass.
But then he heard the clack of something on the tiles—and a figure rushed past him into the furthest stall. Rabbiteater was impressed. He could smell this place, and it was getting to him. A Goblin.
Someone was desperate. And as it turned out—he heard rustling, then someone sat down and—
Oooh. Rabbiteater listened. Then he winced. Then he closed his eyes. Then—like Ser Markus, he wadded up some toilet paper and stuffed it into his ears.
This was a level of intimacy that he didn’t want. And—now they were really cooking with the brown sauce.
Because here was a real situation that the Goblin had never encountered. And it was this:
Two people sharing a toilet. Not three. But two. So that each person could—unfortunately—hear. There wasn’t any guessing who was making that sound. And both would prefer that the other one didn’t exist.
But they could not turn off their minds. So Rabbiteater concluded after some sounds reached him through his makeshift earplugs—someone was having a time as bad as his.
Which was incredible, really. It just kept on going. And yet—unlike Rabbiteater, whomever was in that far stall had a will stronger than his own.
For no matter the torture, the second prisoner of the Porcelain Throne of Calanfer uttered no sound. Rabbiteater had, unashamedly, cried out for agony. This person was silent. Well—vocally silent.
But how long could they endure? The breaking point was a gasp, a cough—and then, as the sounds intensified as Rabbiteater cannibalized his earplugs for their intended use—the other occupant clearly realized they were stuck with Rabbiteater.
And that he could hear. And in a kind of desperation, a fugue state brought on by dehydration and an embarrassment that knew no end, they did something truly horrible.
They began to hum.
Hum. A loud sound, trying to drown out the noises that were both unmelodic and arrhythmic. Rabbiteater’s head rose in amazement.
That was a female voice. Her humming grew louder, and Rabbiteater winced as something else grew more hurried. He flushed the toilet again, and she did likewise.
The humming stopped. Now, they were engaging in repeated flushing. As fast as the toilets would allow. Rabbiteater began to feel embarrassed for whomever was in that stall because they were practically giving off an Aura of Embarrassment.
…Actually, they were giving off an aura. A familiar aura. Rabbiteater paused in unrolling more toilet paper. No.
“I—am extremely sorry for this. Let’s never speak of this again.”
A woman spoke, at length, sounding like she wished she was dead. She was trying to mask her voice, possibly by deepening it and pinching her nose. She likely had hoped to reach a more private venue, but it had been this or nothing. Rabbiteater supposed he should say something like, ‘me too’ and leave it at that.
Instead—the Hobgoblin spoke.
“…Seraphel?”
Dead silence. He thought he heard someone’s heart stop in the far stall.
“No?”
“Yeah. It’s you.”
“No it’s—Ser Solstice?”
“Mhm.”
More silence. Well…‘silence’. Then Rabbiteater heard the sounds of a muffled scream, and Seraphel tried to exit the stall and make a break for it. He saw a faint swish of a dark dress, shoes—
She made it halfway out the stall and the water was running from a tap when he heard a gurgle.
“Eternal Throne protect me. No, no—”
She tried to go for the door. Rabbiteater called out.
“Don’t do it. You’ll never make it.”
Three more steps. Then an ominous mgrgl sound—and he heard a slam as she threw herself back into a stall. Right next to his.
She barely made it.
“Ser Solstice, I hope you will forget everything—”
“I can’t forget this. This day is the worst. Ever.”
“How did you know it was me?”
“Aura.”
“Damn auras! Damn gelato and pudding and—”
“Oysters?”
“I shall find whomever made the desserts and have them fired! Or was it—do—do you have earplugs? Cover your ears!”
“I’m trying! Be less loud!”
Their shared embarrassment was resulting in a screaming match. When the two realized it—they fell silent. Seraphel, in the stall over, covered her face with her hands and tried to pretend she didn’t exist. Rabbiteater just sat there.
The door opened. A servant stepped in.
“Cleaning serv…Hundred Families protect us. Is any—anyone here?”
“Occupied.”
Seraphel and Rabbiteater shouted. The servant fled. Now, they were existing in a state between embarrassment and—well. Mutual sympathy. Rabbiteater suspected Seraphel was still dying, but he almost felt better.
Misery loved company.
“Haven’t seen you in a bit.”
“Ser Solstice! Please! Now is not the time!”
“Okay. Let’s sit here and listen to each other. Silently.”
Seraphel paused. Then she hurried on.
“Indeed! I haven’t seen you! How is the Eternal Throne of Calanfer?”
“I hate it.”
“Current experiences notwithstanding, truly?”
“This is the only experience. Your stupid food, your endless parties—”
“In fairness, this is for the diplomats, Ser Solstice.”
“Don’t care. Your kingdom sucks.”
“I beg your pardon! I do not go to your…abode and insult it!”
“Yeah, well. My abode sucks too. Lots of rocks and goats.”
“Er—there is such a thing as decorum, Ser Solstice.”
“Not here.”
He was rather enjoying this banter. Seraphel was practically blushing through the bathroom stall.
“I wish you had not—heard this side of me, Ser Solstice! I shall never live this down!”
“Everyone poos.”
“Swear to me you will repeat none of this.”
“If I survive—sure.”
