The [Diplomat of Envy] knew full well that the Dawn Concordat was bleeding from the bloody war. Ailendamus was too—they had lost Dionamella. However, there was a difference between the size and economy of both nations. Ailendamus could replace their lost armies. In time, Calanfer would stop preening its feathers and look up to see more legions of [Knights].
He felt, strongly, that he didn’t need to suffer in the interim. Especially because of how damn hard it was to make friends with all these nations enjoying Ailendamus’ moment of weakness. However—Rhisveri’s reply was curious.
“I do not expect you to work wonders, Diplomat Corek. I never do.”
“Slightly rude, Your Grace?”
Corek’s impishness and his backsass sometimes won him points in Taimaguros, where the people, including Queen Oesca, appreciated a feisty retort no matter who you were. Rhisveri’s voice just turned from ice to ever-frozen tundra.
“You are not there to cease the war. Even if they nibble at our borders, time will overturn this setback. Rather, I want you to investigate why the Restful Three are moving.”
Kaaz, Golaen, and Erribathe. Corek assumed that was obvious; they had come for the spectacle. If nothing else, Calanfer were excellent hosts for their friends, and this was tweaking Ailendamus’ nose. But Rhisveri’s opinion was different.
“They have sent their Hundredlords and Golaen’s [Titanguard]. This is no mere entertainment. Do you know who is coming from Erribathe?”
“That’s a tightly-guarded secret, Your Grace. I would assume only Calanfer’s crown has any inkling—”
“The Heir Apparent, Prince Iradoren, is set to appear tonight or tomorrow.”
Corek fell quiet. His eyes flickered, and his heartbeat picked up. He knew the speaking spells were top-quality and never had been broken by hostile mages, but he checked his connection and ward spells anyways.
“—Are you certain, Your Grace?”
“My intelligence is not ever in error. This is no charade or worthless pageantry. Something has caused the Restful Three to move. If they are—foolishly—considering war, I want to know. Now. I don’t believe they are. If so, I would have noticed their forces moving. Something else is up. Find out. I will replace you the instant you do.”
Was that a threat or an incentive? Corek decided it was an incentive. He wondered what it could be. Perhaps the ghosts that had come across Terandria? If so…
He wondered what they’d said. Corek stared at his speaking stone. Then, groaning, he prepared himself for a terrible banquet in isolation. His only consolation was that at least he could enjoy some good food. He was, after all, a social, charming man if given the chance.
 
——
 
And that was the difference between a consummate [Diplomat] and, say, a Goblin. Or even Seraphel du Marquin. One person lived to talk, make connections, and, frankly, wanted to be friendly.
Seraphel…was all too aware how mercantile most relationships were. She, like every single [Princess] and [Prince], had gone through an experience growing up where she made friends with someone, only to find out that friendship was highly conditional.
In Seraphel’s case, she’d had a ‘best friend’, a certain Lady Erreta du Havrington, whom she had positively adored. They had gossiped, visited each other nonstop despite the distance between Calanfer and Pheislant—and Seraphel had refused to believe Erreta was actually just cozying up to her.
Even when her mother had told her to her face that Erreta was stealing secrets and badmouthing Seraphel behind her back, the young [Princess] had stood by her friend.
So, Ielane had arranged for Erreta to accidentally make some pointed comments with her true friends in the walls of Calanfer’s palace. Seraphel had listened behind a fake wall and—
Well. Ielane had let her stay away from court for two weeks. She had sympathy for her daughters when they experienced this lesson. It was a vital lesson in trust. Sometimes you had to learn it as many as four times.
But after that, ah, let’s just say that even the most charming [Courtier] didn’t exactly sweep Seraphel off her feet. She knew anything she said would be used against her and any promises would come back to bite her.
That was why [Princesses] enjoyed the company of people they knew. Or—people who were simply too honest to really exist in Calanfer’s reality.
Ser Greysten was one such. The fiery Summer’s Champion was like a breath of fresh summer’s air at times. The entire Order of Seasons were straightforward by and large; even their Autumn Knights only played the game of intrigue as obligation demanded.
Ser Solstice was another. Seraphel might have been long from home, but she knew how to tug on Calanfer’s rumor-nets. So she’d heard that, already, Princess Aielef had invited Ser Solstice, Ser Markus, and a host of other [Knights] to her chambers.
The odds of this being another affair were low. Aielef disappeared for her not-so-secret encounters. She was likely pursuing her other hobby and commemorating the victorious siege of her keep.
However, even the servants didn’t know that, and so the act just bolstered Ser Solstice and his friends’ reputations. Already, people were reminding themselves that Dame Talia was related both to the Games at Daquin and thus the Titan of Baleros and her brother, Wil Kallinad, of great note! Not much was known, scandalous or otherwise, about Dame Meisa and Ser Ilm. Fine, stalwart warriors.
Ser Markus, on the other hand, was apparently something of a ladies’ man. The rumor was that you shouldn’t get behind a closed door with him.
Seraphel supposed that was a Spring Knight for you. Always…libidinous. Did that go against his knightly vows? She’d heard of promiscuous [Monks], so anything was possible.
Anyways, Seraphel wasn’t looking forwards to the banquet. She would not be talking with the Order of Seasons; even the redoubtable Summer’s Champion and Ser Solstice would be sitting far back from the true nobility. She’d be talking with Golaen’s giants and have a crick in her neck all evening. Or trying not to start an honor-duel with one of Kaaz’s maniacs.
“Let it not be Taimaguros. I heard one of their [Ladies] bit the nose off someone who offended her. At a tea party!”
Maybe Noelictus’ envoys. Yes, that would just be like Ielane to sit Seraphel with people she could at least talk to. The [Princess] brightened up. Then she finally found what she was looking for.
She had been walking through the palace’s rich corridors, each one unique and so on and so forth. But they were all filled with servants, and servants watched and gossiped. There were few places you could find that were totally private.
However, a [Princess] who had lived here forever knew some. Ironically, the Eternal Throneroom itself was a great hiding spot since it was so vast. But there were a few other places.
Like the third kitchens. The third set of kitchens, each one capable of holding countless [Chefs], which only began churning out food when the first two were being used.
This one wasn’t active—yet. It would be in about an hour, for the desserts to come out fresh. However—the trick was that until then, aside from people restocking or checking the pantries, no one would be here. And there were a lot of hallways and servants’ corridors.
So—any good [Princess] knew that if she wanted a snack that Ielane wouldn’t approve of, she came here. All the sweets were here because this was where desserts were made.
—Thus, Seraphel found herself a prepared cone of gelato, the rich ‘iced cream’ that had taken Terandria by storm. Someone had decorated this one with a glaze of cherry and covered the top with little, brilliantly glowing bits of sugar mixed with something that shone like a little, magical yellow firefly in the dim kitchen.
A glowing ice cream cone, a red-glazed swirl shining with little stars. Seraphel admired it for a full eight seconds before she greedily took a bite of the tip.
Alright, there were a few perks of being home. She knew that some poor [Chef] had probably prepared these as one of the star treats. And yes, even a [Princess] could get in trouble for eating ice cream—especially the royal desserts.
That was why, when Seraphel heard the quiet clack of heels on stone, she froze. She whirled, put the cone behind her back as she stood against the back of one of the enchanted iceboxes—and someone walked into the kitchens, shedding their Cloak of Balshadow.
Vernoue, the 5th Princess, froze when she saw Seraphel. She and two younger, magically-inclined [Ladies] of Calanfer had been giggling and tiptoeing into the kitchens—until they saw Seraphel.
“Seraphel!”
“Vernoue, you sneak! You nearly gave me a heart-attack!”
“Me? What are you here for?”
The two hissed at each other as the younger [Ladies] bowed hurriedly. But Seraphel didn’t care about them. She glanced at Vernoue’s Cloak.
“You idiot, Vernoue! You don’t take guests here! You’ll get all of us caught! You always get in trouble, and I refuse to go down with you!”
“What? I’m not the one going around unenchanted! I use magic!”
Vernoue hissed back, cheeks reddening. Seraphel rolled her eyes and snapped back.
“That’s why you get caught, you fool!”
There was nothing more obvious than an ‘invisible’ cloak and three not-so-subtle young women trying to share it. Seraphel whirled and tried to yank the fridge door open, but she heard the next footfalls before she got the thick door open. Ice cream cone in hand, she whirled as Vernoue squeaked and tried to put the cloak back on—
Too late.
Here came a third [Princess]. And it was none other than…Seraphel groaned, and Vernoue glared defiantly.
“Here we are, Mother. As I said, your mysterious dessert thieves are up to their tricks.”
“Shardele, you bitch!”
Vernoue shouted. Or tried to, because that last word vanished into the air. No one swore around Her Majesty.
Queen Ielane du Marquin seemed displeased to see her daughter again. Especially here. Ielane and several of her servants stared at Seraphel and Vernoue as a triumphant Shardele led her into the hiding spot of [Princesses].
“Well, you seem to be correct, Shardele. Vernoue. Seraphel. Your explanation?”
Ielane was not pleased to find her daughters were responsible for more than a few expensive desserts vanishing before their time. However, that was nothing to the 4th and 5th [Princesses]’ glares of hatred towards Shardele.
Shardele the Radiant. If Seraphel’s red hair, like Lyonette’s, was naturally fiery, and Aielef had to dye hers, Shardele was more like an orange sunburst. She wore hers straight behind her, the ends decorated with glowing crystals, and her dresses were always dreamy and light, often enchanted to float around her.
All to play up her image of the wonders of the Eternal Throne. Sometimes you could even see beautiful light or feel as though you stood on a vast horizon made of clouds. Of course—that was because her Skills let you see some of the visions she had while smoking dreamleaf.
—However, she was also the eldest sister. And never a pettier tyrant existed. She must have been so angry about the other [Princesses] laughing at her that she had gone to the most drastic option!
You craven traitor. I’ll see you dead for this. Seraphel mouthed the words. Every [Princess], from Aielef to—well, not Ellet, she was so young she got treats whenever she asked—every [Princess] had the third kitchens as a sanctuary!
But Shardele’s vacuous look of triumph was still earned because Seraphel’s ice cream cone was slowly melting behind her. And Ielane glanced pointedly at Vernoue’s friends.
“We were just going for a walk, Mother.”
“Yes. I enjoy my privacy.”
“We do not have time for lies. Vernoue, you are holding your Cloak of Balshadow. A servant saw and heard you talking about ‘sampling the desserts’ on your way here. We would believe Seraphel’s words—what is behind your back, Seraphel?”
Shardele’s eyes flickered with triumph. Seraphel exhaled, raised her hands—and showed her mother two bare hands.
Vernoue’s eyes bulged almost as much as Shardele’s. Hadn’t Seraphel just been holding…? But Ielane nodded.
She did not exactly seem convinced of Seraphel’s innocence, but she turned her wrath on Vernoue instead. Seraphel kept her face straight, wincing, as Vernoue’s allowance for spellbooks and magical items was revoked for two months. As for Shardele…Ielane did not stay long.
“If any more desserts are found missing, we will have each of our daughters report to us without their tiaras. Shardele—come. Cenidau is waiting.”
“I’ll hex you in your sleep!”
Vernoue hissed as Shardele waved at them. Seraphel just locked eyes with her eldest sister, and Shardele gave her a vaguely miffed look. Her lips moved, and she swept out with Ielane.
The magical [Memo] appeared in front of Seraphel moments thereafter.
 
I thought we’d find you with a face buried in a meal, as always. Love, Shardele.
 
Seraphel calmly tore up the note. She turned to Vernoue, who was red-faced and looked ready to cry.
“Shardele. Have you done anything to her recently, Vernoue?”
“No! I may have pointed out how much she spends on her ‘hobby’, and father and mother cut her allowance because we’re at war—”
“Ah. You idiot.”
Seraphel sighed. Vernoue glowered—then turned abruptly. Her two friends were practically in tears and didn’t see Seraphel stepping back over to the fridge—or hear their conversation behind privacy spells.
“How did you hide that gelato? You don’t have a bag of holding!”
For answer, Seraphel simply walked over to the closed, and now locked, fridge. She eyed the magical padlock. Then she stuck her hand through the door and pulled out the almost untouched ice-cream cone.
Vernoue’s eyes went round. Seraphel winked at her.
“New Skill. Mother doesn’t know how it works. [Ghostly Hand].”
“Ghostly—that’s incredible, Seraphel! Does it hurt? Can you make anything larger intangible?”
“Nothing as big as a chair. Only something I can hold comfortably. And before you ask, I need a hole behind the wall—I can’t just insert a rock into a solid brick wall. But I won’t be halted from having desserts. Just so long as they store them close to the front.”
“Lucky you. No one else will be getting snacks.”
Vernoue’s face turned dark with anger. Shardele had poisoned the communal well of sweets—which was like her because she had the smallest sweet-tooth. It would come back to bite her, though; her sisters would not let this go unpunished. If people knew Seraphel as having a ‘sharp tongue’, well, Menisi and Aielef were vicious.
At any rate, her mood was ruined, and so Seraphel handed Vernoue the ice cream.
