All three [Princesses] stared at each other. Then they stared out across the city of the Eternal Throne’s seat, where, as a sign of hospitality and entertainment, [Bakers] were making loaves of bread in the style of every single nation represented by dignitaries and passing them out for free as a festival ran through the streets. A Grand Elephant from Chandrar was slowly marching towards the menagerie, followed by a [Carpet Rider] doing tricks. Seraphel shook her head in amazement.
The odd thing was—she didn’t doubt that Ser Solstice, or ‘Rabbiteater’ as she had heard his friends nickname him, was telling the truth. She was actually curious. Why boring?
 
——
 
Meisa scolded Rabbiteater for an hour on the ride back. Despite Rabbiteater pointing out reasonably that he’d said he was leaving now.
“How is all this boring, Rabbit? Really?”
His reply was simple.
“I’m tired of people telling me I won a battle. I know I won a battle. I’m tired of eating stupid food and saying ‘we won, good job’. It’s boring.”
Meisa gave him an astounded look, but Ser Greysten’s was almost admiring. Because—that was what he meant.
Rabbiteater liked celebrating victories. After they’d leveled up and beaten the Great General, Dionamella, he had mourned the dead and celebrated levels and the incredible victory. In between trying to hit Tyrion Veltras, he’d drunk himself silly.
After Ailendamus, despite not taking the capital or ending the war, he had engaged in a lot of victory sex, a very important Goblin—and Human—tradition. On the way back, he’d gladly toasted their victory with the Dawn Concordat’s [Generals], even shaken hands with the Griffin Queen, talked with the Griffin Prince…
A week after the victory at Ailendamus, Rabbiteater had stopped chiming in every time someone raised a mug celebrating their win. He had started staring at soft brie cheese and caviar and begun sneaking out raw potatoes and other ingredients to make snacks.
Two weeks after the ‘glorious victory of the Dawn Concordat and Ser Solstice’s famous duel at the keep’, Rabbiteater had begun avoiding parties. He had, twice, taken a look at charcuterie boards being set up and ‘accidentally’ let some of the warhounds in to eat their pick. Or grabbed a bunch of regular ants and dumped them on the board.
This was week three. Three weeks of celebrating, being cheered everywhere he went, and told what a glorious battle—if underhanded—he’d won. Fighting with the Archmage of Memory! Riding with the Princess Seraphel!
Enough! The Goblin found it insulting. He liked celebrating wins. Goblins loved that. But there was something…repulsive about how the Humans were doing it.
Redfangs? Redfangs celebrated a huge battle. They’d do up to four days straight of enjoying themselves depending on how much leisure they’d had. Talk about it for the week—then bring it up reminiscing around fires or on the march.
But they didn’t glorify like this. If Rabbiteater had gone back to The Wandering Inn right this second, Erin’s Minotaur Punch might be a drink he ordered once a year as opposed to what felt like every day.
“If this is how much you celebrate two battles, how are you going to win the war? You’re still at war.”
“Yes, but the Order of Seasons is pressing the attack. And Wellfar’s ships have engaged Ailendamus’ fleets—without Taimaguros, they are being harried in smaller engagements by multiple armies! We have earned a break to let other [Knights] win a fair share of the glory and do their part, Rabbit.”
Meisa pointed out in what she clearly thought was a reasonable tone. Rabbiteater just gave her a blank look. He flexed one arm.
“I’m still healthy. I’m not hurt. Either I fight—or I go home. I don’t want to celebrate. I don’t want to talk to dignitaries. I don’t want to eat your stupid food!”
He almost shouted the last part. And of all the fair complaints…that last one was apparently the line in the sand that everyone started arguing with him about.
“Our food isn’t bad, Rabbiteater.”
“Yes it is.”
“You have been feasting on the best dishes we can imagine! I myself haven’t eaten so well in…well, ages! Every kind of delicacy!”
Rabbiteater clutched his stomach and made a vomiting sound in his helmet as Greysten and Meisa argued with him.
“Too many cheeses. Brie. Camembert. Blue cheese. ‘Gruyère’. ‘Chervrot’. It’s rotten milk. It has mold. And you eat guts!”
“Guts? Oh—is this about the tripe again? I told you—”
“It’s guts. Goblins don’t eat guts if they can avoid it!”
Tripe offended Rabbiteater to his very bowels, and it was his bowels that he feared when he saw the dishes that nobles thought were good.
Tripe! He hadn’t known what it was, but—get this—it was stomach lining, internal organs which the nobility ate because it was apparently expensive and high-class. They ate it in sauce. They ate it in sausages. They ate it in soup.
That wasn’t even the worst of it. Rabbiteater folded his arms.
“You eat stupid meat, too.”
“Rabbit…how is our meat stupid?”
“It’s got no bones. It’s all ‘prime’ this, ‘fatty tenderloin’ that. But you don’t even like the fat!”
“Well, no, we like the actual meat, not the fat—”
“Unless you drizzle it over a roast and eat it with all that other stuff! And your vegetables suck!”
“We have plenty of rare—”
“Yellats! Where are Yellats?”
The Goblin was throwing a fit on his horse. His horse got to eat Yellats, but not one for the Goblin in the last three weeks! Meisa replied faintly.
“Well—they’re a cheap vegetable, by and large.”
“Cheap is good! My butt leaks every time I eat your mushy, stupid food! The [Princesses] don’t even eat potatoes! Aielef didn’t even know what it was when I showed her one! I want to go home. I’ll eat Yellats and salad. I want a burger. I want…”
He felt a catch in his throat as they rode through the city’s gates. Rabbiteater looked around, and it came to him in a word. This glorious city filled with wonders…he would have been a thousand times happier if he were home, riding into Liscor’s gates, being turned away by the guard, and going to that inn on a hill. Then he’d sit down, and someone would offer him some, perhaps, unspiced, unsauced spaghetti, it was true. But it came with a smile. And he would be…
Home.
He had never felt homesick. Not even when he and the other Goblins had gone on their dangerous mission to slay an [Innkeeper]. That was because…his tribe had been home, and in another sense, he’d never had a home. But now, the feeling engulfed him, and it was the one foe, the one battle that Ser Solstice could never win.
Meisa looked at him, and it was Greysten who clapped Rabbiteater on the shoulder.
“You’ve said it plain enough for it to even get into our helmets, Ser Solstice. One day. One day and we have an audience with the Eternal Throne. Regardless, it would look poorly on us if you left. And I assure you—one day and you will see a wondrous sight. I would not want you to miss it. As for home? We can find you passage, despite the war at sea.”
Rabbiteater relaxed slightly. He nodded gratefully, but he didn’t miss how Meisa failed to chime in. He looked at her and then wondered.
In all his talk of going home, of seeing Erin alive and showing her Izril, finding the Redfangs and seeing Rags and…doing what he could do, Meisa had listened and talked with him. But she had never promised him she would be there, not exactly. Meisa was a [Knight], and she did not make promises she didn’t know if she could keep.
 
——
 
Princess Seraphel du Marquin was home. And it wasn’t home. She wanted to go home as well, but home…
Home was not here. Home was, perhaps, a small, quiet keep in a village in Noelictus. Home was walking with a singing girl and a ghost of a [Knight] under clouded skies.
Home was gone, and it was an idea. But even if she had a home—
It was not here.
Oh, how quickly she fell back into being in the castle. It never left you. Once you had become a [Princess] and experienced what it was to be a [Princess]—you would never forget, even if you thought it was for the best.
For instance. Seraphel could cough, touch her throat. This was by herself without being in the company of her personal servants. She’d never had many, and they hadn’t been ‘hers’, not in any loyal, meaningful sense. The rest had left after her marriage. But even so, while standing in the hallway of the palace, she could touch her throat, cough, and say, ‘I’m thirsty’.
Two minutes later, a servant raced forwards with a cup of cherry juice, her favorite.
“For you, Your Highness. Apologies for the delay!”
Seraphel accepted the cup. She sipped from the straw, finished a quarter, decided she wasn’t that thirsty, and held out the glass. Instantly, she let go, and someone took it such that it didn’t shatter on the floor.
Now, this was not an unheard-of maneuver. People handed each other things all the time. But that was not what Seraphel did. She stopped drinking from the straw, then, in the same motion, pulled the glass of cherry juice away from her body and released it.
She did not perform the mental calculation of making sure someone else had a hold of the glass. She let go with the certainty that someone would catch it or they would lose their job. And in the same breath, a cup of water was offered that she might ensure her teeth weren’t stained red and a napkin for her mouth.
Only after Seraphel had absently partaken in a sip of water and napkin pat did she catch herself and feel—well, ashamed. She looked back and saw a [Servant] stepping away with the cup of cherry juice and water.
“More, Your Highness? Another beverage?”
Instantly, the servant halted and came back, and Seraphel looked at some mousey hair, neatly combed and glistening, a young girl’s face of fourteen, wearing Calanfer’s bright livery. She looked—not apprehensive, just ready. Ready to get whatever Seraphel asked.
“No. I—I shall finish the drink. What do you all do, if I don’t finish it?”
The [Servant] blinked at being addressed. It was, perhaps, the first time any member of the royal family had ever spoken to her. Some [Princesses] and the [Princes] had their favorite servants, but this wasn’t usual. She stuttered.
“I—we dispose of the contents, Your Majesty.”
“Not drink it or use it?”
“No, absolutely not!”
The response was a bit too quick that time, and Seraphel wondered if one of the few perks of waiting on a [Princess] was sneaking a bit of unwanted cake. She thought of how many times she had left a meal unfinished.
It had never occurred to her that there was a finite limit of food until she’d been in a siege and been…hungry. Nor to look at servant’s faces except to see if they were badmouthing her or malicious. Seraphel looked at the cup and shook her head.
“I shouldn’t mind either way. Thank you…?”
She waited, and the girl realized Seraphel was waiting for her name.
“Beacle, Your Highness.”
“Beacle. Thank you.”
Seraphel nodded, and the [Servant] bowed.
“We are honored to serve, Your Highness. Your bravery in Calanfer’s name was an inspiration to us all.”
Did she add that in the hopes that it made Seraphel look kindly on her? Perhaps she thought Seraphel had taken an interest in her as a personal servant? Or was it because she thought that the conversation warranted it?
These thoughts ran through Seraphel’s mind at once until a simpler one presented itself. She looked into the girl’s eyes and saw a shining admiration so genuine it didn’t belong in Calanfer. Perhaps the poor girl just meant it. Of her.
“Thank you, Miss Beacle.”
Seraphel whispered. And then—as the [Servant] retreated, bowing—Seraphel looked around.
“Oh, I shouldn’t have come back.”
Even if her name were brighter in the books of the palace staff—even if she had leveled, and found more of herself—Seraphel du Marquin sighed and walked on, head heavy.
Home was a wonderful idea. But you could never go home exactly how you wanted. And worst, in another sense—
‘Home’ never changed.
 
——
 
“Seraphel. We understand you’ve consolidated your class into a rather unfitting advancement for a [Princess] of Calanfer. Your luck in interfering in the battle at Krawlnmak’s Pass notwithstanding, we would have hoped for something more…universally tolerable. Alas, Noelictus’ affairs may have rubbed off on you. But we are pleased to note your value as a bride has restored itself somewhat.”
The unfortunate class was [Deathtouch Princess]. And the point, while delivered bluntly—even in private, even between the royal family—wasn’t wrong.
It was hard to find a Terandrian who wouldn’t associate that class with necromancy, and that was hated the continent over. It was also not wrong to say that Seraphel had endangered the battlefield by riding to inspire Calanfer’s forces.
Just…it was also true that Seraphel had leveled up, a difficult feat for a [Princess]. She’d just passed Aielef. And she had helped win a pivotal battle in the war?
Seraphel thought of saying these things. And pointing out her value as a bride was diminished by three marriages…was there a stopping point? But she said none of these things. She said…
“Hello, Mother.”
To which Queen Ielane du Marquin, one of the two rulers of Calanfer, sitting in repose in her drawing room, studying a catalog of dishes for tomorrow’s breakfast—finally looked up. She was, as always, flawless in both her fashion and posture. Her dress had brilliant overtones like exploding spells across a more somber hem, tinged with blood and flowers, to commemorate the dead. Her hair was fashioned into braids that ran around her head and became a bun at the back, and the crown was perfectly placed, shining with protective spells and a soft golden light.
Her skin? Perfect, and not even Shardele could best her for makeup. But then, the Eternal Queen and the Eternal King should look the part, and Ielane was the model which her daughters emulated, not surpassed.
Not yet. Perhaps one would when she died, but she had perfect diction, perfect poise, and she did not forget names or make mistakes.
In public. In private, she pursed her lips.
“Yes, ‘hello’, Seraphel. We are extremely pleased to see you if that was not implicit. Sit.”
She said it in the way that hinted that it was uncouth of Seraphel to intimate that any of this had been up for debate, hellos or not. She gestured, and Seraphel sat.
Even in private, it was all of Calanfer, politics and power-plays. For instance, the chair that Ielane indicated was not comfortable. It was not backed with anything soft, and it hurt your bottom the instant you sat in it. It looked quite expensive and regal, but it was a nightmare to relax in.
