“What?”
Altestiel was silent for a long moment.
“I…have a backup. But I don’t know if I want to try it. I have a scroll of [Barkskin]. Very coarse. I might have to hold onto it.”
“I have some spellpaper.”
The Lady Menrise volunteered. Hundredlord Cortese grunted.
“And I…am increasingly desperate. I will take both. What else?”
Rabbiteater spoke.
“Your socks.”
All the Humans fell silent, and Seraphel spoke quietly.
“That would be a dire strait indeed, Ser Solstice.”
“Well, you have socks. I have a hand.”
Everyone contemplated this. Cortese replied softly.
“I would rather die. But I will take the scrolls.”
Altestiel was just about to pass his over when—the door opened. And Seraphel heard the voice of a saint.
“Your Highness?”
Was that—Seraphel called out suddenly.
“Miss Beacle? Is that you?”
The servant had somehow found her! She pushed open the door to the privy, speaking cautiously.
“Your Highness? I—uh—”
The realization that the lavatory was occupied and the smell hit the girl, but she had found Seraphel despite the rapid exit the [Princess] had made. And even more—
“Your Highness, can I get you anyth—”
“Toilet paper!”
Five voices shouted at her. The [Servant] shut the door, fled—and within two minutes, she was back. She tossed rolls of paper over the stalls, and Cortese cried out.
“Who is that servant? I shall commend her to the Eternal Throne!”
Altestiel nodded rapidly.
“A credit to her entire class. A [Saint], if ever the class existed.”
“Dead gods. I can put my shoes back on.”
That came from the [Lady], much to Seraphel’s mild horror—and she had to admit—hilarity. Everyone fell silent—and then they all started laughing. Seraphel spoke.
“Please—I know this is all highly embarrassing, but we’ve all been revealed. You are Lady Menrise, yes?”
“You speak to the [Spellbound Lady] Menrise. Magic run through you. And nothing else.”
Rabbiteater craned his head.
“Ooh. Magic?”
Altestiel industriously tore strips off his roll of toilet paper.
“Endemic to Tourvecall. This may be the most…unguarded we have ever met the reclusive nobility of Tourvecall. I have always wondered what lay under their helmets. No offense, Lady Menrise.”
“None taken. It is hardly as if we are half-Elves. I fear our appearance would be more distressing than…alluring. I may oblige you all.”
Hundredlord Cortese was as surprised as Seraphel, who understood the same thing. Though he blurted it out, which was typical of Kaaz’s folk.
“Truly? I thought it was entirely intimate.”
The Lady chuckled darkly.
“It is embarrassing more than anything. But I can hardly imagine anything worse than this.”
Cortese hesitated before barking a pained laugh.
“True.”
“Yup.”
The Goblin, sitting in the middle stall, nodded. Rabbiteater found himself imagining the woman as she explained.
“It would appear—to preface the issue—as though my skin were too pale. Regardless of color. The sheer magic in Tourvecall has changed our very skin. The helmet is not to hide our appearance, either; unguarded, our skin leaks mana.”
“It does? That—is not something I’ve heard of.”
Altestiel was astonished. The [Lady] sighed.
“A side effect of our magical blood. Not a single Spellbound of Tourvecall is born without the ability to cast spells. But we are exposed to too much of it, perhaps. The mana is so dense in the air…well, the common folk are not nearly as surrounded by it.”
“Huh. Sounds cool. I like magic.”
Rabbiteater offered. He was the common folk in the room, and the others chuckled at that. Hundredlord Cortese interrupted.
“If you think that is a sight, visit the Infinite Dungeon of Kaaz, Goblin Slayer. If your axe is half as sharp as your wit, you might clear a number of rooms.”
“Or lose a hand in the interminable duels.”
“That is an exaggeration of Kaaz, Earl Altestiel.”
The Earl of Rains’ reply was to toss one of the spare rolls into Cortese’s stall.
“Is it? I have three scars from visiting Kaaz. Dueling is ‘optional’, but you lot like to press your point, pun intended!”
“We pursue excellence in combat, and we settle matters with blades as well as words!”
Cortese hurled two rolls back. Seraphel shouted as one landed on her head.
“Would you two stop throwing toilet paper?”
“…Apologies, Your Highness.”
“Yes, Earl Altestiel quite forgot himself.”
Before either man could bristle, Rabbiteater broke in.
“So. One of you likes duels. One of you is super-magical. One of you is responsible for this stupid kingdom.”
“Hey.”
“And what’s Desonis known for?”
Altestiel began to speak, but the other three cut him off.
“Rain.”
“Swamps.”
“Hydras? And a sleeping [Queen].”
The [Earl] spluttered as he raised his voice in outrage.
“Oh come now. Desonis is a proud nation!”
“A wet nation, more like.”
“It rained my entire three-week visit.”
“Lovely hot tubs, though.”
Rabbiteater rubbed his hands together, grinning as the other guests roasted the Earl of Rains.
“Hot tubs, huh? And you wanted to marry Erin? Earl of Hot Tubs? No wonder she said no.”
Altestiel made a choking sound.
“I should like to get a good look at you, Ser Solstice.”
“Yeah, me too.”
A moment of silence as the two men bristled. Then…Rabbiteater poked at his stomach.
“We’re going to die in here.”
The other four people fell silent. Seraphel spoke up after a moment.
“I am sure Beacle is fetching us a potion for our stomachs.”
Lady Menrise almost sobbed aloud.
“What a relief! But what caused this?”
Rabbiteater frowned and poked at his gurgling stomach.
“Uh—what did you all eat?”
The other four compared notes as Altestiel decided to track down the dish, lest it offend anyone else. Lady Menrise passed him a quill and inkpot, and he used the toilet paper to take notes.
“Let’s see. I bet it was the oysters. Who had that?”
Seraphel shuddered politely. She knew the dangers of undercooked oysters.
“No.”
Cortese snorted.
“I hate the foul things. I fed them to my lion.”
Menrise’s voice rose in disbelief; she had clearly not seen Kaaz’s folk.
“You have a lion?”
“Yes, and if it was the tripe…I fear to see the banquet hall because half our cats partook. And they have quite the appetite.”
Seraphel shuddered in horror as Cortese spoke, but Rabbiteater objected.
“I hate tripe. I didn’t have any.”
The Princess scratched at her head.
“Then…what about the pudding? The gelato?”
Altestiel brightened up.
“There’s gelato for dessert? I don’t recall seeing it served, yet.”
Seraphel bit her lip and hoped that revelation didn’t reach her mother.
“Not that, then. Pudding?”
The Goblin smacked his lips.
“I had blood pudding. Anyone like it?”
Everyone else disagreed with Rabbiteater. They were talking further when Lady Menrise spoke.
“Pray—could it have been Golaen’s gift to the occasion? That new dish?”
Seraphel hesitated. Now that sounded…
“Which one? Wait…the ‘do-nots’?”
The Hundredlord instantly disagreed.
“Donuts. Surely not! They were just a frosted piece of…baked goods. But I did have one, come to think of it. The novelty. Anyone else?”
“I did.”
Altestiel spoke up and felt a stir on the back of his neck. It had been a strange food. But he’d been taken to the restroom so fast—
The Hundredlord Cortese grunted.
“But that would mean—I did recall sampling a delightfully frosted one right before I—those giant-blooded bastards. I repent all my accusations, Your Highness. If anyone would have made the mistake—”
Seraphel buried her face in her hands.
“I had one too. Rabbiteater?”
“…Yep.”
Altestiel decided it was case-closed. But it was strange. They looked like fried goods. Indeed, Cortese was now throwing a fit.
“You have to boil those damned things in hot oil! How can Golaen mess up a simple treat? It had none of those bacteriums or whatever they’re called! I’ll stab that [Titanguard] myself!”
“What’s a bacterium?”
Rabbiteater held his stomach. Seraphel tried to calm Cortese down.
“Lord Cortese, I would not do that. The [Titanguard], Lord Etrogaer, is a dangerous foe.”
“Do you think I fear that? A [Duelist] fears no foe. I may not be a Gold-bell fencer, but I earned my silver bell when I was seventeen.”
“I wouldn’t do that if I were you.”
Rabbiteater cautioned him, and Cortese turned his wrath on him.
“Oh, and you think I haven’t seen combat, Ser Solstice? Should I duel you first?”
The Goblin decided he might be done. He tapped his empty stomach and shrugged.
“If you like. But that [Titanguard] will still stomp you flat. He’s over Level 40.”
Cortese hesitated.
“…You’re sure?”
“Yep.”
Altestiel muttered an agreement.
“That squares with Desonis’ intelligence. How can you tell, Ser Solstice?”
“I recognized his Skill when he patted me on the shoulder. Something super-heavy. He can probably crush your bones to dust.”
Cortese muttered in his stall.
“…That is more concerning. Well, our neighbors in Golaen produce mighty warriors. I should like to see if our Lance of Kaazaldrin, Gorethem, would duel Lord Etrogaer in my stead. That would be…amusing. He was a Named-rank adventurer before he was accepted into the Thousand Lances.”
“One of the Thousand Lances is here?”
Rabbiteater sat up, worried. His stomach decided it had more to expel—out of worry. Named-rank? 
“What’s a Thousand Lance?”
Seraphel was gingerly debating leaving the restroom herself.
“The greatest knight-order in the world. The Thousand Lances of Kaazaldrin are just that—a thousand [Knights] who are inducted into the greatest knight-order. Even the Order of Seasons or Ailendamus’ [Knights] may be invited. Named-rank adventurers are also sometimes admitted.”
“…Only a thousand?”
“A thousand is all you need. Each noble family ensures a member of our Thousand Lances want for nothing. As a Hundredlord, I have more members of the Lances in my house than all but the crown.”
Hundredlord Cortese picked up the explanation. Rabbiteater sat there.
He didn’t like the idea of that. Or at least, fighting that. A thousand armored enemies wielding artifacts sounded like a really unfair time. But Cortese assured the other people they had nothing to worry about. Beacle stepped back in, issuing huge apologies, and relief finally arrived in the form of a tonic. It was, ironically, brown.
“Kaaz has no designs on conquest. Unlike Ailendamus. We do have a history of answering grudge for grudge—but once settled, friendships bloom from a bit of strife.”
Rabbiteater brightened up. He flushed the toilet one last time and stood up. His stomach finally stabilized.
“Hey, that’s true. I feel better.”
Menrise was industriously flushing the toilet as she sighed in relief.
“Myself included.”
Seraphel gasped.
“Me too!”
Altestiel sighed.
“Praise be to all [Healers]. I think…our ordeal is at an end. Ladies, gentlemen…I think this has been a positive experience. Discounting the pain. I should like to leave now.”
“Yes.”
“Me too.”
Lady Menrise agreed as she delicately opened the stall door.
“And I will shake all your hands. After we have washed them. Thoroughly.”
 
——
 
And so they did. There was something bonding about mutual suffering. As any good [Diplomat] knew. This was such the case that as the door to the condemned lavatory opened, five people emerged all at once, not independently.
Rather than pretend they didn’t know each other, they came out, shaking washed, cleaned hands. Ser Solstice, eying Earl Altestiel, who nodded to the Hundredlord as he peered at Lady Menrise and she flipped her own visor up. She bowed to Princess Seraphel and exchanged the smile of a survivor.
A friendship forged in troubled waters. It was so notable that a passing [Diplomat of Envy], Corek of Ailendamus, halted on his rush to the restroom. He’d just had a bite of a treat he’d been saving on his plate, and none of the Thronebearers or servants had seen fit to save him from his fate.
He felt the terrible pain in his intestines, looked at the group of five, and realized what had happened in a flash. Corek shook his head.
“Dead gods. Is it—the legendary Umbral Throne diplomacy?”
Even more famous than the Winebreath Blaster. If he didn’t know better, he might have guessed Calanfer had set this up! But even they weren’t this dramatic. Corek rushed into the toilet, inhaled once, and paled as he opened a stall.
“Kingdom of Glass and Glory preserve me.”
 
——
 
What a day, eh? Ser Solstice actually sounded more cheerful after his harrowing journey. Perhaps because he’d found a more entertaining group of people than the food or celebrations.
Or perhaps because, as he emerged from the restrooms, he came face-to-face with a silver-and-purple haired man, who did indeed feel like a rainstorm, both in temperament and aura. Prone to moods, the Earl Altestiel of Rains.
He paused, drying his hands with a cloth, and the Goblin Slayer looked him up and down as the Earl adjusted his violet coat, flashing with golden epaulets. For a second, Rabbiteater debated punching him—then the Earl of Rains held out a gloved hand.
“—I was exceptionally relieved to hear Erin was returned to life. My [Strategist] and most trusted right hand, Kiish, made sure of it. I like to think I helped, in some small way.”
“You did?”
Rabbiteater forgot his anger in a second. He took the hand, and the two looked at each other. Perhaps the Earl saw a crimson flash behind that visor. Or expected to. He gave Rabbiteater a knowing look, and the Hobgoblin waited. But all the [Earl] did was smile.
“You’re far from home, Ser Solstice.”
“Yeah. I was having an adventure. This part sucked, but the rest was…something.”
The two stood there, and a man with dark brown skin and a flash of red running through his disheveled locks practically kicked his way out of the lavatory. Hundredlord Cortese looked around, saw his pet lion prowling around him anxiously, and bent down to pet her. But she took one sniff of him and backed away.
“So this is Ser Solstice and the Earl of Rains. Amazing. That wasn’t all a hallucination.”
He wiped at his brow as his handkerchief was no longer…and turned. The three men saw a woman push open the door and freeze. Seraphel flushed, but Lady Menrise stepped out into the hallway, her visor shut, her hands folded demurely in a star-lavender dress.
“Needless to say, gentlemen, Your Highness, I shall deny this event ever took place under torture or truth spell.”
A laugh escaped Seraphel’s mouth despite herself. She looked around, and Beacle was waiting, along with some very apologetic Thronebearers who had been alerted to the—distressing incident.
