Seraphel sounded relieved about that. She spoke with a strained tone of patience and probably just strain.
“You understand—a [Princess], much less any lady, does not discuss this kind of issue. You are, by your own account, slightly indecorous, Ser Solstice.”
“That means rude, right? I say obvious things, and people call that rude. Everyone. Poos. Call me…Rabbiteater.”
“Rabbiteater. Is that a—a nickname? I never asked.”
“Nope. Well. Yes.”
“Do—do you like to consume rabbits? Is that the, ah—significance of the name?”
“Yep.”
“Ah.”
“Not very hard to get.”
“No, quite. I understand that. I, er—you were heading to Nadel? Are you planning on leaving Terandria…?”
Before he could reply, someone opened the door. Again. This time, Seraphel and Rabbiteater expected sounds of disgust and for someone to run—but they heard what sounded like—
“—the Thousand Lances shall never fail. Never fail—”
Rabbiteater heard it all come out in a rush. He saw and heard fancy boots striking the ground—then someone struck the far wall so hard he and Seraphel jumped. Then whomever it was crashed into the far stall.
That was an amazing entrance into the bathroom. Rabbiteater had never seen someone charge into the toilet like that, but after a flurry of dropping clothing—he heard a familiar horror replay itself.
“Dead gods.”
Seraphel whispered. Someone made a terrible sound as they came to their senses in—relative—safety.
“Lion’s teeth! This disgusting privy—and this is the glorious kingdom of Calanfer?”
Rabbiteater realized he had entered Seraphel’s previous toilet. Which—might not have been flushed. It had certainly been used. Seraphel seemed to be trying to not exist.
Rabbiteater? He started laughing. The outraged voice in the far stall stopped—and then someone spoke.
“You…whomever you are…I warn you to be silent. Or as soon as I leave here, you will answer to me by blood, sir or madam.”
It was a low, dangerous tone—undercut by the note of pain and sounds of splashing. Rabbiteater called back.
“Not going to be any time soon.”
“Silence. I am in the mood to kill someone—”
“Oh yeah? You’re stuck in there.”
“Who are you?”
The enraged voice was followed by shuffling, and Rabbiteater suspected someone was trying to bend over and see under the low stalls. He could only get a view of boots and what looked like a lion’s mane, along with a male voice.
“Armored boots! Who are you? A [Knight]? And yonder—oh.”
The other person realized there was someone else and fell abruptly silent. Seraphel, at this point, spoke in a tremulous voice.
“I, ah, think I might be going.”
She tried to get up and once again failed to exit. And unfortunately—Rabbiteater’s observations were echoed a second later.
“Your Highness. Er—”
The nobleman fell silent. Seraphel made a sound like a dying frog. Rabbiteater started laughing harder.
“Who are you, you scoundrel? Answer me! I can sense—two auras? Wait a second. Are you…?”
“Ser Solstice. The Goblin Slayer.”
“The Goblin S—”
The angry voice mollified itself slightly. As if Rabbiteater’s reputation alone extended to these circumstances. Rabbiteater felt compelled to throw this newcomer a bone.
“We’re all stuck here. Bad poos.”
“The less said the better, sir! I suggest we forget we ever heard or saw each other. Agreed?”
“Agreed.”
Seraphel repeated. Whereupon amiable silence fell. For five seconds. Then a torrent of sound came from the far stall followed by some rather exquisite cursing. Rabbiteater spoke up, feeling better than ever—mentally, at least. A river still ran through him, and it was turgid. At times. At other times, it was like whitewater. But not white. Or entirely water.
“So anyways. I was going back to Izril, Seraphel. I want to go home. No more fighting in the war for me.”
She was silent. Possibly unwilling to continue the conversation now there were three people, but Rabbiteater knew silence would kill them all. So he went on.
“What about you? Going to stay here?”
“I, um…I don’t know if this is an appropriate venue, Ser Solstice.”
“Silence or talking. You pick.”
A groan from the far stall. Seraphel spoke up hurriedly as sloshing began.
“I think I will stay! Not that it is my decision—I may tour our allies, although not near the front lines, but I have no marriage arranged for me.”
“So…what?”
“So I have no engagement as of yet.”
“Right. I remember. You only do what you’re told. Stupid. Not going to practice swinging a sword? You suck at it.”
The far occupant of the toilets broke in.
“I heard you were a direct fellow, but you are rather unscrupulously rude, Ser Solstice. Her Highness is…a member of the royal family.”
“Yeah, and we fought together. Shut up.”
Rabbiteater kicked the wall of the stall to his left. The figure bristled once more.
“I may reconsider my oath of vengeance, Ser Knight!”
“Who are you, anyways?”
Rabbiteater was curious who this angry fellow was. To which the man finally replied.
“Hundredlord Cortese of Kaaz! And if I had not eaten—something—I would be glad to both take you to the dueling court, Ser Solstice, and never spend another moment in this hell of tiled privies. A public toilet!”
“Urgent poos wait for no class.”
Rabbiteater observed sagely. Lord Cortese groaned.
“I…I fear that’s the only thing you’ve said so far I can agree on. I—”
The door slammed open. Someone rushed in, and this time, Seraphel groaned along with Rabbiteater as she heard the urgency. This time, the person shot into the stall next to Seraphel’s, and Rabbiteater heard her make a faint sound. A torrent of noise followed.
“Kill me.”
Someone croaked. But before Rabbiteater could toss his axe over the stalls, a fifth person entered. And the occupants of the stalls realized—
It was a plague.
 
——
 
Disaster in the halls of Calanfer. A quiet one that Queen Ielane was fighting. She had found the dish which had caused all this and consigned it to hell, where it belonged.
A fiery hell—but it was too late. Even with all the [Chefs] and [Cooks] and, yes, taste-testers, sometimes something slipped through all the Skills.
Not in the preparation or ingredients—but afterwards. That was the irony; it had been cooked to perfection, and no soiled ingredients were let in. But if it sat out in the open for two hours while cooking…or if the hands were not entirely sanitary when carving it up?
Mistakes happened. Possibly sabotage. Fortunately, only a few people had been struck down. And doubly unfortunately—the rich dish had resulted in a certain privy of hell. Normally, they would be attended to instantly—but Calanfer’s staff had a larger problem to deal with. So the sufferers were left to their pain for a while as there were only a relative few affected.
A few—but the closest one to the banquet was full. Six stalls, a normally pleasant, nay, elegant chamber. Now slowly being remodeled into a scene of nightmares. Only five occupants were in here so far…but five was more than enough to chase any but the desperate far, far away.
What was unique about this one was that they were talking. At least, Rabbiteater was. The other occupants, once the pain had subsided somewhat, were aghast, but the Hobgoblin was, at least, cheerful.
“This is the second-worst poo I ever had.”
“Ser Solstice, please!”
Seraphel cried out. But the Hundredlord Cortese leaned over, sweat beading on his brows.
“Impossible, Ser Knight. What could be worse than this?”
“When the poo fights back. Ever pooed worms? I don’t see any in mine. How about you, Princess?”
“Ser Solstice!”
A male voice interrupted, urgently, from Seraphel’s right.
“Dead gods! Who is speaking?”
Someone else chimed in on the furthest stall to the right. Female, breathy, and for some reason, slightly muffled and echoing. But nevertheless, quite insistent.
“Please, enough! Of all the misfortunes—am I sharing space with Izrilians?”
The other two newcomers cried out in outrage at this point with Seraphel, but Rabbiteater heard more than one surreptitious rustling and sighs of covert relief. Then the new male voice spoke again.
“…Did someone say ‘Ser Solstice’? What a coincidence. Is that ‘Ser Solstice’ the Goblin Slayer of the Order of Solstice?”
“Yes, yes. Hi.”
The speaker next to Seraphel paused. He was quite eloquent, his words precise and flowing, an excellent conversationalist. Also, laced with undertones of splashing so the refined effect was rather lost. He spoke louder.
“Well met. I had hoped to meet with you, Ser Knight. Just not like this.”
“I as well.”
A quiet voice, the second female occupant, spoke. So there was the Hundredlord Cortese, Princess Seraphel, the Goblin Slayer, and…Rabbiteater craned his neck happily, trying to stare at their boots. Oh, interesting. One had some sensible metal boots, and he thought he saw another dress.
“Who is you two?”
“I’d prefer not to say.”
The female voice retorted, and the other fellow muttered an agreement. But now, Seraphel and Cortese seemed prone to vengeance. If their identities were public…Cortese called out.
“I can sense an aura from one of you, sir and madam. A wet one. It reminds me of rain. I daresay I know which country you hail from. If not your identity.”
Seraphel was trying to see if her tiara could ameliorate her pain. She called out.
“Magic in the stall on the far wall. Would that be from Tourvecall? The Kingdom of Incantations?”
Both parties were silent. At length, the woman responded.
“Lady Menrise of Tourvecall. And I believe I am adjacent to…”
“Earl Altestiel of the Rains.”
“You mean the mudslides.”
Rabbiteater shot back. Cortese began laughing.
“Hah!”
Even Seraphel chuckled, but Altestiel was not amused.
“This is no laughing matter…Ser Solstice. I have half a mind to conjure a storm to engulf this entire city. Who allowed this travesty of—whatever is upon us?”
Seraphel stopped laughing abruptly and spoke hurriedly.
“I can assure you, Lord Altestiel—this has to be the most incredible of accidents. Or perhaps…something else. I have never, ever heard of someone encountering—this at a banquet.”
Rabbiteater snorted.
“First time for everything?”
The three other non-Calanferian guests muttered dark agreement. Seraphel bit her lip. Then Altestiel spoke.
“I suppose…‘Ser Solstice’…it’s fortuitous we meet. You have a very interesting name. One so fascinating, I cannot help but equate it with a young woman I happen to know personally. And the Order she established. An [Innkeeper] of some renown.”
Rabbiteater sat up in his stall. He turned to his right.
“Wait. You know…Erin?”
Seraphel and the others had no idea who that was, but they blinked as Altestiel sighed.
“The [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn. I do indeed. She is a great friend of mine.”
Seraphel’s eyes lit up. But Cortese broke in, sounding fascinated. His tone became sly.
“Oh, the [Innkeeper]? And that odd scene with the Order? Ser Solstice—is that where you come from?”
“…No?”
A knowing silence enveloped them until Altestiel responded.
“I, uh—take it you are a mutual acquaintance of hers? She did not mention you outright, ‘Ser Solstice’.”
He said it like he knew quite patently it was not Rabbiteater’s real name. Rabbiteater just wondered if this was a friend or foe. If he liked Erin…probably a friend?
How did she know a Terandrian Lord? He decided to ask just that.
“She’s a friend. I stayed at her inn. How do you know her?”
“I, ah, encountered her on my visit to Izril. A quite striking young woman. A magnificent chess player. Whom I propositioned to marry.”
Rabbiteater roared.
“What?”
Seraphel nearly fell off her toilet seat in shock.
“What?”
Cortese stared blankly at the ground.
“Does anyone have any more toilet paper?”
Rabbiteater kicked the door of his stall and almost tried to climb over the side to see Altestiel.
“You did what?”
“Ser Solstice! Please!”
Seraphel remonstrated with him. Altestiel sounded amused.
“She rejected me. Is that so inconceivable?”
“Yes! I don’t know you! I’ll fight you.”
Altestiel bristled in his stall.
“Why? Are you one of Miss Erin’s suitors?”
“No! She saved my life! Cortese, give me your glove. I’ll slap him with it.”
The Hundredlord broke in with a note of growing urgency in his voice.
“I might trade my glove for a…a roll of toilet paper? I appear to be out.”
The other four occupants fell silent. Rabbiteater had been sparing—and he’d stolen half the paper from every other stall. But he was careful about his supply. Cortese was not.
“Does anyone have anything to spare?”
A chorus of voices answered him.
“Nope.”
“I fear not.”
“Er…I think my own supply might not exceed my demand, whomever you are.”
“Sadly…”
Cortese shouted back.
“Dead gods! I am Hundredlord Cortese! Just send me a scrap or two, would you?”
His identity established, the man waited…and no one came to his rescue. After a second, Rabbiteater called out.
“The stall next to us is empty. Maybe it has something.”
The Hundredlord’s lips moved silently as he calculated the maneuver. Then he whispered.
“I cannot stand up, sir. Not without attending to my distress! Nor do I fear I will make it.”
Rabbiteater shrugged.
“Then crawl under? Maybe get a long stick?”
“Sir! Just throw a bit of yours to me!”
Earl Altestiel sat there and counted the squares he had left. He made a quick, strategic assessment.
“I would not do that if I were you, friends. We’re all going to run out of paper. Lord Cortese is simply the first casualty.”
That was too much for the [Lady] from Tourvecall. She tried tossing something over the stalls, and it landed on Seraphel’s lap, causing the [Princess] to gasp.
“Dead gods! At least give him some help! Here—toss it to him.”
Seraphel slipped it under the stall, and Rabbiteater gamely tried to toss a three-square length over the stalls. In silence, all five occupants realized…
“…It’s landed in the empty stall, hasn’t it?”
Cortese sounded like he might cry. Rabbiteater grunted.
“Yep. Sorry.”
The Hundredlord was rapidly losing sanity. His voice almost broke with desperation.
“Can anyone spare anything else? A handkerchief?”
Lord Altestiel shuddered darkly.
“That’s a handkerchief that will never be used again.”
“I have already forfeited mine.”
The Hundredlord was losing his sanity rapidly. Seraphel shuddered in her stall. She rummaged in her bag of holding, and everyone did the same. At length, Altestiel made a sound. He had found something.
“Oh no.”
Seraphel looked up, wishing she had a flyer or something. But [Princesses] didn’t carry much if everything appeared when they called.
