The life of an average citizen in Terandria was said to be better than most Izrilians, Balerosians, Chandrarians, and especially Blighted Kingdom citizens. Not because their levels were higher or any nation was more magically or technologically advanced, but because Terandria, as a continent, was safer.
As a Human-dominated continent, the interspecies wars, such as the Drake and Gnoll conflicts, had been replaced by, uh…intraspecies war. But civilized war, such that the average member of the common folk’s slaughter by invading armies was frowned upon and largely condemned. Even Baleros with its mercenary armies had less of a genteel approach to warfare.
Similarly—Terandria’s systems of organization were completely different from city-states in Izril, for instance. Unlike how, in Izril, you might be subject to a Walled City or noble’s authority or simply be a largely free agent only bound to whatever local city laws there were, Terandria was about identity.
Almost no farm or village was independent. They fell under the authority of a local noble who reported to and was overseen—in theory—by a larger noble, who reported to the biggest noble still. This was all under the aegis of the crown, and every kingdom in Terandria had, well, a [King] or [Queen]. Or both.
All this meant that you got interesting scenarios about responsibility and duty. If a plague or natural disaster or monster were not addressed, the blame lay, in part, on the person governing the area. Whether or not they were held accountable was one thing…but it meant that, in theory, the ‘common folk’—again, a term that Rabbiteater kept hearing more and more often—grew to depend on their rulers.
He looked at it as similar to Goblin tribes, where you had a lot of Chieftains…but in this case, the Chieftains were not necessarily reliable. They were appointed by a super-Chieftain and…
Well, at that point his head began to hurt, and the [Knight of the Dawn] would try to get Meisa, Talia, or whomever it was to change the subject. He had no problem with the concept because he didn’t think hard about it.
If it was a good system, it was good. If it was bad, someone should do something about it. What he didn’t appreciate were all the attempts to…rationalize it to him. As if, somehow, he should be taking notes and making all the Goblins or Izrilians copy this method of governance.
“You have [Lords]. I have [Chieftains]. If things are good, one is like the other. Doesn’t matter, does it?”
The Hobgoblin muttered, and instantly, no less than four people began arguing.
“Rabbit! We have been trying to tell you—”
“A [Lord] is not a [Chieftain]—”
“I say, Rabbiteater, I understand your logic, but it’s somewhat insulting to—”
“—the historical [Chieftains] came out of barbarous tribes, it’s true, but Terandria distinguished itself with the right of kings and—”
Four outraged [Knights] all began nattering at Rabbiteater as he put his fingers in his ears. He got to do this because they were in a carriage with curtains, so he’d taken off his helmet to relax. He was regretting it.
Dame Meisa, Dame Talia, Ser Ilm, and Ser Markus were all defending their beloved Terandria. However, they fell silent as the last member of the carriage spoke.
“Yep. That’s what I think, too.”
Ser Greysten grinned as he wedged a travel pillow behind his back and put his feet up on the far seats. The carriage was very spacious, a twelve-seater, so the five [Knights] were being well-accommodated with Rabbiteater. Not that the Summer’s Champion was so indecorous with the junior members of the Order of Seasons.
He was just copying Rabbiteater, who was enjoying lying stretched out, bridged across both seats. It took some core strength to keep himself level, but Talia’s look of mild outrage was worth it. Greysten chortled as the [Knights] chose their words carefully.
“Ser Greysten. Surely you can’t be serious.”
Dame Talia, was, predictably, the first one to speak. For a response, the Summer’s Champion, Greysten, still nursing several bandaged wounds and healing from his duel with Ailendamus’ champion, Ser Uzine, just shrugged. He scratched irritably at the visible gauze under a tunic emblazoned with orange and yellow, like a sunburst itself.
“You are lecturing a Goblin, Dame Talia, about [Kings] and nobility. I remind you, Goblins have their Kings and Lords…I don’t know if encouraging Ser Solstice to monarchy is wise.”
The other [Knights] fell silent, and Rabbiteater grinned at this mention of his species’ most objectionable trait to non-Goblins. He looked across at Ser Markus, who eyed Rabbiteater’s gauntleted feet resting on his seat. Ser Ilm cleared his throat.
“…It is that very issue we hope to resolve in some manner, Summer’s Champion. Hence the ethical dilemma the Fall’s Sentinel has proposed: [Knight] or not, it would be wrong to help create a Goblin King. But that danger is remote indeed, and countered by injecting…”
He hesitated, and Dame Meisa spoke snippily.
“What? Civilization, to Goblins?”
“Say, rather, alternate viewpoints Ser Solstice might carry to his people.”
Ser Ilm was quick on his verbal feet. Not as much on the training field, but he was still one of the better Autumn Knights in a fight. Rabbiteater grinned wider as he peeked out the window. He was fiddling with the doorknob, but Ser Markus deftly handed him a helmet before the Goblin could go out. Rabbiteater glanced over his shoulder.
“Goblins know lots of viewpoints. We just don’t do any of ‘em.”
“…Because you believe you have a better way of doing things? Because you refuse to accept some ideal of the presented modes of organizing?”
Ser Ilm had a quill at the ready; he was writing notes, which would be private, about Rabbiteater and his culture. It would join scant writings on Goblins, so everything Rabbiteater said was valuable indeed. It was flattering and why Rabbiteater didn’t really get mad at Ilm. The Hobgoblin’s grin widened.
“Nope. No one lives long enough to do anything fancy. [Farmer]? Most Goblins die in five years or less. No time to swing a hoe.”
Then he shoved the helmet on his head and popped out of the carriage. The other five [Knights] sat there in an uncomfortable silence. Ser Solstice, or Rabbiteater, could generate it quite often when discussing his home, and the [Knights] really only had themselves to blame. Ser Ilm, for his part, just scribbled Rabbiteater’s reply down with a sigh.
“…I’m beginning to realize most of Goblins’ issues boil down to that reply.”
Dame Talia’s lips compressed. Perhaps she’d been about to say something to the effect of, ‘when they have freedom to grow, they become Goblin Lords’ or something like that. Which would have started a fight with Meisa. However, Ser Markus just looked thoughtful, and Ser Greysten cracked one eye open.
“Then don’t try and solve a species. Just watch our Ser Solstice, Ilm.”
The Fall Knight ducked his head, abashed. Everyone looked out the window, and Markus rolled up the blinds now that Rabbiteater was jogging alongside the rolling wagon. They had to admit—part of this discussion and trying to show Rabbiteater all these Terandrian ideas?
It was because they liked him and wanted him to stay. After all, even if the war wasn’t officially over, the Order of Seasons, like the Dawn Concordat, was celebrating their great victory. The advent of many other nations into the battle against the previously-indomitable Ailendamus meant everyone could breathe and peace might follow soon, or at least, a less dire war. The problem was…
Rabbiteater seemed to be growing less happy and more restless by the day. So they had to show him reasons to stay. Unfortunately, what the Goblin saw and listened to was less the philosophy of state. He was more interested in…
[Peasants].
 
——
 
Actual [Peasants]. Rabbiteater stopped jogging alongside the carriage and peered at them almost as hard as they gawked at him. He had never seen one before.
Peons. Peasants. Rabbiteater knew the first term from, well, Lyonette. It was a catchphrase of hers, and peasant was…a word. Yep. One that he heard very rarely, and probably only Numbtongue would use it in common dialogue.
But as a class? [Peasant] was so…so…
Weird.
Think about it. A class was who you were, even if it were an aspect. Within everyone was the—the potential to become a [Fisher]. Or a [Warrior]. Some people could become things others couldn’t; not everyone had the magic to become a [Mage] or the birthright of a [Lord], for instance, but you could obtain these classes.
But…[Peasant]? The Goblin stared at them. How did one [Peasant]? What was [Peasant] as a class?
The answer was: it was Terandrian. Not just Terandrian, but the first [Peasants] he met were part of the Eternal, Glorious, something, something nation of Calanfer. The carriage was passing down a road headed straight for the capital, and even close to the Eternal Throne of Calanfer, the largest and most famous city in the nation where their famous throne resided—
The farms and peasant-ish lifestyles continued. Rabbiteater supposed that made sense. You wanted farms near where you ate. But not too close! Or you got chickens in the throne room, and his observations of the [Princesses] were that they had never seen a chicken uncooked. Every nation needed farms. Every nation needed artisans who could make basic goods. Herd sheep for wool, grow food, cut wood, mine ore…very stereotypical things.
However—it seemed like Terandria didn’t have specialist classes. Or rather, instead of starting as a [Miner], some people started as a [Peasant]. And they got weird Skills.
“Ser Knight! Ser Knight! Thank you for fighting at the Archmage’s Pass! Are you bound for the capital? Bless you!”
Some of the people in the fields were cheering as Rabbiteater jogged past. They had been calling out all this while to the Thronebearers and other riding [Knights] along with members of Pheislant’s army. Rabbiteater saw two dozen people working in a vast field that grew, of all things, turnips.
They were harvesting a fall crop, and by the looks of it, doing fairly well. It was not a hugely productive field.
Rabbiteater had seen—or rather, raided—the best farms around the High Passes. If the Redfangs had descended on Calanfer, they would have passed this field up unless pickings were slim. It wasn’t poor—but Rabbiteater had seen Level 30 [Farmers] and what they could produce.
Turnips as big as your head. These ones? Regular-sized. However, it seemed like this farm fed an attached field of cows, another of pigs, and an entire herd of sheep. The most classic farmstead he could imagine. There were some horses grazing and resting from pulling plows, and a pair of dogs had been racing up and down, barking at the passing warriors.
Right now, they had stopped, smelled Rabbiteater, and were staring at him warily. He kept wearing anti-scent charms, but dogs sometimes recognized Goblins anyways. One growled—and a [Peasant] in his mid-thirties quickly shooed the animal off. He tipped a wide-brimmed hat at Rabbiteater.
“Apologies, Ser Knight! Calanfer’s Eternal Throne protect you!”
He bowed, and Rabbiteater was amazed to see all two dozen other people do the same. It was a single bow, but it looked like a lot of work to bother doing.
“No problem. Uh…nice dog.”
At this, the [Peasant] seemed amazed by the response. He beamed and, emboldened, stared at the coach that Calanfer had sent for the Order of Seasons.
“Thank you, sir! Are you Pheislant’s [Knights]? Or…Noelictus’?”
He didn’t know, and Rabbiteater had no heraldry, so the Goblin shrugged and pointed to the [Knights] nodding and waving to some of the very young workers in the field. Ser Markus seemed most at home—he came from the common folk, while everyone else did not. His eyes were knowledgeable as he scanned the field and farm.
“We’re Order of Seasons. They are. I’m from Izril.”
Instantly, the [Peasants] focused on him. The first man’s eyes widened. Rabbiteater got a chance to look him up and down now they were close, and he began to understand what a [Peasant] was.
Peasants were poor. And that wasn’t even bias. Rabbiteater had visited a few cities in his time living around Liscor, and he had observed a few basic facts that Erin took for granted.
For instance, she had found Liscor pretty close to her actual home in terms of dress, sanitation, and whatnot. The clothing, if different, was not notably worse.
Calanfer’s [Peasants] were hardly raggedly people bathing in mud; they looked rather clean, and Rabbiteater saw only a tiny, artful seam hiding a tear. They seemed fed enough, but the difference between them and, say, someone from Celum or Liscor was this:
They wore wool, not cotton. It looked like nice wool, but it wasn’t cotton. The man wiped his brow, with, yes, a handkerchief that had embroidery on it, a blue stitch around the faded and washed linen.
That was all. They carried steel-tipped hoes, their hand-carts looked well-made, and Rabbiteater didn’t see any notable injuries or malnourishment that Goblins were all too familiar with. But their clothing budget was definitely not, say, the same as the Order of Seasons’.
At any rate, the man seemed in awe of Rabbiteater’s attire, which was full-steel, rich by any citizen’s standards no matter where you went, let alone the magical cloak hanging from his shoulders and his enchanted axe. He took it all in and came to a quick conclusion.
“Then—could you be—Ser Solstice? The Goblin Slayer?”
Now, the Hobgoblin was getting embarrassed. They stared at his armor and seemed shocked it didn’t glow. But since he was bad at lying, Rabbiteater shrugged.
“Yes?”
Instantly, all twenty-one of them tossed down their tools and flocked towards him.
“Ser Solstice! We saw a recording of your duel with the Dame of the Hills!”
“Ser, you rode with Princess Seraphel the Dutiful! Please, Ser, will you take some water?”
“May I shake your hand, Ser?”
The carriage halted as the Hobgoblin was suddenly surrounded by an odd group of…fawning people? It wasn’t like a Goblin mob where they’d tackle you and cover you with affection or Erin’s friendliness. They were both around him and not pressing in, as if afraid they’d upset him.
Ironically, that made Rabbiteater’s skin crawl harder. But the looks of enraptured admiration were real. Someone ran for a well, and more kept bowing.
“Uh oh. You alright, Rabbit?”
Dame Meisa called out, which made the [Peasants] hesitate, but Rabbiteater nodded. He shook a few hands, which delighted the [Peasants]. He declined water, but the head of this farm was insistent.
“For the Lightherald’s successor—”
“—I’m not. I just, uh, got some light temporarily.”
