The Hearthlord rubbed at his eyes and then saw Iyr and Hellei chuckling. However, after only a second, Voloke lowered his axe, then strode over to clasp Rabbiteater’s gauntlet. He laughed, gripped Rabbiteater’s forearm as the Hobgoblin returned the gesture, and accepted his axe back.
“Good fight.”
Rabbiteater offered the comment honestly, and Voloke’s smile was knowing.
“I can say I fought the Goblin Slayer of Izril—but if I were a Goblin or a foe, I think you’d have been more cunning, eh?”
For a second, Rabbiteater felt his heart skip a beat at a reminder of his name. But he forced a chuckle out.
“Yeah. I don’t fight fair. Probably would have fought you in a hot tub.”
Voloke laughed.
“And I would have fought you in a blizzard—and thrown javelins at you from behind! So tell me, now we’ve shed some of each other’s blood, even under the armor—just what is this Order of Solstice?”
Iyr and Hellei stepped back, but Markus and Meisa suddenly looked worried. Rabbiteater hesitated.
I’d love to know that too! He had seen Erin make the Order. It had made him miss home intensely.
“It’s…my Order. I took my name from it.”
“Ah, a pseudonym for [Knights]?”
“Yeah, pseudo-whatever-that-is. Fake name. It’s a nice order. Has an inn. Free drinks.”
Iyr and Voloke found that hilarious. Iyr grinned behind a huge mustache and beard of his own.
“Now there’s a [Knight] order half of Cenidau’s warriors could get behind! We have fewer [Knights] than the southlands—but what did you say about the inn?”
Before they could continue, a servant was striding forwards, leading a very upset [Diplomat].
“Hearthlords! Ser Solstice, members of the Order of Seasons—I must ask on behalf of the Eternal Throne not to conduct any matches in the hallways. The crown has prohibited them, aside from dueling courts, out of courtesy to all guests—”
“Yes, yes. Apologies.”
Voloke groaned, and the Cenidau guests stepped back. He looked…less pleased to speak with Calanfer’s people, and when the [Diplomat] left, he rubbed at his side where Rabbiteater had given his armor a thrashing.
“I might need a small drop of potion if I’m going hunting or whatever this week entails! Or not—I’ll consider the bruises a gift.”
“I’m taking healing potion. I don’t want your gifts.”
Another laugh. Voloke nodded at the servants.
“They reminded us—politely—that we are first honored by visiting the Eternal Throne. I confess, I’m curious to see it, but I hope to see you and the Order of Seasons at length. Calanfer’s welcome is…”
He paused and glanced at Hellei and Iyr, but neither one stopped him, so Voloke went on.
“…Conditional upon our value as allies. They do a good job of hiding it, but Cenidau has known them six thousand years. Still, our fellow guests are reason enough to come, but I take their point. Beware the Kingdom of Kaaz, Ser Solstice. If you think we’re a rough lot, the lion-lords and their duels almost always end in blood. I’m sure they all want a piece of you, literally.”
With that, he bid them farewell, and Rabbiteater decided Cenidau was probably nice. As for Kaaz…he leaned over to Meisa.
“What’s that about Kaaz?”
“One of the Restful Three, the mid-northern powers. The Hearthlord isn’t wrong; they’re known, among other things, for having duels to the death. The nobility are as good [Duelists] as they come; many Gold-bell fencers, there.”
“Oh. Like the King of Duels?”
“I think he studied there.”
Markus put in. Rabbiteater felt that only added to Kaaz’s value, but he took their point about overzealous opponents. He nodded as Meisa warned him.
“I will be careful. I never underestimate my opponents. Besides. I realize they’re dangerous. Nobles are crazy. So are most [Knights].”
“Rabbit!”
Meisa looked aghast. Markus tapped his chest.
“Wait, what makes us crazy, Rabbiteater? I daresay I’m fairly level-headed, at least among my order.”
To that, the Hobgoblin just gave them a huge grin as he walked on to find their rooms, though they couldn’t see it.
“Easy. You’re friends with me.”
 
——
 
The Restful Three were a hard concept for Meisa and Markus to explain to Rabbiteater over their walk to his rooms and even afterwards. Not just because it involved talking about their culture, heritage, and so on, but because it took him a while to get around the idea of a ‘sleeping giant’.
“Giants are dead.”
“Yes, Rabbiteater, it’s a phrase from antiquity. Sleeping Giants are dangerous if they wake.”
“So don’t wake them up. Easy.”
“It’s an expression. Based on history!”
“Yeah, because you killed all the Giants. Couldn’t you let them sleep?”
The point—past Rabbiteater teasing Meisa—was this.
The Restful Three were powerful kingdoms who did not make endless wars like Ailendamus. They certainly had the capacity to, but they preferred to, well, enjoy life at the top. Not going to war earned you some concessions, and reminding your enemies and allies why you should be humored every few hundred years wasn’t hard.
They were three nations, and their status as the ‘Restful Three’ was also due to the fact that all three nations tended not to fight each other. Like the Dawn Concordat, but more casually—it meant they could focus on opponents.
They had watched Ailendamus expand without doing much. Whether that was arrogance or a disinterest in meddling in the southern section of Terandria…well, their presence in Calanfer now did not make Ailendamus happy.
Three nations. Kaaz, Golaen, and Erribathe. Respectively, they were better known by their nicknames.
Kaaz, the Kingdom of the Infinite Dungeon. Because it had…the world’s largest dungeon.
Golaen, the Half-Giant’s Kingdom. Notable for a lack of half-Giants…or rather, an odd take on them.
Erribathe, the Kingdom of Myth, one of the few nations that was still traceable back to the first Hundred Families of old who had settled Terandria.
Two of the representative kingdoms were already settling themselves in, and Rabbiteater saw Kaaz’s nobles first.
They had lions. And tigers. And other big cats. Apparently one was called a ‘puma’, and the thing looked extremely dangerous as it prowled behind a noblewoman with a serrated dueling sword who strutted along, practically inviting a duel.
“They’re touchy—as touchy as Taimaguros nobles, and both Taimaguros and Kaaz have fought entire wars—or killed each other over petty insults. They have only one Knight-Order—and it’s the strongest in the world. They have a lot of Named-rank adventurers because of the Infinite Dungeon.”
“Is it really infinite?”
To that, Markus could only shrug. Rabbiteater was amazed that the Spring Knight would call one other Knight Order definitively the ‘best’, but he supposed there were reasons.
“No one’s found the end. Like Medain of Chandrar, it has sustained their nation for a long time. As for Golaen’s folk…well. You can tell who they are.”
“How can I—whoa.”
Rabbiteater turned and blinked. Striding through the Humans gathered in the hallways came…taller Humans.
Just that. They weren’t half-Giants. Not exactly. Moore was notably taller than everyone, and he was…giant-ish. In the sense that you felt like no one could be that tall normally.
These? These were Humans who got as tall as eight feet. Not really nine like Moore; some were six feet tall. Six, seven, eight.
Tall Humans. Strong Humans, too; one of their leaders wore huge, tailored breeches of Wyvernhide, and he looked like he had seen a few battles from the way he walked, confidently patting people he met on the shoulder. That was it. Confidence from Golaen, and why not?
Their entire population was bigger than average. But again, they had apparently come from meeting with half-Giants so long ago that they were more like just…taller Humans.
Oh—and their kingdom? They had taken one spot as their home:
The last and only city Giants had ever built. That was Golaen, who, in their way, were as brazenly arrogant as Kaaz. Indeed, whoever the [Lord] leading the group of nobles was, he was clearly talking down to a number of other dignitaries in multiple senses of the word.
Politics were weird. When the [Lord] spotted Rabbiteater, he strode over, engulfed Rabbiteater’s hand in a strong grip that Rabbiteater returned mildly—he was wearing a gauntlet, so he didn’t really feel it—and then tried to flip up the [Knight]’s visor.
“Lord Etrogaer!”
Meisa instantly snapped as Rabbiteater batted away the hand. The [Lord] laughed hugely and patted Rabbiteater on the shoulder before turning to Meisa and snatching a hand to kiss it.
“Ah, forgive me, Dame Knight! I had to try. So you are Ser Solstice! I heard you dueled our distant cousin, the Dame of Hills!”
“Mm. She was pretty big. You’re tall yourself. Who’re you?”
“Lord Etrogaer, a Duchal title. My class is [Titanguard] of Golaen. One of the sworn protectors of our lands—not that most monsters trouble Golaen’s folk. I’ve wondered how many [Knights] I would have a chance to spar! Would you be interested?”
Rabbiteater gave Etrogaer a blandly calm reply.
“I don’t think it’s wise. I cut off fingers.”
The [Titanguard]’s eyes flashed as he bared all his teeth.
“If you’re concerned for me, I’ll wear gauntlets! Come now, are you nervous?”
Rabbiteater rolled his shoulders in a shrug.
“Nah. But I won’t duel you.”
“I heard you took on one of Cenidau’s Hearthlords not twenty minutes ago. Have you lost your nerve suddenly?”
The [Titanguard] teased him as people turned and regarded the two. Rabbiteater saw some of Kaaz’s nobles watching him, and he replied steadily.
“Nope.”
“Then…?”
The Goblin turned and gave Lord Etrogaer a long look. He replied in a carrying tone as Meisa and Markus watched, tense. Well, Markus was wondering if the two came to blows—how in the hell would he pull Etrogaer off Rabbiteater? Even with Meisa’s help? Yet Rabbiteater’s stare through his visor was level and perhaps—unsettling.
What did the man see? A blank visor? A hint of…something hidden, cloaked by magic such that you couldn’t even see with light shining on the visor? But you imagined it. A disfigured face? A Drake? A Gnoll? And that voice was so calm, even with the [Titanguard]’s Aura of Might bearing down on him. His felt like…to the nobles…
Home. Rabbiteater replied simply.
“If I lose, you’ll try to take my helmet off. Especially if I’m unconscious.”
Etrogaer laughed. He threw his head back and laughed, then clutched Rabbiteater’s shoulder.
“You have me, Ser Knight! It was my intention from the start. I suppose that’s a ‘no’?”
He turned, chuckling, and Rabbiteater called out after him.
“If you want to wager your life, I’ll do it. But I don’t fight fair.”
The [Titanguard] turned, and a silence fell as Markus’ hand meeting his face was the only audible sound for a second. Then Etrogaer strode back over, clapped Rabbiteater on the shoulder, and turned.
“Now there’s a [Knight] with some proper bravery! I rather like you, Ser Solstice!”
Then he nodded to them and left. When he was out of earshot, Rabbiteater leaned over to the tensed Meisa and Markus.
“…I don’t think he actually likes me. Which is good. Because I don’t like him.”
Meisa exhaled slowly and nearly punched Ser Greysten when the Summer’s Champion clapped her and Rabbiteater on the shoulder. The older [Knight] watched the Golaen lord leave and murmured.
“He might not care for someone he can’t intimidate, but he respects Rabbiteater enough that he won’t try that trick again. How powerful is that glue, Ser Solstice?”
Rabbiteater felt at his helmet.
“…I might have made it impossible to get off.”
Ser Greysten laughed and then turned to the other two. He nodded around the bustling palace of Calanfer.
“Banquets, toasts in our honor, sports like hunting—Calanfer is putting on a grand reception. I don’t know if it’s wise, but Ser Solstice is invited to everything I am—including tonight’s banquet in honor of our victory against Ailendamus. We even have the chance to approach the Eternal Throne, and of all the experiences, I would say that one is the only one we must go to. Dame Meisa, Markus, Ser Solstice, any thoughts?”
The two [Knights] murmured that they too would like to see Calanfer’s wonders, if cautiously. As for Rabbiteater? He looked around at the fascinating nobility, the palace full of architectural marvels, and the city that people flocked to in luxury, and he raised his hand.
“I think I’m done. I’ll go to Nadel or Pheislant and get on a ship back home. Anyone want to go now?”
Ser Greysten’s jaw opened, and a passing servant of Calanfer slipped and nearly toweled one of Cenidau’s Hearthlords. Even some of the other eavesdroppers turned to stare.
…What?
 
——
 
“Did you just say Ser Solstice is leaving?”
When Princess Seraphel heard that, she was surprised. Not because she didn’t see why—but because she had never heard someone who hadn’t spent at least two weeks in Calanfer say that! And he had, by all accounts, been here one hour and decided to go.
“He must be having another joke. Like how, on the campaign, he kept inviting Vernoue to send a wedding invitation to Ser Venoriat on the basis that his name started with a ‘V’ as well. Or to the Small Queen because ‘she would probably accept’.”
Aielef laughed it off. She was having Seraphel over in a rare display of sisterly affection—and because both of them were avoiding Shardele. Vernoue had even come by, although she was reading from her spellbook as usual.
Surviving a siege had made them—closer. But even so, they were still wary allies at most. Which was a sad thing to have in a family, wasn’t it?
Seraphel had never realized that until she’d seen a few families up close actually loving and caring for each other. In Noelictus. Here—it was just the politics of court.
However, in this case, Aielef was on the same page as Seraphel and Vernoue. The [Deathtouch Princess] nodded along with her younger sister—until one of the [Court Servants] whispered the rest of the story.
“Actually, everyone thought so, Your Highnesses, and that he was making a statement. No one said any more, even when he went to the stables for a horse. It turns out he was sixteen miles south of here when he ran into more of the nobility heading up from Nadel! Ser Greysten himself rode out to bring him back!”
“He actually left? Why?”
Aielef’s fanning slowed in disbelief. The [Court Servant] said something unbelievable.
“He said he found the Eternal Throne…boring.”
