Each notification accompanied a swell of power. All of them went ignored as Shiv continued contaminating the various bodies of sauces around him; his Revenant form had gone unnoticed thus far. His physical body barely lasted two seconds.

Fucking hells, that was close, he thought to himself, his soul doing the equivalent of panting. Just how many different skill transformations does Longinus have? The question was an unnerving one—something Shiv wasn’t intent on finding out firsthand. New rules. Physical bodies need to be expended within one second. We can’t be—

Continuity Error trembled.

From the far side of his soul, he heard the voice of a girl that didn’t exist scream in panic. Look out! Longinus is—just dodge! NOW!

Shiv didn’t think; he just reacted—barely in time.

A beam of concentrated shame and condemnation splashed into the back of his Severed Shadow. It was a river of emotion made of a mad god’s rampant emotions and turned magical by attunement to divine mana. It should have been enough to drive Shiv insane from sheer emotional trauma alone.

It was also something Shiv could dodge as a length of divine mana wide and long enough to part a small city was counter-infested by a vibrant redness. Shiv didn’t miss how his pollution of Longinus’ Divinity mirrored the festering bio-taint Shiv left within the various sauces in the area. What was it that Adam said that one time? As above, so below.

And below Shiv dropped once more, with enough divine mana to sustain himself for many hours. Maybe even a day.

“Well, that was quite a haul,” the girl said, grinning wryly. “But he would have gotten you without me.”

“That… was close,” Shiv rasped, taking a moment to catch his breath. “I think I’m going to need better Reflexes… And something for emotional resilience. And Magical Resistance.”

The girl smirked at him. “Everything, really. You’re fighting a god, Shiv. That’s an ugly fucking match-up, even for a Legend.”

“Valor managed.”

“You’re not Valor.”

“Yet,” Shiv replied.

She inclined her head, acknowledging the point. “Yet. So. What would Valor do?”

“What I’m doing right now?”

She frowned. “Maybe. But he wouldn’t leave his ass out to be stabbed. Maybe no more letting Longinus kill you, how about that? He’s learning too. He’s probably going to do whatever he can to break your mind and heart instead of your body now. So. If you’re going to fuck some shit up, do it fast and jump back across. You have the vitality to burn again. Doesn’t mean you can afford to make a mistake. No sloppiness, Deathless.”

He gave a mocking salute. “No sloppiness, ma'am.”

And then he felt something resonate from within him. Things within him vibrated in sync with each other, and a strange, deep, and distant-seeming whisper sounded in agreement. “No sloppiness.”

The girl blinked. “The hells was that?”

Sage suddenly appeared to Shiv's right. “No idea, but if I had to guess… It might have something to do with a forthcoming Skill Fusion.” He looked at his hands, and the faintest glints of light and color appeared, briefly enough that Shiv could have sworn it was an illusion. “It feels… It feels like I’m coming together. Pieces that always belonged.”
