We begin our lives in pieces. The fragments that become who we are are accumulated through experiences and triumphs, and eroded by failure and wrong lessons learned. Such is why the instruction of a child's virtue, the development of their mind in logic and empathy, and a regimen to perfect their physique must come together so that they can form the alloy of their idealized self.

To be anything less is to disgrace this gift of life you were given.

The same can be applied to how we seek to perfect our craft of war: beyond weapons, above weapons. We have our hands, our understanding, and our tongues to strike and break that which lies within, and our might to rend and ruin the whole without. But as said before: All things are of a final wholeness. So why cannot a word deliver a physical blow? Why cannot a style of violence be conveyed through rhetoric or base sophistry? Why cannot hypocrisy be identified and struck like an opening in someone's guard? And why cannot fists and feet carry the intent of enlightened understanding or compel shame in the shameless to unleash blows of emotional weight deeper than material harm?

They can, and they will, but only after you forge yourself into a proper whole, capable of bearing the burdens and blessings of the Final Way.

To reach this pinnacle, you must possess a style of expression, a style in kinesiology. The movement of violence, violence expressed by your body. You must understand the weakness and flaws of the mind, for consciousness is a theater of battle all to itself, and those who wield themselves poorly shall be wielded by their enemy in return.

Finally, one must possess the strength to fling forth their mind, their spirit, their strength and will. The Final Way is expressed through a myriad of patterns. It is an entombment, a craft, an art to this war.

At our foundation, we were meant to struggle and strive, and so we must have a vessel that strides beyond the limits of what this world has anchored us in. That mortal shell, that feeble flesh which rots and decays, is insufficient. The way you fight now must be of a purification, a higher order, a Platonic form.

Above mind, beyond strength, reforged of spirit, where the wound of words matches the wounds of bodies.

Perhaps you do not understand now. Perhaps the true meaning behind the Final Way is to be more than what a few words can convey. I tell you, seek perfection. Achieve dominance in the domains of the mind. Become a Psychic. Become a Gnostic of the Heart, a Psychologist who can strike and mend that which breaks within, and become a practitioner of any of the Martial Ways, and walk these paths in tandem until all three merge into one.

Once your spiritual forging completes, then you will understand. But then you are not at the end. You are at the beginning. And so, you may turn the following pages and continue your journey everlasting.

—Legend-Philosopher Melaia Kelhaus

342

The Way of Tripartite Ruin [III]

Skill Evolution: Whip Proficiency (Initiate) > The Snake Entombed of Lightning and Thunder (Adept)

The Snake Entombed of Lightning and Thunder (Adept) 52

A sensation of coiling storms throbbed inside Shiv. It begged him to seize a whip so that its hunger for momentum and damage could be converted to speed, length, and devastation. But he was in no hurry to test out this new skill.

His most recent death had served multiple purposes. The first was understanding Longinus better. The Wanderer possessed a downright lethal skill. With little more than a gesture, the space before him would simply be erased. It wasn't even a disintegration; it was a vacuum overriding matter.

Longinus's attacks seemed to scorn the very concept of physical durability. Between that, his incredible speed, and his ability to vanish from the premises while leaving a ghostly imprint of himself present to continue serving as a conduit for his attacks, the Wanderer was a predator of Vanguards. It didn't matter how tough you were. It didn't matter how strong you were. You couldn't strike him. You could not outpace him, and he, with the slightest gesticulation alone, would see you unmade.

But Shiv wasn't a Vanguard. He was so much more. Where brute force and direct attrition could not be his ally, skirmishing and psychological warfare were to become his edges against the Ascendant.

Shiv watched as the featureless form of Longinus raged and raved on the other side of the curtain. He swung his lance about, a fluid oscillation of divine mana, painting glossy trails behind Integration’s translucent screen. Once more, Shiv was beyond context, banished from Longinus' memories.

Forced to contend with an unknowable foe over an extended period of time, the god’s sanity was beginning to crack. Shiv saw the emotional fractures lining his core, saw the festering haze that was beginning to build at the edges.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart materialized beside Shiv. His arms were folded; his glasses glinted bright. Much like Shiv, he was thinking. “Press him. Press him even harder. We need to fan the flames of his every suspicion, make him think that Evanescia is the one preying upon him, or the Princess has decided to use him for a spot of amusement, maybe matched him up against another hallowed cook. Send his anxieties and doubts in all directions; rip his heart apart.”

“Keep ruining his dishes,” Gardener of Doubt whispered. “He has a great many meals being made. See them all made unserviceable. And while he is distracted and raging, break the foundations of his kitchen. Cut and shred the power sources of the convection plates far below.”

A fourth Shiv entered the conversation, his tone laden with strain. “He is already unstable,” A Glimpse of Perspective declared. “I imbibed his philosophies, and he is a fractured thing of two minds. Longinus seems devoid of a proper ego, or fractured of it. He is driven by lust and hunger and an urge to swallow every novel flavor he can find, but he has also been tainted by Georges and has tainted Georges in turn. Even deeper still, I feel a presence that is broken, but still there, only buried far too deep. He, and potentially all the other Ascendants, have been misshapen by their Divinity to be predisposed toward madness for what they have done to themselves.”

“On top of that, you got to keep changing the game,” the girl who didn't exist interjected. “If this is going to be a physical fight, then you need to give yourself a psychological edge. That Whip Proficiency Evolution is just a start. You need to fuse as many things as you can with Sage of the Enkindled Heart. Right now, your Eldritch Physiology, Chronomancy, Sticks and Stones, and Sage are all on the brink. I have no idea if they can come together or what might come of that, but you have an opportunity now. A really good one. Push that opportunity over the edge. Push as many skills over the edge at once as possible. Always keep him off balance, and hurt him in as many ways as you possibly fucking can.”

The false girl's voice centered Shiv. The struggle ahead was clear. He knew what he had to do and how he needed to do it. And he needed to walk the edge. There was going to be pain ahead if he wanted to level quickly. He was going to have to risk parts of his soul breaking, skills fracturing, mind crumbling, and he needed to take his time—learn Longinus's habits and thoughts in order to see him broken in full.

So Shiv performed another resurrection. A new body slipped free from his Severed Shadow. The cost in vitality he paid to continue existing in this space of nothingness doubled as well, but he expected that. He wasn't going to stay Backstage for long. There were dishes to ruin, facilities to break, taunts to deliver, and deaths to experience.

Killing a god required dedication. Thankfully, Shiv was in his element. The Chef Unwavering was not a martial skill in any capacity, but even it loathed Longinus. Even though it was inflamed by Shiv's endless rage, this kitchen, Georges, the things that Longinus had done... He had defiled more than people; he'd used Georges’ body to defile the very notion of cooking itself.

Commis were not slaves. Chefs were meant to express and to indulge in an exploration of sustenance and taste—and they were meant to do this for all people instead of one lustful, miserable, wretched glutton.

Shiv let the scintillating glow of his Cooking Skill guide him. Where the shine concentrated was what he needed to break first. Though the world on the other side of the curtain still appeared like it was molded from blandest clay, Shiv had spent most of his life in a kitchen. He knew what he was looking at, even when their shapes were absurd or their sizes exaggerated. He knew exactly what mistakes to make and what mechanisms to break for everything to spiral out of control.

“I’m afraid Princess Plum Blossom's not going to be getting anything from The Boiling Toad for a while,” Shiv said, glaring Longinus down. The Wanderer raged on, lashing his lance to and fro, swinging and cleaving gaps across the landscape and striking nothing. His body was starting to crack and dissolve, and he faded into a patch of faint Divinity before Shiv left. He snorted. “See you real soon, you piece of shit.”

***

Shiv's long campaign of culinary sabotage became multi-pronged. His physical form was used as a sacrificial decoy while he surveyed the lands. His goal was a simple one: to target and destroy as many main dishes as he could. However, his primary target was the sauté station. For when the sauces were compromised, when the condiments were infested, when the foundational flavoring had been festered by disease, every meal that could come from them would be contaminated by a single source of original debasement.

Depending on the preferences of a Head Chef and the facilities the establishment could afford, a kitchen had anything from five to eight stations, and the Boiling Toad was composed of seven. The main difference here was one of size and extremes. It wasn't just a kitchen; it was like a fortress kingdom meant to feed a woman the size of a country, and so everything needed to be more. The chefs needed to be more. The stations were districts instead, entire stretches of land that had to be measured by kilometers, forming their own biomes and sprawls in the process.

The heart of the Boiling Toad was the Grill Station. It was where Shiv had begun his brawl with Longinus in earnest. When viewed from above, it resembled a vast metallic plane that stretched for two dozen kilometers across. Rents, gashes, and tightly wound metallic knots left over from the earlier battles were not the only blemishes within the territory. The commis shanties existed to service the grill's specific needs. It felt wrong to call the existing architecture residences. They were built on stilts and stacked one over the other, messes of scrap metal fused together and reinforced with Geomantic mana. Furthermore, the only way the chef-slaves could traverse the land was either through their own aerial traversal skills or to call upon a stone dimensional to carry them as they worked upon bowls of moving ceramic. Each slum had about one hundred to one hundred and twenty people, and practically everyone present was skilled at cooking in some variety.

Shiv managed to further distinguish between the groups, as some were dedicated to excavating and peeling skyscraper-like rib bones, already being lathered in sweet and sticky sauce. Then there were the others in the distance, who worked with stone dimensionals as they piloted bladed platforms that carved gaps between a mountain range-sized steak. And then there were the flippers, a swarm of Dynamancy dimensionals who wielded the power of gravity to manipulate the weight of the colossal meat slabs that served as layered landmasses in the area. The work was constant; the shifts rotated, pushing the slave-chefs to their limit. But while a part of Shiv wanted to drop everything else and free the captive commis, he knew it would be for nothing before Longinus was defeated.

Past the Grill Station came the inner perimeter of the kitchen’s core. The Boiling Toad’s sauté station was a series of separated and rushing rivers. Shiv saw familiar assortments of sauces: Béchamel, Velouté, Espagnole, Sauce Tomate, Hollandaise. But then there were eleven other sauces. Shiv had a vague guess as to what two out of the eleven were. One was thick and green—a vegetable starch concentrate that Georges once described as being popular in the far east of Earth. The other was Biomantically mixed monster blood; a cocktail favored by warriors and alchemists alike.

Most kitchens didn't have a steady supply of monster blood, so usually it was only specially applied when a Pathbearer had the ingredients on hand and for offer.

The remainder of the unknown sauces just got weirder from there. Shiv was pretty sure he saw some flowing eyes glaring up at the world, eyes that resembled the Stranger’s. And then there were the twisting, winding hands, bending in the air like geometry was breaking down.

Outsider sauce. Can't imagine that tasting very good, but then again, Plum Blossom has the stomach to end all other stomachs…

Past the rivers were splotches that formed hot springs, ponds, lakes, and basins. They were filled with vinaigrettes, oil and vinegar emulsions, relishes and salsas, balsamic liquids and wines, blended fruit and vegetable purees. There were hundreds of slaves working here too, but they were guided by water dimensionals who wove these many substances into massive canisters. The enslaved chefs here were also far more robust in Physicality.

