Which probably means the commis back at the grill have some kind of heat immunity. Just how many people does Longinus have working under him? Doesn't matter. They're not going to be his people for much longer, and all those rivers aren't going to be clean for much longer either.

“Twenty seconds,” the girl who didn't exist declared when he returned Backstage. “You're going to start running out of vitality real fast.”

Shiv's physical body was ready, prepared to plunge down. He hadn't triggered his Eldritch Physiology yet, and that was mainly because he wanted to infest the sauces with a non-reductive body, but that might not be possible for the Outsider-sauce river. I'll deal with that one last.

“Ten seconds,” Adam's non-existent sister said. “Oh, and try to bait Longinus to hit you with something nasty this time. Keeps you Backstage longer.”

“Got it,” Shiv said. “See you soon?”

“Yup, yup.” The girl slapped his back to send him off. “Go shit in his sauce, Legend-Terrorist Shiv.”

Shiv slipped back into context. His Severed Shadow peeled away first, and his physical body was pulled along in his wake. It was a connection between his selves. It was stronger than gravity, realer than matter; when he descended as his Severed Shadow, all his other forms plunged down with him. No matter how far apart they were, it felt like they were still close beside, yet even so, he couldn't find any of his other bodies scattered across Integrated Earth. Whatever wards Evanescia used to line the limits of her dimension obscured and contained even Shiv’s Unique Skill.

But it couldn’t keep any of his bodies within the Fairwoods apart. And that might just allow him to perform some stranger strategies in the near future.

Shapeless Tides ran down his torso like a waterfall and hammered against his feet. Shiv's physical body spiked down while his Revenant form glided away, making for the various basins and ponds beyond. Immediately, the world around him shuddered. The divine mana that suffused this place shook and brightened. Once more, Longinus remembered his existence—and the full fire of his rage ignited.

But the Deathless ignored the Ascendant’s inevitable coming. Instead, he cultivated as many tides as he could—not only within his physical body, but for his Severed Shadow as well. The first of Longinus' lances tore through the air, seeking to cut Shiv low. It was a lone thread of incandescence at first, but it unzipped a patch of space behind it. From a dimensional chasm of roiling static came a new army of dimensionals. These, however, were unlike the previous: each one was a knight that was fused with their mounts from the waist down. They bore divine polearms and surged through the air as a tide, and each of them had a flicker of the Wanderer's essence deep within.

It appeared that Longinus had a summoning skill too.

Can't wait to find out what kind of pain this brings, Shiv thought to himself sarcastically.

His bifurcated processing was driven to the limit. One thread of thought guided the Revenant toward the basin, and the many heads of his mana hydra untangled, reaching out across the horizon to ruin the biological structures within the fluids, if there were any. If not, he could always resurrect a new body after his current one was destroyed and infest that in the flowing waters. A red-gold tower, meanwhile, erupted from his physical body. Even though his Toughness couldn't protect him for long if these riders were capable of striking with the same vacuum blows as Longinus, every second mattered, for he intended to make sure each of the rivers bled over into each other. And that was just what Shiv did. He slammed down hard, his physical form utterly enwreathed by his striped vectors, and though his might wasn’t enough to contend with a god, a Legend he remained.

The moment he struck, the channel simply ceased to be. Shiv's physical form became a meteor, one that hammered a deep wound into the soil and utterly evaporated most of the sauces he came in contact with. The only one that didn't disintegrate was the Outsider substance, just as he'd expected.

The Deathless sensed a spike of baleful hate, and the eyes that lined the surface of the water all snapped to him. He was prepared. He activated his recursive biology just in time for the first of the riders to descend upon him, just in time for lashing and branching hands to erupt out from the Outsider sauce, just in time for all the attacks to consume him, to strike and bury him from all sides.

Though they didn't showcase the full capabilities of their maker, the riders tore through his Pillar of Orichalcum as they made contact. Even so, his Heroic-Tier Toughness was a remarkable thing. Divinely infused lance tips strained and struggled as the riders pushed their steed-like forms hard to drive their weapons all the way through. A dozen gaps tore open across Shiv's body. Each wound would have been fatal for someone of mortal make. But for one who could shift their flesh from mundane meat into the mold born of madness, these wounds were but deformations.

For now.

Shiv could feel Longinus' power buried deep inside each of the lances. Furthermore, streams of grasping hands clawed at him, tried to wrench his body apart, but he simply shifted around each of his wounds.

The skin cape that served as his ever-present whip struck out. He guided it using his Bifurcated Processing, burning away his body in the process. This was a suicide run for his physical form. He didn't intend to keep it, and so he went all out, spending flesh like candle wax.

His new Skill Evolution made its power known immediately. The whip felt natural to him, even more so than before. Connected to him by Eldritch Physiology, it had been a limb prior, but now it was something else. The Snake Entombed of Lightning and Thunder allowed his eldritch whip to grow longer with every second, to get faster, to bear ever-increasing momentum. It even felt like he was getting heavier.

It struck the first of the lances piercing his Pillar. Thanks to his Legendary Physicality and the expenditure of practically all his remaining overflow tides, he managed to drive one of the riders off course. The lance skipped along the curved edge of Shiv's Pillar, leaving a long gash by the side. A searing ache flicked across Shiv, but the pain was a dull and distant one, rendered absent altogether after a second. He created a new thread to guide his whip—ordered his subconscious to deflect and parry as much as it could.

The whip obliged.

Every second it spent moving caused it to grow longer, and every impact that followed invested a surge of force for the next blow. Rather than skipping off the bodies of the incandescent riders, it ricocheted between them, caused them to flinch and jerk as Shiv wrapped them in a corded net. They were bundled tight in his skin, and he could feel them cutting. It would be a long time until they carved their way out.

So Shiv stole the initiative. He detached his skin whip on them and left them coated in a bundle of his discarded flesh.

Never gets old.

Scheming Bastard 14 > 15

Eldritch Physiology 92 > 93

Then came more riders from the dimensional gulf Longinus had created, and with them came a lance as radiant as it was colossal. It looked four hundred meters in length, and it was needle-thin at the tip while it bore a near-tangible weight conveyed by its glow alone.

Can’t wait to drag that big thing with me Backstage, Shiv thought to himself. Probably don’t want to get killed by that, though. Looks big enough that it would probably break my soul for good.

“I'm getting REALLY tired of you popping in and out of my kitchen like a craven fucking rat!” Longinus' voice bellowed forth from each of his riders.

The fight continued while the lance was held in reserve, and Shiv noted how slow the enemies all were compared to the god's true form.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: So why is he using this skill against you? Why hasn't he simply obliterated you with that gesture he could perform earlier?

Don't know, but I suspect it has something to do with how messed up their emotional cores look to be. Each of the riders had a misted core. Just as each of their souls held a flicker of Longinus' Divinity, they also seemed to have gained a parceled portion of his total rage. The Wanderer was far too angry to be playing with Shiv. This the latter knew, so for him to be using an army of summoned cavalry rather than simply carving Shiv apart himself meant one thing: Longinus's skills were likely changing.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: More than that, he likely can't control the changes either. His skills are determined by his emotional state. That was why we noticed his Divinity shifting earlier. He was undergoing a skill change.

A Glimpse of Perspective triggered immediately thereafter. In a half-second, Shiv saw an artistic rendition of the Wanderer emerge behind the looming tower-sized lance. It was the visage of a man who wore a fissured mask that was forged from his own likeness. Outside, upon the many-faced, broken mask were varying expressions: a sneer, a scowl, a stare of depraved lust, and a grin of ravenous, expectant hunger. Between the cracks, however, the Wanderer just looked lost. Like he was trying to find a way out of a labyrinth, but couldn't. Then, like a kaleidoscope, the pieces swirled about and reassembled themselves as a new face calcified over Longinus' true mien.

This one had its teeth clenched tight, but gazed down from the heavens above. This one was as imperious as it was furious.

A Glimpse of Perspective 83 > 86

A Glimpse of Perspective: Twist his heart, and you will bend his fa—

The half-second ended. The illusion broke. A swell of divine mana hammered against Shiv as one of the riders pressed against him went off like a newborn star. Where the rider vanished, the massive lance appeared, and it pierced through Shiv's Toughness without any struggle whatsoever. His Pillar functioned as a bulwark against the scattered fragments of Longinus's might, but when a concentrated attack met him, the outcome was inevitable.

Yet even as the colossal weapon was driven into Shiv's physical vessel, a second surprise unfolded immediately after the first. It didn't impact him with the force of a ballista. It didn't feel like a crumbling mountain bearing down on him. It was weightless. In fact, it felt harmless. And it slipped through his ruined defenses, leaving a brief ache but nothing more.

It turned fluid within him, drenching him in Longinus' emotions. Shiv found himself drowning in a miasmic whirlpool of anger, but deeper down, past that dark and festering emotion, there was something else: a brilliant, bright, supple glory, a final and redemptive love.

Shiv’s vectors were boiled away by the immense field of mana he was drowning in. The titanic lance unraveled in a spilling sea that painted the air and drenched the Boiling Toad in a dense brilliance.

Within a god’s embrace, Shiv learned what it meant to suffocate, and where Kathereine’s Social Skills were bewitching, Longinus’ was a strangling love; the kind with no boundary between abuse and passion.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Do not let him breach your mind and—

The Sage's voice cut out as a groan of near surrender slipped free from Shiv's mouth. He was wrong. Longinus wasn't weaker. He wasn't scattered. He was just different. The cavalry here was not meant to be physical adversaries. They were meant to ride people down and then infuse their victims with Longinus's infectious ardor.

“Just give in,” the god whispered. Shiv could feel a breath glide over his soul, like a hard, hot exhalation on the nape of his neck. It was disturbing and delightful at the same time. It was the promise of a father Shiv never had, of someone who cared truly, completely, eternally. It was someone who would be strong enough to protect him from this miserable world, from all the pain he suffered and endured, from all the horrors that waited ahead.

There was no guarantee he could escape from the Fairwoods. There was no guarantee he would ever find Adam or Uva again. He wasn't powerful enough to overcome Evanescia. He had been burned by the Watchtower. Maybe together they would—

“No!” Shiv snarled. A translucent bubble formed around him before popping. An explosion of strain-induced agony consumed Shiv’s skull, and the pains served twin purposes: drawing Shiv back to his senses while also silencing Longinus long enough for a breath of sanity. In that split second, Shiv's feeble Psychomancy was the tipping point between utter enslavement and desperate freedom.

He refused to risk his Severed Shadow—refused to even try evading the heart-drowning waters he was trapped in. Shiv wielded his Eldritch Physiology and sharpened the edge of his whip. A gleaming edge of crimson ignited. One that cleaved clean through Shiv in his entirety. His soul rattled and tore. The pain was intense; letting Longinus enchain him was going to be worse. When he was almost split in half, Shiv allowed his baseline biology to return. With that, he pulled at himself in two directions, his Shapeless Tides surging inverse to each other. With a final wrench, as Shiv released his Pillar, saving himself via a bisecting suicide.

The last thing he heard before this death was Longinus’ howl of absolute outrage.

Psychomancy 39 > 44

Eldritch Physiology 93 > 95

A Glimpse of Perspective 86 > 89

Bifurcated Processing 100 > 102 [Skill Evolution Reached]

Inertial Overdrive 307 > 311

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 532 > 535

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 191 > 195

Pillar of Orichaclum 395 > 399

