“Makes sense. You were saying this place is huge?”

“Right,” Amelia said. “Over-a-week-to-fully-explore huge. The good news is, I didn’t have to. The monsters leave tracks in the ash.”

“I noticed.”

“I’m sure you did. What you might not have noticed, is that there are tracks all over this place, and they all lead the same direction.”

Edmund nodded. “Towards this boss of yours.”

“Exactly. I think the mobs are all spawned towards the outer edges of the level and they work their way in. Not to the center, but to…” She paused as she reached a trio of trees that had grown together, their blackened trunks forming a wall between them and the clearing beyond. “Right here.”

Edmund craned his neck to peer through the spot where two of the conjoined trees grew apart. His Madness gave him a name for what he saw.

Charbone Colossus

The thing’s name bore the crown as the other bosses Edmund had come across. It stood some fifteen feet tall, humanoid in general shape but different in details and scale.

As the name implied, blackened bones made up its body, stacked together like bricks rather than anything resembling a natural skeleton. Skulls sat atop femurs rubbed against pelvises attached to ribs in a chaotic jumble of bone. Together they formed a dense mass in the general shape of two arms, two legs, a torso, and a head, all several times as large as Edmund’s.

More disturbing were its other limbs.

Four skeletal snakes extruded from its back, each snapping its teeth and moving independently of the others, each a spitting image of the one Edmund had fought earlier. He set his jaw. It would be a difficult foe, but a few ideas already spun about his head, as they did Amelia’s, he was certain. As long as his mark of the challenger didn’t empower it, they’d be fine.

The thought sent his focus back to the mark on his shoulder. The image of two crossed swords behind a golden crown popped into his head as he remembered what it had done to the lone snake and imagined what it might do to the colossus.

On cue, it began to tingle.

“Shit,” he breathed. “My mark activated.”

“So it works on bosses? You’re fucked?”

“I can take it off,” Edmund said. He squinted through the gap in the tree, watching as each of the four snakes on the colossus’s back burst into flame. “But I think I activated it.”

“It’s optional? And you chose to empower the boss?”

“Better loot.” Edmund winked at her, opting not to mention he’d done it accidentally. He filed that little tidbit away for later, noting he’d have to be careful not to think about the mark when he didn’t want to activate it.

“Alright,” Amelia said, clapping her hands together. “Here’s the plan.” She patted the scabbard of one of the knives strapped to her lower back. “I’ve got a blade oil that purges undead, but it only works if I can land a decent blow on a critical spot. Given how big that thing is, I’m going to need backstab damage too, which means—”

“You have to get through those snakes,” Edmund finished for her. “And I’m the distraction.”

She smiled and patted him on the shoulder. “That’s what you get for wearing plate armor and taking Perseverance.”

“Okay. So I get its attention, make it stumble a bit, and you get in and land the killing blow?”

Amelia winked. “See you on the other side,” she said, turning to stalk around the outside of the clearing. Edmund waited until she’d been out of sight for a few minutes before leaping to action.

He stepped to the side, away from the cover of the charcoal trees and into clear sight of the clearing and the monster within. It roared, its bone-crafted mouth letting out an inhuman discordance of noise in the same moment as the four snakes on its back unleashed a chorus of dissonant hisses.

Edmund bellowed back.

For all the show, he kept his eyes peeled for signs of attack, darting back and forth from each of the snakes for even the hint of an incoming fire blast. He didn’t enter the clearing, refusing to move more than a few feet from the ready cover of the conjoined trees. As if recognizing his ability to dodge, the colossus didn’t bother with ranged attacks.

It moved closer.

Edmund held his ground, holding tightly to the scowl on his face. He counted the seconds between strides, watched with practiced care how the monster shifted its weight with every step. He suppressed a grin.

The colossus might’ve been bigger. It might’ve been sturdier, healthier, and far more deadly than the snake he’d already fought. Thrax, it had four of the damn things on its back, but it had one disadvantage to a simple snake.

It stood on two legs.

Edmund waited until the thing reached the precise center of the clearing, counted down in his mind until the exact moment the monstrosity took the weight off its back foot and onto the one in front, and made his move.

A great and terrible crack echoed through the cool air as the earth itself heeded Edmund’s will. Like the jaws of a beast it opened up, just wide enough to swallow the monster’s foot. The lava did the rest.

Through the spell-driven haze over his mind, Edmund watched with something resembling awe as his Magma Fissure consumed the blackened bones. He’d expected to take the thing’s foot, force it to limp around or, with any luck, fall over completely.

He hadn’t expected his spell to destroy its entire leg.

The colossus plummeted down into the fissure until the width of its pelvis stopped it, droplets of magma splashing into the air and solidifying into pebbles as they fell. It roared in pain as it caught itself on its palms. All four of the burning snakes turned to face Edmund.

He fought back the impulse to leap for cover. Already an unnatural darkness crept towards the monster’s right, concealing a certain princess with an anointed dagger. Edmund had to keep the beast’s attention as long as he could.

He almost stumbled as he cast the Smoke Lash, depleting his mana reserves to the point of near stupor. That didn’t matter. His job was almost done.

With a swing of his arm, he sent his lash into the clearing, whipping brutally across the nearest snake and taking its jaw with it. It hissed with rage and fired back.

Edmund leapt for the safety of the trees, ducking behind the charred oaks. Unlike his previous encounter with a fire-breathing snake skeleton, he escaped with his feet unburned, his remaining boot intact, and no leather melting into his skin.

The same couldn’t be said about his barkbreeches.

The good news was that they weren’t crafted of leather. They didn’t stick to his skin to continually singe him because, thankfully, they didn’t melt. They burned. The bad news was that vulnerable to fire damage, meant vulnerable to fire damage.

Edmund batted at the flames with his bare hand, but they spread faster and over a greater area than his hand could manage. Moments later, the pain began.

It started slow, like a sense of feeling just a bit too warm for comfort. But the warmth grew, and it grew, and it grew, until warmth became heat became fire, until discomfort became pain became agony.

Edmund gave up on batting out the flames and changed course.

He slammed his legs down onto the ground, hopefully keeping their undersides unburnt as he got to work scraping the ash off the dirt around him. He piled it onto the blaze, gritting his teeth past the pain as he buried the flames. Slowly, bit by bit, the burning stopped, the flames died down, and the pain faded away. Moments later, a chime echoed through the air. He pushed himself to his feet.

Amelia found him like that, covered in ash from the waist down, with his barkbreaches burnt to shreds. She looked him up and down. “Well fought.”

“You got it?”

She grinned. “You heard the chime, didn’t you?”

“Any loot?”

“Not here,” Amelia said. “That wasn’t an optional—”

She cut off abruptly as Edmund raised a finger to her lips. He scowled. “Do you hear that?”

“Hear what?”

In the newfound silence, a set of distant voices reached Edmund’s ear. One in particular spoke with clarity.

“Sweep the floor!” it commanded. “We don’t move on until we confirm she’s not hiding out here.”

Amelia’s eyes shot open. “Kingsguards!” she hissed.

Edmund nodded, pulling his hand away and speaking under his breath, “You need to get off this floor.”

She nodded, eyes darting downward as she calculated for a moment before coming to the same conclusion. “This way. Path is clear.”

Together they moved swiftly and silently through the ashen woods, charting a course past freshly-respawned mobs that couldn’t aggro. Edmund dragged his feet as much as he could, hoping to disguise his footprints as a trail left by one of the snakes, but he doubted the efficacy of the tactic. Amelia, of course, had no such concerns. She didn’t leave bootprints to track.

Amelia hadn’t lied—the place was huge. It took some thirty minutes before the far wall came into view, and another ten to spot the actual exit. That was a good thing. The distance would give them more time before the kingsguards could catch up.

Edmund made a beeline for the loot chest next to the door, the first he’d seen to be constructed of platinum. He swung it open to find three items, two of which were clearly intended for him.

Blackbone Boots

Provides major protection against fire, death, piercing, and blunt force damage. Vulnerable to ice damage. Highly vulnerable to holy damage. Increases agility.

Blackbone Leggings

Provides major protection against fire, death, piercing, and blunt force damage. Vulnerable to ice damage. Highly vulnerable to holy damage. Increases constitution.

The boots and leggings alike seemed to be constructed of a dark leather base covered in plates and bars of charred bone. A few test knocks and a scrape with the edge of his sword confirmed the description’s resistance to piercing and blunt force, the latter of which he sorely needed.

Had Liam been there, Edmund might’ve asked for these exact two pieces to replace his melted boot and burned-up barkbreeches. Reaching past them, he grabbed the third item, a silver ring with an inscription in an unfamiliar language.

Scryshield Ring

Provides protection against scrying, farseeing, and location-tracking effects.

“This is for you,” Edmund said as he handed the ring to Amelia. “Should help keep the guards off your tracks.”

She slipped it on without question, glancing down at the loot chest. “Nice of the dungeon to drop two items I can’t use and one you can’t. Makes dividing the loot easy.”

Edmund nodded. “I get the extra piece because I’m the one with the challenger’s mark.”

“I’ve gotta get one of those.”

Edmund shrugged. “Ask and you shall receive.”

Without hesitation, Amelia turned her head to the sky and repeated herself. “I said, I’ve gotta get one of those.” She looked down at Edmund. “Like that?”

“I guess? You’ll have to check your next loot chest.”

“Figures.” With her other hand, she twisted her new ring around her knuckle. “How’d you know what this does? Most delvers don’t bother investing in an appraisal ability when they can just hire someone on the next hub world.”

“It does other things.” Edmund kept his answer cryptic. “Appraisal’s a nice extra.”

With that in mind, he shut his eyes to envision his constellation, the collage of grays and silvers and golds all fading behind Madness’s prismatic resplendence. He already knew which decision he was going to make.

A tier three Aspect remained available to him, but Edmund dismissed it outright because it didn’t include Madness. As powerful as another tier three might’ve been, he had no interest in leveling up low-resonance Aspects when other options remained open. Immediately his attention honed in on the base Aspects.

Aspects

The list of common Madness confluences he’d purchased hung fresh in Edmund’s mind, guiding him as he focused in and made his selection.

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides a severely limited increase to all damage dealt. Provides a severely limited decrease to all damage taken.

Edmund nodded in acceptance. War granted two boons, so it made sense that at level one with gray resonance both were severely limited. It matched up with what he’d expected given how Perseverance’s bonus had been singular and limited at the same level. Both bonuses would increase as he leveled it up, which he had every intention of doing. He hadn’t chosen War for War. He’d chosen it for what it’d make when combined with Madness.

Happy with his decision, Edmund reopened his eyes to face Amelia. “You’ve been on this floor a while. Find any secrets?”

“One. A trapdoor hidden under the ash. That’s where I got the blade oil I used on the colossus.”

Edmund nodded. “How thorough were you? Do you think it’s worth another look?”

“Not with the guards here. I need to—” She sighed. “You’re talking about staying behind on your own.”

“We can’t stay together.” The words stung on Edmund’s mouth, but he said them anyway. “I’m too invested into Solitude, and while that might get better as I level those Aspects up, it also might get worse. Maybe we could work through it, but with this…” He smacked the spot on his upper arm that bore the challenger’s mark. “It’s too dangerous.”

“Too dangerous for you to fight without Solitude, or too dangerous for me to fight empowered monsters?”

“Both. Neither. It’s—” Edmund exhaled. He didn’t want to bring up Liam. “It’s complicated. Can we just go with ‘I can’t stay with you but I’m really looking forward to running into you again?’”

Amelia stood there for a moment, staring up into Edmund’s eyes with a look that blended more emotions than Edmund even knew existed. She swallowed. “It’s okay you don’t trust me. I’m sure you don’t trust anyone. On the off chance you’ll listen, no, there aren’t any more secrets to be found. Not on this level.”

Edmund cocked a questioning eyebrow.

“What? You’re not the only one with an information-gathering ability. Agility, Talents, and Shadows makes The Hunter. Helps me find—and fight—rare bosses and other secrets. This floor’s clear.”

“Okay,” Edmund breathed, forcing himself to believe the words. As much as he wanted to double-check, a part of him felt that would be betraying Amelia’s trust. He didn’t want to do that. “Thank you.”

“Thank you,” she countered with a smile and a wink. “For your help and your—ah—company.” She turned and moved to the exit, pausing just before the darkness between levels to look over her shoulder back at Edmund. “Good luck. Try to stay alive until I run into you again.” And with that, she was gone.

