Edmund felt himself deflate somewhat in her absence, as a weight lifted from his shoulders and joy drained from his gut. Already the world felt more hostile. Already he felt more powerful and ready to face it.

He had a few options before him. He’d already decided to trust Amelia’s intel that no secrets remained on the floor, but he’d get some training in against the skeletal snakes, even with his challenger’s mark disabled on cleared floors. He could similarly justify leaving immediately, trying to maintain some pretense of keeping up with Amelia. There was still training to be had, but it wasn’t necessarily useful training.

But first he had to chat with Liam.

He opened his mouth to address the dungeon, to call down its avatar to bestow useful information surrounded by red herrings and mean-spirited jokes, but a series of words that echoed through the trees behind him stopped him short.

“Secure the exit! We don’t want her to slip away!”

Edmund cursed. The guards wouldn’t harass him—assuming they were noble or well-equipped enough not to bother trying to steal from him—but he didn’t know their numbers. If there was a full group of them, he didn’t want to risk a repeat of the sixth floor. The Eternal Depths didn’t take kindly to oversized parties.

Of course, the kingsguards surely knew that, and they surely had some plan for it if they intended to fetch Amelia, but it seemed too much of a risk. From incurring the dungeon’s wrath to harassing him to robbing him to simply preventing him from moving on, there were too many bad ways an encounter with the guards could’ve gone. Either way, Edmund doubted Liam would show up for a chat with a bunch of kingsguards hanging around.

So Edmund shut his mouth and shook his head and left his solitary boot and ruined barkbreeches on the ground for the dungeon to reclaim. He spared a thought for his challenger’s mark and the extra piece of loot it had granted. He breathed a whispered prayer for Amelia’s wellbeing and the hope he’d see her again.

Just as the first of the kingsguards rounded the final charcoal tree into sight and opened his mouth to yell him down, Edmund stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 13

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides a severely limited increase to all damage dealt. Provides a severely limited decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 5 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 6 - Gain increased constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 6 - Gain health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 8 - See beyond reality. Touch the unreal.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession. Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone. Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 3 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Ponder the nature of reality.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters. Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open. Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage. Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Apprentice

The third step on the Path of the Azure Fox. Increases agility. Grants a single windstep. Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Cloudkith Sigil

Cloud-based lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain enhanced perception through vision-reducing effects.
