“How did you know this is—” Edmund cut off as she sliced cleanly through the leather, completing the cut in a single motion, his words turning to a pained growl through his teeth. He grunted in disapproval.

“That was the easy part. I still have to—”

She yanked without warning, tearing partially-healed flesh away with the melted leather. Edmund didn’t even manage a curse or a scream or anything beyond a sharp gasp for air followed by a sharp grunt through gritted teeth.

She winked at him. “Twice now I’ve had to patch you up.”

“I was handling it,” Edmund countered. “And I would’ve been immune to that poison on the sixth floor if I’d been alone.”

Amelia glanced down at his wounded foot. “Can you walk?”

“Give me a minute.”

She nodded, moving to sit at his side. Her shoulder touched his, the contact deafened by the layers of armor between them, yet meaningful nonetheless. A minute passed. Then another. “So,” Amelia finally said, “what’d you get?”

“Hmm?”

She pointed at his burn. “Whatever gave you that was no ordinary mob, both ‘cause none on this floor use fire, and because I know you wouldn’t get hit like that by a normal monster. So how’d you find the boss, and what’d you get?”

“Not so lucky,” Edmund said. “It’s a delver’s mark—the challenger. I get better loot, but dungeon mobs near me are stronger.” He pointed to the indent in the ash where the corpse of the snake had once lain. “Made that thing shoot fire.”

Amelia blinked. “You have a mark already? Of course you have a mark already, and a shit one at that. Are you trying to get yourself killed?”

“I want you to look at where we are, Amelia, and reconsider asking that question.”

She exhaled. “Thanks for letting me know. I’ll have to be more careful around you.”

“If it’s possible to be more careful with me around, you’re not being careful enough when I’m not.”

“Are you going to try to convince me to leave, again?”

“No.” Edmund sighed. “If all those kingsguards couldn’t, what hope do I have?”

“You saw them, then?”

“Of course I saw them,” Edmund said. “They’ve practically annexed the tenth floor. I just wonder how long you think you can evade them.”

“As long as it takes.” She shrugged. “They won’t chase me any further than the twentieth floor, so once I get that far I should be free of them.”

“They’ll hire delvers. You know they will.” Edmund shook his head. “And as long as it takes to do what? You already have money and power, what do you need this place for?”

“Before she met my dad, my mom made it to the forty-eighth floor. I wanna make fifty.”

“Bullshit,” Edmund countered. “You’re not risking your life here so you can compare yourself to your mom.”

“Oh yeah? And why are you down here, then?” Amelia grinned. “And don’t tell me it’s because you’re desperate. Desperate people don’t go it alone.”

Edmund opened his mouth to speak, but no lie came to mind and the truth felt hollow on his lips.

Amelia smirked at his silence. “That’s what I thought.” She turned to face him, all humor gone from her voice in favor of sincerity. “Here’s the secret, Edmund. Nobody’s got a good reason for being here. Not really. It’s greed and bloodlust and hubris, all the way down.”

“You forgot insanity.”

“I didn’t forget. Insanity’s a given. Insanity’s the prerequisite. You’ve gotta be insane to step in the door, and even more insane to stay once you realize what this place really is. We’re all insane, Edmund.”

The words washed over him like a hot bath, drawing the hidden tensions and stresses away and banishing them to oblivion. He soaked in it, relishing what it was and what it meant until he could come out, if not clean, then cleaner. By the time he finally spoke, his foot had long recovered. “We should get back to it.”

Amelia slapped her thigh. “I have a better idea.” She pushed herself to her feet, reaching into her pocket and pulling out the key to her portable camp. With a casual flick it flew through the air and a wooden doorway appeared. “How long has it been since you’ve had a hot meal?”

“Too long,” Edmund said, standing. He paused, staring at the entry to her tent. The last time they’d met, she’d insisted he take a bath before setting foot inside. He looked down at himself. While his new cuirass might’ve soaked up all the blood, there were plenty of ways to become a mess without a layer of blood. “Don’t you want me to—I’m covered in ash.” He looked up at her. “You’re covered in ash.”

Amelia swung the door open and looked back over her shoulder at him. A slyness tilted her voice. “I guess we’ll just have to clean ourselves up.” She flashed a smile and turned away, her hands reaching up behind her back to unbuckle her armor as she stepped into the camp.

For a moment Edmund stood there, his heart racing as he caught her meaning. In under a second he caught ahold of himself, made his decision, and began unlatching his own armor as he followed her into the tent.

Edmund stood alone.

The crowd milled about and behind him, some whispering amongst themselves, some locked in tight embrace, and yet others standing as Edmund did, unblinking and alone. To a man they wore gray, not the dark gray of a looming storm, nor the pale gray of a winter sky, but the grayest of grays, so lacking in vibrance that no words of tone and hue could quite describe it.

The color of ash.

There were other children in the crowd, some up in their mothers’ arms and others standing tall, a sibling or parent or guardian’s hand clenched in theirs. Edmund’s hand held a wooden dragon.

The toy’s carving was rough, its edges unsymmetrical, its scales unevenly sized. Its left wing had broken off entirely, leaving behind what had once been a pointed edge but since smoothed to a nub. Edmund ran his finger over that breaking point, lamenting that it’d lost its sharpness.

The glow of the fires warmed his face past the point of comfort, toeing the line towards painful. Edmund let it. The heat parched his throat, forcing him to swallow uncomfortably every few moments. He did. The smoke dried out his eyes, irritating and inflaming them until tears dripped down his cheeks. He refused to look away.

Four effigies lined the square, the mother, the father, the daughter, the son, crude, wooden representations of that which had been lost. Edmund watched the flames consume them, his face too warm, his throat parched, his eyes red and watering. Something was wrong. It wasn’t supposed to be like this. It should’ve been—

His gaze drifted off the pyres themselves to the black smoke that drifted off of them, the four tendrils that swirled together to become one as they reached for the heavens. Reach as they might, they’d never arrive. Edmund tracked the column of smoke with his eyes, following it as it went up and up and over his head and through the sky above and behind him.

He spun, his heart suddenly racing with unwelcome panic. No. No, no, no, no.

He followed the smoke, watching as it arced overhead, escaping the earthly confines of the burning effigies, rising to the heavens only to fall once more, to turn back and drift into a dark hole in a hillside. The Depths drank it in, all-consuming and ever-hungry.

Fear and desperation took hold in Edmund’s mind. His ears rang. His heart pounded. Pain erupted in his thumb as he pricked it on the jagged edge of his dragon’s broken wing, sharp once more. He spun back around, frantic for one last glimpse of the burning effigies, but the fires had done their job, and all that remained of the mother, the father, the daughter, and the son was the black smoke billowing through the sky. Only the smoke.

Something shifted to his left, but it vanished into the smoke. There was only the smoke.

His name echoed in the distance. Someone was calling him, but it too faded in the shadow of the smoke. There was only the smoke.

There was only the smoke.

There was only the smoke.

“Edmund!”

Amelia’s voice came in conjunction with a comforting hand on his bare back. The warmth of it felt unbearable in his sweat-coated state, but he didn’t pull away.

“I’m okay,” he breathed. “I’m okay.”

“Okay? You were screaming.” Amelia waved her other hand, and gentle light coaxed its way into the tent, casting the luxurious bed in the dull tones of predawn. “What happened?”

“Nothing,” Edmund said, refusing to let his eyes drift over her similarly undressed form. “A bad dream. One I haven’t had since…”

“Since you set foot in this place,” she finished for him. She took a deep breath, holding it long before she let it out. Whatever thoughts ran through her mind were a mystery to Edmund. “Are you gonna be okay?”

“I—yeah,” he eventually said, leaning back in bed and finally looking her in the eye. “I’m okay.”

“Good,” she said with a smile, patting him on the top of his thigh as she cut the conversation abruptly short. “Let’s have some breakfast and get to work.”

He lingered there for a moment, allowing himself to fully take in the softness of the sheets, the warmth of the blankets, and, yes, the beauty of Amelia’s unclothed body. He smiled, not a grim thing nor a mask for the benefit of others, but a gentle curve to his lips, a minuscule upturn of the corners of his mouth, belonging to him and only to him.

Then Amelia disappeared behind the screen where they’d left their armor, and the moment passed, and Edmund’s face resumed its customary scowl. He pushed himself out of bed and followed her behind the screen and went through the motions of getting dressed and rustling up something to eat. It’d been precious, he decided, while it’d lasted, but for now he could focus on one thing and one thing only.

Amelia was right. It was time to get to work.

“So,” Amelia greeted him as she joined him out in the dungeon proper and collected her portable camp, “how does this mark of yours work?”

“It’s pretty vague, but everything is down here.” He shrugged. “It empowers nearby monsters, and I get better loot. I assume you’ve seen those undead snakes before. When I saw it, the mark tingled and it burst into flame and started shooting fire.”

“Is it the same buff every time?”

“No idea, but if I had to guess I’d say monsters of the same species get the same buff, so another snake would be on fire again but something different would get something else. Still need to test it.”

“Does it work on bosses?”

“No, it—” Edmund stopped. “Son of a bitch. I don’t know. When we were talking about it, the point was to make the regular mobs more of a threat, not—Thrax. He fucked me, didn’t he?”

Amelia furrowed her brow. “You’ll need to test that. Carefully. Who fucked you? How did you get that thing?”

“The dungeon,” Edmund growled. “It was a gift from the dungeon, framed as a solution to… nevermind.”

“Are you talking to the—”

“It doesn’t matter,” Edmund cut her off. “You’re right; we need to find a safe way to test if it works on bosses.” He glanced down at her. “You wouldn’t happen to have one in mind, would you?”

She winked. “In fact I do. Found it a few days ago, been camping down here while I put together a plan to take it out.”

“I was wondering how I caught up to you,” Edmund said. “You’re taking it slow. That’s smart.”

“That’s survival.” She grinned and beckoned. “C’mon, I cleared out the mobs between here and there. Anything there’ll be a fresh spawn and unable to aggro.” She picked her direction and set off.

Edmund followed. He kept his eyes peeled for traps and monsters as they walked, trusting in Amelia’s ability to clear the way, yet unable to stop himself. Still, the relative freedom from his customary paranoia allowed his mind some leeway in which to wander. It landed on Liam.

Had he set this up? Of course he had. Liam set everything up; it was his nature. The question wasn’t had Liam maneuvered things to put Edmund and Amelia together—that was a given. The question was if Edmund cared. That would be up to him to answer.

He cast his thoughts back to his last conversation with the obnoxious dungeon, when he’d bequeathed the challenger’s mark. Liam had said he wasn’t changing the deal, the original deal which would’ve had Edmund on floors with more difficult base mobs. Theoretically that meant the mark shouldn’t affect bosses.

Sensing the trap, Edmund recalled the exact words.

Edmund glared at him. “You want to change our deal so you don’t get bored?”

“Not change it. I’ve got a workaround.”

Thrax, Edmund cursed to himself. Liam hadn’t said he wasn’t changing the deal. He’d said he didn’t want to. Did that change anything?

Another part of their conversation popped into his head, specifically the bit about removing the mark. Liam had said he could take it off at any time, but that it’d never come back on. Edmund supposed if it did empower bosses, he could always just remove the damn thing. He wondered if removing the mark would remove its buff from a still-living monster.

The more Edmund thought about it, the less he felt like he’d been duped. He’d have to wait until they reached the boss to test that part of it, of course, but tricking someone into donning a mark they could remove at any time didn’t feel like much of a trick.

Regardless of whether or not the challenger’s mark worked on bosses, Edmund and Liam were going to have a long chat about it once Amelia was gone.

Edmund noticed, as they walked, that while his bare foot kicked up tiny clouds of ash with each step, Amelia’s stride disturbed no ash and left no footprints. He wondered if that had something to do with Agility and its confluences or if she bore some enchantment to that effect. Neither would’ve surprised him.

He’d also noted that while her body bore a great number of scars from her delve so far, her armor remained untouched. The flexible leather must’ve had some self-repair enchantment on it, similar to that of his crystal cuirass. She must’ve been the only delver in the place to make it so far without upgrading a single piece of armor for the simple fact she’d come in with some of the best Harrowed’s Hearth had to offer. It’d kept her alive.

“This floor is bigger than it looks,” Amelia whispered to him as she led the way. “A lot bigger. As in, potentially bigger than the hubs, bigger.”

“I didn’t think you’d spent much time on the hub floors,” Edmund said. “Too many people around, too easy to get caught.”

“Which is why I couldn’t go waltzing through the easy exit. You know, the one where all the people are?”

