Edmund stood upon a bed of ash.

Woodlands stretched out around him, trees of all shapes and sizes littered the flat landscape, sparse enough to allow free passage, yet dense enough to obscure his vision more than a dozen yards away. No branch bore leaves, no bark dripped sap, no root remained unscathed.

Edmund looked out into a forest of charcoal trees. Whatever fire had ravaged them had long passed, its heat vanishing to leave only a pervasive chill that clung upon the unnatural breeze. A few green sprouts poked through the layer of ash on the ground, beacons of new life, shining spots of emerald in a sea of black and gray. None poked up more than an inch.

Already the woods had begun to recover from the chaos that’d wrecked it, but the forest had a long and difficult journey between it and any semblance of its former self. It was like Edmund in that way.

Gray clouds hung high in the sky above, the diffuse, shadowless light robbing the already-bereft landscape of what little color remained. The world looked flat, dull, lost in its darkness and the loss it had suffered. It was like Edmund in that way.

He kept his eyes peeled for signs of motion in any direction. None appeared. The forest kept its dangers in reserve, hidden by the distance and the charcoal trees, ready for the moment he showed weakness, for the opportune time to wield its suffering to lethal end. It was like Edmund in that way.

Once he’d scanned his surroundings to his satisfaction, Edmund made his first order of business kicking aside some of the ash at his feet, dusting it away to reveal soft and moist soil beneath. He’d not lack for sustenance.

That quandary resolved, Edmund set his attention to the path ahead, or rather, the lack thereof. No obvious trail led into the woods. In no manner did the Depths attempt to guide him one way or another, not that Edmund had any intention of following such a path had there been one. The floor itself seemed to welcome him with open arms, its lack of clear direction a firm statement that it didn’t care where he went. There would be danger no matter what.

Edmund evaluated his options.

The direct path, straight ahead, seemed at once the most obvious and the most perilous. It would keep him centralized, giving him a better idea of the floor as a whole, but he’d be open to attack from all sides. The fact that walking through the center of the woods likely meant getting to the exit faster implied he’d find fewer secrets and more monsters in that direction, as well as other delvers if the floor proved open to such encounters.

The sharper the angle he took as he set out, the less he’d see of the floor as a whole, and the longer it’d take him to reach the exit. The secrets, he figured, would be most likely to appear somewhere off center, yet not at the very edge. He’d still be vulnerable to attacks from all sides, if less so, but at least he’d be more likely to find secrets and less likely to find low-reward enemies.

The final option, as Edmund saw it, was to stick to the outskirts. By far the safest of the possible paths, if he stuck to the wall, he’d cut his potential angles of vulnerability in half. He’d be easier to surround, but harder to sneak up on. He’d, of course, have no idea what awaited at the forest’s center, and he doubted he’d find any secrets without delving into the woods themselves.

Even so, this third option appealed to him. He was in no hurry, under no pressure of time, and his cautious nature pushed him to take things slow. He’d go searching for secrets or exploring the forest itself at a later point. He could afford to take a loop around the floor and gather what information he could from the relative safety of the outskirts before exposing himself to attacks from all directions.

That was assuming, of course, that no monsters burrowed in the walls.

Edmund went left, keeping his dominant hand facing the exposed side. He held his spear in both hands, crossed in front of him, with the point facing the burnt trees. Every few steps he’d slam the butt into the wall, listening closely for any hint of hollowness or motion. He paid special attention to the ash at his feet.

It was a twofold curse. The gray blanket muffled the sound of footsteps—a boon his shadowhide boots already provided—which left him more vulnerable than normal to sneak attacks. The ash also blocked vision of the ground itself. Edmund knew any traps or ambushes would have to be at least partially visible, but the gray powder helped obscure them.

The good news—using the term ‘good’ loosely—was the set of footprints he left behind. Edmund didn’t care much about being followed. He expected anything or anyone with an interest in following him wouldn’t need obvious tracks to do so. Edmund, on the other hand, was no tracker. He couldn’t assume any monsters would’ve left a trail for him, but he’d utilize every vector of detection available to him.

He didn’t need tracks to spot the snake.

It hung in a tree some thirty feet from where Edmund stood, its body dangling and drooping in the spots between the branches that supported it. Pale gray daylight shone through it, bright enough that at first Edmund thought its skin translucent and its skeleton a silhouette before realizing it had no skin, and those bones weren’t darkened by their backlight.

They were the same black as the trees.

The charred skeleton seemed to notice Edmund at the same moment he noticed it, twisting and contorting its body around the barren branches and letting out a threatening hiss.

Edmund threw a Firebolt at it.

The moment the spell left his hand, two things happened. His left shoulder tingled with sensation, pins and needles running up and down the spot he’d placed his challenger’s mark.

The snake burst into flames.

The blaze erupted from within it, burning steadily and unnaturally as if fed by some invisible fuel source along the center of the snake’s body. Flames licked at its blackened bones, crackled sharply through the otherwise quiet air, wafted up between the gaps in its ribcage, its nostrils, its eye sockets. When the Firebolt finally hit, it simply vanished into the already ongoing inferno.

Edmund stood his ground.

The skeletal snake hissed once more, its cry louder, more piercing this time, carrying a distinct character of trapped moisture boiling away within burning timber. It lowered its head, descending from the treetop to the ashen ground. At easily twice the length of the tree itself, the snake didn’t fall so much as an inch as it made the controlled descent.

Edmund’s mind raced with possibilities.

He faced a lone opponent, so Focus would double the damage of his various spells, but as he’d already seen, Firebolt wasn’t exactly effective against a foe already aflame. Magma Fissure would certainly kill it, but the snake’s sheer size combined with its ability to support itself from any part of its body meant actually getting the damn thing into the fissure would pose a challenge. If he could get the angle perfect while the snake’s body was straight, in theory he could—

Edmund shook the idea from his head as he watched the snake’s approach. At no point in its motion was the skeleton’s body completely straight, meaning no matter how well he aimed his Magma Fissure, some part of the beast would always remain on solid ground.

That left Smoke Lash.

Edmund diverted his focus down that particular channel in his mind, and the familiar dark tendrils began to coalesce around his right wrist. With a flick of his arm, he cracked the ethereal lash as a whip.

Four of the beast’s ribs snapped clean off. Another two saw chips fly off into the ash, while a web of cracks stretched along another.

The snake reared up and hissed once more, stretching its jaw wide to bare flame kissed fangs.

Fangs made good targets.

Edmund’s whip cracked again, this time taking a chunk of the creature’s jaw along with its left fang. It recoiled, jerking its head away from the source of the blow, but it didn’t stop. It hastened.

Edmund let the Smoke Lash dissipate and leveled his spear, stepping away from the wall to leave himself room to retreat if he needed it. He lowered his stance and pushed away the ash at his feet, kicking up a small cloud as he planted himself on the more solid earth below.

The beast stopped some ten paces away, its head suddenly ceasing in motion as the rest of it caught up, looping around in a tight coil. Edmund readied himself to dodge.

But the snake didn’t lunge. It didn’t dart forward. It didn’t try to sink its teeth into Edmund’s fragile neck. It reared up, it opened its jaw wide, and a jet of flame burst from its mouth.

Edmund dove to the right.

Waves of heat washed over him, but they didn’t draw his focus. His palms stung as they scraped against the ground on which he caught himself, but they didn’t draw his focus either. The snake reared up once more, hissing taunting at Edmund, but that too failed to draw his focus.

Pain drew his focus.

Fiery agony the likes of which Edmund had never known exploded from his left foot, dominating every sensation, every feeling, every thought that might’ve hoped to compete for space in Edmund’s mind. He glanced down to find the outside of his left boot smoldering, melted by the flames and now stuck to the skin of his foot, continuing to burn it even after he’d escaped the onslaught.

Edmund rolled to the side in anticipation of another attack, his mind locked in a battle of its own as he fought back the fog of agony that threatened to cloud it. He had to get up before the—fuck, that hurt. Maybe if he kept his distance and whittled it down with—Thrax, I need healing!

In mirror to the haze across his mind, smoke began to crowd the corners of his vision. It was thin and faint at first, but the tendrils grew along his periphery, following the jerking motion of his head and eyes to forever frame the world around him in smoke.

It’s not real, Edmund told himself as he fought to reject the pain of his injury.

Oh, but it was.

It doesn’t matter, he tried.

Oh, but it did.

“It’s. Not. There,” he spoke in growls through gritted teeth.

And then it wasn’t. The pain vanished. The panic faded.

There was only the smoke.

It tightened around his vision as he pushed himself to his feet. It fell upon the world like nightfall, enshrouding anything and everything in its darkness even as the tendrils twirled around Edmund. He took a step forward, a veil of smoke dancing about his wounded foot as he put weight on it. He kept walking.

The snake coiled back, its flames sputtering and withdrawing at Edmund’s approach. The air was stifling, thick with smoke and soot and death, but Edmund breathed it in deeply. It parched his throat. It burned his lungs. It sustained him.

The beast reared, unhinging its jaw as the faltering inferno within it surged for one final, terminal blaze. It never got a chance to strike.

A cord of smoke smashed the side of its head, shattering its skull into a thousand pieces. Edmund watched with cold eyes as the snake collapsed to the ground, and its flames died out.

He didn’t remember casting the Smoke Lash, but as he glanced down at his hand he saw the telltale tendrils of smoke twisting around it, thicker and more substantial than before, but distinctly the same. They dissipated beneath his gaze.

It all did.

By the time Edmund collapsed to the ashen ground, the smoke retreated, his vision returned to normal, and the world around him earned its clarity once more. Then the pain returned.

It tore through Edmund like a dragon on a rampage, one he knew he couldn’t allow to run free. He grit his teeth and forced his arms beneath him, pushing himself upright. On his hands, he dragged himself away from the fallen snake and towards the wall, something to lean against as he worked. Perseverance, essential as it was, had put him on a clock.

He couldn’t let his foot heal with the leather still melted to it.

He drew Scorpion’s Sting, his only blade, and prayed its poison wouldn’t affect him. He didn’t know if it was possible to poison himself, nor if The Island would protect him from the weapon’s potent bite, so he’d have to be careful. He slipped the tip of the sword into his boot and got to work.

He started from the top, slicing a line down the length of the boot on the side opposite the burn. He tried as hard as he could to keep the motions smooth, to work as far as possible from the site of the wound, but every move he made sent fresh agony washing up his leg. Still he cut. Still he worked.

When he reached the sole he turned his blade ninety degrees, cutting along the inside of his foot to form a T-shape. Every inch he cut he paid for in pain, the leather tugging against his burn as he worked with excruciating care to be sure he cut only his boot and never his skin.

He didn’t look up from his work, keeping his ears open for signs of danger while his eyes focused on the task at hand. The trouble was, even though his sigil of the azure apprentice enhanced his hearing, some things could move silently, until they didn’t.

“I was wondering when you’d catch up to me.”

Edmund dropped his sword and jerked his arm up, tendrils of smoke already coalescing around it as he cast his Smoke Lash. He let the spell slide away as he recognized the figure before him. “Amelia.”

The dungeon had taken its toll on her. Two scars stretched across her neck, just barely missing her throat. A patch of hair the size of a fist just above her right ear stood significantly shorter than the hair around it, as if shaved by a razor while the rest was left to grow. Edmund guessed it’d been torn out. The pinky on her left hand reached a half-inch shorter than it once had.

Most of all, her face had changed. Her eyes had sunken back, a hardness clinging to her gaze to replace the sense of plucky hope that’d once been there. Wrinkles had formed between her eyebrows, remnants of a scowl that never quite left. Her superiority, her command, her overconfidence had drained away, sapped by the endless onslaught of the Eternal Depths. In their place was exhaustion, determination, and quiet comfort not in her training, but in her experience, and in her ability to push through difficult situations.

Where once had stood a princess, now stood a delver.

“You look like you could use some help.”

Edmund looked back down at his foot. “Burned. Gotta remove the leather before it heals.”

“The first step,” she spoke in a patronizing tone as she knelt down and pulled a knife from her belt, “is to use the right tool. Preferably one that isn’t poisoned.”

