Steve was an amiable bloke. Down-to-earth, kind and practical, he was not the type to cause trouble. He was also hard to rattle, unflappable and capable enough that having him at my back was one of the best assurances I could hope for.

Currently, he was gazing into the distance, unshed tears gleaming from the corners of his eyes. He shook his head softly and sighed as he surveyed the scene before us.

Eventually, he turned toward me. With great solemnity, he met my gaze and intoned. “Logic is the beginning of wisdom, not the end.”

I nodded appreciatively before responding eloquently. “Mate. I have no fucking clue what you’re on about!”

He blinked, reassessing, then turned back, gesturing at the vista before us. “Tell me, my friend. What do you see?”

“I… see a forest half a kilometre away. A stretch of forest in the middle of the regular grasslands, that’s being affected by something weird. Also, there’s quite a few of those weird capillaries that come from that horrifying canyon that seem to enter the forest.” I couldn’t quite tell what was happening, though. On top of his regular sleep buff which granted a +2 to all attributes, Steve currently also had his Jack of All buff running tuned to Perception, which granted us all an additional boost of fifty percent to our Perception. 21 Perception still wasn’t enough for me to decipher the weird malady that was turning random trees throughout the wood various tones of gray.

“It’s petrification.” Steve announced with joy. “If you look closer, you can actually see the strata at the end of some of the broken branches.”

“I’ll take your word for it, mate.” I smiled at him to show that I wasn’t dismissing him. “I’ll admit, though, I don’t quite see what it means.”

“It means,” he beamed. “That we have absolutely no idea what is going on here. There is a place called the Petrified Forest in the States, but this is something else entirely. This is a process that is currently ongoing, that is happening over days or months, not years!”

“Still don’t see why you’re so happy about it.” Even as I said it, it dawned on me. This was a National Geographic thing, was it?

“It means, this place operates by entirely different laws. That natural laws and science intertwine with magic in a way we do not fully understand. It means there is so much still for us to learn.”

Oh yeah. It absolutely was a National Geographic thing. People going apeshit over the wonders of nature and whatnot. I’d never really understood that. Of course, that didn’t mean I couldn’t share his joy. I grinned at him and slapped his shoulder. “Well. What do you say to us going in there to learn?”

Steve was already shaking his head, when a booming voice interrupted from behind. “If you value your lives, I would not recommend it!”

I tried to hide my grimace. Yesterday had been a long march, and Samuel’s presence had not made the journey easier. It wasn’t that he was a prick, he was just… a lot. Loud, overbearing, with an inflated sense of his own superiority. Our marching, camping, cooking and subsequent division of keeping watch was all made just a bit more strenuous by Samuel wanting to direct and decide just how everything should be done optimally.

The fact that he was pretty goddamn capable didn’t help at all. If he were any less talented at handling himself outdoors, it’d have been a lot easier to tell him to go sit on his thumb and spin. Instead, he had to go and be right all the time.

Somsak didn’t rise to the bait. He merely suffered Samuel’s presence like he did the drizzle, the interrupted sleep of keeping watch and Steve’s attempts at socialization. He nodded, didn’t engage and did what had to be done, while he stayed at an emotional distance.

Victoria, meanwhile, did not tolerate him well. She’d already blown her lid at him once for being an insufferable wanker. Granted, her word choice was in Spanish, but some things just came across regardless.

This… wasn’t something that I did well with. Back as a sparring trainer, if there was someone I didn’t gel with, I could just turn him down for future practices. I didn’t have to waste my time and energy to actually deal with social issues. But I could see, that if we were going to actually work as a team, things would have to change. And by ‘things,’ I meant Samuel. Still. It could wait until I’d actually seen how the big man handled himself in a fight. If he was bad with a bow, I’d just pack him off home.

“Why’s that then? Have you spotted the reason why teams have been disappearing?” I asked him.

Before he answered, Steve said his piece. “Oh yes. There are ambush predators in there. Many of them.”

“Right you are, Steve. Well done.” Samuel said, with the tone of somebody applauding a five-year-old. “Now. Let us move in closer. A few hundred meters, and I should be able to hit the first of them.”

“Not so fast.” Steve said. He beamed like somebody who’d just won the prize in a lottery he hadn’t even entered. “First, I need you all to take your time to spot every single beast that you can.”

“Truth.” I said. “Increasing your skills when you’re safe is worth a lot – and Spot is a skill that’s hard to level.”

Steve shook his head. “It’s not just that.” He tapped his nose.

“Ooooh. System shenanigans?” I grinned.

“System shenanigans.” He confirmed.

“What do you mean by that? Does the system cheat?” Samuel boomed.

“Keep your voice down, and just observe. You’ll see in a while.” Steve smiled.

In the end, the surprise was spoiled when Samuel got the notification. “Oh. An improvement to rarity. How lovely!”

It took a while longer for the rest of us. Victoria and I eventually had to crawl closer to even spot the first of the ambush predators they were talking about. We got down on our stomachs and slowly slid across the intervening space, stopping to scout every once in a while.

Eventually, we both discovered the creatures that were lurking in wait for us. Once spotted, their presence became ridiculously obvious. They were… turtles. Or, rather, what turtles might look like if they’d gotten cozy with giant ants before taking tips on active camouflage from decorator crabs.

The description from Identify was a dead give-away.

Glacial Lurker

Level 18

Health 265/265

Path: Fortitude

They were ugly things. Insect-like, with serrated mandibles, yet carrying a thick shell on their backs, covered with soil, rocks, even some grass here and there. They were hard to make out from the background, because they lay unmoving with their heads and limbs flattened against the soil. Once I spotted the first one, though, my eyes immediately started picking out the shapes hiding inside the shade of the half-magical forest.

I was the last one to get the real price, but when I did, I nearly whooped with joy.

Congratulations. You have unlocked the higher rarity of a skill:

You have spotted ten hidden enemies, traps or items in the span of an hour.

General skill

Improved Spot

Uncommon Active skill

There’s looking and then there’s looking. You are swiftly learning the difference. Every point to Spot will increase the odds of you detecting anything actively hidden.

Cost: 1 stamina/second

In addition, once a day, your Perception will count as double for Spot for the duration of five minutes.

That was lovely. With my Perception, I was never going to be picked for team scout – but anything that might save me from death by ambush, I’d absolutely take, and be grateful!

We all crept back a bit before taking a break and talking tactics.

“So, what’s the plan?” I asked.

“Easy. We walk a little closer, and I start loosing arrows.” Samuel barked a laughter. “Look at the things. They are nearly stationary. If we force them to come at us, my arrows and Victoria’s little poisonous effects should be able to take them on, with no aid whatsoever.”

“Yeah, no, mate. Attacking without preparation is a death wish. We know that entire groups have disappeared here before, so there may be something else than just camouflage in play. ‘Glacial’ Lurker could be some cold magic or slowing. I’d say Steve does the rounds, invisible, just to be sure there aren’t any other surprises lurking for us?”

“I can do that, easily.” Steve acquiesced.

“Otherwise, what he said didn’t sound like a poor plan.” Victoria grudgingly admitted. “We are in a perfect position to play defensively. You go out in front to fend off any attacks or surprises, Samuel and I cause damage and add debuffs, and Somsak… well, saves our asses if something goes wrong.”

“I can do that.” Somsak agreed.

I looked at the small group surrounding me. I wasn’t going to lie, to myself at least. If I had the chance, I’d swap the new trio for Haddock and Nix in a second. But they seemed like they had the mindset needed to survive a grisly ambush, and that was what was needed right now.

Even though I had my doubts, there was one additional part of me I felt making its presence known. That increasingly present part of my subconscious that enjoyed the danger, the thrill of riding the edge, heck, even the pain. It was here, and it was raving to go! I grinned at the others then, a toothy, devil-may-care grin. “You wanted to become strong? Well, this is where it starts. Let’s go decimate the local populace.”

Victoria met my grin with her own. “Oh, you’re gonna be a smash hit with Greenpeace.” She wiggled her eyebrows. “Emphasis on smash.”

To a chorus of groans, Steve left, a precursor to a battle that, for once, would be fought on our terms.