Hi all, I have a few things I'd like to announce.

First of all, I'm releasing a new story, Bookbound Bunny!

(Temp cover for now)

"Books contain countless wonders."

Arakil, once a god of magic, found himself at odds with other deities. Imprisoned within his grimoire, he had to wait until the perfect person came along.

That person was a bunny girl named Lily. An orphan with a frail body that ruined her chances of being an adventurer. But, she had a talent for penmanship and a thirst for knowledge - the perfect foundation for a mage apprentice.

Seeing the opportunity to train a new pupil eager to improve their life, and sensing a chance to work towards his own freedom, Arakil teams up with Lily to foster her magical abilities.

It started as something I only wrote a chapter or two after finishing my Syl chapters for the week. Effectively, I still felt like writing, but I wanted to avoid burnout and experiment with something a little different and new. Fast forward to today, and I've got an entire book.

It's a more lighthearted, cozy, progression fantasy than Syl, but I hope you'll give it a shot. Writing it was a lot of fun, so I hope you enjoy reading it.

The first 8 chapters have been posted on Royal Road today, and I plan to release 1 chapter daily for the first week. After that, it will be released on Tuesday / Thursday / Saturday, at the same time as Syl would.

It's included in the same Patreon tiers as Syl; I considered having separate tiers like some other writers but opted to instead hopefully build people willing to follow "Lunadea," the writer, rather than only a specific story.

Hopefully, it works out; who knows?

Also I mentioned this before but Syl will still continue its usual 3 chapters per week on Monday / Wednesday / Friday.

Anyway, onto the Syl news.

Book 2's editing and audio recording were unfortunately delayed a bit. Considering how much people enjoyed the audiobook, we opted to keep it a synced release, which sadly means waiting a bit more.

I'm keeping my fingers crossed there are no further delays, and I'll get a potential date soon. I really want to give ample notice again for when I need to STUB book 2.Here's the completed full cover, and I can't wait to get my hands on it:

Syl's book 3 is also almost done on Patreon, which hopefully means I can send it to the editors as soon as possible to smooth the release between books.

Book 3 is kind of funny because I originally planned for two major arcs to be in the book, but when I checked my word count, I realized I needed to start wrapping up the book! It can be crazy how the words sometimes sneak up on you.

Speaking of book 3, here's the almost final full cover, only missing the blurb:

Honestly speaking, this is my favorite one. I love the dark, moody colors and the glowing fungus. Once again, big thanks to Tsuu and Mango Media for these amazing covers; I love them.

And... That's it, I think, for the news. Thanks again for your continued support!

~Lunadea
