Viv listed what she wanted, basically an oath from everyone on Enttiku who apparently took that sort of thing seriously, food for a while, and a guide. The Alderman stuttered his question with obvious disbelief.

“That… is all? I do not wish to be disrespectful, milady. This is a very generous offer.”

Viv shrugged.

“You do not have much to give anyway. This will do.”

“And, forgive me but… we do not wish to submit to any dark god.”

He shrank under Viv’s glare until she realized that with the artificially black hair, robe, and ominous helmet, she looked kinda evil herself. Not to mention a bored Arthur currently curled around her shoulders.

“The only gods I follow are Maradoc and Neriad. And Nous, maybe? I’ve already killed dark servants and I’m not on good terms with their masters.”

“Oh. That is a relief. Then yes, we accept this more than generous offer milady. Ahem. So, what should we swear?”

“My golem will give the exact wording.”

//The first thing you will do is kneel.

Solfis had them repeat a short yet comprehensive oath that Viv felt smart in the way it was subjective, so no one could really use loopholes because they knew they were fucking with her and that was covered by the oath. The notables sent the villagers back to whatever they were doing and reconvened in a low house with a pretty long table.

Viv was pretty sure the locals didn’t have to kneel. Solfis was just being himself.

It appeared that the villagers had taken a page off the mountain folks’ book by digging their houses. They had used a large amount of stones cleverly arranged to make best use of the natural shapes without having to carve them. It was more spacious than anticipated and surprisingly well-isolated. Viv’s opinion of the villagers increased. They had the kind of get-shit-done mentality she immediately respected.

“Right, so…” the Alderman said, looking a bit lost.

“First, a round of introduction, then you expose the problem, tell me what you know of the spiders, what you have done so far, and what you have planned on doing.”

“Right. Yes.”

The introductions went quickly because the locals were mercifully shy. The alderman gave a name Viv didn’t care about because he was already labeled as ‘alderman’. The wise woman went by Old Lildy and she could do everything and teach it, from pottery to hunting to midwifing. Tall Romus was the veteran and he knew how to fight, but he was missing a proper spear and shield. All he had was a bow and knife. He had been trying to join a hunter path when the proverbial hit the eight-legged fan. The last man was called Kordek and he was Ardek’s mentor. Strangely, the two were not related.

Viv introduced herself and Arthur, telling everyone to respect the ‘drake’. Marruk introduced herself. Viv tried to explain what Solfis was but soon realized that the villagers had no notion or frame of reference to understand what a golem was. They’d simply never heard of one. To them, the ancient machine was just ‘Helockian sorcery’ or some such and they just took everything she said at face value, which was rather convenient. Then came the time to expose the problem. Everyone started talking at once.

“Slow down, slow down,” the alderman said, “we’re not savages. Everyone will get their turn! Kordek, you start.”

“No respect for your elders!” the wise woman spat, but the hunter was already droning on with an empty gaze.

“They got me wife and daughters. Had to leave with my son but they didn’t believe me, oh no. They didn’t, but now it’s too late and they’re coming and they will turn our inside to slush and slurp it out with their big nasty —”

“Alright alright I get it. Less imagination and more facts please!” Viv interrupted.

“What the old man’s saying is that he was attacked first,” Romus said. “He lived on the outskirts. To our shame, we thought it was an isolated attack. It's not rare for us to cross paths with colony scouts. Most of the time, we leave each other alone but you never know with monsters. They can get weirdly territorial. Except, it’s more than just marauding soldiers now. I left my house just yesterday. They’re sniffing around.”

“Is it normal for… colonies to move?” Viv inquired. The bestiary had not gone into much detail on forest spiders and she got the impression that they were usually reclusive.

“No. They really like dense woods so if they expand, they should do so towards the Deadshield.”

“There’s dark sorcery at work, I tell ya! All you little shits think I’m loony but I tell you it’s a curse that got me Daisy. She was all fine, giving me milk and calf every year then suddenly her milk turns black and she falls dead? Foul witchery!”

Viv grunted noncommittally. She had zero experience investigating foul witchery, wouldn’t even know where to start. Where was the inquisition when you needed it? Alala.

“Any idea on the numbers?”

Answers ranged from ‘at least six if it’s actually just a patrol’ coming from the alderman, up to ‘enough to end civilisation’ coming from Kordek who was quickly getting on Viv’s nerves.

“What have you done so far?”

“We cut trees around the palissade down so the beasts couldn’t use them to jump on the defenders.”

“We made spears but they use silex. Won’t help much. The people can fend off a beastling tribe but this is different. Every spider is worth a decent fighter, and they work really well in groups.”

“I saw one of those things jump. Could a militia square fend them off?”

“I am sorry, milady…”

“Just a no will do. So the villagers will be useless. In that case, it would be best to have everyone take cover in a house if we are attacked. Then we form a circle and hold. Right?”

//This appears like the optimal solution with the current tools we have.

//Additionally, I wish to offer guidance.

This was Solfis’ way to announce he had something he didn’t want to share in public.

“Right. I was considering scouting but if they’re coming to us it’s all the better. I’ll have a look outside while we have the best light and check the defenses. In the meanwhile, please arm everyone and tell them to be ready to retreat to… What’s the best place?”

“My house,” the alderman said, “here. I also have a cellar. The miller next door has some storage room as well. We’ll go there and hold if anything happens.”

“I have antidotes that are almost ready,” the wise woman added. “It will help with bites.”

“I will help her get them,” the hunter said.

“Your expertise…” the alderman started, but the hunter would not have it. He shook his head.

“I will help her. The antidote provides hope. It is needed to save the village. My son will come as well.”

“Very well.”

“Alright then let’s go,” Viv said.

Truth be told, there wasn’t much to see once back outside. The early afternoon shone nicely through a light cloud cover. Villagers gathered and prepared just in case. Some went to gather supplies while others sharpened stakes with small knives, something that must have taken quite a bit of power. They would be fucking useless against the giant spiders and their thick chitine but what did she know? Maybe it would slow them down.

Parts of the palissade were made accessible by wood scaffoldings cleverly built with frayed ropes made of some sort of plant. They were next to the gates, of which there were two sets on opposite sides of the village. Viv looked out to see fields loaded with growing greens and cereals. The villagers had made the best out of the available space. The closest trees had been cut down, just like the alderman said so they had good vision.

Viv didn’t see anything but she knew those fucking arachnids were out there, chittering and quadruple-glaring with all their eyes. Ugh.

//Your Grace, the death of the cornudon by poison is extremely concerning.

//Forest spiders do not possess intelligence.

//Although it could be a coincidence…

“Wait,” Viv said, “What was that?”

//Your Grace?

The outlander had felt a burst of life mana that felt abnormally strong. It was wrong. Far too powerful to be alchemy-related. She climbed down, trusting her guts on this one.

//I will accompany you.

//Marruk, can you keep an eye out?

“Will do. Alright, I don’t like this. Everyone, get ready just in case.”

Viv easily found the wise woman’s cottage since it was the only one with an herb garden. It was locked, which immediately told her that something fucky had occurred.

//Allow me.

Solfis smashed the door open and leaned in, which gave Viv more than enough space to see exactly what was going on.

The hunter was leaning over the ravaged corpse of the woman, having peeled off the skin and muscles to expose the organs. Or at least, Viv thought it was the hunter from the clothes it still wore but its face was now a malformed, cancerous bulb of insectile horror with compound eyes and a huge proboscis. White larvae dripped from its obscene end onto the carcass below. The man’s son stood impassively by its side.

Viv sent a purge net before her mind was even done reconciling with the nightmare before her. The creature was nimble but the net was designed to counter that. Black wires of pure destruction cut the creature in two at the torso. The son took a step forward and spontaneously exploded in a shower of small black spiders, spoilt meat, and pus.

“WERFER!” Viv half-screamed and half-sobbed.

The blast erased part of the horde from existence, but the rest spread across the walls while the severed torso used powerful clawed hands to drag itself to the hut’s only beam, moving forward like a demented chimpanzee. It left a trail of entrails in its wake.

Solfis gently dragged back the paralized witch. Viv finally turned and ran at the threshold, expressing her feelings on the matter with a long babble of stringed insults. She jumped on the closest dragonette and picked her up bodily.

“Squee?”

“FUCK THIS, FUCK ALL THAT SHIT. ARTHUR! FLAMES!”

Arthur lived for the books, scritches, and setting stuff on fire therefore she obliged immediately. A long spear of superheated magical napalm torched the house in a mere instant. The crispy half of the spider hybrid fell through the wall of heat in a mess of blackened tissue. The few villagers not on their way screamed and panicked.

Meanwhile, Viv was breathing very hard.

//Your Grace.

“Hold on. Sneaky Coaky Lemon Squeezy!”

A coating of dark mana gave Viv the appearance of wearing an evil, spiky armor. She released Arthur before giving it the meaning of annihilation. Not one single spider would get to touch her naked skin. Nope! She refused.

“Yeah, what?”

//I must apologize for leading you here.

//It seems that my prediction algorithms always fail while in your presence.

//It appears we are contending with a Herald of Octas, the Spider Queen.

//Also called The Destroyer.

//The enemy of civilization.

//They will not stop until everyone in the town is dead.

“I just wanted to get to Helock…”
