Two hours later, once the clean up is finished and we’ve resumed our patrol, I do something I’ve avoided for months now. Calling Daxian over, I share my thoughts on integrating hit-and-run quin tactics and ask for his advice. I hate doing it, mostly because of his stupid, smug face and holier-than-thou attitude, but Jochi and Argat know next to nothing regarding tactical warfare and XinYue thinks I can do no wrong and agrees with every suggestion I make. Even if Daxian pisses me off, he’s the best candidate to bounce ideas off of, mostly because he delights in pointing out all my mistakes. Keeping with tradition, the pinched-face rat bastard scowls from atop his warhorse as if I suggested he eat shit and says, “Hard to say if the benefits outweigh the costs.”

As far as his responses go, this one is fairly positive. No name calling, no eye rolling, no muttering beneath his breath, and best of all, no instant rejection. “Explain.”

Taking a deep breath in preparation, Daxian launches into a lengthy lecture. “In pitched battle, your stratagem would undoubtedly be effective assuming the Enemy lacks light cavalry of their own and doesn’t have hidden soldiers lying in ambush. While your use of ranged weapons lacks honour and shames me to the core, your suggestion is not a terrible one. It touches upon one of The Three Hunting Strategies of Huang Shaotian, ‘Deception and Control’. More specifically, this pertains to ‘Feint East, Strike West’, in that you draw the Enemy’s attention with one force and strike with a second where they least expect it. A fairly basic concept but one deserving of praise when coming from your lips, especially considering how you’ve probably never touched a tactical manual, much less read one.”

This is why no one likes him. Daxian the Virtuous, more like Daxian the Smug, Arrogant, Haughty Bastard, though that probably wouldn’t fit on his breastplate.

Enjoying this far too much, Daxian continues, “While your suggestion is reasonable, you must understand by now that we are not fighting a simple pitched battle. Though I admit the Bekhai scouts excel at their job, you would be remiss to underestimate the Defiled. They are a canny, cagey bunch, and it wouldn’t surprise me if they sprung out around us after weeks of hiding beneath the earth. Here on the front lines, the Enemy can attack at any time and from any direction, which means your suggestion exposes your light cavalry to unnecessary risk. Not only this, it is not a single unified force we must concern ourselves with, but a multitude of uncoordinated tribes and war-bands. What would happen if you exhaust your mounts in one battle only to stumble across a second a few hours later? Disaster, that is what.” Grimacing as if it hurts to say, Daxian adds, “You’ve done well enough thus far against the rabble. No need to overthink things until we face more organized foes, but if you’d like to educate yourself, I can lend you my copy of The Three Hunting Strategies. Penned by Li QiYi himself, it includes the great general’s personal notes to clarify and expand upon the original work.”

“Thank you,” I say, and somehow, I even sound like I mean it. “But perhaps when we go on break.” Huang Shaotian might’ve understood warfare, but he certainly didn’t understand brevity considering he wrote like he was being paid by the word. I’ve tried reading his book a dozen different times, but I’ve never made it past the first chapter of flowery language and rambling tangents, which is before he even starts in on the idioms and anecdotes.

“Then heed my words and I shall endeavour to explain the intricacies of Three Hunting Strategies. Before we speak of warfare, one must first understand...”

A man deeply in love with the sound of his voice, Daxian expounds on the art of war while I try not to cut myself. I’d tell him to stop, but some of what he says actually makes sense, so I suffer in silence for the better part of an hour until a Sending from Orgaal arrives and I have a reason to interrupt. “We’ll have to resume the lesson another time.” Like when hell freezes over. “It seems we have allies to the north in need of assistance.” And thank the Mother for that. Another hour of Daxian’s lecturing and I might’ve shit out a Spectre or five. I can’t cleanse people of snobbery, but I’m more than willing to hold him underwater and try until he stops kicking.

God I hate Daxian so much… if only I didn’t respect him too.

Chapter Meme
