“I have several safeguards in mind. Before you bite me, Lyonette, hear me out. I do not propose you trust to Silverfang’s watchfulness alone. Firstly—I suggest this. When I leave for the Meeting of Tribes, I will leave here with Tkrn, some Gnolls of the Silverfang tribe…and no Mrsha.”
Erin blinked, caught off-guard by this. Krshia went on.
“She need not be there for the opening of the Meeting of Tribes. Just a few days out of the event. You will still have to make the journey, but not stay the entire time. And when she comes—it will be with Erin Solstice, whom I shall invite as a trusted friend of the tribe. Lyonette as well if she can come. And at least one team of adventurers. The Halfseekers, I think, would be excellent guardians, don’t you?”
“Oh. Well—”
“Erin! Don’t be swayed so easily!”
The [Princess] snapped. Krshia raised her paws.
“Even another tribe would be hard-pressed to get past a Gold-rank team as dedicated to Mrsha’s safety as the Halfseekers, Lyonette, yes? If that does not satisfy you—Silverfang will hire two teams. Griffon Hunt. The Horns. Another? Three teams? How many will satisfy? And that is not my only offer for Mrsha’s safety either.”
She looked mildly exasperated. The protective mother looked around for Mrsha.
“It’s still—”
“I have a plan I should have thought of months ago. Something perfect. Mrsha? Come here.”
The Gnoll somersaulted over to Krshia and stopped, dizzy. The Gnoll produced something from her belt pouch.
“It was a thought. I did not think it would work since…well, white fur was not her natural color. But what if…”
She uncorked the vial and Mrsha started sneezing. Erin felt the tang of a very strong dye in the air. She blinked.
“Wait a moment. Do you mean…?”
Mrsha stared at the brown vial. Then at Krshia. Then at the idea spreading across the other’s faces. She got the simple idea too.
She ran for it. They chased her, but Mrsha refused. No! She was Mrsha the White! Wielder of the Erin’s Fire! Guardian of the Inn—they would not—
Kevin had been telling her Lord of the Rings stories. But the Gnoll couldn’t escape the Garden with Erin blocking the door. And after a basin of water, a thrashing Gnoll who ruined everyone’s clothing—
A brown Gnoll emerged from the [Garden of Sanctuary] half an hour later. Little Ekirra, who’d been waiting for her, ran up, inhaled the still-strong fumes of dye, and began sneezing. Then he stared at Mrsha, who wore a shade of brown similar to her original colors.
“Mrsha? You’re brown!”
Yeah? And you’re smelly. Mrsha shot back. She was in a bad mood. The dye wouldn’t come off no matter how much she rolled about in the grass.
“You see? Precautions and precautions. It will wear off—especially with water and soap. But I will take every effort.”
“Why does she have to be there?”
Lyonette watched as Visma walked over, stroking at Mrsha’s fur as the Gnoll girl complained about the tyranny of adults. Krshia sighed.
“She must, Lyonette, because the tribes must see her. Many are too set in the old ways. They will never accept my word—a City Gnoll’s, they will say—that a Doombringer is not a bringer of calamity. Also…”
She lowered her voice.
“…I think it will protect Mrsha in the future.”
The [Princess]’ head snapped back around.
“Explain?”
“No Tribe will allow Mrsha to live who follows the old ways. They will try again and again. Just because she is she. By bringing her to the Meeting of Tribes, I may force the tribes to agree. Otherwise, news of Mrsha shall surely spread. I fear it may have already.”
Lyonette’s eyes flickered uncertainly. She wasn’t convinced by many of Krshia’s arguments, most of which had their roots in her tribe’s prestige and power at the Meeting of Tribes. But that—that had an uncomfortable ring of truth to it.
“You don’t know if you’d succeed, though, Krshia. And if you fail—”
The Gnoll bared her teeth at Lyonette.
“I must succeed. Which is why Erin Solstice will be there. Call her…a weapon even the greatest tribes may not guard against, yes?”
Lyonette’s smile was unwilling, but it was there. Erin Solstice was a fine sneak attack weapon. Especially since the [Innkeeper] didn’t know what she’d do half the time.
“I still don’t like it.”
“I know you do not. But I have prepared more arguments. Mrsha’s safety is only the first thing I must convince you of. Let us sit, eat, drink more tea. And I will convince you fully. Or did you think I would trust this great event to a bit of dye and promises made? There are…other reasons.”
Something about the way she said that made Lyonette hesitate. She ducked back into the [Garden] as a half-dyed Erin stomped out, grumbling.
“Keep laughing, Numbtongue! I’ll dye you as well! I need a bath! Silveran, can you help me get the bathing area ready? And…soap. I need soap.”
Mrsha stuck out her tongue at Erin. The [Innkeeper] returned the gesture then noticed people were staring at her.
“Miss Solstice—the tournament!”
The others complained at their chess games. Erin had forgotten they were about that. And the final game awaited. She snapped her fingers.
“Darn. But I’m all dyed! Maybe…I can soak in the tub and play chess since it’s just the magical chessboard? By myself.”
“Maybe Miss Octavia has a dye-remover?”
The inn moved around the [Innkeeper]. Inside the garden, the [Princess] and Gnoll woman locked gazes. They appraised each other.
They were friends. But this was an issue neither could agree on. Lyonette was Mrsha’s mother. Krshia, despite everything, was still thinking of her tribe. And this was a project ten years in the making.
Ambition was something both understood. Still.
“If it was the choice between putting Mrsha in danger with a one in a ten thousand chance of her getting hurt and not doing it, I’d never do it, Krshia. Even if it made the Silverfang tribe the most powerful in all of Izril.”
Krshia blew out her cheeks.
“I will convince you, Lyonette. There are many reasons why she must come.”
“Name another one, then.”
“There are more of the Stone Spears tribes. Children, who may have white fur like Mrsha.”
Lyonette’s fingers slipped on her cup. She looked at Krshia, shocked.
“…They’re all dead. Ryoka—”
“Ryoka saw them die. And their tribe was wiped out. But I have heard that Zel Shivertail rescued some from the Goblin Lord’s army. They were given to the care of the cities he represented. Not Gnoll tribes. Especially if…they had white fur.”
“That doesn’t need Mrsha.”
“They are Doombringers. So is she. To overturn the tribes’ fear of them…”
“Enough. Fine. You’ve made your point. That doesn’t change my opinion at all.”
Lyonette lied, uncertain. Someone had to find those poor children. If they were in danger…
It was good Mrsha could not hear this. Krshia nodded gravely. They sat on the hilltop, making sure no door to the inn appeared and no playing little brown Gnoll or her friends could listen in.
In that, they were smart. But they’d forgotten about the Hobgoblin, who’d paused on his way out of the garden.
“I have more reasons. Things to prod you with, at least. They might not all have my desired effect. Still…there is another reason for Erin to come.”
“You can have Erin. Getting her out of the inn is your challenge, though.”
“Mm. Well, she might come. I have heard there is a Human one of the Tribes had found who is a stranger. And another speaks of a Human that fell out of the sky. Dead, attached to some strange seat made of materials they had never seen before.”
Lyonette’s eyes flickered. Airplane.
“Erin, Ryoka, Kevin, Rose—they can go. With teams of adventurers guarding them. Mrsha—”
“What if we introduced her to Chieftains of tribes I know would listen, first? And you would be there—we would have at least twenty, fifty tribes guaranteeing her protection before we brought it to all tribes in person.”
Exasperated, Krshia snapped her knee with a paw.
“She must be there, Lyonette! Gnolls are a literal people. To prove she is a child, not one carrying malice and ill-luck, they must see her! And they will, I am sure of it.”
She eyed Lyonette.
“You were more receptive to this before, Lyonette. You gave me assurances.”
“That was before…this is too sudden.”
Krshia snorted out her nose.
“The Meeting of Tribes has been underway. You have known I wanted to take Mrsha. You wish another reason? Fine…at the Meeting of Tribes, the Silverfang’s [Shaman] will certainly formally let you adopt Mrsha as your child.”
Lyonette spluttered.
“She is my child!”
“I am aware. Peace. But this would make it official, especially in the eyes of all Gnoll tribes.”
“Why? Her family is dead! I took her in, cared for her—”
Lyonette was furious. But then she saw the flicker in Krshia’s gaze.
“What?”
The Gnoll turned her head.
“Nothing.”
“Krshia Silverfang. What do you know? Mrsha’s family is dead. Her parents were…[Miners]? Hunters? The entire Stone Spears tribe was wiped out. I know all the adults died, even if the children…”
The Gnoll wasn’t meeting Lyonette’s gaze. But she’d let too much slip.
“…It was not easy to find out. But other Gnolls who knew the Stone Spears tribe told me that when Mrsha was born, her…parents disowned her when they found out she did not speak. They wanted to abandon her. For their unworthiness, Urksh, the Chieftain of the Stone Spears tribe, exiled both and took Mrsha into the tribe to raise. They were gone long before the Goblin Lord’s army.”
Lyonette looked around for Mrsha. But the door was closed. She relaxed. Again—without looking for the right listeners. Numbtongue crawled up the side of the hill. Reiss stared at him and sat, invisible, right next to them.
“That—is just another reason for Mrsha not to go, then. Too much danger. And the Raskghar. Yes! I know you’ll bring them, won’t you?”
“In my group. Which is not the one Mrsha will be part of.”
Lyonette was shaking her head.
“No. No. Not within a hundred miles of those things. Not even if you need her to convince the tribes. Do it with words! Do it without her! I’ll find another Gnoll [Shaman] if I want to do your ceremony. And I don’t need to! She is my daughter. And no rites will change that!”
She turned and faced Krshia defiantly. The Silverfang Gnoll exhaled slowly.
“Lyonette du Marquin. You claim her as your daughter. But, I think, you are not thinking of Mrsha’s future.”
“How dare you—”
“Someday, she will grow and want to know her kind. If she is a Doombringer forever—and I have never heard of any regaining their color—she will have to live in fear, hide her nature. The Meeting of Tribes will not come again for decades. I love Mrsha. I want to change our traditions for her.”
The two looked at each other. Lyonette’s arms were folded, Krshia’s brows were set. She sniffed the air—then set down her cup.
“If you will not listen, perhaps Mrsha herself should decide. With all these factors in play—does she have no will?”
“She’s a child. Don’t you dare tell her!”
“By the Silverfang tribe. I will not.”
 
—-
 
“Doombringers. So that lies at the heart of the Gnoll’s fear of white fur, eh? Well, I’ve seen actual bad luck in my Gambler of Fates. She could use up our luck for a month. Cause calamity—or bring great fortune. If a Doombringer brings doom, where is all the good luck?”
Flos Reimarch’s questions had no answer. Not from the Gnoll [Chieftains] he was speaking to. The King of Destruction ran a hand through his hair, frustrated.
“The Meeting of Tribes. I hoped to make it to the last one! And here is another I’ll miss! The Gnoll people of Izril are not familiar to me. I had hoped to gain their aid as I took the battle to Izril. And here they are, gathered. Powerful tribes, eh?”
“Some could match a Walled City’s might, King of Destruction.”
One of the [Shamans] murmured. Flos snapped his fingers.
“Then one of you must return to Izril. Posthaste! Or—send word to your allies! If any would fight for material things like land, or a cause—tell them I would be their ally. A dangerous one, to be sure. But I will give…Medain…to the Gnolls. Yes, and the Claiven Earth once I conquer it. That is a [King]’s promise. Conditional on my victory!”
He laughed. The Gnolls stared at him, but had he not already given them Hellios’ land? Already, they were looking at a castle in progress to defend their home ere he fell. They might have to defend what they had been given.
But that was how it worked. And Chandrar was such a vast place. A tantalizing offer.
 
—-
 
Similarly, Wall Lord Ilvriss was musing about land and Gnolls in the same way. He was going down a list of his holdings with his trusted second, Alrric.
“You’re a City Gnoll, Alrric. But do you think if I signed a contract forfeiting, say, Culondun Forest in perpetuity, it might turn some Gnoll’s heads?”
“If you had the entire forest? It might among some tribes, Wall Lord. But most distrust Drake contracts.”
“Damn.”
Ilvriss had had the same thought Flos Reimarch did. After the disaster on Rhir with the Death of Magic…which was taking more reinforcements away from Izril to fight the Demons, damn it all, he had looked for more powerful allies among Izril.
And thought of Gnolls. The Wall Lord drummed his claws on the table. He had a list of the Tribes, each one with a unique type of warrior at their disposal. The question was—loyalty and motivation. Price was hardly an object.
“Would you consider going to the Meeting of Tribes as my representative, Alrric?”
The Gnoll [Administrator] jumped. He nearly dropped the papers. Ilvriss eyed the curious reaction.
“I—would not be welcome, Wall Lord.”
“Even as a representative of…? No, it’s a silly thought. You’re married. What am I thinking? My apologies.”
“Nothing of it, Wall Lord.”
Alrric exhaled slowly as Ilvriss went back to planning. He wondered where…the Wanderer was right now. Close, he hoped. As for the Meeting of Tribes?
Damn the Meeting of Tribes and Gnolls stroking each other’s tails and talking about their glory days. Alrric only hoped the Wall Lord didn’t reach out to the more radical tribes. If they accepted, it would make his life—and those of his people—a lot harder in Salazsar. The tribes were a shadow of their glorious past, but what race didn’t have their glory days long ago?
They were still dangerous.
 
—-
 
Other groups planned for the Meeting of Tribes. Az’kerash. Wistram. Even the Walled Cities, among other forces, took note of this moment.
A lot could happen there. Niers Astoragon’s students would be present. Representatives hoping to use or coerce the favor of other tribes.
