And who possessed a key to the fabled Forge of the Star Dragon, an artifact or perhaps treasury of power from the Ancestors of Drakes. Declared the property of Fissival, which Lord Dragial was obsessed with collecting. But it was hers.
Too late, the [Astromancer] realized he’d been tricked! He turned his staff away from Niila, but a fraction too slowly.
Lehra Ruinstrider raised her furry arm into the air. She wore only normal clothing; she hadn’t been prepared for a fight! Her friends, the Gazer, Dwarf, and Stitchman, forced back the monsters to buy her that precious moment.
The artifact was a single vambrace on her arm, a glittering jewel that was black as night with tiny glitters like the celestial bodies in the center. The metal was like silver—but even more advanced than mithril.
An alloy that had broken to nothing. An artifact from a bygone era. A relic-class weapon, or perhaps, so some believed, a clue to greater treasures still. Found from a ruin by the Gnoll—no.
It had chosen her. The [Astromancer] raised his staff, conjuring a Tier 5 spell, but it was too late. Lehra took a breath and shouted the activation phrase.
“In the name of the City of Stars!”
The Gauntlet, known as the Blade of Mershi, glowed. So did the Gnoll. Those watching shielded their eyes.
“What’s happening?”
The [Master Potter] lowered his claws. And in the place where the Gnoll had been—
An armored figure blocked the lance of light coming from Lord Dragial’s staff. Her body was covered in the same starmetal armor. Smooth, segmented armor. And—the headpiece—the tailpiece—
Tailpiece? The Drakes stared at the Gnoll covered in a Drake’s armor. The segmented tail-armor flexed as the nimbus of light faded.
“…Is someone playing music?”
Niila looked around. A Drake felt at his side.
“Whoops. Song crystal. What is—”
“Stargazer’s Promise! To me!”
Lehra hurled a spear that had appeared with the armor. Her team joined her. An odd crew, who had been thrown together by chance, drawn into the conflict by the corrupt Wall Lord of Fissival for the Forge of the Star Dragon—which would throw all of Izril, perhaps the world into chaos if it fell in the wrong hands!
The glowing spear pierced the magical barrier protecting the giant battle golem. Lord Dragial cursed and threw spells at the Gnoll protected by the magical armor. It was the last relic of the Walled City of Stars, a long-lost Drake city. And the gauntlet—the relic of the legendary heroine, Mershi, had called to Lehra by chance that fateful day—
Much to the other’s displeasure.
“Why did it choose you?”
Lord Dragial howled as the Blade of Mershi, contained in the magical gauntlet, manifested a sword and shield.
“I don’t know! Stop bothering me! I have to get to the Meeting of Tribes and you’re not invited!”
The young [Magic Warrior] howled. Her team charged at the fallen Wall Lord as Niila’s team grudgingly backed them up—
It was the story of the continent. There were, of course, lesser stories. [Innkeepers] making spinach quiche and stuff. But the story of the Named-rank team was obviously the tale dominating Issrysil’s south.
You’d have to be…a Human or something to have missed it. And they were heading to the Meeting of Tribes. Just as soon as they beat the Wall Lord back. Again.
 
—-
 
Inkar’s tribe received unwelcome…welcome visitors in the night. She was still shaken from the discovery of the crashed plane. She wasn’t ready to look through the possessions of the dead.
It was almost a relief to hear the sentries call out and spot, from afar, another tribe approaching. Many of the Gnolls in both the Greenpaw and Longstalker’s tribe looked up excitedly.
“The Ekhtouch tribe?”
Eska did not look happy. But she instantly ordered them to be given the largest welcome possible. She and the Greenpaw’s Chieftain rose, grumbling.
“What is wrong with them?”
Inkar whispered to her [Stalker] friend, Orreh. The Gnoll looked astonished.
“You—of course you don’t know. Ekhtouch is a powerful tribe. They have less than a thousand, though. Maybe…no, very few. But they are—impressive.”
How so? The answer came striding into camp. Inkar blinked. She saw fast-moving forms loping out of the darkness, illuminated by magical lights, carrying lanterns with flame, both magic and mundane—
Few horses. In fact, the Chieftain who howled a greeting from afar and sped towards Eska and Orelighn was on foot. And she clearly didn’t need a horse.
“So fast!”
Inkar stared. Was this some kind of specialized [Runner] class? Or a [Traveller] like hers? But it was a Chieftain! And the rest of the tribe was moving just as fast.
Something else—Inkar stared as the Gnoll drew closer and she realized something.
This Gnoll stood head and shoulders above Eska. And the rest of the Gnolls were similarly tall.
They were giants! Their fur gleamed as they came closer. Each one looked like—
Paragons. Perfect in every respect, the product of both breeding, Skills…the Ekhtouch tribe was known for the superiority of their tribe members. They claimed to be the best at whatever they did, by virtue of heritage. They valued only the best craftsmanship. And their export, along with that skill, was generally marriages into other tribes.
Inkar saw in a moment why Eska and some Gnolls really disliked hanging out with the Ekhtouch tribe. ‘Superior’ was a good way of defining how they dealt with members outside their tribe.
That kind of mentality made Inkar extremely uncomfortable for reasons you needed a history of Earth to explain, but she waited through the introductions that involved a bit of sniffing and greetings between tribes. As all three began to mingle over food, she saw the Ekhtouch seemed reluctant to mingle outside of their tribe.
However, the new smells soon attracted them. The Longstalkers had all of the foods Inkar had shown them how to make on display. A bit of one-upmanship between tribes.
Although…as Inkar bit into her first bite, she decided the freshly-grown produce of the Greenpaw tribe made everything so much better. The Longstalkers had a very carnivorous diet, and Inkar, who wasn’t averse to meat, had craved more leaves in her life much to their amusement.
“Greetings, Longstalker Tribe. Would you allow us to share in your interesting meal?”
One of the Ekhtouch warriors, in his prime, eighteen, but taller than any Gnoll around Inkar, approached their sitting ground. Inkar’s friend, Orreh, instantly stood to greet him. He was extremely attractive, or so Orreh’s body language indicated to Inkar.
“Well met. I am Orreh, [Stalker Hunter] of the Longstalker’s Fang tribe. Whom among the Ekhtouch do we have the honor of meeting?”
The Gnoll nodded to her slightly. He had carmine-red fur, more vibrant than any other Gnoll’s fur in that spectrum Inkar had seen. He also carried a longbow that seemed smaller on his broad back, and a shortsword.
“I am Hunter Ekrinish of the Ekhtouch. The honor is mine, Stalker Orreh. That is to say…a [Peerless Hunter].”
“Peerless?”
Inkar stirred at the interesting addition to the otherwise standard class. Ekrinish straightened even more.
“Yes. It is a class I have won by my unmatched ability. So named because I have bested every other [Hunter] in a competition of skill that challenged me, yes?”
Orreh’s smile wavered a bit. She looked uncertain whether she should be impressed or dubious at the clear arrogance in the other Gnoll’s voice. Some of the male Gnolls not-quite-glared at the Ekhtouch representative. But with tact, Orreh gestured at the fire and food.
“Our Human friend, she has helped us make these dishes we share with three tribes tonight. We welcome you to our repast. Our tribe is open to yours. Hunter Ekrinish, would you care to share a drink if time allows tonight? A Glass Eye, perhaps?”
He brightened at that. A Glass Eye was one of the Gnollish drinks that were a staple of most Izrilian alcohols, along with the Drake’s potent Firebreath Whiskey. Named after the Plain’s Eye tribe, it was a transparent, deceptively strong drink. If you drank it like water, you’d be on your back before you knew what hit you.
Inkar preferred the Velrusk Claw, lower in alcohol content, purple, thick, savory. More like a mead except less sweet. Very nice to have with snacks.
However, even here the [Peerless Hunter] managed to spoil the mood. He shifted his bow to look at his Chieftain and nodded to Orreh and the others.
“That may be acceptable. However, my Chieftain must first allow us to mingle. Nor shall our exchanging of pleasantries lead to anything else.”
This time Orreh’s ears flattened noticeably. Inkar’s would have done the same if they were capable of it.
“I did not expect that…Hunter Ekrinish.”
He sniffed once, unabashed.
“In our experience, it is wise to be upfront about such things with other tribes. And this is the Human. How are you named?”
“Inkar the Traveller.”
This was a growl from around the fire. Ekrinish regarded Inkar intently. She expected more haughty superiority, but to her surprise, the Gnoll held out a paw to shake and his touch was quite gentle. He smiled widely at her—without teeth.
“An honor to meet you, Inkar. Tribes willing, shall we talk and dance among the gitar-songs tonight, Traveller Inkar? It would be a pleasure and I am sure my Chieftain would allow it.”
He was about to go on, but another Gnoll had spotted Inkar and made his way over. Indeed—there seemed to be an imbalance of how many Gnolls wanted to join Inkar’s eating circle as their Chieftain bade them mingle.
And it was not just curiosity or politeness. Inkar knew flirtation when she saw it—especially when they lined up to offer choice cuts of meat for the fire, or tried to sit directly across from her, where in the way of conversation, they’d be most spoken to.
…The prohibition on interbreeding between tribes to keep their bloodlines pure seemed to have really developed some odd preferences in the Ekhtouch Gnolls. Or the males, at least. At least it brightened Orreh and the others’ moods a bit.
Old Deskie, Eska, the [Shaman], and even Orelighn all nearly laughed themselves to sickness as they saw Inkar fleeing the small mob asking if she wanted to dance. She left the disappointed younger Gnolls behind and hurried over to the fire where they were gathered for sanctuary.
To her relief, the Ekhtouch’s Chieftain wasn’t there. Eska chuckled as Inkar sat down, peeved.
“Ekhtouch, Inkar. What, you do not care for so many Gnolls wagging their tails after you?”
“They do not seem…as sociable as the Greenpaw Tribe, Chieftain. Forgive me if I am offending anyone.”
“You are not.”
Orelighn and some of the veteran Gnolls chuckled approvingly. The Greenpaws were careful to be respectful, but the Ekhtouch clearly rubbed them the wrong way too. Eska just shrugged it off.
“Not all tribes think alike, Inkar. These day we are allies against the foes who could wipe us out. But in the old times—and now—we still argue and fight. The Meeting of Tribes will have some of that. Feuds settled or made. Challenges, arguments, differences of how we should move forwards as a species.”
Inkar frowned.
“Surely the Meeting of Tribes will be peaceful, though.”
“Peace? The Meeting of Tribes is peaceful? Who told you that story, Traveller Inkar?”
Orelighn raised his brows in disbelief. And Inkar realized she’d assumed something wrongly about the Meeting of Tribes. Eska shook her head.
“We have begun wars after a poor Meeting of Tribes. Rarely, but it happens. Crime is outlawed, and the other tribes do prevent infighting, but challenges between Tribes are usual. Each one is a law unto themselves; the fact that more tribes may join in would prevent the fighting, but…”
She shook her head. Inkar was puzzled.
“Isn’t there one tribe who would keep order?”
Her question caused a bit of silence among the Gnolls. After a moment, Eska growled a reply.
“Several…appoint themselves that role, yes. But you mean one tribe to govern others? Oversee? Adjudicate? No. Plain’s Eye is a famous mediator, but it does not rule us.”
“Hrr. It is all self-imposed. For instance, one tribe will no doubt welcome us to the Great Plains. They have made it their role to guard the Great Plains and the Meeting of Tribes—but they chose to. Remember that, Traveller Inkar. The other tribes let them do it because they are powerful and it is not an enjoyable role, however necessary. But that is all.”
Orelighn put in. Then he hesitated.
“…Not that I would ever say as much in front of them. And in truth, they are simply so strong that not even mighty Ekhtouch would cause trouble when—”
The others were nodding, but Deskie growled a faint warning. Orelighn shut up as the tall Chieftain of the Ekhtouch approached.
“Greetings, Honored Orelighn, Honored Eska, Honored Deskie. May I join your fire?”
She named Deskie as the most famous Gnoll of the Longstalker’s tribe. Completely ignoring their [Shaman], who looked a bit put out. Orelighn rose with Eska.
“Our fire is yours, Honored Firrelle.”
The Chieftain sat gracefully. A giant like the others. Her fur was near gold; she had only a single birthmark of brown around her left thigh. Deskie nodded to Inkar as the young woman stared at it.
“May we offer you food, Chieftain Firrelle?”
“I have eaten already. Rather, I come to offer drink and conversation of note.”
It was tradition, signal phrasing. The other Gnolls brightened as she drew flasks of carefully-preserved liquid out and shared them around. She had brought enough for everyone.
“A Chandrarian wine we traded for.”
Deskie chuckled as she accepted it and poured a drink for herself and Inkar. But she was already moving back. The other Gnolls gave the Chieftains room to have a conversation of note.
In other words, politics between the tribes even before the Meeting of Tribes had begun. Inkar had a particular Skill so that even as she moved away with Deskie, who was asking if she found any of the Ekhtouch Gnolls interesting, she heard the three Chieftains talking.
[Gift of Friendship: Keener Hearing]. Inkar’s ears perked up. Firrelle was speaking, and only Gnoll children, those with Skills—or Inkar—would have heard her low voice.
“My ears are sharp, Chieftain Orelighn. Before this Meeting of Tribes—I have heard your tribe found strange metals.”
“Many new metals, Chieftain Firrelle. The Demas Metal tribe has created an alloy of their own. I have less to offer.”
“Even so. Would you consent to show…whatever it is you intend to gift to the Meeting of Tribes to my [Shamans] and [Smiths]? My craftspeople, no more than twenty. To learn from and examine? I would consider it an honor repaid in kind.”
“Perhaps. What is it you offer?”
