Deskie was gazing at Inkar with a sharp look. She would no doubt want to know what they said; hence their closer position to the Chieftain’s fire despite being ‘away’. Firrelle murmured as she shared around the wine.
“For the honor of inspecting, perhaps…trading before the Meeting of Tribes? I am aware it is the Greenpaw’s gift. The marriage of six of my tribe might be arranged for such a preemptive honor.”
A murmur of surprise from the other two Chieftains. Inkar’s brows rose. She stopped listening and told Deskie.
“They must think the Greenpaws have some great treasure. Do they?”
The [Magic Spinner] looked at Inkar. The young woman could only nod. Oh yes. Depending on how you used it and if you knew what it was.
“I doubt either Chieftain will accept. Not to sully their gift. Still…Ekhtouch love to make such deals. They will want to increase their prestige as much as possible. They might marry as much as a quarter of their tribe into other tribes.”
“Against their will?”
Deskie flicked a bug off her knee.
“They would enjoy it. Since they are allowed to have children once they marry. Different tribes, Inkar. The Longstalkers and Greenpaws will not cause offense. But neither will we mingle overmuch.”
Inkar nodded. Words of wisdom from the Gnoll over a century old. She didn’t like the Ekhtouch, for all they treated her with unfailing courtesy. They insulted her adopted tribe and friends…it was a mark of their character, for Inkar. But she reserved full judgment for later.
 
—-
 
She did do a double-take the next day when she saw Orreh and another of the Ekhtouch tribe were flirting. And emerged from the same tent. Not Ekrinish, but still.
Orreh declined to comment. But the male Gnoll was surrounded, sniffed, and then, apparently, let go because he hadn’t violated the tribe’s rules.
“Not everything makes babies, Inkar.”
The young woman stared at Orreh until the grinning [Stalker] vanished. She didn’t have to hear that. But Orreh was pleased with herself and that was fine.
The second day of marching began with the Ekhtouch tribe, and a small contingent from the Greenpaws. They’d carry the…artifacts into the Meeting of Tribes later; for now it was just Orelighn and some warriors who joined the procession.
The Greenpaws farmed the outskirts of the Great Plains. There was not far to go, now.
The Great Plains of Izril, the last fully Gnoll-controlled lands of the continent, did remind Inkar of home. They were flat.
Not barren. No, far from that. Rain fell across Izril with frequency, unlike dry Chandrar, so it was a grassy landscape that made you want to ride your horse—or drive a vehicle—into the distance at full-speed forever.
So nostalgic it hurt. Right up until everyone ducked and some of the Gnolls loosed bows into the air.
“Wyvern!”
One of the giant apex-predators was flying high overhead. It swerved as arrows struck its scaly hide from hundreds upon hundreds of feet below. They liked to hide in clouds and dive at prey.
The Chieftains scolded the archers, who’d endangered everyone below with the arrows ricocheting downwards. But the Wyvern had clearly decided it wanted solo prey, not an army of Gnolls.
The fourth tribe found the three after only three hours of marching into the morning. Inkar, riding along with Deskie, looked up as she heard a howl break the air.
A shape ahead of them. Inkar stopped. She saw Gnolls look up. They were…cutting apart the dead Wyvern from earlier. Dozens of them, efficiently butchering the monster.
They howled as they saw the other tribe. Then abandoned their kill and streamed across the plains. Like the Ekhtouch Tribe, they moved fast. Unlike them, though, the other three tribes instantly halted.
“Is that—?”
Eska murmured. Chieftain Firrelle and her tribe murmured.
“Halt! We must greet them properly.”
Something like…apprehension ran through the other tribes. Gnolls were looking up, pointing. Asking—Inkar clearly heard.
Is that them? A famous tribe had arrived. One more famous than even Ekhtouch.
And…dangerous. Inkar felt that in a moment. She saw them loping along, some running on all fours. Fast. Their entire tribe was benefitting from some kind of Skill.
Then she saw what had downed the Wyvern. The [Chieftain] of their tribe was flying at them. Riding some huge…bird?
“What is that? A Griffin?”
“No. Baby Roc.”
Baby? Deskie’s voice made Inkar do a double-take. And it was not the [Chieftain] after all. Rather—it was one of the tribe’s leaders, sent with the hunting team.
They halted a hundred feet distant from the three tribes. Eska, Orelighn, Firrelle, and the [Shamans] stood with the best warriors in a small group. The Roc-rider did not dismount.
“Ekhtouch! Greenpaw! Longstalker’s Fangs! Our tribe greets you! Do you head for the Meeting of Tribes?”
“We do! It is an honor to meet the Great Plain’s guardians!”
Guardians? Deskie looked at Inkar as the Gnoll hopped off the Roc’s back. The giant bird, who was of a size with the Wyvern already, pecked at the ground as if searching for giant worms. Which there were.
“We greet you, Chieftains. I am [Relicbearer Skyhunter] Virreg.”
The Gnoll had a single weapon at his side. Every other Gnoll was staring at it. Inkar had to crane her head to see past them. Why were the Chieftains nodding to this [Warrior] in what looked like deference? [Relicbearer]?
“May I greet your tribes, Chieftains, with the words my Chieftain has ordered us speak to all tribes who come for this Meeting of Tribes?”
The warrior, Virreg, bowed to Eska, Orelighn, and Firrelle. They did not think long before nodding.
The Gnoll mounted the Roc again. The bird spread its wings and uttered a caw that made Inkar’s ears ring. The other Gnolls clapped their paws to their ears. But they looked up as the Gnoll raised his voice, the Gnolls of his tribe behind him.
“Gnolls of three tribes! It is an honor to meet your tribes! My warriors and I will escort you to the gathering and Meeting of Tribes. It is our Chieftain’s oath that no other power will disrupt the Meeting of Tribes! As we have protected this gathering for thousands of years, we will do so without fail!”
“They failed once a thousand years back. But they do a good job.”
Deskie whispered to Inkar. The Gnoll warrior continued.
“My Chieftain has words for all who gather this time! Listen and hear her words!”
Inkar expected a speech. But instead—one of the Gnolls standing behind Virreg raised a staff. And she heard a female Gnoll’s words booming through the air.
The Chieftain of this unknown tribe spoke.
“Gnolls of Izril. You come to the Meeting of Tribes once more. Proof of unity as a single species. Proof of our strength that the other species take lightly.”
Now here was politics. Inkar saw Eska’s gaze flicking uncertainly in the face of the speech she clearly had not expected. But she could do nothing but listen with the other Gnolls. The unknown Chieftain went on.
“They may ignore us. Deride the savages of Izril’s grasslands. Nomads without walls or land they build upon. But they forget—we have always been here. And though they tried to kill us. Drakes. Humans. They failed to. Our tribe is proof of our victories of old! So as you gather, Gnolls of Izril, look upon our history that claimed our land back even when our greatest foe flew the skies.”
On cue, the warriors and Virreg raised their weapons. Inkar saw a strange—pale blade rising. A spear? It glittered, etched—and every Gnoll stared up at it. Inkar thought it looked plain at first. But why…
Why did it catch the eye? Why did she stare at it and see the glitter of the runes, or perhaps words etched into the blade from afar? The spear’s haft…it was a pale, near-white material.
Ivory?
Then she heard the name of the tribe.
“Az’muzarre greets you, Gnolls of Izril. We are guardians of the Great Plains.”
Az—Inkar’s eyes widened. She thought, for a moment, they were referring to Az’kerash, a name she had heard before. But then she remembered.
Az’kerash was a name the Gnolls had given him. And the prefix before Kerash meant, ‘Slayer of Kerash’. So that meant…
Firrelle bellowed the answer as she raised her weapon in reply, lifting it high overhead. She seemed to approve of what had been said, so she howled at her tribe.
“Slayer of Muzarre! Before the Necromancer made the name one of infamy, remember it is just a word to Gnolls. As he is ‘Slayer of Kerash’, the greatest chieftain of his era—we remember the tribe that slew Muzarre the Dragon. Muzarre, the Tyrant of Jewels! The Dragonlord of Earth!”
Virreg lifted the spear higher. The spear—made of a Dragon’s tooth or perhaps bone, flashed in the light.
“Look upon your Ancestor, Drakes.”
That was the tribe of Az’muzarre. Smaller than many of the great tribes. Equal for history alone. And the weapons they still carried.
Eleven weapons, forged of a Dragon’s tooth or bone remained. The rest lost to time. Four suits of hide and pieces of armor. Dragon’s hide and bone.
This was the tribe that had gone to war, rallying the others when the Antinium tried to breach the heart of the Great Plains of Izril and pushed back the Black Tide. Guardians, officiators of this moment in time. They led the way, pointing towards smoke on the horizon. Not destruction, but countless campfires. A vast gathering that was visible even from far away.
The Meeting of Tribes. It was already vast—larger than many Drake cities. And countless more Tribes had yet to arrive.
 
—-
 
So they gathered. And those were only a few among the many. Other tribes came from the coasts and sea, like the Saltfur tribe, whose people sometimes became [Pirates] or [Sailors]. A few had roamed abroad, or called back individuals like Feshi to the Meeting of Tribes.
Some were tribes turned to war, like the Woven Bladegrass tribe. Others, peaceful groups like Greenpaw.
Vast tribes like the Wild Wastes tribe, who produced [Barbarians] who fought with murderous rage. Tribes who had libraries of books like the Inknight tribe. Groups whose entire reputation was wrapped up in an individual, like the Ruinstrider Tribe.
Each one with a different agenda. For instance—word had spread among them of a danger that might come for the Meeting of Tribes. Or simply one left alive.
“There. See?”
A furry finger pointed. The playback stopped. The [Shaman] of this tribe pointed. And the Chieftain growled.
He had been watching one of the broadcasts put on by Wistram News Network. From a Walled City, but it covered all kinds of events.
Like…a certain broadcast by the [Popstar] of Terandria. And shortly following that, an imitation of the performance by the Players of Celum.
That wasn’t important. Or rather—it was so distracting that most missed what had attracted these two Gnolls’ attention. The replay slowed on one of Wistram’s fancy scrying orbs they were selling almost at a loss, which could stop the projection, replay, spy…
The [Shaman] had fixed that. Now, he poked at the controls until it stopped on a frame in the entire event. The view panned across a guitarist encased in armor with a helmet on his head, shooting lightning from the strings. A singing Drake, a Human on the drums, across the crowd.
And there it was. A little Gnoll, caught mid-rave, waving her paws and dancing. Nothing odd about that.
But her fur was white. The Chieftain looked at the [Shaman].
“Doombringer.”
“Yes, Chieftain. I thought you should see it. What would you like to do?”
“Send a group to kill it.”
The words were out of the Chieftain’s mouth and the [Shaman] nodding even before he had spoken. Of course. One could not allow such evil Gnolls to live. City Gnolls had surely ignored the warnings. But doom would fall upon them time and time again.
And the Plain’s Eye tribe knew their history.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice then, sat in the Garden of Sanctuary with Krshia, Lyonette, and Mrsha. Others were listening in of course. A Hobgoblin sat in a tree. Apista was buzzing around, collecting nectar for her honey.
“It’s dangerous, isn’t it? Especially for Mrsha?”
“That…may be so.”
“Then she isn’t going.”
Krshia looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] possessively held Mrsha tight.
“We’ve talked about this, Krshia. Doom—white Gnolls—are targeted by other tribes just for the color of their fur! Mrsha wouldn’t be safe!”
“My tribe would protect her. And I would place her under the protection of the Meeting of Tribes. Many would not like it. But powerful tribes would not see a child killed for the color of her fur.”
“But other tribes would want to.”
Krshia sipped from her teacup. She looked…prepared for this argument. She glanced at Mrsha as the Gnoll rooted around in the grass—she was checking for bugs. People might be infecting her perfect sanctuary with their stupid bug-eggs on their boots or something! But she was only doing that so she could pretend not to listen fully…
While listening fully. Mrsha dug at some grass as she listened.
“We need Mrsha, Erin, Lyonette. For two reasons. Because she has magic—”
“She’s not the only one. Take Ferkr! Everyone was talking about how Mrsha was the only Gnoll to become a [Mage]—well, Ferkr managed it! Sort of makes it less amazing, right?”
Erin pointed out. Krshia grumbled in the back of her throat.
“—That was unexpected. Unprecedented. It does take away from the discovery, but it just adds to the worth of what we will bring. Erin, Lyonette, we have done much for you two. I would ask you to think of that—”
“And I blew up your shop. But Ryoka brought the spellbook which exceeds the damage I did. Don’t play the debt-game, Krshia. Erin helped kill the Raskghar for you. She’s saved Liscor multiple times over!”
The Gnoll [Shopkeeper]-[Councilwoman] nodded slowly.
“That is so. However—there is another reason for Mrsha to attend the Meeting of Tribes.”
“Which is?”
“To prove she does not deserve to die. Nor her kind. I would like to put her before the other tribes and argue that Doombringers are not…Doombringers. That they should not be killed or exiled! And I would like you to come, Erin Solstice, to see if other tribes know of why you arrived.”
Erin’s eyes flickered. That conversation seemed like an age ago. When she was still searching for an Archmage to take her home.
“A lot’s changed, Krshia. I’m on Lyonette’s side here. I don’t want Mrsha in harm’s way.”
“As opposed to here?”
The Gnoll’s eyebrows rose politely. Erin shifted in her seat. Lyonette just glared.
“The [Garden of Sanctuary] is here. Not at the Meeting of Tribes.”
