“You think so? I recognize two tribes among them. Tribe Inknight, Tribe Demas Metal—we bought some new armor from them.”
He gestured to the wave of Gnolls moving across the road. Not just the road; there was a seemingly never-ending stream of the nomads. Feesken hesitated.
“I haven’t heard of them.”
“New tribe. Brand new, as it goes. Their [Chieftain]’s clever. His [Blacksmiths] invented some new alloy based on a metal they dug up. Or old metal—I bet the Dwarves will say they invented it first.”
“Hah. What’s new? And—what in the name of Rhir’s Hells is that?”
His command staff, who’d been watching the procession, stirred. Vollk bared his teeth.
“That is the reason no one’s attacking them. Did I say two tribes? I meant, two lesser tribes. And the Gaarh Marsh tribe. That’s their protector.”
Feesken’s jaw dropped. He saw a massive…thing marching at the center of one of Izril’s most powerful tribes. And they had enough warriors to make the nervous Drake army shuffle back to give them room. In fact—his [Soldiers] were buying hot drinks from one of the tribes! Feesken wasn’t about to reprimand them or order the other tribes off the road.
Not with that colossus of earth marching past him, making the ground shake. It was like a Giant!
But it was no humanoid. Rather, it was far more rotund, a ‘face’ made of plant matter, still growing amid the muck and roots and…
“What is that? A Golem? A…Swamp Golem?”
“There’s no such thing as a Swamp Golem. That is the old world. The Gaarh Marsh tribe—I heard they had one, but I’ve never seen it. It’s no Golem either. Don’t call it names or it might throw something at us. Or turn the ground to muck.”
It was leaving a trail of…growth behind it. Not flowers, not beautiful. But the road itself was sprouting with life. Everything from weeds to flowers to basic grass…the ground even looked softer in its wake.
“You could probably farm that. It’s going to destroy the road, though.”
Vollk commented. Feesken saw the huge, alien head swing towards him. A different intelligence seemed to regard the Drake army.
“We…might want to back up.”
“Back—pull the ranks—”
The Earth Elemental stared at the Drake armies as they moved away from the procession of Gnolls. The Gaarh Marsh tribe marched on, fearlessly, as one of the same protectors of nature as the Treants of the sea moved onwards. They called it the Waning World, the era where magic and great deeds were fewer now, the Gnolls.
But some things remained.
 
—-
 
New and old. If the Gaarh Marsh tribe was an exemplar of the old ways—even more than the Plains Eye tribe was, known for their [Shamans], then there were tribes on the cutting edge of things. Who embraced the new.
Silverfang was one of them. The Demas Metal tribe was certainly another. But being a ‘new’ tribe didn’t mean you weren’t traditional.
You could have a newly-founded…traditional tribe. Like the Steelfur Tribe, who were selling to Oteslia. Or their representatives were.
“Two tons of fur. If you don’t want to match our prices, we’ll make the trip to Zeres. Or Manus. Manus always buys.”
Their [Silvertongue Negotiator] threatened one of the [Merchants] as Venaz stopped for a look. The Minotaur was restless. But they were waiting for Yerranola to purge the worst toxins from her system. She’d stopped needing to be sedated, which was something. But the [Healer] had warned she might need pain tonics all her…
To distract himself, the Minotaur had gone for a walk. And he’d come across something unusual in the market.
“Feshi. What is he talking about? Fur?”
There was no sample on display. Feshi, who’d been anxiously preparing to go to the Meeting of Tribes herself, looked up sharply.
“That’s—the Steelfur Tribe. They must be selling their fur.”
“Selling their—”
Venaz blinked. Then he saw the chainmail the Gnolls guarding their [Negotiator] were wearing wasn’t chainmail at all. It was a steel-cloth! The same grey metal they had on their fur.
“I’ll buy it. I’ll buy it! But can I at least get a discount for working in bulk? The fur’s too heavy for my bags of holding!”
The [Arms Merchant] yelped after a moment of thought. Feshi whispered to Venaz as he drew forwards.
“It’s their Chieftain. He started his tribe himself. Iraz Steelfur, the Chieftain of the Steelfur Tribe. One of the most powerful Chieftains on the continent. A very big traditionalist—we’ll see him at the Meeting of Tribes.”
“You there! No touching! Wait—are you Weatherfur?”
One of the Gnolls guarding the shipment—in a vast Chest of Holding among many other containers—recognized Feshi. She called out a greeting.
“Hello. Weatherfur greets Steelfur! We’re kindred far from home. The Meeting of Tribes awaits.”
“We will see you there. Are you Feshi Weatherfur?”
The Gnoll [Strategist] blushed. But the name made the other Steelfur guards welcome her forwards.
“And this is the Minotaur—Venaz! The one with stubbornness worse than our Chieftain!”
They laughed. Venaz grunted. He was willing to take that if he got to see their armor.
“Did I hear you right? Your Chieftain makes your fur like steel? That’s not like most Skills.”
“It’s a Skill for a Chieftain among Chieftains. And it gives us money to sell it, as well as armor. Care to see, Minotaur Venaz?”
He did indeed. The Minotaur eyed the handful of steel fur and before Feshi could stop him, grabbed it.
“Hm. Prickly.”
The others blinked as the fur failed to dig into his flesh. They laughed.
“Strong hands! You’re not as easily pricked as the Drakes or Humans, eh? But it gets softer under water. Like fur, like steel. The best of both. You can make armor out of it. See?”
One of them removed a steelcloth vest and tossed it at Venaz. It was…heavy. Heavier than leather, but a bit lighter than actual chainmail. He whistled.
“Nice armor. Does it protect as well as steel?”
“It’s a bit weaker. But that’s the tradeoff. And we wear cloth made of our fur on top of our fur.”
“They’re one of the better tribes at fighting. And their fur sells for a lot.”
“So that’s where the steelcloth armor comes from. Damn. Do you sell smaller batches?”
“For a Weatherfur friend? Come to the Meeting of Tribes, Minotaur Venaz! And we’ll have far more to sell than just this!”
The Human [Merchant] looked up enviously. Outsiders were only permitted to the outer region of the Meeting of Tribes unless they had someone to vouch for them. The Meeting of Tribes would see trade as well as festivities and meetings. Venaz nodded to the other Steelfur [Guards]. Feshi sighed.
“I only hope our contribution is enough.”
“You mean, one of the Diamond Swords of Serept and yourself isn’t enough?”
Feshi looked at Venaz and touched the dagger at her side.
“It’s necromancy, Venaz. Some of the tribes won’t like it at all. And if the Plain’s Eye tribe objects…the Steelfur’s Chieftain is a traditionalist. We’ll see.”
Venaz nodded. They would. He was looking forwards to the Meeting of Tribes. It was an event he was glad they’d come to Izril for, even if it was still overshadowed by Yerranola’s sickness. And—there would be more than just powerful Tribes there.
“Every Gnoll of note.”
“Every Plains Gnoll of note, Venaz.”
Feshi corrected him. Venaz nodded.
“So—how many Named Adventurers does that make? How many of the highest-leveled individuals of your species? Who should I hope to see?”
“Up and comers? Perhaps—I’m really hoping to get an auto-graph from the Ruinstrider’s famous Adventurer. Do you know Lehra? Lehra Ruinstrider? Leader of the Named-rank Team?”
 
 
—-
 
The Drake town was on the southwest of the continent. Shielded from the Antinium by Manus—and to the southeast lay the great Walled City of Zeres, the City of Storms.
However, this was a Drake town, and while it had walls, it was not the great bastion other cities were. It was supplied by a local river, as so many cities were, and it was notable for the delicacy of the pottery which—
The [Master Potter]’s wall exploded as a Gnoll went crashing through it. He looked up as the raw clay on his wheel was destroyed by a bit of masonry.
Lehra Ruinstrider got to her feet with a groan. The leader of the Named-rank team, the Stargazer’s Promise, looked around, and then ducked.
Magical bolts of light blew out the other side of the potter’s workspace. He stared as she ran.
“Sorry! Niila, stop shooting spells! You’re going to hit someone!”
“Surrender already, Lehra! Fissival’s Light—after her!”
The Gnoll scrambled out of the shop, hurling back a chunk of stone that nearly brained the angry [High Mage] in pursuit. The second adventurer’s team rushed past the potter.
“My shop…”
One of the Drakes, the Captain of the Gold-ranked team, Fissival’s Light, turned to him.
“Bill it to Fissival, sir! We’re in pursuit of a Named-rank criminal—”
She ducked as Lehra hurled another stone and it bounced off the glowing shield around the Drake.
“I’m not a criminal! I found it, fair and square!”
“Fissival had a right to those ruins!”
“Dead gods, you’ve said the same thing for the last year! Let it go, Niila! I—ulp!”
One of the Drakes in Niila’s team tackled the Gnoll. Lehra went down, punching at the [Brawler] with his magic gloves. He was trying to pin her, stop her from using—
“Lehra! There you are!”
Someone cried out. The [Brawler], whose name was Frell, was picked up and hurled over a rooftop. All without the person doing more than looking at him.
“Suxhel! Where were you?”
The Gazer blinked one of her vast eyes as Lehra, her team’s captain and friend, scrambled back to her feet. Both turned as Niila and the other [Mages] opened fire again. Two spells were obliterated as the Gazer caught them with one of her eyes.
“Eating. Did you have to wander off?”
“I was admiring pottery! Niila’s after us! Let’s go—where are the others?”
The rest of Stargazer’s Promise, the Named-rank team who’d earned their status this year—the newest group to achieve the coveted title—skidded around the corner.
A Stitchman with a staff, a rare [Monk] from Pomle. And a female Dwarf from Terandria.
“Niila again? She doesn’t quit!”
“[Reflection Stave]. [Whirling Guard]. Lehra, we’ve got trouble. It’s not just Niila. You know who’s tracked us down. And he’s got—”
Lehra saw the Stitchman, Emper, blocking the magical spells in a blur of motion as his staff glowed.
“Oh no, not—”
“City Watch! Everyone is under arrest!”
The Watch Captain of the town, who still commanded a ‘City Watch’, skidded around the corner with all the [Guards] under his command. Niila hesitated and began to shout her credentials.
“I’m an agent of Fissival! That team is a wanted group in possession of an artifact stolen from the ruins!”
“Shove it up your tail, Niila! Lehra, we have to go! It’s h—”
This time it was the town’s wall that imploded inwards. The Watch Captain turned. Lehra groaned. She saw…a familiar figure standing behind the first giant Golem which had just punched through the walls.
“Lehra Ruinstrider. I have you cornered!”
The Drake bellowed. Niila instantly turned and began blasting at the Drake with her team. Lehra looked around.
“Oh no. He’s brought the battle Golems. Niila—”
The magical spells evaporated on a stronger barrier as the magical Golem returned fire. In this case—bound [Fireball] spells. Everyone went diving for cover as lesser Golems, temporary summoned monsters and the Drake’s constructs advanced into the city.
In the commotion—Lehra, the Gnoll, and Niila found themselves hunkering in the [Potter]’s ruined shop. The Drake [High Mage], a graduate from Fissival’s famed Mage Academy, snarled at her one-time friend and enemy.
“Lehra!”
She hesitated, but then poked out of cover and shouted.
“[Shatterbolt]!”
The high-level spell tore apart a giant Shield Spider’s head and the monster dropped. Niila cursed.
“He’s using the monster collars again! Oh hells—”
She ducked back as lightning crawled through the air. The Drake was shouting, bellowing furiously as he looked for the Captain of the Named Team.
“Lehra Ruinstrider! The Forge of the Star Dragon will be mine! Give me the artifact or I will reduce this town to ash and rubble!”
He meant the artifact Lehra carried. The same one Niila was after. The angry [High Mage], far younger than the old Drake in his robes with his plethora of artifacts, poked her head out to shout at him.
“Lord Dragial, renegade [Astromancer] of Fissival! You are under arrest by order of the Walled City of Magic! My team is here to bring you to—Ancestors!”
A [Shatterbolt] spell vanished as it hit his glowing, black barrier produced by the amulet on his neck. He replied with a torrent of black bolts of flickering magic. They melted through the wall as Lehra grabbed Niila and hurled her to safety, leaving a dangerous magical ooze in their wake. She growled, her eyes, a mix of yellow and brown, a rarity among her kind, furious.
“This is all your fault, Niila! These people could be hurt because you gave our location away!”
The Drake with green-white speckled scales stared at Lehra. Both of them were young. Adventurers. Lehra had a blondish fur, now covered in dust. And she’d just saved her rival’s life, despite Niila chasing her across the continent for the last year. The Drake found her words and shot back.
“My fault! He’s after you! Give me the Blade and I’ll take it back to Fissival!”
“Hah! You can’t even use it! I—”
Thwoom. The spell blasted another part of the shop apart. The two Captains looked at each other. The rest of their teams had turned to confront the crazed Drake, who had been outcast from the Scholarium of Fissival for his crimes. Lehra gritted her teeth.
“This is no time to be arguing! I have to get to the Meeting of Tribes, but not with this kind of trouble on my back! Truce?”
“Truce!”
They broke from cover. Dragial, the former Wall Lord of Fissival, hesitated. For all they were enemies—and Niila his student—
“Traitorous child!”
He missed her as she distracted him. They were working like a team!
Old friends. They had been on the same team. In his employ, a long time ago. And not long ago. Little more than two years. Two Silver-ranks, one a Gnoll whose tribe specialized in delving into old Ruins. The Ruinstrider Tribe, a minor, small tribe which was now an honored guest among the most famous at the Meeting of Tribes.
All because of the Named Adventurer she had become. But still—one with a bounty on her head from the City of Magic that no other Walled City had ratified. Someone who’d shot from Silver-rank to Named-rank in a year.
