It was just a foot-pedal you could use to automate the spinning wheel instead of having someone move it by hand. A flyer spun the thread automatically, rather than forcing someone to do it by paw. Was it revolutionary?
Yes and no. It was an improvement. A significant one, since it allowed one Gnoll to do the work of three. Magical enchantments already existed that could do all of that—but this allowed anyone to do the same with a bit of cunningly-wrought metal or wood. It had caused a stir.
And made her enemies. Inkar had, perhaps naively, not expected that. But progress meant that the weaving group felt Inkar was trying to do away with them, reduce their importance with the technology. She hadn’t, of course.
Now, every Gnoll was a spinner by themselves and some resented that. Or—had, until they saw how much that one bit of technology had improved their output. They could still gossip and talk, Inkar and their Chieftain had sensibly pointed out. Only now, they’d all be spinning thread by themselves instead of three or two to a spinner!
That was months ago. Now, the old [Spinner] pinched Inkar’s cheek affectionately. She had stayed by Inkar, refused to allow the dissent. Neither had Eska.
“The Meeting of Tribes comes, Inkar. We will show them our Human from Earth! But first—you must eat more!”
She worried about Inkar, whom she called ‘short and underfed’. Because Inkar was hardly the Gnoll standard, who averaged six feet in height and were considerably stronger and larger than most Humans, across both genders.
Inkar ducked her head.
“Did you spin well today, Honored Deskie?”
The Gnoll had grey fur and countless grandchildren. She growled an acknowledgement, producing a bolt of almost perfect blue fabric to show Inkar. The young woman made appropriate sounds of admiration. And it was admiration, it was wonderful fabric that needed no dyes!
“Good thread. New technology. Tribes willing—it may give our people some fame during this gathering. But I also hope it will give you what you seek, Inkarr, yes?”
News of home. How she’d gotten here—if others from Earth had come. Inkar nodded slowly. Deskie patted her on the arm.
“You will be fine. We will keep you safe, and the great [Shamans] and [Chieftains] will know something, I am sure. I am looking forwards to my sixth Meeting of the Tribes, myself.”
Sixth? Inkar stared. But then—this was Deskie. The [Magic Spinner]. The one who had made Inkar—
Oh yes, one more thing. The young woman turned and her dyed, exquisitely ornate clothing, a replica of traditional patterns from her home, glittered in the sunlight as Eska called out to her. Inkar rode, Deskie’s clothing light on her skin.
Magical clothing. Made from the Gnoll’s labors.
Clothing as strong as armor, as warm as an oven even during the freezing winter, and which had been inlaid with the most expensive product of the animals the tribe had: the angora wool of the Waisrabbit! Inkar and her horse blinked across a line of sheep, which turned their heads to stare at her.
The Waisrabbits, notoriously hard to breed and raise. Because the Waisrabbits…
Teleported. And unless you were kind, careful, and treated them well, an entire flock would vanish overnight. As it was, they produced precious little angora wool which carried their powers. But their meat, bones, and every part of them was a valuable cash product.
The herd of rabbits that had given Inkar the ability to hop a few feet regularly with her mount, the faithful Flura, promptly vanished and reappeared on the back of one of the rolling wagons of the Longstalkers. The Gnoll driving the wagon sighed, but let them peek over the side.
“Inkar! Good, come with me.”
The [Chieftain of Herds] waved Inkar forwards and they rode at a brisk trot. Inkar peered ahead.
“The other tribe? The Greenpaw Tribe?”
“Yes. They are different. Do not look down your nose at them—not that you would.”
“Why?”
The answer was obvious and Eska’s hesitation clear as the second tribe appeared over the hill they were descending, as the ground leveled out and became the Great Plains, so reminiscent of her homeland for their flat, enormous landscapes. But the Great Plains were many times larger than her entire homeland, Inkar had learned.
The Greenpaw Tribe was…an agricultural tribe. Also, poor. They did not go hand-in-hand, but poor harvest and a Creler infestation had ruined their fortunes. They farmed this area, and they had been subject to enough bad luck that other tribes called them cursed.
Eska did not. She greeted the senior [Chieftain] with a strong hug, and the grey-furred Orelighn looked curiously at Inkar.
“I greet you, Honored Eska and your tribe. Will you stay with ours and hunt and eat for a day?”
“We have a day to spare. And we would greatly enjoy the break, Honored Orelighn. Only—our Waisrabbits might infest your fields.”
The [Chieftain] sighed.
“It would not be the worst calamity to befall us of late. Better Waisrabbits than Crelers—one would be welcome since the other would not.”
“Creler eggs in their fields. Ate everything and tunneled up.”
One of the other Gnolls, the young [Stalker Hunter] who’d befriended Inkar, part of the escort for Eska, whispered. Eska’s ears twitched and she turned to glare at the younger Gnoll. The Chieftain of the Greenpaw Tribe sighed again.
“We have precious little to give the Meeting of Tribes. But perhaps—there is hope. That is why I asked for your Human, Eska. Inkar the Traveller, we have heard your name.”
“I have heard your name, Honored Orelighn.”
Inkar bowed in the saddle. The Gnoll smiled, pleased.
“This is good. While your tribe makes camp, Eska, I will show you what we found months ago. This way.”
He beckoned them off. Inkar saw the great migration of the first tribe halt. And they joined the Greenpaws, greeting old friends, howling at each other, insults, jests, and so on.
The herd of animals stopped well short of the Greenpaw’s lands. The vast fields the Gnolls tended looked hardly poor to Inkar—but food was not always worth much in a world of Skills.
The Greenpaws grew a variety of crops, and a lot of cash crops as well. Sage’s Grass, in a small plot carefully watched for signs of infestation, alchemical herbs—even a small orchard! They had tended this land for generations.
It was a good spot. Foothills and a lake gave the Greenpaws all the water they might need. Still, bad luck was bad luck and their tribe was less than half the size of the Longstalkers. Barely two hundred Gnolls, all told.
Neither tribe was huge. Big tribes could be over a hundred thousand Gnolls. Not in one place; they split up after certain points. But Inkar heard the names of the other large tribes as Eska and Orelighn talked.
“One hears the Silverfangs are waiting for the thousands they sent to Liscor. They have yet to declare they formally arrived—which upset the Plains Eye tribe who wanted to settle them.”
“Plains Gnolls becoming City Gnolls. And for what? Their great gift?”
Silverfangs, Plains Eye—if the Silverfangs were a larger tribe, and wealthier, numbering in the tens of thousands—the Plains Eye was one of the largest in all of Izril.
Not that size meant a tribe’s power. It was also reputation, individuals. Deeds.
“Who has arrived? Plains Eye, half of Silverfang?”
“Of note? Woven Bladegrass, still bearing spoils of their conquests. Gaarh Marsh is on the way with many tribes in their company. Weatherfur waits for their [Strategist].”
“Ah. The child on the news. Steelfur?”
“Already there, of course. The Wild Wastes tribe…I have not heard of them. Ekhtouch may be ahead of us. My group will go with yours—we may run into them.”
Both Chieftains rolled their eyes and grimaced. Inkar wanted to know why.
“Ekhtouch Tribe?”
“Small. As small as ours, Inkar. But mighty. They are…difficult. But rich. No doubt they have grand gifts for the other tribes to put ours to shame. I almost hope they move faster than we.”
Eska’s ears flattened, perhaps due to some grudge. As Orelighn led them up the foothills, towards the lake, Inkar saw him turn with his walking staff to Eska.
“I hope, Eska, that our tribes can work together. I would be grateful. And my tribe has not forgotten your generosity before.”
It was careful wording. Politics among Gnolls already. Eska had told Inkar that the Meeting of Tribes was the most political event of their species. Now—Inkar saw Eska hesitate before ducking her head.
“…Of course, Orelighn. I will speak for the Greenpaw Tribe and we will combine our fortunes and dismays.”
He reached out and clasped her arm.
“You are generous. And we will not be the paw that drags you into muck, Eska. Come, come and see. I thought it strange and my [Shamans] did not know what omen it signaled. Now—I think it is of the same thing Inkarr is. Come. It was an ill day when we saw the tragedy.”
Inkar and Eska exchanged puzzled looks. There was nothing odd about the area they were climbing, towards the secluded lake. Gnolls apparently fished there for food, but Orelighn took them a bit west. Higher.
The lake was secluded in a small basin, the Greenpaw’s guarded lands. Now—he took them to the edge of that point. His voice grew solemn. Pained.
“It came down like the wrath of an [Archmage] in the night. Fire—it nearly burned down the entire forest. Our [Shamans] barely contained the flames.”
He led them past burned trees. The hair on Inkar’s arms stirred. She saw something, ahead of them. A valley of destruction. A flash of—
She stopped. A metallic flash. And then—the Chieftain led her forwards and Eska gasped.
“What is this? Inkar—do you see it? Ink—”
She looked back. The young woman had dismounted from her horse and fallen to her knees. Orelighn bowed his head.
Inkar stared without sound at the piece of the airplane which had crashed here. A broken, burned hull of metal.
Barely half of it. The rear half and part of a wing. Orelighn looked at her.
“…It fell two months ago. We found the bodies within. They did not suffer, I think. We have laid them to rest in our grounds. I will show you, if you wish it.”
“How?”
The Chieftain saw Inkar’s drained face. He turned to Eska, who had dismounted as well.
“We have found many artifacts. Most—broken. We paid for scrolls of [Repair]. It is an ill thing to take from the dead—but.”
They were desperate. The [Chieftain]’s guilt was plain.
“Also—there were so few…”
“Few? Were there any—how—”
Inkar was on her feet, stumbling towards the wreck. Eska called out, but Orelighn stopped her.
“It is safe, but for the jagged metal. Inkar—”
The plane was burned. Seats destroyed. Plastic melted. Overhead bins ash. But—it was a passenger plane. A large one.
“How many?”
Inkar stared at the seats. Orelighn walked over, solemnly.
“That…is the strange thing, no? I see what this is. Some great vessel of transport. Odd—”
“It was meant to fly.”
Orelighn’s eyes widened at Eska’s words. She was staring around, color drained from behind her fur. She looked at Inkar, and now—she believed fully. The others would have to see this, the [Shaman] at least. The male Chieftain nodded slowly.
“I might believe it. You see—the materials are like nothing we have seen. The steel strong, for all it was destroyed. See—this?”
He touched something on the headrest. Inkar started. There were no…bodies. The Gnolls had buried them. But the broken headrest was mounted with something she knew.
One of those in-flight monitors. You could play games on them…this one was burned beyond salvation. It broke as she tried to pry it loose.
“We have some. More—that we removed. We could not repair them—but there are strange inner workings. More—among the possessions. And a strange thing. There were many…containers. Clothing. Strange things. Money—books. We have them all in our possession.”
“I must see them.”
The Gnoll nodded.
“There is much. Too many, I think, for the bodies we recovered. We buried four Humans.”
“Only four? For this great craft?”
Eska started. Orelighn nodded.
“That is the mystery. The possessions were enough—even the ones we recovered from the flames—for dozens more. And this is only part of this craft. Perhaps…perhaps the others were lost in the air? But…”
He looked at Inkar. She stood there. And the yawning chasm of uncertainly opened up again. From the mystery of her arrival in this world—she began to realize.
It was far larger than she’d thought. And if she had not been missed, one girl whose family and friends would look for her—
They would notice this. She touched the seat and looked around. Eska gravely met her eyes, then looked at Orelighn and nodded.
Oh yes. They had something to bring to the Meeting of Tribes after all.
 
—-
 
More tribes were on the move. The great roads that connected Drake city to city were as populated as their Human counterpart’s. More so, in fact.
The great war with the Guild of Assassins and such hadn’t affected the Drakes of Izril. Indeed—it was something only talked about in certain parts of the society.
General Feesken did not care about Human drama, at least unless they were going to invade them. His army was marching to war.
War—against another Drake city. The damned city of Yoire. It was an ongoing conflict for, oh, the last hundred and twenty years.
This would be the conflict that ended it. He had forty thousand Drake soldiers under his command. Archers, riders, mages—all the standards of his city.
And to seal the deal this time—some ultra-heavy armored [Shock Troopers], a thousand strong, and an enchanted battering ram to break through Yoire’s gates.
They were going to win. So—why in the name of the Ancestor’s balls were they having to wait for a bunch of Gnolls to finish moving down the road?
“We’re an army! General Vollk! General Vollk! Why hasn’t your force given the order to move?”
The angry Feesken turned to an allied commander who’d volunteered fifteen thousand of his soldiers for the victorious battle. The older Vollk, a [General] of his city, lowered the spyglass.
“They’ll be past us in the hour, Feesken.”
“Our tactics revolve around attacking Yoire before they can call for aid! Tell the Gnolls to halt while we move forwards!”
“No.”
The other [General] ignored Feesken’s fury.
“Our battle plans involve us getting to Yoire intact, Feesken. Not having to retreat and wiping out our forces before they get there. There are six tribes on the march towards their Meeting of the Tribes. They could wipe us out.”
That paused Feesken. He’d fought Gnoll tribes before. They caused trouble when they got near Drake cities. Some were lawful, others traders—others bandits.
“Six tribes? They might have numbers on us, but those are civilians.”
The other [General] snorted.
