The Meeting of Tribes. Mrsha stopped playing teleport-tag in the inn and looked up. The other Gnolls looked up, ears perking.
Many were City Gnolls. Or—straddled the brink between City and Plains Gnoll. They might be of the Silverfang Tribe—or other tribes, but they worked in the cities now and called Pallass and Liscor their homes.
Some would say they’d been ‘lost’ to the Drake’s walls and permanent homes. The City Gnolls had different opinions. But still. Even those not born into a tribe had heard of the great gathering of their people.
First once every two hundred years. Then once a century. Then—once every twenty years, as it was decided the tribes must stay together. The reason the Meeting of Tribes, or ‘Gnollmoot’ as some nicknamed it—Erin—had become more frequent was tied to the decline in the power of Gnolls in general.
Once, they had been one of two main species in Izril. That was their golden era. Then had come the Drakes, and Harpies and Gnolls had found the might of Dragons too much to overcome. One species had been lost, abandoning their home and lost to the world except as Demons of Rhir.
The other had gone into hiding. They had eventually returned, and brought down the Walled Cities. Then had been a silver era, if you were going to categorize by metals. Gnolls versus Drakes, sometimes in harmony, other times in war, but two species once more.
Then—the Humans of Izril came from the north, millennia ago, and took the northern half of the continent. Gnolls fought Drakes. Gnolls fought Humans.
They had been forced into the Great Plains of the south. A fraction of a fraction. A dark time. One could say they had recovered from the worst of those wars.
But still—the Meeting of Tribes was every two decades, not every two centuries because the tribes could not afford to stay separate. Like their Drake counterparts, they had to stand together or die.
All this was background that Krshia had told Mrsha—that Urksh and the Stone Spear’s [Shaman] had told the children of the tribe. Their history. What Mrsha knew now was that the Meeting of Tribes was upon them. Most Gnolls would see three, or four Meeting of the Tribes in their lifetimes. It was a momentous event where fortunes could be made, great alliances forged, and tribes given power—or lose it.
She knew that the Silverfang Tribe had been preparing for their part in it for a decade. Krshia had come to Liscor for this reason. The Stone Spears had been doing the same, hence why they had been mining along the High Passes. Mrsha knew any Plains Gnoll with a key role in their tribe would be there.
And she knew also—that Krshia wanted her. But Mrsha had white fur. She was Doombringer, even if the City Gnolls accepted her with wariness—the Plains Gnolls would want her dead on sight alone.
All these things Erin and Lyonette had to know. They had discussed it. Made promises. But the Meeting of Tribes, so far off in the mind, was finally upon them. Erin looked at Mrsha, and Lyonette moved protectively towards her daughter. No. But Krshia stood there.
“It is time. May we speak?”
“Yeah. Let’s…Lyonette?”
The [Princess] scooped Mrsha into her arms. She should be here for this. It was her future. She was set to refuse Krshia, but the Gnoll had known that. And there were favors. Decisions to be made.
The Meeting of Tribes awaited.
 
—-
 
…But it was wrong to say that it was only now beginning. In truth, some tribes had been heading towards the meeting, making the long trek months ago. Krshia Silverfang was going with a small group, fast as she could, to catch up with Silverfangs from Liscor and the bulk of her tribe.
The door to Pallass meant she’d skip 400 miles past the Bloodfields—which had allowed her the luxury of waiting. Normally, she would have been gone three months prior, as one of the furthest Gnolls to travel to the Meeting of Tribes aside from those off-continent.
And the entire tribe that had adopted Inkar was moving. As their female Chieftain, Eska, explained, some tribes would send representatives.
“Not so for the Longstalker’s Fang tribe, no. We have too much to steal. [Raiders] might attack us for our herds if I left with too many, especially our [Shaman], Inkarr.”
Inkar nodded. She felt compelled to remind Eska.
“Inkar. Not Inkarr.”
Eska’s teeth flashed.
“But Inkarr is a Gnoll name! And you are part of our tribe, Inkar.”
She did her best. But the Gnolls really did treat her like one of their own. The young woman from Kazakhstan ducked her head. It was a high honor. But she had come to the Longstalker’s Fangs by chance—great magic as their [Shaman] believed—and they had welcomed her with generosity and warmth.
Inkar, the [Weaver]. Then—Inkar the [Cook]. Inkar the [Dyer]? Inkar the [Herder]. Hold on—
After she’d gained her sixth class, the mysterious voice in her head seemed to have given up. It had awarded her with a new class instead of just the [Inventor] class she’d gotten.
So, they called her by her class. [Worldly Traveller]. Inkar the Traveller, perhaps closest the voice had come to ‘jack of all trades’.
It suited the young woman. And indeed—it helped on the long march they’d made from the northeast towards the central, vast southern plains of Izril.
She was used to it. She had been able to adapt to the Longstalker’s way of life with amazing ease.
Despite the fact that they resembled giant, furry people and that there were Skills, levels, and magic in this world as well as monsters. The truth of it was—Inkar’s home had many parallels with the Gnolls.
Their mobile tents, for instance, that they set up? Yurts. Different in design, almost identical in conception. Inkar had grown up outside of the cities—she had family who had lived like the Gnolls.
She could ride a horse. She could speak English—which for some unknown reason was the common tongue.
She had hardly struggled to fit in. And indeed—Eska gave her an affectionate pat on the arm.
“You will be our tribe’s great news at the Meeting of Tribes, Inkar. If others of your kind are not found already. If any came to the tribes—they will be there.”
She meant, of course, other people from Earth like Inkar. The young woman had told the Chieftain most of how she’d arrived within the first month of stumbling out of the wilderness, half-starved, her dead smartphone cannibalized for the electrical charge she’d used to start fires to keep the predators at bay at night.
“Will there be danger? If your tribe is worried about raids—”
Eska laughed and pointed. Beyond her, herds of pink sheep plodded past some cows ambling in their own lane. Goats, a flock of very nasty chickens which were worse than guard dogs if you tried to attack them, and even some rabbits, were being shepherded by hundreds of Gnolls on the move. Some were on foot; most had horses, or other beasts of burden.
“When all the tribes gather? By nightfall, Inkarr, we will meet with the Greenpaw Tribe. They are poorer—and they will only send representatives, I think—but as we draw closer, more and more tribes will come together. Then, not even Drake armies will dare to challenge us. Or the Antinium.”
Inkar nodded, wondering yet again what the Antinium looked like. She had seen and met Drakes—surly scale-people descended of Dragons. Few Humans—six in total since coming here, all [Traders] or [Merchants]—but no Antinium.
She had seen the horrible mandibles, the hollowed head and skull-chitin that their [Shaman], Pulsg, used to tell stories of the Antinium Wars with. Piercing mandibles—and apparently four arms?
The Longstalker’s Fangs had fought in both wars and bore trophies to remember their foes by. But they were hardly a tribe of war, like the Woven Bladegrass tribe, which was on everyone’s tongues for their war with Drake cities. No, the Longstalker’s Fangs were a nomadic, herding tribe, hardly unique among the Gnoll tribe traditions. Gnolls—Plains Gnolls, those who kept to tradition—roamed southern Izril. They traded or fought with Drake cities, grew their numbers, and each one had a specialty.
For instance…Inkar stared as a group of blue sheep broke away from the procession. Multicolored sheep—that was the Longstalker’s pride. Each one with pre-dyed wool.
“Эй! Get back, you disobedient sheeps!”
The Gnolls laughed as they saw Inkar urge her horse forwards. The baahing blue sheep followed her; she normally took care of them anyways.
Tricky sheep. They weren’t even the worst ones. Not like the evil chickens, or magical rabbits—or the sheep who could zap predators. Or cows who could outrun horses.
Animals got weird when magic entered their diets. Gnolls called out to Inkar, jesting at her expense.
They liked her. And not just because there were similarities in cultures. Inkar had proven herself to be an asset rather than dead weight. She thought of them as similar to her people’s roots—and they were.
Yurts, herding animals…they even carried bows, not having discovered gunpowder. They had given her hospitality and shelter.
She, in turn, had told them of her world. Their [Shaman] and [Chieftain] had listened intently to stories of planes and a world connected by internet and harnessed lightning. Most of the tribe put it up to tall tales, or magic—hence her [Storyteller] class. But they had begun to believe—at least in part—when she started giving them things from her world.
Her main contributions at first, ironically, were things that were immediate and easy to translate, like beshbarmak, or pilaf—both of which Gnolls found new and very tasty! For instance, the horse meat with noodle dish from Kazakhstan that you ate hot, on wide, dough-noodles, was easily translatable with ingredients that the Longstalkers had. It was not wildly original. They had noodles. They ate meat.
There were overlaps, but there the divergence in cultures meant she had gained the [Cook] class after her first week of Gnolls wandering over and asking her to help make dinner.
Inkar, exasperated, left the blue sheep back in their line and rode back the way she’d come. She waved at the other [Herders], one of whom called out an apology for letting the sheep get loose. Inkar stretched—then realized that the [Weavers] were ushering her over.
“Inkar, food!”
They were friendly—a group of older Gnolls, younger ones, and a few dedicated experts who took the wool the Longstalkers harvested and turned it into thread, even bolts of cloth they sold for lots of coin. Their cloth would never lose its color, and the magical cloths were sold to distant nations across the sea by enterprising [Merchants].
The group welcomed her, tossing her hot, filled pockets of baked pastry they liked to eat on the march. Savory over sweet; and they loved their often-sour dipping sauces. Inkar ate as she rode. Not two months ago this very same group of mostly-female Gnolls had been trying to get her kicked out of the tribe. But they’d made amends.
Inkar had adjusted easily to the Gnoll tribe at first. Still. She might have come from a country with its roots in the very same lifestyle the Gnolls lived, but Inkar felt in her very bones that she had gone back in time, as well as to a land of furry-folk with swords and sorcery.
She knew what they lacked. It had become apparent the moment she’d stepped into their weaving tents and seen how they made the wool into cloth.
The Longstalker’s Fangs had a traditional loom, which they took apart and put together from bags of holding each time they stopped. Looms, in fact. Bags of holding, those miraculous storage containers, allowed them to work while maintaining a nomadic lifestyle. Food, supplies—it lightened their loads far more than on Earth.
…But the looms were low-tech. Inkar was no expert on loom-advancement through the ages. But she knew they were working far, far slower than a loom from her world. She’d described the ones that could work via electricity—or just a foot pedal—and spent fruitless hours trying to puzzle one out with scraps of parchment.
In the end, she had failed. Looms were incredibly hard! But spurred by that idea, the tribe had been far more open to the actual, concrete technology which they would bring to the Meeting of Tribes. They had listened, given her wood, metal, the help of their craftspeople to experiment.
And then she had succeeded.
Inkar had not made a loom. Looms were complex. She had no idea how to create…most modern electrical devices. Their [Blacksmith] and [Shaman] had taken one look at the inside of her smartphone and shaken their heads. Inkar had puzzled it over and come to a solution as she helped make thread.
Inkar the [Weaver]. But more than weaving took place in the tents. To make wool into clothing, you had to do a lot more than weave. For instance, it had to be carded, washed…
And spun. That was the breakthrough moment.
Gnolls were not without technology like Earth’s. They’d had spinning technology from the beginning. The spinning wheel that allowed people to take wool, or cotton, and turn it into the first bits of string in the long process of making cloth existed in both worlds from antiquity.
How could it not? Even with classes, without a spinning wheel you had to do that by hand. However, the difference between worlds became apparent there.
On Earth, Humans had kept working on the wheel, eventually making it an automated, powered device like the loom which allowed them to remove most of the manual labor in the device.
People in this world had invented the wheel and called it good. And it was not hard to see why, honestly.
“Gnolls who get the right Skills, like [Finer Thread], [Cleansed Materials], or even [Twofold Yield]—they take such jobs. It is about Skills, Inkarr.”
“Inkar. Do you do it by…paw? There are not spinners that move by themselves? With power?”
“Drakes do such things with magic, in their cities. Magic enchantments to spin the wheel forever or make the thread thin without needing to touch it. We could buy such a thing, but magic does not live forever. Besides—we do well enough without magic!”
The old [Spinner] had chuckled and produced a fine thread in a moment, running it across the wheel as another Gnoll apprentice worked it. By paw.
“I would not mind that, yes?”
The apprentice had ducked her head and grinned at Inkar, and that had lit a spark in her mind.
It had puzzled Inkar for a long time, asking herself what was missing from the tribe’s spinner. Spinning was a communal activity. One Gnoll moved the spinner, another helped twist, and the final one actually did the spinning while they talked.
That was…off. So, after much recollecting, aided by their [Shaman] who helped Inkar recollect memories in her dreams—the young woman had it!
She had invented…the foot treadle and flyer. It excited only Inkar, mostly female Gnolls, or those who understood what it meant.
