… Erick wondered what a better version of this spell would look like. [Mysticalshape] seemed necessary, so he would keep that in there, for sure. Illusion magic was rather funky, though. Apparently, using Illusion to bring a base material more in line with what you wanted was a permanent-ish usage of that magic.

Permanent trees. Permanent illusions, that were therefore not illusions at all.

Erick had to digest that for a moment before he continued.

Apparently, when these Illusion trees were killed in the process of their final Shaping into a mountain, very little material was lost, because eternal stonetrees were very real. Usually, Illusion was very good at being not-real. Usually, crafting anything into Illusion was a good way to lose that material forever.

There was an example in the text to explain what was happening.

A woman wants a dress for a party. She crafts one of her old dresses with illusions of the new fashion trend sweeping the Court, completely ignoring that the new trends are about gold, and her dress is little more than cotton. The illusion lasts for a while, but the woman’s tattered original dress falls apart, leaving her half-naked in the middle of her dance upon the stage.

A second woman at that very same party also used Illusion on her dress, too, but her dress was a 40 year old gold dress she had in the back of her closet. After all, fashion comes and goes, so the woman has kept every dress she has ever owned. Therefore, her illusions are simple adjustments. A few more folds here, the changing of an embroidered fish into an embroidered cloud.

When her spell fails, she still has clouds upon her dress.

When Erick read that, he stepped back.

Illusion seemed really interesting. Not a way he wanted to go with his spellwork, for sure, but it was still interesting.

He couldn’t help but notice that this clan mountain spellwork contained a lot of lessons on Elemental Illusion, and that he had gotten it right after being attacked by a dragon that was all about illusions, who was his next target. He knew he needed to seek out the dragons, anyway, and he had been planning on seeking out the Mirage Dragon, for sure. But...

Was this serendipity?

It was probably the Worldly Path.

… Did Illusion have something to do with [Gate]?

… It probably did.

Seemed like an easy way to ‘make two areas similar in nature’… Or something.

Illusion also seemed all about either making Reality out of nothing, or shifting Reality onto reality, and making something. And wasn’t that an odd thought.

Odd, because mana was possibility, and worded another way, the best illusions were about possibility stretched into reality as far as it could stretch, and having that possibility sometimes become real in the process.

Heck! [Polymorph] was all about the illusion of a person becoming real, which was yet another lesson on ‘illusion’ he had recently been re-exposed to, and which was another thing that pointed him toward the dragons.

“Huh.”

Erick sat back in his chair and had a nice, long think.

He read the scrolls again, and he read about how the eternal stonewood of the clan mountains still remained slightly magical, even when it was cut down and processed into a mountain. It was even ‘enchantable’, in a certain sort of way, allowing it to project falsities into the world beyond. This was why the clan mountains of the Alluvial District of Eralis were shrouded in illusions when they were viewed from a far distance.

‘Enchantable’ because what was really happening was that the eternal stonetrees were still alive, even though they looked like mountains and had been made into homes. As ‘living’ trees, they were producing their own illusion effects to make themselves appear to be unassuming mountains.

Erick repeated, “Huh.”

The nobles around here lived in tree houses, eh?

He kept reading, and kept realizing new and novel uses for eternal stonewood.

Tenebrae had certainly come through here and made his flying castle out of something close to, if not exactly, this eternal stonewood. Perhaps that small tree in the center of his castle was a still-living [Eternal Stonetree]. There was a problem with that theory, though; to a mana sense, Tenebrae’s castle didn’t seem like it was anything but stone, and the tree in the center of it all was very much a ‘normal’ magical tree.

The answer to that, though, was that Tenebrae had taken this spellwork and made his own version.

Or perhaps illusions were much more powerful than Erick suspected.

… Illusions were probably extremely powerful in a few specific ways. Not in all ways, for sure, but in a few? Like with these eternal stonetrees? Erick could certainly see that.

He was already imagining using Illusion Magic to subvert the inability for Particle Magic to deal with individual atoms. For instance, instead of having his [Grow Diamond] work off of random carbon hitting the growing diamond just right, and sticking in place, and producing a lot of unknown byproducts that need to be [Cleanse]ed away, he could throw some illusion into the working and he could conjure diamonds straight from the air. No need for complicated, chancy atomic processes! No need to wait for growth!

… If he was reading these scrolls right, anyway.

For the third time, with revelation piling upon revelation, Erick whispered, “Huh.”

Eventually, he had lunch. After that, he played around with some magical ideas, including one where illusions were pretty much ‘Wizardry, but not’ in that illusions could do a bunch of stuff outside of the normal spheres of magic, and if that ‘outside stuff’ was close enough to reality in the end, then the illusions transitioned Subjective Reality into real reality.

That particular thought was a Big Moment for him and he had to come back to it more than a few times because it was just so… magical.

It probably wasn’t Wizardry, though. It was just magic that was truly magical.

He re-read the scrolls, because he kinda had to after the series of revelations that he had been having. And then he had a small nap, because that seemed absolutely necessary, too. Of course, he set Ophiel up with defensive protocols and informed Teressa of what he was doing before he tucked in for a couple hours of shuteye. He slept a nap of the dead.

When he woke up, he made dinner, and then after dinner, it was time to make some magic.
