I looked around, finding dirt alleyways leading between skyscrapers. Innumerable people walked around me, dozens of species. Every shape, color, and size of species maneuvered around the madness. Yildraza was a cacophony of sound and a blitz of movement.

It was like the city was alive.

We stepped through the sea of people, my stature and size helping us out. I didn't even have to duck under the skyscraper's doors as walked in. With the others following behind us, I marveled at the craftsmanship.

Granite lined the walls, white streaks flowing across charcoal colored rock. The chandeliers, door handles, even the paperweights were made of gold. The ludicrous display of wealth almost made me laugh. It was extravagant, to say the least.

Once the others arrived, Caprika checked us into the hotel. As she did, the receptionist smiled at us,

"We've been awaiting your arrival. One of the tournament sponsors is waiting in your rooms to settle you all in and speak with Daniel."

I frowned, "What for?"

"Oh, I'm just a receptionist. Mr. Thorn wouldn't tell me something like that. I'm sure he'll discuss it in detail. Have a good day. Next."

We walked off, getting into an elevator. As we did, Torix looked at Caprika. His face was hidden under pure darkness, some magic stopping light from entering his hood. Torix said,

"Who's Mr. Thorn?"

Caprika sighed, "An annoying fellow to say the least."

As we went up the many floors, I turned towards Caprika,

"Hey, where did the car go to park?"

Caprika hissed, "A trash compactor."

"Oh, alright then."

We reached the 2,000th floor before walking out. After walking down a few hallways, we reached our room. Caprika handed us each a keycard before using hers to enter the doorway. As we stepped inside, a view of the city revealed itself.

It was breathtaking.

We saw for miles and miles, all the way to mountains off in the distance. A few high-rises rose up to the sides of our building, but they only enhanced the overall look. After I soaked in the view, I surveyed the apartment.

The entire wall of the expanse was glass, two staircases leading up to floors above. There were four private rooms, each covered in mahogany shaded wood. Off to my right, a kitchen with modern appliances and marble counter tops shined. Off to my left, an entertainment center with screens, games, and holographic projectors glistened.

I whistled, "Damn this is nice."

We took a few steps forward, reaching a set of stairs wide as the room. They wrapped around in a semi-circle, leading down to an expanse with lounging chairs. The stairs acted as bookcases, a library's worth of material hidden in them.

The wall of glass sat at the bottom of this expanse. Looking out at the city, an espen man stood with his hands locked behind his back. He wore a fitted, leather suit colored deep brown. I took a breath. My eyes widened in surprise.

It was tanned gialgathen skin.

Two tails trailed down from the back of his head to his waist. He kept silver collars around them, a classy wealth about them. The silver and brown matched the dull gray color of his skin. He turned, the white spots down the sides of his face sleek.

He turned towards us, a toothy grin aimed at us. With an accent and oozing charisma, he spread out his arms,

"Why hello there. I'm Thisbey Thorn, but you all can just call me Thisbey."
