Erick said, “Denutha is the only remaining part of that Kill and Exterminate Quest; all the plants and their research and all the other people who knew how the plant worked are either gone, or not a problem anymore. Denutha is a cousin of Cyril, the King of Odaali, who was just the crowned prince back when he went with Champion Yetta into Ar’Kendrithyst to kill Shade Planter, who had decided to take up the Daydropper for his own nefarious purposes… But I suppose you don’t need to know about that part.”

“I heard that story already anyway.” Destiny asked, “She gave herself up to the Viridian Throne, yes? Voluntarily?”

“Yes. They were going to execute her for her part in all this, and especially since the Daydropper was large enough to trigger Atunir’s release of a Kill and Exterminate Quest, but back then Greensoil didn’t like me and I was headed toward capturing one of the top reward slots.” Erick said, “All Denutha wanted was her day in court, which she expected to be able to get, as she was a noble of Odaali and a cousin to the royal family. Due to whatever events happened back then, that I never really looked into, the Viridian Throne decided to drag their feet. Or something. And now we’re here.”

Erick suddenly realized that Atunir’s Kill and Exterminate Quest and its ability to ‘ping’ the world to look for daydropper seeds, and otherwise, had directly led to him experimenting with radio imaging. Atunir had ‘helped’ him with the creation of [Cascade Imaging]. Perhaps he should be including Atunir in more parts of his life; she had been there for him for a lot.

Destiny took in Erick’s words and frowned. “Let’s bust her out of jail and take her to the Freelands where she can give her testimony and we can decide her fate. She obviously can’t get decent treatment here at Greensoil.”

“That is not happening,” Poi said, unequivocally.

Destiny scowled a little—

“I agree with Poi,” Erick said, “And the plan is to keep our relations with Greensoil positive.”

“Gods and demons, Erick,” Destiny said, exhausted. “You’re too good of a man for this world of evils; you don’t need to compromise on shit like this—” She cocked her head to the left. “Speaking of which. Are you going to do anything about that?”

There were lots of little problems happening all across the city the pub-carriage passed over, but it was rather easy to guess at which one Destiny was talking about.

They had passed over an open-air market where some guards were harassing some people at their fried foods stall. One of the human guards had just pushed over the entire vat of hot oil, spilling the stuff across the cook’s legs. The cook and his wife were mostly unharmed, but they stripped out of their pants as fast as they could, before their skin fried to the fabric too badly. Base Health prevented any real injury, but their food stall was ruined, and so was their day. The woman tried to heal the little damage her husband had suffered, but the light around her hand fizzled out.

No unauthorized magic within city limits; not for the little people, anyway. And especially not for non-humans. The cook and his wife were demi, or half-incani or half-human, depending on where you lived. Here they were called half-human, and they were treated perhaps worse than the dragonkin, who were at least treated like normal people, if second class.

Erick didn’t have to think about his answer. He said, “I can’t be a tyrant, Destiny, so if you want to—”

The air had flickered halfway through Erick’s answer.

Destiny was gone again.

“… And there she goes.”

The pub-carriage had passed far enough away from the incident that Erick had needed to send an undercover Ophiel over to check out what was happening.

Sure enough, Destiny was there, but she was not a nondescript woman anymore. She was a gorgeous lady with a bright red dress and her perfect face framed by an amazingly ostentatious hat. She was already yelling at the guards, asking them ‘why they had fucked up her favorite fries stall’ for ‘they made all the best potatoes around’, and ‘Don’t you have something better to do with your lives than harass demis!’.

Erick could already see the cook and his wife getting very uncomfortable, and not just because their legs had been burned a little; the oil had done some latent damage, it seemed. That damage wasn’t a problem for Destiny, though. Destiny walked over and healed them fully, and then did some very fancy magic to fix up the food stall, while the guards and some of the other market-goers watched.

Erick almost sighed.

That casual display of perfect magic caused the guards to go from almost-angry to wide-eyed and wary.

Ever since the advent of Erick’s Node Network there were a lot of spells layered over places like here in Greendale, that prevented the use of almost all magics. Candlepoint had its fair share of Denials, too, cast by Erick himself in order to shut down violence between people. He had left Healing Magics and some utility spells alone, like [Mend] and [Cleanse], but [Stoneshape] and all fire spells (aside from [Prestidigitation]) were shut down. It seemed that Greendale went beyond Erick’s own paranoia.

However far they went with the Denials, there was a way to break them. And easily. All one needed was a Domain that could push against that automated power, and allow one’s own power to manifest.

So Destiny, casting her magics like that, was probably going to get a talking-at by the local authorities, higher up the chain than the guard right there…

Should Erick have helped?

Even though it would have broken his own cover, and gotten him involved in stuff that he did not need to be involved in, Erick felt somewhat guilty for not doing anything.

Erick asked Poi, “Should I have stepped in?”

“Destiny is way too focused on the small picture and you promised not to interfere with daily occurrences between guards and citizens or otherwise inside Greensoil.”

“So that’s a ‘no’?”

“… I get that you want to help everyone, but you agreed to certain diplomatic pacts.” Poi said, “But to be clear… I can’t be clear. I would want you to wash away all the double standards here on Greensoil if you could, but I also understand that you can’t do that, for that would be becoming The Tyrant.”

After a moment of silent contemplation on all of that, Erick added, “Storm’s Edge was rather nice, you know. In almost all the personal ways it could be. Aside from the anti-cultist stuff, but that’s like complaining that the sky is blue. The big stuff was all good at Storm’s Edge. I didn’t see a single murder or rape or otherwise. Lotta kids thieving from everyone they could, though.”

“If you saw a murder or rape I assume you would step in, because you always do.”

“Good!” Erick smiled, saying, “Because I just stopped a murder about a kilometer to the north.”

Poi sighed a little. “… I know. Do I need to do a coverup?”

“Nope. All anyone saw was a flash of light. The man who had his sword inside the other man is now inside a guard holding cell and the victim is healed. Looks like a basic crime of passion, if the crying-and-now-bewildered woman is any indication.”

“Destiny is going to be mad that she missed out on the big justice because she had to go for the small justice.” Poi said, “You should tell her that.”

Erick chuckled. Maybe he would tell her that.

The pub-carriage passed by the last of the large buildings, here in the suburbs surrounding Greendale, and ascended properly into the air, the ground falling away as the cart passed on from the city-line to the inter-city line. Erick stared out the window a little, like some of the other out-of-towners who had followed them onto the pub-carriage, headed into the main city.

Greensoil was mostly a land of farms and small hamlets and villages out on the edges of rivers, all without proper walls, for though Greensoil was a bit tyrannical with its non-humans, they protected their lands very well. That was why people of all races lived here, even though only humans were allowed to be nobles, or hold office anywhere above the rank of ‘knight’.

The land was green as far as the eye could see, with nary a wall in sight. Copses of trees sprung up here and there, looking like darker bits of green, but mostly, it was farmland down there. Rows upon rows of vegetables of all sorts. Orchards in the distance. Pastures for cows in the far distance. The wheat fields were too far to see, but they existed over toward the north of Greendale. Some of those fields were green still, but some were turning gold, getting ready for harvest.

As far as the eyes could see, it was open land out there, hundreds upon hundreds of open kilometers of farms and pastures.

The Greensoil Republic was a little over half the size of the United States and they had a comparable sized civilization, full of their own unique communities and cultures and peoples. They were actually the largest, singular civilization on Veird. There were many humans here who went their whole lives never leaving this place, for why would they need to?

Erick looked out across the land, and said, “Aside from the racism and tyranny, they do make a rather safe civilization.”

“I think you made a better one over in the Crystal Forest.”

Erick smiled. “And I didn’t have to use [Weaken Monsters] to do it!”

“That’s a terrible spell. A crutch, that if the ‘archmage’ using it misses a monster, that monster rages and needs to be put down by adventurers that don’t know how to handle the danger, because they live in this land of peace.”

“But now they have all those dungeons—”

“Which only means that the warriors here know how to fight, which means that they’re either going to have a revolution on their hands or they’re going to become expansionist.”

… Those were pretty strong words for Poi.

Erick looked Poi over, asking, “Are you okay?”

Poi frowned a little, and admitted, “I’m technically demi, in addition to being dragonkin. If I wasn’t who I was, they’d try to kill me— Okay. Yes. That was an exaggeration. Sorry.” He gave a barely audible sigh. “I didn’t think this trip would get to me like this… Kiri is the one who hates these people for what they did to her family and to her, back at Tower Academy.” He looked to Erick. “Which is a topic that came up a lot back at the House when you were gone. She’s trying to make her family move to Candlepoint and apparently her family is under a major contract and they can’t leave Odaali without defaulting on their worker contracts.”

Erick furrowed his brow. “She never… She purposefully never brought that up around me, did she?”

“Correct. It’d probably be better if you pretended you never heard me tell you about it, too. She’s trying to solve that for herself, not unlike how your actual daughter tries to live.”

Now it was Erick’s turn to sigh. He looked out at the window, at all the peaceful farmland, and said, “You know… Jane once called this place ‘feudal Europe medieval-style’. It’d be kinda nice to pretend it was just that, but that’d be pretending.”

“At least the Viridian King apologized for trying to assassinate you that one time.”

“Things would have been a lot different if Jane hadn’t caught that Green Circle assassin parasitizing the food…”

Erick thoughts drifted…

“Thinking about what the Dark said about you Establishing your own past?” Poi asked.

“Somewhat. I’m trying not to let it affect me, but…” Erick said, “So the gods live in a land that is beyond time, being both here and there at the same time— Perhaps I would have called them 4th dimensional beings back on Earth. That seems too simple, though. Anyway. Gods have a lot of power to move back and forth through time, perhaps none more so than Phagar —who never talks about it— and he said that even gods are fallible when it comes to Wizards. Melemizargo, who does talk about it, told me about this [Onward] and… I guess I never considered that I could mess up a spell that badly. That’s what’s really bothering me.”

“Perhaps you should change your perspective, if for no other reason than to alleviate your mind of this burden.” Poi said, “If Melemizargo is correct, then that means you gifted the world eleven years of peace. That doesn’t seem like you messed up at all, Erick. That seems like you sacrificed yourself in order to make this all work.” Poi shrugged. “Which is just like you.”

Erick felt a tension leave him and his shoulders sag. But he wasn’t quite ready to accept Poi’s charitable interpretation yet, because he didn’t like how, if Melemizargo had been right, then that meant that Erick hadn't actually been here for the last eleven years.

That would have been a cruel thing to do to his loved ones. That would have been like putting a repro down in his place, and then coming back to reap the repro’s work, and to take his life back, and that was itself a huge mess of moral issues.

Poi said, “That’s an unfair comparison, too. You were yourself this whole time. If anything, you were just lost to the flow— Erick. I certainly didn’t feel like you weren’t here. You were here, this whole time.”

“… Aye. Maybe I was.”

“You were.”

Maybe…

Erick’s thoughts drifted off into a hundred different tangents as he considered what he knew.

Poi fell silent, and soon, he was telepathically connecting with people outside of the pub-carriage; always working, he was, even when he wasn’t.

The pub-carriage soon rolled into the station at central Greendale, the capital city of the Greensoil Republic, and though it was beautiful, Erick’s thoughts were still turned inward—

Until Poi said, “Look lively. Seems we didn’t manage to get through the other station without tripping some sort of alarm.”

Erick scowled a little as the doors opened and people began to filter outward, into the grand central station. Under a monumental housing of glass and steel and spellwork, thousands of pub-carriages went back and forth all the time, on tens of different landings, to the outlying areas of Greendale, and also around the city itself. Erick would have enjoyed the architecture if it weren’t for the people standing on the platform, beyond his pub-carriage.

A trio of people in dark green official dress armor, which was mostly just a breastplate and fabrics, stood waiting on the landing beyond, their eyes going over every person exiting the pub-carriage. Two men, one woman. And then all three of them looked at Erick, but not at Poi.

