“You’ve given the world a lot. Chocolate. [Renew]. [Exalted Rain]. Potatoes, Erick, potatoes. You deserve more than you have been given. I know you already have a plethora of godly connections, but ask for my help sometimes, and you’ll get it.”

Erick had no idea that Atunir felt this way. “I will, then, if something comes up, I will ask. Thank you.”

“Good. I know you will.” Atunir said, “But I know you did not expect any of that, so I don’t expect any answers on that front at the moment. Let us move on to the release of my part of Yggdrasil’s seal.”

Erick nodded. He was prepared.

“By your completion of two small tasks, I can release my part of that seal. The two tasks I have in mind are nothing that difficult. One you should be able to take care of in a day, if you wish it to be done that quickly, and the other might take a little while longer, depending on how deep you want to go with it. I, for one, hope you go all the way with the second task, for I and my people have been working on it for a long time.

“The first task is to travel to Greendale in the Greensoil Republic, and to finally end this open Kill and Exterminate Quest, by completion of the final part of that Quest, the only part which has been allowed to exist for the last 13 years. The problem of Denutha Odaari; the last person of the three people who created the Daydropper Vine and almost killed the world.

“This task is solved either by her death, or by her true repentance through a [Reincarnation] and a [Blessing of Empathy]. Either is fine. Some people are even calling for justice of a sort. If she gets her day in court, and there is a solid outcome, then I will be fine with that, too.

“What I am not actually fine with is how the Viridian King has locked her up in a cage since her voluntary surrender to the Green Circle all those years ago.

“End her imprisonment one way or another.”

Erick tried to recall what he knew of that situation. “I heard that they didn’t carry out her trial because the completion of that Kill and Exterminate Quest would have granted me 10 points?” It never bothered him that those points had been denied to him because that reward hinged on the death of Odaari, who was some sort of cousin to Cyril Odaali, who was now the king of that major city of Odaali. Back then he had been the crowned prince… “I always suspected that they didn’t kill Denutha because of some political reasons— Political beyond me, I mean.”

“It’s a mess, Erick. I would have you carve through it and end the mess one way or the other. If you choose to see justice done then this first task might take a while, with you doing much of nothing while you wait for bureaucracy to act. If that is fine with you and Yggdrasil, then that is fine with me. But since I suspect that you will want to have some sort of justice happen...” Atunir moved on, “This brings us to the second task.” With a delighted-yet-hiding-it voice, Atunir said, “There is a Grand Dungeon at Greensoil located an hour north of Greendale by pub-carriage.

“That dungeon has an implementation of a Script-like magical interface that I officially present to you as an alternative to a Script in whatever next worlds may come.” Atunir said, “I would have you delve that dungeon, and I would have you tell me what you think. I suggest you go in wearing a different form other than your own, otherwise people might get too excited and they’ll try to show it off instead of allowing you to experience it for yourself. Perhaps bring another person with you? That is of no matter to me. I just want you to see the dungeon for yourself.”

“… Huh. Okay.” Erick asked, “The Gem Dungeon, yes?”

One of the Grand Dungeons of the world, and one of the very few that Quilatalap had had absolutely nothing to do with, because Atunir honestly did not like the man (thinking about that, maybe Atunir was only approaching Erick like this because Quilatalap was out of the picture for the next few years (dammit, Erick missed that big guy already)), the Gem Dungeon was one of the few dungeons that truly went all-in on making a replacement for the Script. Most of the few places that tried for a Second Script did not actually have a Second Script; they adjusted the current Script and put forth those adjustments as ‘better’ than the current system.

Most places, though, actually didn’t try to make anything approaching the complexity of a Script at all; they just imposed restrictions on delvers. That was what the dungeon at Storm’s Edge had done, before this past week.

Atunir announced, “That’s the one! Our wonderful Gem Dungeon!”

“I would love to see what you envision for the Script.”

Atunir started gushing, “My system might even work on worlds without a true Script shield at all! It’s all very low-manatech, too, and reminiscent of the Old Cosmology where the mana waned thin—” She cut herself off. “Anyway. We’re very proud of the Second Script we’ve come up with. It’s different from what you’re used to, but… It might work out really well. Our ideas —if implemented well— should cut down Yggdrasil’s seeds maturation time from decades to years, because the necessary starter mana would be so much less than what is needed now to make a Script. We could transform barren rocks into worlds for people as fast as Yggdrasil wishes to make seeds!”

Erick appreciated her enthusiasm, but… “Hopefully Yggdrasil won’t be a dad for 90 more years.”

“Right right.” Atunir said, “I can help with that restriction, too, once you get the seal removed. Denying Fertility is very much within my church of cause, Erick. You might not even need to do Wizardry yourself to keep that seal intact if Yggdrasil directly agrees to my denial of his Fertility, but then again, that would be putting the power of a World Tree into my hands, and I don’t think I want that responsibility. But it’s a thought, anyway.”

“… Huh. Well okay.”

Atunir grinned. “See you later, Erick. I hope you enjoy Greensoil.”

- - - -

“Back on Earth,” Erick began, as the pub-carriage glided along its node network railing in the sky, with nary a bump in the transit, “There were political dissidents that never got their days in court, so I suppose I shouldn’t be that surprised that people would do the same thing here on Veird.”

“They like to use her as a bargaining chip with you, more than they care about her personal needs.”

“I believe I told them to let her have her day in court so she could explain herself and the Daydropper as she wished to do for all these years. And then I left… And I never followed up on that.” Erick said, “Surely there’s no ‘great big secret’ that she has on Greensoil that hasn’t been said already?”

“It’s probably not that. I’m rather sure they don’t want to bring up the Quiet War and the Decimation of Odaali, because they’re trying not to have all-out war with the Wasteland.”

“Ahh, yes. That makes some sort of sense.”

“But now you’re here to force the issue,” said Destiny, the Wizard of Chaos.

Erick took a moment to look at the woman sitting to his right. She was unremarkable in all ways. Brown hair, average adventurer build with some good tone to her muscles, and a brightness to her brown eyes that made her look smart. She was a common sort of person, who would only appear beautiful to those who knew her.

Erick knew her.

Erick smiled a little. “I failed to invite you over for the end of the Storm’s Edge business, didn’t I.”

“Yes you did!” Destiny said, punching his shoulder lightly. “A forgivable failure, but still a failure.” Destiny leaned forward and nodded to Poi, “Poi. Hello again.”

Poi nodded back, “Hello, Destiny. How long have you been here?”

“Not long!” Destiny leaned back in her seat and kicked her feet out a little, saying, “I heard something about false imprisonment and I couldn’t stay away. I just got here. Thanks for including me in your [Don’t Look At Me] aura.”

“Of course,” Poi said.

Erick said, “I’m rather sure it’s [Don’t Notice Me].”

Destiny scoffed—

“You’re both wrong,” Poi said, grinning.

Erick looked to him, as Destiny leaned forward to look past Erick, toward Poi.

Poi said, “Erick is less-wrong.”

“I’m rather certain I’m completely correct,” Erick said.

“95%,” Poi said.

“Whatever it really is, I’d rather not have anyone use it at all,” Destiny said, “But I suppose you Mind Mages have proven yourself often enough that you’re not too much of a worry.”

Poi laughed. “Thanks, Destiny. I suppose you’re not so bad for a Wizard, either.”

Destiny nodded and pretended to take Poi’s sarcastic joke literally.

Destiny wasn’t a Full Wizard yet, but she had opted for a lot more protections against other people influencing her than Erick had gone for; a [Personal Ward] that prevented all Mind and Fae Magic, was just one of her layered defenses. She even had some spells that annihilated all of those sorts of magics in a very large area.

Destiny absolutely hated authority in almost all ways, which had caused her to initially hate Poi and all the other Mind Mages, and a whole bunch of other large swaths of the population besides. But years had passed, and she was fine with some Mind Mages, Poi chief among them, and she had even taken pleasure in helping the Mind Mages to eliminate various controlling mental and physical threats the world over. These days, because of those interactions, she generally approved of the Mind Mages, and they, in turn, generally approved of her.

It had taken Destiny a while to come around to Erick, too, but she had eventually started to see him as more of a friend and less as a jailer; Erick had saved her and continued to protect her from the world for many years, even after rescuing her from Ar’Cosmos.

For Destiny was the Wizard that the dragons of Ar’Cosmos had captured many years ago, in order to transform her into a Carnage Wizard, in order to use her to free other dragons from the Dragon Curse by Paradoxing them away from normal Elemental Dragon Essence. The Houses of Ar’Cosmos had been using Wizards in that way ever since the advent of the Curse, which was still a part of the Headmaster of Oceanside, Kirginatharp, which still affected all normal dragons out here, in the real world. The Curse had no effect on Benevolence dragons, like Erick, or on any other Paradoxed dragons, of Carnage, Death, or Fae, which was why Ar’Cosmos had targeted Wizards the world over, to capture them, to free themselves of the Curse.

Had targeted.

These days, Erick could free any dragon from the Curse at-will. Those dragons automatically joined House Benevolence in a loose-affiliation sort of way, or more directly, if they wished. Most dragons actually stayed in Fairie, though, either in the growing city of Ar’Cosmos, or in any of the other cities blossoming just on the other side of reality. For those who remained in Fairie, there was no need to go to Erick for any sorts of Paradoxing solutions to the Curse, for Fairie kept the Curse away from them already.

And thanks to Erick, there were no longer any space concerns over there in Ar’Cosmos, and in the greater Fairie. [Renew] allowed Ar’Cosmos to expand the ‘Gate Space’ across all the rest of Veird… Theoretically. Fairie wasn’t much wider than the Surface these days, but even that was a great, great deal larger than it used to be, back when it was contained to one small land in the center of the Forest of Glaquin.

As for Destiny, she was done with Ar’Cosmos, for now and forever.

When Erick had taken her from that draconic land and [Reincarnation]ed her according to a grand confluence of various forces of the world, he had gifted and burdened her with a [Blessing of Empathy], and taken charge of her as both her mentor, and jailer. It was the only way the rest of the world would allow a Wizard to live.

It had taken Destiny some time to come to terms with what Erick had done to her, but she mostly blamed all the rest of the world for that these days.

It was why she had taken so strongly to emancipating all of the slave states of Nergal, which she had succeeded in doing, and which Erick had helped her with. That land was now known as the Freelands because of her and Messalina, the Lifebinder.

Destiny was rather good at several different spells, and one of them, the one she loved to use all the time, was called [Benevolent Chaos]. That spell was the one that had caused her to appear next to Erick, and which also allowed her to move practically anywhere that there was some problem of inequality to be solved. Due to her own actions through using that spell all the time, she had become known as the Wizard of Chaos.

And now she was here, for some reason.

Destiny had a certain look to her as she asked, “So what’s the full story of us being here?”

Poi raised an eyebrow, and asked the question that Erick was already thinking. “You’re going to stick around? Not ask about what’s up and then leave?”

“Maybe.” Destiny looked at Erick, saying, “You promised to contact me after the trouble at Storm’s Edge. It was unkind to make such a mess at my doorstep without talking to me afterward.”

Erick scoffed. “I sent a letter detailing everything.”

“Well it wasn’t enough!”

“It was an extensive letter. Four pages!”

“Well maybe I wanted to see you again. You’re always so damned busy all the time.” Destiny shrugged. “So what’s going on here in Greensoil?”

“Do you know about the Daydropper?”

“Vaguely.”

Erick began, “The short story is this: The Halls of the Dead was an organization from the Wasteland here in Greensoil. They made the Daydropper Vine using my Particle Magic understanding. Their first real use of that plant caused the Decimation of Odaali, with Arrox Geller and Parox Geller being the main antagonists of that whole plan to kill all humans, with Denutha Odaari as their scientist accomplice. There was a breach demon at the end of that horror, because it truly was a plan to ‘kill all humans’, and they were just getting started with the Daydropper and Odaali, but I and others put a stop to that. Denutha is the only survivor from that time, and she gave herself up willingly to the Green Circle, the assassins of the Viridian Throne. We’re here to see about getting a trial. I still have the Kill and Exterminate box around here… Here.”

Atunir has identified a global danger to Veird!

Kill and Exterminate!

Denutha Odaari of the Halls of the Dead.

Reward: 10 ability points, to each of the 1000 people who most contribute to completion of this Quest!

