Perhaps it was time to end this charade. Erick would have preferred somewhere less public, but that was fine. If these people were going to start shit with him, he was going to finish it, but he would be polite first.

Poi left the pub-carriage first, and waited to the side… Ah? So he was Unnoticeable, now? Right. He was playing along with Erick’s desire to see the world as a normal person, but that didn’t mean he was willing to sacrifice his own safety, and these people would surely notice who Poi was as soon as he dropped his aura.

Erick didn’t blame Poi for any of those decisions. Erick hated corrupt governments himself —always had, always will— which is why he tried to make Candlepoint as egalitarian and open and lawful as possible.

Erick confidently strode forward, to stand before the inquisitors. “Hello?”

The shorter male inquisitor gave half a nod to his compatriots.

The tallest inquisitor narrowed his eyes at Erick. “It’s not illegal to have Domains, but you are required to register them, and to not use them in public.”

Erick pulled out his Dungeon Guild badge he kept around his neck, and then let it hang on his chest. “Ashes Woodfield. I am a registered, 9-Star delver and adventurer both, in good standing with the major Guilds, and you’re lying, officer. According to the Treaty of Oceanside however long ago it was, of which Greensoil was a signer, I can use my Domains internally as much as I want, wherever I go. Which is what I was doing. Can I help you more than that?”

The tall man scowled—

The shorter inquisitor sent a telepathic message to the larger guy, which Erick was only able to understand because the shorter guy wasn’t very good about hiding the microexpressions of his throat and tongue. ‘Just checked his Dungeon Guild tag. He has a registered Domain but we’ll need clearance to get any more information other than that.’

The woman inquisitor was a bit better about keeping her mouth and throat in control as she sent her messages, but Erick was able to ‘read’ those, too. ‘His Water Domain is active. We’re looking for a Benevolence Domain. It was here, but now it’s gone.’

The lead inquisitor didn’t like ‘Ashes’ tone, though, so he said, “It might be legal to walk around with an internal Domain, but it’s not legal to erase your presence wherever you go. There’s a big line of blank from where you stepped off the Gate, all the way to here and now.”

“Ah. Trying to intimidate me, eh? That’s not going to work either because there is no law against erasing my own manasphere presence. Greensoil has tried to implement that law many, many times, but it fails to pass the house of lords every time. No law against humans erasing their manasphere, anyway. Not so true for everyone else.”

The woman inquisitor sighed, as she sent to her superior, ‘He knows the law and is a 9 star and all the [Scan]s return ‘human’. We have to move faster than we are moving.’

The lead inquisitor frowned, then stared at Erick and took a chance, “Are you The Wizard?”

After a surreal moment, Erick balked, then laughed loud. “What-the-fu—! Ha!” And then he pretended to falter a little bit. “… Why? Is he around here?”

Several nearby people were already interested in the conversation happening between the inquisitors and the strange man on the landing platform, but at the words ‘The Wizard’, a few moved closer to hear better. At Erick’s laughter, and at his own question, the nearby public got a lot more interested. They started looking around—

The smaller male inquisitor shook his head. The woman mouthed that this was a dead end, and they needed to move faster.

The lead inquisitor softly asked, “Have you seen anything weird?”

“I don’t snitch to guards who are abusing their authority.”

Erick almost said more, but the inquisitors had perked up as the smaller man telepathically told the other two that there was ‘contact with strangeness’ a few kilometers down the line from the Gatehouse. Two of the inquisitors wanted to move on the new contact right now—

But the lead inquisitor glared at Erick, saying, “We’re too close to Shadow’s Feast for this sort of shit. If I catch you flouting the law again then I’ll do a lot worse than ask you questions.”

And then the inquisitors rushed away, down and out of the station, onto a [Force Platform] to then fly away down south. Back toward where Destiny was. They’d never catch her, though; Erick was the only one who could.

Erick watched them go for a little bit, feeling kinda miffed. Maybe even angry.

And then he turned and walked into the station. Since the confrontation was over, everyone else who had been watching also got a hurried move on; everyone had places to be, and they had to be there as soon as possible!

Poi walked along with Erick, sending, ‘Sorry about not including you in the [Don’t Know Me].’

Erick smiled. ‘So that’s what it’s called! [Don’t Know Me]!’ He added, ‘And yeah, I know. You explained it to me already. You’re only allowed to protect yourself and other Mind Mages while going about normal duties, but since I’m not a Mind Mage… Yeah.’

Poi smirked, as he sent, ‘They made that law with people like you in mind— Well. You and Headmaster Kirginatharp. And since we’re going to be engaging with the law soon...’

‘Yup yup. Don’t want to make enemies before we get to the courthouse. If only everyone were as lawful as you, Poi, this world would be a lot better.’ Erick almost scowled, but he had more than enough control to keep his face completely normal, because some people were watching him. ‘That inquisitor was a complete asshole, trying to throw his weight around like that.’

Poi chuckled. ‘That’s how all the inquisitors are.’

‘You know? I wonder how much they’ll tell ‘Ashes’ about Denutha.’

‘Oh gods, Erick. Don’t tell me you’re going to go that far with this.’

‘Well… Yes. You’re probably right; this shouldn’t go much further than it already has. But also: I became a social worker because I wanted to help people, and that is why I decided to become the Apparent King, too. That desire has formed the foundation of everything I do. But Phagar and my time at Storm’s Edge helped to remind me that there are just some things you can’t see as king, so high above everyone else; some things you can only see at ground level. This little issue here has reinforced an old hatred of mine; a hatred against tyranny.’ Erick said, ‘So I’m going to push this for a little while. ‘Give them enough rope to hang themselves with’, you know.’

‘How about you push it until we get to the courthouse. ‘Ashes Woodfield’ won’t survive true contact with Greendale. That persona is probably already coming apart at the book binding, somewhere in their bureaucracy of this city.’

Erick shrugged. ‘Probably.’

Poi rolled his eyes, then sent, ‘Who do you even expect to see at the courthouse? A clerk, or something? Anyone who will listen to ‘Ashes’?’

‘If I knew I would tell you, but I don’t know, and that’s half the fun!’

Poi gave Erick a Look.

Erick almost chuckled, but he was being watched now.

- - - -

“Sorry, sir…” The clerk was confused. “You wish to know the status of Denutha Odaari’s trial?”

“That is correct.” Erick lied, “I’m doing some research for a history of The Wizard, and it came up that Denutha Odaari, of the Kill and Exterminate Quest for the Daydropper Vine, is still alive and in custody of Greendale, awaiting trial. It’s why I came out here. You know… Poke around, ask questions. That sort of thing.”

Finding the Grand Courthouse of Legality had been easy, for it was a great big building in white stone in the center-ish of the city, and the signage leading there could not have been clearer.

This place was not the courthouse, though. This place was two streets over, nearly two kilometers away from the courthouse, and was the third place in Erick’s quest to find out about Denutha Odaari without having to reveal himself as The Wizard.

The lie gracing Erick’s tongue had developed over a few different interactions, and was now rather perfect, in his opinion. He doubted this ruse would last very long at all, and he would drop the act as soon as his cover was truly challenged, but he wanted to see what Greensoil would do to him for asking these big sorts of questions. So far, there were some bored guards watching him from several blocks away with their mana sense, while everyone Erick actually interacted with was giving him the runaround. It was not quite how Erick had expected this to go, but in hindsight, of course they would give him the runaround.

He had time to kill, though. There were no official delve slots at the Gem Dungeon; any time he showed up there he would be allowed in. It wasn’t a very popular dungeon, even if it was one of the Grand Dungeons of the Surface.

And so, Erick was here, asking questions.

Poi waited outside, though, because of the ‘no non-human’ signs posted here and there. He could have walked past them and broken that stupid law, just as Erick had, for he was non-human too, but Poi didn’t want to break the law like that.

The clerk behind the counter eyed Erick. “… I see.”

Erick said, “No real rush on it. I got time.”

The clerk decided, “You need to go to the Grand Courthouse of Legality. This is the historical records building, and—”

“Don’t do that,” Erick said, smiling. “At the courthouse, they told me to go downstairs to the records office. The record house downstairs told me to go to the Knowledge Mage they keep employed for these sorts of questions across the street, at the other records house. The Knowledge Mage said he had nothing on my question, so he sent me here, to this historical records building, ‘The Archives’, and that’s you. And I’m like, the only person here, and have been the only person in line for the last few hours. You were reading a book before I came in here. I already went around and you’re the person to talk to about this; don’t try to send me anywhere else.”

The clerk put on her most professional stonewalling face, and said, “I am sorry, sir, but this is not the place to request information of that nature. You want current records, since I believe Denutha Odaari’s case is still in the courts. Or, you could go directly to the proper place to ask these sorts of stupid, traitorous questions; Please consult the Royal Palace for information regarding traitors to the crown, who are still alive and in custody somewhere in that place.”

Erick went, “Ah ha! Now we got somewhere. So I have to go to the palace?”

“… Yes. Good luck with that.”

“Is that really all you can tell me?”

“Yes. Go away now.”

“The people at the courthouse [Force Wall]ing me I could understand.” Erick said, “Even the Knowledge Mage I could believe simply didn’t have that sort of knowledge on hand, though that was a stretch. And now here you are, with actual information, and you’re not willing to share. Makes me think that the Viridian Throne doesn’t want The Wizard to get those ten points he’s owed from that Kill and Exterminate Quest, which seems really petty to me—”

“Look. Idiot. This shit is above my pay, and probably above yours, too; whoever the fuck you think you are. Grand traitor court cases are always politics and I can’t help you with those. Go yell at the shadows.”

Erick ignored that last deep insult, like he ignored all the rest. “You’ve been helpful so far. Just tell me why you think they haven’t solved her case, and I’ll leave.”

The clerk sighed, then said, “Try the Odaali Embassy. Far as I know they’ve been calling for Odaari’s head for over a decade, yet the Viridian Throne keeps denying them for whatever reason.”

Erick let his surprise show on his face. “… I didn’t know Odaali was doing that.”

“It’s rather hush-hush, but that’s the rumor.”

Erick looked the clerk over. She was a skinny woman of black hair and pale features, maybe in her late forties. Erick said, “Thank you for your time, Miss…?”

“None of your business; I won’t have my name written up by inquisitors or in some idiot historian’s notes.”

Erick grinned. “I’ll stop pestering you, Miss Unnamed Knowledge Mage, if you tell me why you’re over here and that other Knowledge Mage is over at the records house instead of you. You seem a lot more capable.”

“Wouldn’t you like to know.” The woman eyed Erick, and then the door. “Bye bye, now.”

Erick took the hint and walked away, smiling a little bit the whole time.

Outside the office, Poi asked, ‘Can we stop the subterfuge now?’

‘Yes.’ Erick sent, ‘Can’t very well go into the Odaali Embassy as ‘Ashes’, can I?’

Poi narrowed his eyes at Erick, for he could already hear—

Erick finished his thought, ‘Or can I?’

Poi gave Erick another Look. ‘I mean it, Erick. Shadow’s Feast is in two days and because of that, this level of security is a lot higher than usual. Higher than I expected it to be, and higher than you expected it to be. You’ve had your fun, and you’ve seen life on the ground, but it’s time to stop.’

‘Fine fine fine! It’s gonna be harder to approach the Gem Dungeon as myself, though. Atunir wants me to get the proper, on-the-ground experience there.’

‘… I suppose that is true.’
