In the course of the evening, Erick found out that Nirzir was terribly introverted. The princess of Void Song sat in a place of honor beside the main table, barely doing anything except to politely eat and pretend to fade into the background. People tried to talk to her, but none were able to get her to say more than a few words in response.

Erick accepted a lot of thanks from a lot of people.

Jane was talking to Patriarch Mirizo and a few others from Star Song and Void Song who had been invited to the party. Xue and Riri were not in attendance, though.

When it was over, Erick went home and went straight to bed. He was completely exhausted.

- - - -

The next morning Erick had one final meeting with Hangzi.

The Patriarch of Devouring Nightmare came to him, and sat down in his temporary living room. Jane served tea, and then she and all the guards departed to a different, nearby room.

Hangzi had not given any speeches last night, for as the Patriarch of a High Clan, he was above that. It was his job to act in control, and never cede authority to anyone. Except now, that facade broke a little. He said, “Thank you for remaining for this last week. I hope your stay in my Clan has been satisfactory?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “Thank you for your hospitality.”

Hangzi nodded. He paused. He said, “There is nothing I can offer to get you to stay in Songli, is there?”

Erick smiled at Hangzi’s heavily concealed, and yet honest desire for a friend. There were so many layers to his need that his words took Erick back, back to that moment when the four of them —Hangzi, Yorza, Warzi, and himself— were sitting around that dinner table at the top of Star Song’s Southern House, and Erick saw that Hangzi wanted true friends in his life. Ones that didn’t want to use him only for his resources, and ones that he didn’t have to use in turn for their resources.

Circumstances had wildly changed since then.

Mostly, those circumstances equaled out…

But Erick was probably higher up on the totem pole than Hangzi, if he was being honest with himself.

That allowed him a bit of leeway, to reach across the aisle, and to make a friend. Right now the age difference was a bit funky. The kid was only 19, and Erick was 49. But Erick would live to be 220 if he played his cards right; Rozeta’s Blessing and the accompanying Immune to Health Fatigue did that.

He would have plenty of time to wait out the hundred years on Yggdrasil’s Divine Seal.

And thinking of which...

Erick decided, “I will be moving on, but I appreciate Songli. I am thankful for Devouring Nightmare. And I’m glad to have met you, Hangzi. I would like to formalize a deeper bond, and to that end: I have another planting of Yggdrasil that needs to go somewhere. Got a good spot for him? Needs to be a deep lake, but he can defend himself from everything.”

There was a moment of pause, as Erick’s words registered.

Acting a bit faster than Hangzi, Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye bobbed on Erick’s shoulder in recognition of his name, and then he bounced more, in recognition of what was about to happen.

Hangzi brightened, but only the smallest amount; he was restraining himself. He glanced to the [Scry] eye then asked, “Will he be controlling the weather around here, too?”

“Not unless you ask him to.” Erick added, “Or, if you ask me to ask him. Just keep in mind that with any luck on my end, Yggdrasil might get [Gate], and Candlepoint will be one of the cities on the other side.”

Hangzi graciously said, “I understand. I will accept this honor on behalf of Songli.” He paused in thought, then said, “East of Holorulo, directly across the Wanzhi River, there are a few places that have been evacuated, as the people have been moved into better locations on this side of the river. There is one lake-like place that is what you might call a fishing resort town. It will require some excavation but I can have that done in an hour. It will serve as a good location for Yggdrasil.”

“That sounds perfect.” Erick grinned. “Want to see a planting? I’m going to let Yggdrasil use [Eternal Stonetree] in this second location, so it should be quite a sight!”

Yggdrasil left Erick’s shoulder and bobbed in place; he was excited.

Hangzi seriously said, “There will need to be some excavation and preparation, if not for Yggdrasil, then for the benefit of future generations, and unless you have [Cityshape], which I do not believe you do, then one of our City Shapers will need to do what we pay them to do.” He bargained with a voice that was not used to bargaining, “I can have it done in twenty minutes.” A tendril of thought left his head.

Erick waited, patiently happy.

Yggdrasil waited impatiently and ecstatic, his white [Scry] eye bouncing all around. Ophiel twittered in curious guitar twangs as he watched Yggdrasil’s eye play in the air.

Soon enough, Hangzi declared, “It is being done as I speak.”

Erick was already watching with Ophiel; finding the spot Hangzi spoke of was easy enough.

- - - -

Fishing this far north on the Wanzhi River was different than fishing down south, next to Eralis. By the time the water got all the way down there it had been used up in Alaralti’s farms, and portioned out to all the smaller villages and otherwise that sprung up past Holorulo. But up here, the waters ran deep, and the monsters were big.

The fishing villages up here were built like they were on the front lines of a war, because they were. The boat houses were castles, half submerged, with massive gates that could be shut to prevent monsters from following a retreating vessel. The villages themselves were built kilometers from shore, and in similar styles, for many fish knew how to fly.

And almost all of those fishing towns were ghost towns, now; the people either moved on, or dead.

In one place in particular, this evacuation was well apparent.

There was a carved-out, three-kilometer diameter lake, situated right next to the Wanzhi River. A massive lock separated the lake from the river itself. Inside the lake, nice looking residential houses were set only twenty meters from the waters, with little care given over to proper, waterside construction. When the lock broke, which probably happened in the war, flying fish probably destroyed the resort town. This was a middle-class area, for sure. Merchant class, at least.

And it had been hit hard. Destroyed houses. Burned out husks. Craters, here and there. No one had bothered to fix it up, either, which meant that anyone who had been living here was either dead, or didn’t care.

Whatever the case, at least one person was going to be living here soon enough; Yggdrasil.

There was a flying man above the center of that deep lake, holding his hands up to the sky as he hovered a hundred meters above the dark waters. A few smaller fish monsters noticed the man, but those monsters could only jump a dozen meters out of the water. The man was too high up to be attacked by those lesser beasts. He wore white robes that fluttered in the wind, with an image of Rozeta embroidered on the back—

Oh. Erick knew the man. It was the guy who made the City Shields.

Mage Ishibo.

White magic swirled around the man, reaching a crescendo, and then he pulsed. A wave of Shaping magic swept outward, impacting the waters, like the finger of a deity, then reached down into the waves. The magic sunk deep. And then, it changed.

Metals and glass and wood churned along the bottom of the lake, flying the hundreds of meters up and out of the waters, to join a gathering roil of debris, a swirling torus of trash that then spread outward from Ishibo’s point of impact. In a matter of minutes, the lake cleared from a dark, muddy blue, to clear blue, allowing Erick to fully see down into the depths, to see that a lot of boats had been sunk in these waters.

Had been. The boats were rapidly becoming part of the churning roil of white magic.

With the boats and trash gone, the larger monsters were revealed. The most impressive one was a massive eel; a rivergrieve, perhaps. It was twenty meters long, at least. There were smaller monsters, too. Erick only really noticed the rivergrieve, though, as the [Cityshape] had ripped apart three wrecks and uncovered that monster. As that ring of grabbed material expanded, it tore through two more major wrecks, uncovering two more rivergrieves, each the same size as the first.

[Cityshape] hit the residential coastline in a roil of broken stuffs, grabbing destroyed houses and making them a part of its magic. And then, like spreading crystallization, the coastline of the lake became a thick seawall, meters deep, with flat land beyond that wall. The houses had all vanished, but the lock leading into the side lake was repaired and fortified into something twice as large as it had been before.

Erick had no idea where all the rest of the trash went. Perhaps Ishibo was using a variant of [City Shape], with [Cleanse] in there?

Within minutes, the transformation was over and the monsters down below were angry.

The massive eels were transforming from solid, dark greens to faintly translucent and then fully translucent, vanishing from sight with a magic that was not [Invisibility], the waters around them filled with ethereal jaws that snapped at anything that got too close. More than a few smaller fish monsters were turned into chum as the larger monsters moved out. One of the monstrous eels slipped upward, to the surface, and then breached the surface, flying through the air as though it was water, headed straight for—

Ishibo saw what Erick saw. He blipped away, fast as he could go.

Erick came back to himself. “To confirm, are those rivergrieves? Right? I’ve only ever seen juveniles before and the juveniles certainly did not fly.”

Hangzi looked up, probably monitoring the telepathic connection he had to whoever he was speaking with. “… No. Those are false rivergrieves. They’re monsters with cores and so they might one day become true rivergrieves, but their cores are not grand. I am being told that the larger one is closer to that fundamental shift than the others, but it is still not there yet.”

“Ah. Well,” Erick paused. In the other room, Jane, Teressa, Poi, and a few of Hangzi’s guards waited patiently. Erick called out to Jane, “Hey, Jane! Want a false rivergrieve?”

After an embarrassed moment, Jane stepped out of that side room and into the entrance to where Erick and Hangzi sat. She spoke with polite courtesy, “No thank you, father. I picked up a false rivergrieve yesterday, and did not get a chance to tell you yet.”

“Oh! Well okay.” Erick said, “Then! I’ll just kill them and plant Yggdrasil.”

Hangzi nodded.

Yggdrasil bounced.

Jane retreated back to the side room.

Seven Ophiels descended to the surface of the waters of the riverside lake, each of them aglow with white light, glittering with purpose. Two of the three false rivergrieves were flying now, prowling, searching for the one that had changed their home. Ophiel might not have [Cityshape]d the lake, but they made for good targets anyway.

Ophiels wrapped themselves in rings of lightning, that flashed out into mandalas of intricacy, right as the translucent monsters each opened a hundred ethereal jaws all around themselves, and attacked.

Lightning met Force Magic, and lost.

Too many jaws attacked from too many angles, and Ophiels turned into broken mana.

On his shoulder, Ophiel squawked in annoyance.

Erick frowned, as he said, “Obviously, I did not respect the fish. Always learning something new, it seems."

Hangzi had a tiny smirk that he could not wipe off of his face, but he kept his mouth shut.

Erick summoned a few more Ophiel and had them lightstep over to the targets. This time, he started with an [Undertow Star], cast onto the surface of the lake.

Hangzi lost his smirk.

A thousand tendrils of breaking shadow extended outward from a point of light above the waters, ruffling the lake into waves. The star, ensconced beyond its own impenetrable void, attacked. The eel monsters were enemies, and the star saw this, training its tendrils upon the beasts, and also upon every single other monster underneath the waves.

The Force magics of the lesser rivergrieves broke in a hundred tiny ways, showing in the cracks of star-like light that formed along their translucent lengths, and in the breaking of ethereal jaws. The eels dropped out of the sky, belly-flopping into the water, their magic suddenly broken.

Under the watchful glow of the [Undertow Star], Ophiels dove into the lake and let loose with lightning once again. This time, lightning spread far and wide, [Fulmination Aura] shattering every living thing that hunted beneath (and sometimes above!) the waves. In a minute, the lake was empty of threats.

Erick canceled [Undertow Star]. Shadows retreated into the Void; the light from beyond went out.

Hangzi asked, “What… What was that?”

“I made a new spell the other day.” Erick handed him the blue box for [Undertow Star]. “The [Spatial Denial] of this is a bit wonky, but the rest of it turned out really well.” He stood. “Care to see the planting in person?”

Hangzi read the blue box, taking ten seconds to do so, and experiencing half a dozen emotions just as fast. Disbelief, primarily. Then came a bit of anger, but that was swept away by a sudden sadness. Acceptance, and a bit of forced cheer, came last. He looked up to see Erick standing, then he stood in turn. “Nice spell.” He added, “Yes. I want to see the planting in person. I also want a formal introduction between me and Yggdrasil. He might forget this time in his life as one would a dream, but I still wish to be a part of that dream. Rozeta willing, I will be here for a long time.”

Erick smiled, saying, “Of course. Poi can come with me. Do you wish to take a guard, too?”

