"No, I won't." Veronica stared at him. "Just like you didn’t explain which skill Rose Van Erren was nested inside prior to her resurrection. So, let's move on to your parents and Udraal instead. But to do that, we need to start with someone else. Though his parents weren't anything spectacular other than winning some honors and being promoted to minor nobility, Roland had always been a great talent. And after drawing the Starhawk's attention, their boy was a monster." She pressed her lips together and aimed her next words directly at Shiv's heart. "Frankly, he's a bit like you."

Shiv grunted with displeasure. "Really? You're going to say that to my face?"

"I'm going to say anything I think is the truth. Because it is. Of course, he was a lot more precise than you are. Probably wiser in terms of strategy and tactics. Far more aware. Much nicer." With every passing compliment she offered Roland, Shiv's eyes narrowed in annoyance. "But he's also not nearly as hearty. Doesn't like fighting the same way you do. And he isn't calculating and controlled where it counts."

"Where does it count?" Shiv said.

"The part where you're more like me than your mother. The part where you like to hold your own leash, rather than letting someone else pull you around." The Councilwoman smirked. But this time it was a deliberate action. It faded immediately, and she pointed at his face. "Psycho-Cartography. Just like I guessed earlier. You're mirroring my actions slightly. The skill's got its hooks in you deep. Tell me, does it talk to you as well?"

Psycho-Cartography: Be very careful what you say from here on out. I might be compromised as well.

"Yeah," Shiv admitted. "Yeah, it does. It's probably half the reason why I haven't done anything too stupid lately."

"Right. Your mother lacked that skill, but she made up for it after a lifetime of pragmatism. Your father was a talented Pathbearer, but there are plenty of talented warriors who water the ground and feed the worms." Veronica paused, and her gaze went distant once more. "Pity. I really wish he could have picked up the guitar rather than the hammer and the shield. He was a far better musician than a vanguard. But ultimately, it doesn't matter what I want. The heart bends along its own path."

"You know something, Veronica?" Shiv said again. "I think you're full of shit."

Veronica gestured for him to continue on.

"You talk a lot about futility, but you're a Legend. You're a Legendary-Tier Pathbearer. You're a Councilwoman. You push responsibilities away, personal responsibilities, things that make you feel uncomfortable. And then you take on the burdens of the Ascendants and an entire nation. I think you're just afraid of being weak."

Silver Tongue 39 > 47

Psycho-Cartography 85 > 90

And for the first time, Veronica Chandler bled in front of Shiv. A trickle of blood ran down her nose, and another current followed from the corner of her eye. Shiv took a step back, surprised by the development. He wasn't sure what was happening. But then Veronica gave a chirping laugh.

"That was a good shot, boy. You probably have a good chance of developing a cutting Rhetoric Skill as well. What do you have right now? Silver Tongue?"

"Yeah," Shiv said, "something like that."

"Well, keep working at it. And feed your Psychomancy as much as you can. I told you before, it is your shield. It's going to continue to be your shield. No matter if you're your own man or if one of us finally manages to get our leash around your neck. Regardless, you're right. That is my flaw. I don’t like being so human. But it doesn't change the facts. Your father's flaw was that he felt weak. I placed him in a good orphanage. I ensured that many a good term came his way. He had choices. Opportunities to pursue other talents. Opportunities that would have ensured a kinder life, a safer life."

"But he didn't want that," Shiv said.

"No. He probably wanted the same things every martial Pathbearer wants. The delusion of self-control. The feeling that he was the master of his own fate. It's probably what drew him to Roland Arrow, to your mother, to Rose; like-minded people who accepted him. Who fed that empty hole inside his chest. And he became their burden as well. They all outpaced him towards the end, even your mother. He was talented, but ultimately, talent is a spectrum. And we all hit a bottleneck at some point."

"All of us? I don’t know what you’re talking about. What's that like?" Shiv asked.

Veronica let out a wry breath. "Your father would have hated you. Your mother, well, you're probably the kind of idealized Pathbearer she wished to be. That's the entire reason you came to be at all, you see. Jealousy. As the Starhawk used Roland Arrow and Rose Van Erren for part of his plans, Udraal caught sight of them. And he discovered what Matthew intended."

"I'm missing a few pieces here," Shiv said.

"Wait a moment," Veronica replied. "I'm going to illustrate who your parents were as people, so that you know what kind of foolishness drove them to conceive you." She paused and appeared to consider her thoughts, though he couldn't tell if it was performative. "The Starhawk wanted to create a subversive vessel. Now. I ask you, how do you avoid becoming a caricature as a skill? How do you maintain stolen godhood with regard to the Great One without losing yourself? Hm?”

“I don’t know,” Shiv said.

“Think. Don’t just speak. Think.”

And he did. Shiv thought hard about what Veronica was saying, and slowly, a startling guess came to him. “You said the skill… It reduces someone down to their most essential traits.”

Veronica nodded and spun a finger.

“And that caused them to lose themselves over time, to stop being people, and become…” Shiv paused. “So, if someone was skill-bound to the Great One to begin with, if they had no history or personality before…”

Veronica’s grin was wide and pearly white. “Oh, yes. That’s right, boy. Follow the logic. The Starhawk had a Phylactery prepared during the Eclipse War. But that wasn’t to free the others. No. That came far later. At first, he deigned to make his own hidden, subversive god. But one that would grow and develop perfectly. Because she would be born as a skill. Born as a False God. Born to the Starhawk’s rightful servants.”

“Holy shit,” Shiv breathed.

Veronica nodded slightly. "Oh, yes. Adam is very, very special, as was his sister. But ultimately, that didn't come to be. For you see, the skills ingrained within Rose during the conception of her children were compromised. They were compromised because of Udraal's own plan, tainting the Phylactery they'd brought. Also, there was another child conceived during the process.”

Shiv felt his throat go dry. Veronica pressed on. “Divinity burns inside of you, Deathless. But it is not the kind of divinity that makes one a god. No, it is a corrupted kind. A fragmentation of the System's purest mana.” A dark expression settled over her. "You were conceived around the same time Adam's sister was. The arrangement, then, was made by Udraal because your mother was tired. Tired of being second fiddle. Tired of being weaker than Roland and his beloved. And when Udraal came to make his offer, she took it without hesitation. Not knowing it would cause the death of her consciousness to see her replaced.”

“Replaced.” Shiv’s voice was little more than a whisper by this point.

A pitying expression settled upon Veronica. "Who do you know that wears bodies like clothes? Hm? Who struck the deal with her?”

“Oh… oh, fuck,” Shiv breathed.

“Udraal hollowed your mother out. He wore her as a vessel. You were not conceived by your mother when the time came to ruin the Starhawk’s great plot. You were conceived by Udraal. And your father didn't know. Not until the very end. And when the revelation came, it struck him harder than any hammer blow. His mind shattered. Vera was dead—a whore to power, whoring her body and soul literally, to the one person she shouldn’t have.”

Nausea began to overtake Shiv. He wanted to throw up. He wanted to find Udraal to kill him. He tried to speak but clamped his jaw shut as bile nearly erupted out. "Fuck," Shiv gasped.

Veronica stood beside him and rubbed his back. “I know. I'm sorry. I know. Of all the things I wish to inflict upon you, of all the things that I will, I don't have it in me to do this. That's why I'm going to tell you to surrender to us. The Ascendants are not perfect, but at least there's a future. There's a future I'm fighting for. And if you're with us, then maybe we can crawl away from entropy. Maybe we can get back to the golden days. With Udraal, you will always just be a thing. He will always use you like he used your—well, he is technically your mother, isn’t he?”

Shiv clenched his own throat tight and stopped himself from throwing up. Barely.

The Legendary Councilwoman waited, and when he didn’t break, she kept going. “And once you are spent—and he will spend you—he's not going to let you hold on to that power. He's going to make more Deathless. He's going to make himself Deathless. He's going to ruin your entire existence just to see his experiment come to its desired fruition."

With every word came a blow, and Shiv felt his mind reeling, felt his body writhing and bending as if he was back in time, back when someone was driving crystalline, hardened fists into his breaking bones. Blood flooded the Deathless's mouth, and he realized there was no difference between taking psychological damage and physical damage when speaking to Veronica. And judging from that dangerous glint in her eye, she was planning to use this on him for quite some time.

"Oh, you didn't know at all, boy. Yes, this is why your mother was a whore. She was a whore of the highest order, because Vera sold away her soul just for that faint hope, that crippling little desire to outdo Roland Arrow and the others just once, for her blood to mean something, anything. Your father, he didn't even understand, but he went along with it. He loved her that much. And when you were made, you were made from atrocity. In the end, your father didn't have a chance. The Starhawk couldn't see it coming. And Roland… His heartbreak wasn't even something worth mentioning. Their fates were sealed when He Who Walks Beyond realized what they were planning."

Psycho-Cartography: Gods, just gods. Why… why is the System like this? She... she could be lying. She... No. No, she's not. She's not. You can read it in her voice, she’s not—she's…

The acceptance of the vile truth hit Shiv like a bomb to the gut. He collapsed to his knees, and bile clawed its way up his throat.
