“That's... disappointing.” Ren said.

Tatya felt his deep disappointment and touched his arm. “You're sad that we won't see any of them?” She asked, and he nodded. “They are just Gnomes, King Ren.”

“Do they have a ruling family? Do they have a Prince or Princess or government run by the people? What's their daily life like?” Ren asked. “These are questions I'll never get the answers to.”

Tatya chuckled. “We can stop and kidnap one to ask it...”

“What?” Ren interrupted her, and she laughed.

“...but, it won't make any difference.” Tatya finished. “There's nothing you can give them, since they won't accept anything from outsiders. There's no information you can give them, since they don't care about anything except their own lives.”

“You seem to know a lot about them.” Ren commented.

“We've been trying for years to establish relations with them.” Kenkoth said. “We even went so far as to recruit an Earthkin Pixie and made him an honorary delegate, just to have someone of similar size to try and communicate with them.”

“What happened?” Ren asked, when he felt sadness from Tatya and Kenkoth.

“After learning all that he could and sent us that information, he tried to leave.” Tatya said. “They didn't let him.”

“But...”

“Not alive, anyway.” Kenkoth said. “His body appeared at their border with a note that said not to contact them again.”

“Oh, wow.” Ren said. “Why do you think...”

“They felt betrayed, obviously.” Tatya said. “A newcomer came into their lands and asked a bunch of questions, then when he learned what he could about their lives, he wanted to leave.” She said sadly. “Instead of just arresting him or even detaining him and negotiating to release him...”

“It was easier to apply capital punishment.” Ren said, just as sadly. “I'm so...”

“SAD!” Teepo yelled and interrupted Ren's apology. “That's a sad story.”

“It is.” Tatya said. “We approach new people and customs with much more reservedness now.”

“Is that why you have so many delegates and so many camouflaged protectors?” Ren asked.

“Yes.” Kenkoth said. “Thank you for pointing them out back at the castle.” He said, sarcastically.

“Don't worry. Princess Diana had no clue what I was doing.” Ren said. “Not that you didn't know that.”

Kenkoth sighed. “She knew you pointed at something.”

Ren smiled. “My Etiquette skill stops me from asking who it was or what they are, since it would reveal their hidden abilities; but, I've seen everyone in the caravan now and no one is hidden.”

“You know who it was.” Tatya said and she sighed as their attempts to conceal them had failed.

“It was a basic deduction, especially since I assume you left someone...” Ren felt a hint of annoyance from them and changed the number. “...pair of someones behind.”

“I guess that's the not so subtle proof that you can read us easily.” Kenkoth said.

“You don't have to treat me any differently because of that.” Ren said, then grinned. “Then again, maybe you have to treat me as if I was one of you, since you can do the same thing.”

Tatya chuckled. “Yes, we should hold you to the same rules and regulations, then we can keep you all to ourselves and we won't have to worry about you spilling all of our secrets.”

Ren chuckled, too. “I can give you my word that I won't write a book about you or spill your secrets... except maybe when I spend time with the women in my life.” He said. “I share everything with them and don't hide what I do or where I go.”

“Will they...”

“They never have before.” Ren said and put a hand on his chest above the emblem there. “They know they are in my confidence and won't betray that. Or me.”

Tatya felt his deep feelings for them and she tried not to be jealous.

“If you will excuse me, I can't let your current time schedule slow us down.” Ren said and stood.

“What are you going to do?” Kenkoth asked.

“More upgrades for the giant boars and the carriages.” Ren said.

“M-more?”

“These will only be temporary, though.” Ren said.

“You are letting us keep the other upgrades?” Tatya asked, surprised.

“The boars won't want to run slower, now that they know they can run faster with new shoes.” Ren chuckled and gave them a slight bow, then started to walk away towards the carriage drivers.

“Wait.” Tatya said, and he stopped to turn and look at her. “Who do you think we left behind?”

Ren walked back over to her and knelt. “Two of the cooks.” He said, referring to the odd-looking people with longer than normal necks. “They made 6 fires; but, only 5 of them were used for cooking.” He smiled. “I had to assume something happened when there wasn't enough people to cook at all of them, since they were all constructed as if they had done it a lot before, almost automatically.” He chuckled. “Then you confirmed it when I tried to say how many were left behind.”

“So, you have a brain inside that fluffy-haired skull.” Tatya said with a smile. “I will warn the cooks to adjust their routine.”

“I don't think that will be necessary.” Ren said and stood. “If it's your kingdom on the other side of the Gnome Empire, we'll be well inside its borders by nightfall.”

Tatya blinked her eyes at him as he walked away. “He's completely confident in that conclusion.”

“He is.” Kenkoth said. “Even though the upgrades he did for the boars were already well beyond our own means, he hadn't given them everything he could have.”

“You know what that means.” Tatya said.

“He is generous, almost to a fault; but, he doesn't give away everything.” Kenkoth said.

Tatya nodded her head slightly and didn't say anything out loud. I think he gives away exactly what you need. She thought, and held in her smile as she caught sight of a very happy Yuwen.
