On the day of the expedition, all the members of the Horns of Hammerad woke and trooped downstairs to breakfast in silence. Erin, the cheerful [Innkeeper], had provided breakfast—eggs and bacon.
It was the second day in a row she’d provided the same kind of breakfast—but most of them didn’t care. It was nice, hot food, and the [Innkeeper] had put more time and coin into the food than another inn, which might serve you cheap porridge instead.
Ceria sat at one of the tables, blinking and poking at the wobbling, yellow yolk of one of her poached eggs. She was still sleepy, but the blue juice woke her up in a pleasant way.
She looked up from her food and glanced around the room. Good. Everyone was present. All ten members of the Horns of Hammerad were sitting, eating or talking quietly. Calruz and Gerial sat together, discussing the plan, no doubt. Sostrom and another member of the party, Marian, sat at the same table, talking, while the five warriors sat at another table and ate silently.
Aside from those two and Hunt, Ceria didn’t know the rest of her team intimately. They were colleagues and friends, of course, but she’d only fought with them for less than a year—in the case of their most junior members, only a month. Big teams rotated adventurers in and out. Gerial was a heart of the team, like Calruz, but some might not last.
Sostrom laughed at something Marian had said. He liked her. She was the only person who didn’t make fun of his bald spot on occasion. Ceria still hadn’t figured out if he and Marian were sleeping together.
If they were, she hoped Marian wouldn’t break his heart when she left. Sostrom was a good mage, a solid Level 16 [Elementalist]—ordinary in both class choice and spell selection. Marian was a low-level [Ranger], but she pulled her weight.
It was just—
She wasn’t a true adventurer, a true member of the Horns of Hammerad. Ceria still respected her, but Marian only wanted to earn enough money to start a store or an inn herself. Adventuring was a job for her.
It was a job for Ceria, of course, but it was also her life. She lived to adventure. By earning gold, she could master new spells, and with the rare magical items she looted, she could continue to improve herself as a mage and level. She wouldn’t stop adventuring even if she found a thousand gold pieces lying around. She’d just buy a new spell book or a wand and continue on.
Ceria was a lifer, although she didn’t know that term. She, Gerial, Calruz, Sostrom, and Hunt were all adventurers who would never quit. Even before they’d joined together to form the Horns of Hammerad two years ago, each one of them had spent years working their way up the ranks to get where they were.
Someday, Marian would quit. And they would find someone else to fill her place. Perhaps right after the expedition. If she didn’t die.
That was a dark thought, and not one she should be having. Ceria shook her head and concentrated on her meal. She broke the yolk on her egg and watched it soak into the slice of toasted bread. How delicious.
She loved eggs. She loved climbing into trees and stealing them out of nests. Humans tended to disapprove of that in general, but Ceria had grown up part of her life foraging off the land. She wasn’t picky about where her food came from.
She’d eaten earthworms, beetles, bark off of trees—which wasn’t good for your bowels or health—birds both raw and cooked, and occasionally, mushrooms and roots and such. She’d come close to starvation so many times she had developed an appetite for unusual things. Like bugs, although Ceria didn’t like having to pick them out of her teeth afterwards. But they were fun to eat.
Mm. She wondered what those Acid Flies Erin sold tasted like…
 
——
 
“Mm. We’re all set. Time to head out?”
Gerial took a drink of the sweet blue juice before replying to Calruz.
“We’ve got an hour yet. Plenty of time. Let’s not rush things.”
The Minotaur nodded silently and gestured at Toren for another plate of bacon. Gerial wondered how he could eat so much. His stomach wasn’t letting him eat more than a bit of breakfast. He was so energized with nerves as much as anticipation he felt like getting up to pace around.
But, of course, he couldn’t. The vice-Captain of the Horns of Hammerad had to project calm, and that was what Gerial was going to do. He took his job seriously. He had to be a leader like Calruz.
And Ceria, for that matter. Gerial spotted her sitting at her table, looking pensively down into her plate of food. She didn’t seem the slightest bit nervous. He envied her that.
The half-Elf’s gaze had turned far-off, and her expression had become distant. Gerial was familiar with that look. Another thing to envy.
He felt he would never understand the true complexities and unearthly thoughts that surely ran through her mind. She might appear Human in many ways, but Ceria was half Elf. Half of her was descended from legends, and who knew what deep thoughts she pondered at times like these?
“Hey there!”
Gerial jumped and quickly looked away from Ceria. He smiled up at Erin and smoothed his mustache. Now here was someone he could understand. Erin Solstice was as likable and approachable as any innkeeper he had ever met. He would be sorry to say goodbye.
“Ah. Miss Erin. I hope you are recovering from your cold? We were intending to leave payment and go without bothering you, but you were up before we were.”
Erin looked startled.
“What? Oh, no, I couldn’t do that. I’m feeling a lot better. And you guys paid me so well—a big breakfast is the least I could do. You’re, uh, heading into the ruins today, aren’t you?”
Calruz grunted, and Gerial nodded.
“Indeed we are. We and four other adventuring teams are going in.”
“Wasn’t it six teams total?”
Gerial winced and glanced at Calruz surreptitiously.
“The last adventuring Captain, ah, pulled out at the last moment.”
“Hendric. Coward.”
Calruz rumbled darkly. Gerial hoped he wouldn’t start shouting. That would be the last thing they needed right before the expedition.
To his relief, Erin didn’t seem off-put by the Minotaur’s ire. She poked Calruz in the side, causing the Minotaur to glare at her while Gerial choked on his food.
“Cheer up, grumpy. I’m sure you’ll be fine.”
She glanced at Gerial.
“So—should I expect you guys to come back tomorrow? Or tonight…? How long is this, uh, dungeon exploration going to take?”
“We’re not sure. I wouldn’t count on our return, but it could happen.”
Gerial shrugged uncomfortably, not liking the uncertainty in his own voice.
“We have enough supplies for at least four days. I doubt we’ll be down there that long unless we need to do excavation, though.”
Across the room, Hunt looked up from his meal. He had egg in his beard, which Gerial didn’t comment on.
“Those ruins could be deep, though. No telling how far down they go.”
“We’re not clearing out every room. As soon as we strike a treasury or find enough to justify the costs, we’ll leave.”
“Hah! Tell that to the other teams. Gregor is saying his team won’t quit until they reach the bottom floor. A big change from what he was saying earlier.”
“Well, if we’re going in, we might as well go all in.”
“Speaking of which…Gerial, is it time?”
Ceria glanced meaningfully at the sky through a window. Gerial nodded.
“I suppose we should be going. The meeting is about an hour’s time away, and we don’t want to be late. Is everyone finished?”
They were. Or they were once he spoke. The strange skeleton walked around the room collecting dishes while Erin saw the Horns of Hammerad off.
“Good luck. Don’t get, uh, killed by a Dragon or anything.”
Gerial and the others had to laugh at that.
“There are no Dragons on this side of the world, miss. Probably anywhere.”
“Um. There are. I’ve seen one.”
Their laughter stopped abruptly. Gerial stared into Erin’s honest expression. He opened his mouth to say something—
“Hello? Hello! I’m sorry I’m late!”
A figure dashed up the hill. The pale-blue Drake wearing leather armor was desperately trying to buckle his sheathed sword to his belt as he stopped before the Horns of Hammerad.
“I’m not late, am I? I forgot we were supposed to meet here.”
“Olesm?”
Erin stared incredulously at the Drake.
“What are you—you’re going on the expedition too? But you’re not an adventurer!”
Olesm, the [Tactician] they’d hired on yesterday, widened his eyes, and his tail began twitching as he noticed Erin.
“Oh, Erin. I didn’t—well of course you’d be here. This is your inn—yes, I am going on the expedition! I’m hoping to raise my level. I was so inspired by you that I decided it was time to break out of my shell, so to speak.”
“But can you defend yourself? I mean, I don’t want to be rude but…”
The way Erin looked at Olesm spoke very plainly of her opinion of his fighting prowess. The Drake blushed, but stuck out his chest.
“I may not be a good fighter, but my Skills should help quite a bit. Believe me, I will come back better than ever. And perhaps then I’ll win a game against you.”
“But it’s chess. That’s not the same as—as fighting. And wait a second, Selys said you work for the city. Aren’t you supposed to, like, be there?”
Erin waved at Liscor in the distance. Olesm avoided everyone’s gaze and coughed into one first.
“Technically, yes. But they won’t miss me for a few days. The Watch is supposed to work with me, and I advise the Council, but they meet once a month if that. They don’t need me here. The army has a dozen people who could take my post over in a second. And besides. I’ve stayed the same level for far too long, hiding in the city rather than joining the army or adventuring myself. Today, I’m going to change that.”
“Enough talk.”
Calruz growled, making Olesm jump and stammer. He pointed.
“We have to go. Follow us, but don’t lag behind.”
“Oh, of course. My apologies.”
Olesm sidled behind the Minotaur and smiled toothily at Gerial. The man tried to smile back, unsure of whether he should bare his own teeth.
Erin was talking to Ceria while she tried to offer the Horns of Hammerad a basket of food to take with them.
“I’ll be happy to serve you if you guys come back tonight, no matter how late. Just knock, okay? I’ve got guests coming anyways.”
“Oh? Who?”
“We’re going.”
Calruz poked Ceria in the back, making her stumble. She turned and kicked at the Minotaur, but it was time to go. Gerial bade farewell to Erin as the Horns of Hammerad descended the hill.
They saw Erin’s guests about fifteen minutes after they’d begun walking. Five Antinium were making their way from the city. Two of them were carrying one Gerial recognized. His stomach still clenched to see Pawn’s mangled limbs, but the Antinium greeted them without any inflection of pain in his voice.
“Greetings, adventurers. Olesm.”
“Oh? Pawn! Are you going to play chess at Miss Erin’s?”
Olesm greeted the Antinium cheerfully as the other adventurers mumbled awkward greetings. Pawn nodded at him.
“Yes. We do not have any duties, so we go to play.”
“Oh? I thought you always worked in the morning. Is something wrong?”
“Nothing is wrong. We have no tasks because we are waiting.”
“Waiting? Waiting for what?”
Calruz growled and started walking again. Olesm followed, but Pawn and the other Antinium simply followed their group, continuing the conversation.
“We wait for the Queen.”
“The Queen? Is she…is she doing something?”
“Yes. She is close to completing her task.”
“I heard about that. She didn’t talk to anyone and sent that new Prognugator out. Ksmvr, right? What was she doing that was so important.”
“We do not know. But it will be tomorrow.”
Olesm stared at Pawn. Gerial saw Ceria glance swiftly backwards at the Antinium.
“What will be tomorrow?”
“It will be. Good luck on your mission, Olesm.”
“Oh, um, bye—”
The Antinium left. Calruz growled and stomped onwards, muttering about delays while Gerial pondered the conversation. What did it mean? Did it even matter? The Antinium were strange. Gerial had learned long ago how dangerous they could be and how strange they were. But Pawn didn’t seem evil. Odd, perhaps, but—
Whatever thoughts he had, they were put out of Gerial’s mind when he saw the ruins in the distance. Even from miles away, the dark, grey and black stone of the huge structure stood out against the hill it had been excavated from.
It seemed as if it were some kind of ancient barrow, the grass shining orange and green near the top of the spot where the dirt ended in a kind of cliff and the stone began. The stone was embedded in the dirt, a gaping awning, an oddity in the natural landscape of this place. 
The stone looked so old that it was impossible to date, but people had claimed it was probably enchanted—unable to be removed or broken. Yet time had worked cracks and mossy intrusion into even what had once been solid stone. So it truly did look abandoned to time.
The Horns of Hammerad paused. Suddenly this morning, their small concerns and, indeed, everything else in the world had ceased for them. They had been waiting patiently these last few days. They had enjoyed themselves, gotten into small trouble or out of it, but what they had really been doing behind it all was waiting.
Waiting for this. The ruins loomed, massive, unexplored. It called to them. They were adventurers.
They resumed their march. Unconsciously, their pace increased. They felt it in their blood, in their bones, and the beating of their hearts.
Danger and glory, waiting for them in the darkness below.
 
——
 
The ruins had first been discovered a month ago by a [Shepherd] tending his flock. Drakes kept sheep and other animals just like Humans, and one of them had been walking over a hill when he’d tripped over a rock.
After he’d nearly broken his foot trying to kick the rock, the Drake had dug a bit of it up and realized the rock wasn’t so much a rock as part of a building half-uncovered by rains or chance erosion. And when he’d dug further with the help of his friends, they had discovered that the bit of the building was in fact an entire structure hidden in the earth.
And after the Antinium had been called and days of excavations had gone by, the city had found that the hill the building had been found on wasn’t so much a hill as the entire structure itself.
Today, the ruins sat half-uncovered against the large hill, black stone entrance gaping open in the light of the sun. Ceria, Gerial, and the other Horns of Hammerad stared up at it.
A wall of black rock. A carved stone doorway and, in places, open windows that allowed some ventilation into the massive structure.
