She pointed, and the adventurers shone lights at a broken pedestal. There was only dust and fragments of stone there. Yvlon bit her lip.
“So this was maybe some kind of memorial?”
The half-Elf had to demure again. She went to the slabs of covered stone next.
“No. This is—different from above. What are those open places for? They look—big. Long enough to accommodate a body.”
Yvlon was skeptical.
“A place to sleep? They look—far too uncomfortable even if you filled them with blankets. They’re closer to legends from my family of Vampyres.”
“What?”
The Captain of the Silver Spears shrugged it off, mock-shivering.
“Oh, some long-dead monster. A children’s story. House Byres has lots of old tales like that. I should tell you the one about the Silver Dragon. But no one’s sleeping in these uncomfortable boxes. Nor do I see anyone straining their back using them as storage devices. Any other ideas, Ceria?”
Ceria shrugged. And then her eyes widened.
“I know. This is a place to put dead bodies to be cleansed before they’re buried. This isn’t a memorial. It’s a crypt.”
The adventurers around her who heard that muttered, half in agreement, the other half worried. It was good and bad news. Ceria heard Gerial explaining why to Olesm behind her.
“A crypt or a tomb is good because there’s probably treasure buried with the dead. But it usually means traps, ancient curses and hexes on the lids of tombs, and so on. Not to mention the undead.”
Yvlon raised her voice to be heard by the others.
“It’s a good sign, though. We know there’s something valuable here. Any place with this much architecture had to be important.”
Gregor nodded. He seemed happier than Ceria ever remembered seeing him.
“Could be powerful artifacts up ahead. Let’s keep moving.”
“This is a good place to fall back to, though. See—there’s only two ways in, and we can use that long corridor as a killing zone with our bows if we need to.”
Cervial pointed around the room. Yvlon nodded with the other Captains.
“If we can’t find anywhere better, we’ll camp here. But for now—let’s continue.”
The adventurers formed up again and moved onwards, a bit faster now that they knew what might lie ahead. A tomb, or perhaps a treasury for the dead. It made their hearts beat a little faster, their feet move a little quicker.
Ceria was just about to ask Yvlon more about Ryoka and what she had been told about the girl when someone exclaimed up ahead. She and Yvlon pushed forwards again and found a split in their path.
“What’s this? A split in the road? Which way did the scouts go?”
Gregor growled while Calruz squatted on the ground and looked around for a sign.
“No markings on the walls. Why didn’t they double back and warn us?”
Yvlon frowned as Cervial and Menes both pushed their way forwards.
“That is odd. Should we send a spell to contact them? Menes, you said your group used a short-distance communication spell, right?”
Menes nodded. He raised his glowing staff.
“I will talk with them. One moment—hold on, what’s this?”
The glowing bright-blue light from his staff had illuminated something further down the corridor. Menes pointed and walked over to something on the ground while the other Captains followed him.
“It’s quite large—a bag?”
It was indeed a bag, or rather, a large, bulky sack sitting on the ground. It wasn’t alone. Ceria could see a few more objects lying on the floor, although the light didn’t illuminate them.
“Careful, Menes. It could be a trap.”
“Hm. [Detect Magic]. Nothing.”
Cautiously, Menes poked the bag with the tip of his staff. He moved the sides a bit, and something spilled out. Menes swung the tip of his staff down, and his eyes widened.
“Gold? Gold?”
It was indeed gold. As the other adventurers exclaimed, Menes carefully picked up the piece of gold and stared at it.
“It’s not money obviously. But what is it? It looks—like part of something else. A broken piece of gold from a wall or—or statue or something.”
Gregor frowned.
“Is there more inside?”
Cautiously, an adventurer opened the bag and exclaimed in amazement.
“More gold! And jewels! Gods, it’s a small fortune!”
Several other adventurers clustered around instantly, but Cervial pushed them back. He bent and picked up a small ruby, staring hard at it.
“This is strange.”
“What is?”
He showed the gem to Yvlon and the others. Ceria could see it glowing in the light. It was clearly high-quality, but there was something off about it.
“Look at the sides. Stone. It was attached to something. A wall perhaps, or some kind of art?”
“You’re saying this is from some other part of the building. Looted by an adventurer…?”
“Must be. And these other…yes, these are all bags full of loot! Abandoned. Why?”
“Something got them. Or—scared them enough that they dropped everything and ran.”
“But no one ever made it down to the second floor and returned.”
The adventurers fell silent. Ceria felt the slight pricking of unease in her stomach.
Strangely, it was Olesm who spoke in the silence. He looked around in the darkness, eyes flicking around him.
“Those scouts. They never reported the split in the tunnel. And they would have come back. Where did they go?”
Yvlon opened her mouth, and then her eyes widened. A third of the adventurers in the room jerked or grabbed at their weapons. Ceria had felt it too.
Ceria and Yvlon exchanged a look.
“My [Dangersense]—”
“Ambush!”
That was the only warning they had. Something shrieked off in the distance, and the dead poured out of the walls.
