From up close, the massive stone doors were even more imposing. Although some of the dirt that had once covered the structure had been excavated, it was clear that this—building was huge on a completely different scale than the structures in Liscor.
The roof had not been excavated, and nor had the lower half of the structure. Apparently, an Antinium had dug down but had gone over a hundred feet without reaching the bottom of this massive structure. The city had decided to only dig up what was necessary, so the doorway had been uncovered and the rest of the building left alone.
That made the sight of the black entrance poking out of the hillside covered in grass and flowers all the more odd. And disturbing. The massive doors could easily hold two creatures twice Calruz’s height, and you could push two wagons through at the same time. It dwarfed even the large group of adventurers standing in front of the entrance.
Perhaps there had once been a fresco or decorative front of some kind, but age had worn away any details. And besides, there was really only one message the giant stone doors told. No one was meant to easily enter this place—or exit.
“Dead gods, I saw it from far away, but up close, this is something else entirely.”
Gerial shook his head as he and Ceria stood looking up at the ruins. She nodded.
“The Ruins of Albez seem tiny compared to this one. Well, they’re more spread out, but still.”
“Look at that.”
Sostrom pointed to one side of the doors. Aside from the miniature village that had popped up around the ruins full of enterprising shopkeepers, adventurers, and curious watchers, another group had already occupied this space.
Around fifteen armed warriors, mainly Drakes and a few Gnolls—sat together around an open fire, talking and eating while two of them stood watch at the doors.
Hunt growled under his breath and gripped the mace at his side as he eyed the other group.
“More adventurers? I thought we were the only ones entering. If they’re trying to steal a march on us—”
Olesm shook his head before anyone else could.
“They’re not adventurers. That’s the local Watch.”
“The Watch? Why are they out here?”
Ceria nodded to the group of [Guards] and then pointed to another group of warriors sitting across from them. They had no fire, but they were watching the doors as well.
“There are several Bronze-rank adventuring teams on permanent guard duty as well as several members of the Watch. Seems like this place disgorges monsters every few days. Nothing more dangerous than a mob of zombies or the local wildlife, but they’re being cautious.”
Hunt relaxed, and the other Horns of Hammerad nodded. They weren’t used to a city militia taking such an active role, but none of them were strangers to the idea of guarding a dungeon.
“Good thing we’re going in today. Otherwise, the city’d probably put up a request to clear out this place in a month or two.”
“It still might come to that. Unless they destroy this damn place, something’s going to make its nest here.”
“True.”
Gerial nodded in agreement as he studied the massive building. It was certainly inconvenient to have so close to the city. It would surely attract monsters and, worse, provide a lair for them to reproduce.
It wasn’t as if monsters popped out of thin air. Except for the ones that did, of course. But caves, abandoned buildings, and magical sites tended to attract monsters like honey followed bees. Monsters would breed in the darkness or reanimate in the case of the dead. Sometimes, they fought each other, but often, they lived in disturbing harmony—until the unlucky adventurer intruded on their lair.
“There’s Yvlon. Move up.”
Calruz finally spotted the person he was looking for. He began walking towards Yvlon and her group of female adventurers wearing polished, silver metal. Gerial picked up his pace, so he arrived just as his Captain did. Calruz had no time for minor details like that, but proper courtesy was important. It was one of Gerial’s few complaints that the Minotaur so often forgot that.
But Yvlon was not the kind of petty person to be bothered by such things in the first place. She smiled at Gerial and Calruz as they approached, and his heart skipped a beat. She was truly beautiful. Almost as beautiful as Ryoka, but different, of course…
“Calruz. Gerial. I’m glad your team is here on time. Everyone else has already assembled. Shall we begin?”
“Why waste time waiting?”
Yvlon nodded. She stepped back and let Calruz precede her. Gerial called to the Horns of Hammerad, and they joined the group of adventurers waiting outside the doors.
Ceria walked with the Horns of Hammerad, merging with the main body of adventurers as she stared up at the dark doors. It was hard—even for someone who had lived as long as she had—to stand still in this crowd. And indeed, the other adventurers around her were constantly shifting, moving around with the same energy she felt.
There were so many! It was a crowd of adventurers like a full day at the Adventurer’s Guild, but in this case, every single one of them was Silver-rank. They let the Horns of Hammerad move next to them, calling out good naturedly and exchanging slaps on the back in the case of the warriors, polite nods and only the occasional spine-shattering slap in the case of the mages.
At the head of the crowd, Yvlon and Calruz joined three other Captains. Gregor, Menes, and Cervial nodded at the Minotaur and female adventurer as the crowd grew silent.
The blonde adventurer raised her hands for silence, but it was already present. The adventurers—and come to that, the large crowd of onlookers—waited in breathless expectation.
“Captains, I am pleased to see you all here. May I inquire if you are all ready?”
They nodded. Calruz was the first to speak. The Minotaur’s rumbling voice was loud enough to be heard quite audibly even from the back of the crowd.
“The Horns of Hammerad are all here.”
“The Flawless Flights are ready to go.”
“Kyrial’s Vanguard are armed and ready to fight!”
“We of the Circle of Reneë have prepared our spells.”
“And the Silver Spears are assembled.”
Yvlon nodded to the other adventuring Captains and raised her voice to address the crowd.
“I’m pleased to see everyone is present. But I expected nothing less of the best adventurers on this side of the continent! We are here today to make history by entering the Ruins of Liscor. We don’t know exactly what is down there, but we do know something dangerous lurks below. And where there is danger, there is treasure and fame to be found.”
The adventurers shifted at that. Yvlon was speaking their language, and her gaze was open and honest. She didn’t lie about the danger, and that they appreciated.
“Some of us may perish on this expedition. Five Families willing, it will be few or none. But I swear that each of you will receive a portion of the reward, and your families and loved ones will not be left penniless should you fall. That is the pledge I make towards each of my Silver Spears, and I offer the same to you today.”
She shook her head, and her golden blonde hair shook in the air, catching the light. Ceria smiled at that; Yvlon had to know exactly what she was doing and how her armor and hair shone.
“But enough dire thoughts. We are about to head in. Steel yourselves. Trust in each other. We know what must be done. Calruz, your Horns of Hammerad and Gregor, your Kyrial’s Vanguard have been chosen to lead the expedition. Would you do the honors?”
Calruz and Gregor nodded. They stepped towards the doorway and gestured.
“Kyrial’s Vanguard—form up!”
“To me, Horns of Hammerad.”
That was their signal. Ceria walked out of the crowd, ignoring the gazes of the other adventurers. Some of their group weren’t so graceful and stumbled or blushed, but they formed up behind Calruz as the Minotaur stood next to Gregor.
The massive, armored man who carried a battleaxe almost as large as Calruz’s scowled when he saw Olesm tagging along with the other adventurers.
“Who’s the Drake? I thought we agreed not to hire anyone else, Yvlon.”
Olesm jumped, and his scales faded in color, but Yvlon shook her head.
“He’s a [Tactician], not a [Warrior], Gregor. A Level 24. He came to us yesterday. I thought you’d agree we could definitely use him.”
Gregor scowled, but Yvlon was right. He nodded grudgingly.
“Hmph. Very well. Just so long as he doesn’t start giving orders to the rest of us.”
“Oh, I wouldn’t do that. I’m just here to help.”
“Fine.”
“Are you done?”
Calruz growled at Gregor. He was breathing harder, and his gaze was narrowed as he stared into the darkness of the ruins. Gregor opened his mouth to snap something back, then paused.
“I’m done. Shall we?”
“Yes. Let us begin.”
The two Silver-rank Captains shared a glance. Then, as one, they unholstered their battleaxes. It was pure showmanship—none of the adventurers expected to be attacked the instant they entered, but the crowd loved it.
The Bronze-Rank Adventurers and civilians cheered as Calruz and Gregor advanced into the ruins, weapons at the ready. Their vice-Captains, Gerial and a big man named Ulgrim, followed. Ceria was right behind Gerial as they stepped into the darkness. She held her glowing wand at the ready as the adventurers around her ignited torches or cast [Light] spells.
The darkness enveloped the adventurers even as Yvlon and the other two Captains began following their teams in. Ceria felt the air change, grow dead and stale, as the darkness closed around them. The grass and dirt became carved stone, and their footfalls echoed in the silence.
The adventurers readied themselves for anything. They could sense it. They had broken the sanctity of this dark place, and they would not leave until they had uncovered its every secret.
It had begun.
 
——
 
“You know, I would have expected something to happen by now.”
“Oh really? You haven’t explored many dungeons, then.”
Even in the flickering light of their torch, Ceria could see Olesm blush.
“This is my first one, actually.”
“Oh? Don’t freeze up and you’ll be fine. Besides, once this is done, you can tell all your friends about it. I’m sure Erin would be very impressed. Everyone loves experienced…adventurers. Especially ones who have big…swords. And explored a lot of dungeons, of course.”
It was quite entertaining to Ceria, seeing how red she could make Olesm’s scales. The Drake cleared his throat and quickly cast around for something else to say.
“These rooms—are quite odd, aren’t they?”
Ceria nodded. It was fifteen minutes into their expedition, but so far, the adventurers had seen very little. They’d passed through a long entrance hall of some kind into large, open rooms with little ornamentation and a lot of dust. Their group had split up—scouts from Cervial’s team going ahead while the main force went through the various rooms, but they’d found little.
“Broken chairs, metal—I can’t tell. It’s been too long, and everything is dust now. This was once some kind of sanctuary, perhaps? A massive one.”
“It’s big. But I could see that. Strange, though—all these rooms must be living quarters, kitchens, storage rooms, and so on. This is practically a city within this one building. How come no one knew of this before?”
“It must be ancient. Far older than Liscor. I can’t imagine how they built all of this—and out of stone! They must have had hundreds, thousands of workers or some kind of powerful magic.”
Ceria nodded as she stepped around a collapsed table that might have once served twenty guests at a time.
“Another time. Another world. They knew how to build such things back then. Is this one of the Walled Cities, perhaps, only forgotten by time? Or something like Liscor?”
“The design of the gates certainly suggests that. Of course, you need a roof or some good magic when the rainy season comes. I suppose it could have been built by my people.”
Olesm looked around and shuddered. Ceria knew how he felt. She wasn’t comfortable with the dark, echoing rooms any more than he was. For all they were spacious, she felt like she was cramped, confined. She could handle it, but Olesm was nervous and chatty, and she didn’t mind talking to him.
It wasn’t as if the other adventurers weren’t talking. The scouts and leading adventurers were silent as they walked up ahead, but the main group of adventurers kept quiet conversations going, joking, talking idly, anything to keep the tension at bay.
“So—I’m with your group. The, ah, Horns of Hammerad? I’m afraid I don’t know much about it. Liscor didn’t get many high-profile adventurers before this.”
Ceria raised her eyebrows.
“High profile? Hear that, Gerial? I wish we were that famous.”
Gerial looked back and smiled wryly at Ceria. Olesm was confused.
“But you’re Silver-rank adventurers. I just assumed—”
“Ceria is just teasing you Mister, ah, Olesm. We are quite well known locally. It’s just that we’re hardly the only Silver-rank teams in the north. And if you count the coastal cities—well, there are a number of Gold-rank teams and adventurers up there, and we can hardly compare.”
“Well, you seem quite competent to me. What does your group do? Aside from exploring ruins, that is.”
Gerial smiled.
“We specialize in monster slaying. If a troublesome group of monsters is infesting a region, we’re usually one of the first groups who answer the call. The Horns of Hammerad are a close-combat group. We close in and smash the enemy while our mages provide backup. Gregor’s Pride is the same.”
“Oh, I see, I see. And the Silver Spears?”
“Good at defense, coordination, strategy; a solid team. The Flawless Flights on the other hand do a lot of scouting work and hunting troublesome monsters that hide.”
“And the—the Circle? They were all [Mages]. Is that usual?”
Ceria shrugged.
“Not usual, but not unusual either. They take on almost all requests. They’ve got a bad reputation, though.”
“Why is that?”
Ceria grinned.
“Because they run away quite often.”
A [Mage] from further up ahead had heard that. He turned and flicked up a middle finger at Ceria, and she grinned and waved at him in apology. Mollified, the mage went back to his conversation.
Lowering her voice so she wouldn’t be heard, Ceria murmured to Olesm.
“If they’re out of mana, there’s not much they can do. So yes, often Menes’ team will abandon a mission if something makes them use up all their potions or if the enemy is more numerous or stronger than they anticipated.”
“Oh. I see.”
“They do good work most of the time, though.”
Gerial nodded in agreement.
