Soul! I like that. “Of course,” Ali agreed, as she would have done anyway. Carefully, she deconstructed several patches of the tiny white flowers, enjoying the soft scent of their delicate perfume.

Variant: Peacebloom added to Imprint: Wildflower.

“I’ll plant some around the shrine when I get home,” Ali said, happy to see a small smile appear on Malika’s lips.

***

You have been afflicted with Domain Withdrawal.Separation from your domain weakens you.-10% to maximum health.Affliction – Duration: Indefinite. Count: 6

It was the longest she had been outside of her domain since being dropped into the Ruins of Dal’mohra, and Ali found herself becoming rather anxious as she flew Ryn and Mato up to the gates at Vertias.

The guards seemed bored, as might be expected, demanding a few coppers for entrance, but rather than worry about their mildly rude behavior, Ali studied the city a little. She had been far too preoccupied the first time through.

It was called a city, but she decided it was likely smaller than Myrin’s Keep. What made it stand out were the massive stone walls, clearly the result of a powerful stone crafter or earth mage, and the fact that it had a teleportation locus. Without a source of magicite to power them, things like teleportation circles must have cost a fortune to install.

I’m just glad Malika is going to be ok. She had been sad to say goodbye, but after the fear of losing her friend, a couple of days or weeks apart would not be so bad.

“Do you guys still have a potion of recall?” Ali asked Ryn and Mato after they had finished their business in the city. Something she should probably have thought to ask before they left.

“I have one,” Mato said. “But it will probably cost me the entire day to repay the mana debt.”

“I can cover it,” Ali answered. With Inspiration and her large pool of mana, it shouldn’t take her too long.

“I don’t have one,” Ryn said, “but my teleport doesn’t have a range limit, I can just return to the library directly.”

“I’m jealous!” Ali said. “My teleport is nineteen meters.”

“Oh, Ali,” Ryn said, feigning a completely innocent expression, “do you think there’s a library in this city?”

Ooh! “We should definitely check,” Ali said excitedly. “Let’s do that first.” But then the reality of her situation reasserted itself, checking her mood. “Oh, but I don’t have any gold for a membership. I spent it all to get here.”

“It’s ok,” Ryn said. “They will probably let me check the catalog for free, and I can bind it as a teleport location for my skill. I can come back whenever we have the money.”

“You can just make some coins, can’t you?” Mato asked.

“Oh, right,” Ali said. Finding a spot out of sight, Ali wielded her Grimoire to fill the coin purse and handed it to Ryn.

“That’s… amazing,” Ryn said, her eyes wider.

Sinking to one knee, Mato threw his arm over Ali’s shoulders – startling her – and drawled, “Ryn, have you met my portable gold mine? She’s totally loaded.”

“Mato!” Ali gasped, as Ryn cracked up laughing.

“What’d I say?” he chortled.

Well, back in the day that might have been a spicy comment but, Ali realized now, three thousand years had passed and so much had changed. Not wanting to spoil his ebullient mood over Malika’s recovery, she said, “I’m telling your mother on you, you rascal. Let’s go look for the library.”

With only a few quick questions, they located the library and very soon, Ali found herself inside an imposing stone building, an elegant rectangle built around a shady inner courtyard that had benches and nooks set up for reading. Tasteful. Perhaps I should take notes for the Grand Library… She had taken the time to memorize the Vertias Teleportation Locus, which surprisingly was situated in an antechamber attached to the library – a fact she had been too busy to notice the first time around. She had no idea when, or even if she would ever need the locus, but she assumed it may prove handy in the future. If nothing else, Malika might well want to return and revisit Kezda.

“I’m going to stay and browse the catalog for a while,” Ryn said. “I’ll meet you back at the library later?”

“Ok, see you soon,” Ali answered, and with that, she and Mato used their last recall potions to return to the Novaspark Academy of Magic receiving room.

Ali paid more than four thousand mana to cover their teleport in one go, much to the surprise of the official, and then both of them headed out.

“That’s convenient,” Mato said, grinning broadly.

“Let’s replace our recall potions, and then head home,” Ali said.

“Ok, rich girl.”

She shot him a raised eyebrow.

“If I turn you upside down and shake you, do coins fall out? Or flowers?”

“Mato!”

Simmering inside at his outrageous teasing, Ali nonetheless smiled up at the Beastkin. Oh, he definitely had a soft spot for Malika, she was sure – Mato’s big heart had been on full display for the last week. Still, she realized something else. To have a friend like him at your back was a gift all the gold in the world could not buy.
