She examined the enchantment, trying to process her emotions. She did not even know this Elder, and while she felt she should be honored by his offer, something within her resisted. Her parents had always cautioned her to only accept mentorship from someone she trusted implicitly. She pulled up the description to see the details.

Mentor Patronage – Rezan JinTraits: Soul, Dexterity, Perception, Wisdom, Bloodline (Ahn Khen), Haste, Melee, Evasion, Knowledge, Healing.Experience gain is increased for actions aligned with your mentor, or under their supervision. Gain additional skill unlocks and advances aligned with your mentor’s traits and experience.A portion of your increased experience is awarded to your mentor, increasing their reputation.Enchantment – Tithe

“It is a decision of significance, so I don’t want you to answer right now,” he continued, and she realized that he was taking pains to offer her an honorable way out, and not force her into anything else. Did that reveal enough of his character to help her decide? “Please take the time to consider it while you recover in Kezda.”

Malika nodded, not trusting herself to answer his overwhelming offer. Before she was forced to speak, the touch of a small hand reaching for hers distracted her. Looking down she saw Ali looking up at her, her eyes filled with concern.

“I was scared you were going to die.”

“Me too, Ali… me too.”

***

As they made their way up the narrow winding mountain road, childhood memories rose unbidden in her mind. She remembered one particularly clear evening before sunset, riding on her dad’s shoulders as they walked back from shopping in the nearby city. She must have been five, and it had been such a happy day. Her dad had shown her how to make rings of peacebloom and she had worn one in her hair.

The road wound higher and higher into the mountains until it opened into a small, secluded plateau. An open expanse filled with rubble was all that remained of Bakahn village, the home she had been forced to flee so many years ago. To the right was a burned stump of the tree she used to climb when she had wanted to be alone. And the giant boulder she and her friends had used to play heroes-and-demons was blackened around its base. As she walked through the old wreckage of the town, her memories played out a vivid overlay of the town before disaster had struck.

Walking on automatic, she found herself in front of her parents’ house. The dojo she had practiced at, pretending to be a hero. Or more often trying to copy her mom or dad’s techniques. Her old home. The rubble in front of her was blackened and weeds were growing through it, but in her mind, she could still see it all clearly.

She was dimly aware that the others had withdrawn to give her space. While she stood before what was the grave of her family, the tears she had been unable to shed all those years ago finally came.

Ali sat quietly in the little camp Rezan’s disciples had pitched on the outskirts of the rubble that was all that remained of Bakahn village, watching sadly as Malika wandered the ruins mourning her parents.

This must be so hard for her. I hope she can find some peace.

“We lost so much when Bakahn village was destroyed,” Rezan said from the opposite side of the campfire. “Almost everyone was killed, only a small few like her managed to escape.”

“I heard it was a dungeon-break,” Ali said. Malika had opened up to her about her past and shared some of the details.

“Yes, a previously unknown dungeon suddenly went wild and destroyed the entire area with fire-affinity monsters. I heard the adventurers talking about an undead monster they found at the heart of the dungeon when they exterminated it.”

Undead? Just like the Twin Wights and the Skeletal Wyvern. Ali’s mind returned to the terrifying encounter with the Blind Lich after they had defeated the undead in the Ruins of Dal’mohra, and then to her recent conversation with Lyeneru and her observation that Nevyn Eld was using dungeons for his inscrutable and malign purposes.

Perhaps he is closer than I imagined? She shook her head, trying to dislodge the morbid idea that the Lich was somehow responsible for Malika’s grief and pain.

“The disaster also took one of our Elders and the last remaining copy of the Nine Paths of Ahn Khen. It’s been ten years and, without the ancient text, already people are forgetting how to correctly train the children and develop their arts,” Rezan said, his voice melancholy and heavy with sorrow.

“Was it a book?” Ryn asked. “The Nine Paths, I mean.”

Ali glanced at Rezan, worried for a second, but he didn’t seem to take offense at Ryn’s curiosity about the lost artifact which was obviously sacred to him.

“One book for each of the nine paths, bound in the finest drake leather and written in the ancient language. The books were beautiful, filled with our magic, the culture of the Ahn Khen handed down from the ancestors, our martial arts, training, and the development of our techniques and skills.” Rezan’s voice was filled with pride and passion, but his eyes were tempered with sadness.

“Ali, do you think I should try my Seeker skill?” Ryn asked. “I don’t think it will help if the books were burnt, but maybe…”

“It couldn’t hurt,” Ali answered. Ryn had been essential to getting them to the correct place, but other than that, Ali could tell she felt out of place and useless. She was by far the lowest level person, and her class had been unsuited for healing or helping Malika in any way other than her ability to find the right reference books to tell them where to go.

Ryn closed her eyes, and as her familiar magic forked out across the ruined buildings and charred tree stumps, Ali could see the complex magical formations flickering in Rezan’s eyes as he studied Ryn’s skill.

Her magic traced arcs across the ground, hopping from building to building, as if it were searching for something by feel. Ali watched it curiously for about a minute before suddenly one arc flared with a coruscating golden light, leaving a powerful afterimage on her vision as if she had just witnessed a ground strike of lightning right beside her.

Ryn gasped, breathing heavily. “I saw something, but it was too blurry to make it out. But that building – uh, that ruin over there – has a secret cellar beneath it.”

Ali followed as Ryn led the way, excitement mounting as everyone joined in the curious hunt. She didn’t allow herself to hope – Ryn had even said she couldn’t see what her spell had found.

“Under there,” she said, pointing at a huge slab of fallen stone.

Mato immediately shifted to his Bear Form, and together with Basir – the stocky male disciple – they heaved the wall up and over, revealing a trapdoor set into the blackened stone floor. Together, they reached for a large brass ring offset in the trapdoor, but a few tugs revealed that it was well sealed.

With a few quick flashes of his magic, Rezan disabled the magical seals.

“I think this was Elder Inaya’s house,” Malika said, drawing their attention to her as she joined them. “I didn’t know it had a cellar. I didn’t think any houses in the village had cellars.” She had her lockpicks out, and she had wiped the tears away from her eyes, but it was clear that even though she was pretending she was normal, it would take her a while to recover.

With a twist and a click, the door opened, and Ali caught the scent of dry and dusty air escaping. She created a barrier in front, both to light the way, and to protect herself from whatever might lurk within, and she descended the stone stairs behind Mato, sneezing as their feet kicked up dust in the stairwell. Perhaps the trapdoor had not been so well fitted or the magical seals let through blown dust, because it was several inches deep in places, and they had to take each step with care.

Entering the cramped stone cellar, Ali found only a small, frayed carpet in the center of the room, a small table with a few keepsakes, and a single shelf containing nine matching reddish leather-bound books that glowed softly in her mana sight.

“The ancient text!” Rezan gasped. He turned to Ryn and bowed. “You have my eternal gratitude for finding that which we had thought lost forever.”

In the soft light of her magical barrier, Ali could see Ryn blushing at Rezan’s declaration.

“Perhaps Ali could copy it for you so that it’s harder to lose next time?” Ryn said.

Rezan glanced up, meeting Ali’s gaze. “It’s a magical text in an ancient language. No scribe has been able to copy it in my lifetime.”

“Ali has a unique magic,” Malika said, still sounding rather subdued.

But Ali was glad she hadn’t elaborated. Even though it was more or less common knowledge in Myrin’s Keep now, she was still reluctant to simply blurt out the nature of her class to people who were mostly strangers.

“I will try,” she said, levitating herself up to the shelf and retrieving the first book. As she opened the cover and began to memorize it, she felt her Sage of Learning struggling with the unfamiliar language. Without context she would not be able to learn it; however, the magical script yielded easily to her analysis.

It would be a lot easier to memorize if I understood the language.

She struggled with it for a bit before she decided to change tactics.

“Would you mind translating some of this into Common for me please?” Ali asked, pushing the book over to Rezan.

“Which part?” he asked, seeming a little surprised.

“It doesn’t matter, it will just go a lot faster if I know what I’m memorizing.”

She enabled Study Trance, watching carefully while Rezan began to read from the ancient tome.

You have learned the Ahn Khen Language.

She was still unable to determine exactly how much time had passed, but she had the feeling it wasn’t more than twenty minutes.

“Ok, now let me read it and you correct me,” she said, taking the book and beginning to read, translating it into Common as she went. Rezan raised an eyebrow in surprise, but he did as she asked, his corrections growing fewer and less frequent as she proceeded.

Your proficiency with the Ahn Khen language has improved.

Really quite handy, this skill. Ali studied the pages, knowing she had learned it sufficiently well that she could finish off the books entirely on her own now.

But it would be a wasted opportunity.

“Do you mind reading it in Ahn Khen for a bit? So I might learn the pronunciation?”

She could tell he was curious, but he began to read, the words coming out in a strangely lyrical-sounding speech, full of profound inflection. After a few minutes, Ali took over, reading the text directly in Ahn Khen, taking a few pointers of feedback on the correct vowel sounds before her chime sounded once more.

Your proficiency with the Ahn Khen language has improved.

“Thank you,” Ali said and picked up the book. She paged through it rapidly, using the full speed of her Reading and Runic Script skills to quickly commit the entire tome to memory. She double-checked her memory by scanning through the book one last time, finding no errors.

“Got it?” Ryn asked.

“Yes, much easier now,” Ali answered, glancing at Elder Rezan, but he seemed to think this feat deserved only his most inscrutable expression. She bit down on a surge of irritation. Fine. And now for her next trick, maybe he’d like this one?

She opened her Grimoire to the book imprint, noticing the flickering formations in Rezan’s eyes again as she began to channel her mana. She chose a variant with a similar leather binding, and then flowed her magic through the imprint, blending her memorized text and Runic Script into the construction as she replicated all the spells, magic, and written text of the original. Rezan had been right, there was a lot of magic contained within the book, and her Runic Script spell worked overtime, drawing heavily on her mana and memory to duplicate the spells and runes.

A leather-bound book dropped into her lap. The cover was darker and of a different leather than the original, but it was a reasonably close match. As she paged through it, she quickly verified the accuracy of the copy before handing it to Rezan.

He studied it carefully, his eyes growing wide in surprise as he paged through it.

Ali left him to it and began to duplicate the rest of the volumes. When she was finally done, she found she was barely able to hold all nine books in her memory at the same time – more than she had ever been able to do before.

“Would you mind if I made a copy for my library?” Ali asked. “If nothing else, it would be a good way to have a copy in a different location in case something happens to these.”

“I’m afraid I cannot give you permission without consulting with the other Elders. I’m sorry. You’ve done us an extraordinary service today, and I will try and get their agreement, but I cannot guarantee it.”

“I understand,” Ali said. She couldn’t quite keep the disappointment out of her voice but after a moment’s hesitation and with an inward sigh, she released the memories she had created.

At least I learned the language. Quietly, she reviewed the notifications she had suppressed earlier. Hmm. Good.

Runic Script has reached level 22.Sage of Learning has reached level 19.Reading has reached level 11 (+2).

***

“What would you like to do, Malika?” Ali asked. They sat around the campfire under the stars where Mato had provided them all with a warm dinner. Ryn chatted with Hala about life in the village of Kezda, and Mato was discussing combat forms with Basir.

“I think I’d like to return to Kezda with Elder Rezan and his disciples so that I can heal,” she answered thoughtfully. “I will return when I’m recovered. I assume you’ll need to return home soon?”

“Yes, I have only four more days,” she said. She was excruciatingly aware of the passage of time, as tracked by her domain withdrawal, and getting back to her domain was becoming more and more urgent now that Malika was not in imminent danger of dying. “We’ll go to Vertias in the morning so that we can return some of the maps Ryn borrowed and I’ll teleport home from there.”

“Ali, before you go, I have a favor to ask,” Malika said.

Not quite sure what Malika had in mind, especially given that she rarely asked for anything for herself, Ali simply followed her as she led the way down the trail for a few moments.

“This is peacebloom,” Malika said, pointing at the patch of beautiful tiny white flowers growing on the ground. “My mom always said that wherever peacebloom grew, peace was sure to follow.” She looked at her, eyes full of emotion. “Would you learn it for me? It would remind me of home.”

Peacebloom – Wildflower – level 4 (Soul)

