“I said, use everything! Stop trying to ignore your Soul Sight. Do you think you can defeat me without it?” Unconsciously or not, the girl was holding back, perhaps afraid of the pain of her bloodline. But he needed her to use everything, even if it burned her up. Without that, there would be absolutely no chance.

Rezan studied the energy flow of her skills with Eyes of the Soul, the complex gestalt of energy and power that was the essence of her class, roiling and smashing through her body in a reckless maelstrom. It was clear to him, now, that she was dying. Throughout her body he could see the angry knots where the blue-white of her soul energy was twisted up, clashing with the blood-red tendrils of her bloodline and her life energy, the tangled formations blocking the flow of her skills, causing them to pierce and tear the very core of her soul.

Some dared to call the Ahn Khen bloodline a curse. He shook his head slightly, refocusing on this girl, on her needs.

Sometimes, when the bloodline manifested a skill too early, it could become unstable, and its untethered power would tear down the life energy of the soul. It had happened to Hala – but with the immediate application of the rituals of the ancestors, and proper meditation, he had helped her bring her energy and bloodline safely back into harmony. Malika had unlocked not one, but two bloodline skills – and she was barely level forty and lived far from anyone with the knowledge to help guide her. The violent storm of energy it had released within her had been destroying her unchecked for five days. He had never seen anyone so far gone; it was astounding she was still even standing, let alone trying to fight him.

She cannot last much longer. It was a shame; he could see flashes of genius in her attacks.

She attacked, and he carefully analyzed the flow of energy that powered her skills as the energy illuminated the twisted knots. There. The pulse of her magic backed up against a blockage in her elbow, causing it to flare brilliantly and highlight the exact shape. He unleashed his fist; a precision punch, striking the tangled knot with a piercing pulse of his own soul-affinity energy. As she spun and hit the ground, the warped energy twisted and then reverted to the original tangled form. He frowned.

Her soul is stronger than her body. He would need to use significantly more power to separate her energies from her bloodline properly. This may very well kill her. She was balanced on a knife’s edge, and if he couldn’t do it, he would have her death on his conscience for the rest of his life. He steeled his heart and mind. Now was not the time to be sentimental, there was literally no other way, and he would be just as responsible if he simply left her to die without trying. He punched again, releasing a violent core of energy through his punch that blasted through her body. There was a sharp crack as her elbow snapped, but the tangled knot of energy finally eased, smoothing out.

Inwardly, he grimaced. “Heal it,” he said, waiting for her to get back up.

She seems surprised, did she not notice it was broken?

As she resumed her attacks, he shifted his attention to the knots of broken energy in her legs. Her skills were bleeding energy through the tangled knots into the surrounding area, damaging her flesh, blood, and bone as it went. The skills she wielded forced power through the knot, driving them to twist and spread like a malevolent cancer.

He didn’t make the same mistake again, his two kicks delivered powerful energy strikes with perfect precision, honed by decades of training. Kicks that could sunder granite. Her legs both snapped, and she collapsed, but she didn’t register any pain. Likely she cannot feel her broken legs over what she is already enduring. Both tangled knots slowly dissolved as her energy smoothed out and began to trickle through. Better.

He stood waiting for her to heal herself, his anxiety rising at the sight of her energy dimming dangerously. Her bloodline is consuming her quickly. He admired her determination as she once again got to her feet, despite the obvious pain.

Channeling his energy, he waited while she attacked from above, and, as soon as her body descended and she channeled her stamina, the giant knot in her stomach came into clear focus. He unleashed his punch, forced to use enough power to send his energy clean through her body. He felt a chill as her energy faltered, and her shirt darkened with blood, but she stabilized once more.

I need to be more careful. Her body is too weakened to take much more.

He studied her energy with the intent focus of a lifetime’s mastery of his arts, watching as it flowed past the former blockage. But to his dismay, her fading energy illuminated the worst, most tangled mess he had ever seen. One in the head, two in the chest, and three in the ribs? That is crazy. Her energy dimmed, and yet she attacked with more power and spirit than in the beginning. He could see the energy pulsing through her body, tangling with the knots and tearing at her, and yet she refused to give in. This girl has spirit.

He found himself admiring her will and grit and wishing he could have found her earlier as an apprentice.

I need to hit them all simultaneously. But she is too weak to survive the Fists of Coherent Integrity.

As she executed her flurry of attacks, he waited carefully for the precise moment. This would be close – he would need to use enough to destroy the tangled energy while holding back just enough so that she would survive. He knew her broken body could not handle a second attempt, nor could it withstand the power of his legendary attack. But he had its precursor – the skill that had started him down the path of the Elders. As the twisted power flared through the knots, he seized the opening, allowing her strike to hit him to set up the perfect angle.

Ancestors, protect her!

And with his silent prayer, he unleashed the power of his Instantaneous Strike. His fist blurred, impossibly fast even to his accelerated perception – the pinnacle of haste. Splitting time itself, his fist took six separate paths simultaneously, striking all six remaining energy knots while releasing his soul power in a pulse that pierced clear through her body, picking her up and knocking her flying. He automatically healed the damage to his muscles, torn by the extreme demands of his martial skill.

He held his breath for a long moment, but the fatal chime did not come as her body crashed into the ground. The energy within her crumpled form flickered angrily, pulsing chaotically, dipping to black a few times, but then it slowly smoothed out and Eyes of the Soul told him that the tangled knots of her bloodline had finally been unraveled. He could see the damage to her energy flow and the bloodline that both he and the instability had inflicted on her, but although very weak, her life force continued to shine – a tiny spark of will that refused to be extinguished, perhaps a mark of the suffering she had already endured to reach this point.

Suddenly, the little Fae blocked him with a golden barrier, her energy a dazzlingly intense gold in his sight.

“I won’t let you kill her!” she yelled at him, her face firm and determined.

“I’m not about to kill her, nor was I trying to,” he stated, sighing in relief. “But she does require urgent healing.” He didn’t want an unnecessary fight, but his healing required him to be much closer.

It was then that he noticed the curious rippling pulses of energy flickering along the domain between the girl sprawled in the dirt and the giant oak her companion had transformed himself into. He didn’t cast anything, but it was abundantly clear that the Beastkin’s aura was stabilizing Malika’s life force.

Is he bleeding for her? His own healing magic would have been faster, but the young Beastkin Druid’s magic was strong.

Good friends and a powerful will. It seems Malika will do well. Inwardly he smiled, careful not to let it show. May the Mark of the Ancestors burn brightly in your blood, young one.

Lacing his fingers together before his throat, he bowed deeply to honor his opponent.

Malika opened her eyes and blinked at the light of the late evening sun falling on her face. She was outside, out in the open air, and for a moment she couldn’t recall where exactly she was. She lay on the ground under a large spreading tree, and somebody had covered her torso and legs with a light blanket. Somewhere nearby, she heard the sounds of voices conversing quietly; Mato, Ali, Ryn, and several others she could not place.

Rezan.

Her memories crashed back into her head; the excruciating trip, her rapidly unraveling bloodline, and the fight with the Elder. Her heart accelerated in her chest, but its fluttering felt strangely weak, almost detached from her wandering perception.

I failed.

She had never stood a chance, but she had needed to win the fight to awaken her bloodline. It had been her only chance, and now it was gone.

Why… why am I still alive? Hold on…

She blinked and sat up, suddenly realizing that there was no pain. Confused, Malika checked herself over, but the pain that had been her constant unwanted companion for the last four… no five days remained blissfully absent. She realized that the sense of disorientation was somehow rooted in her recent walk to the edge of death itself… yet she breathed, her heart beat, and something fundamental had changed.

What happened?

She checked her notifications, finding numerous entries for the last few days.

…Your bloodline has deteriorated. -7% to maximum mana.Your bloodline has deteriorated. -3% to maximum health.Your bloodline has deteriorated. -4% to maximum stamina.Your bloodline has deteriorated. -6% to maximum mana.Your bloodline has awakened.

She stared at the last line, dumbfounded. How… it’s awakened? But he said I had to win. Am I dreaming? He beat me like a ragdoll. Broke my legs – but they look fine. This can’t be real.

Confused, she checked her aptitudes, but it had indeed changed. She was not dreaming.

Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Bloodline (Ahn Khen): +45% to range and power of Bloodline skills- Mana (Affinity): Soul- Relentless (Class): +100% to Stamina Regeneration- Relentless (Class): You can pay for any abilities with stamina instead of mana

She stopped reading, suddenly becoming aware of the growing silence around her and the feeling of being watched. She looked up to find her friends staring at her with concern etched on their faces. Her face wanted to redden but that seemed a step too far for her abused heart.

“How are you feeling, Malika?” Ali asked.

“I’m… just about ok,” she answered, finding, to her surprise, that it was true. Someone had healed the bruises and the damage. She still had substantial losses to her maximum health, stamina, and mana, but the jagged bolts of pain were gone, and so were the disorienting haloes of distortion in her vision.

“Your energy is stable now,” Rezan said, studying her with eyes that glowed.

“My bloodline awakened,” she told him, accusingly. “You told me I had to beat you.”

“I told you what you needed to hear. I needed to see the flow of your energy at full power to understand the knots and blockages and where to apply my energy. The only way to be sure was to have you go all out.” The glow in his eyes faded. “Congratulations on awakening, I’m sorry it had to be so violent and forceful.”

He made me think I had to win just so he could see my energy?

Malika’s fury faded as she realized it had been an efficient, necessary method. And that he had saved her from an excruciating, drawn-out death. Yes, just that minor victory. Idly, she wondered if she was truly being rational, or if it was just her Clarity finally reasserting its calming influence on her mind.

“Now what?” she asked. She found her awakening filled her with a complex flood of emotions, stained with the deep melancholy of her old grief. Awakening her bloodline was a formative and potent achievement, and one that no doubt meant she would survive. However, without her parents, nobody remained to perform the Rite of Naming.

“The damage you’ve sustained from your bloodline will fade with proper meditation and care,” Rezan said. “I suggest you accompany us to Kezda, and I will teach you what you need to know – you should make a full recovery given a little time.”

“I would like to stop at Bakahn village and pay my respects to my parents’ resting place if that’s not too much trouble,” Malika said.

“Of course; it’s on the way. But before we go, Malika, I must apologize to you.” He shifted uncomfortably.

“For the deception?”

“You may not have noticed yet, but my last attack imprinted my mana on your soul. It has left us linked by a mentorship tithe. It was not something even I was aware was possible without your explicit permission. It is not appropriate to force such influence over your class on you while you were unconscious.”

A mentorship tithe? How did I miss – oh, there it is.

Patrons & Tithes- Mentor: Rezan Jin

Sure enough, it was there. Without her conscious agreement, she had his mana signature tied to her own mana, forming a mentorship bond.

“I’m sorry,” Malika said. “I will remove it, if that’s what you wish.” Mentorships were agreements that were entered into with care and consideration. For one thing, most people could only support one or two students or disciples at a time, and he looked like he had two already. For another, they could dramatically influence both the development of the master and the disciple. Even her removing it would cost him several months of recharge time before he could use it for someone else.

“I would have removed it myself,” he noted serenely. “But that would mean I would never be able to offer it to you again. Rescinding a tithe is permanent.”

About to remove the enchant, she suddenly stopped as the implications of what he had just said sank in.

“What do you mean?” she asked, not ready to believe it.

“I know it’s rather sudden – and I just deceived you, beat you up, and forced the enchant on you. But I’d like you to consider it as a real offer for you to become my student.”

Malika simply stared at him, struggling to catch up with what he was saying. But she couldn’t miss the sudden smiles on the faces of his other two disciples.

“I admire your tenacity and will. I studied the mystical energies of your soul. It would be a great honor to have you as a student.” Malika nearly bit a hole in her tongue. An honor? She was a Street Rat. “I ask that you consider keeping the mentorship at least until you’ve recovered so you have the time to make your decision properly. But if you’d rather not, I understand.”

