"Veilshade!" Faelorian suddenly roared to the sky. "I know you're watching. Help me!"

Her blood ran cold. Faelorian would never call out for help from another Monarch, unless... he really can't escape? Something must be locking him in place? A spatial lock array of some kind? She floated forward a step, only to regret it.

"Do not intervene, Shadow Monarch," a voice that sounded like death itself whispered coldly from the sky.

Mistress Veilshade's gaze snapped toward the shadow angel that was floating a little above her. When did he get here? It was side-eyeing her, as if daring her to make a move.

"I'm a spectator," she assured the shadow angel. "If Faelorian dies, then he dies."

"Oh, he will die, that's not up for debate," the shadow angel said with a dark chuckle. "One way or another, he has been marked for death by the All-Seeing Eye, and nobody has or will ever escape his judgment."

"Why now?" she found herself asking.

"The Covenant was going to deal with him, but he disturbed my Lord's beauty sleep," the shadow angel grinned dangerously. "A grave sin worthy of execution."

The word execution wasn't something Mistress Veilshade thought could be associated with a Monarch. Even now, while Faelorian was being heavily pressured, he was far from dead. He was holding his own against the fire Monarch by keeping his domain running in a small area around him.

Going back to ignoring her, the shadow angel addressed the world. "Councilman Faelorian Lysanthos, leader of the Flower Accord, the All-Seeing Eye has decreed that today will be your end," he said, his Qi-empowered voice reverberating across Floridawn for all to hear.

The fire Monarch suddenly backed off, giving Faelorian time to glare at the shadow angel. "You coward!" he roared, pointing his glowing blade at the angel. "Decree this, decree that. Why doesn't the All-Seeing Eye stop watching from afar and finally show himself before me?"

The shadow angel looked down at Faelorian with a sad gaze like one would give to a dying dog. "You will enjoy the All-Seeing Eye's loving embrace soon enough."

"What does that mean—"

"Perish," the shadow angel said, snapping his fingers.

Faelorian snorted at the shadow angel and seemed about to jeer at the overly pompous statement, only for all defiance to vanish from Faelorian's face. Time slowed to a crawl as a deep wail echoed through the fabric of existence—reality itself shrieking as something unfathomable tore through it.

Both Monarchs turned, eyes wide in slow motion, as their spiritual senses were overwhelmed by the sheer wrongness swelling from the distant horizon.

Then they saw it.

From beyond the far reaches of the wilderness, a beam of pure desolation howled forth, splitting the heavens with ease and devouring clouds in its unstoppable wake. Reality warped and bled around it. Mountains in its path were unmade, not destroyed, but erased—like they had never been.

Such continent-wide destruction, unleashed in a single breath.

"I knew my death was coming," Faelorian whispered, barely loud enough for anyone to hear. His gaze was filled with resignation. "The Heavens, they willed my demise to feed their dark child."

Faelorian closed his eyes as the desolation beam engulfed him and the entire region with it.
