Observer #27 was pretty sure that he hadn't heard that Brightscale professor correctly. It sounded like he'd said his student could destroy the Firestorm Scale, and that was patently ridiculous.

Of course, the idea that he'd misheard something was equally absurd. His scrying spells had a dozen redundancies to avoid interference and magical tampering, and his memory had been reinforced with spellwork designed to prevent exactly this sort of error. He couldn't mishear his targets even if he wanted to.

On the other hand, the idea that anyone might be able to destroy the Firestorm Scale was more ludicrous by far. The Scale was a divine artifact. It couldn't just be destroyed. It had layers upon layers of protections cast upon them by the gods themselves.

Even disregarding that, that professor had heavily implied Cale would be able to break it just by offering it his mana! The Scale was built to handle up to a quintillion points of fire mana, which was more than any one mage on Utelia even had. Not only that, but its creator had been so paranoid about this exact problem that it could even handle mana in excess of that amount.

It would strain the artifact, sure, but it wouldn't destroy it. At most, it would leech a few centuries off the Scale's effective lifespan.

Maybe there was something he was missing? Perhaps this Cale had a mana type that could overwhelm the divine protections on the Scale and destroy it. He'd never heard of such an aspect, but then he'd learned over the past eight years that there were many things about magic he didn't understand. Some unheard of mana aspect wasn't completely out of the realm of possibility.

Alternatively, the Brightscale professor was simply lying. Observer #27 had no idea what would motivate him to do so. If the professors knew what was happening with the Scale—and they very clearly did—then their best course of action was to evacuate all the students as quickly as they could. Even if they couldn't teleport everyone away, they could hide in the tunnels, away from the disaster that was about to take place.

Not that it was any of his business what they did or didn't do. They were doing nothing, and it was foolish.

But then again, so was he.

Five years ago, he would have cared. Eight years ago, he would have been horrified by the atrocity that was about to take place and done everything in his power to prevent it.

Now all he had left was a vague sense of unease. Everything else had been carved out of him long ago by an insistent, relentless buzzing that drowned out any voice that wasn't that of the Broodmother, including his own. He knew his duty: he was to watch and document everything that happened, and to interfere if necessary.

All he needed to do here was determine if interfering was, in fact, necessary.

He had an array of spellslates in front of him. They were expensive things, trigger mechanisms for a variety of pre-cast ritual spells designed to give him all the versatility and flexibility he needed to ensure the plans of the Red Hunters came to fruition. Among them included an evacuation slate, intended just in case any of his Hunters happened to be caught in the field. The Commander wouldn't want to lose any of his valuable agents to a rampaging elemental god, after all.

In theory, Observer #27 could activate that to save the students. It wouldn't interfere with their plans, really. The point was to corrupt the elemental god of flame. The deaths of the students and their professors was simply a bonus, something that would cause the news to spread faster and spark more outrage. It wasn't necessary.

And even three short years ago, that might have been enough. Three years ago, a small part of him still cried out against the Broodmother's voice, and he might have acted, even if he didn't understand why. Three years ago, he still remembered his name.

But that was long gone now. All he knew was that he'd had a name, once, and even that would soon be gone. Then there would be nothing left but Observer #27.

Such was the cost of using one of the Red Relics.

They were corrupt, arcane things, the Red Relics. Observer #27 didn't really understand what they were or how they had come about. They seemed different from every other artifact he had observed. All artifacts potentially had drawbacks, of course, but the Red Relics—they took something essential out of their users, like they were stealing pieces of a mage's soul.

For eight years, Observer #27 had been bound to the Red Relic known as the Watchful Hive. It was far from the most powerful relic the Red Hunters used, but it was the most essential to their operations. What it lacked in raw power it made up for in sheer influence and range. Without it, the Red Hunters would not have been nearly as successful enacting their schemes. They would lose their ability to nudge events in the right direction, to hold a mage in place for just a moment too long.

The Watchful Hive was crucial.

And so, by extension, was Observer #27.

The thought made the buzzing in his head throb. A sick sort of pride lurched in his gut. Observer #27 doubled over, hands gripping on to the edges of the scrying pedestal, his breathing growing ragged as the Watchful Hive attempted to reward him for the thought. He fought it, but by now it was more instinct than deliberate—he no longer remembered why, and soon he slackened, letting the bliss wash over him.

It was always like this. Stronger each time, punishment and reward. The buzzing told him what he was allowed to think, when he was allowed to think it. It led the way when he helped set all this up to begin with. The Grand Mage had been the one to invert Kessi Lyrwin's mana core, but it was his efforts and those of the Hunters stationed at Haelforge Academy that put her in this position.

All because that damn Firestorm Scale was near impossible to corrupt through conventional means. It had taken them work, and he was proud of that work.

The shrine was warded against anyone that wasn't affiliated with one of Utelia's academies. It had taken them months to come up with a plan that would work, and longer still to implement it. They needed to place just the right person in place at just the right time. He had personally needed to infiltrate their dreams, to whisper into just the right ears to convince those Haelforge professors that Kessi could be trusted near the Scale.

Apparently, they'd somehow still had it easier than the Brightscale team. Observer #27 snorted. He remembered his Hunters laughing at the naïve idealism of the Haelforge professors—they didn't realize how much he'd been doing behind the scenes, making them confident and foolhardy.

They weren't technically wrong, he supposed. That was the primary difference between the Haelforge and Brightscale academies, outside of Haelforge's focus on battle magic: the Haelforge professors desperately wanted their Astral Wing students to succeed. Many of them had graduated from that wing themselves, long before the Red Hunters had risen to power.

The Brightscale Academy, on the other hand, had taken years to corrupt. They couldn't get at any of the professors directly, and half of them were paranoid and antisocial, with all sorts of countermeasures built into or around their person. It had taken the Brightscale team decades to sow division amongst generation after generation of mages, to figure out how to pressure the professors into not interfering.

They'd succeeded, in the end. They managed to make things look like a natural development, a cultural shift. But even then, things hadn't been easy.

The Brightscale Astral Wing's wards had gotten an upgrade a few months back that were so sensitive that the Grand Mage had to rework their obfuscation spells just to avoid setting off a dozen alarms, and even then it was risky for their Hunters to get anywhere near the demon that anchored them. And just a few days ago, Observer #16 was complaining about some golem that apparently made it impossible to scry anywhere in its vicinity.

Worse, the Commander had a special interest in Headmaster Akkau, for some reason. Observer #27 shuddered at the thought.

Interest from the Commander was never a good thing.

In that vein, at least, Observer #27's job had been far easier. The Haelforge Academy was overconfident and willing to use its reputation as its primary form of defense. Their wards hadn't been updated in years and were comparatively simple to bypass. None of their professors even specialized in warding magic. His Hunters told him they hadn't even run into any trouble slipping the shimmerdust into their food.

Which meant he'd done well, hadn't he?

Observer #27 noticed, perhaps a little distantly, that the buzzing in his skull hadn't grown again. It hadn't reacted to his thoughts. It would have by now, but instead, it almost seemed a little quieter.

He forced his attention back to the scrying spell. Neither school had evacuated yet. All the students had woken from their resonance trances by this point, staring at the corrupted Firestorm Scale in a mixture of horror and alarm, which was the appropriate reaction to a corrupted divine artifact. The human, meanwhile, was just eyeing it critically, like he was judging it. Or evaluating it.

What was he doing? Why weren't they evacuating? The professors had been smart enough to notice the problem and to cage the errant corrupt mana. They'd delayed the Scale's corruption and almost forced him to step in. Now all they needed to do was evacuate, and they were just standing there, watching the human.

And so were all the students. They were giving the Scale a wide berth, but it wasn't like that would save them from a rampaging elemental god.

Observer #27 reminded himself that this was a good thing, that it would advance their plans all the more.

For once, however, the buzzing in his skull didn't respond.

And Observer #27 finally noticed the absence of his ichorworm bond. The small, larval creature that occasionally took the form of a golden fly and represented his connection with the Watchful Hive—it was gone.

And his heart was suddenly hammering.

The death of his ichorworm didn't mean he was no longer connected to the Watchful Hive. It was nothing more than a representation. The bugs that acted as their eyes and conduits did occasionally expire in the field, and normally, all that happened was that the Observer it had been bonded to would have to report to the Broodmother. They would be fed a new spoonful of the Watchful Hive's ichor-honey, and nine hours later, a new one would be birthed from their optic nerves.

But there was a gap, of sorts, created by the death of their bound ichorworm. Those things amplified the Broodmother's passive voice.

Without it, he could hear his own voice again. Not loudly. It was more of a faint echo of his voice, still drowned out by the Broodmother's passive droning, but there was just enough that he knew he didn't want this.

The emergency spellslate. He could activate the teleportation effect. He needed to be careful not to think about helping anyone, lest he draw the Broodmother's attention.

His finger twitched. He inched his hand toward the spellslate. Observer #27 was doing nothing. He was activating a failsafe. He was making sure there would be no unnecessary casualties—

—the Broodmother's presence in his mind surged. Observer #27 fell forward, his mouth opening in a silent scream as the buzzing in his mind multiplied, and multiplied, and multiplied.

The Hive detected intent, and with every stray thought, it carved a new piece out of him.

Observer #27 was lesser now than he had ever been.

He was his duty. Bound to observe and report. To interfere when necessary. Even without his ichorworm, there were ways he could step in to prevent the destruction of the Scale until its corruption was complete.

He turned to look at a different spellslate.

That one would summon one of their Templars to the site if he deemed it necessary. A Templar would be clad in a dozen lesser Red Relics. It would open with a spell salvo designed to kill any mage that could interfere, activate any bloodrot links that might be tied to any of the mages present, and ensure their plans cover up the evidence.

If there was any chance this human could stop the Scale, he needed to activate it.

Observer #27 stared at the Templar spellslate.

(A Templar was a one-time summon. Using it would drain several of their relics dry. It would take months to recreate them, and more to train a new Templar. The odds that the human would destroy the Scale were too low to waste this on.)

But this particular scheme was important. The Red Hunters had plenty of other measures in place, other plans they could launch, but corrupting the Firestorm Scale was one of the highest priority. It was one of the few things that could truly sway the beastfolk tribes of the Illwyld.

(A small part of him ached in remembrance at the thought.)

It did seem unlikely that a human would be able to destroy the Scale. Observer #27 considered this for a moment. Destroying it through mana quantity alone was not worth consideration, no matter what the professor said; it would be a waste to call a Templar to stop something that was impossible.

A destructive spell, perhaps. Something only the human knew.

(But he was a student. A student wouldn't have a destructive spell that powerful. Wasting a Templar on that would anger Broodmother.)

Then perhaps—Observer #27 knew that the Brightscale Academy was home to a particular mage known as the Devil Artificer. She was a nightmare of a mousefolk mage, apparently capable of constructing and rebuilding even divine artifacts like they were toys. The Red Hunters had judged that a majority of the rumors about her were nothing more than rumors, but nevertheless, she was marked as one of the more dangerous mages they knew of.

She could have provided this Cale with an artifact capable of destroying the Scale. It would have been within her capabilities.

(It would be foolish to give such an artifact to a human and not to the professor, however. Far more likely that the Brightscale professor had misunderstood the nature of the Firestorm Scale. Was this not the disgraced Mage Killer of the Brightgrove Elves?)

Observer #27's sense of duty was satisfied. He drew his hand back. Calling a Templar would not be necessary.

Instead, he would watch, as was his duty.

He breathed new life into his scrying spells, feeling them resonate with his mind, recording everything just as the Watchful Hive dictated. The Firestorm Scale would be completely corrupted soon, and Observer #27 knew that the Commander would want to pry these memories out of him later, so he could watch his victory.

In his vision, the human stepped up to the Scale and waved a hand—

Observer #27 blinked.

