No. Not... not Observer #27. His name was—it was Serof Ontiladus. He was a light mage from the Lightladen Fields in the northwest corner of the Illwyld, and it had been eight years since he had seen any light other than that mimicked by his own scrying spells.

His mind scrambled to try to piece together what just happened. He could... think for himself? Why could he think for himself? He hadn't been able to think for himself for five of those last eight years. It had been getting harder year over year, the buzzing in his head louder and louder.

He remembered... his ichorworm getting destroyed. That had cleared his head a little. But then the Watchful Hive had reacted, and the Broodmother had reached into his head.

Serof winced at the memory. Just the memory of the buzzing made him nauseous.

What else had happened? He'd been... he'd been watching that human with the Firestorm Scale. He wanted to save them, but that was what had caused the Broodmother to react. There was so little of him left after that all he remembered was determining there was no risk, no need to call a Templar to take action. Then he refreshed his scrying spells, and the human stepped up to the Scale, and then—

The memory flashed back into his skull. Serof fell back against the wall, wings curling protectively around himself, gasping and trembling as just the memory of it burned through him a second time, brighter and louder than any of the Broodmother's buzzing thoughts.

A bright orb of prismatic light manifesting over one end of the Scale, almost twice the size of the entire tempest of fire mana that weighed down the other. Serof caught a glimpse of it only because he was a light mage scrying the scene. No one else would have had the time, because the instant that happened, the Scale rang out with a keening, desperate gong as it swung all the way to the other end—

—a massive cloud of dust and soil and broken earth kicked into the sky from the force of the Scale striking the pedestal that held it like an enormous, impossible hammer—

—the sheer weight of Cale's mana tearing the divinely-reinforced lever from the golden base, warping the metal enough to cause it to crack; the entire Scale bouncing from the rebound force, flung into the air before being caught by a ridiculous barrier, and a glimpse of that human's eyes—

Backlash.

Serof trembled in realization. He'd just experienced scryer's backlash. That—that should have been a myth! The idea that a scrying spell could see something it wasn't supposed to and hurt the caster through the spell was absurd; scrying spells were designed not to hurt their casters.

And yet... he remembered it all now. He'd been watching too closely, horrified by what he was seeing, and he hadn't paid attention to where he was looking. He caught a glimpse of Cale's eyes in the exact moment the human channeled the force of his mana, and his scrying magic—designed to pick apart, designed to understand, designed to measure—had been torn open.

Whatever he'd witnessed wasn't supposed to be measured. Couldn't be measured. And he'd witnessed it and tried, and the magic had burrowed straight back into him through his spell and into his mind, where it was linked.

And then, where it should have blasted apart his mind, it had instead blasted apart the Broodmother's voice.

That damnable buzzing was gone.

Serof's breathing steadied, his wings slowly uncurling as he forced himself to his feet and stumbled back to his scrying pedestal.

The artifact was out of his head. He was free! The Watchful Hive and its Broodmother were no longer connected to him, not even through the ichor they had forced him to swallow and the worm that had crawled out of his eye.

The only thing Serof didn't understand was how this had happened from just attempting to scry one mage. What was he? There was no way he was just a student.

But he couldn't afford to think about that. Not now, when he was still very much in range of the Broodmother's wrath. Serof stared at his scrying chamber, taking it in. It was more of a glorified cage, really, though he hadn't been able to notice while he was Observer #27.

There were no windows. The door had been locked in his earliest days here, though after he had been sufficiently indoctrinated they hadn't bothered to keep it that way. He could open it, and he knew what he would find outside: dozens of identical cells, each one holding another Observer.

All kept in the depths of the Watchful Hive, underneath the slumbering Broodmother.

"I need to find a way out," Serof whispered.

His gaze sharpened slightly. Years of captivity had taken away some of his edge, but it was there, lurking beneath the conditioning. Escape wasn't impossible. The Hunters wouldn't be expecting him to just walk out. The problem was that the catacombs of the Watchful Hive were a bit of a maze. He'd have to scry his way through first, memorize the route...

And then he needed to find that mage. That human that had somehow broken his cage just by looking.

If he wanted any of his friends to be free, if he wanted any of his years of captured servitude to mean anything more than the destruction he had inadvertently helped bring about, he had to find one Cale Cadwell Cobbs.

Cale stared at the smoking remains of the Firestorm Scale and scratched the back of his head awkwardly. "Did I overdo it?" he asked.

It was mostly a rhetorical question. He was grinning. Graystalk gave him a flat look, probably because the professor knew full well he was just playing off what he'd done. Professor Delia was too busy staring with her jaw wide open to pay him much attention.

Or so he thought. Her gaze suddenly snapped to him. "What in the eight infernal realms—"

"Seven," Cale cut in politely. Delia fell silent.

"Oh," she said, her voice suddenly hollow and maybe a little bit frightened. "You weren't... you weren't kidding."

"About blowing up an infernal realm?" Cale asked. "Of course not. Why would I joke about something like that?"

Behind Delia, Graystalk coughed politely, and Cale sighed. "Okay, I would joke about accidentally blowing up a realm," he amended. "But not about the eighth infernal realm! That would just be in poor taste. Why does no one know about this? Has no one checked on the infernal realms?"

"The last mage that attempted to scry the eighth infernal realm had his own entrails fed to him for the trouble," Professor Graystalk said dryly. "And he was a particularly powerful mage, so most people have been... reluctant."

Cale stared. "Well, now I'm glad I blew it up," he said. And then, after a moment, he added: "Accidentally."

"Indeed," Professor Graystalk said, his tone somehow even more flat than before.

Cale responded by beaming at him. "I'm glad you understand! Can't have people coming to me to commission realm destructions, you know?"

"A common, everyday problem, I am sure. It must be quite troublesome for you."

"The troublesome part is mostly the cleanup."

Graystalk raised an eyebrow. "Of the realm?"

"Of the mage that asked." Cale shot his professor a look of feigned offense. "I don't just go around destroying realms for every slight, you know."

"Of course. I should have known." Graystalk hid his smirk, instead climbing to his feet and dusting off his robes. "Well, I would say that our class has been rather thoroughly disrupted. We will need to report the destruction of the Firestorm Scale. I don't suppose you have a means of restoring it? It would save us a lot of trouble."

Cale double-checked the Gift. "Not for another sixty hours!" he announced cheerfully.

Graystalk paused. "...Am I to understand," he said slowly, "that you do, in fact, have a means of restoring the Scale?"

"I dunno, probably?" Cale shrugged. "I'm assuming [Awaken Artifact] can do that. It's a twelfth tier spell."

"[Awaken Artifact]?!" Delia repeated with a yelp, sounding faint. Both Cale and Graystalk turned a surprised look toward her, like they'd forgotten she was there.

In Cale's case, because he had. Whoops.

"Can you pretend you didn't hear that?" he asked politely. "I feel like if too many people know about that before Imrys she might actually try to kill me."

Delia nodded, probably a few too many times. "I won't tell anyone," she said rapidly. "You have my word."

Graystalk glanced at his colleague, amused. "He doesn't bite, you know."

"It's true!" Cale agreed, then paused. "Unless you want me to. I bet I could bite through stone with the right spell. I did just get [Basic Physical Enhancement]—"

"Cale," Graystalk said, exasperated, and Cale shot him an unrepentant grin.

"Well, I don't need a spell to bite you, do I?"

Graystalk narrowed his eyes, although his ears, once again, flushed pink. "Do not make me challenge you to a duel," he muttered. "Enough. We still have some time in the Elemental Shrine. We should make the most of it. We will not have another opportunity to attune for a fire resonance rank for at least another three days, it seems. Perhaps sooner, if Professor Imrys could be convinced to help us, but—"

Professor Delia winced. Cale blinked. "She can do that?" he asked. "Does she have some kind of reputation?"

"Does the Devil Artificer herself have a reputation, he asks," Professor Delia muttered exasperatedly.

Graystalk ignored them both. "Fortunately for us, it seems your little stunt has done this place much good," he said, gesturing out grandly toward the rest of the shrine. "The shrine should survive a mere three days, considering all the fire mana you just added to it."

Cale turned to look at what Graystalk was pointing at, and then finally actually noticed what he'd done.

The entire storm of fire mana that had been sitting on the Scale was gone, for one thing. But everything the Scale had been able to process beforehand had been donated to the Elemental Shrine of Fire, raising its ambient mana level to the point that—

—well, to the point that firesprites had begun to form.

That was a something that could happen when ambient mana was raised to a high enough level, Cale knew, although it was rare. The mana would gather into semi-sentient sprites, fluttering and dancing through the air. There were only ever a few of them at a time, except now?

The sky was full of them. They were twirling around the students, which was probably the main reason Cale hadn't been accosted by more of them for what he'd done. The few that just sat back down to try to meditate for their resonance rank had even more sprites flying around them, while a small cloud of them were beginning to gather around Graystalk and Delia each, giggling happily.

"Whoa," one of the students said. "I just—I just got my first rank! Isn't this supposed to take weeks?"

"I got two," Caea said, opening her eyes and studying Cale intently.

"Orguk also get two!" the orc bragged, making the serpentine lady glance at him briefly. Orguk took the opportunity to wave at her.

Cale just blinked. "Huh," he said. "Is that supposed to happen?"

"Absolutely not," Graystalk said, but he was already sitting in a meditative position. "But far be it from me to take advantage of your generosity. You should, too—the shrine's blessing will only last for a short time, and it is needed to acquire the first rank of fire resonance."

"Wha—hey, don't you get ahead of me!" Delia glared at him. She did not, however, immediately sit down to compete, as much as she seemed tempted to. Instead, she sighed and slowly gathered her barely-conscious student into her arms. "I'm going to take her somewhere safe and make sure she recovers," she said quietly. "Meet me there when you're done, Graystalk."

Graystalk inclined his head slightly as Delia left. Cale blinked. Were neither of them going to explain anything to their students? Come to think of it, after Caea and Orguk's declarations pretty much all the students had gone straight to meditating.

Almost as if he could sense his thoughts, Graystalk cracked an eye open and spoke, surprisingly gentle. "What you have triggered is colloquially known as a resonant blessing," he said, indicating the firesprites flitting through the air. "It is a rare event. One that does not happen more than once a decade. A mage present during it masters an element exponentially faster than their peers, and the window of time we have to take advantage of it is... limited.

"Delia will ensure Kessi's safety, and I intend to move as quickly as I can so she can attempt to benefit herself. Rest assured, we will be discussing what happened here afterward. You should attempt to gain your rank while you can, as well." He hesitated. "I assume you were able to find what was affecting Ms. Lyrwin?"

"I did," Cale said, his expression flickering slightly before he nodded. "Yeah, that makes sense. We'll talk about this after."

He was still excited about fire resonance, after all, and Kessi was woozy but fine. Cale let out a breath, sat on the ground, and closed his eyes. He could hear a faint sound of crackling as firesprites began to converge on him, one after another. At the veil of fire mana around him made it just a little easier to peer into the elemental plane of fire.

And that was what resonance ranks were about, weren't they? Connecting to the essence of an aspect.

Cale allowed his mind to settle. First on the warmth of a fireplace in the middle of winter, on the comforting heat that fire could provide. Then on the raging, all-consuming flames he'd seen once tearing through entire armies. Finally he thought of how fire was the cornerstone of civilization, how its discovery helped the development of all kinds of food.

Like the steady, dry heat of an oven allowing bread to rise.

He reached out to the concept of fire itself, holding that in his mind, and something within his core resonated. When he opened his eyes again, he found himself in the landscape of his mind, fire burning all around him like he'd linked his sight directly to the elemental plane of fire.

That fire soon responded to his call, resolving into an image of an elemental god that embodied the purity of flame. His presence felt like a manifestation of the plane itself, towering over all else, and he tilted his head down toward Cale in a slow, almost imperious movement.

Then the fire flickered, like he was blinking.

"...Really? You were thinking about bread?" the elemental god asked, scratching the back of his head. "I'm supposed to grant you a vision, but uh... I'm not sure what to do with that, to be honest."
