In truth, Tala actually thought it might, but she wasn’t really interested in continuing the back and forth. She suspected it would only inflame the already tense atmosphere. Besides—if she understood correctly—Eskau Meallain hadn’t been killing any fox-kin. Severing dimensional connections would only have sent their homes to drift in the void to reattach elsewhere on Zeme.

Tala rubbed at her temples. “Lisa, regardless of how you feel, she will be here for the foreseeable future, as will he.” She addressed the last toward Eskau Meallain. “Is that going to be an issue? Do I need to keep the two of you separate? I had hoped to get help from you both, and each of you has a lot of wisdom to bring to bear on the other’s insights. I will get the most from you if we all work together.”

Lisa shook his head, a mischievous glint in his eye. “I have no issue with her presence, not if she’ll be in this state.”

Eskau Meallain wrinkled her nose. “I will not cause issues so long as he stays away from me. I’ve nothing specifically against his kind, if they don’t negatively affect me or mine. Unfortunately, I cannot promise that I will be able to collaborate with him.”

“Alright, then. That’s at least a first step.” Tala smiled, somewhat forcing the expression. “Let’s have some tea, coffee, and food.”

Lisa gave her a bow. “I am afraid that I must take my leave, but thank you for the invitation and reintroduction. My home is open to you, whenever you wish to chat.”

Tala almost stopped him, but… what was the point? Somehow, the fox-kin and the elf had a history, and it hadn’t been a good one. Lisa was removing himself from the situation and not sniping at Eskau Meallain in the process.

Tala decided to take that as a win, even if she would have preferred he stay so that they could begin to rebuild bridges between the two ancient arcanes.

Lisa straightened, then bowed to Rane and Terry in turn before departing. The man and bird having watched the whole exchange with rapt interest.

Terry let out a little chirp of amusement, and Rane shook his head, a wry smile across his lips.

Well, that could have gone better.
