Zac noticed a slight drain of Imperial Fate from one of the Elemental’s arms while Descartes gripped a very familiar object. He possessed an item almost identical to the [Court Cycle Token]. Like Kaltosa Lu, he was paying Imperial Merit to change his destiny, seizing the fate of an ally in the eyes of the lodge.

Descartes wasn’t content simply surviving the purge. He threw out an old banner emblazoned with the crest of Sevona’s Kingdom. It collapsed into dust before Zac had the chance to intercept, and the whole illusion collapsed. Zac went for the second-best option, striking at the dying Monarch to secure the kill.

Holy flames already raged within him, and spatial tears leading to a burning world surrounded him. Zac pushed his hand inside and activated [Deathmark] to release a stationary cloud of corrosive death. His other hand followed up with another swing of [Fatehew], aimed straight at the Monarch’s head. He was cut in two, and his very soul was lacerated by the skill’s spiritual blade.

Still not done, Zac finally dropped one of his remaining [Cherry Nuts] before retracting his left hand from the spatial tear. It was the same approach that Ogras adopted to finish off the competition in Dipper Seven. It was crude, but Zac didn’t have a lot of options. His Draugr Class had very few abilities that could directly target an Inner World. Beyond [Desperation’s End], there wasn’t anything particularly impressive.

Zac’s mind screamed of danger, and he kicked the man away. The spatial cultivator had already lost consciousness from the pain, and he put up no resistance as he was flung against Descartes. The outsider merely scoffed and threw a punch at the incoming projectile. Even the force from the Monarch’s crumbling Inner World was suppressed by the punch.

The pitiful C-grade Spatial Cultivator drew his last breath before his whole body exploded, his own boss delivering the finishing blow. Zac looked around and realized only two Hegemons remained alive. Both would be dead within the minute without divine intervention.

“Just about there,” Descartes muttered, not the least perturbed by suddenly standing alone against two formidable foes.

Zac got a sinking feeling when Descartes threw out a dozen more corpses, including those of two Monarchs reeking of corruption. Another was a familiar face. It was the sealbearer who’d killed off their own clone, the man with seven illusory swords whom Zac later met at Astora’s mansion. It looked like his luck had finally caught up with him.

Why was Descartes doing this? Was he showcasing his work to prove that they were on the same side? It didn’t seem like that was the case, and even Kaltosa Lu had gained a solemn expression as hundreds of Array Disks appeared in the sky. Something was wrong.

“Did you think I had sold my soul to these pitiful natives? Do I look like someone who would blindly swallow Ultom’s toxic truths? People stuck in these remote corners of the Empire truly lack discernment,” Descartes scoffed.

“Trying to jump ship now that your subordinates are down?” Zac countered, his eyes roving back and forth in search of threats.

“Believe what you will. I would have upheld my agreement with the creatures of the false timeline if they were more competent. What’s it to me which side wins? I’ll return to the capital when I’ve achieved my goals. But they’re floundering before we could even begin to strike at the Theomore’s hegemony,” Descartes said, his smile widening as he gazed toward the Hall of Abundance.

“It doesn’t matter. My agreement was with Lord August, and I believe he’s about to uphold his side of the bargain.”

The name hit Zac like a sledgehammer, and his eyes widened in horror as he spun around. A second energy signature had appeared inside the Divine Core, one all too familiar.
