"A speaker will only fight three times per speech. Davrar will choose the challengers with the greatest merit and place them upon the stage. But those who issue a challenge also risk losing access to the conclave and the continent. But if somebody abuses their combat power to silence the opposition, then refuses to speak, that is seen as poor argument.” He shrugged. “It’s a system that works when it works, and is abused when there is an imbalance of power.” He raised an eyebrow at Nathan. “I am not sure what direction it is tilted in your case.”

Nathan threw up his hands. “I guess we’ll find out!” He was feeling somewhat exasperated, though he had to admit that the setup was pretty simple. It was the sort of thing that rewarded you for having allies, punished you for having enemies, and required people to back up their words with their fists. “I’m guessing that the duels are part of the fun, and that giving a good performance in the fights is almost as important as a good speech.”

“More important, to some,” Colborn said with a sour twist to his mouth. “If the fights become boring, then the next petitioner will take their turn to speak, but not if they will be ignored. And if a speaker wins all of their challenges, they can reclaim the stage.”

Sarya spoke placatingly, trying to calm Nathan down. “You aren’t without allies. We will speak, and fight. So will every one of the elder Questors who went to the battle. Their true purpose there was to signal their side in the upcoming conclave.”

The Heirs were all thinking hard, trying to understand the implications of this system. Stella broke the silence first. “We’re all going to need to stare the ghoul in the eye.”

Nathan hissed. “No. If a mortal needs to fight, it should be me. I can survive fighting most Questors. But if one of you stands up to talk, then the Aleph Grid will have a Questor lined up who’s perfectly suited to kill you. They’ll do it out of spite, and then you’ll be dead. Even if we take revenge, it won’t matter.”

“The same is true for you,” Sarah said. “They will be planning an approach to beat you. We’re chasing this goal together, and must all be bold.”

Colborn’s expression was complicated. “You have been introduced into the games of Questors by the war, and are known as a collective unit. You will all be expected to fight, if not speak. If any of you hold back, then it will taint the entire cause.”

Nathan felt a smoldering anger in his heart. This felt like the first betrayal from the Questors. He felt absolutely certain that at least one of his friends would die in the upcoming conclave.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 6

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 2

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 5

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 6

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 5

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
