l those gods?" Ruli asked, engrossed now."The 'Kelin' emerged and struck them down. Home was taken from us to heal the wound in the sky flesh," Seth said sadly.He saw her puzzled look and waggled a finger at the sun."We do not send thoughts of soul to them, but they are, as you tell, gods. This land's gods," he said, and Ruli nodded slowly."The Sister came, kicked ass, and took your words away?" Ruli frowned."Must have. With words, we call more gods. Know the right tongues and promises. We go to death in combat again," Seth said bluntly."So, you can't have any gods down there? I don't see the appeal in them, but I'm not against them, well, until now," Ruli admitted. Seth smiled at her awkward phrasing."Some. We united a little, formed new words. Home only has small gods approved by many agreements or refused by the same people. Gods agree to be… like trees. Come early, fade in the cold winter," Seth said with a nod."Oh, that's nice. So, you like gods?!" Ruli asked, and Seth's eyes darkened."No. Old actions repeated do not perish easily. A tree must heat death, and a town must suffer much water," Seth said with a hard voice."I know about the 'tree' from Quiss, but what's this business about a town?" Ruli questioned as she downed her beer."Gods are not supposed to stay. I will not give my permission for another Shattering. If town will not admit their crimes…there will be no more town. More words will be washed away. No more shattering," he said and stood up."I thought this town was close to the old world tree; how does it have anything to do with the Shattering?" Ruli also stood up. Seth eyed her and hesitated for the first time."The pretender of wood is not right for his crown. To wear it, the tree uses other josuk, gods, to get power of might. Only for a short time… only for a little time," Seth said quietly."Gods come, but they do not leave. They do not live, but they do not die. Their stars do not fade," he finished and turned to leave."Seth?" Ruli hesitated, and the water mage looked back at her."Wouldn't the new gods sense a trap? Why would they come?" she wondered."They no longer do. The fake crown has a beast of many forms to bring him fresh food. The beast believes she is saving the world by killing star-born. She is a fool," Seth said flatly.The man looked down suddenly and looked heartbroken."My wise teacher… she was used to draw a god of magic in. Used like cattle and thrown to the worms when it was done with her," he whispered."What's this town called?" Ruli asked, eyes narrowing. Seth looked to the sun for a moment, then answered."Eden."---Yattina was in an orange paradise. A pile of bees covered her and were vibrating cheerful tunes. Alpha had put her on a piece of large bark and was using a magic rope to simply drag her along as Yattina vibed."To the left is a tree that looks slightly bigger than the one to its left, while on the right is a nice rock," Alpha intoned, and Yattina could imagine it.Damn, what a fine boulder."And now we've arrived," Alpha said suddenly, and the bees began to float away,"My fluffy tomb!" Yattina cried. The bees joined an astounding number of others as they toiled around waterfalls of delicious looking honey that pooled into large lakes around a massive central stone plateau.Streams of red, blue, green, yellow, orangey-purple (oruple), and more made the scene magical as fields of flowers grew in between each pool with vibrant hues.She read one of the signs near the pools."Red makes you hyper, yellow makes you see things, green soothes, blue excites, purple-orange invites creativity, and white honey is only taken with permission of the queen. Ignoring this advice may lead to you sleeping with your co-workers, dancing to songs no one likes, being annoying, being barred from the Dungeon, having a midlife crisis, crying, missing the boss fight, running late with toast in your mouth, and/or potentially exploding. -Nu"Looking at the back of the sign, she read another note."Or do what you want, I'm just a sign. -Nu's Signpost #45""The honey is sourced from local bees, who produce anywhere between endless and a lot of honey," Alpha gestured to the hive of activity."I like the term 'buttload'?" Yattina offered as Quee swam in the green honey with a sigh."A buttload of honey. The leader, Queen Lizzie (first of her name) is the one in charge and has been known to host honey sample contests for the locals. Judges include the Druid Devina, Old Elder Frog, Giant, Rale, Luna, Renny, Bob once, and more," Alpha said with a final nod."What does the white honey do?" she asked, and Alpha smiled a little."It allows you to be content with yourself for ten minutes. It's made from the golden popcorn and distilled to a purer form," he warned."How content?" Yattina made notes."Rumors say strong enough to make you feel no shame in awkward teenage year memories and even able to smile a little," he said, and Yattina eyed him.She didn't feel any shame in those years.Shame required other people to even consider her worth thinking about at the time.Still, this was so much fun! The bees filled a little case with three samples of the pools, and she collected it from the gift shop they had with a picture of a bee in a witch's hat.It was called the 'Spelling Bee.'"Where next?" she asked excitedly, and Alpha thought about it."Let's go see Bob. I like Bob," he decided.Yattina couldn't wait."Is Bob more family? An uncle?" she asked excitedly as she put her honey samples in a safe bag."He's something," Alpha agreed with an odd smile.
