“You—wished to see me?”
The Naga’s eyes locked on Niers. He recoiled with a shout of horror that filled the room. Niers smiled as Xalandrass reared back instinctively and then fell over himself with apologies. He flourished, giving the Naga a small bow.
“Niers Astoragon, at your service. I am pleased to meet you, Xalandrass the Naga. Peclir, thank you for bringing him here. I will see him now.”
Peclir rolled his eyes as he shut the door. Niers winked at him and then turned his attention to Xalandrass. The Naga was trying to collect himself—and failing.
“My apologies for the little surprise. How may I help you? I was told you had a matter of importance, and of course I’m eager to hear any information…of merit.”
Niers stepped around the candle in front of his armchair. This too was a tactic. Xalandrass was trying to calm down, and now Niers had cut to the heart of a subject. The Fraerling watched him carefully.
A smart negotiator might calm down and take a few breaths. Someone with ice for blood might even address Niers’ rude introduction. But Xalandrass, [Merchant] though he may be, wasn’t that good. He rushed over himself, tripping over his words in his haste to address Niers. As if he was afraid he’d be tossed out for not instantly answering the question. Well, in another company. But not here.
“Lord Astoragon. I’m so delighted—forgive me, I hardly noticed—er, I did come here with vital information! To the best of my ability. I was…you are no doubt aware I was involved in that unpleasantness between the Roving Arrow company and the Razorshard Armor company? Well, aside from the tragedy that unfolded, I made a number of significant encounters at that time.”
“Indeed?”
Niers put a lot of emotion into that one word. Impatience, a hint of intrigue…Xalandrass nodded as fast as he could.
“Indeed—yes! A number of personages took to the field. I don’t refer to the companies. But rather—that was the battlefield on which a unique individual appeared. I don’t know that you’ve heard, but the Last Light of Baleros—a [Doctor] who cures the wounded—took part in that battlefield. And I observed her work. Truly splendid. And I came here to…to tell you…”
He was mopping at his brow with a handkerchief. Niers stared at him. Suddenly disappointed, he sat down in his tiny armchair. If all Xalandrass wanted to tell him were more rumors about this Last Light, then Niers would pass. Baleros was full of legends, heroes who rose and fell in the course of a moon’s cycle.
“I’ve heard of this Last Light. But an individual, even a [Doctor] isn’t a unique occurrence on the battlefield, Merchant Xalandrass. I trust she isn’t the topic of your visit?”
The Naga gulped.
“Not entirely, Lord Astoragon. But she is related! I did, in fact, meet her. And several others whom I can only describe as—they were all part of—but perhaps I should show you this. It speaks far better than I can.”
He was fumbling with something at his side. A bag of holding. Niers eyed the odd object that Xalandrass pulled out. The Naga tried to flourish it and then panicked as he realized the only place to set it was on the table where Niers was sitting. He offered it up with two hands, slithering closer to let Niers see.
“What is that?”
Niers frowned. Of all the things he’d expected Xalandrass to pull out, this wasn’t it. He stared down at some kind of…it was a compact tube, that was for certain. And there was…glass on one end? Glass and something inside of it. But the rest was made of a colorful steel—no, it wasn’t steel. But it wasn’t wood either. Or any other substance Niers could name.
“This, Lord Astoragon, is a device I obtained on that battlefield. Not from the companies, but from some strange individuals. Humans. I believe it is known as a…flashlight. If you will allow me to activate it?”
The name was instantly familiar to Niers. You didn’t need to be a genius to know what it did. But he was intrigued. So he clapped his hands, and the lights in the room went out. In the darkness, lit only by a pair of windows covered by velvet drapes, he saw Xalandrass fumble with the device.
Belatedly, Niers wondered if this was an assassination attempt. Well, he had on his gear, and Xalandrass would have been screened. So if it was, it was original. But Niers didn’t sense a spell come at him. Instead, he heard a click—
And a beam of light shot from the end of the flashlight. It was bright. Almost painfully so. And as Xalandrass swept it up and down the room, Niers saw the glow came from the thing inside the flashlight. It was being magnified outwards. Strange. Xalandrass swept it across the room, flashing it at Niers once and then apologizing hurriedly. Then the Fraerling clapped his hands and the lights returned.
The Naga swept backwards. He gestured to the flashlight proudly.
“You see?”
“I saw a light. A cute artifact, but hardly better than a mage’s lantern. And too bright to do more than give away your position. Unless you can control the spell?”
Niers replied drily. Xalandrass wavered, and then he slapped his forehead.
“Oh! Of course! I neglected to mention—Lord Astoragon! This isn’t a mage’s artifact. This device isn’t magical. Not at all!”
He raised the flashlight. And now Niers’ eyes locked on it. He frowned.
“Explain. And bring it closer. You may place it here, please.”
He gestured to the table. Xalandrass did so, talking hurriedly.
“No magic at all. Feel free to examine it, Lord Astoragon. It’s got components inside—you can see the metal and glass past the…”
“Odd surface. Too smooth, but it’s definitely not metal. What’s it made of?”
Niers interrupted Xalandrass, running a hand along the strange body of the flashlight. He glanced up sharply and saw the Naga hesitate.
“I’m told it’s called ‘plastic’, Lord Astoragon.”
“But you don’t know. And it’s completely non-magical. Not even a rune or mana stone inside?”
“I had a [Mage] friend of mine test it. She swears there’s no magic at all.”
Now that was strange. Niers studied the device. There was no fire to it, even when he pressed the button and it lit up. Something was glowing, but—Niers went blind for a second as he stared at the glowing filament of…whatever that was inside it. That wasn’t magic. No, that was some kind of metal. Wasn’t it?
He glanced up and saw Xalandrass was watching him hopefully. Niers stepped back, hit the button on the flashlight, and decided to sit. He blinked spots out of his eyes.
“Well, Xalandrass, congratulations are in order. You’ve got my full attention.”
The Naga puffed up a little. Niers held up a hand.
“Don’t waste it. Without exaggeration, tell me. What is this device? How did you get it?”
“Ah, well, I would love to embellish the tale, but the answer is simple. I acquired it in the line of my business. A few mercenaries from a suppression company hired for the battlefield came over and tried to barter for some alcohol. They offered this in trade, and I took it.”
“For alcohol?”
Niers’ eyebrows shot way up. Even a weak artifact was worth far more than that. Xalandrass smiled.
“They were desperate. And I offered them quite a bit to drink for these trinkets. And others.”
I’ll bet you did. Niers had a low opinion of war merchants, who sold to companies when they were at their most desperate. They preyed on the short-of-luck. But he didn’t say any of that out loud.
“So, you made a good business deal from some soldiers desperate for fun. Who didn’t realize what they were carrying?”
Xalandrass pondered that.
“Let’s say that their good sense was in shorter supply, Lord Astoragon. There were others whom I made better offers to who did not relinquish their…objects. All part of the same company I might add. All Human. All new to warfare.”
“Ah.”
Niers was getting an image. A group of desperate travellers who’d bartered this away. Poor enough to work in a suppression company. But rich enough for…? And they didn’t know the worth of this.
“Tell me more. Or rather, show me.”
“The flashlight is a good start. But I obtained a handful of these during the battle. Taken from the…deceased. I traded for it with some Dullahan soldiers. To them, it was only a flash of light and sounds, but I discovered they could be [Repaired]. Sir, please look.”
If the flashlight had been calculated to grab Niers’ attention, the second thing that Xalandrass showed Niers was intended to seal the deal. Because Niers had no idea what it was. It was a rectangle. Some object made of the same foreign substance as the flashlight, but the front was smooth as glass. And it had a…button on it. And when Xalandrass pressed it hard and it came to life…
“What is that symbol? An apple?”
“Keep watching, Lord Astoragon. But—steel your eyes. There are a number of bright shapes.”
“Sound?”
“And look. If I touch this…”
The screen came to life. Xalandrass’ fingers delicately tapped one of the square beacons of light, and it expanded. Niers stared as something appeared. He saw words. Nonsensical. Xalandrass tapped one of the words, and it lit up. Everything on the thing in front of him changed. And then a face appeared. Niers jerked back, but the face was still, like a [Mage]’s illustration. And then there was music.
At least, Niers thought it was music. It sounded nothing like anything he’d heard. He stared at the screen, at the moving thing at the top, at Xalandrass’ face, and then held up a hand. The Naga instantly hit a strange pair of vertical bars near the bottom and the music stopped.
“Take it back, please.”
Niers settled back in his chair as Xalandrass retreated, looking pleased. The Titan realized he was showing his curiosity and bewilderment and cursed internally. He looked at Xalandrass and decided to play the Naga’s game.
“Alright. I am mystified. Xalandrass, tell me what it is.”
“They called it an ‘iPhone’, Lord Astoragon.”
The Naga pronounced the word clumsily. Niers stared at the device. And then the flashlight. His mind offered him several explanations. But he went with his gut.
“No magic.”
“None whatsoever.”
“And you got that off of the dead, did you?”
“They would not part with it until…several of their members were caught trying to desert.”
“Ah. By which company?”
“Dullahans.”
That meant beheading. Niers winced.
“And those soldiers gave these things to you for a song and a dance? One would assume they’d have realized the importance, given them to their commanders.”
“As I said, these devices were damaged when I obtained them. One made light, the other…nothing. But I had my [Mage] friend [Repair] them and…”
Xalandrass gestured. Niers thought for a second. The Naga was clearly excited. He knew something of the worth of what he held. The problem was, Niers wasn’t sure he did.
“You see, Lord Astoragon, this iPhone has many functions. One of them was playing that music. But the others—”
“Stop.”
Niers cut him off. The Naga paused, and Niers looked at him. He wanted to talk about the device, but Niers had only one question for him.
“The Humans you bought this from. The ones new to war. Where were they from? What continent?”
“Ah, well, they said—”
“Again. Stop. Don’t tell me what they said. You’ve reached a conclusion, Xalandrass. Tell me it. And then tell me why. I’m not here for a story. Where are they from? Answer me. Now.”
Niers didn’t sit up in his chair. He didn’t raise his voice. But he concentrated, and some of Xalandrass’ confidence faded.
“Tell me everything you saw, Xalandrass. Tell me in order, in a way that exaggerates nothing. You came here because you saw an opportunity. This is your chance. Use it wisely.”
The Naga wavered. He looked at Niers, then hit a button. The iPhone went dark. The Naga drew himself up and then relaxed, his tail coiling inwards upon itself. Perhaps there was some wisdom in him, because when he spoke, it was as Niers had asked.
“I met them in one company. Gravetender’s Fist. The Last Light had been on the battlefield, tending to the wounded. She was an anomaly, but as you say, there are those who are strange. But the children in the company—they were odd. They wore unique clothing and spoke with accents not familiar to me. They knew each other—or rather, they all came from the same place. But I heard numerous names from their lips. All foreign. This is what I saw. This is what they did.”
Niers listened as the Naga told his story of meeting the Gravetender’s Fist company. Of witnessing their arguments, splintering, overhearing odd snippets of conversation. And then—of seeing Ken and Daly rescuing a wounded soldier. Of Geneva, the Last Light, reattaching a Dullahan [Juggernaut]’s arm. Of a flag. Of all that had passed before and after and most importantly, the conversations Xalandrass had had with the children on the road as they fled that battlefield.
He never said outright what he thought. But he didn’t have to. The strange names. Earth. Americans. Australia. And the things their devices could do, their references to Geneva’s skill as something commonplace. And what Xalandrass had overheard the children saying to each other.
How did we get here? Magic exists? Really? You hear about Nagas in stories. Want to go home. What about the others?
A thousand clues that pointed one way. It was such an obvious conclusion that Niers would normally suspect a trick. But the device Xalandrass held said otherwise. He showed Niers more of what it could do. Niers stared at a screen full of characters even smaller than he was move about before vanishing and wondered if an [Illusionist] could do that well.
No magic. A [Doctor] with skills beyond any other [Doctor]. Names and places never heard, never spoken aloud before. And Xalandrass saved the best for last.
“They formed a company after that. The United Nations. A symbol of their home, Lord Astoragon. Something they hoped would draw others to them. Unite them. Something only they would know.”
And Niers remembered the report he’d read. His mind turned to fire. It raced from conclusion to conclusion, igniting. Not just with what Xalandrass was hinting. At last, part of a bigger picture unraveled in his head. He had a moment he’d felt a thousand times as a [Strategist], that of seeing the big picture. Of knowing.
Flashlight. Chess. The game of Go. A new game coming from an established Drake city. A girl waving a white flag. Wistram’s new concept of scrying orbs and viewer mages.
One conclusion. One that made sense. Niers found his breath coming quickly in his chest. The world turned itself upside down. Only, it wasn’t one world was it?
It was two.
