He’d forgotten again. Forgot…that he had a child. That he was married.
That they were left behind.
In the bustling streets of Cinfal, right outside the Runner’s Guild, Luan stopped and stared at the sky. Remember them. Remember their faces. Worst yet, you must remember to remember. Because if you don’t—
You’ll forget. Forget as easily as a lost pair of keys or a missing sock. As if they didn’t matter. As if they never existed. It was the same for Aiko. For everyone, Luan suspected. But he hadn’t brought his conclusion to the attention of the others yet. It was too strange an anomaly to fully understand.
And yet—he was certain it was true. Because Luan kept forgetting his baby’s face. And that—
“No.”
Luan’s fingers dug into his palm. He had to remember. A wild craze swept through him. For a second, he wanted to hurl the gold coins in his palm into the face of the Dullahan staring at him. Grab his oars, grab the knife Daly had given him and stab and cut everything around him. Gone. Gone from home and his family!
But that was not the way. Luan relaxed slightly. It was no one’s fault here. No one around him at least. Possibly no one at all was responsible for this. It might just be an accident. If it was the doing of someone, Luan would have vengeance. But if not?
Remember.
Luan walked slowly down the street. He thought of Aiko and what she’d suggested to him.
Yes. No time to go back and tell the others. Luan had to do it today. How long had it been since he’d forgotten this time? Six days? And he’d talked with Aiko, tried to force himself to remember. But the instant he’d stopped repeating the names in his head, capturing the face—it was gone. So, Luan decided to do what he should have done from the start. He turned to the nearest Lizardperson on the street and began to ask directions.
 
——
 
“Hello?”
The Lizardwoman in the small tattoo parlor looked up. She was a Lizardperson. She had scales. Admittedly, there were colorful designs painted on top of the scales, but as [Tattooists] went, Luan was fairly certain that this didn’t recommend her.
He stopped uncertainly in the entrance to the shop. The Lizardwoman’s eyes brightened as she saw what might be her first client in a while wavering. She scrambled out from behind her desk.
“Come in! Welcome, welcome! This is the Inked Scale, the best—and only—tattoo place in Cinfal! You want a tattoo? Have a seat! I’ll get some designs.”
“Ah, no thanks. I just came by to…I’ve got a design.”
“Ooh, really?”
The Lizardwoman stopped fumbling for some sketches. She came over to Luan as he walked over to a chair. The shop was very small and quite empty. He saw vials on racks, needles—and brushes.
“You do tattoos here?”
“Oh, sure! Tattoos for the fleshy folk, scale art for anyone who sheds. We even have stuff that keeps away fur if you’ve got body hair. Anything you need I can do! Don’t worry, I get [Sailors] from all over the world in here! Drowned People are the worst, between you and me.”
She winked at Luan. Reassured, the man smiled at her.
“I’m looking for something simple. Ink tattoo. Two words on my right arm. Right here.”
He placed his fingers on his arm, just below the wrist. The Lizardwoman nodded energetically. She already had a very long, very sharp stick of—Luan gave it a second look.
“What is that?”
“What, this? Never seen a tattooing needle before? Don’t worry, I only use the tip.”
The Lizardwoman smiled at Luan. She showed him a long, bamboo stick that had been carved with some extremely sharp points dark with ink. Half of it was lacquered, but the tips—Luan blanched a bit.
He’d seen tattoos being done before, but now that he recalled it, it was always with a tattooing machine. An electronic, handheld, mechanical device. He hadn’t made the obvious connection that no person in this world would have that kind of technology. The Lizardwoman saw he was having second thoughts and tried to reassure him.
“Don’t worry, don’t worry! The ink goes here, see, and the little needles go into your skin and let the ink stain it. It doesn’t hurt—er, much. Not unless the needles are really sharp, and believe me, they’re wicked sharp! Wait, this isn’t reassuring, is it?”
“I’ll…you can give me a tattoo, right? No blood or open wounds?”
“None at all. I’m Level 21. That’s good by our standards. And I’ve got healing potions in case you start bleeding, tons of experience—”
The Lizardwoman reassured Luan. He bit his lip, but he’d come this far.
“Okay. Can you put the names in black ink here? I’ll write them out so you can see the right spelling.”
He wrote carefully on a piece of parchment the Lizardwoman handed to him. She looked at it once, nodded, and then eyed Luan.
“That’s easy. I can have you done quick. But…ink, you said?”
“Yeah. Is that a problem?”
Luan grimaced at his arms. He’d barely see the tattoo. But what other choice was there? Aiko had suggested them as a permanent reminder. The Lizardwoman clearly saw his problem and swished her tail back and forth, but not for the reason Luan was expecting.
“It’s just—I don’t think black ink’s gonna show up well on your skin. You sure you don’t want other colors? ‘Cause we’ve got lots.”
“Other colors?”
Luan looked up with a frown. Wouldn’t they be just as hard to see? But the Lizardwoman was nodding energetically.
“Yeah! What, you thought I’d use natural inks on that skin? No thanks, pal! We’ll use a magical dye—it’s cooler anyways. I can make it glow in the dark, too. What color do you want? White? Red? Pink? Ooh, and look at this. This ink changes color depending on how warm it is. And this ink—”
She showed Luan a rapidly changing ink that flashed from color to color. He blinked at it.
“Uh, no. I’ll take—gold? Do you have—”
The Lizardwoman was already pulling out a golden vial. Literally golden in color. Luan stared at it as the liquid ink rolled back and forth. She eyed him, smiling.
“Glow in the dark? Other effects?”
“No, thank you.”
They’d make him too visible at night. Luan nodded as she offered him two more variants on the idea of gold and yellow. Then he frowned.
“How expensive is this?”
“For you and that tattoo? A gold coin. Yeah, I know it’s a bit pricey, but this ink isn’t cheap! Still, you don’t want much—[Sailors] now, they pay for the big stuff. You sure you don’t want your ink to do anything cool? I can make your tattoo change shapes too!”
“No. Just the names.”
“You’re the customer! You have half an hour to do this?”
“Yep. Here’s your payment.”
Luan handed the Lizardwoman a gold coin. She smiled and tucked it into her purse. Then she grabbed the vial and her bamboo needle.
“Here’s the rules: you sit there, I do my work. Don’t move your arm or I’ll have to put it in a clamp. Tell me if it hurts real bad and we can stop. But if you do, I get to tease you, got it? If you start bleeding, I’ll use a potion, but I don’t like to do that while tattooing. They mess up the ink sometimes.”
“Got it.”
Luan laid back and put his arm out as the Lizardwoman instructed him. He’d never wanted a tattoo and was afraid of that stick. But the first time she jabbed it into his skin, he only flinched a bit. And then the poking pain was a constant, so he quickly relaxed.
To his surprise, the Lizardwoman wasn’t at all chatty while doing her work. She was intent, her eyes focused on the delicate lettering she was writing onto Luan’s skin. And there was also a second reason.
Not five minutes into the tattooing, someone else entered the parlor. The [Tattooist] glanced up, but said not a word. Luan, whose eyes were closed, didn’t look up until he heard some heavy clicks on the floor. Then he looked up and saw a Minotaur standing over him.
“You’re the City Runner who goes by the name of Luan?”
The Minotaur stared down at Luan. The South African man tensed for a second. He couldn’t help it. The Minotaur was something right out of legends. Bull’s head, complete with horns. A humanoid body, heavily muscled but concealed by light Balerosian clothing. And like Centaurs, hooves instead of feet.
Minotaur. But Luan’s paralysis only lasted as long as it took him to realize the Minotaur was speaking English and behaving…like a normal person. Luan realized. Here was another species of this world. The Lizardwoman didn’t even seem bothered by his presence.
Then Luan realized he’d been addressed by name. He frowned up at the Minotaur.
“That’s me. Do I know you?”
He was sure the answer was no. For a reply, the Minotaur pulled up another chair and sat down on Luan’s other side, quite unbidden.
“My name is Venaz. I have an offer to make you, Luan the Runner.”
Luan glanced at the Minotaur and then at the [Tattooist] who was ignoring both of them. He frowned.
“I’m a bit busy, friend.”
“Which is why I came here. You can’t run away. Hear me out first. I’ve noted your career. You’re Luan. Human affiliated with a new company. United Nations or something. Served in Gravetender’s Fist, a suppression company as a mercenary before becoming a Runner. You’ve served for two months, but you have a number of notable deliveries.”
“Excuse me, I’m busy. If you want to talk, you can find me at the Runner’s Guild—”
Luan spoke up angrily, but Venaz only raised his voice, talking over Luan. He had an imperious nature, and Luan gave up trying to interrupt him after five tries.
“—not only considered near Courier-level on that boat in the water, but you’ve done what Runners consider dangerous deliveries. Noticeably, a mission to escort a young Dullahan being pursued by a suitor to her home city, delivering through crocodile-infested waters…does that count? Stupid report. But you did a trip to pick up a Dullahan in the starving city of Pxier before it was wiped clean…”
Luan stared at the Minotaur. Unbidden, the memory surged around him. Dragged him in.
Lizardfolk were friendly, cooperative, and social. They were the most pleasant of folk to be around—until you saw them at their most desperate. Then they were animals, like anyone else.
The frantic Dullahan [Merchant] at the docks. Yanking him on board and then seeing hundreds of slim bodies pouring into the harbor, leaping off the docks as Luan swung the oars and pulled through the water desperately. The Lizardfolk were screaming. They clawed at the boat as the Dullahan kicked their claws off. Luan was struggling, forcing the boat further from the harbor. Only as he fought his craft clear of them did he hear the starving Lizardfolk’s voices.
Take me with you.
Help.
Save my child.
Bring us.
Let us…
Luan jerked. The [Tattooist] must have sensed it, because she stopped just in time. She stared at Luan as Venaz paused. The Human caught his breath. The Lizardwoman grabbed his arm firmly.
“Hold still, please.”
After a second, Luan did. The pain returned. Venaz kept reading as if nothing had happened. But Luan was still remembering Pxier.
Starving people. The town had been raided of food and coin, and they had nothing to pay with. So rather than request food, the [Merchant] had bought his own life. Luan hadn’t known. The town was a blip on the map. Luan still remembered them trying to swim after him.
He should have stopped. But they’d eaten all the other non-Lizardfolk in the town already. The Dullahan had survived with an invisibility potion. Luan could remember the Dullahan shaking, talking about it.
Still, he should have slowed. Should have reached for one of the children being held out to him. Should have…
The next day, Luan had gone back with as much food as his little vessel could carry. But by that point, cannibalism had turned the townspeople against each other, not just outsiders. Luan had seen the nightmare, dropped the food on what remained of the docks, and fled.
Memory. Luan blinked, and Venaz was still talking. Listing off more of Luan’s accomplishments. How did he know so much? Luan shook his head, which earned him a tut of disapproval from the Lizardwoman.
He needed to go back to the two apartments. Hopefully, Geneva would be back. Or Paige. Luan could use time on the impromptu ‘therapy couch’ with one of them listening. The [Rower] glared at Venaz.
“Do you have a point here?”
The Minotaur harrumphed and stopped talking for a moment, which was a relief. The problem was when he started again.
“My point is that I know your capabilities. You’re fast on the water, nearly as fast as a Courier. But you’re not, which suits my needs. I have a job for you. It’s in three weeks. Interested?”
Luan stared at him. He looked around the parlor and then glowered at Venaz.
“You could have put in a request! Asked for me by name. I’d be happy to meet you whenever. This is rude. You are aware?”
His words and look bounced off Venaz’s face. The Minotaur sat back.
“I’m aware of Runner’s Guild protocol, thank you. But I wanted to meet you privately. Putting out a request is blatant. No one’s to know of this conversation taking place.”
“Oh. Really?”
Luan rolled his eyes at the Lizardwoman sitting right next to them. Venaz smirked.
“No one I’ve not accounted for. Why else do you think this place is empty?”
His words made Luan pause and look around the parlor. He’d assumed the Inked Scale was just unfrequented, but then, he’d seen the tattoos the [Sailors] sported on the docks. Venaz nodded to the door.
“The sign says closed now. And until this moment, I was using an artifact. No one noticed me coming in. The [Tattooist] will give me something that fades in a few days—I am no [Warrior], but a [Strategist]. As for you, you’ll go out the back after we’re done here. Our meeting was chance, and so this incident will not be reported by those watching me—if I haven’t given them the slip already. I’ll be doing enough suspicious things later that anyone will write this moment off. Well, the Professor might not, but he’s not the one I need to fool, is he?”
He smiled smugly, proud of himself. Luan digested this little monologue. Professor? Spies? This Venaz thought highly of himself. Then again, if he had a magical artifact, he had money to wave about.
“Why me?”
“As I said, Couriers attract too much attention. So I scouted you out. You’re the City Runner who most easily fits my qualifications. Waiting for you was a simple task.”
“You knew I’d be here?”
That threw Luan. But Venaz’s smug smile said it all.
“You inquired about tattoos in the last two Runner’s Guilds you visited, which indicated it was on your mind. This was the first city where you claimed any of your earnings, which gave me the clue. If you hadn’t stopped here, I would have found you in the inn this night.”
