Aiko Nonomura sat at a table and felt a bug run up her leg. She brushed it off absentmindedly, not even bothering to check what it was. A few months ago, Aiko would have screamed, cried, and washed her leg—especially since Baleros’ bugs were the kind of things that lodged in the mind. Literally, if they crawled up your nose.
Today, though, was different. Aiko could have stomped a dozen bugs and not blinked twice. There were more important things to worry about. Geneva had taught her that.
Yesterday, Aiko had helped deliver a Centaur baby—colt. A baby. And she hadn’t panicked or fainted. She couldn’t. She’d been Geneva’s assistant. Wiping sweat, holding clamps—Aiko had seen worse than a childbirth. And in surgery, the stakes were never higher.
There was no surgery today. Everyone was hung over or tired from last night’s party. But the present leaders of the United Nations company were here. Geneva had woken up, and they were talking.
Just—talking about the future. But Aiko could sense a shift in the mood from last time they’d talked, two days ago. There was more optimism. Not just from Ken—he was always trying to be cheerful and bring everyone’s spirits up, even if Aiko could tell he wasn’t happy. But the reason the group felt better was because of her.
Geneva. She sat in her chair, not tense, worried, or guilty for once. The intensity of her eyes, that glare that could go through you, was subdued. She had done her job. She had saved Miss Hastel and delivered the baby. She felt…confident. Calmer. And Aiko was reassured for it.
They all were. Around the table, Daly, Paige, Siri, Ken, and Aiko sat, listening to Geneva outline her proposal.
“So, a clinic?”
Daly sat up. He looked good too. He’d come in late last night, and no one asked why. Come to that—some of the United Nations members hadn’t come back until the morning. Aiko wasn’t sure what to make of that; it wasn’t the fact that they might have found love outside the Human genome that bothered her. Dullahans, Lizardfolk—even Centaurs you could love, she was sure.
Because they were like people. You didn’t think they would be. You thought they’d be like aliens, but all too soon it felt like you were just talking to someone with a different face. And when you closed your eyes…
“A clinic. It doesn’t have to be large, but I need at least one room to perform surgeries in.”
Geneva nodded. Siri frowned a touch anxiously.
“That means another house at the least. Can we afford it?”
Paige snorted, but gently.
“We can afford it and maybe get two apartments on this street. Miss Hastel’s gratitude knows no bounds.”
“Well, I wouldn’t say no bounds—”
“Okay, she’s still going to charge us rent. But her gratitude goes a long way. We can definitely get a good deal on it. And from what you’re saying, Geneva, money might not be a problem anymore. Is that right?”
Paige looked at Geneva hopefully. The [Doctor] smiled slightly. She actually smiled!
“No. I think I’ve found a permanent source of income outside of treating amputated limbs and so on.”
“C-sections. Who would’ve thought?”
Daly leaned back. Ken looked from Geneva to Aiko.
“You think it will earn money, Geneva? And that you will have business?”
“I think so. Miss Caleffe told me Centaurs have the most complicated childbirths out of all the species, but there are always problems a [Midwife] has to learn to anticipate. And Caesarian sections are a way to avoid those complications. It’s not an easy way out—”
“Even if healing potions don’t leave a scar and it’s less strenuous on the body than birth.”
Paige muttered under her breath. Geneva gave her a reproving look.
“I don’t want to make it seem like this is the better option. And I am concerned about complications during the operation. I had no experience prior to this, and Miss Hastel was the first surgery I ever performed. There are four main species on Baleros, each with different anatomies…”
The others let Geneva go on. But despite the good [Doctor]’s reservations, her conclusion was the same.
“I can be on call for childbirths. And if a [Midwife] detects a problem or if a mother comes to me…I can perform the operation. It might be a case where those who are affluent come to me to have the operation done to preserve their figures or lessen the pain.”
Geneva grimaced. Aiko nodded. She’d heard of that happening. Too many operations as opposed to natural births. But that was a moral quandary for later. Right now, the point was that Geneva had something that everyone needed.
After all, wars came and went. Healing potions could heal most mundane injuries. And severed limbs were rare, if distressing anomalies. But childbirth was forever.
“We might get more patients coming in just by word of mouth alone. Saving Miss Hastel’s baby put your name out there again.”
Paige was trying to figure out how much they could spend to get Geneva’s clinic up and running. There were things to be considered, like how to charge people. Geneva was firm in that she’d give anyone who needed medical attention aid, especially pregnant mothers. Ken proposed a fine alternative—charge them by what they could pay. A [Merchant]’s wife could make up for a half dozen poorer patients.
But there was something else Geneva had to talk about. And it came up the instant she turned to Daly.
“I hear a group of Dullahans may be joining your team.”
“Ah. The Rustless Guard? Yeah. I spoke to Eldima last night. She was really impressed by our group. And I think we can hit it off. Uh—working together that is.”
Daly grinned sheepishly. A hint of a blush crossed his features. The others around the table reacted according to their personalities. Siri sighed. Paige rolled her eyes. Ken looked away politely. Aiko covered her mouth as she smiled. Geneva just stared.
“Did you two have sex?”
“Aw, come on, Geneva—”
“Answer the question.”
Daly hesitated.
“It was more like…uh, well, we didn’t get to sex, but—”
“Kissing? Penetration of any kind?”
“Fuck me. Why’s it so important?”
Daly stood up, flushing red with a bit of anger. Geneva sighed.
“Because—the next time you’re in that situation, you need to ask Eldima or Quexa or anyone you meet if they have any symptoms of infection around their genitals. And to be safe, you need to use this.”
She pulled something out of her pocket. Aiko recognized it at once. Paige had been helping Geneva make them based on the blueprints the [Doctor] had worked up last night. She must have been fast, because the completed product was already in Geneva’s hands. The first prototype of many.
The group of Earthworlders stared at the object curiously. Geneva shook it out, and Daly’s eyes widened. He took only a second to identify the crude linen condom and groaned.
“Oh come on. STD’s? You’ve got to be fucking kidding me.”
Siri blinked down at the object Geneva placed on the table. Ken eyed it, looking very surprised. He stared at Geneva.
“Condoms. And you want us to…”
“Wear them. Use them. And ask your partners if they show signs of infectious diseases. I’ll be giving the company a full lecture on what to ask for and symptoms later today. I should have done it last night before we had a party. If I hadn’t fallen asleep—I’m giving everyone a second checkup. This time, pants and underwear off. No objections.”
Geneva grimaced. The others looked at each other. Siri frowned.
“Is this serious, Geneva? Pregnancy isn’t a problem in this world. There’s a potion for that, you know. As for diseases—I haven’t heard of any. You said so yourself that plagues were rare.”
“That’s what I thought. Until I saw two of Quallet’s soldiers who had just contracted something called Yellow Rivers in a brothel. They were seriously ill. They’d used healing potions, and the infection had rapidly progressed. I have pictures. Do you want to see?”
The table blanched. Aiko felt her breakfast try to come up. Ken took one look at her face and hastily replied.
“No, we believe you. So there are infectious diseases, Geneva?”
“Yes. And if there’s one, there are more.”
Geneva tapped the condom grimly.
“I know there are potions to prevent pregnancy. And it’s not enough. A potion might prevent pregnancy, but only a condom will prevent STD’s—even then, it’s risky. So use one. Especially if you’re having sex with someone from another species. Don’t have sex unless you’re sure they’re fine, understand?”
Daly grumbled as he sat back down and leaned back in his chair, covering his eyes.
“You know, there was one good thing about coming to this world—”
“Magic?”
Siri smiled as Daly glanced up at her in ire. Then the Swedish girl looked at Geneva.
“I mean, could the infections also be magical?”
Geneva paused.
“It’s a distinct possibility. My two patients I’m treating by cleaning out their infections, bandaging them, and giving them an antibiotic treatment based on the [Healers]’ recipes. It will take me some time to see how effective the treatments I gave them are. But if it’s partially magical…I can’t stop a magical disease. I don’t know how. If there’s a magical antibiotic or…neutralizing agent, I need to use it.”
“There are dispelling charms and magics. I suppose an [Alchemist] might be able to find you an herb or mixture you could use.”
Geneva nodded.
“More research to do. But these condoms should work. They’re waterproof, and I’ve soaked them in a mild mixture I think should kill off bacteria. It works on the cultures I’ve been growing. Still, there’s only one way to be sure, so everyone needs to know the risks.”
Daly put his face in his hands.
“How’re we supposed to explain this to Quallet and the others?”
“I’ll do it.”
Ken looked miserable as he volunteered, but Geneva held up a hand.
“He’s in the city, isn’t he? Or rather, camped outside it? I’ll go with you.”
“We all will.”
Paige sighed. Aiko stood up and followed the group into the apartments. She looked at the other Earthworlders. Daly’s reaction was probably indicative of how the others would react. Sexually transmitted diseases felt like an Earth problem. But they were even worse here. She thought of the infected soldiers in Quallet’s company and had to excuse herself to sit down for a minute.
 
——
 
Aiko found the others talking to Quallet in the inn he’d rented. The [Mercenary Captain] was nodding as Geneva told him about STD’s in general terms.
“It’s a serious problem, Quallet. Your soldiers need to be briefed on the risks, especially of visiting brothels. Ken or I can give them the lecture itself, but I have to insist they hear it.”
Quallet was nodding before Geneva finished her sentence.
“You’re damned right it’s a problem. Anyone who comes down with that kind of sickness can’t use healing potions. It just makes the…rash worse. Very quickly. By all means, tell them. And I’ll make sure Quexa and my other officers knock it into their heads. But what’s this thing?”
He waved a hand at the condom Geneva was holding. Daly covered his face as Geneva explained what it was.
Credit to Quallet, his face barely twitched as she described—and showed him with a handy banana, the ubiquitous tool across all worlds—how it should work. But then he looked at the condom a second time and nodded.
“How many can you give me?”
“Excuse me?”
“For my company. It would ease my mind—and others, of course—to have them. Even if they’re not perfect. I’ll buy…damn. At least four hundred? They’re cheap, right? Or can we…reuse them?”
Geneva looked at the others. She had to excuse herself to go into a huddle with the others.
“We could import these materials and make up a few thousand. It’s not hard. It’s just—well, you know how they work, right?”
Paige hesitated and pulled a huge face.
“Who’ll make them? Us?”
Daly was mulling it over, hesitantly.
“We could get some of the people without jobs to do the work. It’s really not that bad. The pricey bit’s getting the materials and doing the condom properly. Linen, you see? But get a few [Stitchers]…”
Geneva nodded several times.
“We could outsource. Hire some Lizardfolk in the city to do the job. So long as there’s quality control.”
“Are we really getting into the condom business?”
Paige looked mildly upset as she protested. Daly, who’d finally gotten over his reservations, slapped her on the back. She punched him in the gut in return.
“Ow! Come on, Paige! We’re miles ahead of Baleros in terms of, uh, STD-prevention! Who’s got the best sex diseases? We do! Go Earth!”
Ken just sighed. Geneva was working out a plan to manufacture condoms with Paige and Quallet. Aiko leaned back as Ken and Daly began talking seriously about…boy things. She looked out the window of Quallet’s inn towards a glittering, shining body of water. It shone green in the morning’s light, and she could see people on the docks, ships in the harbor.
The ocean. For all that Baleros was jungles and forest around the city of Talenqual, it was a port city. And the sea was vast. Aiko looked out across it and thought of the one member of the company who hadn’t returned. She looked back.
“I’m spreading the word right now. No one’s visiting a brothel until we have more of these things. Geneva, I’d be grateful if you came with me.”
Quallet hurried down the steps. Geneva followed him. In the silence, the others looked at each other.
“Hell, if it earns us money…”
Daly shrugged, sighing. Paige nodded.
“It’s important. I’ll work with Geneva on this. But while she’s gone—Aiko, close that door for a second.”
Aiko did. Quallet’s room was quiet for a second as everyone glanced at Paige. The [Engineer] lowered her voice.
“Ken, you brought back what I needed on your trip. Alchemist’s materials. I haven’t been able to get ahold of the right stuff until now, but you found exactly what I needed.”
The young man from Japan smiled.
“It was the right ingredient? The [Alchemist] had a difficult time telling which substance you wanted, Paige. I am glad it was correct.”
She nodded.
“I can get more now that I know what to ask for. And it’s more plentiful than I thought. Charcoal, saltpeter…there are volcanoes too. So…I can make gunpowder now, guys.”
She looked around. The room went silent. Daly’s head rose, and Siri’s eyes flashed as she looked at Paige. The two adventurers glanced at each other.
“Guns?”
“Geneva won’t like it at all. And she had a point about spreading the tech, Paige.”
Daly frowned, worried. Paige nodded.
