Jane landed atop the second wall, feeling restless in her blue tarantula form.

It was night and the battle was going as expected, but a few drops of corrupted soul matter clung to the bright blue hairs of her abdomen. The last greater amalgam had been another slug-type that sprayed especially viscous goo that clung to her through all her [Prismatic Body] and personal [Cleanse]ing efforts, and it would cost her too much mana to actually clean up the problem herself. She just had to wait. Hurry up and wait, hurry up and wait. The motto of any army, on Earth or on Veird. Whatever! The solution to this particular problem was already on his way.

Jane’s foot claws gripped tight on the edges of the wall as Moriz, her [Cleanse]r for the last few weeks, stepped out of his rest area to the side of Jane’s prep station and opened up his aura. Thick air began to roll away from Jane’s massive, tarantula form, and she started to feel better. Lighter. With her Surround Sight, she took in the kid standing between her first and second legs on her left side, well inside the range of her fangs, and yet, Moriz had long since lost his fear of her.

He yawned.

Jane would have rolled her eyes at him if she could, but spiders lacked certain capabilities that most animals were able to do; rolling her eyes was one of those. The night was not over and protocol demanded the kid remain vigilant, but Spur had long since lost its fear of the black ooze.

They were farming the greater amalgams, now, when an easy kill presented itself. Silverite was doing some political shit that was apparently great for Spur, according to the full streets, and hotels, and bustling businesses all across the city...

Jane was still enjoying this, though. Adrenaline, or whatever the spider-equivalent was, was still pumping through her circulatory system. Moriz’s lax attitude kinda pissed her off, but that was fine. Jane focused on herself, and this adrenaline-feeling inside of her. She had been trying to fix her biology for a long time now, to try and understand all of what was inside her when she [Polymorph]ed, and all this downtime between big battles was great for her mana sense practice. She hadn’t actually managed to make a mana sense, yet, but that wasn’t too much of a problem. She could feel her insides rather well these days.

Most small spiders didn’t actually have real veins and arteries and normal circulatory systems. In a way, her tarantula form was like those small spiders, but Jane had incorporated a more normal system into her larger, chimeric form, mutating the nascent circulatory system that her mutated body already had into something stronger. Additional hearts and arteries, and a few other systems, kept her body feeling fresh without the need to use [Greater Shadowalk] all the time in order to properly breathe. With a nice set of lungs attached to her abdomen and another breathing hole near her mouth, she could actually breathe normally.

‘Normally’.

There was absolutely nothing normal about her chimeric form, but it felt nicer to have some lungs she could open and breathe through when she was waiting for the next battle. Besides the normalcy, which was nice on its own, this way she could conserve some mana between fights, as she didn’t need to run [Greater Shadowalk] in order to oxygenate her blood. And with all those changes, she had even gone a bit further and decided to use the Queen Blood Weaver’s mimicry voice box, combine it with the Shadow Spider’s, and add in some more lungs up front, so she could actually talk normally now.

Surprising even herself, she had gotten tired of the horrific voice of her past spider forms. She didn’t think that was possible, but then it happened, and now she was here.

Moriz yawned again, then he sleepily asked, “Think there’s gonna be any more amalgams before sunrise?”

She spread her fangs a bit and exposed a second mouth located above the first, behind her chitinous lips. With her normal, human-form voice, Jane said, “Probably not, but vigilance is never a bad thing.”

“I stayed up too late yesterday.” Moriz said, “I can barely stay awake now. This is tiring.”

At that, Jane smiled, with both her mouths. “It can be.” She glanced up and noticed the first rays of sunlight touching the highest clouds. “Sunrise in half an hour and then another hour of cleanup after that, then you can go home and sleep.”

The land ahead of them was already awash in sunlight from the hundreds of [True Sunlight Rift]s Kiri had littered across the front lines, and atop the outermost wall. Despite the name of the spell, though, it was still fake sunlight. The sky was still dark, and beyond Kiri’s line of light was an apocalyptic ocean of black, dead souls, churned into an ooze that spread out every single night from Ar’Kendrithyst. It attempted to cover the land with its power; to take every living thing it touched and meld it with the other nearest living thing, creating amalgams. Those amalgams then swam in that ocean of dead souls, looking for more living things to absorb. Each one was at least level 70, and some were all the way up there as level 95. Jane had been killing the things for well over a month now and she had gained level 98. One of the highest levels that Spur had ever before seen. And yet...

That ocean of darkness was soul mutilation, death, or a fate worse than death, depending on who you believed back in the city. People argued every single day about what the soul ooze actually was, and where it came from. They argued about ways to properly defeat it…

And recently, they had begun to openly speak of ways to keep milking it for all it was worth.

Jane wasn’t the only newly-minted level 98 person in Spur. This level of Levels on the Surface was unheard of. Killing them was still horribly fucking dangerous, with people dying every day when they failed to respect the enemy, but… The amalgams were comparatively stupid and weak.

They were still each at the power level of an Ancient, though. One wrong move and you died. One failure-of-reconnaissance or failure-of-execution and people died. Or worse, they became one with the amalgams, making even more of a problem for the people who would eventually have to put down the newly-empowered amalgams before they could breach the walls.

Moriz, with his [Cleansing Aura] still flowing across Jane, asked, “I heard the Mayor talking in town about finally ending the soul ooze, but that was a week ago. You heard anything else?”

Jane frowned, unsure how to answer the kid. Despite the surety of the defense of the walls of Spur, they were still one bad night, one oddly-empowered amalgam away from needing to abandon the city. And the problem of the ooze wasn’t getting any better. Moriz was likely hearing the same things Jane heard in town about ‘farming the ooze’.

Jane said, “I’m just a grunt. I don’t know anything.”

Moriz huffed a laugh. “Yeah right.”

The kid had obviously seen through her lie, but it wasn’t that much of a lie. Jane said, “I might know a bit more than you, but I don’t have access to the inner workings of Spur. I don’t sit in on any meetings. All I know is that I need to defend this section of wall.”

“… Aye.” Moriz sighed again.

“You need to get better sleep. That’s the tenth yawn tonight and we still got an hour of cleanup after daylight breaks.”

Moriz sighed, and this time the word came out sadly, “Aye.”

“I would have more sympathy for you if you hadn’t gained 65 levels just from cleaning me every night. I still don’t know why Phagar gave you that 1% that one time.”

Jane’s barb had found a sensitive spot.

Moriz practically shouted, “I almost died when that amalgam broke through!”

“Yeah yeah.” Jane smirked, then telekinetically flickered her black sword into the air ahead and gave it a good spin. Prismatic light spun from the suddenly-appearing ten meter length of Force extending from the blade. And then she stilled it, saying, “You were never in any danger.”

Poi’s voice came through, ‘Don’t play with your sword on the backlines. It makes people nervous.’

Jane ignored the voice in her head.

Moriz had another complaint about how he almost died. Jane assured him he was fine.

… The little shit had almost died, but Jane had been there, and there was no need to panic the kid any more than he already was. Jane knew he wasn’t getting any sleep. A lot of people weren’t sleeping well these days. There had been more incidents of amalgam ooze transporting itself on people, who then went back into the city, where the ooze grew in darkness and swallowed those people whole, turning them and their neighbors into amalgams.

One of Moriz’s neighbors had suffered that fate early on, and now the kid was out here with the Class ‘Cleanser of Rozeta’, and dedicated to keeping the world cleaner than it was before. Apparently the kid was quite devout, but he never spoke much about that part of his life.

Eventually, the sun broke the horizon and the black ocean of dead souls screamed as it evaporated in the light. The shadows spilling out across Ar’Kendrithyst’s wall retreated, plunging back down into the depths of the Dead City; out of sight for another day.

Another hour of cleanup later and Jane was cleared to exit her [Polymorph] and return home, which is exactly what she did.

Back at home, Jane dug into a fried potato and beef stir fry dinner that Teressa had kept warm, just for her. Everyone else had already eaten and some of them had already headed off to bed, but at least two people were still awake. Jane went upstairs, to the war room, where Teressa and Poi stood beside a wardlight map of the area.

They always looked a little bit worried every morning, for they weren’t enjoying the thrill of the kill like Jane was. But today was different. They were almost somber.

“What’s the bad news?” Jane asked, as she entered the room, glancing at the map.

The map showed Ar’Kendrithyst in the center, about a decimeter across; large enough to show the major geography of the dead Geode but too small to have any detail. Spur was a simple dot on the north side of the map. Frontier, or ‘New Brightwater’ as ‘Blessed Shade’ Farix and the survivors of Brightwater were calling it, was a dot on the south side of the map. Kal’Duresh was another small dot, about half a meter away from Ar’Kendrithyst to the west. Below the map, sat a stack of papers. The papers could be flipped through to show the history of each previous night; where monsters appeared, how far the ooze managed to flow, everything of large importance. There was apparently a bigger version of this mapping system inside the Courthouse; the official map of the battle that would be saved for all history, if possible. There were a lot of maps like that in the Courthouse.

Jane looked at their small, private map, and she saw why Poi and Teressa were concerned.

“… Oh,” Jane said.

Teressa said, “It’s getting worse.” She gestured to paper maps, saying, “Flip through, but I guess you remember the parameters of yesterday’s map.”

“That’s… A lot faster expansion than everyone thought, right?” Jane leafed through the stack of maps, which had been laid down in a three-ring binder of sorts, and flipped to yesterday’s map. She frowned again, then she flipped back to today’s map, saying, “That’s a hundred more kilometers covered in a single night? Than the night before? I knew it was bad, but… this bad?”

Poi said, “120 more kilometers; yes.”

Teressa added, “But the bigger thing is that this large increase coincides with Anhelia receiving assistance with more Light Domains yesterday, and grabbing three more kendrithyst towers instead of her normal one. This confirms our theory that her tower reclamation is the direct cause of the size of the ooze.”

Jane’s eyes went wide and as she looked between Poi and Teressa and saw that neither were lying. She felt a pit in her stomach. “Ah. Shit.”

“Shit is right.” Poi said, “Everyone else will have noticed this after tonight, too.”

“What’s going to happen?”

Poi said, “Kal’Duresh will either appreciate amalgams at their doorstep tomorrow, instead of needing to venture out into the black sea to find them, or they will not. That’s all this really comes down to.”

Teressa said, “Everyone likes the free levels.”

Poi said, “We’ve started to notice Kendrithyst Mimics out in the Crystal Forest, too. First one was spotted this morning, sitting out there in the desert like a spike of red-purple crystal. It died to adventurers about half an hour after it was spotted.”

When the ooze retreated every morning, it left behind presents of amalgams all across its area of effect. Those amalgams were greatly weakened and ripe for the picking, which is what practically every adventurer in the guild or in Spur did every single day. The crystal mimics cleaned up the rest.

Jane found herself frowning even more. “This is all asinine, though. Right? I love fighting the big ones as much as anyone, but… People are asking me when this is going to end. And every single night, some stupid adventurer thinks themselves stronger than they are and throws themselves against amalgams they can’t handle and dies. Every night, it’s like this.”

Nirzir spoke from the doorway, “It is more power than most people will ever grasp.”

Jane had noticed her come into the room thanks to her Surround Sight, but said nothing until now. She glanced at Nirzir’s silk-thread nightclothes that were practically good enough to wear out on the town, and said, “I thought you were asleep?”

“I couldn’t sleep once I heard you talk about the iron wrought’s [Domain of Light].” Nirzir said, “My people noticed this long ago, but I was waiting for the night to be over before I had this discussion…” She asked Poi, “Has your Mayor changed her position in light of this irrefutable evidence?”

Jane stared a bit. “You noticed this a while ago?”

Nirzir gave a small, polite nod, saying, “It was unsubstantiated until today. Now we know. Anhelia’s [Domain of Light] is expelling something from those kendrithyst towers, into the Dead City, and this is [Grow]ing the soul ooze.”

Teressa gave a small sigh.

Poi said, “Kiri is having this discussion with Silverite and the archmages right now, at the Courthouse. They’ll tell us what’s what when they’re done. From what I have already heard, we think there will be a full-scale attack to try to discover a possible core to the soul ooze. If there is one, then we will kill it and that will be that.”

