Jane had to mull over that fact twice before she actually accepted it. And then she almost roared at the man, but the tension of the room made her rethink how she handled this. After a calming moment, she said, “Then it’s time for some extreme magical measures. Runic bombs from Enduring Forge. Maybe Songli has access to the dirty bombs that were used against them. Get some [Duplicate] extreme light materials from the Headmaster for the material and drop those bombs into the heart of the Well. Hey Nirzir? Want to learn the truth of sound that my dad never got to show you? Blow up that mountain that you never got to blow up? I’ll tell you how if you get those dirty bombs here. And Kiri. Have you tried to make [Vivid Gloom] yet? Make some [Vivid Gloom] oozes and drop them into Ar’Kendrithyst.” Jane said, “And don’t forget some [Cleansing Slime]s. A lot of people have to have that spell, right? Just have them fly over the city and release millions of them over the course of a day. That might be enough to solve this problem, or at least expose it.”

“We have some plans.” Poi said, “There’s no need to go that extreme yet.”

“You’re wrong, Poi.” Teressa said, “This problem needs to be solved today. It will be a miracle if we live past tonight.”

Poi bargained, “Okay. Okay. Silverite is now aware of the severity and she—” He paused. He looked away, his eyes going wide. After a moment he sighed.

Teressa suddenly relaxed, her eyes flickering grey as a small, hopeful smile played across her face. And then it was gone, and she realized that they were all still in danger.

Poi said, “Shade Farix of New Brightwater has reached out to Spur, as of ten minutes ago, asking to assist in solving the soul ooze problem. All of his prognosticators are foretelling utter doom if he does not act now, and with every possible force at his disposal, which includes allying with Spur.” He added, “There will be a 30 minute meeting and then, if everything goes well, our forces will work next to each other to kill the soul ooze. Standard Shade-operation rules apply. Jane, you’re to be read-in and involved in the final assault, along with practically everyone else who has proven capable of following orders. Kiri, we expect you to remain on sky support.”

Jane felt relief and trepidation war within her. She was ready for a final assault, and had been ready to do as much for the last twenty days, but Spur benefited from the soul ooze, so Silverite hadn’t pushed for an end to the ooze until now. After a moment, Jane decided that she was relieved. She was ready for a final fight, and to put the danger of Ar’Kendrithyst to rest. It should be easy as soon as everyone started to work together to solve it, right?

Right!

… Hmm.

For a long moment Jane wondered if she should take this more seriously.

Like, obviously she was a bit worried.

But more than that, she was ready to end this looming, highly profitable threat. She had gained level 98, after all. A lot of people had. Guildmaster Mog had even gained level 99, apparently. Jane wanted level 99, too, and she wanted to know what Mog had seen after reaching level 99 that she wasn’t willing to tell anyone else. But the world didn’t need to suffer this soul ooze any longer.

Jane considered how she should feel about everything, while Kiri did the same, and Poi spoke to the other young woman in the room.

“Nirzir.” Poi said, “Spur would ask you to remain as a final line of defense, please.”

Nirzir, who had been rather informal while living with them and working closely with the defense effort every night, code-switched back to her former self. She spoke with the authority of her people behind her, saying, “Songli has soldiers eager for glory so my people will join the final assault, while I remain here operating as I have before.”

“Your wishes will be followed.” Poi gave a small bow. “Spur thanks Songli for your dedicated assistance.”

Teressa flipped the final burger out of 15 onto a waiting bun, saying, “Before you move out: eat something, and take a break. Sleep, too. The diplomats are moving fast but we won’t be moving out for a few hours.”

Nirzir rapidly went back to her friendly, almost sister-like demeanor, rushing over to the kitchen, saying, “And I made a cake, too!” She hoisted out a great big chocolate-covered monstrosity, half a meter across, that seemed to have way too much icing along with shaved chocolate, white chocolate accents, and chocolate drizzle.

“Holy gods.” Jane chuckled nervously, saying, “You made it.”

“Death by chocolate! I couldn’t get the idea out of my mind and I finally made it several hours ago in my downtime.” Nirzir set the cake to the side where it could warm up a bit and wrapped it in a protective [Ward]. “But that’s for later.” She breathed in all of the burgers Teressa had made while the larger woman grabbed the fries out of the oven. “Oh. That smells so good, Teressa.”

Teressa smiled a little, but it was a sad sort of smile, as she said, “Made with lots of bluebell, too.”

Kiri set the table while Teressa handed out plates with food, and soon, everyone was digging in, together, at the same table. That hadn’t happened very often, but it probably happened more than Jane remembered. The only person missing was Erick. He would have really liked the cake Nirzir made, for it looked like everything one could ever want from a ‘death by chocolate’ cake. Or, at least, it probably was. Jane had never had one of those kinds of cakes before, but she had read about it a few times.

In her opinion, and without actually tasting it yet, Nirzir looked like she had done a great job.

After dinner, Poi informed everyone that a meeting with Shade Farix and a delegation from New Brightwater would be held at a neutral location to the west of Ar’Kendrithyst in three hours; right before noon.

Poi said, “So get as much sleep as you can. You’re going to need it. Anyone want a [Sleep]?”

“I’d take a [Sleep]; yes. Thanks,” Jane said.

Kiri and Nirzir both accepted a [Sleep], too.

As Jane fell asleep, she thought it would be nice to have the [Sleep] spell herself, if only for this exact reason; to be able to fall asleep on command.

Hours later, it was time to get up and go save the world.

… Now. Honestly. Being real honest with herself for a moment: She knew she was acting flippant about the whole thing. Too flippant. Jane knew the severity of it all. She had almost been killed a hundred times over in her life on Veird, from moon reachers to the Ancient Unicorn Queen, to the Shades of Ar’Kendrithyst, to Melemizargo himself.

She would not be saving the world today. The whole of Spur and even New Brightwater, apparently, would be saving the world, together. Or at least they would be saving this small part of the world.

But holy damn, was it empowering to transform out of her weak human body and become a true monster that could withstand everything and tear apart the world as she wished. There was the major problem of not having a Domain yet, so, like, being even more honest with herself, she was lucky that she was even being allowed to participate in this assault on the Well of Souls, otherwise known as the Dark Heart of Melemizargo.

Jane had some thoughts about that, and told them to Poi. “I’m basically going to be backup here. Aren’t I? Like when the Champion went into the Dead City?”

Poi frowned a little, then said, “Shade protocol applied there, and thus you were untouchable unless you broke convention. This is just a soul monster, Jane, and it has a Domain, so that makes it so much worse.” He added, “I don’t know what position they’ll ask you to take, but it likely won’t be forward position.”
