Kiri smiled to see that it had worked. But then she glanced over to the next item. It was a massive belt of glass and wrought-quality iron, and it reminded Jane of a wrestler’s trophy belt, but thick all around, and crystal clear. Kiri picked it up, wrapped it in a temporary cyan lightmask, then wrapped it in a [Luminous Trap], turning it darker than black, but with a cyan glow around the edges. She handed it over, saying, “Now this one is rather… This is going to be difficult. Getting to 95 Focus will be hard. The Trap will make it easier, but… Go slow. It’ll probably pop.”

Jane took the belt and put it on, saying, “Thanks, Kiri.”

The belt shattered at plus-92 Focus, scattering fragments of glass everywhere.

Jane frowned. Kiri frowned. The belt was ruined. Luckily, it was a shit belt; not too magical at all. Kiri [Mend]ed it, and Jane tried a second time.

The second time was successful. The belt disintegrated into cyan mana as Jane crossed plus-95 Focus, and another notification popped.

QUEST COMPLETE!

Enchant an item, or items, that give you twice as much Mana Regen, then wear those items, consuming them in the process. 1/1

Reward: Double your Base Mana Regen

Another expansion occurred inside Jane’s body, but this time it was a deepening. She had submerged herself further into the mana, and that mana swelled within her, ready to move and to shake and to influence the world.

She had a small epiphany then about her Prismatic Body, but the feeling was small and gone before she even recognized its existence.

A dream deferred. She frowned a bit—

Kiri asked, “Something wrong?”

“… Not… Really.” Jane absentmindedly put her father’s rings back on, now that she wasn’t in danger of accidentally absorbing them, and said, “I thought I felt something shift in a good way. But… It’s gone now.”

Kiri frowned, this time. “Is your Status okay?”

“What? Oh. Yeah.” Jane waved her off. “That’s fine. Exactly as it should be, there.”

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 23

Level 98, Class: Prismatic Polymage

Exp: 1.01 e22 / 2.18 e22

Class: 10/10

Points: 5

HP

5820/5820

11,640 per day

MP

9420/9420

18,840 per day

Strength

35

+62

97

Vitality

35

+62

97

Willpower

95

+62

157

Focus

95

+62

157

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

TRIPLE YOUR AVAILABLE FAMILIAR FORM SLOTS

UNLOCK ABILITIES

SHEDDING FORM

SHIFTING FORM

DRACONIC INOCULATION

HIDDEN MONSTER (Surround Sight, from Flame Ooze)

BLOOD MANA

EXTREME SURVIVOR

DOUBLE HEALTH REGENERATION

DOUBLE MANA REGENERATION

Five points left in reserve for whatever New Stat she decided on taking. At this rate, she was leaning toward Intelligence, but all of them were good options. Perception might be what she needed to finally understand and unlock her mana sense, which would then allow her to get all the Sight spells, which would also allow her to switch out her Class Ability Hidden Monster for Surround Sight with something else.

Maybe she’d keep these doubled regens and switch out Hidden Monster for Elemental Dedication. For some reason, she was pretty sure that she needed that one to truly advance in her Prismatic Class.

Jane said, “As soon as I get [Greater Prismatic Body] then I’ll probably Favorite that one. Or maybe if I figure out a Domain that I want I’ll Favorite that, instead… Or I could work on a Domain with Health costs, and use Favored Ability on it… I don’t know. Any success on your Domainwork, yet?”

“Maybe!” Kiri happily said. “I did some work on it this morning but I didn’t last long before bed called me back.”

That was new.

“So you have an idea then.” Jane asked, “What idea?”

Kiri smirked. “I’ll tell you when I have a better grasp of it.” She stood from her chair. “Anyway! I have to get to my [Scry] chair, and you have to turn into a horrible spider again.”

Jane laughed, saying, “Spiders are great. I have like… All of my good Familiar Form Abilities in that form, too.”

Kiri almost said something, but then she paused, and instead said, “So this is a very bad idea, and I am not telling you to do this, but a [Cleansing Domain] is rather strong.” Kiri added, “You use that spell a lot out there, anyway, and [Cleanse] is all about balancing the mana and erasing threats.”

Jane stopped in her tracks. “Ah.”

Kiri stressed, “But I’m warning you… [Cleanse] is dangerous. The base spell includes a lot of highly sophisticated targeting with Elemental Destruction, so it kills almost everyone who tries to take it apart. But it’s also an elemental balancing spell. You could focus on the second half, you know. Ignore the Destruction all together.”

Jane stared off into nothing for a long moment, thinking. And then she smiled, telling Kiri, “But the Destruction is the fun part!”

Kiri punched her in the arm. “You’re horrible! Don’t mess with [Cleanse]!”

Jane laughed loud, saying, “I am a horrible spider, yes ma’am!”

- - - -

Jane, resplendent in her blue tarantula form, stood atop the western wall, watching as the sun set in the far distance. As the final sliver of gold light passed beyond the horizon and twilight gathered, Sunny brought back a bit of the day by dropping [True Sunlight Rift]s all along the outermost wall, returning sunlight to the land one kilometer-wide stretch of wall at a time.

The Fonts and a few other guards from Songli stood on a part of the wall that had been extended outward to serve as a minor staging and recuperation area. This area was larger than Jane’s usual roost, at nearly thirty meters wide and filled with secondary support structures meant to assist her on her major defense of the wall tonight. They had combined both Jane’s and Killzone’s support staff for this. Sergeant Nanark was wrangling it all together though, so Jane didn’t need to worry about logistics. Logistics were a pain in the ass. All she had to do was actually kill things, and that suited her fine.

As the black ocean poured up and over the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst and the soft gasps of the newly arrived Fonts filled her senses (they were completely new to this view, apparently), Jane merely watched, and waited. When the black ocean reached Kiri’s Rifts, the corruptive liquid began to boil. To burn. To evaporate into gloom that then vanished under bright lights.

As nothing happened, Jane’s mind wandered.

She considered a [Cleansing Domain].

If, like her father and Kiri had told her, [Cleanse] was little more than ‘setting the Elements to balance’ as well as targeted Elemental Destruction to turn various matter into mana… Okay. Well. Using the terms ‘little more than’ in conjunction with that whole suite of effects was likely foolish to the extreme. It was like saying ‘spiders are little more than legs and venomous fangs’ or ‘magic is little more than combining it all correctly’.

Jane filed the idea of a [Cleansing Domain] away, next to the idea that she could maybe go back to Songli, back to the grass travelers, to talk with Koori of Clan Pale Cow about her [Cleansing Domain]. None of that was happening now, though. Not when there were amalgams to kill.

… Not when there were usually amalgams to kill.

Some small beasts had begun to drag themselves out of the black ocean and over the outermost walls, exposing themselves to True Sunlight as they did, baking away much of the black goo on their bodies. And then they dropped off that wall, into the trenches. Eventually, those amalgams would make their way through the funneling trenches to the killing fields, where other people would handle those smaller beasts. Jane was only here for the larger ones; the ones with too much power for most people to handle. The ones that could actually break the wall.

She smiled a bit at that fact. She was strong. Stronger than most. Being strong felt good. Sure, she wasn’t as strong as her father, but she was still capable in her own ways. Jane breathed out, settled in, and as [Fireball]s and [Force Crash]s altered Decay began to spread across the land between the second and third wall, she tilted over a bit, toward her staff.

Jane asked, “Battle Status?”

Biggie, a fellow soldier who Jane had been working with for the last month, stepped forward, saying, “Nothing spotted yet.”

Another soldier named Fireball stood beside a [Viewing Screen] that showed a closer image of Ar’Kendrithyst’s wall. “I’m not seeing anything on [Scry]. Nothing coming over the walls.”

Jane turned back toward her targeted wall and whispered to herself, “Hurry up and wait,”

And then she settled in just a bit more.

Eventually, she decided to practice her mana sensing.

Eventually, morning came.

And not a single greater amalgam had appeared all night long. Jane wasn’t complaining too much for she had gotten in a lot of mana sense practice. Maybe a few more weeks and she might actually see something. It would probably go faster if she was able to actually focus on her mana sense, instead of needing to be half alert the whole time, but such was life.

She tried not to think about how having zero battles an entire night made her feel more nervous than meeting the Headmaster for the first time. Everyone around her was nervous for similar reasons and it would not be good to panic anyone else. A ‘night of no battles, and what that might mean’ was a lot less worrying than meeting Melemizargo that first time, anyway.

So. Small mercies.

As the sun rose and Jane’s cleanup took a lot less time than normal, she helped out with the [Cleanse]ing of others to make it go faster, or to at least spend all the new mana that she had gotten for herself. She had been topped up all night long, ready to go at a moment’s notice.

But nothing happened.

- - - -

“What the fuck was that!” Jane asked, storming into the kitchen where everyone was.

Teressa squashed burgers on the grill while sipping a beer; she looked mad. Maps had been spread on the kitchen table, where Poi, Nirzir, and Kiri stood, going over them. Everyone but Teressa looked up as Jane rushed into the room; the last one to show.

“Not a single amalgam!” Jane said, “And your side didn’t get any either, Nirzir. I know; I asked.”

Poi said, “They all went after Killzone instead.”

Jane jerked. “Is he okay?”

“Oh yeah. He’s fine.” Kiri said, “Lost sight of the target, though.”

“Well he obviously needs some personal help to find and kill the Well!” Jane said, “I volunteer.”

“We’re not allowed to get close.” Kiri said, “No Domain makes us easy targets and the Well uses Soul Magic. It’d rip through us like adamantium through paper.”

Poi said, “You would die if you got close. It could probably target you through Sunny, too, since it targeted Killzone’s watchers through their [Scry]s.” Poi told Jane, “We’re calling it a soul ooze, and it amalgamized three of Killzone’s watchers through their [Scry]s. Killed four people total, including the original three watchers before it could be put down.”

A spike of worry slammed into Jane’s side. Four Army watchers were dead. How many had she known? Being a watcher was rightly considered the least dangerous job out there. Almost nothing could attack through a [Scry]! And even if it did, the attacks were usually weak things, to just let someone know they were unwanted; like the False Damage of an unwanted [Telepathy].

But she had seen first hand how her father had been attacked through Ophiel...

And that was a thought, wasn’t it? She didn’t want this to be a part of her father’s Worldly Path, but it sounded like it was.

Jane focused on the part of this she could actually solve.

“Did the watchers have reflective magics?” Jane asked, already knowing the answer was ‘no’.

Poi told her, “Silverite is now considering calling your father back to Spur to take care of this problem. It might be a part of his Worldly Path.”

Jane repeated, “Did the people in the watcher’s room have reflective magics active while they were [Scry]ing.”

“No,” Kiri said, staring at Poi. “It was an understandable lapse of judgment from the Army. The amalgams and the ooze have never been able to target through [Scry] orbs before. This is new.”

Teressa spoke up, “We need to kill it. Today. We can’t wait for it to develop any more capabilities.” She smashed another burger patty flat, adding, “It learned how to pop Kiri’s Rifts, but Kiri can add more whenever needed, so that’s not a big deal. Then there were the [Grand Dispel]s that ripped apart spellwork, which rapidly became counterspelling and smothering, but you can use internal Elemental Bodies and avoid that. The greater amalgams used to attack one at a time, or whenever they spotted Spur, but now they sometimes wait until there are three or four out there, and they attack together.” Her eyes turned hard. “Killzone discovered the eye-arm caster today; the one Jane has been trying to kill for a month. It wasn’t dead to some other force; it was hiding near the Well, shaping amalgams into better forms. It’s learning. They’re all learning. The soul ooze has a subordinate general, now, like how the Shades used to do it when they went to war. They raised up their terrible dead and kept raising them, so that they learned from their mistakes and the next time would be different.” With controlled grey light in her eyes, she stared through Poi, and Kiri, and Jane, and Nirzir, looking elsewhere, as she said, “The soul ooze is close. So close… to something I cannot see. The soul ooze needs to die today. Drastic measures need to be taken.”

No one spoke for a long moment. The only sound was the sound of sizzling beef.

And then Jane said, “So this means I’m going in, right?”

Poi frowned. “Your father would murder me if I got you killed, Jane.”

Jane burst out laughing.

No one else laughed.

Jane scoffed loudly, saying, “He would not! Holy fuck, Poi. This is bigger than my father, anyway.”

Nirzir kept all emotion off of her face; she was a viewer of this drama, and not a participant. Kiri looked away, not wanting to get involved in this particular argument. Teressa flattened another burger as she stared at Poi.

Poi glanced from Teressa to Jane, then said, “Erick is in a tense situation, and you dying would put a strain on the entire world that we don’t need to have.”

Ah.

He was serious.

… He was serious.

