Nirzir nodded regally, looking a lot more relaxed in that moment than before. “Thank you. This danger is too large to let it flourish too much longer, no matter what boons it might bring, and I appreciate that Spur is doing the right thing.”

With some fatalism in her voice, Teressa said, “This soul ooze has been too profitable for too many people, just like Ar’Kendrithyst when the Shades were in charge. Their pure wealth has blinded everyone to the danger, and suckered even more people into the abyss with them.” She thumbed at the window, saying, “You see that new mansion out there, right? The big one? New human nobles; more refugees from Ar’Frontier.”

“People are calling it Ar’Frontier now?” Jane was already looking out the window. “… The white one?”

“The ivory one past that.” Teressa added, “The ‘Ar’Frontier’ thing is new, but I think it’ll catch on.”

Jane stared at the massive ivory house, saying, “… Oh. That’s a big one.”

Nirzir asked, “I was under the impression that nobility did not exist in Spur? That Silverite could just decide things and it would happen. Could she not just order the Army to assault the core? Or whatever it is?”

Teressa chuckled once, then said, “Silverite does what she can, but it’s hard to tell rich nobles with a myriad of political connections that the party is over.”

“Ah.” Nirzir nodded. “Plutocracy. Not true nobility.”

“We could use more venturacracies, in my opinion.” Teressa said, “That’s what Spur used to be.”

“Spur still is that, Teressa.” Poi said, “Silverite, the Adventurer’s Guild, the Mage’s Guild, and the Army still have majority control over the city. Nobility from all across the world used to have their adventuring holds here. Silverite knows how to deal with these people.”

Teressa frowned, saying, “Yeah… yeah. You might be right. But if you ask me, I think we should end this threat, and soon. Within the next few days… Because...” She blinked.

Teressa stared to the south, her eyes fixated on a stone wall that held nothing.

Jane glanced at the wall to make sure that there wasn’t something she was missing.

The large woman just stood there, looking into the far distance, but all that lay ahead of her was the room they were in. She could be looking at something outside of the space. Her mana sense range was at 200 meters these days, but she just stared at the wall, unblinking.

Nirzir looked Teressa over. “Uh?” She asked everyone else, “Is that…?”

Jane asked, “… Teressa?”

She almost reached out to touch—

Poi grabbed her hand, sudden fear in his eyes as he whispered, “Don’t. Don’t anyone do anything. Everyone quiet. Shhh.”

Nirzir instantly straightened her back, her eyes going wide. She stared at Teressa with comprehension in her own eyes. She knew what was happening.

Jane could only guess.

Teressa stared off into the distance. A flicker of grey magic dashed across her eyes, like an image reflected off a mirror, revealing something in the room that wasn’t actually there. And then her eyes glazed over with grey light. The room turned cold. Jane breathed out a puff of clouds as her skin prickled, both from the cold, and from the sudden terror of the moment. Nirzir looked half-panicked. Poi gained a few new psychic tendrils around his head.

Teressa’s voice came out of her as though from a deep distance, “We need to end this threat before it can find or produce…” Her voice trailed away, like a dying echo in a deep tunnel. And then her voice came back, and Teressa spoke with power, “Before the soulless ooze can carve a permanent home on Veird, the hands of the living must bring True Death to the deepest wells of the ooze’s power, or else death will march forth and consume us all.”

And then her voice vanished back down the tunnel.

No one said anything. They all waited.

And then Teressa blinked hard as she groaned and held a hand to her head. “Ah. Shit. Fuck was that.”

Nirzir whispered, “A True Premonition.”

Kiri’s green couatl summon, Sunny, who had been curled up on a pillow in the corner of the room, listening, perked up. Kiri demanded, “What the fuck was that, Teressa?”

Nirzir breathed out, “A warning.”

Poi agreed, “A warning.”

Teressa collapsed on her ass and Jane moved fast, doing her best to heal the larger woman. It was a confusing few minutes after that, but Teressa was more or less fine. She did sit down in a chair and lean back, though. With a conjured ice pack draped over her closed eyes, she rested while she healed.

Elsewhere, news was spreading.

- - - -

As morning’s light rose higher into the sky, twenty people of importance had gathered into a long room in the Courthouse of Spur. Kiri was one of those people of importance these days, and though she loved it at first, recently, there had been an issue. An issue of politics.

She had long since told people that she wanted to end the threat of the soul ooze, but the benefits of the ooze’s presence were much more than that of Ar’Kendrithyst when it was inhabited by Shades. Privately, Silverite had told Kiri that she wanted to end the threat, too, but she had public obligations, and the threat of the soul ooze —as long as proper procedure was followed— was not a great threat. The soul ooze was even less of a threat now that Kiri’s magics were up to the challenge of truly defending the city. She still needed help now and then from the true archmages of Spur, and the adventurers in town were pulling a lot of their own weight (for profit, of course), but Kiri could handle the basic defense all on her own.

People were gaining levels. People were moving to Spur. Humans and incani were meeting in the streets, and though there was violence, of course, there was also a lot of newly-discovered comradery. Frontier was dead, after all, captured by the Blessed Shade Farix and turned into New Brightwater. And Spur welcomed the humans with open arms.

But in coming here, those humans wanted certain things, like experience and power which they could take from the greater amalgams in the form of levels.

And so, the arguments for killing the ooze had quieted.

But now...

Today’s argument was special only because they now had a clear link between the size of Anhelia’s cleaned territory and the size of the soul ooze, and representatives from Kal’Duresh had gotten involved fast and were already in this room, arguing for nothing to change. Their message was simple: Kal’Duresh was ready to accept the soul ooze at their walls. They were prepared and they wanted to ensure that the soul ooze kept coming, and that no one did anything to stop it. They wanted to enjoy all the bounty that Spur enjoyed! Who gave Spur the right to make this decision on the behalf of everyone present?

And so on and so forth.

The words themselves were politer than that but Kiri was very tired of this shit.

The representatives from Kal’Duresh weren’t even in the room, either, so Kiri couldn’t be mad at the person actually there. They had sent some sort of magical lightward construct in their place. And besides that, one of the images had Kiri hold back her more vitriolic comments; it wouldn’t do to go upsetting an archmage, no matter who Kiri’s master was. They wanted the bounty of levels, or more specifically, the bounty of powerful people attracted by the promise of relatively easy levels. That was the backbone of all trade in the Crystal Forest, anyway; these cities all traded on providing safe harbor for people to venture out and have their middling-level adventures.

People ran from everything larger than a crystal mimic until they had killed enough crystal mimics to reach level 35, or feel safe enough to continue, and then they hunted the larger, more dangerous prey that ranged from level 45 to 55. At level 50 you were eligible for a Class, and that was as far as most people went with this lifestyle, unless they truly did love the life.

It was that second group of people, who truly loved this life, that flocked back to Spur and the rest of the crystal forest because of this soul ooze. This ooze represented power and a draw to keep these powerful people in the area, and maybe they could settle down here.

Because, after all, it was only these powerful people who could actually defend a city from the actual dangers out there. People like Kiri, or Jane Flatt, or any of the thirty-or-so other adventurers out of a hundred thousand that moved around in search of true adventure.

Kiri thought all of these concerns were rather stupid. And since she had a bit of power in this land, she chose to say something to that effect when she could. “This soul ooze regularly kills hundreds of people every night and day, and the danger of an accidental spreading event grows ever larger as the beast grows commensurately. We need to kill the thing.”

Silverite said, “I agree with Miss Flamecrash. Kal’Duresh will be lucky to survive its first night. I would like to move this discussion toward ending the threat, or at least to speak of how we would go about ending the threat when it proves necessary for us to do so.”

Kiri was too practiced at politics these days to smile at that, but she felt great to finally hear Silverite speak on the side of reason.

But of course, the delegation from Kal’Duresh only got more belligerent.

The image of a woman in black and gold robes, the Stone Archmage Peatrice Shallowhammer, said, “We do not believe you are correct. What might actually be happening here is that you have allowed the humans into your land and they have gained power, but now that it seems we incani of Kal’Duresh might get a taste, it is time to shut off the spigot.”

A human noblewoman by the name of Gwynewyn Clayfield, who was Kiri’s neighbor, diplomatically stated, “We new humans of Spur have been allowed exactly as much access to the walls and to the greater amalgams as the incani who live here have access.”

Silverite spoke, “Guildmaster Zago, who would be here if not for the necessity of maintaining the walls, has reached level 95, alongside her Summoner daughter. They both routinely help in the trenches, as well. And please, Archmage Shallowhammer, we know your power can defend your land, but the simple fact is that the Cleansing of Ar’Kendrithyst is eventually going to make a problem too large to ignore, and I would prefer we end this threat right now.” She added, “It is quite possible, since this whole thing started with [Domains of Light] cleaning out the place, that even more soul oozes will form. We could have a whole two years of these things happening, but this one, now, is too large to ignore, and we shouldn’t let it get any bigger.”

Shallowhammer inclined her head, and then she hammered on her points yet again.

The conversation moved back and forth, with Kal’Duresh’s stance clear and Spur’s stance also clear. No one made any headway.

Which was why Kiri was gazing through Sunny, looking at everything else happening all around Spur, when she saw Teressa’s True Revelation happen, as it happened.

Events proceeded rapidly and chaotically from there. She, of course, told Silverite what had happened, but her warning had been redundant. Poi had already told Silverite. The Mayor did ask Kiri to stand up and tell everyone what had just happened, though.

Which she did.

There was a bit of panic. And then people started yelling.

The arguments heated to an unprecedented degree.

One man from Kal’Duresh called out how Kiri was obviously a plant, and how her words and Teressa’s ‘revelation’ could not be trusted. The man saying that used nicer words than that, but Kiri knew a shit talker when she heard one. Peatrice Shallowhammer put the shit-talking man’s words into better context, making their message plain, that Kal’Duresh wanted the soul ooze to continue.

And then the more rational heads —Sirocco Zago (who came running as soon as she heard what had happened), some farmers on the council of farmers, Gwyneyn Clayfield, and a goldscale merchant ‘noble’ named Ordal Atriz, who Erick did some [Cleanse]ing for back before he became an archmage, if Kiri recalled correctly— spoke of how it was time to devote resources to ending the threat. It had gone on long enough. Kiri was glad to hear that.

Silverite was glad to hear that.

Kal’Duresh was silent after the fact, reevaluating their positions and likely talking to people off-image, as news spread fast.

But then some new human from fallen Frontier spoke of how he wanted his guards to gain some levels, and how he wasn’t allowed on the walls often enough. Kiri almost checked out of the conversation at that point since those words from that man were the absolute most asinine thing for anyone to be arguing about. More time on the wall? Fucking heavens and hells, man. If a warrior could handle the wall, they were put on the wall. Everyone knew that. This guy was just being stupid. Maybe he wanted to get his guards killed.

Gwynewyn Clayfield eyed the new noble like he was a stain on the world, and she wasn’t the only one.

Kiri did not check out, though, because the human man’s words caused the lightform presence of the incani from Kal’Duresh to go apoplectic, screaming at the refugee, calling them a pink pig who hoarded all the bounty for themselves. Shallowhammer did not participate in that screaming, but everyone could tell she wanted to. The human noble shot back how Kal’Duresh, and the specific person who was using the [Telepresence Construct] was just—

At that Quiet War shit, and at the name of the spell, Kiri checked out, because she liked the [Telepresence Construct] spell, and she wanted it. Silverite had mentioned the name of the spell at the beginning of this meeting, but Kiri hadn’t heard correctly the first time. Sunny was great, but Kiri only had 10 of her, and this spell seemed like a great way to regally appear where you didn’t actually want to—

Silverite slammed her hands on the desk, cracking the wood. The room went silent. Silverite stood. She spoke calmly, and clearly, “Due to a half-revelation from one of this city’s best and most trusted Prognosticators, Spur will now be taking steps to eradicate the soul ooze. We already have leads to follow, and we have the methods necessary to delve deep into the ooze itself without suffering the consequences of amalgamation.” Silverite said, “I suspect, that unless we encounter something awful in the next few days, that it will take maybe a week for us to actually solve this problem, though we will be doing our best to end the threat as soon as possible, in accordance to Prognosticator Rednail’s revelation.”

A man from Kal’Duresh yelled, “This is intolerable! Kal’Duresh demands you let us benefit from the bounty you have already received!”

