Silverite stared at the loudspeaker, saying, “We have had enough debate. Spur is ending the threat.” She turned to the archmage, saying, “It was a pleasure to speak with you again, Archmage Shallowhammer. Please give my best to your Baroness.”

Shallowhammer inclined her head, saying, “It will be done.”

The yelling man at Shallowhammer’s side almost said something but his lightimage winked out in that same instant.

Silverite declared, “Everyone! This meeting is over! We’re killing the ooze as soon as reconnaissance is complete!”

There was a lot more yelling, but Silverite had made her decision.

And it was a good decision.

Kiri looked upon Silverite, standing there resolute against the world, a dragonkin above all, and she liked that, a lot. Sure, Silverite was actually a wrought, but she had the form of a female dragonkin and she wore clothes like a normal person. If one didn’t know better then they’d surely mark Silverite as a dragonkin; a lot of people made that mistake until they actually got a good look at her. It was the eyes that gave it away, mostly. And the teeth. Silverite was solid silver, without any variation.

It was time to move on, and prepare.

Silverite, though, had politics to contend with, and to wrangle the people in that room into all moving in the same direction. Kiri was already on board, though; whatever she decided, Kiri was there.

With a wave and some small words of leaving, Kiri blipped back home to get away from the political mess. It was all quite stupid. People were dumb. They needed a hard hand to guide them right, just like Silverite had done. Just like how Erick also did, all the time.

You see something wrong? You take care of it.

You see monsters everywhere? You kill them all.

You see idiots speaking words when they should be taking action? You shut them down and do what needs to be done.

Once back home, Kiri relayed what had happened in the room and then she went to bed. The next night would surely be a big day. As she fell asleep she wondered what Silverite’s leads were; what did she know about the soul ooze that no one else did? Probably a lot. That woman knew everything.

… She should ask Silverite after her Domains. She probably had one, right? Or at least she had some recommendations. Nirzir’s Void Domain was no good; not for Kiri. Light wasn’t right, either. Now fire? Fire was wonderful. Years ago, back in Tower Town, when the wyrms attacked, a Fire Mage had wrapped a rampaging wyrm in [Death Spiral Fire], ending that threat and simultaneously showing Kiri the power of Fire Magic. That’s why she took ‘Flamecrash’ as her mage name.

She still hadn’t managed to make a good version of [Death Spiral Fire]. She had tried. She had thought herself hot stuff back when she was learning Erick’s way of spell creation, and of ritual. But she failed the most standard combination for [Death Spiral Fire]. It would take 26 more years until she could try that combination again; the Script was ruinously harsh toward failed spell creation, after all. Kiri never should have tried to make [Death Spiral Fire], when she did. Pure hubris, is what it was.

Even Erick didn’t make that one right when he tried his hand at it.

Kiri’s methodology toward that spell had been wrong, a lot.

But these days… These days she was working well with the Permanency techniques that Erick had shown her. A good Permanency might be all it would take to get [Death Spiral Fire] working properly. A good Permanency was all it took to make some proper riftwork, and to make her [True Sunlight Rift].

True Sunlight Rift, instant, super long range, 1750 mana

Call a fraction of the sun to your cause. Causes minimal damage but acts as true sunlight, with all the attendant effects thereof. Lasts 12 hours.

Her [Firelight Rift] did a lot more damage, but that thing only lasted minutes. Her [Sunlight Rift] did a lot more damage, too. But none of her Riftwork was nearly as good against the black ocean as [True Sunlight Rift]. Even Archmage Obsidian hadn’t been able to copy this spell yet.

Kiri had expected Obsidian to reach out to her, to ask how to make the spell, for Obsidian loved to be able to make and have all the magic that everyone else had. But he never had. Perhaps because Obsidian knew that she would rebuff him. He had rebuffed her, after all.

But more than that, she had to rebuff him about this particular magic.

Erick had trusted her with a lot, and the Secret of Light and the true secret of Radiance as a form of light-based radiation was one of them. The man had even gifted Kiri with [Luminous Beam]! And it was that spell, much more than [True Sunlight Rift], actually, that helped Spur remain afloat amid the nightly ocean of dead souls lapping at the walls.

… Erick’s ‘Harmonic Domain’ wasn’t suitable for Kiri, but a Particle Domain of Fire? A control of the heat of the world, both in radiant form, and in molecular form? And perhaps, most gruesomely, a control of the rate of oxidation of various existences within her Domain?

All of that had promise, actually.

Especially since she had [Greater Lightwalk], thanks to Erick. She still needed an actual [Domain of Light] in order to form a ‘sunform’ as he did, and she wouldn’t be able to run three auras at a time… But that’s what Sunny was for. Sunny could run her theoretical Super Large Area Domain, whatever it might be called.

A [Domain of Myriad Immolation]?

Kiri stared at the ceiling of her room, unable to sleep, but as her mind touched upon a goal she knew beyond any doubt that she needed to work on this magic...

She got up and went to the chalkboards.

- - - -

Jane woke to the smell of dinner (breakfast) flowing in through her cracked door, and the world outside her window turning dimmer with the promise of sunset. She probably still had an hour to go before it was time to actually take the wall, though, so she got out of bed in a slow manner, yawned, stretched, and with a flick of a mental command, floated her sword off of its place on the wall. With barely any adjustment at all she put the black length of adamantium at her back, to hang out until needed.

With a trip to the bathroom and then a [Cleanse] to start the day (night!), Jane moseyed downstairs to the empty kitchen, where she helped herself to a nice, huge dinner (breakfast!) courtesy of Poi. She was the last one to eat, though, as everyone else was elsewhere, doing their own thing; either upstairs in the war room, or in Kiri’s rooms talking about magic, or whatever.

In that moment, Jane realized she missed when her father ‘enforced’ family dinner time; when he made everyone eat at the same time, at the same table. It was an odd, surreal moment, that she had all by herself, at the table, alone, as she ate her rice and not-really-teriyaki fish.

She finished up fast then cleaned the minor mess she had made, and then she went upstairs to join everyone else. The war room had yet to fill up, as it did every night, but Poi, Teressa, Kiri, and Nirzir, along with three of Nirzir’s bodyguards, were inside the room, animatedly talking over the wardlight map.

“I expected to be woken up for an assault on the soul ooze today.” Jane walked into the room, saying, “But not happening, eh?”

Teressa frowned. “It should have happened today.”

“That assault will happen when it happens, but for now, I hope you’re ready, Jane,” Poi said. “You’re on the whole west side today.”

“Uh!” Jane laughed a little as she walked up to the map, to see what they were all looking at with her actual eyes instead of with her other senses. “You’re joking. How? I don’t have that much mana.” The map was the same as last night, except there was now a searching grid over the city, with several Xs and one question mark over where the Brightwater used to be. Her eyebrows rose as her heart beat hard. “Something in the Brightwater? Does the ooze have a core?! I want to go!”

Poi smirked. “Too bad. You’re on the whole west side.”

“I can’t do that by myself, Poi.” Jane asked, “Unless someone finally took the Font Class? Even that kid who [Cleanse]s me didn’t take that Class.”

“A lot of stuff happened while you slept, Jane.” Teressa said, “Silverite is trying to end the ooze, now. We’re not farming it anymore.”

Jane felt a thrill run up her spine. “That’s great! I want to help search for the core even more!”

Kiri complained, “You and I are too valuable on the front lines so we’re holding up the walls while others go exploring.”

“Bah!” Jane spat, “Who is searching, then! There’s nothing but black ooze down in the depths of Ar’Kendrithyst now, and only I or Killzone— Ah. Shit. He’s going in alone, then?”

“It should have been him and some people from Kal’Duresh and some nobles from Spur.” Poi said, “But that didn’t happen, so he’s going in with a team. He knows what to look for and so he can probably find it.”

“And what is he looking for?” Jane asked. “The Well of Souls? I’m guessing it's the Well of Souls.”

Kiri said, “Silverite still won’t tell people what she’s having him actually search for, but the current rumor is the Well of Souls has gotten corrupted.”

“I knew it!” Jane said, “That was my guess from the very beginning.”

“I always heard it called ‘Melemizargo’s Heart’,” Teressa said.

“And she hasn’t actually told anyone what she’s going after,” Poi said. “Rumors are just that: rumors.”

Jane said to Poi, “Well. Fine. But I can’t hold down the west side by myself. That’s a fact that isn’t changing any time soon.”

Poi looked to Nirzir.

… And then so did Jane. “You have extra Fonts?”

Nirzir nodded, saying, “I apologize that I could not offer any extra until now, but we should have at least four more Fonts arriving within the hour.” Nirzir added, “In addition, I’m taking all of the east side, tonight. I will ask you, Jane, to allow the Fonts I send you to leech off of your kills, for I have been charged with granting these clansmen at least 30-odd levels for their time spent on these frontlines.”

A smile of genuine joy came to Jane, and she said, “Well sure! Then that solves the problem of resources.” She asked, “What changed?”

“With Silverite’s declaration that this was going to end as soon as she could make it end, due to half-revelations from trusted prognosticators, some of the people back home have decided that haste is a virtue.” Nirzir said, “You will still have to be wary of Mana Exhaustion and Health Fatigue, though; this basic problem is only heightened by the use of a Font.”

“Ah. Well. Thank you for the Fonts; I’ll be sure they get some levels tonight.” Jane frowned. “Not sure what to do about the Exhaustion and Fatigue problem, though.” Scion of Balance granted double resistance to Health Fatigue and Mana Exhaustion, but Jane was already touching that limit every night. She’d sail right past it with the Army’s assigned double workload. “And I need food, too. I’m actually going to need to eat tonight if I’m doing this, Poi.”

“We’ve made arrangements.” Poi said, “A few cows will be sedated and ready for you, whenever you need them.”

“I have a solution to your Exhaustion and Fatigue problem.” Kiri offered, “I can make some glass bracelets and help you enchant them, and you can take both double-Regen Class Abilities. It would double your Exhaustion or Fatigue limit.”

“Double Mana Regen is always useful,” Nirzir said. “I still have it myself.”

Jane said, “Ugh. I probably should just do that, shouldn’t I. Haven’t had much time to unlock Elemental Dedication or Healthy Form, yet.” And honestly, Healthy Form wasn’t all that impressive. Diet-related Familiar Form powers, like specialty spider threads that drained mana and stopped casting, or threads that naturally resisted fire, were not that high on the list of needs. Not right now, anyway. Elemental Dedication, though… That one she would still want.

Nirzir gave a small bow, saying, “I appreciate that you have not lived as that spider form while I am here. I know it has been an imposition. I am still willing to assist you with Elemental Dedication at any time you choose.”

Jane made a decision. “Yes. Okay. I’ll take a Vitality and a Focus ring, Kiri— Ah. You’re going to need to make them capable of holding 35 Vitality and 95 Focus, now.”

Kiri winced. “The Vitality isn’t a problem. The Focus might be. But I can do it.”

“I’m sure you can make a good one; it only has to last ten seconds or something, anyway.” Jane looked back to the map. “So we’re finally going to kill the golden slime, are we? Took Silverite long enough.”

Kiri nodded—

Teressa’s eyes flickered grey. Jane felt her hairs raise, but then Teressa simply focused forward, on the map, and she spoke in her normal voice, “Tell Killzone to search Brightwater again, Poi. Near here.” She touched the map near the center. “At the deepest part.”

Jane relaxed. Nizir breathed out, then gave a small, nervous chuckle.

Poi nodded, then looked away, speaking to other people.

Jane took off her rings and went to the Registrar. Irogh was open for special hours for the Army’s needs, so Jane got a slot in the sunset schedule, and since she was special forces, she got to the head of the line. Her actual meeting with the salt-and-pepper haired orcol lasted only 3 minutes.

By the time she got back home, Jane had two Quests ready to go and Kiri had two glass bracelets ready to combine with those Quests. The first was a simple thing of near-perfect clarity, but rounded and polished enough to make it work. Kiri made the lightward, and the bracelet, but it was Jane that actually enchanted the thing.

Jane slipped on the first ring—

And it disintegrated. Half a second later, a blue box appeared.

QUEST COMPLETE!

Enchant an item, or items, that give you twice as much Health Regen, then wear those items, consuming them in the process. 1/1

Reward: Double your Base Health Regen

Jane felt her Health Regeneration expand, like she could run a mile and not feel winded at all.

… She could already do that, though. Jane blinked, and the sensation of expansion slowly normalized, before becoming a new baseline of power.

