“Now that you’ve pointed it out. Sure.” With that thought, Erick felt a certain kind of full-calmness spread throughout his body, as he knew now what he had to do. With that feeling, came a thought. “Ah. Did I just acclimate? I think I did. But… What are these Stats going to do to me? Short term and long term?”

“Don’t trust any of these new Stats, Erick. They all have diminishing returns. They’re not as powerful as the originals. 81 Constitution does not meant 81 percent damage reduction, and even with the other defensive skills out there, like [Defend], you might still take 25 percent of the damage you would have taken.” She stressed, “But a quarter of a million damage is still more than enough to end you. Do not get cocky.”

Erick followed the logic, saying, “And 81 Intelligence doesn’t mean free spells.”

“Correct. There is always a cost to mag—” Rozeta suddenly frowned. She looked past Erick.

Erick turned.

The blot in the sky was darker, and expanding.

Melemizargo’s voice carried, but it was softer than usual, “We could work on all of that, Rozeta. Make these new Stats something coherent with a new Script. One we can put on other planets out there.”

Rozeta sighed. “We’re not talking.” Suddenly, with a tone Erick knew all too well, that Jane had used on him when he had fucked up, Rozeta spoke past Erick, her voice light, like a lure waiting to capture and drag the object of her ire down into the depths of her displeasure, “We will not talk until at least a decade has passed, and your actions haven’t doomed us all in the meantime. So if you could: go away, now.”

Clouds shifted.

Erick’s cloud flowed away, through the blue, as Rozeta’s cloud broke from his, flowing off into the distance, to where the blue sky met the black void. White stars glowed in those depths, but two of those stars were larger than most; they were eyes. Melemizargo, in all his dragon form, hid in that void, like a nebula rarely seen except in the brightest artistic interpretations of the night sky. Erick blinked, and Rozeta was a dragon, sinuous and white-iridescent, coiling through the endless blue sky.

Melemizargo spoke to his daughter, “We can—”

Rozeta spoke to her father, “We cannot. Because—”

They spoke fast, in words Erick barely caught.

“— well how—”

“A night of—”

“—can I—”

“Centuries! Yes!”

Melemizargo recoiled, “But I—”

The two gods had been talking for less than a second, and also for hours. Rozeta jolted. She turned to Erick. Her voice slowed to a human-level of speed, saying, “The Shades barely answer to my father. Don’t trust his word to keep you safe.”

Melemizargo frowned, then turned to Erick, saying, “She’s right. She shouldn’t be correct in this, but she is, and I would be blind to not see this truth. I cannot protect you from them, and I cannot protect them from you. But please, know this: Some of them are salvageable. Don’t kill too many if you can help it. I would be most appreciative if you could save whoever you can save.”

“Oh?!” Rozeta reared back, and glared at the Darkness in the sky. With an entirely new level of sarcasm in her voice, she said, “Will you actually abide by the divine mandate to let mortals handle mortals? To guide with words and help, instead of clawing and Wizarding your way through your problems? Or maybe you’re only doing this right now because it is convenient for you to use MY HOLY COMMUNION with Erick to get what YOU WANT, in an attempt to show yourself to be more reasonable than ever before?” With the voice of a goddess, Rozeta demanded, “Is that your plot?!”

Melemizargo retorted with the voice of a sorry father, “No! I am just being honest with him because that is the right thing to—”

“Don’t you dare start talking about the right thing—”

Erick dropped out of the clouds as two gods began arguing again.

- - - -

Erick opened his eyes.

He was still on the grass above the music, above the party. Erick knew this, even before he moved his head, or checked the eyes of his Ophiel. Though, upon checking on his Ophiel, he noticed quite a few things happening all at once, all around him. He filed away those interactions for later, but he kept in mind Bulgan, smiling like he had won a great victory, and Tania sighing, like she had lost something important, and Fallopolis and Priestess, both beside themselves with worry. And then the emotions of those four shifted, as Erick stirred awake. Bulgan frowned. Tania’s face became a mask of composed perfection. Fallopolis almost went to Erick, but she held herself back by the accusing gazes of every other Shade.

Barely a second has passed since Erick came back to himself, and yet, it felt like a minute had passed.

… He might have technically acclimated to these True All-Stat rings, but Perception and Intelligence, in particular, were going to take some time. People weren’t meant to notice the whorls of air in their sight, or the dark grubs burying themselves in the dirt, or the perspiration on the necks of all the servers downstairs, and upon some of the Shades. Everyone was on edge—

No. Wait. Some people weren’t on edge at all.

Ah. Those were the crazy ones, weren’t they. The ones that were truly beyond hope of normal interactions with society. They were the ones that saw prey all around them, and were so used to getting what they wanted, that they didn’t know that the world was changing out from under their feet. They didn’t know their god had abandoned them.

Erick had not yet gotten up, or done anything to lift himself from the soft, grassy ground. He still looked to Tania, though, but with Ophiels’ eyes. The Champion of Melemizargo was the key person in this gathering of 29 Shades. The woman was tense; her face was a mask, but—

And then Tania proved that she was not to be underestimated. She sensed Erick’s eyes upon her, either through her spiders sitting all around, or through some other way. Erick couldn’t understand her at all. Something had shifted. And then Erick recognized the change. She was in her shadowform. She had put up her total defenses. She had prepared herself against Erick. Because… Because…

Because she knew that Melemizargo had abandoned them!

Holy shit! She knew that the vast majority of their current Clergy were all dead Shades walking, and as soon as most of them were dead, the rest would follow, because civilization had had enough of them, and if they couldn’t defend themselves, then it was time to get rid of them all.

And with that realization, another shattering thought came down the line:

No one else knew of that abandonment. Tania was the only Shade in the know. If the full Clergy had known, they would go rampant and out of control and that would be the final straw and Melemizargo could officially declare a purge of his own Clergy. Either his current Clergy would die to themselves, and then the world, or they would die to Melemizargo himself. But they would all die, sooner, rather than later.

That Dark god probably had other people lined up, ready to take on the positions the Shades around him had filled, ready to become Shades themselves.

And even if he didn’t, Melemizargo could probably survive for a long time without his people, without his worshiping base. Decades were certainly possible. Centuries were probable. He was a god with a physical body, after all.

Aloethag, the goddess of Beauty and Brutality, back when she was simply Aloeth, the goddess of Beauty and the elves, had survived for a long time without her elves. All the elves had died within years of coming to Veird, after the Sundering, but Aloethag managed to survive for decades. She even survived till after the Deaths of all Halves, and after the Orcol Wars, when she then took over the Rage of the Orcols for her own benefit. That event was 35 years Post Sundering.

Melemizargo’s plan was to kill his entire Clergy. Maybe the Dark Dragon or others would save a few, but most would die. He had even said to Erick that he would appreciate the saving of a few good ones. But.

Did Erick want to save a few Shades?

Oh. Wow.

No.

No he did not.

Two seconds had passed since Erick awoke.

A brief thought came. Erick could open with an Aurified [Vivid Gloom], killing lots of the Shades all around him. His own sunform was off since he had gone unconscious and lost those spells. But he could survive a moment of [Vivid Gloom], maybe.

But. No.

Erick had lost his opportunity for murder, and he wasn’t prepared to cause that murder, anyway. As that thought occurred, he was glad that he had lost that chance. The Shades were an extinct people, they just didn’t know it yet. A moment of clarity slammed into Erick’s mind like a freight truck: was that extinction fate a good thing, or a bad thing? Personally, Erick didn’t want to help that fate to happen. Intellectually, if that death occurred really fast, then the world could move on, and there wouldn’t be a city of Archmages tearing itself and the rest of the world apart in their death throes.

Ah. That was why Goldie and Tania and others had okayed the murders of Shades at the party.

Usually, there was violence every year, but this year it was deadly violence with a purpose, and with a cover. Tania acted like the problematic Shades were problems to be dealt with, but she turned around and said that the vast majority of Shades were okay.

But. No. She was thinning the herd to prepare for a full culling, all the way down to 3 or 4 Shades, who could then go into hiding and reemerge after a suitably long time, after Melemizargo reintroduced his Shades into this universe. Tania was walking a tightrope across a chasm of death-by-Shades, or death-by-all-the-rest-of-the-world.

Fallopolis broke Erick from his reverie, asking, “Are you… Are you okay, dear?”

Erick was still on the ground. Five seconds had passed since he awoke.

He spoke to the sky, “I think so.” He sat up. He looked around, at the dead people staring at him; none of them aware that their executions were just a matter of time and place and circumstance away. He said to Fallopolis, “I’m feeling great.” He stood up, and standing was as simple as desiring it. Before his Dexterity, any movement at all would have taken some effort; some drain on his seemingly endless Health resources. But now…

His body had gone through a shift, like when he gained Rozeta’s Boon of Recovery. This, now, was not just a younger body, like it was back then. Erick felt… He felt naturally limber. If he wanted, he could fall upon his hand, and do a slow-motion cartwheel. But now was not the time for that.

He put on a smile, and spoke to the crowd, “So that was interesting! Sorry for worrying everyone. I’m fine. Got all the Stats unlocked, though. That’s a thing that can be done, apparently.” He instantly canceled the maskward in the air in front of him. “But I see some of you plotting to make your own, so that’s not going to happen without my permission.”

Lapis, still standing nearer than most, switched from visible anger, to quietly questioning what she was seeing. The transition of emotion was so smooth and so barely-there, that Erick would have never have caught it, if he was his old self. She was going to try and get him to help her, somehow. What were her goals, though? Erick didn’t know enough about her, but he probably would, when this was all over.

Lapis said, “I’ve already gifted you some knowledge. That should buy me some returns—”

Priestess spoke up, “No one is getting anything from Erick. Shoo! All of you. Lapis. No.”

Lapis said to Erick, “We can talk later.”

“He’s given us enough.” Priestess stared at Lapis with starbright eye sockets. “You’re done here.” She fluttered her bone hands forward, at everyone, saying, “Everyone, leave. Back to the party.”

Before anyone could depart, or move, or make their intentions known, Bulgan spoke, “I want to know if he’s still human.”

Everyone paused.

Erick casually turned to the man who had tried to kill him several times over. “There is a question mark there, upon my Status.” He turned on his [Greater Lightwalk], but kept the activation barely visible, and just inside his shoes, at the moment. It wouldn’t be enough to protect him from Bulgan; not without [Lodestar], too. But maybe he could run away if things turned ugly. Erick asked his own loaded question of Bulgan, “Do you feel you are a benefit to the Clergy?”

Bulgan said, “I think everyone here can see the benefit of having one of us specifically tailored to take you down.”

The crowd agreed with him, though no one said anything, they spoke volumes with their bodies, and their slight turns of head, and in the tensions in their shoulders. Erick saw it all, with the Ophiel all around. Now was not the time for a confrontation. Erick would lose, and he would lose hard.

Erick said, “Quite reason… able...” He had an idea. He thought it over for a hot three seconds, then decided to let it out there. “So. I’d like to offer my help to any Shade who wants it! The only caveats are that you’ve got to be trying to make the world a better place for all involved, and then I will help you in those endeavors.” He looked around, “I’m sure none of you are truly bad people. You’re just misunderstood. Your power has given you too many advantages and thus you see others as less than sapient—”

A woman Shade wearing clouds for a dress and a disgusted look upon her face stepped away in a flash of shadows. Three more rapidly followed.

Erick continued, undaunted, “All you have to do is tell me about all of your current projects and then I can come with you to verify your projects and we can talk about—”

Five more Shades stepped away. Then seven more departed the field. Erick heard a muttered, ‘No thanks.’

Erick continued, “And we can solve some problems! Make the world a better place! Turn the Crystal Forest into real forests! Hunt down and end the Moon Reacher threat! No one likes those guys, am I right? Maybe we could even work to end the Quiet War, once and for all—”

More Shades left. Soon, almost all of them were gone.

Bulgan, Tania, Priestess, and Fallopolis remained.

Erick said, “Ah. Well. No takers, then.”

Priestess happily said, “Don’t worry about them. They’ll come around, eventually. I am happy to see you want to become involved, though. That is a welcome change. What was the cause, do you think?”

Erick snorted, “Well that’s a loaded question.”

“It is.” Priestess said, “But please answer, anyway.”

“Intelligence has got me thinking it’s easier to work with the systems already in place then to try and cull them from existence.”

