Priestess seemed to withhold judgment, as she spoke in an even-tone, saying, “I hope that is true. I like you Erick. I like who you are, as a person. But you have been poisoned by civilization into seeing the Shades as evil incarnate. And we are not. Not anymore.” She added, “You speak of culling, but we have already done this much today. The true work begins now, and it won’t be as easy as murdering the murderers. The flock must be brought to heel, and we must heal the damage we have done. I hope you speak true words about helping Erick, for I can give you many ways to help our Clergy, if you are willing.”

Erick spoke what may or may not have been a lie, “I can help with that.”

Priestess nodded, and sighed a happy sigh. She said, “Good. But we can delay that for a day. You are acclimating, and there is a Feast to be had. See you later, Erick.” She floated away.

Erick bid Priestess farewell, then turned to Tania.

The Champion of Melemizargo regarded Erick, then asked, “Do you understand the nature of the current crisis?”

“So you would truly call it a crisis?”

“I would.” She spoke, and Erick understood the meaning behind her words, “But make no mistake: It is a crisis for you, and everyone else. I aim to limit the damage, and to rebuild from the wreckage.”

Bulgan’s eyebrows went up, as he whispered to her, “What are you talking about?”

Tania continued, without care for her right-hand man, “What is your aim, Erick?”

“I aim to help those who should be helped.” He said, “I am not beyond forgiveness.”

“I will hold you to that, Erick.” Tania asked, “Do I have to mention any threats?”

“No.” Erick said, “You do not.”

Tania said, “Good.”

She stepped away; her feet blinking black momentarily. Bulgan looked to the right, to where Tania might have gone. Then he looked to Erick. His emotions were unreadable, but he might have been worried; Erick was unsure. Bulgan stepped away without another word.

Fallopolis whispered into the shadows inside his ear, “I’m ready to start the killing as soon as you are.”

Erick turned to the elderly Shade, who was now sitting on a stone bench of the amphitheater, not three meters from Quilatalap, who had yet to say a single word. The archlich certainly looked concerned, though. His face was in a scrunch, while his lips were in a frown, showing his lower fangs.

Erick said to Fallopolis, “I seem to have spilled my drink. Party foul, I know. You helped so much to get those other ones, today. I’ll get the next round.”

Fallopolis smiled. “Want some help getting those drinks?”

“Maybe tomorrow.”

Fallopolis nodded. “Tomorrow, then.”

Quilatalap’s frown deepened. He sent to Erick, ‘Oh, please. You’re not being nearly clever enough. Don’t fight them Erick. They’ll kill you. Don’t make me help them against you. Ar’Kendrithyst is the only place that I can live in relative peace.’

Erick told the man, ‘Melemizargo has withdrawn his protection from all the Shades. The Clergy is dying but it doesn’t know it yet. I heard this from the dragon himself.’

Quilatalap startled.

Fallopolis put her fists to her hips, saying, “Unless that’s pillow talk, I want in!”

Erick stared at the pouting Shade. He stared for a long moment. She stared back. Erick looked to Quilatalap, and the orcol nodded. Erick let Fallopolis in on the talk.

The first Feast ended without further incident, though Fallopolis did spend the rest of the time dancing and laughing at no one in particular. That was odd, but not too odd for her.
