Erick turned to see. Ah. Tania was eyeing him, and then Lapis. Bulgan was eyeing him. He looked around. A lot of Shades were eyeing him. Ah! Whatever. He turned back to Lapis, saying, “Don’t mind them! We’re making enchantment progress! Don’t you want to help?”

Lapis decided something in that moment. She decided to ignore the silent, brooding, thinking Tania. Lapis walked right up to Erick, saying, “I have those colors. Here, let me help you.” She held out her hand, and produced a yellow light.

“Constitution.” Erick waved a maskward into the air of the appropriate color. “Have that one.”

Lapis smiled, and it was greedy and malevolent and yet, Erick didn’t care. “But can you combine it with the others?” She held up one hand, and produced a light of orange make. She held up her other hand, and produced green. “Dexterity and Perception, though I appreciated it more when it was Charisma.”

“Of course you did.” Erick said, “You’re using it on me right now, and though my dick is hard, my mind says no, so I am glad to see that Intelligence has some sort of a natural counter to Charisma.”

Lapis laughed. She wasn’t the only one, though some of the laughs were more nervous than indicative of mirth.

Erick said, “Oh, drat. How do you change the color of your magic?” He looked around for an answer, saying, “I still haven’t figured that out.”

Lapis said, “Mana Altering for color. Do it often enough and it becomes second nature.”

“WHAT!” Erick said, “It’s that easy!?”

Lapis said, “It’s easier said than done—”

Erick was already conjuring other colors of mana from his hands. “Easy.”

With a concentrated thought, Erick combined all eight individual maskwards into something that let all eight colors through, and none of the others.

An oddly-white maskward appeared in the air. It wasn’t actually white. It was more… iridescent. Pearlescent. Shimmery.

With another copy of his rings, Erick set them into the new oddly-white maskward, and channeled mana into scratches in the rings. A pair of [Mend]s later, and Erick had two nice rings. He put them on.

He briefly saw his Status.

Erick Flatt

Human?, age 48

Level 85, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 7.77 e17 / 6.79 e 19

Class: 10/10

Points: 19

HP

6,930/6930

76,770 per day

MP

15,211/17,460

76,770 per day

Strength

20

+211

[231]

Vitality

20

+211

[231]

Dexterity

7

+61

[68]

Constitution

20

+61

[81]

Perception

19

+61

[80]

Willpower

80

+211

[291]

Focus

80

+211

[291]

Intelligence

20

+61

[81]

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

He mumbled, “Oh hey, look! I unlocked all of them! That was easy.” But it probably came out rather unintelligible because half his face was numb, and drooping. And then his right arm flickered out, uncontrolled. He accidentally slapped himself. He yelled at his arm, “Stop that!”

And then he collapsed.

- - - -

Erick floated above white clouds, in a blue sky.

“Oh. Hello, Rozeta.” Erick said, to the endless vision. “Are you around here, somewhere?”

There was no immediate response.

Instead, Erick had a long moment to realize what he had just done in the center of all those Shades, and what had just happened, and where his body was, and the fact that he had left that oddly-white orb in the air. Anyone could use that orb, now. Erick had created something that he probably shouldn’t have created. If his rings unlocked all the Stats for him, then his rings would unlock all the Stats for everyone? Did he have that right?

“Fuck.” Erick said, “Shit.”

“Yup.” In her white wrought form, Rozeta stepped onto the cloud next to him, and sat down, saying, “You gave them a lot of power. They kinda tricked it out of you, but that’s fine. They were almost there, anyway.”

“It’s the Intelligence. It’s doing something to my cognitive functions. I’m remembering things that I thought I had forgotten and I want to DO ALL THE THINGS. Like figuring out how atomic magic has been Banned or—” He controlled himself for a moment, coming back to himself, as he said, “I remember every single detail of every single physics lesson I ever took to help Jane pass her own classes. I remember… I remember a lot. Oh. Shit. Was your universe Vacuum Decayed?” A sudden panic gripped him. “OH SHIT. Could you Vacuum Decay THIS universe?” For the longest eternity and also no time at all, Erick had a moment, and then he let it go. “Ah. Shit.” And then he latched onto another topic, saying, “But why were the Time Wizards not able to see the Sundering happen before it happened? That seems like someone is lying or they just don’t have the whole story.” He added, “Or time was not what people thought it was. There’s a lot of ideas about time not being real in this universe, too.”

“Erick.” Rozeta said, “I need you to focus on the moment.”

“I am focused!” He joked, “My main Stat is Focus! Or at least it was.” He asked, “OH OH! I have an 81 in Constitution! Does that mean I take 81 percent less damage from every attack?”

“Focus.”

Erick looked to Rozeta; for some reason he had looked away. “What?!” He narrowed his eyes at her, then his eyes flew wide open. “You’re going to do something to me!”

“I’m not going to do anything to you.”

“Which means you’ve already done it.” Erick lamented for a fraction of a second, then decided he wanted to get something for himself out of all this. He asked, “What’s all this about mana generation and soul sundering and World Trees and new worlds and shit? Is that really how it’s going to go down?” He added, “And that was not very succinct or understandable, but you understood me, yes? Of course you do; you’re a god. If anyone doesn’t understand anything, it’s me.”

“I understand you.” Rozeta said, “But back to the issue at hand—”

“No. No deflection! This is my time to talk, and I want answers.” Erick said, “Ever since I got to Veird and made this Particle Magic, every single god has wanted a piece of me. And now I find out that some possible-planar guy named Xoat started your Old Cosmology!” He stared at the goddess in front of him, saying, “You know what I said to Melemizargo when I met him that first time, don’t you? I sang to him like an old friend! I called him that! Serendipity or planning! Which was it?!” He added, “Probably some time-shit.”

Rozeta sighed. “Serendipity. Or maybe it was the plan of a long dead god. Maybe it was the mana itself, untethered due to the madness of its current shepherd, searching for someone it had known a long, long time ago, and it found you. It would take years for me to properly explain planar-distance translocation, but I am not going to do that.”

Half hysterical, Erick straight-up asked, “Am I the reincarnation of Xoat?!”

“Probably not.”

“WHAT?!”

“We did not have the concept of reincarnation before you came along and gave rise to that word. The words we used for ‘reincarnation’ were either ‘resurrection’, or some variation of the word ‘summon’.” She said, “So could you be a reincarnation? Maybe. But likely not, for all that was Xoat was transformed into our Old Cosmology. That much of Shade history is true. We are living in the pieces of him, right now. This means that you literally cannot be Xoat, for you are certainly not everything around you.”

“Fine. Whatever. Let’s discard the idea that your Xoat Cosmology fell into my universe so long ago and this reality all around us is only a fraction of that whole.” He added, “Which was lost to you.”

Rozeta nodded, then sarcastically said, “Yes. Let us discard that impossible-to-verify idea right now.”

“Fine!” Erick asked, “Am I a Wizard, or not?”

“Yes, but that’s not important right now.”

“Fine fine fine!” Erick said, “Then go on and tell me what IS important. Get on with your spiel and then send me back so I can… So I can do something! I’ll figure it out.”

“You’re in a moment of Stat Dissonance.” Rozeta said, “I pulled you into this moment because if you were to continue to experience this down there, then they would engineer it such that you would give them whatever they wanted. You fell into their trap by accepting that Stardrop, and then you went wild in the storm of your resurfacing memories.”

Erick had a dozen thoughts at once, and then he came back to himself, saying, “You’re not here to force something upon me, or to take something away.”

“I am not forcing anything upon you except for you to stand before my presence for as long as you desire.” Rozeta said, “I am doing this to give you the time necessary to acclimate to your new existence. This acclimation will go faster if you concentrate on centering yourself. You would do well to have this experience over and done with sooner rather than later.”

“Because Melemizargo can interrupt this if he notices.”

Rozeta shook her head. “He’s already noticed.” She turned her head to the left, and Erick followed her gaze. A Darkness held on the edge of the blue sky, like an unmoving ink stain. Rozeta said, “I might be able to hold him back for as long as you need, but not as long as you want. You need to center yourself, because you are surrounded by enemies and too many powers are interested in your future.”

Erick stared at the goddess, demanding, “I want my questions about the soul sundering and mana trees and new worlds answered.”

Rozeta frowned a little, but answered, “The soul sundering would come from those who choose The End granted by Phagar. It is a painless process for gods to commit. You and the other Wizards currently alive on Veird wouldn’t need to be involved in this at all. In fact, we would prefer you not be involved at all. Not right away, anyway.”

Erick gasped. He asked, “You’re really going to do that, then? Travel to new worlds? Set up new Scripts? When? How? What is a sundered soul? I don’t understand any of that.”

“And you likely never will, for what you call a ‘sundered soul’ is not actually what is happening at all.” Rozeta paused for a moment, then said, “Quilatalap can help you with this. He’s rather neutral—”

Erick gasped again, as he smiled, then laughed, then giggled like a schoolgirl. “He’s not evil?!” Waves of laughter turned into tears, as Erick got out, “Oh my gods! He’s not evil.” And then the real tears came, as a thousand individual moments of pressure and horror came crashing down upon him, and he wished that this Shadow’s Feast was over and that he was on a vacation or something where he didn’t have to think and plot and plan around Shades and gods and world changing events. It took a long moment before the rolling emotions stopped, and he came back to himself. And then he had another thought. He looked to Rozeta, saying, “Ah. Shit. You said he was neutral. Not that he wasn’t evil.”

Rozeta said, “My own definition of evil is rather subjective. It has to be, for magic must remain neutral in all ways, and at all times. But Quilatalap… Quilatalap never hurts others when he has a choice, and he almost always has a choice. That is rather ‘not-evil’, for many definitions of such.”

“But there’s a caveat to all that,” Erick said, reading between the lines.

“Quilatalap has done just as many horrible things and just as many wondrous, great things, as anyone else his age. If we were still in the Old Cosmology, he might have been leading a school these days, teaching the young and raising up the mages of tomorrow to help Koyabez keep his parts of the universe more stable. More peaceful.

“Necromancy…” Rozeta got a far-off look in her eyes, and her voice turned distant. “Necromancy used to help the Peacekeepers of Koyabez enter the dangerous territories of warring factions, to calm the wars and help who ever they could help, for if they died, they would just come back and try again. Not many people were able to accomplish this level of necromancy, and we were lucky Quilatalap was there on Veird at the time of the Sundering. We would have never survived that event if it wasn’t for people like him.

“After the Sundering, necromancy would have been viewed the same on Veird, if not for the destruction of the Halves, and the creation of the Orcols.

“In the beginning of the Script, there was no magic. The mortals of this world had to create it themselves. Quilatalap created necromancy, and everything was going… Not well. But we survived, and that’s what was important. And then the Old Demons murdered all Halves. We tried to fix that, and we did, for a certain understanding of ‘fix’.

“This fix created the Orcols, and inflicted them with the Rage. Quilatalap was no different in this regard. For the first time in his life, that peaceful man joined a war. He joined The War, where the newly-created Orcols unified under the Rage, and attempted to kill everyone else. His necromancy made them unstoppable, and if it weren’t for Aloethag becoming who she became, draining the orcols of their Rage, then we would have all died, not 35 years out from surviving the Sundering.

“Quilatalap's creation of necromancy and his actions in that time of war ran him afoul of many, many parties, and those wounds have never healed. Angels and demons both hate him. That man has enemies the world over. If he wasn’t in Ar’Kendrithyst, someone would track him down and kill him. The Interfaith Church has been trying to assassinate him for a millennium.”

The goddess’s calm voice, as well as the passing of time, and her words, brought Erick a bit of solace. A bit more to himself, as the storm of ideas inside his head calmed to something less forceful.

Erick said, “You’re trying to get me to talk to him. To confide in him.”

“I am. That is correct.” Rozeta said, “You two are rather similar. He gifted necromancy to the Script. You gave Particle Magic. His war is long over, and he’s been trying to survive the aftermath all this time. Your war is just beginning.”

Erick felt a little bit of his manic episode pass, as he said, “I might have made Particle Magic, but I have nothing else to give. You said I didn’t have to be involved.”

“And you don’t.” Rozeta continued, “But the Shades are trying to make you involved so that they can leverage the controls they already have over you in order to force you to be involved, in order to gain control over worlds yet to come.” She paused, then said, “I see you understand.”

