One of the figures in the ocean created a tsunami in the distance. The wave crashed into the planet's surface, devastating all it touched. I sighed.

"I think that's my cue to leave."

"Or stay. Let it envelop you."

An intrusive thought entered my head. If I pressed Baldowah's dimension and Eonoth's together. They would battle, the same as earlier. Would that even help my situation? I had unleashed Baldowah on Etorhma since that prick's avatar hurt Althea. However, Eonoth had never done the same. Sure, he had crushed me to a pulp on multiple occasions, but that didn't really bother me.

One side benefit involved slowing the Old One's down. If they fought amongst themselves, then they might have less energy for Earth. At the bare minimum, it would stunt their outreach to Earth and give me some breathing room moving forward. It didn't even incite the wrath of Kryyah or whatever encroached on Earth since I wasn't the one closing the portals. Still, it could anger Eonoth, and he had no qualms with destroying me.

That's why I left it up to him.

"Would like to see Baldowah?"

Eonoth laughed.

"Ah, to see one of my own? Hm. Why not? We've never met in this place. Perhaps he shall enjoy what ensues."

I opened my palm, Baldowah's dimension within. Unlike in Etorhma's domain, Baldowah remained silent. Eonoth let out a laugh to shake the cosmos. Eonoth ushered its words.

"Baldowah? Where has your courage gone?"

Baldowah answered, its voice muted.

"We do not fear. You know this."

Eonoth laughed as portions of his universe flowed into Baldowah's domain. The sheer cosmic outpour of energy, wrath, and impact passed through my hands and into the portal. It rumbled the fabric of my being to its core. Eonoth rumbled.

"And yet, you seem to embody fear as we speak. Don't you desire finality? Consequence?"

Baldowah let out a low voice.

"Harbinger...I have chosen to give you my favor after the encounter with Etorhma. This will rescind my glory."

I furrowed my brow.

"Glory? You mean like what happened to Valgus?"

Baldowah ushered out its words.

"Of course. I may embolden you far more than I did to that creature."

I grabbed the edges of Baldowah's portal before tearing them open further. It dug into my skin and leached in odd energies. As their infestation spread, it sizzled the air near me. My vision blurred before Baldowah connected to my mind and pressed.

"This is no fight you wish to wage, little one."

I smiled, my expression calm.

"You're destroying my planet. This is how I fight back."

Eonoth's mind connected to mine. As it did, a vast clash formed. Baldowah's energies spiraled against Eonoth, and they gored one another along an unseen battlefield. A brimming wave of blood ushered in my mind, visions passing over my eyes as Baldowah raged.

"You've chosen to defy me."

Eonoth roared, its voice like infinity.

"He gave you what you yearn for. How is that defiance?"

I trembled as two entities larger than galaxies fought while connected to me. The ground across both planes tremored. Stars in the distance bloomed, supernovas passing over countless stars. Red blood pooled over them, drowning the endless fire in seas of red. Calming waters of blue diluted the blood, purifying its brutality.

The echoes radiated in all directions, each sound looming like an elderly man beset by the reaper. They destroyed reality and remade it in kind. My entire being throttled under the untold pressure, my existence an afterthought while they clashed. It left me trembling in fear as a wave of emotions overcame me.

I grabbed my sides, and the shaking became something palpable. My entire body rippled, and I couldn't suppress an unstoppable wave of raw emotion. It rattled through me as if I where an insect in a child's shaking jar. The core of my being would never rest here. I couldn't even breath or think any longer. I gasped as a strange, odd piece of my mind awoke, and it glared at the beasts above.

It was the same part of my mind that ate the remnants of Valgus. As the battle waged above, shards of the Old Ones fell. I salivated as they did. Drool gushed from my mouth, and my mind reached out to grab ahold of the precious shards. The beautiful, alluring fragments of eternity. The hunger of my mind tore into the chunks, and it engorged on the enormous spoils from their mental battle.

Baldowah's voice echoed, and it strained out its words.

"This...This is what you wish to spur forth?"

Eonoth answered the call.

"You ask, and I will not answer, as I answer to no one."

Baldowah laughed.

"You answer to him."

Eonoth's words boiled.

"Ah, you personify it as well? How belittling of you and our kin."

Baldowah's voice sputtered.

"I have learned from my encounters."

Eonoth rumbled.

"Not enough. Let me show you."

I could hardly make out their conversation. My armor grinned over me, and I was unable to suppress it. It let out laughs, its voice like the clanging of metal and the cold of hatred. Every piece of my mind tried tearing away from the battle to overcome my armor. It crushed my resistance, my armor acting as a wall.

All my faculties seized from me. A sense of terror and panic burned over my being as my armor feasted. It came alongside rage. I would not be outdone. I rallied. I put every ounce of grit into wrestling control from my own desire. As I had with Shalahora, I flooded out over my armor, and it trembled.

Like a beaten dog, it let out psionic whimpers at the onslaught, yet it continued eating. It could not stop, its own faculties as taken from itself as mine from me. It was as if some control code switched, and the armor kept gorging all the while. Moments passed, and I began overwhelming the armor. Even as I did, it snapped for the last bits of whatever psionic poison the Old One's effused.

In a silent surge, I pulled myself from the brink. My agency returned, and I pulled my mind away from the Old One's battle. In the distance, blood seeped from stars and replaced the calm, sedating waters above. Within the portal in my hands, the sanguine sea altered into blue waters of serenity.

If the clash between Baldowah and Etorhma was rain, then this was a storm, and it caused the fabric of my dimensional wake to quiver. It left me ailing, and I trembled. I felt something close to snapping, so I pulled myself out of the battlegrounds using the portal to Eonoth's dimension.

Once outside, I found the room encompassed in the ultramarine aura of Eonoth and the deep crimson of Baldowah. I siphoned the energies away using Event Horizon before peering at the battlegrounds.

Baldowah let out laughs, its voice full of fear and the underpinnings of something else. It gurgled on its own waters.

"This...This is war?"

Eonoth spoke in a strained voice.

"It is slaughter."

As their battle mounted, more energy pooled in. It caused the reality here to shimmer, bend, and break. Patches of reality tore, releasing interdimensional energy onto Earth. The air howled, and the stone walls opened eyes that peered into an unseen abyss. In a panic, I leaped into the portal of clashing Old Ones.

I ran through an enveloping wave of mana, dense as magma. After getting through the wave, I grabbed Baldowah's portal. I jerked it back towards Eonoth's opening. Waves of cascading power crushed me as I dragged myself back onto Earth.

I walked onto our planet, my body alight in mana. I layered the portals, one facing the back of the other. Like closing a sewer lid over a manhole, the squealing surges of mana stopped. As I did, I heard their battle. Baldowah's voice had changed. Elation replaced his fear. Joy joined his rage.

"This...This is everything I have ever dreamed. Thank you."

Eonoth roared.

"I will remind you what you are, Baldowah."

Baldowah laughed. His voice was bloody but unbowed.

"And I shall show you who I am, just as the mortals have shown me."

The portal closed, a massive gush of energy palpating onto our reality.

I fell down, heaving for breath. I had rushed, but all around me, the entire cave corrupted into a hellish wasteland. Despite the urgency, a wave of palpable exhaustion overcame me.

I stared at the room. I had no idea how long I remained embroiled in the Old One's battle, but it left my thoughts and mind hollowed out like a carved pumpkin. Around me, the corpse of the eldritch queen lie splattered across the walls. Beside me, the Old One's battle waged in a rippling of universal forces. The portals contained it for now, but I had no guarantee it wouldn't spill over. Either that or an Old One might move one of the openings.

It was a perpetual threat, and even without contacting Helios, I knew this new portal wouldn't close. I pulled the edges of it together, creating a long, thin line. I folded the line a few times like tying a long cord to save space. Afterward, I left a tiny gap that I plugged into my dimensional fabric. It began dissolving and leaking primordial ooze, so I reinforced it with my wake.

It mirrored the effect of Baldowah's dimension, but it carried around 30% more energy within. The warring forces furthered that, making it about three times stronger overall. Before I finished the project, I adjusted my dimensions so that the Old One's battle would gush into one of the pocket worlds.

It prevented their contained battle from leaking out onto our plane so easily. Despite locking them in, they still suffused energy at all times. I soaked in the mana, and while a boon to my reserves, I despised my situation. The Old Ones wanted access to me, and these portals granted just that.

I could try to think of the situation as a steady increase in mana, but that was foolish optimism. They were trying to corrupt me. Based on how my armor acted, they were getting closer to doing so. I gazed at my hand as that thought passed over me. This metal that laced all over my skin, it was how I achieved my goals. At the same time, it robbed me of agency at critical moments.

I grinded my teeth. For the first time in a long while, I wanted my armor off. I grabbed my forearm and wrenched away, peeling the metal off my arm and my skin along with it. Silver blood congealed into new metal as quickly as I could peel it away. I grabbed the helmet over my face and wrenched it off, patches of my face taken alongside the helm.

I howled before throwing the helmet away. It crashed into the side of the rock, creating an earthquake. Cracks rippled all across the underground cavern. I winced. I forgot to hold my strength back, and my feet cracked into the ground as my control over gravitation lessened for a split second.

I hit my head in frustration. A shockwave ushered forth, cracking the stone around me further. The cavern began collapsing before I raised a hand. My gravitation supported the space before I sat down on a large stone. Of course, I reinforced the rock using gravitation. Even now, sitting to rest was merely a facade. It relaxed me about as much as a mirage sated a starving man's thirst.

In my own skin, I felt trapped, and there was no way out of this body now.

Torix shouted from the cavern above.

"Are you quite alright? It sounds as though the battle is rather fierce."

I couldn't help but laugh. Battle. If hitting myself counted, then sure. I shouted.

"It's done. Just cleaning up."

I gave my cheeks a few slaps, and I made the conscious choice to end the pity party there. As I moved up, I struggled against the weight of the Old Ones' portals. They added to a growing stockpile of alternate realities I lugged around. Speaking of, I took a few minutes and got used to hauling them around, needing nearly twenty minds working together all the time.

It ate away at my mana assimilation, stopping me from gaining as many stats. Despite losing my psyches to that passive chore, I didn't actually lessen my channeling speed. After taking a moment, I found another forty minds waiting for me in my mind. Even if my armor robbed me of agency in the fight, it had given me more agency outside of it.

I peered down, and my sense of confinement faded. This wasn't all bad. Besides-

Skill Level Up! Dimensional Weight | Lvl 138->Lvl 139

My notifications kept me going.

Skill Level Up! Dimensional Saturation | Lvl 157-> Lvl 158

At the end of the day, this was all an investment. Speaking of, I didn't want Althea or Torix to waste any more of their time here, so I dragged the dimensions along. I reached the cavern's end. Behind me, the pulped eldritch queen's legs occasionally twitched. Shaking my head, I let out a sigh.

A large part of the Shattered Spire's economy rested on that thing, and I obliterated it without a second thought. Now, their swords were limited, as were their portal expertise and armor. That wasn't all. On my back, I assimilated a huge pipeline of primordial mana, stopping its insidious poison from corrupting this place further.

However, Marcella's guild relied on Eonoth's dimension to sustain the surveillance tree, the eldritch, and probably most of what made the city unique. It left me wondering if this was the right path. Before moving on, I brainstormed a few solutions. The easiest involved putting the portal back and repairing the queen.

That wasn't gonna happen.

Getting rid of her operation would create a power void. Crime would rise. Considering the sheer amount of roaming scavengers outside the city, that might be an enormous burden on the city and its occupants. A bit of thought dispelled that worry. Considering Marcella's abilities, she allowed the scavengers to raid as they did.

She could've wiped them out easily. After all, she dive-bombed me and Althea within seconds of entering her territory. That kind of omni-awareness should've allowed her to secure the entirety of her domain. Despite that, she chose not to. Thoughts raced through my mind as to why she wouldn't.

