It might've been because of my guild's influence, which could've constrained her to a smaller area. Hm. No, Marcella had been anything but passive. A dark thought passed over me. She might want the scavengers roaming the outskirts of her city while having arrangements with them. I frowned in disgust.

Not only did she lure dungeoneers to their deaths, but then she collected more of their loot as they tried to leave. Absolute pond scum. Ugh. The more I thought it over, the less I liked her entire arrangement. She strong-armed everyone into bowing to her, and she used an Old One's volatile energy to do so.

Sure, she had a history and past. So did Althea, but you didn't see Althea going around and experimenting on people. She did the opposite, and that was because there was a difference between being capable and being good. It wasn't really something I'd had much time to consider since the system arrived, but it was something that crept up more and more into my thoughts.

I'd become strong enough to consider more than how I'd gain power. I had time to consider when and where to use it. Pacing out of the room, I disintegrated the eldritch corpse. I could've healed it with Kessiah, maybe even made it into something similar to a mana battery or converter. Yeah, I wasn't going to do something like that. Humanity and The Shattered Spires would be better off forging their own path.

Did that mean my armor and golems were the only way forward? No, but they'd play their part. Eldritch held so much instability and danger, but they were still alive. They could feel pain and suffering. That queen had existed for years, crying out with a broken mind as its body was beholden to forces it couldn't stop.

Remembering my armor taking over, I could relate to that distress.

In the end, the eldritch queen's suffering propped up the Shattered Spires. It was a crutch that would only weaken the populace. Their struggle in the dungeons would be where they found strength and fortune, and I would help them stay alive as they searched out unseen lands.

Before I floated up the tunnel leading out of here, I filled in the cavern using rock. That stopped this cave-in from destroying buildings or tunnels above. After all, if this place was anything like the Grand Canyon, then this entire subspace wouldn't fade from removing Eonoth's portal. Even a few updates in my status verified as much as the skeptiles successfully conquered new portions of the Grand Cayon's remains.

It left me wondering how to handle this place as a whole. As ideas popped into my head, I strode out of the cavern with confidence. I met up with Torix and Althea, each of them playing bingo while Torix chatted about his students. Walking up, I leaned against a wall before Althea spun the bingo cage.

She took the first ball that fell out. She read the number before falling to her side with a groan. Torix stood upright, both hands raised and his head crashing into the ceiling.

"I've done it! Hah. Eat the dirt from which my hands have crushed out of stone."

Torix's eyes flared red. He put his hands on his hips.

"Ah. It is a good day to be alive."

Althea groaned before throwing a rock at him.

"You're undead."

The rock clattered off of Torix. He pointed at her.

"Don't discriminate. My unlife is worth just as much as yours. Anywho-"

They turned to me. Half of my runes glowed red while the other half glowed blue. Torix cupped his chin.

"You look rather...Ahem, odd."

I took a long breath, my voice heavy.

"It's a long story."
