Darenka said, “I got myself, young man. Atunir and a few others yelled at me. You know how it goes.” She strode over to Erick, her eyes suddenly squinting, as she half bent over and stared him straight in the eyes. Her own silvery eyes glowed with a faint divine fire. She stopped a meter from him, still staring. “Hmm.”

“Hello. Uh. Darenka.” Erick, still seated, and getting a bit nervous at her stare, said, “I think we have some lemon cake, if you’d like some.”

Darenka stopped squinting, and returned to a casual smile. “Yes; but later.” She stood up straight. “He’s fine!” She looked up at the ceiling, saying, “He’s fine.”

Erick looked to the ceiling, too.

She spoke to the ceiling, “Well of course he did!”

Rats, pointedly, did not look up. But Jane, Kiri, and Teressa, did. Erick did, too. The ceiling was orange stone, exactly the same as before. Poi glanced up, but did not stare like most of the rest of them.

Darenka dropped her gaze back to Erick, saying, “Someone would like you to know that it was Messalina who did this to you.”

Poi gritted his teeth, anger briefly showing.

Erick frowned. “As if I didn’t have enough reasons to get away from Spur for a little while.”

Darenka nodded. “Make me one of those lemon cakes before you go to Oceanside.” She held her hand out to Kiri. “Back to the Church, please. [Teleport], go go.”

Kiri instantly took her hand, then looked to Erick, full of relief, saying, “Be right back.” With a blip of green, both of them left.

Rats said, “I can’t believe Darenka— Whatever.” He clapped his hands together, saying, “Well! So we’re all off to Oceanside, then?”

“You changed your mind, Rats?” Jane asked.

“Changed his mind?” Erick asked.

Teressa looked down at him, asking, “You don’t remember, eh?”

“Of course he doesn’t.” Poi said, “It wasn’t really him that said any of those things.”

“Uh!” Erick asked, “What happened? While I was out?”

Teressa, Jane, Rats, and Poi, simultaneously said, “Nothing.”

Erick frowned, deeper. And then he looked around. “Where’s Ophiel?” Erick sent a tendril of thought out, and found Ophiel nowhere. “I dismissed him? What the fuck!”

Erick instantly summoned a tiny Ophiel. The little guy popped into the air, a hundred small eyes open all across his tiny, tiny body. Cellos and flutes filled the air, along with something darker, deeper, and stranger. And then, he shifted. The deeper song stopped. A quiet violin played.

Erick smiled at his feathered [Familiar], saying, “Hey there, little guy.”

Ophiel leapt at Erick, his small wings folding around Erick’s chest, hugging him, tickling his nose and his neck. Erick hugged back, giggling.

Erick looked up from the mess of feathers and eyes, asking, “Did I give a reason for dismissing him?”

Jane’s eyes were slightly narrowed. Rats scrunched his face.

Poi said, “You said he was bothering you.”

“Well that’s obviously some mind control there, Poi.” Erick asked, “So? What happened while I wasn’t me?”

A silence descended.

In a flash of green, Kiri blipped back into the room. She almost said something, but she saw the silence all around her, and joined in.

Erick asked, “Kiri? What did I do? Earlier?”

Kiri looked around at downcast faces, and said, “A whole lot of angry words. Small things became huge things. Stupid things were turned into serious things. In retrospect, obviously you were not you. And if we could all pretend it never happened, then that would be for the best.” She added, “I don’t even know what Messalina was going for with all of this, but I bet it was to get you to stay away from Oceanside.”

Ophiel trilled while he pushed against Erick’s petting hands. Erick scritched him harder. That seemed to be what Ophiel wanted because he curled up on Erick’s lap, turning even smaller; perfect lap-dog size.

Poi spoke out, “I think you need some extra mental resistance training, sir.”

Erick said, “Add it to the list!” Erick picked up the trilling Ophiel, and moved him to his shoulder. Ophiel held on as Erick stood. Erick instantly fell back to the couch. His head spun. “Whoa.”

Jane held him with a dark blue, glowing hand, asking, “We had to… to remove your left ear to remove the worm. It’ll take some time for your equilibrium to come back to full working order.”

Erick ignored the sudden surge of body horror coursing through his body. He said, “Help me back up.” With his daughter’s help, Erick slowly got to his feet, steadier this time. He smiled, saying, “From the ear? Like an earworm that keeps you awake at night with a… dream? Hmm. No. That joke doesn’t fly.”

Jane smiled.

Erick said, “I’ll have to work on that one.” He stepped toward the door, and grasped Poi’s shoulder on the way, saying, “If it wasn’t for you, we all would have died today. You do really good work, Poi. I’m sorry I didn’t understand how you fight.” Erick patted his shoulder, saying, “Don’t worry too much about this.” He looked around to everyone, and said, “This is just how life is, now.” He paused. He asked, “So. Uh. Are we all going to Oceanside?”

Rats said, “Yes.”

Poi breathed in, then said, “Yes.”

Teressa said, “Of course!”

Kiri’s eyes sparkled. “Yes.”

Jane said, “No.”

Everyone winced, except Erick, who just looked at his daughter, holding his hand, helping him keep steady as the world seemed to slip this way and that.

Erick said, “I understand. You got your own ways, and your own necessities.” He looked around, adding, “I take it, that this is not how the original conversation went?”

Jane’s eyes brightened as she looked down and away. She smiled softly, and said, “Don’t worry about it.”

“Then—” Erick pointed onward, and upward, saying, “Back to bed, please!” But he stopped stepping forward. He turned and glanced at the darkened window of the sunroom, asking, “This [Solid Ward] does nothing against people teleporting in, does it?”

Rats said, “Nope. But. Like you said. We get attacked, and we defend.”

Kiri asked, “Do you want me to look into anti-teleportation arrays?”

Erick shook his head, saying, “Yes. But that’s a solution with problems all its own. So yes, but just to know what it would cost and require. We won’t put it up. Probably.”

Kiri nodded, saying, “Yes, sir.”

Erick left the sunroom and walked upstairs, with Jane to help him and Ophiel a tiny weight on his shoulders. He considered all the myriad of conundrums popping up all around him. If there was a teleport lock, Darenka would have been locked outside until they got the barrier down. Erick had no doubt that someone could break the [Solid Ward], if the need arose, but the reality of a [Solid Ward] was the same as a lock on the door; a deterrent, and nothing more. Shadowspiders shadowalked. Mind control and assorted magics could make Erick just walk outside, or take down the spell himself. Or worse, turn him against his people; which, from the sounds of it, was almost what had happened.

If someone wanted him harmed, they could do it, even with whatever measures of protection Guardmaster Merit had going on out there, and whatever protections Erick came up with, on his own.

Erick was weak, and he needed to be stronger.

He asked Jane, as they neared his room, “What sort of spells would they use in those games you played, to stop all of these horrific events?”

Jane helped him into his room, saying, “I’m thinking [Dispel] and [Ward] and whatever spell you want to stop. It’d be temporary, but it might work.” She added, “No fricken’ clue how to deal with parasites, though.”

Erick crawled back into bed, saying, “Yeah… The parasites… Me either. No idea.”

Jane leaned down and kissed Erick on the forehead, while Ophiel purred in violins as he turned around atop his own pillow, then plopped down, his wings curled up around his body.

Jane stood back up, saying, “I love you, Dad.”

“I love you, too, Jane.”

- - - -

Jane put her father to bed.

She walked downstairs.

She got to the bottom of the stairs before she collapsed onto her ass on the final step, and broke down in quiet, sobbing tears. The next thing she knew, Kiri was there, sitting beside her on the staircase. The tears rolled down Jane’s face, but Kiri remained seated, silent, waiting.

Eventually, Jane controlled herself. She said, “Someone is going to kill him, Kiri, and I can’t do shit to stop it. I don’t think anyone can.”

Kiri slowly breathed out, nodding. She said, “This is why archmages tend to hide. But I’m thinking he will learn a lot about how to stay alive from Oceanside, and from the Headmaster.” She added, “We need to get gone from this vulnerable location. The sooner, the better.”

Jane sniffled. She said, “I know.”

“Life is going to be extremely difficult for him because of what he has already done.” Kiri added, “It will also make your life more difficult.”

Jane waved her off. “I’m fine. Or at least I will be. Soon enough.”

“… I’m sorry I came at your father like some child itching to steal knowledge.” Kiri said, “I realize now, that he’s… a really good person.” She joked, “Barring when mind control is involved.”

Jane laughed, a sad sound. A pulse of sadness threatened to force another cry, but she locked that down. When she was ready to speak, she joked, “I’m not sorry how I came at you.”

Kiri laughed. “Here I was, trying to be nice. Serves me right.”

Jane agreed, “Serves you right.”

- - - -

Erick stared at the dark ceiling, listening to Kiri and Jane talk. He didn’t mean to listen in, but he heard Jane cry, and that meant he had to use [Perfect Hearing]. Somewhere in the middle of listening, but only being able to hear with his right ear, his left ear cleared. Full hearing returned.

Eventually, after Jane and Kiri stopped talking, and after another twenty minutes of worry, Erick’s eyes finally closed. When he turned off [Perfect Hearing], his left ear remained healed.

This time, there was no dream.
