"He's not boasting or being foolish," Adam added with a sigh, waving for the Umbrals to come back. "You're more useful here. Frankly, I need you here. We're going to have a lot of work to do while he has all the fun. Oh, and Shiv, use the Realmrunner’s Keyhole if you need help."

Shiv looked at the Chronomantic bracelet fused around his left bicep, and he simply gave Adam a thumbs up as he continued on. But he wasn't the only one heading up and out of the bunker. Falling in step right beside him was Jessica, while the Culturist loomed just a few steps behind, more content to monitor and stalk them rather than partake in conversation at the moment.

"What's up with you?" Shiv asked. "Not interested in helping with the evacuation?"

Jessica snorted. "Fuck, no. I already helped save the losers. The rest of this shit's frankly Roland's business. Don't think you can sneak something over me, kid. You're not getting one over on this young lady."

Shiv squinted down at her. "What are you even talking about?"

"Talking about your little arrangement with Roland. You're not getting his ass before I am. I got a proper grudge against him, kid. Your little duel? You can have that. But I need my satisfaction. And don't think I haven't noticed that your Georges isn't really here with us right now. Guessing you ran into some resurrection dysfunction, huh? Or maybe he didn’t mean enough to you for the Deathless shit to kick in."

There was a taunt in her voice, but also a faint heat of annoyance. She was working with him mainly because he promised to return her husband and daughter. But considering Shiv wasn't even able to revive someone he cared about—

"Jessica. Believe it or not, I kind of like you. So, I'm going to let that comment about Georges slide. But if you make another remark like that—"

"You're gonna what, kid? Threaten me with violence?"

"No." Shiv's mind was buzzing with anger and clarity. "That's excessive. You didn't threaten me with violence. No, I'm just going to do something reciprocal. I'm going to ask you if you thought about your dead daughter in her final moments and how it felt while you were holding your husband's chilling corpse."

And Jessica fell silent, realizing what Shiv just made her do. Her own chest filled with the faint flickers of anger. Flames danced along her core, but they were quickly washed away by her strange Tranquility Skill.

"Now we're both a little more miserable," Shiv said. "You gonna do that shit with me again?"

Jessica looked away from Shiv and let out a sigh as she forced herself to calm. Her body turned to glistening glass for a blink of an eye before returning to its baseline state. "Yeah, point taken," she said. "Sorry, kid. I had that coming."

Sticks and Stones 64 > 66

"Apology accepted. Now, let's go attend to maladjusted emotions by massacring some vampires."

"This sounds most pleasing," Rusty commented with naked glee in his voice.

Jessica looked over her shoulder and stared the Culturist down, his face half-hidden under his cowl. "What about you? Going to join in or just watch?"

"I think I will observe, unless you need me to intervene." The orc tapped his left bicep. "But I think you will do fine. No, this is for your benefit, and for Valor's. I think I will relay your performance to him later and see what he thinks you might be able to improve."

Shiv grunted. He wasn't fully comfortable with the Culturist, but so far, the orc had proven himself more of a valuable ally than a volatile bomb. But that volatile bomb aspect was still there. An ass-kicking was coming in the future. An ass-kicking that might just be to Shiv's benefit, but not Adam's, Shiv thought. Roland, Valor, and I are going to need to do something about that orc's metamorphosis. We're not letting him take Adam. I'm not even gonna let him torture Adam. Not if I can figure out a way to stop him.

***
