Though the rising sun brought with it a steady stream of good tidings, Luo-Luo could not find it in herself to smile and celebrate.

Lord Husband was awake and in good health again, which was encouraging, but Luo-Luo still had plenty of vital work which needed doing. While she toiled away managing Lord Husband’s neglected personal business and official duties, he had no doubt put her entirely out of mind to cuddle with his pets, which was an entirely normal state of affairs, and she was happy to see him conscious and recovering from his ordeal.

No, Luo-Luo had other reasons to fret, and it had to do with the other celebratory event of the day, the Imperial Army’s successful withdrawal from the front lines. Sorya and Anrhi were in and out of the office bringing her all the latest gossip of heroic victories and military successes, and while she was glad to hear things were going well, she was unable to focus on the good news and could only see the downsides wherever she looked. The withdrawal was a success, but this had not come without cost, and now the Defiled were closer than ever. That was the truth of their situation, despite what many others might choose to believe, but even this wasn’t the sole reason for Luo-Luo’s melancholy. In her youth, she found tales, dramas, and operas of Imperial superiority inspiring and uplifting, but having seen the ugly truth of war firsthand, she now saw those stories for the well-meaning lies they were. There was no glory or grandeur in war, no honour or dignity in death, only frightened soldiers struggling to stay alive in the face of an Enemy determined to see them dead.

The greatest reward for a battle well fought was survival itself, and even this might not seem true for many unfortunate soldiers. At least if they died in the line of duty, their families would receive the colloquially termed ‘blood coin’, a substantial one-time payment rendered to fallen soldiers. In contrast, a crippled Martial Warrior became a significant drain on their family finances, and all but impossible to sustain for those of humble origins. While recent trends had seen injured soldiers better cared for by Imperial interests, Lord Husband felt it wasn’t enough and had committed to helping as many crippled Warriors as he could, even if it beggared him in the process. He sought to provide their families with food, clothes, and shelter, while offering gainful employment to the injured while they recovered, often paying ridiculous salaries simply because the worker was still a Martial Warrior. He even worked with his Teacher and Healer Taiyi ZhuShen to ensure the worst off received the best medical care available, which was expensive considering any Healer of note had been drafted into the army. After spending upwards of eighteen hours a day keeping soldiers alive and battle-ready, even the most proficient and magnanimous Healers would have little Chi or goodwill to spare, which left few willing to spend the time and effort to help those who had already been deemed unfit for duty.

Regrowing a single limb was more difficult than Healing a hundred gutted, impaled, or otherwise injured soldiers. Granted, this was because the latter only required the bare minimum of treatment from the Healers, since living Martial Warriors would eventually recover from most injuries with time alone. Lost eyes, severed limbs, pulped organ, and shattered bones however, required exponentially more time and effort from even the most experienced Healers, and it all boiled down to simple numbers. The unfortunate truth was that it wasn’t worth it to Heal one grievously injured soldier back to full health, when that same amount of time, Chi, and focus could be used to patch up twenty moderate injuries or a hundred mildly ones.

Which was what made Lord Husband’s charitable efforts so benevolent and perhaps even necessary, because he was providing hope to the otherwise hopeless. Luo-Luo went to great lengths to ensure every wounded Warrior who needed assistance would receive it, but combined with the ever-increasing exorbitant demands of the Tyrant OuYang Yuhuan, Lord Husband’s refusal to profit from supplying food and building materials to new arrivals, and his ill-advised efforts to train and arm every able-bodied civilian living along the border, Lord Husband’s personal wealth had been in steady decline for some time now, despite his businesses turning profits hand over fist. Now, with a new influx of injured, discharged soldiers soon to arrive, this might finally be enough to burn through his personal reserves and leave him without a coin to his name.

The Minister of Finance, in danger of becoming destitute. Now that was a joke everyone could laugh at, from the lowliest peasant to even the Emperor Himself. Thankfully, Lord Husband had separated his Official duties from his personal finances, because if word got out about his personal finances, it would most certainly raise questions about the validity of his post and the War Bond funds. Luo-Luo could hear it now, people whispering in the streets about how the Minister of Finance couldn’t even manage his own personal affairs, so how could he be trusted to manage Imperial Finances? While most people were still unaware of just how much power and influence Lord Husband’s Office wielded, the prominent nobles of the Empire had most certainly taken note. Even now, at the height of Lord Husband’s success and popularity, his peers and rivals were all plotting to bring him down and seize his power for their own.

Such was the way of life and politics, which meant Luo-Luo had many long days and sleepless nights ahead.

Things were not so bad that Lord Husband would never recover. Most of his debts could be covered by payments owed, so it was only a matter of balancing the two so that she never had to dip into his dwindling stash of cold, hard coin. If her hand was ever forced, Luo-Luo could always swallow her pride and go to her in-laws for a loan, but even the thought of doing so soured her mood for days, if not weeks. Mother-in-Law Sarnai seemed to think Luo-Luo incompetent and unable to properly manage her darling son’s finances, and while she was technically correct, there were few people alive who could do better than Luo-Luo. Unless there was a financial guru somewhere out there who knew how to make coin appear with the snap of his fingers, Lord Husband was fated for financial ruin.

What a frustrating man, one with a remarkable affinity for earning coin, but was seemingly offended by the prospect of keeping it. “Coin is meant to be spent,” he had quipped, when Luo-Luo brought her concerns to him some weeks ago. “What good does it do sitting in a vault somewhere?”

What good indeed, but the coin didn’t even have time to reach Lord Husband’s coffers before being frittered away on some dream or another. He also refused to stop or slow his charitable contributions for even a month, just so Luo-Luo could rebuild his reserves for emergencies, like the one she was experiencing at this very moment. The only readily available currency he had left was his personal supply of War Bonds, which stood to turn a significant profit considering he purchased them in advance at base value, but she was leery of selling them so soon. If the Minister of Finance were to divest himself of the War Bonds he himself introduced, some might see it as his lack of faith in his own endeavours, or an attempt to offload what many still believed were ‘fraudulent’ goods. What’s more, few individuals cared to sell their War Bonds at this time, because having ‘only’ ten was the bare minimum for one to publicly, but indirectly, brag about their investment. To date, only a small number of War Bonds had officially traded hands, most of which went from subordinate to superior, and it would not be fitting for Lord Husband to be among the first to actually sell them for a profit.

However, as the day wore on and noon approached, Luo-Luo checked her numbers again and again only to repeatedly arrive at the same conclusion. Lord Husband did not have enough coin on hand to aid this coming influx of crippled soldiers. There would be no hiding it either, because Lord Husband’s charitable efforts were known to all, and once the first injured soldier voice complaint about being denied assistance, then Lord Husband would be tried and sentenced in the court of public opinion. It was silly, seeing how he’d already done so much at great personal expense, but gratitude was fleeting, especially amongst self-entitled Martial Warriors accustomed to getting their way. As much as she didn’t want to burden Lord Husband with financial issues so soon after waking from his coma, Luo-Luo needed a decision on how to proceed. Aside from taking on loans, their only other options were to either sell off a profitable company to raise funds or make plans to reduce the amount of support provided to the imminent wave of discharged cripples.

Luo-Luo already knew what Lord Husband would choose, but she still needed to confirm with him before selling off part of their holdings. With her papers and sceptre in hand, she bade farewell to Jian Xianhe, who was busy poring over papers in the corner while rubbing his bare feet, and left with Gunan and Kuang Biao in tow. Distasteful as the Imperial Scion’s behaviour might be, he and his companions were vital cogs in the machine that was the Office of Imperial Finance, able clerks and overseers who dealt with the day to day crises which invariably cropped up in such grand undertakings. Though immigration had stopped for the winter, the districts were facing all manner of shortages, whether it be food, materials, or even just plain entertainment to keep bored, stressed commoners from tearing each other apart in anger. Then there was the matter of Lord Husband’s grand avenue which would stretch from one end of the Western Wall to the other. With construction set to begin once the spring thaw was finished, that left precious little time to get everything in place, but Jian Xianhe had everything planned down to the last detail, including rotating work groups and material deliveries to ensure not a single day was wasted, leaving Luo-Luo free to simply oversee things from afar.

So she put up with his horrific personal habits and slovenly appearance, because it was a small price to pay for peace of mind.

Outside the office, a veritable army of Death Corps guards stood at attention with weapons at the ready, while still more patrolled the roads and rooftops surrounding Lord Husband’s manor. The ever-vigilant guards were even more uptight than usual these days, having been banished from the manor ever since the venerable Guan Suo passed away, and it did not sit well with them leaving their ward’s protection in the hands of others. This was done on Mother-in-Law Sarnai’s orders, though Luo-Luo had been the one to deliver it since Lord Husband was unable to, and the Death Corps were growing restless without Lord Husband around to calm them. It couldn't be helped, as Mother-in-Law wanted the Death Corps kept in the dark about everything including Lord Husband’s ailment, because there were too many secrets surrounding that fateful night, secrets which could land Lord Husband in grave peril should they ever see the light of day.

The emergence of a true Divine Turtle and the reincarnation of an Ancestral Beast, two miracles which even the Emperor Himself would take note of, and Lord Husband lay at the crux of them both. If word were to spread, he and sweet Ping Ping might be taken away for study, or possibly even killed outright for fear of their strength, and Lord Husband’s people would rebel before letting either happen, so it was best for everyone’s sake to not let matters get out of hand. When she arrived within a hundred paces of the manor, Luo-Luo dismissed Kuang Biao alongside the rest of her Death Corps escorts, and once again, Kuang Biao protested his dismissal. “Lady Zheng,” he began, always in that same servile, yet almost challenging tone. “This one begs permission to speak.”

“If you mean to repeat the same request as you have these last twenty days, then you do not have it.” It was bad form to be snippy with the Death Corps, for they were Warriors deserving of respect, but Luo-Luo had had it with the former Royal Guardian’s peevish probing. “If Lord Husband has orders for you, he will pass them along. Until such a time, you will return to your duties and refrain from troubling him with missives or Sendings unless it is of dire importance.”

“By your will, Lady Zheng,” Kuang Biao replied, his measured expression unable to hide his irritation from her practised eyes. “This one’s purpose is to defend Imperial Minister from harm, but there was another Wraith attack on the manor last night, and we Death Corps could do nothing to help as we were stationed too far away. What’s more, we Death Corps do talk amongst ourselves, and we cannot help but notice Imperial Minister has not emerged from the manor for more than two weeks. Given how none of us are able to confirm he is in good health, there is a growing concern regarding Imperial Minister’s situation. Thus far, we have kept our concerns to ourselves, but should an outsider hear of them and put it together with Lady Zheng’s commands keeping the Death Corps away, they might misconstrue the situation and think you unconcerned with Imperial Minister’s... well-being.”

