A threat to make the situation public? Or was this merely another attempt to elicit information? Seeing no harm in it, Luo-Luo sighed and said, “Fine, if you wish to confirm Lord Husband’s good health, I’ll speak with him about coming out to say a few words, but the perimeter still needs guarding. Lord Husband’s people have strict measures in place to keep him safe, and unrelated guards would dampen their effectiveness.” Kuang Biao remained unconvinced of course, considering Gunan, a former Aspirant of the Confessor and an Expert Martial Warrior in his own right, would escort Luo-Luo right up to the manor doors, but it was the best she could come up with, given the circumstances. She simply couldn’t afford to let the Death Corps see the diminutive Ping Ping and the mischievous red panda, as the former greeted her with happy squeaks and affectionate Aura at the manor door while the latter glowered at her from his ‘hidden’ perch in the tree.

The red panda was much smaller and rounder than the cat-bear monstrosity Luo-Luo had envisioned, and she thanked the Heavens she had the forethought to burn her singular attempt to paint one sight-unseen. Still, it was a darling sight to see Ping Ping and the red panda together, but how the Bekhai managed to hide the two animals from Shen ZhenWu, Luo-Luo could not say, especially considering the prevalence of Scrying. At least Ping Ping’s ‘absence’ was easy enough to explain. Mother-in-Law claimed Ping Ping absconded with Guan Suo’s corpse and retreated to her home in the north, travelling through the skies with the ease of a Peak Expert. Again, hardly the most convincing argument, but Shen ZhenWu and the Imperial Clan were not concerned with the whereabouts of a Spiritual Beast, which is technically what Ping Ping was until two weeks ago.

But now, she was a Divine Turtle in truth, and Lord Husband had somehow helped with her Ascension, which was just... miraculous.

As for the red panda... it wasn’t venerable Guan Suo trapped in a beast’s body, that much was sure. On Mother-in-Law Sarnai’s request, Luo-Luo tested the theory thoroughly and found that the red panda was just a red panda. He wasn’t a Spiritual Beast, with no signs of any control over the Blessing of Smoke like the powerful Guan Suo demonstrated on the fields of Sinuji, and he didn’t recognize a pipe for what it was and batted it away when he sniffed its contents. He couldn’t even open a simple latch and lift the lid of a chest to get at the fruit inside, despite Luo-Luo showing him the process several times, and then letting Roc and Kipi do the same. Every time she let the grumpy red panda try, he ignored the box until he grew hungry and threw a tantrum whilst failing to bash the box open.

It was just... too adorable...

That said, there were hints of the grouchy Divinity hidden within the red panda’s behaviour, like his surly demeanour, fondness for the Divine Turtle, and unwillingness to take food which was given freely. Everything the red panda ate had to be found or scavenged, even if it was simply a plate of fruit left unattended or eggs placed in a nook of the tree, reminiscent of how the venerable Guan Suo used to steal food from Lord Husband’s plate. In the end, Luo-Luo didn’t know what to think about the little beast, so she simply ignored him whenever possible, since that seemed to set him at ease. Ping Ping however got much of her attention, as Luo-Luo had been one of the few people allowed to tend to Lord Husband whilst he was unconscious. Perhaps saying few was being a mite ungenerous, since the list included all of Lord Husband’s family, both his wives, his wives’ families, the Medical Saint, Lin-Lin, a number of Bekhai guards, and perhaps a few more she was forgetting, but still, it meant the sweet girl recognized Luo-Luo’s relationship with Lord Husband and treated her like family.

Tickling the underside of Ping Ping’s chin, Luo-Luo smiled at the Guardian Turtle’s warm and noisy greeting, which in turn woke the other animals up and brought them over to investigate. As much as she loved the bears, birds, rabbits, and wildcats, Luo-Luo heart ached for the poor cattle serving with Lord Husband’s retinue and prayed they all would make it back in good health. It wasn’t right sending those sweet animals out into war, for some of the kindest, gentlest members of the herd were also supposedly the fiercest, like jubilant Moomie who would dance a little jig whenever he saw her approach with zither or pipa in hand, or beautiful Wendy who sweetly encouraged passerby’s to stroke her braided locks by bobbing her head from side to side. Then there was Big Mac, who would ever so gently nuzzle into her lap, always mindful of his prodigious weight and pointed horns, and silly Arby who loved to roll in dirt and present his belly for rubs. They were all out there right now, alongside many of their friends, and while not all of them would be ridden into battle, Luo-Luo still feared for their lives.

It wasn’t right, sending the poor, sweet cattle out to fight. They were such gentle creatures, they deserved to live their lives safe from predators and free from the conflicts of man, with endless plains of grass to graze on and low-hanging fruits aplenty to relish and enjoy.

The animals were the only ones to greet Luo-Luo at the door, though Li-Li offered her a polite nod while swinging back and forth on the tire swing with her customary stony expression. Incidentally, the red panda’s hiding spot was closer to Song than usual, no doubt drawn there by the tire swing which it so loved to sit in once night fell and the courtyard sat empty. Every night, the red panda would climb down from the tree and set the chains to creaking, and it was an adorable sight to behold. For now though, all it did was bare its fangs and glower from afar as Luo-Luo played with Ping Ping a bit, tugging at a thick braid of hardy rope while the sweet turtle gamely hung on. Though supposedly a Divinity, Ping Ping wasn’t very strong and in fact, rather weak, but this didn’t keep her from wrestling and roughhousing with the best of them, and she had a grand old time doing so. Likely because she’d been constrained by her size for so many years and could finally cut loose, but Luo-Luo worried sweet Ping Ping might soon become starved for stimulation. Being cooped up in the manor all day was no doubt boring her to tears, but Lord Husband’s situation had kept her from leaving of her own volition these past twenty days. Now that Lord Husband was awake, Luo-Luo wasn’t sure how much longer this would last, and while Ping Ping seemed content to wander the manor on her own instead of sticking close to his side, it would be disastrous if the bored, naive Divine Beast took to traipsing about the Citadel without supervision.

Lifting Ping Ping into her arms, Luo-Luo cuddled the sweet girl and brought her up to Lord Husband’s room. Inside, she found him hunched over his desk with parchment aplenty and writing furiously as if trying to dull the point of his steel pen. “Hi there,” he cooed, in such a warm tone it set Luo-Luo’s cheeks to blushing, which cooled rapidly when she realized his greeting was directed at Ping Ping. “Hi Luo-Luo. What can I do for you?”

No small talk or smile, just straight to business, but Luo-Luo took it all in stride. “I’m here regarding the state of your personal finances.”

Placing her prepared documents on the sole empty corner of his desk, she prepared to explain in great detail where all his coin went and why they needed an influx of gold, but Lord Husband cut her off after only a few sentences. “Yea I figured we’d run out of available coin soon. We should sell the cast iron enterprise.”

“...Which one?” Cast iron was one of Lord Husband’s largest and most profitable ventures, as he had single-handedly supplied almost half the cast iron used in the construction of the Western Wall. He also had many manufacturing ventures related to cast iron, including factories producing all manner of cast iron goods, such as chariots, wagon frames, springs, farming tools, and even decorations, though the last one had yet to turn a profit.

“All of them, except the ones we need to make wagons, chariots, and catapults.” Seeing Luo-Luo’s surprise, Lord Husband offered her a seat and explained, “The terms of our futures contracts with the mining companies are almost up, and the price of iron ore has risen significantly in the time since. This means our soaring profits will soon dip as mine owners try to gouge us with ore prices, which are already artificially high. What’s more, much of our profits came from military contracts, which have pretty much dried up ever since we finished building the Western Wall. This being the case, we might as well get out of the game and sell the businesses before their value drops in half-a-year’s time.”

The expiration of their contracts ensuring their ability to purchase cheap iron ore had not gone unnoticed, but Luo-Luo had come up with multiple contingencies to continue profiting from cast iron. “Lord Husband,” she began, unsure how to best share her thoughts, but in the end, she went with her open, honest feelings. “This is madness. Cast iron can still be profitable, we only need to make a few minor changes, like focusing on commercial construction contracts or marketing cast iron tools to the Empire at large.”

“Madness?” Flashing a maniacal grin, Lord Husband looked up from petting Ping Ping and said, “No. This. Is. Business!” Seeing his supposed joke fall flat, his grin faltered a little before returning in full force, this time infused with sheepish embarrassment. “You’re not wrong. It wouldn’t be difficult to ensure our cast iron businesses continue to make a profit, but it’d be a lot of work for minimal gain. The only reason to keep it would be for sentimental reasons, because we’d make more coin selling the business and investing the proceeds elsewhere. Well, a portion of it, at least, since you say we need the coin infusion to keep things afloat, which is the whole reason we’re having this discussion, right?”

For long seconds, Luo-Luo struggled to present a coherent argument, but then she stopped to think and realized Lord Husband was right. With the cast iron businesses showing record profits, they would be massively over-valued by prospective buyers, many of whom were Lord Husband’s competitors and the reason the price of iron ore was so artificially high. Luo-Luo had even noticed that forged iron was only marginally more expensive than raw ore, as opposed to seven to ten times the price of the raw materials due to extensive labour costs. Knowing this, she re-evaluated her plans and calculated that it would take close to a decade for the various cast iron businesses to match the profits of what they stood to gain from selling them. Now, not only would this take care of all their impending financial woes, it also saved Luo-Luo from having to bend over backwards to ensure the businesses would continue to profit. It seemed so simple once Lord Husband pointed it out, but she never even considered this route in all her time spent agonizing over the issue, and it made her feel... inadequate.

Managing Lord Husband’s finances was the only thing she could do, but what use did she have if he was so much better at it?

“Don’t look so sad,” Lord Husband said, reaching over to clasp Luo-Luo’s hand. “I know it’s hard to sell a business you built from the ground up, but this is the best course of action. Just know that I appreciate all the hard work you’ve put into this, and I would never have gotten this far without your help. If you have any interest in starting up a personal venture, know you have my full support, financial or otherwise.” His concern and generosity brought a smile to her face as she remembered where they last left off, but it seemed Lord Husband was not in an amorous mood as he promptly turned back to stare at his notes. “Is there anything else?”

“No, Lord Husband.” Taking a moment to scan his scribbled characters, Luo-Luo could not make hide nor hair of what he was trying to say, for the pages read like the ramblings of a mad man. ‘Big Core, Big Natal Palace?’, ‘Chi: How Does it Work?’ ‘What is Aura and why is it weird?’, ‘Link between Aura and Emotion?’, ‘Domain???’, and more nonsensical questions were jotted across the pages, with his aborted attempts to answer each question all crossed out and unreadable. “If I may ask, Lord Husband, what are you trying to accomplish?”

“Well...” Slumping in his seat like a defeated dog, Lord Husband sighed and pushed the papers aside. “I had this crazy idea to try and... demystify the Martial Path and maybe make it easier for commoners to maybe Create a Core, but I’ve been at this for an hour and I don’t know where to start. I don’t even have enough to bring to Grandpa Du or Grand Mentor, whenever they get back from celebrating Yan and Mila’s recent successes. All I have is, ‘The Core is the powerhouse of the Martial Warrior’, and the rest is just... questions without answers. Plenty of those going around lately...” After falling silent for several seconds, Lord Husband sat back up with a wry smile and asked, “If you don’t mind me asking, what was Core Creation like for you. Do you remember it? Are you even allowed to speak of it?”

