Lord Husband was not one to dream small, but even this seemed too far out of his reach. Still, there was no harm in humouring him, especially if it might help with repairing his Core, even if she didn’t know how that was possible. “It sounds trite when I say it, but like a warm embrace.” Basking in the fond memory of her first success, she brought the experience to mind once again. “Though I am forbidden from speaking of the specifics, I can say I was seven when it happened. Most of my peers had already Created their Cores and moved on to other lessons, and I remember crying myself to sleep for weeks because I thought myself a failure who would never succeed, and in doing so I would bring shame to my parents who’d given me away. Back then, I dreamed of excelling so much, they’d feel compelled to acknowledge me as their daughter again, if only to take pride in my accomplishments.” A foolish dream for a foolish girl, but it was not her first, and would most certainly not be her last. “The day it happened is still fresh in my memory, and I will hold fast to it until the day I die. Lessons were over, and I was sitting in the grass outside, not purposefully meditating but just... wasting time. Plucking grass and braiding flowers, that sort of thing, and thinking unkind thoughts about my arithmetic teacher. It was a temperate spring day, with not a cloud to be seen, and the air just warm enough to be comfortable without a breeze, but not so cold as to raise a chill when one blew by. There I sat, looking over the verdant green fields basking beneath the warm, soft sun, and I thought, ‘I wish every day were this perfect’.” Her cheeks aching from the strain of smiling, she shrugged and continued on. “And then I found Balance. The Energy of the Heavens surged into my Core and swept me away on a current of love and affection, as if the Mother Herself had come down to take me into her arms and tell me She wished it were so too.”

What she didn’t share with Lord Husband was the faint tinge of melancholy and regret suffused within that warm embrace. This was one of her fondest memories, something which kept her going through all the trials and tribulations of Luo-Luo’s life. The Mother also wished every day could be beautiful and perfect, but alas, it could not be so. Crops needed rain and birds needed wind, and the seasons needed change else the world would fall apart. Without the darkness, one could not appreciate the light, just like hardships made an accomplishment that much more meaningful. Luo-Luo could never have composed or completed ‘Rise to Glory’ if she had not overcome the hurdles within her path, for it was the low, ominous tones which made the joyous, upbeat sections of the song that much more enjoyable.

In a word, it was Balance, and Luo-Luo could think of no better word to describe it.

The warm, fluttering affection of Ping Ping’s Aura caught Luo-Luo by surprise, but she smiled at the sweet Guardian Turtle. “Thank you,” she crooned, rubbing the ridges above Ping Ping’s eyes. “I love you too, sweet girl.”

“She does enjoy throwing her Aura around willy nilly,” Lord Husband muttered, jokingly feigning jealousy as he shook his head. “It’s sweet and all, but I’m worried it’ll get her in trouble if she uses it on the wrong person. Most people don’t know about Emotional Aura, and I’m not sure how the world at large will react to it. Pong Pong can do the same, but at least he knows enough to keep a low profile. Ping Ping has been in the public eye for so long, she’s completely forgotten how dangerous humans can really be.”

Nodding in agreement, Luo-Luo’s words froze in her throat as she was struck by a thought. “Lord Husband,” she began, quietly appraising his reaction. “You felt her Aura?"

“Yep. Far as I can tell, she doesn’t have much fine control yet and blasts it at everyone in range. Made a couple bunbuns real confused earlier today, and I hear you all had a terrible time trying to explain it to Grandpa Du, but it all worked out. Thankfully, it doesn’t seem like her range extends very far, and definitely not past the manor walls, else we’d have a lot of confused guards wondering why they feel loved all of a sudden.”

“Lord Husband.” Something in her tone made him look directly at her, and she was unable to contain her excitement. “You felt. Her Aura. Can you feel anyone else’s?”

“...Oh shit!” Eyes widening in understanding, Lord Husband looked at Luo-Luo, then Ping Ping, then Luo-Luo once more. “I forgot I can’t feel Aura in the real world. It’s hard keeping everything straight when things keep changing.” Leaping to his feet, Lord Husband ran to the window, stuck his head out, and shouted, “Song! Could you hit me with your Aura please?” A pause, followed by a cackle of delight. “I felt that! I felt it! I felt your Aura!” Turning away from the window, he circled back to it and stuck his head out once more. “Try using Aura offensively against me now.” Lord Husband paused again, but it was easy to see from his stiff posture that it’d worked once again. “Also forgot how terrifying Aura is,” he mumbled, before shouting, “Thanks for the help!” Spinning about to face Luo-Luo, Lord Husband grinned and said, “I can feel Aura again!”

“Indeed you can.” With a smile which matched his own, Luo-Luo’s heart soared in joy. Lord Husband could feel Aura again, and while she couldn’t say for certain, a return to normalcy seemed like good news rather than bad. No one knew why Aura no longer affected him after he shattered his Core, but then again, no one knew why his skin was less durable than parchment for months without end, or why he was barely able to stand upright and now was easily more fit than most mortals, though still unable to match even the weakest Martial Warrior. Also, what did he mean when he said he couldn’t feel Aura in the ‘real world’? Like Lord Husband said, there were many unanswered questions about him, but for the first time since Sinuji, his recovery was making obvious headway once more, and while he was still unable to use Chi at will, his return to strength seemed all but inevitable.

And this, was news worthy of celebration.

Chapter Meme
