“You may intervene, but not every species has an outlier. The issue is that all Schema’s ever done is act as a catalyst for the Old Ones to use for proliferating those abominations' influence…To manifest, in all regards, the will of them.”

I shrugged.

“How are you any different from them?”

“We aim to rip out the cancer and purge it. We’ll eliminate our reliance on mana. Once we’ve developed a functional society without it, we’ll handle the eldritch threat. After we’ve created a harmonious cleansing system, we’ll eradicate the avatars of the Old Ones and maintain the order we’ve made. It's that simple.”

I rubbed my temples with my hands.

“The Old Ones rob us of individuality, using us as tools and fashioned for some esoteric, archaic purpose. You have a different endgame, but you still rob people of their individuality and make people into tools. I’ve seen it firsthand, and it’s horrifying. You use the same methods, then say you’re different. Take a moment and look in the mirror. Think and dwell on what you’ve done.”

A storm brewed within me.

“It’s unforgivable.”

“It’s the only option we’ve ever had, and we’re taking it to get out of this.”

“What guarantee do you have that your goals won’t change? That your values and principles are so immutable that you won’t end up worse than the Old Ones? From what I’ve seen, you’ve already crossed that line long ago.”

Kinsla's telepathic connection rippled.

“We’ve made hard choices. So have you.”

My voice heated from ice to acid.

“And that’s what it boils down to. You’re trying to accomplish something grand, but conventional means simply won’t work, right? How is that different from your rogue agent? You have to bend the lines here and there, but you’re going to pull back eventually, right?  Let me tell you what that is – unbridled ambition."

I seethed.

"You’ve concocted a goal as grand as you can conceive, but it’s well beyond what you can actually do. In the attempt to accomplish it, you’re going to undermine your goal with how you’re getting there. If you bite off more than you can chew, you choke. You, no, Elysium is making the situation worse than it already is.”

“Do you expect us to let them consume us from the inside? To do nothing?”

“I expect you to do what you can. If anything, a little humility would go a long way. Honestly, who the hell do you all think you are, robbing everybody of their minds for your own purpose? They deserve to be their own.”

Kinsla’s tone rose in pitch.

“You think we’re arrogant? We’ve made every concession imaginable to make the difference we have. We hold no false illusions of grandeur or some semblance of pride. We’re filthy. We’ve enacted horror, as you’ve said. But we do it for a reason, and we’re trying to change the fate of all worlds, not just our own.”

I shook my head.

“I’m trying to make only one world safe, and I’m barely holding on. Elysium is trying to turn the universe’s trajectory around, but you can’t do it this quickly. You’re making the same hellscape that the Old Ones are.”

Kinsla’s voice turned to steel.

“Look at the Spatial Fortress in front of you. This entity has consumed billions of people in your world, and why? Do you think we’re the reason this is here? It’s the Old Ones. We’re crossing lines that should never be crossed, but when you fight against literal monsters that swallow the surface of worlds, then concessions must be made to simply survive.”

I gazed at the endless monster, a moon of teeth, eyes, and pulsing flesh.

"Billions? We lost a few thousand, according to my reports. And even then, you fill this blight with wires and the orange liquid. You conquer its mind and send it off to do your own bidding. Are you telling me its purpose is different because it’s yours, now?”

“It defends the worlds we’ve saved. It’s a guardian that isn’t devouring Vagni as it was mere moments ago.”

I roared.

"You're going to send it to eat people. The only difference is why. No matter how you slice it, it's mass murder. And we had it contained. I could've killed it, given time."

Kinsla snapped his words.

"Really? Have you ever seen the planet you cared so much for?"

I bit my lip before peering down. Below me, Blegara carried an enormous scar. Most of the surface still had oceans, but the eldritch horror left a third of the planet barren. No water touched the damaged patch’s surface, all of it having been swallowed by the behemoth. It left sand as glass and the seafloor as stone. No organic matter remained, the dissolution absolute.

It would take years of channeling water from elsewhere to restore the planet back to its previous prime. Otherwise, the weather patterns of the planet would begin to suffer, and without intervention, it would be an ocean world no longer. I shook my head and spoke to Kinsla once more.

“It’s because that monster can do this that I can’t let you have it. You reneged on what you’ve said before. You’ve earned no trust from me or anyone.”

“Then millions of our people will die to satiate the lust for war you so clearly have yet so poorly excuse.”

My armor grinned.

“Is that what you see? A warrior trying to find an outlet for their rage…Am I so simple to you?”

Kinsla mistook my armor for me.

“You play as some senseless beast as if being a monster excuses anything you’ve already done. You’re a warlord whose only aim is to amass as much power as you can. Listen to me, Harbinger. I’ve walked that path. I’ve been down that same road. It’s lonely. Empty. A hollow pit full of empty promises. You need to make a change. You can’t continue following the same paradigm of amassing energy and influence. It leads to only one end, and I’ve seen it time and time again.”

He talked as if he knew me well. He understood nothing about me, but still, Kinsla’s voice carried the weight of experience behind it as he spoke.

“They will consume you from the inside out, like an eldritch virus. Remember this. That power - It’s not yours. It was never yours. It never will be, either. They own it, and the longer you let that desire for power drive you, the closer they get to owning you. They may wait but for how long?”

Kinsla drenched in certainty.

“In time, you will become their finest puppet. It’s only when you have the most certainty that you’re your own person that they’ll begin pulling the strings you’ve always had.”

A chill ran down my spine, so I took a breath of the vast, empty space. It was hard to differentiate it from Earth’s thin air, both feeling like vacuums. I pulled my helm off my face, the armor flowing like liquid black. I peered at the depths of stars; my eyes sharpened from my stats. They gave me a view and vantage rivaling telescopes, the images filling my eyes like pictures from some renowned observatory.

I let out a soundless sigh.

“I’ll need to dance along a razor’s edge for a lifetime, but I’ll make it. Schema’s betting on me. Hell, I’m betting on me. No matter what you, Elysium, or the Old Ones think, I’m going to do this. I’ll drag them down.”

I reached out a hand and gripped it into a fist.

“I’ll be their infection, and I’ll kill them from the inside. So far, they've never stopped me, and neither can you.”

Kinsla laughed.

“Now, who’s insane? You honestly believe you’re better than the trillions that came before you?”

“Not better, but different. I’m not like you. I’m not going to start carving the cipher onto people’s bones and then pretend I’m the good guy.”

“Yet you bombed and killed millions on Giess for a cause you didn’t understand. Now, you aim to kill millions more. And why? Because we’ve cleared your world? Is that why you fight us?”

“You've been mistaken about what will happen here. There will be no fighting. There will be no war. I will slaughter, and you will run.”

“We will sacrifice while you will murder.”

As he finished his words, the enormous flesh moon moved. It writhed along its surface with ripples larger than mountains. It began pulsing towards portals before I connected to Plazia. The hivemind hissed its thoughts.

“You’ve wasted enough of our time speaking to the mad and deranged.”

I scoffed.

“You know as well as I do that we can multitask. Well, I’ve thought of how we’re going to kill that damn thing in the meantime.”

“Know this, Harbinger - I will not touch it. It disgusts me.”

I gazed at what was the sun for Blegara.

“Oh, don’t worry. You won’t need to.”
