“Ressa, I am sitting in a floating tub in the ocean. Yes. I am aware of my own understatements. I am just saying…what are my strengths? I thought I was rather good at intrigue. Perhaps I am not. Let’s list the real, quantifiable strengths I possess. A certain flair on the dance floor? Please, be honest. I know that is so difficult for you.”
“No.”
“Ah. An elegance and charm about me?”
“Wrong again.”
The [Lady] pursed her lips.
“I was afraid you’d say that. Then, it seems, Ressa, the one true gift I have that I can reliably state is my strength is…making money.”
Ressa thought about this for a worrying amount of time.
“That’s quite true. You make money quite well, milady.”
“Thank you, Ressa. But it is a shame. If I trusted other people to handle Izril’s future, how delightful it would have been to pay them to do the job. Like…Zel Shivertail.”
Silence. Yes, look how all the best-laid plans fell to ruin. Magnolia Reinhart sipped more tea. She sighed again.
“But here I am. Thrust into the role of trying to steer Izril in a better direction.”
“Kicking and screaming, whether they like it or not.”
Ressa checked under the blinds, eying the position of the sun. She looked at Magnolia. The [Lady] was serene.
“Quite so. Because I believe I am right. Ah, but my talents do not align. Making money. I should have been born into the House of El. But I would have never fit in, what with my ability to actually retain money in my coffers and make decent business decisions.”
“I shall inform them of this sad fact upon my latest convenience.”
“Mm. Thank you, Ressa. I always have you to keep me grounded. Is there any other pressing news to hear? It’s nearly time.”
Ressa consulted her notes. Spotty intelligence, politics…she discarded it all for later. Because now was a waiting time and she knew her mistress’ mood. She found one thing that might distract and half-smiled.
“Ah. Your niece wishes to speak with you. It’s quite urgent, or so she claims.”
Magnolia Reinhart made a face, as if the tea had suddenly gone sour.
“…This wouldn’t happen to be the niece who enjoys…fornication with her step-brother, would it?”
“No. This is one of your nieces that you like.”
Magnolia Reinhart blinked. She put down her cup.
“I have one of those?”
The [Head Maid] nodded.
“Yvlon Byres.”
“Oh, Yvlon!”
Magnolia smiled and laughed.
“I would never do her the disservice of calling her family, Ressa. Oh, my niece. Well, I will attend to her very soon, then. Right after this.”
“Very good, milady.”
Ressa straightened. Magnolia chuckled. And for a moment, she was distracted. Reynold waited, looking at his legs. The ‘floating tub’ rocked as the waves moved them slightly.
It was nearly time.
 
—-
 
Armies. Schemes. Dead [Innkeepers]. It was a tumultuous time. In this world, where levels and Skills shaped lives and power and authority were measured on such things—
Now to someone without levels. A rarity in this world. Not so much in others. Someone who had…chosen to refuse what was seen as natural.
Asale sat in his office in one of the huge towers that some called the ‘Fangs of Zeres’. From afar, the Walled City, southernmost of those on Izril could be seen, a circular harbor with the famous walls encircling it. The harbor was in fact, a vast gateway that could be closed if need be.
And Zeres was unique in that it faced two fronts, rather than prepared for enemies on all sides. Land and sea, and had changed its city to adapt for both eventualities.
Zeres, the City of Waves. Ruled by the Serpentine Matriarch—well, her and the Admirals.
Multiple admirals—that was their title. Drake command being what it was, one could not have a leader in one of the multiple areas be subservient to a mere [General]. So they were thus Admirals—and this Drake was Admiral of the Supply.
Asale of Zeres. Noted, famous, infamous? Because he had no levels. Also, because he’d risen to one of the highest positions a Drake could hope to achieve despite that.
‘Admiral of the Supply’ was one of the posts that was somewhat ironic. He was in fact, essentially a [Quartermaster] for the entire city. Again, without the Skills that normally accompanied such a position. Still, Zeres’ High Command seemed to agree that Asale made up for the lack of Skills someone else in his position could provide. And he was still an Admiral…of the supply.
He had the smallest office of the High Command. Which was still big. He was busy doing paperwork; he also helped manage all the imports and shipments of goods, and was thus almost as important as the Admiral of the Harbor.
Admirals. But it was wrong to think that Zeres just has [Admiral] as a stand-in for [General]. To prove that point, a jovial foot kicked the door open.
“Aha! You’ve done it now, Asale! The Serpentine Matriarch is going to have your tail! Hah! Everyone’s shouting confusion from the docks and who’s to blame? This Drake!”
The muscular Drake who stormed into the room smelled of salt and sea. He was Sharkcaptain of Zeres—another post unique to the City of Waves.
There were the Admirals of Zeres. The Serpentine Matriarch. And her champion—the Sharkcaptain of Waves. Other posts of course, but Zeres was unique in that it had the Serpentine Matriarch.
Not a [Queen]. The Drakes were very staunch about that. No Walled City had royalty per se! But the Serpentine Matriarch was rather unique. Drakes hated being compared to Lizardfolk. And yet—they had the Serpentine Matriarch. Because if you were going to have a ruler who compared themselves to serpents and thus snakes and thus Lizardpeople by proxy, she might as well be the Matriarch.
It was rumored her lineage had connections to the Ancestors of Drakes…only not the ones you were thinking of. Rather than Dragons…Wyrm. Indeed, the Serpentine Matriarch had a rather long tail, a genetic tell along with other features. It ran through Zeres, some subtle differences of different heritages.
But the Sharkcaptain was a hereditary post, who was appointed because he was the fighter the Serpentine Matriarch chose to represent her—and accompany her. Personality and a talent for battle went hand-in-hand—not necessarily grand strategy. Hence the ‘captain’ bit. It differed from Sharkcaptain to Sharkcaptain.
In his way, he was as important as an Admiral of the Supply, though. And he was positively beaming with smugness as Asale put down his reports.
“What is it this time, Femar?”
Femar of Zeres, Sharkcaptain, who had more scars on one arm then Asale did on his entire body, grinned. He carried the weapon of his station, a barbed spear. Enchanted—made of some seafaring monster’s tooth and viciously sharp and deadly.
“Don’t be so upset, Asale. I’ve come to save you from being killed by her. Have you not looked out the window?”
Asale turned his head. He had an unparalleled view of Zeres’ harbor from his tower—and threats by land. A huge glass window let him stare out across the City of Waves, and it could survive a Tier 6 spell’s impact without so much as cracking the glass.
Still, this was not a job for those with vertigo. He glanced down.
“I hate heights. What am I supposed to be seeing, Femar?”
The Sharkcaptain stared at his companion. He gestured.
“The harbor’s empty.”
So it was. And for Zeres, the largest harbor in all of Izril, only matched by First Landing for scale and business, an empty harbor was…incredible.
Oh, there were ships docked. Zeres could accommodate armadas, and it had its own standing force. A navy that could go claw-to-toe with any in the world, or so they boasted. But so many berths were empty. And they were always in rotation.
“Someone messed up. There are ships waiting to dock and [Captains] screaming that they want to unload their cargo. But someone filed the wrong schedule and the Admiral of the Harbor is going to have your tail! Well, it is her job. But both of you are going to have her on your tails.”
Captain Femar was gleeful at having caught Asale out. It was more like a childish rivalry than any actual malice.
“Tell you what. I’ll distract her and no one needs to know—if she hasn’t looked out the window already and seen what’s happening. You can buy me drinks later.”
He began to saunter out the door, already thinking up ways how he could drag out Asale’s inevitable embarrassment. The Admiral of Supply stopped him with a word.
“Why?”
Femar turned.
“What do you mean, ‘why’? The harbor’s empty!”
“As it should be. I don’t see anything wrong with my schedule.”
Asale indicated the list he’d tacked to a wall, in plain view. Femar, astounded, strode over to it and stared.
“Each berth’s filled. But there are no ships there. Asale! I can see ships waiting to come in.”
“Yes. And we’ll wait a bit longer before they do.”
Something about the way Asale said it made Femar look up. He narrowed his eyes. The necklace of giant shark’s teeth he wore dangled as he leaned over.
“Asale…?”
“You might as well tell the Serpentine Matriarch we are expecting rather significant guests in…”
Asale checked the light-clock he had near his desk. It showed the position of the sun in the sky in real-time, and calibrated itself to a specific time based on that. Tuned to the heavens.
“Within the hour. Within four minutes, actually, if everything’s on-time.”
“What? No one told me!”
Femar was astounded. The Admiral of the Supply sat back down. He looked up. And his gaze was orange—orange irises that were disconcerting when he really looked at you.
“I know. The other Admirals don’t know either. You may tell them now, Femar, that Magnolia Reinhart bought those berths, so they’re hers to do with as she pleases during her time slot. Although she should be arriving shortly.”
The Sharkcaptain rubbed at one earhole. He must have gotten some seaweed in there.
“You mean…Magnolia Reinhart as in, leader of the House Reinharts who is our enemy?”
“She’s coming by way of Zeres to Oteslia.”
“And you didn’t tell anyone?”
“No.”
“Why?”
“The Matriarch would have made a fuss. As would have you. I decided it was better to allow her passage as Admiral of the Supply. We can discuss it at the next conference.”
Femar opened and closed his mouth. He stared at Asale. What he did not say was ‘you traitor’, or ‘how dare you’? Because Asale clearly dared.
Zeres was not Manus. No Walled City were alike, obviously, but Zeres was a city of tradition, almost as much as Salazsar. And along with the Serpentine Matriarch, they had a tradition that rankled some other, military-minded Drakes’ ideas of command.
Each Admiral was a law unto his or her own. They were semi-autonomous; they answered to their fellows and the Serpentine Matriarch, but they could act and did act without each other’s approval. That included keeping secrets.
“You—”
Before Femar could say half the things boiling on his tongue, he heard a sound.
Boom. Boom.
It was the beating of a vast drum from sea. Asale glanced out the window.
“That would be her arrival. I understand there’s a party to be had at Oteslia soon. With her name on it.”
“And you decided to let her come by way of Zeres? The other Walled Cities—”
“She is not our enemy today. Also—she paid quite well for the berths. We’ll discuss it at the next conference, Femar.”
The Sharkcaptain roared his fury. His aura sprang to life and the guards outside Asale’s office shouted in panic. For Femar’s aura was like a shark’s, not an element, not like that of a [Lord]. It was so physical that it tore the carpet around his feet, sent loose papers flying, even cut at the drapes—
Asale threw an ink-pot at Femar. It bounced off the Drakes’ head. Femar recoiled. Asale sat, scowling, in the center of the destruction.
“Get out of my office.”
Femar hesitated. But then he ran out of the room, cursing. Asale sighed. And he heard the sound again.
Magnolia Reinhart was entering the city of Zeres. Coming to you live from Wistram News Network. He wondered just how mad the Serpentine Matriarch would be.
 
—-
 
The High Command of Zeres, minus Asale, was surprised. The Wistram [Mages] poised to record the event? Less so.
The Walled Cities? Well, Oteslia knew, because Magnolia Reinhart was travelling there by invitation. And thus the other Walled Cities knew, or were aware of the fact of one of the Five Families treading upon their soil.
It had seemed such a huge deal…months ago. Now, overlooked. Eventually, it was decided she could definitely travel to Oteslia. It was her neck, not theirs.
They had, perhaps, forgotten to ask the question of how she would arrive. It had been assumed she would come from the north, past Liscor, around the Bloodfields—although that was a longer route. But she had her famous pink carriage. Why, she’d have to sail to Zeres or another port if she wanted to come by sea.
Recent events could have suggested that was more likely. However, again, so what? She’d arrive by sea.
Except that this…was an event. Magnolia Reinhart heard the first rolling toll of thunder from the drums at the same time as the people of Zeres. She listened, hands gripping the teacup firmly.
“Planning. I had time to plan this one. I’d like to call that Strength #2, Ressa, if I may.”
“Perhaps.”
Magnolia nodded and sipped from her cup.
“Planning. When it all comes together, I like to think I do it quite well. Are you sure we can’t add ‘social graces’ to the list?”
“You’re not that charming, even with Skills.”
“Well, drat. But I’d like to think I at least know the difference between Drake and Human politics. We have come to this delightful party in Oteslia.”
The First Gardener had invited her. And perhaps she felt it would be a first step, a tentative one, between North and South. Perhaps she felt it should be small, but it had been momentous just achieving one meeting.
Another might not come again. It would not be easy a second time. So, if that was the case—
It would be a visit to remember. Magnolia Reinhart sighed.
“I would never fit in with the House of El. Because I hate spending money. Wasting it, rather. But if it is to a purpose—”
Her eyes glittered.
“You might as well do it properly.”
 
—-
 
The people of Zeres looked up as the booming drumbeats sounded across the water. They had already noticed the empty harbor and people had been jesting at the Admiral’s expense about the rare mix up.
Now…they saw boats approaching the harbor. The watch towers came alive with voices.
“We’re sensing multiple—multiple illusion spells incoming. Identified as [Darkness]—”
“Multiple ships on approach—the Serpentine Matriarch is asking to confirm. Magnolia Reinhart inbound…?”
