Crunch. Crunch. The Armored Prognugator finished the last crisps he held, and then he gave the rest to Golden Bloom. He looked at Pawn.
And for all Pawn regarded him as close to one of the ‘clowns’ that Erin described, minus the face paint and silly noses—there was something suddenly off-putting about Dekass.
He was ludicrous at times. Arrogant, as Tersk had been. Just like Pivr was obnoxious and talkative and lauded his Queen at every moment, and Xeu foreign. But you forgot—that was because Dekass was out of place here. An observer.
But he was still a Prognugator of the Hives. The Armored Antinium’s leader in war. He gazed at Pawn and beckoned.
“Come with me. And bring your Soldiers.”
He gestured at Green Baron and the others. Pawn hesitated. Then followed Dekass.
 
—-
 
Dekass moved through the Hive with Pawn and some of the Soldiers to show him his grand idea at the same time as Xrn stood in the Hive.
She did not need to read Pawn’s mind to know how he had gotten his new Skill. Nor was she unaware that the Antinium were changing. She did not know all of it, like Silveran, but she had seen the largest change shortly after Erin had been hurt.
The Black Tide had marched on Hectval’s army. Against her orders. She had told the Antinium to their faces to stop.
And they had disobeyed. She remembered it clearly. An ordinary Worker—one of the new [Archers]—looking at her and telling her they refused.
Also, their rage. Antinium that raged without becoming Aberration. Who were stirred to emotion by a Human’s death.
Xrn had felt their animosity, just as she felt their despair now. And she had felt that from Antinium only a few times before. When they fought Crelers, which even the imperfect copies of this continent knew to be a true foe. And when a Queen had died.
But these Antinium knew hatred because a Human had died. They were like…
True Antinium.
“They do not follow my orders, though. What should I do? Kill them all and have the Free Queen start again?”
Xrn mused aloud. That was the quandary she faced. She sensed…movement and her head turned. She saw the two figures shake like leaves. The colors in Xrn’s eyes changed for a moment—then her mandibles moved up and out.
“Oh, Chesacre. Thaina. You will forget that. And not communicate that to others. I was only thinking out loud.”
The two Soldiers held each other, as they did. Hand in hand. Xrn thought it was a word she had learned but never used.
‘Adorable’. Yes. And she quite liked the two female Soldiers, who had understood they were female. Who had survived the dungeon assault against all odds.
She had taken a liking to them. So they were here. Xrn smiled again—but detected their fear. She hmmed happily. That was fine. She addressed Chesacre and Thaina brightly. They needed to understand. Klbkch never told Antinium enough. Xrn would get in the habit of telling these Antinium more—at least, her intentions. They would learn.
“I called you here because Erin Solstice is dead. And thus, plans are ruined. Without her, the Individuals and Painted Antinium may—change in ways I do not understand. Undesirable elements have already appeared. But on the whole, your Hive is far more positive than negative. So do not worry.”
Another smile. The Soldiers nodded. But their antennae kept shaking. Xrn went on; she had closed the doors to her private quarters. And, as they had observed, expanded it. The Free Queen was most obliging. But she did not know what would happen here.
Xrn had already put up enchantments; she was not good at it, as she kept telling the Grand Queen. But good enough. She was best at spontaneous magic. As a [Mage] had once observed before she killed him—her class and nature was wonder. You could never predict her spells, but by the same token, she was weaker at bounded magics. Permanent spells were all but beyond her, really.
It mattered not so long as she was present. But what about all the battlefields and places where Xrn was not? Well…that was what other Centenium were for.
But Klbkch was a fool. Wrymvr stubborn, perhaps even insane. He believed in war with the Drakes. Xrn wished some of the others lived.
Well, she had wasted too much time placing her faith in the Queens to restore their glory. Too much time trusting them to be as smart as the First Queen—and yet look what the Free Queen had produced. It was just time for Xrn to…
“Improve. That is what we are doing today, Chesacre, Thaina! You see, if I do not have the ability to order the Free Antinium—that is a problem. What is the correct solution besides wiping them out and trying again? For that takes too much time.”
Neither Soldier responded. Voices. They would need them. Ah, well, Xrn was learning their sign language too. But neither one responded. They were looking at the door. Xrn smiled.
“The answer is: improve some to my standards. Chesacre, Thaina, I like you two. Therefore, I am going to risk your lives today. To make you better.”
The Soldiers edged to the door. They tried it. The door didn’t budge. Xrn went on, happily watching them and inspecting the rows of potions, vials, and so on she had sorted by strength. And more…
“They call me the Small Queen. But I have never sought to create my own Hive. Not once. For I am Xrniavxxel—unique. But it seems to me I have squandered my potential. It is fortunate that unlike Klbkch and Wrymvr, I am always willing to learn.”
She saw the Soldiers turn. Xrn walked over. Her eyes shone with anticipation. Hope. Determination.
“You two will be the first of mine. Or die. Endeavor not to.”
Thaina blocked Chesacre. Chesacre tried to interpose herself in front of Thaina. They both shielded the other, flinching, as Xrn studied them. They did nothing else. Just held each other as Xrn slowly raised a hand—
“Here. Drink this.”
Chesacre lowered a clenched fist. Thaina hesitated and clicked her mandibles. They stared at the potion. Xrn waved it impatiently.
“It is a mana potion. Drink. And then eat a Garry-pie. We will see what the first one does before…”
 
—-
 
The conversation ran something like this.
“You see? I was surprised that your Hive did not consider it. After all the trouble. But it is a solution of sorts, so long as it is accepted. I calculate the odds at 21%, but they are possible. Liscor is a strange city. Not that I would know.”
“It is more than that.”
“How so?”
“It is…more than that. Does it hurt?”
That was to another person, who responded in nonverbal ways. The first was miffed.
“It would not hurt. They are designed not to.”
“I know. But it is strange. And…right. More than that.”
“You must explain with more verbiage, Pawn.”
“I do not know if I have the words. I only know that this is like something of which I was once told. Not ours. But it is right…righteous. It is—it will make them something else. I do not know if it is correct.”
“You just said—”
“I know what I said. My heart tells me this…this is necessary. Green Baron. What do you think?”
A reply.
“Yes. You would be the first. It is more than you know. More than…I do not know.”
“Why, Pawn? I agree. And I am Prognugator. You seem to agree.”
“I do. My heart tells me ‘yes’. My soul desires this. It is what we must be. It may be necessary. However. Something holds me back.”
“Which is?”
“Erin Solstice. If she were here, I believe she would stop me. I do not know if Lyonette would. But I think Erin would.”
“Why?”
“She is not here. I do not know. But I know. But we must be this, Erin. Yes. And no. It is only that, Dekass. Only a certainty.”
“Which is? Explain, Pawn.”
The second voice was silent. And at last, it spoke, weary. Tired. And so terribly sad.
“I think if she saw this, she would weep. I think she would cry for what it means. What we become. But she is not. And I cannot ask her what she would say. So I follow my own words. And they say this: rise, Green Baron. The rest of you. I will let you choose.”
There was guilt there. Guilt and sadness. That was the conversation, though. A blank Armored Prognugator’s voice, and the wavering, then firming decision of the [Priest].
That was then.
 
—-
 
Now.
The bells began to ring. Olesm Swifttail was still arguing with the Council over the proposed draft. He did not like it any more than they did. But what other options were there?
“Another funeral?”
Alonna murmured. But then she looked up. Someone was blowing a horn. Jeiss shot out of his seat.
“That’s a Preventative Alarm. Olesm—Watch Captain—”
“What now?”
The Drake whirled. They listened, looking in the direction of the horn blasts. Tismel took cover at his desk, eyes wide.
“An attack? Hectval again?”
“That’s not outside the city. It’s coming from the direction of—the Hive.”
The three Drakes looked at each other. Zevara was out the door in a shot, the other two behind her. The rest of the Council followed.
 
—-
 
People in Liscor’s streets were streaming away from the warning horns. Even if they did not know what it was, or how to read the calls, they knew what a horn blast meant.
Someone was blowing a whistle, shouting for reinforcements. That was Watch-signaling. Olesm listened.
It was—off. He suspected something horrible. A monster coming through the Hive, perhaps. Or an Aberration?
But the sounds weren’t as urgent as an actual combat-alarm. They were what Jeiss had called them—a Preventative Alarm. ‘Come quickly because there might be trouble. Or soon will be’.
What was it? Citizens of Liscor who were braver, or more foolhardy, turned to see when monsters or trouble didn’t immediately materialize. Some who knew the signals watched at a distance.
They were the first to see the Antinium emerge from their Hive. Not just one or two. The shout raced through the air, down the streets as Olesm ran.
“It’s the Black Tide! They’re coming out of the Hive! Thousands!”
“Oh, Ancestors—”
Zevara’s eyes went wide. She whirled.
“Olesm—get to your last resort position. Your emergency spells—”
“It can’t be. Not today. Not—”
Olesm had the same thought. She pushed at him.
“I’ll see! Just get in position! Jeiss! Get the rest of the Council back! This—”
This could be the scenario the Walled Cities had warned them about. Olesm couldn’t believe it. He would have believed it more last year. But this one?
Yet the Antinium had left their Hive. In such numbers to make Liscor’s citizens shout their other name.
“The Black Tide of Izril is marching! Run for your lives!”
A Gnoll ran screaming across the street. And that began to start a panic. Olesm turned on his heel. If only Erin—Lyonette? Who could stop them if it came to…?
“It’s almost like she’s here.”
Ahead of him, Zevara remarked in a soft tone. Olesm looked back. Before he could run to the safe spot where he would be able to hold off even an overwhelming number of Antinium with the Watch before detonating every spell—it was too late.
Shouting spread down the street. People, some screaming, but most sounding—surprised? Confused? Or even something else.
Olesm looked back as the Council stopped. He felt the ground shake, from massed footsteps in perfect unison. He tensed as he saw the first ranks of the Soldiers, marching down the street. The…shining…armor?
Here they came. Eight abreast. Huge Soldiers, Workers with bows. But something was wrong. Olesm’s eyes widened. The Soldiers in front were wearing armor.
Plate armor. Specially-engineered armor to cover all parts of them. No breastplate for Humans or Drakes or Gnolls, but Antinium-forged metal. Steel and iron.
These Antinium wore the mark of the Armored Hive of the Antinium. A gift of esteem that had never been touched. For there were not enough for all Soldiers, so who would be marked thusly?
Besides—Klbkch had been in charge, then. Now?
The first Soldiers marched past Olesm with a thunderous roar. Their armor and footsteps were a thunderous din. And that was not all.
They carried weapons. Olesm saw a Painted Soldier. His body was masked by metal. But he had drawn the cute little green airplanes on his armor.
And he carried a steel mace in one hand, designed to be held by the Soldier’s clumsy grips. A huge, spiked weapon where Soldiers had always fought with mere fists. In the other?
A shield. There strode by the equivalent of any [Knight] that Olesm had seen. Heavy infantry. As armored and armed as any Drake in Liscor’s Watch could have hoped to be—
No, more. Because he carried four weapons. One for each hand. Below, in the Soldier’s lower grips, he had two long daggers.
Four weapons for a single Soldier. And that was the first rank of the armor-division. The Workers wore leather, or even wood-armor, also made for them. Each one carried bow and arrows.
The Free Antinium’s archer divisions. All of this was terrifying. It would terrify the Walled Cities—but it was still what the Armored Antinium already had, even if they had supplied the Free Antinium with enough arms for thousand—thousands of their own.
But Olesm saw something in front of the horde of Antinium that made him afraid. Not because of what it looked like—but who it was.
Pawn. The [Priest] carried his censer. Which had little meaning for most. But Olesm knew it meant something. He walked across their ranks as they stopped in one of Liscor’s largest plazas, with the citizenry, Watch, Council, staring at them.
Sweet smoke drifted from the censer. Pawn walked across the ranks of Soldiers. Each rank armed with different sets of weapons. Maces and shields in front. Pikes held by two hands, a crossbow for the other two in the second rank. Swords in the fourth…and so on. The Armored Queen had sent every kind of weapon her forges produced.
They were more than Armored Antinium, though. Pawn looked across them.
The Armored Queen had lavished the Free Queen with gifts of goodwill, hoping to be repaid in turn. She had sent exactly one thousand sets of armor, to join her first, smaller gift. Workers were outfitted in armor of their own. Not all the Soldiers were thus covered, and not all Workers.
But enough. Three thousand Soldiers stood to attention. A thousand Workers with bows. Five of the [Archer] companies.
Painted Soldiers and regular ones. They looked at Pawn. He raised his hand—
And they knelt. Pawn walked across them, whispering.
Somewhere—in some world and time far from this one, a better one—an [Innkeeper] was weeping. He thought he could hear her, but that was just his imagination.
Erin Solstice was dead. In this world, there was only wrath and war and damnation.
Silveran was one Worker who had chosen something else. Those who had not his grace had only hatred left.
Hate, hate, hate.
And wrath. And vengeance. And duty.
