A Drake was pointing bemusedly at Silveran. He was restocking the shelves. He jumped when everyone looked at him.
The owner of the shop, Miss Pelessi, widowed, and now the sole member of her family, had known better times. And worse times. She blinked around the light store as if she was just as surprised as everyone else. But she leaned on the counter, and gave the Drake a look.
“So, Erils? Does that statement have a tail on it or are you leaving it hanging?”
The Drake considered his words. Drassi nudged Ishkr.
“Erils. [Appraiser]. For rocks, not other stuff. Local miners go to him.”
“How do you know him?”
“I’m Drassi.”
The [Appraiser] hmmed.
“Well, it’s just—it’s an Antinium. Not to say that it’s wrong to employ Antinium…I’ve known plenty of folks who live in a home Antinium have made. Never fallen on their heads. And some do butcher’s work. I even know they break rocks for very reasonable money—but it’s an Antinium.”
He let the statement dangle. Everyone in the shop except perhaps Silveran knew what was meant, anyways. The Drake frowned.
“And?”
“And…I’m just observing, is all.”
Erils was unwilling to commit further on the off-chance this was a trap and he was a mouse dancing on the bait. Pelessi huffed.
“Well, observe how clean my shop is! He showed up yesterday—and it’s not ‘an Antinium’, it’s Silveran. One of the Painted ones.”
“Ah, right. Them. Well—you hired him?”
“That’s right. I don’t have more…tails to work in my shop.”
Instantly, the other Drakes coughed and looked at Erils. He bit his tongue.
“No, of course not. And if you wanted help, my boys could have—”
“Worked for how long?”
“Er…”
Pelessi gave him a defiant look, and the local neighborhood at large.
“I hired an Antinium because he cleaned my floors and shop and offered to come back. Seemed surprised when I asked if he wanted a job! And he came by at dawn to fix my supplies, cleaned up everything—I thought I was being robbed! He even fixed that mouse hole in my room! Ate the mice too, I think. Well, good for him.”
The others murmured. It was hard to deny that the shop looked better than it had yesterday—or for the last fifteen years, for that matter. One of the Drake [Shopkeepers] nudged his daughter.
“I wish you woke up and did a tenth of that, kid.”
She glowered at her father, whom she was apprenticing to. Erils nodded at Silveran.
“So he’ll be your employee? Which is fine, obviously. I was just asking.”
He looked around, hunted. Pelessi sniffed.
“Yes. I could hardly afford to hire an [Assistant]. But Silveran asked and he wants work so—yes. I’ll pay him properly, though! And he’ll get breakfast, lunch, even dinners he works for me. I feel like he needs such things, too. Silveran—that’s his name—will work until he falls down if you let him. And he’s less than one year old. Just a—a boy.”
“A year old?”
Everyone stared at Silveran. The news about Antinium ages wasn’t widespread—although it was obvious if you thought about it. They talked, well, debated without really calling it debating.
“I suppose that’s fine. It’s not like we haven’t had Senior Guardsman Klbkch in the watch all these years. And they’re the painted ones. I think that makes them special, doesn’t it?”
“I heard that means they can’t go Aberration. And that’s true! We had Klbkch—Pelessi couldn’t afford an apprentice. Good for her. Thought she’d waste away. And her produce is good! If you wash it twice, why, you’d never mind an Antinium touched it.”
“Where is Senior Guardsman Klbkch, anyways? I haven’t seen him, or Relc yet. Not that I miss that loudmouth…”
Ishkr heard some of the Drakes whispering. It was a Drake street after all. He motioned to Drassi and they tiptoed out of the door as one of the other Drakes remarked how he wished someone could clean his sign front. And Silveran looked up with that specialized madness of people who enjoyed removing dirt…
“He really did quit!”
Drassi was astounded. Ishkr just nodded to himself.
“Yes. Good.”
She looked at him sidelong. The Gnoll scratched behind his ears.
“The inn doesn’t have much to do besides make beds and clean up now and then. Good for him.”
The [Reporter] hesitated, and then nodded slowly. She cast a glance back.
“It’s just…no, I’m glad too. It’s just that…”
I wish he didn’t leave. That we needed him. That the inn was still open. Ishkr nodded again. Some things didn’t need to be said.
They left. Drassi wasn’t really working, and Ishkr had to get back to the inn. To look after Mrsha, although Imani had promised to keep an eye on her. But…what was there to watch?
He was glad for Silveran. Almost envious. But it was just another thing that Ishkr found terribly bitter. How quickly it changed.
 
—-
 
Far from Liscor, or even Izril, was a room. It was a room dedicated to observation, and thus contained six mirrors.
A Drake stood before them. It could have been any species, except Gnoll, really, even Dwarf. But she had volunteered and her species was appropriate. But more than Drake, she was—
[Mage]. [Seer], if you wanted to be specific. And her job was to watch. Normally—there wasn’t much to see. But now…
The Drake watched a much darker room illuminate as a beam of light struck a figure sitting alone. She lifted the clipboard and the magical quill poised, ready to transcribe everything word for word.
 
Observation Log #184: 
Sole figure in the room. Changed locations. Single entity—designation ‘ Armored Queen’.
 
A vast figure in the center of the room. It moved, spoke, lifting a huge appendage. And her deep, large voice was recorded word-for-word on the clipboard.
“The Armored Queen speaks to the Flying Queen.”
“Flying Queen. What topic of conversation have you today, Armored Queen?”
A second Queen appeared in a second mirror. Illuminated by another beam of light. The [Seer] noted the change in location; no Antinium around her. The Armored Queen’s voice was slow, ponderous…almost stilted. The Drake made a note—‘different cadence observed’.
“Flying Queen, I would like to discuss our preparations for the possibility of war. Indeed, our secret weapons which we are poised to bear on a prospective enemy.”
A chill ran down the [Seer]’s back. Her tail flicked urgently and her magical quill scribbled faster. She hesitated, and waved at the head [Diviner], who was coordinating the Pallass News Network broadcast in a room connecting to this one. He trotted over as the Flying Queen nodded several times.
“You mean, our unspecified mass-destruction anti-magic artifact of unparalleled might, Armored Queen?”
The Flying Queen’s question made the Armored Queen visibly hesitate. After a second, she clicked her mandibles.
“Yes. That. Which we have in abundance. Capable of five hundred mile deployment and six hundred and twenty one foot destructive capabilities.”
“Yes. I have six such artifacts stored.”
“I have eight.”
“Indeed? This is good. We should produce more in case our enemies should threaten us.”
“Yes. As I have said, production is underway. That is all I wish to communicate.”
“Very good, Armored Queen.”
The two [Mages] watched as the mirrors went dead. The [Diviner] looked at the [Seer]. She shook her head slowly. It was the sixth such conversation she’d recorded in the last two days. She turned to the [Diviner], her boss, helplessly.
“I’m 70% sure they’re messing with us. But it’s disturbing that I’m only 70% sure.”
“Catalogue it for the Archmages. They’ll review whether to send it on.”
The [Diviner] grimaced. He’d certainly noticed that the Queens had stopped using their mirrors and changed their locations—as well as begun dropping very specific hints about improbable defenses and force distributions.
He doubted the Archmages would want to pass this on…their credibility had rather been deflated by warning the Walled Cities of a war that had never, in fact, transpired. Somehow, the Queens had caught on that they were being monitored.
That was not the only change among the Antinium, of course. A small number—but still, nearly a thousand Antinium had attacked and slaughtered a Drake force outside of Liscor. The [Seer] shuddered as the mirrors went dark—another sign that the Queens were probably aware of the spying. Or else why didn’t they leave them pointed towards them at all times?
For that matter—before they went dark, the Drake definitely noticed some Workers and Soldiers putting a blanket on top of it before the mirror was dragged elsewhere. Yes, the Antinium were changing. But she could not have known what inspired far more change than in just the Queens.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice was dead. No, frozen. Don’t even think ‘dead’, for that was wrong.
But think of it and feel the all-consuming despair and hatred. Think of her, as she lies there. You did not even see her wounded. You were not there to shield her.
You could not heal her. So say it. 
“[Summon Aberration].”
This time, he saw it more clearly. This was how it happened, in detail: the Worker watched as the others drew back, shivering, shaking. Even the Free Queen stared.
Something tore a hole in the air. As if the air were just…cloth or paper, and you could pierce it with your hands and pull apart a gap. Beyond the air lay only a void. Not darkness, not color, but a lack of it.
And out of it came a Worker. No—
An Aberration.
It shuddered, twitching with what Pawn knew was rage, a madness only the Antinium processed in this way. Just a Worker. And yet—even trained [Soldiers] had gone down to its madness.
For, Pawn realized, the Worker was armed. It had a kitchen knife in one hand, a carpenter’s hammer and awl in the other.
As if it were an actual Worker, and had seized the nearest tools around it before going on a rampage.
As they did. Aberrations were rare, but when they occurred, a Worker—or Soldier—would simply—snap. They would go mad and kill everything in sight, other Antinium, people, and only cease when they had been dismembered.
The ones he had summoned had killed the enemy before fading away. And this one…pulled itself out of the air and stopped.
It looked around and everyone drew back. Pawn himself. He felt afraid of his own creation, and he knew it was his creation. But the azure Antinium’s staff was raised, and even the summoned Antinium seemed to flinch away from her.
Xrn, the Small Queen. She watched with the rest.
“What…is this, Xrniavxxel?”
At last, the Free Queen asked. Xrn studied the Aberration. Her chitin armor, azure, unique, glowed with the light from her staff and eyes as she approached slowly.
“Something new, my Queen.”
That was her only answer at first. Pawn saw her step forwards; so did Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] was wary, afraid. But the huge Antinium—a full inch and a half taller than any other Soldier—was not about to risk Xrn being attacked.
She would not be. The aberration shuddered, but it did not track Xrn as she stepped around it. After a moment, she looked at Pawn.
“You can order it, can’t you, Pawn?”
“Yes.”
The [Priest] whispered. Xrn nodded. The other Antinium stared at him and he felt it again.
Change. Because those stares were laced with horror. Fear, where once he had never felt such emotions from the other Antinium. Belgrade, Purple Smiles—Garry was hiding in his kitchen.
He did not, could not flee from the gazes, though. So he stood there. Letting them all witness what he had conjured in the depths of his hatred and despair.
Aberration. Xrn pointed slowly.
“Can you…order it to climb that wall?”
A short wall of stone rose out of the ground. Dekass shifted; the Prognugators of other Hives had all drawn their weapons. He, Tersk, Pivr, and Xeu watched as the Aberration trembled there. Then—suddenly bolted for the stone wall. They readied themselves, but the Aberration clambered over it, and then came to another stop.
It was what Pawn had ordered it to do. Slowly, Xeu crossed her scythe-arms, relaxing a fraction. But she stared much as the other Antinium did.
Unsettled.
“I—I ordered it to move, Xrn, my Queen.”
Pawn’s voice was faint. Xrn nodded slowly. Of the rest, she seemed calmest. Just interested and wary as opposed to horrified.
“Good. That is what I thought. Can you make it…use that hammer?”
“On…?”
“Nails, I suppose. Does anyone have nails? Or wood?”
The other Antinium susurrated. A Painted Worker hurried away. In the silence, Pawn looked at the Aberration. And knew it was his. But what relieved him was perhaps only…that it was not an agent of some underworld, some dark place.
He hoped…it was just a delusion. A figment summoned by his power. There was no mind there. But either way, it was what he was.
[Doomspeaker Priest]. He had known his class’ goodness. Its hope. Now, he was leveling and understanding the fullness of what he had become.
So gaze upon my miracles. Know the power of my belief. What is good, and what I can give. And also know my wrath.
 
—-
 
Thirty minutes later, Pawn knew what [Summon Aberration] did. He had watched the trembling Worker—then another, so there were two—go through an obstacle course of Xrn’s design. Try—and fail—to use other tools. Then kill each other.
The glowing forms vanished. Xrn stood in front of her audience, and recapped brightly.
“They are akin to a [Summoner]’s creations. But without the need for a catalyst. More temporary, yet ultimately expendable, renewable. It appears Pawn has now achieved a fourth discipline into this field. Fifth? Sixth? Let’s see…”
She started counting on her fingers. The Free Queen snapped her mandibles together.
“Explain, please, Xrn of the Centenium. We are not all as skilled in matters of magic as you.”
The Centenium looked up and bowed slightly.
“Of course, Free Queen. To explain? Pawn has summoned fake beings. They are not real Antinium. Nor were they ever. I detect no realness to their bodies, for all it appears to be chitin. It is not magic flesh—nor is it real carapace. It is a different simulacra, but one nonetheless.”
All the Antinium seemed to sigh, and relax at this. Pawn himself relaxed.
“Ah. Like a [Summoner]’s creations? We have studied enemy combat-apparitions. I have slain them myself. They are not as strong as the real thing.”
Pivr fanned his wings excitedly. Xrn gave him a look, but nodded.
“Exactly. Closer to them than Golems or Undead. You see, my Queen, there are many ways of creating temporary or permanent apparitions to aid a spellcaster. [Summoners] use beings that once were, or temporary constructs—that is what Pawn is doing. [Necromancers] and [Golem Artificers] create what is permanent. There are numerous disciplines who do the same, in truth.”
“Really. I know only four.”
