So said the [Popstar] of Terandria. She was watching, jotting down the lyrics of the song with a free hand.
But she needn’t have bothered. Merri gasped.
“That’s—that’s—our city’s…anthem.”
The people of Zeres stirred. It was indeed. And now, as the first verse echoed, the opera singer, the woman on the prow of the Reinhart’s famous warship, was joined by a swell of…song.
The shadowed people on deck were illuminated by more lights. They were revealed as a cellist set bow to instrument, delicately perched on a seat from the middle of the warship. More accompaniment—but the true cavalcade of song came from the massed voices.
Hundreds of [Singers], a choir lined up on each side of the deck joined the lead singer as the music swelled again.
 
“I shall sail to world’s end and carry my head high
For I have seen my Ancestors fly.
Each land I pass by, each sea I travel
Leads me ever to my glorious home.”
 
They were singing Zeres’ anthem. At first, the people of Zeres couldn’t believe it. Noass and Sir Relz were trying to say—something—but Drassi was delighted.
You could argue the coin throwing. The Dragon conjured by illusions. But this? This was blatant. Patriotic. More than one Zeres [Soldier] and [Sailor] clapped a claw to their breasts and joined in, despite their officers hesitating.
Part of why it was so hard to deny the…laudation of Zeres were the lyrics. The choir sang on, in perfect voice, a massed voice—so inspiring to hear when done with their level of skill.
 
“No city shall compare to Zeres’ sights,
No glories safe but the ones I leave behind
Oh come, travellers, and [King] and [Queen]
And speak jealous of where I have been.”
 
At this point, some of the audience from afar began to listen to the words. Drassi blinked. Noass and Sir Relz stopped fighting.
“What did they just sing? That’s their national anthem? That can’t be Zeres’—wait, have you ever heard their song, Sir Relz?”
“I don’t make a point of listening to other Walled City’s anthems, Noass. Er—is that actually what they sing?”
Yes, it was. And if the two Drakes—their outrage beginning to change targets—thought that that was the most self-aggrandizing part of the song, they hadn’t ever heard Verse 5.
Jaws dropped. The citizens of Manus, Oteslia, Fissival, Pallass, and Salazsar listened, half in outrage, half in wonder. Zeres’ song was…patriotic. But that was Drake anthems for you. If there was anger, it was not at Magnolia Reinhart for choosing it.
Indeed—she had hired the woman known as the Voice of Renar—Miss Terinda Renar—to sing on a world-class stage. And she had given her a choir, a celebration—all seeming to honor Zeres.
One of the Five Families had paid for this, on her dime. And she had not spent anything as low-class as dimes on this event. If she even knew what those were.
The [Singer] and the choir finished the anthem, singing every verse—a rarity since it was a long song that usually only had the first two versus sung—leaving their audience in shock.
Or approval. Yet, the audience realized, one thing was unaccounted for.
Magnolia Reinhart herself. Now, where was she? They saw something interesting too.
The Velistrane was not docking at the harbor. It was turning, as the [Singer] gave a bow and applause came, even from begrudging Drakes. But the ship was turning…having done a perfect U-turn in the harbor while the song commenced.
“What’s happening? Is she…leaving?”
People watching in confusion. But the Velistrane was moving out of harbor. Then—the lights illuminating that grand vessel winked off.
More lights illuminated the empty dock in the center of the harbor. Fit for a ship of the Velistrane’s class. But waiting.
The [Servants] had disembarked from the ships. Some of them. Unnoticed during the song like the best of stage-hands, they had set up something. Now, a huge…red…carpet was being unrolled down the length of the dock, onto the streets.
It was hundreds of feet long. The kind of grandiose thing that seemed more at home with well, stories, than real life. Someone had stitched that thing together. The red carpet unrolled…and unrolled…and more [Servants] were lining the vast carpet, which you could march a military parade down.
They were carrying objects. Now…the Admiral of the Harbor’s senses tingled. But not with [Dangersense].
“They’re carrying something expensive. Lots of expensive artifacts. We should—”
She was pushing towards them with the other Admiral of the Navy when the departing Velistrane issued a sound.
Horns. The brass peal of horns, trumpeting, triumphant. The people staring at the red carpet looked up. And saw, as the warship turned—it.
Of course. The [Darkness] spells began to come undone. From the harbor’s entrance first, and then towards the city itself. Like dawn breaking through darkness. And there it was.
A pink carriage.
Repaired, well, replaced, rather. Not that they would know that. But the most famous, iconic thing about Magnolia Reinhart.
A tub in the water. Well, Reynold would admit that if you didn’t activate the enchantments it rocked a bit. But now—the [Butler] lashed the reins.
And it sped towards Zeres, down the harbor. It had been practically invisible in the darkness and with all the other sights. Now, it shot towards Zeres, into the open harbor mouth at top speed.
Across the waters. Merri was shouting. The wheels of the enchanted carriage were racing on top of the water, cutting through the surf and leaving a vast spray behind it. The spectral horses surged as if it were solid ground.
Everyone watched as the pink carriage moved towards the docks. It would crash—no. The wheels left the surf as the carriage sped, faster than any boat in existence, upwards. Through the air.
Water droplets sprinkled the crowd as the pink carriage slowed. The wheels touched the ground. Then the carpet’s edge.
Reynold parked the coach and hopped off. He opened the door, and stood to attention. As one, the servants lining the way bowed once more.
Everyone in Zeres watched as a figure stepped out of the carriage. The broadcast showed…
Ressa. The taller woman stepped out of the carriage, nodded to the audience, and then helped the [Lady] in the pink dress out. Magnolia wore the same hat she had when she walked on Pallass’ walls. The same dress.
The same smile. She winked at Merri.
“Thank you for the lovely coverage, my dear. Hello, Drassi. Admiralty of Zeres.”
She nodded at the two [Admirals], who jumped as the magical camera panned towards them. Magnolia Reinhart smiled wider. She let Ressa precede her, then the two were side-by-side. They walked down the carpet.
“Please let the First Gardener of Oteslia know I’ve arrived. Oh, and I’ve brought some gifts. Thank you for renting the harbor to me. My ships will be out of your bay momentarily—I just need to unload all my little party favors.”
Magnolia addressed the Admiral of the Harbor as she passed. The Drake opened her mouth.
“Tell the—party f—”
The [Lady] didn’t stop or slow. She walked on, greeting some of the [Maids] or [Butlers] or [Manservants] by name.
“Teln, don’t drop it. It’s glass, not enchanted. I know you wouldn’t, but I worry so. Are those gemstones properly polished, Eary?”
“Absolutely, Lady Reinhart. I will inspect them once we arrive at Oteslia.”
“Wonderful.”
The [Lady] paused, to let the Wistram camera-crew catch up. And then—Drassi, Merri, and the audience caught sight of the artifacts being carried by the servants.
A multicolored glass vase, so delicately blown it seemed the gloved man’s hands might break it if he applied a hair of pressure. A set of jewels in a crown of…bronze? Each one seeming far more expensive than the bronze itself.
Treasures. Some people even recognized. Jaws dropped.
“Did she just say those were party favors to the First Gardener of Oteslia?”
Merri whispered. Magnolia Reinhart turned her head like, well, a shark.
“Oh, no, Merri. I meant to the guests. There’s an event in Oteslia and I couldn’t just come without some. Haven’t you heard?”
Another wink. Ressa nudged Magnolia slightly. She was overdoing it.
But the effect?
 
—-
 
“Wait, that’s the Bronze Crown of Manus! We took it from them in war nearly a thousand years back! How does she have—she can’t give it to them!”
Because he was a ghost, Regis Reinhart did not need to stop screaming to draw breath. Which, in fact, he hadn’t, not since catching a glimpse of the first artifacts on display. Magnolia Reinhart had more, as evidenced by the coffers being borne by the servants. But she had put some on display.
 
—-
 
“Reynold, bring the carriage up. I simply must thank the Admiralty—is the Admiral of the Supply here? Asale? I have to thank him personally for allowing me my little entrance. I trust it was entertaining? Such a lovely song…my, this carpet gets longer each time I walk down it.”
Magnolia was strolling down the carpet with the servants. The [Combat Butler] was rolling the carriage forwards and it was indeed being loaded with some of the treasures. The rest?
“We have transport and escort for the rest of the treasures, Lady Reinhart.”
Ressa was saying publically, gesturing to some waiting carriages. Of course, that part was show. They’d already moved what needed to be moved on ahead; only the objects on display would be going with the pink carriage. And this time—there would be no ambush in waiting.
“What party?”
That came from the Admiral of the Navy, belatedly realizing that there was something he’d missed. But in truth, it wasn’t his fault.
It was a tactic Magnolia Reinhart had learned from, well, Maviola El. If you said it, they would believe it. She laughed.
“Oh, Admiral Krallow. You do like your jests. I hope to see you there. I don’t think the Matriarch said if she was going…? But I will quite like to see Oteslia. City of Growth. I’d love to stay in the City of Waves, but I’m a teensy bit behind schedule. I do so like to settle in and it doesn’t do to just roll up to the event on the day, does it?”
“Er…”
Magnolia was heading towards the pink carriage, which had replaced itself at the head of the carpet. But there was one last thing.
Or perhaps she had anticipated it. She looked at Ressa, and the [Maid] gave her a slight nod. She looked ahead at Reynold. And he had it ready. Bundled up in the carriage…it had made a nice blanket. Now, he covertly handed one of the [Servants] a long pole.
“Magnolia of House Reinhart.”
Someone stopped Magnolia Reinhart before she could make her grand departure. The [Lady] smiled.
“Sharkcaptain of Zeres.”
“You know me.”
Femar’s voice was flat. He held the famous spear idly. He was watching Ressa as much as Magnolia. And she eyed him.
Asale and two other members of the Admiralty of Zeres had joined the Sharkcaptain of Zeres. He bared his teeth as Magnolia Reinhart halted.
Auras met in the air. This was Zeres, his home. Femar’s eyes narrowed. Magnolia smiled.
“Admiral Asale. My thanks for allowing me passage.”
“Of course, Lady Reinhart.”
The Drake was watching her, curious, but also Femar. The Sharkcaptain frowned. Then, conscious of the others watching the silent clash of auras, smiled wider.
“The Serpentine Matriarch was quite pleased by your tribute to Zeres, Magnolia Reinhart.”
“Thank you, Femar. I do so enjoy it when my hard work is appreciated. Please, tell Ieneessa I appreciate the compliment.”
The [Lady] gave him an icy smile. Asale sighed as the Sharkcaptain blinked. He was the wrong person to try and dance with Magnolia—at least with words.
“The Matriarch of Zeres enjoyed the display.”
Femar began again, lying through his teeth. He eyed the Crown of Manus—the bronze one—being slowly carried past him. Idly, he lowered the spear.
The [Maid] holding it halted. Asale was impressed; the woman knew what was coming, it seemed, but it was still impressive to not flinch or even blink at the Sharkcaptain’s spear as it halted in front of her chest.
“There is just one thing, Lady Reinhart. Before you leave Zeres—it seems you’ve brought quite a number of objects to bring to an Oteslian party?”
“Party favors, Femar. Do keep up.”
He flushed slightly. There was a ripple of laughter. The Sharkcaptain’s teeth ground—then he caught himself.
“Yes. Well, you are free to head to Oteslia. The First Gardener has invited you, after all. Just as soon as we ascertain the value of all your gifts and collect a proper import tax.”
Someone made a sound in the crowd. Magnolia Reinhart didn’t blink. But she did sigh.
“Oh dear. Really?”
“Surely you knew the laws of a Walled City before you arrived?”
“Femar…”
Asale wanted to shake his head. Since he was on television, he did not. Merri made an incredulous sound.
“But they’re gifts…”
The Sharkcaptain heard her.
“Gifts or not, artifacts are taxed if they are meant to be exchanged.”
“But I will not receive anything in return.”
“Goodwill could be considered an exchange.”
The Admiral of Supply kept his face blank. This was petty—Zeres didn’t do this for other people. Nor, if they kept to this implementation of the law, would they be one of the most active harbors in the world.
He’d argued against. But the Serpentine Matriarch? She was what was politely called ‘petty’ at times.
Magnolia Reinhart eyed the spear blocking her servant’s path.
“I do not believe other [Merchants] or [Captains] need pay a tax on gifts, Femar of Zeres. Is this a new rule or will it be applied across all ships from now on?”
His eyes narrowed. Asale stepped in before he could respond.
“I believe the Serpentine Matriarch’s will extends only to such notable events as these, Lady Reinhart. As she phrased it—an appropriate measure of tradition for a Human family with old ties to the Walled Cities.”
That was one way of putting it. There was laughter—and this time at Magnolia’s expense. The crowd, who was marginally on her side, didn’t seem to think this was too much to ask.
Magnolia Reinhart on the other hand? Asale didn’t like her smile. Femar was happy. But he had failed to notice what Asale made a point of noticing.
She wasn’t surprised by any of this. And he didn’t like that one bit. That meant she’d planned around this. And you know what they said about Reinharts.
They always laughed last. Usually over the dead corpses of their enemies.
“Femar, this really is troubling. I had intended to be on my way within, well, five minutes ago. But a delay to inspect, not to mention calculate the worth of all the objects I am carrying? Why, I don’t think I brought a big enough purse, do you, Ressa?”
Magnolia admitted after a moment. The [Maid] shook her head.
