“We will never be the same. It is not enough to simply be. We must defend what we believe in. For we have enemies.”
Pawn spoke to them. This was his decision.
“You are not Armored Antinium. You are not mere Soldiers or Workers. Each of you who chooses this—you will leave your Hive. You will march under sky and star. None of you may return. I pray you all will. But you will go to fight our enemies, risking your lives so that more might survive. You are more than any Antinium that have ever come before.”
They looked up at him. The first rank of Soldiers knelt. And Pawn blessed them. He named them for what they were, in the silence of his mind, as he had named them below.
[Crusaders]. More than [Knights]. Warriors of faith.
So once—now again. The Council of Liscor looked on. Olesm, Zevara—
“What is this?”
The [Strategist] spoke, in a strangled voice. He approached Pawn, hesitating. And the [Priest] looked at him. Belgrade knelt at the head of the force. He rose and joined Pawn. The [Tactician] gazed at Olesm as if confused that he did not see it. He gestured at the Antinium.
“Liscor’s army. We are part of Liscor too. And we cannot forgive.”
The blue-scaled Drake was speechless. The Council horrified or…
A Worker with silver antennae stared at the kneeling Antinium. Shocked. Uncertain. For this was change. Each one to their choice.
But what was the right choice? The armor shone brightly under the sun as if it meant something. And they looked grand, mighty, terrifying, impressive, hot, depending on whom you asked.
The future was simply uncertain.
 
—-
 
The world quaked. Or so it felt some days. The Antinium marching could certainly make you feel as though the ground were shaking.
However, their appearance was…half show. Belgrade made that clear to Olesm.
“We will be joining the army as volunteers. We would like training in weapons, please.”
“Training?”
The new ranks of the Antinium armored in faith…and actual armor…were impressive. However, Olesm realized something crucial that would be missed from afar.
They had no idea how to actually use the weapons they were carrying. Maces, shields—he saw them holding them just a bit off, or experimentally swinging the weapons. It was an army with a lot going for it. Antinium morale, nigh-unbreakable. Quality arms and the ability to take commands that Olesm had wished the ragtag Liscor army could have had in the fight with Hectval.
But no actual weapons training. That grounded him.
“We’d have to put them through training. Guard-training—at least the week’s crash-course. Along with any other new recruits we get.”
Someone commented. Olesm’s head turned. He rubbed at one earhole. Jeiss.
“Um, what, Jeiss?”
“If we add them to the army.”
The Senior Guardsman was watching an Antinium swing a sword with a pained look in his eyes. The others were watching the poor imitations of thrusts and cuts. For that matter—they had four arms. The cycles of attack and defense were completely different for Antinium.
It was a [Strategist]’s equivalent of the blacksmith puzzle. A delightful avenue of possibility and optimization. But for an Izrilian [Strategist]?
“Jeiss, you must be mad. We can’t add them to the army! It would outrage every city in—in the world!”
Alonna barked. She was horrified. The Senior Guardsman however, had a different take.
“We need an army. Here is an army. It’s not like we wouldn’t call on the Free Antinium if Hectval besieged us.”
“But that’s not the same as enlisting Antinium [Soldiers]. For that matter—Belgrade! There are around three thousand Soldier Antinium standing there!”
“Yes. Do not worry. The Free Hive will be amply defended in their absence.”
Amply defended. Zevara broke out of her stupor and looked around. Olesm felt sweat running down his spine.
“But Belgrade…our treaty with the Free Antinium only allowed them to keep a standing force of three hundred Soldiers. We expanded that of late, but this is a violation of our agreement.”
He reminded the [Tactician] of that salient point. The Worker looked at Pawn. The [Priest]’s antennae waved.
“Really? I did not know that.”
The Council stared at Pawn and Belgrade. The other Worker scratched delicately at the top of his head.
“I remember that. Revalantor Klbkch told me never to permit more than three hundred Soldiers aboveground except in times of crisis, or mention our numbers.”
“Ah. So we have broken the rules?”
“It appears so.”
They turned back to Olesm and the Council. After a second, Pawn shrugged.
“Sorry. No one informed us.”
He didn’t even try to be apologetic. And what were you supposed to say to that? Shake your claw at them? They were far beyond that.
“Councilmembers—a quick discussion. Alonna, some privacy?”
Lism’s strangled voice. Olesm hurried over with Zevara.
“What in the name of the Ancestors do we do? This is a flagrant disregard for our treaty—”
“We always knew they had more than the treaty, Councilmember. That part of our agreement was always doomed.”
Zevara muttered. She was looking at the Antinium army. Four thousand. It wasn’t the largest force by far. Probably a lot scarier, even untrained, than Gnoll conscripts, though. They’d be the vanguard of your fighting force. Or a powerful, semi-autonomous force you could use to press the enemy on any wing…
What was he thinking? Olesm bit his tongue. But…Antinium sappers. They were famous for their fast earthworks projects. Who wanted to fight Antinium when they could collapse the ground under you, or tunnel and attack your command?
“This is madness. We can’t allow this.”
“And what would you have us do?”
Jeiss looked at Alonna, Elirr, Tismel, and Zalaiss. They were all horrified. But the Senior Guardsman had skipped to some logical point ahead of them. He put his hand on his sword’s hilt. Olesm unconsciously did the same.
The smooth handle of a Kaalblade. He flinched, jerked his claw away. Jeiss met his eyes.
“I think the dead cat’s out of the bag, to use a Human expression. Let’s say we don’t add them to our army, Alonna.”
“Yes! Which is only sensible!”
“And…?”
The [Mage] stopped. Jeiss nodded.
“Now we have an army of four thousand angry Antinium. With armor and weapons. Who might decide to do something about Hectval themselves. And if they don’t? We have an army of four thousand Antinium in the city, not under our command.”
“You’re saying it’s like a weapon with the Dancing enchantment. It’s active and unless you use it—”
“It cuts off your tail. Exactly, Watch Captain.”
There were a lot of metaphors being tossed around. But the Council began to catch on. Olesm looked at the first addition to Liscor’s army. Because, even after discussion, debate, neck spine-pulling—what else was there to do?
And oh, did this development change things. To war. Olesm’s nerves hummed. He understood why Pawn had come to this decision.
There were some things that could not be forgiven. Not as he was. The Drake had been ready to resign after doing his duty safeguarding his home. Now? His eyes turned southwards.
That city had taken two people he loved away.
 
—-
 
That city was called Hectval. Part of the Hectval…Hectval…
Hectval-Luldem-Drisshia Alliance. Ancestors, that was so obnoxious. Someone had to write that every time they referred to their alliance. It was even on the map. Oh, wait. She’d gotten it wrong. Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem. So much more important.
She had never heard of it before. Half of the people in this room only knew it by name; the other half had no idea where in the name of Selphid’s tits it was. It was only important because it had picked a fight with Liscor.
“Liscor.”
Once again, that name was on everyone’s tongues. The Antinium there had sent the Walled Cities into a roaring confusion of fury, panic, fear, and more.
To her, it was…disappointing to see. She had, in her youth, expected the High Command of a Walled City to always be some ice-cold, logical decision-makers who, in the face of overwhelming catastrophe, would just come to the best decision no matter what.
The truth was that they panicked and worried and argued like everyone else. True—they didn’t freeze up like civilians. And some of them were poised no matter what.
But to Rafaema of Manus, Manus’ High Command disappointed. Especially since she could compare and contrast to the many High Commands over the century-and-two-decades she had been alive.
The Antinium were new. Before this, they had been more solid in her estimation. The Humans were the enemies. Watch the shores. Watch the tribes. Everything had been so…reassuring. So she had been content to be a bratty child.
The Antinium had woken her up. She had seen how the cities scrambled to fight this new threat. And failed to adjust sometimes. She had the hindsight of age, for all she was only a youth…for a Dragon.
They were reactive, not anticipatory. That was their flaw. The new Antinium-contingent of Liscor’s army? The High Command of Manus had summoned its various security councils and she was in the inner-most one.
No one said ‘what do we do?’ at least. They said ‘what will we do?’ Rafaema liked that. Manus didn’t just debate, like Pallass, or sit on its tail until roused like other Walled Cities.
“Liscor seems set in its course. We’ve talked with their Council and their [Strategist]. Creler-brained, the lot of them. I almost think they do have eggs in their skulls.”
Spearmaster Lulv growled an agreement to [Hunt Commander] Makhir. The two Gnolls in the room and the Drakes plus Rafaema were ruling out options.
“They’re really taking on Antinium in their forces?”
[General] Milka was disgusted. It was Dragonspeaker Luciva Skybreath, one of the few people Rafaema respected without reserve and leader of Manus, who put her claw down on the table.
“Yes, Milka. You’ve seen the numbers. Liscor’s army is too far away and the Hectval Alliance outnumbers Liscor’s forces—even after their defeat at Whitterbone Pass.”
They had maps, detailed maps, with every possible factoid and location on them. Rafaema had watched Hectval get trounced in battle, but she hadn’t expected this result.
“A classic case of Liscor’s army doing the right thing and provoking the worst response.”
“How so, Wall Lord Allon?”
It was one of the Wall Lords of Manus. He half-bowed to Rafaema, his dusky silver scales glittering. A rare coloration; if he had been a Dragon, he would have been a Silver Dragon.
I heard there was one in the north. But he died too. Are there any of us left besides…Cire?
Sometimes that thought grew too loud, so Rafaema pushed it away. She looked at Allon attentively. She had earned this place; she wasn’t going to let anyone think she wasn’t taking her job seriously. Unlike Cire, she intended to lead by example.
“Liscor’s army is notedly at odds with the Antinium Hive in Liscor. It’s why they refuse to return to the city. Of course, we approve of that decision and have established links to Liscor’s army. They’ve worked well with us…”
“When we hire them. Otherwise, they’re stubborn battle freaks.”
Spearmaster Lulv growled, quietly enough for Rafaema to hear. He knew her hearing was as good as a Gnoll’s; he was her weapons-instructor, after all. Only Makhir would have heard, and the [Hunt Commander] affected not to.
“However, Wall Lady Rafaema, their refusal to return and fight for their city is forcing Liscor to take the Antinium forces.”
“Ah, naturally. Thank you for illuminating me, Allon.”
He nodded. Rafaema felt a bit foolish, but she hadn’t been clear. Perhaps some of the others hadn’t either, because Milka cursed. Another insight: not everyone was on the same page, although they appeared to be. How disturbing.
“If that’s the reason, let’s plan out best and worst-case scenarios. Best case? Hectval smashes the Antinium to bits, razes Liscor to the ground.”
“Unlikely. They don’t have the power to take their walls. They fight to drive other cities to ransom. They don’t have a record of actually taking cities.”
Another [General] put in. Everyone nodded; that was inter-city wars for you. Force the other city to capitulate and enrich yourself. It built grudges. Stupid, territorial grudges. But even Manus clashed with other Walled Cities at times.
“Then second-best. They kill the Antinium. Free Antinium’s Hive takes a while to replenish, and that’s that.”
“Not much of a win. What’s the worst-case scenarios?”
Makhir muttered. The war council paused. Rafaema answered for Milka.
“Those four thousand Antinium get all the levels and battle experience of these…Painted Antinium. The Free Hive gets veteran Antinium with levels and we lose the Hectval…the Hectval Alliance’s war potential.”
Nods. That was worst-case. War and battle gave levels. That wasn’t a problem with Antinium…until now.
Damn Liscor. Rafaema’s grip tightened on the table. Damn Hectval, too, for doing this.
And damn Ferris. I thought he was supposed to be good at his job!
Rafaema was angry, but mastered it. She listened. Manus’ High Command began to settle down. And in their calm, they began to debate.
“To avert the worst-case scenario I vouch for a few options: stop the war.”
“Impossible to do it diplomatically. Hectval’s stubborn—the Scalespeaker’s enraged and so is their Council. We could lean…”
“Liscor won’t stop. They’re spitting mad. Did you see the [Messages] they dumped on Hectval? Apparently someone was…killed?”
The Crazy Human of Liscor. Rafaema’s grip tightened on the table. Oh, she was going to rip Ferris’ tail off. If she managed to get a hold of him.
In that, she’d paid more attention to Liscor than the others. Liscor had changed of late, and the Dragon had noticed. Luciva raised a claw.
“If diplomacy will not work, let us abandon it. More…extreme decisions.”
Rafaema glanced up. It was General Milka who said it.
“Extreme? On one end—Manus moves out our Wyvern Rider forces. Fastest horse and siege. We can beat Liscor; they won’t have time to mobilize. Neither will Hectval. We raze Hectval. No casus belli for war. Liscor’s Antinium and army disband.”
Silence. Rafaema’s jaw nearly dropped. The rest of the High Command was just quiet.
“Not ideal. But if it stops an Antinium force from gaining war experience, we could probably effect it with minimal casualties. How fast could we assail the city?”
“Two weeks maximum. Call it a week minimum if we stick to magical munitions and no siege weapons for a proper attack force.”
“Too far in my opinion. But let’s put that on one end of the countermeasures.”
Everyone nodded. Rafaema breathed out. This wasn’t their first option. But it was on the table.
She was learning a lot.
“If we could just do that to Liscor—”
