No other species in the world could achieve the same crisp-to-mouth efficiency as Antinium, with perhaps the exception being Dullahans, who could feed their heads with their hands and levitate their arms to reach the crisp bag across the room.
“I achieved my level and class because I knew Erin Solstice. I ‘achieved’ the ability to summon Aberrations because she died.”
Dekass hesitated. One of the salted crisps hesitated halfway to his mouth. Crisps, being a crucial distinction. Erin called them ‘chips’, but some of the other Earthers disagreed, claiming that chips were in fact, fries, and crisps were chips.
It was very confusing to Pawn and he wished that were all he had to care about in the world. Instead…he saw Dekass smile and crunch on another chip-crisp.
“I see. Then we must replace Erin Solstice at once.”
Pawn debated trying to kill Dekass. He took a single breath. Then another. He spoke in a very mild tone as the other Antinium in the Painted Antinium’s barracks moved around them.
“Is that so easy, Prognugator Dekass?”
“I believe so. Consider: I was upset to learn the purveyor of foods was rendered inactive. However, I learned that I could obtain these from a local vendor in Liscor. You see—others had copied her recipe.”
He waved the non-Wandering Inn crisps at Pawn. He’d bought them from someone else. Pawn nodded.
“I see. And you suggest replacing Erin in the same way.”
“Yes. It is the only efficient solution.”
“Understandable.”
I’m going to murder you, now. Pawn reached for his neck. He only stopped when someone approached him.
“Pawn.”
The [Priest] hesitated, with all four hands outstretched. Dekass eyed them and put a chip in each. Pawn ignored him and turned to the Worker who’d interrupted him.
It was one of his Painted Workers who stood there, with a cluster of Antinium behind him. Soldiers, Workers—all painted. This first Worker was Pawn’s, though.
He had a little yellow flower drawn on his shoulders, their roots and vines travelling down his arms. Erin called them close to ‘tattoos’, but the golden blooms were based off the very flowers in her inn.
Faerie Flowers. And this Worker was thus Golden Bloom. He was one of the [Acolytes] that Pawn was training.
“What is it, Golden Bloom?”
Pawn was surprised. There were two [Acolytes] under his authority. Only two, out of the countless others. They helped him serve bread and spoke little. They listened much, and knew all his stories, however. But this was unusual.
The other Antinium shifted, but it was clearly Golden Bloom who needed to speak. He clasped and unclasped his hands; he had the habit of putting two together like Pawn, in constant prayer.
“I—we—I have been asked on behalf of all—to ask you an important question.”
“Can it wait until I murder Dekass, Golden Bloom?”
“No, Pawn. It is important.”
“What?”
The Prognugator stopped crunching crisps and sidled back. Golden Bloom’s antennae waved urgently. He opened and closed his mandibles, in clear distress.
“Pawn. It is about Erin.”
“Tell me.”
Pawn turned away at once. He faced the others. Golden Bloom trembled.
“Erin is…is…is hurt. Dead but not dead.”
“She will return.”
The other Antinium nodded. Golden Bloom looked around.
“Yes. But if…if she does not…”
A cold pit opened up in Pawn’s stomach. Already, it came. Did their faith waver in less than two weeks? Did they not believe?
Did he?
“You think this is what will happen, Golden Bloom?”
“No Pawn. I believe. I pray. I pray at least 31 times per day and I am trying to pray more. We all do. But if—if she is hurt. And not alive. Nor dead. Is…there no place for her in Heaven? Because she is not Antinium? Is that why she is neither alive nor dead?”
Pawn stopped. All thoughts of rage against Dekass and crisps left him. He saw Golden Bloom trembling.
“Because, Pawn, if that is so, I do not think it is a good Heaven. Not without Erin.”
It came out in a rush. The [Acolyte] looked at Pawn.
“I know she is not Antinium. But she should be there. And if—if there is no place for her—I will give her mine. If it is not enough, we will all give her ours.”
The Antinium nodded as one. Pawn felt his heart sinking in his chest. They looked terrified. But resolved.
“No. You do not have to do that. Please, Golden Bloom. Do not be afraid. Heaven—Heaven is not that cruel.”
He reached out and touched the Worker. The [Acolyte] looked at him.
“But she is not there.”
“Yes. Because she is not dead. If she was—”
Something was attacking Pawn from the inside. He spoke, despite it.
“If she was, she would be there. We will—will pray tonight. To make an exception for her, and all those that matter.”
The Antinium relaxed. As if Pawn—of course he would know. He would be able to make that happen. But Pawn was suddenly uncertain.
Did it work like that?
“Then we will see her again. And Heaven…Heaven will have all the good people, in time?”
In time? They would all die. Mrsha, Numbtongue…Pawn felt dizzy. As if he had only realized that today.
Yes, in time they would all be there. Even little Mrsha. Even…he felt sick.
“Heaven will hold them. We must make it. And—it will be large enough. Must be large enough for them.”
“Could it be too small?”
Suddenly, Golden Bloom was worried. Pawn didn’t know. Reflexively, he looked around. And the same fear was in his heart. Until a hand touched his shoulder.
“No. It is not. It is a tiny thing. But wide enough for us all. Erin would fit. But it can be bigger. I know this to be true. For I have seen it before I was given life again.”
A deep voice. A commanding tone. And suddenly, the world stopped shaking. Pawn looked up. There was Yellow Splatters.
“Do not fear, Golden Bloom. You will be there. And so will all.”
“Thank you, Yellow Splatters. See? All is well. We will pray.”
The [Acolyte] sagged with relief. He led the other Antinium away. Pawn looked up. The [Sergeant] stood there.
“Thank you, Yellow Splatters. I did not know what to say.”
“I know.”
The [Sergeant] stood there. And he was a miracle like those Pawn had been told from Earth’s stories. He had died and come back to life. And he had brought something more valuable than anything with him.
Hope.
“You have seen Heaven. You should lead them more than I.”
“I do not have your class or faith, Pawn.”
The [Sergeant] answered steadily. He had been given a superior body. And he was always so sure. So…good a leader. He was leveling faster than even some Individuals. He would be a great leader. Pawn shook his head, pressing.
“But you have seen it. Can you tell me more about what it looks like? I—I confess, I did not know whether Erin would fit either. I cannot even imagine how that would work. You said it was tiny, but growing. What did you see? Who did you meet?”
Yellow Splatters paused for a moment, and his mandibles opened and closed. Eventually, he shook his head.
“There are no words to describe it, Pawn. I am sorry. I search and search—but how could you describe what has never been seen? I can only tell you—it is what you said. You built it. Have faith.”
“Of course.”
Pawn smiled. Yellow Splatters did too. They stood there for a moment, then Pawn patted his hand with one of his. Faith restored.
Let it be for Erin, then. But not yet. Not ever, if he could manage it. He walked the Painted Antinium’s barracks, talking to others. For his job was to help them heal, and live, and fight for that Heaven.
Even if part of him still drowned in rage. He feared—and already, missed Lyonette. He should have said goodbye when she was there. But he was afraid to touch her.
To let the things stirring in his mind out.
The moment of change came upon Pawn in a seemingly-random encounter. He was touching the shoulder of a Painted Soldier.
“Green Baron. All will be well. We must believe. Tell me if you are upset.”
He had used his free bread, and benedictions already, to calm the most anguished of Antinium and wished he could use his Skill more. But he was speaking with words, hoping they meant something.
The choosing of identities had evolved among Soldiers and Workers both. The Soldiers could not ‘speak’…but then again, they could. And they were evolving past concepts like Purple Smiles, Yellow Splatters, and so on.
Green Baron had chosen his name after three visits to the inn and learning about the famous ‘Red Baron’ from a discussion of aircrafts and flying with Bird from Kevin and the others. He had chosen the name on the principle that green was probably better than red.
There were other…interesting names Soldiers had chosen. It was their identity, but Green Baron was sharing space with Soldier #1533, who had that number proudly written on his chest, Bacon Rashers, who, yes, had had that for his first real meal ever, and Kevin2. Because they liked Kevin. Also, π, who had tried to express as much of the mathematical constant as the others could remember on his body.
Pawn did not judge much. But he had stopped there from being a Kevin3 and Kevin4. Normally, Kevin2 was trying to imitate Kevin, in body language and personality.
But his head was bowed. He was curled up and Pawn recognized the look.
Pure despair. Pawn’s heart ached for them. He looked at Green Baron’s misery and spoke, gently, tightening his grip so the other felt it through his armor.
“We must have faith. We must believe, and strive. We must endure, Green Baron.”
He felt the Soldier shudder. Then—the Antinium with green airplanes drawn on his armor straightened.
Erin had helped draw them. And she was a bad drawer, so some were squiggly. But he treasured them. Pawn remembered that as the Soldier turned to him. And his hands rose and he said—
“No.”
He spoke. In the sign language that the Antinium had learned from Mrsha. They had created their own variation upon it, adding more words that Mrsha had not used. But it was the same language. Pawn’s mandibles opened slightly.
“No? What do you…mean, Green Baron?”
Green Baron thought for a second. His hands moved slowly, four hands approximating shapes. Crude fingers, a Soldier’s fingers. The Free Queen had told Yellow Splatters that future generations would get digits.
“What if I cannot wait? What if I cannot have faith and pray for—sky’s—return?”
He substituted the word ‘sky’, a spreading gesture with all four arms, for Erin. She had no need of a name. It was just ‘her’. But she should have one.
Pawn hesitated.
“Is it hard to pray, Green Baron? Do you not…believe?”
“I believe.”
Pawn exhaled. That was something. He was not one of Bird’s followers, who prayed at times, but did not believe. Green Baron saw the confusion and clarified.
“I believe, I can pray. But I do not. There is…”
He was struggling to express what the language had not developed enough to properly say, abstract concepts, and growing frustrated. Green Baron signed.
“There is a problem. Therefore, I do not pray.”
“Which is?”
Again, the Soldier had no words. He tried.
“The city. The bad city. It is there. It should not be. It is bad. It should not be. I am angry. I cannot pray.”
The bad city. Hectval. Pawn hesitated. He saw Green Baron clench a fist.
There were not enough words. Not for ‘Hectval’ or the true emotion in his signing. The Soldier looked at Pawn—and he saw the other Soldiers’ heads rise.
“I know. But—Olesm led an army against them. We fought. We have killed them. Liscor has suffered.”
“But they have not.”
Now, Kevin2 rose. And the others stood. Pawn looked at them.
“We killed the Drakes. You were there, Green Baron.”
“Yes. It is not enough.”
Not enough, was a Mrsha-gesture. Like gobbling but stopping halfway, as if finding a bowl empty. It did not fit this sentence or meaning. Pawn’s head bowed.
“I have cursed them. They are far. If their armies come, the Antinium will defend Liscor.”
“It is not enough.”
“Many things are wrong in this world, Green Baron.”
“Is it enough for you?”
The gesture was angry. The Soldier was showing rare emotion. He stepped forwards, as if to confront the shorter, smaller Worker. Force him to look at his words—
“enNouGh?”
The whisper froze Green Baron in place. The other Antinium in the barracks turned. The cadence. The [Priest] stood there.
“Enough? Did you ask me if I thought it was enough? If I thought hECtvAl suffered enough?”
The Soldier took a step back as the [Priest]’s head rose. And there they were.
He did not have Xrn’s eyes, for which he was grateful. For if he did, surely they would have seen them.
A hundred thousand Aberrations.
A hundred thousand demons in the depths of his gaze, waiting to be let out.
I curse you by kindness. I curse you by the sky. I curse you to death. I curse you to suffering—
No, it was not enough. And no—his rage had not abated.
Did they think it had? Did they think a thousand dead soldiers of Hectval would have quenched the fury? The [Doomspeaker]’s hands clenched and unclenched.
“We are Antinium. We…must protect Erin’s inn. We will do that. Do I say it is enough? No. No! But what would you have me do? March upon them? Drown them in the Black Tide until their city is ash and ruin?”
Silence. Green Baron’s head began to move. Pawn whispered.
“I would if I could. But we would break upon their walls. It would be war across the continent. No. So we will wait here and pray.”
He spat the words. Suddenly understanding that he was as disconsolate as the others at the world. It was not enough. He wanted it. Erin’s death had been—this could not continue. He could not be happy to tend to his flock.
Something had to change.
And as the Soldier hesitated in the face of that wrath, the answer came. It came in the form of one of the watching bystanders, and a sound.
Crunch.
Dekass bit into the crisp and saw every head look towards him. He hesitated, then offered the bag to Pawn. But he spoke as he did.
“Is that all you have to do, Prognugator Pawn? I am giving you this title since it seems appropriate and Tersk said I should.”
Pawn stirred.
“What do you mean, Dekass? Do not annoy me. I am not in the mood for it.”
“Am I being annoying?”
The Armored Prognugator gave Pawn an exceptionally surprised look. He went on in the meaningful silence.
“You claim there is no way to strike at Hectval. Or to change the Painted Soldiers, who are, while effective, prone to death as much as any other. I say: this is not so. I have been listening to the talk of Liscor, for I am a Prognugator and trained in the art of subterfuge. The citizens talk while unaware of my cunning infiltration buying crisps.”
There was so much wrong with the last part of that statement that Pawn ignored it.
“What, Dekass?”
