“That starts the Third Antinium War. And we’re not ready. Especially not with Saliss of Lights out of his war potential.”
“And helping the enemy. Did you see…?”
“Discussions on our Named Adventurers later, gentlemen. Ladies. I see Hunt Commander Makhir has an option.”
The Gnoll leaned on the table. Rafaema sat up.
Makhir and Lulv she liked to hear from. They were Gnolls. She wasn’t partial to Gnolls more than Drakes, but she had the opinion that if Gnolls had gotten into Manus’ highest command council, they were undeniably the best, as opposed to, well, hereditary positions of command, even if they were earned.
“I am a [Hunt Commander], Dragonspeaker. My ideas are simple. Run down the enemy. Pursue the quarry. Take out the enemy by the neck.”
Makhir grinned around the table. His paw touched Hectval—then Liscor.
“War comes. Antinium forces are going to level if they fight. That’s inevitable. Without destroying a city for the Antinium—why not cut to the heart of the problem?”
“The leveling Antinium? I don’t follow your trail of logic, Makhir.”
Luciva frowned. The Gnoll nodded.
“It’s war, after all. There’s an alliance of three cities. Liscor has their forces and the Antinium. And the Antinium are going to fight and level. If they survive. What if someone joined…Hectval’s side? And made sure they didn’t?”
The High Command stirred. Rafaema blinked.
“Ah.”
General Milka nodded and smiled. Lulv scratched at his chin.
“A veteran spear-group. Or anti-armor infantry. Tell Hectval we want to help them. Chew up the Antinium group.”
“Exactly. We can also see their combat potential. The Queens no doubt did this to test out their Armored Soldiers in battle. I suggest we do the same.”
“War by proxy. I like it.”
Another Wall Lady murmured. Luciva was nodding.
“We’ll put that one higher. Let’s continue discussing options, however. I’m also minded to simply…”
 
—-
 
The discussion went on. Rafaema listened intently, then began to tune out as the High Command went over the same ideas, looking for weak points.
She had guessed—and she was right. They went with Makhir’s solution. She voted with the others, and Dragonspeaker Luciva did not overturn the collective decision. It was done, and Spearmaster Lulv was appointed to lead Manus’ reinforcing group.
“Are you sure you’ll be fine?”
Rafaema walked with the Gnoll as they left the inner chambers of Manus’ citadel-fortress, in the heart of the inner city. The City of War, with two layers of walls and their confusing layout, stretched beneath Rafaema as she walked with her teacher.
“Of course. I’m smart enough to know when to retreat. I’ll tell you how the Antinium fight. Even show you.”
“And you won’t miss the Meeting of Tribes?”
Lulv shrugged.
“I am a City Gnoll of Manus. I wouldn’t be welcome there.”
“I see. You’ll have to tell me more about Gnoll culture. That is…”
He smiled with all his teeth. Lulv hesitated, glanced around, and then patted Rafaema briefly on the shoulder.
“It would be my honor. Perhaps we’ll ask Makhir, eh? He knows more than I. But good you want to know.”
“Someday, I will lead Manus. I should.”
He nodded at that, greatly pleased. Rafaema thought she had Lulv’s respect. But ‘someday’ was…a long ways away.
She was still young. For a Dragon. A hundred and twenty three years. Eighty more until she was a ‘young Dragon’, and equivalent to a Drake who had earned her majority, a full adult.
Rafaema thought Manus didn’t understand that child or not, a century plus of time made you older than most. But then—she’d also met Cire. And he was a perfect argument for why that wasn’t so.
So the High Command began to effect their plan vis-à-vis Liscor. Without Rafaema. She was included in decision-making, they listened to her, explained their thinking.
But she wasn’t one of them. Not yet. So the Dragon had begun her own plans. She needed to be more than she was.
Her first action had been to investigate Liscor. To learn why it was changing. And it was…
A complete failure. Rafaema ground her teeth as she found a private place on the walls and retrieved her speaking stone.
“Ferris. Report. Ferris. I am going to murder you.”
What had happened? She’d thought she was doing it all perfect. Suborn one of the minders assigned to watch over her. She’d chosen the best—Ferris. Get him to retrieve the Human so Rafaema could understand how the Antinium were changing.
He’d arrived in Liscor, posing undercover, and told her he was reconnoitering. He’d identified the Human—Erin Solstice. Said he was going to make contact and try to retrieve her.
And then? Delay. And then? Just a bit longer. And then? Conflict of targets—perhaps it’s this other Human and the ‘Crazy Human’ is a front. All this while an army invaded Invrisil, and Rafaema was hearing of strange new devices coming from Liscor, Pallass losing Pelt the [Smith] to some Human city of Esthelm.
And then? Whoops. A Hectval raiding party shot and killed the Human target. Ferris had been quiet after that. Wisely, perhaps. But if he returned to Manus without picking up the speaking stone?
Rafaema would throw him off Manus’ outer wall. She did not make false threats.
It seemed like he’d refuse to answer his speaking stone for the third day in a row. Rafaema ground her teeth. She knew that at this range, even the most expensive speaking stones she’d…acquired…from Manus’ vaults only gave them a short amount of speaking time before needing to be recharged. But all he’d said was he’d ‘update her on the situation’ three days ago.
Then nothing. She was about to storm off and review the Meeting of Tribes—she was curious about that—when the speaking stone sputtered to life.
“Rafaema. I can’t talk long.”
“Ferris? What in the name of the Ancestors is going on? You have some explaining to d—”
“I was in the custody of Pallass’ own infiltration agency until about two weeks ago. Pallass’ Eyes. I’m on the road now.”
Rafaema’s eyes widened. Pallass’ Eyes were to their city what Ferris was to Manus.
“How? I gave you instructions to lay low and contact that [Innkeeper]!”
There was a growled response; muffled voices in the background. Ferris shifted the position of his speaking stone and the voices grew more muffled, his clearer.
“Yes. And guess what? Grand Strategist Chaldion himself visits that inn. I tried to make contact, but I couldn’t entice the [Innkeeper]. I gave it all I could.”
“You failed. Didn’t you offer her a free tour? Incentives?”
The Gnoll [Infiltrator] growled at Rafaema. She blinked at the stone; his professional attitude from when they’d first met was fraying.
“You sent one agent without backup or resources to get an [Innkeeper] who has Hobgoblin bodyguards, multiple Level 40+ individuals staying in her inn, and a Named Adventurer and the Grand Strategist of the south staying in her inn! Pallass’ Eyes detained me and I was helpless until—the incident with Hectval. Are you aware of…?”
“Yes.”
Rafaema relented a bit. She was willing to admit mistakes had been made. Maybe even by her.
“We’ll discuss the matter. You’re returning?”
“No. That’s what I’m contacting you for. Mission achieved—partly. I’m enroute to Oteslia. With a Human. Four in party. Be advised—names are Lyonette, female, late teens early twenties. Wilovan, Gnoll. Early forties, late thirties? Unsure—tall hat. Ratici—”
Rafaema blinked. her memory was close to perfect, but—
“Slow down. What? What Human? The [Innkeeper] is dead!”
“Not dead. On ice. Perhaps alive. Listen. Do a check on Wilovan, Ratici, Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. Criminal group. I couldn’t get them to Manus, but they’re heading to Oteslia. And—”
“Hey Ferris-guy! Are we going or what?”
Rafaema heard a loud voice. And then a snap of someone hitting Ferris on the shoulder. She blinked. She’d heard that voice once on a memorable visit from Pallass to Manus with Grand Strategist Chaldion. It couldn’t be—
“Right away, Sir Saliss. Just…taking a break.”
“Leave him alone, Saliss. Five more minutes to stretch our legs, Ferris?”
“Absolutely, Ma’am!”
The Gnoll’s voice was cheerful, if harried. Rafaema heard shuffling. When next he spoke, it was quietly.
“I think he knows who I am. But I haven’t been outed. I’m in the company of those three. And…Saliss of Lights.”
“Why?”
Rafaema stared blankly at the stone. Ferris sighed.
“You wanted the Human responsible for Liscor’s inciting incidents. Well—one’s under a kind of stasis. But I have a [Princess] of Terandria, Lyonette du Marquin travelling to Oteslia on business. I may be able to convince her to head to Manus after this. I’d need actual funding, though…does that satisfy?”
The Dragon’s mind was racing. She raised the speaking stone and heard a tinkling sound. She stared at the speaking stone. There was pointed silence on the other hand.
“…Yes. Yes, it does. Good work, Ferris. I can…use this. There’s no need to convince this Human to go to Manus, either. There’s a way for me to meet you in Oteslia.”
They both knew roughly how. Ferris grunted.
“The High Command will have my tail for this if it gets out.”
“They won’t. This is what I wanted. Just get them there and I’ll meet you. Don’t let Saliss of Lights know who I am.”
“I won’t. He knows I’m from Manus if he has access to Chaldion’s network. But I never let on who I was. To him, I’m just an agent of Manus. I have to go. We’re moving. Miss Lyonette! Are you ready to—”
The speaking stone cut out. Rafaema was left standing there. And now…well, she hadn’t gotten what she wanted.
But she had something. Her eyes narrowed. And Saliss of Lights? He was actually an important figure in Izril. Named Adventurer. Two reasons, then. It outweighed the bad, and frankly, she had resented that last High Command meeting. She was still a child to them and it was clear she hadn’t been needed.
But this? Luciva would have to acknowledge actual intelligence about the Hives. Or more. And…well, it had been a long time since she’d been out of Manus. Her Walled City, both beloved and a cage, wore on her.
All of this was reason enough to outweigh the one good reason not to go to Oteslia. Rafaema sighed and made up her mind.
 
—-
 
Dragonspeaker Luciva was speaking to a group of Manus’ top [Commanders] when Rafaema approached. But she broke off. She had time for Rafaema.
Everyone had time for Rafaema.
“Wall Lady Rafaema. Can I help you?”
Some of the younger [Commanders] gave Rafaema a look. Those who didn’t know…her…and that was most of those outside the top brass, gave her supercilious looks.
Rafaema tried avoid doing this. She knew what they must think. A spoiled, orphaned Wall Lady humored by High Command, given favors because of her family’s rank.
Well, it was the backstory. But she took the stares now.
“If I’m not interrupting, Dragonspeaker Luciva?”
“Of course not. Is it urgent?”
“Not…pressing. But I had a desire—if it’s alright—to make an appointment to visit Oteslia. It has been long since our last visit. And you did say that you wished to make more meetings happen.”
Luciva blinked. And then she smiled. It was so rare to see her smiling after her daughter…passed. But it almost made up for what came next.
“Naturally, Rafaema! What brought this on?”
The Dragon’s tail tried to curl up. But she forced herself to smile.
“Well, I was just missing the city, that’s all. And I parted…somewhat badly from uh, Cire. I’d like to apologize. And meet him again.”
“We’ll make that happen. I’m delighted! And of course—we’ll have to organize a proper transport. The Meeting of Tribes is ongoing, but a Pegasus flight—of course, Rafaema. Cire should be delighted. As will the First Gardener.”
Rafaema’s teeth hurt. Especially because for her, they’d have her on a flight before you could blink.
“I will be so happy to see her. And Cire. Especially…Cire.”
Luciva was already motioning for one of her people. It might have been strange, what with Antinium and politics, for the Dragonspeaker to care so much about Rafaema visiting the city.
But the key was Oteslia. And Cire’s name. Rafaema had learned that long ago.
After all…there were only two Dragons in the Walled Cities left. One male, and one female. It wasn’t exactly hard to see why their relationship was what Luciva and the First Gardener worried about.
Two Dragons left in the entire world. Unless there were more. Somewhere else…
Rafaema sighed as she crossed her claws behind her back, suppressing the pang in her chest. Sorry Luciva. But she was going to Oteslia on her business. All for Manus and the cities. Cire?
She hated Cirediel Anvi’dualln Olicuemerdn. He really got on her nerves.
 
—-
 
News of the Antinium did not concern just Manus. The Blighted King no doubt knew of this—although his attention was likely focused on the Demons. Many people paid for news of the Antinium, though.
To some, it was more pressing a concern than mere interest.
Magnolia Reinhart put down the missive.
“Erin Solstice strikes again. That young woman is more nuisance than not some days, I swear, Ressa.”
“She is singularly effective it seems. Should we arrange to meet with her?”
“Later, perhaps.”
The [Lady] of House Reinhart was delightfully caught up with certain events. And not with others. Even this news had been delayed in reaching her.
Her information net was in shambles. Her people undercover, or evacuated. Her holdings in the north, recovering, for all the Circle of Thorns was on the run.
She herself had left her homeland and was at sea. It was disastrous. How easily things fell apart.
Well, she had seen that before. Magnolia Reinhart drank some sugar. And yes, that was how you should put it. The tea was secondary to the sugar.
A slight rocking disturbed the liquid in the cup as she put it down. They were on the ocean. Magnolia scowled. She didn’t like water that much. Unless there was sugar in it, and seawater had only salt. She sat there, contemplative.
“Ressa, at times like this, one likes to reflect on one’s weaknesses.”
“Only at times like this, Lady Reinhart?”
“I am not in the mood, Ressa. I will have you swim if you keep it up. This time—among others—one likes to reflect on one’s weaknesses and strengths. I do not like war. I am, it seems, poor at keeping [Assassins] in line.”
Ressa’s cheek twitched. The only other person in the room with them—Reynold—adjusted his position. He glanced at his lower half.
“You don’t say.”
