They were moving out.
Not that it was unusual; an inn had few permanent guests. But it was unusual in this inn. For, as Lyonette had once observed, Erin did not run a usual inn. She’d barely constructed a stables two months ago.
Similarly, she had few temporary guests. What she had made was…a home. Sometimes a home aways from home. Sometimes—the only true home her guests had ever known, like Bird and the Redfangs. And despite the craziness, it seemed the guests only left when someone had died.
Sometimes it was them. Zel Shivertail had once stayed here. Zel. Shivertail. But sometimes they left because someone else had died.
This time, it was because the [Innkeeper] was not there to keep them around. And the [Princess] was not there to oversee the farewell.
So it fell, as such tasks did, to Ishkr the Gnoll. Ishkr, whose defining trait was a lack of one. A helpful quality in a worker.
No, that wasn’t fair. Ishkr’s defining trait was that he lacked any negative ones, while possessing admirable traits in the right quantities. After all, he worked hard. He didn’t get upset easily. He was independent enough to do whatever he saw needed doing, like cleaning a spilled drink, or kick out a Shield Spider—and he did it. Motivation, independence, the ability to calm angry guests whose fries had been grabbed by little white Gnolls…
He had a lot of good traits. He was just not an Erin—or Drassi—or even Lyonette, all with admirable strengths, and a good deal of flaw as well. He was someone every business wanted because he didn’t drag his personal troubles with him. He did his job, he got paid, and he left.
But he was also part of this inn. Enough so that when Lyonette left, she looked at those who remained and saw Ishkr, who had been here the longest aside from Drassi and, unlike her, wasn’t torn between two jobs. For that matter, Drassi was more like The Wandering Inn’s mascot, or famous temp worker. If she put hours at the bar, it was just for her idea of fun.
She was here, though. She and Ishkr felt like it was important. And he was very glad, because he wouldn’t have known what to do.
It was simple, though. Drassi didn’t have a rulebook either, but she did what came naturally to the [Gossip]-turned-[Reporter]. She shook hands with Temile, gently closing her claws around his fingers, and Ishkr did likewise. To the other [Actors] too.
“I’m sorry. I really am. I just don’t think we’d—and everything’s changing.”
That was all Temile managed. Ishkr nodded solemnly. He felt like his fur was white; he checked every day in the mirror. Even Drassi’s ready smile was—tainted.
A good number of the Players of Celum—the originals from Celum itself—had stayed at The Wandering Inn. They were all moving out.
Bags packed, rooms vacated. Ishkr would need to clean them or…have them cleaned. Perhaps he could pay one of the employees for an hour or two’s work. He was, after all, [Head Server] now. He hadn’t ever dreamed he’d be in that kind of role.
He really had taken this job because it paid well, he’d been recommended and persuaded to by Krshia, and had just worked diligently into this position. He wouldn’t have accepted it, normally. Management was stressful.
But he’d liked Erin. So he found himself agreeing despite his inclination to have time to watch out for his sister. Liska. Besides—it had helped since some of the Watch ate and drank here.
“Where will you go?”
Ishkr looked at the other [Actors]. They shrugged.
“The new lodgings. Into the city. We’re trying to rent rooms nearer to the new theatre, anyways.”
“The new…?”
Ishkr realized he had no idea, and coughed, embarrassed as Drassi blinked at him. He wasn’t Erin! He didn’t know the minutiae of what was happening in their lives.
“Sorry. The new theatre for the Players of Liscor. The city’s subsidized it. It’ll be in the new quarter of the city. We didn’t know if we wanted it what with the [Grand Theatre], but…”
They looked at him. They were not staying. Could not stay, in the same building where Erin lay. Temile nodded.
“That’s half of them. I’m putting the Players of Liscor in Carrec’s h—paws.”
He patted a Gnoll on the shoulder. The [Actor] was one of the ‘newer’ ones, having signed up after the Players began performing in Liscor. Nevertheless, he was still months more experienced than the actual new Players.
“And you, Temile?”
“Invrisil.”
Ishkr started. Invrisil? He listened, abashed, but only slightly. It felt like everything else had mattered less since Erin had…died. He had been in silence so long, moving around the inn, trying to set everything in order. Not listening to the hushed conversations taking place.
“Invrisil?”
Temile was trying to smile.
“That’s right. It’s a promotion. I’m taking over for the Players of Celum in Invrisil. Emme told me it was me or…she didn’t have a second pick. I’m taking some of our best [Actors], though. Well, a 50-50 split.”
The others chuckled. Carrec stage-whispered to the others, with an exaggerated pose.
“He only says that so we think we’re one of the ‘good actors’ he left behind.”
They all smiled or laughed. Even Ishkr. How easy that was. Pretend, for a moment, that all was well. Then you caught someone’s eye and the smile froze. And everyone remembered Erin was dead.
Stop thinking that. Ishkr wanted that thought excised from his mind. He wanted the…pain to stop. The sorrow. The emptiness. Each one as bad as actual agony.
“You’re managing the Players of Celum? But then—what about Jasi? Wesle? Emme?”
Ishkr turned to Temile to cover the sudden silence. The [Producer] looked at him much like Drassi had. Then he smiled.
“I forget you might not have heard, Ishkr. They’re going north again. On the road to First Landing—although they probably won’t get there right away. After the performance they gave, half of Izril’s Human nobility want them to perform for them. And apparently—they’ve hired on more people.”
“Really?”
“They got a Level 40 [Tumbler]. If you can believe that. Scooped her up right after the Summer S…the party. Practically begged to join up. Claimed her act was stale and worthless. Emme says the party broke her spirits, so she snagged her before anyone else could. And they met other entertainers. Barelle the Bard—the Skylights—they’re in talks to combine performances, or at least put on some of Barelle’s stories.”
Big names. Famous names in the entertainment industry. Ishkr just smiled and nodded blankly. Level 40 was the only thing he understood.
“You’re always welcome here. Ishkr’s keeping the inn running, right, Ishkr? And you’ll see me.”
“On television. Wonders never cease. We won’t forget this inn. We owe our careers. Everything to…”
Reflexively, Temile swallowed. And the [Actors] fell silent. They had many fine words, written by masters. But even their soliloquies on death faltered now. They would be better performers for every scene like this. Perhaps too good. Because they understood it.
The Players of Liscor and Celum left the inn. Drassi stood there, waving from the threshold of the portal room as Temile bowed before stepping through to Invrisil. She watched the others walk down the hill through the main door. They preferred to walk, as if it mattered more than just going through the magic door.
It probably did. Drassi sniffed as they were gone.
“So it’s just Hexel, now. His assistants, Montressa, Palt, Bezale, Mrsha, that new Hobgoblin, Ulvama, Numbtongue, Bird, the Humans…not many at all.”
Ishkr nodded. Counting the seven Humans, it was still over ten. But the inn felt even quieter now. Drassi looked at him.
“How’re you doing, Ishkr? I haven’t been…around.”
“I saw you on the news. You have your job.”
She flinched, bit her lip and her tail drooped along the floor as if she was guilty.
“Yeah. Sorry.”
“You’re doing something. My sister actually asked me to get your autograph. Besides. There’s nothing to do…here. Not much. Imani cooks food. I just sweep now and then.”
The Gnoll knew that wasn’t quite true. But Drassi accepted the lie with a smile.
“I can sign an autograph! You know, people are asking me for them? They’re crazy!”
“You don’t have to for her.”
Liska would just run her mouth off about it and Ishkr didn’t need her bragging or getting more excited. But he still told Drassi how to properly spell her name. The Drake was happy to do it.
Then they just stood there. Ishkr tucked the autographed cardboard into his belt pouch. Drassi looked at him.
“So how are you doing?”
What was he supposed to say? My employer is dead. The other one has left for Oteslia. I’m left in charge of caring for Mrsha—who won’t eat or move, despite Imani and Selys trying to talk to her. No one comes in here and but for the portal door, this place is empty.
“Fine.”
She nodded a few times. After a moment, Ishkr raised a paw and scratched at his chin.
“Well, actually…there is one thing I was curious about.”
“Oh? Can I help? I’m free today. Noass and Sir Relz keep cutting my working timeslots anyways. I’m pretty sure that’s what they’re doing. I’d love to help, if I can.”
She studied him. She’d badgered him into having an after-work drink a few times. Drassi was one of the co-workers who brought everything in her life with her. Ishkr had accepted, because she was genuinely friendly. But he could see why she’d been fired before. And why she was clearly headed on a different career path from his.
“Perhaps. I was just going to go into the city, actually. To check on someone.”
“Who? One of the staff? We can head over right now…”
They walked through the portal room. It too was empty. It was meant to be guarded; now, the only two guards were the Brothers. Two of them stood in the hallway each hour of the day. All night too, it seemed. Waiting. They took food and drinks, but they were clearly only here to…kill someone. They scared Ishkr.
When Erin was alive, she wouldn’t have accepted that. They would either be welcome guests, slowly absorbed into the inn, or gone after half a week. Right now, though? He just let them stay.
The two walked into Liscor, talking. Bells still rang for funerals. But most had ended. The city was silent. Tensed.
“You know, we’re still at war with Hectval. People are saying the Council might even consider conscription.”
“For war?”
Ishkr’s fur rose. He didn’t ask how Drassi knew. She talked to everyone. The Drake hastened to assure him.
“It’s unlikely. But—well, it’s not over. So who’re we meeting? One of the staff?”
“In a sense. We’ve—Lyonette—let go of most of the workers. Paid them, but told them it was unlikely the inn will be seeing much business.”
“She didn’t ask you to keep it running?”
Drassi was surprised. Ishkr shook his head. She should have, but neither one could picture it. That was why the Players were leaving. Who could drink and make merry knowing just behind the garden’s door lay Erin?
“No. But we have some permanent staff. I’ll be employing…my sister…”
“Liska. She’s nice.”
“No, she isn’t.”
Ishkr groused. Drassi smiled; that was as close to a lie as she ever told. She didn’t know Liska that well, though. That also helped.
“She can at least sweep up. But Lyonette told me to keep the Antinium employed; they don’t have other jobs. And the [Lords] might want to trade…the door’s not being used, but she asked me to start the regular portal services soon.”
“Oh, right. Good idea. So what’s the problem? Don’t tell me one of the Antinium’s called in sick.”
She laughed. Ishkr cleared his throat.
“Actually—he didn’t show up for work. Or rather, he did, but—he handed in his resignation this morning. Silveran has quit his job.”
Drassi stared at Ishkr so long she walked into a wall. She bounced off and stopped.
“You’re joking. H-hah. Good one, Ishkr! I never knew you had a sense of humor!”
He blinked at her. The [Reporter]’s smile faltered. She reached for her side, and produced…a notepad.
“Now this is news. Tell me everything.”
“I don’t know what there is to tell. He informed me he had found other work and left. I asked him why, and he directed me…well, this way.”
 
—-
 
As always, the world was changing. But it seemed that sometimes it turned faster. So fast that you could be sent flying if you didn’t jump with it.
Even the Antinium, now?
They found the Worker with painted, silver antennae sweeping up the shop front. He tried to hide behind the door when he saw them coming.
Ishkr and Drassi stared at the shop’s front. You wouldn’t have noticed the shop’s sign yesterday. Because it had been so worn and faded no one would have really seen it. But someone had climbed up, cleaned the frontage, then reapplied paint and varnish.
Carrotgrass Emporium. As names went…Drassi’s brow wrinkled as she stared up at it. She stared at the display and understood.
“Oh, a grocery.”
In fact, a quite well-stocked grocery. The glass windows had been shined, polished, and fresh produce was on display. Someone had gone through, replaced all the missing price tags, organized everything by produce type—there were carrots, as promised, actual grasses (the edible kinds)—and more. In fact, the shop had a supply of customers coming in and out with small purchases.
Perhaps just from the novelty of the change. But the truth was—cleanliness was appealing. This shop stood out on the street from the hard work that had been put into making it so nice.
Not to mention the Antinium. Ishkr and Drassi traded a look. Reflexively—they looked around. Because this?
This was the Solstice Effect. Trademarked, copyrighted, if such things existed, and stamped with The Wandering Inn’s official seal of madness. Ishkr longed to hear that familiar voice and laugh—
But there was just Silveran. He was the architect. And he looked very worried.
I am sorry. He signed at Ishkr before hurrying into the shop. Ishkr scratched his head.
“He really did quit! I know this shop and street! It’s never looked this nice! Did they replace the floorboards? They’re light! They used to be gray-brown! And the sign! I didn’t know this place was called Carrotgrass Emporium! That’s—that’s an objectively hilarious and weird name, right?”
Drassi was blown away. Ishkr just shook his head.
“So that was why he quit. Well…”
He was about to say more when he heard the voices. Some of the other [Shopkeepers] as well as customers were inside the shop, talking with the owner. Miss Pelessi. Drassi knew her; Ishkr did not.
This was a Drake neighborhood; he shopped from Gnolls, locally. But he peeked in with Drassi and heard the conversation.
“Pelessi. That’s an Antinium working in your shop.”
