“One imagines the value to be considerably difficult to transport in a bag of holding, milady, even a tax.”
Femar’s eyes glittered. The other Drakes looked eager.
“Well, we can always arrange partial payment. Say, one or two of the artifacts? Never let it be said that Zeres isn’t willing to bargain to make sure everyone’s satisfied!”
He threw out a huge arm. More laughter. Magnolia looked up at him.
“Indeed. But you know, Femar…”
His eyes snapped back down as her aura pushed at his. He glared at the use of his name. Magnolia’s smile developed an edge. And she looked around for Merri and the scrying orb.
“I am rather disappointed. I come here in peace and goodwill, as you saw. I rather feel I bent to show my respect for Zeres. This hardly seems in keeping with my gesture.”
He opened his mouth. She went on.
“However, you are right. We have such old ties. The Velistrane reminds me of that. If you would like me to answer the Matriarch’s will as she presents it through you—I would be willing to do so.”
Her eyes glinted.
“But I am quite good at games of economics. It is one of my two strengths.”
The laughter and chuckling died out. Femar’s eyes narrowed. Slowly, he planted the butt of his spear on the ground.
“You stand in Zeres, Magnolia of House Reinhart. If you want to try something, go ahead.”
“Femar.”
Asale murmured, but his friend was too angry to listen to reason. Magnolia Reinhart smiled sweetly at him.
“I never thought you’d ask. Well then. For Zeres, the City of Waves? I rather did not want to do this. But it seems a traditional city like this requires a traditional reply. Reynold.”
She looked past the Sharkcaptain. Asale’s neck-spines itched. He turned—
And saw the pole.
It was a pole of wood. Reynold had, in fact, assembled it. It was in multiple parts—you locked the wood together.
Nothing fancy. Just smart-cutting, something Pallass would approve of. But as old as, well log cabins. No magic.
It created a pole far taller than the carriage, that was the point. A long stick. You couldn’t even really use it as a quarterstaff unless you were giant. That wasn’t the point, though.
His eyes narrowed. So did Femar’s. So did…because of course, what did that kind of instrument make you think of?
What was it Sir Relz had said?
“The first Reinhart to set foot in the City of Zeres in generations. The first of the Five Families to walk in one of the Walled Cities in…and not as a prisoner.”
A symbol. Think of laws. Magnolia Reinhart had.
Were there laws against…? Femar began to stride towards the carriage.
“You. Put that down.”
Reynold had a bit of fabric in one hand. He had looped it; it was meant to be carried aloft in a similar manner. He glanced at Femar, but ignored the Sharkcaptain.
The Drake’s steps quickened. Reynold handed the pole’s base to a [Maid]. Another maid joined them. They began to haul it up.
“Stop!”
Femar raised his spear, but it was too late. Merri saw one of the Admirals go for the scrying orb. But she was already turning.
The pole rose. And attached to it, the fabric. Or could you call it…a banner? A flag?
If you would press me thusly—Magnolia Reinhart watched as the Sharkcaptain leapt forwards, too late. Asale looked at her.
Claw for claw? Insult for insult? He held his breath. The Matriarch watched, shrieking her fury as the banner—
 
—-
 
“The Banner of Reinhart! That girl! Hah! Hahahaha!”
Regis was shouting in exuberance, all his rage transformed. His eyes locked on the fabric. Then his face twisted in confusion.
 
—-
 
“That’s not the Banner of House Reinhart. The Banner of Terland?”
Lord Tyrion Veltras muttered. But he was already shaking his head. It wasn’t that either. It was—different. It was more colorful than even the Banner of the Terlands.
It was—his eyes widened.
 
—-
 
A color lost to time. Colors lost to time. And it was fabric. It was…blowing in the air. That much everyone had gotten right. But they were wrong in one huge, important detail.
It was not a flag. It was not a banner.
Behold. It flapped in the breeze—then caught the air. Nearly blew the three [Servants] off their feet. They held it steady, but it could have yanked them into the sky if the breeze were stronger. It had been meant for a far larger thing than just them.
A…ship. And what blew as they held it aloft was a beautiful thing. Wrought before even the Five Families had planted their standards on Izril’s soil.
Though time and war had damaged it, though its beloved vessel had been lost, still, it retained its beauty.
The Dragonsail fluttered in the breeze as the Sharkcaptain of Zeres stopped. His spear was ready to cast, to tear it down. But his arm halted.
He froze, eyes wide. The Drakes stared up and cried out.
“A Dragonsail? But the Dragonships were—”
“Lost. The Velistrane sank one in combat long ago.”
Asale murmured. And he understood. He looked at Magnolia Reinhart. She was smiling at him. At Femar, as he turned—and for the cameras.
It was not a nice smile. But neither was it as cruel as it could have been.
“Yes. The Dragonsail. We kept it. We keep everything. That is my reply.”
“What?”
The Admiralty started. Magnolia Reinhart gestured at the impromptu banner hanging in the wind.
“It is in your anthem, isn’t it? And this is Zeres, City of Waves. City of tradition. Dragonsail. Friend. By your laws, those who fly the Dragonsail are kin to your city. I claim right of passage, exempt from the Matriarch’s will under that. Or will Wyrm overturn the will of Dragons?”
She stood in place, beaming around at everyone. Asale saw her glance up as the wind threatened to snatch away the relic again.
“I didn’t want to be this direct.”
She murmured, as if to herself. Asale shook his head. But she’d planned every event so far. He doubted they’d been far off her reckoning.
So there it was. The choir, the coins, even the song of Zeres from the mightiest of the Reinhart’s ships for Zeres, all of it was so lovely. Wrapped up with a pink bow.
This was the other half. Dragonsail. Look at it and remember. Magnolia Reinhart sighed.
“My gifts are many things we’ve kept over the years. I hope to give back some—and spread goodwill. But we shall see at the party. In Oteslia; I bid you all adieu until then. Asale, my regards to the Matriarch. You have a lovely city.”
She walked to the carriage as the Dragonsail was lowered. The carpet was rolled up. The [Servants] not accompanying her headed back to the ships. It was so fast that it caught them all off-guard. Magnolia Reinhart’s pink carriage shot through the city.
And there she was. Almost as fast as rumor. Almost as quickly as news. As gossip and rumor spread—
Lady Magnolia Reinhart had entered the land of the Drakes. She was headed for Oteslia.
She was not the only one. Here came a [Princess]. Hither travelled a [Lady], and Wall Lords and Ladies.
And a Dragon.
