The Free Queen frowned—or her antennae drooped and mandibles lowered. Xrn shrugged.
“Druids call animals to them—or summon elementals. The talisman-users of Drath act like [Summoners], but some can also call forth artificial beings painted or drawn. Let me see…higher-level [Mages] can do a [Summoner]’s job to some degree. I have heard that there are even ways of creating Golem-type creations out of cloth, or substances beyond metal and stone, so perhaps a [Sculptor], or [Weaver] could do the same…it is not special.”
Her eyes winked white and yellow, as she entered into a scholarly mode.
“On the other hand—Pawn’s creations are unique. I compare it to a [Summoner] because they are superior and not.”
“Explain.”
Xrn nodded.
“The Antinium Aberration summons require no catalyst, which most [Summoners] require. Superior. They are expendable and draw upon something…other…than mana. Superior. However, they cannot be ordered fully. Pawn could command them to navigate obstacles—but not pick up a hammer. Any summoned creation—or undead—or Golem could at least attempt that. Inferior. Oh, and they fight with all the combat potential of…Aberration Workers. Hardly as dangerous as some summoned creations, for all their appearance. Inferior.”
She had distilled everything but the horror they generated, and the wrongness Pawn felt at creating them. He saw the Free Queen look at him, as if sensing that thought.
“I see. Do you have anything to add, Pawn?”
“Only—only that I regret learning this Skill, my Queen. I regret it. But I learned it because…because Erin was hurt.”
The Antinium shuddered. At least, the Free Antinium. Their Queen did not. Xrn did not. The foreign Prognugators did not. Erin meant less to them.
“Well, it has given Pawn a useful combat Skill! And in time, he may be able to summon Aberration Soldiers. Or perhaps even more powerful versions.”
Xrn brightly interrupted the silence. Pawn looked at her. She smiled at him, eyes dancing yellow and green, playful and academic. The Free Queen nodded.
“And all this is a result of Pawn’s class. A unique class. One that Klbkch allowed him to keep. Do you, after seeing this, still agree with that decision, Xrniavxxel?”
The Free Queen looked at Pawn. She knew his class. Tersk hesitated. He looked at Dekass, who shook his head, and Xeu and Pivr looked blank too. Their heads swung to Xrn. And she?
She smiled.
Blackness overtaking light. And red. And still that yellow.
“Oh, yes, my Queen. Better to know the enemy which we fight. I say it is good. I agree. Let Pawn continue down his path. I think the Free Antinium are far stronger now than they have been. A worthy addition to the Hives of Izril. Do you not?”
She looked around. The Free Queen nodded, and so did the Prognugators.
“Of course their combat-efficiency is much improved.”
Pivr. Tersk and Dekass, with the latter speaking in his stilted, somewhat obnoxious voice.
“Our presence assures the Armored Queen’s approval.”
Lastly, Xeu. She hesitated, rubbing her scythe-blades together with a faint sound that made all the Antinium’s antennae vibrate. She opened and closed her mandibles, her elongated, scuttling, alien form of the Silent Antinium hesitating. Then she spoke.
“Of course the benefit is observed. I shall communicate the Free Antinium’s potential to my Queen.”
Xrn smiled.
“Excellent! Then I will consider this matter closed. All is quite well.”
Except of course, that it wasn’t. Pawn bowed his head as the Free Queen dismissed them all. He sensed the other Antinium avoiding him as they left. Look at me, the monster. Look what I’ve done, for all I preach about Heaven.
And yet, it was still there. The potential to be unleashed, like a hundred thousand Aberrations squirming in his heart, compressed together. 
Let us out. Let out your wrath. Summon us. Summon worse.
This was what a [Priest] was? Power to unleash what was in his heart?
Pawn began to fear it. Because he knew himself.
 
—-
 
Someone else who feared what he had become, what he had done, stood in front of the map and the Council of Liscor. His tongue felt heavy in his mouth.
He had not slept, not truly, with nightmares or terribly dark sleep. But he stood here, and he had worked these last four days, not despaired.
He had no time. When this was done, he told himself, as he handed out the dossiers, he would sleep. He would sleep and…and Erin would return.
But in the interim, he spoke.
“We are at war, Councilmembers. I am aware Councilmember Krshia is indisposed, as is Councilmember Raekea. However, we cannot wait for their return from the Meeting of Tribes. I am asking you to vote and authorize the following expenditures for the Watch and the city. Immediately.”
“War? Strategist Olesm? Hasn’t there been enough?”
That came from Councilmember Zalaiss. Formerly semi-exiled. Now…with a worrying amount of power since two of the Council’s majority-votes were lacking. It was still Lism, Elirr, Jeiss, Alonna, versus Tismel and Zalaiss. But they just needed one of the Council to waver to have a split vote.
Even then, Zevara would be the tie-breaker, or Olesm himself. But he spoke to all of them as they sat grave, quietly reading.
Was that accusation he saw on their faces? He deserved it. He deserved it all.
Erin was dead because he was careless. Maviola, because he was a fool.
He should have dragged the army back. Ordered Moore and the other hotheads to be restrained. He should have…
“Yes, Councilmember Zalaiss. As I said, Liscor’s army has sent back three more companies to augment the city’s defenses. Three hundred [Soldiers] and commanding officers, plus some reserves to replenish Commander Embria’s forces. However, they will be weeks away at best. But that is not enough. We are in a state of war, and immediate steps need to be taken.”
“And the army is not…returning, Strategist Olesm?”
The quiet voice came from Lism. He looked at Olesm over the report. Olesm shook his head.
“They are engaged in their contract. Furthermore…they would be willing to return, but only if the war escalates. And they would have certain requirements if they did.”
Such as taking over for the Council of Liscor. Lism nodded.
“And if Liscor would be sacked or razed by the Hectval-Luldem—whatever the hell that Ancestors-damned alliance is?”
His tail lashed furiously. Olesm cleared his throat.
“I believe the army is convinced the walls as well as the Free Antinium would prevent a siege from ever taking the city. They are…content to allow Liscor to resolve the issue beyond that.”
They would rather see the Hive burn first. If he had not ordered the Black Tide to fight—perhaps. But the responses had been clear.
“I see. Does the alliance have the ability to take our walls?”
“With an Antinium army plus our Watch? I don’t think they have trebuchets.”
Jeiss muttered. Alonna nodded. It was rare for a properly-maintained Drake city to fall to sieges. The walls were too high, the enchantments too strong.
“In that case—why this extraordinary budget, Strategist?”
Alonna looked kindly at Olesm, but with a shadow over her face. The city still mourned the dead. Olesm wore white clothing. He shuddered.
“Because, Councilmember Alonna, the Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem alliance will do anything short of sieging the city, and I would not put it past them to engage in a wider siege cutting off trade or food to the city if they can effect it. We are at war.”
A timid, clawed hand. Tismel flinched as Lism glared at him, but he raised his claw nonetheless.
“But both sides have lost considerably from this last conflict, Strategist Olesm. Isn’t it enough?”
Olesm just stared at the head of the Cobbler’s Guild. Stared, until Tismel looked very uncomfortable. He saw similar looks from Alonna and even his uncle, though. Not from Jeiss or Elirr. They understood.
“Councilmember Tismel. It is true both sides have suffered.”
Hectval not enough. Olesm swallowed that.
“…But it is not an end to war. We have not signed a declaration, or asked Hectval’s alliance to. And nor would I suggest that. We are at war, still. And Hectval will be moving against us soon, if they are not already. We are at war because we are Drakes. And we do not let matters lie. Not when blood has been spilled. If we were Human or Gnoll, the answer would be the same. But especially because we are Drakes. No, it is not enough.”
A silence fell over the Council after that speech. Olesm closed his eyes a moment, swaying where he stood. Once, someone had talked about consequences. She had said to a foolish [Mayor], so incredulous—of course. Of course there are consequences.
“War. How long has it been since Liscor was, individually, at war with another city?”
Lism looked around. Alonna’s lips moved.
“We’ve fought with the north as a whole, we skirmished with Esthelm when the city was first founded, but even that was nigh on a century ago…the Bloodfields overtook the pass south for a long time, and was stifling travel before that.”
“Centuries, perhaps. What do we do? Can we even fend off an attack if Hectval comes at us?”
Zalaiss looked around. Elirr hadn’t spoken; the sole Gnoll remaining on the Council was just looking at Olesm. And he looked old, and tired, and worried. But he tapped the paper and attracted the Drakes’ attention.
“I believe Strategist Olesm has all the answers.”
Olesm bowed to Elirr.
“Not all, Councilmember. But I know what must be done. While we wait for the three other companies from the army, we will have to double the Watch’s size again. Watch Captain Zevara requires an expanded budget. Most important will be fortifying the Floodplains. That means far-ranging patrols, counter-scouting missions and knowing where the enemy is. You can see I have marked out spots for watchtowers to be built.”
“Watchtowers?”
The Council murmured. Tismel was incredulous.
“Why do we need them? They won’t stop an army! Double the Watch again? They’d be over ten-thousand strong! Let’s just have the [Architect] build a wall! Wasn’t that the campaign Lism ran on?”
Olesm sighed. Here was where his Manus-education paid off. At least for the obvious. He spoke, patiently.
“Liscor is growing. And Hectval can amass an army that large by themselves. Watchtowers are necessary because they…watch…for enemy raids, Councilmember Tismel. That’s the greatest threat. Saboteurs, small bands of Drakes who launch a [Fireball] at a village. Or at travellers. Hectval could kill our trade with the north, ruin our fields and thus our harvests.”
“And they have already launched one raid which did too much.”
Elirr’s voice made everyone go silent. Olesm half-nodded. The others regarded the maps. Olesm cleared his throat again.
“To your point about a wall, Councilmember Tismel, a wall does not stop any of this. Even if we stretched it across the southern entrance to the Floodplains; they’d just go around it, over the mountains. It costs too much to build, maintain, and we would never have it up in time.”
“So. Watchtowers. Feels weird we’re building them on our southern border.”
Jeiss muttered. He got nods from Zalaiss and Tismel. Olesm just raised one brow.
“They used to be placed to the north and south, Councilmember Jeiss. We’ll be rebuilding them on old foundations before the Necromancer destroyed them. And the Antinium.”
Jeiss blinked. Olesm saw him look askance, but the [Strategist] was too tired to care.
“I would like you to agree to my budget, Councilmembers. It’s underlined on the last page.”
They checked it out and gasped.
“This is far too much! We don’t have the coin to—”
“Even with all the new immigrants and taxes?”
Alonna was doing some math. Zalaiss was shaking her head.
“This kind of expenditure—”
“We are at war, Councilmembers!”
Olesm barked. The female Drake looked at him. He blinked again.
“Watch Captain Zevara will be meeting with us to discuss the expanded Watch’s roles. It would be within her power to expand the Watch this way, without consultation. We are at war—which means she and I both outrank you. I am asking you to approve what I feel is necessary. Not requesting your permission.”
It gave him no satisfaction to see their faces. The reality began to sink in. Olesm stood there, as the Council looked at each other.
“Then, Olesm…”
Lism. His eyes were very kind as he looked at his nephew. Olesm bit his tongue. He steadied himself with his tail. He pushed down everything and everything. Do your duty right.
“…What can we do to make your and Watch Captain Zevara’s jobs easier?”
Olesm gulped.
“Frankly, Councilmember Lism? You can consider a conscription.”
Silence now. Olesm spoke into it.
“Because unless we achieve the numbers of the Watch without it—we need an army and you saw what a pure militia force suffered, even with high-leveled support and Gold-ranks. They won’t join us for the larger war. We need an army to counterattack, stop enemy raids. Fight. The Watch isn’t nearly large enough. I’d say we need a mercenary army, but ours isn’t kindly disposed towards Liscor at this moment.”
“Our army seems to have abandoned us.”
Elirr commented. He looked around the Council’s room. Olesm sighed.
“Of course they have, Councilmember Elirr. They abandoned us after the Second Antinium War. We just never needed them until now. So. Either we obtain a second one, or we let Hectval burn the Floodplains down around us. Let’s talk about how much gold we need up front…today…before Watch Captain Zevara arrives.”
 
—-
 
Three types of Antinium walked the Hive.
The first were those who grieved. Who were broken. Despite Pawn’s sermons—they were the Painted Antinium, those who had known her, gone to that inn.
They were, ironically, the second-smallest group. The second had no idea what was lost. They were ordinary Workers and Soldiers who had never met her. Too many would never know what had been left.
No, they would know someday. Keep to that. Hold your faith.
The last? The indifferent. They knew, but they did not care as much.
Tersk was not of that group. He mourned. Pivr though…he and Xeu had little emotion. Xrn as well.
What enraged Pawn though, was Dekass.
He had been at the inn. He had been given food; practically gobbled it down day after day after day. And still…
This was his reaction.
“I…mgfh…believe your combat ability…mm…would be of great interest to the other Queens if it can be replicated…crunch crunch…Pawn. Imagine the tactical superiority of an army of ten thousand summoning twice their number? And then using the expendable army? Can your class and levels be easily achieved?”
Pawn stared at the Armored Antinium. He stared at the bag of crisps in Dekass’ hands. He was stuffing himself with all three other hands.
