“Admiral of the Supply confirms. This is on-schedule and approved! Stand down. Stand down!”
“The Admiral of the Fleet—”
“The Matriarch demands we—”
“Stand down by order of the Admiral of Supply!”
They were barking at each other as, in the scrying orb, an excited [Mage] was talking.
“Yes, Drassi. I think we are seeing Magnolia Reinhart’s fleet at a distance! Zeres appears to be partially caught off-guard, but I understand the harbor has been empty all day. What you’re hearing are drumbeats from those ships. And—oh! We’re seeing [Darkness] spells covering the harbor.”
Indeed, the air was going dark as multiple spells filled the air. It sucked away the light, and the citizenry not near the bay definitely noticed that. They began heading in the direction of the most light; the approaching fleet.
Now, the television was showing dozens of ships approaching the harbor at full-sail, glowing with colored mage-lights. The [Mage] breathed.
“This will be the first time in living memory that a member of the Five Families steps foot in the City of Waves. The second time that Magnolia Reinhart has walked through a Walled City! One for the history books, Drassi.”
“This is such an amazing moment, Merri. Thank you for covering it!”
The Drake [Reporter] was covering the event live from Pallass. She had kicked Sir Relz’s chair off-screen and she was clearly enjoying every minute of it.
And then—ah. When you put it like that. One for the history books. You began to understand that it could have been a moment without fanfare or notice.
But Magnolia Reinhart had decided it was not.
 
—–
 
Walled Cities in conference.
Manus to Oteslia. We are aware of Magnolia Reinhart requesting travel permissions to your city. We were not informed of any entry-display to Zeres. Zeres, please confirm this is happening.
Oteslia. Magnolia Reinhart’s approval was acceded to by all six Walled Cities. Nothing has changed.
Fissival. This is on the news. It is being declared a landmark event, like Reinhart walking on Pallass’ walls. ‘First of the Five Families to step on the Walled Cities in generations.’
Pallass. Magnolia Reinhart did not ‘step on Pallass’. Retract statement, Fissival.
Manus to Zeres. This event was not agreed upon. Zeres?
Salazsar. We’re online. What’s happening?
Oteslia. Magnolia Reinhart is simply travelling by way of Zeres.
Fissival to Oteslia. We’re counting at least twenty, maybe thirty ships approaching. That is not ‘travelling’. This is a spectacle!
Oteslia. Calm down.
Zeres. This action has been approved. We are in the middle of her entrance. Busy, Manus.
Manus to Zeres. Please halt Magnolia Reinhart’s arrival until the Walled Cities have come to a decision.
Zeres to Manus. Are you serious? How?
Fissival to Zeres. Confirm this isn’t an invasion? Fissival to Oteslia, are you certain this is not a surprise attack?
Oteslia to all. Magnolia Reinhart is travelling to Oteslia. 
Pallass to Oteslia. Was Oteslia aware this would occur? 
Oteslia. Standby.
Pallass to Oteslia. Not funny. Was this planned with the First Gardener or is this Magnolia Reinhart’s initiative? Oteslia, confirm.
Oteslia. Standby.
Zeres. Reinhart incoming.
 
—-
 
A fleet was approaching Zeres’ harbor, spread out on both sides. Like…a procession. Not all were warship-class. But in the distance, the largest of the vessels was slowly moving forwards.
“That’s…the damned Velistrane.”
Someone breathed in the watching crowd. The famous warship. As Drassi heard—and the audience of the world from the excited Drake [Mage] reporting—
“…the largest warship ever built by House Reinhart. A relic from the Colonization Wars—of course, the Humans of Izril have a different name for their war of aggression. It has participated in hundreds, hundreds of naval battles and been sunk three times—each time repaired and refitted. The Velistrane is of course famous for having sunk a Dragonship in naval combat in a two-day running battle. As first impressions go, this is both a show of force and spectacle from Magnolia Reinhart, perhaps an attempt to reclaim her damaged reputation—”
That was background chatter, interrupted by the boom of drums. Multiple enchanted drums in fact, hit in near-perfect synchronization from multiple ships.
[Captains] stood at the prows of their ships, flanked by…servants? Yes, the iconic [Butlers], [Maids], and so on of House Reinhart. They sailed into the harbor in a rough inverted-‘V’ formation, leaving a single path for the mighty warship.
“Is this a show of force, Merri?”
Drassi was asking, leaning over the desk at the glowing image; she was in a corner of the broadcast.
Ulvama was gobbling popcorn; other leaders were watching. The view switched back to the excited Drake.
“The Velistrane might be—at least, as a symbol of the Five Family’s might. However, we’re seeing the first ships approaching and—dead gods, look at that!”
Lights began shooting up from each vessel as the servants raised wands. A lights-show, magical fireworks blooming.
Some were fireworks as those from Earth knew them, simple magical explosions to awe and amaze. But what a poor use of illusion spells. The real magic was the magical animals that were called into being.
They leapt off the decks and raced across the surf, even making sounds. A gazelle leapt past the orb, golden-yellow, showering sparks of light as it struck the cobblestones. Drake children gasped and reached out as the harmless illusions swept off the decks.
“It’s like the very best of [Illusionists]! Well, Magnolia Reinhart seems to have decided Zeres will have a show with her arrival! And look at that! If you want a symbol—here’s one!”
Four dozen [Servants] armed with wands were pointing towards the central display of lights. There—the audience gasped and looked up.
A Dragon flew through the skies. Glowing red, fiery. It circled overhead as the combined illusion created a vast magical illusion. Becoming realer.
Fiery light turned to scales. The Dragon flew as lesser Wyverns and other flying animals like Rocs appeared overhead.
“Dragons for the Walled Cities. Is that a nod to the Walled City’s history—or—a taunt? This is Noass—”
In the corner of the screen, Noass tried to fight his way into the broadcast. Drassi began shoving him off.
“It looks more like a nod of appreciation to me! And this is my segment—oh, the ships are drawing close to harbor!”
Indeed, they were docking at the berths, each ship perfectly fitting those in place. From his tower, Asale was making notes.
Trade ship, The Redsail, check. Former Pirate’s cutter, Marevong’s Mead…check…
Some were trade-ships, probably hired for the occasion, others vessels belonging to House Reinhart. As they drew to port, the wary Zeres forces clustered at the docks. [Soldiers]—or rather, their naval equivalent—[Sailors] and [Marines], ready to fight.
But the servants weren’t armed for war, unless you counted the wands. They were instead poised, dressed in black and white. As the ships smoothly dropped anchor, they moved as one.
Illuminated by the lights, the servants bowed. They were Human, without exception, at least, the front rank. They gracefully knelt or curtsied. Then lifted their hands and began to toss something down towards the crowd.
“Flowers?”
That was Drassi’s first thought. But it wasn’t flowers. There were cries—and someone distinctly shouted ‘ow’! But then shouts of glee.
“It looks like they’re throwing silver coins into the crowd! Wait—I see gold too!”
Merri scrambled for a coin and produced a fat gold coin. That broke the harbor’s silence. The crowd might have not been all on board with Magnolia Reinhart, but suddenly everyone wanted to grab some money.
“Is she—trying to—buy—affection from proud Drakes—”
Noass fought onto the screen with Sir Relz. Drassi grabbed the magical microphone and began to kick at them.
“I’d rather have that than flowers! Why are you determined to be so negative? Oh, and look at that!”
The [Servants] at the railings throwing coins, and yes, some flowers continued to do so as others fulfilled roles under the cover of the [Darkness] spell. Which became obvious as they were illuminated.
Lanterns began to glow from the ship’s port and starboard sides on both sides of the harbor, illuminating the way down the center like…well, an arrow. The servants on the sides not facing the docks held up the lanterns or wands, standing to attention.
The drum beats began to intensify. And then suddenly—ceased. In the sudden silence, people looked up, even stopping squabbling for the coins for a second. Merri, caught off-guard, was still shouting.
“This seems to be as dramatic as the Reinhart family is said to be at times! A show of goodwill! Oh. Sorry. A show of goodwill, if the coins are any indication. What’s the symbolism? Reinhart paying her way into Zeres? The Dragon is most certainly a nod to the Walled Cities, but the Velistrane is inbound. And that’s the other, closed hand of northern Izril’s might. Or so one assumes…”
Here it came. The mighty warship, aglow with magic. So vast that it was in a class of its own.
 
—-
 
“The Velistrane.”
Asale, the Admiral of Supply, stood before the Serpentine Matriarch. She had summoned him, and the other leaders of Zeres, except for the Admiral of the Harbor and Admiral of the Navy, who were in the harbor in case this was a sneak-attack.
“One of the last great warships the enemy possesses.”
The Drake who sat on the not-throne glared at the image. Her fingers twitched as much as her tail.
“I could destroy it here and now and rid Zeres of it once and for all! If we unleashed all the harbor-spells—”
She glared at Asale, her eyes baleful. The Admiral of the Supply raised a claw.
“It is possible the Velistrane could match our harbor defenses and fight back for the minutes it would take to escape the harbor, Matriarch. Even if we attempted to close the gates.”
“But if we closed the gates and sank it?”
He met her gaze.
“…Then no ship would trust the word of Zeres when it offers safe passage again, Matriarch. Or at least, not for years.”
She cursed him.
“Why did you let her arrive, Asale?”
The Sharkcaptain was glowering too. The Admiral of Supply sighed.
“We are not at war with Humans, Matriarch, Admiralty. I remind you of that. Or have the Antinium suddenly lost their strength? I say: let her pass.”
“And if I disagree?”
“You may accept my resignation.”
A second aura curled around Asale. He brushed it away and waited. Two slitted pupils glowered at him. But nothing was said.
 
—-
 
Here came the warship. The people at the docks looked up at the glowing lines of the ship, drawing closer. It was projecting its own luminesce, the wooden sides of the ship glowing.
And there was the sigil of House Reinhart—and that name.
Velistrane.
The citizens of Zeres tensed. Noass did them a disservice, suggesting that the coins were enough to buy goodwill. They knew that famous name from stories of wars with Humans.
[Sailors] now—from around the world, were less picky. They took off caps, or watched as one of the grandest ships remaining slowly entered the harbor.
 
—-
 
Magnolia Reinhart exhaled as she watched the scrying orb. She hadn’t been certain. Fairly sure, yes. But the Serpentine Matriarch was notorious for her temper, even if Magnolia had never met her before.
“I almost wish I could have brought Bethal to meet her. That would have been a meeting to remember—disastrous as it might be. Well, the hardest part is done. Now…let’s see how they react to this.”
 
—-
 
The drums had gone silent. The sound of surf against the docks was the only noise, aside from the breathing of those around. The [Servants] had gone silent. But more figures were arrayed on the decks.
On the Velistrane too. There were…hundreds. Hundreds, not even counting the [Sailors]. The Admiral of the Harbor watched, grinding her teeth.
“They’re in ranks. If they’re going to attack—they’re being open about it. I don’t see…weapons.”
“What, then?”
Her counterpart looked at her. The Drake cursed the [Darkness] spell, despite having near perfect night-vision despite the enchantment on her.
“Pieces of parchment? Paper? I have no idea what—wait. Is that Magnolia Reinhart herself?”
She pointed.
Everyone saw the light illuminate the prow of the ship. There stood a woman in a pink dress. She was certainly a grand lady—her hair flashed in the light. A proud…the Admiral hesitated.
“We might be seeing Magnolia Reinhart herself! Wait…is that Magnolia Reinhart?”
Merri was commentating. There was a ripple of confusion as the woman spread her arms out, as if greeting Zeres.
 
—-
 
“That’s not Magnolia Reinhart.”
Lord Tyrion took one glance at the scrying orb and told Hethon. Sammial’s breakfast fell off his fork; they were eating.
“It’s not?”
Hethon was unsure. So were the people in Zeres. Pink dress, standing on the prow of the boat…Tyrion didn’t look twice.
“It’s not her.”
But he was watching out of the corner of his eye.
 
—-
 
“Is it Magnolia Reinhart or not? She’s big. The Sharkcaptain might be smaller than her!”
“I heard Magnolia Reinhart’s fat. Eats sugar all the time.”
“Who told you that?”
The arguing voices interrupted the silence as the capital ship drifted closer. The woman stood there, perfectly poised, arms outstretched, welcoming. As if she were the figurehead.
The ranks of silent people on each side of the ship. The two Admirals in the harbor eyed them, tensing. It couldn’t be Magnolia Reinhart; this was a bad spot to put the head of one of the Five Families. One stray [Sniper] could kill her.
And it wasn’t Magnolia. The woman had actually very few passing resemblances to Magnolia aside from…gender? And the pink dress. She was taller than Magnolia, and yes, heavier-set. From afar you could confuse them only so long.
But then the Velistrane was slowing, moving even slower to the docks. And as the silence stretched out—the woman moved at last. She opened her mouth.
And began to sing.
 
“Through storm and Kraken’s Pass, do I see the shore at last?
Standing tall amidst the waves?
Where Dragonsail flies, my harbor remains.
Zeres, City of Waves to shelter me~?”
 
It was an operatic voice. The kind of tone and…lungs that even Crowdcaller Merdon would respect. Not just sheer lungpower, but Skills.
The [Singer]’s voice echoed across the harbor, rendering mute the Admirals, the Drake [Marines], even the squabbling Drakes on the television.
It was a deep, commanding voice. But also, so lovely. And she’d done the entire first verse at full-volume and in one breath.
“Now there is a singer I respect.”
