For now, he needed to figure out how to get more weapons. They just didn’t have enough identical weapons to smooth out rifts absorbing the rift seeds. If a rift ate the weapon and didn’t de-aspect, and they didn’t have a backup like they did with the swords, they might as well destroy the rift. As throwing in another similar, but not identical, weapon almost guaranteed the next Tier up de-aspected the rift.

Matt had Kees change their standing order for sword to any and all weapon types from rifts, but that would take time. He had spent two hundred years buying a single weapon type, and only had a few million units.

One of the aperologist had a good idea they couldn’t act on yet, but went on the ‘list of things to do, eventually’. If they could create rifts that dropped specific weapon types, they could have their eventual rift delving section delving those rifts to supply the aperology department with the weapons they needed.

Kees declined the idea, but said he’d have an alternative ready for Matt’s perusal in a few weeks once they worked out the legality of doing something like that.

With one piece of the rift puzzle sort of figured out, Matt went back to testing ice rifts using a variety of weapons. Metal claws and tooth coverings didn’t work, which made Matt a little sad because he would have loved to tease Aster about that, but he was happy enough to run through various weapons in his testing.

He wasn’t the first one to land on a level two mana type though.

That honor went to a very surprised Ashia, who had created a Tier 6 wood aspected aura rift using, somewhat anticlimactic, a staff.

The combination seemed obvious because it was, and half a dozen of the aperologist good naturedly congratulated Ashia for beating them to it.

With wood aura, they were able to use the Emperor's method to create a Tier 4 wood aura rift. The relief was palpable as the mental barrier was finally broken, and more and more level two mana types rifts started to get their formulas hammered out.

Matt didn’t even get to be the one to create ice aura, which was a bit of a let down, but he didn’t let that show and gave the man who did succeed a pint of Asters personally made ice cream as a show that there was no bad blood.

The actual discoverer, Fel-door, had seemed almost afraid that he had succeeded, but that was what came with an Ascenders reputation, and Matt made a note to try and humanize himself with his guild more often.

The results were interesting though.

Nothing was definitive yet, but their initial testing indicated that ice rifts preferred spiked knuckles, lava used great hammers, lightning liked parrying daggers, metal wanted combat picks, and mist rifts wanted throwing stars.

It was an eclectic mix of weapons that didn’t seem to have any rhyme or reason, which left all of the aperologist scratching their heads.

In the end, it just reinforced Matt’s desire to figure out pure mana aperology like Theodore typically used.

Like chemistry, once they understood the interactions between elements, they could start to target specific reactions and ditch using things like random weapons to create aura rifts, but that was going to be a long time coming, if it ever happened.

Progress was being made however, and that gave the guild a jubilant attitude. It was almost funny to see the typically demure aperologist strutting around the guild. Their success also seemed to light a fire under the other departments, but even Matt could see that was partly Kees fanning the flames, creating light interdepartmental rivalries by publicly rewarding the aperology teams who made contributions.

That led to the other departments going head down, which produced surprisingly good results, and gave Matt a bit of downtime.

Aiden: “What about doing something like that martini glass trick you pulled on me that one time? Could you trap a person or full army in the display case, ship-in-a-bottle style?”

Max: “Hang on, I’m still interested in the illusion-solidifying idea.”

Aiden: “But she already has [Solid Illusion]!”

Max: “And like you said, she can already trap you in a perspective shift. Redundancy is a good thing, you brute.”

Moe: “My title! Nooooo, I’m the only one allowed to be a brute!”

Max: “You can both be brutes for all I care!”

Krodag responded with a stylized comic rendition of himself flexing.

Krodag: “All is right with the world.”

Aiden: “Anyway, what if she combines it with a perspective trick and maybe a Law or two to make miniature terrarium-worlds, with trapped people inside of them? Use it to create areas with fixed laws, making it easier to maintain them? Seems like a winning idea to me.”

Sien: “That would be such an under-utilization of the ways you can make the case practically permanent, though. It would thus become merely another battlefield control technique, and one that doesn’t even leave hazards. Besides, anyone worthy of such a treatment would be capable of escaping it with relative ease.”

Aster: “That depends on how you do it though! Layering a hard wall of the cage with a soft wall of an internal effect could be pretty effective, especially if you make some spatial locks part of it.”

Matt: “Where are we on the idea of making it armor?”

Gideon: “Morphed into making illusions solid, though I’m with you on this one [Display Case] is known for being stupid hard. More armor is always a good thing.”

Brian: “Yeah, but it’s not like Maya’s going to be taking very many attacks head-on. Better to give her more minions of a type people don’t have experience with.”

Matt: “Okay, but what about the atypical sensory feedback?”

Aster: “There’s nothing stopping her from applying it to an illusion of herself, and in that way it could be even more effective.”

Matt: “Okay, but limiting the targeting would make it so much stronger.”

Aster: “Yeah, limiting it to illusions.”

Matt: “Not what I mean.”

Max: “I did some calculations, and I think you could probably hide the elemental force signature if you tweak the divination screen a bit. Here, let me send you my work.”

Matt tried to skim some of Max’s formulas, but quickly found himself out of his depth- he’d never really delved into illusions much, but Aster certainly seemed keen to discuss the finer details with their seniors.

It was a refreshing break when he finally learned that there was some mage-work that he could properly follow that needed his attention, namely the travel mana engine.The team designed a new train engine that could be swapped with current engines that had an insane torque to mana ratio. Oddly enough the engine which used the fastest mana type struggled to reach anything resembling high speeds. That was more a result of the design rather than the mana type and the team was already working on refining their prototype.

The current iteration wasn’t quite good enough to patent it, but it was close. At worst it could act as a spot patent, which would stake their claim to everything up to this point in case they lost the race to a final viable product. But Matt thought that was unlikely at this point.

There were already two high Tier ship engines using travel mana that were better than their commercially available counterparts, but currently the lowest Tier engine was Tier 33.

From what he understood of the reports, travel mana was finicky to work with at lower Tiers and the Tier 5 engine the team had created was revolutionary in quite a few ways that Matt didn’t have the physics background to fully understand. He did however understand that they were doing some innovative things with their enchanting work, and so when they asked for both more space, a few more hands to help, and a larger budget he happily approved the increase in spending.

If they could solve the top speed issue without losing any of the torque to mana ratio the engine would see an almost twenty percent cost reduction for long distance trains across the Empire. Considering it was the single most ubiquitous method of travel for mortals, both in and between cities, that would have a noticeable impact in cost for any place where the trains could reach max speed which was where the savings kicked in.

The travel engine really shined at its top speed which was both higher than the traction engines and cheaper to run at those speeds. The engines did however struggle at the slower speeds which Matt didn’t believe would be easily solved just because of how travel mana worked.

It had one speed, and that speed was fast.

So while the engines might not replace subway engines, or even cars like he had hoped, intercity trains would be falling over themselves to swap their engines out. Those savings would then be passed on to the mortals who relied on those methods of transportation allowing them more opportunities to travel for work or delves.

It was a bit egotistical but Matt hoped that in the coming years Titan’s Torch would continue to be a light in the darkness leading the Empire and the realm itself to a brighter future.
