They hoped that by creating instances and forcing the rift to spend neutral mana, they could then feed the rift the perfect ratio of elemental mana, which would then be integrated in the place of neutral mana and have the same stabilizing effect. That all hinged on the hypothesis that the rifts didn’t just convert the elemental mana into neutral mana, which they had no way of knowing without first figuring out the perfect ratios and then running tests by Tiering up the rifts.

Matt and most of the Titan’s Torch aperologists believed that was the fundamental truth of rifts, and if they could learn how to manipulate rifts on that level, they could crack aperology as a whole.

Currently, his team was part of the race to create variable aura rifts, but they were closer to cracking the level two mana types more than anything.

The first question about level two mana types was fairly easy. What mana type did you want?

For his purposes, Matt had split the level two mana types into three categories: easy, tricky, and hard. Easy mana types were things like ice and lava, where even vague environmental associations were more than enough to spawn them in abundance. Tricky mana types were things like crystal and sound. They happened, for sure, but only in rare situations, and especially in crystal’s case, overwhelmingly not on the surface of a planet.

Then you had the hard elements. Healing, blackwater, and divination foremost among them.

There were, so far as anyone knew, no natural rifts of those elements anywhere in the Empire. Well, House Alkaza claimed to have a natural blackwater rift, but also refused to let anyone actually verify it, so it didn’t count.

Normally, that was only half an issue, as it was entirely possible to elementally aspect a rift just with sufficient mana of that type… But they’d found that aura was overwhelmingly more likely to spawn in rifts if they adjusted the isolation formations to more closely mimic its natural environment, rather than a blank void.

While Matt would love to produce aura rifts of those mana types he had no intention of starting with the hardest mana types.

So, he’d be starting off easy and going from there.

While elemental rifts were already somewhat in the minority, and most of the remainder were of level one types, level two mana type rifts still showed up with decent regularity. Ice could be found at mountaintops or near the poles, sand was found in deserts, mud in swamps, lava in volcanoes, wood in forests, and so on.

That was where Matt and the rest of the guild thought the answer was and what they were trying to replicate. At least partially.

Matt was, of course, starting with ice rifts.

It wasn’t just because of Aster, though the fact his bond was currently animatedly adding to the discussion going on in the Ascender chat was a factor, but more so that fewer people would complain when an ice rift exploded than when a lava rift did the same.

Even if low Tier lava wasn’t actually dangerous to anyone here, it was more annoying to deal with cooled lava than melted ice.

Cleaning out his dozen rift formations, Matt started filling all of them with ice mana without a sub-aspect.

When rifts formed, Matt waved his hand and dissipated nine of them which hadn’t taken to the mana type he wanted.

Making a note with his [AI] Matt kept filling the rifts until he had twelve Tier 1 ice rifts.

Then, he started to slowly add in air and water mana, the two mana types that created ice mana, into half of the rifts while simply adding ice mana into the remaining six.

The aperologists’ working theory was that the level two mana types seen in nature wasn’t just because the elements existed in nature, but that the constituent parts existed where they mixed as well.

The sample size was too small to really conclude anything, but three of his rifts Tiered up with air and water survived the Tier up without unaspecting, versus the two ice rifts that failed. After uploading his thoughts to the aperology section of the AI, Matt kept creating rifts until he had a full dozen ice Tier 6 rifts.

It was time to see if any of them had aura.

Popping into the rifts one after another Matt cursed, dissipating all of them.

He had felt good about the creation of rifts using air and water mana. So far, that method had been mildly successful, and the single common method that had been used when someone in the guild did create the odd level two aura rift.

Still, it was obvious that they were missing something. Some piece of the puzzle that would allow them to not only create level two aura rifts, but the more esoteric aura types like sharpness.

Not willing to give up, Matt ran through another dozen tests, raising a rift from Tier 1 to Tier 6, hoping for aura, before tossing in the metaphorical towel and going back to the drawing board.

Or just giving up for the day and paying more attention to the Ascender chat.

His mind went to the swords they were using as the rift seeds.

Back when he did these tests as a Tier 6, they had needed the swords to actualize aura, and all of the adamantly rare successes used a weapon. But the more they tried to break into level two mana types, Matt felt the sword seeds were only parity correct.

After running through a few ideas, Matt decided to challenge that initial assumption.

Their initial belief was that a weapon was needed for a way for the rifts monsters to actualize the aura and that seemed true. At least on the surface. Doing everything the same but not having a sword or some weapon, didn’t create aura rifts, so there was clearly something to the theory.

But did it need to be a sword?

A sword was often considered the most generic weapon. Some philosophies upheld it as the weapon, of which all other weapons were mere variations. A straight-blade longsword could be used in infinitely many ways, supporting endless styles within its simplicity. It could be aggressive or defensive, wielded with nimbleness or brute strength, with straightforward honor or tricky pragmatism. It did not ask for much of its user, but gave much in return.

It was, in a word, simple. And perhaps something about that idea was at play here. All six level one elements could be represented by the sword, but perhaps the level two elements required something a bit more specific, a bit more resonance particular to them.

Going back to the basics, Matt tried creating level one mana type rifts with weapons other than swords and different kinds of swords.

He was limited by the weapons he had identical copies of, but he went through a dozen rifts in short order learning a few things.

Aura rifts could form so long as the item was a weapon, but the actual definition seemed… loose.

A shield was a weapon. Matt believed that with every fiber of being, but no matter what he did, a shield never created an aura rift, even when he used an offensive shield like a thrusting shield or shields with spikes.

The realm seemed to disagree, and no matter how much Matt argued with it he made no headway.

He did learn that the weapon in question when used as a rift seed didn’t need to be a bladed weapon, though that seemed to help form the aura.

As Matt ran through endless cycles of creation and destruction, he began paying more attention to the Ascender chat, and just what was going on in it.

Apparently, Maya had gotten her hands on a [Cracked Greater Display Case] skill shard as part of her payment for sticking around at Tier 35 for a little bit longer, and she was soliciting advice from everyone about what she should do with it.

Matt wasn’t that familiar with the base skill, but a bit of research caught him up to speed. Normally, the skill created a box out of panes of force around a single object, protecting it and granting any onlookers a host of divination-based insights into the item on display. It, and its lesser ilk, were popular in auction houses and museums, though only the richest organizations had ready use of the Tier 38 skill.

Maya’s crack, meanwhile, worked on anything rather than just objects, which changed the dynamic in rather interesting ways.

Aster: “And I’m telling you, illusions absolutely require proper knowledge of how to make things work! That’s why she needs to work on improving the analysis it provides.”

Sien: “That would be such an immeasurable waste of such a valuable and unique raw technique. Maya is not so desperate as to require a simple divining effect. But the opportunity to utilize this as a means to capture one’s dreams cannot be overstated. [To See Another’s Innermost Desires] would be perfect to merge with it, and enable marvelous analysis of one’s enemies in a perfectly safe manner.”

Matt piped in while he charged up a rift: “What about turning it into an armor skill?”

Discussing strategy with actual enemies of the Empire had seemed a bit weird at first, but he’d gotten over it. Nominally, none of them were going to be fighting each other any time soon, but in case they did then it would be a waste to make it anything but the absolute best fights possible, with both parties having maximum cool moves to bust out.

Also, it was just fun to discuss powers with other powerful people

Ellen: “Seems like a waste to me. Why not just go with [Force Armor] at that point? Besides, the divinations would just run counter to her illusions.”

Max piped in, seeming to catch what Matt was going for: “The divination effect could be warped. It’s a classic issue that divinations can sometimes interfere with each other, having a constant low-grade divination going on yourself, especially if you control what exactly that divination shows and how it shows it, could be an interesting anti-divination tech.”

Maya: “I already do that, and you know it.”

Max: “More doesn’t hurt. But this allows you to also be tricky with how you display the information. Like, maybe you could make other forms of magical armor appear like weakness to the appropriate senses.”

Krodag: “Is [Greater Display Case] normally able to display the results of its divinations onto nonstandard senses?”

Max: “I think so? At least with mods. For something like danger or weakness sense you might need to use some Mind’s Eye Seeds, but it should work.”

Matt turned away from the chat to take a look at his latest results, lightly pitching in here and there as he continued his experiments.

Curiously, it seemed like while a club only sometimes worked, a spiked club worked just as well as a sword.

The oddest thing for Matt was the fact a rock knapped into a blade worked. At least, it did sometimes. Though Matt suspected the failures were more so in the fact the weapons weren’t as identical as rift-made weapons could be, more so than their nature as sharp rocks.

Matt took the logical leap and expected that a stone blade would work well with earth aura rifts, but in fact found it didn’t seem to have any particular effect. The material seemed not to matter at all so long as the shape and general idea of the weapon was the same in the context of working for a rift.

It brought up a lot of questions about what rifts, or possibly the realm, considered weapons.

What he did learn was that the type of weapon seemed matter. They seemed to matter a lot.

Using a very light and flexible rapier reduced de-aspect on Tier ups for air aura rifts by almost eight and a half percent. Using a slower weapon, a greatsword in this case, had the same effect for earth aura rifts. Water rifts seemed to prefer maces, contrary to Matt’s expectation of whips or something flexible, while fire rifts seemed to prefer, surprise surprise, spears.

Matt made a note to tease Liz about that later, but the discovery sent the rest of the guild into a flurry as they changed up their approach to testing.

Aster: “Matt, can you quickly explain just why that’s such a bad idea to Sien?”

Matt glanced over as the notification popped up: “Sorry, I haven’t been paying attention. Why is what a bad idea?”

Sien: “I am of the opinion that Maya ought to utilize this opportunity to capture dreams of her foes, vague impressions of themselves which she may later experiment with and investigate. With proper care, this can be enhanced over time through additional captured echoes and further mana. In time, this ought to accumulate to the point where their dream-illusions are nearly entirely indicative of the individual, enabling an unparalleled degree of analysis.”

Matt: “Yeah, I get that, but what specifically do I have to do with this?”

Aster: “Because of how much mana that will take! She’s talking about hundreds of millions of mana being contained indefinitely at maximum fidelity.”

Matt winced: “Oof. Yeah. Well, that’s not impossible, but it would definitely require a lot of finicky work… though what Tier are we talking here?”

Maya: “Well, this is my bribe to stay at Tier 35 for a while yet… So that’s the minimum it needs to be useful at.”

Matt: “Right. It should be possible, but if you do decide to go that route, I can give some pointers on how to keep that much mana stable over long periods of time. Working with just tens of millions of mana really isn’t that hard once you understand its peculiarities.”

Zack: “It would also be useful if she utilizes my idea.”

Allie: “Just capturing spells is so boring though!”

Matt let the chat go on while he returned to his experiments. This had already been going on for weeks, he could weigh in more later he was sure.

