Vinnie wanted to open a secluded private lounge, intending to bartend himself, despite never having worked as a bartender before. When pressed he shrugged, saying it sounded like fun and with Matt paying he had nothing to lose.

Encouraging that mindset, Matt prompted the others to follow their fancy if they didn’t intend to continue the business after they left.

Melinda and Mathew had decided to go into business together running a flower store. Their reason? They wanted to see, and more importantly smell, every flower the Corporations had to offer.

It was a good one but in Matt’s opinion, Tara had the best answer. She’d decided to open up her own food stall while having no intention of selling the same thing two days in a row. She didn’t expect to make money, only have fun and maybe earn a smile or two out of people who found her stall and tasted whatever oddity she’d put together.

Aster’s friends who’d decided to come along like Kelly, and Juan, had similar intentions. It was a vacation for them and Matt did everything he could to propagate that feeling.

Cameron, on the other hand, wanted to give it a serious attempt. She set her goals at a much lower threshold than the rest of them but no business had it easy in the Corporations even a domestic cleaning one.

He might have done a little too well, as neither Rah or Zack intend to open a long term business. Zack intended to investigate mana types that were more common in the Corporation than the Empire, using this chance to get up close and personal with them.

Rah, on the other hand, wanted to plunder the Corporations’ various universities and institutes of higher learning to expand his horizons. Prestigious schools were their own corporate behemoths but as with most things in the Corporation, the credit was king. With a high enough price any door could be opened.

Privately, he and Liz had a bet that Rah would either spend the least out of everyone, or the most. The price was ultimately irrelevant but his ‘business’ had the largest potential variance. The initial information Rah was looking for would all be cheap, but the more obscure it got the higher the price. Given his wide and varied interests, they were both confident in their stances.

Hearing Allie have a more serious answer than most of his friends got him wondering just loud enough to hear if she’d been replaced by a body double, but he understood. Her opening a logistics company was an excuse to travel and widen her waypoint network. It was the correct decision, but that was why it felt so strange coming from her.

She didn’t let him down.

Leaning in, she mock whispered, “I’m also intending to start a snackery list! Every new planet, or space station or whatever, I go to, I’ll secretly try all their snacks. Then I’ll rank them. In a year or two, I’ll have conquered the Corporations by influencing their taste buds!”

Aster responded immediately and without hesitation, “Then I’m going to buy up all the best snack locations and change their recipes.”

“I’ll have already bought shares in them, so you’ll only be paying me!”

“I—” Turning her glare onto him, Aster pouted. “Can we hire our COO’s already? I want to get started so I can tell them to counter everything Allie’s COO does.”

“Hey! In turn, I’ll tell my guy to counter everything your guy does. How does that taste?”
