To Trax’s credit, he was very good at his job. “Slightly larger than most terrestrial moons, the Corporations’ main space station houses almost a quadrillion cultivators living between the fifteen major levels. The four smaller satellite space stations house half again that many. That makes us one of the smallest capital systems out of the eight Great Powers, but everyone likes to count in a way that makes them look better. Though, the other stations’ average Tier's are lower than you will typically find here. After all, this is the oldest and most prestigious space station: Asa. Or more formally Asa One, but the Ascendancy of the Sun crumbled before they could even attempt a second, so few mind the designation.”

Snorting, he waved at the miles of structural support they were flying through. “Not that it looked like they were going to try, given the expenses involved. While not the first attempt to truly recreate habitable biomes in space by any means, Asa was built without regard to cost by the Ascendancy of the Sun. Interesting tidbit, while they were profligate, they didn’t use spatial expansion anywhere in the construction due to the long term upkeep.”

That followed what Matt knew. The Corporation's official stance was to expand existing stations, or build new ones when the first method became unwieldy, rather than using spatial expansion. Having a better understanding than most about the enormous cost of spatial expansion on The Sophron Imperium Maginex, he understood why the founding generation improved upon what had once been their cages rather than rush groundward.

Housing everyone in space wasn’t cheap. In fact it came with its own significant risks and complications, but the Ascendency of the Sun had long ironed out such problems two ways. Magic and immortals.

There were few naturally occurring problems that either couldn’t resolve, let alone both.

As they exited out of one of the tunnels burrowing between structural support, their guide continued carefully controlling his timing. “The actual levels themselves, the ground so to speak, are only ten miles wide but those ten miles are carefully protected, with only official tunnels like this one acting as direct passage between layers. The levels themselves are magically reinforced and maintained, though their main purpose is to provide artificial gravity above while not interfering with the layers below. That is in fact one of the main operating expenses of this type of space station, though it's a relatively minor one. Few stations are built like this today because why waste so much money on upkeep? As for the obvious, why build this one like that at all?”

Trax took a dramatic breath to perfect the reveal’s timing. “With roughly a hundred miles floor to ceiling, the Ascendency prided themselves on each layer of their slave pen to perfectly mimic a world's sufferance. Their hypocrisy was simple: if a place was indistinguishable from a world's surface, with miles of ground and miles of sky, what did anyone have to complain about?”

As they exited the tunnel and into the light, a vast open sky that stretched on as far as the eye could see. And not any further, as Matt’s spiritual perception revealed. Time and the Corporation’s diverging mindset had shaped their home space station as much as it had their culture.

“A lot in fact. Instead of wasting all of the space we filled it in. That’s where the floors come into play. Rather than fifteen levels with a hundred miles of sky, we now have fifteen levels with a hundred floors apiece.”

As they fully broke through the illusion of what had once been a central thoroughfare through the floors, they got to see how truly packed the space station had become.

Each floor was thin, a theoretical demarcation in some cases where exceptionally large buildings spanned multiple, but that hardly mattered. Every mile up or down marked a shift, a change, a deviation.

Matt let himself enjoy the sight as they flew past floor after floor. It almost felt like a train ride, except the world was rotated ninety degrees. Saying no two floors were alike was an understatement.

Spotting a section of a floor dedicated to the open practice of blood magic, he pointed it out to Liz who in turn directed him at a floor that had dedicated itself to enchanting of every type.

“The only places we haven’t built are in the foundational levels themselves. It's incredibly illegal to do so and there is a Tier 45 skilled at divinations constantly on the look out for anyone dumb enough to try. That said, the undergrounds aren’t my favorite floors but hey, the rents are usually dirt cheap down there.”

Laughing, Trax started talking about some, no doubt sponsored, things of interest to do on the various floors.

He started looking for the mortals.

It was harder than he thought it would be but his worries soon vanished. There was a remarkably large mortal population in the system but most lived in the numerous O’neil cylinders that floated around space like swarms of fish on slow, well planned cycles. That had spread them out enough he underestimated their numbers until his [AI] finished tabulating.

There were more mortals than cultivators. Considering what Matt knew about Icliz, that actually made sense given how little mana a mortal generated. Keeping them near Icliz made managing his mana generation all the more stable. Little mana did not mean none.

Remembering what JR had said about seeing the truth rather than following his preconceptions, Matt followed his interests and checked things out. A quick scan of the nearby cylinders showed him they were far from the destitute slums often seen as set pieces in movies. Then again, he’d have been more surprised if any Great Power would have anything close to actual slums in their capital system.

In fact… combined with what he knew from getting some of the cylinders after the war.

Matt raised a finger, stopping their guide’s explanation of a particular venue in one of the historical districts. “Are all of the mortal O’neil cylinders profitable?”

Seeing him light up, Matt already knew what he was going to say. “That’s correct. Each cylinder is designed from its inception onwards to be profitable even if that profit is minimal, such as the case for mortal cylinders. They rarely strike it rich, but they can all maintain themselves off the cylinder’s exports, even if that export is food. By using the normal travel patterns, they can easily stock up on base goods like water and raw minerals pulled out of the low Tier outer systems rifts. Given their size and movement patterns, a typical cylinder will sell both bulk unprocessed or semi-processed goods as they ferry between the inner and outer system. They normally also have the capabilities to produce more refined, and therefore expensive, goods for better margins. In the case of local cylinders, ninety six percent are agricultural based. Good eye though, most who don’t already know that take longer to catch on.”

Matt shook his head, deflecting the praise. “Just a lucky guess. Thank you for confirming.”

Turning to Zack, Trax added with a nod so deep it was almost a bow. “As someone who grew up in one of the mortal populations, let me thank you on behalf of such people everywhere. All cylinders rely on the many bulk cargo ships moving between them, even some of the ones retrofitted with the earliest generations of Travel mana engine have become noticeably more mana efficient on the long cruises they perform, and the first purpose built ships are only looking more attractive. When you work on the kind of margins a cylinder can, these savings are a true boon.”

“Have you tried using them on the cylinders themselves?”

Trax beamed at Zach’s interest, explaining. “There have been experiments, but cylinders very rarely use them for long enough to hit the tipover point of efficiency. Still, research is ongoing and—”

Seeing that Zack was interested enough to ask follow up questions, Matt looked back to the cylinders themselves. Or more accurately, the mortals inside of them. Most of the O’neil cylinders were at least partially dedicated to low Tier farms. They took advantage of the fact that the things humans ate usually required the same environments as humans themselves. The rest of the cylinders were dedicated to the mortals to, as far as he could tell, do with as they saw fit.

Some were immaculate and others slovenly but nothing struck him as bad. In fact, each cylinder had its own finishing touches and flourishes that differentiate them. It was almost identical to what they’d seen on the floors.

Liz leaned into him, looking into the direction he was investigating with his spiritual perception. “I don’t think they are too bad. Even the higher occupation cylinders still have a good amount of space per person. I–. You know, somehow I don’t think they are the people the Sects were trying to recruit.”

Snorting, Matt couldn’t picture many of the mortals volunteering to fight a Tier 1 monster to the death. Indolent was the kindest word he could use to describe most of them. They were very firmly not the target audience for that broadcast, even if they’d live better lives simply by advancing to Tier 1. But then, risking one's life for a shot at immortality was a very different choice than risking it for a minor increase in overall health.

Instead of lingering on the mortals, Matt listened to the descriptions of the floors and subsections given by their guide.

While not Tier discriminatory, the top and bottom layers, the smallest ones, were unofficially reserved for the highest Tiers. Unofficial, because while anyone could rent or buy on those floors, few except the wealthiest Tier 45’s CEOs could afford to do so.

At least under normal times. As Trax so eloquently reminded Matt of what he’d help set in motion. “Thanks to the recent break ups, space is as cheap as it will ever be. Building lots go up for auction every week right now. If you are interested in buying, a good rule to keep in mind is that the closer to the outer edge of the station, the more expensive anything is. Some of the more remote central places are even renting for exa-credits if you can believe it.”

Liz immediately used the opening to ask, “Do either alchemy or bloodline stores have to be in specific areas?”

“Not for alchemy, though depending on what you intend to specialize in, you might prefer some locations over another. However those questions would need a dedicated realtor to answer but zoning laws aren’t that strict. As for bloodline resources? There aren’t any firm restrictions on them either, but if you are looking to trade in high volumes, as I know some bloodline businesses do, being closer to the edge and its various hangers would simplify many things.”

That prompted Melinda to ask her own question but Matt looked to Liz. “Are you still undecided?”

Human Liz nodded while phoenix Liz shook her head, giving him a nice and obscure answer. “Long term, having some level of access to the unique Corporation resources of both professions will be useful, but that's the problem. I want both.”

Leaning forward in her seat to speak with the row in front of them she continued, “Aster, come on, do the bloodline stuff so I can give my full attention to the alchemy. Then we get the best of both worlds. I know you also want to keep access to the rare bloodline materials we can’t easily import. Come ooooon. We can have our business collude together and everything, it will be fun!”

Dropping her fox ears, Aster tried to look pitiful but her act didn’t last long. “Logically I agree, but emotionally I think I have a good chance of having my ice cream take off here. Do you know how impressive it would be to be able to say that I conquered the ice cream palates of two Great Powers? Think about the fame and fortune, Liz. Thinkkkkkk.”

Liz didn’t relent, so Aster threw it back onto Matt, trying to distract her. “You are one to talk. You haven’t decided yet either.”

“I don’t know what Titan or Quill will have interests in operating. In my mind, Titan’s not going to want to get involved with petty business decisions. I kind of hope Quill is the dominant personality for no other reason than I’ve been inspired by what we saw at the auction. But I brought a little of everything because I just don’t know what the ‘me’ without ‘me’ will want to do. What if I’m wrong and then I not only wasted time and effort? I might as well wait another month.”

Glaring at him and his unassailable position, Aster sighed, “I’m just going to be exporting what already exists, so it shouldn’t take too much work to get my ice cream conglomerate rolling. I guess I can get a bloodline resource business started too. I don’t want to lose access to all of this either. But I’ll need help!”

“Yes! You're the best, Aster!”

“I know. Thank you for saying it, though.” Flashing a grin she added, “I'm going to buy a bunch of ice and cold related bloodline supplies first and you can’t convince me to do otherwise. Also, I don’t think it’s collusion to work with a friendly business so long as we don’t operate at a total loss? This is why we need to hire people more than we need to work hard, Liz. Let's solve money with money!”

“That’s how we get scammed!” Liz indignantly shot back a little too loud, breaking their discussion. Topic breached, everyone started discussing what business to open even as they arrived at the dinner.

Most of his friends only wanted to have a little fun before dusting their hands off when they returned to the Empire. It was that temporary mindset that gave them the confidence to open weird and unusual businesses, at least weird and unusual for them.

