Chapter 487

Moments after the announcement ended, news started trickling back from each Great Power. The message had been projected through every possible method, trying to infiltrate as much of the Great Powers as possible.

Or at least, that was what the initial reports indicated.

The result was, predictably, widespread chaos. A war nearly broke out in Minkalla, but one word from Winter Hornet ended any thoughts of a quick retaliatory strike at the Sect cultivators.

That left everyone with a single recourse, go home.

Matt didn’t mind, having already seen the Empire's reaction. Officially, they’d tried to prevent the spread of the message, but with his credentials, he could see signs that the Empire hadn’t tried too hard.

Neither had the Federation or the Corporations. Matt understood the first, and thought he did the second, but he wasn’t as confident.

The other Great Powers' reactions were far more decisive. Rather than allowing the recruitment to play unhindered, their own internal security moved instantly trying to intercept the spread.

They failed. The Sects’ border regions reached a saturation point at the cost of burning a lot of their soft power and low level infiltrators. They tried to penetrate the heartlands of the Great Powers, but the message rarely made it deep with only a few notable exceptions.

While the broadcast itself hadn’t made it too far, word of it did from one pair of lips to the next pair of ears. No matter how much the Great Powers tried to keep things under wraps, people were people, and gossip spread faster than light, spreading the Sect’s message for them.

That was where Matt couldn’t help but grow conflicted. At its core, giving anyone the chance to awaken was something he could get behind. However, everything after that was unnecessarily bloody. Any Tier 2 with a bag of the most basic healing potions could have saved everyone's lives, let alone Winter Hornet, a Tier 50.

It felt… uncivilized. Wasteful.

Matt thought things had ended when the weapon rattling fizzled out inconclusively, but he was wrong. He shouldn’t have been, the borders each Great Power shared with the Sects were such a small fraction of their totality, and the event should have faded away as another historical blip. While true in percentages, that wasn’t true in raw numbers. Few was not none, and that distinction almost proved explosive.

Right when things were settling down, the Sects started to propagandize their initial success stories, redoubling their efforts to spread the message through the other Great Powers focusing on the border regions. He wanted to say the Sect’s only showcased the successes, but they were very willing to highlight anyone.

The failures were treated the same as the victors, used for maximum value. Their stories were turned into challenges aimed at the confident. A particularly well aimed piece about a human and wind rabbit bloodline escaping one of the Clans’ border worlds, then awakening to be accepted into a notable Tier 20 sect, irritated someone of a high enough Tier that they issued a formal response.

A border conflict rather than a full war.

The Sects had picked a good time. Each Great Power was more interested in digesting their gains from the breach than seeking an immediate response on the battlefield. Not that the Sects earned any good will from the Monster Collective, the Republic, or the Corporations. No one was happy the Sects had stirred a pot none of them wanted to touch.

Now, their Great Powers were forced to address the deeper undercurrent of resentment the announcements and followup had created. As brutal and inefficient as the Sect methods were, it was straightforward, without complicated applications, fees, or allotments. That was deeply attractive to a segment of mortal citizens in every Great Power.

The Clans’ reactions were the fastest and simplest. Anyone trying to leave the Great Power, mortal or otherwise was affirmed to be a traitor who could be killed without question. Following the stick with the carrot, they slightly increased the amount of non-dwarves that they allowed to awaken per year. Chances were high they’d revert those changes in a mortal generation or two, but their move seemed to quell their internal problems well enough they officially put the incident behind them.

The Republic’s reaction was the second fastest, but mainly because they apparently had clauses in place for such an eventuality. Internal mechanisms were used and a mortal backed petition was put before the senate. Janet used the unrest to push through programs to increase awakenings, but vengeance seemed to be a higher priority than solving the underlying problem among the senators.

The Collective wasn’t any better. It took them months of internal deliberation, but they ended up doing something similar. According to rumors that were later confirmed by Imperial agents, the meeting had been a closer call than anyone expected. Instead of a fast and unified response following the normal Collective modus operandi, an initiative for a larger reform tried to gather the support it needed to be officially brought forward.

The failure itself wasn’t interesting, but where that divide fell. Unlike the typical political patterns seen in the Collective, the split had been a generational one.

The Corporations’ reaction at least got a chuckle out of Matt. They were formally allowing the Sects to try and recruit people out of their mortal populations so long as they were willing to repay them for the education and support the emigrants received until then. They were even willing to waive any interest, fees, or incremental costs incurred, but for some unknown reason, the Sects hadn’t replied.

Matt could all too easily picture JR’s laugh as he made the offer. During those thoughts, he couldn’t help but wonder if the Corporations were in a more similar situation to the Empire and Federation than it might first appear. He didn’t allow himself to dwell on it, he’d be able to find out soon enough all on his own.

The Guilds’ response was the slowest, taking advantage of their laxer awakening policies making their population's reaction less severe overall. Their reason became clear when their Tier 50, Alister, unveiled the Great Power’s next initiative: expansion.

Using the glut of already cleansed worlds nearing settled space thanks to the breach, the Guilds intended to reach outward in a dedicated and coordinated push to make up for their shortcomings.

Far from a spur of the moment action, the Guilds’ announcement was the culmination of two centuries' preparation. What did seem to be a newer provision was one that allowed any mortal who wanted to awaken to do so with no questions asked. The only requirement was that the applicants had to move to a freshly pacified world for at least a decade.

With all of the monsters dead and rifts delved by the initial wave of combatants, their lives wouldn’t be at risk, but pioneering new worlds often came with its own challenges. Combined with free transportation, much of the riled up portion of the Guilds’ mortal population was redirected into the existing effort. It wasn’t enough to fully populate their yet to be acquired planets, but the influx of low Tiers would certainly make settling the worlds easier.

The Emperor’s reaction to everything was simple. Ignore the outside and focus internally. Digest the gains from the breach and then reinvest. That was perfect for them.

Once all the smoke settled, it became clear there was only one true winner out of the situation: The Sects.

With fairly large mortal populations who were not treated well, they had more applicants than they could handle. Queues for mortals to enter a rift were common sights that were published abroad at every opportunity.

Fatalities were high, estimates putting them at anywhere from fifteen to forty percent, but that didn’t stop people from rushing forward. It hardly even slowed them down. The Sects mortal population’s support of the initiative was close to eighty percent. That even held generally true among the people who chose to ‘remain silent’ as Winter Hornet had called them.

The Sects hadn’t solved all of their own underlying societal problems. Far from it, but their morale was sky high as the various sects expanded recruitment, happy to snap up the ambitious and driven.

How many of them would make it all the way to Tier 15 would only be seen with time, but everyone had noticed. In less than a thousand years the Sect’s would start to see their Tier 15 armies swell, and few wanted to see that.

As a Great Power, their primary weakness had been their numerical disadvantage, but that looked like it might change. He, along with most scholars on the topic, had thought it would be inevitable when a time came that the Sect’s would have to change fundamentally.

Far from leaning away from their brutal methods to widen recruitment, the Sects, or rather Winter Hornet, had stayed true to their core tenets.

Weirdly enough, Matt found Janet’s personal reply to the announcement both thoughtful and well reasoned. Allowing the Sects to continue such practices with no mitigation was a crime against the Realm to some, but they seemed to be a minority. Most others seemed unbothered by what the Sects did to themselves.

Matt only needed one message to Mara to confirm the stance was nothing new, and in fact the exact same one that people had towards the bloodline population in the Federation. Unable to change anyone else, he did what he could do.

Work hard enough to not have such bleak idle thoughts.

The moment they returned to their duchy, he dove into paperwork and dealt with their noble duties, while Liz went visiting their nearby vassals, giving Cato and Isabella one final break before they left again. Not wanting to waste any time, he even entered rifts, pulling an extra few hours out of every day to make mana. While he’d be making mana while in the Corporations, the teleportation network his rings relied on to automatically empty itself wouldn't work, which meant he needed to cover his obligations beforehand or annoy Allie more than he’d want.

Thankfully, the trip was far from a surprise. They’d known and been preparing since the agreement, but he still felt rushed as the days raced by. After two months, he and Liz swapped duties, with him finishing off their vassal tour and her taking care of Palustris.

Their hard work paid off as they had the final two months to themselves, but before he knew it, the time was upon him.

Matt’s nerves grew more taut with every world they passed on their way into the Corporations, until he felt like one wrong move would snap him.

He was so worked up that re-entering the Corporations’ Tier 47 node almost felt like trying to look into a mirror after having a nightmare. Logically, he knew nothing was waiting to just jump out and eat him, but he couldn’t help but worry he was wrong and he was walking into a trap like an idiot.

Thankfully, logic proved itself stronger than his fears. Someone was waiting for them, but it was an attractive middle aged Tier 35 man who led them to an estate that had been set aside for their use in the largest of the megalithic space stations that orbited the Tier 47 Capital world.

Matt had expected to visit JR with Manny to finalize the deal, but he was proven wrong when that was handled without him.

He only got a simple message that Rosemarie would summon him in a month or so to pull his name out of his body and get the armor started. He wasn't looking forward to the process, but everything Manny had been able to find said it was safe. Combined with the Talent backed oaths, there wasn't anything else he could reasonably ask for, but acknowledging that did little to settle his nerves.

According to the message, the two months before were his to prepare for the following decades he’d be spending in the Corporations, and he should use them. A part of him wanted to petulantly refuse to take part in the business part of the deal, but that would both weaken the cover they’d agreed on and be foolish.

Instead of preparing, he got to savor his remaining time with everyone else as they all settled into the incredibly luxurious estate. It only took a few minutes for him and Liz to set up in one of the houses, but the others were slower, allowing them to explore a little.

The estate was not only large where space was always at a premium, it also came with every possible luxury. Including ‘hot tubs’ that could simulate any mana type. He knew because that was where they found Allie and Aster as they played with combinations.

The hot tubs proved to be a little too interesting, as they were nearly late for their guided tour of the megalithic space station that was supposed to end in a nice dinner. The meeting point was their front door, so they managed to make it, but it was close.

Boarding a luxurious ship, Matt didn’t miss its unique construction. While technically a shuttle, the device was hyper efficient in a way that no Empire vessel could ever match. Not because of some impossible technical divide, but rather because its design was abusing the space station's layered construction by connecting to both the level below and above internal gravity plates. It was clever and spoke to just how optimized the Corporation's could be.

It also reminded him how hard the task of setting up their own viable businesses would be, but he pushed that thought away, happy to listen to the tour given by the lively Tier 20.

At least once he got over the pleasantries, but Matt had a lot of practice at muddling his way through one side flattery.

