“—very interesting young folk. Kaaz has a lot of meat dishes, but it’s highly dependent on the animal or even monster. I rather doubt you have any zebra? We imported ours from Chandrar.”
“No zebra. Wait, did you do that to feed your lions?”
“And pumas. And tigers and ligers and—”
Rabbiteater interrupted impatiently.
“They like cats. They’re crazy cat-people. Seraphel, you make fancy stupid dishes in Calanfer all the time.”
“Ser Solstice! How about a gelato? There was this lovely one with a fruit-based dip that I—”
Erin’s face fell further as she realized most of what the Terandrians considered good was the sweet, novel stuff from Earth! Altestiel mentioned his fish-fry, and he also knew a lot of seafood dishes Desonis partook of, but it was the wrong climate.
“We could ask our [Chefs].”
“Maybe. Maybe…I might have to go, guys. I’ll be back later, I promise, but I need to keep trying.”
Erin looked so upset that Rabbiteater almost took hold of her, but his hands passed through.
“Hey.”
She looked at him, and the Hobgoblin lowered his voice.
“It’s just Christmas. You don’t have to be sad, right? You’re alive. Not dead. That’s pretty good, I think.”
The [Innkeeper]’s wretched face softened, and she relaxed a bit.
“No, you’re right, Rabbiteater. I just—want to do something, you know? And if I don’t get another chance…”
She looked tired, then, and frightened, and he hated seeing it. He wanted to shake her or throw her off the railing so she stopped focusing on that, and he craned his neck to call out behind Erin.
“Numbtongue! Numbtongue, are you there? Hit her for me so she stops panicking!”
Erin laughed as he didn’t hear a reply.
“He’s canoodling, Rabbit.”
“He’s what?”
Rabbiteater was mildly outraged. Erin opened her mouth to reply, and a muffin bounced off her head. She swore, whirled, and shook her fist at something.
“Badarrow! You’ll pay for that!”
Rabbiteater began laughing, and he was glad his other brother was there. In fact, Badarrow would have bounded down to greet him until Erin realized how a Hobgoblin greeting Rabbiteater might reveal everything and almost tackled him. She vanished—and after a second, someone else appeared.
“I, ah—I hope I can say hello very quickly. I’ll greet you again tonight, but, um—”
Seraphel nearly leapt into Menrise’s arms as Lyonette appeared.
“Lyonette!”
She rushed forwards and knocked over her brunch table, but half the Calanferians lurched forwards or fell to one knee as the [Princess] halted. Rabbiteater stared at Lyonette as her apparition appeared.
“Hello, elder sister Seraphel. Are you enjoying the trip?”
She sounded—cautious—as if she didn’t know how Seraphel would react this time. However, Seraphel reached for Lyonette’s apparition, and her fingers hovered close to Lyonette’s cheeks.
“Lyonette! It is so good to see you again! Are those your work clothes? Eternal Throne, you look so much older when you wear that! You’ve grown in a flash! Are you wearing a servant’s outfit? Is that a sword? Mother would have a fit—well done!”
She took Lyonette in, and Ser Thilowen spoke urgently.
“Your Highness. I am cordoning this space off, but please, do not move. Your companions need must be sworn to silence. At least plausible deniability for now.”
Seraphel blinked and realized he had erected barriers of light to hide Lyonette’s presence from the other ships. Of course. They still claimed Lyonette was at the Eternal Throne, even if most people knew it was a lie.
“We hardly have time to talk. I’ve made it difficult. I’m sorry. I just wanted to wish you a Merry Christmas. I was glad you could visit Izril.”
Lyonette forced a smile, and Seraphel hesitated. Neither one had had a chance to speak overlong, and now was no exception. There were always eyes on Seraphel, and Rabbiteater saw her glance at Thilowen.
“It is the chance of a lifetime, Lyonette. How are—is Ser Lormel alright? That brave man is heading back to Calanfer, I understand.”
Lyonette’s face grew bleak.
“We’re sending him as soon as he can move. He’s—I’m glad you’ll be bringing more Thronebearers. To help Ushar, Sest, and Dalimont, that is. I hope to represent Calanfer’s interests for Mother and Father. They’ve been very understanding about everything, even my objections to returning home.”
Seraphel’s expression froze up a bit at the mention of their parents and family. She gave Lyonette an incredulous look, which the younger [Princess] seemed to mistake for Seraphel being angry at her.
 
——
 
What Lyonette couldn’t have known was how odd her words sounded to Seraphel. The 4th Princess realized that her younger sister still held Reclis and Ielane in some regard. Even if she was defying them…
“Lyonette, I am sure we will do our best for Calanfer, the both of us. I cannot wait to speak to you in person.”
So I can tell you not to go home if you can. Dead gods, Thilowen will do his best. Seraphel deliberately didn’t look at him, but she widened her eyes, hoping Lyonette picked up on what she meant. Her sister looked confused, and Seraphel wondered.
She’d always thought Lyonette had run off—in a silly way because the girl had been thoughtless and arrogant at the time—because she understood how miserable her role was.
But maybe she had overestimated how much Lyonette had known about what her parents were like. She was still young. Seraphel had been like her at her age. Aware, but still patriotic enough to marry herself off…
“I want to be a credit to everyone I owe a debt to. It’s just that I have so much to do here, Seraphel. I cannot wait to see you, and honestly—if it’s alright, I’ll pay you another call later. Certainly when Erin wishes everyone a Merry Christmas, but I should get back to work. She’s panicking a bit.”
Lyonette smiled at Seraphel, and her older sister whispered.
“Yes. I hope so too. When we get together, nothing will tear me apart from helping you.”
Then she did turn her head, and her eyes glinted as Ser Thilowen gave her an impassive bow. But Altestiel smiled like the calm before the storm, and the Thronebearer glanced uneasily at him.
“I’m back! Sorry, Rabbiteater. Badarrow is busy.”
Erin reappeared, and Seraphel wondered about the curious name of Rabbiteater’s comrade. Or was it the brothers he mentioned? Such odd names. Perhaps he was some kind of tribal or nomadic folk similar to the Gnolls. Yes, a reclusive tribe?
She saw Erin smiling at the [Knight], and a thought crossed her mind suddenly, one so crazy no Terandrian, not even Menrise, would believe it.
Wasn’t the [Innkeeper] a huge friend of two species no one would associate with? Antinium and…Goblins.
But that was silly. Seraphel smiled as her eyes flickered. She had seen a lot of crazy things over the last year, but that? No way. Then again, most people assumed Ser Solstice was a Drake or Gnoll under his armor. And yet he didn’t have fur or scales…
Her hand twitched as she stepped back, and then she lost track of what Erin was saying before she vanished. No way. Impossible.
…She poked Rabbiteater in the side, and he jumped and then swatted at her hand. Seraphel laughed as the Ivory Five began speculating about what Erin would do, and she slowly crooked a finger behind her back.
Mariel might be able to get her a monster encyclopedia. How…much like Humans did Hobgoblins look like, again? She stared at Ser Solstice’s helmet. Her [Ghostly Hand] had no eyes, but…
Didn’t Goblins have slightly pointy ears?
 
——
 
A momentous day. A day of revelations. Understanding.
Erin was really getting into the pipe. She couldn’t stop fiddling with it. It was like having something fun to play with to distract you. She had a pipe, and she often played chess to distract herself. Lots of people did that with a phone, hand mirror, or fidget-device.
Or, in the case of the man she had come to for ideas, the Bow of Avel, which he was using as a backscratcher.
“Christmas ideas? You have come to the wrong place, Miss Solstice. I don’t have any good ones for you. I’ve been hanging out under mistletoe all morning. Alas…I couldn’t join the flotilla. I could be meeting the love of my life—but my court made me stay here.”
King Itreimedes, the King of Bows, was an unlikely pick for a consultation, but he had instantly agreed to it, and Erin was desperate enough to start rolling the dice.
His royal court were rather festively adorned, and they looked put-upon, even during this holiday.
“His Majesty jests, Miss Solstice.”
“Do I? I’m not allowed to go to the New Lands, despite Avel sending a delegation, I’m not allowed to visit Liscor because I have ‘responsibilities’ here, and I can’t even flirt with anyone today! I’m alone!”
“You have us, Your Majesty. And we, alas, are keeping you company today. My family is waiting for me tonight.”
One of his advisors pointed out. Itreimedes waved a hand at him.
“Not you! Romantic company!”
“Oh, then may we be excused for the holidays, Your Majesty?”
They brightened up, and Itreimedes hit the armrest of his throne with his bow.
“No! If I am to suffer here, so will all of you! If you want a good gift, Innkeeper Erin, I suggest you gift love and actual good cheer to people!”
“…I don’t know if this is helpful.”
Erin had a notepad filled with bad ideas, but this one was so inane that even she didn’t bother writing it down. Yet the King of Bows leaned over with a rather hunted look on his face and whispered.
“Does, er—does this Santa fellow deliver that sort of thing? Not women in a box or anything! That sounds rather dark. But true love? Maybe addresses? Pictures? I’d even accept random matchmaking.”
Wow. Erin edged back a bit, and despite his best attempts at a whisper, the Court of Avel looked astonishingly embarrassed at their [King]’s conduct. However, Itreimedes was winning some sympathetic fans among her audience.
Menolit, Troydel, even people like Ryoka, Relc, Pryde, and a number of others were giving Itreimedes the look of a kindred spirit. The fact that he could be so honest was, in its way, amazing.
“I, uh—I’m looking for Christmas ideas, King Itreimedes. Surely you have lots of romantic…people in your life anyways? A [King] like you with a cool bow like that?”
Erin tried to move the subject back on topic, but Itreimedes just lifted the Bow of Avel and exhaled mightily.
“You would hope! But other bow-users are tricky to, you know, romance.”
He twiddled his fingers expressively.
“Very difficult to get right. I tried to chat up Elia Arcsinger when she was here. I had no idea she had a daughter. Not a good look, that. Plus she’s old enough to be a grandmother.”
The [King] paused, and a full wince came over him.
“Yes. That memory hurt. I’m not good at that thing at all. Love isn’t like shooting a bow. Once you let something fly, you can’t take it back.”
“Uh huh. Like an arrow?”
King Itreimedes tapped the side of his nose energetically.
“Ah, you think so, but that’s what a Returning Arrow is for. Far simpler, you see? I suppose if you were a fellow like Allorev you’d be able to take back a bad compliment, but I’m not him.”
“Right, right. Who’s Allorev?”
The King of Bows laughed and ruffled at his hair.
“Oh, King Nicte! I’m sorry, I forget not everyone knows him by name. But it’s odd to call him ‘King Nicte’, isn’t it? He took the last name on when he married into Noelictus’ royal family.”
Erin began to massage her forehead. Wait a second. How had they gotten off-track like this? She had begun pestering people she’d met because she had a vague hope it would help, and honestly, it was sort of fun, but she was the one who surprised other people. And yet—she had to ask.
“Wait, are you talking about the King of Noelictus? The Kingdom of Shade? The King—Nicte? Allorev? He married into the royal family?”
“Yes! King Nicte Allorev. Of Noelictus. The Kingdom of Shade.”
“Okay. I understand that. Why’s his last name Allorev? You make it sound like that’s his first name.”
One of the members of Avel’s royal court was giving Erin a slow shake of her head, trying to warn Erin off. But it was too late. In a matter-of-fact tone, King Itreimedes replied.
“That’s easy. They flip first and last names in Noelictus when marrying in. To symbolize the predominance of the Kingdom of Shade over your former kingdom. Actually, I think Avel does it.”
One of his courtiers coughed loudly.
“Yes, Your Majesty. We do. So if you ever got married…”
“…I’d have to have my last name be Itreimedes. I’m not keen on that. But I suppose there’s something to it. King Somebody Itreimedes. You know, it’s growing on me.”
The King of Bows stroked his beard thoughtfully and seemed to be on-board after about two seconds. Erin’s mouth was open.
Don’t fall for it! And yet—she felt like this wasn’t an Erin move, but the King of Bows being serious. After a second, she had to do it.
“Uh—wouldn’t someone be marrying into Avel?”
The King of Bows stopped and stared straight ahead, then slapped his knee and cursed.
“Right. They would. Damn! But you know, I’m more keen on heading to the New Lands. Which I will! Just as soon as things are appraised. I would have been on the first ship out, but apparently if Prince Iradoren isn’t going, it doesn’t look good on Avel to send its only monarch. I could appoint an heir. Minister of Defense, how about you?”
He pointed at the old man, who jumped, turned red, and then barked back.
“Not if you want to wield the Bow of Avel! If you go, it stays.”
“What? That’s going to be half the fun of going to the New Lands! I need to upgrade it. It—it’s a royal duty.”
The King of Bows had a twinkle in his eye, and Erin wished he was on the way. The Court of Avel was highly unamused, though.
“Your Majesty, you can attempt it here, as Innkeeper Solstice has informed you. Any visit to the New Lands will be once we understand the sea, the threats—”
“When I’m old and dead! You see? Look at this court. The worst in Terandria.”
King Itreimedes sank back into his throne as his court roundly insulted him. Erin…Erin decided she had to visit Avel. It seemed fun. They could keep up with her, and in some ways, Itreimedes was actually passing her ability to keep up! She decided to poke him a bit.
“I’ve never been to the Kingdom of Shade, Itreimedes. How’s it like?”
Someone gasped faintly at her not using his royal title. Itreimedes just picked at his teeth.
“Oh, you know. Menorome’s a lovely attraction and a delight. I ride the Nighttrain there all the time, but again, I can’t stay there and hold court for some reason. I do visit often. In fact, now that the situation is calmer…”
