She preempted her friend, who was tagging along on this mission of mercantile mercy. Erin had chosen Ryoka on the off chance the Wind Runner had some good idea, and she’d thrown in Fierre and Montressa for her emergency presents-team.
Fierre and Montressa were both people who did things for bossy, impatient people. If there was any chance of making a real Christmas miracle happen…
The one non-female member of the team was Palt. Erin hadn’t chosen him. He’d just tagged along when they went to Invrisil then begged to stay because he missed being part of ‘the fun’. Since he was Ullsinoi and maybe he could illusion a hundred presents, Erin had accepted him into the team.
“I reckon I need a magical solution. And I have one really cool idea I was working on—but I’ve come to you because you’re a crafting person. Can you help me? Got any, uh, lifewood left?”
Hedault the Enchanter had closed his shop for Christmas in preparation for the party, which he was assured would take place at 6 PM, or else whenever he was duly notified with an hour’s advance warning by Lyonette.
He had not been prepared for Erin to show up on his doorstep, begging for ideas. Only the combined cajoling of Erin’s team had gotten her inside.
“What am I supposed to do, mass-enchant a series of gifts? That would be impossible for me.”
He snapped, uncharacteristically annoyed, and Erin tried to placate him.
“No, no! Not at all, Hedault. I just need…ideas. Say, what are you doing for gifts?”
Even Fierre looked mildly aghast at this.
“Erin. Are you trying to steal present ideas?”
“Me? Never. I just, uh, want to know.”
Ryoka had never seen Erin as morally compromised or as desperate as now. It was sort of fun not being the one in the hot seat. Erin fidgeted.
“Come on, Hedault. I won’t steal it, but I’m looking for ideas. Who’re you getting presents for?”
After a long look wherein Palt and Montressa made entreating motions, Hedault slowly, slowly opened the door to his workshop.
“As it so happens, I was about to wrap my ‘Secretive Santa’ gift. I suppose you may inspect it. It would be good to get a baseline on the effect. My other gifts are already wrapped.”
There were seven of them. Erin oohed.
“Nice! Kevin, Pelt, Selys, Lyonette, Grimalkin, Felkhr, Saliss…hmm?”
She knew you didn’t get gifts for everyone, but Erin peered at the presents. Hedault spoke as he went into his workshop where, for some reason, bolts of bright cloth had been stretched out with scissors and measuring tape and so on.
“My work associates, Miss Lyonette, and of course, my fellow artisans in Pallass were all very worthy people to collect gifts for, I found.”
“Right. No one else?”
Erin wasn’t hurt. Absolutely not. She looked up, and Hedault gave her a flat look as he reappeared.
“No.”
Then he reconsidered and went into the kitchen and found two more presents.
“In fact, this was a fortuitous reminder. I forgot these: Rhata’s and Haldagaz’s presents required preservation as they are, in fact, edible.”
Not hurtful at all. Even Palt looked mildly hurt, and Ryoka instantly began rationalizing that of course Hedault didn’t need to get her a present. They barely knew each other. It was just somehow painful to realize you weren’t in his good books.
Because Hedault was actually one of those people you sort of wanted to get a present from, not that you realized it until you didn’t get one. If he liked you, why, that said a lot.
In fact, Hedault appeared uncomfortable at the scrutiny, which was why you didn’t police presents to begin with and why Erin was rapidly realizing this was a bad idea. However, he gave Ryoka a sideways glance and murmured.
“I am told that it would be inappropriate to get a gift for the Winter Sprites they do not appreciate. Avalanches may ensue?”
“Oh—if you want, you could, Hedault. Shaestrel wouldn’t do that. The others…might. And they get jealous. But if you got like two bottles of wine, they’d go for that.”
“I may do that. Thank you.”
And that was it. Montressa wondered if Hedault had considered getting a gift for the literal Archmage of Izril, but then she recalled how much he didn’t like Valeterisa. Fierre and Palt, meanwhile, were reminding themselves to buy off the faeries with alcohol as well.
“Who’s your Secret Santa person, Hedault?”
Erin changed the subject, and Hedault tentatively held out what looked like a bright yellow dress or maybe a bedsheet. It was definitely magical, and Palt looked fascinated, as did the other mages.
“It is, ah…Mrsha.”
“Mrsha?”
No way! Ryoka was amazed and wondered if Mrsha had used her luck powers—or if it had backfired royally. She wouldn’t put attempting to move the scales past Mrsha, but Ryoka would have assumed Mrsha wanted Tyrion or Magnolia or Ilvriss. Hedault?
“What did you make? Is that a dress?”
Erin was getting worried she might have to warn Hedault about Mrsha’s opinion on clothing, but the affronted look the [Enchanter] gave her said she’d underestimated him.
Here was the thing about gift-giving, and it was making Erin realize she really was in trouble. Everyone knew the best gifts were handmade. Yet they often conflated ‘handmade’ with ‘cheap’, which wasn’t true at all. A slapdash effort like gluing together a stupid card wasn’t impressive.
Making something thoughtfully was top-tier gifting. Expensive gifts were just flashy and actually a low bar. Hedault? Hedault was a master enchanter.
He not only made gifts, he did his homework. As he unveiled his present for them to see and try, Hedault commented drily.
“In light of your World’s Eye Theatre and after observing Mrsha for a week and consulting with Kevin, I decided the best object to try and create would be something both moderately safe and appealing to a child. Therefore, I present: the Cape of Heroes.”
Erin’s jaw dropped as a bright yellow cape sized for a little Gnoll, complete with white edging matching Mrsha’s fur and the symbol of the Stone Spears tribe, Silverfangs, The Wandering Inn, and Liscor all stitched onto the cape, fluttered in the air.
It kept fluttering even when Erin held it, and when she tied it around her neck, she instantly felt lighter.
“What does this do?”
“Try jumping.”
“Why—whoa!”
Erin went flying and flailed—then realized she was falling slower and made what she thought was an action pose as she landed. She hesitated, then did a spinning kick that took Ryoka completely by surprise.
“Hey, Erin! I had no idea you could do that!”
“I feel light as a feather, Ryoka! Hedault, is this making me lighter?”
He was checking an hourglass.
“It works for about eight minutes for a child of Mrsha’s mass. For you? It might last two minutes.”
“Hey! I’m not—”
“It’s exponentially mana-intensive. It both lowers your effective weight and provides you with a mild featherfall effect. Try raising your fist up.”
Erin did a superman pose, and her next jump smacked her straight into the ceiling.
“Ow. This is so. Cool.”
It was. When Erin landed, everyone wanted to try it, even Palt, even Fierre, who could jump that high on her own. Ryoka gave Hedault an incredibly surprised look. But she noted the pleased smile on his face.
He really did know how to have fun. Of course a man who liked skateboards and bicycles would give Mrsha something that let her copy the movies she’d seen!
“I actually based the regenerative mana effect off her wand. The featherfall effect comes from one of Ryoka’s…study materials. It is far more potent than the usual spell.”
“I’ll say. It’s more like [Buoyancy], but in the air.”
Palt was trotting around with Montressa; Erin was still doing jump-kicks, and she began laughing.
“Hedault! This is amazing! And darn—I’ll never copy this! Mrsha is going to love it. I wish you were my Secret Santa! Wait, do I even have one?”
“I think Lyonette assumed you’d get all kinds of gifts anyways. She didn’t want to pressure you.”
Erin snapped her fingers.
“Darn, well. I guess I’ll have to borrow this from Mrsha.”
Here Hedault paused, and as Erin swung down from a bannister, laughing in delight as she defied gravity, just like anyone who had ever had a dream about being able to leap into the air, his eyes slid sideways to Ryoka for a second. He tapped one finger against his wrist, frowning.
“You would have enjoyed this as a gift?”
“Of course! I love this! Who wouldn’t?”
The [Enchanter] frowned.
“I would never have guessed.”
Here Ryoka saw Montressa glance up and meet her eyes, and unspoken, a thought passed between the others. Maybe the reason Hedault hadn’t gotten Erin a gift was because…it was hard.
What did you get the woman who could literally walk into her [Garden of Sanctuary], who’d come back from the dead and pulled out <Mythical Quests> at the drop of a hat? It was hard, and frankly, Ryoka had panicked over getting Erin a thoughtful, useful gift.
It had never occurred to her to get Erin something silly or fun.
“I—wouldn’t have thought you’d want something silly—I mean, fun but impractical, Erin.”
“Well, I didn’t know about this cape. Whee!”
Erin swung herself up, then did a backflip and surprised herself so much at being able to do it that she burst out laughing. She looked so astonished at her own merriment, and Hedault paused before accepting the cloak back.
“Sorry, I think I used up all the magic.”
“I will recharge it before nightfall. You tested it adequately, Miss Erin. Thank you for…informing me of your preferences. I will keep it in mind.”
He met her eyes, and Erin smiled, then frowned.
“I’m no closer to finding a present, though. Darn. You don’t have time to do a quick enchantment, do you?”
“I could do one minor one.”
“…Shoot.”
 
——
 
They were walking back towards the inn through Invrisil as people attempted to brainstorm with a glum Erin.
“What about knicknacks, Erin? I was thinking—and don’t snap at me—what if we gifted smoking pipes?”
Palt was trying to help, in his way, and he showed Erin a lovely rosewood pipe with a metal cap. Erin’s stare made him remove the cigar he was puffing from his mouth.
“It’s just a hobby! I put one of these in the stockings; Menolit got it. A few of these…”
“Palt. Am I gonna give that to children? To my friends? How about lung cancer in a bag!”
He looked hurt.
“I know what that is now. Imani told me all about it. That’s hurtful, Erin. This is hand-carved from Baleros.”
The Centaur looked so wounded that Erin snatched his pipe. She stared at it, then developed a cunning look.
“Wait a second. What if…I put bubble soap in there? Yeah! That’s fun! I just blow on it and—”
She blew a few times and felt at the air coming out the end.
“Hey, Palt! This could work! How many do you have? No, wait, Laken’s got Jelov, and I bet some place sells pipes…”
She began scheming, and Ryoka wondered how giving everyone a pipe that blew soap bubbles would go down. Erin wasn’t thinking straight, as evidenced by one detail she had missed. Ryoka coughed, tapped her on the shoulder, and whispered in her ear.
“Erin. Do you know how to make the stuff soap bubbles are made of?”
Erin’s face froze. Montressa raised a hand timidly.
“I think some Wistram [Mages] were actually working on that at the academy, but the project got shelved for, uh, more useful things.”
“Wonderful. And Octavia…no, wait. Maybe Rhaldon knows? Scratch that. It’s an okay idea, but it’s not me enough. Sorry, Palt. It’s a nice pipe, though.”
She tried to hand it to him, but the [Illusionist] refused.
“Call it a gift, Erin. I insist.”
Rather to Ryoka’s surprise, Erin didn’t resist and stuck the pipe back in her mouth. She chewed on the end thoughtfully.
“I always wanted to know how it felt to smoke a pipe like Sherlock Holmes. Feels sorta fancy. And pipes…I have an idea. I was mulling it over for this other project about exploding stuff, but maybe…”
There was nothing like that to make everyone worried. Fierre glanced at Montressa, and the [Aegiscaster] raised a hand.
“Exploding what now, Erin?”
Detective Erin removed the pipe from her mouth. Palt tried to fill it with some tobacco, and she slapped it out of his hand.
“Oh, nevermind that. I was thinking—Palt’s a genius, right? Ryoka, do you think we could make…a lighter out of metal parts? All you need is a flint and a spinning wheel, right? We have all the pieces.”
Ryoka blinked. Palt’s eyes lit up, and Montressa also had heard of lighters, or perhaps seen one in one of Erin’s memory-movies.
“Lighters, Erin? Why a lighter? Non-magical people use matches, but what’s the point of another way to make fire when spells are so easy?”
“Well…it’s not about that. I was thinking—the one thing we don’t have is the fuel, right?”
Ryoka thought pensively.
“There’s crude oil, but we don’t have lighter fuel. Fierre, do you know what I’m talking about?”
She tried to describe a lighter, and Fierre frowned.
“So the liquid goes up a tube and a spark ignites it? Sounds like cooking oil might work or something alchemical. It’s not very useful.”
She gave Erin a sidelong look, and the [Innkeeper] smiled, unperturbed.
“I know. I was thinking the exact same thing, actually. But—and this was an idea for the Order of Solstice—what if you needed a flame? A specific…kind of flame? And instead of oil or lighter fluid, you know what else burns? Alcohol.”
The others blinked. Fierre’s mouth opened, then she covered her teeth.
“Wait, are you suggesting putting your Minotaur’s Punch in a lighter? A glory flame lighter?”
“Or any other flame. Mrsha’s told me all about how my flames ‘stick’ to things. If I made a themed lighter set, you could have free fire anytime you want! Glory, honor—”
“—Depression.”
Erin elbowed Ryoka a few times.
“Isn’t that a cool idea?”
It was. Erin had clearly done some novel thinking in the time she’d had. Ryoka checked the sky and guessed it was about half past twelve. Well, that gave Erin about five hours, right?
“Sounds good, Erin. If you work fast and hard, I bet Pelt could prototype the lighters with Kevin, maybe Hedault, and Rufelt could find you the right alcohol.”
“Yep!”
“You might be ready in a month’s time.”
Erin’s face fell. The Wind Runner threw up her hands.
“Sorry, but it’s not gonna work, Erin. Five hours? You’re cooked.”
“No I’m not. I just—I need—”
Erin’s eyes slid around as she trotted back to her inn. She put the pipe back in her mouth and blew on it. After five puffs, a glowing green bubble popped out of it and nearly scared Fierre into the sunlight.
“What was that?”
