“So mote it be? That’s so cliché. Who taught her that?”
“An older witch. She said it with a straight face, too. I don’t think even Mavika could do that.”
Erin threw the soccer ball at them. Both witches ducked, and Nerry performed an evasive roll. Erin had enchanted it! What would it—
The ball rolled down the hill, hit the far wall, and rested there. Wiskeria and Nanette picked themselves up, glared at Erin, then pointed at the ball.
“What did you do?”
“I…don’t know.”
Erin was panting with the effort, and she stared at the soccer ball. Slowly, Nanette slapped her forehead.
 
——
 
Witches were annoyed at Erin for essentially performing wild, random magic. She had put the power of wonders into the soccer ball, and the result would be wondrous…if Erin could figure out what she’d done.
Joseph was pissed at Erin for entirely different reasons.
“Football, Erin!”
“No, that’s a soccer ball. Footballs are the, uh…well, what do they look like? A triangle hotdog thing!”
“That’s an American football. This is a football!”
“Soccer ball!”
They were arguing as Ekirra, Mrsha, and Kevin tried to figure out what the ball did. They were kicking it gingerly at each other in the snow, and the person being kicked to would flinch or take cover. Then they threw it, bounced it…
“It’s a soccer ball, and you can’t make me—whoa.”
Erin sat down hard as she argued, and Joseph caught her.
“Erin! You okay? Do you need your chair?”
Mrsha raced over as Ekirra began kicking the ball up on one foot, juggling it. Erin shook her head.
“No, I don’t think—wow, I’m out of energy.”
“You used up all your craft. Silly witch. You made a single gift with all your might. Now your limbs are weak and your head is light.”
That was Mavika. She stopped outside, eying the soccer ball and Erin with mutual disdain. Erin shook her fist at the crow-witch.
“I wanted to see how hard it…okay, that’s not workable. At least I have one gift!”
She smiled, and Ekirra shouted.
“I don’t want it! I want gold instead!”
Erin put her head down in the snow. She listened to Ekirra kicking the ball up.
Doing, doing, doing, WHAM.
Erin sat up just in time to see the shockwave kick all the snow up in a huge flurry and Ekirra stumble backwards. He caught himself, then stared up as Erin watched the wind rippling after the soccer ball.
The soccer ball, which was so high up she couldn’t even see it. In his tower where he’d been camping out to get a vantage point on Santa and the flying reindeer, Bird’s mandibles opened, and he stared up.
“Ooh. That’s high.”
“Erin! You created a weapon of death! It could have killed us!”
Kevin shouted, and Erin lifted her hands.
“No, I didn’t! It probably only does that if it’s safe.”
She hesitated and looked at Mavika.
“Right?”
“Wonder.”
The crow-witch spat and walked inside. Her raven cawed loudly, and Erin raised one fist.
“Did you see that? It only took like 90% of all my craft!”
Nanette slapped her head again, and even Mrsha gave Erin a look of intense skepticism. She held up a card.
Erin, what are you doing with your time?
“Come on, Mrsha. I had to try. I just don’t know whether…I don’t know what to…”
Erin sat there, panting.
“What am I going to do about presents?”
She looked so genuinely miserable that Mrsha ran over.
It’s okay, Erin! Everyone will be fine! They just want you to be here and alive!
“I know. But I want to repay them for everything they’ve—thud.”
The soccer ball landed about a thousand feet away. Joseph stared at it.
“Fuck, that went high.”
“I want it after all!”
Ekirra raced after it, and Mrsha dashed over to kick it around with Kevin, who wisely insisted they not kick it at them—or anything else. Erin sat there watching as they discovered the ball really didn’t seem to want to hurt someone.
Also, the ‘magic’ in it seemed to only have like a 1% chance of triggering. When it did, it’d be a super-powerful kick or some other effect. Mrsha kicked the ball through Kevin, and it phased through a hill. Kevin, meanwhile, created a fiery comet that blazed into the sky before stopping.
“Yeah. That’s cool.”
Erin smiled at what she had made. Joseph gave Erin an exasperated, amazed, and yes, wondering look, and she snatched some of the energy back for her craft.
“Okay, we could use that in a fun game of football sometime. Never an official game…well, we could make a game with that ball. Magiball or something. Random effects. What are you gonna call it?”
The young woman rubbed her chin.
“I’m gonna call it—the Wonderball. Think it’ll be a good present? Joseph? Hey. Why are you walking away? That’s not a bad name. Joseph? Get back here. Joseph!”
 
——
 
Half an hour later, Erin was snacking on lunch desperately. She gulped down a burger courtesy of Calescent, sipped on some eggnog that the guests were imbibing, and then blew another bubble out of her pipe.
She seemed to be enjoying that. As to where Erin was and what she had gone to next—well, there was actually a certain predictable element to Erin these days.
One could feel that she had become lax. Dependent upon certain factors. And one of said factors thought he had to put his foot down at last.
Fetohep of Khelt coughed into a fist, motioning aside a [Message] scroll advising the Seer of Steel on wisp countermeasures.
“—And your first instinct, having failed to find any material solution nearby, was to consult with me, Erin Solstice?”
“Yep. I’m in a pickle. How’s, uh—how’s Khelt doing now that it’s already celebrated Christmas, Fetohep? I bet you have lots of wrapping paper left over. Maybe a few knick-knacks. Anything cool there?”
Fetohep ignored the leading question. He could tell, since Erin was using her World’s Eye Theatre more like a scrying orb and not as a projection, that he had an audience. Several people, including Mrsha, Ryoka, Charlay, and the inn’s trusted guests were in the seats as the staff prepared for a party of some kind.
They were eating snacks and watching the show. Which was Erin bothering the King of Khelt for help.
He supposed that it was only natural that a long-time guest of the inn would have a warped perception of what constituted entertainment. In fact, Fetohep allowed that given the holiday, this conversation might as well amuse someone.
However, he sat back in his chair and gave Erin one of his most regal looks. She was normally a match for any level of intimidation, but she was blinking rather too fast, and she had a too-wide smile on her face as she dabbed at her mouth with a napkin.
“It occurs to me that our time would best be served tending to our respective domains, Erin Solstice. Naturally, Khelt has the largesse to pay and secure any number of gifts.”
“Right! And I wouldn’t ask, but—”
Fetohep lifted a hand, and Erin hesitated as he spoke over her, rather enjoying the moment.
“…I am sure Khelta’s worthy chosen would not be so banal as to demand mere riches. If one such individual were to come before me for such a reason, why, I would consider it a low point in all the time I had known her.”
Oooh. The audience muttered as Erin flushed and squirmed in her chair. Fetohep’s meaningful look didn’t stop her, though.
“B-but Khelt is all riches, right? They’re there for a reason. Fetohep. Buddy. Pal…”
The Revenant interrupted her firmly.
“Erin Solstice. I cannot transport you a hundred gifts to your inn in half a day—”
Fetohep hesitated.
“—and consider it worth the expenditure. Nor would the gift be yours, but Khelt’s by proxy. Betimes one errs greatly, and a true leader must face their mistakes honestly.”
“Oh, come on. Khelt’s rulers never admitted they were wrong! Fetohep! You probably have all your Christmas decorations left over—”
Erin was begging now, and he averted his gaze so he didn’t have to see it. There was something pitiful about it. He spoke to the air as he gazed out the window, and Erin hesitated.
“…Are those bells? And caroling I hear on your side?”
“I believe the Corusdeer sleigh is doing another lap. I called for snow via magic. A very rare luxury. Half my citizens are merely eating it rather than making snowfolk.”
“Wait. You’re celebrating Christmas twice?”
Erin was outraged. Fetohep strolled over to his balcony to the cheers of his people and waved a regal hand as he surveyed his city.
“Given the impromptu nature of my first Christmas occasion, I decided to declare it a test-run. After all, the Gnollish people are newly come to Khelt, as are the Centaurs and Jecrass’ folk, and my citizens have not celebrated this holiday once in their lives. Why have Christmas once when you could partake of it—twice?”
His eyes shone like gold, like the spirit of overly good will, and the indulgent King of Khelt glanced over his shoulder as all the children began begging to immigrate to Khelt. Erin Solstice put her head in her hands.
“Erin. A gift need not arrive on time if the giving of it would be poorer for the rush. Nor do I believe you will lose the goodwill of others. Perhaps a delay would be appropriate, or a gift made of hard work, not random largesse.”
He took pity on her and gave her the best advice he could. She sighed as she nodded.
“Maybe. I still think—maybe if I asked—”
She trailed off, lost in thought, and he rather suspected her desperate flailing would continue for a while. Never let it be said Khelt’s rulers or would-be rulers were not stubborn as camels. She was about to sign off when he coughed theatrically.
“Erin.”
She paused, and Fetohep leaned forwards and lowered his voice conspiratorially.
“I would happily accept a card with due care and effort put in. A mere thousand words would do.”
Erin closed her eyes a second.
“Do you ever wonder if you’ll get coal, Fetohep? Metaphorically, I mean.”
“Never.”
The [Innkeeper] stared at him without a word as he smiled at her from his throne, and then her image vanished. Fetohep felt rather hurt by this. Then he rose to take his first, inaugural ride on the flying sleigh. He thought he’d fit through one of the chimneys quite easily. But he had no idea how the other fellow did it in one night.
 
——
 
“So you don’t have presents. That’s okay. Ours suck. But I killed a wisp-thing today. Cortese fainted.”
Rabbiteater was next to see Erin. He was smiling hugely under his helmet, and despite her distress, she gave him an air-hug.
“He did?”
“Ser Solstice, don’t you dare impugn my name!”
Cortese was still red-faced about fainting in fright, and Menrise had regained her good spirits. Seraphel, meanwhile, was still mildly shocked about Erin’s ability to spontaneously appear anywhere.
“Miss Erin—it is a delight to see you once again. On behalf of Eternal Calanfer, I greet you.”
She did her best. Erin stared at Seraphel and then hesitated as Rabbiteater rolled his eyes.
“Oh. Hi, Princess Seraphel. Hey, Altestiel!”
She waved as the Earl of Rains practically charged onto the deck.
“Erin! What brings you here? Merry Christmas! Hold on, I have a gift for you. Kiish! Where’s our agent? Tell them to deliver it!”
He was flustered, which made Erin flustered, and she waved her hands as he smoothed his purple hair and adjusted his festive jacket.
“No, no! It’s fine! The party’s not here yet, and I wanted to say hi later, anyways. I, uh, have a gift problem myself, and I was sort of hoping anyone had good ideas.”
The Umbral Quintet blinked and listened to Erin’s description of her problem, and Cortese started laughing.
“Are you going around to various people in the world and asking for ideas? That’s—”
“Insane.”
Seraphel muttered. Menrise chimed in with Cortese.
“Hilarious! I love it! I’d do that if I had a room that let me scry people!”
Erin relaxed and grinned.
“I know, right? Everyone was getting mad at me for asking Niers and other people for advice. Psh. Someone’s got to have a good idea, right? Rab—Solstice, what do you think I should get?”
He gave it serious thought and came up with a good answer.
“Little chicks.”
“What, like baby chickens?”
Erin was astonished, but Rabbiteater had been giving her issue serious thought, and he made a little ball with his hands.
“Yeah. Farms have tons of them. G—my people would give each other chicks as gifts.”
“Really? I had no idea they, er, did that. Wow. Why?”
Rabbiteater smacked his lips.
“Well, they eat all kinds of stuff. They’re small, easy to carry—then they get big, lay more eggs, or you eat them.”
“Ah. Um.”
“You could get a hundred. Very easy. If someone doesn’t want to raise them, they just—krsch.”
He made a gesture, then chomping sounds, and Seraphel turned white. Even Cortese turned vaguely pale.
“Dead gods, Solstice! I’d rather get nothing at all! Don’t be ghastly.”
“Baeris would love it.”
Even the lioness was giving the [Knight] a side-eye. He folded his arms, grumpily realizing this was another Terandrian moment.
“I can’t wait to go home. Can you teleport me to the inn? That’s a good present.”
“No…what about food? Maybe a big dish.”
Erin glumly rubbed at her head, and Rabbiteater raised a hand.
“If you get an egg that’s got a chicken in it before it hatches and chomp it down—”
“No!”
Everyone shouted at him, and Seraphel did break in here to defend him.
“I do hate to break in here, but that is a delicacy, you know. It’s called balut, and some people eat the chick in the egg—”
She saw them staring and decided not to volunteer more rare culinary facts. Erin was shaking her head, then she leaned over to whisper.
“I’ve got nosy people watching me—but what about cuisine, guys? Some fancy dish? I could make something for everyone. That works, right?”
“Yes…do you have anything novel in mind, Miss Solstice? Surely something from your background would do.”
Altestiel was hinting with a smile, but Erin’s frown grew deeper.
“I wish. With Imani around—she’s made everything from sushi to chiffon cake. I need something from Terandria! What’ve you got that’s original? Come on!”
The others looked at each other, and Menrise raised a hand.
“How about mana jellied eels or the like? It’s sort of disgusting, but—”
“Nope. We do jello, and Mrsha would throw up on us.”
“Ah, well. I never ate mine, I just threw it in the potted plant. Cortese?”
He scratched at his head, miffed.
“All the latest foods in Kaaz are donuts, pastries, and the like. From, uh—”
He hesitated and looked evasive as Erin narrowed her eyes. Altestiel just rolled his at the Hundredlord’s attempt to be subtle.
