Someone coughed, and he hesitated. Itreimedes glanced at Erin, looked worriedly to the side, and then stared up at the ceiling before obviously figuring out a lie.
“…With the war in Ailendamus and such, I might visit more often. But then again, there’s more to do these days with king…ing.”
“Ruling.”
“Some may call it that. I just wish I had more enjoyable company. Do you have plans on visiting Terandria?”
That was so straightforwards Erin laughed despite herself.
“No. Surely there’s someone closer by?”
“Well…there was Princess Seraphel. And the Singer, Cara. Both personal acquaintances of mine. Nay, friends! But they got away, and you can shoot a bird, but that doesn’t make it stay. It just kills the bird.”
Such bird wisdom. Erin decided she’d bring Bird to meet Itreimedes. Someone coughed loudly.
“And Princess Kadane.”
Here, for the first time, King Itreimedes hesitated and fidgeted on his throne. He coughed into his fist.
“Yes, of course, Princess Kadane. However—it being what it is—she often visits Avel’s court as we’re neighbors, you know—but if I go travelling, I won’t get to visit Menorome. I suppose that’s the one upside of staying.”
Even Erin had to pry at that.
“What’s Princess Kadane like?”
Itreimedes’ mouth moved as he tried to describe the Princess of Noelictus. He frowned, hesitated—
“S-spidery?”
The Minister of Defense closed his eyes. Someone actually threw a shoe at the King of Bows, and he ducked as his court erupted into angry shouts.
“Your Majesty!”
“Shame on you!”
Itreimedes shielded his face, shouting defensively.
“Well, she is. In a lovely way! I’m not being mean! I like her! Stop throwing things at me! She’s a personal friend of the throne of Avel, and I’ll hang the first person who insults her!”
This was so fascinating that at this point, Nanette, Mrsha, Visma, and a gaggle of people were listening into the discussion. Erin hesitated and saw Ryoka making wild gestures in the seats. She interpreted it as best she could.
“It, uh, sounds like she’d be a great person to have in the Court of Avel.”
“It’s called the Court of Ranges. I think. And yes—she would be fun. Not that she enjoys ruling and whatnot. But she can drink.”
“Interesting. Wouldn’t it be fun to have her around all the time?”
Erin wasn’t sure if she should do this. But the rapid nodding from behind Itreimedes suggested that this was a line of conversation they had tried to bounce off his head a hundred times. The King of Bows rested his chin in his hand.
“Oh, one supposes. But you know how people take things. You hang out with a lady five minutes and it’s an engagement. Plus, she is beholden to Noelictus. It would be fun if she could visit the New Lands. Or somewhere else besides Noelictus—which does get gloomy and filled with undead on occasion. I’ve thought about Desonis or visiting Cara or…well, it would be fun.”
“Why not invite her to the Kingdom of Avel for a while?”
Erin read off the signs both Mrsha and someone behind Itreimedes were holding up. They were almost word-for-word identical.
Itreimedes considered the idea a second, then waved it off with a chuckle.
“…That sounds like a proposal of some kind. Imagine how she’d laugh. You may not be aware of this, Innkeeper Erin, but in royal circles, that kind of thing is regarded as flirtatious. Or at the very least, suggestive.”
“You don’t…say.”
She was scrutinizing him up and down. Up and down, trying to look for that twinkle in his eye. But he looked so serious—and then Itreimedes’ gaze shifted, and he murmured.
“Yes, well, it’s interesting but also not a good idea.”
“Why not?”
Half his court shouted at him, and the King of Bows winced, put two fingers in his ears, and bellowed back.
“Because it’s damn unpleasant, that’s why! For her!”
Here they paused, and Erin saw the King of Bows twist, glare, and raise his voice.
“The Court of Ranges is not the group you see in front of you, Miss Erin. It’s all the nobility—the Court of Dusks has their Landsreight, that’s the nobility in Noelictus. Mine doesn’t vote because that’s stupid, but they do petition and argue. They’re often less uptight than my advisors, but they’re also an idiotic lot.”
“Your Majesty means a diverse and nuanced cast of characters.”
The King of Bows had an uncharacteristically dark and upset expression on his face as he leaned sideways on his throne.
“Prince Lothen of Calanfer is in my Court of Ranges. That man is as diverse as an uncured ham. Seraphel is a rainbow compared to him. He’s commented on Kadane before. So have others. Since I can’t throw them off a cliff, I would rather not make her deal with them. She gets enough comments as it is. Leave off. I told you, she prefers us to visit.”
He looked so unhappy as he said that, on behalf of the [Princess] that Erin had never met, that she developed an idea of what this Agenote guy was like. Wait…Lyonette’s brother? She glanced over, and the 6th Princess of Calanfer made a face that said quite clearly she knew what Itreimedes meant.
Well, well, well. Lyonette’s family was everywhere! Though it seemed the two [Princesses] had done a far better job of ingratiating themselves than the [Prince] had. Yet Itreimedes’ concern for Kadane?
Like that, Erin’s perception and perhaps the entire royal court’s changed. She gave the King of Bows a second look, and he sat there, conscientious of nothing and enough to make her like him at the same time.
“Well, I dunno about all that, but I’m glad you have a friend, at least. And hey. If you throw one person off a cliff, maybe the others will take a hint. You’re a [King]. You can do what you want.”
Itreimedes’ glare turned into a thoughtful look, then a smile as he looked up at Erin.
“I am, aren’t I? A [King]. You forget, sometimes. Heavy is the head that wears the crown…unless you forget about it or it’s a light crown, in which case not. Thank you, Miss Erin. Maybe I will put my foot down and go to the New Lands of Izril.”
“…Your Majesty, please.”
But he was smiling, and then he looked puzzled.
“I’ve completely forgotten about why you called. What was it again?”
Erin had almost forgotten too. They stared at each other, and then she slapped her head. Behind her, Selys was pointing down and whispering loudly.
“He did it! He actually out-Erined her! I can’t believe it! Zevara, do you see—?”
Erin raised her voice, shaking her fist behind her.
“Christmas gifts. What’s, uh, what’s your plan for ideas?”
The King of Bows steepled his hands together and gave her a grand smile.
“Ah, yes. Christmas is well underway here, it’s just past midday, so right about now, all the girls and boys will be getting gifts. In fact, we even hung some up with ropes, and they get to shoot them down! To the best archer, the prize! I came up with it.”
“It’s a terrible idea. Someone is going to get hurt.”
One of his advisors muttered. Itreimedes ignored them. Erin hesitated.
“Uh—I’m looking for gift ideas, actually. Can I ask what you’re getting people?”
Itreimedes hesitated.
“Well, I’m actually bound for Noelictus via the Nighttrain tomorrow, and I’ll celebrate a belated one at the Palace of Shadows. I may have gotten a lovely bow, yew, shortbow, strung with spider silk, and, uh—other gifts.”
Gee, Erin wondered who was getting the shortbow. Itreimedes coughed a bit, then looked around.
“But I have made arrangements for presents for people here. Including my royal court, who do deserve a gift.”
They smiled, despite themselves, and Erin leaned forwards.
“That’s—nice of you. I don’t know many [Kings] who’d do that. Can I ask for details on a few gifts?”
Itreimedes beamed and, without lowering his voice, waved a hand.
“Oh, don’t worry. It’s half a month’s wages. I told our Minister of Finance to calculate it and wrap up the gold in a box for everyone.”
The beaming smiles turned to stares—and then the Minister of Defense picked up a box under the royal tree and hurled it at the throne. It burst, and gold coins showered down as the King of Bows ducked.
“Hey! It’s not time to open the—”
“That’s your idea of a gift? You had all month, you idiot! We gave you ideas!”
“I am your King! It’s a very generous—you aren’t even royalty! Why are you shouting?”
“We’ve known you since you were a boy! I served your grandfather! I’ve had better presents congratulating me on getting a single level up!”
“Well, at your age, any level up is a surprise. Stop throwing my gifts!”
The entire court was hurling insults and presents at Itreimedes, and he ducked back around his throne.
“It’s a mutiny. Help! Mutiny!”
“It’s a coup, Your Idiotic Majesty! A rebellion! An uprising!”
“Yes, that! Call for the royal guard! Miss Solstice!”
She was vanishing, shaking her head. The King of Bows hid as his royal court attacked him, and there he hunkered, shielding his face, a cautionary tale to all poor gifters of the world.
And yet—and yet. Despite the [Innkeeper]’s chagrin, the children couldn’t help but feel that Itreimedes was a fine [King]. They didn’t see what was wrong with his gifts at all. Adults had no taste.
——
 
Fruitless encounter after encounter. Yet somehow, Erin couldn’t tear herself away from the [World’s Eye Theatre].
Part of it was that even if she didn’t get an idea, she was wishing people she knew well. And there was something to saying ‘Merry Christmas’ to them and seeing how they enjoyed themselves in their unique ways.
Perhaps…that was the true power of Christmas. For it was making Erin approach people that she hadn’t talked to before. People who she was actually shy about talking to, but had never needed to meet.
Call it the desperation of a woman bereft of presents. And in this case, the 5th person she talked to did have a way to help. Although the first thing both did was just stare at each other for a good minute.
“I—um—I’m sorry if I’m bothering you. Well, technically I homed in on Greg, but—there’s no good way to do this aside from calling ahead with, like, a [Message] spell or scrying spell. I should have done that. Sorry. I can go if—”
Erin was suddenly shy and uncertain, and she almost backed out of the center of the [World’s Eye Theatre]—but then the other person held up her hand.
Cara O’Sullivan, the Singer of Terandria, breathed a word.
“No. This—works. Hi there. I knew you could do this, but what an entrance. Erin? Erin Solstice? You look exactly like you did when you called before.”
“That’s me. Hi. Sorry I—this is a mistake. Now I feel stupid.”
At last, the frozen crowd behind Cara moved. Erin had appeared in what she assumed was their caravan’s trailer. She saw a group of young people from Earth goggling at her, and one of them, who was balanced on top of a table, perhaps about to do something stupid, toppled off it with an unholy crash.
Cara winced, turned, and shouted.
“Fecking damn it, Greg! That’s my table! What are you doing?”
“Wh—that’s her! Erin! She’s in our wagon! Cara! This is—”
Greg got up, and Cara’s band ran over, but Cara began shouting.
“Hey! Stop pushing! Clear the—Abebi, Thien, clear the room! Erin wants a word with me, and if you all ask questions, we’ll be here all day!”
“No fair! You got to meet Ryoka and now Erin? Erin! I’m from Nevada! Las Vegas on the strip! I saw your missing poster! Can I visit your—”
Thien suckerpunched Greg so hard the young man doubled over then took a swing at him. But the [Drummer] put him in a headlock as Cara covered her eyes.
“Greg. Zip it.”
She made a slashing motion, and he stopped making sound. Cara turned, spotting the people behind Erin, and stared at Greg.
“Erin is with her guests. Why don’t you all give us a moment, and we can talk about other things later?”
“You got it, Cara. Everyone out!”
Abebi, the [Manager], pushed the others out. They were dying to speak to Erin, but now that they were aware they had an audience, they left, only peeking at Erin and pointing. Cara, meanwhile, was scrutinizing Erin’s audience from her limited vantage point and jumped as Ryoka entered the frame.
“H-hi, Cara.”
“You piece of sh—Ryoka Griffin. You’re celebrating Christmas with Erin? Of course. You two are in the same spot and best friends. Hello. I’m so glad you’re okay.”
Cara spoke through her teeth, and Ryoka’s pained look made Erin suspect the two had a history that was more contentious than Ryoka had related to her. She’d said she’d done Cara a disservice. To look at the Singer’s face—Cara agreed.
“Don’t worry about my friends, Cara. Home isn’t that bad a secret over here.”
Cara stared past Erin and Ryoka at Fierre, Charlay, Ilvriss, Mrsha fighting with Visma and Ekirra over the bucket of popcorn, Hedault accepting a drink from Silvermop, Peggy lugging presents in with Lyonette—
She gave the two Earthers another smile that looked sickly.
“You don’t say. Well, your group-chat a bit ago made it clear caution’s gone to the winds for good reason, eh? I’m glad we had a chance to talk. I was wondering if you’d call, but you never did.”
Erin scuffed a toe on the ground.
“I’m sorry. I meant to, but I got cold feet. I was gonna call some of the others, but Silv—one of them scared the poop outta me.”
“I don’t blame you for being wary.”
Cara muttered, and Ryoka shuddered at the risks Erin had taken. The [Singer] of Terandria looked like she might be having more of a panic attack than either the [Innkeeper] or Wind Runner, though.
She was interesting at once. Erin looked at Cara and realized she’d switched hairstyles. Instead of the garish pink, she was now full blue, and she had shaved half her hair, the other half grown out and long. It glittered faintly, and Erin wondered if she had to apply some kind of alchemical dye every day.
Even on Christmas, Cara dressed as if she were ready for a show, and come to it, she might be. She had on what Erin could only describe as someone marrying Santa’s costume to a performer’s outfit, and she didn’t seem to be inhabiting the Christmas cheer.
If anything, she seemed rather pensive and gloomy, and Erin’s surprise-visit had shaken her out of her funk.
“I don’t like winters. I arrived in one, and they’re bad memories. Plus, that damn solstice is a week away, and I’m racing to get somewhere with the band. What’s up? Do you have more information for me? We’ll be ready—but if you need a song, I’m literally a call away. I can throw my voice far, though I can’t guarantee I’ll be able to sing support. I’ll try if you need it.”
She was so…focused and helpful Erin began squirming before she even brought up why she’d called.
