It was a special day today. An important one filled with many things. Christmas?
Christmas.
A holiday that had wormed its way into another world like a parasite with a Santa hat. Today was Christmas, just as Erin Solstice had promised. Even if it had come earlier in other parts of the world, it was that special day in Liscor, at least. Everyone was ready.
Especially Erin.
Definitely Erin.
Lyonette was getting very concerned about Erin.
However, the [Innkeeper] couldn’t have missed the leafy boughs that were being strung up from the tiled shingles on each house, the mistletoe bundles being avoided by everyone except for a few very desperate-looking people loitering underneath, the ‘candy canes’ being sold by Barehoof Kitchens and adopted and altered by street vendors, or the red hats.
Surely Erin had noticed the preparations. She definitely had the date memorized, and she had sneakily, in her Erin-way, been preparing all month, right? Just like Erin used the big calendar Lyonette hung up on the 2nd Floor hallway with important dates circled. Like today. Lyonette had even done two circles, one red, one green.
Because Erin definitely also used that calendar*.
*(Erin did not use that calendar.)
It might have been that Lyonette was in denial. The rest of the inn’s family were figuring out how to broach the subject on the day of…Christmas. Which was today.
Numbtongue was of the opinion it’d be funnier to let Erin catch on since she was already out of time.
However, as a sleepy [Innkeeper] awoke, hair tangled, blinking blearily as she hunched over in her triple-layer blankets and stared ahead for a good eight minutes without really waking up—she eventually looked sideways and saw about eight people staring at her through her half-open doorway and freaked out.
“Aaaaah! I’m not dead!”
An interesting day. An important, special day. It had Christmas, people scrambling to buy presents, gatherings of old friends and enemies alike—like Wall Lord Ilvriss, who was attempting to spit in his clawed hand properly so he could give the Sisters of Chell a proper greeting under Xesci’s and Nerul’s supervision—doubtlessly hijinks, and—
Racism. The most special of all things.
 
——
 
It was an odd thing. Visma, Ekirra, and Kenva were running around Liscor in the morning and practicing their lines. Mrsha wasn’t there yet; she’d catch up with Ser Sest after talking to Erin.
In a way, it was better she wasn’t here. The Thronebearer was the most Archmage of the Thronebearers that guarded Mrsha—whatever that meant, Visma wasn’t sure, but he’d taught her that word, and some of the older kids said he probably wasn’t, but anyways…even the coolest [Knight] was still a minder.
Mrsha had guards. It was sometimes fun to have him around because adults were good at doing things, but other times, Visma asked if Mrsha could lose him. Mrsha was reluctant to because Lyonette would freak out and there was probably a 1% chance of a Raskghar popping out of the air to try and kill her at any given moment, but still.
Ekirra was picking his nose with his tongue, which was gross and Archmage. His voice had a hint of a whine as he hopped down the street. He had boots on for the slush and a big scarf with blue and yellow that read ‘Little Crabs’ and had a crab and soccer ball logo…and pants.
Nothing else. He didn’t look cold, which made Visma mad because she was all bundled up with a coat and two layers of pants and a sweater and shirt and it was still freezing. But the [Kicker] was running around so much he kept warm.
Kenva had a heating charm, because she was from Pallass and her dad had bought it for her. Watch Captain Venim was moving to Liscor, though, so she was now in their group. She kept twirling, arms spread, over patches of ice, giggling; her tail balanced her and kept her from falling. Whenever Ekirra tried it, he wiped out. As the Gnoll boy picked himself up, he looked east, towards the inn.
“She really didn’t know about Christmas? Are we not gonna get any presents?”
Visma folded her arms anxiously, but tried to sound like she knew what was going on. Someone had to take charge, and it was either her or Mrsha, and she was better at leading.
“Mrsha says…said…Erin might not know. In which case, there’s not gonna be a crazy weird thing. But maybe she tricked us? She’s got tons of presents either way. We could get a quest!”
“I don’t wanna quest.”
Ekirra grumped. Visma scowled at him.
“Well, that’s why we have to practice our lines! Go on, you do it.”
“Me? Oh…I’m first. Uh—uh—”
Ekirra’s face screwed up as he tried to remember, and Visma slapped her face as Kenva giggled. Ekirra looked at her with a grin, and Visma scowled harder. She wished Kenva wouldn’t encourage him. Or that Ekirra seemed to like her. Ekirra finally remembered what he was going to say.
“It’s Christmas! I’m so glad it’s Christmas today. I can’t wait for my present!”
He piped up with that somewhat flat intonation of someone reciting from memory. Visma followed him with considerably more panache and inflection to her lines.
“Yes, Christmas! What a wonderful time of year! And I’m sure since it’s the first Christmas, all the adults will want to make sure we have a wonderful time! But…”
Visma paused, and Kenva hesitated.
“Should I do Mrsha’s part?”
“Yeah, then yours.”
“Okay! U-um! But I hope adults are fisc…fiscal…‘fiscalilibily responsible’ about their gifts for this upcoming seasonal holiday. Given the current economic prospects.”
The children were skipping down the street, largely ignored by most Liscorians, but at that line, a Gnoll [Butcher]’s mouth opened and stayed there. Kenva delivered her next line.
“Yes! Because while coins are very nice, a few silver coins isn’t much money these days!”
Visma nudged Ekirra, and he piped up.
“Gold coins are the bare minimum! Otherwise we can’t buy anything! Even a snack costs, like, eight silver! This holiday only comes once per year…”
“It’d be terrible if our first Christmas wasn’t amazing!”
Visma ended their little play and nodded. Delivery needed work, but it was a solid script that Mrsha had worked up. They were going to recite it around significant Christmas gifters like Selys and Lyonette and everyone else all day.
Obviously, there was the Christmas spirit, but they had to make sure they got enough of the Christmas spirit. If all the adults they knew fell for it…Visma knew a lot of adults. They could all be rich!
“Ekirra, do your line better.”
“What? I thought I said it right!”
He whined as they turned the corner, hurrying down the street. They were getting something special for Christmas. Garry had made Christmas muffins with little red ‘hats’ of frosting each child could get, and they were going to get one. Visma’s mother had asked for a non-bug pie to round out their lunch.
It was going to be an amazing day. Visma couldn’t wait till nightfall, which was when the gifts would be opened. According to Mrsha, they had to give Erin time to find gifts if she wasn’t ready.
“What if she gives us Faerie Flowers?”
Ekirra was still worried about the lack-of-gifts-from-Erin aspect. Visma scoffed.
“That’d be the best, Ekirra. We sell them. That’s like…ten gold coins!”
“Really?”
“Yeah. What did you get her?”
“Um…um…I think my family got something. But I got my Secret Santa gift person something and other gifts!”
He looked suddenly worried, but that was how it worked. You couldn’t Christmas everyone; Lyonette had told the adults, who were justifiably concerned about the holiday, that you gave gifts to immediate family, best friends, and one other: the Secret Santa person. She’d done a raffle among all the inn’s guests and friends, so Visma had ended up buying and making only six gifts this month.
Obviously, Erin Solstice had to gift a ton of people because she was the Crazy Human [Innkeeper] of Liscor. But that was her problem. Visma wouldn’t want to be her and have to think of gifts.
Anyways, they were about to slide down a patch of ice leading towards the ‘Antinium District’, as it was now being known as, when they heard it.
“Damn you Drakes! Die!”
A voice shouted the words, someone screamed, and all of Ekirra’s fur stood up. Visma’s head spun, and she saw someone flinch—a Drake woman went stumbling and fell in the snow.
“What was that?”
Kenva hadn’t seen it, nor had Visma, but a Drake woman with rose-red scales was picking herself up, and someone was protesting.
“It wasn’t me! It wasn’t—”
“Hey, who shouted that?”
Several people whirled around, and a Human man, young, wearing trousers crusted with snow, backed up, looking panicked. The children watched as someone hurried over.
“Are you alright, Miss? You—what was that?”
“I’m—I’m fine. I think someone hit me. I’m not hurt. I think? My back—”
The Drake twisted around and gasped, but she just looked cold. And she turned to the Human as he protested.
“It wasn’t me!”
More people arrived, justifiably due to the concerning shout. The Gnoll [Butcher] appeared with a cleaver, and someone called out.
“Call for the Watch!”
“You’re not hurt?”
Everyone looked at the female Drake, and she wasn’t hurt, but she was shivering and looked shaken.
“I was just shoved hard—wh-what was—”
“Don’t move, Human. And put your hands out.”
A hostile crowd was gathering, and it might have gone poorly for the young man when Ekirra piped up.
“It wasn’t him!”
Every eye turned to the Gnoll boy. Ekirra stared around, frowning.
“It wasn’t him. His voice is different. And it wasn’t coming from where he was standing when that lady got shoved.”
“Really?”
Several Drakes were suspicious, but another person who’d been walking down the street raised a paw. A Silverfang Gnoll, one of the Plains Gnolls, looked cautiously at the Drakes, but rumbled an affirmative.
“I heard it too. The voice sounds different, yes?”
“No!”
The young man protested, but he just didn’t understand Gnollish speech patterns. He looked incredibly relieved as the crowd’s animosity subsided, and then Visma heard brisk stomping.
“Guardswoman, answering the call! What’s going on here?”
A Gnollish [Guardswoman] stomped over, wearing a festive hat over her leather armor. She frowned as everyone tried to explain what was going on.
“Then who did push this woman? [Identify Perpetrator]!”
Everyone looked around, and the [Guardswoman] stared about…but only focused on the Human for a second. She gave everyone a blank look and frowned.
“…I don’t see anyone. Maybe they ran off?”
How’d they do that? Visma hadn’t seen the push, but had they vanished in the second it had taken to look around? The [Guardswoman] began noting down details and checked the side-alleys, but no one had seen anything suspicious.
Odd. It was just one small thing on a Christmas day, and thankfully, it didn’t even ruin the Drake’s day. She even ended up shaking hands with the young man and apologizing for suspecting him, and he went to thank Ekirra, and when he realized Ekirra was that kid who played football, he asked for an autograph!
A small incident that could not disrupt the Christmas cheer. Hardly concerning.
…Except perhaps if you were Watch Captain Zevara and you had over fifty reported assaults that very morning.
Almost all of them on Drakes or Humans. Some Gnolls. Not one perpetrator found.
Racism.
 
——
 
“Say it again.”
“It’s Christmas.”
“No, it’s not.”
Lyonette had her face in her hands, avoiding the truth. The truth sat in front of her, arms crossed in the early morning, a steaming Christmas crêpe half-eaten, as Calescent, Mrsha, Numbtongue, Kevin, Apista, Octavia, and Lyonette held an intervention.
“Erin, you invented Christmas. You’ve been pushing it—please tell me you’re joking. This is like the beach, right? You were working on it in secret?”
Lyonette begged, but Erin had the most…unnerved and half-amused look on her face. Like she was hoping this was a prank.
“No, we did it, though. Remember? Fetohep had his gifts, and there was that Death of Wings in Rhir? Everyone was singing songs, and…and people were complaining about a ‘scary flying undead Santa’ in Chandrar? We did Christmas.”
Oh dead gods. Mrsha’s mouth was open, and Numbtongue was grinning happily as Octavia elbowed him. Lyonette’s lips moved.
“That…you said it was early. And that was Khelt, Erin.”
“Right, but they forced Christmas early.”
“But we didn’t celebrate it.”
“…Oh. I guess we didn’t. But then—why today?”
Erin was starting to sweat. Logically, it made sense. If some fools wanted to do Christmas early, that was their prerogative. But why today?
“It’s gotta be a mistake. Listen, Lyonette. You might not know this, but Christmas is—”
“—On the 25th day of the month? Today? The second month of winter, which is halfway through the season, which is what you calculated as being ‘close enough’. Which I told Liscor’s Council and wrote down on the calendar.”
“I have a calendar. It doesn’t say that on mine.”
“You have a—where?”
Erin had to go and fetch it. She presented it, and Lyonette stared down at it.
“Erin. There’s only one day circled here. The end of the month. The Winter Solstice.”
The [Innkeeper] gave Lyonette a long, long look.
“Yeah. That’s what I was focused on.”
In a way, it made sense. Christmas? Impending doom. Christmas? Nah, impending doom. Erin had been so focused on that, the beach, and things like Ilvriss’ return that she hadn’t actually gone out that much from her inn. She’d done a lot of gazing around the world using her theatre.
Not a lot of walking down the streets and seeing the candy canes on sale. Now, Erin was sweating hard.
“…So how much, um, preparation has everyone been doing? Gifts? A little get-together like last time?”
Lyonette’s eyes slid sideways, and Erin saw Peggy hanging up some mistletoe. The Hobgoblin blew her a kiss, and Silvermop paused as he realized he had fallen under its aegis. He sighed and looked at Peggy, and she nodded.
“Is a trap. Should put one over the outhouse for fun.”
Some traditions were being taken literally. Erin’s stare—as Peggy planted a kiss on the top of Silvermop’s head and he shyly blew her one with his mandibles—encapsulated Peggy’s red serving outfit, the green sash Silvermop wore, and then the tree that someone began lugging into the inn.
“Hey! I’ve got a tree from Celum! Where do you want it?”
A City Runner, Garia, was red-faced as she lifted an entire tree into the inn. This was no house-sized pine, but one that reached into the rafters of the inn. Lyonette rushed over with Calescent.
