“No—I, uh—it’s not, uh—you know what? I should let you have your party. I just didn’t have, er, any Christmas presents, and you know how it is. I was sort of—now that I say it the fifth time, it sounds stupid—Merry Christmas?”
The Irish [Singer]’s stare just kept going until it felt like she was boring a hole into Erin’s head. Then she seemed to shake herself and gave Erin a rueful smile and almost a laugh.
“That is the dumbest reason I have ever heard to call someone up out of nowhere. You’re definitely Ryoka’s friend.”
“Ow. Hey. Um. Glad you made it out of Ailendamus okay, Cara.”
The Singer of Terandria’s smile grew glassier, and one of her fingers twitched. It was her middle finger, and if there weren’t children and potential fans behind Erin, the two were sure which digit Cara would be using to express her feelings.
Indeed, some of Cara’s actual fans bounded down, begging to say something.
“Cara! Miss Cara, I’m a huge fan!”
“I love your songs! When’s a new one coming out! My mom and dad like your songs too!”
“Can I get you on the show again? You’re a huge hit with our people—hello, Cara!”
To Erin’s great annoyance, Palt, Visma, and Drassi all came charging down to shout greetings at Cara, and the [Popstar] instantly lit up with such pleasure that Erin wasn’t sure if it was an amazing act or genuine.
“Hello, hello! Who’s this adorable Drake girl? And you, Drassi, and hello to you, Mister Centaur! I’m sorry I’m a mess. I’m all off-guard, and I was going to do a little Christmas song this evening, actually. We’re almost at our destination in Noelictus; we’ve been on the road all day. We’ll be in Afiele in about six hours, but if I can help before that with Miss Solstice, I’d love to! I can’t sign anything, I’m afraid, but I’m delighted to meet you all!”
To the two young women who had just experienced Cara’s rather surly tone, the effect of her switching to a likable personality should have made both suspicious that Cara was just some kind of con-artist, an [Actor] certainly.
However, the Singer of Terandria was well-liked. Everyone from Seraphel to the King of Avel had met and liked her, and perhaps that was all part of the act—but in Erin’s experience, you could tell who someone was based on the friends they had.
Not one friend, but the totality of them. It was all too possible someone could hoodwink King Itreimedes. Seraphel, though? Dalimont?
Speaking of Ser Dalimont, Cara paused as she was bending over to listen to Visma shyly whisper her favorite song into Cara’s ear. Her eyes widened, and she straightened slowly.
“Dalimont?”
“Singer Cara. Hello.”
He descended the stairs slowly, as Lyonette blinked, and Cara’s mouth opened.
“I thought you were with Seraphel. What happened?”
“Her Highness gave me a quest to find her sister. I am pleased to say I succeeded. May I introduce Her Highness, Lyonette du Marquin, and her adopted daughter?”
Cara’s eyes widened, and she blurted out something before she could catch herself.
“The runaway? The one that everyone h—”
She bit her tongue fast, and Lyonette turned red as Mrsha’s wide-eyed stare became protective of her mother’s name. Yet Cara recovered faster than Erin expected.
“I am so sorry, Your Highness! I’ve heard some terrible rumors—I am completely scatterbrained. And that’s Mrsha, isn’t it? The little Doombearer with pluck and courage?”
Mrsha’s chest puffed out as Lyonette blinked, realizing her daughter might have more of a famous name than she did, at least on camera. Before Erin knew it, Mrsha was racing over with a card introducing herself, and Cara was being besieged by a number of Erin’s guests.
“Forsooth, I am Mrsha du Marquin, and I would greatly appreciate you mailing an autograph to me in quadruplicate…er, no. Thank you, Miss Mrsha.”
Why not? Are you too good for autographs?
Mrsha demanded as Erin tried to get a word in edgewise. Dalimont looked aghast, and Cara gave the girl a big smile as she leaned over.
“No…but I don’t fancy paying the postage on sending four autographs across the sea. I’ll tell you what. If you send me four autographs from Erin, I’ll send you four of mine. Deal?”
Mrsha’s mouth opened, and Erin sighed as Lyonette scooped her up.
“I am so sorry, Singer Cara—I hope we aren’t disturbing you. This is such an imposition on a holiday—”
“I was simply enjoying the road, Miss Lyonette. The entire…long road of the last five days of sitting in this caravan. I should be upset; I was about to watch Greg, my favorite bandmate, do a backflip off the table. He’s been drinking all day. You may imagine how upset I am, but I shall hold it in stride.”
Cara answered straight-faced, like a courtier, and Lyonette covered her mouth despite herself. That dry humor seemed to amuse Calanferians.
“You know my sister, I believe, Singer Cara? She mentioned you.”
“I’ve had the pleasure of singing for her on a number of occasions. She wintered in Menorome, Noelictus’ capital, and I regard her as something of a friend. I hope she will have a fine time in Izril. She was quite concerned for your safety, and Dalimont—I’m sure you’ll return to her side. She needs people to support her.”
The [Popstar]’s face was carefully neutral, but Erin, even without the benefit of being able to see Cara directly and use her witch-powers, could tell there was a lot under the surface. Lyonette bit her lip as she nodded at Dalimont.
“Ser Dalimont has been a font of…of common sense I rely upon.”
The other Thronebearers, Sest, Ushar, and even Ser Lormel, resting instead of working, glowered at Dalimont, who pretended not to notice. Cara, on the other hand, laughed and favored him with a smile.
“He does seem to have some. And who is…is that an Antinium?”
More people. Erin groaned.
“Guys, I have to ask Cara something—this is Bird, Cara. I think he admires your singing.”
“Hello, I am Bird. I wish to be part of the fun. I did not get a chance to harass the King of Bows. May I bother you?”
Bird appeared, followed by Numbtongue, and Cara’s eyes nearly popped at the sight of a Hobgoblin with a guitar.
“It’s him! The Goblin who can shred! I knew he was at your inn—want to trade him for Greg?”
“Hey. I’m Numbtongue.”
The [Bard] looked very pleased at Cara’s recognition of him, probably from one of his prior performances. Erin introduced him, and Cara looked at the two.
“Antinium and Goblin. Two species people call monsters under your roof. No wonder you’re a high-level [Innkeeper]. Anyone who’s willing to take a stand and doesn’t get killed for it would level up.”
Erin blushed faintly and waved a hand as her friends looked proud.
“I’m not that high-level. And I didn’t think of it like that—”
Ryoka turned her head and gave her friend a pointed stare, and Erin nudged her.
“I bet you’re pretty cool yourself, Cara.”
The [Popstar] winked theatrically, but her eyes were very serious.
“I’ve had a few good performances. Ryoka’s seen at least one; Terandria has a few interesting adventures to be had. Not as many monsters as other continents, or so I’ve heard. But enough wars. Say, Numbtongue, right? Do Goblins have any music?”
The question threw Numbtongue a few seconds, and he frowned.
“We steal a lot. Some Goblins have songs but…not really?”
He scratched his head, looking uncertain, and Ulvama shouted down.
“Yes we do! Old ones.”
“Is that a second Hobgoblin? How, uh, how many do you have under one roof?”
“Only—wait, Peggy and Inkpaper—only five regularly? But a lot more visit.”
“Five…”
It seemed like for all Cara had been through, seen, and done, the idea of chilling with Goblins was still very foreign to her. The Singer of Terandria was still on top of things, though—right until Bird made good on his promise.
“Miss Cara, I would like a job singing. I have an excellent song. For I am Bird, and here I am! I eat green eggs and ham! Erin will not, so I clean her plate. Otherwise there will be roaches, which she hates.”
Erin was almost 225% sure that Bird had just made that up. This overloaded Cara’s sense of normality. She rubbed at her head and actually swayed a bit in place.
“That was—I’ll take both your lads, Erin. Assuming no one takes a swing at them…I should start a music label and hang up the microphone.”
She sounded rather serious. But then she turned to Erin, and her eyes glinted as she frowned.
“With respect, I think I’ll be fielding auditions all day. I’ll let you join my band and make songs for you, uh, Bird.”
“Yay.”
“—Once you come to Terandria.”
The Antinium lowered all four hands.
“Ah. I have been outfoxed. Just like Mrsha. How sad. Very well, I will find a ship someday.”
Erin eyed Bird and made a mental note to watch him if they ever got close to a harbor. Cara’s smile said she didn’t like how certain Bird sounded either. She turned her gaze back to Erin.
“How can I help you, Erin?”
“U-um. Well, this sounds a bit silly, but, er—I—uh—do you have any songs I could play? At a Christmas party.”
Behind her, Ryoka Griffin, who was remembering all the off-the-chain things she’d done and made Cara go through, stared at Erin’s back. Even Lyonette, used to royal demands, looked mildly aghast.
Even Mrsha looked shocked.
Had Erin just called Cara, the Singer of Terandria herself, up on Christmas day to make her sing at a party?
Erin turned bright red.
“I can pay! It’s just that—I don’t have any Christmas gifts, and I thought if you could sing one or two songs…I checked the song crystals here, and I don’t, um, have your full catalog…”
Cara’s face was still while Erin made her request, and Erin knew for a fact that Cara had a mouth on her that would make even the Winter Fae blush. However…Cara fixed Erin with a long stare. It seemed to weigh Erin, both what Cara knew and had heard and saw. And whatever she decided, her response was amazingly calm.
“Absolutely, Erin. I don’t do it for just anyone these days, but I’d be happy to do a quick record. The song crystal technology is a level above where it used to be, and Abebi can record any track you want. Actually…if you want to request a song I haven’t recorded, I can use them for a new album.”
“Wh—really? Thank you so much!”
Erin would have hugged Cara if she could. The [Popstar] smiled faintly.
“We salt-of-the-Earth people have to stick together. I heard you had a big year. What kind of music do you want? At least one Christmas song, I bet.”
Flustered, Erin tried to think.
“I know it’s super popular, but I dunno if you want to sing Jingle Bells.”
Cara agreed mildly.
“I might have to swallow a Wand of [Fireballs]. I was hoping you’d ask for some of your favorite tracks. Give me a band you love, and I’ll sing it.”
“Oh—do you need lyrics or notes or anything? I bet you know a lot of songs—”
Even so, it seemed impossible Cara would know just any song. Yet now the Singer’s eyes were glinting. She glanced at Erin’s group.
“Your friends…if they’re in the know, is it cool discussing the current geopolitical climate in the states? Carbon emissions? Climate change?”
Mrsha’s face wrinkled up in disgust, but Erin’s eyes lit up. She glanced around and lowered her voice.
“See that dude with one gemstone eye? That’s Chaldion. If it’s just us here, it’s cool.”
Lyonette hurriedly twisted a ring and set up a privacy spell. Cara lowered her voice, even so.
“Give me your favorite artist and I’ll tell you if they’ve come out with a song in the last few years. In fact—did you know it’s 2023? Could be later, but I can only confirm to 2023.”
Ryoka nearly choked on a cookie she’d been snacking on. Erin just blinked.
“You what? That’s a funny j…are y…no.”
She said it politely. Cara’s stare was serious, and her face was deadpan.
“2023. At least August. Again, confirmed it’s at least then.”
“No.”
This time, Ryoka, Erin, and Kevin, who’d come running with Imani, Joseph, and even Troydel, all chorused. They gathered in, and Cara folded her arms.
“Listened to my latest album? One of the songs is ‘Anti-hero’. Original artist? Taylor Swift herself.”
Kevin snapped his fingers and fumbled at his bag of holding.
“Hey! I think I have that song crystal! That wasn’t bad. I heard the credit, but I’ve never heard that song. Is it…new?”
“2022. October.”
Everyone stared. Erin, who had come to this world in 2016, felt the ground lurch under her feet.
“That’s…how do you know that? I heard you appeared here around the same time I did.”
Cara tossed her hair casually. Or trying to look it. Her voice wobbled a bit.
“I—got here in 2018 thereabouts. But I didn’t loot someone’s smartphone to know that. Like I said, Erin. Favorite artist? I’ll pull the songs they’ve come out with. I have a Skill.”
Then it made sense. Her eyes glinted, and Ryoka inhaled.
“No way.”
“[Learn Song: Home]. Someone left a loophole in. You didn’t think my iPhone had all the songs I’ve been spitting out, do you? It’s 2023, and you should hear this song that just came out of Montgomery.”
Kevin’s mouth was open so wide that Mrsha gave in to her intrusive thoughts and chucked a peppermint candy into his throat. He began choking.
Troydel was demanding a thousand things at once, asking if Cara knew about what was going on, Joseph had fainted, and Imani was falling over trying to pick him up.
That wasn’t him being theatrical either. Erin felt lightheaded.
“Sorry. I wasn’t sure how to say it.”
Cara’s look was sympathetic, and Ryoka exhaled.
“You didn’t tell me that!”
“I said it was 2021 for arrivals. You seemed highly stressed, so I didn’t bring up anything else, and I was only finding music from 2022 back then. Plus, there were ears everywhere. I don’t know much…they put a lot of current events in music, but remember, I can only use artists or bands I know. I’m keeping up with my favorite band—Arizona. What can I do you for, Erin?”
The third time she asked, Erin hesitated. And Ryoka, who herself had a huge collection of songs she loved to listen to on her iPhone, realized that Erin—didn’t talk a lot about music.
“I dunno. I listen to a lot of atmospheric music. Not a lot of, um, vocals necessarily. Whatever’s popular.”
Erin tried to play it off. Cara just raised her brows.
“So you don’t have one favorite artist?”
“N…well…”
Despite everything, the guests of The Wandering Inn were fascinated by this detail. No one had ever really known about Erin’s musical tastes. They knew a lot about her. And some things Erin kept private.
After nearly half a minute of awkward silence, Erin caved.
