“H-how about Five for Fighting? I like his stuff. Maybe?”
She turned red, as if waiting for judgment, but Ryoka instantly chimed in.
“Oh, I have two of their songs!”
“I’ve pulled a number of their songs before. Let me check…”
Cara stared up at the air as if looking at some kind of catalog only she could see. Ryoka, privately, was wondering if the Singer could hook her up with some of the latest music. Only like…fifty artists? And if she could put it on Ryoka’s iPhone? No, wait, those damn Bloodfeast Raiders had stolen it. But if she could get someone else’s smartphone?
It’d be tricky, but if Kevin had a dongle and they recorded the song from a song crystal onto the laptop using a program and converted it to an .MP3…
The fierce desire of a running music addict to get some new tracks made Ryoka fidget, but Cara was listening to something now and shrugging.
“Last album is…2013. But there’s new tracks from as late as 2022. The last one, uh…well, that’s something. That’s definitely topical. Not sure you’ll enjoy that at a Christmas party. And it doesn’t look like it hit any charts.”
“You can see how it did on the charts?”
Troydel demanded incredulously. Cara nodded.
“Yep. Comes with the level ups. I’ll probably gain the ability to learn it in other languages if I hit, like, Level 60 or something. Maybe another artist? Let’s see. Top songs are…Superman, Chances, 100 Years, The Riddle, Heaven Knows…”
Ryoka knew all those songs, but Erin blinked.
“What was that last one? I’ve heard all the other ones.”
“Heaven Knows? I’ve never recorded it. It’s not bad. Real soulful party vibe. I imagine this is the kind of American midwest pop that’d be popular. I don’t know. I’ve never been to gunland.”
“Hey. We don’t all have guns.”
“So you are Americans? Which ones?”
All but Imani and Joseph raised a hand. Cara snorted.
“Great. You?”
“Spain.”
“And I’m Imani, from Nigeria. But I was in America when I vanished. Chicago.”
Cara was interested in Imani at once.
“Hey, you know, if Erin can let you call me and it doesn’t cost too much—I could pull songs from your country or any artists you know. It’s always good to get more perspectives outside of Europe and the Americas. Also—Abebi, my [Manager] you saw back there, is from Nigeria too.”
Imani gasped in delight.
“She is? I’d love to ask her…thank you! Actually—if you’re in Noelictus, could you show me the food there? I’m interested in cuisine. I’m a [Chef].”
Cara sighed enviously.
“A chef! I wish we had one! Our food’s great, but if you could make me some food from home…absolutely. Noelictus, which is where we’re headed, has great food. Mooncakes, tons of food based on their Ashwheat—I’ll send you recipes.”
They were trading comments as Joseph tried to bounce into the conversation. As someone from Spain, he began asking what was new in their continent, and for once, Kevin was the odd one out.
It was so surreal talking about Earth. Erin was hesitating as Cara scribbled down some notes. Kevin, meanwhile, was trying to impress Cara.
“You know, if you need a bicycle—I’ve got you covered. And speaking of cool Skills, I know this Gnoll. Have you met Gnolls?”
“Yep. Caravaned with them for a few weeks. Good people.”
“Oh. Rad. Well, the one I know, Krshia—she has a Skill that upgrades tech. She turned an iPhone into, like, an 8th-gen one or something!”
Cara’s head snapped up.
“She can upgrade your electronics? Holy shit. How far does it go?”
“Modern day, I think. At least…I don’t think she can do the actual future. Dude, imagine getting something from 2050. It could probably compose music and shoot lasers!”
Kevin stared at an imaginary iPhone, and Cara muttered darkly.
“Either that, or it requires a blood sample and takes fingerprints while recording your every move. Or it’s a pile of scrap cobbled together by survivors in a post-apocalyptic wasteland.”
“Hey. I’m the one who thinks like that.”
Ryoka tried to joke around weakly. Cara gave her a raised pair of eyebrows.
“Not with me around. So—any more songs?”
“…Nah. How about just, like, five more popular ones from recently? That’d be cool.”
For some reason, the wind had gone out of Erin’s sails, and it took the other Earthers only a second to understand why. Cara’s face softened as she looked at Erin.
“So you know—there are a few songs about us. Lost But Not Forgotten. Spirited Gen. The List…that one has your name on it.”
Erin turned pale, and Cara saw her eyes open wide.
“Did you say ‘Spirited Gen’? As in…the spirited away generation?”
Cara’s eyes narrowed a second.
“…Yes. Has someone mentioned them?”
“I—I thought it was all a lie.”
This time, Erin had to sit down, and she did so, right on the ground. Cara hurried on as Ryoka ran to get a chair.
“It’s only been seven years. I know that’s a lot…but it’s not like all the songs are about war or death. The world’s turning. Hang in there. I’ll share everything I know later, but—how about I record those songs, eh?”
She was doing her best to cheer Erin up, which seemed difficult because Cara was winning the award for ‘most pessimistic Earther’ right now. Well—maybe Geneva Scala beat her. Erin’s uncertain expression cleared a bit as Cara went on.
“Incidentally, do I get a Christmas present for all this?”
Erin paused, then chuckled weakly.
“I dunno, have you been naughty or nice? Ryoka says it’s been a mix.”
“Oh, I probably deserve coal.”
Cara put her hands behind her head. Erin slowly got up, and the two regarded each other. Cara’s smile was faint, but Erin’s returned as she looked the Singer up and down.
“Do you want to—visit The Wandering Inn?”
Once again, Cara glanced at Chaldion and the others behind Erin. They still couldn’t hear, but on a kind of hunch, she made sure they couldn’t see her lips.
“It’s a bit far for me to tour, but yes. I’d love to visit. You know how it is, though, being on the road and having this much attention on you. Lots of groupies, and sometimes they get rowdy. If I go, it’d be just the band.”
The meaningful look she gave Erin and the others was not lost on them. Erin nodded slowly.
“If you want to come, I have a room I’ll hold for you all.”
“Better make it far away if it’s Greg. Seriously, I know I rag on him, but you haven’t met him. Ask Ryoka what he’s like.”
“Psh. Everyone’s got a Greg. I had a bunch of them. Even Kevin was a kind of Greg. Now look at him. They get better.”
Erin punched his arm, and Kevin rubbed the back of his head as the others laughed.
“Ow. Hey. I suppose that’s true.”
Cara’s smile was twisted.
“You’re better at rehabilitating than I am, I guess. I’ll give it another try. Like I said, it’s far, and I have roots, now.”
Erin nodded. They felt so far apart now, despite the [World’s Eye Theatre]. She hesitated.
“Are you having fun?”
This time, Cara had to go walking back across the gently moving wagon, past her makeup and dresser, a closet, the table where a little party had been going on, and she turned, and part of the answer was in the worn expression she gave them. Then a smile that didn’t look all fake.
“I don’t know about fun, but it can be fulfilling. The world’s a stage, and I want to have a place on it. I was lost in my own success, spinning my wheels, until I got your message. Now I think I have an answer to a question, focus.”
The warning about the Solstice. Erin’s eyes sharpened as Cara tapped her chest then pointed at the [Innkeeper].
“I’ve got a grudge. You and I are on the same page.”
Then, the [Innkeeper] and [Singer] stopped, and the air around both grew intense. Erin’s eyes flashed, and the hat on her head blazed into life slightly.
“Good. Then if you need something from me…can I do anything for you? Send a message?”
Cara hesitated. But as she stared at Erin’s projection, she bit her tongue, then came out with something.
“…Elena Othonos. She’s a good friend who went to Wistram. I saw she was alive, and she’s told me she’s in Chandrar. If you’re looking for real ones, she’s that and more.”
“I’ll check in on her! Wait…that name sounds familiar.”
Maybe she’d met Elena when projecting herself to one of the Chandrarians she knew? Ryoka coughed.
“We spoke to her back when she was with Wistram and the Ullsinoi, remember, Erin?”
“Oh, Elena! Duh! Sorry, they had those stupid illusion spells and…so she made it out, huh? We have to talk! I’ll make sure you two get to chat, okay?”
Erin promised to look her up, and Cara smiled.
“Okay, then. Enough real talk on Christmas. Why don’t I demo a few songs for this party you have? It might not be good as a present, especially as I can’t do it live, but it’ll be something. Got a preference?”
“The Script!”
Kevin shouted and beat Ryoka in demanding one of her favorite artists. The others began squabbling, and Cara closed her eyes.
“Okay. How about…”
She began singing a new song, and Kevin’s smile burst from ear-to-ear. Joseph began writing down songs he wanted to hear, and Ryoka felt her heart lift as someone with a tie back to Earth opened a door for the others to peek through.
Numbtongue instantly began trying to memorize the song, and Mrsha began hopping around in what she considered an appropriate dance. She was head bobbing, probably having learned it from Kevin.
The odd style of music wasn’t for everyone, but Joseph was tapping his toes, enjoying the song, even if it didn’t speak all the way to Ryoka. Not running material; therefore, it wouldn’t appear on her smartphone.
However, Erin, surprisingly, developed the first genuine frown on her face, which deepened through the song. Her foot tapped a few times to the strong beat—and as Cara wound down the song, she got an ovation from Kevin.
“This is great! Can you do—”
“Hey, Kevin. Let’s not make Cara wear herself out. Can we get the music in a few hours before you have your own party? Thanks.”
Erin interrupted with a frown, and Cara blinked.
“Of course. I’ll get a song crystal and…figure out how to get it to you. Worst case, someone can cast [Scrying] or [Communication] and literally play it through the spell. Who can I leave it with?”
“The Wandering Inn, Liscor. Thanks. I’ll call you—later, okay?”
“Sure. Absolutely.”
“Appreciate it!”
Rather bemused, Cara watched as Erin cut the connection. Ryoka gave Erin a huge, puzzled frown.
“Erin, what was that? You were sort of rude to her.”
“And I wanted to know who won Eurovision! I have tons of songs I could ask for!”
Joseph complained loudly. Ryoka assumed Erin was having a panic attack about the way Earth was moving far faster in time than this world was, even with the difference in how many days were in a month and months per year. However…it wasn’t that.
Erin was frowning at the place Cara had been.
“Sorry, guys. We can talk again, but she might have deserved that. I think she used a Skill on me just now. Did any of you feel it?”
“A Skill?”
If the others had been under its influence, they hadn’t sensed it. Ryoka felt like she was pretty good at noticing Skills, but she had to own Erin was probably even better at resisting them.
“Do you think she was trying to do it on purpose?”
“…Maybe it was accidental. But I didn’t want to have it work on me. I’ll tell her not to next time.”
Erin scowled a bit, checked herself, and seemed confident it had worn off. Then she looked around.
“Okay, I’ve got music. But I still want present ideas!”
“Erin, seriously?”
By now, even Kevin was complaining, but Erin was adamant. She fired up the [World’s Eye Theatre].
“Come on, guys. It paid off with Cara, and it’s sort of fun! Someone’s got to have a good idea for, like, a random pile of cool stuff. Maybe in my [Gardens of Sanctuary]? I know the perfect person to ask!”
 
——
 
How far was too far? When did going around asking world leaders and the like for favors and bothering them on a holiday stop being ‘amusing chaos’ and become intrusion?
Well, probably five people ago Erin had crossed a line in some way. But emboldened or possibly peeved after Cara, she tried one more person, and comeuppance hit her in the face.
It was a good punch, too, and it rather appropriately came from a man that Ryoka could only describe as ‘Grimalkinesque’. Though he wasn’t as huge, and he seemed more like a statue as he sat cross-legged.
Despite the winter affecting his land, it was still dry and hot enough that his practice routine had set him sweating. An ancient, scarred man with a gigantic club-blade was grinning, and right now, every adventurer in the room was having bowel problems.
“So…I was going to ask about the garden in Pomle. You’re the Strongest, right?”
Erin had a bright smile on that didn’t match Orjin of Pomle’s strange expression. When he did reply, his voice was flat. And pained didn’t begin to describe it.
“Pomle is gone. I am no longer the Strongest. We are at war, and [Martial Artists] die and level. The Pomle you know, Erin Solstice, is a corrupted pit in the earth. Destroyed by General Thelican of Nerrhavia. My home is gone. My people bleed into the sands. And I…”
He glanced at the great Named-rank Adventurer, Torreb the Undefeated.
“I am lost. If you come here seeking knowledge of the previous Strongest, or wisdom for this holiday—I have no right to speak any.”
Erin’s face had slowly lost confidence and turned more and more into a rictus of realization and horror. She was trying to back out of the scrying circle, and looking for a scapegoat, but everyone, from Lyonette to Ryoka, had instantly jumped away and left her to face the Strongest. Erin’s mouth worked as she swallowed.
“Right. I am so sorry. I’ll just, um—be going. Sorry again. For bothering you. And Mrsha and Nanette calling you.”
“Don’t bring us into it!”
Nanette squeaked. Orjin gave Erin a puzzled look, not even realizing they had once seen him running across the Lantern Lands. He lifted a hand as Erin tried to escape.
“You are the one who asked about the previous Strongest’s garden, aren’t you? Salii mentioned it. May I ask what you saw in his garden? Collos. What did he make of it?”
Orjin seemed desperate to know, so Erin tried to explain.
“It was—it was a lot like Pomle, actually. Identical, really. It had this room where you could spar with people who’d been warriors of Pomle, but it—”
She hesitated. Now was not a time to be facetious. Orjin looked calm, and doubtless, he wouldn’t get mad, but he deserved honesty. Erin spoke truthfully and slowly.
“—I think he forgot why he needed it.”
The former Strongest of Pomle considered this and then bowed his head.
