She whispered, and the shards of being, broken memories of the dead saved, tried to echo her name, shuddering as the world twisted and refused to let it be said. Likewise, the undead in their mindless crusade against the living shivered. Once more, Kasigna reached for them.
Heed me.
Yet her voice was too weak to move them. Kasigna was frustrated as she stopped exerting her effort. They had formed a near-perfect prison, those wretched few who defied her to the last. She ruled all dead, in any shape and form, and yet—!
“Hence the ghosts. The living and dead should not freely speak. Only broken memory and whispers I allow. Let the living fear the grudges made manifest. They have no right to more.”
This was how it should have been. And the fragments of spirit would be another tool she could use once she regained more control. Likewise, soon—it didn’t matter if she could not see the inn, yet. She knew where it was.
A thought occurred to Kasigna, and three lips curved in a rueful smile, despite herself, and she indulged in self-congratulatory pleasure. For all it was a scheme, this had been well-done, and she admitted it freely.
“It has been long since I have created. The talent to weave worlds into being has not left me. I am the creator of endings; my bale-light has no mercy or soft promises as my peers make. Heaven. Hah!”
The thought annoyed her, and she could not wait to reign supreme. The idea of some of her peers…the gods of newer ages were always soft and weak. Kasigna stared into the aether.
“That little soul thinks it can create wonders? From the depths of mortality, I have seen and beheld true works of art. No witch has an inkling of what true craft is. That hat you wear belongs to the countless women who entreated me! Me!”
She stopped, disgusted with her own anger, and drew a cloak about herself. She was still…cold. Still hungry. She whirled away and resumed pacing this empty land. There were still the half-things Norechl had called, more order to be restored.
A crone hobbled through those empty twilight lands. Yes. Time again. The oldest ways of gods were thus. A child now, she felt younger as she came to rest. One last week. A woman sat there in the darkness.
Waiting.
 
——
 
“This could be a good thing, Your Majesty.”
“How?”
The news of ghosts was so sufficiently distracting that even during Christmas, many leaders had to adjourn to discuss and understand this phenomena.
In Laken Godart’s case, he had possibly the happiest of meetings, far from the panic overtaking many groups who had no way to destroy the wisps other than magic—and with limited success at that.
He was sitting in his throne room, consulting with his experts. And they were happy, mostly. Some were nervous, but as far as the [Witches] were concerned…
Witch Eloise was the one speaking, and she tipped her hat to him with a confident smile on her face, or so Gamel indicated. Laken always wondered what that looked like on the polite tea-witch’s expression. Not arrogant…Erin kept telling him he had an arrogant smile. He suspected hers often got smug.
“Wisps and the spectral types of spirits are our domain. They are part of our craft, Your Majesty. And if they return, our business and the need for us increases.”
“So they’re not a threat? There are some all over Riverfarm.”
Even he couldn’t ‘detect’ them with his [Emperor]’s vision, though he did notice the unexplained frost where they were, so they unnerved him. But Witch Eloise just chuckled.
“Yes. With your permission, we shall catch them. In fact, if you would allow us, we will go anywhere they are present and catch or harvest their remains.”
“You can catch a wisp?”
The witches muttered, and Witch Mavika, their oldest expert, stepped forwards. Even she seemed very happy about recent developments.
“In old texts, there were means to craft a net for even a spirit. I made one as an apprentice, but never to use; the old ways were dying before even my master’s master’s master was born. This is welcome news.”
“For everyone but [Witches], it’s rather dire. Durene was not happy about ours.”
One of the wisps had apparently surprised Durene in the cottage while she was changing, and she’d punched a hole in the wall. She’d actually killed it, which said something about how you defeated them. Laken ticked off the points on his fingers.
“Sufficient heat, though that seems hard in the winter. Light magic or powerful spells. Witchcraft in general. Auras. Anything else?”
“A powerful magic blade, though few of modern make may suffice. And Truegold, Your Majesty. Those are the surest ways to kill a ghost. Silver too, but given the latest shortages—ah, well, it almost sounds connected!”
Agratha folded her hands together, practically beaming in her voice, and Laken sighed.
“Well, there will be a huge demand for all these materials so at least Lord Yitton might benefit. I have…one decision and one question regarding the wisps, I suppose. No, two questions and one decision.”
The [Witches] stirred, never quite happy to get orders they didn’t like, but Laken appreciated that they waited for him to ask.
“One—do wisps get more dangerous in time?”
“Yes.”
He didn’t like the certainty with which they responded. Oliyaya cackled.
“Everything gets stronger. Wisps, like undead, gather into powerful ones. You know Will O’Wisps? Banshees? Poltergeists? Specters, Wraiths, Boggarts? We’ll be seeing more of their lot, I have no doubt.”
“Wonderful. So destroying them becomes a matter of necessity. I suppose I should be grateful that we have so many experts. Very well. That informs my decision, but my second question.”
Laken leaned forwards.
“…Is there any possibility this is Erin’s doing?”
He felt stupid even broaching the question, but the thought had occurred to him. She had brought a Water Elemental out of the river. The [Witches] muttered a tad uncertainly, but Eloise came back.
“We…doubt she could do this. If it was her doing in part, it was events set in motion.”
“I see. Perhaps the death of ghosts sparked this. Or…something else.”
Laken’s fingers twitched uncertainly as he thought of him and his companions. This had their stench, but he had to believe the wisps were a natural phenomenon reenabled by current events. He sighed.
“I imagine most nations will struggle with them.”
Eloise made a faint hmming sound.
“Not immediately, Your Majesty. I believe most nations will drive off the more aggressive ones. But it will be as the wisps gather and grow stronger that greater threats emerge. Some nations are ideally suited to dealing with them.”
“Such as?”
“Noelictus. The Kingdom of Shade has long known how to slay ghosts. I imagine any wealthy nation will have at least one piece of Truegold or something appropriate. It may be that Liscor, and even to some extent, Invrisil and other communities will be in need, however. May we have the permission to deal with the issue?”
The [Emperor] deliberated on his throne and held up one finger. He had never actually told the [Witches] ‘no’ on something they really wanted to do, and he suspected that they would ignore any orders countermanding things they felt they truly needed to do.
It would be bad practice to make people used to disobeying, so he didn’t intend to begin that. Rather…he leaned forwards.
“I have one condition for the [Witches] of the Unseen Empire regarding their use of ghosts.”
The assembly stiffened, and Laken spoke quickly and plainly.
“I do not intend to levy any taxes or restrict what you use their remains on or how you use their essence. For now. But I do insist that any [Witch] only deal with wisps within the Unseen Empire. Any ones in Liscor, Celum, Invrisil, and so on are not within our domain. They may only be hunted…if a deal is struck with these cities or the landholders to purchase the services of [Witches]. Lady Rie will have charge of that.”
Lady Rie stirred, and the [Witches]’ murmurs of doubt stopped. He thought he heard an approving chuckle from Witch Eloise.
“You intend for us to be paid, Your Majesty?”
“You are rendering a service. Lady Rie, Prost, begin advertising our ghosthunting services at once. Thanks to Erin’s door, the [Witches] have plenty of places. Assuming you don’t wish to hold off till after Christmas?”
He politely inquired, and from the negatives, he suspected it was hunting season and half the [Witches] would be racing to collect as many as possible. Laken rather hoped no one else caught on that these ‘pests’ were actually a valuable resource.
“Should we simply claim it is the power of the Unseen Empire, Your Majesty?”
Lady Rie sounded amused at the notion. Laken’s lips quirked up. He hid a smile with his hand.
“—How about we call it the Ghost Sweeper Service? Ghostbuster Witches?”
He grinned until Witch Eloise replied coolly.
“I think we’ll choose another name, Your Majesty. Thank you.”
 
——
 
What a Christmas, eh? Instead of presents and racism, it was just presents and ghosts. Which…was oddly apropos of the entire holiday when you thought about it.
Ghosts.
The thing was, they weren’t that dangerous. So there was an element to realizing that wisps and the ghost-kind undead had returned that made you think the age of myths had come again. That tingle in your blood wasn’t bad.
Obviously, if one was currently haunting your house, it was a lot less fun. But there were a lot of ways to deal with them, and Fetohep of Khelt, the [Witches], and a lot of older experts were giving out free advice all day.
In fact, one enterprising [Potter] in Khelt managed to trap a wisp in a pot. They were part of this system, after all, and there were Skills and ways devoted to dealing with them.
Of course, these experts couldn’t be everywhere. Which was why it was so lucky that there were already people learning how to deal with wisps.
Why, one [Net Thrower] had managed to catch one! There were already level ups happening, and the residue of the wisps was a valuable substance indeed.
The city of Celum wasn’t as lucky as Invrisil, which had [Witches] prowling about. A few had poked their head into Celum, but Invrisil had a lot of anxious street vendors who wanted a successful Christmas and were willing to bribe the [Witches] with street goods for an uneventful day.
Never let it be said you couldn’t bribe a [Witch]. Therefore, they were in Invrisil, and even Pallass had sent for a few to deal with outlying towns, due to a discreet order by Chaldion.
Interestingly, the Walled City of Inventions had virtually no wisps that germinated within their walls…but there was a real ‘pay to win’ feeling in the mayor of Celum’s mind, though obviously he didn’t know the term. But he definitely got the feeling.
He wished Lord Xitegen could help, but the [Lord] had been occupied temporarily communicating the details of this phenomenon back to House Terland. Therefore, Mayor Cetris was so gratified he personally came out to shake the hand of the first person to offer tangible aid.
“Oh, thank you, sir. Do you think you can cover at least the main streets of Celum? We must have as many as a dozen in the city!”
“Not at all, sir. Simply give me the run of the city and I’ll have them swept up in a moment. My fee should account for a round two dozen.”
“So generous! They wanted three times that in the Unseen Empire.”
“Ah, well, you know. Witches.”
The helpful expert twiddled his fingers and laughed heartily. Cetris laughed too, a little too loudly as anxious people of Celum gathered around, hoping this person could help.
“And you’re sure you can capture them all?”
He was a tad worried that the hundred gold coins he’d just paid to this stranger were going to disappear along with the self-proclaimed expert. But Cetris had to own, the fellow did look the part.
He had a veil across his face with a mystical-looking sign on it, and his clothing looked very…floaty and very light for the winter weather. He wore a kind of white robe with a red sash, and he had a number of objects including a net and a strange kind of sword written with odd characters.
Drathian? The half-Elf even had talismans that he’d been placing on the walls, which apparently would drive the wisps away. He winked as he held up a jar.
“I’ll collect those wisps for you in a flash, or my name isn’t Ghost Hunter Molouka! I love wisps. They’re so useful…for business!”
“Really? I heard they were new!”
“Ah, well, I know how to hunt them.”
Hunter Molouka looked delighted as he swished the net back and forth. He seemed to be in a very good mood, and that inspired Cetris.
“Well, I, uh, shall leave you to it, Hunter Molouka! Thank you again, and we will make sure you have access to everywhere you need. It would be a terrible Christmas without good samaritans like you!”
“Not at all. Not at all. I was here on business anyways—oh, incidentally, is that the door to The Wandering Inn?”
Molouka pointed to a certain door in the plaza, and Cetris turned.
“Oh, yes. It’s rather pricey to go over, but if you can get all the ghosts in Celum, I’ll personally pay for a day of travel wherever you want!”
“Wonderful! I should be done in an hour.”
“R-really?”
Molouka was checking the sky and nodding as he watched a wisp float down the street, pursuing a screaming Agnes. He flicked his hand, and one of his jars sucked the wisp into it. Everyone oohed and applauded, and he swept them a bow.
“Absolutely. I have an appointment to keep. The Wandering Inn, home to, nay, the start of the Horns of Hammerad’s illustrious career.”
“They came to this city too, you know.”
Cetris puffed up a bit, annoyed at The Wandering Inn getting all the credit. The half-Elf paused.
“Did they? I might have to come back after this. But The Wandering Inn is their favorite spot, isn’t it? I’ve heard they’re great friends with the [Innkeeper]. Erin Solstice. I’ve been dying to meet her. And I imagine she’ll be doing the same with me.”
Cetris sighed. Another one for the inn. Well, so long as it solved his ghost problem. He stuck out a hand.
“Thank you, Ghost Hunter Molouka.”
“It’s Tolveilouka.”
The half-Elf shook his head absent-mindedly, and Cetris hesitated.
“Is it? I thought it was Molouka?”
The strange character hesitated, then laughed.
“So it is! Apologies, I’m all over the place. I’ll get these wisps out of your hair. Then I’d love to pop in and visit Miss Erin Solstice. After all.”
He gave them a happy smile.
“It’s Christmas.”
 
——
 
As a lot of ghostcatching and hunting was taking place, Erin Solstice was focused on the real important things in life: presents.
“I’ve got to have presents. I can’t not have presents. Ryoka, shush.”
