“Garia, perfect timing. Oh, that’s wonderful! We might have to cut the bottom branches a bit to make room for all the presents—”
“P-presents?”
Erin’s voice was faint. She turned and then relaxed slightly.
“Well, I guess I can whip something together. If it’s just the regular crowd…”
She began to think of Ilvriss, all the inn’s guests, and a meaningful silence followed her. Numbtongue’s huge smile made Erin focus on him.
“Numbtongue?”
“How many guests do you think are coming? Lyonette really counted on you.”
“…F-friends of the inn?”
That would include all the adventurers Erin knew, obviously, which wasn’t—well, that was still the Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt, miscellaneous ones like Jewel’s team—wait, the Knights of Solstice—and Ilvriss’ group.
And Mrsha’s friends. And their families. And, Erin supposed, people like Zevara, obviously Relc, the Antinium, and people they knew in the other cities like Rufelt, Hedault, Pelt…and he had his apprentices…
“We did a Secret Santa, Erin. Only family and close friends! But I thought you had a plan for the party.”
“B-beach?”
More people were filing into the inn now from said beach. Such as Ser Normen and Bethal, who had a tan, and Erin latched onto that moment of hope. She sat back and smiled.
“Right! I can whip something up. And this is a new holiday. Not everyone will be on board. Or ready. So I’m sure if I do something for people who forgot to wrap any presents—”
“Oh my! Is that the tree? I was waiting for that! Thomast, look! The tree! Let’s get our presents, quick!”
Bethal clapped her hands the moment she saw the tree being set up. She beamed, and Thomast instantly stepped over and produced…Erin’s eyes popped as nine wrapped presents went under the tree. Some of them…big.
“I think we have the rest in our trunk, my dear.”
“Oh my, will there be enough space? And that’s our gifts. Where’s that damn saddle going to fit? We haven’t wrapped it! I have to spread the word to the others. This is so embarrassing! My first Christmas and I’m doing it wrong. Thomast, to me!”
Bethal dashed off, then ran back to ask Calescent what was for breakfast. Yes, her and her unwrapped saddle. Embarrassing.
“Your Highness. Is it appropriate for us to place our gifts here as well? Some are to Lady Walchaís, but if there is a more commonfolk hearth to use…”
Ser Kerrig was inquiring with Lyonette, who, realizing how many presents there might be, hesitated.
“I—think we’ll need to use one of our rooms for that. Maybe both private dining rooms? Assuming Erin hasn’t rented either one out. With her new Skill.”
She gave Erin a flat look as the [Innkeeper] sat there. Mrsha climbed up on the table so she could dab Erin’s forehead with a handkerchief.
“We should use the theater, Lyonette.”
“That’s not a bad idea! It can probably fit all the guests, but it’s rather…well, I suppose it is a giant dome. I will not have all the sand tracked into the inn. Let’s have the gifts put…”
“Ah. Aha. But not everyone’s that prepared, right?”
Erin’s voice was getting fainter, and she was beginning to think hard and fast. Obviously, you had people who gave gifts to their friends. She could get gifts for the inn’s family, and no one would be hurt if she didn’t give them a present!
Like Halrac! Halrac would definitely understand. He’d give her that serious look and assure her his feelings weren’t hurt at all. And that it would be wrong to expect anything. And he certainly hadn’t earned a gift from defeating Elia or all he’d gone through this year.
“Okay. Maybe I’ve forgotten, but I wasn’t the only person. There’s always someone silly, right?”
Erin was…now she wasn’t even denying she was falling off a cliff. She was just hoping she had company on the way down. She looked around and then spotted the best, her favorite person in the world right now.
“Bird! Hey, Bird, did you know it’s Christmas?”
Bird was coming downstairs. He turned, and Erin froze as Bird held up a rather mangled present wrapped with no discernable geometry. He carefully put it below the tree.
“Yes. I am very happy it is Christmas. I would like to see the flying Reindeer-birds soon. Also, you have forgotten. I told Lyonette, and she did not believe me. Ha. Hah. Ha-ha.”
He turned and began to trundle back upstairs for his presents. Then he poked his head back downstairs.
“Ha.”
Thus the [Innkeeper] sat in her domain as her guests began to flood down in good cheer and with, of course, presents. A Wall Lord striding down with a host of wrapped presents, each bearing the seal of the City of Gems.
A merry [Pirate] kicking the door open and holding out his homemade alcoholic eggnog for the Goblins to enjoy. A smirking [Chieftain] with a literal Wyvernload of presents.
They were coming. Across the city, like the bickering Councilmembers, Drake and Gnoll, one of them slapping discount coupons out of the other’s claws. An Archmage absently crafting a present-wrapping spell as her red-haired [Apprentice] performed the task manually.
Why, even that sinister, one-eyed [Strategist] had an obligatory red hat on his head, and one of his adjutants had prepared an appropriate present for everyone. Above, the [Innkeeper]’s personal [Message] scroll was beginning to sound off with greetings and inquiries about when her well-wishers should deliver presents.
The greatest [Strategist] of Fraerlings wanted to time things right. The Gnoll tribes had sent gifts with their people.
She had until night. Or rather, maybe only early evening. Tic. Toc. Tic…
Toc.
There she sat with the nightmare of all parents upon her. Surrounded by goodwill, with no tangible proof of her own. That [Innkeeper] who had so many friends.
Erin Solstice. Caught in a trap of her own ignorance. Unloved by gods. Definitely unloved by gods.
Presentless.
 
——
 
The Christmas spirit was in the air, and everyone was feeling it and rather enjoying Erin’s desperation, frankly. In fact, they were taking bets.
“This time, she’s cooked. She can’t do it. No way. And that’s a mundane bike coupon saying that.”
Kevin slapped it down, and Palt noted down the bet. The Centaur turned, and Chaldion puffed out a plume of smoke from a cigar.
“She’ll amaze us.”
“Well, yes, but—”
“She’ll do something that reaches the criteria for ‘amazing’. I have such confidence, I’ll let you judge that. Put me down for two thousand gold coins. If the other bets don’t match up, I’ll collect the entire pot.”
Palt the [Illusionist] gulped as Kevin whistled. But the other bettors were jockeying for position, and this was a fun part of the day. Kevin was shaking his head.
“No way. I know Erin’s got tricks, but she used them all up for the beach. And the other preparations are for the Solstice. Not this.”
His face grew troubled a second, but then he grinned with a twinkle in his eyes.
“She’s hosed.”
Even Erin’s greatest friends had to agree. The spirit of good cheer was in everyone such that even Ryoka Griffin, holding a present as Sammial and Hethon transported more to the presents-room, looking around wide-eyed and beaming, had to stop and place a bet down.
“I bet Erin does a party-type event. But she can’t gift everyone.”
Palt frowned as he tried to work out odds.
“That seems basic.”
“Well…put me down for ‘big party event’…in her Garden of Sanctuary. Deal?”
Palt thought about that.
“One-to-one odds.”
“Fuck. Okay, fifty gold. No, wait…healing potion.”
Ryoka pulled one out, and Palt’s eyes lit up.
“Now there’s a nice wager. Enjoying the holiday, are you? There’re smaller gifts already being given out, you know.”
“Really? Can I get some? For Sammial and Hethon.”
Ryoka looked around, and Palt pointed out some stockings that you were allowed to reach into and pull a gift from. They were cleverly disguised bags of holding, and they had all kinds of trinkets.
“One per person.”
“Hethon! Sammial!”
Ryoka strode over, and they raced to see what they’d get. Ryoka pulled out a pair of knitted socks and stared at them as Sammial yanked out a huge candy cane and Hethon a very lovely dagger in a plain sheath.
“Who put the dagger in there? Pelt!”
Lyonette shouted, and Palt ducked—until he realized she meant the Dwarf, who was already getting drunk on eggnog and laughing at the fire. Ryoka was still having a good time, and so was her company.
Even Tyrion had been allowed in on the virtues of him having an army and Erin needing him, but he was staying away until the party began.
Possibly because he realized he hadn’t prepared enough presents for his noble cousins. Everyone was enjoying the day, though, except Erin. And, oh, one more person.
The ugliest scowl in the world was written all over Nerry’s face as she watched people playing and having fun. Numbtongue, who was feeding Reagen, offered her some little snacks of bite-sized jerky, and she spat on his hand.
 
“Hah! Look at this sour one! Even we’re having fun!”
“I got socks! Socks! I’m free! No, wait. Damn. I was already free. Feck.”
 
Shaestrel and the Frost Faeries were swooping around, causing havoc. One dropped a snowball on Relc’s head, and he swore.
“Damn Winter Sprites.”
“I could attack them if you want.”
Valeterisa offered, and Ryoka nearly dove in front of the Archmage to prevent an indoor avalanche. She almost slammed into Wall Lord Ilvriss, and he blinked.
“Ryoka. Good to see you. Is Erin really not prepared for—did you get socks?”
His cheeks inflated as he made a snrkch sound, and Ryoka, scowling, tucked them away in her belt pouch.
“I get the irony. Are you prepared, Wall Lord?”
His face straightened, and Ilvriss drew himself up.
“Absolutely. I had planned to send gifts; I merely brought them instead. You?”
“Yep. It’s not much, but I called in some favors and, uh…”
Ryoka had to admit she’d been caught off-guard a week out from Christmas too. But even she wasn’t blind, and after an obligatory panic-phase, she’d rallied together a lot of gifts. The fact that Erin hadn’t planned anything?
Sorta said a lot.
“Hey, everyone! Having a good time? I’m just, uh—I’m just going to Pallass, Lyonette! Are any of the forges open? What about Esthelm?”
“Not mine! You want a rush deal? I’ll make you something—triple the price!”
Pelt shouted and laughed hugely as Erin stared at him, then dashed off. Smiling evilly, Nerry followed, probably to bask in Erin’s desperation. Ryoka decided to let her go.
“Nerry’s following you, Erin!”
“I kno—oh, you little monster. Come on, then.”
Erin glared after the Sariant Lamb, and Ryoka turned back to Ilvriss, who looked like he was having the time of his life.
“This is so nostalgic.”
“I know. Except the food is better, the inn is better, and there are more faces around.”
He took a huge gulp of some cranberry juice and sighed.
“Sweet and sour. Disgusting. Where’s the water?”
Ryoka hadn’t gotten a chance to really talk to him, and she doubted today was the moment, but as they walked over to the buffet table, Ryoka noticed two tough-looking women eying her and Ilvriss and muttering.
“This shit’s fancy. Maybe Haple was right. The Brother was nice enough.”
“Fucking hatters. Eat up. ‘Least we’re fed before we get to the knives and stabbing.”
Ryoka blinked and leaned over to Ilvriss.
“Are those…?”
“Sisters of Chell. Liaisons. Xesci has them in hand, I think.”
Sure enough, the bland-looking Drake [Courtesan] was already heading over, and the Sisters glanced at her—then stood a bit straighter as Xesci pulled over Normen.
“Stop muttering insults, you two. Join Normen’s group. You can talk about the street with us.”
She pointed out Grev, Alcaz, Jewel, and a few Brothers, and one of the Sisters smirked.
“What, with ‘Grev the Player’? The greatest Face of Invrisil?”
“Be nice.”
Xesci pulled one by the ear, and the yelping Sister followed.
“Hey! Just because Haple gave you command, doesn’t mean—hey, that’s my ear! You’re supposed to be nice, today! You’ll get coal! That’s how it works!”
“Wow.”
Ryoka and Ilvriss watched Xesci effortlessly bully the Sisters, and the Wall Lord nodded.
“Yes, quite. So, your association with Lord Tyrion Veltras aside, how are your companions doing?”
Ryoka glanced around and blinked. She spotted Garia and Fierre, of course, but she was surprised to see…
“Is that Lady Ieka and Fierre under the mistlet—ah.”
Ilvriss turned. His mouth opened.
“I should stay away from that.”
“An unfortunate coincidence?”
Ryoka somehow doubted that. But she was very surprised to see Ieka in Fierre’s company even outside of work. Fierre had mentioned the employment, but this seemed like real bad employee-client practice. And speaking of which, Ryoka’s brows rose.
“Wait a second, there’s Fals! Excuse me—”
“Of course. Is it mandatory to kiss? Because if so, I really need to speak to Lyonette about placement. That could cause an incident. Are you attacked if you don’t?”
Ilvriss’ concern about mistletoe-enforced violence wasn’t actually the worst instinct to have. While it was true you could refuse, there was punishment.
Namely, the angry red traffic-light would flash red at you and scuttle after you for breaking the code of mistletoe.
Traffy, the Law Elemental of Riverfarm, didn’t really seem to ‘get’ the difference between custom and law. But he was here! In fact, members of Riverfarm were ducking in, like Prost, Master Helm, and Griffon Hunt.
They were very careful not to overwhelm the inn, and Riverfarm itself was celebrating, but the [Witches] certainly showed up.
In fact, it was no less than Hedag herself who was laughing and talking to Fals and three others. Who were Seve-Alrelious, the Hundredfriends Courier, Erek, holding a cup in one hand and glancing at the mistletoe, and…
“Ryoka!”
Charlay turned and nearly stomped Ryoka’s feet flat. Ryoka dodged and hugged her, one-armed, as Sammial trotted over, staring at the Centaur.
“Charlay! How did you get here?”
“Oh, you know. I was in the area, and I just happened to hear The Wandering Inn was doing a Christmas. I, uh, brought presents.”
Charlay was trying to play it cool, but she was looking around with delight. Fals looked at Ryoka and did an eye-roll to Seve.
A Courier! Well, technically, Ryoka was one, but he seemed unsure of what to say. Seve, on the other hand, was smiling.
“I was talking to Witch Hedag about her customs. I’ve never heard of the like, but we have…or had the same in A’ctelios Salash.”
“Old ways. And brave runners.”
Hedag laughed, and Seve nodded and smiled at Fals.
“You seem to be the top runner around Celum. I heard you’ve run through snow and blizzards of late.”
