Baeris was prowling around him, whimpering, and Menrise ran over to him—and froze.
Cortese was on his back, his eyes rolled up into the back of his head. He had foam around the corners of his mouth, and he looked terrified.
“What the—Cortese?”
She shook him a few times, but he didn’t move. Baeris made a strange yipping sound, and Menrise looked at her. Then Menrise realized she wasn’t alone.
Whoever had gotten Cortese was here. Menrise saw the mists return and threw herself into a room. To her surprise, it was some kind of dressing room, and she was backing into it when she heard the same voice Cortese had heard.
It was…low, a long, plaintive stream of words that seemed…half formed. As if the speaker were sleepwalking, and there was a strange echo to the words. They grew closer as Menrise backed towards the wall, wishing Rabbiteater or someone else were here.
“Thou laggard filth besoiling the deck. Come at me, ye swine. I’ll cut ye down tip to groin. Heheheh. The bilge decks swabbed with blood. I dream of it. I died hanged about these waters. Rotting into the surf. Where’s the filth on decks?”
The voice grew nearer—and Menrise saw frost curling on the doorframe, then—something drifted through the door. She saw a hand, unnaturally pale, even bluish, and then the figure appeared—
And Menrise saw a ghost.
It wasn’t even a full body, more like a swirl of mists that parted to reveal pieces of a face that had literally been blown off, bone and an empty socket—yet the other half was unmistakably a man’s. He wore part of a pirate’s hat and had a torn set of clothing on that looked like he had tried to style himself as a [Lord]—but was unkempt and filthy.
Yet—he was also pale, semi-transparent, and oh yes. Dead.
A ghost? The figure spotted Menrise, and she felt the same chill and now the terror she had felt last night. The ghost stopped, spotted Menrise, and leered.
“Helmet? But a fine bosom, aye. Come to my arms and warm me some.”
It stumbled forwards, half-vanishing into a cloud of frozen air, then rematerializing. It was…nothing like the ghosts that Menrise had heard of. It reached for her, and the [Lady] reached forwards—and closed the privacy curtains.
The voice made a puzzled ‘uh?’ sound, and Menrise exhaled. Then she theatrically wiped her helmet across the brow.
“I have had too much to drink. Aha. That’s what I get for playing pranks so much. All in my mind. All in my mind.”
Menrise edged past the curtains and began walking towards the door. The ghostly [Pirate] stared at her as she passed.
“Lady love, cold am I…”
“La, la, la…oh, hello Baeris. Why don’t we go abovedecks?”
Menrise skipped past him, and the ghost stared at her. Baeris took one look at the specter and bolted. The ghost was at her back, and now Menrise began walking down the corridor.
“Ignored? Wrong, says I. Lady love!”
It started following her. Menrise began walking faster. The ghost, accordingly, floated after her faster, calling out louder. Menrise broke into a run. Then a chilling hand touched her and gripped, and she stumbled.
“Swine and curs! Ignore me not!”
She turned, and the dead ghost’s face was pressed against her helmet. The metal froze. It leered at her, and she saw a hand reaching for her—Menrise screamed.
“Aaaaaah! Wait, a swine!”
“Huh?”
The ghost hesitated, turned its head, and Menrise tore loose from the freezing grip and went sprinting away, arms flailing, screaming.
“Help! Heeeeeeelp—”
The ghost caught on and followed her, snarling. It flew at Menrise—and straight into the axe that Ser Solstice swung through its head as he appeared out of a doorway.
Rabbiteater’s swing passed through the ghost, and he overbalanced, stumbled—and caught himself as the enraged ghost whirled. Rabbiteater stared at his axe, the unharmed ghost, and he muttered.
“Uh oh.”
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara stared at a whirling vortex of what looked like frozen wind and hesitated. Her sword was pointed not at a criminal, but…what?
It looked like nothing at first but malevolent frozen air. Then a hand emerged and pushed at her, and a voice screamed out of the storm.
“DAMN YOU DRAKES!”
It missed as Zevara pivoted, and she slashed—her sword passed through the thing, and she felt a chill run straight up her arm! She cursed, leapt back, and the thing dodged as Ilvriss slashed at it.
“Curse all you! All your rancid lot!”
It wailed and flew down the street. Zevara could barely see it as it flashed into the winter sunlight; it was almost invisible unless you had the right angle, and the hand had vanished.
“What was—what was that?”
Selys breathed. Ilvriss covered Zevara, torn between chasing it and protecting her.
“Watch Captain?”
“After—after it! Don’t let it get away!”
It couldn’t be. And yet, now people were screaming as the four Drakes charged down the street, and Zevara had to give a name to what she was seeing. So she did. It was impossible, yes. Erin had said—but the word sprang from a terrified Human woman’s lips as she abandoned her Christmas shopping and fled.
“Ghost. Ghost!”
A ghost was swinging wildly at every Drake it could see. Just a floating hand, the sense of a baleful stare, and Zevara, seeing a Drake family under attack, finally found her breath again.
“Halt! Halt in the name of the Watch!”
The thing rounded on her and attacked, the floating mists turning into a clawed hand. It slashed at her quickly, but not so fast she couldn’t dodge. So this was what had attacked people?
“Die, damn you!”
It screamed, and Zevara was wise enough not to parry this time. She stuck her sword through it again as it charged at her and, again, felt a chill and no sense of contact. But she wasn’t prepared for the thing to dive through her. Her shoulder went numb and rimed with frost in an instant.
“Argh!”
The cold was intense! Ilvriss leapt forwards, swearing.
“Watch Captain!”
He slashed, his enchanted blade cutting the air, and the spirit made a faint keening sound and backed away. Had he hurt it? Zevara was staring at her arm, covered in a thin layer of ice.
It was freezing! Zevara exhaled, and her own Dragonbreath cooked her arms with flames. She hissed—but it warmed. For all she knew, the cold was deadly.
“Get back! Monster on the loose!”
That was Selys. The street was clearing, and now Zevara, Ilvriss, and Selys were trying to attack the strange ghost. Drassi was hiding behind a barrel, just watching, as the three Drakes with swords attacked the ghost and found their blades doing nothing at all.
“Have at you!”
Ilvriss’ swordsmanship was the best, and he tagged the ghost several times as it flew at him. It seemed to want to try to pass through him and, heedless of the danger, let him stab into it, but only made the faintest of sounds. He backed away as Zevara shouted.
“Wall Lord! Breathing!”
She spat flames, and this time, the spectral air screamed—but emerged from the steam and flew at her. Zevara dodged, and Selys stood there. The ghost hit her armor—and shrieked.
It recoiled from the burning Heartflame Breastplate with a true wail of pain. One of the wisp-things screamed.
“It burns! It burns—”
It flew around Selys, then backed away as Zevara shot another jet of flame at it. Meanwhile, Ilvriss shot a ray of paralysis through the ghost, then eyed his [Fireball] ring. He was wary to use area-magics in a city, but the Wall Lord was making a tactical assessment, and he didn’t think they were hurting the wisps without it.
“Watch Captain, we need to use magic or something! Selys, back up!”
“I’m trying! Don’t worry; it can’t hurt—”
Selys was shouting, flailing at the ghost who was wailing and wailing—then Ilvriss’ [Dangersense] began tingling. He turned his head and swore.
“Ancestors.”
A dozen more wisps of air poured out of the walls and buildings, coming to attack. Zevara turned, and then she and Ilvriss were fighting in earnest. He slashed, feeling cold freezing his arms, legs, armor, regardless of the magic, and saw the ghosts recoiling from his blade—but only a bit.
His sword barely did any damage! It was like he was inflicting papercuts with each slice, and Zevara was doing just as badly.
Her Dragonbreath burned them, but there were dozens of the wisps now, each one chilling and cutting to the touch. They whirled around, and the cold grew more intense the more there were. They might have frozen Ilvriss badly—his arm was already going numb—but for Selys.
She stood there, not even waving her sword, as two dozen of the wisps that had been attacking people in Liscor flew around her, shrieking insults and trying to get close to her blazing armor. She was smirking at them. They, on the other hand, were giving mixed signals.
“DAMN DRAKES!”
“For House Terland!”
“It’s cold. It’s cooold—”
“Liscor! Liscor, walls of stone and spears of spite—”
They seemed to each be individual—and at least one was chanting what sounded like an anthem to Liscor! But what they agreed on was that they really didn’t like the Heartflame Breastplate.
Even as he watched, the roaring green flames engulfed one of the ghost-things, and it vanished with a scream. Selys waved a hand.
“I’ve got this! Get back, you two!”
“Wall Lord, form up!”
Zevara was backing away, and more [Guards] who’d come running at the commotion were backing up, trying to fight off the wisps with even less success than Ilvriss and Zevara. Their ordinary steel weapons did absolutely nothing, and a Gnoll cried out as his fur frosted over.
They weren’t…deadly, but if the wisps kept freezing them, everyone would have frostbite or worse. Ilvriss was taking slow aim at Selys with his [Fireball] ring. He knew it wouldn’t hurt her, and he felt like it might do enough damage to the wisps.
“I’m sending a [Fireball] your way! Selys, brace!”
She nodded, raising one blazing arm.
“Go ahead! I’ll be just fine! Good thing I’ve got—”
Her confident grin and the flames on her armor were both blazing—right until the magical fires on the Heartflame Breastplate abruptly went out.
The armor stopped glowing, and every magical line on the plate went dead. Selys’ face froze—and so did the air around her and the armor.
“Uh?”
Then the wisps froze her armor, and Ilvriss shouted before Zevara blew them away with a gout of her fire. Selys was lying on the ground, steam rising from her frozen armor as she stared at it in horror.
“Wait. Wait—that shouldn’t be—activate!”
She tried hissing, but the armor refused to activate. Ilvriss stared as he charged over and dragged her up.
“It’s dead?”
“No, no. It can’t be—”
“Selys, Ilvriss, run!”
Now the wisps were coming down, and Drassi shouted as the two looked up and began sprinting for it. Two dozen wisps came shrieking down at them as Drassi threw herself forwards.
“Drassi! Don’t—”
“[Journalistic Shield]!”
Drassi shouted as she spread her arms, and the wisps bounced off a glowing wall in the air. They went scattering, and Drassi exhaled as Selys and Ilvriss stared at the wall.
“Whew, it worked! Come on—it only lasts a minute, and they can fly around it!”
“Don’t tell them that!”
All three of them began running as Zevara’s Watch backed up, trying to get the wisps’ attention. Selys was feeling at her armor.
“What, is it dead? It’s a relic of our species!”
“Maybe it’s out of power? Doesn’t it generate magic?”
“I don’t know. Does it?”
Wait a second, does it even generate mana, or did she burn through all of its reserves or something? Ilvriss realized no one had actually tested how the relic worked, just taken its self-regenerating powers for granted.
Nor was there any time to think about that. They were running with the wisps in hot pursuit, and Ilvriss pointed towards the eastern gate.
“Get to The Wandering Inn! The garden can protect us if nothing else can!”
“Dead gods, dead gods—”
Drassi was looking over her shoulder as the wisps came on, and then they saw people ahead of them.
“Get out of the way! Monsters!”
Selys waved her arms, and Ilvriss joined in. The people ahead began running. All except for a small group, and Ilvriss heart sank when he saw Lyonette and the [Ladies]. He shouted to warn them, but then the ghosts were right on top of them again.
 
——
 
Rabbiteater’s jade axe was covered in frost after a minute of fighting. His hands were cold, and the Goblin was not having a good time.
“Damn.”
He went to kick the pirate-ghost in the nuts. But all he did was freeze his foot. The ghost actually reacted, trying to dodge, then came at him, snarling and hacking.
“Swine on my decks.”
“Not your decks! Menrise, do something!”
“[Light Arrow]!”
She pointed, and the ghost snarled, whirled, and two more [Light Arrows] missed it. One hit Rabbiteater in the face.
“Stop shooting me!”
“I’m trying! I—argh! Save me!”
It went after her next, and Rabbiteater swung the jade axe through the ghost’s back, and it snarled.
“Damn you curs!”
It did feel the axe! Rabbiteater saw a faint silver line from the edge of his axe, and somehow, he felt like the jade was doing more damage than anything else. It felt like he made the faintest contact every time he hit it.
However, the Goblin didn’t think the ghost was that hurt, and again—this was not a ghost as he understood them. He had been there when the ghostly kings appeared, and this…thing was as to a ghost what a baby Creler was to an Adult Creler.
It was torn apart, more mist than air, and it didn’t even seem that lucid. It was also cold as heck, and the one thing saving the two was that it fought about as well as, well, a drunken [Pirate].
Rabbiteater and Menrise backed up, fleeing from the apparition, and all the sailors and crew had taken one look at the ghost and run screaming. Menrise aimed another series of [Light Arrows] at the ghost, but it just floated behind a wall, and they missed.
“Can’t you use a better spell?”
He shouted at her, and Menrise bellowed back.
“Lots! But I’m not a warcaster!”
“What? You don’t know combat magic? What are you, stupid?”
“Do I look like I enjoy fighting in wars? Most people don’t even learn combat magic! Let’s get on deck! Someone will be able to kill it!”
Unfortunately, they were at the end of the ship, and they had just reached a dead end. Rabbiteater cursed as the ghost hobbled forwards, leering at Menrise.
“Come warm me up, lovely lady.”
“Ew. No. Go away.”
She waved her hands at it, and the ghost snarled.
“I’m cold. I sank in the ocean, but no one embraced me. No gift of the seas. Please touch me—”
