He reached out that one hand he held, and Rabbiteater prepared to rush himself and Menrise through the ghost. Maybe if he used one of his other Skills? He was about to try when someone spoke.
“Um. Excuse me. Are you from Noelictus? Hello!”
Princess Seraphel appeared as the ghost turned, and Menrise and Rabbiteater made wild gestures.
“Seraphel! Get out of here!”
The [Deathtouch Princess] ignored them both. She stood behind the ghost, having finally found them, with Dame Neranthei and one of her maids, Mariel, behind her. But instead of horror or shock—Seraphel’s eyes shone.
“Hello! Ser Ghost, I am Princess Seraphel du Marquin. Are you from Noelictus? The tombs?”
“A lady?”
The ghost-pirate turned and stared at Seraphel. He smiled.
“Never touched land, not I. Come hold me.”
He stepped forwards, and Neranthei barred the way.
“Princess—”
“Don’t, Neranthei! He’s not like the others—sir? I just want to talk. Will you talk to me? Where are you from?”
Seraphel reached out, wincing as she felt the extreme cold of the ghost. He stared at her hand, and his eyes found her face.
“—awoke in the cold. So cold. Even here it’s not warm. Touch me and for a second I’m warm. Cold as the dark. The grave. I died down there—”
He pointed down vaguely, and Rabbiteater edged forwards. Seraphel stared at him, shaking her head slightly.
“Can you speak to me, sir? Please—”
“It’s cold, and I don’t remember who I was. Death itself brought me back. I’m cold. I’m so—”
The ghost was shaking his head. Then he seemed to lose something. Sanity? He reached out—and grabbed Seraphel’s chest.
She stared down as Neranthei tried to beat the ghost off. The ghost leered at her.
“Ah, how lovely—”
Seraphel slapped the ghost so hard Rabbiteater saw it float through a wall. The [Princess] balled up a fist as the ghost roared.
“Damn you—”
“How dare you!”
And she punched it in the face. The blow clearly connected, and the ghost went reeling. Mariel, Neranthei, Rabbiteater, and Menrise all stared.
“How the heck did she—?”
Her [Ghostly Hand]! Seraphel rubbed her hand as she backed up. The ghost seemed just as surprised by the blow and floated backwards uncertainly.
“It hurts? It hurts—but I felt it. Touch me. Touch—”
He went for her again, and this time, Neranthei swung her sword without avail, shouting.
“Mariel! Take the [Princess] back! Help! To arms!”
She was shouting for help, and the ghost was attacking her, freezing her armor. Rabbiteater exhaled as he strode forwards. Altestiel and more soldiers were pouring down the hallway now, and the Earl of Rains himself stopped dead as he saw the ghost.
“A ghost? How—?”
“It’s not the same as the others.”
Seraphel shook her head sadly. She stared at the pirate ghost as he flailed around, almost tearfully, as if she had hoped…the ghost was turning.
“I’m cold.”
“Sorry. But you’re also dangerous.”
The specter turned—and Rabbiteater swung his axe. The ghost locked onto the Hobgoblin’s armored form, then stared at the glowing axe, bathed in sunlight.
[Lightsoaked Armaments].
Rabbiteater cleaved through the mists and the ‘body’ of the ghost, and it separated. He saw the two pieces trying to join, but he finished the swing, and Seraphel cried out as the frozen air tried to reform—then gave up. With a sigh, the strange ghost of a pirate whispered.
“Thank you.”
Then it was gone.
 
——
 
The wisp attack in Liscor was coming at Lyonette, two of her Thronebearers, Bethal, Thomast, Pryde, and two Knights of the Petal. When they saw the wisps, the Humans froze up—then began fighting with about as much success as Ilvriss and Zevara at first.
“Damn! My sword is doing nothing!”
Dame Welca Caveis shouted as she swung through the ghosts, and Ser Dalimont shouted.
“Do you know me? Are you ghosts? Please, talk to—”
Dame Ushar slammed into his shoulder.
“Stop talking and protect Her Highness, Dalimont!”
Dalimont rallied and went to Lyonette’s defense; she was swinging her sword around as Pryde and Bethal looked around, wide-eyed. Thomast cut a wisp in twain with a slash of air, but it just reformed and went for him.
“I’m cold. I’m cold, and they stabbed me in the Bloodfields.”
It whispered as it tried to suck the warmth out of him. The Wall Lord spun away, his arm numb.
“Back! Back to the inn!”
Ilvriss was shouting as Zevara’s Watch came to try and drive the wisps off. It was a melee, but one where one side was invulnerable to harm! A ghost dove at Lyonette, and Ilvriss shouted.
“Get to the inn! Watch—”
Lyonette cut the wisp in two. Then she whirled the sword up and hacked through another specter, who screamed and fled her blade. Her sword was glowing. As Ilvriss halted, mouth open, he saw Lyonette’s eyes lighting up.
“It works!”
“How—?”
Everyone stared, and Lyonette lifted her sword.
“[Silverglow Enchantment]!”
What kind of spell was that? Even Ilvriss, who knew tons of magic even if he couldn’t cast it, hadn’t heard of it. Yet Zevara didn’t waste time.
“Can you enchant my sword?”
She thrust it out, and Lyonette closed her eyes, then passed a hand over the sword. Zevara’s blade took on that same ethereal light. She cut and bisected one of the ghostly breezes, and it died.
“Me too!”
Ilvriss stepped forwards, and Lyonette nodded. She began enchanting blades as the wisps realized they were suddenly in danger. Yet they either had a low sense of self-preservation or not much intelligence to them, because they kept attacking anyone not with an enchanted blade.
One went flying at Lady Pryde, and she frowned at it.
“What new kind of monster are you? It doesn’t matter. I am Pryde. Huh!”
She headbutted the frozen spirit, and it recoiled. Ilvriss’ head cricked around, and his jaw opened. Pryde rubbed at her forehead as the spirit went reeling back.
“Hm. That’s cold. Bethal, auras work.”
“Of course they do. Thomast, behind me. Maybe I have to carry you to safety.”
Bethal delicately waved a hand as a wisp dove at her husband, then her eyes narrowed. The wisp ran into something just past her hand, and Ilvriss saw pockmarks appear, as if it had just embedded itself on huge thorns.
The two [Ladies] and the enchanted blades made short work of the others, and four wisps went running, pursued by some of the Watch. Ilvriss, somewhat lamely, realized he was standing there with zero ghost-kills to his name.
The only person who looked more upset was Selys, who was banging a clawed fist on her armor.
“It’s not working! There’s no magic in it! It—did they break it?”
“Someone broke the Heartflame Breastplate?”
Zevara was horrified, but Selys just shook her head.
“No! I think it ran…out of mana? I don’t know what’s wrong!”
“First things first. What was that?”
Drassi interrupted, and Lyonette breathed.
“Ghosts.”
“No, not them. Your spell! What spell was that? You cut the ghosts to ribbons!”
“Oh! Um.”
Lyonette jumped and blushed as everyone turned to her. She indicated the glowing blade, which was beginning to fade as the enchantment wore off.
“[Silverglow Enchantment]. Ghostkilling magic. I learned it from Krshia’s book—were those really ghosts? They weren’t as—friendly as Erin made them out to be.”
“Certainly not.”
Ilvriss agreed. He had been at the Great Plains, and those looked nothing like the ghosts, or even the Revenants of Khelt’s undead he remembered. He frowned, staring around, but they had left almost nothing behind. Just some residue on the ground that maybe looked like powder.
“These were nothing like the ghosts I saw. These were just limbs or faces—masses of frozen wind. They were shouting all kinds of slurs and seemed to think we’ll hurt them.”
“One was wailing about dying. They sounded a bit like…soldiers, actually.”
Dame Welca offered. The Rose Knight was checking on her frozen arms, but aside from some potential frostnip, everyone was unhurt. A few [Guards] had frozen cuts from the claws the ghost-things had produced, but they hadn’t been killed.
Then again, if they hadn’t known how to kill them and they’d been caught out, Ilvriss could imagine being frozen to death.
Selys was kneeling on the street now, staring at the inactive armor and something else. Ilvriss rubbed at his own arms, worried.
“Have we destroyed actual ghosts? If so—we may come to regret it.”
“Erin said they were all gone. Every one.”
Lyonette shook her head, glancing towards the inn. Zevara cursed.
“If Erin Solstice did this—she has to know something.”
“Maybe not. Even she can’t make monsters.”
Drassi opined, then hesitated when everyone thought about it. The [Reporter] amended her statement.
“Even she wouldn’t do that. Even to make Christmas gifts. No…no, I’m almost positive she didn’t brew them up in a cauldron.”
She sounded less convinced, now, but then Selys raised her voice and put an end to the confusion, in part.
“Not ghosts.”
Everyone turned to the [Secretary] of the Adventurer’s Guild. Selys looked as shaken as the others, especially by her Relic-class armor losing its power, but she was certain as she dragged a finger across the flagstones and rubbed them together, sniffing and then holding her clawed hand away from her face.
“Everyone, stop moving. Don’t kick up the snow. Those weren’t ghosts, at least, not yet. You’re standing in their residue. We need an expert sweeper at once, and if it’s on your boots—someone call for Silveran!”
Ilvriss looked down and realized the faint sheen of powder on the ground was not snow. Selys lifted her claws as some of the [Guards] nearly walked out of the area. Zevara, though, was more concerned about the threat.
“If they’re not ghosts, what are they?”
“Wisps.”
Selys’ voice made Ilvriss’ brows shoot up. She clarified as she pointed vaguely towards the Adventurer’s Guild.
“I used to read old Bestiaries that Grandmother had in the archives. The new ones are always updated for monsters you face, but the really old ones had all kinds of entries just in case. Those were wisps. Frozen air particles, voices, essentially memories of the dead that roam about and attack people. A precursor to more powerful spirits. They used to form in places with death magic. They’re another type of undead.”
“What? Great. Another new monster?”
One of the Watch groaned, but Selys snapped.
“Stop moving! Their dust is a valuable resource—this might be the first wisp dust anyone’s had in centuries! It’s extremely valuable. Get Silveran so we can analyze it! Also, they’re not new. They’re old! It’s just that ghosts and wisps and even banshees and the like, all the spectral undead, are virtually unheard of in the modern age. Or—were.”
She looked at Ilvriss uncertainly, and the Wall Lord felt a tingle down his spine. Another one of those old legends, resurfacing now?
“These wisps are a natural threat that pop up?”
Selys nodded.
“Yep. They’re rarer than zombies, and arguably, one alone is weaker than even a zombie. They appear in places where a lot of people died. Like—say—”
“The Bloodfields. Dead gods. But all the bodies are gone!”
Zevara closed her eyes. Now she understood why they had gone after Drakes and Humans. If those had been the spirits of dead soldiers—Selys gave her a helpless shrug.
“I don’t think it matters. They’re supposed to be based on dead…people, not their bodies. I just don’t understand why they’re here if the ghosts are gone.”
“Maybe they’re not all gone. Or maybe there are a lot of fragments left.”
Or maybe something in the world had changed to let them come back. Ilvriss didn’t know, but he knew where he would get his answers. Slowly, he sheathed his sword, then began to stride towards the inn. He only stopped when Selys shouted at him. The Wall Lord saw a happy Antinium, Silveran, running at them with a dustpan and broom. This was, of course, his hour.
Everyone needed a good [Cleaner].
 
——
 
“I didn’t do it.”
Erin Solstice sat with her arms folded. Watch Captain Zevara calmly blew on her still-cold clawed hands as she adjusted the [Light] spell she was not-quite shining in Erin’s face.
“No one said you did, Miss.”
“I didn’t bring them here. And I had no idea—you said wisps? The ghosts are dead.”
“Mhm. Can I get that in writing? Your testimony indicates, to your knowledge, under truth stone, you did not summon anything today. Or directly or indirectly cause these wisps to appear? Guardsman, dual confirmation?”
Relc held up a second truth stone and mouthed ‘sorry’ at Erin. She glared.
“No. I did not.”
The truth stones glowed, and Zevara nodded as she made a note. She didn’t look entirely convinced, but she nodded to Relc.
“I need to file an immediate report with Selys’ details and how to fight these things. Apparently, extreme heat might work, or light magic. There are countless reports across every city of wisps.”
“Really?”
Erin looked up, alarmed. This was a worldwide phenomenon, then. They were mostly low-level wisps; the Terandrian fleet had encountered a more dangerous one, but they were everywhere. None of them were—coherent in the way that the ghosts of the deadlands had been.
These were somewhat mindless, propelled by faint, disjointed memories, as if they were pieces of whomever the people who had died had been. Less spirits or souls, and more like…echoes. Reflections of the dead brought back by magic.
Regardless of why, ghosts had returned.
Erin felt like she knew who was to blame.
 
——
 
On the ninth day, she rested.
Kasigna, the three-in-one, was weary. The power that ran through her, the combined souls of the dead, was a thin ichor to replace the true blood of gods. Even this took more effort than she wished, but soon, the Solstice would grant her a breach in the veil.
This? This was not the kind of trickery Emerrhain knew. This was the oldest method of the divine.
“Once more, let the dead and living comingle. Let them herald my coming, whispers before a storm.”
They were not, after all, true souls. She had merely allowed the reflections of the dead to reappear. Her hand swept across the falsity of the waking world, and she commanded the veil to part.
In the fullness of her strength, she could reach out and snuff lives like candles by will alone. Her hand closed over that little flame, that obnoxious soul, reaching for Erin Solstice. Even without Isthekenous’ greatest creation…
Her hand passed through shadows, and three faces scowled. No matter how hard she searched, the exact spot, that inn, had gone.
“Little tricks. You still see my will manifest. Erin Solstice. Hear my voice.”
