“Oh. Magic. [Light Bubble] or something. I can use my craft, remember? If I can make glowing fishies, this is like a basic Tier 0 spell. Hey, I sorta like smoking on this pipe.”
Erin blew a red bubble, watched it float down and pop, then began running.
“Aaaaah! I’m not gonna make it!”
“Erin, calm down!”
Ryoka ran after her. The [Innkeeper] screamed back.
“You calm down! I can solve this! I just need—ideas!”
 
——
 
The worst part wasn’t even the amusement or derision, it was the acceptance. When people heard Erin had forgotten, they sighed, made fun of her—and then told her it would be fine.
“Erin, despite you completely ignoring all my warnings and the calendar—relax. Everyone knows you’ve been busy. Frankly, your presence is enough. They love you. Put something together everyone can enjoy, and they’ll accept that.”
Lyonette sounded quite reasonable, and Erin knew people probably would understand. But—she rounded on Lyonette.
“And would you be okay with doing that?”
The [Princess] raised her brows instantly and brushed at her auburn hair.
“Me? Eternal throne, I’d die of shame! But what is the other option? It surely has to be something mass-produced. You might as well buy gifts in bulk. Krshia’s shop has them.”
“I can do better! I just—I—I’ll make them!”
“You have over a hundred guests you could claim as direct giftees, Erin.”
“I’ll make them fast! I just need—”
Then she was running, not panicking, oh, no, definitely not.
She could do this.
Erin had tons of abilities. Why, she had Skills! From her [Witch] class! She had the power. She had the means. She just needed an object, something nice, catchy, and, uh—to figure out how to use said powers.
[Infuse Witchcraft]! The best Skill to have! That she definitely had practice with using! Erin certainly had no regrets about slacking on exploring her Skills.
In fact, she grabbed the first person she saw to help her.
“Ekirra!”
The Gnoll boy was kicking his favorite ball up and down as Visma and Kenva looked around the festive inn. He turned to her.
“Merry Christmas, Miss Erin. We saw a racism today.”
“That’s great. I need your h—wait, what?”
Even Erin had to stop a second and process that. Ekirra told her about it as she charged into her Garden of Sanctuary.
“You mean the ghosts, Ekirra. That’s what it was.”
He rubbed his nose.
“Maybe? Is it a racism if it’s a ghost?”
The question floored Erin and she crossed her arms.
“I, uh, I guess it is? That’s horrible either way, and I’m sorry you saw it, Ekirra. Now, can you help me? I need to work on, uh, a secret project, and you could be the guy to make this happen.”
He stared at her.
“You didn’t make any presents for us, did you? Mrsha was right.”
Erin closed her eyes a second.
“If you help me, I’ll make sure your present is top of my to-make list. Deal?”
He brightened up.
“What do I do?”
“Let me experiment on your ball.”
The Gnoll boy hesitated. His favorite red ball wasn’t the checkered black-and-white soccer ball he kicked around every day, but it was his favorite from last Christmas. He played with it every day.
“What are you going to do with it?”
Erin’s eyes gleamed. She had three, no, four Skills she thought she could use in the process of making a gift. Obviously, she had to buy stuff, but to put her personal touch on things? She thought they were the following:
[Infuse Witchcraft].
[Infuse Color] and [Drain Color].
And…
[Distill Simple Concepts]! Each one was related, obviously, as they were tenants of witch magic. But this final Skill had, interestingly, a power beyond what Erin could expect with just her [Witch] class.
Most witch magic, as Erin had observed, was about ‘craft’. Essentially, taking the element or elements you were good at—in Erin’s case, wonder—and using it to work your magic. That was all fine and good, but it sort of made you very specific. One hammer fits all.
Whereas, even if they were specialists, someone like Eloise definitely could do more than tea magic, right? That was because a [Witch] could work outside of her craft…it was just harder.
Erin could literally pull wonder out of the air if she created it or it was there. She didn’t steal it from people; she was more like an ambient wonder collector, and if the atmosphere was charged with her power, she took it in. Like a solar panel, really. Or a wind turbine.
However, that was the least-effective method of gathering your craft, and you needed a lot of power to work cool magic. Harvesting magical colors or alternate things was what Erin had to do.
“I’m just gonna take your ball a second…don’t worry, I won’t harm it. [Distill Simple Concepts] and—”
Erin pulled a glowing orb out of Ekirra’s ball. It looked like, well, a copy of his ball, but shinier, brighter. She handed his ball back; he bounced it, and it was the exact same.
But Erin held something she’d taken from Ekirra’s favorite toy:
Happiness.
It made her smile, just holding it. Here was all the happiness, fun, and even Ekirra’s affection for the red leather ball in her hands. She tossed it up and down and then held it carefully, feeling that it could disperse if she didn’t hold it or put it in her hat.
“Perfect. This is why [Witches] love objects like this. I can use this! If I put it in…another ball? No, wait. I need objects now.”
Those were the fundamentals of witchcraft she’d been taught by Califor and so many others. To make great magic, you had strong craft and strong vessels—tools to hold it that were appropriate. Erin was brainstorming what would be an appropriate vessel for this bubbly happiness—she might need to divide it into four, but she reckoned it was strong enough to make four gifts!
That was when someone raised her voice.
“Erin. Miss Erin, that’s not a good idea.”
Erin looked up, and there was Nanette. The young witch hadn’t joined the intervention in the morning. It seemed like she’d had a late night; her hair was bushy, she was red-eyed, and she looked tired.
“Hey, witch. Someone’s been making presents last-minute too, huh?”
“I worked hard, Miss Erin. I did my last work in the night.”
Nanette pointedly nibbled on a breakfast tart, and Erin avoided her look.
“…Right. Well, Ekirra was just helping me out. Thanks, Ekirra! I’ll—”
“Miss Erin.”
Nanette nodded at Ekirra, and Erin turned, the happiness in her hands, about to put it under her hat. Then she saw what Nanette was warning her about.
“Okay, Miss Erin. I’ll…”
Ekirra was bouncing his ball on his foot, staring at it. He kicked it up, caught it, felt it all over, and gave her a puzzled look.
She realized he couldn’t see the happiness in her hands. He didn’t know what she’d done, but he felt it. Erin’s heart sank as she saw Ekirra give his favorite ball a mystified look, shake it, even gnaw on it—and then just hold it.
Blankly. As if he could no longer remember why it made him smile. As if, and this was when she realized the problem, as if all his happiness were gone.
Duh. Ekirra looked up at her, and Erin instantly snatched his ball back. She infused the happiness once more and shoved the ball into his arms.
“Whoops! Sorry! Made a mistake there. Here. Everything okay?”
He stared at the ball, then brightened up and exhaled with relief.
“Yep! I dunno what you did, Miss Erin, but that was scary. Do—do you need my ball for something? I don’t think I like what you did.”
He gave her a frightened look, and Erin instantly bent over.
“I would never. Sorry, I was just—learning about something. You can go back now.”
She gave Nanette the side-eye, and the witch nodded. Ekirra ducked his head.
“Thanks, Miss Erin.”
He ran back towards the door, then skidded to a stop. He turned and, to the great approval of his friends, called out.
“Um! If you don’t have time for presents, we accept gold coins! Or Faerie Flowers!”
Nanette didn’t say anything, but she gave Erin a meaningful look as she finished her breakfast.
“I’m sure the older [Witches] warned you about harvesting—”
“Yeah, yeah. They did. I just never pulled anything from an object before. It’s all…air stuff. Y’know? That was a lot stronger than me grabbing wonder.”
The little witch knew what Erin meant and adjusted an imaginary hat self-importantly.
“You do what Mother called ‘responsible harvesting’. It doesn’t intrude on anyone, but it’s a lot weaker than pulling from an object or person directly. B—Belavierr practices the other kind. It gets you power, but nothing’s left.”
She made herself say her enemy’s name, and Erin exhaled.
“Great. So I can make enough presents if I steal the hopes and dreams of children?”
“Mother always said children had the brightest ones. Adults have less, but their hopes and dreams run deeper. If you steal those, you could probably ruin their lives and make most of your gifts.”
Nanette gave Erin a teasing smile, and Erin’s sour glower made Nanette blush.
“You wouldn’t happen to have any good ideas, would you?”
Nanette nodded instantly.
“Forget trying to get that much craft, Miss Erin. Just buy something nice and add a drop or something else. This is a year’s work in a day. Maybe just put on a party?”
“I did my beach already. It’s hard to top that, and I don’t have another idea! Argh! Christmas! Damn you, Christmas! Who came up with this stupid idea?”
Erin threw up her hands and went stomping around her garden. Nanette raised a hand, and a bee flew down to land on it. She and Apista exchanged long looks as Erin threw a tantrum.
 
——
 
The news about wisps was everywhere by the time Erin got to Pallass. There were more [Guards] on the streets here, but it was Liscor and apparently Invrisil where it was bad.
She knew because Sergeant Kel was asking about it.
“Yeah, I know. Wisps everywhere. Anyone gotten attacked in Pallass?”
“No…not the main city. But our allied cities are reporting incidents. We are sweeping all nine floors, but they don’t appear to be able to germinate in our graveyards.”
He looked smug, then frowned as he eyed Erin.
“If you do find any—tell us. And if some ‘happen to appear’ while you’re here…”
He trailed off meaningfully, and Erin protested.
“It’s not my fault.”
The Drake stared at her as he raised the checkpoint gate.
“I didn’t say it was.”
The [Guards] stared at Erin as she trotted past with Nerry. Erin met Kel’s eyes.
“Seriously. I didn’t do anything.”
“Right, but if you find anything out about why this is happening, the Watch also appreciates your cooperation in advance, Miss Solstice.”
“I have no idea what’s going on.”
“I know, this isn’t an accusation. If you discover anything…this pertains to crime, as well. Gangs. Wyvern attacks. Any [Guardsman] will hear you out. Intuition, even. I’m off work at 5 PM so after that—”
Nerry rolled her eyes at the casual suggestion Erin might discover a horde of ghosts on a walk. She trotted after Erin and had to run to keep up. Erin was on the move.
“I need to get presents, Nerry! High-quality ones. In bulk! And I know I can’t get the same thing, but a variety is good! Which is why I am stopping by the best place in all of Pallass to get something for adventurers and warrior-types. The one, the only, the [Sharpener]! Lorent!”
Erin spread her arms, turned the corner, and Nerry stared at the shuttered windows of—a bookstore.
Erin stared at it. She checked the street, walked down a few stores, walked back, and hesitated.
“Um. Did he move? Excuse me…”
It took her a little bit, and the [Shopkeeper] themself actually came out, a Dullahan woman, to tell Erin that she was at the right place, but about a week too late.
“Sharpener Lorent has closed his shop, Miss Solstice. He has left the city.”
“What? Lorent? Why?”
The Dullahan gave Erin a puzzled look, as if surely the [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn would know. She adjusted her head. Her armor was stylized cloth and had text scrolling down the sides, very artsy.
“He has gone to the New Lands, Miss. To seek his fortune as so many have.”
“Lorent? But no…it’s dangerous. He was just at the beach.”
Erin’s face fell. Nerry saw the look of alarm, then guilt flash across Erin’s face. The Dullahan gave Nerry a curious look, then a half-smile and bent to pet her. Nerry glowered but let it happen, and the woman addressed Erin.
“He saw the opportunity there. Even though his class didn’t match. I believe seeing the fantastical ‘beach’ made him wish to leave the City of Inventions and see the world.”
Ah. There was the guilt that Nerry wanted to see. The Sariant Lamb developed an evil, cute smile and practically ate up Erin’s expression.
“I see. Thank you. Come on, Nerry. Let’s…”
Erin walked away in silence, reminded of the things she had helped to set in motion. She walked along in silence a while, then stopped as she saw a store selling some familiar products. Erin walked inside, made an impulse purchase, and Nerry rolled her eyes as she saw what Erin held.
What now?
“I’ve got to try something. I can do enchanting work. Well, sort of. I’ve got my own craft. Here. Let’s go back to my garden.”
Erin held a soccer ball in one hand. She exhaled.
“Time for some magic.”
 
——
 
The process of adding craft to something was time-intensive and took effort, but it wasn’t the same as painstakingly drawing runes on an object like Hedault did.
In Erin’s case, she could just pour in power to an object if she had no set idea, but that was risky. Like rolling the dice. You would get a random result.
In her case, she put her craft into the soccer ball. She put her hands on it, and her hat blazed as her eyes lit up.
“Wonder.”
Nanette and Nerry had followed her into the garden because watching Erin work her craft was infinitely more fun than even the party. In fact, Wiskeria had appeared too and commented as Erin worked.
“She was taught by experts. She’s putting a lot of her craft in there.”
“Yes…too much?”
Nanette wasn’t sure, but Wiskeria shrugged. She had seen her mother working magic, so she never looked impressed, more analytical.
“If she wants to get it to stick forever, this is how much she has to use. It’s a bit unfocused, though. See how she’s bleeding craft? I’d bet as much as one-fifth is being lost to that and how she’s adding it.”
“Oh, you’re right.”
“Hey, guys, take the commentary to Sir Relz!”
Erin snapped at them, and the two witches shut up. Then they just began whispering as Erin narrowed her eyes and spoke.
“So mote it be!”
She lowered her hands, and the ball flashed, and all the black spots on the soccer ball turned…purple? Yes, vaguely purple! Erin laughed in delight—until she heard another whisper.
