“Maybe that’s how they got in? You’d have to climb up the ship’s side and be a good swimmer or…all that to attack someone? Was she hurt?”
Cortese looked outraged, and Altestiel assured them not, to Seraphel’s relief. That would have soured everything.
“No. She was, uh—licked. On the back. But then the attacker fled.”
“Licked?”
Seraphel and Menrise were horrified. Rabbiteater frowned, looking around the ships.
“Sounds like someone needs beating up. Who do you think did it?”
“Now that is what we are trying to avoid, Solstice.”
Altestiel wagged a finger at him. Rabbiteater sighed, and Altestiel went on, lowering his voice.
“I have asked, and a few other ships reported a disturbance. It seems like someone is going around from ship-to-ship. I highly doubt it’s a monster. It sounds like a deranged member of the crew, and I intend to capture them before this becomes an incident. Kiish is going to see if she can trap them. But I wouldn’t want to spoil your day.”
“Nonsense! We shall help you apprehend the miscreant.”
Cortese leapt to his feet, looking outraged, and put a hand on his sword’s hilt.
“A rapine beast should be put down like one. If there is such a miscreant among the sailors or soldiers…Solstice! We have a hunt at sea.”
Rabbiteater nodded, now cracking his knuckles.
“I always wanted to have a fight on a ship. A proper one. Last time we surrendered really fast. Sounds good.”
Altestiel looked rather amused by their willingness to forget about Christmas, but even Seraphel wanted to join in. It actually sounded more fun than banal Christmas greetings, and she would sleep more soundly if she knew the attacker was caught.
But speaking of sleep…Menrise yawned hugely.
“I’m all for this. Maybe the person was sneaking up on me last night? Then again, no one came in my rooms, so it was probably a dream.”
Cortese turned in his seat.
“What’s this about a dream? Why were you so late, Menrise?”
She shrugged.
“Seasick, I was using my helmet as a privy.”
Everyone stared at her. She raised her hands.
“Kidding. But seriously, I had a terrible night’s sleep. Do you ever wake up in the middle of the night unable to move, sure someone’s staring at you from around the corner of your door and they’re about to stab you to death?”
Hundredlord Cortese’s mouth moved as he pictured that.
“Absolutely not. That is horrifying. I shall have nightmares of it myself. Was that your night?”
Seraphel had heard of night terrors, and Menrise nodded, shuddering despite herself.
“I have those dreams now and then. I just know someone’s there, and I can’t move, so I’m waiting for them to walk in, leap on me, and stab me. Any moment. That was how it was last night for hours, but it was the most vivid experience I’ve ever had. Me, lying in my cabin, waiting to die—”
“Aaaah! Stop! What a horrid thought!”
Cortese put his hands over his ears, and Menrise threw a napkin at him.
“I’m the one who had that happen to me! It was bad, this time. I swear there was something there.”
Earl Altestiel was frowning and tapping his lips as he glanced at Kiish. The [Strategist] was already heading to Menrise’s quarters to investigate.
“Maybe it’s just as well we’re looking into the matter. If you want to investigate—I believe the last ships reporting something odd were Cenidau’s. It does seem like this perpetrator is moving from ship to ship, so if we hurry and spread a net…do you wish to come, Your Highness?”
He looked at Seraphel, the least likely to want to get into the fray, but Seraphel was already rising. She dusted her skirts.
“Of course! Although I may wish to go in pairs at least. A hunt for Christmas! Will we get coal or something if we do end up fighting?”
Rabbiteater shrugged.
“Maybe. Then we can beat them over the head with it.”
The Ivory Five headed off as Altestiel summoned a water bridge for them to go ahunting. Seraphel thought of it as little more than a diversion at first, to pass the time. After all, it was probably some [Climbing Pervert]…if such a class existed.
She doubted a monster would go to all that effort to climb into a ship to lick someone.
 
——
 
At the same time, another hunt was going on in the city of Liscor. Watch Captain Zevara was striding along, albeit with a cloak concealing her armor, moving down the snow-encrusted streets, waiting and listening for the sounds of another assault.
However, she wasn’t alone. Along with several [Guards] also keeping a lookout, a hooded Drake with purple scales and a shorter one with green scales were following. And Drassi, who had yellow scales, was bringing up the rear, but she just had a scarf around her face.
Zevara hissed at them.
“What are you lot doing?”
“If someone’s attacking Liscorians, I want to stop it! Especially on Christmas! I can defend myself, Zevara!”
Selys assured Zevara. The Watch Captain stared at Selys and knew that, while her uncle had trained her, the [Receptionist] was hardly a warrior.
“I have magic artifacts! Plus—look at this.”
She moved her cloak, and Zevara nearly walked into a lamppost as she saw a burnished glint of metal under Selys’ cloak. Ilvriss nearly leapt into a cart passing by.
“You’re wearing the Heartflame Breastplate?”
Selys looked incredibly smug as Zevara gasped.
“No one’s leasing it at the moment. Think I’ll get hurt now?”
“This is a Watch matter, not for civilians! Wall Lord Ilvriss—”
He adjusted his collar to the wind.
“I must insist on helping, Watch Captain. A disturbance in a Drake city does concern me, and if there’s interspecies hostility—that’s the last thing my expedition needs.”
Since it was hard to argue with that, Zevara glared at Drassi, and the [Reporter] held up a claw.
“If it’s news, I’m covering it. Relax. I’m safe with you big, strong, sword-swinging people around, and no one has anything to do with Erin working on her Christmas presents. Frankly, I think even Lyonette is bored enough to investigate with the [Ladies].”
“What ladies?”
The problem with telling people in The Wandering Inn about a problem was that unlike other civilians, the guests of Erin’s inn were trained to do something about problems. Zevara groaned as Drassi counted on her claws.
“Well, there was Lady Bethal, her husband, Lady Pryde…they said it was a [Lady]’s job to solve problems.”
“Wonderful. If any of you get hurt, I am not paying the [Healer]’s bill. At least there’s a chance someone will find something.”
Zevara stomped onwards, then remembered she was trying to blend in. She wasn’t much good at this…what would you even call this? Subterfuge…hidden Watch patrols? She felt like there was a name for this kind of thing.
She also felt like there was a better way of doing this than just walking around Liscor hoping someone got attacked. But then again, the attacks seemed mostly rand—
“Help! Watch! Heeeelp!”
The Watch Captain heard a shout in the distance and took off sprinting. She didn’t have long to wait at all! She rounded the corner, ready to see someone under attack—
—And saw a Drake running full tilt with a money pouch in his claws. Zevara paused and remembered.
Oh, yes. Crime happened regularly. She sighed.
[Freeze, Criminal].
The Drake froze, pitched over in the snow, and then began to squirm as Zevara charged at him. He was almost up when Ilvriss calmly pointed a claw at him. A pale beam shot at the Drake, and he froze up again.
“[Lesser Paralysis Ray].”
“Huh. Thank you, Wall Lord.”
Zevara secured the criminal and money pouch anyways, then whistled for a [Guardsman] to take the prisoner. She was returning the pouch to the grateful citizen when she felt the spines on her neck tingle.
A fell chill descended across her scales, and the Watch Captain felt an unnatural cold seeping into her bones. At the same time, a bell rang in her head. [Dangersense]. Selys, looking around at all the Christmas decorations, stiffened, and Drassi sneezed.
“Whoa. Did it just feel cold to any—”
“Watch out!”
Ilvriss shouted. Zevara turned, and someone screamed in her face.
“Die, Drake!”
She dodged, and something cut her cheek open. Zevara dodged left, rolled to her feet, and Ilvriss drew his sword as Selys shouted and then activated her Heartflame Breastplate. Flames roared over her as Zevara threw back her cloak.
“Liscor’s Watch! Surrender or—”
She pointed her sword at the attacker, then froze along with everyone else. Zevara stared.
“What is that?”
 
——
 
It was not hard for the Porcelain Five to find the attacker. It was almost disappointing, really. By the time they had even reached the part of the flotilla that had reported incidents, there was a cry from one of the Cenidau vessels.
“Pervert!” 
There was an uproar on deck. Furred Cenidau warriors were milling about, and someone was shouting. Another man was rubbing at his face.
“They took a swing at me! Find that bastard!”
“There. I’m heading aboard. The rest of you—that ship!”
Altestiel pointed, and Cortese protested as the Earl of Rains indicated a ship neighboring Cenidau’s vessel, this one from Taimaguros. It was a huge ship, one of the massive ones meant to transport thousands of troops at a time.
“But the attacker—”
“They’re likely to hop ships! We have a view of the waters—if they head to you, grab them!”
“You heard him. Let’s go!”
Rabbiteater charged onto the other deck, and Seraphel and Menrise leapt after him. One of the officers on board looked alarmed at the commotion.
“What’s going on? This is the property of the Taimaguros Dominion. Who—”
He made to intervene, but Dame Neranthei was there, and the Thronebearer shouted loud enough for all to hear.
“Her Highness Princess Seraphel, the Hundredlord Cortese, Lady Menrise, and Ser Solstice about the security of the armada! Make way!”
She strongarmed the fellow, and the Ivory Four rushed belowdecks. Seraphel had seen multiple windows open to give some fresh air belowdecks, and sure enough, it was fairly stale air and many, many corridors leading throughout the huge ship.
Even so, it was still only the size of a modest building at best. She stumbled down the stairs, and Cortese steadied her.
“Damn, I forgot how big some of these boats are. Altestiel might be engaging the rogue at any moment. If they did flee to this ship, where might they be? Anyone have sensing Skills?”
Rabbiteater’s head turned right and left. Then he shook his head.
“Nah, we should wait. Then—we hear something and we run. That’s how G—my people do it.”
“Primitive, I suppose. Try to wound the bastard. Baeris won’t lose their scent.”
Menrise punched a fist into her palm.
“That’s right. What do we do when we catch them? Hang them upside down and drag them behind the boat? Tar and feather?”
“Likely it will be an execution if they really have attacked dozens of people.”
Rabbiteater, Menrise, and Cortese looked at Seraphel. She lifted her hands.
“It’s not my idea. But that’s traditional at sea! Or you lose a hand.”
Rabbiteater poked her.
“You’re depressing. It’s Christmas.”
She poked him back, through his armor, and once again wondered who he was. She had a distinct feeling she was poking flesh as he recoiled and slapped her [Ghostly Hand]. She would have felt scales or fur.
Was he just a Human behind the helmet? A…disfigured fellow? Or a member of the Five Families or someone who couldn’t reveal himself. She wondered. And she knew she’d have time to ask him more once they reached his home.
Then—they all felt it. A strange chill in the air. Cortese stiffened, and Rabbiteater looked down at his feet.
“Huh? That’s cold.”
“That’s no aura. What was that?”
Menrise pointed.
“One floor down. [Heatvision]!”
She passed a hand across her helmet, then stared.
“Wow. Something cold is down there, heading across the corridor! Want to bet that’s what it was? Come on!”
She ran the way the figure was going only to realize Rabbiteater, Cortese, and Seraphel were gone. Each one had gone running a different way, looking for the stairs. Menrise hesitated—but then dashed away, looking for a way down.
And as any Earther could tell you, it was when you split up that things got…interesting.
 
——
 
The warship was hardly uncrowded, but the sight of Baeris and Cortese racing down the corridor, sword drawn, shouting to clear the way, tended to get people to move. More than that; the unnatural chill the Hundredlord was following would probably chase most people off.
He got to the location first and stopped when he saw frost on the wooden deck and vapor in the air.
“What idiot uses that kind of magic? Perhaps they froze the ice to climb to this ship? Baeris—back.”
The snarling lion was normally raring to attack any foe, but to his surprise, the Hundredlord realized he needn’t hold her back. In fact…when he turned around, he saw Baeris hiding in an open room, staring at him with wide eyes.
“…Baeris? What’s gotten into you?”
Someone had spooked his lioness! Few things did that. She’d even snap at a Griffin! Suddenly wary, Cortese adjusted his grip on his sword and drew his dagger in his offhand. He whispered.
“[Stalker’s Prowl]. [Ready Attack]…[Sword Art: Lion’s Fangs].”
He slunk forwards, now stealthy, readying a powerful attack for his first blow if it came to combat. He was, after all, a dangerous duelist, and his rings began to glow.
The vapors increased as Cortese prowled forwards, turning into actual mist down the corridor. Some kind of concealment spell? Frost was already growing on the walls, and Cortese’s sense of wariness grew as he sensed his quarry ahead. Oddly—he didn’t see any feet as he stared at foot-level to gauge where to strike.
Yet he did hear a voice now, whispering ahead of him. Cortese frowned.
“…damned. Rosy flesh and lips like red blossoms. Love to kiss them said I. Notta one willing to take my hand. Hungry and cold…”
Someone was muttering to themself, and Cortese snarled with contempt. He hesitated, wondering if he should wait, but decided he daren’t wait for this person to escape. So he leapt forwards, sword drawn.
“Aha!”
 
——
 
After finding some stairs, Menrise had gone downstairs only to find people flooding upstairs, complaining of an intense cold or looking uneasy.
She’d felt it too and had warily stopped and begun casting protection spells. The sound of Cortese’s shout made Menrise turn. A second later, she heard a piercing scream.
“Cortese?”
Menrise ran. She wasn’t wearing a dress, but more serviceable leggings for a ship, but the rocking ship made her slow. When she saw the mists, she froze—yet the sight of the body on the ground made her dash forwards.
“Cortese!”
