“Ser Solstice! Is it not improper to commit ‘naughty’ acts on Christmas? You as well, Hundredlord. The spirit of the holiday should be preserved!”
Rabbiteater and Cortese stopped fighting and looked up. Rabbiteater stopped trying to heave Baeris overboard, and Cortese’s arm around his helmet loosened.
“Ah. Right. Christmas. I forgot it was today. It doesn’t feel very festive on the water. How do Drowned People celebrate anything?”
Cortese threw himself back into his chair. He looked around rather unhappily.
“I should have loved to see a city and done this on land! Maybe we should have gone to First Landing, then around the coast.”
“The nobles of Izril would have hated that. We’re practically an army, and I wouldn’t put it past some of our number to start a battle at sea.”
Seraphel pursed her lips, looking rather knowledgeable about the potential problems. Cortese huffed.
“And instead we have to dine on ship rations and make do with presents and whatnot here? What trouble could we have gotten up to?”
He leaned back, then put his feet up on the table they were using for breakfast. Rabbiteater didn’t object, but Seraphel was mildly horrified. However, her Thronebearers were equal to the task; within ten seconds, a second table appeared, and all the breakfast dishes except Cortese’s own were transported onto it.
Ser Thilowen’s doing. The Thronebearer bowed to Cortese as the Hundredlord glanced up.
“Hundredlord Cortese, I believe Lady Menrise is late to rise, but she shall be with us anon. Earl Altestiel is likewise delayed, but his ship is signaling to join ours within fifteen. May I offer you any further refreshments until breakfast is formally served?”
“I shall take a ‘coffee’ with sweetening. And find Baeris another one of those large mutton bones if she’s to wait for breakfast. She bites if she’s left hungry.”
His cat yowled, and Ser Thilowen bowed. He was marshaling the servants, and Seraphel sighed.
“Cortese, this is exactly why we would be a disaster at First Landing. The Thronebearers can put up with anything you do, but other nations would not enjoy your company onboard, let alone in their city! If we put into First Landing, your Kaazian delegation would kill a dozen people within the day in honor-duels.”
“We wouldn’t do that. It’s a stereotype we fight to the death. That’s highly—”
Seraphel’s glower made Cortese hesitate. The [Deathtouch Princess] was the most mild-mannered of the Ivory Five, so, ironically, when she did raise her voice, the others listened.
“Hundredlord, the Five Families and the nobles’ children have no experience with Kaaz. Or Golaen, or many other nations for that matter. Half of them would agree to a duel not realizing your people take it very seriously. Can you imagine one of them making a comment to Golaen’s folk and thinking they’re half-Giants? Or the possibility of someone being wounded and their bodyguards escalating the situation?”
“…Now that you mention it, that sounds possible.”
Cortese grudgingly admitted. Rabbiteater could just imagine what might happen if that were the case. Cortese frowned; he wasn’t an idiot, just pompous.
“The Five Families are fairly dangerous.”
Seraphel clicked her tongue, annoyed.
“In Izril? They are the dominant force of the north, Hundredlord! Even if you kept your blade sheathed, you might well offend them with your attitude.”
“Yes, well, they’re noble families.”
“Noble families who have won wars with Terandrian kingdoms! You’d be lying abed with poison in your veins if you offended the wrong Reinharts. A generation ago, the House of El would go to war over a slight, and if you think House Veltras, Terland, or Wellfar are less touchy, you haven’t heard of Wellfar sending their ships to raid and harass anyone who gets on their bad side! It could be a disaster.”
Now she explained it, Rabbiteater sort of wanted to see what bad blood might turn up between the Humans of Izril and Terandria, who were so similar and so different. Seraphel was keenly aware of the power of the Five Families, whereas Cortese, a member of the Restful Three of Terandria, powerful nations, looked down on ‘noble blood’ as well as anyone who didn’t belong to a kingdom over twenty thousand years old.
“I suppose you have a point.”
He conceded after a moment, and Seraphel sat back.
“I suppose I am perfectly right, Cortese. And I hope you remember that in dealing with your peers and Izrilians we come across when we reach the New Lands. Or else you may jeopardize all our fates.”
She was rather forthright these days. Rabbiteater smiled under his helmet as Cortese turned faintly red. Many of the Calanferians looked approving, including both of Seraphel’s maids.
Ser Thilowen frowned a bit, but he couldn’t deny she was right.
Seraphel had changed a bit since she had made her declaration that she would go to the New Lands. She seemed happier, more confident, like someone who had finally slipped the shackles off her. Rabbiteater liked it.
“Yeah, Cortese. Use your head, you idiot.”
He grinned—right until Seraphel rounded on him.
“As for you, Ser Solstice, I’d thank you to stop making violence your first resort. Throwing someone off the deck, let alone Cortese, is not appropriate.”
“But he was being an idiot.”
“He is a Hundredlord of Kaaz. Protocol dictates he avenge himself if you embarrassed him before so many. It’s not about ‘pride’, which you love to disparage. If you did the same to Ser Greysten, do you think the [Knights] under him could let you get away with that? If your commander were embarrassed, would you, as someone following them, be able to take that lying down? What would it do for your trust? Morale? Stop throwing people overboard.”
She poked him so many times he actually overbalanced, and his chair fell over. On his back, Rabbiteater stared up at Seraphel.
“But—”
“No buts. Now, we shall have a pleasant breakfast when Altestiel and Menrise greet us, won’t we? Then we’ll have a splendid Christmas. Hopefully your friend, Erin Solstice, will visit us.”
Seraphel sat back, and Rabbiteater and Cortese sat in their seats, defeated. Rabbiteater wanted to object—or toss Seraphel overboard—but he had a nagging feeling she was right.
If someone had humiliated Garen back when he was a Redfang, he’d have started a fight no matter what. Sometimes he might look down on Terandrian customs, but he squirmed when he realized Seraphel was right.
Cortese was equally embarrassed, and the two exchanged a long look.
“Her Highness seems to have the spirit of adventure in her. So, Rabbiteater, have you secured any presents for this holiday?”
Cortese turned casually to address him, and Rabbiteater latched onto that.
“Some stuff. I bought it from the quartermaster.”
“Oh? I as well. It’s hard to…well, if we were closer to home and had more practice, we’d make more of a to-do. Small gifts.”
“Yep. Nice celebration. Think they’ll have fancy food?”
“I think I heard talk of someone breaking out some of the finer vintages, and the word is there’s an entire Wyvern in a bag of holding that someone brought via Courier from Izril. One of the ones killed at Pallass, allegedly kept fresh.”
“Ooh. Wyvern meat is good eating.”
Cortese clasped his hands and tapped two fingers together.
“Not too tough? I have this image of it being unpalatably chewy. Griffin meat is rather stringy…”
“Nah. You marinate it.”
“Ah, splendid, splendid…”
 
——
 
The two cautious men were having civil conversation, and despite herself, Seraphel’s lips twitched as they glanced at her. The truth was that they were her closest friends on this voyage and, outside of her immediate servants, the only people Seraphel could trust.
Ser Thilowen and the majority of the Calanferians sent to colonize the New Lands of Izril were not on her side. They were hand-picked by her parents and decidedly more competent than Calanfer might have sent otherwise.
They were effectively the leash upon her neck, and Reclis and Ielane did not want Seraphel to go the way of Lyonette. In fact, Seraphel rather suspected Thilowen’s orders were to bring Lyonette back, in which case things would get messy.
Things were already messy, to see how many Terandrians were coming to settle the New Lands. This was a full army, no mistake. For every noble ship with its genteel lords and ladies waving at each other and treating this like some grand holiday, there was the belowdecks or a warship or huge passenger ship with thousands of [Soldiers] miserably stamping their feet and trying to get their sea legs on this voyage.
No one nation had sent an entire army over the sea, but combined? If they worked together, they had a force to make the Five Families or Walled Cities tremble. Yet it should not come to war.
I imagine the politicking will be beyond fierce. Having Cortese, Menrise, Altestiel, and even Ser Solstice presenting a united front with me will be invaluable. Assuming their nations agree to help.
She wanted to see the Walled Cities! See Lyonette. Seraphel imagined they might go to various places, like Liscor, and delicately forge alliances. She was excited to do it all, and even the knowledge that she had to represent Calanfer did not weigh heavily on her. This felt like freedom.
I did it at last. Look, Cara, Dalius, Culin, Sasi—look. I did it.
She was smiling, and Cortese and Rabbiteater stopped talking and watched Seraphel sit back and admire the seagulls flying along. She didn’t realize they were noting how happy she was. She just blushed when she noticed them watching.
“Mariel? Where is Menrise?”
Altestiel’s ship was inbound, and the Earl himself was striding over a bridge of water that flowed across the decks, carrying him, Strategist Kiish, and a few others on-board. He was a seasoned ocean-campaigner and thusly moved from ship to ship and commanded a great deal of the fleet.
Oh, people like Prince Iradoren and Golaen’s Titanguard Etrogaer were unhappy to have Altestiel leading, but the Earl of Rains was a military leader, and his naval combat prowess well exceeded their own. Yet he did make time for his friends, and he strode to the breakfast table with a sigh, brushing at his purple hair.
“Merry Christmas, all! Good morning, good morning—I’m sorry I was delayed. An incident among the fleet. Where’s Menrise?”
Altestiel looked surprised not to be the last one present. Steaming platters were unveiled, but the Ivory Four hesitated as they realized their fifth member was still abed.
“I think she’s sleeping in.”
“Seasick? She was dancing on the railings yesterday.”
Rabbiteater grunted.
“Impossible for Menrise. She’s too fun to be seasick.”
The last member of their group was Lady Menrise of Tourvecall, who was indeed so playful as to be outrageous at times. Seraphel was both horrified and envious of Menrise’s ability to pull pranks on a level few could manage.
Half the fleet still thought her ‘parents’ were sailing with Tourvecall’s pair of ships, and poor Lady Ficombe and Lord Ostevar kept denying they were, in fact, Menrise’s parents who had borne her out of wedlock after a tumble in a barn.
Menrise and Rabbiteater had also conspired to spread outrageous tales about Izril, from the fact that Izrilians loved to eat Shield Spiders to exaggerated tales about swarms of acidic flies that would melt your face off. Seraphel normally found Menrise first to rise—but the helmeted spellcaster-lady only appeared a minute later, looking unnaturally tired.
“Oh, hello, everyone. Sorry I’m late. I had a terrible night sleeping.”
“Kept awake by snoring? I have soundproofed rooms, but Baeris snores terribly.”
Cortese frowned. His cat looked up from her bowl of meat scraps, incredibly hurt, and Menrise shook her head.
“No, I can cast [Silence]. It was a nightmare. A bad one. Heya, Rabbit. Hey, Courty.”
“Hey, Menny.”
They had nicknames! Seraphel was astonished. And slightly hurt she didn’t have one. Cortese, on the other hand, paused with his first breakfast tart halfway towards his mouth.
“Do not call me that.”
“Aw.”
Menrise and Rabbiteater traded fingerguns, and she sat down, already rallying a bit. She raised a cup of coffee and inserted a straw into her visor. Rabbiteater, meanwhile, used a kind of privacy screen to swiftly raise his visor and shove a full pastry in. The sounds of him chewing it down and the two helmeted diners were odd—but Seraphel enjoyed their company.
“I’m glad you’re still enjoying yourselves. Though you may not be tonight; we have banquets on eight different flagships, and I’m told half have speeches planned.”
“Damn. Let’s skip those.”
Rabbiteater groaned. Seraphel protested.
“We can’t! It would hurt their feelings terribly if Altestiel and I didn’t show up.”
“Plus, they have little gifts to incentivize people to turn up. You want your Christmas presents? You’d better show up with a gift of your own. Do you all want to come with us?”
Altestiel looked hopeful, and Menrise leaned over the table seriously.
“Not all of them. But I bet someone knows what kind of presents we get. Let’s only go to the ones who have good presents.”
“Kaaz is giving out daggers.”
Cortese muttered around his breakfast. Rabbiteater rubbed his gauntleted hands together.
“Okay, that’s one ship.”
Seraphel laughed, sighed, and confessed that Calanfer had a small gathering that would let anyone who wanted to come over toast the Eternal Throne—and receive a pouch of glowing candies in return. Menrise immediately began drawing a magical map in the air and plotting their route for banquets while avoiding the bores.
It might be a fun Christmas after all. However, Altestiel looked oddly perturbed and brought something up before they could begin fully enjoying the day.
“I hate to say this, but it might not all be roses and winter cheer. I was delayed because there was a disturbing report at sea. I may have to investigate this and, obviously, keep this private—but there was an assault last night. One of the female [Sailors] from Pheislant was attacked in her room.”
The Ivory Five paused and turned to him, and Seraphel’s heart sank. Christmas. The day of cheer. And also racism.
And sexism?
“What? Who did it? Someone from her ship?”
“No—and the perpetrator wasn’t found. That’s why it’s suspicious. Lord Firrus Kallinad, who is leading Pheislant’s ships, did a full search of the ship on truth stone, and no one he could find was to blame. He’s no fool either; the [Sailor] claimed she barely saw the attacker, and they apparently leapt out an open window. One of the porthole ones that was open.”
