“I thank you for that. At least some part of Pomle remains in memory. I am on a journey to discover what was missing. What I lack. I regret that I cannot answer you in turn with ideas for your party.”
“I, um…please forget it.”
The [Martial Artist] stretched out his feet slowly as Torreb kept laughing, clearly enjoying Erin’s look of actual pain. Torreb eyed her, and the adventurers behind Erin, without much attention to any of them—until his eyes locked on Saliss.
The Drake raised his claws and waved. Torreb saluted him with a cup. Saliss blew a kiss.
“Hey, Torreb, are you going to die yet?”
“Come to Chandrar and we’ll see, Saliss of Lights. I will pour a cup to one of our deaths in the Lantern Lands.”
“Now that’s how you banter at the top.”
Seborn muttered enviously as the Halfseekers watched, and Jelaqua shrugged.
“Eh, too aggressive for me. Ulinde, stop looking so impressed. Not all Named-ranks have to fight like that.”
“True. But Torreb isn’t a pleasant figure. Saliss might have a reason to not like him. He often does, you know.”
Moore muttered. Jelaqua considered that and nodded silently, never taking her eyes off the old man. Meanwhile, Saliss nudged Jewel, who nearly died of a heart attack.
“He likes me. Real corn, that fellow. More cob, but hey, everyone gets old.”
Corn-based adventurer analogies aside, Orjin addressed Erin.
“Perhaps this may help settle your mind. Pomle has never had much to give, so I view it as this: your presence is a gift. So long as you are worthy of being present.”
“Thank you. Can I go now and die of shame?”
Erin was red-faced. Torreb waved a hand as he laughed hugely.
“Think nothing of it, woman! I respect anyone with the gall to appear like that. Power is privilege. I have advice for you.”
He leaned over, drunk, and grinned at her with his remaining teeth.
“Give the children gold. It might make them twisted when they grow, but they’re happy in the moment.”
Erin stared at Torreb the Undefeated as his daughter sighed and replaced his jug of spirits with another. She nodded a few times.
“I’ll…bear it in mind.”
Mrsha rubbed her paws together in delight as Torreb’s image flickered out below. Then she saw Lyonette staring at the Named-rank adventurer in horror. Glumly, Mrsha passed a note to Nanette, who read it and nodded.
Poo. I don’t think we’re getting paid after all.
