“[All Terrain Step]. It’s a new Skill.”
Ryoka’s head turned, and Charlay stamped a hoof.
“What? That’s great! I’m Charlay, by the way. Ryoka’s best friend. Is the running around Liscor nice? Maybe I should work here. Everyone in the north seems to be heading south. Hey, who’s this staring kid?”
She pointed at Sammial. Erek groaned, but Sammial piped up.
“I’m Sammial!”
He didn’t say ‘Lord Sammial’! Or mention House Veltras! He was improving! Charlay might have met him, actually, but the Centauress clearly didn’t remember.
“Hey, you have a familiar-sounding name. Psst, kid. I’ll pay you a copper coin if you introduce me to someone famous.”
“Me?”
Ryoka bent down to whisper.
“Take her up on it, Sammial. It’ll probably be really funny.”
He looked around uncertainly, then brightened up as he spotted Saliss of Lights. The naked Drake had a box on, but he was currently occupied with shaking each present under the tree to the indignation of everyone around him.
It was a full party—and it wasn’t even 9 AM yet! People had just come, the moment they woke up, to be here. Goblins, friends, even potential enemies had put aside their differences because they really, really…wanted to see what Erin would do and get presents.
“Hobgoblin.”
Redscar looked up as he watched Numbtongue and Badarrow jostling each other and laughing by the fire with Yellow Splatters and some Antinium. He almost reached for his sword, but General Shirka was smiling.
She had taken Chaldion’s invitation and orders to ‘not cause trouble’ to heart as one of his serious supporters. Even General Duln had declined to actually participate in this event and would be in Pallass’ version of the Christmas celebrations.
However, General Shirka had noted that Sir Relz and Noass would only be attending those parties because they hadn’t secured an invitation to The Wandering Inn, and Drassi was already here. As were Rufelt, Lasica, Maughin, Grimalkin…
But she was still the 3rd Army’s General.
“Drake.”
The two stood there, and Shirka offered him a drink.
“Want to try this? It’s something they pulled from storage. Not many want it.”
Redscar sniffed the red drink.
“What is it?”
“Borsch? That Human with the dark skin made it.”
“Huh.”
Since it was Imani, Redscar took a gulp and frowned. He’d expected something sweet, but this was more savory, even salty. He liked it.
“Tastes like food. Why are you here?”
Shirka eyed him.
“To celebrate. And because this seems like it might help me level. Who knows? I might get a relic-class sword if Miss Solstice fails to produce any presents. Or a quest to slay a Giant that rewards me with a legendary Skill. I’ll take that.”
“Or one of the presents has an Adult Creler inside.”
Redscar smacked his lips happily. Shirka paused.
“Yeah.”
They stared at their imagination of that event. Both sipped the warm drink.
That would be so much fun.
 
——
 
It was almost a crime for anyone not to be here today. In fact, the Watch had been forced to implement a shift-system, as well as a raffle, and offer triple-pay for people willing to work on this holiday.
It should be a crime to take someone away from this day of fun and good cheer. And if Watch Captain Zevara had her way, it would be.
She was rather sour as she scooped up as many cookies as she could and shoved them into her belt pouch. In fact, she was resenting Watch Captain—nay, Watch Commander Venim today.
Not because he’d taken the role she’d declined. No, because he wasn’t starting his job yet, so she had to deal with today’s incidents.
“Watch Captain, something wrong?”
Selys noted Zevara’s scowl, and Ilvriss drifted over as Zevara jumped.
“Nothing. Sorry, Selys. I’ve got to get back to work.”
“What, today? Zevara, surely today—”
Zevara held up a claw with a huge scowl.
“Believe me, Selys. I’d love nothing more than to take my break. Even Liscor’s army is doing it—but there’ve been dozens of assaults this morning. Nothing fatal, but there’s been injuries, and someone’s been attacking people. A species-motivated crime.”
“What? Really? On Christmas? Who is it? One of the gangs?”
Selys was outraged, and a bunch of the members of the street glanced over in alarm—and outrage at being implicated. Zevara just shook her head.
“No one’s seen the perpetrator, which makes me think it’s some kind of organized assault from individuals. Invisible, it sounds like.”
“What kind of injuries?”
Ilvriss was curious. Zevara shrugged.
“Mostly shoving. People getting tossed into the snow—or pushed in front of a vehicle in one case. They got out of the way, thank the Ancestors, but there’s also been slashes. Someone with a knife, it sounds like.”
“Dead gods. Some people are monsters.”
Zevara gnashed a cookie in her teeth and turned.
“Yep. When I get them…I’ll be back for the party tonight, hopefully. If not, we need to patrol the streets. One attack was in someone’s home, and if that’s the case—”
She began to stride out the door as Ilvriss adjusted his clothing and decided he needed to put on some armor. Drassi raised her brows with the scent of a story, and Selys put her claws on her hips with the outrage of a Liscorian. But Zevara turned back and raised a claw.
“…Is there a party tonight? I’ve got my presents.”
 
——
 
By the time it was about 11 in the morning, even the latest sleepers were awake and celebrating Christmas. Not that everywhere was as festive as Liscor.
People made an effort, but honestly, it was hard to make everywhere have that Christmas spirit. Oh, sure, it was cold and wintery the world over. But snow?
…There was some on the railings of the rocking ships. And yes, a few had cast illusion spells to look green and festive.
Earl Altestiel had put on a Santa hat. But Rabbiteater felt, strongly, that Terandrians didn’t ‘get’ Christmas.
Case in point, one of the nobles of Pheislant appeared on deck with a green-and-red dress. Which consisted of slashes of the two colors twining into a complex pattern as they became ever more intricate and reached the hem of the dress.
It wasn’t the worst look, and she had, apparently, commissioned it when Erin first announced the holiday at a fine [Seamstress]’.
Everyone was complimenting her on it. Except Rabbiteater.
“That’s not Christmas. Christmas is fun and silly. It’s not a banquet.”
Sometimes it felt like Cortese liked to argue just because he wanted to win, be it duels or debates. He scratched at his chin and seemed to recall something.
“I think you’re being rather prescriptive on what this holiday should be, Ser Solstice. I have it on good authority Christmas originated from a winter banquet tradition. Goodwill towards men. In fact, there’s a song, Good King Wenceslas…”
The Goblin [Knight] turned his head and gave the person chastising him such a blank look that, even with his visor down, Hundredlord Cortese hesitated as he sipped some eggnog the ship’s [Chef] had prepared.
“…It’s no fun on the water either way. Why are we arguing?”
“You tell me.”
They were on Throne’s Will, the flagship of Calanfer’s forces that Princess Seraphel was on. Cortese, Menrise, and Rabbiteater had all abandoned their ships to join Seraphel for solidarity—only Earl Altestiel had to reside aboard his flagship, Rainbringer, which sailed pride-of-center in the Terandrian fleet.
It was a massive cavalcade of vessels, and they had been nearly a week at sea. It wasn’t the fastest going with all the currents mixed up, but they had wind spells and were taking a long route that actually passed by Wistram to get to the New Lands of Izril.
It was very, very boring to Rabbiteater. For one thing, he was on deck, so practicing fighting was hard—even the huge ships didn’t have much space, and slamming into the wood keeping them from all drowning made the [Captains] upset.
For another, there was virtually no privacy onboard, so he had to remain with his helmet on at all times. For the third thing…Meisa was gone, and while Rabbiteater’s friends like Markus, Talia, Greysten, and even the Spring’s Warden had joined him, he had to put up with the company of people he didn’t like.
Like the Thronebearers and much of Calanfer’s delegation, who seemed to be people chosen to ‘control’ Seraphel or just weren’t the finest. Seraphel herself was under the protection of Dame Neranthei, her personal protector; her new maid, Beacle; another maid called Mariel; and a Ser Thilowen, the leader of all the Thronebearers and Calanfer’s forces.
He was Knight Resplendent, Radiance Commander of the Thronebearers, which meant he outranked every single Thronebearer that Rabbiteater had ever met with the exception of the Lightherald and perhaps Dame Vensha, who was the Queen’s own [Knight].
Rabbiteater didn’t care for him. Ser Thilowen was too thin to be a warrior, reminded Rabbiteater of a fussy maître d’, and he’d prepared the eggnog and a banquet on board the Will for countless other dignitaries.
He was apparently a capable warrior…according to Seraphel, who knew nothing about fighting. And it was very clear he was there to make sure the [Princess] did what the Eternal Throne wanted.
Yet—they were at sea, and soon they might be close enough for him to go home.
He just wished he could have had Christmas with the others.
Terandria was so full of artifice and fake things. Just as Rabbiteater had observed at Calanfer, there was this…glitter and gaudiness that sometimes covered over the fact that there wasn’t anything valuable underneath all that.
However, the fact that they could afford the gilded paint at all was a valuable thing.
Case in point, the armada of would-be colonists literally filled his vision as he had breakfast. No matter where he looked, he saw sails, painted hulls, and soldiers and sailors shouting importantly at each other.
In fact, there was even a horn being blown to herald the morning. It rose into the air, a sonorous melody by a single [Trumpeter] standing on a crow’s nest, solemnly greeting the sun.
Even the Goblin’s spirit rose as he shaded his eyes and saw seagulls and other birds flying alongside the huge, billowing sails, as if they thought this fleet of over a hundred ships were larger kindred. He glimpsed Altestiel’s ship cutting a path close to the vanguard and other ships carefully sailing at a decent clip to avoid the dangers of collision. Some were connected by bridges, though; more fancy versions of a gangplank or even lightbridges or paths of air let nobles and other dignitaries greet each other.
Strolling over the sea as if they were on parade. Some of them looked like they were on their way to a ball, fur coats mixing with fancy dress hats and plumes that whipped around in the brisk wind. Others, noble and common alike, were dressed for the sea, sitting in the salt breeze, their eyes ever turned southwards. The real colonists and explorers.
The Kingdoms of Terandria had set sail, and Rabbiteater realized that such a great fleet of so many nations might be the largest in an age to take to the seas. This was a grand moment in history, and despite himself, his spirits lifted to be part of it.
The melody of the trumpeter filled the air, a beautiful note. Then another horn began to play, a dueting note. Rabbiteater looked up—and heard a string quartet begin their morning routine.
Then a bass rumble of a tuba. And then someone began singing opera.
 
“Benedictus Taimaguros in aeternum!
Eurom dentes! Superbia eurom!”
 
It was the old language, and the only word he caught was ‘Taimaguros’; Rabbiteater turned and saw a woman singing from the front of one of her ships painted down the middle into two halves: Taima and Guros.
The delivery was powerful; she had some lungs, and he imagined it wasn’t a bad song. However, the singer was trying to deliver it as a solo act when right now there was the original trumpeter, the other one, and about three other nations’ performers all vying for the earspace.
The cacophony began, and Rabbiteater wished he could make his helmet soundproof. Yep. And here was the part where he remembered why he didn’t like Terandria after all.
“Dead gods, what a racket.”
Hundredlord Cortese put his hands over his ears as his lioness, Baeris, yowled in complaint. Princess Seraphel was too mannered to do the same, but she grimaced.
“I thought there was a moratorium on morning performances?”
The various national anthems quieted down as shouts erupted from various boats, hurling insults at each other. Cortese tilted his head, glaring.
“There was. That wasn’t a national anthem! That was one of Avel’s [Hornplayers], and it was a damn fine song. Some idiot must have thought it was their anthem and started the fight all over again. Who was that?”
Seraphel shaded her brows, and Dame Neranthei, one of her bodyguards, coughed into her fist.
“I believe the second hornplayer was from the Kaazian ship. Honor’s Wake.”
“Ah.”
Cortese grew still as Seraphel and Rabbiteater stared at him. The Hundredlord brushed at his hair and his jacket theatrically.
“Well, you can’t fault someone for assuming it was an anthem. Kaazians hate being second-best in anything, and it’s not our fault everyone else joined in.”
Seraphel and Rabbiteater exchanged a look, and the Hobgoblin leaned over and poked Cortese.
“It was your fault. Say you’re sorry.”
“Me? Never. I’m not responsible for some member of my crews.”
“It was Kaaz’s fault. Say it.”
“That’s only your opinion, Ser Solstice. I don’t apologize for minor things.”
“Say sorry.”
Hundredlord Cortese lifted his chin.
“Never. It’s not that I don’t believe in saying sorry in principle, Ser Solstice, Princess Seraphel, it’s that I object to apologizing if I don’t feel like it.”
Seraphel’s mouth opened a fraction, and Rabbiteater digested the statement of Cortese’s attitude towards life. Then he nodded.
“Seraphel, help me drown him.”
He was trying to pick up Cortese’s chair and dump the man over the railing. Cortese nearly drew his sword on Rabbiteater.
“Solstice! I’m warning you! I quite like you, but there are limits to your japes!”
“I’m not japing. Ow.”
Baeris bit his shin, which arguably hurt her more than him because he was wearing armor. Seraphel was trying to talk the two down.
“Solstice, please. Cortese, let’s not have a scene. Menrise should be up in a moment, and Altestiel will be with us for breakfast—Dame Neranthei, do something!”
“Your Highness?”
The Thronebearer who was acting as Seraphel’s personal champion and bodyguard looked uneasily at the two fighting figures, who both outlevelled and outranked her. She hesitated, then cleared her throat.
