His confusion didn’t last long as the fight resumed. Vac’kem didn’t need a shield because he was a fully offensive fighter. He threw himself forward at the two higher Tiers as if he had no fear despite the Tier gap, dodging or taking blows similar to his own style.

Matt had to temper his expectations during the back and forth as the two Tier 45’s did their best to preserve their lives. While their gear was ‘old’, it was top of the line and was the only reason the battle made it past the first few exchanges.

Whatever the items and spells may have lacked, the fighters made up for in skill. None of the combatants were weak. However, Vac’kem was hands down the best on the field by a wide margin. Each move he made was clean, quick, and always pushed the battle towards a better position.

What impressed Matt was how strong Vac’kem was.

That close to the peak of the Realm, a full Tier gap should have seen him crushed. Yet he controlled the fight so well that without Ciceron’s spoiler, he would have assumed the man had won.

Matt watched the first Tier 45 fall as he tried to protect his compatriate from a thrust with his own body, attempting to use some high Tier defensive spell that might have come from a talisman or the like. That was where things took a turn for the worse.

The defences utterly failed, to everyone but Vac’kem’s shock. Seeing that most of the watchers started to flee without waiting around to see how things played out.

Matt couldn’t avoid the obvious comparisons between himself and Vac’kem as he watched the fight continue to play itself out. Fighting up Tiers when the gaps were so large wasn’t just hard, it was damn near impossible, to the point it was common wisdom that Ascenders were the only ones who had a chance to survive such an encounter.

Sadly, Vac’kem’s mistake showcased itself almost immediately after the first death.

A human silhouette that seemed vaguely feminine formed out of wisps of air faster than the observer could perceive. What was more telling was that the viewer wasn’t able to perceive them with any other sense other than their sight.

The Tier 48’s apparition said something but he didn’t get the opportunity to see what. The viewpoint was already turning trying to flee and it was only their passive senses that picked anything up at all.

They needn't have bothered.

The apparition's first attack obliterated the real space universe they’d been in, but the recorder had been far enough away that they were able to survive the blowback by activating all of their defensive abilities. They and everyone else high enough Tier to survive were ejected directly into chaotic space, while everyone below Tier 30 or so died as the star system fractured in the face of the Tier 48’s wrath.

Even before the Shattering and the agreements to limit high Tiers, such people had been rare. Contrary to his expectations, the Tier 48 didn’t seem content to stop there, which felt like overkill but proved wise.

Vac’kem’s upper half and sword had somehow managed to survive the direct strike.

That was their second mistake.

The high Tier apparition didn’t take that well and chaotic space turned as ethereal as they were. Like a hurricane, they struck out in a flurry of blows, not caring about the collateral damage that annihilated the nearest low Tier worlds that were too close to withstand such impacts. While normally the reality shift between real and chaotic space buffered worlds from incidental outside damage, a fully mustered Domain harmonized everything into a homogeneous whole that was no harder to break than the first world.

The apparition only stopped attacking when a familiar implosion of lights started to dig their way into the fabric of reality itself. The Tier 48 tried to stop the process, darting forward with an angry outstretched hand, but like Matt, their efforts failed to prevent the blade's escape.

Ciceron continued right as the recording ended. “Before you came, we hadn’t known Aurelius had the sword. W—”

Allie skipped forward as she interrupted with a question of her own, “What’s the sword's name?”

“Its designation in the archive is BW-B24546. Between its shapeshifting capabilities and how it vanishes after its wielder’s death, it's not exactly an easy to track item and from what we can tell every owner names it themselves with it either not having or not sharing its true name. In fact, what it told Matt about being one of the oldest blades in the Realm probably isn't wrong given what little we do know.”

Matt was questioning when he had told Ciceron that when, without missing a beat the Tier 45 launched into a lecture. “Bound weapons, a technically formal name with very little bearing on reality, aren’t that rare. There are a lot of rifts making a lot of items, some of them can be more powerful than others. Others still can be so powerful they can’t be traded back and forth, even if they aren't a typical growth item. That’s all a ‘bound’ item really is, colloquially speaking. Most such items aren’t that big of a deal. Destruction and containment aren’t any harder for most of them than any other item. Some of them however are… more resilient. BW-B24546, Aurelius’ sword, or the one I believe it is, is an exception even in that category. Neither its own destruction or its hosts seem to have any effect on it. It always shows up some time later, perfectly intact and with a new form. Often only recognizable on its wielder's untimely death. At the same time, hehehe,” Ciceron chortled at his own joke, nearly smacking himself with the broom he seemed to forget he was holding. “It appears so infrequently we aren’t confident about much either. Hmm where was I?”

As Ciceron paused to fiddle with the slip of paper and a perfectly normal door, Matt added what he’d discovered. “There were hints of aperology in its disappearance. Maybe it's able to replace rift rewards or somehow interact with rift rewards? A sort of return to the beginning so to speak.”

Ciceron finally continued as the door opened to reveal a normal corridor like any other. “Also, I believe Helen is wrong about it being the weapon that inspired the dwarves’ Artefacts. While finding and identifying one of its less than notable wielders is almost impossible— see us not identifying Aurelius as a wielder— what you sent me does tentatively match BW-B24546. At least visually. That could be a false positive, mind you. My point being, the Founder's time is one of the few periods in which we are at all confident in its location, and it wasn’t there. It was in what would consolidate into the Federation. Anyway, with Aurelius’ ownership semiconfirmed, I’ll dedicate some time to go through his personal files and history. Maybe he happened to write down everything he knew about the sword? I doubt it but maybe I’ll get lucky. You implied you kept the body?”

The moment Matt withdrew the corpse, Ciceron grabbed and stashed it in a premade coffin that looked to be made out of some type of emerald. Neither he or Allie asked the obvious questions, not wanting to distract him any further.

“That will help but probably not as much as I‘d like. Interesting tidbit about the rifts though. I’ll have to investigate previous suspected wielders and see if they have anything that corroborates that finding. Sadly, one thing we know for sure is that like most bound weapons, it has a high degree of divination resistance. I’m of the opinion that it’s a side effect of something else because of how often we see that effect on what are considered bound weapons, but no one has been able to prove anything definitive either way. The few bound weapons that have been willing to talk didn’t even know they were hard to divine. Ah, here we go.”

Matt looked at the ordinary hallway they were inside when Ciceron reached out and tapped the air. The space around them shimmered and twisted, revealing an actual room squeezed into an alcove that never should have fit it.

Ciceron didn’t hesitate and stepped inside as if he was afraid the opening would vanish if he wasn’t fast enough. Following along, Matt and Allie found themselves inside what looked like an interrogation room with flat empty walls.

Ciceron wiped his hands before he sat down and started tapping at the air.

Matt and Allie waited for several long seconds for him to finish but eventually he explained. “Okay, inside this room is information that can’t leave it. Even in here, the particular person's name has been scrubbed, but we still need to be careful. Have either of you ever wondered about the previous dynasty? Not in general, not what the Empire teaches in schools or allows shown in movies, but in the particulars?”

Matt had never considered the question but after doing exactly that, he realized he hadn’t. The previous dynasty was simply that, the previous dynasty. Already old and truly a relic of a bygone era after two full cycles of Tier 50’s, he’d never even considered looking into them.

Now he was questioning that.

“That's not an accident, I take it?” Allie’s question earned a nod from Matt.

Ciceron shook his head, looking tired. “It's very much not. In fact, it's a constant battle to keep it that way. Even in this room, it's not safe to speak or even think of her name, so I won’t share it with you. Not even the Royals know her name, even if they got a similar briefing to this. What you need to know is that the sister of the Emperor Agatha dethroned has a Talent that allows her to know when people speak or think her name should there be any association between it and her. It was always an incredibly powerful Talent, but almost sixty thousand years of vengeful honing has made her all the stronger. More devious too. Agatha forcefully purged everything she could but the sister was never captured. Georgios did locate her, I know that for a fact, but by that point she was already sequestered in…” After looking to the side for a moment he continued, “The Republic at that time.”

Seeing both of them perk up at the information, Ciceron shook his head. “She’s long since gone from that location. Our latest confirmed report of her location was in Clans territory but we suspect she’s now either in the Sects or possibly the Collective based on previous patterns. Realistically, she probably has bases in all of the Great Powers and simply cycles between new ones, but it's hard to confirm anything given the cat and mouse being played. The other Great Powers have enough TIer 46’s that even the Emperor can’t pick her out.”

Hearing the news, Matt’s fist clenched, but it caused Ciceron to smirk instead of getting angry. “Don’t take it too personally, Matt. It’s not like we aren’t doing the same things. Georgios was more than willing to take in and support political dissidents during his reign, and he didn’t start that trend by a long shot. He was simply better at it than most. With his Talent and political acumen, he created more than a few problems for the other Great Powers, some of which they are still dealing with. In fact, we helped restore a dwarven clan to prominence less than five hundred years ago. All the Great Powers are playing the same games. They simply have a bigger, more useful, piece to play. Not necessarily a good one, given how long it's been since their family lost the throne, but she has enough of a legitimate claim that the others are happy to keep her funded. Her hatred ensures that she's a willing tool in the game and one always happy to cause trouble.”

“And it's just being allowed? Why hasn’t the Boss just gone and killed her?”

Allie looked excited at the prospect of a Tier 46 getting squashed, but Ciceron shut her down. “She’s intentionally inside other Great Powers’ borders and never personally strays. Why would she when a single whisper or thought of her name can let her observe the person and everything around them without risk? That’s why she has disposable minions and pawns. Besides, if any of the Tier 50’s made a move inside another’s territory, it won’t be as simple as a normal war. At the very least it would cause a fight between the Tier 50’s, at slightly worse it would escalate into a very fierce war, and worst case scenario, it's a true war. Also, I think the Emperor had a plan but I don’t remember it involving you two. Are you sure you're supposed to be here?”

While Ciceron was speaking, Matt tapped into the various archives on the old dynasty he felt lining the room. All of the raw data, mainly historical information, got shoved into his [AI] to let it do its thing while he focused on more current information.

Going through it, Matt felt overwhelmed by the enormous weight of what he’d learned.

The previous dynasty forces were doing far more than he’d suspected from Vanessa’s words. They were suspected to have anywhere between five and a dozen active hidden bases that were solely focused on raising infiltrators staffed by the loyal remnants of the previous dynasty and their newer followers, but only two locations were confirmed. Worst of all, the notes indicated the opposition was aware of their discovery, meaning anything they learned from such locations was incredibly suspect.

Matt wanted to start digging in, find strings to pull until he’d unravel everything the mess, but his instincts told him that wasn't the best or smartest answer.

A part of him almost wished he’d listened to Manny’s warning, given the task in front of him, but now that he knew of such a plot, he refused to walk away. Manny might be hemmed in by the rules, both the spoken and unspoken ones, but he and Allie weren’t. At least, not in the same way.

