Chapter 506

Golden glowing eyes met his and then turned to Allie, as if questioning why they were there, however the first thing Matt noticed was how tired Manny looked. The Tier 50 looked like he’d hadn’t slept for the past century, combined with the additional weariness that came from knowing there wasn’t an ending in sight. If Manny had been a normal cultivator that might not have been that crazy, even immortals could overwork themselves, but he was the Emperor.

Matt felt a shiver run down his back seeing Manny this haggard, knowing what was coming. What could possibly worry him so much? There was one singular nauseating answer that didn’t bode well and a weight formed in his stomach as the silence stretched on.

Manny clearly noticed Matt’s reaction, as his expression morphed into a small smirk. His eyes softened into a tarnished gold instead of the vibrant glow they’d held when they entered.

“Don’t go all doom and gloom there, Matt. The upcoming bout of war between Great Powers is stressful. As are the myriad of internal issues, such as the looming economic collapse that will undoubtedly follow, but it’s only hitting me this hard because of the upcoming birth. I was serious when I said I was taking that time off.”

That information derailed most of Matt’s worries, as he couldn’t help but lean forward and ask. “Have you guys actually settled on a date now? Or is it still in the air.”

Manny’s expression slipped into a small smirk that vanished almost as fast as it appeared. “Yes to both. Carissa and I have decided that once this bout of war ends we’ll go ahead shortly after if not immediately. But we haven’t settled on an exact date if that is what you wanted to know. I’m simply trying to get ahead of what that entails. I fully intend to take twenty five years off so I can properly be there for our child's formative years. That requires getting ahead of my already heavy work load and I wasn’t expecting visitors, so forgive my state.”

Manny gestured down to the table and the holograms only he could see that were no doubt scattered around the desk in dense clusters.

Matt used his Insight to tap into the desk and try to break the security to see what the Emperor was working on, even as he nodded along. His attempt earned him a glare but he didn’t stop trying to worm his way into the protected data.

His efforts ended almost immediately as he was forcefully ejected. Manny had been doing his own upgrades, but instead of giving up, he let his subconscious plug away at the task while he responded. “You said something similar last time we talked, but you might want to go in a rift if you are this busy.”

Manny’s jaw worked but no words came out for long enough that Allie got impatient and waggled a finger in a circle. “You two can gossip about kids later. Cool Aunt is a very easy position to fulfill and I'm well prepared with snacks and sharp objects. I’m more interested in why we got the Imperial recall treatment.”

In a bad impression of Manny’s voice, she repeated, “Drop everything and see me immediately?” In her own voice she finished, “Isn’t that a teeny bit dramatic?”

Contrary to the tone of her words, Allie was nearly bouncing out of her seat in excitement.

Manny’s inhale and exhale were slow and deliberate as he calculated and measured his response. His eyes didn’t flash golden but both of them knew him well enough to see the gears turning.

Finally Manny dropped his head into his hands as he grumbled into them. “Is there anything I can say to stop either of you from investigating this? I can… do something you wanted, I’m sure. It would just be a lot easier if you two let this sleeping dog lie. I have plans in place to handle this before I ascend. Neither of you need to get involved with this.”

Allie was already shaking her head as he got halfway though. “We aren't even sure what we stumbled into yet, so no, probably not. Not unless whatever this is is super dull and boring. But if it's cool, I want in. I can’t even fight in the upcoming war! What else am I supposed to do in the meantime? I’m bored. Give me something to sink my teeth into. Come on, this seems perfect for me and I don’t even know what it is yet!”

To punctuate her words, the teleporter shrugged at the end, trying to remind their Tier 50 of exactly what happened when Ascenders got restless and bored.

The look Manny shot her wasn’t quite withering, but it was just as clear he wasn’t happy with her not so subtle threat. Normally, Matt would have sided with him, but in this case Allie was right. Not about her being bored, she could entertain herself just fine, he agreed with the heart of the matter.

While she may have framed it in a personal way, she wasn’t wrong that they needed to know what they’d stumbled into before they decided to let it continue. It wasn’t in Matt to walk away from someone trying to infiltrate the Empire, no matter there were plans to take care of them later.

Allie’s exact reasons might have differed, but he knew she’d be just as tenacious as him. Maybe if the thread had fizzled out as they pulled upon it they could have let it go, but now that they’d pulled it to this point, there was no way either of them were backing down.

Manny’s eyes flicked between them while the silence stretched with each passing moment.

It finally got to the point that Matt felt the need to speak up and he broke the silence. “If you say it's not important, I’ll believe you and I’ll walk away. But umm, what is it?”

Manny sagged before reaching into his desk and pulling out a slip of paper.

Using a finger, Manny quickly sketched out what looked like a formation but Matt recognized it as a formation key, spiking his interest further.

“Some things can’t be easily shared and when they are, they can’t be taken back. Go see Ciceron. I know you already wanted to see him about Aurelius and his sword, so you might as well bother him for both of those instead of me. I’m not leaving my office to help you obliterate perfectly good plans.”

Taking the slip of paper, Matt stood as Allie bounced out of her seat and next to the door.

As they were about to walk out of the room, Manny called out, “Oh, two things before you go. First, Matt, Tur'stal wanted to have a conversation, so find and then carve out some time to speak to her in the coming weeks after she returns. Second, if the two of you pull this thread, I’ll let you, but know that every action has its consequences, just as every debt has its debtor. If you start this, I’ll expect you to see it through.”

The ominous warning caused the two of them to look at each other. That once glance was all they needed to know; neither were willing to change course. At least not at this point.

When they stepped into the hall, Matt asked, “Are you sure you want to come with? I can deal with things going forward if you want to return to the club.”

Allie snorted and rolled her eyes, even as a hand reached out and started tweaking the pictures and other decorations they passed. Her words were steady and without any humor present in her expression. “I can stab you if you aren’t sure about this. I can give you a wound and an excuse to leave all in one. Besides, you heard the Boss. Or at least we both heard what he didn’t say.”

Matt didn’t respond immediately, letting her comment linger between them. She wasn’t wrong. Manny had known exactly what they’d gotten themselves into and wasn't at all surprised. His only reaction was to try and deviate them from their current course of action, but even then he hadn’t tried that hard. As rare as it was, he could have told them no. If he’d been stern enough there was even a chance that they’d have listened.

While the reasons behind such a course of action were theoretically endless, he felt they boiled down to two general reasons. Either Manny wanted them to continue and had only put up a token resistance to encourage them, or he knew that no matter what he said they were going to continue.

Both options only increased his interest rather than diminishing it.

Thankfully, finding Ciceron wasn’t exactly hard. The minute they entered the library, he appeared from around a corner. The oddity was that he was carrying a broom and grinning as he saw Allie.

“Any chance you are here to fire me again? If you are, I think I can increase the archaeology budget by another fifteen percent. I’ve got better alternative offers lined up as bargaining chips now, so my position is that much better than the scramble you left me in last time.”

Matt bit the inside of a cheek as he tried not to smirk but Allie was too busy pouting to see it and get mad. “No. And don’t tempt me! I got yelled at really badly for that. Most of your new stupid budget is coming from my budget. And that's not fair!”

Matt was unable to hold himself back at that point and offered a distraction by holding up the slip of paper. “Manny sent us to talk about something he didn’t want to bother with. Any idea what it might be?”

Ciceron only needed to glance at the slip before he sighed and pulled his broom to his chest, where he cradled it like a protective lover. “Are you sure you want to delve into this? I don’t think either of you want the consequences of this, no matter how much you think you do.” Before either of them could respond, the newly reinstated head librarian continued, but it was clear he was speaking more to himself than them, “Well, maybe you might enjoy this, Allie, but it's firmly outside your wheelhouse, Matt. Though… hmmm. There will be a lot of bodies to churn through, so maybe. Hmmm.”

Allie stepped forward and flicked the broom handle, bringing Ciceron’s attention back from wherever it had gone. “You in there?”

Ciceron sighed again but started leading them deeper into the labyrinthine halls that were the imperial library and archives.

“If you are so impatient we can go but you need to wait until we are in the secure room before we can talk. What else can we talk about? Umm, the weather was nice last time I was outside. Or I think it was. I think it's been a few hundred years at this point? Oh, I know! How was the weather?”

Instead of getting dragged into a side conversation at random when Ciceron eventually landed on something interesting, he decided to steer the conversation to his other oddity.

Aurelius’ sword.

Manny hadn’t seemed surprised in the slightest but the man did view the future on a regular basis, so it wasn’t crazy he’d been expecting and known about the attack on Matt.

As a high Tier, it only took Ciceron a moment to go through all of the information Matt had sent over. It was only publicly available data that he’d been able to gather on his trip but Ciceron’s reply was just as swift.

“Huh, I wouldn’t have expected him to be wielding this particular blade. That swirl of color as the wielder dies isn’t exactly common. So yes, Matthew, this isn’t the first time we’ve seen this particular blade. Or so long as it's actually the same blade as the one I think it is. Given the lightshow and talk of trophies, I’d be surprised if it wasn’t, but it's always possible it's a new but similar weapon to the one I’m thinking of. It's in a larger category of bound weapons, though it's one of the more exceptional ones that has been recorded popping up every once in a while.”

Matt snorted but Ciceron didn’t give him the chance to speak, his eyes flicking back and forth as he went through the information. “I wouldn’t necessarily take that fight as a proper showcase of what the blade can do. At least, not if it's the one I think it is, which I admit could be wrong. If you are interested in seeing its upper limits, watch this clip of Vac’kem Nightfist and his death at Tier 44. That’s the highest Tier incident involving the blade that I know of, and one of the most impressive.”

Matt and Allie accepted the accompanying data pack and watched it together. He could have simply thrown it into his Insight and instantly understood the information, but he tried not to do such things unless there was a time crunch.

Unlike high Tier perceptions, his [Actual Insight] would allow him to skate through life without actually experiencing it if he allowed it. It was a semi-common problem for those who integrated their AI and then overrelied on it. Those people made the AI piloted meat suits high Tiers could turn into look well adjusted and he had no desire to walk down that path.

The recording started from well outside the existing battlefield, but that didn’t stop the viewer from being affected by the fighting as waves of energy ripped out from the three fighters.

Something about the fighting seemed off to Matt, but it wasn’t until the three figures separated that he identified it. The recording was from well before the Shattering. While the armor was a bit nondescript, his Insight put the general time frame as early in the Everlasting Kingdom of Prosperity’s reign.

Vac’kem, despite being a full Tier lower than the two Tier 45’s he was fighting, silently laughed as the other two unsuccessfully tried to create distance.

Vac’kem’s hands were as his name implied, dark as night, but that only made the relatively short, heavy-bladed, pure white sword stand out more due to the contrast.

A part of Matt’s mind found the weapon choice strange, even as his subconscious identified the root cause. It was closer to something a foot soldier fighting in a formation would wield. Stranger was that he didn’t see the accompanying shield that would have normally been paired with such a short weapon.

