That didn’t mean what they were going to do was easy, but he didn’t need his Insight to know someone like that wasn’t a quickly resolved issue. When he and the others were able to kill a prepared Tier 46, they could solve the situation root and stem, but until then all they could do was start uprooting the previous dynasty's agents and assisting in the active counterespionage.

Unexpectedly, midway through them going over one of the cover organizations the dynasty was suspected to be working through, Allie turned to Matt with a pleading expression. “Let me take the lead on this. Please. Zack and I need something to do while you guys are fighting in the upcoming war and this is perfect. All we have planned to do during the war is putz around in deep chaotic space, and that's boring without Aster. We can get you guys for any big strikes but let me take the lead. Please please please. I promise I will stop making jokes about your weight if you agree. At least for a few weeks. Come on, please.”

Matt wanted to refuse on principle, but he already had too much on his plate between the upcoming war, the Cabal, and Titan’s Torch. He didn’t want to make room for uprooting the previous dynasty, despite the pressing need to. He’d started this by investigating Vanessa, it was his responsibility to see it through.

He’d been thinking about the future a lot in previous years. The idea of these people trying to destroy the Empire from the inside, to revert it to its previous much darker incarnation, wasn’t something he could tolerate.

If he couldn’t find the time, he’d make it.

However, if he wanted to do it properly, he needed to get his sword Tiered up. Part of this trip to the Capital was to visit Vincenzo and replace his growth sword’s base material with the ingot of neutronium, along with the plethora of other metals he’d prepared. His scheduled spot had been delayed several times now, but with this new information he’d decided to lock in that timeline and sent the man a message to that effect.

He wouldn’t be tolerating any more delays.

“I’ll let you take the lead until the war is over, then we’ll split it properly. This is way too big to be tackled overnight. W—”

Allie had heard all she needed to and interrupted him without bringing her gaze away from the pad she was scrolling through. “Okay, good. I need four AIs dedicated to me to track down this Princess. Chances are, I’ll need more, but let's start there. The processing power I’m going to need to find deliberately hidden discrepancies across the Great Powers is going to be insane. You are pretty much the only person who can manage it, and I won’t have access to you or your processing power when the war starts, so no excuses.”

Her attempt to butter him up did mollify him slightly. Despite the work this would entail, he’d at least be kept in the loop via doing the work. A part of him still wanted to groan at the additional work load but he didn’t.

Instead, he agreed without further comment. One, it was Allie asking and she was one of his closest friends. Second, he’d bummed enough teleports from her that he owed her regardless of how she called it in. Third, and the most important metric for him, was that if any of his friends realized that when they asked him to process large amounts of information, he, at least a small portion of his subconscious mind, needed to do all the work himself, they’d stop asking.

Integrating [Actual Insight] into his subconscious had its downsides and he knew if the others learned of that, they wouldn’t be willing to take advantage of him. Which he wanted them to continue to do. Not only did he enjoy helping those close to him, even if it was for silly things like cataloging the amount of times a particular actor made a signature move off-camera, or the more serious ones like helping Aster simulate mana structures for her ever elusive space ice or host her Spirit Space forum.

It was a labor of love he wouldn’t trade for the world.

And he was interested which made the work less of a chore.

The previous dynasty was insidious. Or maybe well funded was a better descriptor. They always seemed to have the funds to prop up a failing business in one duchy while helping erode the foundation of another. They seemed to have a knack for being able to scoop up the last remaining individual from whatever organization had lost some squabble and then help them achieve their goals of revenge.

Most of it was small scale and at the edges of society where it was hard to monitor until after the fact.

Matt now understood where the time reversal artifact Melinda had used was normally deployed. Tracking the leads to scrub any hidden deposits of the Princess name scattered by the agents would be more than a full time job considering the sheer scale and scope of the Empire.

There had to be entire divisions of counter espionage personnel dedicated to the task. He admitted to himself they were damn good at their jobs. He’d never thought twice about the conspicuously absent information. It had been erased so thoroughly it wasn’t even an after thought. The only mollifying thought to that potential nightmare was that the sheer effort needed to manage such an erasure in a realm of immortals made it impractical on a large scale.

And eventually the Empire would be able to cease its efforts. The Princess' Talent did her no good if she was dead.

Still, the more he read, the more he felt history would have taken a very different course if Agatha had faced the daughter rather than the son. And a lot of records of the time he now had access to tended to agree. The one true skill the son apparently had was the ability to suck up to their father and that hadn’t taken him very far.

Ciceron stuck around for another half an hour to answer any questions they had before his duties pulled him out of the private room, leaving the two of them to work.

Matt stayed there for a week getting familiar with the information with Allie before it was time for his meeting with Vincenzo. He’d expected Allie to follow, knowing how interested she’d been for the swap, but she was having too much fun searching through the aggregated data on the previous dynasty leaving him to go alone.

Damn. Now he needed to do it alone.
