“I don’t know,” Vivian answered truthfully. It was not unheard of for the crooked captain of the Town Watch to put out hits on people he didn’t like, but this time it was directed at her and her fledgling guild. Already she had lost several members and it seemed hardly a stretch to imagine Mori might be the one behind it all. On one hand, it would be so nice to have Mori take care of her dungeon problem without any personal involvement on her part, but…

“I’m with you, whatever you decide,” Mieriel said. “But politically, I think it would be a disaster to let him kill your highest-level adventurers.”

“For sure,” Vivian admitted. Mieriel’s insights had steered her past so many traps and pitfalls that she simply didn’t question the truth of it anymore. Aliandra and her group were now clearly the most advanced and successful members she had in this fledgling guild. If she were honest with herself, they had admirably stepped up to fill the role she had envisioned when she had first founded it. They were growing fast and becoming powerful members of the town. The fact that they had already performed valuable services defending the townsfolk against the Goblin siege and eliminating a dangerous dungeon underground was precisely the kind of vision she wanted for her guild.

If only she wasn’t a dungeon herself. My head hurts. What a mess!

Mieriel was right, though. Allowing Kieran Mori to pick off her adventurers would hamstring the guild’s autonomy and power forever, permanently hobbling it and snuffing out her vision for what she wanted to build.

I must support her. The conclusion twisted her gut once again, but it was inescapable. She found herself forced to protect a dungeon. It was either that or give up her vision for the guild and admit failure before she had even started.

“I will protect her. I can’t let Kieran Mori take control.” Vivian finally spoke the words out loud, feeling a disturbing sense of fate settling on her shoulders as her resolution became crisper, more real somehow. But she knew deep in her heart that Mori was just an excuse. She couldn’t kill Aliandra without also killing the person she had fought so hard to become.

“Then you will need to decide when to tell her,” Mieriel said.

“What do you mean?”

“The next time she levels up, I will not be able to keep my secret.”

“This soon? How is that possible?” It had always been part of the plan they had made together, but it was an aspect Vivian had been certain would take much longer. At some point, the adventurers would level beyond Mieriel’s skill level and her class and affinity would become known, but Mieriel’s subtle magic usually worked against people substantially higher level than she was. She had hoped to be much more connected with the guild members before that happened so she could manage the shock appropriately.

“I scanned her with the panel’s advanced Identify again. She’s level thirty-seven, but she has more than four thousand mana. That is not possible for a normal class, she would need more than four hundred wisdom to support that amount of mana. The scanner thinks she has less than one hundred and fifty. She must have some aptitude or skill that boosts the effectiveness of her wisdom, which increases her willpower and resistance against my mind magic. Combined with the impressive work of Lydia Avery that she’s wearing most of the time, she was very nearly able to resist me when they came in today. Also, I think she’s beginning to recall our interrogation – based on the emotions I was reading when she fought me.”

“That’s a problem.” Vivian was not certain exactly how Aliandra would react to the news, but she knew she would be pissed if it happened to her. She raised her fingers to massage her temples. How did it come to this?

“I’ll trust your judgment,” Mieriel said, deferring the decision. “But if you want a chance to salvage the relationship, I recommend coming clean before she figures it out on her own.”

“I wish I had more time…”

“Is it so hard to accept her?”

“You remember what happened.”

“I do. But that wasn’t her. She is one of your top adventurers. Not to mention that Aiden and Havok, and the entire group of new members are the result of her and her class shrine.”

Mieriel was right. If she could just ignore the inconvenient fact of her being a dungeon, in all other ways Aliandra was a gift from the gods to an aspiring Guildmaster. She could mint new adventurers with incredible classes, she was a summoner who could learn new minions whenever she encountered them, and she was already well-established on a team with a track record of extraordinary successes against raid-level threats.

And yet she simply couldn’t shake it.

She sighed, turning her mind to other, more urgent, issues. Priorities. She would have to come back to the thorny problem of Aliandra – after she’d dealt with the terrifying appearance of the Blind Lich. She pulled out a piece of paper and a pen and began composing a letter.

“Can you drop this off at the Novaspark Academy of Magic?” Vivian asked, pushing her note across the table to Mieriel. “Send it to Archmage Nathaniel Sunstrider directly. Please pay for a telepath or teleportation courier service.” It would be expensive, but the guild could now afford the cost, thanks to the small percentage they took from the store transactions and the guild fees for the increasingly popular quest board.

“The Pathfinder Guild?” Mieriel asked, storing the note.

“He’s also a prominent member of the Elven Council. He will ensure they’re informed about the presence of Nevyn Eld in Myrin’s Keep.”

“Ok. I’ll take care of it immediately.” One of the things Vivian loved about Mieriel was how she always grasped the importance of things intuitively. It came with her class, but it always made Vivian feel instantly understood.

“One more thing. Can you let Calen know I’d like him to do a strategy lecture for the guild this week? If he’s up for it.”

Mieriel raised an eyebrow. “Isn’t he a bit shy?”

“He has a keen mind for tactics and strategy, and they have two raid fights under their belts. I want him to share his insights with the guild. It’s time to begin growing the whole team. The earlier we cultivate the mindset of sharing valuable experience across groups, the faster the newbies will grow. I have a feeling it will be good for him too.” Calen would probably need a bit of a push, but this was a great opportunity to get him to come out of his shell a little.

At least when it came to Calen, Malika, and Mato, Vivian had absolutely no doubt they were on track to becoming the backbone of an effective guild – the kind of guild she had dreamed of building all along. All they would need was a little guidance and encouragement, and she was at least confident in her abilities to mentor effectively.

If I haven’t screwed it up with Aliandra already…
