That was... perfect.“Luna? Want to become the Hot Spring Keeper and own the place?” she asked casually.“What are the hours like?” came a cheeky reply.“Neverending, I would assume, but the breaks are great,” Delta promised cheerfully. Luna nodded and Delta got the upgrade.Luna’s change from simply dressed frog girl to what appeared made Delta’s jaw dropped.The simple cloth wraps gone and in their place, a lavish purple robe, almost like a kimono hugged Luna’s frame, the fabric decorated with symbols of stars and half moons. Luna still lacked hair as a frog but her eyes and face looked more... feminine.“Luna... you look... great!” Delta beamed.“Did you know that there 56 ways to kill a man in a hot spring. 82 if I use both hands,” Luna greeted cheerfully. Delta’ smile twitched but she held on strong.“Great! How do you feel as a keeper?” she inquired excitedly. Luna gave the robe a long look and then lifted it up slightly to show off very black boots with what Delta guessed was actual stilettos for heels.“I like it. I feel... elegant. Yeah, that’s the word. Elegant,” she smirked as her black shoes were once again hidden under the robe of grace and delicacy.Delta supposed it could be worse. Usually, when things like this happened, she ended up screaming or crying or both.Luna clicked her fingers and the key slowly rose to the surface of the water when she neatly pocketed it. Delta noticed the stone key looked smaller and had a purple string looped through it now.Delta was about to comment on how cute it was when something floated past her face.It was a bee.But this wasn’t like the other bees Delta had in her jungle. No, the Queen had apparently gotten lucky in her first new batch of children.This Bee was...a monster.Luna whistled.“I’d be scared but it's awesome,” she said and Delta slowly backed away from the Supermajor Bee that was the size of her head. The oversized head it possessed looked at her, mandibles slowly closing. The wings beat fast, almost a blur. The body curved down like a dagger until it came to the stinger which was the size of her pinkie.Delta knew that thing wasn’t falling off after one use.It moved closer to her, its hulking form slower if not more threatening.“You alright? Mum? You’re kinda white and since you’re orange, that’s saying a lot,” Luna’s voice was so distant. So far away.The bee opened its wings and legs to their full width as if showing off.There was... a gap in Delta’s memory after that but Nu found her gibbering in the Pygmy hole.She gestured wildly at him and he merely looked pleased.

Nu advised.Now Delta had an image of a sad giant monster bee from hell and she became torn in her heart.So, peeking out, she watched one of the big devils try to get nectar and the flower simply folded under it. It sat there for a long time, twitching as it tried to figure out what it had done wrong. The sight tugged hard at Delta’s sobbing heart.No matter how devilish they looked... a sad bee was not acceptable!Delta got to work.
