Many things humans used as flooring didn’t qualify. A floor made of granite slabs was definitely ground. A floor made of concrete was, too, but it was less ground than the granite…and if it was several stories above the earth it might be classified as an object. Wood flooring often wasn’t ground, but a big pile of wood mulch almost always was.

Literally any pot full of soil with a live plant in it was ground. Even if it was on an airplane.

“I want it,” Alden said.

City streets were usually considered ground.

“Seriously?” Boe sounded exasperated. “I get that it’s the coolest looking of the options. But you’re going to be running away from a supervillain one day, and you’re going to try to escape from them using an overpass or something and it will suddenly be not fucking “ground” anymore because it’s over-crafted or the altitude is six inches too high. Take the composure enhancement.”

“Not that one,” Jeremy argued. “You can just learn to be more chill. Attention to detail is better. Sounds like a Sherlock Holmes power.”

“‘Learning to be chill’ in an emergency is not easy.”

“I see the benefits of both of those,” Alden said. “But it’s no good to notice details if I don’t have the power to do anything about them. And I think if I have serious composure problems under pressure I should probably look for a different career instead of trying to magically impose calm on myself. Can you imagine the whiplash if I dropped my item in a fight and went from zen to panic attack instantaneously?”

Boe squinted at him. “It’s your choice. I guess you can audit a Shaper class and study ground. It just sounds like an additional mental strain in a crisis to have to figure out what everything under your feet is made of.”

“It’s something I can practice, though,” Alden said, selecting the option.

After that, he went into spell selection. B-ranks Rabbits did not get to choose B-rank spells. He could have one F-rank spell of any type or one high complexity D-rank.

As opposed to skills, all spells required the user to perform a deliberate set of casting actions. The simplest ones were just a magic word or two. More complicated ones could require finger gestures, chants…even wands.

“These are all garbage,” Alden muttered after staring at the options for twenty minutes.

“Of course they’re garbage. You’re not an Adjuster. You’re lucky you get to play with spells at all.”

Since the spell would be given to him as an impression—directly transferred into his brain—he didn’t have to worry about mispronouncing a paragraph-long chunk of Artonan words or mastering peculiar finger motions. But those still weren’t things you wanted to be doing when time was of the essence.

And a lot of these spells did stuff that technology could do better. How often would Alden need a complicated image capture spell, really, when he had a camera in his pocket that would work in a tenth the time?

He dithered between a signal flare spell and one that would create a loud bang a set distance and direction from his position. He loved what the noisemaker spell did, but it was also an extremely common choice among heroes. Instead of being distracted, lots of people would hear it and know exactly where you were.

His eyes landed on a complex D he had initially dismissed because it required an actual magical ingredient. I don’t have to avoid them. I’m rich now.

“Boe, can you look up something called a Temper Sphere?”

“It’s a magic thing?”

“I guess. It’s a spell ingredient.”

After several minutes of searching, Boe said. “Yeah. It looks like a glass ball full of glitter dirt.”

“How big is it?”

“It’s about half the size of an egg, judging by this picture some guy has posted of one beside an egg. But the more important question is, ‘What does it cost?’”

“What does it cost?”

Bored with Alden’s long silence, Jeremy had gone to stand over Boe’s shoulder and stare at the computer ages ago. “It’s two hundred Argold,” he reported. “For one.”

Alden winced. So practicing with the thing would be expensive. But once he mastered it, it wasn’t like he’d need it often.

“You can just buy them on Anesidora, right?” Alden asked. “I don’t have to wait for some Artonan to give them to me as a tip or something?”

“Yeah, they sell them in Wright shops. What’s it do?”

“If you use the right spell on it, it turns invisible and screams. It’s only good for one or two uses though.”

“Cool!” said Jeremy.

Boe crossed his arms over his chest and stared off into space. “Yeah, that is cool,” he said finally.

“Great.”

Alden selected the Haunting Sphere spell.

Finally, he chose his signing bonus and divided the three precious stat points evenly between Agility and Speed. He would have liked to put a little into general mental processing. But when he tried to add another half point, the System informed him that based on his other buffs, he’d have to wait while the additional processing was gradually affixed over the course of around six months.

Agility and Speed would be giving him more anyway, and on top of the visual processing buff, Alden’s brain just wouldn’t take any more instantaneous enhancement. So he dropped the idea for now.

Maybe in six months he’d have gotten more points anyway.

“Stop pouting,” said Boe. “We can’t all be me.”

“I don’t think it would let you have much more either, genius. It just doesn’t like doing fast intelligence enhancements on teenagers.”

Actually, it didn’t like doing them on most people. The System was disinclined to build artificial super-geniuses. It gave almost everyone some kind of hard limit on sheer organic thinking power and started supplementing with various magical effects to satisfy the needs of Avowed at the highest levels.

When it was all done, he looked it over about a dozen times.

Nothing else but to do it, he thought.

“Finalize affixation,” he said.

A moment later, he felt a strange rush of something.

Everything went black.
