The Fragile Atmosphere was offered as a signing bonus to almost every class. It was a single-use life support device that would give you around six minutes of Earth air, gravity, and atmospheric pressure. It was a great “oh shit” button in all kinds of situations, but single-use was hard to swallow.

Wardrobe Change was slightly better than it sounded. It was a short spell that would let you quickly swap between various pieces of gear you had purchased from the Wardrobe all Rabbits had access to. But the stat bonuses on Rabbit gear were so small they were almost decorative.

“The foundation stat bonuses will be the best,” Alden said.

“Don’t just assume that. You haven’t even read the detailed description for your skill yet.”

“I know, Boe. I’m doing it.”

Moment of truth. Alden selected SKILLS, bit his lower lip, and scrolled through the seemingly endless options toward the L’s.

There was a chance—a very slim one—that Let Me Take Your Luggage wouldn’t be there. The System made adjustments all the time. And it sometimes limited the number of people who had certain skills or spells by deleting them from the list of available options when it had met its quota.

But it was there. Right between two equally mysterious options.

[Let Me Make You Toast — Rank: F]

The Rabbit makes near-perfect toast every time.

[Let Me Take Your Luggage — Rank: B]

The Rabbit carries an item that has been entrusted to them.

[Letter Writing — Rank: D]

The Rabbit has near-perfect penmanship.

“Well, don’t accidentally click the wrong one.” Boe raised an eyebrow when Alden read the other two aloud.

“Yeah. Those suck,” Jeremy said. “Who wants perfect penmanship? Just type that shit.”

The instructions at the top of the skill list said Alden could have one B skill or a D and an F. Not two Fs or one C or any other logical-seeming combination. The unavailable skills weren’t even listed.

“Why do you think they don’t really explain what some of the skills do until we select them?” Alden asked, staring at the interface. “It seems spiteful now that I’m actually in this position.”

“It’s because the Artonans are dicks,” Boe said.

“My parents think it’s one of the ways they slow the pace of human knowledge acquisition without violating the terms of the 1963 Agreement. Their deal with Earth requires them to give us access to a certain amount of magic and tech and stuff. It doesn’t require them to tell us what it does or how to use it.”

Boe and Alden both looked at him.

“They’re lawyers. They had to do entire classes on Artona/Earth contracts in law school.”

Alden considered it. “So…it’s because they’re dicks. Here we go then. Let’s hope Gorgon knows what he’s doing.”

He took a deep breath and selected the skill.

[Let Me Take Your Luggage is a B-rank skill. You will not be able to choose another skill at this time. Attempting to de-affix this skill through magical means is forbidden and will cause severe harm to your person. Are you certain of your choice?]

“Yes.” He wished he was a little more certain, but everyone probably felt that way no matter what they were choosing.

There was a brief pause, then the skill description expanded.

Alden felt a rush of excitement. “Ladies and gentlemen, we have details! Oh, wow. This is real!”

“Which of us is the lady?” Jeremy stage whispered to Boe.

Alden didn’t hear Boe’s reply. He was too busy reading about his new magic skill that did something magical.

His heart was racing as he scanned the description.

Please be awesome. Please be awesome.

*While you are carrying a tangible item that has been entrusted to you by your target, the item will be preserved.*

Cessation of carriage will end preservation.

Loss of contact will end entrustment.

Retargeting will end entrustment.

Summoners will be autotargeted for heightened efficiency.

Foundational Supplementation:

Proprioception +1.5 Agility +1 Visual Processing +1

Alden read the description several times. “Huh,” he said finally.

“That bad?” Jeremy asked.

“You’re not really going to grow extra arms are you?” said Boe.

Alden grinned. “No. It’s good. I think? It’s just not any of the things I guessed it might be. There are a lot of unknowns even with the extended description.”

He read it aloud slowly.

Jeremy looked confused, Boe surprised.

“It’s for preserving a carried object? I really didn’t expect that either. I thought…”

He trailed off, and Jeremy jumped in. “Did you think it was going to make him hella strong? Because I did. I thought he’d be able to carry cars around as long as some he-man passed them to him first.”

“Yeah I considered that. But actually my favorite theory was heading in a more metaphorical direction. I thought maybe he could temporarily take away peoples’ pain or stress or something. Like a fast-acting, mini Healer of Mind. It would work for support.”

“I was hoping for my own portable pocket dimension,” Alden confessed. “A bit.”

“Oh my god. Really? As a B-rank?”

“I thought maybe a little one…”

“Those stat supplements are small, by the way,” Jeremy said, frowning. “Isn’t he supposed to get closer to ten altogether?”

Boe nodded. “Yeah, three and a half is puny for a class that only gets one rank-appropriate skill. Theoretically that means the System thinks the skill is near maximum value for B. But…”

“I’m going to be so squishy,” Alden agreed, trying not to feel disappointed. “Regular human squishy.”

“You’ll have your armor when you drop some Argold in Wardrobe, Mr. Millionaire,” Boe said. “But yeah. You’re starting wayyy behind the curve physically if you want to hang around actual superhero fights. I noticed your skill description doesn’t say you’ll be preserved. Only whatever you’re carrying.”

“Yep. And it’s doing whole point increases of proprioception and visual processing. That’s niche. Wouldn’t it usually just throw it all into Agility? Or even head down a level from that and directly boost Balance?”

“Read it all to me again?” Boe had pulled out the laptop.

Alden did. When he got to the stats, he tried to consider what the System was thinking he’d need them for. It was an additional clue, since presumably it had chosen the ones that would make him best able to use the skill effectively when he was summoned.

“It doesn’t want me to fall down?” he guessed.

“That’s what I think, too,” Boe said,. “And it doesn’t seem to expect you to be knocked over a lot in the course of your Rabbit chores. The percentage strength boost that will naturally come with the Agility buff is too small. It might just be enough so that you can make use of the increase in proprioception. Along with the visual acuity…I think it’s just worried about you tripping over stuff or navigating crowds?”

“So the skill is more often used for carrying delicate things than heavy things?” Alden suggested. “That’s what it sounds like.”

“Right. Human strength and stamina must be sufficient for most summoners’ purposes. But the preservation effect ends if you fall or drop the ‘item.’ So, the System wants you to not do that.”

Jeremy cleared his throat. “What you’re saying is…it’s a skill designed for transporting expensive vases?”

Alden tried not to feel offended. “That doesn’t make sense,” he said. “Nobody needs to preserve a vase.”

Actually what I really need to understand is what the System means by preservation in the first place. Am I supposed to be like a walking mini-fridge for perishables?

Boe seemed to be thinking along the exact same lines. “I think he’d be better at carrying something like an ice sculpture than a vase,” he said. “The preservation has to be the important part. The natural thing to assume is that it stops the item you’re given from being damaged by outside effects, right? Like heat and cold and impacts.”

“So it’ll be a shield for whatever he’s got in his hands?” Jeremy said, perking up. “That’s cooler.”

“Maybe. It doesn’t say he has to use his hands, though. Or that there’s definitely a shield involved. We’re just guessing on those things until he actually finalizes it.”

Alden grinned. “Oh, I hope it’s a shield effect! Do you know how perfect that would be? I could have someone hand me a trash can lid, and as long as I was carrying it, everything would bounce off the shield around it, right?”

He paused, realizing something. “‘Cessation of carriage’ is separate from ‘loss of contact.’ That means it doesn’t consider holding and carrying to be the same thing. So…I’ll have to be moving for the skill to be active.”

Boe’s eyes widened. “Right! Not just moving though. Carrying. We don’t know how it defines that exactly. Can you hold something in your lap while you ride around in a car? Or do you have to be moving under your own power?”

The first would be so much better.

Alden’s imagination was running wild with possibilities. If the shield thing was right, and he could use a car… No. Stop. I’m getting ahead of myself.

He couldn’t choose his trait and signing bonus based on what he hoped the skill did. He had to be realistic.

“I bet I have to move the object on my own. Or we should assume that. To be safe, we should probably assume that I have to physically bear the entire weight of whatever the thing is, too. The System wouldn’t be giving me specific anti-tripping stats if I could easily avoid dropping my object by keeping one hand on it while I rode around in a vehicle. I need to think this through.”

Boe and Jeremy went quiet, and Alden spent the next few minutes with his eyes closed, trying to imagine different scenarios in which he might use the skill.

As far as what he would be doing with it when and if he was summoned, he had a feeling Boe wasn’t too far off the mark with the “carrying ice sculptures” thing. Only instead of ice sculptures it would be something much more finicky and valuable to the Artonans…maybe delicate magical devices or crumbling historical documents that needed to be moved carefully.

Maybe he’d be doing mostly specialized courier work.

But that was on Artona. Presumably the skill alone was sufficient to make him worthwhile as a summons from the aliens’ perspective.

The question was, how did Alden turn it into something he could use here on Earth, where he’d be spending most of his time and eventually trying to get a job as a battlefield support.

Even if he could use the item he was carrying as a magic shield…it would have to be a certain size to be useful. If he could make shrapnel bounce off something like a tablecloth that would be fantastic. But what if it didn’t work that way?

And if it did, how would he get himself and his super tablecloth where they needed to be on a battlefield or for a rescue operation?

After a long while, he said, “I think trying for higher mobility and reaction time is the right choice?”

Jeremy leaned back in the chair, “You mean taking the stat bonus as your signing gift and dropping it all in Agility and Speed?”

“Pretty much. I’m hoping I can shield myself with the carried item. But whether I can or not, it’ll be more valuable for me to be quick. Maybe I’ll be carrying…things?…for heroes, or just trying to get out of the way in a pinch. A Rabbit’s not going to be able to go toe-to-toe physically with many villains anyway.” He paused. “I could dig down a little and drop a partial point in Reflexes? Or even instinct?”

“Don’t screw with instinct,” Boe said, drumming his fingers on the table. “That one makes people real paranoid if they overdo it. But everything else you just said makes sense. You need to dodge hits, not take them in the face. And if the System’s leaning toward boosting your balance and situational awareness anyway, it’s probably good to go along with the program. Did it give you any trait selections that will work?”

Alden went back to the class information page. There were now several traits available. For some reason, the System used colors for the names. Alden didn't know if it was trying to make the traits seem fun and friendly or if it had some basis in Artonan culture.

Please choose a trait to help you perform your duties.

“Is it just me,” Jeremy said after Alden read them aloud. “Or are those all surprisingly good for combat?”

“They definitely are! Well, not Green unless I plan to be summoned on a daily basis. And Citrine’s more case specific, but it’s also got being a permanent effect in its favor.”

Alden was actually thrilled. He’d skimmed over the known Rabbit traits with Boe last night, and many of them were only useful after you’d been summoned or in particular environments.

He wanted three of these. But he could only pick one.

“I’m mildly concerned about the Citrine trait,” Boe said, typing away. “It looks like not a lot of people have the chance to choose it. You don’t really think of Rabbits being unprotected around environmental contaminants often enough to justify speccing for it do you?”

Alden shrugged. “It’s probably got some specific case use in combination with the skill. Tell me again about Azure. I know we talked about it last night, but it’s personal gravity reduction, right?”

“Sort of. Based on user reports, it seems like it’s a coat of magic that transforms a percentage of gravity’s effect on you into force as you kick off the ground. It’s amazing if you want to go for mobility, but you have to remember that the Artonans are weird about what counts as ground.”

Ground was one of the Artonan elements Shapers could use.

Artonans thought their personal concept of “ground” was obvious. But it really wasn’t.

