I need to stop checking this phone. That’s my biggest problem. It’s been an hour since I last checked and saw Yuzhen and Rang Min, then yesterday with Song, Mila, Yan, Luo-Luo, and Lin-Lin. Was it yesterday? Or was it longer? I can’t even tell anymore, because eternity passes in the blink of an eye, but I can get a general sense of time from the many messages on my phone. Mom’s sent the most, having been by my side almost every waking hour of her day, except for those rare occasions when she has other, more pressing matters to deal with. She feels like she’s in over her head and has nothing to contribute, but that’s not true at all. Luo-Luo was just telling me about how Mom is her rock in these uncertain times, more so even than Akanai who pledged to stand with her. I should say something, let them know everything will be alright, but I shouldn’t. I’ll never rid myself of the Three Desires if I keep interacting with the outside world, whether it be real or imagined. My severed Natal Souls can handle it, and I’m sure my love will reach her, because I’ve had no choice but to sever so very much of it.

Love is good for the soul, but I don’t want my soul to be good. I want it empty and unfeeling, because that is the only way I will ever be free of life’s miseries.

Despite my intent to leave off, I scroll through all the messages I’ve received just to feel something again, because as much as I want to feel nothing, I also miss feeling something, anything. Such is the duality of man. Yan’s gnawing worry, Mila’s disgruntled impatience, Lin-Lin’s unwavering optimism, and Luo-Luo’s ego-boosting idolatry, the emotions they elicit fill me with all manner of conflicting emotions. Love and guilt mostly, but so much more, and it’s no different with Song’s concern tinged with genuine care, or Ping Ping’s heartbreaking unanswered hopes as she lays at my side each and every day. There’s too much to process and I quickly sever all that I can even as I indulge in the emotions, before turning to look for something less overwhelming. Mama Bun’s pictures pop up, each and every one in a similar pose, with her face pressed up close to the camera and her snoot in full view, but again, I can read the tone behind them. Her selfies are her way of asking why I’m still sleeping and if I could please wake, because somewhere along the way, sweet Mama Bun figured out I’m still here. No idea how it happened, because I am no longer omniscient, no matter how limited, and am restricted to knowing what the people around me know.

It’s fine. I gave up the limited omniscience because it was being provided by the Energy of the Heavens, and I can’t reach emptiness within if I don’t close off that connection. PC off, void isolated, except for this stupid cell phone I accidentally willed into existence.

The weird thing is, Mama Bun doesn’t know how she knows I’m here, she just does, which is remarkable. Even Ping Ping hasn’t figured it out, as she still thinks I’m going through the long sleep, which is what she calls hibernation. Not really, because she doesn’t have much of a concept regarding language aside from a few names and scattered concepts, but it’s more or less the same thing. Unfortunately, I’ve no choice but to deny Mama Bun’s request, because cute as her snoot selfies might be, this could still be an ingenious trick from Zhen Shi, trying to finagle his way into my Natal Palace and start the torture anew.

Okay, highly unlikely it’s Zhen Shi, but still... you can never be too safe.

Wrenching my focus away from the phone, I place it face down on the desk and plunge the call centre into darkness once more. Sever all desire, sever all emotion, sever all ties to the red dust of the mortal world. The Natal Souls will take care of everything, without my need to guide them. This is the Right View, the first step on the Eight-fold path, and I am working on the other seven steps here and now. Right Intention, Right Speech, Right Action, Right Livelihood, Right effort, Right Mindfulness, and Right Concentration. Progress is slow, but eventually, I will get through them all and divest myself of the Three Desires and reach oblivion. Emptiness within, matched by emptiness without.

This right here is why I’m stuck at the first step. I have yet to find the Right Intent, the right reason for doing what I’m doing, and I can’t abide to Right Speech because I keep lying to myself. I need to stop checking the phone, stop thinking about turning on the PC, stop wondering how things are going out in the real world. This is my life now. This is my path. No more caring. No more hope. No more suffering.

The darkness of the Void encompasses me, and I feel no more. For a time.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sarnai’s heart broke anew as she held Tate tight, and when he finally stopped fighting her, he sensed her pain and hugged her back even harder. He was a good child, and Tali too, who came over for her fair share of love. Lifting them both into her arms, she feigned weakness and said, “Oh my. You two are so heavy now. What are your parents feeding you?” Carrying them into the garden, she focused on her two darlings in order to make it through the path without getting distracted by Insight, while Alsantset fussed over Rain and refused to let anyone else carry him in. The girl seemed to think no one else capable of moving him without injury, and it took the better part of two weeks to send her back home to be with her own family. Once inside, Sarnai greeted Charok warmly and Taduk with pursed lips, because she could tell from his hangdog expression that he had yet to come up with a plan to treat Rain. Useless.

Don’t be too hard on him. He’s trying his best, but critical thinking was never his strongest suit. He likes to learn through trial and error, and he can’t stomach the thought of making a mistake here.

Putting her grandchildren down, Sarnai sighed and patted Taduk’s cheek with a sad smile. She knew it wasn’t so easy, but she expected miracles from the Medical Saint, miracles he lacked the means to provide, and she should not blame him for this. “The food smells delicious,” she said, smiling as her dutiful daughter-in-laws laid out blankets to picnic atop and pulling a small pack of Spiritual Plants from a pouch on Taduk’s belt. “Come, come, let us all get settled in so we can eat.” Doling out a handful to everyone who wanted to feed the animals, Sarnai focused on sweet Mama Bun herself, holding up a stalk of fragrant Spiritual Coriander, a test plant Taduk grew to feed Rain, but had since proven ineffective no matter how it was served. “Come sweet bunny,” she crooned, her chest tightening as she watched Mama Bun continue to ignore everything in favour of staring at Rain, even with Spiritual Plants brushing against her nose. “Are you not hungry?”

Nose twitching as she came to her senses, Mama Bun looked at Sarnai, looked at the Spiritual Coriander, then looked at Rain again, and one could almost see the wheels turning in her head. Snapping up the offering from Sarnai’s fingers, the bunny placed it over Rain’s mouth, then stamped her hind feet when it fell off. Picking the coriander back up, Mama Bun again placed it over Rain’s mouth again, only more carefully this time, and eventually ended up just holding it in place with her mouth, nose twitching and lips drooling all the while.

It was both adorably endearing and woefully distressing to see this rabbit behave so altruistically in hopes of waking her favourite person. Stroking the poor bunny’s ears, Sarnai lifted Mama Bun away and placed a fresh sprig over Rain’s mouth like a garnish in soup, and only after seeing it there did the sweet rabbit deign to munch away at her treat.

“Hmm.” Looming over her shoulder, Taduk studied Mama Bun and Rain both with his curious gaze. “Interesting. The rabbit believes Spiritual Plants can help waken him. How did she arrive at this conclusion? Does she understand what it is she eats, or is she merely hoping her favoured treats will lull him out of sleep?” Sighing as he shook his head, he plucked at his stained shirt and said, “A shame I’ve no talent for cooking, else I might uncover the mystery plaguing us all. How did those Imperial cooks turn soybeans into Heavenly Tofu Pudding?”

Biting back a scathing retort along the lines of ‘How should I know’, Sarnai was struck dumb by a flash of Insight. “Eating is not the only way one can make use of Spiritual Plants. Didn’t Rain make friends with a Healer who found success with medicinal baths?”

“Taiyi ZhuShen?” Scoffing with all the ingrained arrogance of his station, Taduk wrinkled his nose and said, “I would hardly call his work a success.” Slow on the uptake, he finally lit up in comprehension as he understood what Sarnai meant. “Oh. A medicinal bath for Rain? Hmm. Possible. I’ll get in touch with him. Shouldn’t be difficult, he requested a meeting last week... or maybe it was the week before. Something about something... it doesn’t matter. Lin-Lin! Where did I put all my mail again?”

Yet another hope to cling to, and though Sarnai feared this hope would turn out empty like the rest, she refused to give up, for so long as there is life, there is hope.

Chapter Meme
