To make matters worse, an ‘unknown’ scholar had begun hiring Heralds to narrate his sermons to the common masses, sermons whose diction and parlance were exceedingly similar to Xuande’s own. This mystery scholar waxed poetic about how commoners had more power than they believed, and all it would take to demonstrate said power was to halt all work for a single day. Cooks, servants, stablemen, tailors, and more, if everyone working within the service industry all refused to do their jobs until their demands were heard, then the nobility would have no choice but to listen. Commoners were not slaves, beholden to their masters for their living, but free and independent folk who deserved fair payment for their efforts. The ‘mysterious’ firebrand even went into great detail, speaking about a specific fashion magnate based in Yuanjing who paid women and children in coppers to embroider silk scarves, scarves she then sold at a ridiculous markup which netted her several silvers worth of profit for each product sold. The author likened this behaviour to a whore-house madam pimping the flesh of her daughters and keeping the lion’s share of the coin for herself, a scenario Sarnai imagined was not all that uncommon in the Empire, but still distasteful nonetheless.

It took all of two seconds for her to uncover the culprit responsible, and when confronted, Xuande didn’t even deny he was the author. “Until they learn to stand up for themselves, the people of the Empire will forever be trod upon by the nobility,” he’d said, sipping his tea to hide his inborn arrogance which showed itself when speaking to anyone who wasn’t an Imperial Noble, even the mother of the man he supposedly admired. “This one is merely helping the people come to terms with the truth.”

What he was doing was setting the stage for bloody revolution, and he knew it. For now, he was merely sowing the seeds of unrest, and expecting nothing to come of it, but there would come a time when this war against the Enemy would end, or at the very least, taper off. If Xuande had his way, then many a veteran Irregular would return home to tend to farm, forge, or what have you, veterans who would not so easily bend the knee after passing through the tempering flames of war. These disciplined soldiers would form the backbone of the coming revolution, and while Sarnai might once have laughed at the idea of a commoner rebellion finding success, seeing the Irregulars march in lockstep and present arms with near mechanical precision, she was no longer so confident in the Imperial Army’s chances.

Not with more than a million crossbows already in commoner hands, and a growing number of professional Irregulars training to use them.

One common argument that Sarnai herself might have made was how few ‘self-respecting’ Martial Warriors would lower themselves to lead commoners into battle, but the Mother Herself had provided the solution to these woes. Of the ten-thousand Irregulars who took part in the latest battle against the Enemy, almost a third had been lost in battle. Another third, however, over three-thousand souls in total, had been baptized by the miraculous Heavenly Storm and emerged as commoners no more, but rather true Martial Warriors of the Empire.

The vast majority of which signed on to serve under Akanai, who promised them all a place in Falling Rain’s personal guard.

Personally, Sarnai wasn’t entirely pleased by her Mother-in-Law’s actions, and not just because it was borderline deceitful to recruit for an honour guard when Rain already had the Death Corps. Her son already dealt with more than his fair share of discrimination from the noble elites, and having a retinue of former peasants would only further widen the divide, but she couldn’t argue that Rain himself wouldn’t have done the same. Falling Rain’s Stormguard, they called themselves, a fanciful allusion to the downpour which miraculously bestowed upon them this good fortune, and Sarnai rather liked the name. Though she had yet to see them train, she was confident they would not shame her son on the battlefield, not after Akanai was done training them. Being Rain’s supposed personal guards, they couldn’t well explain Rain’s absence without too many uncomfortable questions cropping up, so Akanai had taken the Stormguards east of the districts to train in relative isolation, putting them through a regimen Rain would wholeheartedly approve of. There were no mountains to ascend in the flat plains of Central, but one way or another, Akanai would make do and turn those Warriors into proper soldiers, ones worthy to bear the Sentinel name.

Closing the window with a suppressed sigh, Sarnai settled back into her seat and studied her sleeping son. Sleeping somehow sounded better than comatose, which she supposed was the technical term for Rain’s plight, but she couldn’t bring herself to use it because she kept expecting him to come awake every time the carriage jostled or the animals disturbed his rest. It pained her to see him like this, because even though he seemed fast asleep, she could sense the wrongness about him, a hollowness in his non-actions that made her fear for the worst. Her son never was a sound sleeper, often stirring or mumbling nonsensical syllables in the midst of slumber, and in all their years together, she never once saw his expression slacken to this extent. What was even more heartbreaking was how distraught his sweet pets were, especially Aurie, Mama Bun, and sweet Ping Ping. The latter two had yet to leave his side for longer than a few minutes, forcing Sarnai to start bundling Rain up in blankets and bringing him out into the courtyard just so Mama Bun and Ping Ping could be coaxed to exercise.

Even now, Ping Ping was inconsolable as she rested her chin on Rain’s foot, while Mama Bun stood in his lap and stared at his face as if utterly baffled as to why he refused to respond to her presence.

Hopefully, this would change soon. This trip was ostensibly to make it seem like Rain was healthy enough to visit his Teacher, but in truth, Sarnai wanted to put more pressure on Taduk to come up with a possible treatment. “It’s a coma,” the flea-bitten, buck-toothed, rabbit-eared braggart had whined when Sarnai last confronted him about his plan of action. “There’s nothing we can do except keep his body healthy and wait for him to wake.”

An answer she refused to accept. Medical Saint, pei. A title not even worth a dog’s fart. Taduk’s greatest flaw had always been a lack of drive and ambition unless a specific problem drew his interest. When he first came to the People, it’d been to study their Spiritual Beasts, a subject he obsessed over for many years until he switched focus over to Spiritual Plants. Much as he loved little Rain, Taduk had no interest in studying coma patients because there wasn’t enough information regarding the human mind to build upon, unlike Runic Crafting which he studied simply to help Rain and dropped once he learned enough to be of use. This was where he stood with comas, knowing just enough to treat the symptoms, but too lazy to sit down and uncover the root cause. No, in order to do that, Taduk would have to start from nothing and conduct hard, boring research, but try as he might, the man could not fight his nature. Even now, the exercises he prescribed for Rain were the same ones the boy prescribed for Sarnai when she was in similar straits, with little to no improvement or variation, and he wasn’t even the one who helped Rain through them. No, that was left to sweet Lin-Lin, who thus far had remained the most optimistic of them all and made sure her hubby adhered to a strict regimen of activity.

At least Taduk wasn’t stingy with his Spiritual Plants and provided Sarnai with enough to include them in Rain’s every meal. Unfortunately, everything he ate had to be cooked until it was easily mushed, since he was utterly incapable of chewing. At that point, even the rabbits didn’t care for what Sarnai had cooked, which led Taduk to speculate that whatever made the plants Spiritual was no longer present. A maddening waste is what it was, but aside from Rain’s suspicions regarding the Di Supreme Family and their ties to Spiritual Plants and cooking, there was nowhere else for Sarnai to look for help.

Reaching over to take his hand, Sarnai sighed and Sent, “Whenever you are ready and able, we will be here waiting for you to wake.” She spoke and Sent to him often, and insisted everyone else do the same no matter how silly it might seem, because she distinctly remembered hearing her block-headed husband’s voice while in her coma, though the specifics had long since faded away. All she knew was that she thought she heard him speaking to her more than once back then, and had been drawn to the sound of his voice, imagined or otherwise, so she hoped it would be the same for Rain.

Hope. There was that word again, so simple to say, yet so full of significance.

A sense of regret and melancholy settled over Sarnai shoulders, but she shrugged it off without hesitation. Rain was going to wake up. This was inevitable. It was not a matter of if, but when, and she refused to believe otherwise.

“It’s okay.” Patting Sarnai’s hand with a bright, unfaltering smile, Lin-Lin snuggled against Rain’s shoulder and said, “He’ll come to eventually. All we have to do is wait, ya?”

So strong and steadfast, this little Mei Lin, so how could Sarnai stand to lose out? “You are right,” she replied, smiling back at the sweet girl before leaning closer to stroke Mama Bun’s fluffy behind. “Perhaps we should take Yuzhen’s advice and see if we can lure the rapacious rodent terrorizing your father out of hiding.”

Giggling at her use of Taduk’s own words against him, Lin-Lin’s cherubic expression set Sarnai’s heart at ease, and she tittered alongside the sweet girl. Yan, Mila, Luo-Luo, and even Song were all shaping up to be wonderful companions for little Rain, but over the last month, Lin-Lin had more than proven her worth. Sarnai was old and jaded enough to know that love was most certainly not all a relationship would need, but now, she could rest easy knowing the capricious and carefree Mei Lin would not come to regret her decision in the years to come and break poor Rain’s heart by leaving him. Hardly fair to the girls, considering Rain’s voracious appetites, but so long as they went into their marriage with eyes wide open, then there was nothing more Sarnai could ask for.

They spent the rest of the ride in relative silence, though Sarnai couldn’t help but tease Mentor for monopolizing five bunnies for herself, all nestled comfortably in her arms for the duration of the entire trip. Arriving at the bamboo grove just in time for a late lunch, they emerged from the carriage to the delectable scents of Charok’s exquisite cooking wafting out from the centre of the grove. The girl greeted them warmly with her children in tow, Tali smiling brightly while Tate scowled and grumbled for no reason in particular. He was almost thirteen now, and fast approaching those contrary teenage years when he would rail against any and all obligations or constraints, rebelling for the simple sake of rebellion itself. His surly scowl was simply too darling to resist, so Sarnai scooped him up and hugged him tight until he stopped struggling against her, and then she hugged him a little more, just to cherish these years with Tate as she should have cherished Rain’s.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Despite all my efforts to silence it, my phone rumbles and lights up to alert me of happenings outside of the void, and once again, hope compels me to check. What if it’s an emergency? What if I’m needed? What if it’s another adorable snoot selfie from Mama Bun? Oblivion and nothingness awaits, but I am still not ready to embrace it, else my phone would stop lighting up.

Plus, it’s really boring in here.

A message from Mom, reassuring me that they will be waiting, followed by a snapshot of her hugging a scowling Tate. I shouldn’t have looked, but I thought about it and it happened. This is too cute. Tate is around the same age I was when I first joined the family, and I probably made that same face a thousand times when Alsantset hugged me then. I can sense Mom’s regrets as plainly as if she wrote them all out in text, because she’s wishing she’d hugged me like that too, but now it’s too late. It’s not too late Mom. I’m still here. No. It is too late. I’m not coming back. I can’t. I’m not strong enough to face the pain.

Heartache and misery fill the emptiness within me, and I oust it as quickly as I can, forming newly severed Natal Souls filled with hope, longing, and regret to go forth and do whatever it is I so desire. I have no earthly idea what exactly that might be, but either way, they’ve gotta be doing more good than harm. Probably.

