Faith and hope.

This was all Sarnai had left. Faith in the Mother Above, faith in her son, and hope for the future. Though comatose, Rain was alive and well, swallowing whatever food and water they gave him, but unable to do much more. As such, it fell upon his family to uphold his many responsibilities, and Sarnai was determined to ensure everything he worked hard for would be waiting for him when he opened his eyes once again. For the last three weeks, she joined efforts with her husband, Akanai, Luo-Luo, and the Imperial Scion Liu Xuande to keep the outer provinces in line, and while they experienced limited success, at the very least, they’d managed to keep the fragile alliance of outer provinces from falling apart.

Society infighting in the North, military squabbling in the South, and an opportunistic Colonel General in Central attempting to seize power from the Legate’s Office, Sarnai worked tirelessly to deal with all this and more, albeit with limited effect. Truth be told, aside from providing menacing Warriors to stand alongside Luo-Luo or Liu Xuande while they dictated orders, she herself had little to do with the day to day business of the Legate’s office. When she learned Rain had chosen Zheng Luo as his immediate successor over one of the Imperial Scions under his command, Sarnai had cursed her son for a fool, but after working with all of them over the past month, she saw the wisdom of his decision. The girl was an able minister and deftly kept the Marshals and Colonel Generals in line, even the pushy Southern Marshal Quyen Huong who barely gave her the respect she deserved while spurning all her efforts to assist him.

Were Sarnai in charge, she would’ve backed the uppity Marshal’s greatest rival out of pure spite after he insinuated Luo-Luo’s last missive might have been written at an ‘inopportune’ time of the month and that she should reconsider her stance once her ‘untimely histrionics’ passed. Fortunately, Luo-Luo saw the flaw in Sarnai’s suggestion and pointed out that Marshal Huong’s successor was unlikely to be any less misogynistic, and that she had only made her initial suggestion so that he would be more amenable to her actual preference now that she’d ‘accepted’ his criticism. It wasn’t a perfect solution as it undermined Luo-Luo’s authority, but she argued that in his eyes, she herself possessed no authority and he only tolerated her meddling because of Rain’s personal seal stamped onto every document. A complex web this one weaved, and after seeing her work her political magic, Sarnai had to admit Luo-Luo was the best choice for interim Legate, and not solely because she was the least likely to usurp all of Rain’s power.

The girl was more than competent; she excelled at her craft in the same way Akanai excelled in battle, the highest compliment Sarnai could pay her.

As for other options, even she knew Rain couldn’t have chosen a successor who’d been born in the outer provinces, since there would be constant accusations of said replacement favouring his or her home province. Such was the cost of judging others by one’s own mean measures, and even the purportedly politically neutral Shuai Jiao was susceptible to the pitfalls of discrimination and nepotism. This left only a small pool of candidates to pick as Rain’s replacement, and while choosing a legitimate Imperial Scion of rank might have pacified the handful of nobles and Officers who knew of Rain’s plight, the current offerings were utterly unsuitable for the position. Guan Yunchang, Zhang Yide, and Jian Xianhe were Imperial Scions to be sure, with their own Death Corps guards and Royal Guardian escorts, but they had been exiled to the outer provinces for good reason.

Suffice it to say they were all highly capable, but grossly flawed individuals.

Jian Xianhe was the worst of the bunch, a lazy, slovenly drunkard who did the bare minimum required of him, though he did have his moments of devious brilliance. It was his idea to offer up an open bounty for professional secrets, paying anyone who brought them usable intelligence without question. Though Luo-Luo argued no expert worth their salt would part with the secrets of their trade for a one-time reward, Xianhe had merely grinned and said, “Experts have apprentices, do they not? Wives too, which means tawdry in-laws as well, not to mention sons and daughters who are less than enthused about following in the family trade. A one-time reward would be very tempting to all those people and more, and once the secret is out, there is no concealing it again.”

The second worst choice for interim Legate was Guan Yunchang, a simple man who was wholly incapable of independent thought, one who needed his hand held in order to make even the most minor of decisions should matters deviate from plan. Oftentimes, he would arrive at the correct decision himself, but his indecisive manner meant he needed Luo-Luo to oversee his every decision. Thankfully, the Mother had blessed Yunchang with an honest and upright manner, unwilling to be bribed, bought, or cajoled into swaying his decision. This meant he could be trusted to negotiate bids and contracts without fail, so long as the terms were laid out clearly beforehand. Thanks to him, the paved Western Border road stretching from Suihua in the north to Kangbashi in the south was well underway. New districts were also still being built even with winter upon them, ones which would sit empty until the spring when new workers arrived to inhabit them, all without fear of unscrupulous companies stealing materials or skimping on construction thanks to Yunchang’s steadfast watch.

Then there was Zhang Yide, a vulgar lout who put a burr in Yuzhen’s saddle and had been all but excluded from official dealings, his presence largely ignored in spite of his disruptive outbursts of boorish comments and ill-timed humour. Even then, Luo-Luo found use for Yide, unleashing the unpleasantness of his company upon any who dared to snub her orders. Those nobles, Officers, and in one case, a Southern Marshal, came to regret their foolhardy decision once Zhang Yide arrived upon their doorsteps, protected by Royal Guardians and armed with orders to see Luo-Luo’s will carried out by hook or by crook, all while about abusing the not so gracious hospitality of his hosts.

Lastly, there was Liu Xuande, who Sarnai saw as the most promising of the bunch, yet also the most problematic. A driven, passionate young man, the tidy, well-kept Scion shared many of Rain’s ideals, which in and of itself was a large part of his issues. Most of those shared ideals did not sit well with the current ruling elites, but despite his baffling inability to grasp the simple concept of face, Rain knew enough to keep quiet about his goals. Xuande, however, proclaimed his intent for all to hear, in a misguided effort to sway others to his cause. Poor, idealistic fool. Even Sarnai, who wholly agreed with Rain’s vision for the future, one in which the Empire adopted the communal care system of the People and looked after their most vulnerable, could not stand behind most of Xuande’s proposed policies. Civilian courts with educated commoners acting as Justicars was fine and all, but the man wanted Martial Warriors to be subject to the same courts and allow commoners to pass judgment on their civil crimes. Madness is what it was, not because she believed Martial Warriors should flout the law, but because commoners would have no ability to enforce it, which would only lead to increased tension and conflict. Better to keep the two systems separate lest hostilities grow and spiral out of control once Martial Warriors began openly spurning the commoner court system.

And this was merely the most foolhardy of Liu Xuande’s ideas. His end goal, which he was none too shy about telling to anyone who might listen, was to seize the means of production and redistribute the wealth of the Empire to ensure the lower classes were paid their fair share of the profits. “A rising tide raises all ships,” he was often heard saying, attributing the quote to something Rain himself once said, but all the logic in the world meant nothing when the goal was to steal and plunder from the wealthy and powerful. For some inane reason, the mad Imperial Scion truly believed that the nobles of the Empire would simply roll over and open their treasure vaults just because he presented sound reasoning to do so, and was utterly baffled by the staunch resistance.

Thankfully, Luo-Luo kept Xuande under control by giving him plenty of other work to keep him occupied, namely raising an army of commoners and training them in the use of pike and crossbow. Two months ago, Sarnai would have scoffed at these hollow and futile efforts, but after seeing the courage displayed by Rain’s Irregulars on the field of battle, she was no longer certain this was true. Though they broke and fled before a charge of Demons, professional soldiers had been known to do the same, even without the Baleful Aura of dread and terror to spur them along. More importantly, the Irregulars rallied and returned upon seeing Rain in peril, throwing themselves upon Demon talons and Chosen blades with reckless disregard to buy time for Sarnai and the rest of Rain’s guards to dispatch their foes. Were it not for the valiant efforts and sacrifices made by the Irregulars, she was not certain the outcome would have been so favourable, and might well have ended in utter disaster.

And for this, they would forever have her gratitude.

As the carriage headed towards the People’s district and Taduk’s bamboo grove beyond, she peered out the window and saw the Irregulars hard at work in their training camp. Identical ones to this could be found dotted along the Western Border, situated close enough to the districts to allow for easy supplies, but far enough to keep the trainees isolated from temptation. The greatest barrier to effective combat was not individual strength, but discipline, and in this, there was no difference between commoners and Martial Warriors. To their credit, the majority of commoners took to military discipline like fish to water once all the rules and regulations were laid out for them, lacking the typical overblown pride of Martial Warriors in the same position.

Still, as she watched the Irregulars move through their drills with near flawless precision, Sarnai had to give credit where credit was due. Xuande had not only trained these commoners and their officers in the usage of Rain’s checker-board formation, the Imperial Scion had seemingly perfected it as well. Were she to meet these Irregulars in open combat, she would not feel comfortable engaging them without at least one-tenth their number in Khishigs, or perhaps half their number in standard Imperial soldiers. Even then, she would avoid a direct confrontation in favour of night raids or hit and run attacks, because once arranged into ranks, the Irregulars’ wall of pikes and crossbows made for a prickly nut to crack.

Granted, she was no military commander like her husband, but even he agreed the Irregulars would surprise them all, especially with Xuande to guide them on the battlefield. For all his flaws, the man was a brilliant tactician, as evidenced by his first treatise, “Falling Rain’s Guide to Military Formations.” An uninspired name, it nonetheless spread far and wide due to Brigadier Hongji’s glowing recommendation of the checker-board formation explained within. For two days, the merits of Xuande’s work was hotly debated until Colonel General Nian Zu declared the treatise required reading for all officers ranked Major and above. Central and South followed soon after, wholly enamoured by the flexibility of the tactics presented within, not just the checker-board formation itself, but also its ‘fresh and contemporary’ take on many tried and true formations of past. Turtle, Half-Moon, Twin Horns, and more, Xuande presented clear and concise guidelines on each formation’s use and how to best demonstrate their strengths, leading to what Sarnai’s block-headed husband called ‘a revolution in military thinking’.

Personally, she thought it read like dreary drivel meant to put her to sleep and much preferred BoShui’s stylized retelling of Rain’s accomplishments, but all the respected commanders she knew said Xuande’s treatise was brilliant to the extreme, so she defaulted to their expertise.

Since then, Xuande had written two more treatises which were also well received, but to a lesser extent. The first had to do with troop movement and supply logistics, a piece co-authored by a young merchant by the name of Cao Cuo, while the second was on the optimal use and deployment of crossbowmen and artillery. The former would only be of interest to the higher echelons of command, but Luo-Luo and Yuzhen sang its praises for days on end, while the latter was more contentious in that it advocated for the use of armed Irregulars meant to hold off Defiled Warriors. This of course sparked a hotly contested debate regarding the real world effectiveness of armed commoners, one carried out by barroom and tea-house generals with little to no real world experience themselves.

