The phoenix’s health was lower than twenty percent when it took to the air a second time. That, more than anything, confirmed that it was not a raid boss. She sharpened her focus; the flying phase took substantially more attention on her part. A flurry of barriers flickered across the cavern, protecting her weakest and most vulnerable minions in the path of the firestorm. Again, she opted to get cursed and burned herself. This time the phoenix hatched three clutches of eggs, and one was twice the size of the others, which meant she had to move one of her Bone Mages just to cover the shortfall, despite the conflagration damage, and do several emergency barrier patches. As close as it was, the hatchlings still dropped to their thunderous barrage of explosive light magic, death bolts, and lightning nova totems.

“Nice work,” Calen said, as his thunderous bow quietened, and he turned back to the phoenix.

“It’s almost dead,” Ali announced as the giant fire bird landed in its meteoric dive back into the lava. “Go,” she instructed, eager to finish it off. This was not that hard.

Her minions’ arrows, Bone Spears, Lightning Bolts, and swords struck the phoenix, and she even threw in some barrier shards to eke out just a little more damage, and then suddenly her notification chime sounded, and the phoenix exploded in a ball of intense fire, raining down ashes across the cavern as it splashed down into the lava pool.

Your group has defeated Phoenix of Living Flame – Elemental Bird – level 72 (Fire)

“Yes!” Malika cheered.

“Yay!” Ali smiled, feeling much the same. It had not been easy – certainly not as hard as some of the raid-fights she had experienced – but for a side boss, it had been quite challenging with an enormous amount of damage output. But their planning and fire resistance had made the fight much more manageable.

“Good work everyone,” Calen declared.

Ali was just about to head over to examine the corpse when a ripple disturbed the domain mana of the lava pool. What? A sudden geyser of mana burst from it and Ali froze.

It’s… dead. But clearly, something was happening.

“Domain magic!” she yelled, catching the attention of her celebrating friends. Malika’s head snapped around to the pool, and Mato immediately transformed back into his Bear Form as Calen took to the air, that powerful new bow reappearing in his hands.

The domain mana coalesced into an intense ball, and the pool of lava erupted yet again, spraying lava in all directions. A pair of giant flaming wings unfurled.

Phoenix of Living Flame – Elemental Bird – level 72 (Fire)

“Fuck!” Calen exclaimed.

To Ali’s intense surprise, she recognized the spell. The dungeon had just respawned the phoenix, ignoring the usual recharge. While that should not have been possible, she knew what the magic looked like because of the time she had forcibly respawned her own Forest Guardian to protect the novices at the shrine. It can do that, too?

The phoenix screeched in rage and spat a fireball at Mato as he charged back into the lava.

***

As exhausted as she was by the time the third phoenix died, Ali still wouldn’t let her guard down, and neither did any of her friends. She stared at the pool for over five minutes before she convinced herself that the absence of surging domain mana meant it was not going to rise from the ashes a fourth time.

“I think it’s not coming back,” she said and let her legs give out finally. The others let out sighs of relief and other exclamations as they gathered up beside the pool of lava.

“Well, that was super annoying,” Malika said.

“You can say that again,” Calen said.

“The only upside is my Abiding Perseverance lasted across all the fights,” Malika said. “My stamina abilities cost next to nothing by the end.”

“Oh, nice,” Calen said, nodding.

“Stupid fliers,” Mato muttered.

“Yes,” Ali said, looking out at her minions. Despite fighting the same boss three times in a row without time to rest, she had lost only a single Acolyte and two of her shamans, killed when a double clutch of eggs had hatched on top of each other and escaped the bone walls, rampaging through her minions before they had finally been killed. That had been during this last incarnation, fortunately – they were getting tired. She shuddered to think how much harder another round might have been minus an extra healer and the lightning damage.

Your group has defeated Phoenix of Living Flame – Elemental Bird – level 72 (Fire) x3Grove Warden has reached level 68 (+2).+20 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 37 (+3).Barrier has reached level 49.Martial Insight has reached level 41 (+2).Empowered Summoner has reached level 32.Minion Teleport has reached level 24.Reading has reached level 15.Inspiration has reached level 13.

“I’m dying to know what that ability is,” Calen said.

Once he had voiced it, Ali too found curiosity nipping incessantly at her. It refused to relent, so she levered herself up and flew herself over to where the corpses lay, half sprawled in the pool. Carefully avoiding the lava, she reached out to touch the partially submerged corpse surrounded by heaps of ash and deconstructed it.

[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Living Flame.Domain Magic analyzed: Phoenix Rebirth.Living FlameRequirements: Level 65+, Fire affinity. Source: Phoenix of Living Flame.+50 fire damage per second.+5 stamina and mana restored per second.Curse Proliferation (Whenever Living Flame damages a cursed target, it has a chance to refresh the curse duration or proliferate it to nearby targets).Skill – Domain MagicPhoenix RebirthRequirements: Level 55+Source: Phoenix of Living Flame.50% chance to ignore the domain respawn recharge timer on death. This effect summons the new incarnation with a Phoenix Tear.Skill – Domain Magic

“Not what I expected. Not at all,” Ali murmured and then shared the two new domain magic spells with her friends while poring over the details intently herself. Living Flame – an ability with the same name as the elementals they had encountered in the Landing – seemed to be a specialized kind of flame area attack. While it did substantial damage, it also regenerated stamina and mana, as Mato had discovered.

“What is curse proliferation?” Calen asked.

“Any curse in the fire is duplicated onto everything the fire touches,” Ali answered, studying the detailed description. “It also refreshes the curse duration if the curse is already present.” It explained the confusing presence of the lightning vulnerability curse. Her shamans had cast it on the phoenix herself, and the living flame ability had proliferated it to everything in the flames – all her unblocked minions, herself, and all the drake hatchlings too. But it was also the reason the conflagration curse propagated to everyone within the fires – the single largest and most dangerous source of damage in the entire fight.

“That rebirth is ridiculous,” Calen said. “Fifty percent chance to instant respawn?”

They had fought three phoenixes, meaning they had gotten unlucky twice – a one-in-four chance.

“Ali,” Malika said, a strange urgency in her voice. “Did you see the phoenix drop anything?”

“I didn’t finish yet,” she said and, upon seeing the rest of the Phoenix Rebirth description, she immediately set about deconstructing the other two corpses.

Variant: Phoenix of Living Flame added to Imprint: Elemental.

Phoenix Tear x2

The last two corpses concealed a Phoenix Tear each. She reached out and picked them up, staring at the pair of beautiful blue crystallized droplets, pulsing with a potent energy from deep within.

“Are these valuable?” she asked, offering the two tears to Malika who simply stopped and stared open-mouthed at them for a few moments before she reached out and picked one up carefully.

“Are you kidding? These are used to make the most powerful healing potions, restorative elixirs, and cure-alls. And they’re incredibly rare.”

“Well, we got two for our trouble,” Ali said, happy that the annoying phoenix that wouldn’t stay dead had provided them with something valuable.

“You got a domain magic that can make more of them,” Calen said.

“Shit, if it gets out that you can make these, we’ll be overrun with adventurers looking to get rich,” Malika exclaimed.

“More than magicite? Or mana-purified water?” Mato asked.

“Aah, yeah, well…” Malika said.

“If it makes the best potions, we could save people. We can’t just hide them,” Ali said. The idea of hordes of adventurers attacking her just to get their hands on Phoenix Tears was certainly not appealing, but she couldn’t in good conscience hold back and not sell the tears to Eliyen or Morwynne for making potions and elixirs.

“I think I can organize a discreet sale,” Malika said, looking rather thoughtful. “I’ll talk with Vivian Ross when we get back to the guild.”

“And you don’t have to make a boss with it immediately,” Calen said. “We can prepare defenses properly.”

“Right,” Ali said. And then she turned her attention inward and allocated her attribute points; eight each to wisdom and intelligence, with the remaining four going to perception.

---------------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
