[Spearmaster Level 36!]
[Skill – Recall Weapon: Spear obtained!]
 
[Guardsman Level 17!]
[Skill – Eyes In The Back obtained!]
 
The Drake opened his eyes as the sun hit his head. Sometimes the announcement came in the mornings. If he fell asleep and it didn’t wake him up, it lingered in his mind. Like words seared onto the inside of his brain. He blinked a few times.
Then made a fist and punched it up in victory.
“Ooh. Noice.”
“What was that?”
“Nothing. Well, actually…”
Relc rolled over and Ryoka blinked at him. She was there too of course. And while level-ups had never troubled her, the Drake was only happy to explain.
“I leveled up. Twice, actually. In two classes.”
“Oh—congratulations.”
“Thanks. And uh—”
They stared at each other. Ryoka was in the same bed as Relc. Of course, he had known that. He hadn’t drunk enough to forget last night either. A good thing, despite how his day had gone.
Sunlight was streaming through an unfamiliar window. Relc blinked around at the nice room. It wasn’t his. It was, in fact, Ryoka’s. True to form, he hadn’t woken up in his apartment. This room was better, anyways. The sun was rising and he’d slept through his dawn routine for once.
Probably because he’d been stabbed multiple times. And for other reasons. The Drake was explaining his new level—he already felt like he had a vague sense of what was behind him. Just a wall, and the sunlight. Not like ‘eyes’ but—better than intuition.
“Yeah, that’s me. I’m going to be even harder to jump. Nice Skill—although Klbkch always had my back.”
“Right. You said.”
Ryoka sat up. Relc stared at her. She blinked a few times. And blushed. A bit embarrassed by the stare more than anything else.
“So uh…nice room.”
“Yup. Erin’s giving it to me rent-free.”
Both of them latched onto the trite conversation. But after a second of looking around, Relc decided it was a good topic.
“Really nice. Good bed, more spacious than my apartment—do you know how much she charges?”
Ryoka paused as she looked around for clothes. She found her bag of holding. There was a skittering sound from outside the window.
“Er…ask Lyonette. But ask Erin if you want a deal. I’m sure she’d give it to you cheap.”
“Yeah. Yeah…I might like living here. Y’know, if Erin has room. I’d help out! Kick Rock Crabs and stuff. But it’d be nice. You could swing a spear around in here.”
Ryoka glanced around. Relc frowned. Instantly, he began to panic.
“…Where’s my spear?”
“I think your daughter has it.”
“Oh. Right. Right.”
The Drake relaxed. Normally, he wasn’t out of reach of his spear at any time. He thought about his other new Skill. Should he…?
Nah. It’d probably try to come to him if he wasn’t out of range. And you didn’t want to get in between a recalling spear and the target. He lay back. Then sat up.
“I should go. Really cool and all—”
Ryoka glanced at him. The Drake stared around vaguely for his clothes. But propriety demanded he soon exit. To his surprise—Ryoka hadn’t suggested it already.
“I’m good.”
“Oh? Really?”
“Mhm.”
“Cool, cool. I uh—can jump out the window—”
“Or walk down the steps. Do you often do this?”
“…Sometimes?”
The Drake had run the gamut from every kind of morning after. Good, bad—this was already shaping up to be a good one. Bad ones were where the angry lover hit you in the middle of your sleep.
The two looked at each other. Ryoka—who had thought this was all a great idea yesterday—was mostly perturbed by her brain. What did you say? She was out of practice—and she actually knew Relc. She was clearing her throat—when the skittering grew louder.
Both heads turned. Ryoka heard something like a squirrel—but the fattest squirrel in the world—creeping around the window outside her room. Then she heard a sniff. A growl.
Premonition was a terrible thing. Because it only told you what was going to happen, not how to stop it. Ryoka cursed. She turned to Relc.
“I think—”
Like the furry face of wrath, a little Gnoll’s head popped into the window from the outside.
“Ancestors!”
Relc fell out of bed as Mrsha stared through the window. Her eyes locked on Ryoka’s, accusingly. The City Runner winced.
“Mrsha—”
She raised her finger warningly. The Gnoll was not happy. Thunderclouds practically filled her face as she looked at Relc and Ryoka, who she both loved. Both of whom had done bad things. Like Pawn and Lyonette! Was that all adults did?
“Mrsha, listen to me—”
Too late. The Gnoll stuck out her tongue. Then—she disappeared.
“Oh, good. That was Mrsha. I thought it was a monster for a second. Good thing I didn’t have my spear.”
Relc looked around. He was relaxed—unashamed—which Ryoka wasn’t! Ashamed, that was! But he didn’t seem to register the gravity of Mrsha’s wrath.
Ryoka eyed the empty window. She had another premonition.
“I think we should split.”
“Aha! I was ready for that. Give me one second to find my belt…”
“No, it’s just that Mrsha gets mad. I think—she might—”
A sound came from Ryoka’s left. She whirled.
“—and I was just like—y’know, deciding what we could put in the garden. I mean, we can put living things in here. We have fish. So—what about crabs?”
“Crabs live in the sea, Erin.”
“I know. But can we make a saltwater pond? Huh? Huh? Krshia says they’ll make a huge pool in the city. So how deep does the [Garden of Sanctuary] run? Hey, Lyonette. Hand me a shovel.”
“Erin, you can’t dig…”
Lyonette du Marquin paused as she reached for a shovel to hand Erin. The [Innkeeper] paused.
She was standing in her garden. Next to Lyonette, in the early morning. She was marking out a possible spot for creating a saltwater pond—a terrible idea because it would leech salt into the soil. Ryoka could have told her that.
In fact, she could. Because the magic door to the inn was connected to her room. Someone—and that little someone was a white Gnoll sitting with arms folded and a vicious smile behind Lyonette—had opened the doorway into Ryoka’s room.
“Hey, Ryoka. Do you know where my belt is—oh.”
Relc paused as he swung around. Erin’s features, which had been one of shock—locked onto his body. Relc was almost nude, but for his underpants. Which was a good thing. But the [Innkeeper], however oblivious, couldn’t deny this. She stared at Ryoka. Ryoka stared at Mrsha.
Lyonette stared up, her cheeks red. Mrsha stuck her tongue out.
“Ryoka? Relc? Why are you two—what is—oh my—what is happening?”
Erin’s scream ran through the entire inn. It almost made the person outside Ryoka’s door hesitate. But she pushed open the door anyways.
“Dad? I brought your spear back. We didn’t get Bearclaw, but we found Soot. Are you here? The little Gnoll—Mrsha—pointed me to—”
Ryoka swung around. Wing Commander Embria stared at Ryoka. She nearly dropped Relc’s spear. The Drake cursed. Both of them looked around—Mrsha was racing off. Ryoka stared as she recalled—now, more clearly than ever—that Relc was a father. Embria looked at Relc. Erin’s eyes bulged.
In that moment—there was a lot of accusation in the air. A lot of shock. Judgment. Ryoka looked over and met Lyonette’s eyes. The [Princess] was trying not to smile as she gave Ryoka a covert nod.
But Erin was shocked. Even outraged. And that went double for Embria. Relc was embarrassed, looking around for pants that were missing when needed most.
“Hey. Uh—I told you I should have gone out the window. Stuff like this happens all the time.”
The City Runner looked at him. And then she looked around. At the judgment. Shock, turning to outrage. She thought of the ways she might react. Run away, deny…
Instead, she started laughing. The young Human woman clutched at her bare stomach as she chuckled. And then just laughed. For surely Ivolethe would have been laughing too. The others started as Ryoka laughed. And Relc laughed too. They leaned on each other, laughing, as the shouting started. Let someone else be angry or ashamed.
But it looked like it was going to be an interesting day.
 
—-
 
Honestly, it made sense with Mrsha. She regarded Lyonette as her mother. And it was rightfully earned, by love. Ryoka—their relationship was different. But Ryoka was a guardian, if a faulty one.
Her jealousy and sense of betrayal made sense, even if it was a bit childish. Embria—well—Relc had watched her stalk off in a huff. But she was an adult.
What didn’t make sense was Erin. Later, Ryoka sat a table across from the [Innkeeper]. And of all the people with a stake in this, she seemed to be the most…indignant.
“I can’t believe it.”
“Erin…”
“Why? Why?”
“Hey, what can I say? No one can resist the Relc—”
Ryoka and Erin looked at the Drake. He hesitated, and then shuffled off to another table.
“I’m gonna sit here.”
The [Innkeeper] stared at him, and then at Ryoka, bug-eyed.
“You two.”
The City Runner did not blush. She met Erin’s eyes. A bit uncomfortably.
“Yes.”
“Last night.”
“…Unless you think we’ve done this multiple times, yes.”
“Have you?”
“No! Erin, why is it a big deal?”
The young woman just kept staring. It was starting to weird Ryoka out.
“You. And Relc. You two…”
Slept together. Erin mouthed the words. She didn’t even say it outright, as if it was a curse. Ryoka Griffin did blush then. Mainly because Erin was making it weird.
“Yes! Alright! It was one time. What is the problem?”
“Everything! How? Why? When—no, wait. Don’t answer…Ryoka!”
Ryoka grabbed at her hair. She had indeed slept with Relc Grasstongue, the burly Drake whistling and ignoring Mrsha, who was punching one leg. His scars were still fresh. And he looked—well, down and up.
Down from the bad hand he’d been dealt yesterday. An ambush, finding out The Golden Triangle was a big scam—and up for one reason alone.
Ryoka had helped with that. Sex, in other words. Bumping uglies, uh…she ran out of metaphors, but there were a lot. Had it been sudden? Yes. Was it a mistake? Well, now…a day later she was overthinking it—and Erin wasn’t helping.
“I just—it was spur-of-the-moment, okay? I felt bad for him—”
“So it was pity you-know-what?”
The Drake [Guardsman] drooped. But not by much. Ryoka shook her head at once.
“No! I mean, a bit of it was but—look, Erin! Have you looked at Relc? He’s pretty built!”
Erin blushed. She stared at Relc, who was preening since he was listening in. Ryoka turned red herself. She looked at Erin.
Yes, it had happened. She hadn’t been expecting to make a big thing out of it, but here they were. Ryoka sat back, feeling at her ears. She was sure her entire face was hot. She took a few breaths as Mrsha began to attack Relc’s tail. She grappled it—and he lifted her off the tail.
Strong muscles. Ryoka knew that. She turned to Erin, and saw the [Innkeeper] was no less embarrassed.
“What’s wrong with…something casual? I mean, I had this same conversation Erin, with F—well, that’s different. This?”
They didn’t know each other as well. That was what Erin objected to, but it was why it had happened, in Ryoka’s opinion. She had felt good about it, actually. It had been…good.
At this point Relc unhelpfully leaned over. Or—helpfully.
“Yeah. It’s just s—”
Erin slapped a hand over his mouth. But really—Mrsha was the only other person privy to this conversation. And the Gnoll knew full well the occurrence. She gave Ryoka a betrayed look. Ryoka tried to beckon her over—Mrsha just walked off in a huff.
“But why?”
The [Innkeeper] repeated. She didn’t seem to get it. Ryoka looked at her.
“Erin, do I have to have a reason beyond ‘I want to’? It wasn’t a bad thing. Relc’s not complaining.”
She looked at the Drake. He smiled.
“I mean, no one complains afterwards!”
He puffed out his chest, hesitated.
“…Most of the time. Uh—it was good. Yeah.”
He gave Ryoka an awkward grin. She colored as Erin’s jaw dropped. But Ryoka was past the days of never seeing the person she spent a night with. She half-smiled and replied.
“You’re not half-bad yourself.”
The two started laughing. Erin looked at them, aghast. Perhaps it was because they were both friends of hers. Ryoka turned to Erin. She lowered her voice as Mrsha came back with a pot and slapped it down on Relc’s tail. He yelped and got up to chase her.
“Why wouldn’t you like him? Is he that bad?”
She didn’t know Relc much—well, she knew more after a night in his company, and that included the morning thereafter. Erin hesitated. She looked at Relc, who had scooped Mrsha and was tickling her as she punched and giggled silently.
“…No. He’s a good guy. But I just can’t see myself…”
“Huh. Not ever?”
Ryoka blinked. There were a lot of people whom she’d never see anything with. But not even imagining it? Maybe Erin just didn’t…like…non-Humans. An odd thought, but they had never discussed this. Erin squirmed uncomfortably.
“Not like that. I just don’t—I mean, look, Ryoka. I’m not judging…it’s just not for me.”
Oh, how the lie emerged in that one. Ryoka gave Erin a steady look.
“That’s fine too. But as long as no one hurts each other’s feelings, or there’s no…pregnancy or STI’s or stuff, that’s fine, right?”
She was making a point. Erin hesitated and bit her lip. She was wrestling with the news.
“I guess?”
Ryoka Griffin peered at her. Was Erin Solstice, Erin who welcomed Goblins into her inn and Antinium, uncomfortable with sex? Was this like drugs? It was so…odd for someone like her. And yet, it also made sense. Erin was against a lot of things. She hadn’t handled Relc’s being part of the Golden Triangle well yesterday. Maybe…
Something was wrong. Erin looked so unhappy about it. Ryoka wanted to ask why. She stared at Erin closely until the [Innkeeper] looked away, turning red.
“Sorry. I shouldn’t judge.”
“…Nah. I get it.”
The City Runner replied softly. Erin looked at her.
“If it was just this—thing. Because Relc was upset…I mean, one time and all…”
“Erin. I don’t do pity-sex. I liked Relc. Look at him.”
He was an ugly Drake. Or so people said. Something about the tail? And face? Ryoka couldn’t tell. What she saw was, well…
She liked musculature. Hawk, Calruz—Ryoka had a type, aside from immortals. And Relc was close to peak physicality as they went. Grimalkin was a few strides over that line. But Relc? She’d seen narcissistic bodybuilders who looked poor compared to him.
Erin squinted at Relc. She shook her head after a few seconds, looking bothered. Ryoka sighed.
“Anyways, it wasn’t the first time I had sex since coming to this world, Erin. More like the third. I think.”
“What? Wait, what?”
