“Zenna! What’s next on my itinerary, after this waste of a day?”
The [Mage Lady] grumpily called out. A half-Elf [Aide] came forwards, amid Lady Imarris’ bodyguards, her elites. The [Spellarmor Warriors], her escort, guarded her room.
All women. Including Zenna. The half-Elf was old, old enough to have grey hair mixed with auburn. And she looked at Imarris with an exasperation you only got after looking after someone’s every affair for over twenty years.
Lady Ieka Imarris was a practical woman. Ambitious, yes. A member of the Circle of Thorns? Ditto. Interested in lovely members of her own gender? Absolutely—but that was a secret to all. But practical nonetheless.
She—took—good ideas that she saw from her peers and implemented them. Having a ‘specialty’, refusing to innovate—that was how noble houses died. And Ieka Imarris was cutting-edge.
The [Spellarmor Warriors] were a copy of Lady Bethal’s Knights of the Petal. Ieka’s fondness for [Maids] came from Magnolia—and Ressa. And Zenna?
Well, the House of El had half-Elven guides. Why shouldn’t she? Ieka had hired Zenna two decades ago and hadn’t ever had a cause to regret it.
She even had Golems, in the style of Wistram and the Terland family. She’d experimented with taming monsters, but after a few disasters, she’d given up.
The point was that Ieka innovated. Some called her a copycat, and it was true that she didn’t excel—her bodyguards were not as famous as Bethal’s [Knights] for all Ieka tried. But the lady mage had had good success herself.
But she was annoyed today. For one main reason. Part of what Ieka did was…invest in concepts she believed in. All nobles did that, really. But Ieka kept her ear to the ground. Or she kept other people’s ears to the ground and had them report.
She’d heard of the Players of Celum. But Magnolia had been one step ahead of her, as usual. Somehow, she’d secured their loyalty.
The [Manager], Emme, had explained it all apologetically to Ieka. And the [Lady] had endured watching a play that Magnolia would benefit from—she was sponsoring the Players of Celum to expand their production and take it even further north—with ill-grace. The worst part was that the [Actors] were so charming.
That Drake in the dress—well, Drakes were not Ieka’s style. She admired the Human form. But not everything was romance and lust. She wanted the [Actors]. And Magnolia had gotten them first.
Ieka’s bad temper was also a copy of her peers. It wasn’t as infamous as Bethal’s tantrums, or Pryde’s rage. She just got snippy.
“You have yet to visit The Wandering Inn, Lady Imarris. I know you expressed some interest.”
“Before today. Before I learned that Pryde has been bogarting the entire place. She’s probably bought everything of worth. I’m not chasing after Magnolia’s leavings, even if there is a magic door there, Zenna. Next?”
“Erm. That would be it. You have no business in Invrisil. This has been a complete waste of your time, Lady Ieka. I shall remove myself now before you throw a snit.”
Zenna bowed. The half-Elf had a rather direct manner of addressing her [Lady] herself; it had reminded Ieka of Ressa, hence the hiring. The [Lady] glowered at nothing and everything.
After a while, she decided she was going north. Nothing to do here? She might as well weigh in on this Ailendamus drama. They had apparently earned the Lord of the Dance’s wrath in some ill-conceived attack on his forces.
She had things to do. She was important. Ieka stood up.
“Zenna! We are leaving. Prepare the carriage north.”
Again, her carriage wasn’t as fast as Magnolia’s, but it was still enchanted. Zenna appeared in the doorway to the antechambers.
“Pardon, Lady Ieka. But you do have something else to do. It just came up. There is a City Runner hoping to see you…two of them, actually. A Lord Delanay d’Artien offered his name as well. But the City Runner would like to take care of your request for the Couriers.”
Ieka sat up.
“Really? A City Runner?”
She wasn’t that interested. Her request was meant for a Courier because it was dangerous. Covert. But it was always interesting, being sought out. She drummed her fingers on the armrest of the cough.
“This Runner is…?”
Zenna consulted the notes she had.
“A Ryoka Griffin. Wind Runner of Reizmelt is her nickname. Reliable—if you overlook rumors about her. Apparently, commands the winds in some way. Let’s see…she’s run for Lady Bethal, Lady Reinhart…survived a run through the High Passes…”
That was intriguing. Ieka kept a scowl off her face as she heard the other two [Ladies]. That wasn’t the Runner’s fault.
“Did she say anything?”
City Runners sometimes volunteered for dangerous jobs. Ieka had dangerous assignments in spades, and she had heard them try to pitch themselves. The trouble was that hiring a City Runner meant your request was likely to fail, and your valuable cargo likely to be stolen or your plans unraveled.
Nevertheless, you could sometimes take a risk. Ieka waited as Zenna’s lips quirked. The half-Elf looked up.
“Indeed. Aside from Lord d’Artien’s request for an audience, Miss Griffin’s exact words were—‘I hope Lady Imarris will see me. I have successfully run deliveries for no less than Magnolia Reinhart, and survived. With that said, I think Magnolia Reinhart would be gladder if I were dead.’ She is apparently desirous of a reward other than your posted bounty, Lady Ieka.”
The Lady Imarris had been scowling at Magnolia’s name. But that last part made her laugh. And her mood lightened at once. Whether it was true or untrue, Ryoka Griffin had done her homework and delivered the message that Ieka wanted to hear.
“Clever. Well, I am not busy as you said, Zenna. Have the carriages prepped while I entertain this—Ryoka Griffin. Send in young Delanay as well.”
Zenna nodded. She went to the doors. Ieka arranged herself on the couch, waiting. But as Zenna opened the doors—an argument floated into her rooms from the antechamber.
 
—-
 
“I would like you to say that again, Miss.”
Delanay d’Artien was quickly revealing himself to be a hothead just as bad as Ryoka in her prime. He had one hand on his rapier as he studied the [Spellarmor Captain], who was guarding Lady Ieka’s rooms. She had made a few comments about Ryoka after hearing that Ryoka had ties to Lady Magnolia.
After all, Ieka’s bodyguards shared their mistress’ opinions. Ryoka had been willing to let being called a ‘lapdog’ slide—but Delanay had not. He leaned forwards as the [Warriors] looked at him with contempt. They had thick, ensorcelled plate armor on. He had stylish dress and a sword. Nevertheless, the City Runner replied to the [Captain] with an edge to his voice.
“If you’re going to insult us, say as much to our faces. I am Delanay d’Artien and if you have the guts, Miss, I’ll answer your every insult. Assuming you’re not content to hide behind your Mistress’ authority?”
“Delanay, drop it. We’re here for an audience.”
Ryoka hissed. The [Captain] looked outraged as she shifted her grip on the mace. Delanay gave Ryoka a glance full of anger.
“No one looses insults in my presence. Well, Miss [Captain]? Or is that mace for show? Let’s not pretend there is a fairer sex if you’re worried of having your features marred. Either you are a [Warrior] and can back up your words or not.”
He strode forwards and prodded the [Captain]. Ryoka covered her face. Was this how Erin had felt around her? She saw the [Captain] purple and was sure they were five seconds from being beaten to a pulp—when the doors opened.
“Lady Imarris will see you now. Lord Delanay, your restraint. Captain Kelda?”
Everyone straightened as a half-Elven woman opened the doors. Ryoka sighed in relief. Delanay turned and bowed, abashed.
“Miss Zenna. A pleasure.”
“Lord Delanay, your tongue hasn’t improved with age. Perhaps another ten years will do. Pray, enter. And mind your manners. Miss Griffin? Lady Imarris awaits.”
The half-Elf gestured. Ryoka took a deep breath. She had asked Fierre about how to approach Ieka. And her informant and friend had provided the easiest summary of Ieka.
 
Innovative, magical. Strongly dislikes Magnolia Reinhart and her circle. Fond of pretty faces. Try to smile.
–Fierre
 
“Thank you, Fierre.”
Ryoka would bring her medicine soon. And then…well, who knew? The City Runner squared her shoulders and walked into the room. She needed to make friends. So she’d bow and scrape if need be. But she didn’t need to. Because the first thing Lady Ieka Imarris said upon seeing Ryoka was—
 
—-
 
“Oh my.”
Lady Ieka’s first impression of Ryoka was tall, somewhat Drathian features—darker skin than the natives of Izril. Tall, as tall as she was, or even an inch or two taller. Long, black hair—
Beautiful features. The [Lady] stared as Zenna introduced Delanay and Ryoka.
She was familiar with Delanay—nobles always kept track of each other—Ieka’s attention was on Ryoka. She had bare feet? For some reason, that only made it more scandalously attractive to see her standing on the rich carpets.
“I—I am very intrigued by your request, Miss Ryoka Griffin. And such startling words. Please, approach.”
Lady Ieka produced a fan and gently waved it as Ryoka stepped forwards. The City Runner bowed, made her introductions. Ieka barely listened as Delanay apologized for nearly picking a fight. The Artien family was full of hot-heads.
“…was hoping to take your Courier-level request, Lady Imarris. The one you had reservations about?”
Zenna interjected and Ieka blinked. She blushed, hiding it behind her fan. She had been imagining what Ryoka would look like in a dress. Ieka’s previous favorite maid was…no longer working for her.
But the mention of the job snapped Ieka back to reality. She scrutinized Ryoka.
“The Wind Runner of Reizmelt? Yes…Zenna mentioned you could command the winds. But I’m afraid my request is for a Courier-class, Miss Griffin. I would hate for you to risk your life…unnecessarily. By all means, I shall remember your name. But…”
She looked helplessly at Zenna. Ryoka Griffin took that moment to take a knee. In doing so, she drew closer to the couch.
Ieka’s bodyguards stirred, but Ieka waved them to silence. She covered the lower half of her face as Ryoka looked up at her. The City Runner’s voice was low, urgent.
“Lady Ieka, I do crave a boon. I’m not interested in gold so much as—a favor. There is an event on the Summer Solstice I would crave your attendance at. It is—an odd request, I know. But for this, I would risk my life. I can talk to the winds. I have survived the High Passes three times. Even if I haven’t gone far in. Let me listen to the request—and then decide.”
Imarris blinked at Ryoka. She took her in more fully.
“Hm.”
To buy time, she closed the fan and tapped it to her lips. The young woman was earnest. And the favor…intriguing. More than that, she was interesting. Ieka didn’t know, though.
Her request this time was to make contact with…a dangerous person. Not hostile; but dangerous. She had been in seclusion for months and unless roused, might well spend another year or two in her hiding place on her island. But waking an Archmage was dangerous. And Ieka would not wish to see Ryoka’s guts adorning the ground like the last three she’d sent—including one Courier.
Nevertheless—she had a soft spot for brave young women. So Ieka sat back on her couch.
“Tell me more, Miss Griffin. Zenna, do offer them a seat…”
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin convinced Lady Imarris. It took some doing, but the [Lady] had given Ryoka a shot, despite her reservations. That was all that needed to be said.
Delanay had also been a piece of work. He had saluted Ryoka, promising to call in his little favor if they met again. And they would. City Runners always did.
But Ryoka Griffin ran down the road. Leaving Invrisil behind. She was busy. This was the first request…of many. Waking an Archmage from her seclusion. Well—it had to be easier than a Dragon, right?
“I’m going to have to go further north than ever. Take a damn carriage or something to cut down on travel time. Fierre might know…damn, damn, damn…”
Time was an issue. But even so, Ryoka Griffin slowed as she saw a wagon rolling north. For at least a little while—she could say goodbye to them.
“Ryoka! You didn’t show up, so we started moving.”
“No problem. Sorry I’m late. I had to take a big request.”
“Anything we can help with?”
Ceria pulled Ryoka up into the wagon. Yvlon asked as she took Ryoka’s hand in her silvery grip. Ryoka smiled at the two of them.
Old friends. New friends as well. They had all changed. And it was a funny thing. Some things never changed.
“Oi! Is that Miss Ryoka Griffin? Well, I’ll be darned. It’s old friends all around.”
Termin, the [Wagon Driver], looked up from his seat. Ryoka stared at him.
“I saw you at Reizmelt!”
“Yup. Yup. Well, we get everywhere, don’t we, Erma? Fox?”
The old man patted the two horses trotting ahead of the wagon. Ryoka grinned.
“Ryoka.”
Halrac nodded to her. The city Runner sat there. She looked around.
Both teams were headed away from Invrisil. The Horns—who would go on foot at the crossroads—and Griffon Hunt. Cade was sitting on Briganda’s knee, a new addition to the party. Briganda waved at Ryoka. The City Runner looked around.
“I can’t stay long.”
The words hurt her. But they all knew it. And the adventurers had parted before. They smiled.
“We did not have a chance to speak. But perhaps we shall call on you in our travels north.”
Pisces commented as he shaved bits of cheese off a block to feed to Ksmvr and himself. The Antinium nodded, happily.
“I do not really know you, Miss Ryoka Griffin. But I am told you are a good Runner with an objectionable personality at times. Hello. I am Ksmvr. We have met, though.”
Ceria turned red. Ryoka just laughed again. She sat there, for a moment.
“It’s all true, Ksmvr. But I’m trying to change. Listen—if you need a delivery, or a message delivered—probably go to a Courier or Mage’s Guild first. But if you need me, give me a shout.”
They all laughed at that. Even Halrac. Revi chortled as she sat on the front of the wagon.
“We’re all friends of The Wandering Inn, I guess. Sure. We’ll look you up. It’s going to be boring in Halrac’s old village, anyways.”
Ryoka glanced at her, but she hadn’t heard where Griffon Hunt was headed. Typhenous just stroked his beard.
“We shall remember it, Miss Griffin. And we will meet again.”
“Definitely.”
That was all they said. The adventurers and City Runner sat in the wagon, sharing an early lunch. Ryoka saw Cade staring up at her. She tried to smile—and Briganda threw an arm around her shoulders.
