Slapping tails. Weak rustling. She looked past the nests. And saw the barricade of wood. A Fortress Beaver dam.
Some were alive. Mrsha’s eyes opened wide. The Fortress Beavers had retreated. Built their famous fortresses to hold the spiders out. She could sense them. Hiding, weak from lack of food and wounds. But they were alive.
She stepped forwards. The giant Shield Spider barred her way. It was getting hungrier. Mrsha was food. It wanted her to leave. Leave, before the lesser spiders lost control and attacked her.
But Mrsha—the white Gnoll hesitated. She was Mrsha the Great and Terrible. No—she was Mrsha the Great Wizard—
No. She was just Mrsha. The great adventure was done. It had ended with pettiness. With her absence. See how the mortal, short-lived races forgot. They turned on each other so quickly.
She wept for them. But she would not run twice.
In the opening of the cave, the Gnoll lifted her wand. And the tip shone with light. The Shield Spiders rustled. The ones from the nest outside began to creep upwards.
But the [Druid] was wrathful. Her eyes blazed.
“Fools! You fools! Shame on you all!”
She shouted, though she had no words. The Shield Spiders looked upon her. The White Druid of the Inn aimed her wand at the oldest of the Shield Spiders. The Shield Spider King.
A spell lashed from her wand. It struck the Shield Spider in one of its many eyes. An arrow of thorns sent the Shield Spider reeling back, bleeding. Mrsha’s other paw produced a sharp, deadly thorn. She saw the Shield Spider recoil—then advance.
The Fortress Beavers stirred. They remembered. But there was one of Mrsha and many Spiders. So few beavers. The Gnoll was backing up as the Shield Spiders advanced. But they came from behind as well. She was surrounded.
The Gnoll reached for something at her side. She had changed as well. The Shield Spiders saw her raise something to her lips. Mrsha inhaled.
And then blew on the horn. The sound echoed in the cave, making the Shield Spiders flinch. The blaring horn echoed. Louder. Mrsha slashed at a Shield Spider, cutting the little thing in half. The Gnoll backed up, dropping the horn back to hang at her side. She whirled.
Grass ensnared another large Shield Spider coming up on her from behind. The Gnoll looked around. The largest Shield Spider advanced, mandibles wide. It scuttled at her and Mrsha crouched.
The air buzzed. A figure hurtled out of the skies. A giant, flaming bee landed on the Shield Spider’s face and a jagged stinger impaled the Shield Spider’s face.
Apista! The bee flew around Mrsha as it stung, her stinger going through the Shield Spider’s armor. As the giant Shield Spider recoiled, Mrsha looked up. Apista flew around her as the Shield Spiders hesitated, afraid of the fire.
Now it was two versus hundreds. Mrsha bared her teeth in a silent snarl. She heard a sound.
The Fortress Beavers were breaking down their fortress. Sallying forth in one last stand. Large adults smashed into the Shield Spiders from the rear, ignoring the biting fangs and sharp legs. Their fur, torn by injuries, ignored the bites as they furiously bit, pounded the spiders with their tails.
A third time the horn blew. Mrsha cast another [Thorn Arrow] spell and hit a spider. That broke the stalemate. They rolled forwards and Mrsha braced to run, to open a window for the beavers to escape. The largest Shield Spider rushed at her. Mrsha turned—and saw a group of spiders had snuck up on her, sealing the entrance! Apista bared her stinger, desperately—
The Shield Spiders heard a roar. It sounded like the hills had come alive. The ones near the cave’s entrance looked up. They saw a figure blocking the light.
Moore stomped. His foot crushed the first Shield Spider and he kicked the second one into pieces against the wall. The half-Giant ran past Mrsha and stormed into the Shield Spiders, covered in thorns. He crushed them as the Shield Spiders recoiled.
And behind him—Numbtongue cursed. He drew his sword.
“Pyrite.”
The [Chieftain] barreled into the cave after the half-Giant. He cut the oldest Shield Spider in half. The pair of them had noticed Mrsha’s absence almost immediately after Lyonette. And both knew Mrsha.
“Stay back!”
Moore shouted as he reached a hand out. His staff laid around left and right, smashing the smaller spiders as it had when he had breached the giant nest in the dungeon. Pyrite backed up, kicking spiders and downing Octavia’s potions. He thrust one at Mrsha—Barkskin.
The Gnoll drank it. But the two were focused on protecting her. She saw the Fortress Beavers in the back of the cave. They were being overwhelmed. And the two didn’t see them!
So Mrsha blew her horn. Then she raised her wand and charged. Numbtongue and Moore cursed and went after her. Apista struck from above. Mrsha charged through the traitorous Shield Spiders. She saw a Fortress Beaver, twice her size, lying on the ground. Guarding the remainder—a scant eight. Mrsha dove for them—and a wall of thorns encircled her.
“Halfseekers, to me! Jelaqua! Seborn! Ulinde! Get your damn bodies over here!”
Moore roared. His voice was as loud as Mrsha’s horn. The others, who had been searching from the inn, heard the roar in the distance. They turned.
The Shield Spiders had no chance. Not even against the Hobgoblin and half-Giant, in truth. But as Jelaqua charged into the fray, flail spinning and Seborn appeared out of Moore’s shadow—a Selphid leapt into the nest and cast [Fireball] twice.
Ulinde pulled herself out of the nest as the entire place exploded. The rest of the Shield Spiders were dealt with.
Mrsha nursed two large bites on her body. Apista had taken a cut on her body and one of her wings was wrinkled. But when the wall of thorns went down, she was holding a baby Fortress Beaver, its fur covered with blood.
Three adults remained. Five little beavers drew back around Mrsha as the panting adults stared at her. They stared as Mrsha anxiously poured healing potion over the living beavers. She lifted one up as Numbtongue opened his mouth to shout. He stared at the beaver. And remembered Mrsha’s class and closed his mouth.
 
—-
 
“What possessed you?”
Lyonette was not so understanding. Mrsha was beyond in trouble. Moore was angry too. And everyone was more nervous of that.
“Don’t ever do that again.”
He picked up Mrsha. Wide-eyed, she nodded. The Shield Spiders hadn’t even gone through her skin. The half-Giant passed a hand over his face—then saw the beavers.
“I don’t understand it. How did she know there were beavers in the cave? Why did she…?”
Erin Solstice remembered Mrsha’s class as Numbtongue whispered in her ear. They looked at Mrsha. She was holding the shivering Fortress Beavers. And her expression was—guilty. Sorrowful.
It was an adult’s bitter expression of failure. Tears in her eyes, Mrsha held up the beavers. She could not explain the healing slime, or the pact against the Crelers. Not fully. Not now.
“As I recall—we found beavers in that cave back when Mrsha brought that Creler egg to the inn.”
Jelaqua muttered. The others looked at her and nodded, slowly.
“Mrsha? Are these your friends?”
The little Gnoll nodded to Erin. She wiped her tears and the eight Fortress Beavers hid behind Mrsha, staring at the strange adults. Erin looked at the beavers. Then nodded.
“You did rescue them. But you mustn’t take risks. You’re in big trouble, you know that?”
Yes. Mrsha nodded. But it had to be done. Erin looked at the beavers.
“What do we do with them?”
“They like living in forests. These ones must have migrated south. The wrong way. They’ll just run into the Blood Fields. Why not let ‘em loose around Celum?”
Jelaqua suggested. The others agreed tiredly. But Mrsha shook her head. She clung to the beavers and they surrounded her protectively as the adults tried to take them away. They had big, sharp teeth. Erin blew out her cheeks.
“Mrsha! They’re animals. They have to go somewhere.”
She had failed them once. Mrsha shook her head again and again. She had to protect them. They were her—charges. She edged towards the inn.
“Mrsha. Mrsha? What are you—”
The doorway opened for her at once. The adults stared as the white Gnoll backed up. The Fortress Beavers stared too. But this new land was verdant. There was a pond. Water. Fish, even. And many plants.
No predators. A safe land. A promised land. They looked at Mrsha. She nodded.
“They’ll eat the trees!”
Lyonette protested in horror. But Erin held up a hand.
“There’s only eight.”
“Erin, they’re Fortress Beavers.”
“We can always plant more trees. Mrsha. Are you sure you have to do this?”
Erin knelt down. Mrsha nodded slowly. The Fortress Beavers looked at her. One was already padding towards the pond and the fish were scattering. Erin took a deep breath. The others looked at her. Lyonette was incredulous. Moore almost approving.
“It’s a better pet than a bee, right?”
Apista landed on her head and fanned her wings. Mrsha had to promise to do many things. And if the beavers ate the sacred chocolate tree or the sprouts of the new Blue Fruit Trees—well, they listened to her.
And as that [Druid] slept that night, the [Garden of Sanctuary] gained another life form. The fish in the ponds were joined by a small colony of Fortress Beavers, who were already making a dam on one edge of the pond.
Lyonette was exasperated. Numbtongue vaguely approving—they could be emergency rations in times of siege—and the others bemused and worried about Mrsha’s tendency to get in trouble. But the [Druid] knew this was right. She slept, wondering where the little slime had gone.
 
[Druid Level 8!]
[Natural Allies: Fortress Beavers]
[Natural Gift: Fur of the Fortress form obtained!]
 
Mrsha’s eyes opened wide. She sat up in bed. Lyonette du Marquin opened her eyes and saw a huge, shaggy furry beast sitting on her chest. Fur like armor.
She screamed. Mrsha didn’t get dessert for two weeks.
 
—-
 
Those were small tales. Little events. Sometimes with lasting consequences. And Mrsha—like Ryoka was learning about herself, or Erin about her Skills—was learning about her class.
Intuition came well to [Druids]. But she could have used a teacher. Because then she would have known that the power she had came from no books, but nature. And her allies in nature mattered.
Fur like a fortress was just the start. There was far more you could gain. But you couldn’t do it just by leveling. It was a compact with nature, like [Witches].
And that power could be used to protect or destroy. It depended on the [Druid].
He sensed the intruder coming unwelcome. A foreign power. Coming unannounced. He grew. Nalthaliarstrelous left his mortal, Human shape behind and grew taller.
The vast rows of hedges in his overgrown garden betrayed a hulking figure. Envenomed claws. Bestial teeth. Eyes which glowed as he moved to war. He roared as the intruder turned his head. Nalthaliarstrelous opened his mouth of layered teeth—
And froze. The intruder stared at the [Druid] without fear. The [Druid]’s wild form faltered. And then—he turned back into a Human man. Naked, much to the objection of the [Maids] and [Servants] flooding out of the mansion to do battle.
They saw Nalthaliarstrelous bow. He pressed his forehead to the ground as the old, half-Elven figure passed them by. Magnolia Reinhart’s servants froze. They recognized this person. They hid the weapons they’d drawn behind their backs.
“He never does that for me.”
Magnolia Reinhart stood in the doors of her mansion. She was beaming with unadulterated pleasure as she stared at the respectful [Druid].
Grand Mage Eldavin—Teriarch—harrumphed as he walked towards the doors. He looked at Ressa. She nodded to him.
“He is respectful. I could wish the same of you, brat.”
Magnolia laughed. She curtseyed deeply, almost a mockery of subservience. The Dragon glowered. But when the [Lady] straightened—she looked at Teriarch.
“It has been a while since you left your cave.”
“A little while.”
He ducked his head, murmuring. Magnolia smiled.
“Come in, then. We have a lot to catch up on.”
“I suppose so.”
The [Lady] turned. She breathed in, and smiled. It had been too long. She had developed lines since they had last seen each other outside his cave. She smiled, even so. And then hid the other emotions behind a single, half-taunting line.
“Come in, old man. Let’s have some tea.”
 
—–
 
The last meeting was also expected and unexpected. The first to see her was a skeleton sweeping the floor. He didn’t need to do this. But sometimes—more often now—he remembered the times he had been a [Barmaid].
Longingly, now. The skeleton looked up, flinching at the sound as the doors opened. If it was one of the Chosen—he would run away. A little, trembling slime hid as well.
Children stalked this castle made of black stone. They laughed, leveled. Learned. But children could be—monstrous.
Yet, this was no child. She was old. And as her eyes alighted on him, the skeleton froze. And fled. He was beginning to understand danger, now. He had lost his eternal regeneration. And he feared those eyes.
Ringed eyes. Glowing orange. A vast hat. Dark blue robes. The [Witch] paused for a moment. And listened.
The clash of swords. In a courtyard, which had been long unused, Venitra and Kerash dueled. The Gnoll and bone woman fought. They had never trained before this. Now—it was a competition. And the reward?
“I am a Level 8 [Warrior]!”
The Gnoll roared. His ability to level had been granted so recently. But he and Venitra were relentless. And the undead were only allowed to spar and practice for now. But they were tireless.
Venitra’s face contorted in displeasure. She had fallen behind. The flames in her eyes burned as she advanced, attacking the Gnoll. They cut each other mercilessly; their bodies could be repaired. And that was only an excuse to see their master.
They never saw the face poking around a corner, staring at them. The [Witch] tapped her lips. She walked through the castle. Poking about.
The master of this place knew she was here already. But he was sitting. Speaking with a rotting woman, a zombie made of plague.
“A [Lady] acts for the good of her subjects, Bea. If you would take that class—you must learn the ways of the living.”
“If you wish me to, master.”
The plague zombie was petulant. Bea sat there, dressed beautifully, but unsure of why she had to learn mortal etiquette. And the Necromancer sighed, but fondly.
“It is what you wish, Bea. You are the first of the true undead. You must choose to be a [Lady].”
“If you want me to, master.”
“Bea…”
