Ryoka Griffin had a quest. A big one. Throw the biggest party the world had ever seen—for the fae. She had told Erin about it. Not all the details. Or why that Grand Magus knew so much. Well—he was a [Mage]. But she had asked, begged Erin for help.
The problem was that Erin didn’t know how. She was touched that Ryoka had asked for help for the first time. But how was Erin supposed to find a noble [Lady]? She’d volunteered Lyonette at once, but apparently Terandrian [Princesses] were only frosting on the cake. Ryoka needed the real nobility.
“Does Ilvriss count? Uh…Pryde?”
Erin thought. She didn’t know. But she did know that Ryoka would need money. Cool things for her party. She had a location in mind.
Riverfarm. Apparently someone else from Earth was there…Erin wondered if the door would go that far. Ryoka had said it was still out of range. Either way, though. Erin would be there when Ryoka needed help.
“So that means money. Cool ideas. Like—like pool. Do faeries play pool? Chess?”
Erin wasn’t good at throwing parties. At least—other people’s parties. She was good at her thing. The young woman sat on the hill as a Hobgoblin exited the extra-large outhouse designed for Moore-sized guests. He liked the space.
Numbtongue had been borrowing one of the books that Pawn kept bringing Lyonette. He closed the book as he saw Erin sitting on the grass. The inn was bustling. This was a rare moment.
“Hey.”
The Hobgoblin sat down. Erin looked up and smiled.
“Numbtongue, hey, how’s the book going?”
The Rise and Continued Success of the Walled Cities, by Krsysl Wordsmith. The Hobgoblin showed Erin the book. She made a face.
“Oh, that one? Don’t read anything by that Drake. According to…everyone, he’s really biased.”
The Hobgoblin knew that. The Drake kept touting how the Walled Cities had been all over the continent. But where were they now? It was still good reading.
“What’s up?”
As always, the [Bard] was sparing with words. Was that ironic or indicative of his class? Erin shrugged.
“Just…thinking. I want to help Ryoka. She’s off on an adventure. I feel like I should do something too, y’know?”
She pounded a fist into a palm. Life was good right now. Her rate-of-catastrophes was way down, and that was great. But Ryoka had lit a spark in her.
Numbtongue just shrugged. He hadn’t known Ryoka before this and she had been very leery of him at first. He had warmed to her, but she seemed like a Headscratcher-type. Always wondering over things and fretting. That was partly a compliment. And she knew a Dragon.
But the [Bard] was good at keeping secrets. He sat back and shooed away Reiss as Erin kept talking.
“I just want to do something new. Maybe…maybe I should sell more stuff.”
“I can enchant items. How long will you make me stay here?”
“Shh. Like what?”
Erin Solstice frowned. She lowered her voice since Numbtongue seemed to think that was important.
“I dunno. Maybe…maybe my fire? Saliss and Xif both want it. So maybe it’s useful?”
“Hm. Fire any good?”
Numbtongue stared at Reiss as Erin thought. The Goblin Lord gave him a glare. Numbtongue didn’t want Reiss in his head. Both the ghost and Erin shrugged.
“Well, let’s see. I have angry, invisible fire. Glory fire…and depressing fire. Um. Um. I made one thing out of the depressing fire.”
Numbtongue nodded appreciatively. Free cold air in his rooms. He kept his lantern faced away and fed it with a bit of fuel and it cooled everything down. Erin had even worked up a little system with one of her stoves; she could now freeze water into blocks of ice if she put a bucket in the stove and left it there for an hour.
“Magical fire is good.”
“Yeah. But it makes people sad. I can’t—use that in other stuff, right? Imagine me selling that to adventurers? Get a Depressing Fire Lantern for cheap! Feel bad about killing monsters and the hopelessness of life while you try not to step onto a trap! Also, free cold air!”
The Hobgoblin chuckled. He could think of a few good uses for that lantern. Shine it on an annoying team of Gold-ranks while they were hunting you and they might just curl into a ball and give up. But it wasn’t marketable since Goblins didn’t have much money, he agreed.
“What else? Why magical things?”
Erin was trying to call her happy fire. But that was the hardest fire to conjure because it was so pure. She broke off, looked up.
“Oh. It’s for Ryoka’s middle-of-the-summer party. The Solstice thing, you know? On my birthday. I think. My parents said it was a sign. Since y’know, my last name? But I’m not sure it lines up exactly. There are more months. Time is weird here.”
The year was longer than in her world. Numbtongue nodded. He vaguely wondered if he could find some gold and have Pyrite shape it into something for Erin. Mrsha had been easy.
“So why magical things?”
“Oh, it’s for the fae. Frost faeries? Winter Sprites?”
The Hobgoblin shrugged once more. He saw them now and then—vague balls of lights bringing snow. They never bothered Goblins.
“Yeah. Yeah. They like magical stuff. I could do magical food…but it’s such a pain.”
Numbtongue’s ears perked up. Of course, he knew about the magical food. But Erin had run out of scale soup and her other rather noxious foods and hadn’t made more.
“You mean…invent more magical food? You can do that?”
Erin gave him a distracted nod.
“Yeah, but I haven’t tried making more in a while. Think I should?”
The [Bard] stared at Erin. She looked up.
“What?”
“You can make…magical food. Like potions. And you do not?”
Numbtongue had to speak slowly to make sure he was getting this. Erin frowned.
“Yeah.”
“Why not?”
“Eh. It’s hard.”
“So?”
The Human girl hesitated, put off by the intensity in Numbtongue’s voice.
“Well—it takes money. Time. And no one likes eating my stuff. Even me. It’s risky, y’know?”
“So?”
She could make magical food and her objection was that it was ‘too much of a pain?’ The former Redfang Warrior was offended. Erin hesitated.
“W-well. I was busy. I mean, I always meant to try it again. Don’t look at me like that. I meant to! It’s just—hey, why don’t you help me experiment? Sometime this week? I’m sure I can…”
The Hobgoblin folded his arms. Erin hesitated.
“Um. Tomorrow? I need to get things ready and think about how to be magical…”
He said nothing. The [Innkeeper] wilted.
“You know, I have an empty schedule.”
That was how Numbtongue, Palt, and Erin found themselves outside, bubbling stuff in a pot and debating what constituted ‘magical cooking’. Palt had joined because of course he would. And they were outside because Lyonette had heard the words ‘experiment’ and ‘magic’ from Erin’s mouth and banned them at once.
“I just don’t know how it works. It’s [Wondrous Fare]. I’ve done a few good things—I made this dish for the Winter Sprites once, but it was just intuition. This could be magical. What do you think?”
Erin had altered one of her standing recipes. She had taken the element of heat and tried to infuse it into her cooking.
That meant a milk-and-butter base, to warm you up. Hot peppers, including the paste being sold in her new dishes. The element of heat, to Erin, was also represented in food you ate when you were cold. So she’d put a tiny bit of chocolate in. And now she was tossing other spicy things into the pot, like some tubers.
Palt looked into the pot, already simmering with a half-dozen ingredients. The milk looked like it was curdling. He put a hand over his mouth.
“You—this is your process?”
“Yup. All intuition.”
“Please stop.”
The Centaur said it as much to Numbtongue as Erin. The Hobgoblin was trying the recipe. It was hot. Edible, at least to him. He smacked his lips.
“Where’s the magic?”
“Um. Usually I put something from Octavia’s shop in there. Maybe salamander skins? I think that’s what we used last time.”
“Just…skins?”
“Well, I’ll probably boil them first.”
At this point the [Illusionist] had to trot off for a second. He came back after a few minutes of Erin tossing Sage’s Grass into the pot. The worst part was that it was actually working.
Numbtongue was sweating profusely in the heat.
“Hot soup.”
“Yeah. Yeah. This is magic! Heat soup!”
It was disgusting. Even Numbtongue would have rather eaten something else. But the soup did warm you up. Not just from the peppers. Palt tasted the magic as he took one grudging sip. And a bit of salamander skin. He retched.
“Dead gods. This is horrible!”
And he’d studied alchemy for one semester in Wistram. Erin shrugged.
“It’s a brew.”
“It’s an insult to cooking is what it is! Even [Witches] cook better than this! And they use toad scrapings!”
The Centaur snapped. Erin looked vaguely hurt, so he moderated his tone.
“I’m sorry. It’s just that—do you have a plan, Erin?”
“Nope.”
The [Innkeeper] looked up innocently. Palt sighed.
“I didn’t think so. Even for cooking, Erin. You have to have a recipe. Not knowing anything and improvising is the hallmark of bad cooking. Even an idea helps. And this?”
He waved at the curdled, burned mess that was putting some of the guests in the inn off their feed.
“…It’s not magical. You’re adding something to it. I can tell.”
Or rather—Erin was allowing the inherent magic in her ingredients to combine in some way. She had a rare Skill. Palt wasn’t the most up-to-date on Skills, but he’d never heard of her cooking Skill. He went on.
“Each Skill does something different. How does yours work, Erin?”
She thought hard about it as Numbtongue dumped the pot into one of the outhouses and then tossed a jar of acid fly acid down too.
“Hm. I think I need an…element. No, a theme.”
That was how her cooking had always worked. She combined things of the same…idea together. And once she got started, it made more sense. Palt nodded.
“In that case—why don’t we gather ingredients up and you choose a theme? Also—for your base. Please don’t use milk.”
“What, then?”
The Centaur produced a cigar, took a puff. It was outside so Erin let it go. She was not judgy! Ryoka was just…okay, maybe she judged a bit. But…
“Use water infused with Sage’s Grass. That’s a common alchemical trick. It doesn’t affect the flavor—much. You’re making highly magical dishes, Erin. Don’t use bases like milk. It seems to me you’re using so many ingredients because they lack sheer magical force.”
“Hey, that makes sense! I was always asking Octavia what was like, the most magical. The thing is, there isn’t much magical stuff.”
“Not highly magical. True.”
Octavia wasn’t a rich [Alchemist]. The Centaur reflected that was part of the problem. If Erin had complete access to Wistram’s stockpiles for instance, what might she make?
Thirty minutes later, a small group clustered around a new pot. Numbtongue, Erin, Palt, and now, Octavia and Mrsha. They had all come out—especially because Octavia was interested and familiar with the process.
“I can spare some of my ingredients. Just please don’t go overboard.”
The [Alchemist] was a lot more helpful than the first times they’d done this. Also, Erin was being deliberate. Octavia had brought her ingredients out, the kitchen’s goods had been placed on a blanket on the grass—and she had pans, pots, and utensils.
Numbtongue had even brought out a number of his ingredients. Which were all rocks. Palt eyed some raw magicore and a handful of gems.
“You mine these?”
He addressed Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin shrugged. Gemstones were more plentiful in this world, but the small pile of gems of all colors was still impressive to Erin. She looked at them, oohing and ahhing.
“I think I’m getting some inspiration here.”
“Remember, think it out before you get started. How does a Sage’s Grass base sound?”
“Standard to me. I’ll do it.”
Octavia reached for the grass, but Palt grabbed her hand.
“Sorry. But it’s Skill-based.”
“Oh. Right.”
The [Alchemist]’s eyes widened. Erin put the grass in the cauldron and poured in water. The Sage’s Grass was already minced. But it was her hands doing the mixing. Mrsha peered into the pot—
Lyonette grabbed Mrsha and towed her off.
“Oh no you don’t, missy. You’re not getting near that.”
The Gnoll girl complained silently. But Lyonette was predicting something. So were the guests, who were staring out the windows. They were taking bets on whether something exploded.
“Let’s see. Wow. That’s amazing.”
Erin stared into the glowing red water. The Sage’s Grass was dissolving under the intense heat. And the glowing red grass had imparted the water a color she could only describe as…magical.
Palt and Octavia exchanged a glance as Numbtongue watched. He was taking notes in case Erin came up with something he could try making. Pyrite and Reiss were both interested.
“Sage’s Grass doesn’t dissolve that fast! Even my bases take a week to do that!”
Octavia hissed at the Centaur. He nodded. Erin had a powerful Skill. The question was—what did it do?
“Theme. Yeah. I’m getting it.”
Erin closed her eyes. She had made Scale Soup with the idea of making a defensive layer. She’d put hard things into the soup. Now she thought of it—her mushrooms for the fae—every recipe had a theme. Why hadn’t she put that together before?
Perhaps because [Alchemists] had their recipes based off experimentation. But Erin’s Skill—her magic was all about feeling. So she had to do it her way.
“What do you want to create?”
Palt asked Erin. Which was the sort of question that was hard to answer. Because if you didn’t have a purpose—how did you find it?
The young woman closed her eyes. What would be…powerful? More powerful than a Scale Soup, which was weaker than [Barkskin], even if a bit less costly?
Power. The kind she lacked. In her head, Erin saw the most powerful artifact she had ever held. Or had she? It had been just a dream.
But the young woman reached into her pocket and felt the coin.
“I offer an umbrella made from the sun’s light. To bring day into blackest night.”
She remembered holding the umbrella and feeling the sun’s light on her skin. So beautiful, so bright. The very sun itself, that no magic could copy.
To her, that was power. And yet—Erin Solstice shivered.
Tamaroth.
Go the opposite way. That was what she wanted. She looked into the glowing pot. And suddenly—she knew.
“Darkness.”
“That’s the theme?”
Palt and Octavia looked up. Numbtongue saw Erin’s features firm. Her eyes flickered.
“The fire’s wrong.”
They looked at the magical fire Palt had conjured. Erin reached out as Palt cleared his throat.
“If it should be less hot—”
