The flames turned invisible. The Centaur froze. For a second, Erin’s face was wrathful. The flames of hatred weren’t hard to conjure. Hatred was easier than true happiness.
“Something dark. To hide you from…even the sun. I think I get it. I have to really want it. Because it’s there.”
The [Innkeeper] could see it in her head, now. It wasn’t just her ideas. It was—instinct. She looked around.
What spoke to her of darkness, here? She walked down the lines of neatly arranged ingredients. Spotted three things.
“What’s this?”
Erin picked up a good amount of black liquid. Octavia started.
“That? That’s ink from the Lurkersnatch fish. It’s cheaper than octopus ink since you get them every spring.”
“It’s good at hiding things. That’s what I’m making. A hiding…thing.”
Erin spoke dreamily. Yes. The ingredients didn’t matter. No—they did, but it wasn’t the recipe that mattered. That was how she differed from Octavia. [Alchemists] were all about the process. So long as Erin achieved the goal—the food worked.
“How much do you—”
Palt’s mouth closed as Erin dumped the entire container of ink into the pot. Octavia closed her eyes.
“Positive Octavia. Positive Octavia.”
She muttered to herself. Numbtongue patted her on the shoulder. He offered her some of the leftover silver he’d mined. Octavia brightened up. Palt eyed the Hobgoblin.
“…Can I have some?”
“No.”
Erin was turning to the second ingredient. It was onyx. A few gems that Numbtongue had found.
“This is also dark.”
“It’s a gemstone. Can you eat rocks?”
Palt looked nervously at Octavia and Numbtongue. Both nodded, casually. Pyrite would have loved to see this. For a moment—a minute—Numbtongue became him.
“Here. I can grind.”
The Hobgoblin helped Erin as she found a mortar and pestle. He easily ground the rocks with his hands. Even chewed one up and spat it into a bowl. Palt gave Numbtongue a wide-eyed look. Erin nodded.
“Good.”
The ground-up onyx went into the pot. And already—the pot was dark. But still glowing.
“I want this Skill.”
Octavia muttered. It was just—bypassing a lot of what she knew as alchemy. But Erin wasn’t listening. She was following the idea in her head.
The third item was charcoal. Erin smashed it up and dumped a pound into the pot. Palt had to object here.
“Oh come on. That’s not good for you.”
“I need something dark.”
Erin muttered. She looked around. She had—well—it was like when she’d made food for the faeries.
Part of it was silly. Childish. Like a girl pretending to make magic. But that belief was what made the magic in the first place. This would hide people.
“One soup to rule them all. One soup to bring them together. And in the darkness blind them.”
“I think she’s losing it.”
Octavia muttered to Palt. Erin grinned. But that was just a joke. In truth—she frowned.
“I don’t think I want a soup.”
The [Illusionist]’s hand meeting his face was loud in the silence. Erin frowned.
“I think—I’m imagining balls.”
“Balls?”
The Centaur frowned. Erin nodded. She was imagining…it was so clear in her head.
“They’re…powdery. Like dough-balls. Small, but powdery. You roll them up and then you pop one into your mouth.”
She was sure that’s what it looked like. Octavia, Numbtongue, and Palt exchanged a glance. Erin looked sure, now.
“Flour. Is there black flour?”
Erin was hunting through the bags of ingredients. Palt cleared his throat.
“Actually, there is. There’s a kind of wheat. Noelictus exports it.”
The [Innkeeper]’s head rose.
“Yes. That. I need it.”
“Um…we could order some?”
Octavia helplessly looked at the others. Erin’s face fell.
“No flour?”
She was sure she needed it. Octavia shook her head helplessly. Erin frowned.
“Maybe…some regular flour works? I need a lot of it. To make this thick. It can’t be a soup. That’s how it can start, but—”
Distractedly, she began pouring in flour to the pot. Bags and bags of it. Palt looked concerned.
“There’s surely enough ink in the pot to dye whatever you need—”
“It has to be dark! It’s a theme! The flour makes it too not-dark!”
Erin snapped. She could see the recipe struggling to adapt. Not dark enough! She cursed, added some other powder.
“Baking soda?”
Octavia saw Erin pouring a lot in. the [Innkeeper] scowled at her brew. It was indeed turning grey, not entirely black. She had to adapt. This would be—ashy. Well, that worked.
“I need some dust. Ash.”
“Potash? I have some.”
“Yeah. Yeah. So—okay. We’re mixing white and black now. To get grey. This will be like dustclouds. Um—um—”
The image changed in Erin’s head. She was imagining bread now. Bread, like dust. Her eyes snapped open.
“Bread?”
“Oh come on.”
Palt objected. The pot was full. But Erin looked at him and she seemed certain.
“Bread works. It’s changing, Palt. Where’re the eggs? We should add more flour—we’re making a dough, now. Hold on.”
The mixture was too thick, practically dusty. But since Erin didn’t have enough darkness—she looked around. Saw some water in a jug. Octavia’s eyes widened.
“Erin, that’s not w—”
She poured it into the pot before she heard Octavia. Erin saw the mixture change. It began to bubble—she looked at Octavia. Something had gone wrong. She felt it. Now her image of the ash-bread was gone, as well as the shadow-powderballs.
“Um. Octavia. What did I just add?”
The [Alchemist] saw the pot bubbling up. She said one word.
“Vinegar.”
Numbtongue was already running with Palt. But it was too late. Erin backed up and—
 
—-
 
Mrsha the Experimental, grumpy at being left out of all the fun, was watching through the window. Lyonette had let her do that. She saw the four running for the door a second before the pot boiled up.
Vinegar and baking soda. It didn’t quite explode. But the mixture, far lighter than it should have been, bubbled high into the air. Mrsha’s jaw dropped. And then she saw the mixture turn gaseous in the air. Partly gaseous.
A cloud dropped over the entire inn. Abruptly, all the light went out. The fireplaces weren’t lit. Inside the inn, there were shouts of confusion. Mrsha looked around wildly.
“What happened?”
“It was that pot! Hah! You owe me five silver! I told you—”
The only light was from the kitchen. Awestruck, Mrsha looked around. In the darkness, Lyonette raised a hand.
“Everyone stay where you are! [Light]!”
The magic from the Sage’s Grass field boosted her spell. Multiple orbs of light emerged from the table, floors, walls—the guests oohed and applauded. The [Princess] gave them a little pleased bow and then looked around.
“Mrsha?”
She sighed as she saw the Gnoll wagging her tail. Then Lyonette went to the window.
It was perfect blackness outside. No—that wasn’t quite true. The particles of blackness in the air were shifting. It was like the inn was engulfed in a cloud.
“It’s like—a cloud spell. Erin made that?”
Wonderingly, Montressa went to the windows. Mrsha heard a banging sound from the hallway. She turned as Palt, Numbtongue, Erin, and Octavia stumbled into the inn.
They weren’t actually dirty—but the dark cloud clung to them, as if the cloud were thick and physical. They were all coughing.
“It sort of worked. I just need black flour. And um—no vinegar and baking soda.”
Erin looked around. Lyonette put her hands on her hips. But the inn’s patrons were excited. They rushed out the door, exclaiming and tripping into one another in the darkness.
“I suppose as events go, that’s not a bad one. But how long is this going to last?”
Even the [Princess] had to concede that. Erin hesitated. She raised a finger and the answer sprung into her mind.
“If the recipe had worked? Three hours.”
Everyone looked at her. Mrsha leapt off her chair as Lyonette covered her face. Erin laughed, though. She had failed, but she was figuring out her Skill. She just needed…black flour, huh? She might also need a few other things. But she could see it. [Wondrous Fare]. It was telling her how to make magical foods.
Of course—the cloud of darkness had a few other unintended side effects. Bird, sitting in his tower, called out after a while.
“Hello? Who has turned the sky off? Hello?”
This would make hunting birds harder. But not impossible. The [Hunter] waited for the bats—which he termed ‘dark birds’ to come out.
Others were less sanguine about the affair. One of the [Guards] on patrol on the eastern wall saw the cloud appear. Instantly, the Gnoll shouted.
“Hey! Get me a Street Runner for the Watch Captain! It’s the inn!”
He needed to say nothing more. The rest of the Watch groaned. The new Human recruits stared at the cloud of darkness as they trooped down the stairs, already calling for Zevara and preparing for an attack, generalized madness, or anything else in the world.
Zevara cursed and slowly reset a little marker on her desk before she grabbed her sword and rushed to lead a squad to investigate.
Days Since Crazy Human Incident: 0
And life had been going so well.
But it was all good. Really. It was just a failed experiment. The cloud did disperse after two hours. And Erin Solstice resolved to be more careful next time. But she could see both dishes in her head. You’d eat the black powderballs and spit a cloud. It would help. The ash bread? She wasn’t sure what it did, but presumably it had another effect related to dust.
It would take time. But she would make new things. Numbtongue would see to that. He was already imagining how useful this would be. Make a cloud of this—even the accident—then shoot arrows or roll boulders into the trap.
It was just a day. Innocent. A little event. With no consequence but a bit of surprise and worry for some. Oh—and one more thing.
It took them a while to notice. Lyonette was the first, because of her new instincts. But she had checked once and then looked away. And by the time she realized that a little, white Gnoll had used the cloud cover to escape—it was too late.
 
—-
 
Mrsha was a good girl. She really was. She was being an adult. Most of the time. She wasn’t childish like Ekirra. She had seen things. She could be responsible.
It was just that the adults never let her do anything by herself. And sometimes Mrsha wanted to be independent. So—sometimes she had to take opportunities like this.
The dark cloud stuck to Mrsha’s fur, making her giggle. She wanted to run about in it and sneak up on people lost in the cloud. But she had to take this moment to get away from the inn.
Bird had orders now and he would spot her almost every time she ran for it. She wouldn’t get this chance again. So Mrsha ran out of the cloud and down the hill.
She was running towards the city. Mrsha saw that and immediately reversed, away from the squad of Liscor’s [Guards] led by Angry Zevara. That wasn’t where she wanted to go.
Stealthily, using her Skills not to be noticed, Mrsha the Sneaking Sneak padded through tall grass. Rustling away from the inn. She had a destination in mind, and she was smart enough to stay away from suspicious spots where Shield Spiders might make their nests, or conspicuous boulders.
She knew she would get in trouble for this. But it had been a long time. So long—and she was Mrsha the Great and Terrible. Mrsha the White. The great [Mage]! The hero who had made a compact with her brave alliance in a battle of history.
The Defenders of the Cave. Mrsha knew them now. She had, after all, watched The Hobbit. And so she had her wand, which was almost as good as a staff. She stood up on two legs and tottered towards the cave.
She needed a hat. But a wizard—Mrsha the Wizardly decided she wasn’t late! She was right on time! She was always on time!
She should have brought Numbtongue. Or Erin, or Lyonette. But the cave was her special place. And the Healing Slime was afraid of strangers. Mrsha had tried to take it to the inn—twice—but it had always rolled away. But she’d convince it this time. The Defenders of the Cave awaited. Their sacred pact endured! The cave was as Mrsha had left it. And inside—
Scuttling spiders milled about in chaos. The white Gnoll slowed, padding into the cave. She froze. They were clustered around large egg sacs. Webbing covered the ground and walls. 
Desiccated, half-eaten corpses lay on the ground. Large, furry shapes. Fallen, devoured, torn by Shield Spider fangs. At the far end of the cave, a blockade of wood, sticks, and stones. Shield Spiders tore at it, and Mrsha heard the sound of tails desperately slapping the ground.
She had arrived too late. Days—perhaps weeks too late. The Shield Spiders clicked, uncertainly registering the intruder.
Food? Mrsha backed up, eyes wide. She could sense them with her [Druid]’s senses. They radiated a single emotion, like the bees.
Hunger. Hungry. Hungryhungrystarvinghungryravenousfoodfoodhungry—an overpowering rush of a single emotion. The Shield Spiders were hungry.
They had tripled in number since the last time she’d been here. The summer had fed them. Too well; they had expanded and without the other peacekeeper of the caves, the Healing Slime—the compact had fallen apart.
The Fortress Beavers and Shield Spiders had gone to war. And one had won. Mrsha saw a tide of spiders scuttling at her. She froze—
And a large Shield Spider clicked. It blocked the starving younglings. It knew her.
The Shield Spider was one of the original members of the nests. It had fought the Crelers. And something in it—recognized Mrsha. The Shield Spiders drew back. Mrsha stared up.
This Shield Spider was twice her height now. A patriarch of the nest. She shook as it clicked over to her, eight legs moving on the bare stone.
What had happened? She could feel the hunger in the giant Shield Spider as it regarded her. Mrsha looked around, desperately. The Fortress Beavers—and there had been so many—were dead.
Where was Healing Slime? Had it run away? Died? She looked at the Shield Spider, asking a desperate question.
It had no answers. Only—vague shapes. Dark, flaming eyes in the cave. Death. Fire. Death. Magic. No more slime.
And then hunger. Mrsha knew the rest. She looked at the Shield Spider. Despairingly.
Why? How could you do this? They were your friends. She wanted to ask the Spider. But she had no words.
And no words would have mattered. The giant spider was a creature. It wanted to live, first. People—people might starve rather than turn on each other. But animals were practical. The nest was starving. The Shield Spiders would eat each other without food. Or expand. This brood would expand, soon. The cave would become another nest.
After they killed the last of their food. Mrsha broke out of her horror. She heard a sound.
