Why was she so shocked about this? Ryoka looked as strangely at Erin as the young woman was looking at her. But more of Erin’s history was revealing itself to Ryoka.
Erin was someone who might believe—or have been taught—that sex was only for when you were married. Ryoka winced. Well, that was an opinion in the world. Not hers.
“I guess…it’s all okay. But it was just sudden. That’s all.”
That Ryoka could understand. It had been sudden. But it had taken a long night, and…extraordinary events. She had been the one to find Relc, lying amid the bodies. She’d called for the Watch. And she’d been the one to get him to come to the inn.
Why had it happened? It was more than just a spur-of-the-moment. The moment wasn’t the moment but a long night where she kept Relc company, even when Erin and Embria and the others surrounded him. Talking about…well, running. Shared experiences like how they knew Erin.
He told her about being a [Soldier]. She—she talked about the Goblin Lord because it was personal and he was hurting. And it was intimate. He talked about Embria. Endlessly, really. How he’d tried to raise her, how she ran off and was disappointed in him…
It was odd, talking to a regretful father because Ryoka disliked her parents intensely. But then—her parents didn’t care. Relc cared, but he was clumsy. He’d made mistakes. And that was something she completely understood. And after that?
At one point Relc had successfully struck himself out with six different females of different species with his atrocious pickup lines—and he had sympathy scars! But Ryoka had laughed herself off her seat and then—
Well, they’d worked on her when she’d encouraged him to keep going. Ryoka had felt a strong connection with Relc over doing the right thing, however hard. Rather like her and Lupp, really. But different. Relc laughed a lot more. He was, in his way, rather considerate. Kind.
Kindness was attractive to Ryoka Griffin. She discovered that about herself. She had never realized that.
“Uh—uh—who were the other two?”
At this point Ryoka decided she’d shared enough details. She got up.
“I’ll tell you later. Erin, I have to run soon. Let me just talk to Relc—I think he’s going to need to go to the Watch barracks.”
He had been summoned to discuss the Bearclaw incident. But for now, Relc was swinging Mrsha off of one arm and she was laughing hard enough to have forgiven him.
Maybe not Ryoka. Mrsha turned her head, but Relc gently lifted her up.
“Hey. I’m cool. She’s cool. What’s the problem?”
The little Gnoll considered this. She grudgingly gave Ryoka a nuzzle. Ryoka held Mrsha and then let her wiggle off to the ground and pad off. She and Relc stood there. After a moment, Relc cleared his throat.
“Hey. Just wanted to say thanks. Y’know. For…stuff. And it’s totally cool if it was just this one time. It—helped me out. We don’t need to mention it. We can just wave at each other or something…”
That was the funny thing. Ryoka looked at Relc. He did think about these things. Even if he had little tact. She nodded at him.
“You’re not a bad guy, Relc. Why don’t you wait to see me again and we’ll catch up? No promises.”
He looked at her. From the way his jaw dropped, she was fairly certain that wasn’t an offer he got very much. He hesitated, and then blustered.
“Hey, sure…open minded. That’s me! That’s Relc-style.”
She gave him a look. He dropped the bluster and looked embarrassed. Ryoka couldn’t help it. She laughed and Relc started laughing too. The secret of Relc was that he didn’t take himself that seriously.
The secret was that he was deeper than what you took him for. Like everyone else.
“I don’t regret it. Just so you know. And it was my decision, bad lines and all.”
Ryoka punched Relc in the shoulder. The Drake grinned.
“Hey, you know, once you use the best lines on the ladies, they can’t resist—”
He caught her expression.
“Sorry.”
“It’s alright. We’re adults. And this—is fine. We don’t need to defend it.”
Ryoka said it half for Erin, who turned red at the unspoken reprimand in the City Runner’s voice. And half for Mrsha. The little Gnoll probably should be scolded for her prank. She sat under a table, ready for one.
But the City Runner just scooped her up in a hug. She swung Mrsha back and forth.
“You little prankster. Don’t do it to anyone else, got it?”
She meant Pawn and Lyonette. Mrsha hesitated. Ryoka hugged her.
“It’s not a bad thing. It just means two people—like each other, Mrsha. I’d never stop loving you. You understand? I might be a bad person. But I’m not that bad.”
The little Gnoll looked up. And then she hugged Ryoka, fiercely. She sniffed. Perhaps more of her prank had been part of her emotions.
“Hey. It’s totally cool. You can hit me. I’m an idiot, Mrsha. Go ahead. Punch me. I can take it!”
Relc was alarmed by Mrsha’s sudden grief. He came over. Mrsha punched at him, weakly. But that wasn’t it.
“It’s not you, Relc. I…just have to go. I should have stayed with Mrsha. She knows I have to leave today.”
Ryoka felt guilty, now. She had focused on Relc, gone after him because she knew how he must have been feeling. But Mrsha clung to Ryoka.
“Does it have to be today?”
Erin spoke up. She looked a bit ashamed as well. Ryoka was glad—she hadn’t flared up at Erin. Not today. She met the [Innkeeper]’s eyes.
“I’m sure. I have to, Erin. There’s so much to do. I have to beg an audience with Magnolia—well, T—Eldavin is going to do that. But I need to find more. Two more, at least.”
“To bring back Ivolethe.”
“To meet her again.”
The young woman nodded. Erin hesitated. Bit her lip.
“But it’s just once. Why is it…?”
So important? Ryoka knew Erin had questions. Doubts. Of course she did. To meet Ivolethe one more time, Ryoka had to do the impossible. Create a party to summon the fae, invite three grand nobles of Izril.
Why was it worth it just to see her friend again? Perhaps—because she and Ivolethe were friends. Ryoka couldn’t explain it better any other way. She had so few friends. Erin, Ivolethe, Fierre, Lupp—maybe Alber, Relc, Ceria, Calruz and a few others counted.
But so few in this world. For any one of them, Ryoka would run through the Bloodfields in the summer. To save their lives? She’d risk her life. Ivolethe had died for her. Ryoka wanted to see her again. Not just because she missed her friend.
Ivolethe could teach her how to master the wind.
“I have to go, Mrsha. I do. And I’m not going alone. The Horns are going to pick up their gear, and then we’re going to head north. Together. For a bit.”
She’d run as soon as they left Invrisil. The Horns were too slow. But Mrsha didn’t have to know that. She hugged Ryoka tight.
“Griffon Hunt too. We’ll be on the road for an hour or two.”
The City Runner gently cradled Mrsha as she heard a snuffle. Erin looked misty-eyed too.
“I know they just got back. But—but—can’t you stay forever? I’ll feed you until you get fat and old. You can even sleep with Relc.”
“Hey! Am I negative or positive, here?”
Relc pretended indignance. But Erin was just as upset as Mrsha. Like before, they were leaving. The adventuring teams had come back for a few glorious days. But they couldn’t stay here.
“I’m sorry. I’ll be back. Now I know the door is in Invrisil—I’ll visit. Even if I have to take a carriage to visit. Reizmelt isn’t that far. It’s not like I’m at First Landing. And I’m a Runner. We go everywhere, Mrsha. You’ll be brave for me, right? I’ll come back. I swear.”
Ryoka knelt down. Mrsha nodded. Her face was streaming with snot and tears. Ryoka wiped at her face.
“I’m so sorry I didn’t say goodbye. I was just afraid you’d be sad. But I’m a bad person, aren’t I?”
A desperate shake of the head. Again, they hugged. Relc cleared his throat. Ryoka looked up at him.
“Hey.”
“So…thanks.”
“For what? I meant what I said. I’ll see you again, Relc Grasstongue.”
He smiled. And looked just a bit pleased about that. Ryoka Griffin took a deep breath, as people began to come down the stairs.
Grumpy Halrac, Revi, asking what Erin had been shouting about so early. Tousle-haired Ceria, yawning as she leaned on Ksmvr. Yvlon, properly attired and dragging Pisces down the stairs. Typhenous, Briganda bouncing Cade who waved at Mrsha. Ryoka Griffin looked up as she lifted Mrsha in her arms.
And she said goodbye. Just for a little while.
 
—-
 
She thought of him more thereafter. Fixated on him, really. She had liked him. Really. An embrace—she yearned for it.
And it scared her to pieces. But she had experience in sex, relationships both carnal and otherwise. To judge from Erin’s shock—the [Innkeeper] had not.
In a way, it fit Erin’s personality. She liked everyone. Loved? Ryoka could see Erin ‘loving’ Relc, just like she loved Bird and Mrsha and everyone else. But love, with that painful emotion that tore bits out of you and made you insensible and…Erin?
No, that was harder to picture.
When Ryoka Griffin fell in love with someone, even for a night, she overthought things. Were they a good fit? What would they look like older? Could the relationship last? What about kids? 
She had those thoughts. Her brain ran ahead of any relationship. Confuscated the issue. That was why hookups with people she didn’t know were so much preferable to her.
It was just strange to Ryoka that Erin was so…withdrawn. Prudish. Maybe it was the way she was raised. But it was—had been—2016. Or 2017, now, Ryoka supposed.
Sex was something everyone had. Except the Antinium. Except people who didn’t.
Ryoka fell in love—or attraction, at the very least. If she had not admired the Drake—felt for him—nothing would have happened.
Erin now—Ryoka was almost certain she had not seen Erin in love. The [Innkeeper] was surprisingly close with her inner feelings. You thought she was an open book. But few people had seen Erin in the height of a genuine emotion.
Rage. Hatred. Sorrow—Ryoka had seen Erin angry, once. She had an intensity about her. What did Erin in love, real love and attraction look like?
The City Runner almost wanted to know. But she was on the road. She stepped through to Invrisil. And she left The Wandering Inn behind.
Two Gold-rank teams joined her. The Horns of Hammerad waved until the sad Gnoll was gone. Ryoka was afraid to turn around after her goodbye or she’d start crying. Griffon Hunt was more stoic.
“Hedault has our gold and the artifacts he promised. We need to pick them up. Meet at the northern gates in…forty minutes? We’ll ride together until we split.”
Halrac looked at Ceria and Ryoka. The City runner nodded.
“I have to check with the Runner’s Guild. I doubt I’ll get a delivery—but don’t wait on me if I do.”
“We’ll go too. I mean—we’re picking up our stuff from Hedault. We’ll wait for you, Ryoka.”
Ceria sniffed and wiped at her eyes. They split up.
It had been a quick goodbye. But no less emotional. Mrsha tugged at Pisces’ robes, as if asking to just keep him. Erin had burst into tears—and only the fact that they’d already done these goodbyes had kept them from being overdrawn.
 
—-
 
Actually—there had been one funny moment. Jelaqua had cried almost as much as Erin and Mrsha—but the Selphid was emotional like that. Green tears had leaked from eyes as, for some reason, she singled Ceria out.
“Congratulations. Is it serious?”
“We’re pretty serious, yeah. I mean—we’re giving it a shot. I’ll let you know how it goes.”
The half-Elven [Cryomancer] was astonished to see Jelaqua burst into more tears. The Selphid hiccupped and turned to her team.
“Oh dead gods. They grow up so fast. This is huge. I—I—are you sure? You just met, but if you know, you know, I guess. Maughin and I were like that.”
She looked at Seborn. The Drowned Man just looked at Ceria.
“Er. Congratulations.”
“Thanks? We won’t be gone long.”
“I hope not. We will take care of your loved ones for you.”
Moore promised Ceria solemnly. Ulinde shyly offered her hand.
“Congratulations, Miss Ceria. I—I’m sorry for before. Best of luck.”
“You’re really going to do it?”
The half-Elf nodded slowly. Griffon Hunt were going on a request to Riverfarm, wherever that was. But somehow Montressa and Beza—and the Halfseekers—must have heard about the Horn’s plans. They were headed north. To take on more requests—but also because Pisces believed they had an opportunity there.
“I mean…we discussed it. Everyone. And we think it’s for the best.”
“Dead gods. That changes everything. I—um—invite us when it’s time.”
“Yes.”
Bezale gave Ceria an odd, awkward look. The half-Elf put it down to the way they’d been at odds recently. She smiled.
“I will. We’ll come back too.”
Jelaqua came over, all weepy. She insisted on hugging Ceria again.
“Let us know. And good luck on your adventures! You have something to come back for now, don’t you?”
“I always did.”
“Oh dead gods! It must be true!”
The Selphid had given Ceria an astonished look. She turned away as the goodbyes were said.
“I can’t believe it. But I guess the rumors are true. Hey—hey Relc! Have you heard…?”
 
—-
 
That had been…weird. Ryoka suspected something had been off. But she hadn’t asked. The Wandering Inn would continue. And…
She would come back again. Ryoka had promised Mrsha. To seal that promise—she had left something behind. Her inspiration. The reason for leaving.
The little statue of Ivolethe wasn’t much compared to Mrsha’s birthday presents. But it was valuable. The Gnoll had put it under her pillow. Ryoka would come back for it.
She would come back. The City Runner inhaled as the Gold-rank teams saw the door to The Wandering Inn close. Ryoka nodded to the others.
“Forty minutes. I’ll be there.”
She jogged off. It hurt, leaving the inn behind. But Ryoka had to move. She’d come back when she had more time, after the Summer Solstice.
There had been one more interesting event. As Ryoka jogged through the city, making for the Runner’s Guild, she reflected on another person she’d left behind. Whom she wished she had more time for.
 
—-
 
“Ryoka?”
The City Runner’s eyes widened as she broke off from hugging Erin. She looked at the Stitch-girl.
“Octavia?”
She embraced the [Alchemist]. They hadn’t had much time to talk. In fact, among all the drama, Octavia had been shoved to the back. And—Ryoka was about to leave in ten minutes.
The [Alchemist] looked at Ryoka.
“I did it. I made the penicillin, Ryoka.”
“You did? Holy—”
Ryoka was stunned. Unfortunately—she had no idea what to do with that information. She’d settled for putting her hands on Octavia’s shoulders.
