“Sell it. Give it to [Healers]. It can help with bacterial infections. It’s yours, Octavia. It must have been hard. So it’s yours. Just—just do me a favor? Don’t tell anyone how you discovered it. Call it something else. And make it as cheap as possible, please? It will save lives.”
“I will. Oh, dead gods. I wish I’d talked to you earlier, Ryoka.”
“I’m sorry.”
The City Runner had been ashamed for missing Octavia, but the [Alchemist] had been just as embarrassed.
“I wanted to say—thank you for helping me. I wasn’t grateful. And you helped me out more than I can say.”
“Me too. I mean—I was a terrible person. I probably still am.”
Octavia gave her a watery smile.
“That makes two of us. Here—please, take this.”
And she’d pushed all of her new potions she’d learned from Saliss into Ryoka’s arms, refusing to take money for it, much to Ryoka’s astonishment. Octavia had changed.
 
—-
 
So had she. Ryoka Griffin reached the Runner’s Guild of Invrisil. It was a bustling place. Four times as big as Reizmelt’s Guild.
Inside, the place was hopping with Runners going to the multiple stations for [Receptionists], turning in local deliveries, larger ones—there was even a damn horse standing next to a remarkably short man.
A Courier. Ryoka vaguely recognized him. The Moonlight Rider. Well—Invrisil’s Runner’s Guild was one of the biggest on the continent.
So Ryoka squared her shoulders and approached the counter.
“Station and purpose?”
The [Receptionist] was brisk, efficient. Nothing like a smaller city’s [Receptionist] who would happily gossip, ask your name and so on first. Ryoka Griffin spoke.
“City Runner. Looking for high-risk or reserved deliveries for [Lords], or [Ladies]. Danger’s no problem. Any of the Five Houses is preferred, thank you.”
The [Receptionist] glanced up with a frown. She did a double-take, noting Ryoka’s features, as well as the extraordinary nature of the request.
“There are a few requests for City Runners of that nature. But they’re hotly contested, Miss…?”
“Griffin. Ryoka Griffin.”
The [Receptionist] flipped through a small three-ring binder of the latest requests.
“Well, we get all sorts of requests. I can find…eight for you, Miss Griffin. Two Courier-rank in danger…”
“I’d like to look at them all, if I may?”
Ryoka’s heart was pounding. She knew it was a risk. But she had to take big risks to meet with a [Lord] or [Lady] who could satisfy the fae. Laken alone wasn’t enough, as Teriarch had pointed out. Even if Magnolia agreed—that left two. Erin had promised to help, but even her luck didn’t mean a member of the Five Families would just up and visit her inn, surely.
“Hm. Even so, Miss…Griffin…we do not offer dangerous requests to unproven City Runners. We lose enough as it is. I’m afraid you’d have to file your name for the requestees to look into, and they seldom—oh. Ryoka Griffin?”
She looked up, and her disinterested expression turned into one of study. Ryoka felt her stomach lurch.
“Erm. Yes. That’s right.”
“The City Runner who survived the Bloodfeast Raiders?”
The young woman’s heart fell in her chest. She bowed her head.
“…Yes. That’s right. I’m sorry—”
“For what? That changes things. Let’s see. Miss Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Yes…that changes a lot. Your name is on record.”
“It is?”
Ryoka glanced up. The [Receptionist] actually smiled at her.
“Alime, the [Receptionist] of Reizmelt’s Guild? She’s put a number of comments on your file to—compensate for the other notes, it seems. You have a history, however short you’ve been running, Miss Griffin. I think I can authorize you to apply for some of these requests. I have to run it by the Guildmaster, but I think he will accept. Will you give me one second?”
“Oh. Yes! Thank you!”
Ryoka stood straighter. The [Receptionist] gave a nod and left her station, walking into the Guildmaster’s office. Ryoka stood at the counter, noting the eyes on her from the other Runners waiting in line—or now hopping to other lines as it became clear Ryoka was going to take a while.
“Ryoka Griffin. Well, well. We’ve all heard your name around here.”
An accented voice drawled behind Ryoka. The City Runner felt her shoulders begin to hunch. But—she was still new to Invrisil, having only visited once before. She turned around, slowly.
“You have?”
A lot of Runners, both Street and City, were looking at her. But the young man directly behind Ryoka was the most direct about it. He eyed Ryoka up and down, one eyebrow raised, and nodded.
“We’ve heard about you. Nothing but trouble. You once caused an avalanche in a guild, you steal other Runner’s contracts, and you’re a violent, slattern of a foreigner.”
Each accusation put Ryoka’s shoulders up more and more. That sounded a lot like—
Persua. And if there was a name for the pustulent mole on the ass-crack of the Devil himself, it was Persua. Ryoka had heard Persua was being considered for Courier status and had gone north from Fals. She hadn’t realized that would mean trouble for her.
The young man regarded Ryoka. He was shorter, but looked tough. A crossbow and rapier hung from either side and Ryoka felt her internal warning bells go off. But before she could deny the allegations or do anything—the new City Runner held out his hand.
“I’m delighted to meet you. You must be an upstanding citizen if that’s all I hear. Delanay d’Artien.”
Ryoka blinked at the gloved hand extended towards her. She took it automatically, and felt a firm handshake. Then she took in the City Runner, Delanay, again.
He was, possibly, among the most stylish of dressers that Ryoka Griffin had ever met. And she had met many people.
He wore, from top to bottom, a long, rakish hat that would have fit any debonair [Duelist] in an action movie, bright red like blood, adorned with a sigil of a…crossbow and an oversized arrow? In silver. It was buckled around the brim, rather like a pilgrim’s hat, but meant for style, not utility.
Below his hat lay a silvery scarf, the most vibrant thing on him, wrapped around his neck. It glistened in a way that even silk would not; the fabric looked metallic. The young man had on a modernistic, long-flowing trench coat that reached down his body. Red again, over a white button-up shirt that was only changed by the same sigil—again, drawn in silver, not gold.
The jacket, incidentally, was outfitted with a number of compartments, both visible and concealed, and was thus practical and stylish. And stiff; it was dyed leather, not anything else. It looked old, but it was meticulously well-kept.
His pants were of course, loose, for he was a Runner, but even here, he wore red, darker, but noticeably thick as well for all they moved freely. Some composite fabric that gave him closed shoes, the four rings he wore, the amulet like a dagger around his neck, the spectacles on his nose—a look.
Vampire hunter. He could have stepped out of the same cloth the [Hunters] from Terandria had been cut with. His insignia was a cross and stake. And even his hair had silver strands crossing his duller, brown hair.
“At your service.”
The young man swept his hat off his head and gave her a courtly bow. Ryoka, taken, bowed back, or tried to.
“Ryoka Griffin.”
“Delanay, again. House Artien. I am delighted to make your acquaintance, Ryoka Griffin. I’ve heard you’d sleep with a horde of Goblins and kick little babies for fun. But since I heard it from the most objectionable rat-girl I’ve ever met, I have to conclude the opposite.”
That little speech was meant for everyone listening. There was a susurration around the room, and Ryoka smiled despite herself. Here was someone who gave no fucks whatsoever and she liked him, instantly.
“Thank you, Delanay. I uh—don’t suppose this ‘rat girl’ has a name?”
The young man grimaced. He adjusted the silver scarf—oh he was definitely a Vampire hunter—and glanced about the Guild as he spoke.
“You might know her as Persua—”
He broke off as Ryoka groaned.
“Persua. Wait, is she here…?”
“Not today. Or I wouldn’t be here. I take it you’ve run afoul of her? She’s wormed her way into the Guild by, as I would put it, sleeping with every Goblin or Runner she could.”
The young man raised his voice and received glares. He didn’t seem to care. He smiled at Ryoka and tipped his hat again.
“Myself, I’m a common City Runner despite my nobility. And both my common side and noble upbringing told me not to associate with that kind of scum. I’ve been waiting to meet you, Wind Runner.”
“Ryoka, please. And Persua and I are enemies. Or rather—when I think of her, I wish she was dead.”
Ryoka’s earnest comment made Delanay laugh. They stood in front of the counter, talking.
“I hear you work around Reizmelt. Myself, I’m mostly around Invrisil. I heard you asking about dangerous request because I was listening in. Are you in a bad spot?”
“The other way around. Trying to get to the top.”
The young man gave a knowing nod. He had to be hot in all his layers, in the summer, but he gave no sign of it. He tipped his hat as he eyed the Guildmaster’s office.
“Well, I can respect that. Us City Runners need to work hard to get to the same rank as that lot.”
He jerked his head at the Moonlight Rider and his horse, who was inspecting the requests he offered her and rejecting them. Ryoka eyed the duo as well.
“You’re a City Runner?”
He smiled.
“Not fast enough to be a Courier, for all my noble house. I’m not low-ranked, if that’s what you mean. Excuse me, I should introduce myself fully. I am of the Artien family. A minor house as nobility goes. Out of date, out of style.”
He gestured to his clothing and insignia.
“We’re descended from Noelictus, the Kingdom of Shade. Our family’s oh, nine thousand years old? Young. We traveled to Izril a long time ago, practically at our founding. But that’s old news. We’re just relics, tarnishing in the modern era. Like the Byres house, actually.”
“Oh—do you know House Byres? I’m actually…friends…with one of their descendants.”
Delanay grimaced.
“And here I go, running my mouth. We’re actually very close with House Byres.”
“Oh really? What a coincidence.”
Of course. Ryoka stared at Delanay’s dress. Crossbow. Rapier—a [Vampire Hunter]’s garb. She shouldn’t be talking to him. She was very conscious of the panacea meant for Fierre. But Delanay was friendly. And—dismissive of his roots.
“It’s old hat. We’re both anti-monster noble families, but the monsters we hunt are long-dead. So we’re poor, but honorable. Myself? I just like how we dress.”
He winked at Ryoka. She grinned at him.
“There is that. Well, thank you for not listening to Persua. I hate her.”
“Oh, dead gods. Thank you for saying that. She’s endeared herself to half the Runners here with her sob stories of how Celum mistreated her and whoring herself out to everyone else. I’m sick of it.”
Delanay did not mince words. Something about him struck Ryoka as being too judgmental. The kind of fellow who would judge you for a smudge on your clothing as a personal sin. But before they could talk longer, the [Receptionist] was back.
“Miss Griffin? We can approve you to meet with some of the requestees for Courier-level assignments. They will choose whether to disclose the request, but you are allowed their information.”
Ryoka turned to the [Receptionist].
“I am? Thank you. Can I see…?”
The woman had a list ready. Ryoka ran her eyes down the list. She recognized only a few names. But some were in Invrisil. Ryoka asked for a copy and the [Receptionist] provided it.
It was up to Ryoka to approach the clients to be allowed the right to deliver the dangerous packages. She wasn’t a Courier, so they risked losing their cargo. She risked losing her life, so fair was fair. Ryoka had only twenty minutes left, though. But some of the nobles—while not of the Five Families—were important.
“Thank you. I’m going to approach them at once.”
The [Receptionist] waved her off. Much to Ryoka’s surprise, Delanay left his place in line. He trotted after her.
“I recognized some of the names on that list because I was reading it. Strikes me that you might be able to meet with two of them if I accompany you.”
He informed Ryoka as they left the Runner’s Guild. The City Runner did a double-take.
“You will? I mean—if you can get me an introduction, thank you. But why?”
She wasn’t a complete fool. Delanay smiled.
“Aside from wanting an ally? I consider helping Persua’s enemies a reward unto itself. And lastly—I hope you’ll do me a favor as well. That’s how we work, right?”
“True enough.”
Ryoka conceded this. Delanay could have other motives, but she’d take anything she could. Hell—she’d invite Yvlon’s entire family to the solstice party if she couldn’t get three great nobles. The two trotted through the city.
“Practical. I knew I liked you. Now, the first member of the list, Lady Imarris, is actually in Invrisil. More’s the luck. Let’s ask to meet her. She’ll know my house’s name. And then you can do me a favor when I need it.”
“And the favor is…? Sorry, I know you’re a City Runner. Don’t you have work to do?”
He grinned, and his teeth were very white. Delanay adjusted his scarf.
“Actually, I’m a special type of Runner. I’m an Emergency Runner. I don’t run normal deliveries. I only run when there’s trouble and they need someone who can fight and deliver potions or antidotes. That’s me.”
“Oh—!”
He gave her a nod.
“You run my kind of job, Miss Ryoka Griffin. And you’re no [Mage]. I’d love to know how you conjure your windstorms.”
“Oh…you’re going to be disappointed.”
He laughed.
“We shall see. Now, do you have a plan or were you going to just stride up to Lady Imarris’ household, assuming you even knew where she was staying?”
Ryoka Griffin grinned as she checked the time. About twenty minutes left. Well…she had told the others to leave without her.
“I have my ways too.”
 
—-
 
Lady Ieka Imarris was having a bad day. She stood in her rather large, luxury room rented in one of Invrisil’s best inns. It could have held multiple families and still had space left over.
But it was not her estates. This was not her city. And she had not bought properties here, because the owner of Invrisil was not her friend.
Magnolia Reinhart. Oh, how the name galled. How did the woman manage to be so—so repellently evil and petty and still cling to her power? How did she get away with everything?
How was she so lucky? Ieka fumed as she threw herself into a couch. Not her stuffed rabbit-hide furniture; this one roughed her skin for all it was high-quality.
