“We’ve never met! But I’m pleased to meet you! C’mere! Cade likes hugs.”
She was friendly. Also—a bit intoxicated. Briganda apparently drank to cure motion-sickness. It was her logic. And Ryoka settled back, ready to get back to work.
She’d visit the [Seamstress] in Reizmelt. No time here; although she had been tempted to ask Delanay. He seemed like a fellow who would know how to get quality tailoring done.
But…The Wandering Inn had been a peaceful, needed interlude. Magical and wonderful. And she had to leave. The adventurers understood that, too. If Ryoka was fine with being old and fat, she would have stayed there forever. But she needed…to see Ivolethe again.
The knowledge burned in Ryoka’s chest. But that was her goal, not the journey. For now, she just sat. And after a while—her conversation from this morning began to eat at her head. She coughed, and in a lull in the conversation as the Horns asked Griffon Hunt where the best villages to stop were—she spoke causally into the silence.
“So…this might be an odd question. But who here has had uh—carnal relations this year?”
Griffon Hunt had been having a drink of water—Briganda, beer. Halrac sprayed his drink onto Typhenous’ back. Ryoka saw Ceria inhale her packed lunch from Erin and began to choke.
Cade just looked blank. He laughed at the expression on the other’s faces. Ryoka turned beet red.
“Uh—sorry. I just had a conversation with Erin. So it’s been on my mind…”
The others relaxed. Oh, Erin. It all made perfect sense when you just said her name. ‘Hey, does anyone have a wart on their knee? I need to know because—Erin.’ It was the perfect excuse.
“Well—if anyone’s asking…yes. Why?”
Ceria slowly put up her hand. Ryoka hadn’t asked for a census—well—she had, and she saw the other adventurers putting up their hands.
Yvlon did not. Neither did Ksmvr. Halrac folded his arms, which could have meant anything. But everyone else raised a hand. Everyone stared at Typhenous’ raised hand. Ryoka’s eyebrows raised. The old man had game.
“I knew it. I’m not weird, Erin.”
Ryoka muttered to herself, neglecting the fact that she’d just asked both teams about it. And Termin—he’d been waving his hand so as not to be left out. She sighed, leaning back.
“What’s this in aid of, Ryoka? Everyone has sex. Right, Yvlon? Right?”
Ceria nudged Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] folded her arms and glowered.
“Stop that, Ceria. My life is private. What I do or don’t do is my business.”
Halrac nodded, giving Yvlon an approving look. Ryoka just sighed.
“I just didn’t know how much people here—er—well, I was talking with Erin. She—objected—to me doing things.”
“Oh, you mean having sex with Relc?”
Revi spoke as Briganda clapped her hands over her son’s ears. Everyone else in the wagon stared at Ryoka. The City Runner turned red. The [Summoner] on the other hand just rolled her eyes and took one out of her eye sockets to adjust the fit.
“I don’t know why you Humans are so prudish. Sorry, Ceria, Ksmvr. But it’s natural. I have sex at least twelve times a year. Once per month, or I get grumpy. At minimum.”
“Revi! There are children here!”
Halrac growled at her. The Stitch-girl raised her hands.
“Pardon me for being honest, Halrac. Humans get so worked up about it. I get half-Elves. They have sex like, once every decade.”
“Er…half-Elven villages get weird. But it’s natural. Right? Yvlon?”
“Stop nudging me.”
“It is a biological function. One should not judge others based on the need to seek comfort. Erin is…somewhat strict in her views, I gather.”
Pisces coughed, looking a bit embarrassed himself. Ksmvr waved a hand helpfully and everyone looked at him.
“I do not have genitalia for reproduction. So I do not have sex. Thank you.”
He sat back down, his contribution to the conversation over. Typhenous was laughing into his beard.
“It’s private. It doesn’t matter.”
Halrac’s voice sounded like the end of it. Briganda nudged Ryoka, winking.
“Good on you getting the Drakes, though. Don’t mess with the same species, I say. Experiment! Plus—you can get pregnant in the same lane. Not that I don’t love my boy, but I’m careful not to get another!”
She laughed and Cade laughed too, not understanding what was being said. Ryoka bowed her head. After a moment of silence where she regretted her stupid mouth, Ksmvr turned to Ceria.
“Captain Ceria, as perhaps the foremost expert on intercourse in the wagon, can you tell us what marital life is like? Or have you not been married yet?”
For the second time Halrac spat his drink onto Typhenous. Ceria turned beet red.
“What? I’m not married, Ksmvr!”
The Antinium gave her a very blank look.
“You are not? Are you not engaged to—aha. You are engaged to Master Hedault, your fiancé. I apologize; the nuance was lost on me.”
Ksmvr’s team stared at him as the [Skirmisher] sat back, satisfied. Revi’s eyes slowly went round. She sat back as Typhenous, Halrac, and Briganda stared at her.
“What? I—no! Dead gods! I never—he doesn’t even like us, I’m pretty sure! Who gave you that idea?”
Ceria spluttered. The half-Elf was red to her pointed ear tips. Pisces was starting to laugh into his robes and Ceria tried to kick him over the side of the wagon. Ksmvr looked very concerned.
“I heard it being said at some point. Were you not aware of Captain Jelaqua congratulating you on your upcoming nuptials?”
“Oh tree rot. She can’t—how did—Ksmvr?”
The half-Elf turned white. She looked at the [Skirmisher]. Slowly, he shrank into his shell.
“I heard that Master Hedault proposed to Ceria. I have taken the liberty of informing everyone of the engagement.”
Pisces began choking on his snack. Ryoka started laughing. Griffon Hunt slowly looked around at Revi. Briganda coughed into one hand as Cade played with his box on her lap. The others studiously pretended this was news to them.
Ceria Springwalker got up on the wagon.
“Turn this wagon around! Send a [Message]! Tell them—”
But they were gone. And in time, the Horns left the wagon. Teasing the bride-to-be until she started throwing snow at them. The City Runner ran north, as the wagon turned west, heading towards an [Emperor]’s lands.
It was time to go back to work.
 
—-
 
After Ryoka left, Mrsha cried for about ten minutes straight. Not for hours or hours; she got tired. But enough.
It was still better than waking up and knowing that Ryoka had left without a word. Mrsha had cried every night because of that. This time—it was only for ten minutes.
She would come back. She had promised Mrsha that. And the proof was hidden under Mrsha’s pillow. So—the little Gnoll wiped her nose on Rose’s pants and felt better.
“Ew.”
Rose looked at the snotty Gnoll’s leavings. But Erin Solstice herself was teary. She wiped her eyes and bent down as Lyonette just sighed.
“I miss them too. But you’re being very brave, Mrsha.”
The [Druid] nodded. She was a big, brave girl. Erin Solstice smiled.
“I think we need a treat. What say you we have Ryoka’s special dish?”
Calling it that was a bit of a misnomer. Rather, it was Ryoka’s new dish that she’d insisted on adding to Erin’s list of recipes. Mainly after Erin had presented her with all the fast food she’d imported from Earth and Ryoka had seen the advent of grease and heart attacks and balked.
She lifted Mrsha up and carried her into the kitchen. Erin called out.
“Hey Palt! Can you give me a hand with Ryoka’s bibimbap dish?”
The Centaur looked up. So did a number of people. Erin was very casual about it as she laid out the neatly-chopped veggies; some of the saffron rice that Palt liked to make, and organized it into a bowl.
Well—Palt organized it. Erin wasn’t precise enough. And arrangement mattered.
“But we’re just gonna stir it up anyways. That’s the point.”
The [Innkeeper] complained as she fried some eggs to be put over the top of the bowl. Palt sighed as he heated up the bowls with a spell.
“Erin, presentation is half of the meal. Food is art.”
“Yeah, well, I like chess.”
Erin grumbled. The vegetables needed to be sautéed, and Palt was doing complicated seasoning. She admitted it; she wasn’t a [Chef]. She could cook and derived some pleasure from it, but she didn’t have the patience of Lasica or Palt. Actually, Erin had been doing a lot less cooking of late. Lyonette, Palt, and Garry all took turns helping her out and since they could pre-make a lot of food…
Well, the bowl did look pretty when Palt was done. Colorful—the veggies were on top of the rice. Ryoka had agonized over the ingredients, but this was a versatile dish. You could improvise—and she had.
“Let’s see. Fresh beef. Raw—is that okay? Ryoka said it was okay. There might be parasites, though…”
“Not in my food. And no good [Rancher] will give you infected beef.”
Palt snorted. Erin stared at a bit of paste.
“Hot, fermented peppery paste from my guy. I mean, my Gnoll guy. Um. Add less in my bowl. Thanks. Sliced carrots, bell peppers, spinach…onions…”
That was where the ingredients from Earth ended. Instead of the soy bean sprouts Ryoka wanted, there were a number of tubers. Large suckers you found in caves known as dedem roots. They were chopped up finely. And instead of the zucchini or cucumber, the Centaur had used some plant from the gourd-family that apparently tasted the same. It was blue, with swirls of white in the inside.
The dish was colorful. And of course—most of the vegetables had also been seasoned or prepared. Erin had to admit, it smelled good.
Mrsha was less sanguine about the dish. She sniffed suspiciously at the food as Palt carefully prepared four bowls, and then another four, with leftovers if necessary.
This looked like vegetables. She stared up suspiciously at Erin. The raw beef she approved of, but that was only a snack.
“Ryoka says it’s really good. I think I had it once or twice. Don’t say that, Mrsha. Try it, first.”
The Gnoll was emphatically saying in sign language that for her tears she deserved some meat. Mrsha, grumbling, swiped some raw beef and gobbled it before following Erin out into the common room.
“What is that?”
Jelaqua was still sniffing over Ceria’s upcoming nuptials. But she blinked at the hot, steaming bowls of food. Erin smiled.
“It’s this thing. Bibimbap. Don’t ask me what that means. Ryoka suggested we make it.”
It wasn’t Ryoka’s culture either. The name of the food made all of the inn’s regulars look up. They sensed it. And Kevin, Troy, and Rose all looked up.
“No way. Bibimbap?”
They grew excited. Erin looked at them, and then around for Montressa and Beza. There they were, taking notes. She sighed.
“Mrsha, you sit there. Lyonette? Want some?”
“Of course. Where’s Numbtongue?”
The Hobgoblin appeared at the table and Erin sat down. Palt trotted out, balancing four more bowls. He joined the table.
“I’ll make more. Let’s just see how it tastes…I think I followed the recipe.”
They sat down. Erin explained how to eat it and Mrsha suspiciously eyed the spoons. Palt had two little sticks, claiming that was how you ate Balerosian/Drathian food. The little Gnoll took her spoon, and mixed up the bowl. Indeed, why did you waste time making it all pretty if you mixed it up? She bit at the egg—but Lyonette scolded her.
“Don’t eat it by parts, Mrsha. Mix it up. And take one big bite.”
But it’s just rice and vegetables! There’s barely any meat or egg! The Gnoll whined. But the [Princess] was giving her a stern look.
Mrsha gingerly took a bite of the food. She tasted the crunchy, vibrant taste of the veggies. A hot flash of the peppery paste. The hot rice mixing with egg yolk and a bit of the beef. Her eyes widened. Her tail began to wag.
“See? It’s good, right?”
“I dunno about the raw beef. It’s just a thing from home. Right, Kevin? Kevin?”
Erin complained. But even Palt was chomping down on the food. The others were eating fast. Numbtongue was halfway through his bowl already, but slowing to savor each bite.
“Hey. That looks good. I’ll have one.”
A Drake commented. The others nodded. No one had thrown up and the food smelled good. So that probably meant it was one of the good new things to come from the inn. Another Gnoll hurried out the door.
“Street Runner! Hey! I need a Street Runner!”
He shouted. There was a Gnoll kid in about a minute. The Gnoll gave him a short [Message]. It went to half a dozen [Cooks] in the city.
“Tell them I get the finder’s fee. It’s called bees-in-pots. I don’t think it actually has bees. Lots of vegetables, apparently. Raw beef, too. And an egg!”
The Street Runner raced off. And the cooks of the city abandoned their posts to be the first to steal—er—uncover the secrets of this new dish. After all—what else were you going to do? Let Erin Solstice be the only one to cook it? Nonsense.
The hot food was satisfying. And it made Mrsha happy. She wished she could have eaten it with Ryoka. The City Runner had promised. But then Relc had been attacked and no one had been that hungry. Today though, she licked her bowl until Lyonette scolded her that a ‘lady’ didn’t do that.
Which meant ladies didn’t get the delicious eggy juices and bits of rice on the bottom of their bowl. Horrible. Mrsha was unrepentant. And as orders flooded into the kitchen for the new dish and Erin taught Lyonette and Palt taught Ishkr and Drassi how to prepare the dish—The Wandering Inn was back to normal.
“Hey, you! I know you! You’re one of the [Chefs] who steals my food!”
Erin spotted a Drake wearing a hat and thick clothing trying to hide in a corner of the inn. The Drake jumped to his feet and she chased him with a spatula.
“Out! Out! This is my dish! At least give me one day to make a profit, you jerks!”
She chased away other notable [Cooks] she’d seen before. But Erin knew they’d just get someone else to buy the dish for them. She sighed. But she was smiling.
“Hm. Tastes like Dullahan cooking a bit. They trade with the archipelagos.”
Jelaqua wasn’t blown away by the food—mainly because it was from home. It was nostalgic, not new. She still wanted to share it with Maughin. But Seborn was all over the dish.
“Finally, some good food.”
The Drowned Man grumbled. Moore sighed; he had to wait until there was enough rice and ingredients to make a big bowl for him.
And the day continued. Ryoka Griffin was gone, but Erin Solstice remained. She felt wistful as she paused in throwing bits of dirt at the fleeing [Cooks]. She looked around.
“I guess I’d better help out too.”
