Outwardly, her body appeared exactly as it would have within her own soulscape, from her wrinkled skin to her steel gray hair to the cotton dressing gown she wore. A quick peek beneath the fabric confirmed that everything was in its proper place, such as it was. She highly doubted the Custodian would have seen to that.

Therefore, he was right; her unconscious mind had assimilated this construct and shaped it according to her self-image.

“Hmph.”

Vatreece ran her hands through her hair, flat from her long repose, calling on her will to fluff it up more than fingers alone could manage. It was with some satisfaction that she felt the substance of her body respond, if sluggishly. It felt like running a league on an empty stomach.

She had less success altering her clothing. The fabric was still under her ownership but was less ‘her’, making it unreasonably heavy with the current state of her will. When she tried anyway, exhaustion overtook her quickly, and she was forced to stop. The problem was quick to diagnose as she recovered.

She was low on potential, detectable as a hollow feeling not unlike hunger. Trying, she found she couldn’t break down the invested soul around her for more, nor affect it in any way save those the Custodian’s rules allowed—as in, physically.

If she wanted the bed made, she’d have to do it by hand.

That wasn’t happening.

“Some free potential would be nice,” she said to the air. “And some different clothes. If only there were a dresser in this room. Or a closet.”

Nothing at all happened. He really had left her alone.

Dumbass. I’ll have to slap him for that when he shows up.

Walking to the window, she threw open the curtains to look out at the rolling waves. Poking her head through, she looked down to see that she was on the second story, the house painted a pale yellow to match the sandy island it sat on. Palm trees waved in the wind, and sea birds soared in the distance. Those were new.

Dumbass has gotten better.

The water had changed too, no longer glowing with the shimmer of uninvested potential. She was happy to see that the Custodian had moved beyond the primitive technique of just letting it pool wherever, but she was annoyed in light of her hunger.

Turning from the window, she tried the door, finding it opened to a carpeted hallway with several other doors. At the far end was a landing with stairs leading down, fenced by a sturdy-looking railing.

Deciding to finish with this floor first, she checked the other rooms, finding all unfurnished save one, a bathroom. The plumbing was modern. ‘Modern’ apparently meant a sink with running hot and cold water, a full bath with a shower, and a toilet with a working flush. She was reasonably sure she’d never need any of it, but she appreciated the forethought all the same. This was uncharted territory.

After briefly inspecting herself in the bathroom mirror, she left the second floor, descending the stairs into a fully furnished living room. Ignoring the sofas and the unapologetically enormous flatscreen television that fully consumed one of the walls, she moved into the hall. There, she saw the front door. There was a note pinned to it, but rather than venturing over to see what else the Custodian had to say to her, she let her feet carry her across the hall to the kitchen. She had a suspicion, which was confirmed as she opened the door to the refrigerator. There, in addition to chilled food, was a quartet of tall, perfectly cylindrical bottles glowing in various radioactive shades of blue.

Potential.

The metal caps, cylindrical and bulky to match the profile of the bottles, were etched with the numbers one, ten, twenty, and twenty-nine. If that hadn’t been clear enough on its own, the intensity of the glow settled it.

The liquid in the rank-one bottle might as well have been water. That in the rank-twenty bottle glowed strongly enough to bathe the entire kitchen in its light. The rank-twenty-nine bottle, by contrast, was dimmer, but the liquid was no longer clear but thick and shiny, like melted silver-blue metal.

“Hmm,” Vatreece said, extracting the rank twenty-nine bottle and letting the insulated door thud closed. Rain being Rain, he wouldn’t have left her something dangerous without a gigantic blinking warning sign on it. Her body was thus either rank twenty-nine or rank thirty.

Unscrewing the cap, she tossed it aside and took a tentative sniff. The contents smelled of nothing, so she instead tried drawing on them as she would have in her own soul, but there was no response.

Frowning, she poured some into her hand and tried again. This time, she got something. Tingles and jolts of electricity shot up her arm as the liquid seeped slowly through her skin.

With no further hesitation, she upended the bottle and took a large gulp, the oily liquid crackling with energy as it slithered down her throat. As it reached her stomach, hunger fled before its near-overwhelming warmth. Rather than taking another swallow, she lowered the bottle and set it on the counter, licking her gums and releasing a burp that fizzed with lightning more than carbonation.

“Tastes fine. Zero points for texture.”

Closing her eyes, she focused on the molten heat in her stomach, willing the power out into her flesh. As the potential circulated, it was like she came alive, her own awareness expanding and confirming her body was only rank twenty-nine. A quick attempt to invoke the rank-thirty pattern failed, but she found she could easily split the potential she’d ingested down to lower ranks and convert it back up again.

Guess I didn’t give him enough credit. Not so trusting, after all.

As an essence construct, her artificial will would let her manipulate essence of her own level, but without a real mind, she could refine it no further. Her body had been made rank twenty-nine deliberately. It made the environment immutable to her.

A cozy prison, then. But where’s the boundary?

Paradoxically less upset than before, the Warden used the crackling power within her to effect the change she desired. Her bedclothes morphed away as she finished claiming them, transforming them into a cotton doublet and pants. To that, she added a black vest, heavy boots, and a platinum chain around her neck to hold the plate of her station. She’d rarely worn it in life, but it felt appropriate now.

By the time she finished, she was panting.

That was annoying.

The leftover potential settled in her stomach like hot soup, but the energy it promised felt distant and unreachable. There were limits to an artificial will, and as she’d feared, she’d found them. Even should she somehow advance her construct to rank thirty, there would be no consuming the Custodian’s soul from the inside like a worm burrowing through an apple.

Not that I’d do him dirty like that.

Shaking her head, sure she’d never even heard the expression she’d just used, Vatreece looked up at the ceiling. “Okay, then, Custodian. Let’s talk.”

The silence stretched.

Muttering to herself, Vatreece returned to the living room, then walked to the front door, where she snatched up the note she’d seen before. “Beware the guardian?” she read, arching an eyebrow. Rolling her eyes, she turned the knob and pulled to reveal a wooden set of stairs descending to the sand and...

And a transparent slime fully the size of the house.

A low, vibrating growl tore through the air, strong enough to make the granules of sand dusting the steps jump and dance.

With a click of her tongue, Vatreece stepped out and closed the door behind her. Descending to the sand, she planted her hands on her hips. “Yes, yes, you’re very cross. Grannybrain is sorry. Now go on. Clear off.”

The slime didn’t budge, the growling sound only becoming louder as its membrane vibrated with fury. The sand rose around it, forming a miniature dust storm and proving that it was rank-thirty. The noise was punctuated with a bark.

The overgrown gooball was pretending to be a dog. Because of course he was.

“I don’t suppose you’re paying attention, Custodian?” Vatreece asked hopefully.

There was no response over the growling.

Vatreece sighed and bent to dust the bottom step before taking a seat. “Slime diplomacy, is it? Alright, you ridiculous thing, let’s make nice. Can you talk, or will we be here all day?”
