Still, for every attack that the orc blocked, for every swing Markus missed, the misses became more narrow. The attacks became more powerful. The blocks became ever so slightly more strained.

He couldn’t explain it, but the speed and power with which he attacked only became dramatically heightened the longer and longer he fought. What had started as a completely one-sided match now had a fraction of a decimal of a hope of being more than a complete stomp.

It was the malichor, surely. Markus could feel that chance growing nearer with each strike he had parried or blocked, with each narrow opening he barely failed to exploit, with every attack he piled onto his flurry until finally, finally, Markus managed to achieve some form of a result, forcing the orc’s foot to move back a single step.

“What?..” Maesha’s voice was loud, distracting. Markus continued to pile on the attacks, light and heavy, short and long extensions of his arm, moving into a rhythm of his own design, keeping the pace, working hard to ensure that his body remained both loose and flexible as he went, determined to end this thing as quickly as he possibly could.

When he finally managed to leave the smallest, lightest gash upon Cyrus’ arm, Maesha screamed at him in fury.

“Useless orc! Why are you only blocking! Punish him!”

Before Markus knew what hit him, Cyrus parried his next attack and he was flat on his ass again. He moved so quickly that Markus could barely see him. He was like a ninja, quick and disciplined, able to strike both effectively and without warning, deadlier with dulled weapons than most were with a full armory.

“That’s it! Now stamp on his head! Kick his teeth out! Leave him branded by your boot for any worthless god that might claim him!”

“I surrender!” Markus yelled between pants, fearful for his jawline. “No… no head stamping, please.”

“No, you do not surrender! Not until Cyrus repays the wound you delivered to him, not until you are marked by the scars of defeat!”

“This scratch, Lady Maesha?” Cyrus asked, holding his arm up, which was barely even bleeding. “Is it of such great consequence?”

“Yes! You allowed an untrained weakling to draw blood from you, and you will exact recompense in the name of your god!” She was seething, purely enraged, the glow around her eyes so intense they were almost blinding.

Cyrus hovered over Markus for a moment, staring at him, and then finally, in a flash of intense struggle, hesitated. “He is squarely bested. That is recompense enough for me.”

“You are a blithering, ridiculous coward. Oh, the bandits I bought you from really sold me a pack of lies, didn’t they? I’d string them all up if I saw them again!” Maesha kicked the air as she stood, drawing her sword and marching straight over to Cyrus. “You may be the lowest of my disciples, but by my name are you a disappointment. It’s been six months, Cyrus, and you’re still incapable of fulfilling even basic commands. I have half a mind to kill you here.”

“Please don’t,” Markus interjected, coughing as he struggled to his feet. “He beat me. You wanted him to beat me, right? He didn’t do anything wrong.”

“He is useless! Bled by an unranked fighter, unable to push past his screaming, useless conscience!” She tutted, shaking her head, face turning red.

“I won’t kill you. You can stay here. Perhaps I’ll get a decent bag of silver for you, if I don’t mention your utter unwillingness to hurt a living soul!”

Jeez. Rough world to have morals in, that was for sure.

Markus was bid to leave not long after, thankfully keeping his head in the process.

He called her a bitch on the way out. Couldn’t help it. He didn’t wait to see her reaction, but he didn’t immediately die, either, so that was something.

Maesha had never been interested in recruiting him, apparently. Magic users weren’t her thing. She’d wished to make a point about the martial prowess of her disciples. She’d wanted him to be tarnished by any god that chose him with the knowledge that her lowest disciple had bested him, that without magic, he was worthless.

And in the process, she’d ended up losing her lowest disciple, tired of his sickeningly upstanding and honorable behaviour.

Not hours after that encounter, Markus’ glaive mastery had increased, his opinion on gods had shifted firmly into the negatives once more, and the empty cell opposite his had become occupied. Guess Maesha didn’t make idle threats.

Suddenly, Markus had a new neighbour, a potential sparring partner, and a possible friend, and his name was Cyrus: former disciple of the esteemed Sword God, gentle soul, and Big Fucking Orc.

“Welcome to Prison Club,” Markus said, putting his hand through the bars to shake.

“...”

Eventually, the orc bit. “Prison Club?”

“Yeah. Prison Club. It’s just us right now.”

“...and what’s the goal of Prison Club?” Cyrus asked, glancing from the corner of his cell.

Markus grinned.

“To get the fuck out of Prison Club.”

It took some time, but eventually, Cyrus shook his hand.
