“Of course, Minyan. I have just the thing—or rather, I believe Ge has just the thing?” Shen Yu asked with a smile. “My granddaughter’s formation would certainly prove useful, no? Especially with stronger reagents.”

Ge sighed. “Using me to pay off your debts… some things never change,” he said with good humor—because Shen Yu always did pay him back in the end.

Minyan looked intrigued.

“His Imperial Majesty’s experts seem to have the problem well in hand,” the Herald intoned. “A course is set… and This One shall remain to see the aftermath and report back to the Son of Heaven. If that is all, this meeting is adjourned.”

Both Young Jin and the Magistrate seemed surprised by the swift and decisive action.

“We shall head out immediately. Shen Yu, you said Lu Ri is currently defending the captured base?” Ge asked as he rose to his feet.

“Yes. I have no doubt Yukong will expose the secrets of the enemy’s formation swiftly,” Shen Yu stated.

Yukong rolled her eyes. “Empty flattery.”

“If you need a place to rest and recover…my home is probably better for it than Verdant Hill. Keep people from getting worried, you know?” Young Jin offered.

“I would very much like to see your gardens, after we complete our duty.” Shou said, his voice brooking no argument.

“And you can meet my disciple. He's such a proud, erect fellow,” Shen Yu japed.

Ge raised an eyebrow as they opened the door to leave… only to hear a commotion in the hall.

==================================

“Are you obstructing my path?!” Sheng Yanjing, the Auditor-General demanded, glaring at Bao and his guards through bloodshot eyes. This was the third attempt to slow roll him. The guard outside had stalled, pretending to be looking for the keys and claiming the door was locked despite the fact that all the lights were on. The second hemmed and hawed, and only a threat got him in line.

And now, Bao himself was trying to stop the Auditor’s advance.

Yanjing still felt a bit like shit. The bastard Magistrate had plied him with so much drink on the night of the solstice the Auditor had been sick the entirety of yesterday. But after a good night’s sleep, and a bit of rice, he was feeling much better… and he wanted answers, damn it! The Lord Magistrate had been utterly tight-lipped about the explosions and commotion, and Yanjing would have answers.

Bao smiled disarmingly.

“Lord Auditor, please. The Lord Magistrate has specifically asked not to be disturbed. This is an extremely important meeting—”

“Oh, a meeting? How am I sure he's not cooking his books, hmm?” Yanjing responded. Bao frowned.

“This early in the morning? Please, have patience—”

“Patience does not factor into this! You’ve all been attempting to bar my path!”

The rotund man frowned heavily and leaned in. “Listen, I’m trying to save your life—”

“Save my life? I’m sure you’re just giving him time to do what he needs to do to finish some nefarious scheme, or to destroy evidence. By law I am to have access to him at all times—and if he will not see me, this is something I must report.”

Bao glared and opened his mouth… but he was interrupted by another voice, smooth and nondescript.

“You are largely correct. As signed into Imperial Decree in the one hundred and twelfth year of the Empire, the Lord-Auditor of a province shall be privileged, in the carrying out of his duties, to have the obedience of all other members of His Imperial Majesty’s Bureaucracy—except when they are carrying out the will of a superior assigned agent.”

“Who dare—” he glared around Bao’s fat ass… and then the words died in his throat. His entire body seized when he saw the blank white mask etched with the seal of the Imperial Family upon it. For a brief, very brief moment, he wanted to accuse the Lord Magistrate of pulling some kind of prank, of trying to deceive him. Then he felt the sudden weight upon his shoulders as four men and three women stared at him, most with only barely concealed contempt.

What he had felt at the Dueling Peaks was nothing compared to this. His heart shuddered in his chest. The room started going dark.

“Ah- ah, um, wh—” he sputtered, and all of a sudden the pressure faded slightly. He stopped stammering to gasp for breath.

The blank mask cocked to the side. Out of the corner of his eye, Yanjing saw Bao kowtow, and, to his great luck, his own legs gave out so he could collapse forward onto his face.

“It would be remiss for this one to let a loyal servant suffer for this servant’s largesse… however, this meeting must be kept quiet, you understand?”

“Yes!” he squeaked out.

“You may continue with your audit, then,” the Imperial Herald declared. The Auditor only saw feet walking past him.

Something warm pooled in his pants, his entire body shaking with terror.

The world narrowed to a pinpoint. In a daze, he barely noticed the Lord Magistrate and Bao gently picking him up, nor the servants helping him bathe, and getting him into clean clothes.

The world finally came back into focus when he noticed he was sitting in front of the Lord Magistrate’s desk, the man pouring him a cup of wine.

The Lord Magistrate looked stressed, with deep lines on his face.

“Here. A bit of a drink does wonders,” the man said.

“Is… this a bad dream?” the Auditor-General asked.

“No,” the Lord Magistrate replied. He sat down heavily, and loosened his robe. “The cultivators have been here for three years.”

The Auditor stared at the man. “You’ve been dealing with this for three years?”

“The first year and a half I spent every moment wondering if I was going to get deposed, or worse” the man said with a chuckle. “But luckily… things turned out. They’re quite easy to get along with when you understand them.”

Yanjing took a swig of the wine, fire running down his throat. He had been nothing but antagonistic the entire time he had been here.

“Are you going to…?” Yanjing asked.

The Lord Magistrate shook his head.

“I asked them not to interfere. You’re the symptom. Not the cause. My dear wife’s family, on the other hand…” At that, the Lord Magistrate’s expression became stony. All of a sudden, he looked like a general marching to war. Yanjing swallowed thickly. Then, his visage  softened again. “Well. That is no concern of yours. Please complete your audit to the best of your ability.  I must confess I found a great deal of fun in our little duel—looking at all I’ve accomplished is no bother.”

Yanjing stared at the mad bastard. He had been having fun?! He had enjoyed getting the books out?!

Yanjing took another swig of his wine, emptying his glass.

And, at that moment, he made a decision.

Fuck the Wu clan! There was not enough money in the world for him to put up with this shit.

Besides, he knew when to get off a sinking ship. A fucking Imperial Herald. Yanjing thought he would never see one in his life. Here, at the far end of the Empire! He glanced at the Lord Magistrate. The man was obviously a rising power.

He idly wondered if the man would like a loyal Auditor General.

Failing that, he would be leaving the damn province.

=====================================

In a secret bunker within the Gold Grass Steppes, deep below the earth, a figure shifted fitfully. The new day dawned before them

Huian looked close to death… and they had been for a while. They had nearly died when the teleportation sigil had deposited them into this base, thousands of Li away from the battle.

Disaster. The entire thing had been a disaster. Huian tried not to dwell on it, but getting a report immediately upon waking up that Master’s failsafes had tripped and they had a destruction ping from the northern hub base had been… trying.

It was almost unbelievable. No, it was unbelievable. How had things gone so wrong? The only spot that wasn’t a complete failure was that Yulong had managed to signal his survival while Huian was unconscious—a contact they were trying to reestablish so they could understand what exactly had happened.

Huian had been in and out of consciousness for most of the day, tended to by the disciples of their Master. They had barely clung to life—and it was only the skilled ministrations of the men in the base that had saved them.

But nothing they had done so far had managed to get rid of the burning agony in their leg. The cut was gone, but it still felt like it was there, burning, throbbing, judging—

Huian grimaced. “Do we have a connection to Yulong yet?” they croaked to the other man in the room—Zhou Tai, the head of this base. Once more, Huian was thankful that their Master was their Master. Most demonic cults would have probably killed Huian if they had arrived in this state. Instead, Tai, who could have killed them easily at the moment, was still acting with polite deference and care.

“No, Heavenly Demon. We are trying, but the aftershocks have made the system delicate. If we push too much we risk burning it out.” Huian’s grimace grew at the calm report. Tai had a sympathetic look in his good eye, the other covered by a patch. “We do, however, have the most recent reports. A new batch just arrived. May I assist the Heavenly Demon in reviewing them?”

“Thank you, Tai,” Huian sighed.

The man bowed, collected the reports, and returned swiftly. They started going through the reports. Most were mundane. However, one of the ones higher on the priority list caught their eye.

“The Army Forged in the Crucible has been placed on standby. Quartermasters distributing cold-weather gear—greatcoats, hats, gloves, boots, and fire crystals. The order came from the Cloudy Sword Sect itself. Several members of the sect departed on flying swords…?” Huian said out loud.

Their eyes met Tai’s. Dread started to pool in Huian’s guts. That… could not be a coincidence.

“Get Yulong. Get Yulong now. Priority Black! Do whatever you have to!” Huian commanded—but Tai was already sprinting off, bellowing orders to the transmission stone teams.
