“I first met Zang Li in this town. He tried to force himself on a woman, and, well, I objected to that…”

Xiao Ge sat back and listened as Jin told his side of the story. The rest of them did as well whilst eating a very fine meal. Ge would rate this relatively simple fare quite highly in the meals he had eaten in his long life—it was flavorful and packed with Qi, but could not match the quality of some of the meals he had had at the Imperial Palace, or during his own adventures where Ge had befriended a Spiritual Chef.

Still, it was of far, far better quality than he ever could have imagined possible in this province—especially the drink to go with it. With the immediate tension drained, Ge could sit back a bit and enjoy the tale being told, at least a little, a sentiment obviously matched by the others. It was not the most absurd tale Ge had ever heard—no, Ge himself had at least ten stories where the coincidences lined up like they had for the young man.

It gave him a chance to take the young man’s measure. Shen Yu was obviously proud of him… but Ge himself needed to see exactly what the rot in their beloved Cloudy Sword Sect had cost them.

“I assumed he was an imposter, because the Shrouded Mountain Sect couldn’t have had a disciple so weak, much less a Young Master, so I threw him in jail.”

Everybody paused at that. At the abject humiliation, to be given to mortal guards? Minyan barked out a laugh along with Shen Yu, both looking amused.

“You were the one to contain him?” Ge asked the mortal Magistrate. The man paused at being asked a question, and he took a moment, but when he spoke, there was no wavering to his voice.

“Yes, Master Xiao Ge. My student gifted me a rather nasty surprise—we ended up having to use all of our suppression seals, and it was a close thing. The Shrouded Mountain Sect outrider arrived just in time.”

Ge nodded. Suppression seals were only good against initiates. But another word caught his ears. A word he knew Yukong and Shou had noticed as well.

“Young Jin is your student?” Ge asked. The Magistrate froze again.

Young Jin spoke up. “Yes. I noticed my education in the realm of politics was… lacking. I’m honoured that the Lord Magistrate accepted me as his student—he was top of his class in Pale Moon Lake City.”

The Lord Magistrate cleared his throat, a slight blush on his cheeks. “Indeed, Young Jin is a fine student, and I am honoured to have him.”

Ge leaned back. Kowtow to the mortal who enlightens you. Those words resonated with him. With all of them. Shou was looking at the Magistrate with new eyes, while Yukong had a small smile on her face. Even Shen Yu looked satisfied.

Once more Ge found himself mourning what could have been. It was painful to hear and to see the character of this man. Bright, upstanding, possessed of a sense of duty and honour, and willing to take responsibility. Before Xiao Ge was one who had been a disciple that the Honoured Founders of their sect would have held as a model to emulate.

He had been in their sect—and their negligence had driven him away. Ge would have to kowtow before his Master’s funerary tablet a thousand times for this travesty.

“Please, continue,” Ge whispered, his soul aching.

“So I was very unhappy when I saw him again, attempting to kidnap a member of my family and attacking a good friend…”

Young Jin had stumbled into fighting a user of demonic arts, defeated him, and sent him back to his sect while claiming he was an imposter, only to meet the same man again when he was attempting to kidnap a member of his family… and again defeat him, this time sending the obviously demonic corpse back to the Shrouded Mountain Sect.

Ge could find no fault in the young man’s actions; they were well thought out, and he expressed the noble desire to solve things with his words and reason rather than simply taking the world in his hand. He respected the institutions of the Empire and he safeguarded the mortals.

True, he had used their name to quell the budding conflict when he was no longer one of their disciples… but Ge had commanded Lu Ri to give him that symbol so that he could use it to protect himself.

Young Jin used it to stop a war… and then had ceased using it, displaying temperance when given such a powerful symbol.

Xiao Ge glanced at Shou and Yukong, both of them offering minute nods. Minyan simply watched, studying this young man, her expression neutral.

“Next, I believe it would be you, Zang Shenhe,” Brother Shen Yu mused. The woman had remained stoic throughout the retelling, but now looked slightly nervous.

“Yes, Lord Shen Yu. We received Master Rou’s message, as well as the body of Zang Li, and we deduced that the only cultivator who would disregard our resources…was an Elder of the Cloudy Sword Sect,” Shenhe reported.

There was silence for a moment. Jin looked shocked and slightly panicked, the young man clearly not expecting that, before he schooled his expression.

Shen Yu started to laugh. Ge could not help but chuckle along with Yukong, while Shou raised an eyebrow. Even Minyan let out a little snort of amusement.

“Did he claim to be an Elder?” Shou asked.

“… no, he just said he would rather not involve his Senior Brother.  After our disciples reported his strength was equal or greater than my own…” Shenhe trailed off, looking embarrassed.

Ge shook his head. “And what did you do with this information?” he inquired.

“We reasoned that we were being given a mission to redeem ourselves after we had missed the demonic corruption within Zang Li. I immediately assembled a strike force and we set about scouring the Fangs for hidden bases—which we found.”

That stopped some of the amusement. Ge considered the situation.

“That is indeed serendipitous,” Ge said. “Your actions on finding them?”

“There were twenty-three of varying sizes and complexity, and we destroyed them all.”

“She did good work,” Shen Yu interjected. “I was impressed with her efficiency and thoroughness.”

That was no small praise.

“Then I would say that you were indeed following the directives of a specialist attached to the Cloudy Sword Sect,” Ge stated, extending an offer to the Shrouded Mountain to save face —and deepen young Jin’s connection as affiliated with their Sect.

“That is indeed a fine proposal, Ge,” Yukong said, while Shou just nodded. Jin looked relieved that their reaction to his “impersonation” of them was so mild, but indeed it was beneficial…and even the Honoured Founders sometimes made exceptions for victory, especially against the Great Enemy.

Shenhe bowed, taking the offer immediately. It was nearly the truth anyway. As she rose, she grimaced. “However, at the last base we were ambushed by a prepared Earth Realm cultivator, many Demonic Cultivators, and an entire army of Artificial Demons. All but two of our number either fell in battle or were captured. After that…”

She turned to look at Shen Yu.

“My tale begins after I was reunited with my grandson. I was quite upset with the insult the Shrouded Mountain Sect had offered him and intrigued regarding the demon he had found…”

Shen Yu’s own tale started slowly. Though it was rather a shock that he had accepted another disciple—one that he told them they would meet with later.

Ge didn’t like how Shen Yu looked. Impossibly, he was even smugger than he had once been—but it had been a long while since Ge had seen Shen Yu so animated and amused by something as he recounted his disciple’s infiltration of the Shrouded Mountain Sect.

It was like one of his old stories. The stories he had told before… his son. His grin was wild and his hands made exaggerated gestures, his Qi sparking and leaping as he really got into it. His joy and amusement was infectious as it always was.

“And then I pulled out one of those old ration scrolls, you know the ones that the Emperor handed out during the Gate Breach? The ones with His seal on them?”

“You didn’t,” Minyan sighed, but everyone could tell the woman was smiling. Shou rested his face in his palm, while Ge and Yukong chuckled.

“Of course I did! Nobody ever stops to check, they just see the seal and assume!” Shen Yu declared, right in front of the Imperial Herald.

“Lord Shen Yu, please refrain from admitting to impersonating the Emperor’s will,” the Herald said, his voice filled with emotion for the first time… though this was exasperation. “And…this one is rather certain that you have an actual writ from His Imperial Majesty.”

“Yes, I do have one, but I didn’t want to use that there. It's too important for something like that,” the man stated shamelessly, before sighing. “But, well, there was no corruption of the demonic kind. Just… well, that is a story for another time. The Patriarch proved unworthy, and several developments exposed less than savoury practices used by the sect. My disciple and his allies caused a schism.”

Zang Shenhe grimaced at his words. Young Jin frowned. Shen Yu sighed.

“But that is the end of the merriment. After that we went after Shenhe and found the place of her defeat—and it was there we were alerted to the greater threat. A threat I gravely underestimated. I thought the Earth Realm cultivator would be the strongest of them. I intended to use the expedition to the Sea of Snow as a teaching opportunity.”

Ge straightened at the change in tone.

“The expedition went as reasonably well as it could—and we were aided by an Imperial Realm Spirit Beast after my disciple earned his favour.”

“Imperial Realm?” the Imperial Herald asked. Such beings of immense strength were always of concern to the Emperor. Those that the Empire knew of were tracked as best as they were able, and if they proved hostile, entire sects would be called against them.

“Yes. I name Master Forest Sweeper and his predecessors Martyrs, in the vein of the Honoured Founders—and I shall not reveal his location without his consent,” Shen Yu spoke, his tone firm and final. “You remember the confusion about the lack of northern demons? The line of Forest Sweeper is the reason, for they held and still hold the line in the cold and far North. They have been suppressing and destroying the demonic taint since the Age of Heroes, and providing succor to lost mortals who stumble into their domain.”

Silence met his words. A friendly Spirit Beast was a rarity already. A friendly Spirit Beast of such power dedicated to fighting the Great Enemy? From the histories, nearly all had died in the Age of Heroes.

“Then I shall pay my respects and raise a toast to Master Forest Sweeper,” Ge said. “If he is agreeable, the Cloudy Sword Sect shall pay their respects in person.”

“I will convey your words to his Imperial Majesty,” the Herald stated. “He would be interested in opening a dialogue with such a being, if it is indeed benevolent.”

“An interesting bit of trivia,” Minyan said with a shrug.

Shen Yu nodded.

“After instructing my disciples, we set off once more, and we found the Enemy’s base—where we were immediately greeted by a Demonic Cultivator in the Imperial Realm.”

===================================

The room was silent as Shen Yu finished the report of his battle. A victory… thanks to this mysterious new disciple of his. Ge was a bit suspicious that Shen Yu was being so cagey about a boy he was clearly proud of. However, though it was a victory… it was clearly a costly one. The damage to Shen Yu’s cultivation was severe.

From there, once more Young Jin took over the tale.

“A friend had a bad dream about demons from the north, one that seemed too real. Prophetic. She was very distraught, and the entire situation felt strange to me. I asked Brother Lu Ri to head north to check on some family I had up there, and scout for any hint of this threat…”

Again, Young Jin’s instincts were correct. Diviners were unreliable at best but his saying, “Trust, but verify,” was indeed profound wisdom.

From there, they counter-ambushed an ambush, revealed demonic mind control, and the man fought off three Earth realms and one Sky Realm. With assistance, according to him, but the fact that he had been able to accomplish the feat at all was the mark of a legend on the same vein as his grandfather.

It would have been almost unbelievable—but the young man embellished nothing, noting his own near defeat. Shen Yu’s boy cared little for glory, that much was clear to Ge—he clearly preferred his solitude and peace. He was a quiet scholar called to war. Truly, truly he was a Disciple of the Cloudy Sword’s path.

Finally, Shen Yu spoke again, and the depths of the Demonic Cultivator’s insidious plan was revealed.

“A puppet worm this size—and the host is still alive?” Shou demanded, as he stared angrily at the glass vial.

“Their disciple said their plan was to invade the Demon Realm?” Minyan asked, her eyes wide and furious.

“Your foe implied that he was well-entrenched,” Yukong stated, her eyes narrow as she too inspected the vile creature.

“Yes. Their disciples were… worryingly sane, and it is clear that this is a plan perhaps a thousand years in the making. They are clearly spread throughout the Empire, and if they can open permanent Hell Gates already… it would be disastrous,” Shen Yu said, before he bowed. “My friends, this is why I called for your aid. The resources of our foe are great, as you can see by the power of their disposable weapons. This cannot be allowed to fester. The enemy organization is vast and diffuse, and I cannot destroy them alone, especially in my current state. First, we need an analysis of their transport formation so that we may root them out wherever they may hide. Then, a decapitation strike against ‘Yulong’ and the destruction of the rest of their bases in the Sea of Snow. Finally, we mop up anything that is left, using their own formations to pinpoint them.”

The plan was only considered for a moment as the light of the dawn began to filter in through the windows. They had arrived quite late and had been talking for hours.

“You have called. The Cloudy Sword Sect will answer. In the name of the Founders, every Demonic Cultivator shall be put to the sword,” Ge intoned.

“They will not see the blade before it descends from the clouds,” Shou agreed.

“Hmph, I suppose you have some sense in your head,” Minyan said, her voice a jab. “Very well, but I will expect compensation for this, Shen Yu.”

She demanded payment—even though everybody knew she was going to be participating even without it. Ge rolled his eyes.

