The curtain opened and the waitress brought in 3 plates of food. Ren stood up and let both women sit, then sat himself. He asked them to join hands, and he gave a quick thank you to the Earth Spirit and offered up 1,000 Mana and a gold coin. The Mana flowed out through his hand and went through Xuunah to make her gasp, then through Nathalia who also gasped, and it dissipated. A small portal opened and he put in the coin, and he received a blessing of +10% to Earth-based enchantments and effects for the next 24 hours.

Xuunah and Nathalia didn't know what to say about receiving the popup, and Ren could feel their indecision.

“I met the Spirit of Earth while in Shargon Caverns.” Ren said and started to eat.

“You WHAT?!?” Nathalia exclaimed, and he felt shock from both of them.

“I've been messing up some things on her, and she wanted to have a chat.” Ren said.

“No one told us about that.” Xuunah said.

“That's because no one knows.” Ren said. “I'm pretty sure it was the only time I was completely out of contact with everyone, including when I had to do Adventurer's business.” He ate a piece of toast. “I was there only briefly, in comparison to everything else I did; but, we had a nice conversation, and she agreed not to kill me for breaking her defenders, and I agreed to try and not break her defenders.”

“That... doesn't sound like an agreement at all.” Nathalia said and started to eat.

Ren chuckled. “I think it amused her that I wouldn't back down, so she kind of gave me a pass.”

“I think that happens a lot more than you realize.” Xuunah said.

“A lot more!” Nathalia said and laughed, and Xuunah and Ren joined in.

*

Officer Holly thought about leaving, now that Ren was out of the house and she wasn't being guarded. She assumed she wasn't being guarded; but, she didn't know for sure and would only find out if she tried to leave. She didn't want to tempt fate yet, so she equipped her Travelling Clothes and left the kitchen, then stood in front of the door across from it.

I need to see what's behind this door. Officer Holly thought. Here goes nothing. She took a quick breath and knocked. The door opened, and she was immediately splashed in the face with a geyser of water; which threw her back and she landed on the floor. She was completely drenched, and she wiped the water away from her eyes and looked at the doorway. A 3 foot tall blob of water shook it's arm stub at her and bubbled and gurgled furiously. She put her hands up in a sure sign of surrender to show that she wasn't going to knock again. The water elemental gurgled at her, spit on the floor, then slammed the door shut.

“By the way, you shouldn't bother Railyse unless you have legitimate business with her.” Frikara said as she came down the stairs dressed in a very stylish dress. “Her bodyguard is ruthless unless your intentions are pure.”

Officer Holly shook her head and stood up. “I just wanted to meet her.”

“No, that won't do it.” Frikara said and laughed. “I'm a little surprised you're just soaked.”

“So, you're saying I almost bit off more than I could chew.” Officer Holly said and equipped her dress to dry off, then equipped her Travelling Clothes again.

“Considering you could have been drowned on dry land? Yes.” Frikara said, and Officer Holly's mouth dropped open. “It's surprising, isn't it?” She said and held an arm out for her. “Escort me just outside of the city so I can gather up the training equipment.”

“Um, sure.” Officer Holly said and took her arm. The two women left the house and walked down the street. “Are you sure this is okay?” She asked. “Me leaving the house, that is.”

Frikara laughed. “You're not a prisoner, Holly.” She said and pat the other woman's arm. “He's trying to protect you.”

“Wh-what?”

“Your level is so low that you're a danger to yourself if you just go wandering around.” Frikara said. “The first thing he did when we came here was equip us with things to protect us.”

“But, I'm not...”

“No, you aren't.” Frikara said. “And you probably won't be.”

“Wh-what?”

“It took him a long time to get permission from the others to be with us.” Frikara said and smiled. “By us, I mean the other maids and myself; not you.”

“I assumed that.” Officer Holly said. “Wait, what others?”

“The ones he has a steady relationship with.” Frikara said. “They are all Adventurers of some kind, but we hardly ever see any of them.” She said. “Except the Sage of Ages. She's been a godsend the last little while when Ren was whisked away.”

They passed through the North Gate of the city and turned down the road to the warehouse.

“Can you tell me what happened?”

“I could.” Frikara said and smiled.

“Will you?”

“I'll give you a quick rundown while I carry some things back.” Frikara said and started to store the training dummies and targets they had set up for training.

“I'd ask what you were doing, but it's pretty obvious.” Officer Holly said. “I can't believe he's training you to fight.”

Frikara laughed. “You're kidding, right?” She asked. “He doesn't know we were doing this.”

“But...”

“We decided to be useful to him when we heard he had gained succubi as companions.”

“Excuse me?!?” Officer Holly exclaimed.

“They stay in the tower next door to the house.” Frikara said. “20 of them.”

“D-did you say... 20?”

Frikara nodded. “They've been surprisingly quiet since they arrived, though.” She said and then told Officer Holly about Ren's adventures in Shargon Caverns. When she stored the last target, she took Officer Holly's arm to be escorted back to the house.

“That's amazing.” Officer Holly said. “How did he do all of that?”

“That was just a list of what he did.” Frikara said. “We'll have a couple of hours on the trip to the county to fill in the details that we know.” She thought about that, and smiled. “Actually, I should ask Ren to tell it himself.”

“Will he do that with me there?”

Frikara laughed. “You're assuming he's going to try and hide something from you.”

Officer Holly nodded.

“He doesn't do that.” Frikara said as they passed through the North Gate back into the city. “Especially if you're going to be around for a while.”

“I don't know how long I'm going to be here.” Officer Holly said.

Frikara pat her arm as they stepped back into the house, then let her arm go. “As long as you're here to help Ren, you can stay for as long as you want.”

Officer Holly watched Frikara go up the stairs and into the main bedroom, then opened the door to the kitchen. She went inside and sat down on the bed, then started to laugh when she realized she had been outside the house... outside the entire city, in fact... and not once had she thought about running or trying to get away from Ren.

Not once.

That's pretty damn funny! Officer Holly thought as she laid back on the bed and laughed.
