Ren and the maids had plenty of time to just cuddle and spend time with each other during the night, and they made the most of it. A light touch here, a gentle caress there, and the occasional switching of cuddle places. They didn't have to talk, since they were sharing emotions, and they basked in the common pool of contentment as they held each other.

Each of them thought about going just a little bit further and having sex; but, they knew that they didn't have to. Just touching and comforting each other was just as fulfilling in it's own way, now that the barrier that stopped them from doing it was gone.

They all drifted in and out of sleep as the night progressed, and when the morning came, they were not only well rested, but well comforted and felt a much stronger connection with each other. Ren was the first to sit up and disrupt the rotating pile, and no one complained that the night had come to an end.

“Good morning.” Ren said, and each of the maids lifted their heads up from the bed for a kiss. He chuckled and kissed each of them, then got up off the bed and equipped his clothing. “Gather up your things and put them away.” He said as he picked up his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and checked that the tarantula was okay, then put the cloak on. “I'll come back and pick everything up in a little while.”

“What are you going to do?” Frikara asked and sat up.

“First, I'm going to see if Railyse needs a feeding, and then I thought I'd pay a visit to Nathalia.”

“That's a good idea.” Andrela said and got off of the bed and equipped a cute little pair of white panties. “I'm sure she'll enjoy seeing you again.” She said and started putting the things she had out on her dressing table away.

“Don't forget to tell her about me.” Frikara said.

“I think it's news that should delight her.” Ren said.

“It delighted me, that for sure.” Frikara said in a deep voice and batted her eyelashes. He felt that she was both playing and was remembering what had happened when the contract had been replaced.

Ren chuckled. “I meant that she hates your contracts just as much as I do.”

“I know what you meant.” Frikara said and smiled demurely.

“I'll be back.” Ren said and left the bedroom and ran down the stairs. He stopped at Railyse's door and knocked. He heard a splash and the door opened.

“Hello, Ren.” Railyse said.

“Hi.” Ren said. “How are you doing?”

“I'm fine.” She said.

“And the little ones?”

“Crowded.” Railyse said and chuckled. “This pool is big; but, with three of us in there and two are growing elementals...”

“I'm going to build a very large pool out in the county.” Ren said. “You won't complain about the lack of space soon.”

“I'm sorry to be a bother for so long.” Railyse said. “I should be asking you to take me home, not be asking to go with you.” She sighed. “I just wish the king of the Land Dwellers would get back to me.”

“Me, too.” Ren said and thought about the deadline for her mother's ultimatum. “There's only about two weeks left for them to agree to her terms.”

“Yes, and you're going to make me a better place to live, and it will only be for a couple of weeks.”

“Don't worry about that.” Ren said. “I've got plans for it when you go back home.”

Railyse chuckled. “I should have known.”

“Yep.” Ren smiled. “How are you feeling?”

Railyse touched his cheek. “I don't need another taste of you quite yet.”

“Don't tell me I'm too much of a good thing.” Ren said, and she laughed.

“Of course you are.” Railyse said and leaned down. “Even without your title to enhance your charm.”

“You can tell?”

Railyse nodded. “I have felt it enough to feel it's absence.”

“Do you want me to turn it back on?”

“No, (bubble) (gurgle). You don't need bait on your hook.” Railyse said and smiled. “You caught me a long time ago.”

Ren chuckled. “I still hear 'fish stick' when you call me that.”

Railyse laughed. “Perhaps your brain is telling you to let me gobble you all up.”

“Ha ha!” Ren laughed, too. “I'd have the entire Water Realm after me if you did that!”

“Yes, it's a shame you would be blamed if it happened.” Railyse said and cupped the side of his face. “I'll let you know when I need another feeding.”

“Okay.” Ren said and cupped the side of her face, too. “I'll be back to get you when the pool is built.”

“Thank you.” Railyse said and stepped back into her room and shut the door.

Ren ran up the stairs to go to the spare bedroom and see if Xuunah wanted to go with him to see Nathalia.

*

Officer Holly had woken up when Ren ran down the stairs, and she heard everything that he and someone else had said. Who is he talking to? She asked herself. Water realm? Feeding? She shook her head for a moment, then froze. Hold on. Did she say something about tasting him and then gobbling him all up? What the hell is going on here?

*

Ren knocked on the spare room's door, and a few moments later, Xuunah opened it. “Good morning.”

“Good morning.” Xuunah said.

“I'm heading over to the restaurant to visit Nathalia, because I want to let her know what's going on.” Ren said. “Would you like to come with me?”

“Since I had planned on visiting her myself, I will accompany you.”

“Great!” Ren said, equipped his fancy red suit, and held a hand out to her. “Right this way, please.”

Xuunah chuckled and took the offered hand, and hid her own element's reaction to Ren. He felt it, though; but, he didn't mention it, either. He led her down the stairs and out the front door, and they walked arm-in-arm together down the street. When they reached the end of it, he pointed to two of the disguised skeleton knights on patrol and they followed.

“How are they still here?” Xuunah asked and motioned to them.

“They are both better and worse than a normal skeleton.” Ren said. “The normal raised skeleton only lasts 20 minutes and can probably take a lot of damage.” He explained. “When I raised the first one, I discovered they didn't have a time limit because they were dependent on the Mana they had instead; but, they use the Mana to fix any damage done to them.”

“They wouldn't last 5 minutes in an actual battle.” Xuunah said, a little disappointed that the remains of the Lost Knights were so weak.

Ren nodded. “That's okay, though. I fixed them.”

“What? How?”

“As you can see, I armored them to the teeth and boosted their Protection.”

“I did see that.”

“Since they rely on Mana instead of time, I gave them +105 to Intelligence and Wisdom, then 1,020% Mana regeneration with a 10,200 Mana reserve.”

Xuunah stopped walking and Ren felt her shock and stopped, too. “That... you...” She shook her head and started to walk again, and so did he. “They will never go away.”

“Nope.” Ren said and chuckled. “You should have felt how happy the first one was when I did that.”

“I can imagine.” Xuunah said. “You have taken a severe deficiency away and made them into eternal warriors.”

“That was the intention, once I saw a way to exploit their special nature.”

“You're amazing.” Xuunah said as they arrived at her daughter's restaurant.

“Only when I'm awake.” Ren said and laughed at his joke, and they stood in the short line to get into the restaurant. When the doors opened, the line moved forward and more people gathered at the end of it. “This place is really popular.” He commented as the two disguised skeleton knights took up guard positions on the door. “If you don't show up early, you take your chances for getting a seat.”

When they reached the woman that sat customers, he saw the huge smile on her face. “Oh, I should have known that you two knew each other.” She said. “Table for three this time, I assume?”

“Please.” Ren said, and she led them to the back and a private curtained-off booth.

“I'll let Nathalia know when she arrives.”

“That won't be necessary.” Xuunah and Ren said at the same time, then looked at each other and laughed.

“I'll send someone in with the menus.”

“Thank you.” Ren said, and she left them alone. “So.” He said. “What's it like to be so tall?”

“Why don't you tell me that.” Xuunah said and smiled. “I heard all about you using that Enlarge Person spell.”

“That was only temporary.” Ren chuckled. “I don't think I could handle being over 9 feet tall all the time.”

“But how did it feel at the time?”

“Amazing.” Ren admitted. “It didn't make me more powerful; but I felt more powerful, if that makes any sense.”

Xuunah smiled. “It makes perfect sense.”

They both felt Nathalia as she came through the portal, and she left the back hallway, ran over to the private area and through the curtain.

“You're really here.” Nathalia said and put a hand on her chest. “Just last night I was worried about you, and was so happy that my mother was here to look after you.”

Ren stood up and took her into a hug. “I'm sorry I haven't been over to see you.” He said, and she chuckled.

“I've been thinking the same thing.” Nathalia said and put her arms around him, and opened herself to him. “You've gone through so much.” She said, then closed her eyes as Ren opened himself up and let her feel everything he felt.

Xuunah successfully closed herself off from joining in on their Collective; but it had been a close call. “Having such a deep connection is so rare.” She said out loud, and Ren and Nathalia turned to look at her. “I didn't mean to interrupt.”

Nathalia reached out a hand to her. “You're looking after him, you need at least some kind of connection to him.”

Xuunah shook her head. “No, he's all yours.” She said. “I don't want to muddle what you have.”

Nathalia chuckled. “You know we aren't together like that, and he has... a few others to keep him busy.”

Ren chuckled this time. “And you know that none of them can ever replace you in my heart.”

“They know that, too.” Xuunah said, and they both felt how happy Nathalia was at the news. “None of them are fighting, or upset, or even envious of the others.”

“I guess someone's been checking up on me.” Ren said, and Xuunah and Nathalia laughed.

“I wanted to get to know your character, and who better to talk to than who you are intimate with?”

“I'd say me, but I wasn't around.” Ren smiled. “So, what did you discover?”

Xuunah stood up and took Nathalia's hand. “You are reckless sometimes and do things just because you can.” She said, and then her Light bridged across Nathalia and touched Ren. “Then you deal with the consequences with both compassion and understanding.” She smiled as she formed a limited Collective with the two of them. She took in a deep breath and let it out. “Now that I can feel you, I know all of the information I've gathered is true.”

“I told you.” Nathalia said.

“I desired confirmation despite that.” Xuunah said and Ren looked at her.

“You... also want... an elemental bomb.” Ren said, and he felt her try to disengage. “Wait!” He reached out and touched the side of her neck, and her body tensed up as she giggled. Her self-imposed limit on their sharing disappeared, and Ren and Nathalia saw and experienced everything she had done recently, since that was the most important thing she had been thinking about. Xuunah grabbed his arm and pulled his hand away from her neck and her most vulnerable spot; but, it was too late.

“By the gods.” Ren said and was so shocked that he let Nathalia go and sat down. “I... I erased most of a realm?”

“This isn't the place to discuss these things.” Xuunah said.

Ren rested his forehead on the table and took several deep breaths as he looked at the floor. “I only... I just didn't want to fight anymore.” He said and saw a spoon on the floor. “I warned them to let me pass, and when they refused...”

“You only did what you thought would delay them.” Nathalia said. “We know that.”

“I knew Light could hurt them; but, I never imagined...” Ren sighed as he picked up the spoon. “I can't believe that your realm expects me to hand that power over to them.”

“If not that, then at least have you not do it to anyone else.” Xuunah said. “Mainly to our realm.”

“It wouldn't work.” Ren said. “An anti-”

“SHUSH!” Xunnah slapped him on the side of the head, which made his whole body jerk; and the spoon was flung out of his hand and through the curtain.

“Ow.” Ren said and rubbed the spot where she had hit him.

“Mother!” Nathalia admonished and knelt by Ren. “Are you okay?”

“Yeah. I'm pretty tough.” Ren touched the spot and it was quite sore. He used a Minor Healing wand to fix the damage before it blossomed into a bruise. “I was trying to explain...”

“What part of 'this is not the place to discuss it' do you not understand?” Xunnah asked with her hands on her hips. “Anyone can hear you!”

The curtain moved and the waitress came in. “I have the menus for you.”

“Thank you.” Xuunah said and switched to her Command Aura. “Three orders of eggs and toast, please.”

“Right away.” The waitress said and left. She knew not to question that tone of voice and didn't even bother to ask the other two what they wanted.

“That was rude.” Ren said.

“She just proved my point.” Xuunah said. “She was standing right there on the other side of the curtain.”

Ren opened his mouth to say that she couldn't know that for sure, but then he remembered that he hadn't heard the waitress walk up. He could hear her walk away, though.

“Yes, if you had said anything else, she would have known what happened.” Xuunah said. “What would she do with that information? Do you know? I don't.” She said, then put her hand on the top of his head. “Being honest is good. Blurting out everything that comes into your head is not.”

“I... okay, I understand what you're saying.” Ren said. “You didn't have to slap me, though.”

“It worked, didn't it?” Xuunah said. “Just like it did when you used it for Officer Holly.”

Ren thought about that. “Did it hurt you more than it did me?”

Xuunah's hand moved from the top of his head and stroked his cheek, then used that hand to touch the spot over her heart. “Effective as it is, it really did hurt.”

