Ameliah continued listening to the bickering between the noble siblings as she was picked up, then carried away, cradled in the guard’s arms. She didn’t manage to glean any more important details before she passed out of the foyer and into a long hallway, keeping one eye barely open as her head dangled. Eventually, she caught a glimpse of another guard standing beside a banded metal door, again with a sword.

Mark

What is it with these people and swords? Other weapons exist!

“That woman is a trial,” the newest guard said.

“Heard all that, did you?”

“How could I not? Get her down there, then go get Nicho that damn potion. He was injured in the line of duty, and our contract is clear on what we’re owed. If Lady Innar gives you any more trouble about it, she can take it up with me.”

“Oh, she’ll love that. You two get on great.”

The only response was a grunt, then the rattle of a key in a lock. “If you ask me, I think it’s time to renegotiate our contract. I didn’t give up my plate to stand beside a door for twelve hours a day.”

“I hear you,” Man Three said. “What are we going to do, though? Kill them?”

“No, and keep your fucking voice down. North Harbor’s a smoking ruin, yes, but the twins got out, so more may be coming. Even if we could take them and the old man, and that’s a big if, we’d be in a real spot if the rest showed up and found out we offed their relatives. When I say renegotiate, I mean exactly that. I mean getting them to treat us with some deeping respect. They need us to watch the deer, and they know it.”

“Right.”

There was a sigh. “Don’t get me wrong, it’s damn lucky they found them on their way in, but their fortune’s been a gigantic pain in my ass. If it were up to me, we’d just slaughter the lot and be done, but no, nobles gotta be nobles. Always looking for more.”

“You should try working for the Bank. Can’t say I miss that.”

The other man grunted. “We’ll talk tonight. Just get her down there for now. And don’t put her in with the deer, or they’ll kill her.”

“Duh,” Man Three said, hiking Ameliah up in his arms and guiding her head through the doorway.

As Ameliah passed the inward-opening door, she risked opening her eyes slightly wider to get a look at it, but didn’t see any obvious runes or signs of enchantment. The same went for the wooden stairway as they descended into darkness. There was a heavy thud, then a click as the door was closed and locked behind her.

“Should have grabbed a damn candle,” her bearer muttered in the darkness. Eventually, as the stairwell continued far longer than she’d expected, she became aware of a greenish hue coming from below. As she reached the bottom and was carried out into the cellar, the last piece of the puzzle clicked into place.

Ah.

The room was enormous, the need for the high ceiling easily explained by the shimmering green bubble that dominated the space. A metal cage had been constructed around the lair, the bars of dark metal serving double duty and holding up the structure above. Runes had been etched into the metal, adding their own bluish glow to the magical ambiance, though the cellar couldn’t even remotely be described as bright. The rest of the space she could see was also dominated by ironwork, split up into cubic cells by the metal bars, though unenchanted. Most of the cells didn’t even have doors, filled with the random junk one might expect to find in a cellar. Some, though, held people.

“Who is it!?” a cervidian woman demanded, rattling the bars of her cage before stopping suddenly. “Are they alive? Did you—? Oh.” There was a long pause, then a scoff. “It’s just a human. Imprisoning your own kind too, now?”

“Animals don’t talk,” the man holding Ameliah said. She’d already forgotten his name. He laid her on the ground in one of the cells with more care than she’d expected, though it would not save him. He then knelt beside her, straightening out her legs and shifting her bound arm to lie more comfortably on her stomach.

“There,” the man said, getting back to his feet. “If you can hear me, I’m sorry for Nicho, and stay away from the bars. The deer are not your friends.” There was a squeak of unoiled hinges, then a clang as the door slammed closed.

“We need water, human,” the same female voice said bitterly, as if the words were being dragged out of her.

Apparently, this didn’t even rate a response. All Ameliah heard was the rattle of a key, then a click as she was locked inside.

“If you want us to die, there are faster ways we would prefer.”

Again, this went ignored. Ameliah listened to the guard’s footsteps as they retreated across the dusty planks that made the floor, soon fading as he climbed the stairs. Her awareness of his direction, though, didn’t fade, nor did her awareness of the others she’d Marked.

“Asshole,” the woman spat.

“Mommy?” a little boy’s voice asked from another cell. “Is the lady alright?”

“Who cares?” a male voice responded from further down the line.

Ameliah waited, listening over the angry muttering of the cervidians. Finally, she heard the distant thud of the door at the top of the stairs.

She sat up, generating several sharp intakes of breath, and she turned to see five pairs of eyes staring at her. It was hard to make out details in the gloom, but she could see well enough to know that none of them belonged to Proudrock. Perhaps some of their antlers were slightly larger than nubs, but she couldn’t say for sure yet whether that was just her imagination. In her heart, though, she knew her suspicion was correct. She knew what the assholes had done. What they’d planned to do.

“Mommy?” the little boy asked again uncertainly as Ameliah got to her feet, rage and anticipation of vengeance distorting her features.

A child. Why would they choose a child? And where is Proudrock?

“Who are you?” one of the men demanded.

“Please keep your voices down,” Ameliah replied, managing to regain control as she turned to face her fellow prisoners. She bowed low, bending only at the waist. “I am Ameliah, friend of Tallheart, and I’m here to rescue you.”
