Plazia waved a hand through the floating, three-dimensional panorama of Blegara.

“Then retake them as necessary. Academia is often an exercise in effort and diligence, not intelligence or ability.”

“Eh, but book smarts tend to help. Anyways, look at this.”

I shared a few of the collected notes I gathered online with the hivemind, and we gathered a reasonable approach to the problem at hand. I pointed at the warp below that gushed water.

“Are you ready?”

Plazia murmured.

“To push Bikini-Bottom elsewhere? Easily.”

Chapter Begin

Before we dove into the depths, we found the bite-sized warp that the Overseer left of the once seismic opening. It spewed a pressurized stream of water, more like a liquid laser beam than a true warp. The aquatic eruption shot up through the sea and dispersed into a dappling rain from above. Those droplets masked the rays of light coursing in between the clouds.

I transfixed onto a particularly brilliant beam. Even from this distance, Blegara's sun left a mark across this planet, and it was hard not to remember its vastness. It made my entire life seem inconsequential, and yet I found comfort in that feeling. It wasn't futility but wonder, and I soaked it in for a second.

Silencing my mind's wandering, I dove into the abyss and grabbed the edges of the spewing portal. I pulled it onto my back like a backpack before marveling at the difference between this and the star's opening.

Even though this tiny slither spewed thousands of gallons a second, it was nothing compared to the starthrower.

The magnitude of forces left this spectacle as a hollow and unwanted encore to the real demonstration before it. My practice from the starthrower also made containing this warp far simpler. A dam of my dimensional fabric over the entrance stopped the portal's perpetual spray.

Before heading out, I took a moment and hoisted it around for a while.

It held a heft that rivaled all the other dimensional slices put together, and I marveled at its sheer density and volume. It was within my capacity to move, however, and as I had with the other slices, I adjusted to the added mass.

It required an enormous amount of will, and my minds crunched under the strain. Mana soared throughout my frame, my runes charging and fueling my power. Silver blood pounded through my chest, and my heart roared into action as I dragged myself forward. Even my psyche strained to will the worlds into motion.

And in time, I mastered their maneuvering.

Shalahora's training paid off, letting me shrug off the uncomfortable experience. After several hours, I turned to Plazia. I established a telepathic link.

"I'm ready to go."

"It's been hours of you jogging and moving with that as if it were some weighted vest. Why should you not heave it through a portal and be done with it?"

"I prefer really getting a handle on something before moving on. Otherwise, it feels like I'm building skills and assumptions on something fragile."

Plazia paused before shaking his head.

"Some moments are better passed through than immersed in. That personal desire for punishment wastes time, but...Do as you will." Plazia tilted his head. "But first, your mind is unstable. Why?"

I stepped forward as two minds strained to their limit.

"Er, you could say I'm struggling with this. That's all."

Plazia laughed.

"Your minds are dying? From carrying a boulder? To think the Harbinger was so weak. You speak of fragility as your entire psyche shatters from holding a rock."

I searched for words.

"It's… It's like carrying the heaviest thing you could imagine, but you're only able to move it by breaking your bones. You keep moving and lifting, and the entire time, your body shatters under the stress. Before you know it, your mind isn't the same as it was when you started. It begins to unravel, and so it must be made new."

I blinked.

"That and… It's something deeper to move a reality. It's like you said. It's the weight of worlds, and that takes its toll on someone."

Plazia crossed his arms.

"Or perhaps you struggle to move a large boulder."

I kicked sand in his direction.

"Enough with the banter. Let's get this done."

Plazia turned towards me.

"Putting your psyche through this will not end well. It isn't the nature of living things to be torn apart incessantly. It deforms you over time and in ways you'd never imagine."

I frowned.

"You're feeling awfully critical today. You remind me of Helios when we first met."

"He and I are the only ones among your entourage to give you genuine honesty. All the others are merely ants you enjoy watching."

I pressed him with Event Horizon.

"They are family."

Plazia took a step back.

"There is the growl you've deposed. Good. It's a sad thing to know a wolf that never flashes its fangs."

As I pulled my aura away from him and took a breath.

"Sorry. I overreacted."

Plazia grabbed his wrist.

"I would disagree, but there is much to do, isn't there?"

I nodded, and Plazia sliced through reality, leading us to Blegara's scar. We walked through the veil, Plazia, a collection of many while I was a dimension all my own. When we passed over, we stared at an empty, howling landscape with not a drop of water as far as the eye could view.

The seafloor had emptied, leaving the grooves and trenches of the underwater abysses exposed. Like enormous flood plains, fossils embedded in the walls of rock, the skeletons telling the tale of life here. In some even deeper trenches, the bones lined up to showcase evolution on this planet.

At the bottom of these pits, the fossils were like the early life on Earth. Primitive forms with inefficient shells and skeletons had struggled amidst the primordial waters. Nearer to the top of the trenches, these bodies deformed into more monstrous, hostile entities. The slow, steady eldritchification was apparent even on a geological scale.

It reminded me of what awaited Earth given the flood of mana from the Old Ones.

At the surface of the trenches, the fossils disappeared. The Hybrid Star had swallowed them, but at a certain depth, it hadn't found the fossils appetizing. At least the history of the planet would live on, but still...To see so much of Blegara dry and barren left me humbled. The Hybrid Star desiccated this world within months, and once fully formed, it would've done so in minutes, and this dried husk of a planet could be Earth's future.

I took a sharp breath as if I inhaled broken glass.

"This...I can't believe it's all gone."

Plazia followed me out of the warp. It closed behind him.

"You reap what you've sown, Harbinger."

I turned to him, and Plazia gestured to all of it.

"This is the outcome. Months without action or answers. I had uncovered the outbreak long before this beast grew these claws, but you holed into the sanctum of your mind, honing a new skill, wasn't it? You chose yourself over the world. This destruction is the result of that choice."

A part of me held tremendous guilt and believed Plazia. For a moment, those feelings crippled me, made me smaller than I was. However, another part snarled out. My anger won as I turned to him.

"That's projection. You were my general. I assigned you here to stop this, but you chose to contain the problem rather than solve it out of fear. I'm not responsible for what you chose not to do. I'm simply here to clean up the mess you left behind."

The miles of barren stone blurred in the distance, the hot air masking it like the beginnings of a mirage. Without the ocean to soak up the sun's rays, the heat built into something painful and scorching, as if Blegara cried out in pain. Plazia scoffed over those cries.

"Your assessment is correct. This is my failing."

I threw my hand to the side.

"Then why are you antagonizing me like this?"

"There are times you choose to bear responsibilities that aren't yours. I'm helping you rid yourself of that blight."

I narrowed my eyes.

"Why not just tell me directly?"

An ominous cackle radiated from the crackling earth, Plazia's voice like a planet's rage.

"You've been told before, haven't you?"

"Well, yeah-"

"And yet, it has done nothing. That is because you must do more than think it. You must feel it. Believe it down to your bones and blood. Otherwise, you merely pretend to understand what mere words imply."

I shook my head.

"Ok, but that doesn't mean you have to dig into my insecurities here, man."

Plazia let out an amused laugh.

"You helped me overcome my fear through turmoil and urgency. I am helping you overcome your self-doubt and heedless guilt through conflict. I believe it is the nature of our friendship. We help one another grow, but it is not always a peaceful thing. At times, it grates us, but that is the process of sharpening. It is to find friction until you are honed to a fine edge."

Plazia sharpened one of his claws against the other.

"I am here to help you hone yourself, not find comfort in my company."

A while passed as I thought over what he said. I shook my head.

"You can't be everything to everyone, so yeah, it's good to have people in your life that challenge you. That being said, you have to know when you're pushing too hard."

Plazia simmered his words in a low boil.

"To hone oneself is to feel pain, Harbinger. You know this as well as I do."

I frowned.

"But there is a difference in meaning. Pain without meaning is torture. Give it a purpose and it becomes a tribulation, something that can build."

Plazia laughed.

"Something that can be endured?"

I smiled.

"Exactly.

Plazia peered at the horizons.

"Tell me...Does it feel good to carry this planet's fate in your hands?"

As charred winds brushed against me, I pulled the portal out from my back.

"It's...Humbling."

Runes sparked to life over Plazia's armor, the energy like liquid power.

"And humility is the source of all strength, arrogance its death."

A sad smile traced my lips.

"One can hope."

From the palms of my hands, water splashed out of the rip in space-time, and it crashed against patches of sheening earth and stone. It rose in waves of heated steam, and I grabbed the edges of the portal. I ripped the warp open one jerk at a time. The volume of falling water magnified with each passing second.

Plazia watched his gaze, sharp and piercing. After a few minutes, he flew up to assess the damage and gather his eldritch minions. By the time I finished ripping the rift open, he had amassed a large army of obsidian insects.

Plazia murmured over the roaring falls,

"I will send them out to scout this domain. What's your plan with that chasm of water?"

I spread my hands.

"Make it bigger."

By the time I finished shearing it open, it dwarfed the size of its previous incarnation. It stretched over many kilometers, and the final task involved dragging the thin line open as if wrenching a laceration open. Grabbing one side, I heaved, and reality wailed. Sparks of lightning erupted, blue sparks striking my hands and heels alike.

I jittered from a strange, growing resonance. Taking a deep breath, I wielded my wake, further peeling it apart. A kind of resistance built, making my movements slow and sluggish. As I pushed through a growing sense of unease, the portal wrenched apart. With a heave of my dimensional wake, I pried it open like pulling a tooth.

Water gushed in, and I raised a fist to celebrate my success. However, other key elements of the terraforming came to light. In order to reconstruct the previous environment, the bacteria and basic life here had to rival Blegara's past iteration. Considering how large the empty wastes were, life could have time to evolve differently here than the rest of the planet.

To help rectify that, Plazia and I gathered different species from the other portion of the world while marking down the accounts of displaced Vagni. They informed us of the kind of life that lived here before they resettled on the other part of the planet. From plants like kelp and algae to fish of a thousand different species, we harvested as many as we could find.

The other issue came from collecting bacteria and other microbes. My armor sterilized itself without my awareness, and I lacked the finesse to control that aspect of myself. This left Plazia diving to the bottom of the ocean and collecting corpses for the germs there to put on the other side of the world.

From hivemind to corpse collector, he wasn't a happy camper.

But that was kind of the norm with Plazia. While he carried a sharp competence and philosophical mind, he lacked joy in almost anything he did. He would take antagonistic approaches to any conversation, determined to cut into whoever he spoke with and bring out a reaction.

Over the years, he'd sharpened that conversational ability to a knife's edge. I would've been fine with it under normal circumstances, but Plazia reminded me of people from my pre-Schema life. In particular, my father. Like Plazia, my dad was also a firestarter, and while he was fun to hang out with on a Friday night, he made for a pisspoor paternal figure.

Plazia brought those experiences of mine back to light with his constant poking and prodding. By the time we restored the first region of the world, a growing resentment built in my chest, and Plazia kept running through my patience like a chainsaw through a sun-dried pine.

Still, I kept patient. Plazia's abilities shined on a global scale like this, and he understood how to use his vast reach well. He enlisted the Vagni in the restoration effort, making sure they helped settle different parts of the planet to restore its natural beauty. His insect servants always swarmed in the distance, handling different portions of the terraforming, from resettlement to protecting Vagni from the elements.

