Despite his obvious goodwill, it still left a bad taste in my mouth, hearing him go on and on about his hunger or prattling off with wolf metaphors. Over the course of our first few weeks on Blegara, that budding resentment evolved into the seeds of contempt, and it threatened to gush out of me like a pipe under pressure.

That was until we began establishing a Vagni village along a newly restored oceanic bed. The currents hadn't settled yet. The flow of water from the colossal rift still affected the entire sea here, and it left a perpetual flow of water in one direction, like an endless, fresh wind. The Vagni called it the Voragnil - the breath of life in their tongue.

We wafted in that, settling and establishing a village among newly implanted reefs. After handling the rations and crop supplies, I flowed through the water and up to the air to head to Plazia. He was tasked with training the Vagni in various anti-eldritch tactics and combat drills, and he leveraged what he learned while managing the planet.

As I neared his training camp, I dove back into the sea, finding him from nearly three kilometers out. That was only possible since my sight had improved by immensities with my attribute increases. From out there, Plazia wasn't aware of me.

The hivemind stood beside two recruits, the Vagni fighting each other. They wielded the water as extensions of their body, solidifying and evaporating it to maximum effect. The younger of the two recruits sliced the other with an ice blade, and the attack sank into the side of the fighter.

That ended the spar in its loss, but there was no shame in it. The wounded member swam off for treatment. As they passed Plazia, a floating cloud of blood dispersed through the water. It reminded me of footage from shark attacks long ago.

As the cloud-covered Plazia, he put a hand onto the Vagni's back. Plazia raised his head, and the blood flowed into the bowels of his armor through its opened slits. The Vagni tilted its head to Plazia, wondering what its benevolent leader wanted.

And Plazia stared at him with a shackled hunger.

The swarm within Plazia's armor writhed like a kicked hornet's nest. The legs of several insects reached outside of Plazia's helmet slit, and their drool dripped down from his facemask, the liquid heavier than the surrounding water. It dappled down into a puddle at their feet, the lime-colored saliva searing into the implanted sand below.

Plazia's hands trembled. His shoulders writhed. He grabbed onto the Vagni, squeezing him to a halt. Plazia lifted a shaking palm, and mana coalesced into it. The runes glowed across his body, and even without a deep understanding of the magic within, I read the runes as glyphs designed to evoke pain.

Immense amounts of it.

Worry erupted in my chest, and I pooled mana into my hands to dash at them. Before I could, Plazia's hand glowed red. Bubbles flowed from the limb, and he slowly pulled it to his face, shaking all the while. He squirmed. He writhed. He shambled as the glowing metal spread over his facemask.

Like a cleansing brand, he burned the insects that tried to escape his armor. He kept holding himself in place, his magic ensuring his agony was no muted thing. His rituals augmented the pain he experienced well beyond a normal burn, and it left him shaking like a beaten child.

After a long moment, Plazia winced and released the Vagni. The local bowed to Plazia, appreciating his release before it swam away. Plazia continued to burn himself, the agony his distraction from the humming of his hunger.

He reached his hand back out of his facemask, and he gazed at his palm. He grabbed the sides of his face before hitting his helmet. He pinned himself in place before twitching for a time. Instead of interrupting him, I gave him a few minutes to collect himself. He deserved that mercy.

So I channeled mana for a bit before flying and diving in nearby. As I landed in the sandy sea, the grains plumed in the water like a tan smoke. Plazia walked out of the cloud, and on his helmet, a new scratch glistened in the underwater light.

He glared.

"Is there something you need to say, or are you simply this apt at wasting time?"

I looked over his armor, finding countless scars, imperfections, and markings. The Sentinel armor reminded me of a used car lot after a hailstorm. I thought of saying something, thought better of it, then left him to his peace. I shrugged.

"We all need breaks sometimes, right?"

He turned, the uplifted sand bending around him.

"As you've said before. Breaks are for the weak."

I smiled.

"And the weary."

********************************************

We had members of my guild join in the terraforming process after getting parts of the planet stable. They helped us create a better environment, and in particular, that involved the weather. To the surprise of absolutely nobody, taking a third of a planet's oceans resulted in changing weather patterns. Many violent, oppressive changes.

Without Plazia's basalt walls, the oceans would've drained into the missing basin the Hybrid Star left behind, resulting in global climate change within hours. As it was, the water still evaporated on the open seas, and clouds drifted over the dried area.

While faster than we liked, that bought us a few weeks to try and remoisturize the area. In the meantime, the storms of Blegara reached biblical proportions.

The planet had always had absurdly powerful storms. Compared to Earth, the entire planet was an ocean, so any hurricanes that formed could rage on the surface of the world for literal months at a time. They reached sizes that covered entire sides of the world at times, and the shadows they cast weren't measured in distance. The Vagni measured them in how many weeks they took to pass.

Despite this environmental chaos, they left little impact on the locals. The Vagni lived several hundred feet below the surface of the seas, and that barrier absorbed nearly all the impact these storms would've left on them. When we resettled, this was no longer the case. The shallow sea we made wasn't able to swallow those near-global storms.

The hurricanes would cross the basalt walls and crash down onto newer settlements with the wrath of an enraged god. They would ripple and stir the seas until the surface held oceanic wakes well into the hundreds of feet high. Plazia planned for this disturbance, however.

He never enlisted unleveled Vagni, sticking with systemized and trained individuals for the shallow seas we carved out. Having been Schematized, these Vagni handled the storms without nearly any casualties. It was an incredible boon for us, and I hardly believed it, especially after seeing these tempests firsthand.

One day, I spent a few hours watching one of them. Lightning danced across the sky like a heart pumping energy into the world. Waterspouts coursed and siphoned the sea into the clouds like curving tunnels to the sky. The waves billowed up through the entire horizon, the edge of my sight like some bending illusion.

It exposed how fragile the world was. How fragile a planet could be.

It brought my thoughts and attention back to Earth. My home still had dimensional instability and Elysium to worry about. No matter how much my brain understood Blegara's situational urgency, my heart told me to protect Mt. Verner.

To ease that concern, I organized a quick meetup with my guildmates. Even if I couldn't be there, they needed to know about Elysium's intervention and the proposed origin of mana. I wanted to tell everyone immediately, but I also worried what Schema's reaction might be. It had made teams of engineers into unknowns over knowledge of the cipher, for instance.

I didn't want that to happen again. That's why I took a few weeks to verify how dangerous the information seemed to be. So far, so good, and letting my other guildmates know might lead to some important breakthroughs or understandings at the very least. Blegara could afford to have its terraforming stalled by a few hours in the meantime.

The meeting gave us the opportunity to get more manpower on the project. We had already spent day and night handling the immediate concerns, and the long-term prospects became our primary concern. That meant getting people on board who understood what the hell was going on and could fix it.

Considering the planetary scale of the project, a few more bodies wouldn't hurt either. Sending out the message, we found a time that matched all of our schedules. With the time arriving, Plazia warped us back to Earth. As we had with most of our meetings, we gathered at the top of Mt. Verner, where Chrona made her home.

The crisp, thin air refreshed and revitalized my senses after weeks in the oceanic world. Below us all, the guild erected a growing city and infrastructure with tasteful parks and elegant structures. They replaced the once vast greenery with a thriving metropolis. Mana and my golems powered the entire expanse, lighting homes and offering a functional intranet based on a psionic web.

Therein was the problem. It all hinged on mana, a resource I didn't know if we could keep relying on. As other members of my guild came in, my nervousness over that issue bubbled and churned in my chest. A few late arrivals came in while handling their previous arrangements. After a few fond hellos and quick catchups, I stood with many eyes on me.

I widened my gaze.

"Where's Al-"

Althea landed on my shoulder from the ether.

"Hey, what's up?"

I smiled.

"Well, someone beautiful, by the looks of it."

Torix had new robes, and they covered a portion of his armor body. He reminded me of a dark metal pharaoh.

"It's quite good to see you again, disciple. Now, you've mentioned that there are a few fundamental understandings of the universe we simply must address. Please, do enlighten us."

Before we began the conversation, Plazia finished his isolation runes nearby. I didn't want Schema listening in too closely. I took a breath.

"We destroyed a Hybrid Star, a Hybridized Spatial Fortress. During the battle, I had a conversation with an Elysium general. They told me that mana is derived from the Old Ones."

Torix leaned back.

"That's impossible...It...Well...Hmmmm."

Shalahora peered away, unable to meet our gazes. Kessiah dragged her hands down her face, fresh blood staining her combat fatigues. It was hers.

"Blegh. Nothing is ever simple, is it?"

Althea frowned.

"I always had a hunch, especially after coming to Earth. Mana seemed too good to be true after seeing a society live without it."

Shalahora's shadow body writhed as his voice whispered over us all.

"Absolute power corrupts absolutely. It's unfortunate, but mana is power, and its source is...Volatile."

Diesel rubbed the side of his head.

"Does that mean we can't use mana anymore? If so, that puts a wrench in our plans. Actually, it dismantles them outright. We need that power source to accomplish almost anything these days. Could we use it even if it comes from these, er, Old Ones? Are they really that bad?"

My eyes went distant.

"They're worse than evil."

Hod raised a wing with tremendous confidence.

"Hod think old people not that bad. Hod will say, Hod see old people in dark sometimes. Old people kind of scary, but Hod see their smile the next morning. Hod think them not so bad then."

Hod nodded as if he said something deeply profound. Torix gazed at the sky as if staring at infinity.

"You will survive this, Torix. You must."
