All of which was rather sweet of him, but still not enough for Song to fall in love with him. That being said, before she could come up with something to say, Rain sprang to his feet with a smile and clasped her hands in his. “Thank you Li-Li,” he said, hesitating as he went to pat her head, only to go through with it once she gave her unspoken permission. Rubbing the base of her cat-ears with startling familiarity, his fingers delivered a pulse of pleasure careening down her skull to the base of her spine, an expert at massaging cat ears from all his time spent with Aurie, Jimjam, and Sarankho. “For trusting me, that is. How do you feel? Does anything seem out of place? Are you able to voice your thoughts without difficulty? Can you find Balance?”

“Stop.” Interrupting Rain in the midst of his rapid-fire questioning, the Medical Saint took him by the shoulders and squatted down to look him in the eyes. “Tell me exactly what you just did and how you did it.”

“Er...” Cheeks blazing with red-hot embarrassment, Rain’s amber eyes flickered between his teacher, Lin-Lin, and Song, unable to meet any of their gazes for more than a half second. “Well, it’s err... a little complicated and not all too clear, but well, while wishing I could help her, I was reminded of something that happened way back when...” Clearing his throat in embarrassment, Rain rattled off a tale from his time in Castle JiangHu, detailing his experiences before falling into yet another lengthy coma. Some of this they already knew, like his ability to Scry the battlefield despite lacking a Core, but most of it was news to all of them, including the pivotal section regarding his part in helping Mister Rustram Develop his Domain.

“– which is when I realized that Rustram and Sai Chou’s love allowed them to... err... well, mix souls, in a way, leaving no barriers between them when it comes to matters of Chi.” Shrugging, he stared at his feet and continued, “See, the rejection of Chi happens because Souls are inviolable, but they say people in love are two parts of a whole. Cheesy, I know, but true love allowed Rustram’s Chi to affect Sai Chou because they are, in some ways, a single, shared soul inhabiting two bodies. So I err... drew on that, shared how I felt through Aura, and err... well... I was able to see her injuries teacher, the same way I see my own, and I guided her body to Heal itself using ambient Energy of the Heavens. She’s Healed, because... well...”

So he was saying his love for her allowed him to Heal her shattered Core? Pleasant as it all sounded, Song felt it to be...

“Poppycock,” the Medical Saint declared, gently flicking Rain on the nose. “Did you already forget what I told you in the Abbot’s abode? You said it yourself, it’s trust, not love. It’s clear little Li-Li trusts you enough to cede control over to you, else this never would have worked. Even then, it shouldn’t have, and I can tell you overlooked some key points in the process and don’t entirely understand what you did, else you’d have much more to say about it, my boy.”

That made more sense, because Song did trust Rain to such an extent, as her life had literally been in his hands for so long without incident. Rain however didn’t seem ready to accept his teacher’s explanation, but he was too loyal and loving to disagree out loud. “Well, either way, it worked and I think I can use this to help the Abbot now, though I’ll need some help. I’ll explain while we go find Jorani, so I can ask him a few questions and get a different perspective.” Turning to Song, he said, “Why don’t you get some rest? Err... unless you want to come along? Or you know... do whatever you like. You are free to do so after all.”

Curious as she was, Song had more pressing matters to attend to, namely testing out her new and improved Core, mostly to make sure it was in working order and to uncover in just what ways it’d been improved. Maybe she’d have time to Condense her Aura again and possibly even Form another Natal Palace, though using the emerald and chain to symbolize her throne and boundaries no longer seemed appropriate. “No,” she answered, shaking her head while slipping out of bed, and only shrinking back a little when she caught his hungry gaze skimming up and down her barely covered body, one hidden behind a sheer, silk nightgown. Bravely ignoring his stare, she stood up and stretched while marvelling at how refreshed and relaxed she felt, her previous fatigue all washed away by the excitement of her Core Re-Creation. Balance came easily and the Energy of the Heavens rushed in to fill her Core, faster and more responsive than ever. A soothing sensation washed over her body, easing away strain and tension she’d never known existed and leaving her feeling full of vim and vigour and better than she’d ever felt before, but all she could think about was how she could do anything she pleased now that she had no Oaths to stop her.

And what she wanted to do most was get back to her family and tell them how much she loved and appreciated them.

Once she was ready to change back into her clothes, she gave Rain a pointed stare and uttered, “Privacy please.” A rush of exhilaration coursed through her body from her head to her toes, for her Oaths would never have allowed her to make such a demand of her master, not when it was obvious how much he yearned to stay and watch. Exercising this tiny bit of freedom was even better than she could imagine, especially seeing how he hopped to obey and dragged the Medical Saint off with him. Truth be told, Song wouldn’t have minded if either of them stayed, because it was only a look. Rain deserved some reward for his hard work and the Medical Saint wouldn’t have cared either way, but this was much more fun and exhilarating. Matching Lin-Lin’s beatific smile with one of her own, Song wrapped her arms around the waifish half-hare and whispered, “I’m free.”

“Yup. Congratulations Li-Li.” Hugging her oh-so tightly while carefully sparing Mama Bun stuck between them, Lin-Lin’s joy was a match for Song’s own, and their smiles turned to laughter as the other animals sauntered over for their fair share of affection, and for several, glorious minutes, Song ignored her pressing responsibilities to exercise her freedom for the first time in memory.

And it was everything she imagined and more.

Chapter Meme
