Right now though, such lascivious thoughts were the furthest thing from Rain’s mind as he brooded over his path in silent frustration, allowing himself no time to celebrate his recovery or astounding achievements. In his mind, killing the Confessor, a cunning, dangerous Warrior who almost assassinated Colonel General Nian Zu and required the combined efforts of no less than four Peak Experts to defeat, was only expected of him, and anything less would have been considered an abject failure. In fact, he didn’t even seem happy about his victory against his foe, obliquely mentioning how he ‘cheated’ and had help from Pong Pong without referring to the Divine Turtle by name or species. All he could think about was the next step ahead, so fixated on his goal that he could no longer appreciate the incredible journey he took to get there.

Perhaps this mindset was how he’d progressed as far as he did in so short a time, but Song worried his mind would eventually crumble under all the self-inflicted stress, and sooner rather than later at that. Much as it pained her to move, once she was out of her armour and wearing a silken night-gown, she gestured for Lin-Lin to hold a moment before laying her down in bed again. “Rain,” Song said, reaching out to pat his head with a phenomenal effort of will. “Good job.”

His response to this minuscule show of reassurance was astounding to behold as his sheer joy and contentment overwhelmed her senses in a torrent of cheer and elation. “Thanks Martial Aunt Song,” he replied, all but glowing with pride as he turned to meet her gaze, pride not from his own accomplishments, but because he’d won her praise. A strange thing to cherish so highly, but cherish it he did, unable to contain his glee as he shuffled excitedly in place. If he had a tail like Brother Baatar’s, it would be wagging uncontrollably behind him, an image which had Song smiling in spite of her aches and fatigue. Leaning into her hand a little longer than proper, Rain finally collected himself amidst Lin-Lin’s girlish giggles and said, “Well, we should let you sleep now. Don’t worry, we’ll spare no expense and have your Core fixed in no time, and I’m sure your father and sister will fight for the right to craft you a new weapon.”

For some unknown reason, this statement gave Rain pause as he stopped to consider his words in depth. After a moment of silence, he shook himself out of his fugue and opened his mouth to speak, only to stop and censor himself before sharing his thoughts. “We each walk our own paths,” he said, flashing a wry smile in response to a joke only he understood. “Just because it worked for me doesn’t mean it’ll work for you.” Still unsure about what he was going on about, Song merely nodded as Lin-Lin helped her back into bed, gingerly arranging the rabbits around her before letting the bears and wildcats back on, though Princess never stirred from her side, nestled beneath the covers never to emerge. Not for the first time, she noticed Rain’s hand start to move before he caught himself, so she raised her own hand in search of his. As his fingers wrapped around hers, she lost herself in his warm and comforting Aura, one lessened by the underlying currents of self-contempt that accompanied his every thought and action. “Sorry,” he whispered, apologizing for matters far outside his control while encouraging a grumpy Mama Bun to snuggle down in Song’s embrace. “If only I had enough usable Heavenly Energy, or if I knew how to use what’s readily available...”

Then he would be a True Divinity, or at least comparable to one, which was a ridiculous flaw to apologize for. Regardless of his outlandish pride, Song accepted his warm sentiment for what it represented, wishing he could do as he hoped he could and take away all her pain and ease her sorrows forevermore. His warm Aura sank deep into her bones as she closed her eyes to rest, but still she did not release his hand, nor did he make any move to pull away. Somehow, just having him nearby alleviated the pain permeating throughout her body, easing her inflamed nerves like the cooling touch of a cold compress against her bare skin. It was different from Medical Saint Taduk’s Domain, which merely alleviated the cause of her suffering while Rain’s presence soothed her aches and agonies away. Opening herself to his emotions, she accepted his love and even his affection, understanding he had no ill-intent and simply couldn’t help himself from desiring her, yet comforted by the knowledge that he would never act on his feelings so long as she didn’t allow it. It was reassuring to bask in his soothing presence without having to worry about his underlying motives, and she allowed herself to indulge in her fancies and imagine what it would be like to love him back.

She didn’t love him of course, not in the way Mila, Yan, Lin-Lin, and Luo-Luo loved him, but if Song were to fall in love with any man in that manner, she imagined it would be Falling Rain. Not the worst fate to succumb to, for he was a good man who would work hard to ensure all his wives were loved and contented, but Song was not quite ready to take so large a step, which he understood and accepted. It was enough to be at ease in his presence, to be his friend, comrade in arms, and fellow floof parent, and they would both have to wait and see if any more was forthcoming. There were no words exchanged between them, but they both understood the other’s thoughts and intentions, his being that he would never push her for anything more than what they already shared, and hers that she could not promise a future between them, but would consider it when she was ready later on so long as he still cared to accept her.

Even this minor concession was enough to make his heart soar with joy, not out of hope for the future but unbridled bliss in the present, to know that he’d left some mark on her heart and garnered a bit of goodwill. This in turn set his Aura to coursing through her body and easing away even more of her pain, until its absence became so jarring she could no longer ignore it in favour of blissful rest. Surprise and concern welled up from within, echoed by Rain’s Aura as he noticed the same, strange change that had come about them. Then, his heart skipped a beat and surged with delight and excitement, encouraging her even as he reassured her that everything was going to be alright. “Trust me,” he said, without having to say or Send a single word, and Song did so without a thought, not because she was Oath-bound to obey, but because she knew, understood, and accepted that Rain would never do anything to hurt her.

In short, he didn’t even need to ask for her trust, for he already had it, without any reservations on her part whatsoever.

Having already eased away her pain and suffering, he guided her mind back to Balance and showed her the shattered remains of her Core, the images coming through as clear as day. Physically, there was nothing wrong with her, but spiritually, her foundation had been demolished, a foundation she didn’t even know she had. Gathering up the fragmented remains of her Core, she became aware of the lingering connection she still had with her melted sabre, the cooled and hardened remains of her liquefied weapon lying just under her bed, where the Medical Saint left it. Memories of the sabre welled up from within, some of the few fond memories she possessed before coming into contact with her new family, for her sabre represented Teacher Du’s faith in her abilities and the Path she set herself upon of her own free will. She would be Li Song, Slave and Warrior, which even now seemed like a lofty ambition too far above her station, but Rain challenged her to aspire for more.

“You’re not a slave any more,” he told her, the thought appearing in her mind using his voice, and to her surprise, she discovered this to be true. So unexpected, she didn’t even have it in her to be happy, overwhelmed as she was by her shock and wonder, unable to believe she was finally free yet knowing it could not be any other way. “Your Oaths were bound to your Core, which no longer exists, so at least some good came from this.”

“I’m free,” she whispered, tears springing to her eyes as she knew this for truth, tears which were the product of a curious mixture of joy and loss. The freedom she once didn’t even dare secretly desire was now hers, but she’d lost her identity and sense of self alongside it. All her life, she’d been Li Song the slave, and everything else had been tacked on afterwards, but now, that first link was no longer there and she knew not how to connect the remaining elements of her identity without her status as a slave to hold it all together.

“You’re free,” Rain said, echoing her words in reality as well as her mind, and his voice erased all her doubts and uncertainties. Whatever trials and tribulations lay ahead, he would be there to help her through them, as would Mama, Papa, Sister Mila, and the rest of Song’s beloved family and friends she’s collected along the way. Though she still didn’t know what to make of herself anymore, she would slowly discover her identity in time, so long as she allowed herself to be comfortable in her own skin, a luxury she now possessed. No more worrying about if her actions would displease her Master or if her freedom would one day be taken away, for Song was free of her Oaths for good now, and her loved ones would never allow her to be chained down again.

Releasing the fragments of her old life to the Void, she felt the molten remains of her sabre scatter away with the wind, dust to be swept up the next time she cleaned her borrowed room. Then, upon the remains of the cleared foundations, she built herself up anew, unsure what to make of herself but just allowing things to fall into place where they would, where they felt natural and like they belonged. It was similar to utilizing Panacea, but different in so many ways, the Energy of the Heavens doing things she could barely even perceive much less comprehend. Throughout the entire process, she felt Rain’s comforting presence there at her side, providing her with the means and materials required to remake her foundation at no small cost to himself, a cost neither of them truly understood, but there was no expectation of gratitude or repayment in his heart. Instead, he was all too happy to help and even directed her attentions towards complications she’d overlooked, ones neither of them truly understood, but were able to fix regardless of their lacking comprehension.

And when all was said and done, Song’s Core had been restored to better than it was before, free of the Slave Oaths binding her to his commands. Though her Natal Palace was a thing of the past now, her constant agony was no longer an issue as she sat up in bed and clutched Mama Bun close. The grumpy rabbit snorted and glared in quiet discontent, annoyed that her comfortable bed was no longer lying down, but she settled in soon enough with a few reassuring pats. Soothing the sweet rabbit as she met Rain’s tired, but elated gaze, Song didn’t know what to say to this man who’d done so much for her without expecting anything in return. A mere thanks seemed insufficient to convey the depths of her gratitude, but to offer any more would make both of them uncomfortable, Song because she was not yet ready to try her hand at love, and Rain because he would then be plagued with doubts about her intentions.

Despite the many women in his life, Rain truly loved each and every one of them, for varying reasons no less. Lin-Lin he loved because of her sweet and cheerful nature, as well as her sharp mind and devoted love and affection. Sister Mila he loved because of her staunch and stalwart attitude, a strong, straightforward woman who told him in no uncertain terms how she felt. Sister Yan he loved for her bold and courageous perspective, always ready to challenge him no matter the issue and willing to brave the unknown without hesitation. Song even sensed Rain succumbing to Luo-Luo’s persistence, his inherent mistrust worn away by the Imperial Servant’s unwavering loyalty, tireless persistence, and sheer competence in civil and business matters.

All of which proved that Rain’s affection required more than mere beauty to obtain, so why did he love Song?

The answer revealed itself to her as he looked deep into her eyes, his inner desires exposed through his Aura without intent. He saw her as a kindred spirit, someone who did more than just accept his strange and curious nature, but actually understood it because she was in many ways the same. Lin-Lin, Mila, Yan, and even Luo-Luo knew he needed his time alone and enjoyed the company of his pets, but Song was the only one who shared his quiet, reclusive nature and understood why he needed this time to relax and recuperate. Social exchanges were exhausting and unpredictable, and Rain was a man who liked to plan out his moves in advance, lest he panic and do something stupid and unexpected as he so often did when caught unawares. He also wanted to help her through her trauma the way others helped him, because he knew what it was like to be powerless and afraid, as well as the difference a single person’s support could make.

