A deluge of searing agony accompanied a rush of unwelcome consciousness as Song’s slumber was disturbed by the joyous sounds of the pets’ excited greetings, the first indication she had that she was not alone.

Normally, knowing there were other people around would have her on her feet in a heartbeat, but the mere act of opening her eyes already seemed like more than she could bear, much less sitting up or standing. Leaden eyelids kept her shrouded in darkness as the world pressed heavily down upon her, her lungs burning with every breath and skin rubbed raw by the mere touch of cloth. The once soft bed she lay upon now felt like hard, uneven ground, with sharp rocks and steel needles jabbing into tender flesh no matter how she moved. This was her life now, awash in a sea of torment and misery until such a time as her shattered Core was restored, a miserable existence brimming with a cornucopia of agony and anguish that she would not wish upon even her worst Enemy in existence.

How Rain survived like this for so many months, Song would never know, but she was almost ready to give in and give up.

As she lay there in a haze of unending torment, she was overcome by a rising tide of mixed emotions, ones she struggled to parse through in her current condition. Welcoming anything that might take her mind off the pain, Song fixated on these unfamiliar emotions in an effort to untangle this most uninteresting of mysteries. A generous serving of guilt and self-contempt formed the foundation of this medley of emotions, sprinkled with a dash of relief to still be alive and a muted hint of joy thrown in for good measure, though she had no idea what she might have to be happy about. There was also plenty of gloom and melancholy, but it went further than mere regret and remorse, for she felt genuinely heartbroken to be seen in these dire straits and would do anything to fix herself. There was outrage too, a constrained, smouldering anger that stemmed from helpless inability that threatened to boil over into violent rage, and might well have if not for a dearth of nearby targets. Most overpowering of all was the shame however, shame for having allowed matters to get this far, as if she should have done better to prevent it.

How absurd. Song had done the best she could given the dire situation, and were she to go back in time and be given another chance, she would have made the exact same decisions again. Even if there was no cure for shattering her Core, she counted it a fair trade, her meagre life in exchange for removing Gen from the board as a leader and figurehead for the Defiled. It would’ve been even better if she’d killed him outright, but alas, the Father was not yet finished with His foul Emissary of Earth’s Fire.

However, despite knowing she’d done her best and believing it with all her heart, Song still couldn’t shake off this barrage of emotions, a veritable whirlwind of sentiment that swept her away and left her unable to make heads or tails of her thoughts. The mere struggle to stay calm and composed was utterly exhausting as these insensible sensibilities battered her about and left her a jumbled mess of thoughts and reactions thanks to this unfamiliar blend of internal woes. Aggravating is what it was, to lie here unable to accept logic and good sense, so with no other choice, she sought out help from the people around her, hoping someone nearby could support her through this unexpected and unwelcome deluge of emotions. Pushing through the pain and enervation, Song cracked open her eyes and licked her dry lips with a tongue rougher than sand, only for her lip to fissure in an eruption of molten hot pain. The air itself felt like daggers stabbing into her eyes, and she blinked as quickly as her body would allow, but even this minor exertion cost her much. Finally, as the blinding lights dimmed and her vision adjusted to the surroundings, she found herself in her guest room at the monastery with Lin-Lin and Rain kneeling by her bedside, while the Medical Saint sat on a chair beside them and checked on Song’s health.

“Sorry for waking you,” Rain whispered, his words accompanying a fresh bout of emotional angst assaulting Song’s senses. “I didn’t know you were injured, and wanted to steal Mama Bun for a nap.”

“Not your fault, Rain my boy,” the Medical Saint said, his warm Chi coursing through Song’s body to soothe away the vast majority of her pain. “I should’ve warned you before coming in, but I was too preoccupied with other matters. It’s a good thing I decided to pop over for lunch today and arrived just in time to save her, else who knows what might have happened...”

The soothing process was a result of the Medical Saint’s Domain shielding Song from the pressure of the world now that he noticed she was awake, but he could not keep this up forever. Grateful for even this temporary reprieve, relief coursed through her body as she went from unbearable torment to more manageable misery, which afforded her the clarity of mind to finally understand what was happening. “Aura,” Song croaked, interrupting Rain as he teased the Medical Saint about his previous aversion to eating vegetables and his newfangled love for the Brotherhood’s vegetarian cuisine. “Too much.” Shuddering as she studied Rain’s shame-faced expression, she watched as he recoiled in self-reproach while emanating the same, the emotions so vivid and clear she’d initially mistook them for her own.

“Oh gods, I’m so sorry. I’ve been firing off Aura without meaning to and I have no idea why.” The emotional torrent receded as Rain suppressed his Aura, one he apparently had unwittingly condensed. All those emotions Song had previously struggled with weren’t hers to begin with, and she wondered how he ever got anything done if he felt like that all the time. To be beset by so many complex and confusing emotions at once had almost unmade her in moments, yet it was clear Rain had only internalized his torrential hysteria, rather than divest himself of it entirely.

It was only now that she realized Rain was here, not just physically at her side but also returned to his full mental capacity, which spoke volumes regarding her current debilitation. “You’re back,” she whispered, pleased he’d finally overcome his latest tribulation. There was something different about him, something she couldn’t quite place, but she was inspired by his resilience and vowed to follow in his footsteps. Rain’s Core had also been shattered and he endured this pain for several months, so Song could survive the few weeks it would take to gather the necessary Spiritual Plants and restore her back to full health. “How long... have I been asleep?”

As neither Rain nor Lin-Lin were present when Song passed out, they both looked to the Medical Saint for an answer, whose eyes glanced skywards as if trying to gauge the passage of time by staring at the sun hidden behind the ceiling. “Mm... a few minutes? A quarter hour perhaps?” Choking back a sob of pure anguish which was all her own, Song struggled to keep her spirits high amidst this shocking revelation, one which promised so much more misery ahead. “The fight didn’t take too too long, and the trip back went smoothly with Kukku to clear the way.”

At his beloved daughter’s urging, the Medical Saint filled them all in on what they missed in broad, indefinite strokes, a vague retelling which left Song utterly baffled and bewildered to the extreme. Hearing Monk Happy defeated the Half-Step Divinity Confessor came as no surprise, but learning Rain was able to slay the monstrous man in single combat was utterly unbelievable, even if Goujian still technically lived on in Demonic form. How far had Rain progressed during his latest convalescence? Was this a result of the physique refining baths, or some other secret along the Martial Path he’d unexpectedly stumbled across? Would Song’s strength progress by leaps and bounds as well once her shattered Core was restored?

There was just too much to process, Song was almost overwhelmed with regret. To think, she missed witnessing Monk Bones’ ascension to Divinity, a once in a lifetime experience she might never have a chance to see again. It would’ve been so useful to see an actual ascension, as it would be of great help in the future when she herself tackled that final, ineffable milestone along the Martial Path.

...

“Your Aura,” she whispered again, this time her voice coming out clearly, but Rain’s response was the same, assailing her with yet another torrent of shame and self-reproach before he managed to close himself off. By the Heavens, despite knowing he suffered from an irrational mindset, Rain was far more skittish than Song had ever believed possible, but what she found most fascinating was how easy his emotions were to read. “You intend to Shatter the Void?” And soon from the feel of it, as if he could make the attempt whenever he so chose, limited by a lack of time rather than opportunity as most others were. In his eyes, Shattering the Void was no different from turning his hand, a natural, casual step along the Martial Path he was always going to make, proving to Song once again that no one could ever match him in matters of talent, ego, and pride.

“Um yea,” he replied, distractedly considering the issue and letting his Aura slip once again. “The Abbot told me I was ready, but I really don’t think I am.” Frustration and impatience laid atop a bedrock of fear and anxiety, this was what Song sensed, and it made for an interesting insight into his mindset. Fear drove Rain in more ways than one, and it was surprising to learn just how prevalent it was in his emotions, constantly lurking there just beneath the surface of his every conscious thought and action. What’s more, merely looking at her became a source of guilt and shame, unable to admire her beauty without self-condemnation. This wasn’t anything new to Song, as she knew he lusted after her body, but the outright hatred he had for himself caught her by complete surprise. All this time, Song believed his guilty expressions were because he’d been caught imagining something lewd and obscene or contemplating acting on such thoughts, but as far as she could tell, even merely acknowledging the fact that he found her attractive was enough to send him in a downwards spiral of shame and remorse.

Which was ridiculous. Why did he behave so remorseful over such innocent and blameless thoughts? All it did was raise undue suspicions and lead everyone to mistaken conclusions, Song herself included, for what felt like the most innocuous of reasons. Even now, she could feel his pique and indignation, railing at the Heavens for allowing her to be injured while also hating himself for finding her attractive. When he himself suffered from his shattered Core, he never once displayed a single shred of resentment. Instead, he grimly clung to hope where so many others would have succumbed to despair, and look at where it brought him. In contrast, Song suspected Rain was on the verge of losing control from seeing her in so much pain, his rage directed inwards not just because he failed to prevent her injuries, but also because there was nothing he could do to help her. He so very desperately wanted to take all her pain away, would will it onto himself if he could, not because he wanted to earn her gratitude or win her affection, but because...

Well, because it hurt him to see her in pain, wounded him in ways no weapon ever could. The question was, why?

That wasn’t all that plagued him either. She’d seen how his eyes focused on her breastplate and how his hands twitched yet remained firmly at his side. He wanted to help her out of the armour and maybe stroke her hair, hoping to make her more comfortable but worried his intentions would be misconstrued, so he held his tongue and clenched his fists to keep himself from acting. Again, he let fear take control, so worried about the opinion of a mere slave that he tormented himself endlessly for his ‘impure’ thoughts. Truly a fool and an idiot, but a well-meaning one, and Song was touched by both his intentions and his overwhelming compassion to ensure she was never discomforted by his actions.

That being said, he was right in that she would have misunderstood if he had acted to take off her armour, so she met Lin-Lin’s warmhearted gaze and asked, “Please... help me... armour?” Even saying this much left her out of breath, but the sweet half-hare was more than happy to oblige as Rain turned around and directed the Medical Saint to do the same in order to preserve Song’s modesty. A strange habit considering the People were accustomed to mixed bathing in groups, but according to the stories Niece Alsantset so loved to share, Rain had earned himself a reputation for staring a bit too intently. Which, in his defence, was understandable coming from a boy of twelve or thirteen who had yet to grow accustomed to the People’s lifestyle, but unfortunately, this had developed into a habit which endured to this very day.

Hence why Rain had a private bathhouse built in his own manor, so he could ogle his wives in private and without guilt. Yan and Mila were more than happy to let him stare to his heart’s content, though oddly enough, Rain avoided going anywhere near the bathhouse whenever Luo-Luo was there. He also left Lin-Lin and Song well-enough alone, for which she was grateful for, but even she was curious to know what was hidden beneath the Imperial Servant’s somewhat scandalous attire...

