Zach checked his first kill but came up with no drops.

However, each of Thomas's kills delivered a C and B grade Wood mana crystal. They were rough, like bark, with a red-brown color that seemed to be standard elven wood.

As he picked each up, he felt a very slight resonance with it and his own mana core, telling him that he was at least somewhat compatible.

"Got a couple Wood mana," he announced, and tucked them in his backpack. Since Zach and Jo were going to be the main damage dealers, with him cleaning up and adding his particular Gift's power, he had been elected to carry the loot in his backpack.

Meanwhile, Jo had chosen her own nest. She had her Blood Thirst fencing sword, and through it, she was able to wield her Poison mana.

It was a simple thing for her to go up to the nest and poke the closest chick with her sword, delivering a dose of poison. Just like with the first nest, the other two chicks didn't take this lying down and went after her, screeching their velociraptor cries, heads and beaks elongated for the kill.

She wasn't quite as light on her feet as Zach, but thanks to her Still Waters skill, which allowed her to stay utterly calm, she stepped precisely where she needed to go, slashed at one chick that immediately started bleeding out, and then pivoted in place to thrust at the other one.

She was getting really good with that sword. It was hard to believe she had only picked one up a couple of weeks ago.

Thomas came over and ended the lives of the chicks, which were flopping around either bleeding out or dying of poison. It was grim work, but again, the rewards were worth it.

Two of the chicks dropped a Wood mana a piece. The last one, however, was different.

"This is new," Thomas said. It was a C grade, he guessed, just judging by its size. But it was almost entirely clear with a faint tinge of blue. When he picked it up, it felt like it was vibrating subtly between his fingers. It wasn't a feeling of resonance with his own core. Instead, the vibration felt like an aspect of the mana itself.

He concentrated, and the System popped up a label: Sound Mana.

"Hey, have you ever heard of sound mana?"

"Was that a pun?" Jo asked flatly, unaffected.

"No, man," Zach said, then flashed a grin at the unamused Jo before he added, "but I heard they're worth more money than regular elementals."

She made a face. "That certainly wasn't a pun; you just repeated what he said."

Ignoring them, Thomas added the new mana crystal to his bag of loot. Then he noticed Jo was staring at him intently. "What?" he asked. Sometimes she could be a bit weird when she was under the effects of that skill.

"Is there anything interesting down here?" she asked pointedly.

His eyes briefly widened, and he felt like slapping his forehead. Duh. Eyes of Riches was his newest skill, and he'd almost forgotten about it. "Give me a moment." He blinked rapidly, activating it in his mind.

Instantly... the world turned strange again. Eyes of Riches let him see in a different frequency. He wasn't sure if it was higher or lower, but he saw colors he had not imagined before, and different shades indicated different amounts of treasure and the value of loot.

Some places, like the Elvin marketplace, which was filled with treasures to buy, were almost blinding. This dungeon... wasn't. But looking around through the Eyes of Riches skill was still odd.

He took a careful sweep around, noting differently glowing areas above. These were mostly relegated to the stairways that the guide said were the most dangerous.

"I'm not seeing anything that might indicate there's a Goldie around," he said after a long minute.

"Ah, nuts," Jo said with her flat intonation.

Zach shrugged. "Can't expect it in every dungeon, though it would be nice."

Then Thomas spotted something promising nearby.

"There's something right there." He pointed to a nest about fifteen feet up that was hanging right off the wall. Unfortunately, there was no ladder or stairs or anything leading to it. The chicks would have to be killed by archery or some other long-range method.

Or if they had a teleporter.

"I'll get it," Zach said, and in a second he was up at the nest, kicking the fledglings out before they could attack him. Their little flappy wings were much too small to support their weight, and they fell hard to the ground. But he wasn't quite fast enough. He yelled as the last fledgling took a chunk out of his leg before it, too, was given an early flying lesson.

"Wait a second," Thomas yelled before Zach could pop back down to ground level again. "Is there anything else in the nest?"

"Uh..." Zach looked around, then bent to shuffle inside it. He picked out something that looked like a brown rock — except to Thomas's sight, it glowed neon beige. He was still getting used to the colors.

"That's it," Thomas called.

In a blink, Zach was suddenly standing on ground level again.

Thomas went to quickly kill the injured chicks, but they only dropped more Wood mana. They also weren't glowing.

With loot in hand, he rejoined the others.

"Watch out for those beaks," Zach was telling Jo while he shuffled around in his bag. "I think they can snap bone if they get the right leverage."

"You okay?" Thomas asked. "Need healing?"

"No, I got this one," Zach said as he pulled a lower-level healing crystal out of his bag. He absorbed it and sighed in relief as the tear in his thigh healed perfectly. Zach then coughed out the excess healing mana, which came out in fleshy-gold sparkles.

Absorbing healing crystals for a quick self-heal was standard practice with divers because it was rare for a healer to actually follow a team into dungeons. Most people had to patch themselves up using healing crystals, even if they couldn't naturally retain any excess mana in their cores.

"So, what's that thing you found?" Jo asked. "Because it looks a little like a dropping. Not the loot kind."

Zach squinted. "System says it's a Chouk seed."

Thomas brightened. "Oh, that's great stuff. It's better than coffee. I wonder if we can grow it on Earth? My mom's a really good gardener, and she's been trying with some seeds from the Vegetable Greenhouse dungeon."

"No kidding," Zach said with interest, then handed it over. "Which ones do you guys want to tackle first?"

Thomas pointed to the staircase that made up the middle of the cylinder and curved straight up. "Easy one first, to see how we do."

Jo nodded in agreement.

The stone staircase was covered with different nests, and above that were the screeching juveniles, which would be harder. In fact, they'd attack all at once if they got the chance.

"Remember," Thomas said, "We go halfway up to the juvies and then stop. Whatever happens, no one provokes them. The nestlings are rated as easy for levels 3 and 4, but the juveniles jump to 'difficult' for level 4s."

As they were only level 3, they did not want that smoke.

"Right, right." Zach took the opportunity to grab a canteen from his bag and drink before parroting back the plan. "Then we get out, wait ten minutes, then come back for a fresh batch of nestlings again." He grinned. "Dungeon farming 101."
