“He wasn’t that bad,” Sana said with a weak smile. “He apologized to us after we got our plates. I just never knew what he was apologizing for until I got the memories back.”

“About that,” Rain said, struck by a thought. “You seem to be reacting pretty well to having all that knowledge dumped back into you. I’m curious. Is it disorienting at all?”

Sana shrugged. “Why would it be? They’re my memories. Besides, I’m used to the shock of them coming back. Oh, I didn’t mention how the Memory Cube works, did I?”

“Memory Cube?” Rain asked, deeply unsettled by her casual tone. “I just assumed the Warden was responsible.”

“She still might be,” Sana said, wiggling a hand. “There was a rumor that she made the thing, but I’m not sure I believe it. Reading’s supposed to be older than she is. Anyway, other than when we were in the room with Guardian Nem, all we knew was that he was teaching us to Read. Each day, we’d touch the cube to get our memories back, train for four hours, then touch it again to seal them again.”

“Huh,” Rain said. “I guess that’s better than losing the entire four months.”

Sana nodded. “Anyway, that’s about it for Feeling. Seeing is next, and it’s kind of like... You need to send out a pulse, then listen to the echo you get from Feeling, except with your eyes.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled, then raised his hand.

“What, uh?” Sana asked, looking at him. “Do...do you have a question?”

Tallheart blinked slowly, returning his arm to the table. “Would not the raw sense be better than sight for discerning truth?”

“I asked the Guardian that exact question,” Sana said, nodding. “Feeling just gives you an overall impression—whether someone is tired, stressed, angry...hungry...whatever. It’s pretty...vague...I guess?”

Tallheart rumbled, unconvinced.

Sana shook her head vigorously, making her short black hair whip around. “If you’re good at Seeing, you get way more detail.” She waved her hands excitedly, her passion for the subject increasingly evident. “Besides, it’s not like Feeling stops working just because you’ve learned to See. That’s actually the point. When someone lies, Feeling and Seeing won’t match up!” She made a curious gesture, touching the points of her index fingers and pinkies together, then looking through the resulting window. “It’s not easy, spotting the differences, but that’s why Reading is such an exciting puzzle!”

“I see,” Rain said, settling back in his chair. “I guess it’s like watching a person’s body language and comparing it to their words.”

Sana nodded enthusiastically. “Exactly, some of us do that too, but it’s not reliable. A normal person can control their face, but not their soul.” She gestured to Rain. “Or they can wear a helmet. Even if they can control their soul somewhat, their instinct is always to push the lie up to the surface. That just makes it more obvious! The best way I’ve found to block Reading is...um...” She looked at Rain, biting her lip. “Guardian Nem liked using the word ‘aura,’ but that’s going to be confusing with you. What was that word you used before? The thing for the space around you?”

“Domain,” Rain said. “The physical and/or metaphysical space controlled by an entity’s soul. In the Void, it’s directly visible. Out here, not so much, but there’s still a distance component that matters for skill opposition. We’ve even got a class for our Mages on the subject.”

“Right,” Sana said. “I’m great at Reading, but I’m also better at magic than I should be for my level. It’s because I know how to control my Domain.”

Rain blinked, only now realizing that he didn’t actually know what Sana’s class was.

“I’m classless,” Sana said, seemingly Reading his question right off him. She held up a hand, and a bright purple orb appeared, hovering motionless above her palm. “Arcane Bolt is my only real spell. My cohort had a really unlucky awakening, so I’m only level two.”

Rain’s jaw dropped, but not from the magic.

Holy shit! Some of the SENTINELS had trouble Reading me, and she’s doing it at level TWO!?

“Impressive control,” Ameliah said, nodding to the perfectly stationary orb.

Sana shrugged. “It’s just Guide Sending.” Casually, she tossed the orb from one hand to the other, the projectile following a perfect parabolic trajectory, as if it were actually subject to gravity.

Ameliah whistled. “Now you’re just showing off.”

Sana smiled, blushing slightly as she ran through an increasingly elaborate series of tricks with the captive spell, making it hover above a single finger, sending it spinning around her head, then shrinking it down and sending it through the handle of her teacup.

With an effort, Rain closed his mouth.

“Um, I can’t actually dismiss this,” Sana said after a few more demonstrations, bringing the orb back to a neutral position. “Normally, I only do this outside, so...”

Leaning over, Tallheart poked the magical orb with a metal finger, popping it like a soap bubble and letting his armor greedily drink up the disrupted magic.

“Thanks,” Sana said, folding her hands back into her lap.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled in acknowledgment.

“Sorry, I think we got a little distracted,” Sana said. “Where were we?”

Ameliah scoffed. “Distracted? This barely counts as an aside when Rain’s in the room.”

Tallheart rumbled again, this time in agreement.

Rain sighed, refusing to take the bait. “We were talking about Seeing, Domains, and blocking Reading.”

“Right,” Sana said. “So to See someone, you need to cut through their Domain with a pulse of your own Domain, then sort of...record the echo on your eyeballs. You can’t block Feeling—well, unless you’re Guardian Nem or something—but you can block Seeing by puffing up your paling so the pulses just glance off. It’s like making yourself seem stronger without being stronger. It’s hard to explain.” She tugged at the collar of her jacket. “Wow, it’s really warm in here all of a sudden.”

“My bad,” Rain said, canceling Immolate. “You looked cold, so I used a spell. I can cool the room back down again, hang on.”

“No, this is good,” Sana said, loosening her jacket but not taking it off. “I’m always cold, so this is nice, thank you. Anyway, pulsing your Domain is the easy part, at least if your target isn’t stronger than you, and it’s another thing that becomes automatic the more you practice. Recording the echo is harder. It’s like...tricking your brain into seeing sounds instead of hearing them.”

“Synesthesia,” Rain said, nodding.

“What?” Sana asked.

“That was Rain’s language,” Tallheart rumbled.

“Oh, we called it synesthesia,” Sana said, using an unfamiliar word in common. “Um, well, anyway, to learn it, they gave us Velvet Cap potions, then—”

Ameliah sat up sharply, interrupting her. “What?! They gave you Dream!?”

“No,” Sana said, shaking her head firmly. “Not Dream. Less addictive, and not nearly as strong.”

Rain grimaced. Dream was a potent hallucinogen said to transport you to a waking fantasy. It was one of a few illicit narcotics he’d heard of since he’d gotten here—and one of the tamer ones, at that. Awakened Chemists could make some truly nasty things if they broke bad.

Tallheart rumbled unhappily. “Should we seek Reason, then?”

Sana tilted her head as she looked at him. “What?”

“Reason is our top Chemist,” Rain said for her benefit, though he was looking at Tallheart. “I doubt he’d just happen to have deadly mushrooms in his pockets, though. That seems irresponsible.”

“Mmm,” Ameliah said. “Perhaps we should stop in Fioe after all.”

“Um,” Sana interrupted. “The Warden told me Rain already has a way to trigger synesthesia, but she didn’t say what it was.”

Rain slapped his forehead. “Oh. Duh. I have a skill called Detection that does that if I use it too strongly. It didn’t even cross my mind.”

“Good, that should work,” Sana said. “First, though, you need to learn to send the pulses. I know a few exercises.” She abruptly stood, then spread her legs and thrust her palm over the table at Rain’s chest, releasing a high-pitched “Ha!”

There was a brief silence.

“Gods, that was cute!” Ameliah said, raising a hand to cover her mouth.

Sana flushed pink, quickly lowering her arm and dropping back into her chair. “Um...”

Rain smiled behind his visor, fully in agreement. Careful to keep his voice level, though, he cleared his throat professionally. “Right, then. Shall we begin?”
