Forewarned by Detection, Rain looked up as Tarny opened the heavy door to the sitting-room-slash-office that formed the main room of his and Ameliah’s suite. Despite its weight, the door opened silently because of the Muffler sitting beside it. Rain still hadn’t gotten around to talking to Romer and Tallheart about integrating proper wards into Ascension’s meeting rooms, and it wasn’t as simple as painting them on the walls. To work on metal, the runes would need to be done in metal, and while Romer had slowly been making progress with that kind of thing by studying the Darkmane’s vault door, that was made from steel, not titanium.

“Captain, Officer Sana is here,” Tarny said in hand code, drawing Rain out of his musing. “She passed the test. Also, Vanna said to tell you we’re underway.”

“Excellent,” Rain signed back. “Send her in, please, and tell Vanna to handle everything until we’re done.”

Tarny nodded, retreating and making way for the young Watch officer to enter.

Sana was still wearing her fluffy woolen jacket, despite being out of the glacier and in Temerity’s heated heart. The overawed expression on her face told Rain all he needed to know of her opinion of the metal vessel. Making her way out of the Muffler’s influence, she paused, fidgeting awkwardly as if unsure whether she was expected to bow. Before she could come to a decision, Tarny silently slammed the door, and the vibration through the deck plates made her jump and press a hand to her heart.

“Tea?” Rain asked with a smile, gesturing to the small round table in front of him. “You said you don’t like coffee, so I figured...”

“I…yes, thank you,” Sana said, visibly swallowing and taking the offered chair and teacup. “What is that thing?” she asked, glancing at the Muffler again. “Some kind of silence ward?” She looked around the room, then frowned. “Shouldn’t there be more of them?”

“That’s just in case someone opens the door,” Rain said, not wanting to get into it. “The walls are thick, and the ship is more or less immune to divination as far as we know.”

“Oh...” Sana said, looking up at one of the light bulbs jutting from the walls. “And those? Am I allowed to know what those are?”

“They’re called light bulbs,” Rain said. “They work by heating up a little piece of metal until it glows. You’re an Aspirant now, so you have access to the Uncommon Knowledge series on them, provided you agree not to discuss it with non-members. We haven’t decided if we want to try selling them or not.”

“Oh...” Sana said.

Rain smiled. “Welcome to Ascension, by the way, and sorry for wasting your time with the asshole test.”

“Does anyone actually fail that thing?” Sana asked. “Even if someone didn’t believe in what they’re putting down, it wouldn’t be hard to guess the answers. It’s just common sense.”

“It’s designed for Guilders,” Rain said with a shrug.

“Oh,” Sana said with a nervous giggle. “I get it.”

Rain inclined his head in silent acknowledgment of her appreciation for his tiny joke, but then the conversation lapsed. As the silence began to grow awkward, Sana shifted in her seat, looking around. “Ameliah was supposed to be meeting us, right? And, um, Tallheart, was it?”

“I’m here,” Ameliah said, emerging from the bedroom she and Rain shared. She was fully armored save her helmet, her beautiful blond hair brushed to a silky sheen and hanging loose to her shoulders.

Rain couldn’t help but stare a little bit as she made her way over.

“Some of us aren’t content to hide their bed-head behind a helmet all day,” Ameliah continued, smiling at Rain and using his shoulder for support as she slid into a chair between him and Sana. “Tallheart just stepped out. He’ll be back in a minute.”

“Oh, uh…” Sana said, drawing Rain’s attention back to her to see her blushing furiously and trying to hide behind her teacup.

“Let’s start with that,” Rain said, pointing between himself and Ameliah. “What exactly do you see when you look at the two of us?”

Sana choked in the middle of a nervous sip. “Leeka, it’s, uh...” She coughed, then took a deep breath, setting down her cup and not meeting his eyes. “Your affection for her is very…” she coughed again, “...public.”

“Oh?” Ameliah said, turning to look at Rain with a sudden mischievous glimmer in her eyes, like a cat spotting a canary. “Weren’t you the one who was supposed to be uncomfortable with that sort of thing?” she continued before honing back in on Sana. Her smile widened. Quick as a flash, she grabbed Rain’s hand from the table. “What about my affection for him, huh?” She rested her cheek on Rain’s shoulder, shamelessly nuzzling against him.

Sana squeaked and almost knocked her teacup off the table. She began nodding vigorously, studiously inspecting the ceiling.

“Ameliah!” Rain protested, busy adding spoon after spoon of crystallized honey to a fresh cup of tea. “Stop hazing the recruit. You know we have rules against that sort of thing.”

Ameliah laughed, settling back into her chair as Rain slid the now sickeningly sweet beverage to her, though she didn’t release his hand to take it. “Sorry, sorry. I was just trying to lighten the mood. She blushes like you used to.”

Rain sighed, glad his visor was down to hide the fact that he wasn’t as over his shyness as she seemed to think. “Is it really so obvious, Sana?”

“Um, yeah,” Sana said, still furiously scarlet, looking like she wanted to sink through the floor. “Most officers can tell if people are close friends or, uh, lovers, from how their souls reach out to each other. It’s easier with unawakened. They aren’t strong enough to reach out very far, but they’re also kinda…squishy…so…” With an effort, she met Rain’s eyes. “Your soul is both. Um. Strong and squishy. Because of the cracks.”

Ameliah stifled a snort, squeezing Rain’s fingers as she quaked with suppressed laughter. Still not releasing him, she set down the spoon she’d been using to stir her tea, then took an enormous gulp before breathing out a sigh of blissful satisfaction. “Oh, that’s perfect.”

Is she talking about Sana’s description, or the tea?

A tremor ran through the deck as the door slammed, interrupting Rain before he could think of a way to salvage his dignity. He looked up, having missed the door’s opening but already knowing Tallheart to be the culprit from his solid awareness of the cervidian’s soul.

Sana yelped and whirled as if she’d been caught with her hand in a cookie jar. An instant later, she whipped her head back around again to stare at Rain, her mouth making a perfect ‘o’ of surprise. She practically gave herself whiplash in her haste to look back at Tallheart again.

“We’re just friends,” Rain said swiftly.

Tallheart looked like he was going to say something but paused to glance at Ameliah. The barest hint of a smile flickered across his face before it went completely impassive. He took the open seat beside Rain, fixing him with a granite-eyed stare. “You wound me.” With uncharacteristic speed and no warning, he snatched Rain’s free hand, much as Ameliah had done before. “Does our love mean so little?”

Rain sighed, hopelessly trying to pry his fingers from the smith’s vice-like grip. It would have been slightly less impossible if Ameliah hadn’t still been imprisoning his other limb. “Damn it, Tallheart. Ameliah, stop feeding him lines.” He looked up at Sana helplessly. The young officer was quivering like Dozer at this point. “Sorry. They’re just messing with you.”

Ameliah beckoned for Tallheart’s hand, reaching for it over the teapot. “No need to be embarrassed, Rain. I’m tired of keeping it secret.”

Tallheart rumbled, locking hands with Ameliah to complete the triangle. “Agreed. It’s time for the world to know how close we three truly are.”

There was a dull thunk of metal striking wood as Rain’s forehead slammed into the table.

A very long five minutes later, Rain inhaled deeply, closing his eyes and muttering under his breath, “Scene one, take two.” Releasing the rest of his captured air in a huff, he opened his eyes to address Sana. “Thank you for coming, officer. We’re here to have a very serious discussion concerning what the Warden asked you to teach me.”

Sana nodded, more than a hint of flush yet lingering in her cheeks.

Rain nodded back. “As I said in my note—did you burn the note? Good. Anyway, as I said in the note, Warden Vatreece left me a message. She wants you to be my Reading instructor, and she said she didn’t mind if I shared what you told me with these two, provided that we’re careful about it. Did she tell you something similar?”

“She did,” Sana said.

“And did she say why she wanted you to teach me?”

Sana responded with a shake of her head.

Rain nodded, then offered her his hand. “Okay. Take my hand, please, and Read me as I say this, because it’s going to sound pretty far-fetched.”

Sana hesitated, glancing at Ameliah, who nodded at her encouragingly. Only then did she take the proffered appendage with a nod. She closed her eyes, then opened them, meeting his gaze. “Ready.”

Rain nodded back. “Right. In a nutshell, which means ‘in brief,’ Vatreece wants me to learn to protect my mind because I come from another reality, one without magic, but with things like light bulbs and the engines that power this ship.”

Sana’s grip suddenly tightened, jerking his hand so hard it almost upset the teapot.

“Some of those things are very dangerous,” Rain continued heedlessly. “While the Warden seems to trust my judgment in what I share, she wants to make sure that I have the mental defenses to stop people from lifting anything nasty out of my head. As I’m not a Mentalist and can’t build defenses directly, I’ll need to go in through the back door, that being my soul. I already know how to enter my inner world, and even how to project myself into the Liminal Void, but apparently, I’ve just been flailing around in the dark. Vatreece says Reading will let me see what I’m doing—or rather, that’s what the memory construct of herself she built in my brain says. Once I’ve mastered Reading, the construct will teach me what comes next. If I don’t meet her standards within three months, she’ll turn my brain into peach jelly. So...yeah.”

Sana said nothing, doing a passable impression of a carp.

“And you told me off for hazing,” Ameliah observed lightly.

Rain decided to ignore her.

After several long moments, Sana took a deep breath, starting slightly as she looked down at their clasped hands. She quickly pulled away. “T...true, but...” She took a deep breath. “I need to... I need to ask... I have questions.”

Rain smiled warmly at her. “I made sure we’d have all day, so unless Velika finally wakes up or something, we’ve got plenty of time.” He reached for the teapot. “More tea?”

An indeterminate while later, Rain watched Sana firmly slap her cheeks three times with both hands.

“Okay,” the young officer said, opening her eyes. “Before you can Read, you need to See, and before you can See, you need to Feel. When Guardian Nem came to Orman to train us, he said it would take us about four months.”

Rain frowned. Nem? Wasn’t he the one most likely to succeed Vatreece?

“That’s not good,” Ameliah said, shooting Rain a concerned look. “We don’t have that long.”

“I’m quite motivated to try,” Rain replied. He looked back at Sana. “It sounds like I have a head start if ‘Feel’ means what I think it means, at least. Am I right about that?”

“I think so,” Sana said, gesturing to Tallheart and Ameliah. “What you said about sensing their souls sounds very much like Feeling. Linksight, not so much, but...” She bit her lip. “I should probably go through Feeling anyway, just in case it’s not the same. Some extra practice wouldn’t hurt, besides, and Ameliah and Tallheart probably don’t want to pop their souls like you did. Shortcuts are a bad idea.”

“You don’t need to worry about us,” Ameliah said. “We’re not the ones on a time limit.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled, taking a sip of tea.

“All the same,” Sana said, holding up a hand and taking a deep breath. “The right way is...” She paused, her expression becoming distant for a moment before she took hold of herself. “Sorry, I’m not very good at this. I’ll just tell you how I learned, okay?”

“Sure,” Rain said with a shrug.

Sana nodded. “To teach us to Feel, Guardian Nem had us all wear enchanted hoods that blocked not just sight, but hearing and smell too. Then he just walked through the room between us. We were supposed to raise our hands when he was near, and if we didn’t, or raised our hands when he wasn’t there, he’d tap us on the forehead. After a week of that, he started using a switch instead. After a month, he moved up to a dagger. I got the hang of it faster than the rest, but I still got stabbed a lot. Once he discovered how gifted I was, he started controlling his soul to make it harder for me, Leeka knows how. That’s Guardians for you.”

“That’s horrifying,” Rain said, aghast. “He just stabbed his students until they learned?”

“It’s not all that unusual,” Ameliah said with a shrug. “I’ve heard of people subjecting themselves to that kind of thing, particularly if they’re trying to learn a melee kata without spending the point.”

“Pain is the best teacher,” Sana said in an imitation of a gruff man’s voice, tugging her jacket tighter. “Guardian Nem said that a lot.”

Rain grimaced, making himself a to-do item to add ‘therapy’ as one of Ascension’s standard services. Surreptitiously, he also added a tiny sliver of Immolate to his newly improved modulation script. Sana seemed uncomfortable enough without being cold too.

“There was some theory,” she continued after a moment, raising a hand and pinching two fingers just barely apart. She deepened her voice, quoting again. “’Adventurers’ intuition’ is but the fool’s version of what we will learn here. The stronger a soul, the easier it is to sense. The more harm a soul wishes upon you, the more it will draw your attention. And so, I wish to hurt you. If you do not wish to be hurt, you will learn. If you do not wish to learn, the Watch has no use for you.”

“Okay, I take it back,” Ameliah said, reaching across to touch Sana’s shoulder. “Nem sounds like a total asshole.”

Rain nodded in agreement. And he’s going to be Warden after Vatreece is gone. Shit.

