“Indeed,” Khachi chimed in, his expression more clouded. “I developed [Unwavering Zeal]. That Talent has been rank ten for a long time.”

Aarl snickered. “We can all tell that you got some weighty Developments, Nathan. Did you kill your nemesis?”

Nathan glanced downwards, seeing the vast and entirely empty coliseum far below. The Seal sat in the precise center, the circular vault-like doors closed now. “I did. The Seal is cleared, and I think we can call this deed complete.” Another notification appeared, as if Davrar agreed with him.

“Hear me, that reveals the truth,” Sarah said. “It’s like the Grand Dungeon. A great reward for a great deed.”

“Do you think the Questors knew?” Stella asked.

“They definitely knew,” Nathan replied. “But they didn’t, or couldn’t, tell us.”

"Nathan!" Aarl called out to get his attention, then tossed him a set of clothes to replace those that the blightmind had destroyed. “We killed the problem. What now? Should we make for Helmaris?”

"Thanks," Nathan said, hurriedly putting on the clothes. It had been a while since there'd been magic strong enough to get all the way to his skin, and he'd been so preoccupied he hadn't really noticed he'd been naked. He pointed downward, towards the Seal. “Sarya mentioned that our deed was done once we’d cleared the Blight. And the Seal is the most obvious landmark. I have a sneaking suspicion that they’ll be showing up any minute.”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 2

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1274

Bottomless Stamina : 112304/127400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 7329/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 8

Inspiration 9

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 2

Forewarning 7

The Truth of Magic 2

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 2

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 3
