A few minutes later, they pushed through the front doors of a huge performing arts building, and Lute led the way into a transparent tube elevator that lifted them slowly through a massive blown-glass art piece to the sixth floor.


“This is the scenic route,” he informed Alden. “There are faster elevators. But it’s cool to take this one when the place is empty. There’s usually a long wait for it.”


Haoyu’s nose was almost pressed to the wall as he examined the floating pink and blue bubbles that made up the installation. “I rode on this when I was little,” he said. “My parents brought me here to see a show. But I remember the chandelier being different?”


“They changed it when I was around ten,” said Lexi. “My father was upset. One of his roommates made the old one.”


The space darkened and flames flickered to life inside some of the bubbles as the elevator approached the top. It was eerily beautiful.


“Molly says we need to pick a theme for our living room or else we’ll all be adding things to it that don’t match and making it look cluttered,” Haoyu said suddenly.


Lexi shrugged. “As long as the theme isn’t something ridiculous, that’s probably a good—”


“Can we do this?” Haoyu was pointing eagerly at the nearest fire orb.


The other three stared at him.


“So, as the resident Arts program student,” Lute said slowly, “I compliment you for your ambition. Magic candle balls floating in an impenetrable darkness are a vibe…but I don’t see how we could pull it off as a decor scheme. And if we paint the whole suite black, everyone’s just going to think we’re aspiring vampires.”


“We could do all black furniture!" said Haoyu. "And one of those chair swings shaped like a bubble. And an orange and yellow rug.”


Lute and Lexi both cringed.


Haoyu didn’t notice. “And if we keep the lights turned off and get some blackout curtains, it could work!”


Alden pictured himself fumbling his way through a pitch black apartment, tripping over a neon orange rug he couldn’t see, and colliding with a plastic bubble swing.


He didn’t know what he wanted their new apartment to look like, but he didn’t think that was it.


“I think the fireplace is pretty neat,” he offered.


“A fireplace is like a candle ball,” Lexi said so quickly that Alden was sure he would have jumped on any other idea. “Let’s build around it.”


“Nighttime hunting lodge? Or ski lodge?” Lute suggested. He glanced over at Haoyu as the elevator emerged into the light again. “Dark furniture. A faux fur throw. Some lamps with dimmers maybe? I’m sure we can find a round glass one somewhere.”


“Okay!” Haoyu said happily. “That sounds fun, too!”


Oh. He’s easy to please.


“I like lodge,” said Alden. He wasn’t sure what the difference was between hunting lodge style and ski lodge style.


“That’s fine,” said Lexi. “No bearskin rugs.”


“Come on! A bear rug would be funny!” Lute protested.


“No taxidermy anything. I don’t want something watching me with its dead plastic eyes.”


“What have you got against fake eyes, man?” asked Lute.


Lexi made a choking noise.


Haoyu slapped a hand over his mouth to hold back a laugh.


“That was such a hurtful—”


“You know I didn’t mean it like that!”


Alden was watching Lexi backpedal with amusement and sympathy.


“You just accidentally brought it up,” Lute said in a mournful voice. “Because it’s what you really think.”


“I do not!”


“I understand. No fake eyes in the apartment. Haoyu, Alden, will you help me move all my things out into the garden so that I can sleep where I won’t offend Lexi?”


“You can have a bear rug! You can have as many dead animals as you want!”
 
 


Enjoying this book? Seek out the original to ensure the author gets credit.
 


“I can’t believe this thing costs more than my boat.”


“Since when do you have a boat?”


“It was my birthday present.”


“Ohhhh…your parents felt sorry for you. Because you got old.”


They were walking back across campus with Lute’s harp, and Alden was trying to focus on not dropping the massive thing or tripping over pavement cracks.


“Would it be easier to hold it over your head so you can see where you’re putting your feet?” Haoyu asked as they passed the building where Alden had his Engaging with the Unexpected class.


“Definitely.” Alden had a death grip on the handles of the thick canvas cover that was currently preserved around the harp. The instrument itself was over six feet tall, deep purple, and named Angela Aubergine. “But my homework for science was on gravitational potential energy, and I keep thinking about how there will be sixty thousand dollars worth of maple splinters on the ground if I drop it from overhead.”


“I told you I can wheel her around on her cart if you change your mind,” said Lute. He was pushing the cart in question ahead of him. “It’s not the end of the world if we hit a few bumps. You were the one who insisted on pretending to be some kind of pseudo-Brute.”


“It is really neat that he can do that!”


Haoyu had been properly enthusiastic about Alden’s skill. The other two weren’t as much fun. Lexi had started listing things he could have done with it during combat assessment if he wasn’t an idiot, and Lute had said, “Oh, so that’s what you do.”


Apparently he’d had absolutely no idea what Alden’s talent was until today, and he just hadn’t been curious enough to ask.


I didn’t ask him for details about his powers either, but that was because I assumed he wouldn’t tell me for Velra-ish reasons.


Then again…Lute had been forthcoming about at least one of his skills at the funeral.


“Hey, what’s your skill?” Alden asked as they approached the MagiPhys building. “If it’s not a secret.”


“All the Chainer S-ranks take the same one,” said Lexi. “So it can’t be a secret.”


“Mass Bestowal,” Haoyu agreed. “There’s always one of them using it on Matadero to support the battle group for the demon fight.”


“Yeah, they’re really noble,” Lute said dryly.


“You should let people compliment your relatives. It’s not happening in many other contexts these days,” Lexi pointed out.


“Everyone does appreciate it," said Haoyu. "Loading up that many beneficial chains and having them ready to go must take a ton of prep work on the Chainer’s part, right? Even if you do get to reduce the effect of one of the halves somehow, paying off the debts must be really involved.”


“Due to the tattoo on my bumcheek, I can neither confirm nor deny the specifics—”


“You’ve got a contract tattoo!” Alden exclaimed.


“Yeah. How else do you think Aulia keeps every member of a family the size of ours in line? Most of them love doing her bidding for some reason, but I’m not the only problem child. And I like Cousin Aimi, but she would literally forget to keep family business to herself if it wasn’t magically enforced.”


Alden was about to ask how Avowed managed contract tattoos with each other if there was no wizard involved. If Lute could tell him, it would solve a major problem. But Haoyu spoke up first.


“Is it really on your butt?” he whispered.


“I wanted it to be. But when she introduced me to the Artonan tattooer who was going to facilitate the contract, I couldn’t bring myself to request the appropriate location. I think it’s one of my biggest regrets.”


“Where…?”


“Lower back,” said Lute. “I figured it was ass-adjacent.”


Ah okay. They have a professional do the whole mind alignment thing that Joe mentioned.


“I knew about Mass Bestowal already.” Alden shifted his grip on the harp and kept an eye on the walkway ahead of him. The sign for the gym was just ahead. “I saw you use it at Hannah’s funeral. I meant your other S-rank skill.”


Haoyu and Lexi both looked back at him.


“He should only have Mass Bestowal,” said Lexi. “Chainers get one skill to start. And some special chains. I don’t know what else they can do, but that’s the rumor anyway.”


“Even if he’s leveled a couple of times—”


“I haven’t. I’m a very lazy Avowed.” Lute was still wheeling his cart ahead of them.


“Even when he’s leveled a few times, he won’t get another S-rank skill,” Haoyu continued. “Some lower ranked ones instead. Aulia has earned more than one S, but I don’t think any of your other relatives have?”


“Not unless they’re keeping it quiet.”


“I understand classes that start with a single primary skill as their main power don’t get a same rank one that easily,” Alden said. “I’m a Rabbit. That’s how mine works, too. Instructor Plim was all excited about the theoretical strength of Rabbit skills. But I assumed Chainer skill ranking was a little different, or Lute was…you know…packing additional heat?”


Lexi made a scoffing sound. “Why would you assume—?”


“Probably because I told him I had my second S already.”


Lexi stopped walking and Haoyu smacked into his back. Alden dodged around them with Angela.


Lute strolled ahead, one of the cart wheels squeaking.


“You do not!” Lexi shouted. Then he dashed ahead of Lute and blocked his path. “You don’t!”


Alden stared at him. He sounded almost horrified.


“Um…Lexi,” said Haoyu. “You’re being—”


“Hao! Him? He didn’t affix with a double S,” Lexi said. “The universe isn’t that—”


“It’s absolutely that unfair,” said Lute, leaning on the cart. “And it thinks it’s a comedian, too.”


Lexi looked emotional. Not angry, like usual. But terribly upset, as if Lute had just revealed something that shocked and devastated him in equal measure.


“Sorry, Alden,” Lute said, turning back to smile at him. “I’m doing this thing where I refuse to tell another soul what the second skill is. It’s part of my brilliant plan to enrage my grandma. So that she constantly wonders whether I’m lying about having it, and what it is, and it drives her slowly insane—”


“So you don’t really have one?” Haoyu asked. He was giving Lexi a concerned look.


“I do. But it’s pretty unbelievable, right? Which will frustrate Aulia until she wants to die—”


“Show me your profile!” Lexi shouted suddenly.


“Annnnd…apparently it will frustrate Lexi Roberts until he wants to die, too.” Lute stared at him. “Not my intention. I don’t see why you’re that shocked. By now, you should’ve just written me off as one of those freaks of natu—”


“You don't even want it!” Lexi said wildly. “Why the fuck does the System keep giving everything to people who don’t even want it?!”


Lute opened his mouth, but before he could say anything, Lexi had spun on his heel and stalked away at a speed halfway between a walk and a run.


“Oh no,” Haoyu groaned. “We were all getting along and…I’m sorry, guys. Let me go talk to him! He’ll be fine. See you back at the dorm!”


He bounded after Lexi.


Alden and Lute stood staring after them.


Finally, Lute said, “You’re from the real world. I bet you think we’re all nuts.”


He’s the only one who ever calls the rest of Earth the “real world.”


“I don’t think you’re nuts, but I don’t understand what Lexi’s problem is at all.”


“He’s jealous,” said Lute. “Or maybe it’s more accurate to say that people affixing young and high is one of his sore points. I probably shouldn’t have teased him about his age. He wouldn’t have minded that kind of joking around before, but we aren’t really close anymore. I guess the past year has been bad for him, too.”


He glanced at the harp in Alden's arms. “Let’s walk slowly and give Haoyu a minute to sort him out. I don’t want to make drama when I’ve finally found roommates who aren’t assholes.”


Is Lexi not behaving like an asshole in his opinion?


“What do you know about…life, I guess?" Lute asked. "Growing up here on Anesidora? I know some of my classmates had normal human groupies even when we were little who followed their every move, so if you were one of those you probably already have a lot of—”


“Do they?”


“Yeah. Especially cute people with rich, high-rank parents. Extra especially superheroes’ kids. Vandy Carisson is in your group, right? She’s so awkward sometimes. But she had a hundred thousand followers who would just listen to her talk about her goals and give her advice while they watched her watch recordings of her parents working.”


“I was more into actual superheroes growing up. Not their offspring.”


“You’re a casual. The real fans start analyzing the future high ranks when they’re twelve and start placing bets on how they’ll affix and what they’ll choose when they’re thirteen.”


Alden stared at him. “That’s creepy.”


Lute nodded. “Oh yeah. Most peoples’ parents keep them out of it. But some don’t. There's internet filtering for minors, but it’s not like you can’t talk an adult into giving you access early and showing you what the world is really saying about you and your family…don’t get me started. I’m going off track. About Lexi—getting to mid-sixteen without being selected would’ve been terrible for him.”


A black drone skimmed low over their heads, and Lute glared at it until it had passed.


