“He’s been very serious about hero work forever as far as I know. And his parents are both A’s, so it wasn’t like it was a crazy thing for him to want. He was significantly more likely to be a high rank than a mid or low one. Kids here tend to make friends with people who are probably going to be around the same power level as them. Their parents naturally hang out with each other and put them together. By the time you’re in late primary school it’s just not comfortable to be friends with someone who has a totally different future ahead of them.”


He gestured grandly at the campus.


“They start talking about when it is going to happen to them, and the probably A-rank friend mentions moving to Apex and coming to school here. And the probably D-rank friend feels inferior and resentful, and then snap—friendship broken.”


He shrugged.


“So Lexi’s close friends would have been A’s and S’s. Probably all hero-hopefuls. Probable high-ranks start getting really wound-up about selection in seventh or eighth grade, and then it hits this fever pitch the second they turn fifteen. And people ask them every day if it’s happened for them yet…it’s unbearably fucking obnoxious even if you’re not the person who’s being quizzed.”


He bounced the cart over the edge of a curb as they cut across a small parking lot.


“Yeah, I shouldn’t have made fun of his age. I was thinking it was no big deal since he’s got his rank now. But I bet he lost all of his friends because of it. Watching them all get chosen one after the other…some of them have to be first and second years here, but he didn’t ask to room with them. They all left him in the dust, and then his little brother almost did, too. And he couldn’t just make new friends while he was in rank limbo.”


“He spent…,” Alden counted backward to Lexi’s fifteenth birthday, then subtracted a few months, since the Meister must have been selected before beginning the application process for CNH, “seventeenish months on the edge of his seat watching his life goals and his relationships slowly collapse because of something he couldn’t control.”


“That’s my read on the situation.”


“It does sound like it would make you insane.”


Lute nodded. “And the guy's a hardcore perfectionist. He probably kept right on going to Hour with a Hero meetups and attending the weekend seminars and all the other things locals with a yen for caped crusading do to prepare. Only instead of being one of the likely candidates, he’d turned into that pathetic kid who couldn’t let it go.”


“Now I feel sad for him.”


“He’ll get over it.” Lute’s expression shifted. “About our ski lodge…we want leather furniture, don’t we? You and I need to decide right now and align our goals so that we can steer Haoyu away from whatever horrors he’ll come up with on his own.”
 


********
 


What was ski lodge style?


Alden still didn’t know. But he and Lute had found a picture they both liked of a resort lobby in Colorado. It had dark brown furniture, a fireplace, and fur throws. It had been photographed with lots of candles, which made Haoyu happy. And Lexi seemed to feel too bad about his freak-out to disagree with anything when they showed it to him.


So it was four votes in favor from the apartment residents.


And two votes against from the adult voices of reason, who were trying to set a budget that didn’t accommodate Alden’s desire for very nice rugs and Lute’s passion for a particular pair of distressed leather chairs. As Gilbert dropped them off outside the main entrance at Rosa Grove mall, Haoyu was sending everyone pictures of a copper toaster he wanted.


His mother finally turned to them all and held up her hands.


“All right,” she said. “Before we go in, we have to have a budget. And we have to decide what one thing each of you can’t stand to live without in the new apartment’s shared living area. Remember, you’re going to be spending money decorating your own rooms, too.”


“I have 750 argold dedicated to the apartment in my planner,” Lexi said promptly. “Two hundred and fifty can go to the shared area.”


“I’ve got fifteen hundred saved from my Avowed stipends, and I don’t mind if we spend half of it on the kitchen and living room,” said Haoyu.


Lute chewed on his bottom lip and stared off into space. “I can spend fifteen hundred, too,” he said finally.


“That took you a while,” Molly said. “Are you sure?”


Lute shrugged at the assistant. “I had to think through how long it would be before I had more money coming in, and how much it would cost to rent another place if Lexi decides he can’t stand living with my fake eye.”


Haoyu and Alden both snickered.


“Why are you two still laughing at that joke?” Lexi demanded. “He’s worked it in half a dozen times since this morning!”


“I can’t help it!” Haoyu protested. “It gets funnier every time.”


“Alden, what about you, sweetheart?” Mrs. Zhang-Demir gave him a warm smile. “Don’t feel obligated to spend more than you want.”


She’s worried because it’s taking me so long to answer.


She was thoughtful. And she’d been going out of her way to mom him all day. Adults had done that more often when he was younger, and he had usually been offended. Now that he was older and actually appreciated the effort, people rarely bothered.


But she was momming in a way that wasn’t exactly…


There’s no way Haoyu’s family isn’t rich, so I’m pretty sure this is a mini-lesson in responsibility. Like, you’ve got money of your own now with your new-Avowed stipend, so let’s spend it wisely. Lexi tattled on Kon to their parents, too, for blowing all of his on party supplies.


Lute’s situation was more complex. He had a family who could buy him musical instruments that cost more than cars, but he was now at odds with them. And he had been living on his own off-campus somewhere.


Lexi and Haoyu have really nice places to go back to whenever they want. Their families are right here, too. Most of the time. The dorm is like practice independence I guess, so she’s—


“Earth to Alden,” Lute said, waving a hand in front of his face. “What planet are you lost on?”


Alden snapped out of it. They were standing on the sidewalk between the parking lot and the mall. This wasn’t the place to think that deeply about life.


“I’m not lost on another planet,” he said, “for a change.”


Lute looked startled.


Alden cleared his throat. “Sorry. I was thinking about budgets and houses. I haven’t had one for a long time. A home. And we get to keep this apartment for as long as we’re in high school unless we decide to apply for a different building, right? And it’s not like I’m planning to hate you all and move out. You guys seem cool.”


“Stop, you’re making me blush,” said Lute.


Alden ignored the snark. “I don’t have any other place to go on Anesidora, so Garden Hall is it for me. I’ll be there every weekend and every holiday. I don’t even have a way to get home for Christmas for the next two years. And I don’t actually need to be precious with my financial resources, so I’d rather not have one.”


They were all a little wide-eyed. Molly’s fingers had stilled in the middle of another typing session.


“A budget!” he clarified. “I’d rather not have a budget. Can everyone else just save their budgets for their own rooms, and I can buy whatever we want for the rest of it? To make it look like the picture.”


After a few more seconds of silence, Alden started to wonder if what he’d said sounded stranger to them than it did to him. “It’s fine if you all want to do something else. I don’t mind that ei—”


“Good lord. You can come to my house for Christmas,” said Lexi. “We import a real tree and everything.”


“My family doesn’t celebrate Christmas usually,” said Haoyu. “But we could this year!”


“You don’t have to play the homeless card, Alden.”


Molly glared. “Lute Velra! That’s—”


“What? I’m saying I don’t need him to justify his spending urges. I’m amazing at letting other people buy things for me. Look here, Rabbit.”


He air typed, and a picture of the furniture set he liked appeared in their group chat.


“If we’re not being responsible, then we need both armchairs, the chesterfield, and the big storage ottoman with the top that reverses into a coffee table. They have the whole set here.”


“I still want to buy the toaster myself,” said Haoyu. “I really like it.”


Lexi squinted at Alden. “If you’re paying for everything, then do you want to pick it all?”


“No. I like all the stuff we’ve talked about so far. And I did find the picture of the lodge in the first place. Let’s just get whatever everyone wants if it looks good.”


“There’s a copper slow-cooker that matches the toaster!”


“Do you cook or something, Haoyu?” Lute asked.


“You just drop things that taste good together in the pot, right? How hard can it be?”
 


*******
 


As the four of them headed into the mall, Haoyu’s mother and her assistant trailed behind them.


“Molly…”


“Tissues, ma’am?”


Mrs. Zhang-Demir blinked at her. “No. I’m fine.”


“I’m not,” Molly said, wiping at her nose with a tissue she’d just pulled from her purse. “That American boy doesn’t have parents. And I don’t know what’s going on with the Velras and why they’re making that poor child run around with one eye. And little Haoyu’s all grown up—”


“Not quite. It sounds like he’s about to spend his entire stipend for the month on kitchen appliances he’ll never use. But he’s getting there. And worrying me to death in the process…you know he could have roomed with almost anyone? He’s chosen Lexi and this group. He won’t hear a word against it.”


“Why?”


“I have no idea.” She shook her head. “I was just going to let you know that I’ve had another mission invitation. Next month. I’ll be gone for a few weeks this time.”


“Yes, ma’am,” Molly said quietly.


“Why so glum? I could turn this one down if I chose to.”


She watched her son spring up the steps to grab the door for the others. He moved differently. It was a small change, one he was probably only half aware of himself, but she’d noticed it the moment he affixed.


“One second you’re a child, the next…”


“Ma’am?”


She smiled. “Where’s my mind going? We’ve got to get these boys settled into their…was it a ski lodge or a hunting lodge in the end?”


“A man lodge of some kind. Winter themed. Possibly there will be a bearskin rug. On top of numerous other rugs. Alden seems to have an obsession with luxury carpeting. Lute and Haoyu want a bear. Based on the conversation in the car, they may or may not be painting the whole place black. I don’t understand what they’re thinking…”


“I really don’t know how they arrived at this either, but all right! A manly winter lodge with rugs and attractive leather furniture they’re going to ruin before next term! We have a goal. Come on, Molly. Let’s try to impose reason and order where we can. Also, I checked, and not a single one of them has brought their own soap and shampoo. Do they think the school supplies it?”


“I will add it to the list.”
 
*
