He heard Haoyu’s voice. He stepped out of his room in time to see the other boy’s mother casually grabbing him by the chin and wiping powdered sugar off his cheek with the sleeve of her sweatshirt.


He spotted Alden. “Mom,” he said, embarrassed. “I can clean my own face!”


“But you didn’t,” she replied, releasing him and heading into his room. “Now, are you sure you have to have your entire skateboard collection with you? You can only ride one at a time.”


Alden explored the rest of the apartment. His bedroom was right beside Haoyu’s. Lute and Lexi were across the hall in windowless rooms. They had screens on the wall where windows would have been, but it was a definite downgrade in his opinion. He was surprised Lexi had chosen it for himself.


Lute, who still hadn’t shown up, would be beside the shared bathroom. They had a pair of sinks with mirrored medicine cabinets, a single shower stall, and a deep claw-footed tub that looked like it might be both the apartment’s best and most troublesome feature.


On the one hand, it looked like the kind of tub you could sink into up to your eyebrows and boil yourself in for hours. Alden had never had a tub like that, and he liked the sound of it. But it’s in a shared bathroom. I guess we’ll figure out bathing etiquette somehow.


Thankfully the toilet was in its own separate spot, closeted in a cubby with another sink.


The kitchen was just a fridge, a microwave, and a table. No dishes in the few cabinets. The living area had a dark beige loveseat and matching chairs. They didn’t look that bad, but sitting on one was a lot like sitting on a cement bench.


They had a decent television, built-in shelving, and an infrared heater disguised as a fireplace. Alden was particularly charmed by that last feature. It had a remote control you could use to make the logs glow different colors and emit crackling sounds.


He was playing with it when Lute finally arrived, dragging a pair of rolling hard-sided suitcases that had been heavily decorated with markers. His face was dark. A personal filming drone—a spherical one with a rainbow propeller—was following along behind him.


He stepped through the door, and the drone trailed after him. The second it crossed the threshold, he whipped off the ball cap he was wearing and smashed the small device out of the air with it. It hit the floor and skittered across it with a plaintive whir, and Lute leapt after it to grind it into the concrete with a polished black combat boot.


Alden watched in alarm while the other boy stomped the drone viciously. “I think it’s dead,” he said at last.Lute brushed his blonde bangs out of his face. He’d decorated his eyepatch since class yesterday, or he’d gotten a new one. It had a big red X painted on it now.


“They’re not allowed to follow you into your home.” He grunted and kicked at the drone rubble some more. “I guess I need to start catching them and selling them, but this is more satisfying.”


“It’s a paparazzi drone?”


“Only if it’s an impoverished paparazzi. A cheap one like this probably belongs to some campus dickhead who has nothing better to do with their Saturday morning than piss me off. I hope their genitals rot off and…uh…”


He trailed off as Haoyu’s mother appeared. Molly was on her heels, air typing and muttering about the caulking on the shower.


“Hello, Lute,” said Mrs. Zhang-Demir. “You might not remember me. I visited your class when you were in fourth grade with Haoyu, but that was quite a while back, wasn’t it? You’ve gotten…so much more mature!”


The hesitation made Alden wonder if she’d been about to say “taller” and had changed her mind at the last second.


Lute stared down at his boots and brushed his bangs awkwardly over his eyepatch. “Yeah. Yes. I remember. Hi. I’m…really glad to be roommates with Haoyu.”


“Are we expecting your mother and father to stop by today?” she asked. “Or any other family helpers?”


She said it lightly, but Molly’s fingers stopped tapping at the air in front of her face and her eyes flicked toward Lute.


“No,” he said in a stiff voice. “I’m on my own.”


A noticeable tension left the room.


“Well! It’s just me and you getting the boys settled in today, Molly.”


“Yes, ma’am. The sniffer is on his way.”


“Lute, I was telling Alden earlier that we’re planning a shopping trip for this afternoon to pick up anything you might have forgotten and collect some creature comforts for the apartment. If you want to add something to the list or come along and pick out some things for yourself, we’ll head out this afternoon?”


“Yeah. Yes. That would be good. Thank you.”


“I’ll take care of the drone,” Molly said. “It won’t be the first time I’ve sorted one out. Please stand back.”


Lute stepped aside, and Molly reached out with a splayed hand. She fixed her eyes on the rubble and slowly drew her fingers together. The pieces of the drone ground into each other with squeals and snapping sounds, then she made a beckoning motion and the crumbs of the device floated over to her hand.


She sifted through them. “The microphones and cameras are all destroyed,” she announced. “I’ll throw this in the trash.”


“I’ve already hired a car service for the day,” Alden said into the awkward silence that followed. “An SUV. If anyone wants to use it for anything.”


“That sounds comfortable!” Haoyu’s mother smiled at him. “Molly brought a car, but six of us aren’t going to fit in a compact. Lute, have you had breakfast?”
 


*******
 


Alden had finished unpacking so much quicker than everyone else that he was the only one who couldn’t seem to find anything to do. He knocked on Lexi’s door and offered to help him with his things, only to be met with a blank expression and a monosyllabic refusal.


Alden smiled at him and cheerfully announced that he’d go check on the others instead.


I’m going to be such a good roommate to you, Mr. Standoffish. Just you wait.


Haoyu was assembling a rack that was supposed to display his skateboards. He also had a bookcase in progress and boxes of Chinese and Turkish comics. “I read too many of them,” he confessed. “I call it language study, but really I just like them.”


Lute was trying to cram an impossible number of clothes and shoes into his closet. They’d all been vacuum bagged to fit in his suitcases, and every time he opened another one, his room lost square footage.


“Lexi said last night that you had a harp you needed help with?”


“My concert harp. I can actually move it myself, but this building was designed by sadists who thought Avowed didn’t need elevators. I’d like to have another person to get it up the staircase. Or to make sure nobody messes with me while I’m trying to get it up the staircase.”


“Is it downstairs now, or…?”


Lute was trying to make a denim jacket fit onto the same hanger as a sweater with a toucan on the front.


“It’s locked in a teacher’s office so that people can’t fuck with it. I can go get it whenever, but I’d rather not roll it all the way across campus on its cart if I don’t have to. Do you think that SUV you offered has removable seats?”


“I can carry it,” Alden said.


“Do you know how big a pedal harp is and what a great one costs?”


“About as tall as me? And a lot? But my skill literally protects things I’m carrying, so I’m definitely a good delicate object mover.”


“Taller than you. But I’ll take the help if you’re volunteering. Let’s take Lexi, too.”


“He seems busy.”


Lute stood up and went to bang on the wall. “Lexi!!! Come protect my harp with your personality and that creepy thing you picked for your mastery!!”


“It’s called Mind Writher,” Alden murmured.


Lute raised an eyebrow at him. “Is that supposed to make it less creepy?”


To Alden’s total surprise, Lexi stuck his head in the room a minute later.


“Yeah, I can come.” He frowned at Lute’s pants. “Did you cut those in half and put them back together with safety pins?”


“Do you like them?” Lute gestured at the line of pins running down the sides of his legs.


“I think if you walk past a large enough magnet we’ll have to call Haoyu’s mother to unstick you.”


“I like them,” said Alden. “I wouldn’t wear them myself, but they look cool.”


“Thank you, Alden.” Lute slipped past Lexi and elbowed him in the ribs. “See? That’s how you say nice things to people. You used to be such a polite guy, and now you’re going through this angry phase. Don’t get me wrong, I approve, but aren’t you supposed to be growing out of teen angst at your age instead of into it?”


“Can I come, too?” Haoyu had just stepped out of his own room. He lowered his voice. “I don’t want to be here when the professional smeller arrives. It’s weird.”


He didn’t expound on this opinion as they left the dorm and cut through campus toward the music department, but Lute certainly did.


“People who can sniff out the ghosts of your past farts are no fun at all,” he said, sticking his hands into his pockets as they headed past the Forthright building. “It’s bad enough to wonder if you brushed away your morning breath and used plenty of deodorant around regular people. There are some things we aren’t supposed to know about each other from across a room. What you ate last night, what you did this morning, whether you wiped really good or you were in a hurry—”


Alden side-eyed him.


“These things should be a man’s own business! I say we move my harp slowly.”


“I agree,” Haoyu said. “And I’m sorry about my mom, you guys. If she’s taking over too much I can ask her to back down.”


“No, she’s so nice,” said Alden.


“It’s fine,” Lexi said.


Lute peered around Alden to look at Haoyu. “She doesn’t have a problem with me?”


“Why would she?”


Lute lifted his eyebrows.


Haoyu looked uncomfortable. “I don’t think my parents ever heard about the…incident. Mom got summoned on pretty short notice around then. She was somewhere so far out of reach we couldn’t even call her. And dad was bolstering the Hong Kong hero team while they handled that <<Metal Melter>> person. He was home every chance he got, but it wasn’t like I brought it up with him.”


“It was ages ago,” Lexi said flatly. “It was childish. Your whole grade has always been full of walking, talking hemorrhoids.”


“They’re not that bad!” Haoyu protested. “Everyone’s gotten more serious since affixing, too.”


Lexi grunted.


For a minute, there was only the sound of their shoes hitting the pavers.


Alden wondered what on earth Lute had done in middle school. It sounded like it was a personal screw-up they were talking about rather than something related to his family. One bad enough that he thought a former classmate’s parents might still have a problem with him.


Can I ask? It would be better if one of them would realize he was clueless and offer the info up, but they didn’t seem to be considering him at all.


“Your mom was working with the Artonans right then,” Lute said finally. “I knew she did sometimes, but I didn’t realize...”


“She’s been getting summoned more for the past few years,” said Haoyu. “I've stopped telling people every time she's gone. They always say the wrong thing.”


“And she gets summoned for combat jobs.”


“Yes,” Haoyu said.


“Sorry,” Lute said quietly.


“She doesn’t mind. She’s got a team of alien Avowed she works with usually. I don’t know much, but she says it’s fine. And dad says it’s fine. So…it’s fine.”


“I meant I was sorry for back then. I shouldn’t have done it.”


Done what?!


But now they were all so serious, he couldn’t ask.


Haoyu smiled at Lute. “Like Lexi says. It was ages ago. And maybe we deserved it a little. I never brought it up with my parents because I thought they’d be mad at me if I explained it all. Dad especially…he hates bullies. He’d have wanted to know why I didn’t do anything to stop them from picking on you.”


“Wow. Pressure,” said Lute. He sidestepped to stomp on a fallen leaf. “You hero babies have some intense parents. Let’s cut across the quad here. It’s quicker.”


“Aren’t we on the college campus now?” Alden asked, blinking in the glare of sunlight bouncing off the curved surface of a metal statue at the center of the quad.


“Yep,” Lute said. “The music programs share a lot of spaces. And the instructor who offered her office for harp storage teaches uni classes, too.”


Lexi frowned. “It just occurred to me to wonder. You are still in first year, aren’t you?”


“I haven’t been taking extra classes to speed through. I’ll be a second year when January quarter starts.”


The frown deepened.


Lute’s own expression brightened at the sight. “Oh! Oh, are you mad I’m your senior now?”


“You wouldn’t be if I had chosen Sciences! Superhuman Studies has a ton of classes they won’t let me test out of!”


Lute grinned. “You can call me senpai or—”


“We are not doing that.”


Haoyu laughed.


“Are you the oldest in your admissions group? You are, aren’t you?” Lute said.


“I am not! There’s an Adjuster who’s only a month away from seventeen.”


“Max?” Alden guessed.


Lexi nodded.


“I’m sixteen, too," said Alden. "So there’s a decent chance I’m older than—”


“My birthday is February 18th,” Lexi said.


“March 25th,” said Alden.


“So you’re the second oldest in your group, Lexi!”


“It’s not a big deal.” His voice was stiff.


“I know that,” said Lute. “But do you?”


