All my skill leveling earned me over 150 thousand experience. Doing some quick math that leaves around 48 thousand experience from the goblins. I doubt the weaker ones gave me that much experience judging by how quick I killed them. No, most of that experience must have come from the horned hob.

I saw death’s doors and watched as they started to open for me. Looking back, I can’t believe I survived. My attacks did nothing and I was almost out of mana and stamina. If my skills didn’t break through in that moment it would have ended again. But I survived and thanks to this worlds laws I was handsomely rewarded for it.

It’s scary how much this world seems to promote violence. No that’s not true, this world is more balanced than my old one. Hard work is rewarded to anyone who seeks to improve and nature has its own ways to defend itself. We may be able to expand our village but whatever attacked the goblins in the deep forest could probably wipe out our village if we ever were stupid enough to relocate there.

I thought this assault would solve all our problems but instead we’re left with an executioner’s axe above our heads. No, I can’t think about that right now. I slowly enter a deep meditation.

We’ll discuss the issue later. For now, I need to rest and regain my strength.

The sun is falling fast and everyone is scrambling to light their campfires. All of the goblin corpses were disposed of. Those of our group who died were cremated in separate fires and had their ashes gathered for their families to scatter when we return.

I’ve managed to regain most of my stamina and my Health has bounced back at an incredible rate. My mana was slightly overtaxed so it should take me another full day for it to recharge completely.

Father stuck to me like glue the whole day and is even now following me over to the headman’s campsite. With me and father joining the campsite most of the strongest people in the expedition are gathered. The remaining hunters were tasked by the headman to patrol while we discuss the future.

“We need to discuss our options.” The headman straightens his back and look around the campsite to meet all our gazes.

“Isn’t that your decision?” I point out the obvious chain of command.

“I’m not sure what we should do. We lost far too many people already but we have no idea what’s out here.” Camden looks defeated.

“Father, why don’t we return to the village? We annihilated the goblins before winter could start to take hold. We were promised reinforcements during spring. As long as the threat is not another goblin tribe, we should be fine.” Braddon makes a good point.

“I agree with Braddon, everyone’s seen too much death already. If you try and tell the villagers we need to search the area for something just as dangerous as the goblins, with a little more than half the people we started with, the villagers might just leave for the village on their own.” Dad looks seriously at Camden.

“That might happen, but what if you’re wrong?” Ronald leaves his question ambiguous leaving father and Braddon tilting their heads to the side.

“I think he means that, what if whatever was attacking the goblins is just as mobile or even more mobile than the goblins? Does anyone have any idea what inhabits the deeper parts of the forest?” I try and explain Ronald’s reasoning.

“Death lies in those trees.” Come on Ronald, you need to articulate better.

“Like what?” I try to press the hunter, only to have Camden answer instead.

“It’s hard to say what lies in the deep forest. Magic beasts and other powerful creatures rarely stay in one place long. My father taught me that no monster is common in the higher magic regions of the forest. Since our village was founded, there have been plenty of expeditions made into the deeper parts of the forest and each time hunters have brought back different magic birds, beasts, and even giant insects. But even the weaker inhabitants of the deep forest are said to be stronger than a level 40 man.”

“So, you’re saying it could be a giant fly or a dragon? There’s no way to know?” I can’t help but use some sarcasm. The headman’s family has been leading this village for generations and he has no idea what creatures live close enough that are capable at exterminating 500 goblins.

“Aaliyah, that’s no way to talk to Camden. Apologize.”

“Yes, dad. I apologize for my remark, Headman Downs.” Dad narrows his eyes at me. I guess he didn’t miss the slight sarcasm at the end there.

“It’s fine Darrius. Aaliyah has more than earned her right to criticize my leadership. I apologize that I can’t better answer your questions, Aaliyah. High leveled traveling hunters come sparsely to our village and they rarely share their secrets. Members of my family rarely have the levels to demand knowledge from such people.” Another case of people treating knowledge as something to be hoarded.

“Do you have any suggestions then?” Braddon asks me.

I look at father off to my side. His face drops when he sees my sorrowful expression. “I do actually have an idea.”

“Don’t you dare.” Father has the same angry look on his face as when I woke up after the battle.

“Let me explain first then you can yell at me, father.” Dad grits his teeth but doesn’t say anything else so I continue. “Father, Camden, and Braddon should escort everyone back home. Ronald, master, and I will stay here for a day and recuperate until we are back to our full strength. Then we will scout the surrounding areas without entering the deeper parts of the forest. If we find anything dangerous outside the denser magic areas of the forest then we ‘test’ its strength before retreating to warn the village. Hopefully whatever attacked the goblins stayed in deeper parts of the woods.”

Everyone but father looks like they’re contemplating my idea. He of course tries to refute my idea. “You have already done your part. Besides, there’s probably nothing we need to worry about.”

“If that’s the case dad, then we’ll just be camping for a few more days, sightseeing. The three of us are strong enough we might meetup with the rest of you before you even reach the village.” I try and undersell the danger.

“I said no.” Father crosses his arms expressing his final decision.

I glance around the campsite and see the others have uncomfortable looks. Do their looks mean they disagree with me or father?

“What do you guys think?” I try asking everybody.

If we were playing poker, I could read everyone’s hand right now. No one wants to look at father. So, they agree with my plan.

“It doesn’t matter what they say. You already almost died once! I won’t let you risk your life like that again!” I can see the headman frown at his words.

“No one is denying Aaliyah’s contribution, Darrius. Make no mistake, I’m not happy sending someone younger than my daughter to scout the edges of the magic forest. That said, it’s her plan and she deserves our trust. And I’ll remind you I’m the leader of our village.” Camden’s stern gaze leaves no room for rebuttal.

I can’t let everyone just stare at each other for the rest of the night. “Dad, do you think anyone other than me would have survived against that hob, could you have done it?” Dad looks angry at my question but slowly his face warps into a rare look of sorrow. “We won’t be looking for a fight. The three of us need to go because we are the most likely to survive anything hiding out there. Master is the strongest, Ronald will help us spot anything wrong, and I…” I chocked on my next words.

“…I reached level 60.” Everyone, except Del, looks like I just slapped each of them across the face. “I love you dad but this is my decision.” My father looks even more hurt by my words now.

“Does that mean we are all in agreement?” Camden receives a head nod from all of us, except father, who continues to look a giant puppy that was just kicked. “Good. We’ll start marching everybody back to the village tomorrow. We’ll leave some extra supplies for the three of you before we set off. The village can’t afford to lose any of you, so if you encounter anything dangerous, I want you to rush back to the village immediately. Is that understood?” All three of us agree with Camden.

I scoot over to dad and placer my hand on his shoulder. “I promise to return quickly and without a single hair missing.”

Father looks up with a stern expression. “You better, because I’ll have to explain to your mother what happened during the expedition and why you aren’t back home already.” The hairs on my neck and arms stand on end. “If you come back with anymore injuries then she’ll kill you herself.” I don’t think even my level will save me from what’s to come when I return.

Why do I always have to put myself in these situations?

“You guy’s ready to move out?” I call out as I walk over to our small firepit and kick some soil over the flames.

“Are you ready, you were the one with the most injuries?” Master leans over and grabs his pickaxe.

“I’ve had almost two days to rest. Other than the last bit of my Health that’s slowly recovering, I’m back to 100%.” I walk outside our hut and breath some of the fresh morning air.

I stretch my limbs, making sure the pain from the battle two days ago is fully gone. Stretching my neck muscles, I admire the hut we made. The three of us might not be carpenters but each of us can move heavy logs when we need to. Master cut down enough trees to build us a small cabin which had the bonus effect of making a clearing for us too. We aren’t planning to stay here long but having a defensible structure makes keeping watch much easier.

We’re in the same spot the expedition used as our last campsite. I look in the direction everybody left in, I hope they’re doing ok.

I hate to admit it but I was struck by the adventuring bug. I’m not looking forward to see any crazy beasts but the idea of exploring the edges of the magic forest is making my blood pump faster.

Del and Ronald walk out of our hut, adjusting the gear they’re carrying.

“You want to lead us, Ronald?” Master looks over at our hunter.

“Sure.” Ronald turns and starts walking into the forest. Del and I have to dash after him before his silhouette disappears amongst the trees.

The three of us move at an incredible pace. Weaving in and out of trees, vaulting over rocks or fallen logs, it takes us only twenty minutes to reach the clearing we attacked two days ago.

Master and I step back as to let Ronald observe any tracks that might be new. We silently follow him for over an hour before master becomes inpatient. “Any new tracks?” I can tell he’s trying not to show his displeasure.

“Yes.” Ronald’s answer hangs in the air.

…

…

I can see master ready to burst. I was worried master would talk in his weird voice around Ronald but Camden warned master before the expedition that Ronald has known about Del’s particular speech habbits for years now. It’s just that neither like talking to others, so they never had a real conversation together. I would wager that they’re awfully similar to each other but master would probably yell at me if I said it out loud.

Master avoids talking to people because he doesn’t want to be bothered, while Ronald only says a few words at a time and rarely starts a conversation on his own volition. I should probably handle talking to him.

“Do you recognize the new tracks?” I step in front of master and address Ronald.

“Farkas.” He responds, still looking at the ground

“Any new tracks you can’t identify?” I hold my breath waiting for his answer.

“No…... nothing new.”

“That’s some good news at least. Any new goblin tracks?”

“No.” I look around the clearing. No sign of more goblins. Predators will be drawn to the smell of blood here but they’ll only find piles of ash. I can already see new seedlings sprouting a few feet into the clearing. The mana density here is 25% higher than I’m used to. Father said the mana in forests helps the plants grow, how long until this clearing vanishes below a new canopy?

“If everything is normal here then we should move closer to the deeper part of the forest.” Ronald must agree with me because he stops looking at the ground and makes his way to the opposite end of the clearing we arrived at.

Still looking forward, master compliments how well I handled talking to Ronald. “You’re quite good at talking to him.”

I glance over at Del. “I think he’s nervous about talking to people. He might have a more serious form of glossophobia.”

“What?” Master almost misses a step and looks over at me. “What is that?”

“Oh, sorry. Glossophobia is the fear of speaking to a crowd of people but in severe cases it can be a fear of speaking to the public in general. Instead of taking the initiative to talk he will almost always answer questions with short responses. With that in mind you need to keep your questions short and to the point. It’s also probably why he stays so far ahead of us.” Ronald tries to always stay ten feet in front of us at all times.

Master looks confused at my explanation but doesn’t refute my hypothesis.

As we move forward, I can feel the magic in the air become denser as we move deeper into the forest. We need to be stealthier, so we move slower and don’t talk to each other. Even Ronald reduces the distance between us to only five feet.

I’m surprised the trees around here are scarred as well. The cuts look shallower and most trees are already healed. The scars on the base of the trees are the only signs the goblins were active in this region.

