The magic in the air is almost 50% higher here. The trees are taller and the canopy is thick enough that it blocks out most of the sun’s rays. Of course, the lower light doesn’t affect any of us.

The trees and mana are interesting but I thought the higher magic density areas of the forest would be cooler looking. “The deeper forest isn’t that interesting.” I mumble under my breath.

Master lets out a chuckle so quiet only Ronald and I can hear it. “This isn’t a part of the magic forest yet. We should be their soon.” I’m about to question Del when I see Ronald looking back at me. He motions for us to continue.

Our advance slows once again but I can feel the difference with every step.

50%, 55%, 60%…… 85%. The mana density is climbing rapidly with ever step. Eventually I see it, the border between the two forest zones. Using Sense Mana, I can physically see the mana rolling out of depts of the forest. The forest in front of me is teeming with mana. They’re so saturated with mana, the plants are positively glowing.

We don’t dare go into the deeper parts of the forest but we need to check along the border. We zigzag around trying to spot signs of anything dangerous.

Walking along, I keep my Sense Mana skill going. The dim world is overlaid with an almost thermal view of mana in my eyes.

Each tree stores mana in its own way like a fingerprint. Some pool the majority of their mana in their roots while others prefer to focus their mana in their canopies. The steady circulation within the plants can be soothing to watch.

“Huh?” In front of our group, off to our right, I see a thin tree stretching into the canopy above. It blends in naturally to its surroundings and no one would say its out of place but my mana vision is showing the mana within the tree circulating incredibly fast. Even the magically charged trees I saw in the deeper parts of the forest circulated their mana at a fraction of this speed.

The only time I’ve seen mana move that fast is when its inside a living creature.

“Oh, gods.” I stop in place. Focusing on the mana within the tree, I trace it into the canopy. It’s hard but I filter through the surrounding mana. What I’m left with makes the color drain from my face. The silhouette the mana makes isn’t in the shape of a trees canopy.

Perched, hidden far above, is a massive body of mana. Now that I’m focusing on the shape, I can see nine other legs reaching the forest floor.

Yes, legs. I can only physically see three other legs closest to us, the rest are spread out covering at least a thousand square feet.

“What’s wrong, Aaliyah?” I watch the mass up above twitch with every word master utters.

The only good thing is master’s question pulls me back to reality. “Ronald.” I try not to shout. Luckily the urgency in my voice is convey well enough for him to stop walking forward. A few more feet and he would have passed the beast’s first leg.

I feel myself shaking.

“What is…?” I cut Del off by raising my finger to my mouth. He takes the hint when he sees my terrified face.

Ronald also sees my gesture and slowly moves closer to us making sure to avoid anything on the ground that would make a noise.

Once Ronald is standing next to me, I motion for Del and him to lean in closer.

Our cheeks may be touching but I refuse to take my eyes off of the hidden threat.

In the quietest voice possible I whisper, “Big Monster.” The two of them shiver at my revelation.

“Where?” Ronald whispers back.

Still shaking, I raise my finger to the main body in the trees.

“Didn’t sense.” Ronald’s usual sharp look is replaced with fear.

“My danger Sense skill never when off.” Master is also worried.

I motion for the three of us to bend down. I grab a small stick and sketch the outline in the forests floor. I can’t portray how big the beast is but I make sure to point out the legs.

The men get my message and carefully watch as I point out the three legs we can see from our position. Now that I look, each leg sticks out because there’s no scars on them. Every other tree has the markings that the goblins made. Is that why they cut up all the surrounding trees? This thing must have been hunting them!

I think the others notice the difference too, because after I pointed out the first leg, they easily followed my directions to the other two.

“What do we do, retreat?” I can’t help but whisper.

“We need to try.” Master grips his pickaxe.

“Try.” Ronald upswings his bow and draws an arrow.

Two already agree, if I suggest we flee it will compromise the group. We need to be on the same page for this. “Agreed, we test it and run if it’s too dangerous. I’ll take the closest leg.” I nervously reply.

“I’ll take the other two legs.” Master hands me his pickaxe so I can charge it.

“Eyes… if any.” Ronald studies the spot that I pointed out was hiding the main body.

I fill Del’s pickaxe with mana. Ronald doesn’t seem to care and neither do I in this situation. Handing the pickaxe back, Del now properly armed, moves to his position. I activate Mana Skin, again using nearly 300 points of mana to defend myself.

A quick glance at Del and we both swing our axes at the same time. I use Weighted Strike alongside Double Strike to try and cleave the leg in two.

My first blow lands but barely leaves a crack. My second blow digs halfway through the exposed carapace. I quickly swing again and use Precise Strike to finish bisecting the leg.

I was planning on stepping back but the top part of the leg slams into me.

I’m knocked back nearly twelve feet. My Mana Skin is best suited to absorb blunt force damage but that strike destroyed twenty percent of my Mana Skin.

Before I can get to my feet, an ear-piercing screech has me covering my head with my hands trying to block out the sound. The sound is like the worlds largest teapot steaming over but with a deeper tone that is somehow sounds sharper in the ears.

Master moves to my side and hoists me to my feet. I can see master managed to cut through the two legs he was assigned. The top part of the limbs are no longer disguised as trees and I recognize the material. The carapace is the same grey color as the materials the two horned hobs were using as armor. That means they managed to kill one of these things but on the other hand that means there’s probably more hidden in the forest.

The three limbs we cut are leaking a blue liquid and the insides look like they’re are made of softer flesh. The remaining seven limbs are also revealed as the creature’s camouflage fades away.

The three of us retreat backwards as the main body descends from the canopy. Just as I feared it’s a giant spider with two extra limbs. The spider’s whole body is covered in its grey armor and unlike the spiders I’ve seen around our house I can see its fangs positioned underneath the main body. The eyes are also located under the body arranged in a v formation outlining the mouth of the beast. The legs are connected to the top of the spider but fanout around it.

Now that I can see the body of the creature clearly, its size is even more frightening. The main part of the body is the size of a small truck.

While I’m staring at the monster Ronald loosens his first arrow. The arrow soars towards the monster’s eyes but the beast shifts forward and the arrow bounces off of the bottom carapace. I don’t know if he used a skill or the bottom part of the monster is stronger than the legs but his arrow did nothing.

“Watch out!’ Del moves in front of me and swings his glowing pickaxe. The axe clashes against a new leg that was about to slam into me again. Master is pushed back into me but manages to deflect the leg to our side.

Seeing his chance, master launches himself into the air, raising his pickaxe above his head as he tries an overhead strike on the creature’s main body.

I watch in horror as the spider bends its legs and uses its body as a battering ram against master who’s soaring through the air.

Sparks fly when the pickaxe lands against the spider’s carapace during the initial clash but the force behind the spider smacks against Del sending him back towards me. I move out of the way before Del accidentally lands on me.

“I don’t think I did any damage!”

“Need better arrows.”

The two of them couldn’t damage it so I definitely can’t hurt it with my meager strength. Time for plan B. If there’s only one enemy I can justify trying it.

“Can the two of you hold it back for a little bit?” The two men look at me in astonishment.

“Maybe, you have a plan?” Master looks skeptical and Ronald doesn’t seem convinced either.

“I think so but it might leave me in a weakened state.”

“Ok.” Ronald turns and nocks another arrow.

“If this doesn’t work, we run.” Master raises his pickaxe and charges the beast again.

No pressure, Aaliyah.

I start chanting quietly in English.

“Hear me earth. I summon your power and offer you 400 points of my mana to materialize before me. I summon the element magnesium and ask it appear in a powdered form. I need the powder to form into a ball 10 inches in diameter in the palm of my hand. Once formed, the ball will be held together in a wind ball and fired at 200mph in a straight line. Execute!”

I channel almost half my mana to my right palm as the spell activates. I rarely practiced freeform magic since the time I almost drowned myself brushing my teeth. The most important thing I learned was to never mix fire into any of my spells. I don’t have the mental control to execute something that volatile.

The type of freeform magic I’ve focused the most on is earth magic. Manipulating the earth around you is incredibly mana intensive but using mana to summon a fake element for as short period of time is easier on my mana pool.

A silver ash ball is almost fully formed in my hand.

“Move out of the way!” I scream at Ronald and Del.

The both of them shoot off to the side as the ball in my hand is launched at the face of the beast. The spider is too preoccupied watching the two of them dodge that it doesn’t notice the small ball until it strikes it in the face.

The wind shell holding the ball together shatters and the magnesium dust covers the spiders face.

Reaching to my side, I grab a small torch a villager left for us. I brought it incase we need to scare something off with fire.

“Llaif gamfr ol e nnamse!”

Using the basic fire spell Del taught me, I quickly light the torch. The spider is more pissed than ever and shrieks loudly again.

Ronald and Del use the chance to regroup with me.

“What in Tarrow’s forge was that?”

“No time to explain! Throw the torch in its face!” I shove the torch into Del’s hands. Gods bless the man; he only takes a second to register my command.

Master runs up to the beast, dodging its limbs and tosses the torch directly against its face.

I never practiced summoning this particular element let alone setting it on fire.

The fireball the torch sets off is more than anything I was expecting. A white flame ignites across the giant spider’s face. The flames are so bright it’s hard to look at them.

The spider immediately starts flailing about trying to extinguish the fire. The creature slams its body into the forest floor trying to snuff out the intense flames. “Sorry buddy, that’s not going to work.”

We watch the spider continue to crash around the surrounding trees until it finally falls to the ground motionless.

30 seconds later the fire starts to magically disappear. The magnesium I made with magic only lasted 71 seconds before it reverted back to magic.

Earth magic can summon walls, floors, or even a whole building. But unless you’re manipulating already present materials, whatever you built will disintegrate after it burns through whatever magic you used to make the structure.

“Ha-ha, Ha-ha. I can’t believe that worked!” My maniacal laughter might need some work but I’m happy I survived a fight without passing out for once.

“What was that?!” I turn to see Del and Ronald staring wide eyed at me.

“Just some freeform magic. Oh, that reminds me! Can you keep this a secret Ronald?” He takes a step back and rapidly nods his head.

“Master, that was a magic beast, right?” I can’t stop smiling.

“Yeah, I’d bet my forge it’s a wind type magic beast. We should try and harvest as many materials as we can from it.”

“Do you think we can use some of the materials for forging?

“We can try. Materials froyour mam wind type magic beasts are better used for enchanting rather than using them to forge with though.”

“The materials can be used for enchanting!?” The possibility of practicing enchanting mixes with the high of winning the battle, I don’t think I could meditate right now even if I tried.

“AAAAAARRRRRRRRRR!!!”

“AAAAAARRRRRRRRRR!!!”

“AAAAAARRRRRRRRRR!!!”

My joy is shattered by the screams in the distance.

That’s at least three more giant spiders hiding in the surrounding forest.

“Let’s harvest what we can and make for the village. People need to know what’s crawling around our forest.”

I think we can all agree with master on that. Let’s strip this spider and book it home.

Oh gods! What is mother going to say when she hears about this creature!
