The trail’s main purpose did seem to be “a chance to appreciate the landscape,” with an occasional branching pathway that led to so-and-so’s house or, just once so far, to a place that was clearly intended for magic. He discovered that one with delight. Half an hour after finding it, he was still walking around the elevated triangular platform at the center of the grassy mound, trying to sense the elemental alignments of whatever ingredients had left stains in the dimples that marked the platform’s surface.

He didn’t reach out to prod anything with his authority, only crouching over each dimple with his eyes closed, trying to be sensitive.

At first, he’d intended to be quick about this exploration. He’d thought he should reduce his chances of being found here by someone who would think he was behaving the wrong way toward the mystery platform. But the second dimple he’d crouched over had held, done, or been influenced by what he couldn’t help but think of as “big hot.”

That dimple was the same temperature as the surrounding environment, according to his sense of touch. And it was nothing special to look at. But there was a two-inch-wide spot in reality there that wanted to be hot so badly Alden could feel the potential for it. He’d never experienced anything like it, and as soon as he did, he knew he’d be sensing every interesting-looking thing out here until he’d determined there wasn’t another spot with something similar going on.

Or until a wizard showed up to shout, “Get away from my casting supplies!”

Whichever came first.

He really wanted to do his new candle-lighting snap over the big hot spot. He thought if he did, a pillar of fire might shoot up and announce his presence to the entire Rapport.

That should be easier to resist than it is.

Eventually, he finished his inspection with no other major discoveries and jumped down to stand on the ground where his lantern waited. There was a flock of brown and white vathas around it.

Bugs were the only creatures he’d seen out here. The nearest he’d come to seeing another person was the vision of himself that stood beside his lantern right now, shirtless and in shorts so that Alden could see what he looked like with different tattoos in different places.

The one helping him see himself this way had gotten creative while he was busy. The interface vision had a right arm decorated not only with the Matadero tattoo he was leaning toward, but also with several other symbols. They ran in a mesmerizing line from his shoulder to just below his elbow. A gap had been left at a spot where he liked to wear his auriad on that arm. The tattoos seemed to highlight it.

“I like that.”

He recognized the symbol for Earth and its solar system. And at the very top, the one for The Bearer of All Burdens, though it had been simplified compared to the first time he’d seen it.

“I really like that.” His eyes focused on the auriad his twin wore. “Why did we look at so many other options when you know my thoughts?”

“Timing. It’s an art.” A tall Artonan woman appeared in front of him, her brown hair in a ponytail, bare toes wiggling in the grass. “Hello, my Alden.”

“Hello,” he said. “Timing…I guess that’s why we’ve talked since I finished my choosing season, but not really.”

She nodded and reached to brush a thumb against his cheek. It felt real.

“What do you think of my choices?” he asked.

He watched the other him smile and straighten as his outfit changed. The tattoo was mostly covered by the sleeve of a dark green knight’s coat.

“How did Stu put it?” she said.

“Yes. To everything I am.”

“He found perfection with so few words. I won’t compete.” Her hand fell to her side. “You’ve leveled, as Earth reckons such things. It will tell you so when you make it back to Anesidora.”

He slowed a breath. In and out. “Okay.”

“I know you’d like advice about when to spread your secrets wider. But there is no perfection for you there, only your own readiness to manage what you might gain and lose. As far as that goes, someone else has more than I do for you to consider.”

“Someone else?”

“The one you’ve been torturing unwittingly ever since you arrived here.”

“Who?” he asked, concerned. “Have I been offending a Rapport III person without meaning to?”

She winked at him.

That was all the warning he got before his feet lifted off the ground, and he flew backwards, away from the casting platform and toward the main trail. Tall grass was slapping against his back.

“Shit! What—?!”

His shout was cut short by a collision. Arms and another person’s authority wrapped around him at the same time. If he hadn’t recognized the authority right away, he might have tried to break the arms.

“Stuart!” he said as they staggered together. He wasn’t sure if they were tripping each other more or holding each other up. The levitation wand that apparently worked on humans as well as it did everything else was stabbing him in the ribs.

“Don’t go near a Yatanger triangle while you’re drunk or high or both! You could die!”

“Who’s drunk or high here?”

“And don’t tell Esh-erdi yet! Please, don’t tell him. We’re not ready. I’m not. And you’re too important. Have you already told? I’ll do everything I can, but I’m not— ”

“What are you doing here?” Alden asked loudly, finally getting his feet firmly on the ground and his hands firmly on Stuart’s shoulders so that he could hold him still and make sense of him. “I’m not drunk. And I haven’t told Esh-erdi what you’re worried about. We said not yet, didn’t we?”

Stuart’s panicked expression didn’t fade immediately. He was in his LeafSong uniform. His face was pale above the black cloth.

“Are you all right?”

They asked each other the question at the same time.

“I’m fine,” said Alden. “Having a neat weekend. Sending you pictures of everything I’m doing in Rapport III.”

“What you’re doing is drinking too many inebriating beverages. I’ve brought reversal potions!” Stuart plunged his hand into one of his pockets and pulled out a case that said “humans” on the front.

“Don’t inject me with anything. I used a tiny little tasting spoon to try most of those drinks I sent you pictures of. Esh-erdi was the one who actually had the strong ones.”

“What?”

“Exactly what I said. I’m very sober. Did you think I was crazy enough to lose control of myself in a Rapport?”

He’d rarely seen Stuart look so baffled.

“Oh,” the Artonan boy said finally. “Oh. You haven’t told Hn’tyon Esh-erdi. And…everything is well? You’re safe.”

“I think so. Unless I’m dying a very slow death from being around Yat’s Angry Triangle. I know that wasn’t the name. What was the name?”

“You’re completely fine!” Stuart sounded almost offended.

“Sorry. I’ll try to get drunk and injured next time.”

Stuart’s eyes went huge.

“I don’t really mean that,” said Alden before he realized Stuart was looking past him. He followed the direction of the gaze. The Alden in the knight coat was sitting on the edge of the triangle platform, swinging his feet and smiling up at the stars.

“Is she letting you see that?” he asked, startled. “Through your eyerings? It’s real. Well, no…it’s not. It’s an interface vision I requested so I could see what I looked like with different tattoos. You’re not hallucinating if you see me sitting there in a green knight uniform. I promise. Honestly, Mother! Get rid of that.”

“No, don’t,” Stuart said in a rush. “I know it’s my eyerings. I want to see closer.”

“But he’s sitting on the triangle you thought might kill me.”

Stuart grabbed Alden’s hand and pulled him toward his future self.

******
