The Bastion Down Below looked as though someone had taken a series of double-ended black castle towers of different sizes, bunched them all together, wrapped them in curtain walls, and then plunged straight through the lowest platform of Enduring Forge. A third of the structure was exposed on both the top and the bottom of the platform, while the central third was fully encased in the platform itself. The interior of the lowest platform was riddled with passageways and checkpoints and a whole lot of oversight, in the form of hundreds of people casting varied and odd detection spells over all the ore and people who passed through this place. The infrastructure in the platform probably accounted for another four or five Bastion-sized areas of usable space.

It was a sight to see, for sure, and Erick saw a lot of it as he stood upon a Teleport Square a hundred meters from the main entrance to the upper Bastion. Ophiel flitted about, with one on his shoulder and nine scattered around, both on this side and the other side of the platform, investigating as surreptitiously as they could. The people on watch —and there were a lot of those types— didn’t seem to mind. Some waved. Ophiel even waved back.

Erick stepped off of the Teleport Square with Poi at his side.

Not too far ahead stood a checkpoint for entrance into the Bastion, with a few people already in line.

Erick did not need to wait for the line, though, for Jalrock, their guide from the other day, stood near the checkpoint wearing what appeared to be grey army fatigues. He waved, and came right on over.

“Archmage! Welcome to the Bastion Down Below.”

Erick smirked. “I didn’t expect to see you down here?”

“Oh? Well. I get around.” Jalrock shrugged, saying, “Everyone is required to be a part of the army if they want to get anywhere in Enduring Forge, and I’m no different.” He gestured back to the massive black structure, asking, “General Barir Adama awaits, along with a few Team Leaders and Scouts. Allow me to escort you?”

“Sure.”

Erick and Poi skipped the checkpoint line, but they did pass through more than a few detection spells on their way to the half-meter thick main door of the Bastion. A few of those detection spells even went off, including one large blue flash that sent streamers of blue light in every direction, but Jalrock waved off the lightshow and the nearby guards made no fuss. More than a few of the nearby guards even smiled at the blue light, as though they had seen exactly what they thought they would see, but it was still nice to get confirmation.

Jalrock explained, “That blue one is for major artifacts or any other items that pass through here containing a large amount of mana. The smaller red and green ones are for smaller, still notable items, which is expected of an archmage and entourage.”

Erick and Poi followed right along, and they entered the main hallway of the Bastion. Beyond that door they took a left, down a hallway with a blue line of paint down the center. Erick checked out some nearby signs, and saw that the blue line was for army personnel only. Green was for miners. Red was for guests. Every hallway also had a white line with arrows in it, pointing the way toward the nearest exit. This main entrance was pretty solidly blue, with only a single red line that went off in a direction opposite of Erick’s apparent destination.

This place had a rather expansive runic web, too, but it was different from the one on the middle platform, or city hall’s platform. Erick saw anti-[Teleport] runework on this one.

And there were a lot of people here. They weren’t ten meters in the front door and they had already passed a good dozen people already. Some of those people even bowed to Erick.

They went up a winding staircase and down another small hallway, passing another four checkpoints as they went, which Jalrock explained were mostly detectors for biological threats, and which didn’t go off. Eventually they reached what might have been a main command station, or at least one of the well-used ones; a place like this probably had a dozen command stations.

The room was large and multi-leveled, with the center of the room slightly lower than the rest of the room. There was a ring-like table in that center space, with a very intricate lightward hovering in the air in the center of that ring. It appeared to be a map of the surrounding three hundred kilometers. To the sides of the room were workstations, filled with people with [Viewing Screen]s attached to the runic web. Overseers oversaw operations, each of them with ten telepathic tendrils coming off of their heads, as they coordinated whatever was happening further down below the Down Below, in the lands beyond the cavern which held Enduring Forge.

General Barir and several other important-looking people stood in the center of the room, near the lightward, some inside the ring-table near the lightward, others outside and sitting; all of them waiting for Erick’s arrival.

At Erick’s entrance, the people in the room turned to him, some faster than others. And then they stood, and bowed. Three seconds passed, and then most everyone returned to work.

Erick stepped forward—

As General Barir stepped closer to meet him, saying, “Welcome to Greater Command.”

“Thanks for having me.” Erick asked, “So how do you want this spellwork to go out?”

Barir nodded quickly, then turned back to the giant map, saying, “This is a map of the Underworld for 350 kilometers in every direction. My people here—” He gestured to his people, saying, “Will be coming behind your cleanup with various seeds of various anti-monster plants and fungi, as well as eggs and pregnant beasts from a few monster species that are easily controlled and deterred by those anti-monster plants. It’s mostly different types of rats for the terrestrial biomes, and some crab species for the aquatic biomes. It’s a system we’ve worked out well with our Beastmasters, but it’s a system that breaks down when you’re not looking at it, and reestablishing the broken system is easier said than done.” He turned to Erick fully, saying, “So what we want out of you, is to flood the land with your [Withering]s or whatever spells you want to use, and we’ll take care of the rest.” He added, “[Withering]s should be enough, though.”

Erick looked over the map. He counted a hundred and thirteen tunnel systems stretching out from the cavern of Enduring Forge. Those tunnels wound and joined and split as they were wont. Most formed cramped tunnels, maybe only four meters wide but a few hundred meters long, and winding. Some wound down, or up, into massive caverns multiple dozens of kilometers across. And the problem got even more complex after that. Multiple paths opened up everywhere. Erick imagined being down there, in the deeper parts. He imagined it would be easy to get lost, especially when gravity started to pull in odd directions, like the books all said it did.

But this close to the surface, getting lost was not possible.

Ophiel would do fine out there.

Erick said, “Beastmaster monsters would still be subject to [Withering]. They’re not out there right now, right?”

“As soon as you agree to this action, and as soon as we understand a timetable of what you’re able to do, then the Beastmasters will get recalled.” Barir said, “All of them already know the dangers your sort of spell represents to their charges and we’re ready to pull out as soon as you say you will begin.”

Erick nodded. “Next question: Are there shadelings out there? I would prefer not to kill people unless I have to.”

“There are not.” The question didn’t even faze Barir. “But even if there are, I understand your spell kills by drawing water out of the body. A threatened shadeling would retreat to the shadows, providing you with no egress to harm them.”

“That’s a good point,” Erick said, “But sometimes shadelings aren’t under their own control. If I stop the killing early, it will probably be because I encountered one in my Kill Notifications and I would need to investigate.”

Erick had no reason to suspect that there was something sketchy going on here, but he wanted to be upfront about what would happen if the worst should happen. At the very least, Erick would stop [Withering], and he didn’t want Barir to be upset when he called the whole project off for a while. Barir seemed to understand this.

“Acceptable.” Barir turned to his people, and began, “Let me introduce you to some of the Farmers and Beastmasters who will be following your [Withering], or whatever other spells you might be using. This is Madriag, Beastmaster, and Sarigal, Farmer, and…”

Introductions went out.

And then an odd thing happened.

Erick found himself delighted at the informality of it all. Barir treated these people not as his soldiers, but like his family. He spoke of Beastmasters raising special lineages of rats that could trace their heritage back to the founding of Enduring Forge, and of the mushrooms that his people had cultivated to fight back the Shadows, no matter how deep they got.

It reminded Erick a lot of Spur, actually.

As Erick asked questions about protocol and planting, and he got answers, Erick was delighted again at how well these people knew their land. They knew all of the monsters and resistance that Erick should expect to run up against, as they pointed out problematic points here and there in the lands beyond Enduring Forge. They had been protecting this land for a very long time, and everyone here was a pro, while every new soldier was taken under the wings of the old soldiers until they, too, were strong enough to lead their own forays out into the Underworld. After today, after Erick took back the nearby Underworld for Enduring Forge, and after Enduring Forge installed flora and fauna which would ensure the land remained under their power, Enduring Forge’s soldiers would have a much easier time of it all. And that was good.

Not half an hour after arriving at the Bastion Down Below, Ophiels launched from dark towers, flying into the cavern of Enduring Forge. The air around them began to glow a ghostly white. They might have resembled moons, brought down to the Underworld, each trailing an individualized tsunami of thick air that poured downward, into the tunnels and the darkness beyond.

The Kill Notifications started rolling in immediately.

- - - -

Ten hours later, with most of that time spent talking to the people around him and with a few breaks here and there, the cleanup was over. There had been no tricks from Enduring Forge. There had been no unexpected kills; no shadelings, no cannibals living outside the city walls, no overly-deadly monsters. The ‘reset’, which is what some of the guys on the ground had taken to calling the take-back of the lands around Enduring Forge, went about four times faster than the army of Enduring Forge had expected it to go, and mostly because Erick was extremely proactive in putting Ophiel in danger over risking the lives of the men and women on the ground.

Erick did not clean out every single monster infestation. He did not kill every single threat. Such a project would have taken months, if not years, due to the fact that if you killed a monster in one location, the rest of the monsters of the Underworld just moved into that newly opened real estate. No; Erick simply killed 75% of the monsters living around Enduring Forge, and only the most obvious ones at that.

Which was more than good enough according to Barir and everyone else in the army.

There had been no surprises that Erick and Ophiel could not handle, for though there were some giant leeches and hidden spider colonies and ravenous oozes here and there, which sent everyone else running for cover, Erick simply solved those problems with sweeps of starlight, or mandalas of lightning. One thing Erick did not expect, though, was that he never encountered a single animal larger than his thumb.

“So animals have a tough time down here, don’t they,” Erick said, when he and Barir and only a few other people were left in the command room.

Those other people were mostly at the monitoring stations, but they weren’t seeing anything unexpected on the monitors. Just a bunch of now-empty tunnels, some inquisitive rats exploring their new, freshly [Grow]n Underworld fungi forests and otherwise, and many, many crab eggs hatching in the cleaned-out Underworld lakes, next to gently growing Underworld underwater grasses. There were people in all of those Screens, but the Screen watchers weren’t monitoring the people themselves; they were looking for threats to the people. All of the team leaders and other high ranking people were out there right now, solidifying the Reset, alongside the rank and file.

Barir said, “There are lizards and fish and a few other things of that size out there that will evolve into monsters and become a problem for our rats and crabs, but our Beastmasters will be handling them as they become problems. It’s a never-ending cycle of destruction and rebirth down here, but we can keep it in order with enough well-applied pressures.” He said, “Taking back the Underworld is the hardest part, but keeping it? This we can do very well.”

“I didn’t see any mines out there, though. Where do you guys mine?”

Barir smiled. “So you didn’t notice the pathways?”

Barir had gotten comfortable enough with Erick to lose a lot of his stiffness, but he still played most of his cards close to his chest. He had revealed a bit, though.

Erick guessed, “The mines are far away, and [Teleport] links them with Enduring Forge? And the miners bring their hauls with them? Or. No. [Teleport] doesn’t work that well if you go down even a hundred kilometers deeper— When does [Teleport] stop functioning altogether?”

“Around here, [Teleport]’s distance capability drops down to the single-kilometer range at 535 kilometers deep, but even at this hundred kilometer depth, you can only get a hundred kilometers on a horizontal [Teleport].” Barir said, “Other places are different.”

Erick nodded, then continued, “So you either have many people [Teleport]ing closer to the surface on multi-blip trips, or they’re— Ah. It’s [Stone Body]. And hidden areas inside the stone which serve as safe Teleport Squares.” He added, “Or else you’re fucking with me and there are no pathways and all you have is [Gate].”

