She spoke over the noise as she continued to flip the silver, saying, “Soon, the [Absorption Ward] will break. Maybe two more passes— There it goes!” She recast the Restful spell. “The magic will break four more times before we see the first shift in the silver, so we’ll go a lot faster now that you’ve seen the process a few times.”

The machine sped up.

Thun-screeech! Thun-screeech! Thun-screeech! Thun-screeech!

Grosgrena flipped the convex half-moon of metal over and over. Soon it got hot enough that she was able to bend the metal under her own [Telekinesis], which she did. Then she slipped the folded metal back into position, ensuring that the silver got crushed in a whole new, more violent way. She flipped and flopped and bent and flipped, working the silver and renewing the spellwork as needed.

After the [Ward] broke for the fourth time, Grosgrena pulled the well-folded silver out of the machine. It was hot, but clearly not hot enough to ruin the magic inside, like Erick had when he used [Incandescent Aura] to melt the previous bar of the good stuff. This stuff didn’t look too blue, though, but it was clearly not simple silver anymore.

“See here?” Grosgrena said, “It’s blueish. This is weak Deep Sky Silver.

“The original silver costs 50 gold, or 500 silver, and the original five kilos of normal silver were enough to make around 1000 silver coins, max, for most coins are made of trash metal that only has a bit of silver in them.

“Right now, this weak Deep Sky Silver is worth about 500 gold. Usable for shit enchanting work and assorted jewelry. If we were to continue this pounding process for about 32 hours straight, never stopping, and casting about 4 million mana worth of [Absorption Ward] into the process, then we’d get wrought-quality Deep Sky Silver. Now that stuff you can use to make some really nice shit, for such items are easily rechargeable via grand cores, or they’ll have extra charges, or whatever else general-purpose good thing you’re going for. Not my field of caring. But what I do care about is being able to tell the quality, and good, easily enchantable Deep Sky Silver will be as blue as a morning sky, but with a sheen of silver light to it.

“That good kind of Deep Sky Silver, in this quantity, is worth 5000 gold; 50,000 silver.

“Most people don’t go for the 32 hour creation of good Deep Sky Silver, though. It’s a lot easier to go slower, with an [Absorption Ward] cast by a Scion of Focus that will regenerate as fast as the pounder can utilize that regeneration. Faster regeneration of the spellwork is more important than size of the [Absorption Ward], because, for the most part, metal can only absorb so much magic so fast. A 500 point, million Regen [Ward] is more impressive than a million point, 500 Regen [Ward]; both will get you where you need to go, but the first one can be cast on a thousand machines for the same mana cost as one cast of the second. Slow and boundless is better than a massive initial investment.

“There’s a bunch of math involved in crushing metals and how much magic they can absorb in one crush, but a good rule of thumb is absorbing 25-100 mana per crush. More, if the metal is cold; less, if the metal is hot. Usually, the metal is hot from crushing, so there's a down curve as you get further and further in the crushing process, so you need to pull your [Strike]s to keep the imbuing going at a good rate.

“Down at the crushing rooms, we’ll usually set up so there’s a crush every 30 seconds, with an apprentice turning the metal as needed, with the caster of the [Ward] only coming in once a day to recast the spell when needed. Takes about a week to turn out a single 5 kilo block of Deep Sky Silver, and almost all of it is sold off to contracted parties for 5k a pop.” Grosgrena turned off the machine and set the block of crushed Deep Sky Silver to the side, asking, “Any questions?”

Erick had listened well, but he was unsure of one aspect of Grosgrena’s lesson. “Are all magical metals made magical in this way? What about froststeel? Adamantium?”

Grosgrena smirked. “Different and specific [Restful Ward]s are used to create specific magical metals out of specific starting metals. Mostly, the [Ward] is an elemental ward of some kind, and the metal is platinum. That’s a good 75% of all magical metals out there. Froststeel requires a lot of cold, so that’s hard to do, but we can get it done.” Grosgrena said, “A few notable exceptions are adamantium, as you say, and holyite. But the first is a secret and the second is something you’ll have to ask the gods about. It’s usually a Quest from a god to a follower to find holyite and craft it into an item, so I tend to stay out of that shit.”

“Okay. Fair enough.” Erick said, “I want to try platinum and [Prismatic Ward].”

Grosgrena smirked. “I thought you might.” She tapped a brilliantly white bar of metal sitting on the stone table. “That’s platinum. Let’s get to crushing!”

Erick smiled. He had an Ophiel expend himself as a [Prismatic Ward] across the crusher while he stuck the bar of platinum in the machine. Grosgrena turned it on, and it started crushing. With lightform precision and Domain power, Erick turned and held the platinum inside the cavity. Platinum screeched particularly loud as it deform—

Grosgrena cast a silencing spell, cutting off the screeches, as she said, “I used to love that sound when I was younger, but it grates sometimes when the [Ward] is strong enough. It appears your [Ward] qualifies.”

Erick smiled.

Grosgrena said, “We should have a tentative result soon, maybe four more minutes at this rate of crushing.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I heard you used [Metalshape] to do this process. I didn’t think it was actual physical crushing.”

“Hmm. Now that’s a topic.” Grosgrena said, “[Metalshape] will achieve weak versions of various magical metals, but only actual crushing and folding will achieve the strong stuff. If you’ve ever bought weak Deep Sky Silver, you probably got it from a source that used [Metalshape] to do their imbuing. We don’t sell that shi— Oh!” Grosgrena eyed the crusher the whole time, and now her eyes focused. “Looks a bit iridescent.”

Erick narrowed his eyes. “It’s not… Celesteel?”

“Close guess, but no. It has red notes. Celesteel has no red. I bet money that it’s prismsteel. Good for all elemental applications.”

“Oh. Well. Yeah. That would make sense, wouldn’t it.”

Grosgrena smirked. “Now, I’ve never used [Prismatic Ward] myself, but I reckon that if we added some titanium dust to the mix, then you’d get celesteel, for sure. Copper dust would get you hellite. That’s mostly just theory that I’ve read in some of the older books, though; no one around here has had [Prismatic Ward] in a long time. Now, neither of those outcomes would be well-made under your [Prismatic Ward], and you’d have to pound the platinum for ten times as long, but eventually, you’d get there. Pretty sure, anyway.” She said, “A much more efficient thing to do if you want celesteel is to make an [Exalted Restful Ward], then you could put plain platinum in the pounder and you’d end up with celesteel afterward.”

Erick’s thoughts caught on a snag. Something didn’t sit right with Grosgrena’s words. Erick asked, “If you used a proper [Exalted Restful Ward] then you would not have to add titanium dust to get celesteel?”

“Nope.” Grosgrena smiled, for she recognized why Erick was having trouble understanding what was happening here. She solved the puzzle for him, saying, “When you took apart those metals for us you solved the question of ‘how does this shit turn magical’, and in an unexpected way. Apparently, through this pounding process, and through the correct [Ward]s, parts of the platinum actually turns into titanium when you do this.”

“Uh.” Erick said, “So platinum actually…”

Changes atomic number? From 78 to 22? When under the effect of magic?

Okay.

Erick didn’t want to voice that theory, though, since it sounded crazy. Such an atomic action would release an absolutely vast amount of energy. Too much! It was difficult for Erick to actually wrap his head around exactly how much energy should be released in such an action.

Erick stared at the pounding pillars in front of him, his eyes going a bit wide.

Grosgrena wasn’t lying to him, either.

So.

Huh.

Well. There was a simple explanation. Magic existed. (Duh)

And apparently alchemy was real on Veird (also duh). And with those truths self-evident, there was probably a way to turn plain stone into gold.

Who the fuck needed [Duplicate], when Particle Magic was right there— Oh.

Oh.

This was a problem.

Like, sure. [Cleanse] turned matter into mana, and this was fine and understandable, so Erick had no problems with the E = MC^2 stuff and platinum becoming titanium after taking a moment to think about it.

But the creation of gold out of nothing but the sand in one’s backyard, or out of thick air, was a much larger problem.

But maybe this was fine? Actually? Platinum was rather damned high on the periodic table, but gold was even higher. Going lower in atomic number was obviously possible, but going upward on the p-table? No evidence that was possible, yet.

And if it was possible, then such a spell would have been censured already? Right?

There were only 7 particles that were higher on the p-table than gold, and also stable. And most people never got near that end of the Condense line of spellwork, anyway.

And [Condense Gold] was Particle Mage Only… So.

Erick relaxed. No one was making gold out of nothing. The economy was fine. Erick hadn’t fucked over the entire world in the exact same way that the Headmaster had specifically warned him against, back when he learned [Duplicate] from the Old Dragon.

And so, Erick finished his thought, saying, “Platinum can turn into other metals? Neat.”

Grosgrena said, “We haven’t had any luck going up the particle mountain, but going down is easy enough.”

Erick smiled at that, all the while using his lightform to turn the platinum as needed, to allow the pounder to crush it down, letting the [Prismatic Ward] soak into the shiny silver metal. All the while, the platinum was becoming more and more rainbow-y.

Erick and Grosgrena spoke of magic and metals, and of all the most useful types of [Restful Ward]s.

Eventually, the conversation moved on to how spellwork flowed through a runic formation. His conversation with Darabella about all of that had given Erick a good starting point, but it had been a short conversation; not nearly long enough. Apparently, ‘how runes chained’ was a pretty simple answer that Erick would have found out if he actually tried making a formation himself. The magic went into the network, and was spread between every single valid rune, affecting stuff around those runes based on the spells imbued into the runes.

And that was all there was to that.

At the end of the metallurgy lesson, Erick left with a newfound appreciation for metals, a book to read, and some runic experiments to undertake. It had been a fantastic day.

The evening was great, too, with another nice dinner with everyone at Hothalls, and with Jane trying the 13-star meal and vanquishing it like the conqueror she was. Few others had ever accomplished such a feat, and Erick was proud of his daughter. For such an accomplishment, the owner even came out of hiding. The recluse was supposedly devoted to creating ever stronger and stranger spice concoctions which were able to burn and entice only the most foolish or brave sorts of people. He congratulated Jane on her accomplishment, then vanished, back into hiding, but not before handing Jane a few bottles of his own special 12-star blends. Those bottles held the same spice/beauty product that would turn her hair red. Jane was thrilled.

And also barely keeping it together.

Back at their rooms, Jane kept saying she was ‘perfectly fine!’ and ‘stop worrying about me!’ and ‘It’s only some blood coming out of my ears, I’m still at 50% Health!’, but eventually, Erick convinced her to accept a [Cleanse]. Instant relief! Both for her, from the pain, and for Erick, for having to watch Jane hurt herself like that.

- - - -

Erick woke up.

Today, he’d go see Darabella about more rune carving. He’d learn more about joining runes and flowing power between them.

Tomorrow, he’d do more metal work. Maybe make a shield for himself that could hold [Animadversion]. Maybe he could even combine runes and multiple small shields so that he could control many at a time, expanding the thorny shield’s most protective and reflective parts out into a net that could cover half of his body, if needed.

The day after, would be the [Withering] of the town.

And the day after that would be a banquet in his honor, held up at the noble district.

And sprinkled throughout all of that, Erick would help secure the Reset of the lands Down Below.

And then…

Something would happen.

When was the shit going to hit the fan? It had to be coming, soon, right? This was too comfortable, so something had to happen to upset the whole apple cart. Though… sure, these people were scared of him and that might make something bad happen, but probably not. People mostly didn’t mess with others higher on the power scale than them. They just ran away; screaming optional and not recommended.

But something was going to happen before all that.

And when it did…

Well.

If Erick was being honest with himself there were two outcomes to his stay in Enduring Forge. Both were… ‘bad’, in a sense.

Either the shit would hit the fan, which was option one. Or there was option two: which was a different sort of call to end his Worldly Path. Erick could easily see himself staying here, in Enduring Forge, long term. And plus! Linxel wasn’t too far away.

Enduring Forge and its people were wonderful.
