Barir laughed loud. “Ah! [Gate]. A wondrous spell. Not one we have access to, as far as I know.” He said, “Your guess with [Stone Body] was correct, but only for transportation to here. We don’t allow people to come into the city from the Underworld without a lot of decontamination, or them having [Stone Body], or something else which will guarantee that they don’t bring a contaminant with them. As far as the actual mines? Those locations are secrets known only to the noble houses which have one.”

All of that fit neatly with what Erick had seen, except…

He asked, “No noble house has [Gate]? Not a single one? You guys have a Wayfarer’s Guildhouse in town, though; I saw it.”

Barir’s smile remained upon his face. He was truly happy that the day had gone so well, and he was happy to assuage all of Erick’s fears, too. “I’m a noble, and I know all of the rest of us, too. If anyone has [Gate], then they’re keeping that under deep secrecy, which is not something we do around here.” He added, “Not with fellow clansmen, anyway.”

Barir was a noble? He didn’t act like it, at all.

In fact, Erick hadn’t really seen many people who he would consider ‘nobles of Enduring Forge’, either. It had been a few days since Erick had arrived. He had expected to see at least a few nobles before now, unless they were all truly abiding by their decision not to approach Erick for help with Imaging, or anything like that.

Erick asked, “How many nobles are in Clan Adamantium?”

“A lot of people. Practically everyone in a position of authority is a member of the Clan in one way or another.” Barir thumbed over to a guy at a large viewing screen. “That’s my nephew, working that Screen, and he’s a noble, too.” The nephew waved. Barir continued, “Jalrock, your guide, is the patriarch of his house of Slate, one of the oldest and most prestigious noble branches of Clan Adamantium. Arakag is my niece. Grosgrena is my great aunt. I heard you and Darabella got along fantastically, and she married into the Clan… Her husband was killed a decade ago. He was a fine man.” Barir continued, “Clan Adamantium has a controlling interest in all of Enduring Forge, and we keep it that way either by adoption or marriage, but almost none of us act like the nobles you might be used to. Even the noble district is mostly empty because we prefer to be here, among everyone else.”

“No one lives up there?” Erick asked, eyeing the man. “That’s weird.”

“Well—” Barir digressed, “Some people do. Mostly it’s storage. There’s nothing special about that district anyway, except that we do, technically, have houses up there. It’s nothing special. It’s not even the original noble district of Enduring Forge.” He said, “City hall is the true ancestral home of Clan Adamantium. Your room right now used to be the Grand Mage’s Tower. There’s some history there about that move, but in the end, we find that using the ancestral home as a city hall is a much more useful option.”

“That’s all a bit unexpected.” Erick said, “You guys certainly run a nice city, though. So it seems to be working for you.”

“Aye. Glad you like it. The only problem is that it does get cramped, for we only got so much land, after all. And we’re in the Underworld with a mostly-itinerant population, so that carries its own set of problems.” Barir said, “So people can come and go however they want, as long as they submit to normal Underworld protocols.”

“It doesn’t seem that bad to me.” Erick had noticed the screenings at the public Teleport Squares here and there across the city, and even at the Teleport Square on the surface, above the chasm above Enduring Forge. “A lot more than I’m used to, but all of it looked reasonable.”

“Personally, I know we’re a bit lax with how stringent we should be, and we pay for that sometimes with oddities making their way into the city. But certain people can be trusted not to bring in problems, like you, for instance, with your Mind Mage man at your side.” Barir said, “You were vetted long before you stepped foot into this city. For normal people, though… Enduring Forge is their first stop in the Underworld, and they simply don’t know the danger that the dark truly represents, or how easy it is to bring that danger back home. Foolish; a lot of ‘em.” He said, “I bet you get a lot of people like that over in Spur, too.”

“Adventurers trying for Ar’Kendrithyst but knowing fuck-all about the dangers? Aye.” Erick said, “People have to pass some written exams before we approve them for entrance to the Dead City. They can bypass all of those and enter the place directly if they want to, though. Some people do. Those people usually die— Well. I don’t know how it is these days. I’m sure it’s all changing, too.”

Barir nodded solemnly, saying, “It’s always dangerous, even if the danger has changed. We never got the normal monster surges we expected to come after Shadow’s Feast…” He asked, “Those monsters have to still be out there, don’t they?”

“Well. No.” Erick frowned, saying, “Someone could have killed them all.” He looked to the map floating in front of them, saying, “One of the Blessed Shades could have gone to ground and cleaned out a whole bunch of problems that they knew were coming. Maybe not directly, but they could have told people about them—”

Or maybe...

Maybe Fallopolis came here and cleared out the threats that Enduring Forge had been expecting? Erick hadn’t actually Blessed her. Fallopolis could certainly go around murdering pockets of monsters readying themselves to surge up from the Underworld… If she wanted to. But then again, simply informing someone of pockets of monsters that are getting ready to surge is usually enough to get a trained assault squad into those pockets to kill those surges before they start.

Yeah. That seemed more reasonable.

Goldie could have passed around a few notes and solved a lot of problems. She probably had, too.

Barir noticed none of Erick’s inner turmoil, or at least he did a good job at pretending to ignore it, for Barir went right along, saying, “I tend not to trust anything coming out of the shadows, so it’ll take me a good twenty years to believe what you accomplished in Ar’Kendrithyst.”

And then the man realized who he had said that to, and what his words had been. He sweated under his clothes. His eyes dilated in a fear response. Had he spoken too freely? Had he relaxed too much? Had he fucked himself over, big time?

Oh. That was disappointing to see.

Erick had thought they were past that.

So Erick chuckled, sighed, and tried to put the man back at ease, saying, “The only truth I know of Last Shadow’s Feast, is that I saw what I saw, and I did what I did, and that Melemizargo abandoned his clergy to their own devices. Of all of the events of Last Shadow’s Feast, the last point is the only thing I truly believe to have happened.”

Barir relaxed, fractionally. He said, “That’s good to hear, then; that you’re not wholly sure, either. All one can ever truly know about Shadows is that they’re tricky.”

“They are.”

A moment of silence passed.

Barir said, “After this ‘Reset’, has been secured... Not sure I like that name, but the soldiers often call things as they see them, and those names usually stick— After the Reset, after our populace is vetted as clean of intestinal cores, and after you [Withering] them, too, which is still a few days away… We’re having a feast. You’re the guest of honor. Will you come?”

“Of course I will come.” Erick added, “I like boneless fried chicken strips and sauces, but don’t make that the main course—”

Poi gave a small cough.

“—And some sort of fish, and something spicy, and something fancy, and a lot of something meaty.”

Barir smiled a little, his mirth seeming to return, now that he knew that saying the wrong thing wouldn’t set Erick off like some sort of easily-exploding bomb. The general proclaimed, “It shall be done!”

Barir and Erick spoke for a little while longer about further actions that might need to be taken to secure the Reset, but after that, Erick and Poi returned to their room in city hall.

And then Erick switched out Poi for Teressa, and went back to the Smithy.

- - - -

Erick had a few questions piled up, and so he asked them before they started learning.

Grosgrena said, “The runic web concerns are a matter of security, so we can’t tell you those since you don’t live here and you have no vested interest in remaining here. If that changes, then we’ll open up all those secrets to you, but until then, it is how it is. What I can tell you, though, is that most spells —Including most variations of [Chaining Dispel]— are locked to their specific section of the runic web. Besides that, we can ignore many of those types of [Dispels] because it still costs the assailant X amount of mana to erase X amount of spellwork, and we have lots of spellwork in that web. The full magic saturation point for a kilogram of steel is in the millions, and we got many times that number in our web.” She added, “[Force Breaker] is specifically guarded against, though. All of those types of spells won’t get more than a few meters through the web. Now a [Chain Force Breaker] is a rare spell indeed, but we’ve got methods to deal with that, too.

“As for all the smaller concerns with foreign runes inscribed in the metal: if we’re under direct attack and we know of it, then we can separate the web to prevent your [Fireball] scenario. This also solves the [Chain Force Breaker] scenario. But no, I won’t be elaborating on that.

“As for your questions about Metal Sense, and why a normal mana sense won’t let you see the fractures that I can see, I couldn’t find any people, but I did find a book! It’s not here, though.” Grosgrena said, “It’s in my office under lock and key, so we can get it when we’re done here. I can’t let you have the book, either, but you can take it with you to your room and read it while you’re here in Enduring Forge. The book records one of Clan Adamantium’s ancestor’s experiments with Metal Sense. From what I gathered, Metal Sense is some form of [Future Sight] adapted toward metal, based on understanding the mana currents naturally present inside metal. I’m sure you’ll get more from that book than I did.” She gestured to the stone work bench beside them, saying, “And now: what we’re here for.”

The stone table was only a small part of a large private forge that was built for one purpose, and one purpose only: the imbuing of magic into metal. The tools to accomplish such a feat were different for different metals, but that difference was mostly one of size.

The main imbuing machine was black adamantium and it looked like two pillars, one on top of the other. A large wheel and mechanism with a counterweight attached to the top pillar, so when the wheel rotated, the top pillar would systematically raise and lower against the bottom pillar. In the space between, the bottom pillar had a divot, while the top pillar had a bulge, but there was enough space in that pounding point for a normal-sized ingot of metal to not spill out of the crush zone, when the machine eventually got to crushing.

“Watch, and learn,” said the Old Smith.

Grosgrena picked up an ingot of silver that looked much too heavy for the old, shrunken woman. She walked over to the crusher, and with a touch of her other hand against the adamantium machine, the pillar lifted up like it was being polite. The Old Smith placed the ingot in the cradle, and then she cast a spell across the space, filling the crushing zone with sparkling black magic that quickly faded away to a small density of the air.

“This is so complicated that it’s almost a school of magic on its own, but the basic idea is the same across all metal imbuing processes.” Grosgrena returned to Erick, saying, “Making magical metal requires a spell that enforces Rest, like what I hear your [Prismatic Ward] can do. Your own [Prismatic Ward] won’t be good for this, though; you need direction in your Rest, not a blanket Rest. Or try out your own [Prismatic Ward] and see what happens; I’m not your mother. It’ll make some sort of magical metal, for sure. Probably have to use platinum as your base, though. Anyway. This particular Restful spell is a simple [Absorption Ward] for 500 points. This is the best way to create Deep Sky Silver out of normal Silver.”

She lifted her arm, casting a small spell at the crusher.

And then the crusher began doing what it was meant to do.

The pillars came together and crushed the cold silver between two inexorable adamantium forces, filling the air with a loud screech as they deformed the ingot. Grosgrena smiled as a second screech filled the air, but a third screech didn’t come; the silver had deformed as much as the setup had allowed. It was now a partially crushed ingot filling up the bottom of the adamantium crucible. And it had gotten hot. The machine continued to crush, but it would not crush what had already been crushed beyond its reach.

Grosgrena said, “Now, every year, some fool kid loses an arm or gets a bent piece of metal lodged in their stomach, or something equally bad. I don’t think that’ll happen with you, but be aware of the danger of extreme pressures flicking metal across the forge like a particularly nasty [Rock Bolt]. Always be sure you have control over the metal in the pounder. Never operate a pounder when you’re not sure about its use.

“And all the other shitty disclaimers. Yada yada.

“This is how you stick magic into a metal and make it a magical metal. Broadly. Every metal has its own nuances, but Deep Sky Silver is the easiest to make, and the easiest to use to explain the process, for like most magical metals, Deep Sky Silver has degrees of power. And also like most metals, you can tell a lot about what you have created from the color of the metal during the forging process.

“This stuff right now is still silver. But with a few telekinetic turns, like this—”

With expert control and in the split second while the pounder was fully open, Grosgrena grabbed the silver in a telekinetic grip and flipped it over, turning the concave ‘ingot’ into a convex hump. The adamantium pillar crushed that hump back down, sending a loud screech through the room. Three more screeches followed that, but soon, though, the noise stopped. The pounder had crushed all it could crush.

And then Grosgrena flipped the silver over again, allowing the machine to do its work.

