“This tactic lasts ten years, and then the next generation in power realizes that they can do so much more ‘good’. It always goes the same, though the scale is sometimes smaller, or larger, it always looks the same.

“A Mind Mage tries to solve the world, and thus, when they see problems, they decide upon obvious solutions.

“What does the local buying-selling market look like? Oh! I should exploit this for more funds for this great project over here.

“What’s going on with the rulers? Oh! The king is cheating on his wife, and endangering the kingdom with a war of succession! Let’s Control that problem away.

“Which noble among all the rest is using blackmail and bribery in order to prosper? Oh! Roughly 90% of them! Well let’s stop that right now. So what if one or two of them die from psychosis-induced brain damage. It’s for the greater good.

“Where is the nearest dragon, and what does that dragon know about magic? Oh! They know everything? Let’s take all of that for ourselves, and also the dragon’s hoard, for we can do a lot of good with that gold. But first: How can we get two dragons to meet out in the open, elsewhere, so that we can loot both of their hoards while they are gone? So what if thousands die in the crossfire! They were always going to die anyway, for the local lord was going to use them in a war of his own making. So, hey! We just prevented a war, too.

“All of these are categorically, morally, awful things to do.

“None of these examples are exaggerations.

“And yet, in the moment, they all seemed like perfectly reasonable steps to take. It isn’t till one is way down on the road to darkness that they realize the road they are on. For even if you have a good reason, it’s never as good as you think it is.

“All sapient life and decisions must be respected, for no other reason than it is the right thing to do, and leads to a better world for all.

“And so, we have implemented a line that we do not cross.

“That line is ‘is someone in mortal danger at this moment, and if I speak up, can I stop this immediate danger?’ It is a simple line, and it is easy to keep. It is not fraught with morality. It requires no individual choice, which is often wrong. Even if you, yourself, have perfect morality, and are able to make every judgment call with exacting precision, the person who comes next may not be as good as you.

“And besides that: people are not the sum of their thoughts, or their actions, or their person. Sometimes a face stealer becomes a better king than the previous king. Many times, a Wizard becomes a beacon of civilization. Almost always, a dragon meets another dragon, and both are so good at their disguise that no one starts a fight. Almost every adventurer kills a hundred thousand more monsters than they kill people.

“We have no moral authority to judge people for what they think, or what they do, and neither do you, for even more important than the discussions of morality, there is one truth that we have found more true than most: Violence begets violence. And so, we can only help when violence is what we are up against. This is the line that we keep. We stop the violence of mental monsters, and the violence of rogue Mind Mages, and the violence that happens directly around us, in our presence.” The entity speaking through Poi said, “Ask no more of us, for we have given a lot already.”

For a brief moment, the only noise in the yurt was the sound of wheels turning, and the gentle mooing of distant cows.

Poi spoke, “There are history books that you have not read, that I have. There are memories of historical events that I have experienced from a first-person perspective, that you have not experienced. I know the danger of thinking that I can change the world by revealing the thoughts of those around me.” He stared at Erick, and said, “Apocalypse is what lies on the other side of that door, so it is a door that we keep firmly shut.”

Erick said, “Okay.” That Mind Mage story was not the whole story, but it was enough of one to make the whole of their hidden society make a bit more sense. Erick said, “I can respect that line that you will not cross. I take it that the face stealers and otherwise know of this line, and they purposefully stay your hand by working around you?”

“Not only them, but many people.” Poi said, “If you saw any play in any theater with a Mind Mage character in the cast, then you would know that everyone knows how to get around us, and so we try not to advertise who we are.”

“… And that’s the true reason for your peoples’ reluctance to stand in the open.”

“Correct.”

“So. Just to be clear.” Erick asked, “You won’t help find face stealers.”

“I’m all for the persecution and ending of face stealers and Hunters and all those types, but I cannot step past that line, Erick. I will, however, scan people who agree to be scanned, as I have done before, and as I will do again. But I won’t ever be proactive about this.” Poi said, “People deserve the privacy of their own minds, and I will not take that from them.”

“… Okay.” Erick felt some of his anger flow away. The Mind Mages were never going to help with this sort of thing, and he knew that already, but hearing the reasons helped to chip away at some of his anger. He asked, “So what do you think will happen when I Bless all of these Knives of the Night into Empathy, or with the dragon Ordoonarati when we get to Ooloraptoor?”

“What!” Jane asked, “You found the dragon?!”

At the same time Nirzir rapidly asked, “You’re Blessing all of the Knives of the Night!?”

Teressa just breathed out, not really prepared for such a quick shift of topic.

Poi suggested, “How about you tell us all of what has happened, recently?”

Erick looked around at the exasperated faces of his people, and said, “Yeah. I should do that, I suppose. So apparently ‘Master’ Daizing of the Knives of the Night is having all his people—”

Erick glanced over to the star dais he had installed upon the far off mountain. There was another person waiting for their Blessing standing upon the symbol of Koyabez. The person looked to be out of resources, too, for there were no more twisting white glows flowing off of them, to be sucked up into the [Undertow Star] hanging above.

Erick whipped his Crystal Star through the light and Blessed the man.

Erick had never really left himself, as he continued saying, “—come to a certain place to the north, where I have a Star Draining them, so that I can Bless them and…”

He spoke. They listened.

And then they started talking.

“Explain this,” and, “What about that,” and, “I didn’t understand this.”

Erick felt better as the conversation meandered through retellings and clarifications. He wasn’t exactly sharing his burden with others, for the power to make a choice here was still his, but it felt nice to listen to other people talk about problems that were essentially his problems.

Jane said, “I think you should Bless the people who show up at the altar, and also accept Daizing’s help in finding all the others who won’t allow themselves to be Blessed. At that point, something else has to be done, though. This is too much for you.”

Teressa and Nirzir looked at Jane a little bit funny, for what she had said was pretty ‘classically evil’ according to the tale Poi had told them. Erick did not share this look, though. He wasn’t going to stop doing good himself, just because whoever came next would fail to live up to his ethical standards.

And then Poi surprised everyone by saying, “I agree with Jane.”

Erick eyed the man.

Teressa went, “Uhhh…” She glanced at Poi, saying, “But mind control is evil. Isn’t soul control the same? Isn’t that the whole reason why you don’t [Mind Control] people into being better people? You just said that.”

“[Mind Control] is Evil, but [Mind Control] is not soul shifting,” Poi said, “I have recently learned that when you shift the soul, the mind follows, but when you shift the mind, the soul rebels, and this leads to the psychotic breaks that are normally associated with [Mind Control] failures. From a purely utilitarian point of view, [Mind Control] is more evil than soul shifting because [Mind Control] never lasts and it causes long term damage. When done correctly, soul shifting causes long term changes that propagate into the mind, and change a person from within. It is still evil to change a person through soul shifting, but… It’s not that bad, because it can be fixed.”

Erick said, “Ah. Yeah. You mentioned psychosis earlier. But that’s a real problem with Mind Magic, then?”

“It can be. Usually, it’s not, but all magic possesses the capability for harm.” Poi said, “You can heal almost all the damage caused by both Soul and Mind Magic with more applications of the same, too, so it’s not that bad. But in a utilitarian morality sense, Soul Magic actually causes less potential harm than Mind Magic.”

Teressa shivered. “Let’s not talk about utilitarian morality, okay? Some things should not be reduced to their effects. Both Mind Magic and Soul Magic are inherently evil when used against people.”

Poi said, “I agree, Teressa, but there is room for therapeutic applications of both.”

Teressa frowned, hummed, then said, “Yeah. I guess.”

Nirzir, who hadn’t spoken much at all and mostly listened, had focused on a different part of the conversation. She said, “Clan Void Song is willing to help end the sects of Nelboor.” As everyone turned to the young girl she almost recoiled from the sudden pressure, but she puffed out her chest, and with false bravado, said, “We have the manpower to accomplish this task, and can even take over this responsibility, if you wish.”

Teressa said, “Now that is something that should not be done. No offense to the clans, of course.”

Nirzir deflated, frowning a little. “Some offense taken?”

Teressa winced, as though she realized that she had accidentally taken a large overstep. She looked to Poi, saying, “Help me out, here.”

Poi frowned at her, then said, “What Teressa means to say is that what Erick is doing is a spiritual cleansing.” He looked to Erick, saying, “And I agree with Teressa. This is what you are doing, Erick, even if you don’t see it right now. This is too important to put in the hands of mortals, with mortal concerns, like Empire. You need godly help for this.”

Erick… let that thought sit for a moment. Poi and Teressa were probably right.

Nirzir frowned a bit more, saying, “We’re responsible mortals.”

“I think Void Song would be fine to help. But!” Jane said, “Koyabez’s churches were destroyed. He could use some new priests, right?”

Erick immediately said, “Oh. Uh. No. There’s a lot of merit in this general idea of enlisting help with this shitstorm, but I feel that asking for what you are suggesting, Jane, is a bad idea.” Erick said, “I truly don’t think Koyabez would want soul shifted people as priests. Especially if they’re former priests of Melemizargo and also cultists… which is redundant to say, now that I think of it. Anyway: It’s a bad look. But perhaps he’d have some priests willing to guide these people into… better walks of life? That’s what the churches of Koyabez do, sometimes. When people are exiled, they can sometimes go to Koyabez for redemption, or something. I’m not too sure how that works, though.”

Jane nodded. “That’s probably a better idea; yes. But whatever happens, you don’t have to be involved in all of it. You’re already stretched thin and you don’t need more responsibilities.”

“Yes, yes. I agree—” Erick had an idea. “So Candlepoint exists, too, and they’ve already taken in cultists. Would it be a bad idea to have all these people go to Candlepoint?”

Teressa frowned. Jane frowned. Nirzir was already frowning. It seemed no one liked that idea.

Erick said, “Candlepoint is the land of reincarnation and second chances.” He added, “Or, it was… but not officially? Though actually saying the words… I like that idea. Candlepoint could be a land of second chances? Perhaps. It already is, anyway.”

Jane said, “You’d need to get more priests of other deities to show up, before you could call it that.”

“That’s a good point, too,” Erick said.

“No other deities have joined Candlepoint.” Poi said, “And besides that: We shouldn’t go back to Glaquin until you’re off this Worldly Path.”

“Just putting ideas out there for now, Poi.” Erick said, “But now that I’ve met the dragon that attacked me, and as long as the truce we made holds, it might not be long till we’re out of here.”

Nirzir asked, “You’re not going to kill the dragon? Even after knowing that he mutilates the souls of people to get what he wants?”

No one looked to Nirzir except for Erick; everyone else just ignored her rather childish words. They had more faith in Erick than the young princess from Void Song.

“I will not act against Ordoonarati unless he breaks the truce, for I will not be the aggressor. And yet, I fully expect him to break this truce when I help the people of Ooloraptoor to kill or Bless every single face stealer and Hunter in this society.” Erick said, “But if that doesn’t happen, then I might participate in a debate or two, just to cement some ties with Pale Cow, and only because I feel like it. Other than those two possible events, I think the next few days will be rather calm and we might be moving on to the next location rather quickly.

“Perhaps we can visit the Adamantine Smiths of Underworld Nelboor? Their head offices are in the Northern Chasm Region of the North Tribulation Mountains, and I am sure those people have some interesting metals with which to make various enchanted objects. We were already going there for a nice weapon for Jane, but I could use some various metals myself to use in the possible enchanting of a Gate.” He looked around, “And if anyone else wants a weapon or armor or whatever, we could get some? You still like that old armor, Poi? Teressa? You want a new weapon?”

Poi smiled a little. “I like this armor, yes. But I would like some new armor, even more.”

Teressa said, “I need a backup weapon. That Radiant Nacreous Weaver ripped right through my Force spells.”

Jane nodded, torn halfway between the prospect of a new sword and concern for her father.

Erick told her, “I’m fine, Jane. It’s just getting to me. This is all big stuff, you know?”

“I do know that.” Jane said, “But… I could use a sword. Thanks for remembering.”

Erick teased, “We’ll get you the biggest, most gaudiest gold and electrum katana that Veird has to offer.”

Jane breathed out through her nose.

