“Anywhere you want to go, Nirzir?” Erick asked, “You’re a part of this party, too.”

Nirzir froze and blushed, then she shook her head, saying, “I don’t need weapons— No wait! If we’re really going to the Adamantine Smiths, then I need to use this opportunity to think of something I would want. They’re world class Smiths and… If it wasn’t you going there, I don’t think they’d let you into their mountain.”

Erick smiled. “Aw. Drat. I wanted to go incognito.”

“That’s a five year waiting list.” Nirzir said, “Maybe more.”

“Maybe we could still go incognito, and then we could look for some down-on-their-luck Smith who just needs one good break to rise up, to become an Adamantine Smith! I could be that break.” Erick asked, “How does that sound?”

Teressa offered, “Ya know, boss, if you want to do the ‘old mysterious man bit’ you’re about a hundred years too young for that.”

“So what you’re saying is that I need some beard and hair growth tonics, and some bleach.”

Jane smiled as she said, “Let’s go as ourselves, get some weapons, and then move on. Perhaps we won’t get stuck in local politics this time.”

Erick barked a sudden laugh, and for a good three seconds, he was the only one laughing. But soon, Teressa chuckled, and Poi smirked. Nirzir smiled politely

And then Nirzir exclaimed, “Oh! I just remembered: I think they have a tournament going on this time of year. Some lucky warrior usually wins themselves an artifact-class flying sword.”

Jane stared, wide-eyed at Nirzir, her mouth dropping open into the largest smile Erick had seen on his daughter in a long time. She called out, “Tournament Arc!”

“What?” Erick asked.

Jane explained, “It’s when a whole bunch of people fight each other for prizes and fun! Blood sports!”

Erick went, “Oh. Uh. That sounds… Not fun.”

“What!” Jane said, “Heathen!”

Teressa and Poi burst out a laugh, to which Nirzir, Jane, and Erick, all asked, “What?”

Poi explained, “To call you a ‘heathen’— Okay. I have to start at the beginning. There was this play that—”

“It’s a cultural thing.” Teressa said, “For a daughter to call her father a heathen always marks the point in the story that the daughter— Well. It varies by story.”

“It’s a meme, Jane,” Poi said.

“… I don’t think I like being out of the loop on memes,” Jane said.

Erick laughed, “You must be getting old.”

The conversation moved on.

The five of them spoke of lighter topics, and Jane made coffee for everyone. Nirzir made cold chicken sandwiches, with lots of mayo and onion, while Teressa kept a casual eye on their surroundings as she told a story about an old man who traveled the world with seven couatl [Familiar]s. It was a lighthearted tale of jokes and cultural references that Erick picked up from context, but of which he knew nothing about until that moment. It was still a nice story.

Nirzir, Jane, and Teressa were treating Erick with soft gloves, and he was not blind to this. It made him feel embarrassed, but it also made him feel nice. Poi needed some fragile handling, too, but only because Erick had made the man feel precarious about his position in Erick’s life, and Erick had not meant to do that to him.

Poi had always been there for him, and when Erick had lost his calm amid all the events of the last two days, he had taken out his anger on Poi, and that had been wrong. The Mind Mages had always had a clear line that they were never willing to cross. Erick truly shouldn’t have been surprised, or angry at where they placed that line.

If Erick, himself, had demanded that the Mind Mage’s lines be moved forward a step, then down the line, someone else would demand their limits move one more step further. It was a slippery slope, and at the same time, it was also the slippery slope fallacy. Killing face stealers and Hunters seemed like a no-brainer to Erick, and yet, even the Mind Mages had ideas of redemption in their modus operandi. And so, Erick wasn’t going to argue with a thousand year old institution about their limits, when the Mind Mages had only managed to survive the rest of the world because they kept strict limits.

(And he valued the idea of redemption, too, he supposed.)

As the hours ticked on and nothing happened except for the Blessing of cultists, Erick had time to reflect on his own lines in the sand.

He decided that he would always fight against people who came after him, or the people around him. Lethal violence was still on the table, but Erick was powerful enough that non-lethal means were a valid option.

Helping people who asked for help seemed like a good limit, too; that’s what a lot of other archmages did. Tenebrae operated in this manner. The ‘bar to entry’ for gaining Tenebrae’s help was, firstly, money, which showed a commitment to whatever problem a petitioner wanted. Secondly, the petitioner needed to actually find the cantankerous old archmage, which showed a certain amount of competency on the part of the petitioner.

Erick decided he didn’t like the bars to entry that Tenebrae set.

To get hold of the Headmaster, all one needed to do was show up at Oceanside and fill out paperwork, and then the Headmaster would choose to see a petitioner, or not. Erick was already operating on this sort of system, and it seemed like a good one. For now.

Anyway.

Ending evil when Erick saw evil seemed like something he definitely needed to keep doing. There were problems with that commitment, what with ‘evil’ being nebulous and not always apparent, but Erick didn’t want to think of those morality problems right now, because there was a larger problem with these ideas.

That problem, was this: Once you see one person dying on the street due to hunger, if you look close enough, somewhere a warlord is withholding food, and answering that problem required assassination, and then you’ve got a whole new settlement under your control, or a bunch of angry people, who were rightfully upset that their leader was just murdered…

Okay. So Erick had fallen right down that slippery slope, hadn’t he.

Anyway.

Limits.

Erick had thought he already had some good ones. ‘Don’t make any more world-threatening magic’ and ‘Don’t…

Hmm.

Oh.

He only had that one limit, didn’t he? He was a killer, now. A mass murderer, actually. Ah. Shit.

Ah.

Erick set that trauma aside and vowed to deal with it another day. He thought, instead, about how Poi had made himself really vulnerable today. He also thought about the person who had spoken through Poi. What was all that about? Or was that whole ‘other speaker’ just Poi accessing shared memories? Or was there a dragon on the other side of the Mind Mages? The Headmaster often spoke through his Elites. Did other dragons do that, too? Erick hadn’t seen it happen, but… Perhaps they did?

Or. No. The much more reasonable explanation was that the Headmaster had some Mind Magic of his own. The Headmaster did have ties to the Mind Mages; this much Erick had been told, and he had seen for himself.

Anyway, Erick would apologize to Poi for his harsh thoughts with some nice armor, and a verbal apology when they weren’t out in the open. Yes; this would do.
