Emergencies rose and were put to rest, but they were nothing that Erick couldn’t handle, and if not him, then one of the other gods could handle it. Melemizargo, primarily. Not much of that happened, though. Mostly, the problems were simple normal problems. Food, shelter, safety from confusion and danger. Erick worked tirelessly to ensure that everything returned to as much normalcy as he could.

Mostly, people just lived their lives, figuring out their new world.

Erick and the Pantheon worked tirelessly and quickly to sculpt Fenrir into something that would last. The hands in the center rapidly became a major source of worship, mainly through the awe of it all. From the interior surface, the sun was still just the size of a thumbprint, but the hands reaching to the sun were both the size of the hands of that thumbprint. As they spun, they brought light and shadow in 12 hour increments for the vast majority of the interior.

They set up the exterior moonsuns to shine or dim based on the shadows cast by the hands around the sun, so even from the outside, you could see the shadows cast by the Dark, and people had normal day/night cycles.

In the deepest parts of the Dark, at the poles of the sphere, that is where they made the Gates to Darkness. For tens of thousands of kilometers, around sunmoons that never dimmed and shone the brightest they could, the world was Dark. One pole for going, the other for coming, though Erick suspected that controlling traffic would be an exercise in futility. Rather, it would be easier to set up shipping lanes with guides that knew how to get back and forth easily, because it wasn’t so easy to get into the New Painted Cosmology if you didn’t know the trick.

It wasn’t a blackhole problem, though, like with some universes.

The exact delineation between the Dark and the Fractal was difficult for a mortal to parse, but easy to understand, because in most ways, there was no delineation. One merely had to go through the Dark land, hoping to reach the Darkness, and you would emerge in the Painted Cosmology. The same was true for leaving the Painted Cosmology, to head back to the Fractal.

Erick had just stepped through that delineation again, and for the hundredth time.

It had only been a month since they had put Fenrir to rights, but the work of putting the entire Painted Cosmology to rights would take the rest of Erick’s life, and further beyond that, because there was no end to that task, that joy, at all. It was just life, and it was a good one.

The Painted Cosmology was a land of sprawling elements, pure in their creation. Particles had no place here, except for what people brought into this land.

Elemental Stone became Elemental Mountain and then Elemental Continent when strung together large enough.

Elemental Water became Elemental Lake, and then Ocean if there was enough of it.

Elemental Air became Wind, became Atmosphere.

Fire became Blaze, became Conflagration and more.

Put them together and you got a world running on physics which Erick had never seen before, but which seemed simple enough to understand, especially when some of those Elements got up and started walking around, laying down more of themselves, all of it fueled by Dark Marks in every soul, carving the Dark into what they wanted it to be.

Among the Grand Creation were the fae of Fairy Moon’s court. They were the ones doing the major lifting, making worlds out of mana, turning a lot of Darkness into stable land.

Erick crafted a few sunstars while he stood there, at the Edge, setting them adrift and glowing with Benevolence, brighter than the other Light-based sunstars. Where they flowed, life came into being. Elemental Stone and Water spontaneously grew into Plant, crowding out oceans and mountains. Soon slimes took to life. Benevolence Sprites flickered out of the Benevolence stars to coax life into more complex forms.

Erick was a little surprised at that, but he had seen it many times already, and he would probably continue to be surprised at it for a while. It was nice, though, to see Benevolence so easily becoming life, all on its own, and then more than that.

For a while, Erick just watched it all.

And then Rozeta floated beside him, in the space just inside the Dark, watching worlds with him. She held out a muffin, reminiscent of so long ago, except wholly different. Back in the Grand Wizard’s Tower in the Outer Core of Veird, Rozeta had spoken to Erick about Wizards and the Painted Cosmology, and she had spoken of how particle-based muffins were 90% the same as Old Cosmology muffins, but they were, in truth, completely different. Those muffins in that Grand Wizard’s Tower had been made of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and other trace elements. This one was made of Elemental Plant, which was a combination of Light, Stone, Water, and even a bit of Benevolence for this particular muffin. That was just the main plant-based material, though. There was also Elemental—

Rozeta couldn’t help herself any longer. She laughed, bright and happy, and then she picked up Erick’s hand and put the muffin in his hand, saying, “I like that when you’re dressed like a human you still think like a Wizard trying to figure it all out.”

Erick grinned, and then he bit into the muffin, and it tasted… quite normal, really. “I expected something amazing?”

Rozeta laughed again, free and happy. “I stole that one from Kromolok’s kitchen, so I’ll let him know you were disappointed.”

Erick changed his tune, “It’s a wonderful muffin. Best I ever ate.” He took another bite. “… Maybe my taste buds are set up for particles, though.”

“That’s the general problem, yes. That’s what I told Kromolok, too. I’m sure people will develop taste buds for Elements eventually, and then we can copy that and truly enjoy a good muffin.”

Erick smiled at that thought, and a comfortable silence enveloped them.

Rozeta looked out across the worlds with Erick, as a mortal.

Rozeta said, “You know… it’s been so long since I’ve been here. It’s all different. I’d say the bones were the same and the house is renovated, but it’s more like the world has been removed, and then we’re building a new one and starting with particles which are really Elements.”

“The fae are doing most of the work,” Erick said, not quite sure what he meant by that.

“Did you want to do some creation?”

Erick made another Benevolent sunstone and set it adrift into the Dark. It pushed back the grasping, clawing, beckoning cacophony of the Dark, making way for the light. The Dark welcomed the light, really, and the light created every other basic Element out of the retreating Dark. But it was a cacophony of creation. Completely disarrayed, with Stone and Wind and Water and all the rest appearing like auroras that lost cohesion as Benevolence and became smaller things.

Some of the fae working where Erick had sent the sunlight gave Erick some bad looks, as their stone got water all over it, or their fire got light all in it. They grumbled, and told him to send the lights further into the Dark, and to leave their parts of creation alone.

Erick sent out another Benevolent sunlight, far away from the current areas, saying, “I’m not that great at creation. Melemizargo is loving it, though.”

Melemizargo was a Creation Wizard, after all. Or at least he had been, and now he was again, of a sort.

Erick watched him now, beyond the Dark, inside the Black, like a flow moving under an ocean’s surface, unseen except in the barest of ways, and only through inference.

And then Melemizargo surfaced and grabbed Erick’s sunlight and sent it spinning deep into the Dark, like a spear cast from a god, which is what it became. The sunlight spear crashed through the Dark, parting the Black, and the Black seemed to clap at its passing. It went far, far beyond sight, trailing a bit of creation with it as it went, leaving a mana river in its wake. It would probably keep going forever. Melemizargo had already done similar acts of Creation with other things the fae had created.

Rozeta frowned a little, saying, “I think you gave him too much power.”

Erick shrugged. “I don’t think I did.”

Erick made another sunlight, the crystal of Benevolence forming in front of him like a radiant prism, cascading in every direction with creation. He imbued this one with a [Silver Heart] of Elemental Genesis, and the whole thing started to glow like the Lifeblood Heart of so long ago. The universe turned into an aurora, that then began to grow all on its own.

Erick gave the light a flick, sending it careening into creation, passing by every single fae’s work and doubling what they already had going on.

There were many, many complaints about that, but they were trying to make sandcastles when the beach was the size of a small house. Erick thought they should just be trying to make more and more and not focus so much on the small right now, but he was clearly outvoted.

He was having fun anyway.

Erick smiled and pulled back from creating, saying, “I’ve got a party to attend and be back here later. Want to come?”

“I might show up, but have fun with your family, Erick. I do want to know when I can plan on speaking with you regarding godly manners, though. Do you have…” she smirked. “Office hours?”

Erick chuckled. “Well… I used a method a few times when I was realizing myself under the Mantle, and it seemed to work well enough. I’ll probably pull the Mantle on tight every time I sleep, and that should be good enough since I’m not very linear. Other than that, I’ll be more or less this guy you see before you, going forward, in the waking hours.”

Rozeta smiled softly, as emotions came and stayed, and then moved on slowly, but not really. “I’m really glad you won, Erick. Thanks… Thanks for everything. And for my sons. Both of them. Kirginatharp is doing well now, and Idyrvamikor is… adjusting. I had never thought Idyrvamikor could have been changed like that, but he had been. And now he’s back. Thank you.”

Erick smiled. “Those two back to fighting, yet?”

“Ha!” Rozeta got a far-off look on her face as she gazed upon the Painted Cosmology, saying, “I’ll give it a few hundred years before they find something to fight about again, but maybe not? They only fought because Nothanganathor was twisting them to fight… Mostly. Idyrvamikor achieved Wizardry the very second he realized he was without it, of course. That boy was always bright. But Kirginatharp is the older brother now, by a lot, and he Ignited to Wizardry just the other day, so that’s done a lot of good to their dynamic.”

Erick nodded. “I wish them good luck, then, and you, too. You sure you don’t want to come to the big party? It’s not just family at this one.”

“I’ll see you soon, Erick.”

“See you soon, then.”

Erick departed.

- - - -

Rozeta watched Erick return through the portal, which was half of the current size of the Painted Cosmology universe, and thought it all quite amazing.

Everything had all worked out perfectly.

Rozeta chuckled to herself, as she watched the Painted Cosmology grow, as she thought back, years and years ago, to when she first saw Erick and Jane pop into the world, their little blue boxes appearing as a notification on the Core of Veird. They had almost gotten themselves killed right off the starting line, due to her father, and then again due to them possibly messing with the Script, which was a paladinable offense. But then she saw his mana generation was Wizard-level, and she chose to do what gods usually did.

She waited, and she saw.

And then Erick connected positive particles to negative particles in several kilometers-worth of sky and caused lightning to strike a tower in Spur.

A lot had happened since then.

A lot more would happen from now until Eternity.
