But how is Grey planning to get through Teeburn? Scholl has the entire stretch of land between Fort North Ridge and Red Dust Mountain under heavy guard. And once word makes its way to Lord Bullok, about how Grey crippled an essential link in his supply chain, Grey will be on every Scholl soldier's shit list by tomorrow morning.

No matter how I look at it, I can't see how Grey plans to get out of this alive. However, that makes Grey's actions all that more concerning. He's been biding his time for years, and now he tries to run when he's essentially boxed in. Grey is no fool, which means he has to have a way to get through the Teeburn blockade without being noticed.

“I need to hurry!”

It takes me a few minutes to cross the city without being seen by the guards, but soon the Southern gate is towering over me. “Let’s see who’s working today.” I have multiple contacts in the guard that I can call on for information. The only trick is meeting with them without being spotted by the others.

Scholl is much better at managing their guards' routes, and it's virtually impossible to know where one guard will be stationed any one day of the week. It’s supposed to limit the possibility of guards taking bribes. But if I don't know anyone at the gate, I'll just have to wait until a shift change and abduct the guard that switches out.

I let out a sigh of relief when I notice the commander running the southern gate is actually one of my long-time informants. It was a stroke of luck when Pacore promoted him.

Hiding in the wall's massive shadow, I mimic a common birdcall but put a slight spin on the ending. Maz's body goes rigid when he hears my signal and not so subtly starts scanning each shadow around him like I'm going to pop out at any minute. I reproduce the birdcall one more time, and this time his head snaps in my direction.

Maz gives a few simple orders to guards under him before he starts walking in my direction. I wait until he’s out of sight of everybody before fully revealing my location.

"Gods!" Maz exclaims, bringing his hand up to his armored chest when I finally pop out of the shadows next to him. "Must you do that every time?"

I'd usually ask about anything that's changed in the guard recently, but time is of the essence. "Has Lennard Grey passed through this gate recently?" I ask in a young boy’s voice.

Maz is taken back when I skip over our regular introductions, but he quickly realizes what I'm asking must be important. "You're talking about the branch manager of Silver Herd, right? He did pass through this gate," Maz confirms my suspicions.

“What direction did he go in?” I pressure Maz.

"Last I saw, he and his bodyguard were riding jelens towards Teeburn," Maz quickly answers, taking a step back from me.

"Thanks. Can I get you to draw your men's attention for a moment so I can slip through the wall?"

“Slow down,” Maz raises his hands in a pleading gesture. “What’s going on?”

“I don’t have time for this,” I accidentally say in my real voice. “You hear the alarms?” I ask him.

“They’re kind of hard to miss,” he jokes.

“They’re because of Grey,” I snap, sounding like an old lady.

Maz’s eyes widen in surprise. “Fuck, really?” Maz looks at the wall staring in the direction Grey would’ve traveled. “You might be too late,” he tells me.

“Why?” I hiss.

“Grey did come through this gate,” Maz says in an awkward tone. “But it wasn’t recently. Grey passed through our gate hours ago. Said he was off to oversee an inspection at the Teeburn branch.”

“How many hours?” I grab his vest.

“About three and a half,” Maz informs me with a sad look on his face.

A three-and-a-half-hour head start on jelens, even if I replaced my blood with stamina tonics, it would be impossible for me to catch up with them. How did my sister not notice them leave the building?

I feel my blood start to boil as reality starts to sink in; I can't get revenge for my sister like I promised. If I track Grey, I'll have to leave my sister behind, and she'll surely die.

Maz subconsciously feels my bloodlust and takes a few steps back. He doesn't run; he just stands there waiting for me to speak. “Thanks for the information; I have to go now,” I say in a cold voice straight from the abyss.

"Any time," Maz tries to sound comforting, but I can hear the fear in his voice.

"Thank you," I mumble, purposely using my natural voice as I slink back into the shadows. Many would've only given me the information I asked for and pushed me on my way. If Maz didn't take the time and explain everything, I might've wasted hours chasing after Grey before I was forced to turn around.

There’s only one thing I can do now…

…contact Giovanni.

I make my way along the wall until I'm closer to the eastern gate. I find a dark alleyway and pull out my communication device.

Pouring my mana into the communication magic tool, it isn’t long until a connection is established. Boss and I exchange our code phrases before he cheerfully asks me, "Is he taken care of?"

I grit my teeth in frustration. The boss thinks I’m contacting him to tell him Grey is dead. “No. No, he’s not,” I finally manage to spit out.

The line goes silent for a minute, and the only thing the boss says is, "explain."

And so, I do.

I tell Giovanni how his message was received by Elizbeth and the subsequent explosion when she delivered it to Grey's office. I'm forced to stop my recanting while I listen to the boss throw stuff around his room in a fit of rage, cursing Grey with every fiber of his being.

It’s only thanks to Marshall reminding Giovanni that I’m still on the other end of the line that he asks me to continue.

I detail how I rushed my sister to a healer and that she's still in critical condition. Then I tell Giovanni about my interrogation of Thomas and his friends. I explain the reasoning that led me to the southern gate rather than continuing to track down more of Grey's men and what I learned from my contact.

“He got away!” I hear the sound of Giovanni tossing more items around his room.

"Yes, sir," I reply, the failure weighing on each of my words.

“Could you track him?” Giovanni asks.

For the first time, I'm reluctant to answer the boss. What if he makes me leave my sister behind? "It would take a lot of time," I admit.

“But you would have to leave your sister behind,” Giovanni seems to read my mind.

“Yes,” I confirm in a sad voice.

There’s an excruciating pause in the conversation as I wait for my orders.

“One,” Giovanni finally addresses me.

"Yes, sir?" I hesitantly ask.

"Stay with your sister." Giovanni's orders make my knees shake, and I can feel more tears forming in the corner of my eyes. My sister and I owe everything to Giovanni, and I know if he ordered me to track down Grey, my sister would've wanted me to follow his orders.

“Thank you, Boss,” I choke back my tears. I know we picked a good man to follow.

“What is the state of the Drey branch,” Giovanni switches topics.

“I haven’t been back since the explosion,” I admit.

"I'll send orders as to who will be in charge while your sister is recovering," Giovanni tells me in a calculating tone. "But for now, I want you to see to your sister’s injuries, and squash any insurrection Grey's men might try. And one more thing."

“Yes?” I ask.

“Send a message to Aaliyah, tell her I need her to contact me right away.”

“I’ll have it done immediately,” I reply.

“Grey will pay for what he’s done,” Giovanni assures me.

“Thank you, boss.”

"Go take care of your sister," are the last orders I receive from the boss before the communication between us is cut. Giovanni didn't even bother with our closing passwords.

It doesn't matter; I have my orders. Protect my sister, squash anyone who even mentions the name Grey, and send a message to the girl in the woods.

Four mentioned Aaliyah has a way to screw over Grey whenever she wants. I don’t know what it is, but I hope it’s painful.

**********

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

“This is painful to watch,” I groan and throw my hands into the air.

"We almost had it." Our failure doesn't so easily squash Sandra's optimism.

“I think I jinxed us with my confidence this morning.”

"Oh, stop; you're being overly dramatic," Sandra berates me.

"How many samples have we gone through today?" I ask Sandra with my hands on my hips.

"I don't know," Sandra plays dumb. "Maybe seven or eight?"

"This will be thirteen," I correct her, knowing she knows precisely how many times we've failed today.

Usually, we would call it a day after so many failures, but we both feel like we're close to finally cracking the fourth step.

We already figured out we need to add 9.5 ounces of mithril into the cooled solution before heating it back up again. Then we figured out the fire needs to remain around 700° F for nine and a half minutes, matching the amount of mithril we added.

But once the mithril is heated into the solution, something weird happens. The solution settles as it does after each of the other steps, but after ten minutes or so, the solution rapidly burns itself out.

We've tried increasing or lowering the temperature after the solution stabilizes to keep it from breaking down, but nothing works.

“Are you sure we’re not missing a step?” Sandra asks me.

"There was nothing in the notes I was given, but I see what you're getting at," I nod along with Sandra. The vague instructions I was given have all worked out so far, but that doesn't mean the fourth step wasn't tampered with. It would be nearly impossible to prove it, but I bet there's something else we need to add to the mithril solution.

Of course, if that’s true, we might never figure out the fourth step. At least not without burning through my remaining herb and mithril supplies. And even then, I'm not so sure.

I shake my head in disappointment, but while I'm doing that, I notice Sandra pondering next to me. She took her mask off to get some fresh air after our last failure, and now she has her hand up to her chin, mumbling to herself.

“What are you thinking about?” I ask.

"I'm trying to think about it from a mage's perspective," she tells me.

“What does that mean?”

Sandra turns her body towards me and explains. “I’m trying to think of the recipe as a stolen spell.”

“Ok. I’m not following you, but go on,” I encourage my friend.

"My master only briefly talked about it, but he explained how mages hide their spells and what other mages do to uncover their secrets. Untrained mages like to add meaningless phrases into a spell or leave out a section altogether. But do you know what experienced mages do?"

“What?” I ask, having been hoked by Sandra.

"Smart mages only leave out syllables rather than entire phrases. That way, their descendants can decipher the spells easier while making them useless to everyone else. I have to imagine the recipe is the same way. I'm willing to bet the missing ingredient in step four is something common that we’ve already used during our testing.”

“I think I understand,” I smile at Sandra. I don’t want to think about how long it would’ve taken me to figure that out on my own.

“We need to make a list of everything we’ve used so far,” Sandra suggests.

"We've used purified water, eathrosse, devil's poke, magicite, mithril, and technically fire," I name off everything in the relatively short ingredient list.

Sandra hums in agreement, “And which do you think makes the most sense to add in with the mithril?”

Sandra and my eyes widen at the same time. "Magicite," we both shout together. I'm happy for the epiphany, but I still slap my forehead for not thinking about this sooner. I'm not sure exactly how we should add the magicite to the mixture, but I should've recognized the possible solution as a blacksmith.

Whenever I craft with mithril, I need to add magicite to my fuel, so it binds properly. Whoever created the list of steps given to me left out the fact that you need to use a fire brimming with magic!

Sandra excitedly throws her mask back on and starts preparing another batch of engraving ink while I ready the forge. The two of us are brimming with excitement as we go through the first three steps.

“Let’s see if we’re right,” I think aloud as Sandra removes the hot mixture so it can cool before we try step four again.

Sandra sets the mixture on the anvil to cool before moving over to the workbench and preparing the 9.5 ounces of mithril we’ll need.

I stroke the fire, lowering Mana Skin so I can better feel the temperature on my skin. Once it's stable, around 700°F, I add a few small pieces of magicite to the flames. Using Sense Mana, I watch the extra mana fuse with the flames.

“It’s ready,” I hear Sandra say behind me.

“The fire is good to go too,” I happily exclaim.

The world feels like it's slowing down as Sandra carefully adds the mithril to the solution before placing it in the forge. I'm sure both of us are counting the seconds in our heads until we're supposed to remove the solution.

I cross my fingers as time ticks down.

At precisely 570 seconds, I remove the solution from the forge. Sandra and I hold our breath waiting to see if we failed again.

One minute silently passes.

Then two.

Three.

Five.

Ten!

“Yes!” Sandra and I shout for joy when the solution doesn’t burn itself out.

"We finished step four!" Sandra lunges at me, arms open, looking for a celebratory hug. Thank the gods I retract Mana Skin in time before she collides with me. We jump up and down together until Sandra gets a little green in the face. "What's next?" She asks me after her nausea slowly passes.

"The last step says to let it cure."

“What does that mean?” Sandra asks me.

