One’s Point of View:

"I told you! I can't heal someone that has been burned to this degree!" The doctor stresses to me, recoiling in fear.

"And I told you," I hiss, not hiding my natural voice. "If my sister dies, you'll be meeting Ebeon with her! Now start healing!"

The doctor stumbles around his operating table, face scrunching up in despair the more he looks over my charred sister. The doctor sends a worried glance over to his hired guard in the corner, but I only need to turn in the man's direction for him to hang his head submissively. Good, so he can sense the difference in our abilities. If he tried anything stupid at the moment, I wouldn't hesitate to slit his throat.

Seeing how his hired help isn't going to be stepping in to save him, the doctor starts casting his magic. The doctor starts with a body scanning spell, and after a few seconds, his face drains of color.

“What is it?!” I demand, knowing the news isn’t good.

The doctor nervously swallows, keeping his head lowered as not to look at my hooded face. "92% of her body is burned as well as her esophagus and the inside of her lungs. She has multiple broken and fractured bones from a blast of some kind, and her organs are failing." The doctor pauses to swallow back another lump in his throat nervously. "I don't see how she's alive right now," he admits in a low voice.

I look at Lizzy's hand, the one part of her body that isn't severely burned. The magic rings I gifted to her are dried up, meaning she must have had them activated when the alchemical bomb went off. "I gave her a healing tonic a few minutes ago, but that doesn't matter. Start healing her."

“There’s no way I can save-”

“Start healing, now!” I move my hand to the large knife I keep at my side.

“Yes, mam,” the doctor yelps, placing his hands over my sister. He mumbles a quick spell, and a soft white light starts emitting from his hands. The doctor keeps one hand over Elizabeth's heart while he periodically shifts the other one over her other vital organs.

I lean over and grasp my sister's hand, giving it an encouraging squeeze. "You're going to be fine," I quietly mumble to myself. "You're strong. The two of us have been through worse together." I'm glad my cloak is hiding the tears streaming down my face.

I gently pull my arm back and straighten myself up. “When you wake up, I’ll have Grey’s head on a platter for you,” I declare to my comatose sister.

"You're leaving!?" The doctor asks in astonishment, a bit of hope appearing in his eyes.

"I'll be back soon," I crush his dreams before he gets any ideas of running. "If my sister isn't alive when I return, or I come back to see you've bolted, I'll skin you alive when I catch you. That goes for you too," I warn the doctor's bodyguard. "If you let him leave my sister's side, you'll share in his fate."

The bodyguard quickly nods his head in understanding, but the doctor starts whining. "I told you this is beyond my abilities," he starts to tear up. "I don't have anywhere near the amount of mana required to heal such injuries."

I ball my hands into fists at my sides, but no matter how much I want to throttle the man, I need him to keep my sister alive. Taking a step closer to the doctor, I reach into my side satchel and grab the spherical vial within. The doctor flinches away from me when I pull the vial out and set it on the operating table next to my motionless sister.

“What is that?” He hesitantly asks me.

“My best mana recovery tonic,” I flatly tell him. “I’ll bring over more healers after I find the man who did this to my sister.  You don’t stop healing her for anything, understand?!”

“I understand,” the doctor squeaks out in a frightened voice.

“You better,” I turn away, leaving after one last veiled threat.

Pushing open the door to the doctor's shop, I rush out into the street and immediately dash towards the nearest alleyway. Sirens are still going off around the city, and people are rushing back to their homes. In half an hour, the streets will be deserted, and it'll be much harder to move around.

Activating my many stealth skills, I blend into the alley’s shadows and start making for my first target. No one so much as spots my figure as I slip through the dark backstreets of Drey.

My target is a man named Thomas, who was one of Grey's closest aides. Elizabeth identified Thomas as one of the people who helped slip information between Grey and his other supporters. If Thomas doesn't know anything about the alchemical bomb or Grey's location, he certainly knows someone who does.

"Start checking alleyways!" I hear someone command from a nearby street. Scaling a nearby wall, I move to the rooftops. Looking over the edge, I spot a man in Scholl armor issuing orders to Drey's guardsmen. "Arrest anyone suspicious!"

Damn!

Since Scholl took over the city, it's been a lot harder to move undetected. Scholl has been taking their rule of the city very seriously, and the guard patrols have more than doubled since their takeover. The standard guards are still nothing I need to worry about, but the same can't be said about Scholl's new squad commanders.

The average level of a guard is only between 40 and 45, practically harmless in my eyes. However, Scholl inserted a few of its military leaders into the watch to oversee its operations, and each of them sports a fancy feather to show they mean business.

Depending on their stat distribution, they might notice my movements or even be able to best me in combat. And with the city going into lockdown, the chances of me running into one of those unit commanders raises exponentially.

But that won’t stop me.

Ducking out of sight, I make my way closer to Thomas's house. Luckily, I've previously scouted out the area around my target's house. He was meant to be captured around the same time Grey was eliminated.

I slide down a building's shingles, grab a protruding board, and swing myself gracefully down into an alley behind Thomas's house.

First, I position myself so that I won't be easily seen should someone glance down the alley. Then, I activate Far Hearing while I listen for any movement in the building.

I can hear muffled noises from a room on the second floor, which is all I need to hear before I go through with my plan.

Bending down, I flick a small latch on the side of my boots. Three small spikes protrude from the front of my shoes while I slip on some climbing claws. The small metal spikes and claws help me silently grip the wood and stone walls of the home.

If I were scaling the house merely to get over it, I wouldn't need to use such tools. However, now is the time to be silent. I pick a window on the second floor and start my silent climbing. Inch by inch, I crawl up the vertical surface without so much as a beam creaking under my weight.

When I reach the window, I peek into the room to confirm nobody's inside. The voices are louder, but a few walls still divide me from them. With the coast clear, I pull out a smaller knife and jimmy open the small hook lock that was securing the window shut.

Easy, I think to myself as I slowly lift the window open. Silent Steps keeps my boots from making any noise as I swing myself into the unoccupied room. With just a bed and a night table, I figure this has to be an unused guest bedroom.

Now that I'm in the house, I can make out the mumbling more clearly. Three men are talking in the loft nearby.

“What are we going to do!?” A panicked male voice repeats over and over.

"Shut up; you're not helping!" I recognize Thomas's voice.

“And you are!?” A third snaps.

“We just have to be patient,” Thomas sounds like he’s trying to calm down the other two voices. “Grey told us to wait for instructions.”

“He blew up the office!” The first voice hysterically reminds everyone. I draw my knife as I get closer to the arguing trio. “Why would he possibly do that?”

“Jack has a point,” the third person agrees with his friend. “I don’t think Grey would stay in the city after that, let alone send for us.”

“Are you forgetting about how he warned us beforehand? Why would he do that unless he was looking out for us?” Thomas points out to the other two.

“Did you know Grey was going to blow up the building?” The third man questions Thomas in an accusing voice. I find myself tightening the grip on my dagger, wondering the same thing. If this asshole knew people would die and didn't say anything, I'm going to make him wish he was never born!

“You think I would’ve gone to work today if I knew what was going to happen? I got the same notice both of you did, to quietly leave early,” Thomas defends himself.

“I heard the head receptionist died in the blast,” Jack quietly remarks. I have to physically hold myself back from rushing into the room and killing the three of them for mentioning my sister.

“She was spying on all of us,” Thomas huffs. “She got what she deserved.”

"As will the three of you," I step around the corner, unable to listen any longer.

"What the!" Thomas shouts upon seeing me appear in his house. Jack backs away in fear while the third man leaps for the stairs.

“Did I say you can leave?” I change my voice to sound like a little girl, throwing my dagger, spearing the man in his lower left leg.

“Aaaaahhhhhh!” He falls to the ground screaming in pain.

I ignore the wailing man on the floor and focus on Thomas. “What did you say about the head receptionist?” I switch my voice to that of an old man. “I believe you forgot who you work for.”

“Nu,  Num, Number!” Jack stammers at my cloaked appearance.

“Fuck,” Thomas curses, realizing who I am.

“Fuck, indeed,” I take a step closer to Thomas. “I’ll give you one chance to tell me where Grey is.”

“I don’t know,” he stammers out.

"That isn't the answer I was looking for," I say, mimicking Thomas's voice. Drawing one of my magic daggers, I Flash Step next to Thomas, and with one swing of my blade, I lop off his left hand. Thomas's hand hits the floor with a soft thud while Thomas immediately falls to his knees, clutching the stump where his hand used to be.

The blade of my dagger is enchanted to be incredibly hot, so there’s little blood. I’ve learned over the years that It’s hard to torture someone when you have to worry about them bleeding out. “Care to try again?” I level my blade to his throat.

"I don't know anything," Thomas sobs out, shivering in pain and adrenaline.

"Thomas, Thomas," I shake my head disappointingly. "I have a lie detection skill, and it's quite a high level at that. You should be more careful with your words; now I know you know something." I lean over, and with a flick of my wrist, I flay a section of Thomas's good arm.

His screams reverberate throughout the house; I’ll need to gag him moving forward. “Let’s try this again," I say, standing over Thomas. "Tell me everything you know about Grey's movements, and I might kill you quickly."

Thomas groans and tries begging with his eyes but his pleas don’t move me in the slightest. He and the other two made their choice when they sided with Grey rather than boss Giovanni. As far as I’m concerned, they helped injure my sister.

None of them will leave this building alive!

**********

"What a waste of time," I hiss through my teeth. My frustration mounting as I make my way towards my next target.

Thomas and his friends knew surprisingly little of Grey's plans. Even as they begged for their lives, the three couldn't even guess where Grey was hiding. And considering Thomas was one of Grey's more important aides and knew the most about his movements, I can't help but feel if he didn't know anything, chances are Grey’s other accomplices won’t either.

Is this Grey's plan? Is that the reason he gave a warning to all his people? I waste all my time hunting down his men while Grey makes a break for it! My instincts are telling me he has already left the city, and if that's true, every second I waste on his underlings, Grey gets that much further out of my reach.

But what do I do?

Should I make for my contacts at the gates or continue hunting down Grey’s men?

If I make the wrong decision, it will cost me precious time. I wrack my brain for the correct answer.

I can't help but bring my hand up to my chest. It's times like this; I would use our unique skill to communicate with my sister. She was always good with dilemmas like this. Elizabeth was the calm, calculating one, while I was the monster sent to collect blood. Elizabeth was my eyes and ears, always collecting me the information I needed.

Since the explosion, I've been trying to reestablish our link, hoping to hear my sister's voice in my head again. Sadly, I only hear my own dark thoughts.

What would Elizabeth tell me to do in this situation?

…

She’d tell me to go with my gut or point out why my thinking is wrong.

“I should head to the gates then,” I tell myself. “But which gate would Grey be more likely to use?”

The northern gate would take Grey towards the Endless Forest, which makes no sense. Grey could be heading to Aaliyah's village, hoping to use her as a hostage, but she has Pacore's student guarding her. No, if Grey were fleeing the city, he'd leave through the southern gate leading to Teeburn or the eastern gate towards Blaiton.

It doesn't make sense for him to head to Blaiton, though. He couldn't possibly hope to pass by the city without drawing Giovanni's attention. Grey's bodyguard may be strong, but he couldn't stand up to two numbers at once; it would be suicide.

“That only leaves the southern gate towards Teeburn!” I exclaim, changing direction.

