The Aubrey-Serrs town house sat on the edge of a large park. This was not a lucky coincidence. Almost a century ago, the Aubrey family had donated it to the city as a public garden. The family still called it “our park,” but Eleanor thought of it as hers because she walked it almost every day. She knew every path, every plant, every bird, and all the gardeners. They touched their hats whenever they saw her.

She usually felt more alive and calm after her walks, but that morning, she’d been too distracted by her own thoughts to enjoy it. She found herself back at her house, and she wasn’t sure how she’d gotten there.

A man was standing outside the gate, assessing the mansion beyond. He had wavy, dark hair and wore a dark suit that might have been out of fashion considering the season, but it was hard to ever think of a conservatively cut dark suit as out of fashion.

Eleanor muttered “excuse me,” edged by him, and opened the gate.

She stopped, affronted, when she felt a touch on her arm.

“Excuse me, are you Lady Aubrey-Serrs?”

Eleanor pressed her lips together so hard they all but disappeared. She pulled her arm away from his touch and walked into the yard without saying anything.

The man followed her. She quickened her step.

“No, it’s Lady Serrs, isn’t it?” he said. “I apologize.”

“You’re a reporter,” Eleanor said over her shoulder.

“I’m not,” the man protested.

“Who else would accost a woman without any introduction?”

“There was no one else around to introduce us, and—hang it!” He ran three paces so he could catch up to her side. “I’m not a reporter.” She stopped to look at him. “There are other professions that require a man to act boldly.” He held up a deformed leather wallet and opened it, revealing the metal badge pinned inside.

Eleanor reached out and took the wallet to get a better look at the badge. She’d never seen one before.

“You’re a policeman?”

The man nodded.

“Aren’t you supposed to wear it on your uniform?”

“I’m not that kind of policeman.”

“What kind?”

“The kind that walks around in uniform. Are you Miss—sorry—Lady Serrs?”

“Miss is fine—though, not around my father.” She folded the wallet and returned it. “I’m sorry I called you a reporter.”

“Well, a policeman is hardly better, but one hates to be mistaken for one’s enemy.”

This line was delivered in a serious tone, but there was a tension in his cheek and a flash in his eyes that made Eleanor think he was being playful.

He bowed his head. “I’m Lucas Haley. The chief constable sent me after your father called this morning.”

“Then you better come inside, Officer.”

“A moment, if you don’t mind.” Once again he touched her arm. This time he saw her eyes dart down to his fingers. He removed them and muttered an apology. Then he said, “I’m afraid I’m going to have to ask you some awkward questions, and I’d rather ask you alone.”

Eleanor turned to face him. “Awkward questions? What for?”

“I’m sorry. It’s part of my duty.”

She waited for more details, but he only watched her.

“All right.” She motioned to the yard. “There’s a bench off the path.”

Eleanor led the way.

Haley waited until she was seated before he said, “Miss Serrs, your father told the chief constable that you didn’t have those invitations printed. I need to know if that’s true.”

At first, Eleanor couldn’t even understand the question. When its significance finally breached her guileless nature, a cold anger settled through her body.

“Mr. Haley, I did not have them printed, and I certainly didn’t have them sent.”

“You know nothing about them?”

“Nothing.”

“What did you think when you saw them?”

“I thought it was a very poor joke.”

“A joke? By someone you know?”

Eleanor opened her mouth, but no sound emerged. She shut it and lowered her eyes as she considered the question. Haley waited.

“I hadn’t thought of that,” she said. She looked up. “But I can’t imagine anyone I know doing such a thing.”

“No one?”

“I don’t have many friends, and I can’t see someone going this far to tease an acquaintance.”

“Could someone have done it maliciously?”

The previous question had shocked her like a glass of cold water thrown in her face; this question felt more like being slapped. Hard.

“No! No, I—I hope I’ve never done anything to warrant that kind of animosity.”

Lucas studied her, then said, “You said you hadn’t thought of it. Have you been thinking about the situation, Miss Serrs?”

“I’ve been thinking of almost nothing else.”

“Have you come to any conclusions?”

“It’s hard to know anything for certain, but I’m worried it’s a trick by Penn to somehow gain access to my father’s fortune.”

“Yes. That’s what worries me—and what worries your father.”

“But how would doing this help?”

“The first thing that occurs to me is bribery. He may promise to stop the harassment if your father pays.”

“Then Mr. Penn doesn’t know my father.”

“Does he know you?”

“What?”

“Have you met him?”

“No. We’re not friends. We’re not acquaintances. I have not led him on, nor given him any hint of a promise. I have never even met the man!”

Haley quietly said, “I believe you, Miss Serrs.”

Eleanor realized her emotions were telling too much in her voice and took a breath. “I’m sorry. It never occurred to me that people might think I did this. I find it…humiliating.”

“I understand. These circumstances are bound to be upsetting. I apologize, but—”

“That’s not necessary. I know you have to explore every possibility. I’m more ashamed that I didn’t realize these questions would need to be asked. That was stupid of me.”

“Not at all. Most people find it difficult to imagine themselves acting outside of their own character.” Haley offered his arm to help her rise.

Eleanor took it to show she had no hard feelings toward him, but she only held it long enough to get to her feet.

As they made their way toward the house, Haley said, “You shouldn’t be too certain that you haven’t met Mr. Penn.”

His voice had lost its official weight. It sounded more easy and conversational.

“I think I would remember meeting someone so famous,” Eleanor said.

“Ryce Penn is a master of disguise. I have a photo of his natural face, and I’ve held him by the collar three times. None of the four men looked the same.”

“You’ve had him in hand three times, but he’s still at large?”

A hint of red crept up Haley’s cheeks. “I admit, I wasn’t ready for how he’d fight. He managed to best me each time.” Haley rushed past his confession. “Anyway, you may have met him and not known it. You may have thought you were passing the time with an old friend. I’ve learned to be careful.”

“You hunt him often?”

“I’m specially assigned to him.”

“It must be gratifying to know he has his own personal policeman.”

“He’s said it’s an insult—that he used to have all of us assigned to him.”

“And he could be disguised as anyone?”

“Within reason. There are some constraints in regard to size, but he’s of such an average build, he can imitate almost anyone.”

“Including a policeman?”

“He’s done it before.” Something in her tone made Haley glance at her. His eyebrows furrowed. “Do you suspect me?”

“I was warned I couldn’t trust anyone.”

“That’s wise of you. Should we call up my superintendent?”

“You might have the operator connect me to an accomplice who’s ready to vouch for you.”

“What if you were the one to request the connection?”

“Perhaps you waylaid the real Lucas Haley as he was on his way here.”

“Then I should have brought a reference from my mother!” Haley said, exasperated.

“Mothers would say anything to help their children.”

Eleanor stopped when Haley did. He was looking at her, and when he smiled, it broke over his face like the dawn, gradually growing brighter and brighter.

“You’re amusing yourself, Miss Serrs—at my expense! Don’t deny it. I saw it in your eyes just now.”

She lowered her gaze. “I’m sorry, Officer Haley. I didn’t mean to mock you.”

“Don’t worry, I’m not offended. After all, my mother would say anything to help me.”

His joke was rewarded with a flicker of her smile.

They were at the door. Eleanor opened it, and the two went inside. Taylor was crossing the hall, but he came over when he saw someone was with her.

“Lady Eleanor?”

Eleanor removed her walking hat as she said, “This is Mr. Lucas Haley. He’s a policeman. Father summoned him.”

“Very well.”

“Is father alone now?”

“He dismissed the reporters about ten minutes ago.” The butler received her hat and pins, and Haley’s hat.

“I’ll present Mr. Haley,” Eleanor said. “Is my father in his study?”

“Yes, my lady.”

“Thank you, Taylor.”

She led Lucas to the study.

As they approached, she saw the door was open and called out, “Father?”

“In here,” was the gruff reply.

She stopped at the threshold and looked in. The duke was sitting behind his desk, glaring at some papers.

“Father, the police have sent an officer. I met him on the way back from my walk.”

The duke stood up—not so much to receive his guest (he rarely thought to do that), but because he was eager for the interview.

Eleanor stood aside so the policeman could enter. “This is Lucas Haley.”

Aubrey-Serrs eyed the man in front of him. Haley submitted to the inspection without comment.

“Rank,” the duke demanded.

“Detective Chief Inspector.” Haley showed no annoyance.

Eleanor was embarrassed. To her all police officers were “officer;” it hadn’t occurred to her there might be a more proper title.

Her father seemed grudgingly pleased. “You’re young for that.”

“So I’ve been told, Your Grace.”

“Your name is Haley?”

“Yes, Your Grace.”

“Is that the Haleys of Oaksdale?”

Eleanor felt her lips tighten before she could master her face. This wasn’t a social occasion. The man was a police officer! Why would his family matter? But family always mattered to the duke.

“Related,” Haley said, “but not a direct descendant.”

“Well, Inspector, has your superintendent explained the situation?”

“He has, sir, but if I may—I understand that you’ve had reporters in to see you this morning?”

“And how the devil did you know that?”

“I overheard your butler mention that they’d left. Did you ask them here?”

“No.”

“But you did talk to them?”

“Inspector, I don’t like your tone!”

Eleanor thought that was unfair. Haley’s tone had been perfectly neutral, as it had been when he’d talked to her, but there was little difference between not liking the tone and not liking the question. It would only be quibbling to correct him.

Her father continued his rant: “I did not ask them here, but yes, I talked to them. Someone leaked the announcement to several papers, and these men at least had the courtesy to come ask me about it. So I answered them, by god—I answered them.”

Haley’s eyes darted over to Eleanor, but she failed to notice. Her father swore around her all the time. Of course, she was never permitted to use the same language (at least in public), but it was nothing new to her.

“I don’t blame you, sir,” Haley said. “I’m only asking because it may impact the course of my investigation. I’ll need as much information as possible if I’m to be effective.”

The red hue that followed her father’s temper like a tide receded from the duke’s face. “I see.”

“If you don’t mind—”

Lucas’s deferential question was interrupted by a quiet cough coming from the still-open door. It was Taylor.

“Your Grace.”

“What is it, man?” the duke snapped.

“Your sister’s here. She’s demanding to speak to you and Lady Eleanor.”

“Ha! I’ll bet she is.”

“Lady Serrs-Comtess also indicated that she would prefer it to be as soon as possible.”

“She’s blowing hard about ‘this instant,’ isn’t she? The queen of her own mind can damn well wait!”

Eleanor had wanted to stay. Her father had probably already forgotten she was there, and she wanted to hear what the duke had told the papers, but she decided that having two tempests in the house was a little much. Oh, well. She’d have to wait for the evening editions.

“It’s all right, Father,” she said. “If you don’t need me…”

The duke waved a hand. “Go. It’ll be something to shut her up.”

“Officer Haley—”

“It’s Inspector Haley,” her father barked, “or Chief Inspector.”

Ever since her childhood, Eleanor had kept a mental list of people who warranted some kind of respect in her father’s eyes. Men in the military was on there. Somewhere close to that, she now added the police. Who would have guessed?

“Inspector Haley,” she said, “do you need me here?”

“Don’t get full of yourself, girl,” the duke said. “I can answer all his questions.”

There was a long moment where Haley stared at her father, but then he turned to her. “Thank you, Lady Serrs. I don’t need you now, but please keep yourself available. I may have questions for you later.”

Eleanor nodded, then left. After she shut the door behind herself, she paused to take a deep breath.

Taylor made no sign that he saw her do it.

“My aunt?” Eleanor said.

“This way, my lady.”

Batten down the hatches, she thought.
