Healing with Tokta is uneventful, simply more review while my body builds up the required mass so that I can try regeneration without risk of overtaxing my body. Take too much and the body will shut down, so healing is officially on hiatus for a day or two. I made a mistake in rushing too quickly, but I think that as long as I keep focused, I'll have my arm back in no time at all. Tokta is less optimistic, but that's just how he is. I wonder what happened to the meat ball I popped out of my arm?

Returning to my tent early, I lay awake, tossing and turning, too much on my mind to sleep properly. After some time, the tent flap parts and Adujan crawls in quietly, doing her best not to disturb me. I listen quietly as she changes into her cotton shift and lays in her bedroll, just happy that she's still staying here, at least for now. I'd been a little worried that she would stay at her new teachers campground, forgetting all about me.

“Rain? You awake?” Her quiet voice breaks the silence, and I swallow the lump in my throat.

“Yea. How was your first day with your new teacher?”

“You sound jealous.” Even in the dark, I can almost make out her teasing grin as she lies beside me within arms reach. “It was incredible, Teacher Du pointed out so many things that I could be doing to improve, and after I explained my problem with cultivating, he says that he can help me with that too! He was cryptic about it, but I'm just so excited, I've felt like something was wrong for a while now, and he's going to fix it. A Lieutenant General as my teacher Rain, I've dreamed about this since I was a little girl.”

I am jealous. I want to say it, ask her to stay, but what right do I have? We're friends, not lovers, and any feelings I have might not even be real, I can't ask her to give up her dreams for that. I listen quietly to her gush about her day, trying to be happy for her while we lay together in the darkness. “We did drills all day and I am exhausted, but so excited about this new change. We're leaving tomorrow morning...” Shit. I thought there would be more time. “... heading north to pick up another one of his students at the Flying Tiger Fortress. I'll miss you all of course, but we won't be leaving the province until after the business with the Society has been taken care of, so we'll see each other again soon. Promise me that you will look after Shana? Give those pups plenty of hugs for me, and I'll give Husolt your greetings if you need.”

“Ah. No, can't do that.” Clearing my throat a few times, I try my best to sound cheerful. “Shana is yours, I bought her from Akanai as a gift for you, but I was saving the news as a surprise for when I do something that makes you angry. I bought Zabu too, you should take him as well. I wouldn't want to be around that fussy quin after Shana leaves, and the old man seems to like him, but you need to promise to bring him back to visit. Zabu, not the old man. Well, he can come too, but yea. It doesn't matter if it's ten years or fifty years from now, you have to come back... with Zabu. And his pups. So I can meet them.” Real smooth there. Fucking hell.

“Just take her you fool. She is within your grasp, she will not refuse.”

God dammit. “You, shut the fuck up! I'm trying to have a personal moment here, is a little privacy too much to ask for?”

“Ah, look, she approaches. Take action brother, I'll quiet down now.” He makes no mention about not watching though, and the thought makes me feel uneasy. I am not a fan of having an audience, even if it is technically me watching myself. Does that make me a voyeur?

Doing my best to ignore those thoughts, I lay still as Adujan shifts over in her bedroll, her warm cheek pressing against my left shoulder, the two of us almost-cuddling together in our tent. “Um... this isn't working.” She jerks back at my voice, stammering out an apology, but without thinking I reach out and grab her arm, pulling her gently back into my arms. “No, I meant, with you lying on my arm, your horn was poking me in the throat. It's incredibly nerve-wracking, like sleeping with a spear jabbing me. Do you sharpen them or something?”

Relaxing a bit, she lays her head down next to mine, our faces touching as I take in her scent. “Yes I do actually. I always thought it would be incredible to impale an enemy on them, but then I'd get covered in blood and guts. A good option to have though.” We both chuckle nervously, my heartbeat hammering away in my ears. She lets out an easy sigh and sinks deeper against me, the two of us now fully cuddling together, separated only by our bedrolls, her soft, silky skin pressed against my neck. “Why didn't you speak up sooner? Had I known, I would have refused Teacher Du.”

“What? No, you did the right thing, that old man is stronger than anyone we've ever met, and he seems genuinely interested in teaching you. Why would you give that up?”

She sighs again, louder this time. “You really are an idiot... So what now?”

“We sleep. Then tomorrow, we part ways until who knows when. You live your life, enjoy yourself, meet new people, do new things, chase your dreams... Maybe fall in love, start a family, whatever it is you want to do. When we see each other again, we will pick up our friendship as it is now, and tell each other all about our experiences. I love you and wish you all the best Yan.”

A quiet, "I love you too, Rain." follows, and the two of us lay there together in silence, taking comfort in each others presence as we drift to sleep, arms intertwined, unsure of the future, but secure in the fact that we will always remain friends.

...

Maybe I should have told her about buying Shana earlier.

Damn it.

Chapter Meme
