Ah. No. That seemed somehow morbid. Jane already had that Mist Rabbit comforter. Never mind!

“This Mist Rabbit has a Force Horn and is capable of practically every Basic Tier Force Spell. It might even have the mythical [Force Body], though we’ve only ever had that come through our Grand Auction House three times in the last hundred years! More often than not, what we get is a monster or animal with Force Savant, which is still useful in its own way! There’s no way of knowing which one this little monster has, so there is a risk to this entry. Bidding starts at a thousand gold.”

Erick instantly pressed the button for a thousand gold, raising the price to 2000. As he suspected, the mouldings outside of his VIP box lit up with red glows.

Jane looked to him, her eyebrows raised. As others instantly started bidding and the auction house flickered red here and there, Jane pressed the [Sound Barrier] button. As a thin layer of magic enveloped the space and nothing audibly changed, and yet an Ophiel outside of the box couldn’t hear what was going on inside the box at all, Jane asked, “That wasn’t for me, was it?”

“I’ve never heard of [Force Body]. I want it.”

Jane seemed to have trouble understanding what she just heard. She paused. And then she laughed. “Okay. Okay. Good! Yes. You go for that. It doesn’t exist, far as I heard, and I researched those a lot. He was embellishing for the auction.”

Erick shrugged. “Eh!”

Others had been bidding as soon as Erick bid, with some bidding faster than others. Bidding slowed down to hundred gold increases soon enough, but then Erick hit the thousand gold button, bringing the price from 5,200 to 6,200. Someone increased the price by another 500.

“How much will it go for, you think?” Jane asked.

“More than that.” Erick casually pressed the ‘+1000G’ button, again, raising the price to 8,400, saying, “The auctioneer said that other people had gotten [Force Body] from other monsters, and he wasn’t lying. My ability to tell a liar from not isn’t perfect, but that guy was not lying at all.”

Across the auction house, in another VIP box, a rugged-looking man scowled and outbid Erick again.

That guy had been the same one to take the bid from Erick, each time. He was rapidly followed by others, but that other VIP seemed to really want that rabbit.

Jane shrugged. “I wouldn’t risk wasting the money.”

Erick pressed the thousand gold button twice, raising the price to 10,700, saying, “It’s just gold.”

The guy across the way yelled, but no one heard him; he was behind a [Sound Barrier], too.

And then other people in the audience down below began bidding in earnest. If the archmage wanted it, then they wanted it, too!

Jane laughed again.

He asked, “So? Do bears exist? Do you want one of those?”

Jane was suddenly serious. “Win me a bear, dad.”

“I’m gonna win you the cutest, bestest bear. Something bright pink! If they have it.”

“How about something with lightning and acid?” Jane said, “With racing stripes to make it go faster.”

Erick laughed. Suddenly serious, he said, “Bright pink. Possibly with a tutu. I’m sure that must exist.”

Bidding lights blinked throughout the room. Erick stopped after another two increases, when he realized that he didn’t want to actually eat the bunny, and that guy across the way started to look distraught. Besides! What would a [Force Body] get you that wasn’t already a Basic Spell that Erick already had? And besides that: one bunny wouldn’t get you enough ‘Force Essence’ to get [Force Body], anyway, if such a mythical ability actually existed. Erick suspected that he’d have to eat a thousand such ‘Force Mist Rabbits’ to get [Force Body], and that was simply not happening.

Was the other VIP across the way a breeder? Perhaps. Certainly not a normal sort of rich-person. He was one of the fancy people that wore normal clothes, as normal as Erick’s.

Erick asked Jane, “Is there a listing of auctions, for today? How does this all work? Who is everyone here?”

Jane hummed, then said, “There are a few highlights promised and listed on the walls out in the front room, like the octopus I want, but there’s also a ton of random monsters from known breeders around the world. This place might not look as fancy as some of the auction houses back on Earth, but it is one of the best places for this sort of thing. Lotta Polymages and Beast Masters in the audience.” Jane pointed to the upper back of the room, where a bunch of [Scry] eyes held in the air. “This place also has people watching from all over the world, but you’re only allowed to bid if you’re actually here, and you’re only allowed inside the doors if you’re high-class. You helped me get past a lot of that without ever knowing.” Erick smiled at that, as Jane continued, “See those people down there? Most are servants or stuff like that; here to bid on what their employers tell them to bid on. I think that guy across the way is a Beast Master of some sort. Gods. Look at him. Still bidding on that rabbit.” She shrugged. “Other than that, it’s all rather normal auction stuff.”

That man was indeed still bidding, though each raise seemed to physically hurt him. The woman with him put her arm around his shoulder as he dropped his head into a hand, then pressed one of the ‘+100G’ buttons for what was probably the fiftieth time. His VIP box flashed red.

A few more flickers happened throughout the audience. Then one more came from the guy in the box.

Everyone waited for the price to keep increasing…

The VIP guy looked out across the crowd, staring daggers while holding hope in his heart.

“Sold! For 121,300!”

The guy across the way burst into a cheer, talking about finally having a breeding pair. Of course, Erick couldn’t hear him. He was behind a [Sound Barrier], after all. But reading lips wasn’t that hard.

Erick smiled.

This was a nice break after dealing with Tenebrae.

The rabbit blipped out of its [Force Cage].

The next animal was a unicorn. It popped into existence inside a larger [Force Cage] than the bunny had occupied. A series of collars wrapped its neck, legs, and horn; each of them more enchanted than the one that came before. The unicorn was asleep, too. Dead to the world, and yet still standing.

And, of course, it was black of fur with a mouth of tentacles, and the shadows around it seemed sharper. It was not using its usual [Beautification Aura]. There was no danger to the crowd, but Erick wasn’t the only one who went tense at the sight. Then the announcer explained all the various ways they had the creature on lockdown.

… Erick considered if he wanted a unicorn.

Jane noticed, then said, “You might want that, Dad. They’re highly useful, especially with a lightform.”

The auctioneer called out, “A unicorn of normal quality. Nothing special, aside from the fact that it is a unicorn. Sale is for Polymorph purposes only. Beast Masters need not apply. We will be checking credentials and overseeing the consumption of this particularly dangerous monster. You will not be allowed to leave the premises with it alive. Bidding starts at 10,000 gold.”

Someone in the audience instantly bid the asking price. Another raised ten thousand gold. The price quickly raised to a hundred thousand gold, and then doubled.

Erick leaned back in his chair, saying, “I think I can hunt one myself. Why are they keeping it alive?”

“To sell the body in a fresh condition.” Jane eyed him. “You will never catch one in the Forest, even if you can find them. They are much, much too flighty outside of Unicorn Season. That they managed to trap one and bring it here is a big deal.”

“Eh. Maybe… But I’m not made of money, Jane.”

She laughed, then said nothing more.

An usher came around offering refreshments. Erick ordered some fruity alcoholic drink, while Jane ordered beer for the whole VIP box. Teressa had some, while Poi refrained.

The unicorn went for 317,000 gold. Even Jane thought that was too much.

Other monsters came and went. A bevy of Assassin Frogs of every color; hand-sized things that radiated an aura of deadly Decay that was much larger than themselves. A Trip Wolf; a dog-like creature made of vines that made a great Beast Master pet. A collection of Hidebound Sneakeyes; eye-like creatures that grew like barnacles, which were able to hide and adapt to any environment, and were also gifted with [Life Sight]. Upon hearing of that ability, Erick asked about it, and was told that it was a lesser version of [Blood Sight]. Jane got one of those for 700 gold.

They were not great monsters, but they were cheap enough and it was an easy path to [Life Sight]. Jane had gotten the Class Ability to triple her Familiar Forms, and she could take lesser monsters for some of those new slots, if they had a good ability.

The Prismatic Octopus appeared in a [Force Cage], without any water. It didn’t need the water, either, for it was an amphibious monster and perfectly capable of living on land. It even had ‘bones’, though they were more like cartilage, like that which Moon Reachers had. Jane explained that it had a habit of living near the water, so that if things got too hot in one area, it could escape into the water, or onto the land. It was not the big prize of the day, for there were many more monsters after this one. Jane didn’t want those other monsters, though. She wanted this one.

She sat on the edge of her seat, her eyes wide, a smile upon her lips.

The host called out, “From one of our esteemed breeders, we have multiple Prismatic Octopuses—”

Three more [Force Cage]s each blipped with another Prismatic Octopus. Jane smiled.

“—which number four in total. We will be bidding on them one at a time, but this is our stock today, and let no one grouse or grumble that they preferred the one that came after the one they won. From left to right, we have male, female, male, female. Bidding will begin on the left, and go to the right. Opening bid on octopus one! Can I get a thousand?”

Someone bid a thousand. Another raised to two. The bidding went on, and Jane almost pressed the button, but she refrained, and sighed.

Erick covered his mouth, and asked, “Don’t like that one?”

“It’s fine. I’ll try for one of the female ones.”

Erick glanced down at the bidders. Men and women both bid on the first octopus. “You know… I’ve never actually asked if gender dysphoria is a thing among Polymages.” He added, “Or among the wrought, or the Hunters who [Polymorph] into other people of a different gender… Or any of that.”

The first octopus went for 15,900 G. That was a good price.

Jane relaxed. Bidding started on the first of the females, but other people bid on it, and Jane sat back, waiting for the right moment to strike.

“All of my monsters are female, though the slimes and ooze are non-sexual. I think.” Jane waved her hand, saying, “Never bothered me, so there was never any risk of a bleed-through, but I don’t want there to ever be any bleed-through. Body dysphoria doesn’t seem like a real thing when I’m existing as one of the other Familiar Forms, anyway. I feel comfortable as a spider or unicorn or ooze. It’s quite nice being a Primal Frost Owl, too. I think that might be part of the magic.”

“And yet still, you want the female octopus?”

“Yeah. I do.” Jane said, “I feel good and lucky with what I’ve managed to get, so—” She went silent as she pressed the first bidding button, raising the price to 13,900 G.

Seconds passed. No one else bid.

The host said, “Going once! Going twice! Sold, to Archmage Flatt!”

A few small claps echoed in the room, as had happened after a few of the previous sales.

Erick instantly wondered if they were waiting for Jane to bid—

Jane smiled, and through gritted teeth said, “Ah. Damn. I think they were waiting on me to bid. I could have gotten that for a lot cheaper.”

Erick just smiled.

It wasn’t long till the Prismatic Octopus auction was done. Jane opted to leave, but Erick wanted to stay for a bit longer. This was supposed to be in his honor, right? Surely they had something interesting planned. Or, at least, that was the idea that Erick got when Jane asked the waitress about leaving and getting her two monsters. The suddenly-worried waitress begged Jane to wait a moment, then she left and came back with someone in charge who assured Jane that the monsters would be distributed at the end of the auction, and were there any refreshments they wanted? Complementary, of course.

Jane saw what they wanted, and Erick was in no rush to continue, so she ordered spicy foods, and sat back down, both slightly miffed, and curious about what was coming up. She hadn’t seen anything too special on the listings outside.

Erick wondered what was coming, too.

But the monsters on parade right now weren’t that interesting.

Erick spoke to his daughter of his two new non-particle spells, through [Telepathy], while including Teressa, Poi, Ophiel, and Yggdrasil in the conversation. While handing off his new reflective shield spell to Yggdrasil and Ophiel, and the boxes to everyone else, Erick described [Animadversion], and how Jane should consider making such a spell. Jane’s eyes practically bugged out of her skull when Erick showed her the blue box. Teressa laughed loud, then said that his [Animadversion] was the first spell he made that she wanted. Who wouldn’t want a reflect-all shield!

Erick paid attention to the auction in the background, of course. But mostly he ate spicy little beef wraps while he talked to his daughter and his people about reflective spells. Poi hinted that Erick needed to erase the manasphere of the space once they were done, for it was possible for a good [Witness] to pick up on the sub-vocalizations that everyone made when they used [Telepathy]. Teressa agreed. She wasn’t as good as Felair had been, but she’d get there eventually.

This was fine; Erick would just use [Sealed Privacy Ward] to erase the space, and did Teressa have any thoughts on making a better one? Her mana sense was the best of everyone in the VIP box, after all.

Yes, she did have some ideas.

Somewhere in the middle of that, more Variant monsters came to the stage.

Jane perked up when the host announced a Variant of a monster Erick hadn’t heard of in a while.

“A Rivergrieve?” Jane looked to the stage.

“I think he said ‘Lesser Rivergrieve’,” Erick clarified.

