The smaller [Force Cage]s across the stage had been cleared to make way for a single, five-layered [Force Cage]. Water appeared in that tank with a blip, as whoever [Teleport]ed the monsters in and out had been doing as necessary for the entire event —they likely had multiple people casting [Teleport Other] and [Teleport Object], for the mana colors had been at least three, so far— and then, came a monster.

… A small monster. Comparatively. Small compared to a wyrm.

Still at least a dozen meters long and terribly dark green.

And, actually, now that Erick looked with his [True Sight], it wasn’t a monster at all. Technically. It didn’t have a rad in its heart. It was an animal.

The host described the beast, “Thirteen meters long, this Lesser Rivergrieve has the characteristic ocean snake-like body common to its larger cousins, but with only a smattering of the ethereal jaws, claws, and greater self that define a true Rivergrieve. A well-honed Polymage might be able to affect the style of its larger cousins, but as we all know, a true Rivergrieve is impossible to hold in any tank. The bidding will start at 50,000 gold.”

Bids started flying. A VIP box who had yet to do anything, and which was covered over in a [Privacy Ward], blinked, as they made their first bid of the afternoon.

As the price rapidly inflated to 110,000, Erick asked, “Is a Lesser Rivergrieve impressive? It’s not a monster...”

“Yeah. It’s not... I thought it was a real Rivergrieve.” Jane frowned a little, but then lost that frown. “They’re still impressive, but they’re nothing compared to a real Rivergrieve. They’re some of the few naturally ethereal creatures, like Forest-Crowned Stags or Anathemas. You can’t contain them even inside a [Force Cage]. This lesser Variant has a body, though, so it can be contained.” She whispered to herself, “I didn’t know this was an option.”

“… Do you want it?”

“No. … No.”

“Liar,” Erick said, with good cheer, then reached for the bidding button—

Jane bopped his hand. “No. I do not.”

“Bah!” Erick did not press the button.

After half a minute of increasingly surprising silence, where bids raised the price way too high, almost everyone dropped out, except for three. The three-way bidding war was between the darkened VIP box and two patrons in the audience. The price was already pushing a half a million gold. Erick almost raised it further, but…

He asked Jane, “Why not have this one? Do you have a water form yet?”

“It’s a good form for the water and I don’t have one yet, yeah. It’s one of the best, actually, and that’s why the price is so high. But. It’s not a true Rivergrieve. It’s how you get a true Rivergrieve.” Jane said, “And I’m not doing that. Those things are death. Let these people fight over that animal; I don’t want it.”

That certainly did not sound like Jane, but she obviously did not want her father to pay for anything, and so Erick would have let it slide… Except...

Erick asked, “Will this ‘Lesser Rivergrieve’ keep you safe in the water?”

“I will have a water form once I eat some sushi for dinner. The Octopus is not as impressive as this animal, but it’s viable on land, and that is more important… For now.”

“… Okay. I guess that’s true.”

Erick watched a bidder drop out. It was just the VIP booth guy and a different guy down below. The price hit, then passed, 550,000 gold. Then began to slow. The guy down below seemed to be losing his cool as the price went ever higher. Erick turned his gaze toward the animal in the cage that reminded him a lot of a moray eel. As he watched, ethereal blue jaws snapped open and shut all along the curling monster’s body, trying to strike at what lay beyond the [Force Cage], but failing to get more than a meter beyond the invisible shield. The host was a good four meters away, though.

Erick deduced, “It can attack from any angle.”

Jane said, “True Rivergrieves are the monster-form of these Lesser Rivergrieves... Or else they’re a different species. I’m not sure. True Rivergrieves are entirely ethereal monsters. You can’t hurt them unless you use Force. They’re usually the undisputed masters of their domains.”

“From how those people are betting… I think you can upgrade this one to a full Rivergrieve.”

Jane eyed the bidders, and then her mouth opened with a tiny gasp.

The darkened VIP booth raised the price to 655,000 gold. The guy in the crowd, who was certainly a proxy for someone else, raised the price to 660,000 gold. The host had trouble keeping the giddy look off of his face as he called out the new bets and then egged on the other person to raise it even higher.

Even though the [Sound Barrier] was still active, Erick found himself whispering, “What sorts of price tags were here last time?”

Similarly mystified, Jane said, “51,000 was the big auction. It was a Nascent Salamander. They’re what you’d expect, but about a meter big. Exposure to any sort of strong Element would have mutated it into that sort of Elemental Salamander.”

“Oh? The Primary Six? Or any Element?”

“I think it was any. The woman who bought it was a Blood Mage, so I think she was going in that direction. I didn’t get the whole story. I overheard that Blood Salamanders have to be made, but also that they have unmatched regenerative properties. Practically impossible to turn a Nascent Salamander into a Blood Salamander, but if you can, they’ve no real weaknesses and they’re really hard to kill for most… people...” Her voice tapered off.

The blinking bid lights had stopped. The [Privacy Ward]ed VIP box waited to be overturned by the man down below. The man down below did not raise the price again. Instead, he stood from his seat, turned to the VIP box, and bowed.

The host swiftly announced, “Going once! Going twice! Sold! To VIP Box Two, for 712,000 gold! Congratulations. We wish you well with transforming your Lesser Rivergrieve into a True Rivergrieve.”

The audience clapped; a small sound, but a sound nonetheless.

Jane sighed. “Ah. You can transform it. Ah.”

“We can go hunting for one? A real one, too! How about it?”

Poi sighed. Teressa grinned.

Jane sighed, too, then said, “No. I have the octopus.”

“That Prismatic Octopus will be good for our trip to the Forest. We’re going to need to do some manual, non-magical hiding, according to Archmage Tenebrae.”

“How did that meeting go, anyway? You did meet him, right?”

“Ah.” Erick had been mulling over how much he wanted to tell Jane. The whole truth? Or a truth that would enable her to have an easier time with the man? Erick opted for the middle path. “I did meet with him. From what I hear, and from what I saw, he’s not a nice man, but he’s a good man. He’s a right asshole, though. We’ll talk about it more when we get to his floating castle.”

Jane said, “Sure. That sounds… reasonable. Did he seem friendly? At all? I asked around about him and he did not seem like he would make this an easy trip.”

“Ha! That’s an understatement. That man does not seem like he’s going to be a good friend.” Erick eyed his daughter, then said, “Don’t let yourself be vulnerable around him, Jane.” He turned back, toward Teressa, adding, “You either. He’s a good man, but he’s not a nice man.”

Teressa nodded.

Jane asked, “Worse than the Headmaster?”

“… I’m not sure.”

Jane hummed, thinking.

The auction continued.

Erick kept waiting for a bear to show up on the auction block, but no bear came. Nothing cute. Nothing cuddly. Nothing that was appropriate for a father looking to buy a nice animal for his daughter. Everything was death and destruction and too many arms or legs, with some of those extra appendages being little more than scythes-for-hands. There was a nasty insect called a Scythe Bearer, which had ‘bear’ in its name, but that was the closest anything came.

Jane wanted many of them, though she never said; it was all in her eyes.

The auction drew to a close with three more monsters, blipped out onto the stage all at the same time. Erick smiled. They weren’t bears, but they were similar in shape and face; very furry, large, and plodding, but bright green. Almost neon green. They looked friendly, and that made Erick smile. He had to have all three. What possible kind of evil could they be? They were so cute.

They were still getting situated into their [Force Cage]s as Erick said, “I thought bears didn’t exist on Veird? Maybe we should start a breeding program.”

Jane turned to her father. “Is that what you see?”

“… Are they not bears?”

It was then, that Erick noticed the crowd below had gone completely silent. Everyone was staring at the creatures like they were adventurers and the monsters were piles of gold. Erick turned his [True Sight] back on; he had let it lapse.

The monsters became skinny creatures of dark flesh that seemed like a cross between a dog, a skinny bear, and some sort of clawed monster, though their claws were rather small. Their eyes were bright and dark. Those eyes stared around the room, seeing, and perhaps understanding. Erick blinked. Though [True Sight] was active, the monsters turned back into neon green bears.

Erick blinked. “What?” He asked Jane, “What do you see?”

Jane said, “I see three fat dogs. Big ones. Nice ones.”

Poi spoke up, “They’re False Sights. Reality or Mind Magic monsters, depending on who you ask. They normally never get anywhere near people because they’re herbivores and—”

The host spoke, “Three False Sights! Our crowning achievement for today’s auctions! I know they might not appear as such to most of you, but I assure you that these are true False Sights. These monsters naturally appear non-hostile because they will always run before they try to fight, but if they’re forced to fight, their unlucky foes will usually end up pissing themselves in fear. They’re wary of us right now, but that could change if you are a Polymage looking for one of the best Familiar Forms in the world. For those Beast Masters out there, a False Sight will make one of the absolute best pets, for they are herbivores, and extremely friendly once they trust you. The person who brought them to us is offering a 50% rebate for any Beast Master who takes them in.” Some of the audience instantly frowned, or voiced their disgust in other ways, but some leapt for joy. The host continued, “From left to right we have male, male, female. The bidding begins at 250,000.”

Lights started blinking. Bids came rolling in.

Erick asked, “A pet? Do you… Have to be a Beast Master? Those things are monsters; they have rads. But… They look so nice.”

“You want a pet?” Jane asked, incredulous. “With your lifestyle?”

“… Okay. When you put it like that. That would be rather cruel. Maybe not, then.”

The first one went for 550,000, to a Beast Master. So did the second.

And then… So did the third.

“I could have bought it for you.”

“I know, dad. But I didn’t want that.”

“Yeah, yeah. Let’s go get your octopus.”

And so they did.

Erick didn’t watch Jane eat it, but the auction house had a complimentary room for that sort of thing, They even killed the creature for her, first, with a simple strike to the brain, as one would do for any animal bred for slaughter. Erick thought it was all rather morbid, but he enjoyed a good steak, and that was practically the same thing.

Sort of.

- - - -

Jane was currently a replica of the chair near the window of the hotel room, except you could tell which one she was by the tiny bits of flesh that stuck up here and there like tufts of fluff. Real chairs did not normally have fleshy bits.

Erick said, “And I can see your blood with [Blood Sight]. It’d fool almost anyone except for… Well. The three people in this room.” Ophiel whistled. Erick added, “And Ophiel.”

Jane unfolded from her chair-like mimicry, revealing her rainbow-like Prismatic Octopus self. She was almost the size of an orcol when ballooned out to this size, but her actual body was smaller. Her skin moved in odd ways as she stood upon her arms like exactly how a real octopus could not. She spoke through her [Greater Shadowalk], saying, “It’s more difficult than I thought it would be.”

“You’ll get the hang of it.” Erick gestured to his own bags. “Are you packed?”

“I am!” With a shadowy slip through the world, she moved out of sight. Her voice came out of her room. “Be ready in a moment.”

A knock came from the front door.

Erick answered from the living room, guiding a flick of his lightform over to opening the entry to welcome the person he already knew was standing there. He called out, “Hello, O’kabil. Glad to see you again.”

O’kabil strode into the room, her white Mist Rabbit fur coat fluttering like a soft cloud as she moved. She sniffled, on the edge of tears, and Erick turned quite a bit more concerned.

“O’kabil? Is something wro—”

“Don’t die out there, Erick. That’s what I want to say.” O’kabil schooled herself, then said, “You are much too valuable an archmage to go risking your life out there in the Green, but if you must go, then you must. You will always have a place waiting for you here at my hotel, or otherwise. Yura wanted to be here but she is dealing with politics and mortal problems.” She huffed. She asked, “Is there some way to convince you not to journey into the Deep Forest? You might never come out. Many never do.”

Erick smiled. He liked O’kabil’s genuine emotions. He liked the old tree. But… “Unless you have a spare, intact Gate lying around, then I must go in search of one.”

“Would that I could offer you a series of drawings and measurements recorded a thousand years ago by a different Arbor, but those measurements were lost long ago and never recovered. There hasn’t been a real Gate sighting in a very long time.”

“That’s what I don’t get.” Erick asked, “How did Tenebrae manage to find one?”

“I don’t know. If I knew, I would help you there, if only to keep you out of danger.” O’kabil said, “I have grown fond of you, Erick Flatt. Don’t die out there.” And then she turned, and walked away. Her body turned to mist as she strode beyond the door.

Erick spoke to the air, “Thank you, Holy O’kabil, for your hospitality. I enjoyed my stay, too.”

The misty manasphere wafted through the air like a gentle breeze. Erick swore he could hear music upon that mana, but maybe not.

Soon, Jane was ready. Teressa had been ready. Poi was packed.

It was time to go.

