Her left elbow caught on something that was lodged in her side, but the force of her strike couldn’t be stopped.

Flow was jerked to the side and metal screamed against metal as a sword that she’d forgotten about shattered, filling the voids in her being with shrapnel that continued to consume itself to grow ever more tangled nets of crystalized reality around her, trying to lock her down, to deny her existence.

It failed. Reality always bowed to existence, no matter whose reality was making the attempt.

Still, the automaton managed to block the twisting strike, the force of this blow driving it downward… straight into her legs.

It stopped dead against her weight, things clearly shattering within its multilayered existence, but it was built too well for that to put it down.

Good.

It would have been a shame for it to find an end anywhere but at the edge of her blade.

Her smile widened, and she felt almost like glass was in her mouth, the edges not quite sharp enough to cut.

When she closed her lips, there was an odd tingling burst as reality tried to invade her even still.

Folly.

She reached down, snagging the being around the throat with her off-hand—her gauntlet growing, despite the interference and her small hands, to completely encapsulate its neck.

At the same time, Flow shrunk down to the size of a knife, reversing itself in her grip.

She drove downward.

The automaton blocked that first stab with its remaining blade, the metal tinging off her armor as it failed to affect it at all.

No matter.

She shrugged and shifted before stabbing again.

Block-ting!

Reset. Stab.

Deflect, Flow neatly slicing through a poorly protected hip.

The reality of the automaton screamed at the violation, at the end that trimmed away at its spirit without bothering to wait for its death.

Tala shifted again as a hail of blows rained ineffectually against her armor.

Stab.

Scream.

Stab.

Scream.

Stab.

…

…

Silence.

Tala looked down at the thing in her grasp, Flow embedded in its chest, and saw the spirit splintering and fading.

It hadn’t been a Leshkin spirit, and that seemed to matter… for some reason.

Her eyes snapped up to the soul as it tried to slip away, but… that wasn’t an ending… was it?

Why should she let the soul go?

She was to end this being, not allow part of it to escape.

…Right?

Her hand snapped out, tearing through her own gauntlet and punching through the reinforced skull to catch a hold of the prize as easily as snatching a fish from a river.

She pulled back her hand—the crackling burst of reality splinters as she flexed her fingers seemingly causing what she held to shudder—and looked at the restrained soul in fascination.

She felt the void within her ending blade, she felt the Leshikin spirits within, and how they… added to her in some way.

Why couldn’t this do the same?

…and if not…

Shouldn’t it be ended?
