A sudden double surge rippled through the domain, and the Mana Eater swelled up to enormous proportions, its bark darkening and beginning to give off a malevolent reddish glow. The whip vines lashed out toward Calen with terrible power and speed, and he was forced to dodge both the thorns and the explosion of stone splinters from the impact against the wall behind him. But it was the second ability that sent dread and despair coursing through him, an ability he recognized all too well. Magic flickered throughout the chamber, and suddenly, two dozen Braconids appeared, hanging from the creep on the walls. They scrambled down toward Mato and Malika, eager to rip them apart with their powerful branch-spider legs and mandibles.

Fuck. It was the worst combination for them. With sufficient mana – any mana at all – he would be easily able to destroy the summoned monsters using his area damage, but he was being constantly drained by the mana spores, unfairly enhanced by domain magic. If they didn’t kill the spawns, Mato was going to be overrun and die.

“Malika, we need to kill the spawns,” he said.

“I know,” she answered, frustration creeping into her normally calm voice as her fists began lashing out at the swarming monsters.

The domain surged again, and this time, a dozen humanoid forms rose from the creep along the floor; sylvan warriors with their resilient plant bodies covered with thorns and wielding strangely curved swords of dense, mana-enhanced ironwood.

In an instant, the Mana Eater had changed the fight. Malika was incredibly powerful right now – their ace-in-the-hole, but she had no area damage. Her efforts were entirely consumed by healing Mato and punching summoned plants, while they were reduced to his and Mato’s efforts to damage the boss itself. And he might as well not have been there for all the damage he could do without his mana.

This is the worst luck, he thought, his eyes drifting to the barely visible cracks hanging in space where the rift had once glittered. What can we do? Need a plan!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
