Entilla cackled while nudging Drelex. The blue lizard jeered, "This guy hasn't quit moving since we met him. What makes you think he'll let us get off scot-free?"

The catfish sighed, "Well...I might as well go out of retirement at this rate."

My director golem walked over before giving each of them a bow, "Ah, the honored sirs. If you would, please follow me."

The two rulers stood up and followed the director golem to the first place of work. With my allies informed, I walked back outside of my city structures. I went about remaking the three destroyed cities, spending a couple hours recreating them and their former glory. Having my base established, I prepared myself for the most challenging part of all of this - compromising my apparently shaky ethics.

With Shalahora as backup, we skulked out to the outskirts of my cities. We crossed the shining hills and blotted algae before finding an isolated primeval. The rock variant spun around as an atronach of dense stone and opal shards. As it fed on choice rainbow bones, Shalahora and I stalked it from afar. The shadowy sovereign cast some kind of veil over us, letting us get near the primeval.

Once within striking range, we both dashed towards it with a few core golems in tow. Gravitation held the primeval in place before shackles of shadow condensed over the beast. It writhed and tried escaping before I pulled out the liquid rainbow bone from my pocket dimension. This shining liquid spread over the primeval, and I grimaced when the glowing ichor drenched into the stone.

The beast trembled at first before the initial rush of power and energy coursed through the monster. The empowered primeval broke its restraints and tossed us aside, its body emboldened by the psionic fluid's immediate effects. It spread its rocky form while bellowing out, its voice echoing out like a roaring mountain.

However, within moments, its movements slowed to a crawl, and its mind faded. Rainbow bone needles expanded from under its skin before it turned still and lifeless, a crystallized memory of its former glory. The powerful eldritch devolved into a statue, and we both gazed at the sight with equal measures of horror and awe.

I murmured, "It works."

Shalahora trembled, "Too well, in my opinion."

I shook off my unease before jumping toward the abomination. Shalahora flowed in thereafter, and he murmured, "Its mind has been slaughtered while its body is primed... This liquid does as you said it does, but I thought it would be uglier."

Shalahora prodded one of the shining rainbow needles, "It's beautiful...In an insidious sort of way."

I sighed before placing a palm over the stone monster's face, "Visually, I guess. Inside, it's just a husk...A useful husk, though."

I flooded this monster's emptied mind with an ascendant consciousness, one that followed my word as law. The being of stone joined my star primevals, becoming a pawn for me, and it took less than ten minutes to make. I gazed at the stone monstrosity, the opalescent shards changing into blood-red spines. They curved at the edges while ascendant mana oozed off its body as a thick aura.

The creature followed my orders, pacing back and forth, doing jumping jacks, and even doing backflips on command. Silly as it seemed, the beast's innate tenacity and strength omened its future purpose. One that Shalahora mused about,

"This will be your army then?"

"Yes."

"And this isn't the first time you've done this either, is it?"

I peered out into the distance, "No." I frowned,

"And it won't be the last."
