Erick had no fucking clue how to make Melemizargo’s demand a reality, but he felt his Dark Mark sing to him and his Lightning Path tell him something very important. He chose not to speak about the making of universes from living sacrifices, as they had done to The Prince, and also the Goddess of Knowledge at the start of the Script, and instead said, “Then [Witness] a war for the fate of it all, Dark God of Magic.”

- - - -

All of Veird was a veined mass of power that collected in certain ways, and one of those ways was known as the Heart of Melemizargo, or the Well of Darkness.

Just like how Elemental Exalted and Vile collected into places that then collected the souls of angels and demons, thus making a heaven for those creatures, Darkness gathered inside the hearts of every Marked person on the planet, and in the universe. That power flowed where it could. And when it could, it flowed here.

Erick stood with Fallopolis at the turning of a corner, in a dungeon underneath Ascendant Mountain. There used to be lots of dungeons in this land, back when it was a place for shadelings to live and for outsiders to challenge, to prove themselves. It had all been destroyed by a Red Leviathan attack when Erick had been at Margleknot, but Erick had restored the main part of the mountain when he came back. The main part now housed this dungeon, and the Heart of Melemizargo within this dungeon.

There was nothing else.

An entrance held in the shadows and gloom behind them, while underfoot stood the white stone rim of a pool 30 meters across. Within that pool rested Absolute Black. It hurt to look upon. The Black called to Erick, in ways that he hadn’t been called in a long time, and in ways he easily recognized.

Once upon a time, Erick had fallen in that pool and he did not die. He merely moved across the world, to where he needed to be.

The Dark knew where Erick had to go right now.

Nothanganathor hid on some other sun, in some other slice of infinity near this place, biding his time until he Ascended to Dark Godhood, without lifting another claw to actually make it happen. It would be nearly impossible to find him, and it would be trivial for him to escape somewhere else, but the Dark knew where he was. The Dark could take him there, and ensure he arrived at the right time to kill the Red Bastard.

Like a time long ago, Champion of the Dark Fallopolis would be his guide.

Fallopolis stood, her frizzy white hair pulled into a tight bun, her grandmotherly body bedecked in a sparkly black suit, while her black kendrithyst staff floated to her side. She looked ready.

Erick was mostly ready. When they reached Nothanganathor, he would pull his Valkyries to the battlefield, and then the real war would begin.

Everyone else would remain here, on Veird and Fenrir, securing the land against danger.

Erick stared at the Absolute Black of the Well of Darkness and took a moment to truly consider what it meant to step through that portal.

“It’s almost better this way,” Erick said. “No need to endanger everyone, and they need to be back on Veird for the counterattack.”

Fallopolis said, “When you win, you can come back through time and fix whatever he does in retaliation.”

Erick grinned. “You ready to give it your all, too, Fallopolis?”

“I am, and I might even take up my real name after this, but I am unsure.”

Erick smiled softly at that. “Ar’Kendrithyst fell a long time ago.”

Fallopolis shook her head lightly. She did not agree. “It took me a while to understand why I never picked my old name back up, but now I know. It was more than the fact that I lived and breathed that place for centuries. The truest fact is we’ve never left Ar’Kendrithyst. Physically, yes, but not spiritually. There are always horrors that seek to destroy, dangers in the Dark, tests of power and tests of resolve. Quilatalap exemplified and codified that nature of the Dark, of the true purpose behind Ar’Kendrithyst at his Armory. He still does that to this day with his dungeons.

“But Ar’Kendrithyst was larger than the Armory. It was larger than the dungeons. Those are just the organized places. The Shade-filled insanity horror of Ar’Kendrithyst is the true danger. Ar’Kendrithyst was a crucible, and crucibles still exist everywhere. We can explore, we can learn, and we try to leave, but we can never really leave that Dead City, filled with tests both mundane and magnificent. Dead, wrong-headed metropolises still exist everywhere. They will always continue to exist. They will grow brilliant and wonderful at first, or maybe they start off horrible. Some will turn malignant.

“And so, sometimes those metropolises must fall.”

Fallopolis thumped the end of her kendrithyst staff against the white stone ground. The air cracked. A ripple passed through the Absolute Black of the Heart of Melemizargo, and then the ripple rebounded.

The air gonged.

Fallopolis raised her voice high, casting her power deep, “We see our true enemies! The city that they are trying to build out of corpses that don’t belong to them! The wrongness that they are seeking to expand!” Her voice expanded, and the world focused. “We know the architect of it all! Of the cause of the Insanity of My God! Of the cause of the Twisting of the Clergy! Of the creator of the Sundering!” She raised her kendrithyst staff high above the white rim of the Well of Darkness. “We see you now, Nothanganathor!”

And then she smashed her kendrithyst staff down.

The white Well broke like the shattering of magic, releasing the Absolute Black inside like an explosion of ink underwater.

Erick fell through tearing, ripping Darkness, and Fallopolis fell beside him. Erick grabbed onto her hand, and Fallopolis howled with laughter as the world became a tunnel. Suddenly, Erick was a dragon again and Fallopolis was a thing of Black, with eyes and mouths and focus extraordinary, shaped like a gibbering demon and person all at the same time. She pointed with ten million fingers, claws, fangs, and eyes, into the Dark.

The world flexed—

- - - -

— Erick dropped out of a tangle of black that became Fallopolis and then pulled away, injured heavily. Erick became his full size and Fallopolis shrunk down to her normal body, exhausted and broken, which made sense considering what they had dropped into.

The void around them was a thing of cutting, burning Malevolence, and Fallopolis had just broken through all of it to bring them here. Nothanganathor had indeed left traps for people to fall into, if they ventured his way, and Fallopolis had broken through many of them, injuring her in ways that Erick wasn’t quite prepared to heal. But Fallopolis was a Champion. She just needed some time.

Erick wrapped her in a protective [Hasted Shelter] that she could break if she wanted, but it would be enough to let her recover. And then Erick stepped sideways in time, divorcing himself from the normal flow, taking it all in as fast as he could, because something was already starting to drag him back to normal time. The traps all around him were myriad in their layers.

He and Fallopolis had popped out of the breaking of the Well of Darkness by a big blackened world, maybe a moon’s distance away. It was blackened by the scorching of the Red Sun in the distance.

All of Reality was a wash of Red and Void, spiraling out from a caustically brilliant Red Sun. There was a body on that sun. Nothanganathor’s body. Like a black noodle floating in a nuclear-red hot sauce, or a tapeworm in blood, Nothanganathor’s body coiled this way and that upon the sun.

It had been chunked.

The head was half gone; the lower jaw was still attached to the skull, but the upper jaw and most of the skull was opened and smashed upon the sun's surface. Several hundred world-lengths down from the head the body just stopped, for something had eaten the body. The body resumed beyond that, but it was broken into many different pieces.

Something was eating it.

Someone was eating it.

Erick saw who was eating it, there, at the third break in the length of the body.

There was a white, snake-like dragon down there, gorging on the body. Red Lightning flashed out of the white worm, burning away the big corpse, turning that big corpse into power that flowed into the white worm’s open maw.

The white worm was Nothanganathor, looking sleek and whole, and not like his larger corpse at all. He was, perhaps, a few worlds long. Hard to say from this distance.

Erick realized a few things as he looked at Nothanganathor.

The Erased One was still shaped like a leviathan, but he had a crown of 6 horns now, just like Melemizargo, just like Erick. He looked more like Rozeta or the dragons of Veird than any leviathan. He had scales now; not just skin.

So he had broken his Curse of Obscurity, then. That had been true.

And yet, he was still eating his corpse.

He hadn’t finished his transition to fae yet, had he? Had he even truly begun?

Erick felt joy at recognizing that Truth. Erick’s own transition had started with him eating his Benevolence-crafted space ship, Worldsaver, and then waking up in the past, in 1997, and then solidifying the Truth of his time on Earth over the course of the next 23 years. Nothanganathor’s transition somehow had him eating the corpse of his old body. In a way, both of them had eaten their own history, but Nothanganathor hadn’t gotten through the first part of all that. He hadn’t eaten all of himself yet, because of course he hadn’t eaten all of himself. He probably had too much to eat!

Ha!

The lying bastard wasn’t a fae yet.

Erick cupped his wings and raised his elated voice, calling out with a blast of light that shredded the Red violence in the air all around him, “Liar liar LIFE on FIRE!”

Erick had touched upon a Truth so primal that it echoed upon itself, gaining strength even as it tore through the Red all around, his wave of White shattering the void and the traps in the air and then echoing out of the sun itself. Nothanganathor was a speaker of half-truths and obscured reality, who had built his entire existence upon hiding and stealing and claiming credit for things he did not do, and now, here at his Ascension to Fae, those falsities were coming home to roost; Erick ensured it.

The void flickered White, and Erick stripped away Nothanganathor’s immunity to nuclear fire.

Nothanganathor’s larger corpse burned in rapid explosions of meat flash frying and exploding from steam eruptions. The sun was still the sun, after all. Flesh went first. Bone followed fast. Nothanganathor’s smaller self roared as he realized that Erick was here, and that his bounty was burning.

Nothanganathor froze the sun, stopping the explosions of flesh, but Erick had eradicated half of it with one call to Truth.

That attack had worked a lot better than Erick thought it would have worked, but —Erick smiled— shedding light was one of the best ways to reveal everything for what it was.

Erick declared, “The Welcoming Dark will not accept you as you are, Nothanganathor! So BURN in the LIGHT, and be transformed in this trial!”

Erick’s voice echoed upon itself again, bouncing out faster than the speed of light, crashing into that blackened planet down to the left, revealing the bright red boughs of Everbless, and Red Lightning among his stormy leaves. The wayward brother of Yggdrasil, Erick’s own son, captured by the Red, screamed in agony as White tore at him, shredding his canopy and breaking half of his body.

Oozy stood at the center of that canopy, shielding Everbless from the majority of Erick’s Light.

Fallopolis broke out of her safety shell like a hurricane of darkness, filled with eyes and teeth and vengeful words, whispering a thousand different angers and guarantees of how she wouldn’t let Everbless or Oozy live. She rode Erick’s wave of light down onto that blackened planet and engaged the enemy in a conflagration of black ooze. She was truly now an [Avatar of Melemizargo].

The White wave continued on, though. It echoed faster and deeper as it passed that planet, and as it rocked against the sun.

Nothanganathor flickered to stand in the way of the blast, but he was just the size of a few Jupiters and Erick’s attack was larger than that. The white wave hit the sun and Nothanganathor’s [Time Lock] that protected his body. The body began to burn again, though it was slower this time.

Nothanganathor spoke, “I don’t need it anymore.”

Another lie through half-truth; he didn’t need it, but he still wanted it. The protective magics that Nothanganathor had set down upon the large corpse remained there, fighting to keep the body from fully combusting.

Nothanganathor advanced on Erick, like a snake swimming through the ocean, body twisting, eyes focused.

Erick called out, “You said we would fight as universes the next time we met, and here you are talking! Even more lies from the liar! Your Truth is a cloudy, broken thing, so let it burn in the light!”

White flames erupted out of Nothanganathor’s sun corpse and flickered across his smaller body.

And then he was suddenly there, his jaws open wide enough to swallow Erick whole. There seemed to be another Red Sun inside his gullet.

Erick stepped out of time and circled around to Nothanganathor’s back where he breathed a line of [Luminous Beam]s wider and stronger than ever before. Blasts of power impacted Nothanganthor’s skull, moving faster than the speed of light. It was like spraying water from a hose at a dune. Flesh parted and exploded away from where Erick’s beam touched, but it still was the touch of a raindrop upon an ocean.

Erick whispered into Infinity, “To me, my Valkyries.”

The White wave, still spilling out in the distance, flickered and twisted. Ten thousand portals opened like a layer of new stars, but nearby and filled with warriors.

Shivraa roared forward first, raising her ice sword and screaming vengeance, heralding the flood.

- - - -

Teressa pulled back from the Darkness and once again inhabited her body, in the prognostication offices of House Benevolence. She got up and rushed to the wall and slammed the big red button that they had set up years ago for a possible Red event. She hadn’t needed to slam that button in a long while, but she slammed it now, even as she started sending out [Telepathy] messages to everyone she knew to send them.

The alarm started blaring.

It was still a minute before Red descended upon Fenrir.

- - - -

Erick threw Bolts at Nothanganathor, to test their power. Red Lightning stretched out of the white serpent, grasping every Bolt and draining it into him. He was using his Sign of Power that he had stolen from Margleknot and used to kickstart the Sundering, to drain away all the magic that touched him.

