It was an act of parity, for Erick did the same for every spell Nothanganathor threw his way, whipping out [Mana Siphon]s like ten million shadowy tendrils, stealing all the power that Nothanganathor dared to let into Erick’s purview.

- - - -

Poi got Teressa’s message and then corroborated it along ten different vectors. All across Fenrir, all across Veird, and the moonsuns, and everywhere that Poi could reach, he caught word of Valkyries vanishing through portals. The Crossroads was alive with news happening from all areas of everywhere.

Ascendant Prime stepped into the Crossroads like a very heavy spider, and soon all the other Ascendants joined him. There was only one directive.

‘The Apparent King goes to war against the Red. Prepare for the counterattack.’

- - - -

Nothanganathor twisted reality itself, trying to Step away from the battle, to escape.

Erick stated, “No more running.”

And that was just about the only Wizardry that worked very, very well, for Nothanganathor had tried to threaten him with an ultimate fight if Erick ever showed his face. Well here he was, showing his face! Time for the fight.

Nothanganathor turned and made the mistake of attempting to breathe Malevolence at Erick.

Erick turned that power into his own, ripping at the Red with White, turning it pink and then dead and ready for eating, which is what he did next. All the while, the Valkyries nipped at Nothanganathor from every angle. He was several worlds long and every bit of Siphon counted.

Meanwhile, Nothanganathor’s original body, his corpse left upon the sun, was like firecrackers tossed into lava; it exploded here and there and it didn’t stop exploding at all.

The Valkyries feasted on that corpse, too.

- - - -

Evan had been feeling uneasy all day long. He had gone through reports from every Problem Area of Fenrir, and the steps being taken to solve those problems, but the job was literally too large for him and House Benevolence. They did what they could, though. Mostly they analyzed possible solutions to this Area or that Area and then put those solutions into the outgoing box in father’s office.

Those reports vanished the very second they were laid down. Sometimes they vanished before that, as the analyzer walked with the finished report in that direction.

Evan had attributed his unease toward the chaotic, absolute necessity of the job ahead of them.

But then the alarm went off while Evan was in the middle of working on Problem Area 187 with his team.

Zorik, Castellan Zolan’s grandson and Paladin of Rozeta and Evan’s boyfriend, startled. His eyes flickered Script-blue as he read instructions from Rozeta. That’s when Evan started to panic, and then his panic gave way to utter certainty.

He already knew what was happening.

Ophiel opened a portal in the middle of Evan’s offices, among his team. He fluffed out his iridescent black wings and said, “I need you. I already got the girls and every other dragon I could find. Dad is moving on Nothanganathor right now.”

Evan nodded.

Yup. That’s what Evan had expected.

Evan grabbed Zorik, kissed him once, said, “Love you. See you later.”

Zorik was still in the middle of receiving instructions from Rozeta, his eyes still clouded with blue.

Evan followed Ophiel onward, into Benevolence Itself, where ten thousand other portals were open into ten thousand other lands, and people were moving fast. Yggdrasil was already directing people this way and that with rainbow streamers in the air, directing people and moving them at the same time, but people mostly knew where to go on their own.

Most of the people were Valkyries.

Zorik called out, “Love you, too!”

Evan twisted back, grinned, and—

The portal closed.

Ophiel said, “Sorry. Dad can do time tricks. I cannot. Go there.” He pointed at a portal in the sky. It was one of the closer ones, where the Valkyries were not headed at all. “You’re on a diplomatic/violence mission to help them fight the Red beasts that are appearing right now. It’s the Crystal Forest but Bulgan killed dad at the start of Candlepoint. Dad killed Bulgan and a few other bad people this time, again, but left them pretty much alone because they told him to go away because he looked like Melemizargo. Some people accepted his Personal Scripts, but not many.” Ophiel spoke much faster, “There’s 175 million people in that Crystal Forest for some reason! Tell them the basics or frighten them into believing you! I suggest the second option for expediency's sake! Go go go!”

Evan moved, flying fast, kinda awed at how much Ophiel knew and understood, and at how much organization his ‘little’ brother was doing right now. The entirety of Benevolence Itself was filled with portals, like dark stars leading from light into anything else besides light—

There, in the far, far distance, and in a way Evan only caught a glimpse of, was a sky full of black stars. Valkyries flew up through rainbow roads, traveling in the millions, so dense they looked like lines of blackgold fire. Those weren’t stars up there. They were portals into some other place. Some dark land.

The big battle.

Evan wanted to go, but he knew where he needed to be, and it wasn’t in the middle of a Wizard War. Evan’s place was anywhere other than a Wizard fight. Those Valkyries were probably dying just as fast as they were flowing into that other space. Evan imagined they got pulped and then reborn on Fenrir, near their [Spellsurge Weave]s, and every single Valkyrie would be making that flight to the final battle multiple times.

Evan flew toward his own portal, catching glimpses of all the true organization happening behind the scenes, and he was awed by Ophiel again. He glimpsed Ophiel yelling at Jane and Candice that they couldn’t go to the battle with Nothanganathor. The argument didn’t last long, thankfully. Just some yelled words. And then Candice and Jane went through the same portal, to some other necessity out there in Fenrir.

Wherever they went was likely a semi-Wizard fight. Maybe against Oozy? Who knew.

And then Evan flickered through his portal, and the portal closed behind him.

He floated above the Crystal Forest, on Fenrir. Or at least a version of the place. This one was on the exterior, so the sky was full of sunmoons and stars. Evan smiled as he saw this Crystal Forest. It was partially green. In this version of this world, Dad had probably started throwing out rain everywhere.

But then Bulgan had killed him at Candlepoint.

Welp!

Evan turned into a 50 meter long magenta dragon, and then he started Air Stepping around, getting a look at the place.

Red tears in the air started to appear almost right away, and Claws started to poke into this space.

Evan organized his thoughts. He still had access to mana through his Personal Script. Who to contact?

Did Poi exist in this world?

Evan focused on Poi, and then sent out a mental request to whatever passed for the Crossroads around here, ‘Hello, Poi. Is this Poi?’

Some Mind Mage grabbed his thoughts and wrangled them. ‘This is Rizala Fulisade! How do you know my brother’s name?!’

Evan focused, ‘I’m going to send you an information packet. I also need to start organizing the defense of this land. You’re being attacked by anti-memetic beasts. Here.’

Ten very, very long seconds later, and Rizala sent back, ‘Fuck! Okay. I have no mana. I consumed half of that package just to be able to read it. I’m only able to communicate with you because you have the connection open and some people have these Personal Scripts to make a mini-Crossing. Where are you?’

Evan floated, gigantic and draconic over a different version of Spur. A few things were different, but the city was still orange rock, just like Evan remembered back when he was Jane. The Farms still existed, which was nice. The whole place looked quite desolate, though.

The people of Spur panicked, as was expected, though they mounted no defense. How could they, without the Script? Without mana?

Evan sent, ‘I’m the magenta dragon with the wings.’

‘… Yes. I see.’

‘I am willing to use violence to save you. I am archmage level and my magic won’t unravel in this space like yours is unraveling. Those among you who have a Personal Script might be able to survive contact with the enemy, but the enemy is already attacking. Put me in touch with them. I will be directing combat and fighting the main Claws that come.’

‘… You really are his son.’

‘I am.’

‘This is what needs to happen...’

- - - -

Zooming across Nothanganathor’s back, dodging twists of dragonspines as the former-leviathan twisted, trying to catch him, Erick cascaded spill after spill of reson-empowered [Luminous Beam]s. Light burned through five layers of flesh at once, carving continent-sized wounds in Nothanganathor. Blood and bone appeared in those wounds, and then Erick tore deeper, and Nothanganathor twisted. Bone and blood blasted away, but this time it revealed scales underneath.

Nothanganathor sloughed off the damage exactly like a snake shedding his skin, becoming smaller now, but in the way that an ocean was smaller after it evaporated for a day.

Nothanganathor tried to collect his discarded flesh, that matter turning into Malevolence that then twisted back to him, but Valkyries feasted, roasting dragon meat with blackgold fire and drinking it down before Nothanganathor could take his power back.

“Parasites! Parasites all of you!” Nothanganathor roared.

His voice was an echo that blasted apart 1,248 valkyries that were too close and injured another 3,551. The first ones reformed somewhere back beyond the distant portals, while the second group merely regrew broken limbs and missing torsos with a rush of Carnage and Blood magic.

Several of them turned into actual parasites, though, and Erick sent a flicker of [Grand Reincarnation] lightning at those unfortunate people, sending them off to live other lives, in other parts of the universe, removing all of Nothanganathor’s influence and ensuring it wouldn’t come back. Erick had taken lesser measures to remove some of Nothanganathor’s wizard tricks earlier in the battle, and that was how he had lost a million Valkyries to Nothor Beasts and Claws ripping up the backlines, out of Erick’s sight, attacking the [Spellsurge Weave]s that held together several Valkyrie groups.

He’d get them back if he could, but—

Nothanganathor twisted. The fabric of reality pulled inward. Valkyries got closer, even though they didn’t mean to, because Nothanganathor had turned time on an axis, pointing it toward himself, declaring himself Inevitable in that action. It seemed like a test of his nascent and approaching Mantle of the Dark God of Magic.

The Valkyries could do nothing but get closer to him, and that is when he shot out Red Lightning and turned ten thousand Valkyries into splashed blood that slipped into that Lightning and then drowned into Nothanganathor’s wounds.

He was restored, just a little, in the way that an ocean was deeper after the sky rained for an hour.

That right there seemed to be a common use of his Sign of Power; the thing he had twisted Margleknot’s Mark of the Fractal into, in order to Sunder the Painted Cosmology.

It would have been another million Valkyries gone into his Sign of Power, but Erick stepped through time and prevented that particular disaster.

Nothanganathor turned his eyes toward Erick, watching him with orbs the size of moons, as Erick moved through Time itself. The bastard was watching and organizing an attack, so Erick stopped moving in that way, returning to strafing runs of [Luminous Beam]s. Nothanganathor roared out hate, his flesh blasting away as he once again twisted around to mitigate the damage, to aim claws at Erick, or to try and carve Erick from flight with any number of spines lining his body.

Erick dodged them all and blasted away continents of flesh.

It looked impossible. It looked like too much for any one fae to deal with. And it was. Nothaganathor had prepared countermeasures that he pulled out of Red Lightning like he was pulling out bazooka cannons in a fistfight. But Erick stepped in from the future and dismantled magic. He cast Nothanganathor’s tricks into Infinity, shoving those tricks into the sun, and when that didn’t work, he swallowed sun-ending trinkets with well-timed portals opened to the Whirlpool. The Whirlpool was still active over on that other slice of infinity, after all.

Stuff that was worse than Annihilation splashed this way and that, eradicating Nothanganathor’s trinkets and magic, for the Whirlpool was utter destruction. It was hard to predict when a splash of that destruction was angled in a useful way, to produce a rush of power that Erick brought through one portal, annihilating a trinket, and then swallowing that splash of Whirlpool right back to where it came from. But Erick had a lot of time on his hands.

The battle was going well.

Erick and his Valkyries were winning. Veird was winning.

They could win this.

Erick dodged Red Lightning, and when he failed to dodge it, he pushed away those Futures where he died. When Nothanganathor Established deaths, Erick Established escapes from death.

Nothanganathor was just a wizard; a proto-fae. A single man with a lot of tricks, most of which burned away with his body on the sun. Erick and his people were a lot more than that.

And yet…

And yet, Erick blasted away continents worth of flesh, Mana Siphoning all the power that came his way and allowing the Valkyries to collect what remained. Nothanganathor attacked and struggled, and Erick evaded in all the ways he could, getting away from every counter attack.

Erick had stopped using normal magic a while ago, for Nothanganathor could suck that up with his Sign of Power, and Nothanganathor did the same, using trick after trick to attack Erick, every way he could.

Nothanganathor seemed to have endless tricks, but high-energy Particle Magic seemed to be the best thing to use against him, since it was the only thing he couldn’t siphon away with his Sign of Power. Erick was well equipped to do that, and it barely cost any mana at all. He was spending resons like water, though.

… Wait.

Was Nothanganathor spending any resons at all?

Why hadn’t Erick realized that earlier—

Nothanganathor suddenly erupted in laughter, the sound of it coming from every angle, like an echo that surrounded—

Erick was inside of a stomach. He didn’t know how he had gotten there, but he was inside of a world-sized stomach. Acid burned the void all around like caustic corruption, twisting reality into digestible mana. Erick Stepped out of the trap, into the void, lit by the Red Sun. Nothanganathor swallowed a few thousand more Valkyries while Erick reoriented—

