You will not remember these words, little god-to-be. Not right now. But they will return to you in your moment of greatest struggle.

I see a forking path before you. One side leads to destruction. You break. You shatter beneath the pain and obsession of the Crown I have placed upon your brow.

The other side, now, that's the interesting one. It has been many an eon since I found a god that could contend against me. So many of them, old and new, desperate cowards all. They think themselves wise, avoiding strife. They think themselves clever, playing shadowy games against me, as if I cannot play the same games, as if I do not wage war across all theaters and in all spectrums.

But you are not war. You are defiance of war. More, you are anathema to war, and I wish to know why. I wish to know where your path leads so that I may dash myself upon you and, through this bastardized Hegelian dialectic between us, see who is greater: that which defies the natural order of our reality, or its embodiment.

Be your own anvil; serve as your own altar. Perform an act of worship to your own spirit.

Defy me! Defy! Defy! And rise! I offer you your first true prayer. I will be your first and only worshiper in the time preceding your rise to apotheosis.

I hereby pray to you, Adam Arrow: Defy me, and become a god worth facing!

—The Challenger to Adam Arrow

423

Kingdom of the All-Seeing [I]

In the beginning, or the middle, or perhaps somewhere near the end, there was blood. That metallic taste. The bite of that crushing tang.

Blood, hot and wet, pulled his senses back from the brink, from the chaotic vortex that ruled over him.

Blood filled Adam's mouth.

Blood ran down his throat.

Blood painted his face.

Blood stained his eye.

Blood coated his hands.

Blood was what he was.

Blood flowed through him.

Blood became him.

Blood, pain, and a measure of recognition slithered through Adam; a memory hardened inside of him, crystallizing like an aspect of the past becoming an anchor for his consciousness amidst that miasma of pain. There was no respite, no escape from that howling urge inside of him, but it was dull for now, reduced. He had slaked the thirst, that itch, and as it went dormant, he realized how he understood what he had done.

He looked down upon the remnants of his mother. He only recognized her by the upper left bit of her face that remained, her eye, staring lifelessly at and through him.

Everything else of her was currently working its way through his guts.

Adam slowly reached up, and he grabbed at his lips to pull out something stuck between his teeth. He raised the strand of crimson hair in front of his eye, and it fell from his fingers in the same heartbeat. Adam gagged. Adam vomited, and he spewed that dark, warm sickness all over the corpse of the woman who spawned him. A putrid mess of blood and half-digested tissue splattered down upon Rose’s half-eaten corpse as Adam woke from a feverish nightmare to descend into one he could comprehend.

The worst thing about sanity was understanding. In madness, you were lost; in madness, there was ignorance. An unknowing unconsciousness spared you the true weight of reality. In awareness, draped in enlightenment, you had to face the vileness of your own deeds.

He shuddered and spat, sour, coppery rivers pouring out from his mouth until only strands of pale-red spittle swayed from his lips. When his stomach was empty and his tears were dry, he finally mustered his resolve and rose on shaking legs. As he finally staggered away from his mother's body, he stepped in something soft and wet. He slipped, only managing to halt his collapse by manifesting his wings, and he rose upward. Inverted pyramids cast the world around him alight, and he saw what had been all around him from the beginning: more red, more blood!

The stains! The stench! Everywhere! All of this place, a world of blood! All that blood upon him!

Corpses rose high and higher in stacked mounds. Adam recognized their faces. They were part of his family guard, his guests, the local nobility, the people who served his household.

And as he beheld their still-fresh mutilations, he remembered inflicting them. He remembered ripping into them with nails and teeth, and older, grander memories came back as well. Those crystallized moments from his distant past, those battles between him, Shiv and Uva, his friends, his companions in war and bloodshed—life bound by strife, ignited by the System's favor.

Of all those memories, one stood above all others.

Near the void, far above the world, he raised his bow, and he let fly a thing of light and truth. The System gave his arrow a blessing, a power to smite and lay low a foe most vile, and his judgement struck that Tarrasque with the face of his friend, banishing its life essence to make it fall down to the earth.

It didn't die, not truly. Its vitality reignited in the next heartbeat, and then it came again, and again, and again.

He remembered, he remembered—nothing at all.

But that memory, that scar, remained imprinted upon his mind. He recalled enough to regain a measure of control.

He was inside his body again. He wore himself as he wore his perfect armor to that battle against the monster.

Adam Arrow was.

But what was he? Even if he was sane again, for now, would it last? Why was he here? Why was he on the lawn behind his castle? Why were there floral drapings mounted upon the metal arches? Why was he dressed in all-white formal wear, with the Starhawk emblem emblazoned upon him? This was to be his groom's dress. He was to be wed in this outfit.

He turned left. There was little left of Isabella's body, only a leg, gnawed off halfway down the thigh. As he stared, a feeling of mania and rising disbelief trembled inside of him, echoing in tandem with the ever-plunging weight at the base of his stomach.

How could he have done this? Even in the throes of utter insanity, how could he have succumbed to cannibalism of all things? This had to be an illusion. It had to be a deception. It had to be. Otherwise—

A wave of faintest blue swept over him. His body dissolved. Adam Arrow was unmade. His very essence scattered as his soul commingled with another. It was more than a disintegration. It was the welding of him into Integration. There was no separation between him and the System anymore. Threads blended together. He ceased to be, at least for a passing, merciful moment.

Encounter failed

Resetting Delve…

Adjusting Partial Legendary Skill Evolution

Initiating Encounter (1/5)

Encounter 1 Objective: Find and eliminate the Animancy bomb before it is primed and destroys Starhawk’s Perch.

Adam returned, his eye wide with disbelief. As the notification faded, he found his reflection in the mirror looking back at him. His one eye was bright azure, blazing with the incandescence of Divinity, yet bloodshot and spent of energy. The empty pit that was his right socket leaked flickers of that same light, like a boiling pond of liquid flame. His body was withered. He was so worn he barely recognized the man in the mirror. The man whose skin felt wrong, like the flesh on his bones wasn't his. This was him, but there were so many things, so many things—

“No… No, no, no, no, no,” Adam gasped, raising his voice in an attempt to drown out the sounds and sensations. He willed himself to ignore the Black-Hunger, the rising itch, that compulsion to rip, tear, and kill. He ignored it for as long as he could, and he governed his mind. He mustered what focus he could and tried to get a handle on the situation.

Maybe he was still insane, but he doubted it. Things were too coherent, and by now, he knew what madness was. There was too much consistency now. His thoughts strung together without a dream-like quality to them. He was inside his bedroom, standing before his mirror, dressed and prepared to be married to his academy sweetheart, but there was too much missing here and there.

Something else wriggled its way into his mind. That notification just now—that was of a Delve Quest. He was Delving. What skill was he Delving, though? What skill had he reached Legendary-Tier in? How was that possible? Had his mind been infiltrated by a Psychomancer? Was this all an illusion?

“One step in front of another, Adam. One step at a time,” he muttered to himself. “If it is an illusion, then we need to spot the incongruities. Remember your training? Remember what you know about magic? Remember… I… Why can't I remember?”

He shook his head hard, crimson hair whipping about. He refused to give in to that rising mania. If he was to be deceived, then he would start with the Grand Deception and unravel it bit by bit. For now, he needed to ground himself in this reality.

A knock sounded at his door, but Adam ignored it. A sense of purpose filled him. If this was truly a Delve Quest, then nothing except the objective mattered. He was to prevent the destruction of Blackedge, and if the horrors he experienced in that prior instance were actually true instead of another bout of psychosis, that meant people here were expendable. People. His mother. Isabella. He'd…

Adam slapped himself hard. He let out a breath. His ear was ringing. “No, I didn't. I didn't. It's just… This isn't real. This isn't real… Or it is. Or it is.”

Another knock sounded at his door, but Adam was already making his way there. He swung it open. There was Rose, holding her arms open, preparing to embrace her son.

“Finally!” she said, a light hint of exasperation in her tone. “I thought you were going to take all day in the—Adam?”

He slipped past her, looking to his left and right. The corridors leading into his hallway were filled with guests and guards, the air heavy with floral scents, flower petals drifting through the wind. Adam instinctively knew an Aeromancer was guiding the flavors and petals through the hallways deliberately to set the atmosphere for festivities to come.

“Adam, Adam, what's wrong? Adam, talk to me, godsdammit!”

But he continued ignoring his mother, or at least the simulacrum of her. She had been back before. She was back now. But she had been dead before he devoured her? But she had also been alive before that. She was…

Adam shook himself. He could still feel the heat of her blood dripping down his chin. But she had returned. That meant this was a Delve. That meant everything here was a falsehood.

He wasn't a cannibal. He wasn't. This was just a test. But what a disgusting test it was. With everything he'd suffered, this place might as well be an incarnation of hell.

As Rose continued trying to speak with him, Adam cast his Awareness outward. Yet as it departed from his flesh, he could feel the itch rise. A nagging sensation overtook his mind, becoming a thunderclap of a headache, and it promised only to subside if he turned on his heel, took a step forward, placed his thumbs against the softness of Rose's eyes, and pressed until his nails dug through the warm, soft furrows of her brain.

He fought that urge. He defied it. If only out of pure spite, if only because that was who he wanted to be, he defied it, and he focused on the task at hand. There was someone planning to destroy Blackedge, and he couldn't allow that, not even in a dream.

Blackedge... Something had happened to his home. He knew not what, but he knew he had failed somehow. He couldn't protect it then, but he would protect it now, even if this was an illusion. He would succeed, even if it was a lie.

His Awareness exploded through the halls of the Perch as he tried to find any hint of the impending attack. Soon, he departed from the castle and began sweeping down from the highest steps of Blackedge, going over the artisan and merchant quarters, passing through the Slayers Guild, and then crossing over the residential clusters. There were far too many people in the town, but their actions were automated, artificial. There was a repetitive quality to the way they spoke and moved, and there was a dullness behind their gazes, like they were being puppeteered by an unseen presence.

There was too much for him to sift through, but—

A spasm went through his mind. He remembered the faint blue that struck him: the blast of an Animancy Bomb. It had hit him from behind and slightly to his left.

He had been at the edge of town, but still, he had a general direction. He could follow that. But where would someone hide a bomb of that caliber? And how could he discover it in whatever time he had?

Another memory came back to him unbidden: another skill he once possessed, or still possessed. Adam reached out, and his body came aglow with violet light. But infused in that mana was a flicker of incandescence, pushing his power further and causing a cloud of crushing mist to swell out. Rose tried to say something to him, but she was trapped in a stasis of absolute peace, or something more. As the mist washed over Adam, the itch inside of him went quiet as well, and he felt something else: a fear in his subconsciousness. His animal mind thrashed as something inimical to the concept of violence took hold. Adam felt a measure of peace that couldn't be broken, and the System guided him towards that which he sought.

In his mind's eye, he knew what an Animancy core looked like. He had faced one before, bright, faint blue, and all-consuming. He used it to kill something. A Jealousy, perhaps? No, that was someone else. He slew an… Outsider. Yes. That was right.

As he held onto that thought, threads of bright violet pulled his perception downward, down into the castle's basement, until his Awareness followed. His senses ripped back into Starhawk's Perch, crashed through the floor, and settled at the very depths of the dungeon. It was there that he found himself staring at nothing in particular. There seemed to be an empty patch of space, nothingness.

