Yet the violet mana he wielded clearly painted something there: Adam needed to descend, or he needed to strike at that point, perhaps. What did he use to strike at things?

And then it came to him, beyond his memory, engraved upon his very soul, practically the symbol of who he was and the namesake of his family. Still standing just outside his bedroom, it manifested in his hand. It combusted in a flash of divine fire, and the Spellstring—a gift from one he couldn't recall, a promise, and his long-time weapon—rested easily between his fingers.

What followed was pure reflex. He drew one of the bow’s many strings back. Rose cried out, asking him what he was doing, but then Adam shaped his arrow of pure flame, an arrow of Heroism, an arrow of Tyranny, and he fired it out not through matter, but existence itself.

The shard ripped straight down and impacted that patch of nothing, and it turned out that patch of nothing wasn't quite so nothing after all. His arrow struck the edge of something unseen, and a quivering blackness spilled out from a fractured point, marring the surface of reality. The fracture expanded, and soon the blackness was accompanied by scintillating motes of darkness. Dimensionality. Adam had burst someone's spatial barrier, and through the chasm, he caught sight of his enemy: an orc wearing a star-speckled hood, wielding a hovering constellation of gleaming daggers.

Whisper. The name greeted Adam, yet it came from nowhere.

His moment of hesitation broke as he fired three more arrows in quick succession, each one brighter and more devastating than the last. They smashed through the protective shell, and the orc tried to deflect them using a swarm of flying knives, but it proved to be futile as the Paragon’s shards tore through them like a streaking meteor would evaporate a flock of seagulls.

Adam felt every impact he bestowed upon the orc as if he was slamming into Whisper’s soul with his own. Then something inside the orc burst wide open. It was like there was a locked door there, a sealed entrance. Rather than tearing the grayskin's flesh wide open or combusting him from within using the divine flames of the arrow, Adam found himself sheathed inside his enemy, puncturing deep into his soul and banishing the darkness there. At once, Adam became the lord of another person's being, and Whisper went rigid before falling to his knees. That act of domination, that breach of Whisper’s mana and the overcoming of his skills, was a symbol, an aspect of worship.

In the depths of the Gate Lord's mind, he felt the itch lessen. He felt the Crown of the Anti-Savior wane, and he felt a rush of power like never before. A rush of power that caused the cloud of peace and domination to explode out from him, swallowing the base of the castle and ripping through the midsection of Blackedge entirely.

Then the voice came. That hated voice. That loathsome voice. That voice that drove Adam to the brink of rage-born madness. The voice of the one who condemned him to such suffering.

“Praise be the Young God of Peace-to-be! Praise be he who defies war, he who spits in the eye of strife! Praise be, for he has done what I desire! He has made me a happy orc!”

As the Challenger sang his praises, Adam felt his jaw crack and his teeth rattle. He remembered now. More and more memories came back. More and more of his mind crystallized with clarity.

This was the voice of the Challenger. The Challenger had embedded him with that cursed crown, and he only remembered what that crown was just now. Before, it was like mist. He was surrounded by that knowing. It was there, but he couldn't recall why he knew or how it found itself nested inside him.

Now he did. Now he found himself in control once more. Even in the depths of this Delve, even trapped, he knew the face of his enemy, and the enemy showed his face, as if to taunt Adam.

Next to Whisper, covered by the concealing shroud until now, was a massive cylinder containing a pulsing sphere of the faintest blue. This Animancy bomb was smaller than that which Adam knew, but it bathed the surroundings of the dungeon in that soft blue glow all the same. And it was that glow that revealed the towering figure approaching him, that battle-scarred shape of the God of Strife.

The Challenger was clapping. His left hand was brilliant and flaming, afire with the power of strife, and dull-gray below, as the skin of his kind was. His right hand was two hands fused into one, gleaming bright gold—a gold that Adam remembered as well. Something struck him from the past. This was the Starhawk's arm. It had been ripped away from the Ascendant of Justice, and now the orc wore it, had transplanted it upon himself in the place of his missing limb. That was mockery, that was praise, that was the nature of the Challenger.

And this was the shape of Adam's enemy. Unable to resist, Adam manifested from Whisper and took aim using his bow. He'd crossed over hundreds of meters, crashing down through matter to embed himself inside Whisper’s spirit. As the orc doubled over, struggling to regain his bearings, Adam tried to take a shot at the Challenger. Yet he felt himself collapse as a thunderous explosion of absolute, searing agony ripped through the center of his skull. So much agony that it dissipated the mists of dominating peace.

Adam fell to his knees beside his newly-claimed orc, and the Challenger chuckled, yet there was no derision in his voice. He was proud, and the metaphysical weight of his pride pressed down on Adam, grinding him into the floor, stone cracking, metal bending.

“I knew my prayers to you were not wasted, Paragon. I knew that you would choose the second path.”

The Challenger marched forward, his footsteps like war drums, his presence foul, the stench of war, the presence of war, the very expression of war unchained. But as it stained Whisper, as it filled that gap, it couldn't reach into the Paragon.

Of the two Divinities in the room, one was impossibly greater than the other. Yet Divinity was a quality all its own, and though greater, the Challenger could never hope to dominate Adam. He could only strike him down, and that was not what Strife desired. That was not enough for the God of War.

Against all odds, through the pain, through the returning madness, Adam somehow lifted his head and raised his eye. Something had changed inside of him. Where his mind was the weakest part of him and shattered when he overstrained himself, there was someone strengthening him, someone ensuring his memories remained intact as he crawled his way back to partial consciousness. But though he was anathema to war, he was not beyond hate. With his single azure eye, he glared upon the Challenger. He seethed and raged, and no longer then was he kneeling. No longer was he groveling. He rose, even though there was the weight of a mountain upon him, even though crashing tides of a higher Divinity commanded him to heel.

Adam rose, and a dense veil of protective mist shrouded him. A dense veil that had once burned the severed hand of the Challenger. If he could only reach the orc god, he could flay his skin using that which war couldn't survive. Despite all that defiance and that impossible strength Adam found inside himself, he couldn't move. It was all he could do to stand. That was the extent of his strength.

And it wasn't enough. It couldn't be enough.

“Move,” Adam snarled at himself. He bled from his eye and the empty socket beside it, from his nose, from his mouth. From every orifice he bled—and his leg twitched forward by a centimeter.

The Challenger's eyes widened, and his clapping began anew.

“Come! Come! Push yourself more, Paragon! Let's see how close you get.”

Another centimeter, and Adam's eye suddenly rolled back. His skull felt like it was going to implode from within. The pain was beyond his ability to describe. The madness was sweeping through him, threatening to collapse his mind. But then, as he fell forward, something caught him.

There were two hands resting against him. A stolen hand. The Starhawk’s.

“There is no shame in collapsing, especially not in the face of a superior threat. But just because there's no shame…” The Starhawk's conjoined hand reared back and then plunged into Adam, not turning intangible, but simply breaching his flesh amid an eruption of blood and clutching his lower ribs. With a sudden wrench, the bones snapped, and a piercing shriek exploded out of the Paragon. The pain had begun anew. The pain as he was lifted into the air by the insides of his flesh, as he felt the Challenger ruffle through his organs, breaking him, remaking him, but keeping him alive.

He kicked. He tried to push himself free from the orc god's grasp, but to no avail. For all the power invested in his spirit, for his Divinity, he was not a greater god. Though he could deny the influence of the Challenger's Domain, he was not capable of matching him materially.

“...There are always consequences for failure, justified or not, reasonable or not. Reality is not a friend to us. It simply wants us to fight and struggle, to suffer and die, and to do it over and over again.” The Challenger lifted his head and glared at the System on Adam's behalf. “Would you like to hear a truth from me?”

“Fuck… you,” Adam snarled, stealing a phrase from someone he cherished.

The Challenger just hummed a fatherly laugh and shook his head. He continued talking regardless, still rummaging through Adam's flesh. “I pity you. I pity the fate bestowed upon you. I pity this world that scorned you for your struggle. I pity you, but what good does that? I'm glad you have risen, though. I'm glad you still defy.”

With a sudden swipe of his hands, he wrenched his limb free from Adam's chest and allowed the Paragon to collapse into a heap. Adam coughed and wheezed. The blood came back, the blood that defined him, the blood that pulled him back to consciousness. Blood spilled out from his mouth, pouring forth in a tide, but never once did his piercing eye turn away from the Challenger. Never once did he stop pouring his hate into the orc.

“That's right. That's the look I want from you. That's the only way you should be. I look forward to this. Delve well, gain a skill of skills. I give you my favor. I give you this legend. I give you my capitulation, so that the System can fling you to the furthest reaches that legend can provide. In return, I wish to see you again sooner, later, forever. You and that Deathless of yours. I feel slighted, I feel honored, and I wait with bated breath. Match my Divinity as he matches my power. I beg of you, I pray to you. Praise be, O Tyrant God of Peace and Heroism.”

And with that offering made, the Challenger bowed to Adam in a display of genuine, utmost respect, as something concentrated and congealed inside the Paragon's soul. It was not a blessing, but rather a recognition on the part of his ontological opposite, christened and engraved by the System.

The Challenger dissolved like he had never been, but his presence remained imprinted on Adam, and the pain inside his skull, though ever-present, dulled without someone to provoke it to its fullest potential. Slowly, Adam rose to his feet, and to his disbelief, or just waking from another moment of mania, he found the wounds inflicted upon him banished. His entrails were no longer swaying out from him, his ribs not powder. He was whole of flesh, and Whisper was gone as well. A notification appeared in his eye, and the sudden shift in requirements caught him by surprise.

Encounter Completed (1/5)

Initiating Encounter (2/5)

Encounter 2 Objective: Contain the Vicar’s plague before it spreads through Blackedge; eliminate all the infected.

Adam went dry of words. This Delve was reaching for cruelty after cruelty, forcing him to suffer and then rending him apart by making him kill his own subjects—his own people. Had that been how he went insane before, because the System forced him to devour those he loved to simply get through these encounters? No, no, that was something else. This... He had to do this. He knew that. Otherwise, there was no way ahead. There was no way out. He needed to get out. He needed to return. He needed to finish this fight with the Challenger. He needed to...

He felt so alone.

“Shiv… Uva…” Adam's voice was thin and weak.

Nothing answered him in the darkness of the dungeon.

He knew they weren't here. This was a Delve. He was trapped inside his own soul until he finally completed the metamorphosis for his Legendary Skill. But though he knew that, he was spent, spent of mind, spent of spirit, and he couldn't keep pushing. The itch was already coming back, and though the Challenger was gone, Adam had used up so much of himself to defy, defy, defy. The Paragon curled into a ball, because divine or not, it hurt.

It hurt, it hurt, and it hurt.

It hurt, and he didn’t want to be alone right now.

There just wasn’t—

“Get. Up. You. Wretch. I will not have your mewing weakness shame your inherited Divinity. Get. Up.”
