“I love you, Honey.” Ren said. “I'm sorry I have to leave.”

“I'm sorry, too.” Fire Dancer said and let him out of the hug. Ren reduced Teepo and himself to their normal size, then they went to the spawn point building with Suniva and Artemis. They waved to Fire Dancer, and Ren cast the Portal spell to leave. Teepo dissolved into the Beetle Crown ring, then they did the transition to the underground chamber and then to the bedroom.

Once there, Artemis and Suniva settled onto the bed, and he gave them and the succubi a kiss before he summoned Teepo again. Teepo flew up to perch on the ceiling and Ren stood by the wall to log out.

“Logout.”

********

Ren slid off the VR headset and Lisa took it from him.

“Right on time.” Lisa whispered.

“Hey, cutie.” Ren said. “Where's...”

“Shh.” Lisa said and pointed.

Ren lifted his head and saw that Barbara was curled up on the couch and covered in a blanket. “She took my advice.” He whispered. “Good for her.”

“She was up all night and then all day.” Elise whispered.

“Hey, beautiful.” Ren whispered back. “Are you ready to not cuddle with me?”

Elise smiled. “If you can slide over a little, I can at least be a good pillow for you.”

“Good?” Ren whispered and eased himself over. “You're the best pillow.”

“I try.” Elise breathed.

Ren nestled into the crook of her arm and rested his head on her shoulder and part of her breast. “Lisa, I've got a free arm you can hold to your heart's content.”

“I really want to cuddle into you like you are into Elise.” Lisa said and laid down on her side. “Your ribs are still too tender to do that, though.” She wrapped her arms around his arm and held it between her breasts. “This will have to do for now.”

Ren didn't have anywhere to put his hand comfortably, except between her thighs, and when he did slide his hand there, she didn't protest and even opened her legs slightly to let him.

“I love you both so much.” Ren said and his other hand rested on Elise's thigh. “Thank you for loving me back.”

“We didn't have much choice, did we, Lisa?” Elise asked, and Lisa shook her head.

“You're just so awesome.” Lisa said with a smile.

“I was joking when I said that.” Ren said and returned her smile.

“We know.” Lisa said and rubbed her face on his shoulder for a moment, then the three of them relaxed and their breathing evened out. They drifted off to sleep, each in the warm embrace of a loved one.
