Callan smiled wryly. “I guess so.” He hovered back from the map. “Just so you know, ichor-poisoning’s the same thing as ichor-warping. Some people call it the first one since, well, it shortens your lifespan, and some people suffer from it without showing visual signs. It varies a lot from person to person.”

“Ah, so I’ll get a bunch of pity points. Cool.”

The ghost winced. “I mean, probably? It could be the reason you left Drovna. Auren does get a good amount of travelers, including people who want to help fight against the empire. Drovna’s historically had a lot of clashes with the empire anyway, so it shouldn’t be too much of a stretch for you to want to join the garrison.”

Callan had spent a good chunk of time stressing over the details of her backstory, but the demon was much more lax about the whole situation. She figured she could wing it if some random unexpected question came up—too much planning could feel unnatural, anyway. A few small contradictions here and there would probably just make her seem even more “authentically human.”

Pyre rolled up the map and plopped it back into her bag. Her new bag, to be precise. She’d tossed it around a few times along with her new clothes to make them look more weathered and fitting for a traveler. It was still noticeably nicer than the old one she’d been hauling around, though. Much easier to carry things in.

As another “blending in” tactic, she was currently caking mud onto her boots and then poorly brushing it off before adding some scratches and scuffs with a sharp bone. Honestly, she thought it looked pretty convincing.

All that was left was to see if those bandages would actually hold her flesh in place enough for a bit of ichor-warping to work as an excuse.

Pyre absorbed her little bone pick and reached for the roll of bandages. [Flesh Sculpting] would run out soon, so it was best to do this now while all her flesh was still shaped and in the right spots. She removed her outer coat, then rolled up her plain inner shirt’s sleeves. Carefully, she began to wrap the bandages around her arm, being sure to keep them tight enough that her flesh wouldn’t melt through them later or something. When she was done, she gave the bandages a final tug, then released her skill.

All around her skeleton, her flesh began to droop away from her bones, becoming a shapeless mass once more. The wrapped arm, however, stayed put. Pyre bent it experimentally. The bandages held the flesh firmly in place.

She grinned, and Callan released a breath. She couldn’t tell if the ghost was relieved that the bandages had worked or if he’d been secretly hoping that they didn’t so they wouldn’t have to go through with this plan. Probably a mix of both. Either way, it didn’t matter now.

“Well,” the demon said, waving the bandaged arm around. “Looks like I’m ready to join the garrison.”
