She waved him off. “Not what I’m saying.” She sighed, momentarily holding her tongue and thinking. “I think I can make physical void channels, true ones, not just mental models and manifestations of will.”

That clicked into place and Rane’s eyes widened. “That… might just work, yeah, but that’s a different method than before… You’ll need an actual form to create this time, then…” He only had to consider for a moment.”So, endingberry cohesion?”

Lea was looking back and forth between them, clearly a bit lost, but not wanting to interrupt lest they send her away.

Tala nodded. “I think that’s best. With the void contained, it shouldn’t actually sever me from anything outside. It will likely have other effects, but it shouldn’t do that.”

Rane was nodding in comprehension. “It wouldn’t really be a shield, but it would increase your coherence…” His eyes widened again. “It should do that for anything so contained!”

She grinned in return. “Unfortunately, it would require a power source able to utilize all three pillars of existence, but…”

Rane chuckled. “It would work for our family, Lea best of all.”

With that, the girl seemed to feel confident enough to interject. “I don’t understand at all, Mom. Dad?”

They both smiled her way, Tala responding. “If this works as we think it will, we’ll begin teaching you what you will need to know, but in truth? You’ll have to soulbond with both iron and reality iron for it to really work. I don’t know how we’ll make that happen, but we’ll find a way… if this works.”

Rane waved that off. “Let’s see if we’re right.”

As to what they might or might not be right about? Well, for magic—or reality for that matter—to affect something, it effectively had to overcome the weight of it.

On the physical side of things, this was generally called inertia, though static friction often came into it some of the time as well as other forces and factors.

For Mages and magical alteration, that was most often discussed as magical weight, because essentially every Mage had so little inertia in reality—let alone void—that those basically didn’t factor. To overcome them on those fronts was no harder than doing so with any similar matter.

So, the Academy—and most masters—taught the concept as magical weight when it was really—more accurately—existential weight.

It was like talking about how hard it was to walk with the weight of a backpack, and discussing different packing methods and such. Everyone knew that the person carrying the pack would also be moving their own weight and body, but that was fairly constant, so it wasn’t brought into it.

If this worked as they were thinking, Tala would be able to increase the existential weight of what she shrouded, making it monumentally harder for anything external to affect it in any way.

There was the issue that she was effectively ‘faking’ void, but she’d been doing that for years anyway. She had no direct method for interacting with or manipulating the power of the void, only for utilizing it through secondary effects. It was rather funny as Kit—a complete part of Tala—had been a voidling, but that didn’t actually mean she’d used the void. That kind of creature was simply a resident of—and therefore resistant to—the void in which they lived.

This would still be the closest that she’d ever come.

If it worked.

Rane was grinning at her. “Well? Shall we test it?”
