Alden had been concealing his true thoughts a lot lately. Sometimes out of necessity, sometimes because it was just easier not to give everyone else an opening to pry at painful things. But occasionally, some expression would cross Stuart’s face that reminded him of what the boy had looked like that day. When he was younger. When he watched his father and his sister in the snow.

“I was really scared for a long time,” Alden said eventually. “I think I still am. I need to get over it. Throwing myself at something challenging that will make me stronger might not be a perfect answer, but it seems like an answer. So I’m chasing it.”

Stuart sat there quietly, leaning back against the trunk of the tree for ages. Finally, just when Alden thought the other boy must have decided that the best answer was none at all, he said, “I wish you were my classmate at LeafSong.”

“I think that one would be too much of a challenge for me.”

“I still wish it,” said Stuart, staring up into the branches. “You never say anything that makes me hate you.”

********************

A few nights after that conversation, Alden finally got nine solid hours of only mildly restless sleep for the first time since he’d made it back to Earth. He woke up feeling almost like he was really among the living.

Lying in bed with the early morning sun streaming through the window, he took a deep breath and a deep look at himself.

Himself.

It was always in the corner of his mind, but he’d avoided giving it his deliberate focus for weeks.

Am I okay now?

He was not. But he was okayer, definitely, than he had been.

For the first time, he traced the new edges of his skill on purpose. He held his authority in check, and he didn’t allow it to batter and rend itself in the way it had been trying to do ever since that day. Slowly, carefully, he took in the affixation.

It was bigger. Stronger. A bit more complicated. New buttons to press.

He was both less and more than he had been when he left the lab behind.

That’s all right, he told himself. It’s not only a bad thing.

A portion of him was still free. More than there had been right after the binding, he thought. Though maybe that was just reason seeing things more clearly than his emotions had.

Enough to cast a spell with?

Alden thought so.

Not the auriad spells yet. But the one that lit the promise sticks. The one that made the little song in the air. The hand sanitizer spell.

They had been his. He wanted them again.

But I don’t think that’s the best way to start back.

He put a lot of thought into it while he took his time getting dressed. Starting back with the kiddie wizardry, which he craved and knew he was going to love just as much as he had before, was…a mindset problem.

Do you want to hate your skill more than you have to?

She’d asked him that. And he didn’t. He wanted to like it like the other Avowed did. Or at least be proud of it. Or get some little thrill from it, like he had before he’d known.

Assuming he passed his upcoming second interview, he had just a little more than two weeks before he’d be required to use his powers for Celena North High’s talent and combat assessments. The latest updates Neha had made to his schedule called for him going on a campus tour today. Just a couple of hours from now.

It seemed like a good morning for a debut.

He walked across the hall and knocked on the door of the girls’ apartment. Emilija answered. The other Rabbit was in her pajamas still, and she wore a suspicious look until she saw him.

<<Oh, it’s just you.>>

“Harsh.”

<<I thought you were one of the stalkers.>> She tucked a strand of dark hair behind her ear. <<You’re not a stalker. You’re the bad person who stole our chef.>>

“She still cooks for you guys.”

<<Not nearly as often.>>

Alden smiled. “Is there still vegan ice cream stuff? And is Hadiza in?”

<<Hadiza!>> Emilija shouted, stepping aside to let Alden in. <<The thief wants you!>>

In the girls’ apartment, there was Emilija with her chipped paint skill, the girl with Tailor Environment, Natalie, and Hadiza. The Nigerian Rabbit was a B-rank like Alden. She had a skill that made small objects more beautiful.

It wasn’t like Tailor Environment or the hair cutting. She didn’t have to do or arrange anything by hand. She just pointed at things the size of a shoebox or smaller and, whatever they were, they got more aesthetically pleasing in a dozen tiny ways.

It was a fun skill to watch work. One of those that really looked like magic.

“Hi, Hadiza,” he said when she came out of her room and gave him a curious look. “Can I buy the world’s prettiest ice cream cone from you?”

“Yes,” she said. “I’d like that. <<What are you going to do with it?>>”

“I’m going to carry it around in my pocket all morning.”

Emilija gasped. <<Natalie! Natalie! Come out here. Alden’s finally going to show off his skill!>>

“I am. My very impressive ice cream carrying skill.”

Peer pressure was good in this case. It would keep him from throwing the ice cream across the room if it hurt really bad.

Natalie dashed out of her own room with her toothbrush in her hand. “Did he do it?! Did I miss it?”

“It’s really not that great.”

She wiped foam off her chin with the back of her arm. Her gold eyes were excited.

Hadiza started pulling things out of the fridge and freezer. The second fridge and freezer. The first thing Natalie had done when Alden started paying her was buy a ton of new kitchen stuff. She was going to take it all with her when she left intake, but for now their apartment looked ridiculous.

There were six cookbooks open on the counter, and there were flour spatters on the walls. Both fridges were totally crammed with experiments. There was a new electronic pizza oven half-unboxed in the corner.

Alden sat down and watched. Never had an ice cream cone had so much input from so many people who were deeply invested in its final appearance.

<<Why are you starting with an ice cream?>> Emilija asked.

Alden watched Hadiza and Natalie put sprinkles on top of raspberry sauce.

“Neha says you should do things just because they bring you joy sometimes. And I think carrying ice cream around in my pockets when nobody else can do that is neat.”

The other Rabbit nodded.

The triple-decker ice cream cone was completed. It was pretty before Hadiza even did her thing, but then she pointed at it, and it turned into something that looked like it had been clipped from a magazine cover. The sauce turned glossy-bordering-on-glittery, the sprinkles were suddenly perfectly distributed, the vanilla coconut ice cream got whiter, the chocolate banana got darker, the strawberry turned lipstick pink. The scoops even looked rounder.

“Do we think it’s an illusion? Or does it really do stuff to all of it?” Alden asked.

<<It’s magic,>> Emilija said with a shrug.

“Now you do yours!” Natalie said eagerly.

“Right,” said Alden. He felt nervous. “Just let me target Hadiza.”

He could have pointed, or said “Target Hadiza,” and the System would have flipped that internal switch for him. He’d never actually targeted someone without the assist, since he’d simply refused to let the target on Kibby drop for months for fear it might not work.

But he remembered the feel of it. The weight of that pull between him and his target. He wanted to do it himself.

He found the place inside him—the permanently bound mote of his authority that would never do anything again except for this one specific task. He woke it up. He flexed it. Her, he thought. Hadiza.

He felt an ache. He felt the connection.

A halo of white appeared over her head on his interface.

She didn’t feel anything. She was waiting for some indication that he’d done it. So he pointed at her.

She smiled and held out the ice cream cone.

All right, thought Alden. I’m the Bearer of All Burdens. I ran across a moon. I think I can handle a little frozen dessert.

He took it from her.

He wrapped his skill around it. Consciously. Deliberately.

It worked just like it was supposed to. Of course. His bound authority was still oversensitive, but it did its job flawlessly. He slid off the stool.

The damn carriage rule is still in effect. I’m going to work on breaking that down as soon as possible.

<<Did it work?>>

“It did!” said Alden. “Sorry it doesn’t look very impressive.”

He glanced down at the preserved ice cream. Then he shoved it into the pocket of his hoodie and walked around their living area with it before pulling it out and revealing that it was totally unharmed.

They applauded. And then…

“I’ll get the blowtorch!” Natalie cried.

“Excuse me?”

“It’s just a little one! For creme brûlée and meringue.”

That would be fine…but it probably wasn’t going to feel good.

<<Can I slap it?>> Emilija asked, heading toward Alden with her hand outstretched.

<<Where’s the really sharp knife?>> Hadiza muttered.

Were they always this violent? Alden wondered, looking down at his perfect ice cream. Were they just waiting for their chance ever since I told them I could carry bombs?

Emilija slapped the ice cream lightly. And then, excited by her failure to do any harm to it, she did it a second time with what was probably every bit of her F-rank upper body strength.

<<OW!>> she said, shaking her bright red palm.

“You should meet my friend Jeremy."

The slap was nothing. There wasn’t really an increase in pain or even difficulty. Alden had detected it. Even with his eyes closed, he would have known something had impacted his object. But it was nothing at all like…

Well, what did you expect? A girl slapping your preserved object to feel like a chaos assault on Kibby?

Curious, he let the girls experiment. The knife was fine. The blowtorch was fine. It was just a little baby blowtorch, like she’d said, but still…

So this is what powering up the skill does for you.

“Can I hit it now?” Natalie asked, flipping a meat hammer in one hand.

“That depends,” said Alden warily. “You’re an S-rank…you didn’t…what’s your Strength stat?”

<<That’s sweet. He thinks you look like that naturally.>>

Alden didn’t. But just because she’d clearly put the lion’s share of the free points she would have gotten as an S into Appeal that didn’t necessarily mean she’d put all of them—

“I put all my extra points in Appeal!” Natalie said cheerfully. “I am stronger. Because it’s more appealing if you move well, and that takes strength. But it’s nothing crazy.”

“Oka—”

She walloped the ice cream and then laughed excitedly when the hammer flew out of her hand and across the room.

“This is the best!”

<<Let’s take him upstairs and see if the Meisters can break it! There’s that girl with the katana.>>

“I have to go on a tour now,” said Alden, grinning in spite of himself. “You scary people need to leave me alone.”

He tucked the ice cream in his pocket and left.

He waited until he was out on the street to say, “System, ditch the targeting assist. And the halo. I don’t need it.”

The point of light that represented Hadiza’s location winked out. He could feel where she was still.

He focused on the preservation for the rest of the morning.

It was so easy. Despite the pain, it was just so much easier.

And when he pulled his triple decker ice cream cone out of his pocket in the middle of the tour and finally ate it—earning a few curious looks from the other people in the group—he did feel a little bit cool.
