In the eyes of the Empire, Dastan Zhandos and his former retinue were souls doomed to serve out the rest of their lives as slaves, but while he couldn’t speak for his comrades, Dastan saw his Oaths as less punishment and more an affirmation of faith.

For his master, his hero, his friend Falling Rain, was none other than the Mother’s Chosen Son, Her appointed servant who would lead the Azure Empire to victory against the Father’s foul minions.

What better proof than what all of Sinuji just witnessed, for here and now on the cusp of battle, the Mother had finally seen fit to restore Her Champion to fighting form. The term ‘miracle’ was often used far too casually for Dastan’s tastes, but how else could one describe tonight’s series of events? First, Falling Rain engineered an explosion of fiery death the likes of which the Empire had never before seen, so powerful it fooled an Enemy Divinity into taking action against them. Then, it was revealed that there were not one, not two, but three Imperial Divinities here in Sinuji to protect Her Chosen Son, an honour even the Emperor himself was only rarely afforded, though considering how His Imperial Majesty rarely left the safety of His Imperial Palace, His Imperial Dharma Protector was mostly there as a symbolic gesture rather than out of pressing need. And now, just as battle was about to be joined, Falling Rain revealed his recovery to all of Sinuji to raise their morale and remind everyone that no matter what calamity lay before them, the Mother always left a path to salvation.

While all of Sinuji chanted for Gen’s death, Dastan marvelled at the meticulous planning which had gone into this stunning reveal. The conflagration explained why Rain had been so unconcerned by the million-strong army of Defiled marching towards them, for he’d long since set a trap for Gen and his ruinous ilk. As for the trio of Divinities, Dastan attributed it more to fortuitous happenstance than careful planning, though Rain certainly took advantage where he could. To think, the scruffy, unkempt leader of the Protectorate was actually an Ancestral Beast hidden in plain sight, no doubt a secret, staunch ally of the Bekhai considering Guan Suo’s oh-so-talented daughter Sumila was being raised by Lieutenant General Akanai herself. GangShu’s appearance came as no surprise to Dastan, as the Ascendant’s status was an open secret ever since he revealed himself some six or so months ago, when he stepped in to save them from a powerful, Water-Blessed Demon they encountered while out on patrol. As for the Abbot of the Penitent Brotherhood, Dastan assumed such a lofty figure would be a powerful Martial Warrior to be reckoned with, but he hadn’t expected the humble monk to be a human Divinity, the match of any Imperial Dharma Protector or Ancestral Beast and only a half-step away from true mastery of Balance.

To think, this wrinkled, hairless, hunched-back monk could possibly become the first and only ever Ancestral Human in history, an all-powerful being capable of manipulating the raw Energy of the Heavens themselves.

After Rain agreed to become a hostage so the gathered Divinities would feel safe enough to leave, Dastan desperately wanted to tag along as a guard, but he knew his limits. Despite so many weeks of training with his new Domain, he was still a long ways off from matching the likes of Emissary Gen, so he stood back and watched as Rain rode out atop his loyal and ferocious quin Zabu to meet with the heinous, half-Demon villain.

Half-Demon. It sounded so strange to even think it, but such was the Emissary, an unholy amalgamation of flesh and Runic steel and formidable to the extreme, which made Rain’s courage all the more inspiring. Though frail and weak, the Mother’s Chosen Son didn’t flinch before his hated foe, and while there was no way to Listen in on their exchange, it was clear to anyone watching that Rain had gained the upper hand. What a sight to behold, the dangerous and daunting Emissary of Earth’s Fire balking before a gaunt and feeble cripple. Small wonder the coward Gen brought a million-strong army to Sinuji: he was worried anything less would result in failure, and in truth, it might very well have.

Best of all, now Rain was crippled no more. Though still gaunt and feeble in appearance, he exuded grace, poise, and grandeur as he sat atop his quin and narrated his poignant experiences with his hated foe, an emotional tale which filled all who heard it with vim and vigour, though the audience’s reaction did seem a tad overdone. Dastan figured it was because the soldiers of Sinuji recognized that they needed a boost to morale and seized upon Rain’s heartfelt, but rather uninspired tale. It seemed strange to know that the public face of the Enemy, this Emissary Gen, had betrayed humanity so easily, a weak-willed craven cur who’d grown into the fearsome Defiled Champion he was today.

Thankfully, the Empire had Falling Rain to depend upon once more, so all would be well.

Marching to Rain’s side, Dastan stood at full attention and saluted, while the rest of his comrades followed suit. “It will be an honour to fight at your side again,” he said, trembling with emotion and anticipation. “Your presence on the battlefield has been sorely missed.”

Expecting a quiet smile and a snarky quip, Dastan’s grin melted away as Rain raised an eyebrow and uttered, “Say what now?” Unsure how to proceed, Dastan simply repeated his statement verbatim and prayed this was all one of Rain’s strange jokes. Unfortunately, the eyebrow remained raised as he said, “Uh... Sorry, but... not sure how you haven’t noticed, but I’ve been crippled for many months now. Can’t really fight by your side today.” Leaning over to peer into Dastan’s eyes, he asked, “Are you feeling okay, Dastan? Did... Did Gen work some sort of mind magic or something? Can you tell me today’s date?”

“Leave him be boy.” Though the gruff woman came to his defence, Dastan didn’t appreciate Ghurda’s tone or how roughly she handled Rain, all but dragging him back into an upright position. “Be straight with me now,” she said, peering suspiciously at the Mother’s Chosen Son, still towering over his mounted form despite standing on two feet. “How long’ve you been better and why’ve you been keepin’ it secret?”

“What in the fu–” Clearing his throat over the sound of Ghurda’s chest-shaking growl, Rain smoothed out his sleeves and said, “I have no idea what you’re talking about Ghurda. What do you mean better? I guess I get a little better every day, but it’s hardly worth reporting. Woo-hoo, I can walk around without feeling like I’m gonna die. I’d hardly call that a secret.”

“...Yer serious.” It wasn’t so much a question as it was a statement, though Ghurda herself barely sounded like she believed it. “Mother in Heaven, yer dead serious. Ye didn’t know. Ye still don’t.”

“And I’d be much obliged if you’d clue me in.”

“Are ye daft, boy?” As much as Dastan respected Rain, he couldn’t help but wonder the same as Ghurda wildly gestured around them. “Ye hear that? All of Sinuji be cheerin’ fer yer speech.”

“Yea... so?” Still clueless and confused, Rain glanced at Dastan and raised his eyebrow ever so slightly to subtly ask if he was the only one who didn’t understand, but Dastan was too shocked to respond.

“This don’t strike you as odd?” Ghurda asked, her voice strained and frustration mounting. “How’d they all hear you good enough to cheer fer ye?”

“They’re soldiers, Ghurda,” Rain replied, with all the patience of a man speaking with a beloved fool. “If one starts cheering about killing Defiled, the rest will join in.”

“Oh Mother in Heaven, grant yer child the patience and restraint required not to smother this idiot before me.” Taking a deep breath after her muttered prayer, Ghurda exhaled slowly before taking Rain by both shoulders and leaning over to look him straight in the eyes. “You. Infuriating. Boy. Did ye not feel it? Yer story, soon as ye started telling it, ye began projecting it fer all of Sinuji to hear. It wasn’t Speaking, but something different, like ye were Sending to every living being around you while speaking in a normal tone.” Straightening up, the hulking half-bear added, “Ye were using Chi, boy. In more ways than one.”

Ever the skeptic, Rain glanced around again for confirmation and found every soldier in earshot nodding to corroborate Ghurda’s explanation. “Your words,” Song said, chiming in to convince Rain. “They were laced with... emotion, and I... I believe I felt what you felt as you told your tale. Your melancholy and disdain, your rage and sorrow...” After a brief pause, she added, “Your love and affection.”

Reeling back as if physically struck, Rain blinked repeatedly and said nothing, which Lieutenant Masahige took as permission to say his piece. “Fuck Watanabe,” he said, quivering from head to toe with fear and excitement. “If you’ve truly recovered, then you need to leave now before he acts. I don’t know what he’s planning, but I know it won’t end well for you or yours, and I will no longer be a part of it.” Spinning about on his heel, he drew his sword and held it to the neck of the man behind him, his arm shaking all the while. “This one is Watanabe’s mouthpiece. I suggest we kill him before he Sends word.”

“Too late now.” None too gently grabbing onto Masahige’s sword hand, Ghurda forcibly lowered the idiot man’s weapon for him. “When it comes to Sending, it don’t take more than a thought, so if you mean to stop one, best to act first and act fast.” Shaking her head, she added, “Besides, we ain’t runnin’, and he’s free to tell the Lieutenant Colonel as much. Be a warm winter in the mountains before Old Ghurda abandons her military post, that it will.”

“I’m recovered?” Still lost in the throes of confusion and denial, Rain barely batted an eye even though Masahige almost started a rebellion in his name, or at the very least meant to violate no less than a half-dozen major military laws. “Since when? How?” Closing his eyes, he reached for Balance and... winced. “Nope. Still hurts when I reach for Balance.” Staring at his empty hands, he frowned and shook his head after a moment’s study. “No Aura, no Reinforcement, no Lightening.” Biting his finger, he watched the blood well up for long seconds before adding, “No Healing either. In what way am I fixed?”

“Perhaps not entirely recovered, but I might have some insight to offer regarding your earlier performance.” Striding over without acknowledging the salutes offered to him, Colonel General Nian Zu cleared his throat and said, “I’ve encountered two similar such times when I was moved to emotion through sound. The second time was during Imperial Consort Zheng Luo’s musical performance, wherein she used her zither to evoke an emotional, almost supernatural response from her audience. Not entirely unheard of, and not entirely understood either, but most scholars attribute it to a sort of harmony between the arts and Balance, a means of drawing out one’s innermost emotions in order to cleanse them from the self and cast them to the Void. Music is not the only art known to do so, but also poetry, dance, calligraphy, sculpting.” Giving Rain a pointed look, he added, “Oration.”

“What about the first time? You said you experienced it twice.” Rain asked, never one to be happy with vague answers lacking in substance. Besides, he’d already vocally admitted how he’d been unable to appreciate the finer points of his Consort’s concerts, a difficulty Dastan shared, but Rustram, Bulat, and even Sumila swore the music had helped Condense their Auras, though they lacked the words to explain it.

Lang Yi had also been present at that momentous concert and Condensed his Aura, but he only spoke about the experience once. Rather than give credit to Consort Zheng Luo, he said he owed his new Aura to his dear departed wife, though he refused to elaborate on how or why, only offering a sad, but hopeful smile as he gazed off into the distance. Having long since Condensed his own Aura, Dastan didn’t press the taciturn man for answers, but now he wished he had, if only to help uncover the mystery of Rain’s recovery.

Despite having been put on the spot, Nian Zu remained silent for long seconds before putting up a Sound Barrier to make their conversation private, though Dastan, Song, and Ghurda were all included within it. By design, no doubt, since Kuang Biao had been excluded and if Nian Zu only wanted Rain to hear, then he could’ve simply Sent the answer. “The first time I experienced such an event,” Nian Zu said, watching Rain carefully for his reaction, “Was during the Imperial Grand Conference’s opening ceremony, when the Legate addressed the crowd and instilled every man, woman, and child in Nan Ping with a burning sense of loyalty and warm affection for the Empire.”

“Ah right. His rousing speech.” Lowering his head in thought, Rain added, “I remember it well. I didn’t feel anything strange personally, but I saw that there was something off about everyone else’s reaction. No wait, not everyone’s.” Amber eyes landing on Dastan, Rain cocked his head and said, “You weren’t affected. Same with Sahb, Ulfsaar, Neera, and Wang Bao. I didn’t see anyone else, but I distinctly remember the five of you, and thought it was because of... our shared experiences.”

