Six unaffected parties, all of whom formed Natal Souls after almost turning Defiled. A coincidence? Most likely. In truth, there were probably many unaffected by the Legate’s speech, but at the time, only Rain’s elites had been around him, waiting to be called onto the floating platform to present their gifts, and the five named were amongst his strongest soldiers. Answering the unasked question, Dastan shrugged and said, “I wasn’t much impressed by the Legate’s speech either. Just another snake of a politician pretending to care about the people while exploiting them for all they were worth.”

“Cynical, but not necessarily wrong.” Turning to Nian Zu, Rain said, “I figured it was the Legate’s Talent, but it could just be a secret Imperial skill they don’t teach to outsiders. Wouldn’t want any charismatic individuals using Oration to turn loyal citizens against the admirable and distinguished Imperial Clan.”

With a snarl so savage even Rain’s vicious quin flinched in fear, Ghurda gripped her battleaxe tight until her knuckles cracked and popped. “Which means they won’t be too pleased when they hear about what happened here today.” Patting Rain’s cheek with a long, drawn out sigh, she added, “I’ll say this much boy: ye make life interesting.”

“Sorry.” Looking contrite for all of a second, Rain took a deep breath and said, “Look, this is a problem for the future. Let future us handle the Imperial Clan. For now, let’s focus less on ‘what’ I just did, and instead discuss the ‘how’.” Glancing around from face to face, he asked, “Does anyone have any theories on how I was able to use Chi?”

“You ask us, but who are we to ask?” Nian Zu’s incredulous response spoke for all parties involved, which was good because Dastan wasn’t sure he could’ve phrased it any better. If Rain didn’t know how he used Chi, how was anyone else supposed to know?

Then again... perhaps Dastan did have an explanation, or at least the beginnings of one. A half-year ago, Dastan would’ve been completely lost, but after Developing his Domain, he finally had a grasp of the inner workings of the Martial Path, albeit one he cobbled together mostly on his own without guidance from a Mentor. Even better, in the last few weeks, Rain, the Abbot, Monk Happy, and oddly enough, Jorani would often question Dastan and his comrades on their unique Martial Path, and by answering their questions, he came to understand so much more about the steps he’d taken and what direction to go from here.

Add to this how Dastan forged his Martial Path based on Rain’s advice, he was probably the person most qualified to help Rain solve the mystery of his recovery.

When faced with a conundrum he couldn’t solve, Uncle Diyako said it was always best to start with what you knew. There were only two irrefutable facts laid out before them. One, Rain unconsciously used some sort of speech skill to share his emotions whilst telling his heartfelt tale, and two, that his Core was still shattered, as evidenced by how he was unable to wilfully and knowingly use Chi. Put together, this meant one of two things. Either Rain unintentionally Ascended to Divinity and manipulated the raw, unfiltered Energy of the Heavens, or he discovered a workaround to convert Heavenly Energy into Chi without the use of his Core. Given what Dastan knew of Rain’s Path and the fact that his body was still in such a fragile state, the first option was so improbable it could be discarded out of hand, leaving only the second option on the table.

It was common knowledge that Martial Warriors drew the Energy of the Heavens into their Cores, converted it to Chi, and stored it for later use, but evidently, Rain had discovered some way to bypass the need for a Core and spontaneously convert Chi as needed. This explained why he couldn’t consciously use his Chi, because he had no Chi to use since his shattered Core couldn’t hold any, but even a sieve would hold water for a precious few moments, so if one moved quickly enough, they might wet their lips.

Now Dastan knew the ‘what’, but the question to focus on was ‘how’. So how did he do it? How did he bypass the need for a Core to turn Heavenly Energy into Chi? To answer this, one had to consider the question: how does one’s Core turn Heavenly Energy into Chi?

Only now did Dastan realize he’d muttered this last part out loud. “Emotion,” Rain said, supplying the answer with a shrug which indicated he wasn’t entirely certain. “You take Heavenly Energy in and brand it for your own use through emotion, hence the need for Balance. In essence, it’s a little like binding a Spiritual Weapon, except in this case, the vessel is Heavenly Energy and the binding doesn’t last outside your Core. It’s also why Aura is so easy to use once Condensed, because despite technically being an external usage of Chi, it’s intrinsically tied to the user’s emotion, which allows Aura to persist where other external Chi-workings would unravel into Heavenly Energy.”

After long seconds of silence, Nian Zu and Ghurda both reluctantly agreed, each one offering the slightest of nods without explaining further. Clearly they were worried their own bias might influence Rain and Song’s Martial Path, so they refrained from adding to the explanation, but for some strange reason, Song appeared dismayed by so simple an answer. It made perfect sense to Dastan however, and explained why Martial Warriors felt the warm embrace of the Mother every time they settled down to meditate. The Mother loved all Her children, and Balance was her way of showing it, and by reciprocating Her love, Her children would grow in strength. “That’s it!” Dastan exclaimed, almost giddy with excitement. “I think I figured it out!”

“Please share.”

“Your tale,” Dastan said, ignoring Rain’s skeptical expression. “Don’t you see? You began telling us how you met Gen, but half-way through it turned into the tale of Falling Rain and Qing-Qing. In this heartfelt rendition of events, you relived your past and expressed your regrets, sharing your true self not just with Sinuji, but with the world at large, so it’s obvious what happened.” Seeing the blank stares directed towards him, Dastan’s frustrations grew and he blurted, “One with the Self, and One with the World. Understand?” Knowing he wasn’t making much sense, he stopped to organize his thoughts before continuing. “What is a Domain? It’s just a Core outside the Core, a portion of Heaven in the physical world entrusted to the Martial Warrior for their own use. Even when used externally, Chi will remain Chi so long as it remains within one’s Domain, and the process of Developing a Domain is to become One with the World, which you did while telling your story because you became one with the Self. You wanted all of Sinuji to know about Gen and Qing Qing, and you made it happen, because while Chi is bound through emotion, it is utilized through Intent.”

Exchanging a confused look with Ghurda, the Living Legend Nian Zu asked, “Do you understand any of the boy’s ramblings?”

“Maybe half,” Ghurda replied with a shake of her head. “But it ain’t a half which makes much sense. He ain’t wrong about Intent, but the first thing I did when the boy started spouting off was check him for an active Domain, but I didn’t sense a thing. Also, what in the Heavens is One with the Self?”

Oh right... One with the Self was a part of Dastan’s personal Path, one unique to himself, Sahb, BoShui, and possibly Rain, though the latter never actually confirmed it. Still unconvinced, Rain shook his head and sighed. “You might be on the right track, and I even theorized this might be possible, but... I don’t think that’s what happened here, for several reasons. Not just because Ghurda says she didn’t sense a Domain, but also because there’s a certain aspect regarding my Martial Path you’re all unaware of, being that... well... I didn’t Develop my Domain by becoming One with the World. I kinda... sorta... disassociated myself from the World, to put it politely.”

What?

Faced with their incredulous stares, Rain deflated and reluctantly explained, “The World was getting in my way, so I told it to fuck off and leave me alone. It worked. For a bit. Sorta. Maybe. I think. I dunno. I only had like a minute to play with my Domain after I was crippled, and I don’t remember any of the more impressive parts.”

Exchanging a helpless look with Ghurda and Nian Zu, Dastan’s spirits sank as they shook their heads, but at least he could feel better knowing these two Peak Expert were equally lost with regards to understanding Rain’s unique Path.

After a long, awkward pause, Song spoke for the first time this meeting. “The gourd,” she said, without further explanation.

And none was needed as Rain’s eyes lit up in comprehension. “Of course! Why didn’t I think of it sooner? Thank you Song, you’re brilliant. Don’t know what I’d do without you.”

Bristling with irrational jealousy, Dastan did his best not to glare at the half-cat or let his feelings show as he tried to follow along, but he wasn’t the only one confused by their exchange. “Well?” Ghurda asked, while Nian Zu displayed a similar level of indignant impatience. “Ye gonna explain or am I gonna need to wring it out of ye?”

“The gourd I drank, like a week or two ago. I don’t remember.” Obviously flustered, Rain rambled out an explanation which made little to no sense. “See, I thought it was Chi-Water, like, water bound by Chi. Chi Tea, get it? But the Abbot has this whole thing about simplification and lack of labels and such, so he thought the Chi Tea was Heavenly Water by another name, and was convinced it would fix me if I drank it. I did and nothing happened, then I threw a tantrum about the waste, but now we know it did work, except it needed time, and now I owe him another apology. The Chi Tea must have cleansed all the Spectres inside me and left me a cache of Heavenly Energy to use, which is how I did the whole... Oration thing just now.” The blood draining from his face, Rain grabbed his hair with both hands and whimpered quietly. “Andddd not only did I just waste a metric shit-tonne of precious Heavenly Energy giving a speech, I also gave my last two gourds to GangShu and Guan Suo.” Leaning over to bury his face in his mount’s back, Rain’s incoherent screams were muffled by the beast’s thick fur, but to Dastan’s ears, it sounded suspiciously like an endless repetition of, “Fuck my life.”

Longer and more drawn out of course, but given the circumstances, Dastan understood the sentiment.

“...What Spectres?” Nian Zu asked, and everyone looked away, Dastan included. Some secrets were not his to tell, and Rain was too immersed in self-pity to respond. “What Heavenly Energy? Someone explain.”

Luckily, Dastan was neither Oath-Sworn to the Living Legend or technically a soldier anymore, so he held his tongue and stared at his boots while Ghurda waved aside Nian Zu’s questions and watched Rain knock his head against Zabu’s back. After long seconds of awkward silence, Song moved to Rain’s side and offered him an awkward pat of the back before slipping a handkerchief between the quin and his face. “Take care not to injure yourself,” she said, and Rain froze in place, his lamentations falling silent in an instant.

“...Holy shit, this doesn’t hurt.” Sitting up with a look of surprise, Rain patted his oily, but unmarked face and squinted at his hands. “There’s no blood,” he said. “Am I bleeding?”

Still staring at his boots, Dastan worried that the boss might’ve snapped from this latest revelation. Dead pan as always, Song gave him a thorough inspection before stating, “No, you are not bleeding.”

“I’m not bleeding.” Surprised by the delight in Rain’s voice, Dastan looked up to see him beaming from ear to ear. “I’m not bleeding,” Rain repeated, before emitting a girlish squeal of glee and leaning back down to hug his quin’s torso. “I’m not bleeding,” he said a third time, rubbing his cheek against his mount’s dense fur while the creature squeaked in displeasure. “Shaddup Zabu, I need this. I’m not bleeding, I’m not bleeding.” The last was delivered in a sing-song voice, and after squeezing his quin one last time, Rain sat up and said, “Okay. Let’s get the battle over and done with so I can go back and hug the shit out of my pets.”

Unsure how to respond, Dastan simply saluted and hurried back to his place on the wall while simultaneously trying to purge his memory of the last few minutes. It’s not that he begrudged Falling Rain for his love of his animal, but there was something unsettling about the intense fervour he approached it with, almost with the same zealous passion the Shrike had for the Purge. Still, there were two facts no one could deny. One, Rain’s skin had toughened to the point where mere hair couldn’t pierce it, and two, he was progressing towards a full recovery, perhaps much sooner than the many decades most expected.

Still... Even if his rehabilitation was slated for a matter of hours, Dastan wasn’t sure if it would make a difference. Staring out at the massive Defiled army, he watched them move into formation to attack with a sinking stomach, for gathering directly across from him were no less than a dozen unnatural and formidable Demons led by none other than the giant, Water-Blessed behemoth which they met out on patrol.

Only this time, there was no Divinity to save them from the menacing Demon Rain had almost fondly dubbed, ‘Pudge’.

