After a long and silent exchange, Lord Husband and Sumila separated and the latter wrapped Li-Li in a hug. Motioning for Luo-Luo to follow, Lord Husband strode off with Mafu in tow, though the rabbits hopped along behind them in a chaotic row, hounding Lord Husband as if he owed them money. Once out of earshot, he turned to Luo-Luo and motioned for her to continue. “Right,” she said, flustered as she hurriedly recollected her thoughts. “Politics. Though subduing an Ancestral Beast through force of arms is possible, it should only be left as a last resort as the cost would be immense. Ancestral Beasts are powerful beings who stand close to the pinnacle of strength, city-destroying calamities in human form. Failure to contain the threat could lead to disastrous results, so when given the option, it’s always best to proceed with caution.”

“But why play politics with a Defiled Ancestral Beast?”

“Lord Husband, please lower your voice.” Scanning the surroundings, Luo-Luo found no prying eyes or listening ears, but who knew what Expert were hiding in the vicinity. Cursing her inability to Send, she suggested, “How about this: Lord Husband can Send his questions and Luo-Luo will answer them aloud.”

Grunting in assent, Lord Husband took her gently by the hand and Sent, “Sorry. So?”

Cheeks reddening at the intimate contact, Luo-Luo calmed her beating heart and whispered, “There are many reasons, first being that whether or not the subject in question is Defiled, he is still a being of enormous power and should be treated as such. Though your claims were reason enough to suspect him, it’s entirely possible his lackeys were working without his knowledge. By choosing three unaffiliated but respected heroes to spearhead the investigation, Shen Zhen Wu distanced himself from the findings, while the presence of Imperial Death Corps soldiers ensured the legitimacy of the venture. Any one of the soldiers could be asked to verify the findings, and as Oathsworn soldiers, their testimony can only be the truth. Thus, in the event that Lord Husband’s accusations were true, but Zhu Chanzui guilty only of poor oversight, then the Imperial Clan avoids angering a formidable Ancestral Beast.”

“...I see. That strong huh?” Crinkling his nose in frustration, Lord Husband released his grip on Luo Luo’s hand to rub his eyes and groaned with weary exhaustion. Whatever delayed his return was obviously more taxing than a mere capsized skiff, but Luo-Luo diplomatically reined her curiosity in. Instead, she focused on the emptiness which cropped up once he released her wrist, scolding herself for foolishly pining for love when she should know better. Why should it matter that Lord Husband differed from the nobles she’d trained to serve?

Better to expect nothing and be pleasantly surprised if something developed, instead of hoping for the best only to be utterly crushed by cruel reality.

“Whatever. Problems for another day. Let’s focus on the positives for now.” With a smug smile, Lord Husband took Luo-Luo hand once more and quipped, “Big poppa piggy’s in big trouble. I hear the Legate ordered the capture and interrogation of any and all employees of the Canston Trading Group. About time they get what’s coming to them. I’m just sad I can’t be there to watch it all happen.” With a spring in his step, Lord Husband continued on his merry way and Luo-Luo followed closely beside.

Hoping to take advantage of his good mood, she turned the conversation to this morning’s meeting. “Luo-Luo has more good news to share. The Yo family agreed to work alongside Lord Husband in his cast iron venture, with terms far more agreeable than expected.” A miracle considering how weak and vulnerable he made himself appear while deep in his cups. “As most of their warehouses currently sit empty, they’ve given us a list of locations to choose from and permission to visit at our convenience.”

“Sounds good,” Lord Husband said, cutting her off before she could continue. “You made certain the Yo Family holds the majority shares?”

“Yes Lord Husband, though it was more difficult than expected.” They seemed almost desperate to give up their portion of the profits, likely to get into Lord Husband’s good graces, but Luo-Luo had held firm to his instructions, sparse as they were. “One matter to note which may be of concern, Yo Shi-Woo placed Yo Sung-Hun in charge of the venture.” In response to his blank stare, Luo-Luo helpfully added, “The youngest son.” The one Lord Husband repeatedly baited by calling him useless in battle and a better merchant than warrior.

“Oh. Good. Glad he took my advice.” Oblivious to the dangers, Lord Husband approved of the decision. “He seems like a smart kid, hungry too. It’s youngsters like him who will modernize the world, once they see the benefits it provides.” Chuckling beneath his breath, he added, “Sure enough, a father knows his son best.”

Uncertain why he found this so amusing and refraining from pointing out the so called youngster was older than Lord Husband, Luo-Luo pressed on. “Yo Sung-Hun submitted a draft of his plans on how to proceed. There’s a copy on your desk for you to peruse, but the broad strokes are -”

“You handle it.” Shaking his head, he added, “If you need help, I’ll be happy to chime in, or you can ask Mister Rustram once my mom learns the meaning of moderation, but otherwise, this is all you.” Seeing she had no objections, he asked, “So how are the riding lessons going?”

Overwhelmed by his trust and warmth, Luo-Luo’s cheeks reddened as she looked down, only to burn even hotter when she noticed he was still holding her hand even though there was no longer any need to. Heart pounding in her chest, she wondered if today would be the day he brought her to bed and cursed her lack of preparation. “The lessons fare... poorly,” she answered, hoping she didn’t still reek of fear and sweat. “I have yet to endear myself to him.”

“Ah, that’s probably my fault.” Releasing Luo-Luo’s hand, he stopped and gave the quin a playful tap on the head. “Listen you, no reason to be jealous. I’m not abandoning you. Well, I sort of am, but I still love you, okay? I won’t ride you into battle anymore, but you hated that anyways, so be nice to Luo-Luo, got it?”

Eyes closed in pure bliss, the quin hardly seemed to notice Lord Husband’s ridiculous lecture, more focused on the vigorous head scratching he received. Winking at Luo-Luo, Lord Husband gestured for her to climb on, and after a moment’s hesitation, she meekly obeyed, seating herself in the harness and wholly expecting Mafu to crane his neck around and hiss. Though the quin turned around to look, he merely huffed before returning his head to Lord Husband’s hand, thoroughly enjoying the attention. Motioning for her to join in, Luo-Luo copied Lord Husband’s actions and placed her hand atop Mafu’s skull, vigorously rubbing his loose skin with all of her fingers. Eliciting a satisfied squeak, Mafu pressed his head against Luo-Luo’s hand and a smile spread across her face. Now that he wasn’t baring his teeth, she had to admit the quins were rather adorable, sleek and powerful creatures with more emotional depth and intelligence than she gave them credit for. Perhaps Lord Husband was right and Mafu saw this new state of affairs as abandonment and was taking his frustrations out on Luo-Luo.

Poor thing, he loved Lord Husband so, a loyal and devoted creature who didn’t understand why his master didn’t want him anymore. So heart-wrenching and familiar..

Having met a kindred spirit, Luo-Luo continued massaging Mafu’s scalp even after Lord Husband led them both to his yurt and abandoned them outside, though he let the rabbits in along with the large, flightless bird, who ran and hopped his way up the stairs. Alone with Mafu for the first time, Luo-Luo crooned and giggled at his adorable expressions as she ran her fingers through his fur, eventually settling down in the grass with his heavy head on her lap. Resting her forehead against his for a much needed cuddle, Luo-Luo sighed in contentment at the day’s events, proud to have tamed this once fearsome creature.

Perhaps Lord Husband’s trust could be won the same way, by rubbing and touching all the right places, and if only that horrid Zabu would leave and give her the chance to find out...

Chapter Meme
