Balling her fists in frustration, Luo-Luo pouted and declared, “I don’t think he likes me much.”

Head tilted in an adorable fashion, sweet Lin-Lin appeared deep in thought. “He definitely doesn’t like you,” she said, “but I think he also hates you, ya?”

Staggered by the endearing half-hare’s blunt reply, Luo-Luo choked back her tears and cautioned herself to not read too much into it. This was merely the Bekhai way, to speak with candour no matter the circumstances rather than a personal attack against her. Corroborating her conclusion, the ever contentious Mila snorted and added, “Of course he hates her. She’s a veritable stranger who showed up a few days ago and overturned his carefree and comfortable life. How else is he supposed to feel?”

Don’t cry Luo-Luo. Sumila means well, else she wouldn’t have agreed to come and offer advice...

Swallowing the lump in her throat, Luo-Luo composed herself and asked, “Then what should I do?”

“Show some spine, for a start.” Encouraging her with a ‘gentle’ shove which almost sent Luo-Luo tumbling, Sumila explained, “Friendly and affable as he is, he is first and foremost a predator, and he sees you as prey. You don’t need him to like you, you need him to respect you, so stop flinching and cowering every time he looks your way.”

“But Mi-Mi,” Lin-Lin interjected while helping Luo-Luo steady herself. “He’s not like the others. He’s sweet and friendly, so if he doesn’t like Luo-Luo, there has to be a reason. If we find out why and fix it, then everything will be all right, ya?”

“Tch. Why should Luo-Luo have to adapt to his likes and dislikes? It should be the other way around.” Unwilling to back down, Sumila’s disapproving frown filled Luo-Luo with terror even as she marvelled at how captivating the red-haired woman’s freckles were, adding character to Sumila’s expressive face and staunch personality. No wonder Luo-Luo’s Lord Husband was so mesmerized by this fiery warrior woman, even Luo-Luo found it difficult to tear her eyes away. “She needs to be strong and take control,” Sumila continued, displaying her clenched fist to emphasize her point. “Only then can their relationship progress in proper fashion.”

Easy for her to say. Sumila had nothing to fear, for if he ever became violent, she could snap his spine with a single squeeze of her thighs.

Luckily for Luo-Luo, Lin-Lin was much more sensible. “I don’t think it’ll work Mi-Mi. He’s different, ya? I still think we should find out what he doesn’t like about Luo-Luo, and it can’t be because she’s timid, he’s too gentle and kindhearted for that to matter.” Puffing her cheeks while she thinks, Lin-Lin hesitantly offers, “Maybe it’s because you’re too heavy Luo-Luo. If you want, I can teach you how to Lighten, ya?”

“Impossible.” Before Luo-Luo could recover from Lin-Lin’s second destructive blow, Sumila had already leapt to her defence. “I’m far heavier than she is and he loves carrying me around. It must be something else.” Though of similar height to Lord Husband, Sumila was anything but scrawny, a woman with an alluring, athletic build and proud of it, as evidenced by her willingness to parade around wearing little more than a long, loose tunic which left her robust thighs and iron-hard calves on full display. Oftentimes, her tunic also slipped to one side and revealed her pale, freckled shoulder, a sight which never failed to capture Lord Husband’s attention. Ignorant of Luo-Luo’s bristling jealousy, Sumila nodded in agreement with herself as she stated, “It’s because of all her bouncing about. There’s no need to adjust to his rhythm, you only need to sit still and let him do all the work.”

“You could also try snuggling with him, he loves snuggles.” Chiming in once again, Lin-Lin threw herself into Luo-Luo’s embrace to demonstrate the appropriate technique to use. “Give him lots of praise and belly rubs too.”

Extracting herself from the embrace before Lin-Lin could demonstrate that too, Luo-Luo tried not to sound petulant as she complained. “But he won’t let me get close enough to even try!” Having failed spectacularly, she composed herself and tried again. “He snaps every time I come close, and this morning, he almost took off my head.”

Rolling her eyes, Sumila replied, “He’s just being dramatic. If he wanted your head, he’d have it. Don’t let his bulky figure fool you, Mafu is a consummate hunter on land and in sea. Even though Rain spoils him, it takes hard work and dedication for a quin to grow fat, and there are few fatter than Mafu.”

“Hehe, isn’t that right, Mafu-fu?” Throwing herself at the dangerous, coiled creature, Lin-Lin buried her face in the quin’s soft neck fur, but still the murderous creature glared at Luo-Luo, its chin resting on its rump while baring his fangs in obvious warning. “You’re such a good hunter, you fatty fat quin, you. Don’t be greedy and share your spoils with Atir, so she can get fat too, with quin eggs and eventually quin pups. Don’t be like mean old Zabu-bu, ya? You’ll let Lin-Lin steal a pup or three, right?”

“Mafu? Share?” Striding into the clearing carrying Mama Bun like a child, Lord Husband cracked a tired smile and said, “I’m pretty sure he’s offended you’d even suggest such a thing.”

With startling speed, Mafu’s heavy-set frame appeared next to Lord Husband, transformed from murderous, oversized weasel into an adorable, chittering house pet, rubbing his cheeks with half-opened eyes and begging for treats while Lin-Lin clung to his neck. “Hi Hubby,” she called, gracefully dismounting into Lord Husband’s one-armed embrace. “Ah, you’re all wet and smelly.”

“Sorry wifey.” Giving her cheek a chaste kiss while lowering her to the ground, Lord Husband’s hand lingered on Lin-Lin’s plump hips as he said, “I meant to warn you, but Mafu is just too fast.”

Peering at the sleeping bunny, Lin-Lin asked, “What’s wrong with Mama Bun-Bun?”

“Nothing!” Shouldering Lin-Lin away, Lord Husband’s reaction seemed extreme as he added, “She’s taking a nap is all. A perfectly healthy rabbit, no need to worry your pretty little head over.”

Rather than taking offence, Lin-Lin merely giggled and stepped aside to let Sumila greet Lord Husband. Visibly relaxing at her approach, Lord Husband’s hand did more than linger on his favoured betrothed, snaking around her waist to pull her close. Shrieking in feigned resistance, Sumila’s ‘struggles’ were merely for show as she sank into Lord Husband’s damp embrace. “Scoundrel,” she scolded while feebly fending him off. “Smelly doesn’t even begin to describe it. Why didn’t you change clothes before going in for a swim?”

“It wasn’t entirely by choice.” After favouring Sumila’s lips with a kiss that was anything but chaste, Lord Husband nuzzled against her bare shoulder and explained, “Our skiff came across troubled waters and sank like a rock. Don’t worry, no one suffered any injuries aside from their pride, but Ping Ping had to carry all of us back after a hefty meal. Poor girl was so exhausted, she couldn’t even make it back to the yurt. Buried herself right on the beach and fell asleep with Guan Suo beside her.”

Lord Husband was a terrible liar, but no one present pointed it out and left him to ramble on. Continuing to ignore Luo-Luo’s presence, he greeted the rest of his pets one by one, crooning and smiling for each of his ‘fur babies’ in turn while Li Song pestered him about brushing them. Truth be told, it made her uncomfortable to see him behaving in such an unsightly manner, wholly unbefitting a man of his reputation and status, but she had to pick her battles carefully. Best to start small, like convincing him to wear a proper tunic instead going out in his oversized nightclothes, which made him look like a child dressed in his father’s clothes. His embarrassing antics like getting drunk and spewing nonsense or his hen-pecked nature would have to wait until after she earned his trust and support.

However many years away such a time might be...

Once finished greeting his pets, Lord Husband offered Luo-Luo a polite nod before turning back to Lin-Lin. “Charok’s warming up a meal, so could you bring it to Teacher? I’d deliver it myself, but he explicitly told me to go rest.” Like a remorseful child caught eating sweets before dinner, Lord Husband added, “I shouldn’t even be here, but I wanted to see you both before going down for a nap.”

No need to cry, Luo-Luo. You won’t be a stranger in your home forever. Lord Husband is a kind and affectionate man, you’ll win him over given time.

After sending Lin-Lin skipping off to see her father, Lord Husband continued to ignore Luo-Luo and Li Song in favour of his most beloved betrothed, Sumila. “Alsantset told me about your accomplishments last night, riding down errant Defiled and earning public praise from the Legate himself. Congratulations, my love. Sorry I wasn’t there to share in your accomplishment, seems I picked the wrong day to skip the Conference frivolities."

“Hmph, hardly worth mentioning.” Feigning indifference to his praise, Sumila’s glowing cheeks and radiant smile gave away her good cheer. “By the time we arrived, there was no fight left in the Defiled, already defeated and demoralized by Du Min Gyu and the Death Corps. All I did was shoot them as they fled, easily done when the land is so flat you can see for kilometres around.”

“Well, you killed plenty of Defiled and returned unharmed, which is all that matters. Hopefully, more good will come of this once people realize the Defiled aren’t sitting on their thumbs in the West and are already on their way here.” Grabbing her as she turned away, Lord Husband stood behind Sumila and kissed her bare shoulder. “Still, it seems strange the Legate would go to so much trouble. Don’t see why he had to bother.”

“What do you mean?” Leaning against Lord Husband, Sumila was not alone in her confusion, and Luo-Luo tried not to intrude on their intimate moment while listening intently from the side.

“You don’t find it strange?” Lord Husband asked, his face the picture of confusion. “I don’t know the whole story, but the bits and pieces I have don’t make sense. The Legate sent Du Min Gyu to inspect the winery, but instead of having proper reinforcements waiting nearby, he arranged for the participants of the Captain’s Contest to ‘coincidentally’ pass by. Why all the misdirection and subterfuge? Why limit Du Min Gyu to only Death Corps soldiers, then bring Jorani along without informing me? Why only the Captains and not, say the Senior Captains, or the Majors?”

All good questions Luo-Luo was glad to hear Lord Husband bring up, though she’d be even happier if he did so in private, not out in a field where others might overhear. Seeing Sumila look to her for help, Luo-Luo stepped up to provide the answer. “The answer to Lord Husband’s questions are complex and multifaceted.” Seeing his repressed sigh and averted gaze, she realized she’d already lost his attention and scrambled to recover. “But the simple answer is politics. When dealing with the holdings of an Ancestral Beast, one must proceed cautiously lest the Ancestral Beast feel slighted and take their frustrations out on their surroundings.”

“How bad could it be?” Lord Husband asked, once again shocking Luo-Luo with the depths of his ignorance. “I mean, doesn’t the Emperor have Ancestral Beasts working for them? Failing that, I’ve heard of multiple families having Ancestral Beast slaves, why not bring a dozen or so out and set them loose to hunt down big poppa piggy?”

“Impossible.” Seated in the grass, Li-Li cuddled with a bear in an adorable mirror image of Lord Husband and Sumila, running her fingers through the complacent animal’s fur with an angry frown. “The slaves you speak of would be no match for a proper Ancestral Beast.”

After exchanging a tentative glance with Sumila, Lord Husband hesitantly asked, “What makes you say that?”

“Because,” Li-Li answered while idly checking the bear’s paws, “If they were strong, then they would not be slaves.” Though not privy to the details, Luo-Luo sensed the awkward silence which followed as Li-Li gently clipped the bear’s claws with a knife. Once finished with the paw, Li-Li checked the other one before continuing. “Heavenly Oaths alone cannot constrain an Ancestral Beast, for they are not affected the same way humans and half-beasts are. Perhaps because they’ve touched upon the mysteries of Heaven, or because their bodies were birthed by the Heavenly Energies themselves, but should an enslaved Ancestral Beast be set loose, they would likely tear their captors limb from limb before suffering the consequences of violating their Oath.” With a shrug, the taciturn Li-Li concluded, “Thus it stands to reason that any enslaved Ancestral Beast still alive is too weak to commit suicide, and thus would be of no use in battle.”

