Inspecting those changes, the dimension size bonus affected my pocket dimension. That's part of why I had the extra space for primevals on returning to Earth. I hadn't noticed the density or wake size yet. First, I reached out with the Rise of Eden for a moment and verified it. My dimensional wake dwarfed its old size, now encompassing Mt. Verner.

I hadn't noticed on L-7 because the planet's scale exceeded Earth's by leaps and bounds. The difference between a square kilometer and a square mile meant nothing there, but I had actual references for comparison on Earth. As for the dimensional density, that could be why I sensed Althea within my wake.

Moving onto level-ups, I peered at 5,000 as Schema promised, but that was it. I expected some exp from the lottery's monsters, but I reviewed the terms. Schema set the lottery outside of both Schema-owned spaces or a rift. That meant we received nothing from killing the primevals or Schema's enemies.

Despite that technicality, I piled up plenty of points to spend. 20,000 of them. I put all of them into endurance and stared at the finalize screen. After clicking this, I'd gain the tree bonuses, the planet perks, and the attributes. A bit antsy, I clicked the button, and a wave of mana crashed from afar.

I brimmed from the energy flow, glowing before I stood up. The glass near me melted. It bubbled, boiled, and splattered as my guildmates began panicking. Althea leaped away. Hod flew off into the distance. Torix cast cooling magic, and Chrona roared ice breath.

I condensed my wake, stopping the energy flow for a moment. As the heat dissipated, I cooled the area. I left a burned spot over Chrona's home, so I winced.

"Ah, my bad, guys. I forgot how much energy my status updates send out these days. I'll fix this later."

Torix sighed.

"Patently absurd."

I walked over to the edge of the building and leaped up. I pulled myself along with gravity, flying high into the atmosphere. Above the clouds, I soared until Earth's gravitational pull lightened. Once far away from anyone or anything, I allowed Schema's reconfiguring to take place. As it happened, I slowed it down with my wake's density.

This let me appreciate Schema's changes. From a flashing moment to a loaded minute, my anatomy and mind changed. I leaned in, putting every part of my mind on understanding the shifts. I uncovered a few of his secrets as I did.

Schema couldn't increase my strength via normal means anymore, so he used other methods. The primary difference arrived from mana-based muscle fibers. They operated off of constructed segments of my armor. Whenever mana pulsed through them, they pulled together or apart. I had no clue how Schema did it, but I'd get Torix and Plazia on that case after this.

Unlike the physical changes, I struggled to dissect the mental differences. Even Schema would probably shrug at what he did, as little about my thought process or cerebral acuity changed. Thinking about it, I  wouldn't know what to do either. After all, how much can you change about someone's mind before it wasn't theirs?

Schema couldn't interfere with free will, so he kept the mental changes on simple, easy-to-articulate conditions. He improved the computational proficiency and processing speed of the psyche. That let him increase the amount of thought someone could dish out, increasing their mana and regeneration.

However, the natural ingenuity of the mind remained stagnant. Hell, even coming up with a strict definition of intelligence was difficult, and people always argued about it. Schema evaded all that by focusing on the simplest, most determined explanation possible.

It wasn't a poor answer.

Regardless of my breakdowns, Schema's augments were razor-sharp and precise. No matter how I criticized him, Schema used as little mana as possible for the most benefit. His efficiency far and away exceeded my own, requiring far less mana for better additions. It left me in awe, and I had a long way to go before I could do the same.

As the changes settled in, I raised my arm, moving my new hand with my improved mind. Not bad. Not bad at all.

[Status]

The Living Multiverse | Level 23,767 (Cap: 39,000) | Current Influence: The Rise of Eden | Class: Sovereign

Strength – 190,917 | Constitution – 212,632 | Endurance – 451,956

Dexterity – 115,926 | Willpower – 396,395 | Intelligence – 257,229

Charisma – 121,399 | Luck – 154,656 | Perception – 86,756 |Awe - 16,943

Health: 3.60 Billion/3.60 Billion | Health Regen: 278 Billion/min or 4.621 Billion/sec

Stamina: Infinite++ | Ambient Mana 12,402 Trillion

Mass: 2.2 Billion Pounds( 1 Billion Kilos~)

Height: 37'11 |11.56 meters | Actual: 21'9 (Temporal Compression)

Damage Res - 99.532% | Actual: 99.672% (Temporal Compression) | Dimensional Res - 100%

Phys Dam Bonus – 22.6 Billion% | Damage Bonus – 40%

The Rise of Eden - enhances base stats by 30%, increased to 40% to allies within aura's radius.

Mana Conversion(Elemental Furnace Count: 41) - 239.2 Billion mana/min siphoned into runes and armor.

[Previous]

I hadn't checked my status in a long time, and the numbers increased to absurd quantities. My periphery attributes exploded, my weight ten-folded, and so did my physical damage. My damage resistance also inched up, and Temporal Compression increased it. Reasoning through why I peered at the skill's creation.

It devoured Mass Manipulation. Well, Mass Molding but whatever. Same thing. Whenever a mythical skill absorbed unique skills, they improved them. At a certain point, condensing my matter resulted in a more rigid, more robust material. Therefore, leveling that skill would improve my dimensional fabric.

Hell yeah.

And, of course, I didn't forget the most important measuring stick of progress. You know it. I know it. We all know it. The big daddy. The penultimate peak. The absolute apex. The only real value that mattered in the grand scheme of things. That's right.

Health regen.

Sarcasm aside, it nearly quadrupled, with all the multipliers going crazy again. The planet perks helped with that, as had all the endurance from level-ups. Peering at my hands, I snapped my fingers. A singularity erupted afar. I snapped two fingers, and two singularities detonated. I kept adding more until I capped at nine of them. Ridiculous.

I quit exercising my mana because I kept causing clouds to whirl below. Moving around, it was challenging to know the exact physical differences without something to test on, especially this high up. Peering down at the blue marble below, I flinched. At this point, I could shatter mountains or rive rivers with my hand.

I'd test myself elsewhere in a less precious place. Heading back down, I whirled through the wind. Heat built over me, and I passed through a raincloud. The water evaporated as I passed, and I got into view of Mt. Verner in seconds. While getting close, I ignited several birds that exploded like aquatic grenades.

I gawked in horror at the charred remnants and sifting steam. Slowing the hell down, I took a few minutes getting back while cooling myself. While passing a cloud, it dropped blocks of hail. I was too cold. Great. In fact, all these temperatures seemed the same to me. I rubbed my temples, trying to come up with a solution. In a minute, I did.

I kept a bubble of water beside me, and I kept it from freezing, boiling, or evaporating. It gave me an accurate temperature gauge, preventing me from flying down while radiating the heat of a furnace or oozing the cold of space. Once below, I landed in Chrona's icy home.

The others spurred into action. Shalahora, Hod, and Althea trained in the mountain's shadow. Torix talked with Plazia, a metal skeleton talking to a horde of flies. Chrona sat still, using her temporal prowess on Amara and Krog. Obolis went back to his Empire and tended to many matters.

I flew over to Plazia and Torix. Torix pointed a hand at the flies.

"The issue with bodily integration with the Omega Strain is that it will result in an unknown status for our guildmates. We'll lose more fighting power than we gain."

I raised my brow.

"Huh, not worried about whether they'll go insane?"

Torix tilted his hand.

"Ethical arguments wouldn't work well against Plazia as they are the least of his concerns. So I used what works - pragmatism."

I raised my brow.

"You don't want a win when it's the most impressive?"

Torix scoffed.

"If my words are a knife, then I slice where the enemy is softest. That being said-"

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself.

"What is needed of us?"

I pointed at the lich.

"I need you to organize everyone in Mt. Verner. I'm going to be rebuilding this place from the ground up."

Torix nodded.

"Consider it done."

I pointed at Plazia.

"Get a good understanding of the Omega Strain and come back with detailed reports. There's plenty of latent potential there. I can feel it."

Plazia's insects rippled.

"I shall trust your intuition."

I turned before bending my knees. Torix's eyes brightened.

"Where are you headed?"

"To Blegara. I'm getting Kessiah some new bodyguards."

I flew over towards Mt. Verner's warp drives. As I did, I sent Shalahora a telepathic message.

"Keep them safe while I'm away."

He said, "As your shadow."

"Hm?"

"It means yes."

"Ah, ok...Do you need anything?"

"For you to survive."

I nodded.

"As your shadow."

I raced past several groups of people, waving my hand without stopping. I headed to Mt. Verner's warp drive before talking with Schema's receptionist. A quick chat later, I stepped into a metal tube. Ionizing clouds poured over me before I shifted position. I stepped out into Saphigia, the zone protected by a blue core.

Around me, the endless ocean of Blegara covered a reinforced barrier, schools of fish passing by overhead. Beams of light leaked between the waves like an endlessly rippling panel of glass overhead. In the distance, a wispy barrier shielded some of Saphigia, and I winced at it. The thin, light shielding wouldn't survive a single primeval, let alone a group of them.

I had to fix that.

I pulled myself up, peering down at a city in development. A constructor golem or two would make a world of difference here. I spent a few minutes making two of them and putting their cores in place. Heading towards the city's center, I found a monolith sitting there and ebbing an aura of buffs.

Terrible buffs. I cringed at the sight of it, its unstable design and poor output being my fault. After flattening it, I made a new pillar of my dimensional fabric. I added a few premade cipheric etchings from my grimoire and planted ten blue cores into the monolith.

It generated a barrier around the city, far vaster than before. It included underwater sections of the city, creating a psionic web that anyone could contact. Many did, whether by accident or not. From those connections, awareness spread over me, giving me some idea of what happened in the city from nearby Vagni's thoughts.

I sifted through mundanities before my eyes widened. In a panic, I flew up, dashing across the ruined cityscape. Passing into the submerged portion of the city, I extended my dimensional wake outward. A chill ran up my spine as I peered around. At Saphigia's outskirts, a military ship had landed, one from the Empire.

They established an air zone under the waves using mana batteries and machinery. Within the area, Kessiah healed soldiers. She channeled blood from her prepped pouches, reconstituting even lost limbs for various albony and other aliens. As impressive as it was, my eyes settled on a different ship that landed nearby.

Hybrids gazed at me from its surface. Orange pustules pumped energy under their surface. Blighted ones swam nearby, making a mockery of their old, gialgathenic forms. They wrestled with older models of my golems, and a battle erupted in the sea again. Trying to settle the conflict, several Elysium soldiers landed nearby with Hybrid guards, carrying various documentation.

They psionically announced.

"We mean no harm to the locals. We are here for the imperials."

It was a repeating call. Several Hybrid carcasses piled up, the battle being waged for a while. Once close, my status disappeared, and I crashed through the imperial's protective barrier. Raising a hand, I sealed the hole shut with a saturated antigravity well while standing over everyone.

The albony and others gawked at me. Kessiah peered up, and she shouted.

"It's about damn time someone showed up. Get these guys the hell out of here. I'm trying to make some money for Schema's sake."

I glared at the ship.

"Get them out?"

I waved my hand.

"They're not leaving."

As my hand passed, I disintegrated the ship in five singularities' wake. They evaporated, the nearby albony trembling in fear. The vessel converted into a kinetic shockwave rippling through the water. Reaching up my other arm, I pulled down. Saphigia's new barrier molded under my command, covering this isolated bubble.

Weathering the incoming shockwave, we watched schools of fish and Hybrids get thrown aside by the tsunami and tidal movements. I turned to Kessiah.

"We're getting out of here."

She gestured at a dying imperial soldier.

"I'm kind of busy at the moment."

I walked up, swiping the gooey mess of a person into my pocket dimension. Kessiah blinked.

"Oh yeah, you can do that."

I swiped the other injured soldiers into my pocket dimension, already having practice. After getting the last one, Kessiah stepped away from me.

"You're Daniel, right?"

I pulled my helmet down.

"Of course. Who else?"

Kessiah shrugged.

"A giant, metal monster?"

I made a finger pistol with my hand, pointing at different Hybrids in the distance. I pulled them into a cluster.

"What makes you say that?"

I evaporated them with a singularity. Kessiah frowned.

"Don't know. Maybe it's the weather?"

Off in the distance, a vast warp erupted. Along its edges, golden claws punched through the ether. I sighed.

