It took just under an hour for Perseverance to patch him back up, a full third of the time he’d expected. It appeared even though the description hadn’t changed, progressing his Aspect to level two had significantly increased its power. An hour, of course, was beyond an eternity in battle, but even if he never reached the point where Perseverance could heal a wound mid-fight, increasing the scope of what he could and couldn’t recover from could prove invaluable.

His injuries sealed shut, Edmund stood, stooped over to collect his sword and dagger from where they’d fallen, and set out once more.

Both of the two possible directions came to ends at right-angled turns, effectively splitting the original hallway into two parallel paths. Since, as far as Edmund could tell, both halls traveled in the same general direction—away from the entrance—he simply continued on down the leftward path he’d originally taken.

He allowed his pace to quicken somewhat, maintaining his careful eye for traps and ambushes while reducing the thoroughness with which he checked for secrets. He could always circle back if he didn’t find anything before clearing the floor.

It wasn’t long before the hall opened up into a wide chamber, the wall to Edmund’s left continuing on while the one on the right gave way to the massive open space. If he’d craned his neck to the right, he might’ve seen the other hallway leading into the same room from the other side. He didn’t.

He only saw the spider.

Edmund didn’t need the ethereal text to know this was no lesser pale widow. It came anyway.

Pale Widow

He gulped.

Even with its legs bent, the thing was as tall as him. Its carapace stretched easily five feet across and three thick, posing Edmund a twofold challenge. He’d not only have to somehow reach the thing, but strike in a place his weapons were long enough to deal lethal damage.

His Madness conjured the same image of a floating crown above the spider’s head he’d seen on the rootmother, though the widow’s name was noticeably the normal smoky gray rather than the rootmother’s angry red. Edmund took that to mean the thing was a boss, but not a rare spawn. He took by the still-closed exit door behind it that it wasn’t optional either.

He grimaced.

A number of plans presented themselves as Edmund appraised the beast from a safe distance, but one by one they fell apart. If he tried to get under it and attack from below, the massive spider could easily just crush him under its body weight. Similarly, even if he could somehow get on top of the thing, the ceiling was low enough and its legs long enough that the beast could slam him against it. From the front, sides, and back, he’d never get close enough to the carapace to strike a lethal blow.

The longer he stood there, the more he planned and plotted and analyzed, the more plans he crafted and dismissed, the more certain Edmund became that he only had one option.

He had to take it down.

At first he reached for his sword, only stopping when he remembered what’d happened when he’d swung it at a spider’s legs before. The dull blade had simply batted them away rather than cutting through. While Edmund held out some hope that the comparatively massive widow before him would have a bit more inertia, he couldn’t trust his sword to deal real damage to anything as readily mobile as one of eight legs.

With a gulp, he pulled his hand away from the sword at his waist and moved instead for the rope over his shoulder.

Strethian Lash

When swung at a target, strands of root will unravel and attempt to grasp it.

As his heart fell back into the familiar pounding rhythm he’d come to associate with battle, Edmund split the coil between his two hands, took a deep breath, and stepped into the boss room.

The widow reacted immediately.

A brutal screech filled the chamber, specks of venom and spittle spraying from the beast’s mouth as it roared. Edmund stepped forward.

The spider charged him, setting a frightening pace across the open room. Its pointed legs sunk an inch into the dirt with each stride, giving a solidity to the widow’s motion the lesser versions had lacked. This thing didn’t skitter. It stampeded.

Edmund waited as long as he could. In the tight quarters he’d fought in so far, he’d yet to have a good opportunity to practice with his rope, and if he made a mistake, Thrax knew he wouldn’t get any second chances.

Despite the difference in size, the widow went for the same basic attack as its predecessors, simply running in, stopping, and aiming for a piercing strike with its two front legs. Edmund was ready for it.

The moment the thing’s front legs left the floor, Edmund dove forward and to the right, leaping as close as he could get to the three left legs still on the ground. He landed in a roll, miss-executing the maneuver just enough for two of his vertebrae to bruise against the hard earth. Still he kept moving, coming up onto his left knee and throwing the lash with his right hand.

The coil straightened into a line as it flew, arcing around the outside of the widow’s legs and colliding with two of them. The reaction was immediate, as threads of roots burst from the weave to wrap around the two spider legs, effectively binding them together. Edmund grinned. He’d hoped for that.

What he hadn’t hoped for was the loose end of the rope to continue falling until it struck the ground. The tip unraveled where it struck, splitting into a dozen, then three dozen individual strands of root that then burrowed into the dirt.

He had an anchor point.

Edmund grinned. Tossing aside his plan of tying its legs together, he pushed himself to his feet and darted not away from the beast, but towards it. Gods knew how long the lash would hold it, and he needed to secure its other side before it could break free.

Loop after loop unwound from the coil in his left hand as he ran, his rope a resource of limited range now that one end had planted itself into the ground. If he missed his next throw, the free end would bind itself into the dirt, and he’d be able to throw his rope no more.

The widow screeched and yanked at its stuck legs, opting to lash out with its free rear limbs rather than trying to turn around. Edmund saw the strike coming from above, diving forward in an attempt to outrun it.

The blow pierced his left calf, drawing blood and sending a jolt of pain up Edmund’s spine, but it landed enough to the side that it took only flesh with it. Blood dripped down his leg as his foot went limp, but he managed to tear himself away rather than being pinned to earth.

He landed on his face, desperately keeping his left hand up to keep the coil of rope from hitting the ground. If it dug in now, his plan would fall apart.

Without pushing himself up, without taking careful aim, Edmund craned his neck to line up his throw, and let loose.

The lash only snagged a single leg before falling to the dirt and burrowing in. It’d have to do.

On instinct more so than any tangible bit of information, Edmund rolled to his right just as a spider leg slammed into the ground where his head had been. His heart raced.

Adrenaline blocking out any sense of fear or realization of how close he’d come to death, he pushed himself to his feet. A quick test confirmed his injured calf couldn’t handle his weight, so he hopped with as much haste as he could manage back to the two legs he’d first bound. He drew his sword as he moved.

As he reached the leg directly anchored to the ground, he grabbed it with his left hand to stabilize himself. The sharp chitin sliced into his palm as the spider tried and failed to jerk the leg free, but Edmund didn’t care. He raised his sword, and he swung.

The result was immediate and twofold. Under the force of his own adrenaline and Obsession-infused strength, the rusty blade snapped in two. At the same moment, blue blood sprayed from the spider’s leg. The loss of hydraulic pressure within the limb caused it to buckle, putting a definite end to the widow’s attempts to yank it loose.

Edmund fell more than stepped to the next tied-up leg, again stabilizing himself against it. As he watched the first limb collapse, he realized he didn’t need to sever any tendons or cut any joints, he needed only to poke a hole and let the pressure do the rest.

He spun the broken sword in his hand, reversing to an underhanded grip, plunged the jagged end into the second leg.

With the loss of two of its legs, the widow had no choice but to plant its remaining left legs into the ground else it fall over. They made perfect targets for Edmund’s blade. One by one he drained the thing’s left legs of their hemolymph. The ground itself shuddered as the beast collapsed into the dirt. From there it was a simple task of plunging Rat’s Fang into its eye.

A chime rang out.

The door swung open.

A wooden chest arose from the floor.

Edmund fell back onto the ground, sitting upright as he gazed at the dead widow and grinned a cheshire grin. Another floor cleared.

He took a few moments to catch his breath, allowing the stress of combat to give way to the relief of survival and joy of victory. While his leg recovered, he shut his eyes and allowed his constellation to fade into view. He had an Aspect to select.

Having combined all the Aspects he had, only the base options remained open. As per expectation, Madness and Perseverance already glowed stably with their positions in his soul, while the three celestial Aspects remained locked away. At some point he’d want to form a pact with a celestial being—most likely an eldritch icon given Eldritch’s proximity to Madness—but that would have to wait.

For the first time, Edmund looked over his options and nothing immediately came to mind.

Given that none of the base Aspects glowed with any more resonance than the dull gray that was the baseline, he’d have to judge his choice by two parameters: how well it filled a gap in his abilities, and how well it would combine with Madness.

Unfortunately, the various combinations of Madness hadn’t been well mapped out, an understandable truth given the Aspect’s unpopularity. Somebody out there probably knew what he could make with it, but Edmund certainly didn’t. He’d be left making guesses.

Chaos and Death both shared some similarities with Madness, which, if nothing else, implied they’d work well together. Alternatively, Strength and Agility, while simple, were both traits he used extensively in combat. The higher-concept Aspects like Spirit and Unity felt like they’d be more powerful combined with other Aspects than on their own, and Edmund couldn’t afford to give up immediate power. Not here.

Only a single Aspect glimmered an even slightly different color than the collection of grays that filled his vision. The barest hint of red shone through in a distant corner, an Aspect Edmund had never once considered resonant.

Solitude beckoned.

Edmund found it curious. He’d never considered himself a solitary person. For most of his life he’d surrounded himself with others.

Yet there he was. Alone.

A part of him rejected the Aspect, still held out hope he’d find a party to travel with or companions with which to share his burdens. Another knew that could never happen, that he could never, in good conscience, drag another human being down the path he trod.

In the end, it wasn’t resonance nor proximity nor even an idea of what the Aspect would do that made Edmund’s decision for him, but an inkling that its power might come with a condition he’d already fulfilled. If nothing else, it’d be that much stronger for the next floor, add that much to his chances at survival. That was enough. He took a breath, reviewed his previous choices and the options before him once more, and made his decision.

The Aspect of Solitude solidified itself within his soul.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 1 - Gain increased constitution while fighting alone.

It was a simple ability, passive just like the ones before it, but Edmund could already see its potential. Considering he always fought alone, he expected the conditional Aspect to prove comparatively stronger than any other of the same level, tier, and resonance. With a grin, he opened his eyes and let his constellation fade away.

Liam was waiting for him, standing over the distinctly long and narrow loot chest with a smug look on his face. “Ask and you shall receive.”

Edmund sighed, stopping to run a hand over his injured calf. The wound was still raw beneath the hole in his Strethian barkbreeches, but a quick test proved his leg could take enough weight for him to limp over to his loot. “You don’t have to gloat,” he muttered as he swung open the wooden chest to reveal the spear within.

“I don’t have to,” Liam said. “But I want to.”

Edmund ignored him, picking up the strange weapon. The thing had a clear point and base, but the shaft was divided into eight segments of unequal length. Some kind of mechanism stuck out from the bottom end. Before he could ask, the ethereal letters explained.

Spiderleg Spear

A spear in segments. Twist the handle on the base to unlock, then push or pull to bend the joints.

With a scowl, Edmund turned the pale chitin weapon over in his hand and grasped the handle on the base. With a twist it came loose, and he found as he pulled it the segments along the shaft bent. Pulled all the way, he found he held a long J-hook rather than a spear. At the moment, he couldn’t quite fathom how that might be useful, but he felt certain it was.

With a nod, he re-straightened the spear to its full eight-foot length, twisted the handle to lock its shape and looked up to Liam. “Now I just need a way to carry this around without occupying my hands.”

Liam rolled his eyes. “It’s just want want want with you, isn’t it?”

Edmund blinked. “That reminds me, I have a secret to find.” As he turned and left, Liam called out to Edmund’s back.

“Good luck with that!”

Edmund did what he did best, and ignored him.

His first order of business was to fully explore the floor’s layout, a task which took no more than three minutes. As it turned out, both prongs of the fork led to the same boss chamber, leaving Edmund with one room and a loop of hallway to search. He got to work.

Approximately two hours of poking, prodding, knocking, and squinting at dirt later, he began to suspect he might’ve been played. If there was a secret, it couldn’t have been that well hidden, could it?

But Edmund was nothing if not thorough.

The shape of the parallel hallways left a perfectly square section of wall in the center of the floor, a space within the level’s layout that practically screamed unused space. If there was anything to find, that’d be where.

