But after another hour of analyzing every inch of central wall, Edmund had nothing.

Liam yawned. “Are you finished yet?”

“Almost.” Edmund scowled. “There’s something I’m missing.”

“Ooh, I know this! Is it sanity? Happiness? A sense of self-preservation?”

“You practically told me there was a secret on this level,” Edmund said. “You wouldn’t have done that if there was nothing to find.”

“Unless I made that wager specifically knowing there was nothing to find,” Liam said.

Edmund sighed. “Maybe you’re right, but I think I still have something left to try.”

Liam raised an eyebrow. “You do?”

Edmund nodded. “Madness doesn’t give me descriptions of things after I kill them. It didn’t for the rootmother, it didn’t for any of the pale widows, but it did for that first Strethian tender. It gave me a very specific description that helped me find the tunnel.”

“So?”

“So Madness can help me find secrets,” Edmund reasoned. “I just need to figure out a way to activate it.” He ignored whatever scathing retort Liam had prepared so that he could shut his eyes and bring up his constellation once more. This time, instead of watching the overview or reading the descriptions of his various abilities, he focused in on the prismatic glow of Madness.

He zoomed in his mind’s eye, cutting his field of view until only Madness filled his vision with its blinding every-colored light. He watched it glow, brilliant and solid as a fixture of his very being. It beckoned to him, and he reached out in response.

The world flashed white, and Edmund’s eyes shot open. The prismatic light lingered in his view as an afterimage, floating about the room as his gaze shifted. As he watched it shifted from a shapeless blob into first a square, then a vertical rectangle, then finally, an outline of a door. He blinked once, and then it settled upon the wall.

His heart in his throat, Edmund approached the illusory door, extended his hand, and grasped the handle. It felt real and unreal at once in his grasp, somehow both there and not. He turned the knob, pulled it open, and revealed a small room beyond. With a grin, he turned to Liam. “Looks like I w—”

“I have to go,” Liam cut him off, his words uncharacteristically sudden and sharp, tinged both with the brightness of shock and the subtle lingering darkness of something Edmund’d never expected to hear from the hallucination.

Fear.

By the time the words even registered in Edmund’s mind, Liam was already gone. “You still owe me a question!” he yelled into the empty air. The empty air didn’t reply.

With a sigh, Edmund turned away from the boss room and stepped into the secret chamber, approaching the silver chest that was its only occupant. He swung it open to reveal a cuirass the same pale gray as the spiders.

Pale Widow’s Carapace

Provides protection against piercing and poison damage. Vulnerable to blunt-force damage.

Edmund didn’t hesitate to don the chest piece, finding it fit perfectly upon his wiry form. The concept of armor weak to blunt force struck him as strange, but any protection would be better than bare skin. He called upon Madness once more in an attempt to check for further secrets, but without his certainty that there was something to find, the smoke didn’t appear. After a quick scan of the tiny room to confirm he wasn’t missing anything, he returned to the boss room.

The pale widow had long since dissolved, and the dungeon seemed to bear no intention of respawning the boss monster. Disappointed he wouldn’t have a chance to practice against it, Edmund decided he could still use the open space to train with his Strethian lash.

But first he had to get it out of the floor.

While the spots that had wrapped themselves around the widow’s legs had rewoven back into the rope proper, both ends still anchored themselves in the dirt. Edmund tried everything to get them free. He pulled from every angle, he tried and failed to dig into the ground, he even attempted to trigger Madness again on the woven roots. Nothing worked.

For a moment he wished Liam was there to offer advice, but the hallucination had yet to return after whatever had spooked him. With a sigh, Edmund turned to his last resort.

He drew Rat’s Fang.

By his reckoning, cutting the rope free cost him a few feet of length on either end, a not particularly significant loss given its fifty-foot starting length. The more disheartening discovery was the realization that he’d likely lose as much every time he had to anchor the rope into the floor, walls, or ceiling. He supposed it made sense. All gear wore down eventually, and a tool as powerful as the Strethian lash should have a limited number of uses.

The trouble was, a limited number of uses made it awfully difficult to practice with the damn thing. As he re-coiled it and slung it back over his shoulder, Edmund resolved to buy a mundane length of rope when he reached the fifth floor, if for nothing else than to practice without depleting his lash.

For the time being, he set his practice aside, lay his spear and his rope and his dagger on the ground, unclasped and removed his cuirass, and curled up on the dirt floor.

His sigil of the rootmother replenished his body’s nutrient and water supply as he slept, leaving him fresh and ready for the next day’s work when he finally awoke. With his jaw set and his plan laid out, Edmund moved not for the exit, but for parallel hallways.

The dungeon might’ve denied him the chance to practice against the boss, but lesser pale widows still appeared every hour like clockwork. Holding his spear not with the white-knuckled grip of desperation but with the loose and flexible grasp of an experienced fighter, Edmund faced down the spiders that had once given him such trouble, and went to work.

He spent nine days fighting the lesser widows, tracking the progress of time not in ticking seconds or night’s sleeps, but in the nigh-imperceptible boosts in strength and agility from pursuing his Obsession. He fought them one-handed. He fought unarmored. He fought them faking injuries to every body part and extremity he could think of. He fought them with his spear, his dagger, the broken edge of his sword. He tore at their limbs with bare hands and wielded their own stiletto-legs against them.

He fought and he fought and he fought. For lack of an instructor he forewent technique, passing up on tactics in favor of sheer brutality and deadly instinct.

By the tenth time Edmund’s strength ticked up, by the time he’d beaten every lesson the widows had to teach into his very being, Liam still hadn’t returned.

It was alone that Edmund left the spiders behind, returned to the empty boss room that had become his camp, gathered his meager belongings, and gazed into the gloom between floors. He cast one final thought for how far he’d come, how much he’d achieved, and how unfathomably further he still had to go, before deciding to move on. Whatever Edmund had done to so frighten Liam would have to wait until he cleared the next floor.

So with a nod, a stony expression, and a spear in his hand, Edmund stepped into the darkness.
