Jane turned to the body. She was fine with her grand rad, but, she asked, “What does it have?”

“Air-aspect feathers. Great for making flying vehicles.” Tinawa rattled off, “Shame about the eyes, but each one would have made a great long-distance [Scry]ing orb. Take the blood and the talons and you can treat those talons to easily accept a [Hunter’s Instincts] enchantment. Cuts better, higher Critical chance. Hard to wield, though. A feather cape can be enchanted with [Fly], while a different feather cape can be enchanted with [Cold Weather Ward]. All of those enchantments last longer than if you’d enchant some other kind of bird parts with the same magics...”

Tinawa continued to list uses for the primal frost owl’s carcass, and Jane realized, again, how much money she left on the floor, with almost every kill she had ever made. It was an uncomfortable feeling. It was, in fact, almost the same feeling she had when they had to abandon the Ancient Unicorn’s corpse in the Forests north of Killtree.

Jane interrupted, “Let’s just… I don’t want to hang around for oozes to come up here. You can have anything else you want of the corpse, but I get the grand rad. I killed it.”

Tinawa acted offended, saying “What! No treat for your teacher?! I work hard, you know!”

“You can have the rads in the ones down below.”

“And brave all those oozes? No way!” Tinawa teased, “Besides! I’m not hauling that crap through thirty [Teleports].”

Jane grunted, “Hrm.”

Tinawa held out his hand.

Jane kept the grand rad in one hand, but took his hand with her other, saying, “[Teleport] in the correct direction, please.”

Tinawa smiled.

The world shifted yellow, once, twice, three times, and then a lot more. They took a break on the beach, in the dark. Jane conjured a backpack and put the grand rad inside of it, as she asked about magical martial techniques. Tinawa answered. Then they blipped some more. It wasn’t long before Tinawa pointed in a direction, and told her to start [Teleport]ing as far as she could, wherever she felt like.

Jane ended up in the ocean more than once. But that was fine. It was only a minor setback. Tinawa never touched the water. He just hovered in the air, laughing, each time Jane slipped down into the drink. He reminded her that using her single [Personal Ward] to make [Fly] was a good idea, since she shouldn’t be using a [Personal Absorption Ward] anymore, anyway.
