“No.” Tinawa said, “It’s just been preserved against all damage by Frost Oozes. I’m not even sure which city it is. There’s hundreds of them in this area. Could just be the former house of royalty.” He turned to Jane, adding, “Not sure why the Duo sent us here. Maybe there’s some settlement further in the mountains. Since you picked a highlighted monster, it means that they could set you down somewhere safe, near someone that might need help.” He turned back to the path, and kept walking. “But we don’t contract with people. We try to rescue people when we can, for sure, but we’re here for the monsters. Some Elites like to know where the people are and what help they need, but we don’t take anything for our services, and if you’re caught extorting the locals for monster kills, you’re fucked.” He added, “So don’t do that.”

Jane walked behind Tinawa, constantly scanning her surroundings with [Hunter’s Instincts]. She smelled no carrion. She heard nothing too alarming, beyond the wind. She saw no smoke trails lifting from the frozen city ahead, or from anywhere else nearby.

And now that her eyes adjusted to the light of the area, she reconjured her balaclava, without the goggles. It was getting too dim to see with her polarized variety. It had taken her but a moment to learn the polarization trick, once she picked up and studied one of the polarization lightwards her father had left for use in the light slime dungeon. But she didn’t need to use that trick right now.

With her eyes uncluttered, she looked again at the city. She saw something new. Birds hovered in the sky, high above the frozen buildings and towers. They didn’t look like primal frost owls; they were much too small for that. They were barely even visible from this distance. Maybe frost eagles? Or vultures? Jane knew that eagles and vultures circled. Owls were ambush, silent predators, that used their tremendous eyesight and wind control to sneak up on their prey. Or at least that’s what the book she read, had said. A frost bird of some sort had been on her short list of birds to look out for, while frost owls were higher on the list than most. Her current air slime form was not that great; she was already planning on ditching that for a razorwing, whenever she got the chance. Since she was here, now, would gladly give up her air slime for a frost owl, or, even better, a primal frost owl.

Jane smiled to herself. A question came to her. Why was she not happy with Polymage? She was happy with Polymage. Polymage was a great choice! She liked the entire idea of the Class. But… something kept her from taking that final step of accepting the Quest Completion.

She realized she had a question for Tinawa. She asked, “What’s the best Class?”

Tinawa laughed. “Any of them you can get.”

“… That cannot be true.”

He flashed her his Status, but it was smaller than most screens.

Ulogai Tinawa

Human, age: 75

Level 89, Class: Professor

Class: 9/9

Scion of Balance

“That’s a bit light on the information. And displayed differently, too.”

Tinawa chuckled. “I’ve been a Soldier, a General, and even an Innkeeper, but I think I’ll take ‘Professor’ to the grave.” He added, “This shortened Status is all I need to stop the youngsters from complaining too loudly when they think I’ve got some special Build.”

“Nine of nine, though.”

“Aye. One of the better parts of the Class.” He asked, “You’re not going to test if it’s a fake display?”

“Nope.” Jane said, “Tried that already when no one was looking. Got an ‘Error’ and woke up ten minutes later with a blinding headache.”

“Smart girl.” Tinawa said, “You’d be surprised how many students come to my Arena and think my Status is fake. There’s always one or ten who fall down, twitching. Once had a Prince of Nelboor try to summon a lightward facsimile of my Status, claiming I was a fraud. That kid fell down and pissed himself.” He chuckled. “Ah. That was funny.”

“You’re kinda vicious, aren’t you?”

“I say the same to you.” He said, “Nice to meet you, by the way.”

Jane said, “Nice to meet you, too.” She added, “Bit backwards there with the greetings.”

“It all comes out in the end. No need to rush life, or do it ‘properly’. Whatever in the Abyss that means.” He asked, “So have you noticed, yet?”

“Of course.” Jane said, acting like nothing had changed. “But what are we going to do about it? That certainly isn’t an owl.”

“Not ‘We’. Just you. I’m an observer.”

“I don’t have to guard you, do I?”

Tinawa laughed. “Not this time.”

The mountain path continued forward, turning into the remains of a broken bridge. The other side of the bridge stuck out from an open gate that was part of the outer wall of the frosted city. Between the two sides, was nothing but air and depths. Howling breezes tore up from the canyon below, bringing with it snow, and the sounds of leathery wings, beating against the wind.

Jane said, “I usually try to sneak up on targets, but being loud gets the ball rolling rather quickly.”

“I’m not surprised you never got [Erase Presence].” Tinawa said, “We can work on that today, if you want.”

Jane held out her right hand. Magic coalesced force into her hand, creating a three meter long, slightly curved blade. It was the perfect weapon for long, airborne slashing. Jane said, “I tried for [Erase Presence], but got nothing.”

“What method did you use?”

Jane walked forward, her heart hammering as she gripped her sword. The tip of her weapon held still, as air swirled around her body. One moment, she was there, the next, her legs turned to wind, then her torso flashed outward into the freezing gale coming from the canyon ahead. Her arms became the breeze.

She had become the air around her. Cold air. Very cold air. But that was okay. She was just air. [Air Body] was about the best insulation from bad weather one could have. Her sword still hung in her ‘hands’, but it was a soft sort of hold; she had to substitute her grip with [Telekinesis].

She spoke, and it was the sound of a twisting breeze, “I tried [Silent Movement] a hundred different ways. Nothing worked—”

The canyon air split apart with a horrible screech that sent snow covered mountainsides tumbling with tiny avalanches. Wings made of leather, stone, and frost, cracked like whips, as a monster wider than a building lifted from the darkness. Jane quickly glanced across the monster, making sure she knew what she was about to kill.

Two massive wings with grabbing claws at the carpal joint. Two back legs fitted with even more claws. One great maw. One long, long tail, tipped with a wicked barb. Wyvern. Frost wyvern, to be precise. They have a paralytic venom in the tail. Air control like all big flying monsters. Skin made of stone, though. Opportunistic far ranging hunters—

Jane’s thoughts continued to shift as she hovered into the air, controlling her body, and her sword.

Jane immediately twisted the wind to appear right inside the wyvern’s personal space. Swish-crack went her sword, the first hit deflecting off of the back of the wyvern’s head, Criticaling for more than enough damage to negate its Health, exposing the beast to real damage. The wyvern tried to get away, flickering its wings downward. It understood, instantly, that it had taken on something it was not prepared to face. Jane’s second [Strike] cleaved through the monster’s neck. The wyvern’s head tumbled away, onto the bridge, breaking stone before falling down into the canyon below. The body went straight down, crashing against the canyon walls, before disappearing from sight.

The monster was not high enough level to matter, but its venom might have been worth retrieving, if it had not fallen so far down. But Jane was already on a mission, and the wyvern wasn’t the target. Wyvern meat, once [Cleanse]d, was supposed to be really delicious, though. But! Eh! Jane dismissed her sword, then came back down to the mountain path. She reformed her human body, complete with all her conjured armor and everything else she had been carrying.

Tinawa said, “That was picture perfect.”

“Thank you.”

He gestured toward the canyon, and the gateway in the wall beyond. He flickered yellow, reappearing on the remains of the bridge, on the other side. “You coming?”

Jane blipped over, appearing next to him. “Yes.”

He pointed up at the frozen walls of the estate. “See that thin layer of solid ice? Oozes live here, like they do in every Quintlan ruin. So what I’m going to do, is this:”

One second, Jane was looking at Tinawa. The next, she was looking at the air. She frowned. “Funny.”

A voice came from somewhere close, “[Erase Presence] is just an extension of [Silent Movement]. It’s only possible to achieve when you know how to control your natural menacing factor.” He asked, “Do you know how to control that?”

“About a hundred different ideas, but none that have worked.” Jane said, “I even tried to focus my killing intent inward, but that did not work. Looking back on it, I probably did it wrong.”

“I guess that’s another word for it… ‘Killing Intent’. I like it?” Tinawa decided, “Yeah. I like it. I’m going to use that. But anyway. I could feel your killing intent the second I saw you. Have you ever tried to restrict your desire to kill your problems?”

“I’m not some monster.” Jane said, slightly put out. “I just wasn’t aware that’s what was needed.”

“There are two ways to accomplish [Erase Presence]. All methods start with [Silent Movement]. The better methods use [Silent Movement] and an Elemental Body skill, so that you are less yourself, and more an entity imposing your will upon the world. This leads to you being able to feel out where you are, exactly. You could also try using [Silent Movement] with pure aura manipulation, but that’s for mages, and we’re not mages.

“So pick the Elemental Body skill you want to use. Then, decide on a path. The first method involves pulling your existence into yourself, so that none may see you. The second is achieved by diffusing yourself over a large area. The effect of either method is the same; people lose track of where you are. Eventually, you must learn both methods, as they both have very different applications. But we will start with one before the other.” Tinawa said, “Condensation leads to stronger attacks, of all kinds. Diffusion leads to excellent evasive defense. Make a choice, and don’t hesitate.”

“Attack.”

“Then go ahead. Take up your elemental body, and go hunt. I’ll be nearby.” He added, “The oozes have heard us, so they’re waiting for us to get close. Keep that in mind going forward.”

Picking the Elemental Body skill to focus on first was an easy choice. Shadows licked from her hands, and her feet, as she activated her Old Faithful. Then she dropped into her own shadow. She slipped forward past the ruined gate, and into the city beyond.

The stone here was solid with a layer of hard, blue ice, that glittered in the vague light from above. Moving through ice was cold, but fine, and reminiscent of another time and place, when she was in Ar’Kendrithyst, hunting through the crystal. The ice that layered this unknown place of towers and airy construction was not as deep as the kendrithyst of the Dead City, but it was deep enough, and the shadows were getting stronger, as the sky darkened further. Night was coming on fast, up here in the wintry, far north.

Jane slipped down a frozen road, becoming one with the half-light just under the icy surface, hunting—

“I can feel you.” Tinawa spoke from somewhere a top the road. “You’re right there.”

The ice cracked above Jane’s position, splintering her shadow. “Ow,” she said, not entirely just to display her annoyance. “How did you—”

“I’m not going to answer stupid questions I already answered. Figure it out.” He added, “This isn’t magic school. There are no formulae here. There’s just you, the monsters, and how you deal with the facts laid before you.”

… Jane felt herself out. She had done that long before now, and knew well where her boundaries lie, but the thing about [Greater Shadowalk] was that it was not a simple spell. There was her main body, that was more or less a pool of shadow the size of herself. It was a non-precise sort of thing. There was also her ‘intention with the world’, for lack of a better phrase. That part was the portion of herself that desired to move in one direction or the other. If she activated the deeper parts of her magic, that ‘intention’—

It was just ‘intent’, wasn’t it? Her father was always going on about intention in magic, and Jane understood that, but it had never really helped her figure out spell creation. Maybe intention in Health-aspect skills was truly different than intention in Mana-aspect spells?

That made a lot of sense. Her father never had any skill with Health skills. Jane hadn’t either, but then again she was thinking of Health and Mana as just different resources. Not as truly different resources.

Tinawa said, “You’re dimming to me, which is a sign you are on the right track.”

… But she was just staying still, and thinking?

Oh. Was that part of it?

Jane thought about hunting. Of killing and harming and—

“Wrong.” Tinawa cracked the ice over her shadowy body. “Try again.”

Jane thought about… fluffy blankets and happy hearts and cozy warmth—

Three meters away, where a building’s doorway was covered in ice and the building itself was layered with the stuff, the door was not actually covered in ice at all. The not-ice slipped from the doorway, to ooze a tendril forward, onto the cracked ice where Jane had hidden. Jane just moved a bit to the right, still under the ice, avoiding the ooze’s tendril. The ooze slipped into the crack. It poked around. It found nothing. It repaired the cracked ice, restoring the road to ice-covered perfection, then moved back to the doorway where it pretended to be a part of the environment.

Tinawa’s voice came from directly above Jane’s new hiding spot. “You imbued the thoughts of fire into a diffusion of shadow, catching that ooze in your effect.” He said, “The best way to [Erase Presence] is to think like the people or monsters in the area, in a way that directly aligns with whatever Elemental Body you’re currently using. What is natural? What is normal? What bears no need for investigation? Shadow has feelers into every aspect of magic, so this is one of the better tools to start with, but this also means you must control your thoughts more. Do not think of anything outside of the background.”

… I am ice. I exist here. I am nothing.

