I draw in as much Heavenly Energy as I can. It's an odd thing. When you have no chi, the Heavenly Energy fills you quickly. It slows down if you have a lot of chi. I've found that you can use your chi to strengthen your body, and speed the whole process up. My guess was it worked like diffusion. The higher the density, the lower the accumulation rate. Taduk was noncommittal about my theory, and Baatar was outright dismissive. They aren't big on the why around here. Or maybe they know, and I'm supposed to figure it out on my own.

When my body can't be nourished anymore, I feel the energy build up in my core. I can't hold very much at the moment. If I lose a finger, it would take weeks to grow back on my own. Taduk can heal it in a matter of hours. It's not just quantity, but control. The quantity I can hold will grow with time. My theory is that my core expands in volume, indirectly lowering the density, increasing the accumulation rate. Compared to other people my age, the amount of chi I can hold is pitiful. It's like they have a full tank and I'm working off of fumes. Nothing else I can do about it in the meantime, I just have to live with the disadvantage. I can only work on my control, be more efficient with what I have.

I try to get as much practice healing as possible. Especially since I get injured so often. Maybe mid fight healing is out of reach, but as long as I can survive a fight, I should be fine. That's all that matters. Survival. Give flesh, break bone. So I punch and kick, until I feel my bones start to fracture, just a bit, and I heal it. I noticed it was getting harder and harder to fracture my fists, feet, and shins awhile ago. The bones have gotten stronger, more dense then the rest of them, so I started working on my knees, elbows, and forearms, but I haven't gotten far yet. At some point, I should work on my chin and forehead, but I get enough stares just punching things. I can imagine the whispers if I start headbutting things. I should work out my inner organs as well, but how would I do that?

My newly collected chi flows around my body, rather than sitting in my core. The goal is to have it drift into my weapon, as if it were any other part of me. The energy needs to accept it as a part of me. I need to bind the weapon to myself, harmonize with it, make it mine. The Sword is me, I am the sword. If what Husolt says is true, my sword is a tempting prize. He didn't say how much it costs though. I still want a spear. And armor. Damn, I wonder how much those leather vests cost? Mine's ruined, and I feel naked without one.

“Lad, time to wake up. It's dinner time.” My eyes open to Husolt shaking me lightly. It's almost dark. I spent the whole day in the State of Balance. Blinking a few times, I stretch. It doesn't feel like I haven't moved all day. I feel great, in fact. I hop off the wagon and check my injuries, my scab already healed over, but scarred. I can take care of that easily. I look at my shoulder, and it's the same. Time to pick out those stitches. It should have taken days. Not a bad day's work. As we walk, I absently ask “What's for dinner?” I'm pretty hungry from missing lunch.

Husolt brays. “Whatever you're cooking, lad. Get to it. I'm a hungry man.”
