Rook spat into the dirt and rubbed his thumb along the edge of his blade. Still dull.

“Useless piece of shit,” he muttered, dragging it harder across the whetstone, the grinding noise cutting through the otherwise quiet forest.

“Somebody show him how to actually use that thing,” Brann complained, cheek nearly on the dirt as he tried to breathe the fire to life. “You're dulling off your progress, scraping it like that.”

Pate, the bowman, huffed, eyes scanning the trees. “We’re running low on supplies. We need another hit soon.”

Takashi, who had been leaning against a tree in silence, shrugged a shoulder. “Merchants have gotten careful. Villages are better defended. She’s probably our best bet,” he said, nodding toward the girl tied to the tree.

Pate scoffed. “Yeah? Then why the hell did you lead us all the way out here?”

“You complaining now?” Takashi said, lifting his gaze just enough to glare. “You wanted a merchant cart. I told you South was our best shot, even if it wasn’t a good one.”

“That was before we started dragging dead weight,” Rook muttered.

Takashi ignored him. “As for ransoming her, we have to be careful. We’ve got no proof she is who she says she is—or that anyone would pay enough to make it worth the risk.”

“The plan was to hand her off,” Pate said. “That your contact would deal with it.”

Takashi’s jaw tightened. “And that contact didn’t show.”

“Or you made him up,” Rook accused.

Takashi’s glare sharpened. “Believe what you want.”

"Well, the way I see it, they're your people," Pate said. "You should be the one to go start the negotiation."

Takashi's glare deepened. "I'm a deserter. I'm not making it out alive if I ever go back."

Rook snorted and tossed the whetstone aside. “Then we should just gut the bitch and be done with it. Keeping her alive is costing us too much if we can’t cash her in.”

His eyes settled on the bound girl.

She flinched beneath the burlap sack, a muffled sound slipping past her gag.

Rook grinned as he pushed himself to his feet and stepped toward her. “Been real quiet today,” he said. “Starting to think you don’t appreciate our hospitality.”

She tensed as he crouched beside her.

“Maybe we need to find another use for you,” he went on, pressing the back of his knife against her thigh and dragging it slowly. She squirmed, trying to pull away, but the rope held her too tightly. He reached higher, grabbing a fistful of her hair through the sack and yanking her head back. She let out a louder cry, her body jerking as she breathed heavier. His eyes lingered on the rising and falling of her chest.

Then Rook froze as something cold pressed against his throat. He hadn't even noticed Lysa get up, but she now stood behind him with her dagger against his throat. "Enough, Rook. We didn't drag her with us all week just to be your toy."

Rook scoffed, teeth gritting as Lysa pressed the blade a little more firmly to his throat. He released the girl’s hair, spreading his fingers wide as if to say, See? I’m not touching.

Lysa held there a moment longer, then nodded and pulled the knife away.

“Now if you’ve got breath to complain,” she said, “you’ve got breath to make yourself useful.”

Rook rolled his shoulders, rubbing his neck. “Yeah? What, you want me picking berries?”

“Hunt us something worth eating.” She nodded toward Pate. “Go with him. Try and get something before night settles in completely.”

Pate gave a halfhearted salute, checked his quiver, and grabbed his bow. Then the two of them disappeared into the trees.

Lysa watched them go, then turned back to the girl. She grabbed a waterskin and pulled the sack from her head.

The girl blinked at the sudden light. Dirt streaked her face where tears had cut through it, and her lips were cracked and split at one corner.

“Thirsty?” Lysa asked, holding the waterskin just out of reach.

The girl stared at it, eyes locked. Her hands were bound behind her back, the gag still wedged between her lips.

Lysa gave the skin a small shake, letting the water slosh audibly.

The girl swallowed hard.

Lysa smirked, uncorked it, and took a long drink herself. Then she leaned in. The girl flinched, eyes squeezing shut—but Lysa simply reached behind her head and loosened the gag, letting it fall free.

“As it stands,” Lysa said, “there isn’t much use keeping you around if we can’t figure out what to do with you. And we’re running out of patience.”

“I—I know the empire will pay for my release,” the girl said hoarsely.

“If you’re really a magistrate’s daughter,” Lysa replied.

“I am!” she said quickly. “I’m Mei Shuyin. My father is the magistrate of Yun Prefecture.”

“So you’ve said.” Lysa took another slow drink. “Problem is proving it. And even if you’re telling the truth… how do we know your father’s still alive?”

Mei’s gaze flicked to the waterskin again before she forced herself to answer.

“He is,” she said, though her voice trembled. “He would’ve gotten people out. He—he wouldn’t just…”

“They hit your prefecture hard,” Lysa said. “Don’t think there’s much left standing.”

Mei shook her head. “I was outside the compound when it happened. I saw the smoke, heard shouting, and I…” Her voice faltered. “I ran and hid until nightfall. Then I kept going south. I thought if I could reach the capital, I’d be safe.”

“And instead you ran into us,” Lysa said.

Mei swallowed.

Lysa smirked. “Why didn’t you just find somewhere safe to hide out instead?”

“I didn’t know who I could trust,” she whispered.

Lysa exhaled softly. “Takashi says we’re about a day from the capital. And without someone to hand you off to, trying to ransom you ourselves is just painting a target on our backs.”

“I won’t say anything,” Mei said quickly. “I won’t tell anyone what you look like or where you are, or—”

“Shhhh,” Lysa murmured, raising a finger. “Let’s not tell obvious lies now, love.”

Takashi pushed off the tree and walked over. “Only play left is the checkpoints,” he said. “Find the right guard, pay him to carry a message. Set a drop outside the walls with a warning. Any soldiers or indication of an ambush, and she dies with no questions asked. If she’s a magistrate’s daughter, they won’t risk it for our heads.” He glanced down at Mei. “Of course… if she’s lying, and the real Mei Shuyin’s already accounted for…” His jaw tightened slightly. “That message only succeeds in getting us hunted.”

“Seems risky…” Lysa said, sipping the water again, ignoring how Mei’s eyes focused on it.

“Of course it’s risky…” Takashi stared at the girl for a moment, a pull of guilt tugging at him. She was one of his people, someone he’d been sworn to protect when he’d joined the army. But instead, he’d chosen this.

Better than dying on a battlefield, he thought as he turned away.

“Quit waving that water in her face and give her some,” he said over his shoulder.

“Feeling soft now?” Lysa teased.

“She’ll be harder to travel with if she gets so weak we have to drag her.”

“Yeah, yeah, not like I wasn’t going to give her some. Here,” Lysa said, bringing the waterskin down and tilting it towards Mei’s mouth. She let her drink a bit but by the time she pulled it away the girl still looked desperate for more. Lysa corked the waterskin and returned it to her belt before grabbing Mei’s chin.

“Open.”

She shoved the gag back into her mouth and put the sack back over her head. She hadn’t shown she had anything useful to say, and they didn’t need her watching everything they did.

Not long later, Brann had the fire rolling, and the three of them sat around waiting for the other two to return, hopefully with some fresh meat. There was some jerky left to split between their crew, but not much else.

But as minutes turned to an hour and Brann scavenged for more wood to add to the fire, Rook and Pate still hadn’t returned.

“What the hell’s taking them so long?” Lysa muttered.

“They should’ve had something by now,” Brann said, tossing another stick into the fire. “Even a rabbit or something.”

“Or they went further out,” Lysa said. “Bigger catch.”

“Or they ran into something,” Brann muttered.

That made Lysa glance at him.

“What, you worried now?”

Brann shrugged. “Just saying. Feels… off.”

Takashi suddenly jumped up. “What was that?” he said in a loud whisper, reaching for his belt.

“Hm?” Lysa cocked an eyebrow.

“There’s something out there,” Takashi said, his hand shaking as he reached for his sword.

“It’s a forest, things rustle,” Lysa said.

“No, something's definitely wrong,” Takashi insisted. “They should have been back.”

Brann sighed as he pushed himself up and then yelled into the forest. “Rook! Pate! Quit sucking each other off and come back to camp!”

No answer.

Takashi tightened his grip on his sword. “You see? They wouldn’t have—”

“Fuck off!” Rook’s voice boomed back at them.

“See? All you heard was them on their way… back…” her words trailed off as Rook stepped into the firelight. Alone. “Where’s Pate?”

Rook scratched his cheek. “Thought he came back here. I went to take a shit, and he disappeared on me. I swear I’m going to wring his bloody neck; he knows I wasn’t paying attention to our route. Only made it back when I saw your fire through the dark.”

“Then where is he?” Takashi hissed through his teeth, eyes wide with fear.

They all looked at him, confused. He wasn’t acting right. He was coward enough to be a deserter, but not this kind of coward.

“What’s your problem?” Brann asked.

“My problem is that something could have taken him out. Silently,” Takashi said. “Think about what that means!”

“Whoa, whoa, whoa, slow down there, guy,” Brann chuckled. “There’s no reason to—”

Then a scream cut through the forest, and they all tensed, reaching for their weapons.

With wide eyes, they looked amongst each other, and another scream echoed from the darkness:

“Help! Oh, god! Help me!”

“Pate!?” Brann called back into the darkness. “Pate! What's happened!?”

“Help me! Oh, please help!”

Brann started moving, but Takashi grabbed his shoulder, stopping him. “Stop. Something isn’t right.”

“Idiot probably got himself gored by something,” Rook muttered, drawing his blade.

“Please! I’m over here! Over here!” the voice continued to wail.

Brann shook off Takashi’s hold and drew his own sword.

“Listen to me!” Takashi yelled. “That doesn’t sound right!”

“It sounds like a man screaming for help,” Brann shot back. “What do you want, a formal introduction?”

“Please! I’m going to die! Help me!”

“What about the girl?” Takashi said. “We can’t leave her alone.”

“Then you stay behind. Anyone who ain’t a coward, come with me!” Brann yelled and stomped off ahead.

Rook and Lysa gave Takashi a look and then followed after Brann as Pate continued to wail from the darkness.

“Help me! Help me!”

Brann yelled, “Pate! What is it? What’s got you!?”

But he didn’t answer, just continued the same vague cries for help. “I can’t move! Please help me!”

The three bandits began running, calling after the man, but no matter how far they ran, he didn’t seem to be getting any closer. The voice just continued to lure them further and further away, and by the time they realized they couldn’t even see the campfire glowing through the dark anymore, the screaming suddenly stopped.

They all slowed down, whipping around at every whistle of wind or rustle of leaves.

“Pate? Can you hear us?” Brann called.

“It must have got him,” Lysa whispered.

“But what got him?” Rook asked.

“Some kind of monster. But only supposed to be low-level stuff around here,” Brann whispered back. He cleared his throat and was about to try again. “Pate—”

Lysa hit him. “Shut up. Just shut up and listen.”

They all turned in slow circles, keeping their backs to each other. All they had to see by were thin rays of moonlight coming through the canopy.

“We should go back,” Lysa whispered. “Something definitely ain’t right.”

“There’s an entrance to the depths not far from here,” Rook muttered. “Could be something crawled out…”

Then Brann gasped and pointed. They all whipped around.

At first, it was just a shadow, but it was a clear silhouette sitting within a ray of moonlight, not far from them, with purple eyes floating at its head—eyes with a thick miasma leaking out.

“What is that—what the hell is that!?” Lysa hissed through her teeth. All three of them gripped their weapons tightly.

Then, its mouth opened, showing rows of white fangs as a voice emerged—Pate’s voice—but it had no business coming from that monster’s throat.

“Help me! I’m right here!”

Rook screamed and ran towards it, blade out, but before he even cleared half the distance, another shadow moved and tackled him, throwing him off his feet and snarling like a beast out of hell.
