The mage spun up an earth mana spell that worked like a giant drill, scooping out chunks of rock and depositing them behind. The corridor quickly filled with loose debris, and the Heirs stepped into the cavity carved out of the rock. More rock flowed around them to enlarge the front of the tunnel while being packed into the back. Soon enough, they all stood in a little bubble of air that slowly migrated through the rock. It wasn’t a quiet or fast way of transportation, but it seemed to be working.

As far as Nathan could tell, nobody had noticed them. No sensor spells were being directed down towards them, and nobody overhead was reacting in especially notable ways. Then a unit of flyers in bulky armor landed and did something that he had trouble resolving at this depth. A wave of earth mana rolled through the ground, propagating outwards with the Heirs squarely in the center of the effect.

“Incoming!” Nathan called out. He tried to absorb the spell, succeeding in blocking most of it. But he couldn’t do anything about the wave of pressure transmitted through the earth like the blast of a depth charge.

Stella’s tunneling spell fell apart, and Khachi raised his shield and shouted a wordless cry of defiance. A bubble of light surrounded the entire party as the stone around them cracked and roiled. Rocks clashed together, and their pocket of air would have been crushed and collapsed if not for the magical shield.

“Going up,” Stella said, her face white from the close call. She started channeling a spell, imbuing aspects of force and wizardry into an earth blast, then supercharging it. “Get ready to fly.”

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 872

Bottomless Stamina: 88200/88200

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 644

Regenerative Focus: 4916/6540

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 4

Mystical Discernment 6

Forewarning 5

Arcane Insight 8

Evasion 2

Mental Vault 6

Veracity 3

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 7
