“Let the Drakes deal with him.”
Someone cut in. Only one person would dare. Magnolia turned to Tyrion, but he returned her gaze without blinking. He spoke confidently as all eyes turned towards him.
“Even if the Goblin Lord destroys both Drake armies, let him go. Unless he comes north—and if he does, he will most likely destroy Liscor—we will benefit.”
Outraged voices rose.
“Destroy Liscor? If he heads north, our southernmost cities will all fall as well! Esthelm was already destroyed! Are you suggesting we let that happen to every city in the area?”
Tyrion’s voice was calm.
“Esthelm did fall, but the people have retaken the city. They fought off another of the Goblin Lord’s armies.”
“What?”
Shock echoed through the room at this. Magnolia ground her teeth together. Tyrion would know about Esthelm. She knew what he was doing but she couldn’t stop it. The man continued calmly.
“Our cities can defend themselves. They knew the risks of being closer to the border. If the Goblin Lord comes north, we will muster an army to defeat them. And if he does come north, he will have done more damage to the Drakes than we. And that is all to the better, once war comes.”
“We do not need war with the Drakes! We need allies, not more enemies!”
Magnolia snapped into her speaking stone, but the mood was against her. People were in favor of leaving the Goblin Lord alone, especially if it meant trouble for their southern neighbors. Tyrion abandoned the conversation, job done. Magnolia tore the gemstone off her dress and stormed towards him.
“You are an idiot, Tyrion Veltras.”
“And you don’t see the danger the Drakes pose, Reinhart.”
His voice was cold as he spoke to her. Tyrion eyed Ressa and the [Maid] gave him her coldest stare which didn’t faze him an inch. Magnolia took a deep breath and tried not to kick the man.
“Sending an army to pointlessly kill thousands of Drakes every few years does not help this continent, Tyrion. What do you expect will happen if you win this time?”
“If we beat them at the Blood Fields, we’ll take Liscor. We just need the upper hand and we will push past the High Passes. They’ve held it this long, but the Goblin Lord is the opportunity we need.”
Tyrion stared calmly at Magnolia. She opened her mouth to tell him Drakes were not the enemy, when someone screamed.
Her head whipped around. Someone was standing at the double doors. A man in black, with a sword in hand, dripping blood. His face was wrapped in a black shroud, and he was unmistakably an [Assassin]. He shoved the [Head Butler] aside, and the man fell, a wound in his chest. The [Assassin] lifted something with his left hand and threw it.
A head flew into the center of the room. It landed wetly on the ground. More people screamed. Magnolia stared at the head and then saw the blur.
“Magnolia!”
Ressa leapt, but it was Tyrion who caught the dagger. He swatted it out of the air with a gloved hand, interposing himself between Magnolia and the [Assassin]. She blinked at him.
“Did you just save my life, Tyrion Veltras?”
He turned to her as the [Assassin] began to flee.
“A [Lord] does not deal with underhanded murderers and plots. If I kill you, it will be out in the open.”
Magnolia nodded. Then she seized Ressa, who was guarding Magnolia’s back.
“Find the others. There must have been more!”
Ressa hesitated.
“I should guard—”
“Tyrion is here. Go!”
The [Maid] hesitated, and then became a blur that leapt towards one of the windows. More people cried out as glass broke and Tyrion stared after Ressa with narrowed eyes.
“The [Assassin] will escape. Is that your plan?”
Magnolia was breathing a bit heavily. She saw people running after the [Assassin] now the shock had ended. The Minotaur was running, although he could hardly hope to catch the killer.
“No. He won’t get away.”
A voice rang out above the shouting. A man strode forwards, rapier in hand. Thomast, Lady Bethal’s husband.
“[Affair of Honor]!”
The man in black had reached the doors. But he paused, mid-step when Thomast used his Skill. The Chevalier’s voice rang throughout the room.
“Turn, murderer. There can be no retreat until this matter is settled by blade.”
Magnolia saw the [Assassin]’s shoulders slump. He turned, and the Chevalier Thomast strode towards the man in black, rapier in hand. The room parted for the two to meet.
Magnolia did not watch the assassin die. She strode over to the head on the floor pushing aside the people who’d formed a wide circle around it. Magnolia stared down at it as a [Lord] and a female adventurer inspected the head carefully, neither actually touching it. The [Lord] looked up, saw Lady Magnolia, and stood up to bar her path.
“Lady Reinhart, please stay back. The head may be warded or enchanted to do further harm upon being touched.”
“Then check. But I wish to see the deceased.”
“Stop wasting time.”
Someone pushed past her. Magnolia turned and saw Tyrion. He strode into the circle of onlookers and despite the adventurers’ protests, bent and picked up the head by the hair.
Something flashed on his hand. A ring blazed and then the light from within faded. Tyrion inspected the head and then turned it to face Magnolia. She felt a lurch in her stomach, but controlled the feeling. Instead of fainting, retching, or staggering away as some of the people behind her were doing, she simply sighed.
“Ah, Patricia.”
The dead woman’s head was white, drained of blood. Her features were contorted in horror, but it was her face. Magnolia would have known it anywhere. She had been a friend of Magnolia’s.
And now she was dead.
Tyrion stared at Magnolia.
“Is the [Assassin] another one of your plots, Reinhart?”
“No, some enemies of mine seem to want to kill me. And my friends too, it seems.”
Magnolia spoke automatically, while one phrase flashed through her mind again and again.
The Circle of Thorns.
Tyrion shrugged.
“This is no business of mine.”
He turned, and handed the head to a [Lord] who nearly dropped it. Tyrion strode out of the room as Thomast bent to wipe his blade on the dead assassin’s clothing. A capable killer he might have been, but Magnolia knew there were few who could match someone of the [Duelist] class in a one-on-one bout.
In the end, Ressa returned empty-handed. The head disappeared, and the room was filled with shock and fear. Magnolia ignored the eyes turned towards her and the whispers, and found Lady Bethal with her husband.
“Lady Bethal. Thomast. Thank you for disposing of the killer.”
The man’s eyes were shadowed as he bowed.
“It was my honor and duty. But I regret Lady Patricia’s death.”
“Yes. And she had no husband. So there is another matter which must be dealt with now.”
Magnolia turned and Ressa pointed her silently towards a group of girls, one of whom was weeping uncontrollably. Patricia’s sole daughter, Eliasor, tried to curtsy when Magnolia approached her, but the woman waved that away.
“No formalities now. Eliasor, I am sorry that your mother was killed in such a heinous way. But now that she is gone, there is something that must be done.”
She touched the gemstone Ressa handed her and spoke into it loudly, cutting above every other voice in the room.
“Ladies and lords! Lady Patricia’s life was cut untimely short! However, her daughter, Lady Eliasor still lives. She is now the head of the Melissar family. I bid you all welcome her as a peer!”
There was a pause, and then by her side, Lady Bethal curtsied to Eliasor. The girl stared at her, wide-eyed, and then at Lady Magnolia as she did the same. Around the room, the [Lords] and [Ladies] remembered their duty and bowed or curtsied, acknowledging Eliasor.
It was a painful sight, to see the girl try to respond as tears still ran down her face. Magnolia spoke to her more quietly.
“I know this is hardly the time to think of such things, but you are your family’s sole heir now, Eliasor. If you wish it, I will send my own guards and [Maids] to assist you in the weeks to come.”
The girl opened her mouth, choked, and kept crying. Magnolia paused.
“I fear your mother’s death was my fault. Lady Patricia was one of my confidants, a trusted friend. She had a place in my circle, and I hope that one day I may offer you the same. But I swear to you, Eliasor, I will find the people who ordered your mother’s death. And I will kill them all regardless of where they hide. You have my word on that.”
“Thank you—Lady Reinhart.”
Magnolia nodded down at Eliasor. She hesitated, and then walked away.
“Lady Bethal, Lady Pryde, Lady Wuvren, Lady Zanthia, to me.”
They came out of the crowd, people parting to let them pass. Magnolia looked at some of the foremost [Ladies] of Izril, and nodded towards the doors.
“Let us leave Eliasor to her grief. We must talk.”
They strode out of the room, people parting to let them pass. Magnolia’s face was carefully blank, and she kept the emotions tightly held in her chest.
“It’s too harsh, leaving her to govern her entire house like that. Must she really become a [Lady] in the moments after her mother’s death, Magnolia? Couldn’t it have waited a week? Or a month? Or years?”
Bethal murmured as they walked down the corridor. Lady Zanthia, tall and old and willowy, but tough as a tree, nodded, looking sympathetic. Magnolia’s voice was a bit sharper than she had intended as she replied.
“What would you have me do, manage the girl’s affairs for her? Or let a distant relative or friend do it? How would she ever become a proper [Lady] then? No. No, she must either rise to the challenge or fail alone. Our help can only be that. Help.”
She walked on, speaking as the fire built in her chest. The gall of it. An [Assassin], sent to kill at a gathering of the nobility.
“This is Izril, ladies. Not Baleros or Chandrar, where war is a part of life. Not Rhir, where struggle is part of life. And not Terandria, where monarchs dictate who lives and who dies. Here we fight with words and thorns. We know peace, but peace with Drakes and Gnolls is bloody. We must struggle alone. Alone, even when we are together. To survive. And those who cannot survive, die.”
Heads rose. Four of Magnolia’s escorts, her entourage that she seldom made use of, stared at her. Magnolia looked around.
“Summon your most trusted protectors, your own soldiers, my ladies. Bethal, your husband and your Knights of the Petal will be needed. The same goes for the rest of you. I had planned to tell you after the meeting, but there is a war going on. I am reforming my entourage. Prepare to move at once and together. No one else will die. No one.”
They nodded and began to stride towards their carriages as their servants ran to meet them, their guards armed and wary. Ressa walked to stand next to Magnolia. She looked at her mistress, and saw unshed tears in Magnolia’s eyes. But Magnolia’s voice was steady and she made no mention of them when she spoke to her [Maid].
“It seems my enemies are far bolder and resourceful than I would like, Ressa. I need an army, and not just one fielded by my entourage.”
“What are you intending?”
Magnolia took a breath. She knew what she had to do, but she didn’t like it.
“It’s time to go back to the family estate. My grandfather has an army, and I will have it from him.”
“Didn’t you swear you’d never go back unless you were dragged kicking and screaming?”
“Broken promises. A friend is dead, Ressa. One of my people, one of my allies. I’ll have an army, if I have to beat that old man to death myself.”
“Well then, I shall begin sending [Messages].”
Magnolia nodded. She felt tired, distracted, and worried. She stared back towards the ballroom, and felt a tightness in her chest. She never knew what to say to children. She should have said something. But nothing had helped when her mother had died. Magnolia turned away and stared out into the fading sunset.
“I fear it’s going to be a very busy spring, Ressa.”
The maid just nodded in reply.
