That night, she dreamt of an enormous, flaming person bursting from the ground and shattering the continent with an enormous sword, and woke up before sunrise, unable to fall back asleep.

The rest of the week passed quickly. Classes were the same as usual, with the exception of Liam being oddly quiet during Intermediate Unattributed Spells. The entire class knew what had happened in the duel, and Liam didn’t seem to have fully recovered, and was unable to make eye contact with Elise for more than a half second. She hadn’t even ordered him to do anything yet, and it was already a pleasant change of pace to be able to practice without hearing snide comments from his direction every minute or so.

It was only on Friday that something changed. Basic Magical Combat had started out as usual with their five laps of warmups, something that everyone in the class could now complete in fifteen minutes or less. Professor Lance had them all line up on the field, and instead of going to their usual drills, he brought out a brand new device that they had never seen before. It was shaped like a giant target made of stone suspended by metal bars in the middle of a stone frame. Elise could sense some incredibly dense mana contained within it, and a very complex network of mana channels, but until the professor spoke, she could only guess what it did.

“Today, we’re going to be playing a little game!” he announced. “This is a power sensor. You hit it, and it will tell you how hard you hit. It works with magical, physical, and even mental attacks, but we won’t be using that last function today. Today, we’re all going to take turns attacking. You get up to three attempts to break your highest score, but you can’t take more than ten seconds to prepare any of them. The five highest scoring students will get extra credit on the final exam.”

If a power competition wasn’t enough to get the students excited, the promise of extra credit was, and it wasn’t long before the students had formed an extremely tight line leading back from the device. Nearly everyone was eager to test their power, and though Elise had no illusion that she would place highly, she was still curious how she would measure up.

The first student was an earth mage who took the full ten seconds of preparation to charge a powerful stone bullet spell. It shot out faster than Elise’s eyes could track and shattered against the stone target, making the whole thing glow blue. A moment later, the professor checked something on the side of the device and turned to face the class.

“213!” he said.

None of the students had any frame of reference for whether that was good or not, so no one reacted. The earth mage took his next two attempts, scoring about the same, with the third being at 216 before moving on. When the next five students failed to reach even 150, it soon became clear exactly how impressive the earth mage was.

Elise, Sophie, and Attalaya watched the students in front of them go with fascination and anticipation. The earth mage from the beginning remained in first place for nearly twenty students until a lightning mage managed to score 287 with a deafening thunderbolt. That girl stayed in first for only two students before surprisingly an unattributed mage scored 301 with what looked like a laser beam.

When it was Elise’s turn, she tried three different attacks. First was a volley of high-powered {Magic Missile}, just to see how it stacked up. She had seen a few other students use volley attacks, and they all seemed to count toward the same score, so she wanted to do the same.

“117!” announced the professor.

Frowning, Elise prepared her next attack, a modified {Vicious Bloom} that used roots instead of vines. She empowered it with as much mana as she could, trying to make it crush the stone. The roots ended up barely being able to get more than a few inches in before being stopped, but it was enough for a significant improvement on her score.

“209!”

For her final attack, she was extremely tempted to use {Power Word Kill} to see what would happen, since she detected that it was a valid target, but she ultimately decided against it. She could try to disguise it as another nature magic spell, but if that failed, she would have no good way to explain herself. She really wanted to see how it would score, though.

Her final attack was only a single point better than her first, which was still respectable, but with Sophie and Attalaya going after her, and a few more heavy hitters further back in line,she knew she wouldn’t maintain the top five.

Sophie topped out at 231, leveraging her larger mana pool and better control of mana to make a slightly better version of Elise’s root attack, and Attalaya simply kicked the target, earning a whopping 392. Elise still didn’t understand how the woman could produce so much power with a simple Warrior Class, but she had come to accept it by that point.

Attalaya remained in first until the very end, but another student—an armored man that Elise remembered from the defensive test—actually managed to get close with a sword strike that scored 371. As the students all started talking to each other, congratulating the winners and bantering with the losers, the instructor suddenly released a wave of mana that flattened the grass around him and ruffled everyone’s hair, seizing their attention.

“Attention!” he shouted. “We’re almost out of time, but class is not over yet! Before I let you all go, I need to tell you the reason that we had this little competition. The reason is that I needed to figure out your upper limits so I can get the right protective equipment from the school proper.” He paused a moment, letting his words settle in before continuing. “That’s right! Next week, we will begin sparring!”
