Saying so, Luna opened her Maw and replaced one piece with another – identical in size, but this one cooked through and glistening in the afternoon light with sprinkles of spice and rendered fat.

Syl stared at it for a moment.

Then just shook her head, reached out and carefully took the offering.

“…Thank you, that’s very considerate of you,” she said, a little softer.

Luna’s tail immediately started wagging.

“Second must eat! Or Second gets weak! Then no thinking! Then bad potions!”

“…That is not quite how it works.”

“But could!” Luna insisted.

Syl considered that.

“…I suppose it could,” she admitted.

Satisfied, Luna nodded once, then immediately leaned forward, peering at her workspace again.

“Now Luna help more!”

“No.”

“But–”

“No.”

“…Watch, then help a little?”

Syl hesitated.

“…Sure, I can agree to that.”

“Yes!”

Luna beamed, then – undoubtedly to try and be very helpful – leaned in even closer.

Too close.

“…Luna.”

“Luna watches the potion thingy!”

“You are breathing on it.”

“…Oh.”

She leaned back a little, but not enough.

Syl reached out and gently pushed her further away without looking, continuing her work as she took a small bite of the offered meat.

It was–

“…It’s actually quite good.”

Luna puffed up proudly.

“Yes! Mister Stall Owner does proper spice rituals! Makes very good meat!”

“…I see.”

Behind her, Luna hummed happily, swaying slightly from foot to foot as she watched the bubbling mixture with intense focus.

And for a few moments–

Everything was calm.

Quiet, and stable.

Which, of course, had no chance of continuing.

“…What does this do?”

Syl stopped, and very slowly turned her head.

Luna was holding another vial this time, sniffing it, ready to gulp it down.

“…Luna.”

“Yes?”

“Just what are you doing now?”

A pause.

“…Testing?”

“No.”

“…Tiny test?”

“No.”

“…Very tiny–”

“Luna.”

She pouted with that cute little ‘woo…’ of hers.

…It made it really hard to stay mad at her.

“Okay… Luna puts it down.”

Syl watched until her hands were empty again, then returned to her work with a long, slow breath.

Behind her, Luna sat very still.

Very quiet.

Very helpful.

…

“…Is Luna very good helper?” Luna whispered dejectedly.

Syl closed her eyes briefly, then decided a change in approach was needed.

She stopped her work, knelt down, and pulled Luna into a hug. Her hand found itself on the girl’s back, massaging it lightly.

“…Yes, you are. Thank you.”

She could feel Luna snuggling into her, and the little wags picking up again.

“Would you like me to show you how to help even more? We will even ‘test’ some ingredients. And learn which ones are unsafe and why. Deal?”

Luna wrapped her hands as far as they could reach around her waist and hugged her with a loud and happy ‘Yesh!’

Perhaps it wouldn’t be so bad to take it easy today, and show Luna how some things are done.

Luna was a quick learner.

And Syliana was sure she could be made useful even in something as delicate as Alchemy.

In very specific, carefully supervised ways.

And if not… Then at least the two of them would spend some pleasant time together.

She smiled, ruffling Luna’s hair again.

“Well then, shall we get started then?”

“Yip yep!”

Yes, that sounded good too.
