There had, in fact, been a faction amongst the voidcytes that had almost... worshipped him. It was awkward at best and uncomfortable at worst, even if a few of them were capable of pleasant conversation. The one he was holding wasn't one of them, though—it seemed to be one of the fanatics that belonged to the so-called Cult of the Star.

Which was the third cult he'd accidentally started. He had no idea how these things kept happening to him.

On the plus side, it meant that the voidcyte didn't protest much when he told it to get into the box, nor did it seem unwilling to answer any of his questions. "Yessss," it whispered instead, slithering into the box the moment he held it out. "We are bound by the star. The star will feed us, yes? It will give us mana?"

"If you're good," Cale said, slightly uncomfortable. Everyone in the class was staring at him at this point. Syphus was snickering, evidently amused, and Professor Graystalk's lips kept twitching. "Are there any more of you, or are you the only one that came with me?"

"There is one more of us!" the voidcyte hissed eagerly. Then it paused, as if ashamed. "We do not know where it went. We are sorry... will the star punish us now?"

"Indeed, will you?" Graystalk asked, making no effort to hide his amusement. Cale shot him a dirty look.

"I'm not answering that," he said. "Do you know if anything else followed me through? Anything that isn't a voidcyte? One of the Greater Indictments?"

The voidcyte shrank a little inside its box of blood obsidian, pulsating and swirling for a moment as it thought. "We do not know," it said eventually. "The journey was... strange. Confusing. There were too many colors. But... there may have been something more, yes."

"Great." Cale sighed. "Can't even get a straight answer. Guess I'll have to prepare for the worst... not that that's anything new, I suppose."

Professor Graystalk laughed outright. "You are, perhaps, the most interesting student I have ever had," he said. "Or assistant, I suppose. It does not feel quite right to call you a student. Will you be telling us what a Greater Indictment is, or is that a secret you plan on keeping to yourself?"

"Oh, I'll keep it a secret for now." Cale smirked a bit, glad the professor had caught on to the type of person he was. "No point causing a panic. I might let you in on it if you prove yourself, though."

"It is not often I find myself on the lesser end of an interaction," Graystalk remarked, but he didn't seem to mind. "You are a fascinating man, Cale Cadwell Cobbs."

Cale coughed. "Just Cale, please."

"Of course." Graystalk still seemed amused. "I believe you may have forgotten something, though."

"...Did I?" Cale gave himself a quick once-over. None of his clothes were missing. Graystalk gave him a strange look, as if confused that that was the first thing he'd checked, and Cale shrugged. "Look, I've been in a lot of situations, okay? What did I forget?"

A throat cleared behind him. Cale groaned. "Really?"

"We are not done, Cale Cadwell Cobbs," Whiteleaf declared, pointing her wand at him. The impression was ruined somewhat by the bit of vomit that was still on her lips. "We have not finished our duel."

"You're barely standing," Cale said, exasperated. "Also, just Cale! Why do people keep calling me by my full name?"

"It's fun to say," Syphus said, hopping up onto the stage next to him. It cracked its knuckles threateningly and looked at Whiteleaf. "Hey, if she wants to finish this duel, we should let her finish it. Don't you think?"

"I guess," Cale grumbled. He went back to stand at his spot on the stage, waiting for Whiteleaf to hobble over to hers. "But just for the record, I think this is stupid."

"Alas," Graystalk said. "Ms. Whiteleaf cannot allow Brightgrove honor to be tarnished. She initiated the duel, and so she must finish it. Are you two ready?"

Cale nodded tiredly. Whiteleaf raised her wand, a determined look in her eye. The Gift's presence had receded during the altercation with the voidcyte, but Cale could feel its attention was now once more upon them.

Graystalk raised his voice. "Begin."
