Tallheart called arrows like these ‘Breakers’. As with the Limit of Iron—the failed lair-shattering spike he’d made back in Essed—the metal in the Breaker had been pushed far beyond its capacity. Except this time, it wasn’t Iron. Ameliah could practically taste the power rolling off the arrow, the enchantment only remaining stable because Tallheart was actively holding the runes together with his skills. The moment he let go, they would begin to degrade, and quickly.

This single, disposable arrow represented more wealth than a family of commoners could earn in a lifetime. Perhaps more than an entire village of commoners could earn.

Moving quickly but with great care, Ameliah took the arrow, setting it to her bow. She knew better than to duplicate it with Endless Quiver. Doing so would have been distinctly unwise, and not just because of the prohibitive mana cost. Drawing swiftly, she used Prismatic Arrow to cloak the Breaker with darkness. This time, the cloud appeared to conceal not only embers, but also sparks of lightning. Shock Arrow was needed if she wanted the spell keywords to work in her favor.

Naturally, it would have been better to use something other than Grand Arcane Valis for the core, given what they were facing, but it was what they had.

It would do.

The Queen’s eyes brightened further, and Ameliah released.

She didn’t use Multishot. Unlike Endless Quiver, that wouldn’t have caused an instant explosion, but it was still dangerous. And pointless. The damage limit here was only 999,999. In combination with her skills, the Breaker would be enough to hit that mark with damage to spare. Boosting the shot would have done more damage overall, true, but not to a single target. It wasn’t worth the risk of bringing the tunnel down on their heads.

Just before impact, inky darkness washed over Ameliah, plunging the tunnel into absolute night. Rain’s doing. Even blinded by the Dark-aspect magic, Ameliah could still see the white-hot bolt released by the Breaker as it unleashed its fury. The enchantment was simply too powerful to be suppressed, even with Stygian Arrow and Shroud working together. Likewise, the cataclysmic clap of thunder was deafening, rattling her bones and pressing her back against the tunnel wall. Despite the shock of the impact, Ameliah was smiling as her teeth rattled in her skull.

That was STRONG! Tallheart, you magnificent lunatic!

Light returned as Rain switched from Shroud to Radiance, revealing the devastation. It didn’t surprise Ameliah to see that the Sparkscale was still alive. Given its level and the durability it had shown so far, that was basically a given. It was hardly unscathed, however. Its magical shield was gone, along with a good two-thirds of its health bar, and it had been slammed into the far end of the tunnel so hard that it had become lodged in the shattered deepstone.

Ameliah raised her bow, but before she could get off another shot, the Worker Queen pried itself free and zipped off around the corner.

Shit. It ran away.

Her ears ringing, Ameliah glanced at Rain, who was cowering behind Tallheart on the other side of the doorway. He knocked on the side of his helmet, then gave her a thumbs up before continuing in hand code. “Wax helped. The Queen’s visible to Detection at high power, so it can’t hide. Take your time. I don’t want you to get hurt again.”

Ameliah nodded, touched by his concern, and still annoyed with herself for getting zapped in the first place. She looked back down the tunnel, then began advancing, leaving the unneeded door behind.

The Sparkscales kept coming, apparently not having gotten the message after the sharp rebuke she’d delivered to their ruler, though their numbers were far from what they’d been. Keeping an eye out for the Queen, Ameliah walked carefully, picking them off in ones and twos as they swam around the corner. Rain used Purify again, clearing the way for her, but she switched to Airwalk anyway as the scales piled on the floor grew deeper. Her footing steady, she walked above the metallic mess, Rain and Tallheart clattering their way after her with significantly more difficulty.

Reaching the bend, Ameliah peeked around the corner, then pulled her head back quickly.

Oh. Hello, Hive Guardian. Almost forgot about you. Payback time.

Ameliah looked back at Tallheart, then gestured in hand code. “Another.”

Nodding, Tallheart opened one of the remaining cases, removing a second Breaker. He let the case fall to the ground, landing atop the scales with a clatter, then held out the arrow.

Ameliah took it, again with great care. The moment she had it nocked and jacketed in darkness, she stepped fully around the corner, found her target, then loosed. Rain used Shroud again, so she had to picture the crackling projectile winding its way past the Hunter that had entered the tunnel, seeking its true target out in the cavern.

Light and sound exploded once more. The Guardian died instantly, and Ameliah nodded, satisfied.

They’re big, but compared to the Queen, they’re a whole lot of nothing.

Rain’s darkness retreated, and Ameliah picked off the Hunter like it was an afterthought before motioning to Tallheart for the third and final Breaker. While she waited for him to extract it, she picked off a Scavenger or two that swam into the tunnel, all the while keeping watch for the Queen, though Rain would have warned her if it was coming.

Once Tallheart passed her the arrow, she motioned to them to wait there, then set it to her bow. She started walking, drawing slowly, the string once more fighting her. With the open cavern ahead, she didn’t need to worry about collateral damage.

One… Two…

A few more Scavengers entered the tunnel as she neared the exit, but she ignored them, letting them try to bite her as they may. Their electric shocks were of no consequence. She began to run.

Three… Four…

A Hunter appeared next, which was more of an issue, but she likewise ignored it. In response to her disregard, it blasted her with its lightning, but she merely turned, taking the hit on her back to shield the volatile Breaker from the discharge. A shock from a Scavenger was one thing, but a Hunter’s bolt was asking too much. The direct hit spiked her saturation, but it was nothing compared to the bolt from the Guardian, and a good bit of that energy had already drained away. With her boosted Arcane resistance, the weaker strike hadn’t even tingled.

Five… Six…

Facing forward again, Ameliah increased her speed, the Hunter swimming sideways to make way. Its mouth wasn’t made for biting, so it wouldn’t try to confront her physically unless forced. She wasn’t worried that it would try to go after Tallheart and Rain. Even if by some miracle it decided that they posed a greater threat, the two of them would be more than able to hold it off long enough for her to finish this.

Seven… Eight…

Reaching the edge, she slowed, then turned her bow horizontally as she crouched, leery of a sneak attack from the Queen. Scooting forward with cautious steps, she peeked over the edge. There were still a few remaining Hunters around, and by their combined light, she could make out the veritable sea of Worker Drones that had gathered near the corpse of the most-recently fallen Hive Guardian. They’d retrieved rocks from somewhere—boulders, really—and looked prepared to hurl them in her direction.

Nine…

Seeing a flash of gold at the center of the cloud, Ameliah stood, smiling as she felt Seeker Shot accept the target.

Ten.
