They went and deposited an official complaint at the Mayor's office regarding the rumours that Brenson was spreading regarding his stock coming from the All Brew company. They were told they'd be contacted with a date for an official hearing soon.

David was fairly certain the hearing would be held before Caleb once again. While he meant to remain humble, he did think himself and Niala to be high on the Mayor's list.

...

Well, maybe Niala more than him, but still, he'd be surprised if they didn't meet with him at the hearing.

With that particular bit of unpleasantness put into the oven, they occupied their time as best they could.

A day was spent training with Leandro, during which they mostly focused on Niala's weaver training, given that such occasions would become rarer with the guard dogs soon to be attached to their heels.

Niala also ended up declaring the cleansing of potion bottles safe for Lychee to do, much to the rejoicing of the bumblemoss, who had done a good impression of being depressed for the last couple of weeks while it had to content with regular water. Its growth had also seemed to stagnate during that time, which hinted at some sort of interaction between the semi-sentient moss colony and potions.

Niala also put aside her plans to experiment with creating custom compounds mixed within a bumblemoss by feeding it specific potions. While there was much potential for new and exciting results, she simply didn't have the time, the space, nor the inclination to, in her words, “Use Lychee as a lab rat.” Emphasis on the rat part. She would decide if she should offer this to her Father, who would have everything he needed to push the idea further, and probably would.

The only thing giving her pause was that her Father might, unless sufficiently supervised, drive the experiments too far. Niala would have to discuss this with Mahala and Angeline first.

Linzy also came up with a proposition: use the spare golem frame as a body for Papo. The repository consciousness was confident that, with its knowledge of golem operations, it could create an interface with the body's enchantments that would allow the rat to operate it, and thus prove more useful to everyone at Panacea Potion.

Jordo found the idea astounding and proposed to help. When asked about the potential for Gerat to wreak havoc should it get loose, the golem replied that Papo should be able to account for this. He surmised that a neurological scan of the rat's brain pattern when under both personalities' control could be used in lieu of a mana lock.

Jordo also suspected that the initial proposal had come from Papo. When asked to elaborate, he said that repository consciousnesses were designed to become attached to familiar things and to care for them.

He recounted an anecdote from when he had been stationed at such a repository for a while. The managing consciousness had become very fond of him, and grew very sad when he had to leave.

This made Niala cry a little. When asked why, she described Papo as a fledgling duck desperate for a family and friends to love and care for. She shed a few more tears after that.

Thus, the “Give Papo a near-indestructible golem body while hoping Gerat didn't get control of it” motion passed. Linzy and the consciousness were informed, both very happy at the prospect, and given free access to the spare body, under Jordo's supervision, to begin creating the magical interface they would need. They only asked David's help in detaching the top half of the inactive golem's head, which was completed in an afternoon of very intense mana usage on David's part.

The day after saw them both at Marshalla's again, with David once again asked to pump mana into a grounding rod, while the doctor worked with Niala on unlocking her powers.

It was becoming evident, however, that learning to wield the enthrallment power would be, if not a lost cause, extremely difficult.

While Niala was quickly gaining proficiency with the wind powers, she repeatedly claimed that she hated the very idea of enthralling someone. The thought of affecting someone's mind, their private sanctum, felt anathema to her.

Even if it was for a scientific purpose, she simply couldn't resolve herself to even attempting to use it, saying that her mind immediately bombarded her with visions of an evil Niala using mind-control power on the people around her to have them do her bidding, such as making them wash the dishes, clean the floor, or prepare the vegetables for dinner.

David had snorted. When asked by Niala to explain why Evil Niala was funny, he simply answered. “Kitten, please never change.”

The last of Niala's “gifts” that they were exploring was the thinning of the wall between her body and soul. To Marshalla's admission, this was both the most nebulous and interesting aspect of Niala's situation. Animologists had long toyed with the idea of bridging the gap between the body and soul artificially, to recreate the process through which an incarnation came to be, but never had any success.

When asked why this was so important, the Doctor had explained that since incarnations were almost always antagonistic, if not outright hostile, to humanoids, opportunities to research their nature were incredibly rare. Being able to artificially create one might shed light on the process and open new branches of animology studies.

Niala had vehemently declared that she had no intention of becoming an incarnate, to which Marshalla calmly reminded the catkin that it wasn't her intent. She simply wished to measure Niala's situation, not push it either way.

After all, who knew if there weren't benefits to having a closer bond between one's body and soul, without either being subsumed by the other?

A very sound and logical explanation, though spoken with a rather hungry tone that left both David and Niala somewhat concerned.

Later that day, after their session with Marshalla, they received a message from the Mayor's office; their meeting was scheduled for the morrow, in the morning.

Niala would not be missing this.

Caleb found himself, for the third time, facing both of the town's alchemists, as the two individuals gave a valiant effort at bodily assaulting each other with their glares.

He sighed and looked at his assistant, Carole, sitting in a corner of the room with her notepad on her lap. She smiled and nodded back. Ready to start.

He dipped his head in thanks and returned his attention to the two irate individuals, clearing his throat and catching their attention. He met their gazes one at a time, slowly, before speaking.

“Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone present, perhaps pointlessly, to please remain calm and civil. This is not a fighting pit, nor is it a place to throw names and accusations. A complaint was filed, and we will hear both sides of the case. Are we in agreement?”

They both curtly nodded while throwing each other side-eyes.

He could feel the headache coming already.

Caleb leaned back in his chair and looked at Niala, who had David sitting just beside her. “Ms. Niala, since this is your complaint, please voice your grievance.”

The catkin threw one last look at Brenson. “I heard two housewives talking about how Brenson was spreading rumours that he was selling All Brew potion stocks. I'm pretty sure this is a lie, and I won't stand for it.”

Brenson jumped into the ring before Caleb could even shift his eyes over to him.

“Lies!? How dare you! Not only are you content in gouging this town's adventurers of their hard-earned coins, but you'd also try to deny me the same advantage that you use?! The gall!” He turned toward Caleb, his mouth moving before his eyes. “Mayor! I request that-”

He stopped when he met the Mayor's piercing, and more than slightly annoyed, stare.

“Ah... hum. I mean. My apologies, Mayor.” Brenson excused himself, shrivelling on himself. One glance at Niala had him forget all about it, and his cheeks flushed red once more.

Caleb sighed. “Mr. Brenson, in a calm and civil manner, please state your position.”

“I- ah! Of course, Mr. Mayor!” Brenson cleared his throat. “The complaint is, as everything done by this charlatan claiming to be an alchemist next to me, an attempt at manipulation. I counter-claim that she, herself, is using All Brew potion stock and passing it off as her own creation. I was content to let the state of things be, but no more. I demand she comes clean, and her lies be exposed to the town!” He declared with a flourish, pointing an accusatory finger at Niala, whose eyes widened as the fur on her ears and tail stood straight up.

“You- You what!? Me?! Lying!? You're the-!” Her next word caught in her throat when David put a hand on her shoulder. She snapped her head toward him, only for his to slowly shake his head.

Fuming, she nonetheless clamped her mouth and turned her glare at the Mayor.

Caleb gave David a small nod and continued the hearing. “I have heard Mr. Brenson's defence and counter-claim. I will note that I have a question for Mr. Brenson.” He turned his focus to the balding man.

“Mr. Brenson, could you explain why you believe Ms. Niala is selling All Brew stock?”

Brenson nodded. “Of course! It's very simple – I was approached by her saleswoman, Ms. Linzy, who offered me partake in the same supply deal that Panacea Potion had with the All Brew company. I would provide ingredients and glassware for a commensurate rebate on All Brew stocks of common potions, pay the difference for bulk purchases, and in turn could sell these potions under the Brenson name.”

He pointed a finger at Niala while keeping his sight on Caleb. “And everyone would have been happy with the deal, if she hadn't tried to deny me the very same advantage she is benefiting from!”

When he did turn his head toward Niala, he froze.

She had a look of utter confusion, soon replaced with a deep-seething rage, which turned to a mix of hurt and pain. Next to her, David grimaced, seemingly unwell.

That was... not the expression he had expected. He was left speechless, as was she, and Caleb.

David's voice broke the silence as he turned his head toward Caleb. “Mayor, could we put a short pause to this hearing? I believe someone important to the case is missing.”

Caleb quirked an eyebrow, before looking a question at Carole. She nodded in reply: We have time.

He flashed a smile and looked at David. “Go ahead. I will have these two wait in separate rooms. Notify Carole once you are back, and we will resume.”

David dipped his head, leaned toward Niala and whispered something to her, before squeezing her shoulder and getting up.

Despite the difficulties of the present situation, Caleb had to admit he was getting a bit curious.

And, maybe, given what he knew, just a tiny bit excited to see how it would play out.

David returned a third bell later with Linzy in tow. After notifying Carole, everyone reconvened in the Mayor's office.

Niala threw a few looks at the small goblin woman, a mix of resentment and hurt in each one.

Strangely, the catkin had seemed to forget that Brenson even existed at the moment.

As Carole resumed her vigil in the corner of the room, ready to take notes once more, Caleb reopened the hearing.

“We welcome Ms. Linzy to the hearing. Mr. David said she was a key person in this case and should be present.” He turned his eyes to David. “If you could explain why?”

David hummed. “I'd rather Linzy explain the nature of the deal between her and Brenson.” He said, glancing at the small goblin woman, who looked like a cat who'd been caught stealing a fish and was wondering what the big deal was.

Caleb looked to her. “Very well. Ms. Linzy, if you please?”

She rubbed one of her ears. “Ahh, well, it's simple, really. Brenson here, he gives me ingredients and glass, and in return he gets All Brew stock to sell.”

Brenson nearly jumped out of his chair. “See?! See!? Exactly as I'd said! She-”

He stopped himself when Caleb put a hand up and glared at him. The mayor waited for a second, making certain the man was at least beginning to understand that he shouldn't be speaking out of turn.

He had little actual hope, but he wouldn't stop trying.

Caleb then turned toward Niala, whose ears and tail were drooping, her shoulders slumped, and yet had eyes raging with fire. He narrowed his eyes. “Ms. Niala, do you want to explain to Mr. Brenson, or should I?”

She looked up at him, stared for a few seconds, before firming her stance and taking a deep breath. “I will.” She affirmed.

David's hand found its way to one of hers, their fingers interlacing automatically. She turned her head toward Brenson.

“Brenson, what you have been selling is my brew. My potion stock.” She declared.

The man's face immediately scrunched up, turning red. “You- You dare still deny, even after your saleswoman-”

“EX-saleswoman.” Niala cut in, making Linzy jolt and stare at her, but the catkin kept her eyes on Brenson. “She didn't lie, because my full name is Niala All Brew. Whatever I brew is literally All Brew Stock, just not from the All Brew Company, and I'm quite certain she never said the word company, only All Brew. Isn't that right, Linzy?”

Her tone was flat as she finally turned her head toward the goblin woman, who was still staring, wide-eyed. “I- no, Niala, Boss? What's going on? Why ex-saleswoman?”

Niala stared back at her, with hard eyes at first, which soon turned wet. A lone tear trailed down her cheek, the signal for her to jump to her feet and storm out of the room.

Everyone watched her go, David the most.

He really wanted to run after her, but... it felt like she needed some time alone for now. He sighed and turned his attention back to Linzy.

“It's not really fair to you, Linzy, because I don't think anyone ever actually told you, but Brenson and Niala have a bit of a story.”

Linzy, still reeling from the shock, took a second to process David's words. When she did, she narrowed her eyes at him, then to Brenson, and then back to David. “What story? Boss just described him ta me an' told me ta not trust him! I just thought he wuz a greedy back-stabbing merchant like most of 'em!”

David saw Brenson's face turn red from the corner of his eyes, but kept his attention on Linzy.

“It's way worse than that, I'll tell you soon, but for now... just stay away from Niala until I've talked with her, ok?”

Uncertainty and guilt mixed on the goblin woman's face as she turned her head to look in Niala's direction, before looking back at David and nodding.

David dipped his head in thanks before looking at Brenson, meeting the angry little man's glare head-on.

“As for you.” He said, his tone far less amiable. “It's high time we set the record straight. Brenson, and I will repeat this until I go mute or your ears bleed, your son lied to you.”

The man recoiled, eyes growing wide, before anger reasserted control over his features. “My son-!”

“Lied to you,” David cut him off.

Brenson's eyes nearly bulged out. “You dare! My son-”

“Lied to you,” David repeated, his eyes flashing blue.

The air suddenly seemed heavy, as if everyone present had hands pressing down on their shoulders.

A bead of sweat pearled down Brenson's brow, his outrage slightly tinted by wariness. “Stop saying that my son-!”

“LIED TO YOU,” David said once more, hazy blue fumes emanating from his body.

The air caught in Brenson's throat, but he still couldn't let this slight against his family slide. “My- my son-!”

“LIED TO YOU.” The man said, a fiery blue aura outlining his form.

This time, the words seemed to burrow deep within Brenson's brain, and no matter how much he refused them, how much he wailed against them, they wouldn't leave.

Confused, with mounting panic, he stared at the man, and met eyes filled with blue flames, swirling like a vortex around his pupils.

He couldn't look away.

And for the first time, a crack formed in his previously unassailable certainty that his son had been telling the truth.

What if he hadn't?

In that instant, he became aware of an entire, alternate reality, another explanation for everything between him and Niala.

And the mere thought that it might be true left him hollow.