"Well, you're right about that." Jessica sighed again as she slumped down onto the desk for just a moment, running a hand through her lightly curled hair. "Anyway, I came here to apologize to Hero-Biomancer Javelina for putting her hospital in danger. This entire thing was actually a personal matter on my part. Well, maybe not on my part. It's mostly the fault of my strange grandson for not dealing with a long-standing rival of his that I didn't even know about. Apparently, he didn't know about him either. Whoever this Legendary-Tier vampire is, he's pissed enough to come hunting my kid’s kid in the heart of the Republic."

“Why do you think he was hunting your grandson?” Shiv asked.

The Giantsbane shrugged. "Only a few things will drive someone to do that. My guess is while Samuel was doing whatever he was doing for the Inquisition, he probably killed someone he wasn't supposed to... or was supposed to, and now there's a loose end that traced him back."

Shiv was startled. He didn't know if she was taunting him with how much she knew, deliberately trying to provoke him to reveal himself, or if she simply had that much insight.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Don't forget she is a Legend too, and she earned it without being unkillable. This means she has been alive for a long, long time, and she has seen far, far more conflict, bloodshed, and combat than you.

"I'm sorry to hear that," he said uncertainly.

Jessica waved him off. "Yeah, it's not really your fault. This life turns out this way when you become a High-Tier martial Pathbearer. And every year you don't die, it stays that way."

She let out a long, tired breath, looking down at her right hand as she opened and closed it a few times. "Now, let me tell you about being exhausted after a good day's work. That's something you enjoy. Being exhausted after you murdered a bunch of people, half of whom you don't think deserved it, well, you don't really sleep after that at all. Instead, you just kind of lie there. Even if you're tired to your core, you lie there with your eyes open, you think about their faces, you wonder who the hells you are and why you're doing this thing, and you curse the System over and over and over again. It's how it goes."

Jessica met Shiv's wide-eyed gaze and simply threw up her hands. "Look, I'm not doing this to freak you out. I'm just giving you a heads-up for if you manage to live that long. Judging from your Curse, though," she winced, "yeah, you're probably not gonna make it that long."

Shiv almost snorted. Jessica Hawgrave was nothing if not a brutal chain of unending honesty. "Anyway, to keep this thing going, not only did I run into a Legendary-Tier vampire who had the entire hospital under his control—though, I'll give the bloodsucker one thing: he didn't murder any of the kids, and he didn't really jack anyone up aside from two Morbomancers. Oh, damn shame what happened to their kid, though. I'm not really sure why the vampire decided to kill their son specifically. Guess there's a grudge there."

Man, she went on a fast tangent. And here I thought my thought process was jumpy. She distracted herself there and never finished talking about the “not only did she” part…

Inside Shiv's cape, a pang of deep shame came from Tulveg. "That is not what happened. That is not—I did not mean…"

"Oh, regretting your violence? How unvampire-like of you," Helix taunted.

"Orc, another word, and I'll—"

"Both of you, shut the fuck up," Shiv nearly snarled out loud. "I'm trying to keep my cover the best I can. If you two start to fight in my cape, I'm just gonna kill myself and give up. I can't deal with all this shit at once, okay?"

Both of them fell quiet, though for different reasons.

"Adam, can you go stand between the gray nerd and Mr. Vengeance? You know, just put 'em both in timeout!"

"Mr. Vengeance?" Tulveg said, uncertain about his nickname.

"Nerd?" Helix sounded on the verge of throwing a fit. "I am no n-nerd! I am an accomplished scholar of Biomancy!"

Shiv sighed. "Yeah, sure, great. Whatever you are, make it quiet.”

"You alright, son?" Jessica asked. She leaned in close. "You look distracted, like you're speaking to someone inside your head." She went very still.

"Uh, uh, it's just a headache."

"No, no, you're lying." She pointed a finger at his face. "You're lying. I know that face. Psychomancers make that face when they're talking to someone telepathically. You hiding a Psychomancy Skill?"

Shiv cringed, trying to come up with an apt lie. Just then, Jessica's eyes flashed, and he briefly felt his Mask of Stolen Paths rattle. A crack sounded on the inside. Shiv didn't flinch, but inside he pleaded, Please don't break! Please don't break!

Her eyes dimmed again, and she pressed her lips together. "No Psychomancy. But—well, I mean, you're an Adept. Where you from? Up North? Old Brunswick?"

Shiv nodded.

"Okay, that explains a few things. Well, let me guess, you were imagining things? Was it something sexual?" She lifted her left eyebrow. Shiv found himself even more speechless. "Was it about me?"

Shiv's mouth went dry.

Jessica burst out laughing, waving her hand at Shiv as she giggled. "I'm just fucking with you, kid! Relax, relax. It's okay if you do! Just don't say it out loud. It's only wrong if you let the other know. We all have our fantasies."

She stared at him, and the moment lasted too long. It grew to be unbearably uncomfortable. Shiv stammered, "I think you're a little too old for me."
