as an interesting side-effect. I should have guessed since we put a person in a core, they would be a bit unpredictable,” he mused, not sounding upset at this at all.The rod in Delta’s hand tugged once before going limp. She eyed it but it didn’t move.“So… if I can, kill people that make dragons pee themselves and passively kill their spores, but that was a side-job. What was the original plan? I know you said there was none but I’m not just Delta… I am the Delta in this plan of yours. There is a Beta… so there has to be an Alpha at least. That tells me you used me as the ‘fourth’ for something. Because others had failed, or perhaps because you’re trying different things?” she questioned, her voice was quiet as if the questions scared her more than she cared to admit.The amused look in Brother’s yellow eyes dimmed just a bit and the demon child once again was an alien being, staring at her with a little hint of emotion that Delta could empathise with. Here was a being that was trying very hard to be human for her but for that moment it dropped all pretences and Delta saw what he had meant by ‘Cosmic’.His form rippled and it was like looking into a tiny sea of stars with blaring yellow eyes. Sound dimmed as if it were sucked away, the Eye behind them looking tiny next to this being. Then it was gone and Brother smiled, impressed. Delta felt like the question had been a surprise and his reaction was more knee-jerk than any attempt to scare her.“Yeah. You could say that. Don’t worry sunshine, you’re unique and definitely the least boring of the lot… well, Gamma is funny. I watched him do things you wouldn’t believe just because he’s Gamma. He got swallowed by a King Whark and spent a week cutting the heart loose inside to get freed. The idiot forgot that swords sank!” Brother slapped his knee.Delta was leaning in, eager. Gamma! There was a Gamma! He could cut things? Was he a warrior? Being swallowed meant he was mobile. Combined with Drasil’s comments on Beta…“I’m the only one who got turned into a Dungeon? Actually, what’s a Whark?” Delta added quickly.That was going to bug her if she didn’t know.“It’s like a shark but whale size and has three teeth that jut up like horns and also conjures storms. Kinda nice with hot sauce,” Brother explained calmly. Ah.“But yeah, you’re the Dungeon. See? D is for Dungeon,” Brother whispered as if this was a secret. Delta blinked once.“Excuse me?” she replied flatly, she assumed her face was blank.“You’re excused. But G is for Gatherer. B is for Beast. A is for Adventure…” Brother sang.“Please tell me you based this all, this plucking our souls or something, on more than just a bad tune?” Delta pleaded. Brother snorted.Unauthorized duplication: this narrative has been taken without consent. Report sightings.“A lot more but that makes me look like I have wisdom and forethought and even some maturity. I am none of those things. Alright, you got a little time and I guess you’ve proven to actually tap deeper into your gift than any other. Gamma is close and I can’t wait to meet him. But you? You won over my Sister and yelled at a snob tree. That’s pretty good. You’re also doing good work at freeing the richest and darkest Spores in that cave. That’s good. So, here's some little tit for tat on the plan,” Brother offered.“Alpha was designed to travel and blend in with people to convert them like a Dungeon, but the Spores would increase his own power. Since he was our first… well… I like to say he was a jewel of a pick but Alpha is a little too deep into the power thing. He was supposed to lead the powerful to him by being all heroic but he's actually a brat who hides behind the System,” Brother held up one finger in count.“Beta is at the other end of the spectrum. She was gifted not to be bothered with Spore collecting beyond basic monster abilities. That left a lot of room to give her the ability to use anything I had a hand in making to empower herself. She’s our draw to the retired folks or the lost fighters. A monster that has no weakness. It’d draw the Spores en masse to her. She’s kinda doing her job but she really didn’t like us and wasn’t thankful about our hand in her fate. We wanted a beast, and now that beast is snapping at our fingers. Serves me right for trying to be clever.” he held up the second finger.“Gamma was the best result, in my opinion, no offence,” he winked at her. Delta shrugged once shoulder, showing she had taken none. She didn’t want to ask questions. Not yet. Delta was desperate to learn of her brothers and sisters… of sorts.“Gamma took to his job well. We decided that if Alpha could get his head out his own butt, he would need a weapon to handle his growing strength. I decided to add Gamma to the weapon as a precaution. Do you know how annoying it would be if the cult or some asshat got the sword and heroes had to spent 40 hours of blabbing and dramatic speeches to get that sword back? I'm rude, lazy, and the guy who fucked up badly a few times. Least I could do was make sure that outcome didn’t happen. Gamma? He seemed to enjoy the idea. He became that weapon. He got a lot of comedy material luring wanna-be dark lords and mad swordsmen to him so he could literally stab them in the back,” Brother grinned. He stretched, the darkness moving away from him as if afraid.“Anyone he cut, got their spore taken and he would grow in power. Everyone likes growth weapons!” he nodded and looked to Delta for agreement.“I like… things that grow and don’t stab people, but sure,” she smiled weakly. Brother looked skyward where a beam of yellow light was growing from a pinprick to a lantern.“Sister won’t be long. She’s been patching defences in the Dungeons from the Mighty Weed,” he explained. He pointed to Delta who blinked.“Delta was to be the base. Delta would settle near the strongest people around, and on top of an oozing wound to seal it and begin to claim very powerful Spores. They would meet the Silence Army and seek to rob them of power wherever and however they could. They would forge the path to the deepest layer and become a lair to test Alpha… to make sure he was ready to do what he could. To be strong enough to contract Beta if she were to convince her to join up. To feed Gamma the rarest and most powerful materials to fuel his growth,” Brother began to smile.Delta barely felt the rod was tugging in her hands. Too shocked at what she was hearing to notice.“Delta was the most important part and she utterly failed in most tasks. She is a peace loving girl who raises friends and makes very weird monsters. I have never been prouder of something I had a direct hand in. So listen here. Me and Sis? We are just people with big stupid plans and bigger hopes. Be yourself and I think… that’ll be enough,” he reached over and helped her pull on the rod.They both watched as the silvery wire reeled up and the object dangling on the end made both of them stare.A simple orange mushroom.It swung a few times and then Brother was laughing. A huge gut hurting gale of laughter.Then Delta was swallowed by the Sister’s light above.--

Delta blinked and nearly fell backwards from the green menu that was being consumed by an orange hue.“What?! Brother! Fishing! Mushroom!” she babbled. She pointed to the menu and Nu turned his own screen.

Delta shot him a shocked look.“I was gone! I saw a huge tree and I saw Brother! Sister’s Brother and then I was in the centre of the world and I fished up a mushroom and Brother told me the secrets of life and my existence!” she continued, flailing her hands. Nu was quiet before he looked back to the now orange Menu.Delta stared at it in surprise as a message was there.

“I have Anti-Virus?” she asked, voice an odd tone of disbelief. Nu’s menu merely seemed to deflate.

Delta explained the sheer amount of bizarre things. What she had learned of herself… and of the others.Alpha. Beta. Gamma.

“Thank you! I think?” she tilted her head.“I dunno how I should feel. Everything I’m doing is some plan and despite me somehow messing that plan up-” she began and Nu’s screen flashed.

Delta ignored Nu and his sarcasm.“-It still feels like everything I’m doing is maybe… preordained? It’s creepy,” she complained. Nu turned to the large feast hall, of the trolls and goyles watching them with little subtlety.

Delta tried not to roll her eyes too hard at his comments.

Delta gave him her full attention.“Nu, we got a horde of nasties and cult jerks through that door gaining power. They can come through at any time. How can I relax with that around?” she reminded and there was a soft chime as the stack of notifications awaited Delta’s attention.

Nu faded and was replaced by a series of windows.

“That’s awesome!” Delta’s face split into a wide smile. Her urge to just hit confirm and let two of her greener monsters get a sweet upgrade was strong but she held back until she saw the rest of the windows.

Oh, now she had magical symbols of power! Delta tried not to think about what would happen if she just messed with them.She was beginning to remember that ‘Delta’ itself was a powerful symbol in things. Rune of heat + Delta = horrid but maybe funny outcomes.But she now knew what Nu had been hinting towards. The Locking Rune would be pretty handy on keeping the remainder of the Silence army behind the door so that Delta could just have a day to herself. Just her, her Dungeon, and fun but maybe meaningless tinkering.Delta hadn’t had a moment to herself since… the Spider Queen.Was this what it was going to be like when all her floors were constantly full? Bored watching people over the years while she eagerly waited for a moment in which she could get some peace and quiet to do her own thing?That reality sounded like a cranky old maid but Delta was worried it could come true.She considered that for a moment then shrugged. If she needed space, she’d simply ask. People were usually polite enough in her experience.There was always the possibility of getting Ruli to give her a hand to give any stragglers a heave-ho, but the more floors she had the less that would be a likely issue. For now, she floated to her garden and focused on the large twin doors which Jack had described as having another hall for them to deal with and then the throne room beyond it. Plenty of space and holes in which to build a nasty little army.She focused on the two doors and smiled. Her Core was back fairly far behind her, she didn’t need any keys for this. She felt 100 Mana drain and two flashing orange lights began to burn themselves into the two doors, one on each door. It felt stronger than a single, larger symbol, over both.The two symbols blazed, shaped like two orange Delta symbols.She stared.“I would’ve thought the Rune of Locking had its own… symbol,” she said lamely, trying to make a vague design with her hands.

“Thank you, I think. So what, each rune I learn gets a new symbol for my unique use? Or if I teach it to others… Did we just invent a new magic rune system?!” she exclaimed in shock.

Delta beamed until her face fell.“You’re just messing with me, aren’t you?” she asked, crestfallen. The screen turned a hue of blue and Nu shook off his disguise. His normal screen taking the place of the system window.

---Cois was bashing his staff hard into the ground. He growled as the mushrooms tried to invade the bar again. Fera wouldn’t serve him until he got rid of the blighters on her doorstep. His staff smacked into the muddy ground as the mushroom seemed to almost wiggle side to side to avoid the blows. He wished that he could just use fire but the Gutrots tended to explode if exposed to high heat.Fire shouldn’t be so limited but… Cois sorely wished he could just SET THEM ALL ON FIRE!The rough mess on the ground left behind by his staff hitting the ground began to pulse with orange light.Cois paused. Not sure what this malarkey was all about. The symbol looked like a curved crescent moon or a really fancy ‘C’ with little horns on top. Was it just him or was the air getting hot-There was a mighty boom as the mushrooms erupted in a flash of fire asand Cois was sent flying back, arcing over the bar.He looked up from where he landed at an unimpressed Fera.“Good news, mushrooms is gone. Bad news is that drawing naughty pictures in the dirt is gonna have to be put on hold for a small while,” he explained, coughing out plumes of black smoke.“You got more than that to worry about. You just smashed into me glasses and beers. You wanna grab a broom or will I just kick you around until you sweep up the mess?” she asked lightly.Cois glared but went to fetch the broom. The symbol that had burned, etched into his own mind.Fire from a funny shape… that had potential.--

Delta could only smile.“Wanna go and take the day off to have fun and mess with things? I think we need a break,” she offered.Nu seemed to sigh.

“That’s the spirit. When in doubt, just go with the flow!” Delta instructed and turned. Leaving the glowing Delta Symbols ablaze. Their very meaning keeping the first wave of danger firmly locked away.For now.---
