Erick sat on his seat in the middle of the farm, under a weather [Ward] someone else had provided, on stone seats someone else had conjured. His usual group had expanded by a few members, and the space had been expanded to accommodate the newcomers. Killzone was there, in all his darker than black orcol self. Mog was there, too. She had a habit of smiling at Erick when he wasn’t looking. Silverite sat on the seat closest to him. Valok, Apogough, and Krakina sat in their usual spots. Mage Guildmaster Zago was there, too. She had a smirk that would simply not leave her face. She tried to school her joy away several times, but it always returned because every three seconds she was focusing on a different part of the farm all around them.

And up above, it rained. The spell took ten minutes of misty foggy glows to get up into the sky and start operating properly, but that was a while ago. Silver light had been raining for the last twenty minutes.

[Exalted Storm Aura] was a glowing white cloud that stretched for miles across the sky, heavy with silver that fell out of the cloud as drops of platinum light. Erick watched the rain fall, alongside everyone else. To his meditating sight the cloud was a brilliant roil and the shadows around him were pitiful things, too small to matter. The shadows were nothing compared to the radiance looming above.

And still, mana flowed through Erick, 1 point out every 4 seconds, 1 point in every 3.5 seconds, because:

Exalted Storm Aura, 1 MP per second, super long range ~{Favored Spell}~

Anoint the land with blessed rain, rapidly growing all <crops and pasture> to <harvest size> and restoring vibrancy to all other <desired> plant life and soil. If used in a <prepared field> <devoid of crops>, highly nutritious beans will sprout after <a full day of rain>.

Particle Mage Only

He had made [Exalted Storm Aura] a Favored Spell. Obviously. 900 mana an hour was doable with Meditation and his 1050 regen, but 1800 mana an hour? Not happening for many, many more levels, and Erick probably wasn’t getting any.

Fuck.

He needed that Scion of Focus if he was going to do this for an entire day.

His exhaustion cap was still around 5250.

The movers and shakers of Spur talked among themselves while watching the cloud, the farms, and occasionally Erick, from their dry seats inside a larger than normal weather [Ward].

“A bit slower growth than normal,” Valok said.

Apogough said, “Yeah, but its water and [Grow] and nutrition, all at the same time.”

Valok agreed, “No need to treat the soil with potions every evening.”

“You two! Business business, always business! Just look at it!” Krakina said, “It’s three times the size of [Call Lightning]!”

“It’s only going to get bigger with Aurify 3,” Zago said.

Valok said, “We’ll have a lot less need for growers, but a much, much greater need for pickers.”

“He can’t keep this up all day long, though. Mana Exhaustion,” Apogough said.

“Yes. That is a problem.” Zago said, “Scion of Focus is necessary for the last part of the spell to activate without greatly stressing the caster. You could use some Focus jewelry to artificially extend mental fortitude, but that would be… I think it would be economically unsustainable. I’d have to do a lot of math to be sure.”

Krakina said, “You were going for Scion of Focus, anyway? Erick?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “But I don’t have enough levels yet.”

“And that, too! A Class before 50!” Zago said, “Unprecedented.” She gazed upon the rice paddy in front of her. The plants in the water had filled out to yard tall, thick sprays of green leaves. Those leaves had then begun to peel back, revealing heavy golden grains on long stalks. “The rice has matured… so the water is rising! Fascinating.”

Mog said, “We can get you those levels, Erick. I have good local teams willing to take you anywhere you want. I won’t trust any transients with something this important, no matter how good they might be. I’ll personally escort you into the Crystal Forest myself, too, if that’s what you’d prefer.”

Killzone announced, “You gotta kill some monsters, Archmage. Anyway you cut it, you gotta get those levels and those ability points. You gotta do it fast. Today, if’n you can.”

Erick paled. Murdering monsters still seemed wrong, somehow. Especially after finding out that Shades were shadow monsters with sapience.

Silverite gestured at the whole of the farms. “People are picking apples in the rain, and then those branches grow more apples. This is a never ending harvest. This is a magic that changes nations; it changes everything.” She turned to Erick. “You’re going to get a lot of offers in the coming days and weeks. I vow to protect you—”

“Me too,” Mog said.

“Aye,” Killzone said.

“Of course!” Krakina said.

“Me as well,” Zago said.

“— but this is going to be difficult. You need more understanding of what you have done, as well as more levels to combat those who would see this as an attack.” Silverite continued, “Both professionally and personally I think you should go out and kill some monsters, then take Mog’s training courses. She is very good at helping people learn how to help themselves. Beyond that, 20 Strength and then Strong for 600 HP would go a long, long way to keeping you safe from many different threats. More Willpower would be good for a better personal [Ward], too. Have you hit 10 with that yet?”

“Not yet. Close. Another day or two to [Ward 10].”

Silverite said, “The final level will be very important for you.”

Zago was listening, but also not. She muttered, “This grain is just sitting here.” And then she probably cast [Telekinesis], because all of the matured grain in the rice paddy sliced off at the water’s surface, then floated into the air, bundling together to then float down by Zago to sit in neat stacks. “Look! It’s growing again from the severed stalks! This is amazing.”

A few others, Erick included, leaned over to get a better look at the rice paddy. And yes, Zago was right. The stems she had sliced were regrowing, soaking up drops of platinum water, poking fresh green leaves into the glowing rain.

Silverite brought them all back to attention. “Ah-hem! As I was saying… Erick?”

Everyone looked at him.

Fuck.

Erick was not such a pacifist that he was unwilling to see that he was changing the world a bit too much. There were going to be consequences for his actions; might as well face the music with a better Level. That would probably make Jane happier, too.

Jane was currently not happy.

Al had dropped the local drama upon Savral, Savral’s team, and Jane, with an impromptu morning [Telepathy]. Jane was both very proud, and very, very mad. It was hard to overstate the severity of Erick’s current Jane Situation, so he decided to ignore that problem until they all came back to Spur tomorrow. But ignoring a Situation was never a good idea. He knew that from vast experience.

But killing monsters? That would go a long way to solving many problems.

Jane would still be mad, but she won’t be as mad as she could be.

“Okay. Fine. I guess… I need to do this. So let’s make this easier. What’s the best [Fly], Zago?”

Zago smiled, and said, “It will take several days for you to level the relevant skills. You should just walk out there and kill some mimics today and get what you need for Scion of Focus; finding the mimics would be the only hard part. Then, when you’re ready, you come to the Guild Library and I will help you with anything you need.” She looked across the farm. “You could also invent some more spells to get some ability points. You seem to be rather good at that.”

He could do that, too, couldn’t he? In fact, that seemed like a much better idea than killing monsters.

Erick joked, “I was thinking of inventing a new school of light magic.”

The sound of the rain washed across the farmland.

“That was a joke,” he said.

Zago hummed. “You have a Class Ability in Particle Mage which helps you unlock new spells. Best to stick with that, and unlock whatever you can think to unlock, as soon as you can.”

Right. He did whip that out at the party last night, didn’t he?

Erick said, “You’re right.”

Zago said, “There’s a major rush to discover new spells. If you wait too long you might… You’ll… You’ll probably invent something that no one else has thought to create. However, all of the low hanging fruit will have been picked.”

Mog said, “There are some easy achievements that you could get… Ah. Wait. No. All of the easy achievements are from killing monsters on your own. Uhh. Eat more monster meat?”

“There are several non-combat achievements for an extra point here and there,” Zago said. “Creating a tier 4 spell gives 3 points. Tier 5 gives 4 points. But failing to create the correct tier 4 spell means waiting a full 100 days to try again. Failing at tier 5 is 1000 days of downtime. Failing at tier 6 is 10000. You see the pattern. It’s very punishing, especially for us non-immortals.” She turned to the rain, and said, “But you seem to have created exactly what you wanted with an enchanting rhyme. I have researched this phenomenon extensively over the last several days. I have found that ‘singing out your magic’ has a long tradition in some mage cultures. Particularly in the Songli Highlands, where the people are known for weaving song into almost all of their high-tier Script usage. I have ordered some more books on the subject so that I might try their methods. See what I can do with a song.”

Apogough pointed at the sky. “How are you even doing this? What was your thought process?”

Erick smiled. “It’s magic.”

Zago instantly groaned. “No it’s not!” She added, “Maybe the [Grow] aspect is magic, but you’re also renewing the land. There’s not a single yellow blade of grass or malnourished tomato on any of those vines over there. Your spell is granting vibrancy to the land as well as water and rapid growth. All for 1 mana a second! The sheer efficiency boggles the mind!”

Yellowed grasses?

“I’ve never seen any of those problems before.” Erick looked to Valok. “Have you?”

Valok smiled. “We fertilize the crops at sunset and spread potions at sunrise. Krakina ensures these aspects of the farm are well integrated into the land well before the pickers and growers show. If we didn’t do this, then all of the growth you’ve seen would result in yellowed leaves and withered fruits, as Guildmaster Zago says.”

Krakina pointed toward a trellis of not-tomatoes with a grey wing feather. “They’ve picked that grove four times since you started. Those tomatoes should be withered tiny things by now, but they’re not.”

Zago repeated Apogough’s questions, “How are you doing this? What was your process?”

Erick explained, “The rain is an extension of [Call Lightning]'s rain ability. The [Grow] aspect seems rather normal, if slightly slower than using [Grow] itself. I’m surprised the spell costs as little as it does since [Growth Aura] is so damned expensive. I suspect that might be because [Grow] is very, very magical, and thus probably not that great for plant life, which Valok just confirmed with that bit about potions and fertilizer. When I spoke those words to cast this spell, I concentrated on what a better version of it all would look like, together. I considered nutrients for the plants. I concentrated on nitrogen fixing and how beans are pretty good about enriching the land, though I’m not sure how they do all that, exactly. I do know that nitrogen is a large part of all the air we breathe, though. So I thought about [Grow] working through the nitrogen in the air, fixing it so it’s usable by the plants it rains upon.

“But nitrogen isn’t the only thing plants need to grow. There’s a whole host of other compounds and such needed for proper growth, but a lot of that is also airborne. In fact, there are a lot of plants that can grow on nothing more than the air they breathe and the water that falls on them. Looking over everything today, it all seems rather poetic; all the pieces are there, they just had to be put together. Don’t ask me what nitrogen is or what all the other compounds the plants need; I’m not nearly as knowledgeable about all that as I am about water."

Erick continued, "People probably shouldn’t be standing out in the rain, though, like I said before we started. What’s good for plants isn’t always good for people.”

Platinum rain fell across the farms of Spur, while the leaders of the adventuring town silently listened.

Valok said, “You’re worried over nothing. Spells specifically state if they’re capable of poisoning, and yours does not.”

“We’ll still test all the food with [Cleanse],” Apogough said. “Of course.”

Erick looked at his [Cleanse], saying, “But [Cleanse] doesn’t say poison?”

Cleanse 6, instant, short range, 10 MP.

Purge an area equal to the level of the spell in meters of all Toxins, Disease, Filth, and Corruption.

Exp: 270/1300

“Yes it does.” Krakina smirked at him. “Not all toxins are poisons, but all poisons are toxins.”

Huh!

Maybe I'll make tier 4 version of this platinum rain… to automatically cleanse everything afterward?

Ah. Hmm.

