Zago spoke, “It occurs to me that a lot of the knowledge of magic we might have had in the past has been lost to the ease of the Script. No one knows anything about ‘nitrogen fixing’, as you have called it, or that this ‘nitrogen’ is in the sky; in the air we breathe. I know how some plants enrich the land for future crops, and some drain the land. About crop rotation to ensure a constant, good product. About the potions and bone fertilizers necessary to keep Spur’s farms in top condition in the growing season; I’ve even helped to create such potions and fertilizers in my younger days.”

Silverite said, “The alchemists and others will be able to transition easily enough into new work; we’re an adventuring town, after all. And we’re growing. Rapidly. I have over fifty teams waiting for approval to enter Ar’Kendrithyst. Dozens are already in the Crystal Forest, searching for crystal slimes and settling for mimics; lots are actually harvesting the agaves themselves. Some are even venturing into the entrances into the Underworld, to the north. The point is, is that people are coming to Spur in record numbers. [Exalted Storm Aura] is now worldwide news. This new magic has already angered a great many people.” She looked across the farm. “You can cut the spell now, Archmage.”

Erick did so. The glowing silver clouds began to wane, to float away on the desert winds. The final drops of [Exalted Storm Aura] fell. Platinum waters soaked into the ground, vanishing from sight, and slowly, the farm stopped growing.

Silverite said, “The people of Spur will be able to adjust to this new ability and whatever complications it brings because that is what adventuring towns do; we adjust. Alchemists can transition to more health potions and mana potions to keep up with adventurer demand, instead of needing to make fertilizer and soil potions. Growers can transition into pickers and planters. But this new magic is dangerous. You have changed the world with this ability. I wish to ensure that you are protected from those who will see this as an attack on their very ways of life. I would like to assign your bodyguards to you as actual bodyguards, full time. Poi has already expressed interest in continuing his appointed duty, if you will have him.”

Erick had no problem instantly saying, “Poi’s a good guy. I'll keep him. And I hear what you’re saying. I don’t plan on venturing anywhere. I will see about making some smaller spells, though. Maybe get Scion of Focus that way.”

“You should also work to get 20 Strength, if just for the HP.”

Erick smiled. “I think I’ll be fine.”

Killzone spoke, and his accent was gone. “My people prevented a threat against your life, last night: A male incani from Kal’Duresh, who, when the guards casually questioned, did not seem right. It was quickly discovered that the man had three blacknight daggers on his person, which are violently poisonous to humans. When he was brought in for formal questioning, it was revealed that he believes that you turned Bulgan to the Shades. As he did nothing except come straight here from Kal’Duresh and went straight for you, we had to let him go. He was an idiot. There are a lot of those in the world, but there are also a lot of smart people, too.” Killzone spoke, and Erick felt cold creep into his chest. “You need allies and we’re them. Please accept our advice with a greater weight than you are. We like you here. We want to keep you here, and happy, and alive. Some mutual protection is expected; it’s part of what makes a community a community. But we don’t want to have to protect you as much as you’re making yourself a target. You need to be able to protect yourself, too. Please make better decisions.”

The rest of the group nodded in their various personal ways.

Erick slowly nodded, saying, "Okay," reeling from what Killzone had said, barely understanding that someone would want to kill him. His throat felt dry, as he said, “That’s enough talking for today.”

Silverite said, “Poi will be along shortly.”

The air felt primed for more bombs to drop.

Erick tried to break the tension, “Am I ever going to meet the invisible second guy?”

Silverite smiled. “You already have.”

“Oh my god that’s almost as annoying as when Rozeta doesn’t answer a question.”

Silverite and Killzone tensed.

Silverite relaxed before staring Erick down. “… Please try not to blaspheme so much. Best not to talk about the gods at all, really.”

“… right. That was probably… Thanks for the advice.” Erick said, "Sorry for being... Uh. I'm not used to any of this. Sorry."

"Not a problem." Silverite gave a short, quick bow. “And, now, to tend to the rest of the day.”

Valok said, “The Farmer’s Council is going to need some time to investigate what you have done to this land, Erick. You can come work if you want, but we’re not going to want rain for three days. We’ll tell you when that changes.”

- - - -

Erick sat in his apartment. Poi stood to the side, at a respectable 10 feet.

Erick turned to the dragonkin. “Glad to see I didn’t chase you off.”

“Thank you, sir.”

“Are we both employees of the city, now? I didn’t get a chance to ask anyone that, yet.”

“I have been an employee of Spur for the last seven years. You have been for a little while.”

“What does that mean, though?”

“Your duties are as before. Mine are as a full time bodyguard. Technically you’re a contractor for the army, like I am. Beyond that, we do need to go to the Courthouse and start finalizing what all this means, whenever you feel like going.”

“… I’m not doing that today.”

Poi nodded.

“… Actually. Maybe I am.” Erick got off the couch. “No... Wait. Let’s go look at property— No... Damn.” Erick sat back down. “Jane will want to do that with me. I’ll do all of that tomorrow.”

Five seconds passed.

Erick hopped off the couch, saying, “Nope. I’ll go now.”

Poi nodded, and followed Erick out of the apartment.

- - - -

Xemal stood in front of a perfectly flat field of stone, maybe 20 yards by 20 yards, or somewhere around there. She said, “They’re all almost the same size, since Al came through. He really did a number on this place. You could build practically anything you want on any of them.” She looked over to the neighbors. “They did alright.”

Almost all of the Human District was flat orange and brown stone, except for small walls here and there that Al had left untouched, a few trees and green spaces that had been cultivated, and one nice looking, four story tall mage tower and accompanying house. The house was the home of the three mages the Headmaster had asked to become citizens of Spur. It was a nice looking house. Certainly big enough for three people.

Whoever made their house knew what they were doing. Erick wanted a mage tower like that. It looked right and proper. There was even a small garden around the whole thing.

Wait a second.

A tall tower.

A double peaked round-top house attached directly to the tower.

And greenery all around. Bushy greenery.

Erick asked, “They have to know... Are they aware that their house looks like a dick? And balls?”

Xemal snort-honked a laugh, then said, “Their plans have another tower on the other side, but now that I look I see the rest of it is not up to code.”

“Not my business, I suppose.” Erick pointed to a plot of land with a short wall, maybe 50 yards away. “What did that house look like?”

Xemal peeled her eyes away from the dick house then looked at the wall Erick indicated. She scrunched her face. Realization came. “A tower, I think? Yeah. That’s a mage tower.”

“Oh?”

“You can [Mend] it up, if you’d like. See what you’re working with. If you don’t like it I can get someone to level the ground again.”

Erick took a look at his [Mend].

Mend 7, instant, touch, 10 MP

Touch a non-magical uncomplicated large object and restore it to its prime.

Exp: 1510/2100

“What size object does a house count as?”

“Large complicated. You'll want [Mend 9] at the least. It takes several hundred mana to fix a house, anyway. A house of that size might take 2000.”

“… What if I only have [Mend 7].”

“No time to raise your level like the present.” Xemal said, “If that is what you’re going to do, I’ll leave you to it?”

“Yeah. That’s what I’m going to do.”

Xemal bowed. “Good day, Archmage Flatt.” She looked to the dick house. “I have some papers to file.”

Suddenly wary of Xemal kicking up the Quiet War, Erick asked, “Uh? Are you going to…?”

Xemal blanched, her purple skin turning pale. She said, “I learned my lesson. But I can’t let that ...thing... remain!” She pointed. “It’s a giant dick!”

Smirking, Erick said, “Okay. Thanks for your help today, Xemal.”

She nodded then began to walk away, pausing for a moment to laugh at the dick house again.

Erick looked to Poi. “No time to raise my level like the present!”

Poi said nothing. He maintained a respectable 8 to 10 foot distance at all times. He was very good about that. Erick walked a short distance to the short wall and laid hands on the orange stone.

[Mend].

The orange stone flexed outward, gaining height and length. Maybe another foot on all sides. A corner had appeared on one side; this was a corner wall of some sort.

[Mend].

[Mend]. [Mend]. [Mend].

[Mend]. [Mend]. [Mend]. [Mend]. [Mend]. [Mend].

[Mend][Mend][Mend][Mend][Mend][Mend][Mend][Mend][Mend][Mend]...

- - - -

Erick stood in the middle of the bottom floor, of what might one day be a house. A short wall up to his knees rose all around him, showing Erick the foundation and the edges of the building. The first floor looked rather basic. A large open room, a side room, another side room that was probably a porch. That was a bathroom; Erick had mended a stone toilet back into existence. That one might have been a kitchen; maybe a bath. No! That one was a bath. That made that other one a kitchen. All in all, It was a very boxy building. If there was a mage tower here, Erick wasn’t seeing it. A tower would have curved walls, right?

“Poi? Is it supposed to look this basic? It’s [Mend 7], so I guess that might have something to do with it, but… Isn’t a mage tower supposed to have curved walls? Where’s the curve?”

“All buildings in Spur are required to have square-ish foundations.”

Erick looked over at the dick-house. “That house looks rather curved… In multiple locations.”

Poi did not bother to look at the dick house. “There are likely more complaints lodged against that house than for their illegal foundation.” He pointed up at the empty air. “Past the first floor you are allowed to have curved towers. I suspect this house we are in is such a place.”

Erick looked all around him. “How defensible does this foundation look to you?”

Poi looked around. “Three points of entry. Looks like a garden space out there, a front door, and a servants door. Nothing unusual so far. Two staircases, one grand one not… Exterior walls are thick. Very thick. This foundation looks as defensible as any other nice house. You’d need to hire some proper staff to keep this place feeling good, but that’s for another day. You could both host social gatherings and have plenty of guests. You'd have workrooms. In-house servants quarters, too. All of that is likely somewhere in this house, once restored to full.”

With Poi’s evaluation, Erick felt a pang of unwelcome extravagance.

“… is this the sort of house I should be looking for? It all seems rather extravagant.”

“Honestly, yes. With a minimum 20G daily personal intake, you should consider something of this size. Maybe larger." Poi said, "Unless you intend to become a hermit, I foresee you entertaining many people.”

Erick frowned.

He certainly wasn’t going to become a hermit.

He touched the stone wall.

[Mend].

[Mend]. [Mend].

[Mend]. [Mend]. [Mend]…

- - - -

Erick stood away from the house to get a better look at the whole thing and Rest for a while.

The first floor was coming together; the walls had restored themselves up to the second floor, revealing more rooms. A curved mage’s tower was starting to appear out of the southern side of the house and the whole thing was certainly large enough for Jane and Erick, and more people besides. It even had multiple rooms for guests; if Jane wanted to bring home a theoretical adventuring team there was room enough for all of them. There was at least at a third floor, too, since the staircases kept going up. But, right now, the whole thing was reminiscent of a child’s melted sandcastle.

[Mend] had a problem restoring long-gone objects, like a house that had been reduced to a single wall. But it could recreate the stone mass of the house in more or less the correct places. After that, Erick would need to hire a stoneshaper to fill out the detail work. Or, he could do all that himself, too. He had [Stoneshape], after all.

“You know, Poi? I could get used to living in a nice house.” Erick looked back at the dragonkin. He said, “Could you live in a place like this? If you’re going to be my full time guard?”

Poi smiled at Erick, and said, “I could.”

“Where I’m from, I would want to hire you directly.”

“That sounds like a human custom to me, sir. We don’t do it like that around here since that would split loyalties. I’m an employee of the city, and I like it that way. You’re an employee of the city, too.” Poi said, “The citizens are protected, and we are the people who are expected to protect them. With our loyalty defined in this way, we have connections to easily and officially draw upon the assistance necessary to be able to discharge our civic duties when needed.”

