The three of them presented a sweet and sentimental image, laid out alongside one another in so chaste a fashion, each confined to their own cots save for a single hand each from Lin-Lin and Mila that reached over to lightly touch Rain’s. As pure and chaste as it all might seem, Yan knew there was good reason for their restraint, because while lying still for so many days on end might seem harmless, the human body was not meant to lie fallow for so long. If Mila or Lin-Lin were to fall asleep pressed up against him, there was a chance their weight could cut off circulation to Rain’s extremities and cause his fingers and toes to rot whilst still attached, though Yan already visually confirmed this was not the case today. This was a ritual every morning now, for she wasn’t running her fingers through his hair simply because she enjoyed how it felt, but also because she was checking for sores which might have formed overnight. His flawless skin showed that his Core was still firmly intact, a matter of only minor concern considering he’d reforged all three of his Spiritual Weapons which were damaged during that fateful night, and soon enough, Yan finished confirming that her husband was still in good health, save for the minor fact that he just refused to wake.

“How much longer will you sleep, dear husband of mine?” Yan Sent, jokingly using the same sickly sweet and almost mocking tone Jing Fei used when speaking to her husband Zian. Rain loved the man like a brother, but he’d never gotten over his fear and concern for Jing Fei, even though it was clear to anyone with eyes that she loved her husband with all her heart. “Your beloved wives grow lonely without you to keep them company.”

The lack of an answer caused her more pain than she would ever care to admit, his silence a damning testimony to his continued absence. Anger flared as her resentment bubbled to the surface, bitter that he would do this to her so many times and cause her so much heartache. For a brief moment, she wondered if life would be easier if she just walked away, left him to Lin-Lin and Mila both and resumed the life of freedom and adventure in Central she gave up to marry him, a thought so ridiculous she could only scoff. The poisoned whispers of their insidious foe, aiming to drown her in despair? Or merely a flight of fancy in a moment of weakness, an idle thought she would never follow through on? Regardless of the source of her inner turmoil, the solution was the same, to embrace the pain and hope for the best because the first was proof of her love for him, and the second her only path forward through the dark times ahead.

A burst of warm and loving Aura enveloped Yan’s entire being, and for a brief, beautiful moment, she thought Rain had finally awakened again, but then she spotted Pong Pong’s yellow-patterned green shell emerge from his den under Rain’s pillow. Letting loose with an adorably tiny squeak of a yawn, the Divine Turtle slowly blinked as he trundled over to nuzzle her fingers resting atop Rain’s head, his Aura continuing to emanate fond reassurances that even Taduk could not make. Stirring at the sound of her little friend waking, Ping Ping blinked sleepily from her place above Lin-Lin, having taken over an entire pillow for herself so she could rest her head against his cheek while they slept. Wiggling her hindquarters and shaking her tail, she joined Pong Pong in nuzzling Yan’s hand in hopes of eliciting a scritch or two, and she could only acquiesce to their sweet demands.

Oddly enough, neither turtle seemed all too concerned with Rain’s comatose state aside from the odd glance to see if he was awake, as if this deep sleep was only to be expected from time to time. Part of Yan hoped it was because they knew something she didn’t, but the more pragmatic part of her knew it was more likely because turtles like Ping Ping tended to hibernate through the cold months of winter, and she assumed it was the same for Pong Pong. No doubt they both believed this was the case with Rain and were confused as to why everyone else was so concerned for his health, but Yan still appreciated their efforts.

“Morning you two,” she whispered, stroking Pong Pong’s head with her thumb the same way she’d seen Rain do a thousand times, and the little turtle leaned into the gesture with a sense of joy and contentment that Yan wholeheartedly envied. Unable to contain her emotions any longer, her shoulders shook as she silently sobbed for no reason other than to express her sorrow and be rid of this burden, praying the turtles’ confidence stemmed from something real, like their visits to Rain’s Natal Palace rather than the misconception she believed it to be. Alas, hope and faith were difficult to come by these days. The Enemy was willing to go to such great lengths to deny the Empire a victory, and she knew that this was a tactic that was most effective against Rain, for he was a kind and caring man who could not bring himself to understand the Enemy’s lacking humanity. That’s why their actions enraged him so, because unlike most, he did not see the Defiled as irredeemable monsters. No, he believed that there was still a shred of humanity buried deep within each and every single one of them, for he had experienced Defilement firsthand and, despite all his talk of hatred and slaughter, yearned to save the Defiled from themselves.

Which only made their complicity in their crimes that much worse. Easier to believe them evil monsters than to see them for their true selves, simple men and women who’d succumbed to the darkness inherent to the hearts of humankind. Oh her sweet, simple, fool of a husband, whose heart ached for all the people of the world and even empathized with the Enemy who so desperately wanted him dead, a stance she did not dare even entertain for fear of losing her will to fight.

A weighty presence pressed itself into Yan’s belly and she almost yelped in surprise until she remembered where she was. Looking down through tear-filled eyes, she found sweet Aurie peering up at her in innocent concern from his place under the cot, his sad, mournful expression conveying almost as much as Pong Pong’s Aura. The wildcat was sad not just because she was crying, but also because he’d been consigned to sleeping on the cold floor rather than sprawled out over Rain’s legs as the sweet cat preferred. A gross injustice as far as he was concerned, and he came out to commiserate over shared hardships, as if the pampered wildcat knew what true hardship really was. It was so adorably ridiculous Yan could not help but giggle, which Aurie took as a sign to sit up and nuzzle her cheek, his chest rumbling in delight as she hugged him tight. Having had his fill of nuzzles, he turned his attention to Rain, and under her watchful gaze, the wildcat laid his chin down atop Rain’s chest and closed his eyes in muted delight, taking a short second to bask in his favourite person’s presence before heading over to the door where he waited to be let out.

This sort of greeting was a new behaviour, something many of the animals had picked up of late, to share a quiet moment with Rain each and every day. Though Yan had not seen it for herself, Mama Bun did something similar after she woke, placing her nose right up against Rain’s to stare into his eyes for long seconds just like she did the last time he was comatose. It always ended the same way, with the sweet, spoiled rabbit giving a disgruntled huff and reluctant flurry of kisses as if to say she was displeased by his lack of reaction but still loved him all the same. The bears were even less delicate about it, using their chins to smother Rain’s face, but they always came away gurgling in contentment as if having had played some great joke. Much like the turtles, none of the animals seemed all too concerned about Rain’s comatose state, which was a far cry from how they behaved the last time he fell unconscious and unresponsive, with gloom and frustration aplenty. Yet another sign that perhaps matters were not as dire as they seemed, but even this was not enough to ease Yan’s groundless and irrational apprehensions. They were still animals after all, and Pong Pong aside, hardly the most clever examples of their breeds, though Yan loved them all the same.

The important takeaway from all this was that Ping Ping, Pong Pong, and Mama Bun were all still unable to visit Rain’s Natal Palace, as evidenced by Mama Bun’s reaction every morning and her continued insistence on sleeping at Rain’s side, snuggled up atop his chest and snoring fitfully away in her sleep. Were she able to visit, she would not be so disgruntled and disappointed each morning, and would instead remain curled up in his embrace until it came time for lunch. Or at least that’s what Lin-Lin believed, and Yan had nothing on hand to refute her. This meant there was nothing to do except wait and hope for the best, which was easier said than done, for Yan missed him dearly and yearned to see him smile again.

Another warm burst of Aura emanated from little Pong Pong, one so genuine and heartfelt Yan wondered if the Divine turtle could read her emotions the same way she read Aurie’s. It was difficult to tell how much Pong Pong actually understood, for there were moments like this when he seemed so aware and sagacious, and other times when he behaved no differently from any other animal, such as when it came time to eat. Hopping onto Yan’s proffered hand, he accepted a lift over to the still sleeping Rakshasa even though he could have made the journey across the yurt in a single bound. Vigilant as ever, the massive tiger slowly came to his feet as she approached, and Yan fought the urge to wrap her arms around his neck and hug him, a beautiful and majestic creature who inspired awe even when stretching and yawning. Grumbling as if gravely aggrieved, he lowered his head for a pat which Yan dared not refuse him, rubbing his ears good and well until he was wholly satisfied and chuffing in glee. Meanwhile, Pong Pong situated himself in between Rakshasa’s ears, nestled so deeply in the tiger’s thick, voluminous fur he could stop Concealing and no one would be the wiser.

Opening the door to let the animals out, Yan allowed herself one more glance at her sleeping husband before finally getting on about her business. Ready and waiting outside was none other than Kyung, and while his stony expression gave nothing away, Yan knew he saw more than he let on. Even without accounting for his phenomenal hearing, he only needed one look at her puffy, reddened eyes to know she’d been crying, and his arm twitched ever so slightly as he considered offering her a pat on the shoulder or maybe even a hug, only to immediately quash the notion. The fact that he even contemplated a show of affection meant the world to her however, because her adopted brother was not a man used to showing any emotion whatsoever, not even anger or happiness. A coping mechanism turned ingrained habit, but Yan was slowly working with Grandpa to chip away at Kyung’s defences.

Even though he didn’t take the initiative to hug her, she still appreciated the sentiment, as well as the reminder that he only resembled a giant stone pillar on the surface, tall, cold, and unyielding. “Thanks, big brother,” she said, and the tension eased ever so slightly from his shoulders as he took in her smile, relieved that she was not about to burst into tears once again, though he started and stiffened in awkward hesitation when she threw her arms around him for a surprise embrace. “Nothing to worry about. I’ll be fine.” Just as soon as Rain was awake again. Until then, she would fret and endure, because there was nothing else she could do. “How’s Grandpa?”

“Doing well.” Glancing in the direction of his yurt, Kyung’s lips turned upwards ever so slightly in the barest hint of a smile. “Meditating on the Dao and parsing through new notes he read yesterday. It has been a long time since I’ve seen him so lively.”

“That’s good to hear.” Grandpa was a man who thrived on warfare, one who never stopped dreaming of his triumphant return to the battlefield, and now that he’d succeeded, he’d become a man changed. His obsession with the Dao was both frightening and inspiring to behold, especially these last few weeks in the wake of the Central Citadel siege, weeks he spent ruminating in secret over what he called, ‘a fool’s errand’, one set upon him by Rain, but he would not say what until he knew how to explain the concept without confusing her to no end. All Yan knew was that it had something to do with his Blessing of Air and the way he sometimes gathered wind into the palm of his hand to make a strange popping sound, after which he’d mutter to himself about control, pressure, containment, and other such nonsense before starting all over again.

