Dressed and ready to start her day, Yan stopped at her beloved husband’s cot to bid him a silent farewell and wondered how she ever got along without him.

The mornings were long and lonely these last two weeks after Rain slipped into yet another coma, but nowhere near as lonely as she suspected the days ahead would be. There was a time when she valued her independence, took pride in it even, but after wedding her cherished fool and experiencing the highs of blissful marital life, she no longer knew what to do with herself in his absence. Mornings were usually their time together, because in those scant few hours before Mila and Lin-Lin were ready to wake, Yan had Rain all to herself, a luxury she feared she would not have for much longer once he collected his final two wives. She didn’t begrudge him for his lascivious ways, but she did so earnestly wish she could spend more time with him each day, though even if the days were twice as long and she his only wife, she would still yearn for more time to spend at his side. To see his smile, hear his voice, smell his scent, and feel his touch, this was all she wanted from the moment she opened her eyes in the morning until she laid her head down to rest at night.

Now, it wasn’t just the matter of his divided attentions keeping her from her husband’s side, for Yan also had to contend with the fact that he might not ever wake at all. Initially, everyone believed he would soon wake once he recovered from overexerting himself in an incredible feat of Healing in Huang Hai, but after twenty days spent without so much as stirring a finger, even Taduk and Lin-Lin were beginning to worry about his chances of recovery. Some mornings, Yan would wake and find him so still and lifeless that she feared he’d passed away in the night, with only the heat of his body and the feel of his breath against her hand to reassure her that she still had a husband yet. This wasn’t the first time he’d fallen comatose and Yan prayed it would not be the last, but no matter how many times she went through this, she knew she would never get used to it. The uncertainty was the worst of it, for after the inexplicable events of that fateful night, Rain only woke briefly to ask Lin-Lin about his father’s health before falling back asleep soon after, without so much as a peep from him ever since.

According to Akanai and Taduk, they suspected Rain had somehow drawn upon the raw Energy of the Heavens to Heal his father, a feat which apparently overtaxed his still-mortal body, mind, and soul. The Mother demanded too much from him, and worse, he demanded much from himself, for when Yan heard what had transpired, she knew Rain would’ve blamed himself for his father’s injuries, even more so than the Wraith who wielded the crossbow. A foolish way to go about things, but such was his pride, believing himself so capable that nothing could ever go wrong without it somehow being his fault. Easy to imagine what went through his mind when he saw his father take a poisoned bolt through the heart, especially if the bolt was meant for him, but Rain once again managed to create yet another miracle and save his father from certain death.

There was some debate on the topic that the family had yet to really delve into, for it bordered on a subject few cared to contemplate in depth. Baatar was very forthcoming regarding the entire experience, detailing the events with such clarity that Yan could envision it happening before her eyes as if she had been there herself. The two of them had been talking alone, father and son, with the former consoling the latter after all the atrocities they’d witnessed that night. The horrifically posed scene in LuZhuo and the senseless slaughter of Huang Hai made for a rough opening to a war that many believed would stretch on for many months or years to come, and Rain would have taken it hard. There was no doubt in Yan’s mind that his judgment had been clouded by anger and hatred, for even after so many years, he had yet to learn not to hate the Enemy. Yan fought because the fighting needed to be done, but Rain took the Enemy’s actions too personally, as if the Defiled killed and tortured to spite him rather than because they’d lost themselves to madness brought on by the Father’s foul lies.

For this reason alone, Yan feared the worst for her foolish husband, because while others wanted to believe Rain drew upon the power of love to mend his dying father’s wounds, she was not so convinced. There was an equally good chance that it was hatred and despair which drove him to such heights, hatred not just for the Enemy, but also for the Mother Above who dared to try and take Rain’s precious family away from him, a possibility no one wanted to voice out loud. Hiding from the truth wouldn’t change a thing though, so which was it then? Did Rain summon the Energies of Creation to mend his father’s heart, or did he draw upon the powers of Destruction to reject death and drag Baatar’s soul back from the Mother’s warm embrace? There were no words for such a miracle, for even the Medical Saint Taduk did not dare claim himself capable of Healing death, and yet Yan’s sweet, sentimental husband might well have done just that.

Miracles aside, having taken four harbours in quick succession meant Rain already accomplished more in a single night than what his detractors claimed was even possible, for they saw no way in which the Empire could go on the offensive against the numerically superior Defiled forces. This was because they had yet to understand the true value of Rain’s cannons, the great equalizers as he sometimes called them, and Yan could only agree. Though romanticized by dramas, stories, poems, and ballads, the cold, hard truth of the matter was that war was merely a game of numbers, one in which the winner was almost always the side that killed more combatants than they lost. In the struggle against the Enemy however, every Imperial soldier was worth ten Defiled, or put another way, for each soldier lost, the Imperial army had to kill ten Defiled just to even the odds. Formidable as Peak Experts might be, they were still human yet, and even if the Enemy were willing to line up and present their necks for chopping, swinging a weapon a thousand times through flesh and bone was still a draining and demanding task. Add in the fact that the Enemy was trying to kill you as you tried to kill them, and trading blows in close combat for a single minute could tire you out more than hours of back-breaking labour. It wasn’t just physical fitness that limited a Warrior’s effectiveness on the battlefield, but also their morale and mental fortitude both. This was why the most important skill for a commander was the ability to relieve the pressure on his or her troops, whether it be through clever rotation of Warriors to keep them all relatively fresh, or by stepping up to shoulder the bulk of the pressure to allow allied Warriors more room to breathe.

Brigadier Hongji was the first type of commander and Grandpa the second, while Yan considered herself a good balance of the two. Juggling troops in combat was no easy feat, but with Sutah around to help share the burden, she did not think it arrogant to claim that she was a capable enough commander who never asked for more than what her soldiers could provide. Then, once things heated up up, she also had the ability to ease the pressure on her troops thanks to her ricocheting shield and the Forest Clearing Gale, the skill she recently developed by combining the properties of Grandpa’s Wind Blades with the principles of Mitsue Juichi’s Mountain Collapsing Stomp. This was an attack which summoned a visible twisting gale of wind, one which spit out hundreds of finger-length Honed Wind Blades as it hurtled through the Enemy ranks, a single move that could potentially take dozens, if not hundreds of lives, and it marked her as a Warrior to be wary of upon the field of battle. Most Warriors of note excelled as duellists, formidable opponents such as Kyung, Song, Mila, and Da’in, but Yan was a rare exception to this rule, as her strengths lay not in single combat, but in one against many. One Warrior killing dozens, or even hundreds of Defiled was no small feat, even if said Defiled were bottom of the barrel grunts who barely knew which end of the spear to attack with, for there were always more Defiled than there were Imperials, yet Yan was a young Talent capable of killing hundreds, perhaps even thousands over the course of a single battle, provided she had Chi and time to recover. While she would die in an instant if caught out on the battlefield by any of the aforementioned duellists, Yan could easily outclass them in terms of sheer volume of kills over the course of a battle, which in most cases was a statistic which weighed heavier than any other.

The cold hard truth of the matter was that there were few Warriors able to match Yan when it came to wholesale slaughter. Such was the way of the Martial Dao, one which emphasized personal strength rather than widespread destructive capability, and in some ways, one could say Yan had set forth upon a dead-end track. The Forest Clearing Gale was a formidable attack, but who was to say it would improve in time? As a young Talent not yet twenty five, her accomplishments were impressive to say the least, but could the same be said three or four decades from now? Killing chaff was hard and necessary work, but she could not focus too much on this one aspect of her Martial Path, for such focus would come at the expense of other vital areas. The last thing she wanted was to become a narrow specialist, a Warrior who could do one thing very well yet fell short in all other areas. Not the worst fate to suffer, but as Du Min Gyu’s Terminal Disciple, Yan had a mountain of expectations heaped onto her shoulders, the heaviest of which came from herself and her desire to do her beloved grandfather’s legacy due justice.

Yet for all this talk of her formidable talents, Rain’s Runic Cannons now enabled any random Peak Expert to match Yan’s level of carnage with only a bare modicum of instruction. Place the cannonball into the dragon’s mouth, point it at your target, insert Chi, and watch the Defiled die in droves. A four step process to match what Yan achieved through countless hours of blood, sweat, and tears, as well as no small amount of luck and guidance. As if that wasn’t enough, the Runic Cannons even used less Chi to accomplish more damage, so long as you picked clumped targets to aim at and didn’t waste any shots killing one or two stragglers at a time. Infuriating wasn’t nearly enough to describe it, though Yan consoled herself with the fact that at least she didn’t have to lug around a weighty metal tube and a sack of equally cumbersome ammunition. With eight cannons alternating fire on the battlefield, massed armies had become something of a liability for the Enemy hordes. The Uniter didn’t dare to meet Rain’s forces in the field anymore, and instead was running with his tail between his legs while adopting hit and run methods, ones which the Imperials ironically had used against the Defiled prior to the reveal of the destructive Runic Cannons. A Peak Expert with a Cannon was worth thousands of Defiled Warriors, and once his or her Chi was spent, all they needed to do was hand the Cannon over to another fresh expert so they could begin the slaughter anew.

The face of war was ever-changing now that Rain was firmly in control, and Yan found it all so very exhilarating and terrifying at the same time. Exhilarating because her beloved husband had brought this change about, and more to the point, had even anticipated and expected as much, but terrifying because now they no longer had his unique perspective to draw on, and Yan was not sure what would come next.

Falling to her knees beside his cot, she rest her chin on his pillow and ran her fingers through his hair before caressing his silken cheek, marvelling at the soft and supple sensation of his unblemished skin against hers. It took an effort of will to fight the urge to strip down and crawl into bed with him, but even Lin-Lin and Mila had accepted sleeping apart from him for fear of causing complications to his health. Both were fast asleep in the separate cots laid out right next to Rain’s, consigning Yan to sleep all by her lonesome without their husband at her side. She didn’t hold it against them, as they’d offered to take turns, but Yan refused because the simple truth was that she was better suited to sleeping alone than either of her sister wives. Lin-Lin was all but inconsolable without Rain to cheer her up, always glued to his side with her wide eyed stare whether awake or asleep, and Mila herself fared only a little better. They were even less equipped to deal with this strife than Yan herself, and she loved them both as much as she loved Rain himself, so she stayed strong and contented herself with these quiet morning moments so that they would suffer just that much less.

