Feeling the need to let off some steam after breakfast, she set off towards the training grounds and asked, “Feeling up for a spar?” After a second passed without answer, Yan turned back to Kyung with a single raised eyebrow, only to find him staring at his feet in what could only be described as shy embarrassment. “Ah. She’s there, is she?” ‘She’ being Da’in, who Kyung was head over heels in love with, yet had been too stubborn and unyielding to give into his passions before Aunty Jeong became aware of her eldest daughter’s amorous intentions and sealed off any prospects of cooking the rice. Perhaps things would’ve turned out differently if Kyung struck while the iron was hot, but not all men were as insatiable as Rain, a fact Yan had only recently discovered. Forget about once every night, it turned out most couples only made love two or three times a week, and even less for those who’d been married for years. In contrast, ever since his wedding and honeymoon with Lin-Lin, Rain spent each and every single night in the embrace of his wives and woke up hungry for more the next morning, with no sign of slowing down just yet.

Not that Yan was complaining of course, for she enjoyed their bedroom games almost as much as he did, and the same could be said of Mila and Lin-Lin. What’s more, Yan was eager to see what sort of expressions Luo-Luo and Li-Li would make once Rain sank his teeth into the both of them. Two beautiful women, one elegant and dignified, the other cold and aloof, it would be oh so fascinating to watch Rain peel back their facades to reveal the form of their animistic passions hidden underneath. Before marrying him, Yan would’ve never in her life imagined Mila could be so docile and submissive or Lin-Lin so primal and assertive, so it would be interesting to see if Li-Li and Luo-Luo would similarly exceed expectations.

Putting aside her grievances at having her own needs go unmet, Yan focused on her brother’s happiness instead. A tricky thing, stealing away a bride from the Ryo family household, and truth be told, she wasn’t entirely comfortable with the idea now that Aunty Jeong sided with Shuai Jiao over Rain. Not because Yan held a grudge, but because she was still unsure why the kind and level-headed woman would do such a thing, for she was a staunch proponent of loyalty and integrity. Her husband and children were a domineering bunch, but they never took advantage of the helpless and stuck to their righteous principles no matter the cost. Partially because Shuai Jiao set the standard of the honest and virtuous politician, but also because the Ryo’s were generally good people who loved their province and country dearly, a love that extended to their countrymen regardless of station or standing.

So why did Aunty Jeong choose Shuai Jiao over Rain after he did so much to help them without asking? There had to be a good reason for her disloyal actions, and until Yan knew why, she felt it better to keep the Ryo’s at arm’s length. They were all here in Meng Sha, the prime representatives of Central’s contribution to retaking the West, but a polite nod in passing was about all the interaction she had with them. As for Kyung, it seemed like he’d settled on avoiding Da’in at all costs, because despite being able to stare death in the eyes without flinching, the thought of confessing his feelings for Da’in had left him unmanned and quivering in his boots.

Oh they would make such an adorable couple, Da’in and Kyung both, bold and imperious Warriors yet unable to sit down and have a genuine conversation about their own feelings. Theirs would be a union fraught with frustration and misunderstanding, but so long as they had love enough, then nothing else mattered.

Unfortunately, Kyung was not yet ready to face Da’in, and no good would come from forcing him. “Alright,” Yan conceded, and it was amusing to see him deflate with relief. “We’ll spar this afternoon instead. Care to accompany me on a surprise inspection then? I’ve been through the camp enough times to correct most of my soldiers, but I could use a second set of eyes to maybe catch what I’ve missed.”

Truth be told, Kyung knew all the ins and outs of military command, and only lacked the ambition to strike out on his own. Combined with his stubborn refusal to shatter his Core and be freed of his Oaths until after the war was over and done with, Kyung seemed adamant to remain an obscure guard and hidden Expert, despite having the Martial skill and tactical acumen to become a Colonel at the very least, if not a Brigadier to match the man he’d trained alongside and rivalled, the departed Cho Jin Kai.

With Kyung, Aurie, Rakshasa, and both Divine Turtles in tow, Yan set out for her retinue’s barracks, where she technically should have stayed overnight considering she was their immediate commanding officer, but Sutah had the kids well in hand and knew what to do if the Defiled attacked unexpectedly. He pretty much ran the retinue single-handedly these days, with Yan being little more than a figurehead in the downtime, which suited her fine since she still commanded when battle was truly at hand. It wasn’t out of the ordinary for Officers to have someone else handle the day to day drudgery of command, as even Nian Zu didn’t personally supervise his Famed Fifty, much less the Warriors of his personal retinue. Few were as involved and hands-on as Akanai in matters of command, which only made Yan admire her childhood hero turned Mother-in-Law all the more.

Halfway through her inspection however, Grandpa arrived in a flurry of Cloud-Steps to bring her away. “Come, come,” he said, so lively and excited as he grabbed her hand and led her back out of camp at a brisk canter. “There’s something I want you to read. Ask no questions, for I will not answer, as anything I say could colour your perception and lead to false Insight.”

Going along with the flow, Yan followed him back to his yurt which was right next to her own. “In, in, in,” Grandpa urged, so brimming with impatience it made him seem three decades younger. Once they were through the door, he shut it closed behind him as Kyung replaced the near finished candle with a fresh one. There was no book, scroll, or paper on the table for Yan to read, but before she could even ask, Grandpa reached into his sleeves and pulled out a folded note which he handed over in haste. “Here, read this, but try not to read into the brushstrokes. No, wait. Yan, cover your eyes. Kyung, prepare ink and paper to transcribe this note. I want her to see this with fresh eyes and consider only the message itself without even so much as my brush-strokes to give anything away.”

Even this much wasn’t enough as Grandpa insisted on leaving the yurt with Kyung before allowing Yan to read whatever it was he wanted her to see in privacy, so as to ensure his expression would give nothing away. Since he was going to such great lengths, Yan reined in her mirth and took this seriously as it showed just how much he cared about her success, always worrying Rain or someone else would unduly interfere and lead her down a dead-end path. Taking a deep breath to calm her mind, she reached for Balance and sought still serenity before finally turning her attention to the letter in hand, and was almost immediately disappointed. All this fuss for an auto-biography, which was hardly what she expected. The Imperial Army put great stock into these sorts of things, believing that the anecdotal musings of a Martial Warrior could help guide the next generation along their Martial Path, but even after reading more than her fair share of these dull and dusty ramblings, she had yet to find anything of use. Most Martial Warriors willing to share these personal histories with the Imperial Army were trained by the army to begin with, so reading the experiences of one was almost no different from another, all happy to drone on about hard work, dedication, honour, piety, and whatnot without ever delving into any specifics. Still, Yan had faith in Grandpa and knew he would never lead her wrong, so she settled in and read the snippet he so painstakingly provided for her.

“All my life,” the unnamed narrator began, the most unpretentious opening Yan had ever read, “I have never had a place to truly call home. The farm which I grew up in was warm and full of love, with happy memories aplenty, but even then, I knew the shack we lived in and the fields we tended to were never truly ours. Instead, they belonged to a noble who allowed us the privilege to work his fields in exchange for a set price, one to be paid in crops or coin. Thus, every season of every year, my parents wore themselves haggard with stress and anxiety wondering if their harvest would cover the rent and still leave enough for the family to eat well, to which the answer was usually ‘almost’. Even knowing the yield of every field down to the bag of rice, no amount of hard work or sacrifice could match the ever increasing demands the landowner placed on all his vassals, which by design left our humble little family just enough to keep working, but no more. Back then, my grand ambition was to one day move away with my family to farm on our own land, so that we could all be free from the stress and worry of unpaid rent or possible eviction.”

A humble beginning, but Yan could hardly see why Grandpa was so adamant she read this. Stifling a sigh of boredom, she held fast to Balance and continued on. “When I was fifteen, army recruiters stopped in our village to speak with the youths, promising fame and fortune to anyone in possession of a Core and signed on as a soldier. Against my parents wishes, I snuck out to meet with the recruiters and hear what they had to say, which was little more than a basic explanation of how to meditate and open ourselves up to the Heavens. By some miracle of the Mother Above, I successfully took my first step along the Martial Path six months later, Creating my Core and setting off to join the army after uttering promises to my weeping mother and stoic father that I would soon return with coin enough to buy the farm for them.”

“Little did I know an entire decade would pass before I saw them again, for I had only just set out on my Path. Basic training lasted a mere six weeks, but to my younger self, each day felt like a year as the sergeants broke me down and built me back up in the image they so desired. The training camp barracks was little more than a tent full of single cots, and far from a welcoming environment at that, as leaving anything out of place was grounds for a public dressing down as the sergeants pointed out your mistakes for all to see. Imagine my relief when training finally came to an end and they announced I was a soldier in truth, but rather than being dismissed from camp to return home for a visit, I was immediately dispatched to serve at my first post, a sea-side shanty town plagued by marauding pirates.”

And still not a single relevant detail in sight. Unable to remain patient any longer, Yan began skimming through the text as the narrator briefly detailed no less than thirty-two different postings which brought him all across Central in the next seven years, which was an atypical experience since most postings lasted for half a year at the minimum. Apparently, the narrator’s commanding officer had enemies in low places, for that was the only way to explain why their unit was dispatched to so many different postings without any real emergency taking place, as a petty punishment and means to keep the commander from ever getting too familiar with any superior Officers who might help advance his or her career. There were minor clashes aplenty, but few consequential victories to be had, if any at all, and the narrator’s bland and unvarnished depiction of events set the scene for just how disheartening it must have been to do so much and have so little to show for it.

“At twenty two years of age, I was considered an experienced soldier of seven years, yet not even halfway through my first term of service. I had come to expect my entire career to play out just like this, drifting from one conflict to another, and I worried that by the time I returned home with the coin I promised my parents, they would not recognize their son, or worse, no longer be there to receive me. I was an only child to aging parents who worked themselves to the bone each and every day of the year, and now I’d left them with no one to care for them in their infirmity. There were services to help soldiers like me bring coin back to their village, but even without the warnings of my older comrades in arms, my naive, younger self could still see how predatory those services were, with no guarantee that the coin would ever reach its destination. All I could do was let the army hold my pay save for what little I spent on myself as I experienced the vicissitudes of life through the narrow lenses of a soldier constantly on the march. I went where the army directed me, ate what the army gave me, wore what the army provided, and slept wherever I could lay my head down to rest. The first wine I tasted was distilled in the back of an army wagon. The first woman I lay with was a camp follower almost twice my age who gave me a discount I later learned was no discount at all. My first shave was done using a sword as my razor and polished shield as mirror. My first loss was that of a brother I’d met in basic training, a fellow farm-boy who died weeping in my arms as his life’s blood spilled out from the gaping hole in his chest.

