A jarring rendition of events, and Yan cursed herself for skipping ahead and missing out on the gravity of it all, but she was too eager to find out what came next to go back just yet. “Then, in one fateful engagement, my Captain fell on the field of battle, and his second followed soon after. So too did the next three soldiers who stood up to take charge, and only then did I realize I was the most senior member of the retinue still left standing. I rallied the men, and from there, I remember little of what I said or did during that fateful battle, only that I fought and killed until there were no enemies left standing before me, and pitiful few allies beside me. For my ‘valiant efforts in the face of adversity’, I was promoted to the rank of Captain and given command of the tattered remnants of my former Captain’s retinue. Three days later, a batch of fresh recruits were dispatched to bring us back to full strength, alongside a tutor tasked with teaching me to read and orders to head out towards the next conflict. Such was the start of my long and arduous career, one in which I, a naive young farmboy accepted every mission I was presented simply because I didn’t know any better and was too stupid to ask.”

Yan wasn’t sure whether to laugh or cry at seeing how similar this man was to Rain, who himself went through a similar phase while fighting on the front lines in Sinuji. Liking the narrator more and more, she continued to devour the tale which was so different from BoShui’s flowery prose, a bland and matter-of-fact account that said much with only a few words. There was so much left untold, yet there was still enough for her to fill in the details, and the next two years of the narrator’s life went by in a flash, an entire decade summed up in the span of a few paragraphs.

“From raw recruit to Captain was a journey of seven years, but little more than a year later, I was made Senior Captain after my commander took note of my talents and record of service. Soon after my promotion, my commander took me aside and suggested I take some time off to tackle the next step along the Martial Path. He told me then that twenty five years of age was the demarcating line between snake and dragon, so while I had the markings of the latter, everyone would think me the former if I was unable to successfully Form my Natal Palace before year’s end.”

So this was the reason Grandpa was so excited for Yan to read this, and she took a deep breath to calm herself before continuing. “I accepted the proffered reading material and began the long journey home, yet when I arrived there almost three weeks later, I was no closer to success than when I began. My long awaited reunion with my parents took precedence then, a memory I cherish to this day, for any rank, medal, or commendation was utterly worthless when placed next to the smiles of my aged parents, and this more than anything gave me renewed focus to continue along my Path. The noble who owned their farm refused to sell the land as he had no reason to curry favour with a mere Senior Captain, and instead, I was forced to use most of my savings to pay the steep penalty for the contract my parents entered into before I was even born, one that treated them like slaves to be bought and sold like chattel. Having finally seen the full weight of the burden my parents carried, I was set upon by a hunger for advancement both in my career and along the Martial Path, for only then could I protect that which I held dear.”

Or in other words, might makes right, a universally accepted fact, but somehow, Yan could tell that the narrator no longer saw things the same way.

“The advice gleaned from military documents suggested I model my Natal Palace on a place of significance in reality, but I’d spent the last ten years drifting from conflict to conflict and was currently living out of the back of a wagon while searching for a home for my parents to live in. What place of significance did I have to hold onto? None whatsoever, for the trials and tribulations had made me strong, but they failed to instill me with the confidence and courage to push forward without someone to direct me. As the days passed, my father saw my troubles and eventually sat me down like in days of old, so small and frail now that I possessed a Martial Warrior’s physique, but in my eyes, he’d never been stronger than on that day. He smiled, patted my hand, and told me that it didn’t matter if they lived in ruin or opulence, so long as I lived my life with head held high. Then he told me that he’d found work on another farm, that he wanted to go back to toiling day and night to enrich not just some noble landowner, but another farmer as well, an extra middleman to pay before he and mother received their fair share. Though he didn’t say it in so many words, I could tell he was afraid that my humble background would hold me back, that my filial efforts would distract me from the Martial Path and promising prospects before me, so he bade me farewell and brought my mother away to subsist in worse conditions than when I first left them.”

“I spent the rest of that night in quiet meditation, parsing through the complex emotions threatening to overwhelm me. I had no constant in life to lean back on, none save for the love and support of my parents who now believed I would be better off without them. Logically, I understood the decision, and while I could not bring myself to agree with it, my father had spoken and made his decision clear. How could I chase him down and deny him without an alternative solution to offer him? It was obvious to all that while the army prepared me to fight and lead, it did little to teach me the ways of life and how to be a man. I was out of my depth, lacking in both coin and good sense, so how could I be expected to support my parents when I barely knew what to do with myself?”

“Come morning, the sun rose and the morning dew dried, but still I was undecided on what to do next, so in a bid to find escape from my troubles, I sought Balance and Insight into the Dao. I had no set goal for doing so, similar to how I’d lived my entire life thus far, only a yearning to be better today than the man I was yesterday, the man who let his parents walk away for fear of being burdened by them. Without a place of significance to base my Natal Palace upon, I could only look inwards into myself, and there I found my answer. So long as I drew breath, I could rely on myself to strive and struggle for the life I desired, one in which I chased after my father and told him that he was no burden, but the guiding light in my life which I failed to heed often enough. Why must a Natal Palace be based on a place of significance? Chi is formless, so why must the Natal Palace be envisioned and remain fixed in mind? So long as I existed, so too would my Natal Palace, and thus, I made myself the anchor for this significant milestone along the Martial Path. When I opened my eyes, I knew I had succeeded, and only then did I have the courage to chase after my parents and bring them away to a better life.”

That was the abrupt conclusion to what Kyung copied for her, and for a moment, she wondered if he’d left a page out, but there was no chance that was the case. That last paragraph was a jumble of words which she individually understood, but made no sense when put in that order, and she read it several more times to try and understand his meaning. Did he envision himself, like the Natal Soul Rain spoke of? No, he asked why it must be envisioned, so it had to be something more... abstract. He made himself the anchor, so that as long as he existed, so too did his Natal Palace. There was no mention of formation, no description of what he envisioned, no moment of realization, only a statement of existence, as if his Natal Palace had been there all along, and he only just realized it.

There were some scant similarities in this account to what Yan experienced herself, but too many differences to account for. She herself lacked a stable and beloved place to reference, her bitter animosity over never being adopted clashing with her inner turmoil over leaving her home of almost twenty years. Central didn’t offer her a warm welcome either, not after Grandpa declared her as his Terminal Disciple and adopted granddaughter without thinking things through, a touching gesture she loved him for yet still logically disagreed with. Then there was the matter of the narrator feeling as if he could only rely on himself, for Yan had many people who helped her along the way. Not just Grandpa and Rain, but Mila, Lin-Lin, Kyung, Eun, Da’in, Wu Gam, Tomor, Mugi, Altan, Akanai, Tursinai, and so many more.

No, she was too focused on the specifics, on the differences, on convincing herself that this wouldn’t work. Instead, she should set her mind to trying to understand what Grandpa Du wanted her to read. It wasn’t any specific detail in the narrative, else he would not have given her so much to digest. The question to ask was not how the narrator Formed his Natal Palace, but rather what could Yan glean from this man’s experiences to help her along her Path. It was the method he used that was the key here, the basis upon which he built his Natal Palace, not a place in reality like Rain and the village, Mila and the bamboo grove, or Grandpa and the Wutai Mountains, but... what? Himself? No, not himself, but the concept of self-reliance. So long as he existed, so too did his Natal Palace, that was what he said, and it was this which gave him the strength and conviction to progress forward along his Path.

So if not a place, what was a concept Yan could use as an anchor to her Natal Palace? Surely not self-reliance, for she would not be where she was today without the support of so many, but there had to be something...

The answer evaded her as she pondered for hours on end, only to deliver itself to her the moment she stepped outside the stuffy yurt. A cool and refreshing breeze washed over her, bringing away the smell of herbal incense and candle wax and reinvigorating her very being by reminding her of that which she loved and adored. Though she possessed the Blessing of Air as Grandpa was always quick to point out, it was the wind which Yan held near and dear to her heart. Air was stagnant and stifling, but the wind was a gust of gentle freedom and a gale of overbearing dominance in one, a representation of her ability to do as she pleased. It was the wind which spoke to her, not the air itself, but the movement of air that set her skin to tingling and mind at ease. With the wind at her back, she could go anywhere and do anything, but only because she knew she had people ready to catch her if she should fall.

People like Grandpa and Kyung, who she found standing outside and doing their best not to appear too hopeful so that she wouldn’t feel ashamed if she failed to glean anything from the readings. People like her sister-wives Mila and Lin-Lin who were likely finally getting out of bed and no doubt wondering if she would join them for lunch. People like her in-laws Baatar and Sarnai, who both only had glowing praises for her, Alsantset and Charok who were always there to answer any questions she might have, Li-Li and Luo-Luo who always had a friendly floof or poignant melody to share if Yan ever needed it. And of course, there was Rain himself, the one person who not only supported her decision, but also encouraged her to follow through with it in a time when she needed it most. All those years ago, even though she was excited to have been chosen by an esteemed Hero of the Empire, she’d also been terrified of leaving everyone and everything she knew behind. To her, the wind was freedom, but she would never have had the courage to take so great a leap without Rain’s love and support, and she would not have made it this far without Grandpa, Eun, Kyung, and so many others. The wind was her reminder, her anchor and object of significance, one that was invisible and formless like Chi, but every bit as real as she.

And just like that, the world changed in a way only Yan herself could perceive as she became aware of the vastness of the Heavens around her. “I’m not sure,” she began, cocking her head in uncertain certainty as she parsed through these newfangled sensations, “But I think I just Formed my Natal Palace.”

Hardly the most confident of statements, but seeing Grandpa and Kyung’s smile, Yan knew it to be true, for this was a moment she would remember for all eternity, so long as the wind still blew.

Chapter Meme
