And to think, people are jealous of my supposed ‘talents’. Chosen Son of the Mother my ass, if anything, Taduk is the chosen one. Medical Saint, Runic Craftsman, Impromptu Diviner, and person who forged his own Dao. Not just Martial Dao, but a genuine, bonafide, personal Dao, one which is all his own. A gentle, peaceful one too, no doubt, which forbids him from taking life with his own hands. Doesn’t stop him from eating meat or ordering deaths though, so I don’t really understand it. Honestly, I don’t think he really understands it either, else he’d be tripping over himself to explain it in hopes of helping me recover that much quicker. Still, I wonder if he taught Lin-Lin the same way, because she shares a lot of his Martial idiosyncrasies and -

“Boy?”

“Ah sorry.” Embarrassed at having zoned out at such an important time, I head through the exit to check on everyone and lead Alsantset to a less crowded place. Despite being lost in her thoughts, she instinctively reacts to my presence and follows me further down the path, even absentmindedly patting my head as she settles in to meditate. A single glance is enough to tell me Akanai is both immovable and impassable, so guarded and vigilant even whilst adrift in the throes of Insight and hovering over Mila and Song like a ferocious mother hawk. Leaving her as she is so not to disturb her Insight, I quickly and quietly retreat back to the grove and make my report to Dad.

“Good,” he Sends, his eyes distant and unfocused, no doubt relaying things to everyone outside. “Once everything is in place, I will bring you outside the grove where we will have three carriages waiting in place. You will instruct your Death Corps guards to separate into three groups and send Kuang Biao away with the first carriage. I will escort the second carriage away with the second group of Death Corps, while you remain in the third carriage with the third group, which will set off once enough time has passed. Husolt and Ghurda will be in charge of your safety, while your pets will have to remain here with the girls. You need not worry, I have contacted the nearby Sentinel camp and instructed them to place a heavy guard on this grove. They will be safe and cared for.” Seeing my skeptical expression, Dad frowns and Sends, “What is the matter?”

“Won’t work.” Shrugging, I switch to the Language and explain, “All they have to do is attack the carriage Ping Ping follows.”

With a sour grimace and muttered curse, Dad Sends,“Wait here while I revise our plans.”

Instead of listening like a good boy, I press him for the answers I so desperately need. “Why do we need a plan though? It’s not like this is the first time someone’s tried to kill me, and you brought more than enough Sentinels to dissuade a second attempt on my life. Rather quickly I might add, which means they were waiting around. Why all the fuss?”

“Things are different now,” he Sends, patient and forgiving as always, though I sense a hint of anxiety gnawing away at the edges. “Now, you have lost the Legate’s protection, making you a tempting target for all his enemies and not just your own.”

...

Say what now?

No doubt reading my confusion, Dad explains, “Until yesterday, you were merely the Legate’s pawn, but everyone believed you held his favour, and thus, his protection. Now, the illusion has shattered for those in power, and even though you are working with the Legate in truth, it is to his advantage to keep your ties a secret. Where once you were sacrificial pawn, you are now a dagger hidden in plain sight, but to play your part well, the world must continue to believe you are an abandoned piece. This is a far more dangerous role, but one you are well suited to, for you are the Undying, and you will not fall easily.” The last is Sent with a smattering of pride, and Dad even thumps me on the shoulder in a manly show of affection which sets my flesh to bruising. “Since the Legate cannot afford to invest too much in your protection, his enemies will see you as a tempting target. Killing you will cause the Legate to lose face publicly, and Eastern Imperials have been known to go to great lengths for much less. Such are your trials and tribulations, my son; there is something to be said about tall trees attracting the wind.” Again, his words are filled with pride, because in his eyes, he sees my dangerous enemies as a measurement of my success, which is all sorts of messed up.

“Hang on.” Taking a moment to process everything, my brain finally catches up and I ask, “You’re telling me the Legate’s enemies see my death as an insult?”

Dad nods, still beaming with pride, and I inwardly curse this world and almost everyone in it. “Even the Seneschal, Zhang Jun Bao, might make an attempt on your life, if only at his master’s behest with fair warning to us in advance. You taunted and insulted the man repeatedly in front of the Legate and his enemies, so this Solitary Sword would be remiss not to seek vengeance. If he were to make an attempt on your life, it would do much to sell the pretense of your fall from the Legate’s good graces.”

Fucking politics. You think you understand, but you don’t, not really. No one understands, because they’re all making the rules up as they go. With a sigh of grudging acceptance and jaded discontent, I hug Dad and say, “Well, shit. I’m glad you’re smart enough to pick up on all this. I didn’t catch any of it at all.” My naive ass thought things would be easier now that I was working with the Legate, but apparently not.

Coughing lightly, Dad explains, “Your consort Zheng Luo explained most of this to your mother while you were at your meeting with the Legate, and filled in the rest after hearing how things went. Her drive, intelligence, and even her quiet arrogance, she shares much in common with you, boy. She is a good match, so do not treat her so poorly.” Shrugging, he smiles and adds, “Such is life, my son. You suffer for having eyes larger than your mouth. One wife is all I, your father, can handle, and poorly at that, yet you dream of having five? You have your work cut out for you, for never has there been a wife who was happy to see an idle husband. Enough of your questions now, there is work to be done.”

Standing aside to let Dad do his thing, I settle back down next to Taduk and sigh. “Sometimes,” I say, sinking into his warm embrace, “I wish I’d taken your advice and stuck to being an herbalist instead.”

“Never dwell on regrets.” Sitting me up straight and turning me to face him, Taduk looks more serious than I’ve ever seen him before. “Regrets are poison to the mind and soul, an unending trap of what might have been. Reflect on your mistakes and learn from them, but nothing you do can ever change them, so there is no sense dwelling on maybe’s and what if’s. Plan for the future, but more importantly, live in the present. Now is the most meaningful moment of all, because now is the only moment you can reasonably affect.” For a moment, I almost believe my teacher is speaking logical sense in a subject besides Healing or herbalism, but then he points at his garden and growls, “My seeds are missing again. Three of them from that area there. The little rapscallion must have slipped in while I wasn’t paying attention, so go poke around and see if you can find any clues.”

“Yes teacher.” Smiling despite the urge to sigh some more, I reflect on Taduk’s advice while combing through the dirt with a borrowed spade. Now is the most meaningful moment of all, because now is the only moment you can reasonably affect. He’s... not wrong. I can’t change the past, and I can’t predict the future, but my actions now can make up for my mistakes in the past, and can also help shape how the future turns out. So what can I do now? I can make plans for my next step. Bitch at the Legate for starters, so I should get myself an audience with him and see what help he can offer without appearing to offer too much help. I should be more cautious with my actions too, stay close to home instead of traipsing about. Maybe even set a trap or two for would-be assassins, though I’ll need to discuss the specifics with Dad later on. Then I -

Snapping out of my thoughts, I notice the dirt shuffle ever so slightly before my spade has chance to touch it, and I quickly leap away for fear of erupting mole-rat Demons or Ancestral Beasts. Standing guard before Lin-Lin, Taduk, and my floofs, I’m ready to go down fighting with all I’ve got, but to my great surprise, nothing bursts out of the ground for once. A good thing too, because I’ve had it with these motherfucking mole-rats on this motherfucking planet. Seriously, have some originality please, and send some Fire-Blessed birds or Lightning Blessed rats or something. Enough with the Earth Blessed mole-rats. We’ve seen enough of them by now.

After sheepishly assuring everyone who came running that I simply overreacted, I cautiously head back to my fallen spade to pick through the dirt. Maybe I was seeing things, or maybe I accidentally shifted some dirt and didn’t notice. It didn’t just move on its own, it couldn’t have, and let’s be real, the Defiled can only have so many mole-rat Demons to work with. There’s no way they sent one ALL the way past the Northern Citadel without anyone noticing, because if they could do that, then they could tunnel Defiled tribesman in without anyone noticing and start a panic through all of Central.

Digging deeper to reassure myself nothing is going on, I continue at it for a good five minutes before noticing something amiss. How is this hole still the same size? A spade isn’t the fastest digging tool, but all my hard work has resulted in a shallow furrow barely big enough to step in. What the hell? Morbid curiosity overcoming my aversion to poop, I remind myself that Taduk never said anything about adding Ancestral Beast poop to the soil here, and that it’s only an unconfirmed suspicion of mine. Trying not to think too much about it, I set to digging through the dirt with hand and spade, flinging whole swathes aside in an effort to uncover the mystery before me. The furrow grows larger, but at an inexplicably slow pace, as if the dirt here is all compressed and I’m just loosening the topsoil, except there’s no way that’s true. Taduk prepped this entire area for his Spiritual Plant garden, which means at least fifty centimetres of loose soil for roots to grow freely. Calling Taduk over to help, we set to work like crazed maniacs tossing dirt to one side while making no more than a minor dent in the ground. Frustrated beyond compare, I toss my spade aside and plunge both hands deep into the soil and instantly feel something underneath. Grabbing it tight, I yell for Taduk to keep digging, only to uncover the bastard hidden deep within.

A chubby, adorable floof with a broad, black nose and the roundest cheeks I’ve ever seen.

“It’s a groundhog!” I cry, jubilant at having found a new friend, only for the furry little bastard to bark and bite me. “Haha, I guess spring is really here.”

I’m not too concerned about the bite. Groundhog teeth are pretty strong, but not meant for rending flesh and bone. Plus Taduk’s right here, so you can gnaw all you want but I’m not letting go. I caught you, so now we’re best friends forever, my Earth Blessed little buddy.

Or I will cook you and serve you to Taduk, so be a good groundhog, okay?

Chapter Meme
