She woke up feeling great, even better than him. Her body had been fully healed, and even her cultivation may have gotten better. He didn’t know what that man had done for them, but their unnaturaly fast healing must have come at a cost.

If not at their expense, then at his. But it was hard to tell. After that night where he couldn’t even see what he looked like, Shu Wao Tu had not met the man again. However, shortly after getting up, he found a note on a table.

It was from the man, and though it didn’t say a lot in terms of quantity, it was immense in terms of quantity. He explained that Miss Xiaolan may not see them off, since she had something important to do and they would leave shortly after.

That was about it, however one thing he did help them with was with the location of the True Elemental Sect. On the back of the note, or rather, the map was the note, so it really was the front of the note?

On the other side of the note was a map, detailing how to get from where they were to the sect. As he’d said, it was far away.

However, they could go there, slowly and steadily. Without any time limit, they did want to see Miss Xiaolan one last time.

After talking it out with Shu Xu Ning, they decided to seek her out and truly express their gratitude.

But since she wasn’t at the auction, they had no lead.

In the end, they decided that they best grit their teeth and seek out Xing Ya Chen.

They entered the Myriad Market, and much to their surprise, he was sitting there in the Heavenly Pill Pavillion, muttering to himself.

When they walked in, he turned around and greeted them with a smile.

"Ah, you two! I knew you'd come."

"Huh? How?"

"Well, I saw you outside, so that much was pretty obvious. You want to know what happened to Miss Xiaolan, right?"

The two siblings nodded, the little girl more energetically than her brother.

"Well, so do I. Since she hadn't shown herself today, then she has to show herself in Golden Arch City, right? To collect her money. So what else is there to do than go to Golden Arch City?"

"You mean to say that you intend on making the long trip there?"

"Sure am!" Xing Ya Chen smiled to Shu Wao Tu, the emotions within the shopkeeper's eyes hard to discern. "And I'm not going alone!"

When he said that, Shang Hue popped out of the shadows, as if waiting for Xing Ya Chen to introduce her.

"She will join us."

"Us?" Shu Wao Tu asked.

"Us, of course. We're all going to Golden Arch City."

"And what makes you think we'll accept?"

At his question, Xing Ya Chen raised an eyebrow, and the young man could only sigh.

"Yeah, we were going to join you."

"Great! I already packed everything we may need for four people, so don't worry. I also have plenty of funds, so everything should go smoothly."

Well, I guess we’re doing this then.

The four of them resigned themselves to Xing Ya Chen’s plans, since they had no better ideas anyway. However, before leaving, they wanted to wait out the auction, just in case she decided to show up.

Walking outside, they went unnoticed, as the crowd was still focused on the auction. Fa Xiaolan’s pills had yet to come up, but they would appear very soon.

With that in mind, they did a quick scan of the area, and didn’t notice her anywhere. At that point they had to resign themselves to their fate, and realise that she wouldn’t show up.

They could only sigh and head toward Golden Arch City, hoping to find her there. Afterwards, if they couldn’t, they’d split up from the others and head toward True Elemental Sect.
