Compared to his friends and allies, Asano himself had remained an elusive and increasingly sinister figure, with even his heroic acts unsettling. Gold-rank monsters brutally savaged, their astounding vitality only serving to prolong the misery leading to their ultimate demise. Armies of ghouls devoured by a blood monster that seemed to multiply endlessly. A vampire lord’s attack stopped before it could begin, it’s life force drained as it was reduced to viscous goop, clinging to an empty skeleton.

A satellite image had trended widely, showing Venice wholly obscured by glowing butterflies. From space, the swarm looked like a blue and orange eye, the size of a city. In the aftermath, Humphrey’s documentary crew moved through, finding the city utterly devoid of occupants.

The disappearance of the entire Bahraini government, along with every non-government member of its ruling family, shocked the world as the Gulf Cooperation Council and United Nations stepped in to restore order. It came off the heels of anti-government protests being suppressed with advanced magical weaponry.

Theories around Asano were already rife, many tying into existing deep state, shadow government and new world order conspiracies. The secrecy around the Saint-Étienne Summit Accords only fed the fire, and the events in Bahrain brought many previously fringe ideas closer to the mainstream. Neither Asano nor his associates had so much as acknowledged the conspiracies, let alone responded.

“How much of what you and your people do is for publicity?” she asked. “There’s no way that eye picture just happened.”

“What we do has nothing to do with publicity,” he said. “How we do it and who we let see? That is more engineered than I’d like, but we have goals we need to meet.”

“And what are those goals? People still don’t realise how much the world is dancing to your tune. How close to the mark those conspiracies are. You have the power to suppress that, at least to some degree. Instead, it’s like you’re driving the world to see you as a threat, even as you turn its resources towards getting ready to fight you. Or someone like you. But I’ve talked with people from your world. The Storm Kingdom wants nothing more than to stay on your good side. The Adventure Society—"

“How is Miguel?”

Natalie didn’t blush, but she knew he could read her embarrassment from her aura.

“Shouldn’t you see more of him than me?” she asked.

“Probably. He’s a good bloke. So’s his dad.”

“Why are you preparing us for a war, Mr Asano? It’s becoming increasingly clear that you’re using the vampires as practise for us. Something to drive advancement. Who do you expect to be waiting for us when that bridge between worlds opens?”

“A lot of people want to ask me that question, Officer Park. Not many have the nuggets to actually do it.”

“Well, I did. So, what’s the answer?”

“More trouble than it’s worth.”

***

When the loading door at the back of the military cargo plane opened, soldiers unbuckled the harnesses and wheel locks on large crates, then wheeled them down the ramp. Travis got out of their way, getting respectful nods as they went past him. Once they were done, a few passengers hitching a ride to the Nitra Joint Military Base made their way out. One of them paused on seeing Travis, before walking over.

“Hello Travis.”

“Damien. Follow me. I’m parked over there.”

They started walking over the busy tarmac, towards where a handful of civilian cars were parked.

“Don’t I have to go through security checks?”

“You did. The moment you entered Asano Clan territory.”

“The base is neutral territory.”

“Territory isn’t an imaginary line here, Damien. It’s about who has the power, and right now, you’re within Jason Asano’s power. You’d feel it, if your perception training had been better.”

“You really did drink the Kool-Aid, didn’t you?”

“Good to see you too. How’s Dad?”

“He’s well.”

“Oh. Shame.”
