Syllea sighed, then said, “Maybe the shadelings aren’t a trap, for us. At least not directly. But if they’re a trap for the gods, then it may be our duty to end the shadelings, just the same. If the gods are not there to empower us against the Darkness, then we are at the mercy of a being that has proven themselves ready and willing to kill on a whim, or on purpose, and then to abuse our souls afterward.”

“Melemizargo deserves to be Ended,” Erick said, feeling that the discussion took a sudden, awful turn, and the he needed to get it back on track. “But his creations are innocent.”

“Innocence doesn’t always matter when it comes to the Darkness.” Syllea said, “Especially if he’s plotting a long war to murder our gods.”

Erick did not want to get into that argument. He had planted seeds. He would see how they could grow. He changed the subject, asking, “Ready to speak to Justine?”

“Not yet.” Syllea asked, “I want to know what you want out of all this, Erick. I still owe you a bargain of trade from before, from your lecture at Oceanside. And now you’re giving me this knowledge of godly events and how to possibly cure my people... What do I owe you, this time?”

Erick almost asked of assistance with creating a tree [Familiar], or maybe some knowledge of Force Magic, or Mana Alterings. Syllea was a Force Mage, with known ability to transform her spells to meet any elemental need— Ah. That was actually something important that he needed to know.

“How do you make light defeat the dark?”

Syllea smiled, slightly. “I can help you with this. Very well. I accept. I wish to speak to Justine, now.”

Erick nodded, sent a message off to see if Justine was ready, which she was. He cast [Teleport Other], with the Ophiel waiting inside the house. As Justine appeared beside her [Prismatic Ward]ed chair, the Ophiel in the house went blipping back to Candlepoint, back to overseeing the city.

Syllea looked to the white-skinned, red-eyed incani. She sniffed. It was a dismissive sound. Or maybe not. Erick couldn’t quite tell. He just watched as Justine got her bearings, glancing around the gazebo to see Syllea’s people, and then Erick and Poi and Kiri. She turned to the other archmage in the meeting.

Justine bowed. “Greetings, archmage.”

Erick became nothing more than a facilitator, at that point. Syllea asked questions regarding the shadeling curse. Justine answered, open and honestly. She spoke of Melemizargo’s Heart, in Ar’Kendrithyst, where cursed shadelings needed to go in order to ‘listen to Melemizargo’s story’ whereupon he would personally cleanse the shadeling of their curse, if they wished. Syllea frowned at this, then proceeded to ask a multitude of questions Erick had never directly asked before, because he didn’t need to. Mostly, Syllea’s questions were of the ‘how do you know this’ variety, which ended up being answered with variations of ‘Melemizargo has declared Erick Untouchable, and he wants Erick educated, so she was given more information than most, and more clearance to speak’.

Erick was slightly perturbed by his own fate being laid out there, but those were the breaks.

This whole situation felt surreal, after a while.

And then it got worse when Syllea calmed, and asked, almost appearing to not want to ask, for she feared the truth, “On the matter of multiple Stats: can you explain why some were cursed, and others not? We haven’t found a single defining thread between anyone.”

Syllea’s companions leaned in at this, maybe half a step, but still remaining five steps away. Omaz, looking contrite. Bayth, looking two motions away from taking off someone’s head. Justine noticed their rapt attention, but turned back to Syllea. Erick felt the back of his neck prickle, as Justine spoke:

“Because they already know the truth. There is no need to force them to come to him, because they are already a part of Melemizargo’s Cult.”

Bayth launched at Omaz; one second she was still, the next all three hundred kilos of her was in the blond orcol’s face, her fist in his chest.

Erick was ready for something, but not that. Syllea had no such problems adjusting to the event. All around the gazebo, clear, solid air snapped around every single person, like sudden explosive growths of crystal. Erick got one dose of the magic, Poi and Teressa each got their own. Crystals slapped around the dense air around Justine, but did not encroach into the [Prismatic Ward]. Though the crystal touched his skin, it didn’t hurt; this wasn’t exactly an attack.

Omaz and Bayth were instantly locked behind individual crystals, larger than the rest.

In half a flashing second, as the initial crystals materialized, what looked like a targeted, individualized spell, turned into something much stronger. Pillars of clear crystal erupted out of the stone gazebo, trapping everyone where they were, except for Syllea. She stood in the empty center of a sudden palace of jagged edges and solid panes of Force.

One second had passed since the spell started.

Erick was fine, probably. He had taken no damage, and now he was actively running [Hunter’s Instincts] as well as [Greater Lightwalk], so the world seemed marginally slower, as his thoughts happened faster, and his sight expanded far outside of his own body. He decided on doing nothing. Justine had decided the same, though she was definitely experiencing a ‘freeze’ response.

With a touch of light, that had already been wrapped around Justine’s ankle, Erick blipped her back to the house, to the foyer, where time seemed to resume and Justine promptly collapsed. She pulled herself to the wall, to huddle as she stared at the ground.

… She was not okay, but she was physically whole.

Teressa was not calm, in the crystal behind Erick.

Poi was calm, and he was already telepathically sending to him, and likely to Teressa too, because she calmed as Poi’s voice came to them, ‘Omaz has fled. Bayth tagged him. Please take down the spell, Archmage Syllea.’

… Poi was sending to all of them, apparently.

Syllea shook her hands in the air as her voice rang out, “FUCK.” Softer, but more violent, “Fuck! Omaz! What the fuck!”

Bayth, trapped in crystal, her voice muffled, but not really, shouted, “I TOLD YOU! I TOLD YOU!”

“He’s my gods’ dammed BROTHER, Bayth!”

“AND HIS HEAD SHOULD HAVE BEEN ON A PIKE YEARS AGO!” She yelled, “Cut the [Crystal], Syllea!”

The crystal around them all snapped. Force dissipated into fragments, and then glitter, then nothing. Piles of dust fell to the floor of the orange gazebo as the spell finished falling part. That dust become no more than air, as Syllea held her head in her hands, staring at the spot Omaz had been, whispering, “He’s my brother, Bayth.”

Bayth stood over the spot where Omaz had been. She stared at the ground, then whipped toward Syllea, saying, “He never should have come to this meeting. His involvement was suspect from the start. I told you that—” She cut herself off. She calmed, barely, as she asked, “Did you tell the elders yet, or should I?”

Quietly, and with her back to Erick, Syllea said, “They were listening in the whole time; yes. Treehome knows everything we heard.”

Erick felt briefly concerned. They had been watching the whole time? Ah. Well. People watched his house all the time, too, so maybe the extra eyes had been out there. By design, this wasn’t a private meeting.

“Good.” Bayth took a second, then said, “I could have had him, Syllea. Knocked him out, if you hadn’t interfered.”

Erick’s lightform body was not fully active, but he held slight control of the light all around. It was the only way he was able to see Syllea’s hateful face, shown only to Bayth. Bayth kept her own face neutral, likely because hers was visible to everyone else in the gazebo.

In order to forestall whatever drama was happening with his guests from Treehome, Erick said, “You did not have him, Bayth. I was ready to [Teleport] everyone to their own separate corners, if necessary.” He added, “But I saw it was not necessary.”

Bayth stood straighter. She looked to Erick, saying, “Apologies, Archmage Flatt. Treehome has had some... difficulties.”

“I’m sorry, Erick.” Syllea turned to him, her face composed once again, saying, “That should not have happened.”

“Don’t worry about it. This is a violent topic.” Erick said, “But if you don’t need to go home and deal with the fallout, I could answer more questions. Or Justine could?”

“Just… I need a moment,” Syllea said, tendrils of intent flowing from her head.

Warm air blew from the north, as a half cloudy sky dappled the orange land in darker colors, outside of the stone gazebo. Syllea breathed. She calmed as she spoke to others, elsewhere. Bayth threw out a few tendrils of thought, and stepped back, to the side of the gazebo, back into position. Erick, Poi, and Teressa had barely moved through the entire exchange.

Poi sent, ‘It wasn’t necessary for us to move.’

Erick asked, ‘No warning about Omaz?’

‘… There was no immediate threat on your life, or the life of anyone else in the immediate area.’

‘What about far reaching threats?’

Silence was Poi’s response.

Erick wasn’t exactly happy with that answer, but that line in the sand between acceptable actions and not was a good one to have, and one Erick suspected was implemented rather early in ‘Mind Mage Organization’ history. People had dark thoughts all the time. Acting on those dark thoughts was a necessary thing to prevent, but punishment for simply having them would lead to Mind Mages killing everyone, and then themselves. … Unless they were hypocrites. Which was entirely possible.

Syllea sat down, bringing Erick back to the moment, as she said, “We’re not needed at home. Whatever Omaz was involved with… I don’t want to be there while others clean it up. What I need, is to see if what Justine said was true.” She stared at Erick, saying, “I would like to see a shadeling at Candlepoint call out to a god for help. I want to know if that part is true before we start sending sacrificial cattle to Ar’Kendrithyst.”

Erick frowned. Then he said, “Let me ask around.” Almost flippantly, and trying to get his point across, he said, “Maybe someone is willing to court Death, today?”

“Someone always is,” Bayth said, in the back. “I just heard now from the commune: We’ve got ten people ready and willing to try their luck at Ar’Kendrithyst’s trap.” She said to Erick, “They don’t care if it’s a lie. They’re ready to die, anyway.”

Erick almost commented on his disbelief at the speed of that decision. But he knew how bad it could be, to be ostracized from your community. On Earth, exclusion from the people you loved was bad enough. On Veird, exile was a common sentence, just above a death sentence, for those who harmed or didn’t belong to a community any longer. A ‘commune’, how Bayth used the term, sounded like something halfway between exile and segregation.

Erick gestured to his house, saying, “I’d invite you in, but Justine is having a war response right now.” He stood up, saying, “We need to take care of her. When she is calm again, I will ask around in Candlepoint for volunteers. Are you going to stay in Spur for a few hours?”

Syllea stood, saying, “Yes. I look forward to an answer, soon.”

Erick nodded, then blipped him, Poi, and Teressa, back into the foyer of the house.

Justine had been crying, huddled against the wall. But at Erick’s appearance she froze, again. Erick did not approach fast. But he did what he could, with soothing words and a calm distance. Soon, Justine started crying again, full out, loud wailing. Erick did what he could for that, too, but he knew that Justine had been through a lot more than he could likely ever know. Mostly, he made lemon honey tea for the both of them, and sat two meters away from her, while he let her take her time. Eventually, she took the tea. She did not speak. She just breathed, and sipped, and time passed as it always did.

- - - -

Ava stood at the edge of the lake, with her elbows on the top of the stone barrier surrounding the expanse of water, and her hand supporting her chin. The water was not nice. It was full of purple eel larvae. Ava had dealt with purple eels many times. Usually it was just a small infestation, but this one happened on the surface, and it was extensive. A short [Scry] to the bottom of the lake showed that the feathered [Familiar] was still there, but the other side of the barrier was mostly clear of eels.

She came back to herself and raised her head, to watch as the archmage’s radiant ooze-like [Familiar] zipped out from nowhere to hover above the lake. It dropped a load of tiny brown fish into the waters, for what had to be the tenth time.

Ava had almost screamed in frustration the first time she had seen this waste of resources, but by now, that emotion was rather subdued. The radiant ooze flickered away and Ava immediately lifted her hand, controlling the water the mud flits occupied, to then bring it just above the lake’s surface.

Her frustration ebbed as she watched the flits acclimate to their new floating surroundings. She had picked up the mud flits because they could not just instantly clean up all the eels in the lake. They had to adapt to the water. If they didn’t have a few minutes of easy transfer, then the eels would eat them, instead. She watched, right now, as an eel she had accidentally picked up, went after a flit that barely moved. Well that flit was dead, but its brothers would wake up soon enough and return the favor to the lone juvenile eel.

“You don’t have to do that, you know,” said a new voice.

