Ava stood straight, then frowned at the man who suddenly stood beside her. Dark skin, bright white eyes. A Shade, wearing the armor of a guard. Ava was done panicking, though. Today had been one surprise after another, and her emotions were ragged. So what was one more Shade? This was a city of Darkness, after all.

A part of her felt vindicated. Here was the Shade of Candlepoint! The story of the archmage had to be a lie, too. She was likely swimming in lies, now that she thought of it.

She held the sluggish flits in her [Watershape], while saying to the stranger, “They survive better when they have time to adapt to the water.” She added, “Just look at them. They can barely swim.”

“You’re Ava, right? Our new Sewermaster? Is the sewer done?”

He spoke in a friendly way, and not at all like the Shade he appeared to be.

She replied, “Taking a break before Mana Exhaustion takes a toll.”

“Ah. Okay!” The man joyfully said, “I’m Slip, the Captain of the Guard, I guess. Thanks for looking after the fish.” He added, conspiratorially, “But Archmage Flatt is just throwing money at the problem.”

Following the script, Ava said, “Archmages never change.” She still held the flits in her control, though, watching as some of them began to recover from their sudden change in environment. Sluggish, half-tumbled fish began to flop, and reorient, their movements coming together into an organized school of brown. Some of them spotted the eel in their midst and went after it with their tiny, gnashing teeth. They might look like vicious little pack hunters, but they were actually omnivores. But there was a problem. The lake was brand new, and bare of any plants. But these flits were awake now, so she dropped her control of the water, letting them flow into the lake, unimpeded. Keeping on topic, she asked, “Is there a plan to keep them fed afterward?”

“We’re getting in some lakeweed and grasses tomorrow.” Slip said, “But we’re only putting them in the water when the mud flits start cannibalizing, so we know the eels are gone.”

As if to punctuate his words, another load of mud flits fell out of a particularly bright spot of the air over the lake. Ava grabbed this bunch, too, as soon as the [Familiar] went away, but as she spent that mana and cast that [Watershape], a twinging headache began behind her eyes. Mana Exhaustion. Ava hadn’t felt this feeling since her last life over two hundred years ago, before she gained Scion of Focus. It sucked then, and it sucked now. Part of her was glad to know that Mana Exhaustion was the same, too. At least the world hadn’t changed that much, even if her experience of it all had.

The levels and the Stat points in Focus and other assorted bonuses came fast and easy when one was a shadeling. Visiting with Mephistopheles and learning more about what she could do in her new life was both marvelous, and tragic. Cycling her mana gave her experience, and yet it did not count as ‘mana spent’ for the purposes of her Mana Exhaustion limit. Only casting actual spells counted to that limit. She had to eat rads, though. When Mephistopheles had given her one, she almost put it in her mouth, but then he revealed that as a joke; Ava was too mentally taut to find his attempts at humor as anything but boorish.

Clutching the rad and crushing it, though… That was like touching the Core, or a well made ritual spell, or partaking of her long-gone mother’s shalecake. It was healing, and it was home, all in one tiny rad.

… Ava wondered if her tribe survived her death, down there, under the surface. Did someone else take up the sewers, to defend the Descent? Were the Jadescales prosperous? Were the upper defenses maintained? Or had everyone been subsumed by their neighbors, Obsidian Lair?

Slip’s words brought her back to the moment, “That’s why you don’t have to help the mud flits survive. They’ll only have done their job when they start eating each other.”

Ava said, “Was that the plan for Candlepoint? For us to fall to each other, so that only the strong survive?”

Slip looked away, seeming contrite as he mumbled, “It’s not the same. They’re fish. We are people.”

Ava said, “I lived alongside the Darkness for a hundred years. I know how it is with Melemizargo.” She gazed toward the lake, and saw the flits in her floating water were organized, and lively. Letting them go, she said, “He prefers the strong survive and the weak perish. That’s why he pushed these violet eels to the surface. To temper this growing city in fires of rebirth.”

“The eels could have been an accident?” Slip said, hopefully.

With a light touch of venom in her voice, she said, “Doubtful.”

Slip asked, “Did you get a chance to see the blockage, down below?”

“Yes. It’s acceptable, for now.” The ‘blockage’ was an excellently made [Prismatic Ward], and it was doing its job well enough. But it was just a cap that ignored everything but the passage of water, and was not a permanent solution at all. Ava’s idea for a permanent solution would eventually include a series of reservoirs, with the lowest ones possessing a multitude of pylons to block the larger monsters, the middle ones holding bobber worms and glowfish to eat anything that passed the pylons, and the upper reservoir existent for a variety of plant and animal life that liked to live that deep. And for bobber overflow. Those vicious worms would likely spread out over the deepest parts of the lake, as soon as they started to multiply. She said, “We need some bobber worms and glowfish.”

Slip smiled again. “I already told Archmage Flatt. He’s getting them, when he can.”

Ava was reminded of another problem. She said, “And those [Cleanse] wands aren’t going to be enough.” She asked, “Is there no way to get [Cleanse]? It is hard to be a sewermaster with an unclean domain.” She wanted to ask about [Teleport], too, but Slip was obviously here in a professional capacity; he came to see what Ava was doing with the fish.

Slip lost his smile. He said, “Not… really.” He asked, “Is that going to impact your job?”

“Yes.” Ava said, “Like being a guildmaster without a quest board.”

Slip looked like he wanted to say something, but he did not.

Ava watched as the flying radiant ooze dropped off more fish. She did not catch them in a water bubble, this time. Instead, she turned to Slip, and gave the man her best displeased face. It was easy to do without her mask.

Idly, she wondered if she would ever make herself another mask. With the power of a few more levels under her Status, and more Focus, she had fully retracted her green scales. She could pass for a human, like this.

Slip let out a secret he did not seem to want to share. “You can become your normal race again.”

Ava gasped. What! That was possible! About a hundred thoughts flew through her mind at once. She had never expected to be free of this new fate—

Ava settled herself. As her momentary excitement was ground down into dust, she stared at Slip. There was obviously a problem with this un-transformation. Elsewise everyone would have done it. Who wanted to be a shadeling? Sure, the leveling was easy and that was pleasant, and she saw how that was attractive for most people, when most people never got over level 20. But Ava had been level 85 when she died. She could do that again. So what was the danger, here?

... There was the most obvious one.

Ava guessed, “The rest of the world will kill us if we aren’t easily identifiable. It would be a shadeling hunt unlike any other.”

“Yup.” Slip looked to Ava, like he was reevaluating her. “Also, the process could kill you, and you lose everything you have gained as a shadeling.”

Ava almost balked at those pathetic worries. But then...

Ava thought for a moment. Was she okay with dying again? Perhaps, she was. But she ran the idea through to its conclusion, just to be sure.

One of, and perhaps the most important reason for braving death, was that this town had nothing. No art. No nightlife. No good food. No reason to live. Even if she was able to gain access to the spells she needed to make life bearable, like [Cleanse], to rely on the kindness of others for basics, like food and shelter, was a travesty of the highest order. Even if she was forced to live here…

If her tribe was gone, then there would be no need to seek them out. But to seek them out, she would have to be herself again. They killed shadelings down below, on sight.

Brushing those difficult thoughts aside, and in the best case scenario of her home still existing…

She was not the Sewermaster of the Jadescales, any longer.

Her attainment of the position of Sewermaster of Candlepoint by just stating that she had been one in her old life, was a great boon. It was a great start to a new life. Back in the Jadescales, she had needed to indispose three other applicants for the position, after she had forced the previous sewermaster into an early retirement. And then she had to defend her own position for the next seventy five years…

She was still unclear on how she died. Was she indisposed herself? Did something come up from the Depths, and gobble her down? Ah. No matter. She died. That was the bulk of that truth, and the only fact that truly mattered. Now she lived, in a half life sort of way.

Half lives were not worth living, in her opinion. Even if she died to this un-transformation process…

When she succeeded, she could just [Teleport] somewhere else, like a normal person, leaving Candlepoint for a day, or a few hours, and come back with all the proper supplies she needed to live a good life. Portal still existed, right? She could likely buy anything she ever wanted in that place. She’d just have to avoid being outed as a former shadeling. She could use even intermediaries to purchase things for her, if needed. That was a perfectly fine solution to that problem. There was no doubt in her mind that she would be killed, by anyone outside of Candlepoint, the second her true nature was revealed.

Ava said, “I have nothing as a shadeling.”

“But you’d have to regain all your levels and spells back?” Slip said, disbelieving and concerned all at once.

“What level were you in your last life, Slip?”

Slip waved a hand through the air, dismissing the question, saying, “I was nothing. My other life might as well not have been lived.”

“I was level 85, and Sewermaster for seventy five years.”

Slip’s bright eyes went wide, as he joked, “You don’t look a year over thirty.”

Ava blanked for a good half a second. When her thoughts came back, she laughed. It was a good laugh, and she enjoyed the simple emotion for what it was; proof that she was still alive. Slip smiled.

With her own smile, Ava asked, “Will I suddenly age back to what I was?”

Slip shrugged. “I have no idea. No one has survived, though not many have tried.” Slip added, “One survived. She’s basically an acolyte of Koyabez, though. So. You know… Probably not your path.”

“I would not be so lucky. I understand.” She decided, “Youth is overrated. Tell me this process.”
