Chapter 59

A few more days followed, and a few more delves. Both Isaac and Veron managed to upgrade one of their aspects to the next tier. Isaac could now actively look for anything hidden. The range for his magic increased, and compared to the general sense that there was something in the area, his magic could now lead him through various hallways and rooms, then narrow down his search to a specific wall or corner of a room. So long as he had Focus.

They found slightly more hidden treasure compared to before but more importantly, it took them less time to do so.

Veron on the other hand finally reached the next stage of his Earth Harmony. Apprentice I.

He tested it in his favorite park, the day after he’d unlocked it. He hung his shield from the same branch he used whenever he tried himself at knife throwing, then sat down and breathed in deep.

He grabbed a handful of pebbles and looked at them.

Now, what’s new?

Spreading his awareness with his magic felt the same. Slightly deeper perhaps in terms of how far he could sense the stone below and around him. He focused on one of the pebbles and slowly made it float. It felt easier, though not significantly so. Veron breathed in and out, the pebble still floating. He could charge and shoot it, he knew as much, but something else felt different, as if it felt less limiting, less narrow, to float the small rock.

This is it.

Instead of charging the rock, Veron moved his attention to another one in his hand, trying to connect to it as well. The connection snapped into place and Veron breathed out with joy. He made the second rock float, then added a third one, and a fourth. It felt straining, but not four times as much, just more so than before.

Now if this works, then…

Veron charged the first, then the second, then all of them, and a moment later, they shot out at his shield, four almost simultaneous impacts slamming into solid rock.

He smiled and watched his shield swaying on the branch.

I got myself a shotgun.

Or something kind of like it.

Climbing up the power ladder, slow and steady.

Veron thought about the others, about everything they’d learned so far, the progress they were making. He was enjoying himself, and he imagined they were too. A part of him reminded him about the time magic and the curse.

Veron really did wonder if it would happen again in winter. It was half a year away still, and while he assumed that everything in spring was the same as last time, people could make different choices, battles could have different victors. The longer it went on, the less likely he assumed for things to stay the same. And winter was still a long ways off.

He set the thought aside and focused on the now. Veron felt proud of the others, felt proud of being part of the team. And he was proud of his own progress too. Not just the magical kind, but as a team leader, and as an adventurer. He had a long way to go still, of course, but he was looking forward to it.

Veron spent the rest of his Focus that day on testing his Harmony. First, there didn’t seem to be a limit to how many rocks he could now float and shoot, it just progressively strained his Focus more and more. Shooting two or three rocks at once didn’t strain him twice or thrice as much as shooting one, but what he lost was accuracy. The more rocks he added, the less precisely he could aim them. It didn’t matter all that much, he thought. Veron didn’t plan to use the skill at any particular range.

Compared to before, he could charge the rocks more as well, making all the shots a little more powerful.

In terms of shaping or how hard he could make his armor, nothing seemed to have changed.

Having unlocked the ability to shoot multiple rocks made Veron very much aware of his limited Focus, though he could feel that his Path was slowly creeping closer to the next stage too.

The following few delves went well, the group recovering more weapons and managing to go deeper into the Crypts. Veron had forty-five silver stockpiled at this point and for the first time since returning back to Anvakar, he allowed himself to get a single room at the Willard Inn.

It was the best sleep he’d had in what felt like months.

The group met up again the next morning, checked their gear, set a target hall, and made their way to the pit. It was a sunny day, dozens of other adventurers with all kinds of different gear readying themselves for the dive. The lifts were running nonstop. Veron felt calm. He was a lot more comfortable with the Crypts by now, and with the team.

It was interesting to see people in much higher quality armor, equipped with lanterns and other obviously enchanted gear. All the while there were others wearing rags and the kinds of weapons him and his crew brought back and sold at Parker’s.

It was a mishmash of emotions and experience, just like the buildings and streets of the city itself. Some would maybe bring back enough to pay for food and a place to sleep at night, while others might stay down there for days or weeks on end, returning with treasures and captured essence he could only dream about. And still, there was a feeling of shared purpose that Veron felt, even though he knew that people had different goals and ambitions. They all still went down into the same pit of Anvakar.

He felt good climbing down the steel chains, and ready for another run.

Today, they had chosen a deeper and larger hall as their goal, though they all knew that if anything unforeseen came up or if anyone got injured, they would return back up immediately. It felt comforting, to know and trust that everyone in the team was on the same page.

Veron took the lead, his burning torch lighting their way into the darkness. The cool and stale air now felt familiar, as did the dripping sounds, the arched tunnels, and the unending brick walls of wet green and dry gray.

They cleared one room after the other, checking in on each other from time to time, extracting the dead and deciding what loot to keep and what to discard. Veron knew this part of the Crypts by now. At first, everything had looked the same, but the more he had walked through some of the larger tunnels, had passed through rooms and halls, the more he could spot the subtle differences.

The map helped. He had studied it frequently, but going down and really walking through the tunnels made him remember and connect what he’d learned. The forks and stairwells were the most important parts, almost always with slight tells and individualities. They were the guiding posts, though they were unlabeled and unmarked.

Not for lack of trying, as Veron had heard, but just like Reka and the Wolves didn’t know if doors would lock back up down in the dungeon, sometimes, when something was left behind or altered, it would stay the same, for days, for weeks, or even years, but then from one day to the next, it seemed like nothing had been there at all. And nobody knew how that happened, let alone when or why.

They reached their first big hall on the way, the entrance not through double doors as was usual closer to the pit, but through a broken ceiling and down a metal chain. There were other ways towards their target hall, but this one was the quickest one by far.

Rushing wasn’t their goal, but they had limited torches, limited food, and water. More so, it was the dungeon itself that weighed on them. The dark tunnels, the endless depths. Always knowing that there could be a blood or chaos beast lurking. They prepared well, and progressed with care, but making good time was just as important, if not more so.

One did not want to end up in the Crypts without light, with nothing to keep them warm, food and water running low, and more fights yet to come.

Now that Veron knew them more, the Crypts seemed cruel. Having seen the second layer, the base camp there with adventurers meeting up and able to help each other, trade, or form larger groups to return back up. And the artificial light down there. Even to the Silver Wolves, the Crypts were just a place to traverse, not a place to explore or stay in. The creatures in the Gutter were vicious, and he couldn’t hope to face a Vereltir or a Cayaralan like he could face both skeletons and rats, but the Crypts grinded you down, with endless seeming tunnels, darkness, and the cold and damp. Veron even thought it more dangerous by now, though he had only been to a small part of the Gutter.

“Three armored warriors, two of them with longsword and shield, and one with an axe,” Isaac whispered, bringing Veron back to the moment.

“There’s a fourth with a crossbow, hiding in the corner over there,” Elke whispered and pointed.

Veron could just barely make it out. There were torches burning down in the hall, and the skeletons didn’t seem to have noticed them yet. He quickly formulated a plan. “Ailis uses her magic to bolster us. We descend in order, rush the crossbow wielder, make our stand. Elke and Isaac, you take out the axe wielder. I’ll try to kill the first longsword wielder with my rocks, the last one we surround. Isaac, throw my torch before you descend, in the opposite direction of the crossbow wielder. Good?”

The others nodded.

Veron put his mace in its holder, and set down his torch.

“Adventurers, this is your fight. Do not falter, do not fear. As one, we fight,” Ailis whispered, her eyes glowing for a moment as her magic settled in, the flames of their torches burning a little bit brighter for a moment, their gear feeling a little easier to bear.

Veron grabbed the chain and descended, his shield strapped to his arm as he did so. He took a quick look around the dim hall, not spotting anything unplanned for. He landed in a crouch, took out his mace, then walked with quick steps towards the crossbow wielding skeleton.

It noticed him just before he reached it, raising its weapon to aim.

Veron rushed to the side and forward, shield raised as a twang resounded.

He felt the impact on his shield and charged forward, slamming aside the creature’s weapon with his first strike, then wailing into it with more. Ailis was by his side the moment that he downed the skeleton, looking around to see the other creatures. A torch hit the ground in the same moment, on the other end of the hall. One of the creatures turned towards it, two more had spotted them.

Elke landed and rushed over, aiming with her bow.

Veron moved to the center of their formation as Elke joined them. She shot, her modified arrow hitting the unarmored shoulder of the axe wielder.

One of the longsword and shield wielders was close now. Isaac landed and aimed, then shot the axe wielder, his bolt breaking through the rusted armor and making it stagger.

Veron sheathed his mace, then broke off the bolt stuck through his shield and faced the longsword wielder. He stepped back to avoid a wide swing, then got close, a handful of round rocks held in his right hand. Elke shot another arrow, followed by a second bolt from Isaac. Veron saw the axe wielder fall in his periphery.

He blocked the next sword strike and parried it aside, connecting to six of his rocks and making them float. With his now free hand, he grabbed the side of the skeleton’s shield and pulled. It was open and he aimed. Plate covered its chest, a helmet its head, but its skeletal face was exposed.

Veron felt its sword scrape past his shield once more, right before he shot six rocks straight into its skull, breaking through the magic that protected it and shattering through bone.

It slowly fell, its skull reduced to bits and pieces.

Veron breathed out as Ailis stepped beside him, then glanced back to see Isaac on his left, and Elke on his right. Alright.

The last skeleton approached now, having left the torch behind.

They didn’t talk as Isaac and Elke fanned out slightly, Veron and Ailis walking forward, their shields ready.

Veron blocked the first strike. Ailis struck the creature’s shield with her hammer. A bolt hit its left shoulder. Veron struck its shield as well, then kicked its core.

The creature staggered back. An arrow whizzed past its shield and struck its helmet. Another bolt hit its chest, glancing off but throwing the warrior off balance. Veron and Ailis charged, Ailis hooking the shield with her hammer before Veron struck its head. It came off clean and clattered to the dry stone floor, ending the fight.

Elke and Isaac returned behind them, then they waited for a long moment, in case something else showed up. Nothing did.

Veron breathed out.

“One for each?” he asked.

The others confirmed, Veron and Isaac first to extract, then Ailis and Elke. There was no hidden treasure in the room, at least not based on Isaac’s magic. The two swords were usable, but a bit unwieldy to carry due to their length.

“Let’s leave them here for now, and come back when we return,” Veron said. The goal they had set for this run looked different on the map, so he wanted none of them impaired, even slightly. “We can build our fire here, warm up and take a break, then we move on. It’s another half hour to our target.”

The rest of the way felt less treacherous. More hallways, winding stairwells made of stone, collapsed sections they traversed slowly and with care, and small rooms with and without skeletons. They had yet to require healing, had warmed up in the large hall, and slowly recovered some of their used up Focus. Still, Veron felt on edge. They hadn’t traveled this deep before. By now, they’d gone as far as it would’ve taken to reach the Gutter, just less vertically.

They soon saw their target at the end of a broad and downward sloping tunnel. A massive four or five meter high stone archway, with stairs leading up to it.

Slowly, they approached, staying vigilant and in formation.

Veron gestured to the right, the team gathering next to the open entrance as he took a peek inside.

There was faint torchlight, no, candlelight, dimly lighting a long and narrow hall. Veron saw the outlines of rows of wooden chairs set up in half-circles, some with slumped skeletons in them. Old and tattered red banners hung from the walls. At the end of the hall and barely visible in the gloom, Veron could see a dais with a few steps leading up to it and an altar of sorts standing atop, candles burning on it. Something seemed to float behind it, a hooded figure wearing black, no facial features visible.

There were plenty of known creatures that inhabited the Crypts. Of those he had heard about, only one fit the bill.

“A necromancer,” Veron whispered to the others. He had read of them in one of Ellie’s books. Blood Path beings who could affect and raise the dead and skeletons around them. They weren’t as simple minded as most of the other creatures down here, but built and expanded their influence, to take over parts of the first layer.

“Is there no other way in?” Ailis asked.

“Isaac?” Veron asked.

