The man whispered to himself, then his eyes glowed for a split second. He looked up and to the right. It was faint, and tiny, but there was a gap in the stone.

“I could fit in there,” Elke said.

“We try, you sneak in, then come back and let us know what you find,” Veron said. He checked the hall briefly, but there was some distance from the entrance to the rows of chairs, and the hooded figure seemed immersed in whatever it was doing. It looks like an empty hood.

They helped Elke up to the gap and she vanished a moment later. A minute passed and she came back. “A small stairwell and a balcony. It’s tiny but I can shoot down from there.”

Veron considered. He would’ve liked to lure out any other dangers first before facing the necromancer, if that’s what the creature was. But if it could animate other skeletons, then being cautious could wear them down quickly. Which meant that rushing in and focusing fully on the necromancer could be their best bet. Even if they sustained injuries.

Blood Beasts are proud, he reminded himself. And they were often smart too. He wondered how much it would understand. Running in seems ill advised. We have to assess the situation first, see how many of those skeletons are already moving. If we rush in, the necromancer may feel immediately threatened, whereas if we walk in with some obvious uncertainty displayed, we might be able to make it feel confident in its victory. And we can gauge a bit more of what we’re up against.

“Got a plan,” he whispered. “Elke, you go up and wait. Aim and shoot only when you feel like the necromancer is preparing a spell of some kind. Try to interrupt it, as many times as you can. Ailis, you empower us beforehand. Us three, we walk in with caution, don’t let it think we’re confident. We see how many of the skeletons move to intercept us immediately. If it’s four or more armored variants, we retreat, ending our delve, Elke you would join us here. Three or fewer, we try to take one or two down. Same if there are more but unarmored variants. Once Elke makes herself known, I will try to get past the defensive line and rush the necromancer. Isaac and Ailis, you try to keep the others busy. Elke, from then on, you support who you think needs it more. Objections?”

“You’re risking a lot if you go behind their line,” Ailis said.

“Their main danger, as far as I understand, comes from their ability to raise and control other skeletons, not their own martial prowess. Besides, I do well in close quarters,” Veron said. “If I can’t take it down, you three try to create an opening for me to get out, and don’t worry too much, I can take a few hits, especially with your magic bolstering me.”

They looked at each other.

“Taking down a necromancer would feel pretty good,” Isaac said.

“If you all want to try, I’ll agree,” Ailis said. “But the moment this goes sideways, we run.”

Elke nodded. “We try.” She smiled ever so slightly.

“You all know the plan?” Veron asked.

They all confirmed.

He looked at Ailis.

She nodded and whispered. “Stand together. Fight together. Steadfast now, and we prevail.” Her eyes glowed slightly.

Veron felt himself relax. His gear felt lighter, they could do this. He checked the projectiles in their pouches on his belt, opening them up. Then he checked his knives, sheathed within his armor. If his plan worked out, he expected things to get close and personal.

They helped Elke back up into the gap, then prepared themselves. “Ready, let’s go,” Veron said and walked into the hall. He narrowed his eyes and consciously lowered his shoulders, moving his head quickly to suggest he was nervous. Deep down however, he felt calm. And he wondered if he could take down this creature. The first one worth a mention.

He thought back to Perrion. But this was different. And it felt different too.

When they reached the rows of chairs, the hooded figure perked up, a grim skeletal visage taking them in with dark pits where once its eyes would’ve been. It stood up, floating slightly as it waved its hand.

Four skeletons raised from their seats, two of them armored. They held swords and axes, turning with slightly jagged movements to face the invaders to their hall.

“Two armored, we proceed,” Veron said and stopped in his tracks, raising his shield as he watched the creatures bar their way. He could see the necromancer watching.

Assessing? Not yet willing to use any of its Focus?

Let them come to us.

He started walking backwards. “Get them closer,” he whispered.

The skeletons came their way. Their movements seemed different to the ones they had faced all this time. Even less fluid.

“Isaac,” Veron called when the first of them came close, one of the armored ones wielding an axe.

A bolt rushed out and struck the creature’s chest plate, failing to penetrate but sending the creature falling on its ass. Behind, he saw an arrow strike the necromancer.

Veron rushed forward, past the downed creature. He went right, past the first unarmored one, then blocking a glancing strike of the second. He crashed into the second armored one, engaged for a moment as its sword struck his shield and his mace struck its shoulder. He kicked its shin and made it stagger, then turned and ran towards the dais.

Veron could see the necromancer float backwards, raising its right arm where it revealed a short ornamental spear, gold tipped and bloody. It moved the spear right, blood flowing out from under its hood to form something near the tip. A few meters before he reached it, an arrow struck the creature’s side, unbalancing it slightly.

Veron ducked as it swung, a wide arc of burning blood red flame expanding and cutting through the air above him. He could feel burning heat, then crashed into the being, tackling it down onto the ground. It was heavier than he thought, but not as heavy as he was. Veron let go of his shield and caught the creature’s right arm where it held its spear. Then he brought down his mace, the heavy strike meeting the same resistance as with any other skeleton he’d fought.

He connected to the rocks in his pouches, floating six of them out as he tried to strike again, the creature catching his right arm and pushing down on his stone bracer. They were locked up. Veron watched the monster open its jaws, exhaling with a nauseating breath. Spiked bones burst out of its robes, biting into his armor with some scraping past. Its ribs had opened up and expanded, pushing him away.

Veron charged his rocks and sent them straight into the creature, the six impacts crashing down on it, the force enough to loosen its grip on his arm. He ripped it free and struck down at its head with his mace, floating out another six rocks. A few of its ribs had pierced through his armor but he needed to stay close, not willing to face the spell it had used with its spear. Veron held on, then struck its right arm with his mace, again. Six more rocks were floating between them, and then he shot them out again, right when the necromancer opened its jaws again. This time, they broke through, at least a few of them cracking into its skull.

It let go of its spear as Veron brought down his mace, its flat hand slamming into his chest in the same moment.

Veron gasped, pushed off the skeleton by the strike and staggering back. He watched it reach for its spear, slowly floating up while brandishing its weapon.

He grabbed his blade projectiles this time. Veron had enough Focus for another volley. He connected and charged, moving closer to the creature as it raised its spear. Another arrow struck its chest but it kept its aim true, the blood red flame explosively expanding and coming down in a vertical arc.

Veron dodged left but his right side was hit, his arm going numb just as pain blossomed, only Ailis’ magic keeping him focused. His blades charged as he reached the necromancer, grabbing out and catching one of its expanded ribs. He held on and sent the six large blades shredding through dark cloth and shattering through bone. They both went down together.

His ears were ringing and he grit his teeth against the pain, then screamed. From the corner of his eyes, Veron could see his team approach, Isaac sending bolt after bolt into the barely moving necromancer, Elke doing the same. He breathed deep and watched as Ailis brought down her hammer and shattered the creature’s skull.

He felt her healing just a moment later. “Veron, can you hear me? You’re burnt, and need to extract. Can you do that?”

He breathed out and shuddered slightly, watching on as the others pulled the necromancer close, then touched his hand to its broken out chest.

His thoughts felt sluggish.

What was that fire? You weren’t supposed to have that. But we won. Me and the team. We won.

He could feel the pain intensify and then recede, the candlelight in the room far brighter than it had any right to be. It stung his eyes. Verom smelled the decay, the ancient bone, and the forgotten purpose that this hall once had. A hall like this, not this one. He smelled his burnt up flesh, and felt the heated stone that had saved his life. It reminded him of Perrion, but for once, that felt okay. He wasn’t there after all.

He could feel the tension in the others as they waited, uncertain if it was enough. He breathed, and he remembered Anaville, Charlotte with her wrinkled face asking him what was on his mind. And he remembered Hayden, as he used his Way to stabilize a dying Silvie. It had happened, just like this hall had once been real.

Veron breathed out, blinking his eyes as he raised his head, then set it down. “Is it dead?”

“Yeah,” Isaac said.

“I feel better,” Veron said to Ailis as she checked on him. “Can… the breathing salts,” he said, the smell of his own burnt flesh less present than before but it felt worse to him.

She checked her pack and held them out and under his nose.

He breathed in and relaxed.

“You should’ve left as soon as it used a relic.”

“That was a relic? It could’ve had that aspect, no? What aspect would that be?” Burning blood and fire.

“The Ancestry of Tools,” Elke said as she walked over to check the necromancer.

A relic. So we found a relic?

Veron closed his eyes for a moment. He felt good. Better than ever really. A little confused too, and a bit ridiculous. Maybe Ailis was right and he should’ve retreated as soon as it had used that spell. But I dodged the first one, with the help of Elke. And I took it down. With almost my entire Focus.

I wonder what Hayden would say. I guess getting close and shooting out stone projectiles is a really lethal way to fight, as you said.

That was exciting.

He sat up and sighed, feeling as if he had just woken from a dream. The pain and fire, the essence. It sometimes just felt different in the dungeon. There was something about this hall? He looked up and then around. An ancient place. He shook his head.

Veron blinked his eyes. Something was different. “I think…”

He looked inward to confirm.

Elemental Path [Adequate]- Harmony of Earth [Apprentice I]- Harmony of Wind [Beginner III]- Hidden Harmony [Faint I]

- Relic slot [Empty]

- Relic slot [Empty]

Right. Yeah. That feels good to see.
