They spent the rest of the day discussing Annabelle's situation, confirming that it hadn't been just a fluke and that she really did know a smattering of Lumiran words. Just as she'd told her parents, however, she had no idea why she knew them; they just came to her randomly.

Rinka had no insight for them on the matter; she was as puzzled as they were.

In the end, so they wouldn't go mad trying to figure it out, they decided to consider it as just a side-effect of the young girl's resurrection. It didn't really have any impact on her health, and it was just something she would have to be mindful of when talking.

Rinka did suggest that having Annabelle properly learn the language might help her control which words she was using. The logistics of getting the girl lessons would wait, however, since it was not an immediate problem.

Two days later, on the day that they were set to leave for the Royal Archive, a letter arrived in the morning notifying them their meeting with a representative of the court was set in two weeks' time.

Jacob had seemed pleased with the news, explaining that they were more than likely going to meet with Chancellor Haggleman, one of the King's three chancellors, and someone he had a decent relationship with.

Ultimately, their proposition would require the King's direct involvement, so this was their opportunity to convince Haggleman that it was worth his majesty's time.

They left just after lunch, the Alchemical Star ferrying them over to the capital city of Amberose within a quarter bell. They made their way directly to the Royal Archive, under escort from All Brew family guards, and tailed by a few clerks that Cornelius had dragged from his administration to come help with the search.

The poor men and women hadn't even been told why they'd been asked to board the airship, or at least, not by Cornelius, who had only told them they'd get paid extra and to hop aboard. Although they did seem rather happy with their situation. Maybe extra pay and a ride in the company's airship were more than enough compensation.

David didn't know.

The staff at the Archive confirmed David's access and made themselves available for his needs, as well as assigning a pair of archivists to assist them. The VIP treatment was, without a doubt, thanks to Jacob's involvement.

Still, it just made their task easier.

They requisitioned, and quickly received, a room where they set up shop, bringing out all the reference books and material they had from the Radiant Archive, and got to work trying to match those to the records from the Royal Archive.

In most cases, it was extremely slow and tedious work; a few thousand years did a good job of dispersing and muddying history.

Still, finding matches for the emblems they had turned out to be straightforward; out of the twelve they had, three bore fruit. Investigating those ended up with two very strong matches; the older, previous names of those families were clearly related to the Reign's names, showing linguistic drift over the generations.

Having matches those names inspired them to look for other, older words and names, of places, people, whatever, hoping to match them with an equivalent from the Reign.

And they did; the older books were filled with near-matches. Individually not significant, together they painted a story of a nation which had disappeared, but not died. The people had been like seeds and ash, spread to the four winds, enriching the earth upon which other nations had grown.

But the rippling effects of the reign's refugees were clear, and with everything else they were collecting, it was becoming harder and harder to deny there was a link, which was exactly what they needed.

After a week of relentless scouring within the archive, and given the success of their work so far, the group decided to take a day off.

They were in the capital, after all. There was a lot to see and do.

For David and Niala, that meant a return visit to the Regal Reagents and Herbs shop, meandering to the market square, and David convincing Niala to go out to dine.

Sure, nothing beat his wife's cooking, but going out for a romantic dinner with your lover had a different kind of quality.

Keeping Niala's disposition in mind, David suggested a restaurant that catered to the common folk who wanted to celebrate special occasions. A place called the Silver Wind, where the atmosphere was relaxed, the food was good, if unremarkable, and entirely too mundane for any self-respecting noble or rich merchant to even consider.

Perfect for Niala, he thought, and she seemed to agree, smiling as she observed the various tables filled with happy and laughing people while they were brought to their own.

It wasn't the quietest place, but at least it felt genuine and alive.

The waitress sat them in a semi-private booth, at David's request, but Niala ignored the chair facing David that the woman pulled to instead pick that chair up and move it next to her husband, sitting herself right there and commandeering one of his arms.

The waitress blinked, saw the contented expression on the catkin's face, smiled, gave them the menus and left.

They chatted about the food, made their choices and ordered.

Niala clung to David's arm, gently rubbing her cheek on it. “It's kind of nice, not having to think about anything. No cooking, no cleaning up... just you and me.”

He smiled and put a peck on top of her head. “So I was right? It's a good idea?”

“Hmm-hmm. Good idea, but not too often! Or I'll become lazy and stop cooking!”

The smile dropped from David's face. “Ah... that... would be terrible. Actually, are you sure you want to stay here? We could go back and cook up something. We still have time.”

She shook her head. “No, dummy. You convinced me, now I want to enjoy this.” She looked up, into his eyes, and smiled. “Don't worry, David, I was just joking. I love cooking for you, with you. I don't want to give that up.”

His lips curled back upward. “I love it too. I...” He scratched the back of his head, looking somewhat embarrassed.

He let out a long breath and met her eyes as she waited for him to speak his mind. “I just... I love you, Niala. Ever since I met you, it's just been... different. Better. Even when it's bad, it feels better.”

She kept staring at him. It might be cheating a bit, but their link told her he wasn't done, so she waited, smiled, and poured as much love as she could through the link.

And she knew he caught on to it, from the way his smile grew a little. He shook his head. “You're terrible. I have no defence against you doing things like that.”

“Do you want me to stop?”

“No, never. Just... give me a second, I was going somewhere, but you made me forget.”

She rubbed her face over his arm a little. “Mustn't have been important then!”

He sighed. “I guess...”

She stopped and looked at him. “Ok, I take that back. It sounds like it was important to you. What was it?”

“The moment is gone now. I can't say it.”

She squinted at him, her ears folding down. “Tell me.”

He stared back, unable to keep a smile from his face. “You're a tiny monster, out to rip my heart out and slurp the love out of it.”

She nodded. “I am not! A monster, I mean! But I do want to slurp the love out of you!”

A giggling gasp caught their attention, both turning their head to find the waitress with their plates in her hands and a barely suppressed smile on her face.

David smiled back, while Niala hid her blushing face into his arm.

The woman deposited their food and gave David a wink. “I'll leave you two alone, so the miss can slurp everything out of you. If you need something, put a cup at the edge of the table. I'll keep an eye out for it, alright?” She said with a smirk before leaving.

David dipped his head in thanks at the woman and proceeded to wait for Niala to come out of hiding.

She eventually turned her face to look up at him with a pout. “It's your fault.”

“I don't control the words that come out of your mouth.”

“But you control the words you put in my head!” She argued.

He scrunched his mouth. “Hmm, I think I can also control the emotions I put there, let's see...”

He closed his eyes and thought back on the many “nightly” activities they'd had together, letting the raw emotions from those times bubble up to the surface. He couldn't help but feel his neck warm up as he reopened his eyes to look at Niala.

She was staring at him with rapidly reddening cheeks. After no more than a second she tucked her head back into his arm, hiding once more. Her words were muffled. “I hate you so much.”

He smiled, using his other hand to give his lovely, easily flustered wife a few head pats. The way she automatically pushed her head into his hand told him that she didn't mean it.

Not that he had been afraid that she actually hated him, but it was still reassuring, and something he'd find eternally endearing, the way she was so ravenous for physical contact with him...

The food served to them became very interesting, all of a sudden. Better get to it before it gets cold!

He did his best with a single hand, Niala eventually coming back up for air and letting go of his arm.

They dug in, chatting during and after the meal.

About how they'd met.

About their adventures.

About their fears and joys.

About their life.

They ended up talking until the restaurant's closing hour.

They walked out into the crisp night's air, distantly aware of the All Brew guards who took up position behind them.

They took their time walking back to the hotel that Cornelius had booked.

Not rooms; the entire hotel. He had insisted that it was the only way to make sure the place was safe.

Niala had groaned, David had shrugged. Angeline had gone and assigned rooms to everyone.

He had noticed that his and Niala's room was on a different floor than everyone else, and had no occupied rooms directly above or below.

When he'd sent her a puzzled look, she'd only winked.

Now, as they walked back after a very nice and relaxing meal, with his cuddling wife who was making sure his arm was pressing against a specific part of her chest, he made a mental note to thank his sister-in-law.

Later that night, as they lay intertwined in bed, basking in the quiet haze of their bedroom, Niala nuzzled David. “Back at the restaurant, you wanted to say something... is now a good time?”

He craned his neck in her direction, meeting her bright, glowing amethyst eyes, and smiled. “It really wasn't all that important.”

“David...”

He let out a breath. Better to tell her, as silly as he might sound, because he knew it was going to trot in her head if he didn't. “Do you ever think about what your life would have been if we hadn't met?”

She scrunched her nose. “I don't like thinking about that, but yes, the thought gets in my head sometimes. Why?”

He squeezed her into him a little, getting a soft, happy moan in return. “Every night, when I go to bed, and you're there, waiting and ready for me. In your arms and under the blankets, a quiet little world, our quiet little world, that makes me forget all of the bad stuff. Every time, I can't help but think about what the same bed without you in it would feel like. The answer is always the same: cold and lonely, and each time I get that answer, I realize how much I'd been lying to myself before.”

He squirmed a bit, positioning himself so he could look at Niala face-to-face. Her eyes were wide open, waiting for him to finish.

He smiled. “I'm not going to say that you saved me, or anything outrageous like that. I would have survived, even if I hadn't met you, but I would have gone on without knowing what true happiness was. That's why, every night, I'm reminded of that, and every time I want to tell you, but I don't know words strong enough to express how much I love you, and how much I want to give you back all the happiness that you give me.”

She kept staring at him, even after he'd finished, for long enough that it got a little awkward. He pulled an arm and rubbed the back of his head. “So, huh, yeah, that's it. I told you it wasn't import-”

She cut him off by planting a kiss on his lips. A voracious, desperate kiss which pulled his entire soul in. She let go after a while, her breath hot on his neck as she whispered. “David, that was incredibly important. Please never, ever think your feelings aren't worth telling!”

Her words made him seize up. She gently pushed him on his back and wormed her way on top of him, straddling him and bending forward to keep her face just above his, staring into his wide-open eyes. “Especially not to me! David, I love you, and I want to hear everything you want to say, and I want to tell you everything as well!”

She leaned forward and placed a soft, sensual kiss on his mouth, pulling back after a few seconds.

They stared at each other, neither able to tell for how long. The spell was broken when she felt something poke at her. She blushed and gave him a hungry smile, an unspoken question in her eyes.

He answered yes with his body.

And was doubly glad at Angeline's room arrangements.