The Dark Blue Zone is silent and peaceful.

There are slight bends in the sea below us, but other than that, it settles back to its resting state without many waves at all.

Maria's angel wings slowly flap, and the red fire and black corruption circulating around me oscillates to keep me floating in the air.

Both of our Celestial Bodies grow even larger, now both strengthened by True royal vibrations, but the Primordial Aura that makes the depths of our souls tether together stronger and heavier in reality.

As I look around the desolate sea, I feel like I'm staring off in two directions. My synchronicity with Maria is so aligned that everything she sees appears in my mind, and everything I see echoes in hers.

The vast expanse of the Blue Zone is mapped out in its entirety using our combined power, stretching tens of trillions of kilometers in every direction. We turn and fly off toward the only landmark left behind in this zone.

I was expecting to see the corpse of a dragon somewhere, or other Royal Grade enemies lurking nearby... Deep in the back of my mind, I even feared that a rift would tear open to the purple zone and the black-clawed purple-eyed Imperial would come down to seek revenge; but none of this happens.

Instead, we slowly coast across the zone, enjoying the calmness; and a few minutes later, we approach the three Dark Towers rising from the sea. They're powered by extremely strong high-quality and medium-quality ether commands, and have millions of Noble and High Noble Demons inside.

Some of the automated commands begin activating as we approach and try to blast us out of the sky using very similar orbs of primordial aura wrapped in ether commands our way. We both lift our swords, but for some reason, mine does not activate.

Its hunger is satiated, and it still sleeps in my hands. There is a flicker of consciousness that feels like it's giving me attitude... almost as though it's offended I raised it to fend off such a weak attack.

It makes me grin and let it fall back into my soul while raising up open palms instead.

Even without the massive Primordial Aura anchor in my grasp, I can still feel this invisible weight tethering from my soul and then outward into the environment wherever I look. I can shape this aura in my open palms and use it like an external manifestation of my will. It feels like the deeper shadow of my combined divine threads, royal vibrations, and celestial energy.

I cannot summon more than I already have, but I can manipulate what pours out from my soul.

Out of reflex, I surround my counters with celestial fire. The red explosions don't do any extra damage, but they still light up the sky as my own orbs of Primordial Aura clash with these ancient defenses.

Maria does not bother with stopping these small automated commands; she attacks the entire defensive array instead.

With a swing of her sword, a glistening crescent of source resin weighs down space in front of us, turning everything it touches to ice that disintegrates the moment her crescent passes.

The entire ancient protective dome shatters on impact, and all three towers are sliced in half.

There is an explosion of ether commands, primordial aura, and demonic essence from the citizens of this zone being obliterated on impact; but the shockwave is nowhere near as massive as the one we caused killing Samir earlier.

The three towers quickly start to freeze to ice, while waves of primordial aura bathed in celestial fire incinerate everything inside.

Our auras are so domineering that even the shockwave of the blast from breaking the dome isn't strong enough to break out of our gravitational pull.

We dive down into the explosion and absorb all of the energy contained in the Dark Blue Zone's Main Fortress.

I feel my Celestial Energy pools rise quickly, as concentrated medium-quality ether being purified and pushed toward high-quality ether is perfect for my soul right now. All of the Demonic Essence from the dying demons makes my corruption stronger and stronger.

Maria's Source Resin devours all of the fractured and decaying high-quality ether commands, and we both share the Primordial Aura residue equally as the towers are completely destroyed.

A long string of notifications hits my inner ear as I drain some of the most potent medium-quality ether storages near the base of one of the towers. It occurs when Maria shatters the arrays on the last storage room containing a far different kind of treasure.

[49,821,520,003 Worlds Claimed!]

Our power surges even higher, destroying everything left beneath us when the automatic borrowed stats pull from the new worlds. My running total is just under 57 billion now.

We can see the bottom of the zone again, as a crater forms deep in the celestial sea from our auras alone. My eyes widen even further once I see a silver reactor just like the one in the green zone below us.

–

At the same time, in the Cyan Zone, a very similar series of events are playing out.

Abby and Seraphel receive a massive burst in power, as their borrowed stats have just increased by well over 7 times. This in turn spreads their will into the clouds and breaks apart the remains of the Cyan City.

It makes the vines pouring out from Abby's Immortal Body flow faster and soak up more of the Cyan Divine Threads and dense Celestial Mist in the atmosphere. Her aura makes the entire zone begin to quiver.

Seraphel lets out a satisfying screech as his Celestial Body grows in size and glows brighter and brighter white. He digests the Royal Vibrations from Lucian's soul and taps into deeper depths of the Wyvern's legacy with every passing moment. The rise in stats pushes his mind and body even further, allowing his white and blue aura to travel through Abby's pathways and reach the far side of the Cyan Zone too.

Below them, all of the storage systems and public resources are unveiled to the open air, and strong pockets of medium-quality ether and orbs containing world claims to the Lower Realm stream up Abby's roots into her soul, and connect to the Rising Emperor's pool.

[23,256,929,810 Worlds Claimed!]

There is 5% of stats from over 70 billion worlds flowing through this pair's souls. It is enough to make the palace on the far side of the Cyan Zone begin to crack and break apart from their presence alone.

The stairways leading down deep into the Cyan clouds crumble, and the palace breaks apart, falling into the mist of the zone.

Massive amounts of the surrounding Cyan Clouds are getting thinner and drifting toward the Wyvern beneath the Tree of Life as they begin to drain this Zone of all of its energy.

A faint silver glow peeks out from below the palace through the rubble.

–

In the Lower Realm, the flashes of purple divine threads and high-quality ether commands finally cease.

Every single Demon left behind by the Imperials has been woken up from their slumbers.

Instead of the exterior armor that Samir Vanguard was granted, these Demons have gone through far more invasive procedures. Their entire bodies glow bright white, unlike any other demons of this era.

Celestial Energy courses through their veins, and high-quality ether commands glow on their skin, holding their souls together.

The forces of millions of High Noble Demons from the 1st generation all mindlessly roam through the stars, scanning their surroundings and looking for all life to exterminate.

All of these squads of Demons have been extremely far out in deep space and have already torn through a few thousand star systems that were never in contact with the Rising Emperor's World Wide Connectivity system.

That is, until now.

Massive pockets of unexplored space have just been connected together and automatically contacted by Alveron, the main Administrator of foreign public relations and new world links.

Their abrupt introduction shows a handful of these worlds being hopelessly massacred with live feeds directly from citizens that have just formed links of loyalty.

All it takes is a single one of these bright white demons to enter a solar system to obliterate it.

Instead of touching down on the worlds directly, all they do is send shockwaves of celestial energy into the stars at the center of the systems and cause massive explosions to obliterate every planet in orbit along with the life on them.

Some Demons that have ventured too far into deep space and are unable to find any more planets or life to destroy follow their protocol without question. They begin compressing the divine threads stored within many ether commands on their skin and use their bare hands to grab space itself in front of them.

Green cracks form in front of them as they begin forcefully creating pathways to the Upper Realm to fulfill the rest of their mission.

All of this chaos perfectly aligns with the messages being sent from Pluto to Bri, giving a live spectator feed viewing the strange phenomenon happening with the purple Imperial's tower that has been dormant for all the years he's been in the Demonic Realm.

He watches an army of bright white demons walk out from the Imperial's fortress.

Each one of the 5 Family Head's towers has many large castles, training houses, and various supplies buildings surrounding their bases up on a large mountain.

The Imperial's Demons do not bat an eye as they pass by the lingering Demons left beneath these Towers; they only walk down the mountain and toward the commoners and the rest of the natives in the Demonic Realm.

Pluto's eyes widen as bursts of bright white celestial energy beam out from these Demons' palms. No aura, vibrations, or any sign of life at all could be felt coming off them when they were passing by. Yet, when these white beams hit the ground where the millions of commoner demons stay, deep ravines explode open in the ground.

Holes thousands of kilometers deep into the planet's crust completely destroy the natural landscape, and the extermination of every commoner race on this planet begins.

The single-file line of endless glowing white demons does not stop, all flooding out from the Imperial's Tower.

–

Ember watches all of this take place, still standing calmly in a bright white forest of trees made of pure high-quality ether.

He looks down into the small circle below his feet, showing him every zone in perfect clarity below him. There is a slight frown on his red haired human form's face as he whispers out loud.

"The Imperials are just as cruel as they were the last time I saw them..."

Even though he's a bit upset, there is still a calmness and an absolute confidence in his eyes while looking down.

Ren nervously flies in circles in her white wisp form, passing by Ember's back every few seconds. Then, asks a question.

"Do you think they'll make it up? To the Primordial Garden? It's not like Jay can wield silver threads... and the Imperials know the other two family heads are dead now- and-"

Ember chuckles and follows Ren with his eyes while the white wisp keeps spinning around their portal to the lower zones.

"Don't worry. Everything is as it should be. The only worry I had was just taken care of. The system's first Amplifier is finally able to tap into the Aura of the Primordials again, and the Mother's new boundless soul has started to awaken. There is nothing more we can do, but let fate play out as it always has."
