I barely make it to six when the man begins speaking. “The slave girl. After the contest, the healers had her blood, and we had a tracking matrix created from it when they learned she was with you. The leaders are taking turns hunting you, so there is no dispute over claimed goods.” His sweat drips down his face in rivulets.

God, fucking dammit. They made a game out of this? “How do we stop them from tracking us?”

The mans eyes never leave Zabu, who stands in front of him, snarling in impatience. You don't make eye contact with a predator, that's just basics. C'mon Son. “You can't block it, you need to burn the tokens containing the blood, that's the only way.”

Charok asks a few more questions, and the situation looks grim. The matrix determines our location through two wooden pieces, both pointing towards us, and they simply find us at the intersection of the lines. The guides fall back, and the highest bidder takes their shot at killing us. At least they aren't teaming up, each unwilling to share in the looting. Song stands to the side, emotionless and unmoving, apathetic to the news, despite the horrible implications it has for her. I don't know if it's because she doesn't know, or if she just doesn't care.

“Did they take your blood?” She ignores my question, weapon lowered but still in hand, back stiff, eyes low, never looking in anyone's eyes. She remains silent until Sumila prompts her to speak.

“I was badly injured from my lashing, unhealed as per my former masters orders. My injuries were healed at the end of the competition, despite mentioning my punishment. I thought little of it. This slave has shamed her master with her ignorance and begs for punishment.” An emotionless delivery, a robot repeating as she's been programmed. Is her life even worth living?

The squealer continues to speak,the dam on his silence broken, more information flowing out than we need. “The orders are to take the youths alive, as well as the half-tiger. You are all to be made slaves, or examples should you refuse. We have multiple groups, ready at all times. There will be another coming shortly.”

“What clan or sect are you from?”

“They are camped close to the base of the mountain, less than 10 kilometers north from here, easily found. Please, that is all I know, just kill me cleanly. Don't let them eat me, I beg of you.” My hand pats Zabu on the head, and he snaps at me, angry I may take his food. The man repeats himself, begging not to be devoured. Despite that, he won't say what sect or clan he's from, or even acknowledge that he was sent by the Society, loyal to the end. I actually respect that. At Charok's nod, I kill him with a thrust to the heart, before I turn to the woman.

The woman looks stout and resolute, glaring hatred at her dead companion, face white with terror despite it all. “So... anything to add?” A second barrage of spit, less this time, fear having dried out her mouth. Her courage is praiseworthy, especially since Kankin is still holding her leg, crouched low to the ground, ready for his meal. I even somewhat admire her calm, but she's still someone who has been hunting us for days now. If she had won here, we would all be dead or worse. A quick thrust ends her life, and I give Kankin the go ahead to eat. I'm not a monster, not yet at least. I got what I needed. I toss Zabu a large round fruit, the thought of him eating human flesh sickening me. He's happier with the fruit anyways, nibbling away happily, crunching and squeaking in delight. Kankin makes the same sounds.

Charok stood aside the entire time, watching the proceedings. I can't bring myself to look him in the eyes, keeping them low to scan the ground for a new weapon. “What would you have done if they did not speak?” His voice is neutral, but I feel the judgment, know that I've disappointed him.

“I don't know.” I lie easily, the words coming out without hesitation. How quickly my morals shift when I'm under pressure.

We ride back in somber silence, the victory doing little for the overall mood. Here I thought I was so clever, getting injured to kill my opponents. They were trying to just disable me, for the reward. That takes the wind out of my sails a bit, thinking I was hot shit. Pride cometh before the fall, and that works both ways.

Alsantset's reaction to the news surprises me. “Then we are left with no choice but to fight. We rest for a half-hour, then move out once again.” She pats Song on the head, the two cat-girls having bonded already. Am I a horrible person, for immediately thinking of ditching her? A few days ago I wanted to save her, but now I'm ready to sacrifice her for a better chance of escape. I left the decision to the others because I thought they would make it for me, saving myself the grief. Fuck. I'm a terrible human being.

Alsantset looks me over, checking my wounds and patting me on the face. “Little brother, you punish yourself too much when you fight. You must learn to parry and dodge.”

Trying to smirk, I keep my words as light as possible. “Oh, is that what I'm supposed to be doing? I've just been jumping into their weapons, stopping them with my flesh and bones. I'll remember your advice sister. Just dodge.” She pinches my cheek, a wry smile on her face. The lines around her eyes makes her look older, her endurance flagging. Between the two of them, Charok and Alsantset have been working non-stop since we left the city, acting as both leader and rearguard, but they both still have the time to worry about me.

Taking off the ruins of my armor, I run my fingers across the black glossy exterior of the vest, the helmet lost a day ago. Was it only yesterday? It feels like forever ago, the saber slashing across my head as I stumbled over the uneven footing, saving my life. Forget a daily count of close deaths, I can barely do 8 hours without a close call. Mei Lin helps me with my stitches, leaving nice, neat lines in my skin, chatting at me while I pretend to listen, worrying over the problems at hand. We're out of the unguent that we use for cuts, having run out after just a single day. We took a beating soon after our night ambush, our pursuers arriving quicker than we expected, bogged down with a heavily injured Sumila. Everything is running out except fruit and fresh water, the mountains teeming with both. We haven't risked lighting a fire since, and all the bear and horse meat we had is almost gone. We're even running out of arrows, our pursuers no longer carrying them when it was evident we out-ranged them by a large margin. Why bother just supplying us with ammunition?

Alsantset returns before the half hour is up, hurrying us along, as more enemies have been spotted. We're all exhausted with not enough sleep or food, running on fumes, but the attacks keep coming. I have no idea how we're going to make it through this, and I can barely even stay awake as we ride off, once again slipping into the trees, fleeing from our ever persistent hunters.
