“I helped at the healing hospital in Apex earlier,” he said instead. “I assumed I would only be having a talk with the person who manages volunteers, but I told her I really wanted to be there, learning. So she let me get started right away.”

Stuart’s eyes met his. “You said you thought that volunteering there would be a part of your choosing season.”

“It is. I want to try more things I think could be fulfilling for me and find out if they’re something I want to do. So that I don’t look back and feel like I gave up on possibilities without appreciating that they existed.”

Already did too much of that.

“Was volunteering today fulfilling?”

“It was only an hour, but…”

“You liked it.” Stuart’s lips were turning up again. “I can tell.”

“I did. I really did.” Alden set aside his half-finished origami ryeh-b’t. “It’s probably first day enthusiasm, but since I left there this afternoon, I’ve thought of a hundred things I could do to help that I never considered. They’re mostly not life or death, but they still matter.

“Today I met the dispensary wizard. I held one of her experiments so that she could leave and modify a potion for a patient without losing her work. That’s not huge, but it makes the patient’s life easier, the healer’s, and the wizard’s. And it made me think I could reduce the friction there even more. If I talk to the wizard’s assistant every time I see him, and I remind him that I’m easy to get along with and competent, he might call me himself the next time something like this happens instead of arguing with the staff and telling them his wizard’s too busy. And that’s just one thing I can do right now, with no training. In the future…”

“If you decide you want to work more at houses of healing in the future, I’ll help you,” Stuart said. “It fits with your skill well already, but you’ll get stronger and have the opportunity to choose other abilities. I could help you to identify complementary ones, or I could…of course I’m just reminding you that I will be very happy to help you if you want it, not pushing you to let me. It’s your choosing season.”

“I know,” said Alden, glancing away. “Thank you. I wish I could have been friends with you before I ever chose the first time.”

For some stupid reason, that came out sounding heavy and a little gloomy. He hadn’t meant for it to. When he looked back around, though, he found Stuart looking pleased, most likely over the word Alden had used for friend.

At least he didn’t catch any stupid gloom from me then.

“So how many knights are there?” he asked. “If there are twelve hundred declared planning to go to first binding, and that’s around half for the year…”

“It’s more than half for a year’s time. The Welcome End that coincides with the turning of seasons in the southern Rapports always has fewer. The total will probably be between sixteen and seventeen hundred new knights for this year. And that means there will be more than forty-five thousand knights.”

“That sounds like a large number,” said Alden, “but not nearly large enough to save entire dimensions.”

“It’s too few. And most are young. But our strongest are now very strong compared to the past. And knights work with others.”

Alden’s finger circled a nick in the table’s smooth surface. “Don’t answer if it’s rude or wrong of me to ask. I’m just curious. How strong is your father?”

Stuart let out a short laugh. “If it’s rude to ask, then many people have been rude to me in the past. Although I guess it would be rude if he were a regular person. How should I answer you, though? What unit of measure would make sense? The vastness of his authority is almost as incomprehensible to me now as it was when he first embraced me with it as a child.”

Alden thought about it. “I don’t know how I was expecting you to answer either. Even if you told me how many average wizards it would take to match him, I don’t think I’d have an accurate picture of what that meant. I’ve seen what Lind-otta and Alis-art’h can do, but I don’t know how to compare that to your father’s Cleaver of Strength.”

“Aunt Alis says Father is stronger than her. Father says the highest ranking knights have all gone so far down their paths that it’s not reasonable to discuss which of them is stronger anymore.” Stuart studied him. “You probably shouldn’t think you’ve seen what Aunt Alis can do, though, unless you understood it much better than I realized. The most impressive part of what she’s doing isn’t that she’s moving dirt around. It’s that her command over each grain of dirt approaches perfection more closely than any other’s, and she understands what the ground should be. Her influence there will last long after she departs, and if Thegund ever has a corruption incident again, that will be the last place to fall. Instead of the first. Because Aunt Alis has told the ground to remember its nature.”

Ground. An Artonan element. Rocks that last for ages and soil that supports life. If the ground insists on following its nature, then can chaos reach the grass rooted in it? Or the bugs and bokabvs that eat the grass?

“So she’s that strong,” said Alden.

“She is. And saying she’s that strong still doesn’t create a good comparison, because what we’re talking about is so different than what Father does. Even wizards who know better might struggle to feel that establishing a highly stable patch of ground on Thegund requires as much power as cleaving a bunch of demons.” He paused. “For a clearer understanding of their power, I guess we could compare their abilities to destroy a humanlike civilization on an Earthlike planet, but…if I speak hypothetically of them doing something like that, will you think of them that way often? I don’t want you to.”

“Of course I won’t.”

Stuart opened his mouth.

“No. Wait.” Alden held up a hand. “You’re asking that seriously. Um…I think I already suspected your father could destroy human civilization all by himself if he wanted.”

“I don’t believe he could do it completely by himself,” Stuart said. “But only because I don’t think he could find Earth and travel to it without assistance.”

He’s taking the singlehanded part of singlehandedly destroying civilization so literally. I was going to let the Primary use System teleportation and still give him full credit.

This kind of thing was why Alden had asked him to wait. “If you really don’t want me to have a clear mental image of how your father and aunt would demolish things on Earth at the front of my mind the next time I meet them, you probably shouldn’t paint the picture in detail. To be honest, I will think about it. I don’t think I’ll worry about it at all or that it will make me dislike them, but if you want me to see them in a different light, then maybe you shouldn’t say much more. Until I have the chance to get to know them better.”

“All right. I’ll just confirm that they could do it.”

“Both of them?”

“Aunt Alis would probably be faster.”

“I see.” Alden snorted. “How did we end up talking about this? What a way to start our sleep party.”

“Did you mean to say sleep party?”

“When friends go to each other’s houses to spend the night together for fun it can be called a ‘sleepover’ or a ‘slumber party’ in English.”

“What do human friends do when they slumber party?”

“Nothing surprising,” said Alden. “Stay up too late talking. Eat favorite foods. Play games. Watch movies. We’ve done all of that together before if we count watching my classmates duel as a movie.”

“We should watch a real movie from Earth. And you’ve never eaten my favorite food.”

“What is it?”

“Oh…it’s not proper food. Or proper treatment of food. There’s a specific kind of bread I like to dip in something like sauce. I shouldn’t have mentioned it. I don’t think I could ever serve it to another person.”

“What kind of bread and sauce?”

Stuart purpled.

“Humans dip plenty of bread,” said Alden, amused that he could be embarrassed by something so small. “Even at expensive restaurants. I’m sure I’ll think it’s proper treatment of food…and if you don’t tell me, I’ll have to assume the worst. I’ll imagine you soaking chunks of bread in the ceremonial wevvi.”

The way Stuart’s eyes went round at that.

And then the fact that he didn’t say he would never do such a thing.

“Stuart, no. Really?” Alden pushed himself up onto his knees and leaned across the table. “The wevvi! How could you?”

“It’s a childhood comfort!” Stuart said in a high voice. “Father ate it that way in front of me when I was small, and I didn’t know it wasn’t normal. He says he was trying to make me laugh the first time, but I didn’t understand it was funny. I mimicked him, and I liked it so much that he didn’t want to take away the experience. So we started eating bread in our wevvi every time we had it together.”

“I have to try it. Do you have the right kind of bread? Can I eat that kind of bread?”

“Yes, we have it, and yes, you can eat it. But…”

“‘Midnight snack’ is something people do at human slumber parties. So is ‘playing pranks’. After most of your family goes to sleep, why don’t we sneak the wevvi cart all the way down here and make the ceremonial wevvi and dip the bread?”

“Because every part of that plan is very improper, Alden.”

******
