Damien sat in his room, staring contemplatively at the mess that was Cale's side of their dorm. He had no idea how Cale had managed to make so much of a mess in so little time, but the man seemed to make a habit of pocketing pretty much anything that interested him. There was a pile of sand on his desk, for crying out loud. Why in the world had Cale pocketed a pile of sand?

Maybe that one was Syphus's, actually. The golem did seem to like sand a lot. The point remained, though, because shortly before Cale left to debrief with Akkau he'd stared at the pile of sand and nodded to himself like he wanted it there.

That left Damien alone in his room and with his thoughts—well, mostly alone, anyway. He hadn't forgotten that there was apparently a monster living under his bed. A monster that liked him, for some reason?

...Wait, did he need to feed it? Was he being a bad host?

Damien had been about to ruminate on how much his life had changed in so little a time. He'd wanted a moment to process how okay he was with how much things had changed. Change was something that he normally hated, but for the first time, he felt like he could handle what was coming.

This pending train of thought was entirely disrupted by his abrupt anxiety that he had in some way failed the creature living under his bed. Damien hesitated for a moment, feeling foolish, then sighed and tapped his bedframe.

"Um..." he started. "Do you have a name? And also, do I need to feed you anything? I feel like I haven't actually had the chance to think about the fact that you, um, exist. And I'm kind of wondering if I've been a bad... friend?"

He could have sworn he heard a snort emerge from under his bed, but there was otherwise no response. Damien waited, then realized there probably wasn't an answer coming. "Okay, just... let me know if you need anything," he offered awkwardly.

He was so bad at this. If only he was a little more like Cale. He seemed to do pretty much whatever he wanted and get away with it, and Damien sometimes thought he could do with a little more of that same audacity.

Come to think of it, why had Cale been so interested in the Haelforge dungeon, anyway? If he really wanted those mana channelers, he could have just negotiated with Haelforge for them, surely? Was there something else about it that was important?

And why had he wanted to bring them along? Did he know something about the dungeon? Cale was generally surprisingly careful about their boundaries, and considering the Bitter Path seemed to be something even its veterans didn't like going through again—not to mention apparently something they didn't want to subject Haelforge students to, when those students seemed more likely the type to inflict trauma than receive it—it seemed strange that Cale wanted them to come along.

"Maybe it's supposed to help us somehow?" Damien muttered to himself. "I mean, Cale doesn't usually do things without reason—"

The space under his bed thumped, as if in protest. Damien yelped, startled, and then thought about what he just said and snorted.

"Okay," he amended. "He does a lot of things without reason. But usually not when we're involved. He kinda seems like he really wants to help us."

Sometimes, it seemed like Cale wanted to help them more than Damien had ever really wanted to help himself. The dreadshade sighed and channeled a fraction of the Verdant Flame to his palm, watching the pale green flame flickering into existence.

"He's probably got a bunch of overlapping reasons to go there," Damien muttered. "I just..."

For the longest time, Damien hadn't really known what he wanted to do with his life aside from bringing his mana under control. Now he was actually going outside, exploring the world. Experiencing it. It was more than he'd known for ages, and he wasn't sure he knew how to process it all.

But he was starting to feel like he was ready to want more. He'd liked that whole experience more than he realized—not just going to a different academy or subverting the Red Hunters' plans, but also helping Cale negotiate with Delia...

Damien remembered her expression when he'd spoken up and abruptly giggled. "Oh," he said. "I think I was having fun."

A sibilant whisper emerged from beneath his bed, though it sounded almost like a sigh. "Sometimes. You are. Depressing."

"Wha—hey!" Damien almost kicked at his bed frame, then stopped himself sheepishly. "...I guess it kind of is, huh?"

"Can I. Have some. Of that?"

"What?" Damien blinked, then watched as a tendril slithered up from the bed and licked at the Verdant Flame still burning above his palm. "Um... sure, I guess?"

"Good," the monster said approvingly. "You should. Have fun. More often."

"Yeah," Damien muttered, looking over at Cale's side of the room once more. "I think... I dunno. I think maybe I'm ready to try, at least."

"Cale," Akkau said, his tone somehow simultaneously exhausted and pleading. "It has been two days."

The poor dragon looked exhausted. Cale reached out to pat Akkau on the head, ignoring the way the dragon swatted at him. Yes, it was technically undignified for an apprentice to pet their dragon, but it was also undignified for a dragon to slump over their desk like Akkau was doing. He was pretty sure those things cancelled out.

"I think today was a good day, if you ask me," Cale said cheerfully. "We stopped a few Red Hunter plans, learned some crucial information, and rescued both Sternkessel and Serof. Yesterday was much more intense."

"It is alarming that I cannot disagree with you," Akkau muttered under his breath. "Do you expect tomorrow to be similar? I will have to greet a delegation from Orstrahl in the morning; if anything happens..."

"Oh, I'm sure it'll be fine," Cale said dismissively. He checked his schedule scroll briefly, narrowing his eyes at it. "My next class is Magical Critters? I can't imagine anything going wrong with that."

"I will hold you to that, and I will pretend you did not phrase it that way on purpose," Akkau muttered. He hesitated, then sighed. "But Cale... thank you. Without your intervention..."

"You would've been fine," Cale said with a little smile. "Your students are brighter than you think, you know? You gotta have a little more faith in them. Maybe look in on a class sometime! It might do you some good."

With that, he slipped back out of Akkau's office.

Akkau fully blamed Cale for the situation he was in.

He had no idea how the human's words had gotten twisted up in his head, but during his meeting with the Orstrahl delegation he had blurted that he was proud of his apprentice and that they would have to watch him in one of his classes.

Which meant, of course, that he was now seated between all the very important members of Orstrahl nobility. And that there was a scrying spell projecting and recording all the events of Magical Critters in excruciating detail.

Briefly, and for the first time in his very long life, he considered praying to one of the divines to make sure this class went well.

Then he remembered Cale likely had more mana than all those divines put together and sank even further into his seat.
