"Good, that makes things easier," Evander Starweaver paused to catch his breath. Despite his good posture, a combination of Ashlock's Abyssal Whispers and general pressure was likely wearing on the man.

"We both have a common enemy, Vincent Nightrose. The plan was for the Silverspire Grand Elder to time the completion of his ascension to the Golden Core stage—" Evander nodded to Sebastian and Ryker, who were sitting opposite him, "—their equivalent of the Nascent Soul Realm with the arrival of the beast tide... in three years time. He had hoped to use the pressure of Beast Tide's arrival to escape the fate of previous Grand Elders who reached the Nascent Soul Realm. Of course, the schedule has moved up. So the plans have changed."

"I understand why the Silverspire Grand Elder wishes to free himself of Vincent's rule, but what about the Starweaver family?"

Evander exchanged a pained look with his sister Celeste. "There used to be three of us..." He trailed off as his gaze hardened, "But he took her."

"Our sister awakened her bloodline." Celeste added, "We thought it was great news and were confused why our elders were so horrified once they found out. But we soon learned the fate of those who awaken bloodlines as the Disciplinary Committee showed up years later and dragged her off."

"Her bloodline was harvested by Vincent, right?"

Evander nodded as his sister fell silent. "The Blood Lotus Sect isn't a sect at all. It's a breeding ground for bloodlines. That's why he cares so little about how it's managed and leaves it to his mind-controlled subordinates." Evander then looked toward Stella, "We aren't here for revenge for our sister. Rather, we are here for the same reason you are fighting. Celeste also awakened her bloodline recently... so she might be next. Just like you."

Stella and Celeste exchanged a knowing look of two people going through the same thing.

"Vincent is a paranoid bastard," Evander continued. "He has been after the Starweaver family's bloodline, capable of foreseeing threats in the cosmic weave, for generations. Vincent calling for a summit can only mean one thing—he finally succeeded, as we never informed him of the prophecy. Things will only worsen for us from here, as he will keep harvesting us to improve his inferior bloodline. This is why the Starweaver family is willing to work with an evil god like yourself to take down a greater evil."

Stella's eye twitched, and everyone else had sour expressions as Evander finished his piece and sat beside his sister. Ashlock wasn't pleased with how they spoke of him, but he wasn't in a position to turn down help, with Vincent Nightrose on one side and a cataclysmic beast tide on the other. If they wanted to offer themselves as disposable pawns to help him deal with these looming threats, he wouldn't turn them down.

"Actually, I've seen the beast tide now, but I still know little about Vincent." Ashlock mused, "If Vincent isn't too hard to deal with, I could ambush him at the summit he is calling. I bet the beast tide will be easier to deal with after I turn him into an Ent."

"How strong is Vincent Nightrose?"

The room fell silent at his question. Sebastian Silverspire leaned back on his chair slightly with a frown. "Nobody knows," he said, breaking the silence. "His powers are a closely guarded secret."

"Not even a vague idea?"

"I know," someone said, and everyone turned to see a black-haired woman emerging from the shadows. It was Morrigan, the origin of the void. "It's been a long time since I last laid eyes on that boy, but there's a reason he has been able to stay in power for so long despite his tyranny." Morrigan tapped her chin in thought, "His cultivation level is likely in the upper stages of the Nascent Soul Realm by now. That alone is quite impressive for this Qi dead realm, but that's not what makes him so hard to kill. No, it's the dozens of inferior bloodlines he's juggling and his three affinities."

"Three affinities?!"

The room erupted with surprised gasps and discussion. Morrigan smiled as she counted off her fingers, "His main affinity is blood, but he also has gravity."

"What about his third?"

Morrigan shrugged, "That's his closest guarded secret. Nobody has discovered his third affinity and lived to disclose it. All we know is he has at least three. All near the Monarch Realm level."

Ashlock sighed as he realized he might have underestimated the overlord of the Blood Lotus Sect a little. "The summit should be held before the Beast Tide arrives. I'll have to kill him first, one way or another. Especially if he can now see the effect that my presence in this world seems to have on the threads of fate."
