“There will be more. More items than you can use. Many of which can be traded for favor. You can use any normal weapons you find, and we will be able to use the others to help your cause.” Her expression morphed to a gleeful grin. “I have my treasures, but Badud was truly involved in the provings of Kalis. Imagining the contents of his vault blinds the mind’s eye.”

Garna rolled her eyes and batted Sarya on the shoulder. “Do you truly mean to set them on this task? If they understand the weight of the deed they propose,” she gave the Heirs a doubtful look, “then it will achieve their objectives. But it is still a very literal vault of solace, a deed beyond even us. To achieve it will require our aid.”

Sarya waved her hands. “Nathan can break magics. Stella can conjure starfire. Aarl has a black blade, won righteously. They will be able to break the vault. It will not be a proper theft, but it will serve the purpose well. We cannot aid them overmuch, remember? That includes convincing them against foolish paths.”

Garna grimaced, but nodded in acceptance. “Verified truth.” Then she looked to the Heirs with a sigh. “This plan seems impossible for us to accomplish, and we cannot die. I worry for your death.”

“That’s the trick,” Nathan replied. “For you, failure is failure. For us, failure is death. Davrar knows the difference, and so do we.” He slapped his thighs and made to stand. “Anything else? Any last-second Insights or gifts? How are we getting to Esebus?”

Sarya giggled at his monologue, raising a challenging eyebrow. “Eolinne and the Grace of the Mists waits in the port below. We’ve already loaded your rewards onboard, food and textbooks on magic. She’s far more excited for the ingredients than the books.”

The rest of the Heirs stood, with Sarah leaning forward to sweep all of the assorted maps and documents into her dimensional bags. They gave the Questors a quick farewell, but Stella had a final question.

“What happens if we win? Do we come back here?”

Sarya chuckled. “No. If Esebus is free from Sussu and her grid, we will come to you.”

Nathan hesitated at the door, looking back to Sarya and Garna sitting side by side. “Thank you. For all of the help. For the chance to fix things.”

Sarya’s expression softened, and for a moment, she looked like the immortal she was instead of just the body she inhabited. “It is our failing that it falls to you. May your tale span the sky.”

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 834

Bottomless Stamina : 84400/84400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 572

Regenerative Focus: 5820/5820

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 4

Mystical Discernment 4

Forewarning 4

Arcane Insight 4

Evasion 2

Mental Vault 5

Tutoring 9

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 6

High-tier Disguise 7

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
