It's like she means more to him than she's supposed to as a Mistress. Tatya thought in surprise.

Ren waited until they were down the road a short distance before talking. “Dilseffa, thank you for not staying angry at me.”

“Ren, I...” Dilseffa sighed. “I can't argue that you interfered, and I can't argue that you listened in on purpose.” She said. “I want to be angry at you for what happened.”

“Oh, I know.” Ren said. “Even though I didn't want to interfere, just warning you about him was enough to cause you two to break up.”

“Ren...”

Ren stopped walking and turned to her, and she stopped and turned to him. “Please forgive me for saying this.” He said as he let her hand go, then he stepped close and put his arms around her. “Dilseffa, I'm really sorry.”

Dilseffa winced at the apology, then she felt his emotions. “You've wanted to say that for a while.”

“I really did.” Ren said. “I make mistakes and errors in judgment, and I usually apologize as much as possible.”

Dilseffa closed her eyes and sighed as she put her forehead against his. “Ren, you... you have to keep fighting that urge.” She said. “It's just as big of a sign of weakness as covering yourself with clothing.”

“I know.” Ren said and kissed her.

Dilseffa startled for a moment, then Ren poured his feelings into her. She shivered at the repressed emotions that he let out, which included his sorrow and regret, then she accepted that he needed her to feel them and put her arms around him. She hugged him tightly and kissed him back.

It wasn't a chaste kiss and it wasn't quite passionate, either. It was a great middle ground where you could play and tease, and even lick occasionally. You could do a quick kiss, then a long kiss, and even switch between an open and closed mouth. The kiss itself didn't have any actual requirements besides just enjoying the feeling of the other person's lips.

Being kissed like that was a new experience for Dilseffa, and she discovered that it was pleasant in its own way. She had lost count of how many new relationship things she had experienced since she had met Ren, and she wondered with all of her heart about what the next experience was going to be like... and when it was going to happen.
