Helios leaned back.

"That...That's clever."

I smirked.

"I have my moments."

"Speaking of, I was wondering if you'd be willing to offer me some assistance."

I raised my brow.

"Oh yeah, how's the siege of the albony's planets going? Did you guys hold Elysium off?"

A dark cloud loomed over Helios, exhaustion pouring over him. He let out a long sigh.

"It's all but done, and Elysium has won."

Chapter Begin

Like stepping into a cold shower, Helio's words landed like a gut punch. I pushed through the sinking sensation.

"That's...Not good."

Helios tilted his head.

"Not good? You've seen what Elysium has done to races that utilized slavery in the past. We albony are no different, and it's a sad thing to watch my people perish. However, it isn't certain our kind shall be eliminated."

I already saw what he had to say coming. Helios turned a hand to me.

"It just so happens I know of someone who saves disparaged races as a hobby. If we dwell on your actions, you've all but established a wildlife preserve on your planet. I'm certain you have room for a few albony to rest on your worlds."

A bit of nervousness bloomed in my chest.

"I do, but that depends. How many are we talking about?"

"A few million."

I tapped my fingers against my forearm.

"Er, I can do that...Probably."

"Excellent. Now that we've settled on a small but manageable group of nomads, would you mind if we went through a little thought experiment?"

My stomach sank further.

"You're starting to sound like Florence."

Helios pressed his hands together.

"What if, in theory, there are a few hundred million albony in need of saving? Would that change your offer?"

I dragged my hand down my face.

"Hundreds of millions...That's more people than I know what to do with. I have no idea where you guys could settle down, let alone the logistics behind actually helping you all get on your feet."

Helios gestured around.

"Why not here? I've gathered the data on this lunar body, and it has a surface area larger than Africa. Over a billion people lived on that continent before Schema arrived, so nothing is stopping us from settling here on an even larger plane."

I gestured at everything on the moon. That is to say, nothing.

"You know, besides the lack of air, a magnetosphere, or any development of any kind. I've heard that puts a damper on the whole settlement thing."

Helios shook his head.

"The albony haven't terraformed a world to this magnitude, but I've spoken with Terra over the past few months. He and a few other educated skeptiles understand many of the logistics behind balancing an ecosystem."

I wasn't so sure the skeptiles would help the race that starved them. Helios raised a hand.

"With their assistance, especially their spirit magic, I believe we can manifest a perfectly vivid ecosystem here. As for the magnetosphere, you should be more than able to melt the core and create a geodynamo that will last billions of years here."

I pointed at myself.

"Me?"

Helios scoffed.

"Who else? You wield gravitation and temperature alike, and those components should allow you to create the magnetic fields needed for life. You may generate all the air we need as well, given your prodigious origin magic."

Helios rolled his hand.

"You might overproduce air and create a crushing atmosphere, so you'll need the calculations measured and handled for you. We albony are myriad, and we have many statisticians under our employ who can manage those factors. To be more precise, once the initial framework is established, we can maintain all systems easily."

Helios peered at the desolate landscape.

"Some of this planet will be devoted to bodies of water as well, but we have the technology to inhabit those spaces should we so choose. Even then, the oceans of Earth are suitable for such a purpose given humanity hasn't colonized those depths."

I furrowed my brow.

"You want the moon, huh? Is this a roundabout way of restarting the albony empire?"

Helios's eyes hardened.

"That is the opposite of what I want. I wish for the albony to carry your seal of protection, and that requires being a part of your guild."

I nodded.

"So this is a kind of cultural and species preservation project, then? You want me to guarantee that at least a portion of the albony won't be desecrated by Elysium. In exchange, my guild expands alongside the many skillsets and abilities of the albony."

"You've stated my aims clearly."

"What exactly do we get out of this?"

Helios scoffed.

"At this point, my people would be more than willing to offer the great and mighty Harbinger both tribute and plunder."

I leaned back.

"The last time I checked, the albony are used to other people working for them. Are you certain they'll be able to handle that kind of transition?"

Helios gazed at the stars.

"These are not the swollen, sedentary people you remember. Hardship has forged them into a different people. The nobles of estates have died while their manors burned to the ground. The survivors crawled along as a humbled people. Their goals are now singular - to survive. In that regard, I believe that after a year of destitution and a near extinction of our species, we may walk forward without our past holding us down."

I frowned.

"What happened to wanting to handle your projects on your own?"

Helios fidgeted.

"We've lost nearly 80% of our race to Elysium's purges. Think of the immense waste of human capital and the unimaginable suffering. I present this tragedy as an opportunity to try and gain a friend's trust. Your trust."

I blinked before raising my hands.

"I'm sorry. I'm used to a certain rhythm in our conversations, and that's not what this is about. Look, no matter how you handle the situation, I consider you a friend. I will help you as much as I can."

Helios pinched the bridge of his nose.

"Agh. I'm...I'm sorry. I'm stretched thin as a frayed rope. My negotiating is beyond horrendous. I wanted to avoid relying on you again, but the situation has spiraled-"

I cut him off.

"Helios. You don't have to sit here and overexplain or apologize to me. I'm not Obolis. I'm not going to threaten your position or ask you to grovel. Tell me what you need, and if it can be done, then it will be done."

Helios blinked, his pale eyes gaining a new shade of life. Helios stepped towards me, his voice rising.

"Then allow me to elaborate. You've not seen the impact your golems have had. Offering a thousand to me allowed me to expand the number of albony I saved by well over tenfold. These people have seen your golems fly from the horizon and scorch a pillaged planet's surface to ash. They've watched your metal titans rip Elysium's Hybrids to pieces."

Helios shook his fists.

"Those golems drank their blood, chewed their bones, and ate their entrails, all while our enemies screamed in agony. It was beautiful."

I frowned.

"I hope that's figurative."

"It isn't. We albony have seen the death of our history in a single year. I will relish in the pain of those who have done this to us."

I remembered negotiating with Obolis and how he tried pulling fast ones over me all the time. Honestly, I didn't want to bother with that kind of attitude once more. I sighed.

"Are you certain I can trust that the albony have changed?"

Helios raised a fist.

"You think I'd ask you to trust in the albony's goodwill and faith? You are no fool. I ask you to believe in their fear, their dread, and their hatred. The albony hold memories of a decimated homeworld flattened to nothing. I ask you to invest in the rage of a people who fought against monsters that killed us by the billion."

Helios shook his hands.

"You know that we couldn't hold funerals for the fallen? Elysium leaves no corpses behind. Our biomass is used as the origin of puppets. They turn us into stealthy, lithe figures. Our fur falls from cancer-ridden, tube-infested forms. We gurgle on the orange pus they fuel the Hybrids with. We are subsumed in an image of their making, and it is the tortured vision of the depraved."

My skin crawled at Helios's descriptions. Many events passed me over while I refined my skills, yet all of them spiraled into chaotic clusters. Helios frowned in disgust.

"The albony would willingly accept slavery, let alone harsh conditions. As long as you don't use them for flesh puppets, then there is little you could turn them away with."

I winced.

"Flesh puppets? Huh? Well, I can guarantee that's not happening, at least."

Helios's shoulders fell, and his breathing slowed. He took a moment to collect himself before smirking.

"I assumed as much. We'll offer your guild resources, wealth, and, most importantly, skills. You need people who understand galactic commerce, customs, and trade. We offer that in spades, and we also won't monopolize this planet or the dungeons that will spawn here."

I tapped my chin.

"We could actually negotiate with Schema to help prevent Earth from being overrun by rifts. We can have Schema spawn a portion of them on this planet. Besides that, after the culling on Earth, we have plenty of extra space and land. It isn't like I intended on monopolizing everything in the solar system either."

After a bit more thought, I shrugged.

"You know what? Sure, why not. I'll help the albony."

A silence passed over us. Helios peered down and took a few breaths. Helios shook his head.

"It's a strange thing. Every day with you seems like a new tomorrow."

A wave of embarrassment spread over my face.

"I wouldn't go that far. I'm literally helping because it's convenient."

Helios sighed.

"Ah yes, it must be so convenient to harbor a species Elysium has aimed to repurpose. If you were to ask me to shoulder that burden, I'd know that it's not trivial. It's much to ask and more to promise."

He turned a hand to me.

"I remember when we first met. I still feel guilt about what I did to Althea, and that guilt grows as my debt to you increases by the day. From my mistake in judgment, I lost my position under Obolis. That has been a pivotal moment in my life. Hah. From the upheaval of old systems to the destruction of old world orders, it always seems as though every species that makes contact with you experiences a dramatic change in their bearing and being."

Helios peered up.

"Schema may have understood you better than we thought when he named you The Harbinger of Cataclysm. So far, it seems truer than I could've imagined."

He met my eye.

"In that sense, you ushered in the next change, one where the albony have been given another chance at survival. It's a humbling thing to rely on a single individual, but such is our fate."

A sad and weary smile lingered on his face.

"Perhaps there's good in it. Good luck with the next calamity you cause, and know that I am not Obolis. I will repay all that you've done."

I bristled at the compliments. I gnarled my hands.

"You make it sound as though you're leaving the guild."

Helios rolled his eyes.

"Less of a leaving and more of an immediate, enormous expansion in my operations within it. I'll just be spending more time handling the logistics of our kind. I'm assuming you'll allow it?"

I spread my hands.

"Eh, assuming I still get my courier to help sometimes. That, and you'll have to allow Shalahora to check on people's mental states. He can assess if Elysium's done any tampering."

Helios nodded, his face grim.

"You will have my assistance always, assuming you don't allow Elysium to pillage us further. And I would have asked for Shalahora's assistance even if you hadn't demanded it. He's proven unbelievably efficient and effective at uprooting Elysium's psionic subterfuge."

I waved a hand.

"Well then, you look busy. I can handle the situation from here."

Helios pointed to his side.

"It is no problem to shorten your trip."

I remembered how much I enjoyed traveling with Althea.

"I'd rather take it slow this time."

Helios's eyes turned grim.

"As you will it. I must return to battle."

Helios opened a portal. A wartorn city burned in the background. An army of millions of Hybrids marched on Olstatia, the capital of the albony's homeworld. Helios sighed.

"Wish me luck."

His warp closed, but I held a hand on the edge. I pulled reality apart before peering down at the incoming army. Helios turned to me.

"What are you-"

My voice was iron.

"Step aside."

Helios did so. I charged mana into my runes, and my body glowed bright. Miles upon miles of Hybrids gazed up at me, their beady eyes and twitching bodies eliciting my disgust. Mana rippled onto this other world in a plume it had never seen. In a wave of obsoletion, I snapped my fingers and unleashed an enormous number of singularities.

Enchantments tried defusing the gravitational ordnance. Magicians screamed below, remnants and many races working together to untangle the threads of mana. An army of untold size rallied to defend and protect themselves under generated shielding. Trained to a razor's edge, they responded as competently as any veteran could hope for.

And their resistance meant nothing.

A cloak of howling darkness consumed the army. The shields of Olstatia rippled as shockwaves bombarded the bulwark. By the thousand, the Hybrids evaporated into nothing, the singularities acting as harbingers of kinetic destruction. It took seconds for the sound to reach us, and it deafened our surroundings.

The clouds parted from the devastation, opening an enormous hole in the overcast sky. The ground groaned in agony as magma formed from friction. A pool of slag consumed all the remaining Hybrids, and what was left of their army turned into pulped silver. Notifications flooded my status as I turned to Helios.

"It's a little headstart. Good luck."

He gawked at me before I allowed the warp to close, leaving me alone on the moon. I fell into a solemn contemplation.

