Helios had spent the last three months saving his people while I only honed my mind and abilities. It left me in awe as Helios prioritized helping other people over himself. It also embedded a feeling of shame. Helios's efforts saved millions, and I could do the same if I applied myself in the same way.

Despite those thoughts, I smiled. I gazed at the endless void above before clasping my hands. If I hadn't trained so hard, then I would never have been able to destroy an army in a split second. It was the price of progress, and I would keep paying until I obtained what I wanted.

Still, I needed a break from the imperial aspects of my empire. I hovered out of the unstable area and pulled Althea out of my pocket dimension once it was safe. She hovered out in her environmentally isolating suit, and she peered around as if sedated.

"Woah. That was weird."

I furrowed my brow.

"Tell me about it. But what did the stasis feel like?"

"It was...Hmm, I was somewhere without time, so it reminded me of staring at a painting. But, uh, I was the painting, I guess? Heh, that doesn't make any sense."

I shook my head.

"No, it does. It sounds like a dissociative state. You know, like an out-of-body experience or something. It's surprising since Torix said everything happened in an instant, and he wasn't aware while in there."

Althea peered at her hand, and it blended into a surrounding plane.

"Maybe it's because I'm used to traversing through places like this?"

"If that's the case, I met someone a lot like you recently. Its name was Kryyah."

As we traveled back, I told Althea about the strange entity and the dimensional rip. She didn't believe me at first, thinking I made it up. That disbelief faded into a cold, distant expression. As I finished my story, she hadn't said anything for a while. I watched her dance across the moon in silence for a while.

She stopped moving before slamming one of her cords into the moon. It sliced the stone like a sword cleaving through Swiss cheese. She turned to me.

"Why can't we catch a break? Why can't you catch a break?"

I frowned.

"I don't know."

She peered down before squeezing her hands into fists.

"I'm tired of watching you do this all alone. If you ask me, it's like Schema's trying to put everything on your back. I know you can handle whatever anyone throws at you, but...I hate watching your shoulders drop when everything gets to be so much."

I grinned.

"Oh, you'd be surprised by how much these shoulders can carry."

She sighed.

"I'll...I'll see if I can't help somehow."

I walked over, picking her up into a hug.

"You help just by existing. It's a passive buff that's more important than any of my trees."

She oofed out.

"Even Determinator?"

"Alright, maybe not, but all the rest for sure."

She and I laughed. She hopped up and down.

"Ok, but I want to do more. Something, I don't know, tangible?"

I set her down.

"Aren't you working on the education and orphan initiative?"

She took a breath.

"See, that's the problem. Does that really amount to much?"

I blinked.

"I find it incredible, personally."

She furrowed her brow.

"By you just saved the moon in a few minutes."

I raised a hand, feeling good about myself.

"And I helped the albony."

"You have to tell me everything that happened while I was out."

We walked and talked. I explained the story before she laughed.

"And you're wondering why I feel like I'm not doing enough?"

I shrugged.

"We shoulder what we can. It's not a game of comparison to anyone but ourselves."

She pointed at me.

"That's easy to say when you're number one."

"I wasn't always at the very top. I'd argue I'm still doing less than either Shalahora or Plazia."

Althea crossed her arms.

"You're right. I, I just feel small sometimes."

I remembered facing my father.

"I do too."

I reached out a hand. She grabbed it. We strolled for a while. I smiled at her.

"You're able to cleave through all obstacles like they aren't even there. That's your most defining system bonus - to be an absolute destroyer of anything. You're also insanely strong. You only need to handle your bottlenecks."

"What do you think they are? Is it like, my mentality or something?"

"I think your mind is in the right place. I think it's your physicality and the rebounds you get from hitting objects that stunts your destructive potential."

"Huh. I get the rebounds, but what do you mean by physicality?"

"The way I see it? You're trying to transform in a way that makes you beautiful. First off, you're always beautiful, but I think you're leaving a lot of potential on the table by trying to look a certain way. There's a lot of potential you might access if you're willing to think outside the box."

She frowned.

"Huh...I guess so. I don't like admitting it, but yeah, I'm not exactly embracing my abilities. I never have. I feel so disgusting whenever I'm transformed into something that doesn't look right."

She shivered.

"Ugh, I hate it so much."

I raised my brow.

"I know the feeling. I don't exactly feel like Mr. Sunshine either, but I do what I have to so that I can handle people like Kryyah when they show up."

She nudged my shoulder.

"OK, I'll take your advice if you take mine. I think, personally speaking, that you need to take your time and make sure you're growing in the right way."

I raised a brow. She waved her hands.

"You're, er, rushing, and considering your potential, there's no reason to. You've got this if you take your time and make sure that every step is the right one."

I stood taller. I rubbed my nose.

"Thank you for the vote of confidence."

"Heh, at this point anyone that doesn't have confidence in you is pretty ridiculous. For me, I'm worried you're going to run too fast and fall down, not lose the race because of speed...That is, you know, assuming we're racing. If a race makes any sense. Maybe we're racing Elysium?"

She peered away.

"Forget it."

I squeezed her to me.

"It makes perfect sense."

She coughed before I let her go. I raised my hands.

"Sorry."

She tapped her chest.

"I'm fine. Anyways, you talked about letting the albony settle on the moon, right? That's crazy, huh?"

I frowned.

"Yeah. Seeing Helios work so tirelessly for his people...It's made me reevaluate a few things."

She smiled.

"If you ask me, I think you've done things pretty well. Think about it. There's no way Helios could've done what he did without your golems. They're so strong because you are. You may not be the person leading the charge, but you're making sure other people can."

She shrugged.

"I don't know...I think that's pretty cool."

We kept talking, passing through the endless white craters before landing near our lunar encampment. Once there, we found loads of changes, even in the two days since we left. A few pools of water shined near the center of the crater, origin mages hard at work. They wielded my rings, the dimensional fabric generating the raw matter while they carved into the ground like sculptors.

After peeling out a portion of the ground, they insulated it with dark clay, the dirt thick like putty. The streaks of dark contrasted the white stone, probably more of an aesthetic choice than anything else. The streams carved into the ground like elegant moats and lined the metal platform where Schema's facilities resided.

My monolith glowed with quintessence at the center of it all, the dark metal ominous and foreboding. Kids trusted my barrier, many of them playing in the streams while a few parents watched from afar. I joined the parents, but I stood a fair distance away. Althea talked with the parents before walking over to the kids.

She knew most of them by name, and she helped them learn and play a few games, from racing each other to lifeguard games to red light green light. I was more than content just watching them. Of course, that's not all I did. I had fifty-plus minds, and leaving them all idle was essentially torture.

We ramped up the assimilation of energy, my body a machine of mana. After an hour, Althea waved the kids goodbye to their chagrin, and she talked to the parents. Once she stepped away, she waved at me.

"Hey. Why didn't you come over?"

I raised my hands.

"I'm a giant, metal monster. I'm not exactly something kids trust."

She frowned.

"They're not scared of you."

I frowned back.

"You know, I doubt that. Besides, this is why keeping your appearance as you have has its benefits. People trust you. They can be at ease when you're around. Me?"

My armor glowed.

"I'm like some gruesome protector at best and the guild's boogeyman at worst."

She tapped my chest.

"You know what? You're right. Someone is scared."

"What? You mean me? That's not it at all."

She waved her hands.

"I've seen soldiers do this. Buk-buk-buk."

I rolled my eyes.

"Phss, this is childish goading at best."

She moved her neck as if pecking.

"I'm Daniel, big strong metal man. Buk-buk-bugawk."

I raised my hands.

"Come on now. You know I'm not afraid."

Adding to the effect, she made feathers on her arms.

"Buk-buk. Buk-bugawk. Me not Hod. Me Daniel. Me scared."

I rolled my eyes.

"Alright, you want me to terrify the children? I'm game. Let's go."

I stepped past her, and she grabbed my arm. The feathers fell off of her.

"Hey, you got to at least try and look less intimidating."

She pushed my cheeks together.

"And try to smile. Your attitude is terrible."

I took a moment, making sure I was calm. I shrank myself down to Althea's height, only slightly taller. I dulled the spikes across my armor and made the glow of my armor's runes into a gentle, unintimidating origin mana. The bright sky blue was the least hostile look I could muster. I pulled my helmet off while walking over with Althea.

As I did, the kids went silent. I raised my brow to Althea before she pulled me forward. I looked to the parents for some help, and they had smiles on their faces - they were in league with the enemy. The kids grouped together, fear palpable in them. I lunged down to one knee.

"Hey, guys. Do you like the pools?"

They peered up at me. One of them murmured.

"You...Are you the Harbinger?"

Even kids called me that. I sighed.

"To some people, yeah. I usually prefer it when people call me Daniel, though. Especially friends."

The brave child peered up at me.

"My dad said you helped us escape Yawm. He was bad."

I nodded.

"Very bad. Do you guys want to see something cool?"

They looked at each other before their leader put their hands on their hips.

"Yes."

I raised a hand, and they lifted up off the ground. They floated in the ether, and each of them giggled at one another. After a few seconds, I saturated them in their own individual gravity wells. One of them landed in the water, and it pooled over them, smothering the child in liquid death.

It was a simple mistake. When weightless, water became a sticky, volatile thing. Water tension kept it pinned onto anyone or anything it came in contact with, and struggling immersed the individual further. Before the liquid ran up to the child's face, I put antigravity spheres over their faces.

The water stopped at their neck, and the child's panic ceased. They laughed before taking some water and putting it in their mouth. It took a few tries since the antigravity sphere kept shoving the water away, but persistence paid. Like getting two opposing magnets to touch, the child snapped their face into the water and got a mouth full.

They squirted it out, launching themself around. The other kids followed suit, immersing themselves in water before propelling themselves with jets of the stuff. They laughed, each of them playing around with the others. Althea and I watched for a while before the bravest child flew over. To stop themselves, they grabbed my hair, jerking to a halt.

Panick popped over the child's face.

"Ah. I'm sorry. That must have hurt."

I scoffed.

"Trust me on this. You can't hurt me."

They put water in their mouth and squirted it on me. It was kind of gross, and my hair dropped against my face before Althea burst into laughter. I flicked the child with gravitation, and they swirled around at a gentle pace. They burst into childish giggling, enjoying the steady spiral sensation.

After a few seconds, I slowed them down. The other kids lined up, and I had them all twirling about like spinning water balloons. As they all played and pushed around, Althea leaned her head against me.

"See? There's nothing wrong with spending a while doing this."

I marveled at the absolute joy of the children.

"Yeah. It makes me feel like a kid again. There's a wonder they have for life that I lack...Or lost. I can't tell."

After a few more minutes of play, I pulled them out of their gravitation, eating the latent, leftover mana with Event Horizon. After setting the kids down, they let out cries of defiance, demanding I stay. I ruffled the hair on one of their heads.

"Sorry, guys. I have to go protect our people."

The child leader walked up and gave me a hug. The expression stunned me, but I still softened my armor in time so they didn't clank their face against hard steel. They looked up at me.

"My name's Quinn."

I smiled.

"It's good to meet you. Sorry, but you're parents are calling for you all."

Quinn raised a hand, holding out a pinky.

"Pinky promise you'll come back."

I grabbed their tiny, almost miniature, pinky in my hand. My finger was the size of their arm.

"I will, but make sure you study hard, train consistently, and listen to your parents. They know what you need to do."

Quinn ran off, laughing. They joined their friends, and they all waved me goodbye. I waved back before Althea pulled me up to the moon's central monolith. She took a breath.

"Are you ready to go save New York next?"

I rolled my shoulders.

"Oh yeah. I'm itching for a fight."

Mana emanated from me like a flame.

"Let's go see what a warlord on Earth can do."

Althea's eyes went distant.

"More than you might expect."
