“I'm so sorry, Ren.” Barbara said as she held onto his hand. She was proud that he'd handled the situation as well as he did; but, she was also saddened by it. Ren's phobia of having men manhandle him, had plagued him for years.

He can never remember why he is always so afraid to have men examine him. Barbara thought and looked back at the television screen to see Ren enter his workshop. But, after seeing that footage of the experiments he relived in the game... Barbara shivered. I honestly can't blame him, either.

********

Ren just stood there in his workshop and repeated his breathing exercises to calm down.

“Dorcot coming in.” Teepo said as he skittered under the door and flew to Ren. The door opened, and Dorcot came in.

“Ren!” Dorcot said and came over to him to give him a handshake. “It's so nice to see you.”

“I've been meaning to come in and change out another crate of diamond crystals for you.”

“Yes, I've had almost nothing to do for nearly two weeks.” Dorcot said, then clapped Ren on the shoulder. “That's okay, though.” He smiled. “Angeilin has been keeping me busy.”

“I'm glad.” Ren said. “I've been a little negligent in keep track of everything.”

Dorcot laughed. “You were gone for a month!” He exclaimed. “I'm surprised you remember anything that you have going at all!”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, it's a lot.”

“Come on over to my workbench.” Dorcot said. “All of my nooks and crannies are full of 1 gold coin diamonds that I don't know what to do with.”

Ren went with him to the desk and took the enormous amount of small diamonds from his drawers, shelves, and even two small sacks. Ren dumped them into inventory, and was surprised by the amount.

“15,300!” Ren nearly exclaimed, and Dorcot laughed.

“My boy, having to cut so many diamonds, all the exact same size, from every different size crystal that was in the two crates you left me...” Dorcot grinned. “I was surprised there wasn't more.”

“The amount of diamond dust you must have now...”

Dorcot moved one of the crates out of the way, and behind it was a stack of diamond dust encrusted cloths, just over 2 feet high.

“Can I have some of them?” Ren asked.

“Help yourself.” Dorcot said. “I make more of them every day, and I haven't even worn out the first one I made yet.”

Ren took about half of the stack, which turned out to be 130 pieces of cloth. “Thanks.”

“This is all yours anyways.” Dorcot said. “You don't need to ask me to take your own things.”

Ren gave him 138 platinum for the 1 gold coin diamonds, which was the cost minus 10%. Dorcot shook his head as he looked at the money.

“By the gods, what am I going to do with all of this?”

“Hide it, of course.” Ren said as he sewed up a bunch of sacks that were the same size as the other two sacks of diamonds that he had. “If your kids find out how rich you are now...”

Dorcot laughed and laughed as Ren piled the diamonds into the sacks and stored them. He looked into the two crates, and saw they were nearly three-quarters full of 1 inch wide diamond ovals.

“These are perfect.” Ren said, and stored the two crates into their own slot, so that they wouldn't get mixed up with the uncut diamonds, or with the already cut diamonds that were different sizes. “Thanks, Dorcot.”

“You're welcome.” Dorgot said. “Now hurry up and give me another crate before I go mad with boredom.”

Ren laughed and gave him two more crates of oddly-sized diamond crystals. “Make whatever you want from these ones.” He said. “I've pretty much got enough of the same-sized ones to last a lifetime.”

“Good.” Dorcot said. “I know I told you before that having a task to do... making diamonds all the same size... would get me focused and working hard.” He smiled. “It did, but... by the gods, it was boring!”

Ren pat his friend on the shoulder. “Have fun.”

“You can count on that.” Dorcot said, grabbed a random crystal from one of the crates, and sat down to work. Ren went over to his own workbench to get back to work himself. He looked at the over-sized workbench, then looked across the workshop to the forge room.

“I guess I'll have to use a crucible instead of just using my hands.” Ren said and went to the forge room. He took out the crucible that he had used to hold molten metal when he'd joined the steel bars together for both molds of the Main Houses that he had built. He dipped it in one of the smelters and scooped out a large amount of molten metal. Using his finger, he cleaned the molten metal off the outside and stored the crucible, then wiped off his finger on the edge of the smelter.

Ren went back out to the workbench and looked at the great picture of Fire Dancer that he'd made. He didn't want to ruin it before testing if he could solder it like he thought he could. He picked up one of the scrap pieces of glass, scored it with his scoring tool, and wrapped the edges in copper foil. He took the same care and attention that he did with the real picture, and laid the two pieces together.

“Here goes nothing.” Ren said as he took out the crucible of molten metal, dipped the tip of his finger into it, and caught the excess on the edge of the crucible. “Okay.” He stored the crucible, held the two pieces of glass together, then lightly dabbed his finger on several spots where the copper foil of each piece touched the other. He used his other hand to absorb the heat, so the copper wouldn't change colors from the temperature change. It didn't melt the metal away, and Ren smiled. He rubbed his fingertip with the molten metal along the seam and absorbed the heat. He waited a moment, then picked the piece up.

Notice!

You have gained a new skill: Soldering Level 1 (Beginner 0%)

This sub skill under Smithing allows various metals to be attached to each other using molten metal. Higher levels will allow faster speeds and less visual evidence soldering has occurred.

“Yes.” Ren said as he saw the soldering had held, and hadn't broken the glass as it cooled. “I'll test this a bit more before doing the real picture.” He said, and picked up another piece of glass to wrap the edge in foil. “Just to make sure this first time wasn't a fluke.”

Ren did the same procedure again, took his time, and successfully joined another piece to the two he'd already done. The solder didn't look as nice, because he had tried to spread the molten metal out too much.

“Okay, dab the corners and center of the join, then the middles of those, and then run the line of molten metal in between.” Ren said to himself as he did the next piece. “I have to keep an even amount of metal going, or it messes up.” He said, and did another piece. “Ah, that's better.”

Ren picked it up and looked at his creation. Five different colored pieces of glass were successfully joined together, and it was actually quite sturdy. He'd even leveled up Soldering to Level 2.

“Once it's mounted in the proper frame and window treatment, it's going to look awesome.” Ren said, put the test piece aside, and looked at the actual picture. He smiled, dipped his finger into the crucible, and started to work.
