“Yeah,” Shiv replied. A soft laugh slipped out of him as he stared at his hands. He felt… lighter—unburdened by the will of hateful gods. But he also noticed something else: Divine mana poured upon him by the Winter Queen didn’t need to settle at his very core to achieve its effect. Instead, it was applied like a cream upon the outer layer of his soul—almost like skin care.

Does that mean that Curses are like a barrier or a threshold lining my soul, and not rooted somewhere at the core? Like… some kind of crust or filter that affects how my actions take shape in the world?

Magical Theory 8 > 12

A rush of levels flooded into his Magical Theory Skill, confirming his thoughts. The power of the gods wasn’t altering the fabric of his being, but rather coated him with their personal mana. He was effectively caged by an imperceptible crust. That’s why he couldn’t cut out the Curses. They were never truly inside him, and the way they tainted him was more like an alchemical lining compromising how he interfaced with the world rather than who he fundamentally was.

“Yeah,” Shiv repeated. “I’m clean. No more Curses. They're gone. All of them. Even the Challenger's.”

As he spoke, he realized the same boon was being granted to Adam as well, and the Winter Court’s incandescence bled over into Shiv’s mind, where Uva resided, clearing her of the Usurper Queen’s—

A savage, rattling sensation thundered within Shiv’s soul. His Non-Sequitur Skill throbbed like an appendix on the verge of bursting, desperate to reveal something to Shiv—desperate to trigger. It couldn’t. Shiv caught the Winter Queen as she squinted. Another, subtler rush of coldness passed through him and dulled the skill before it could go off. And immediately she started shaking before him, like every cell of her existence held a lie within.

Gardener of Doubt: Something is wrong. Beyond wrong with her. She cannot be trusted. She is deception incarnate. She is a walking falsehood. Turn away! Turn away! Turn away!

And at the same time, a cry of alarm came across Uva’s telepathic links.

“Shiv!” Valor’s tense voice hissed within him, carried through Uva's Psychomancy. “You need to get away from her. Get Adam and get away. This isn't the Mother of Moons Cullywier knows. She's not the Queen of the Winter—”

“Please don't interrupt, Legend Valor. It is very rude.”

A rush of incandescent coldness swept through Shiv, and suddenly, he felt the psychokinetic strands connecting him to Uva, Valor, and everyone else freeze solid. They were still there, but nothing traveled across; nothing at all. Before he could react, the strange Fae gestured once more and, using the ambient mists, she ripped Uva out from Harkness’ broken mind before tossing the Umbral over to Shiv casually.

A moment later, his mind struggled to perceive what was happening as the very world around them grew gnarled and faded like pages from an old book. There was a distance building inside Shiv, like he was peering out from himself, like a bystander—a reader peering at words describing what he was doing rather than a person guiding their own actions, with their own agency.

A Narrator of the Fairwoods has declared a final climax to this tale.

Beginning Epilogue…

Uva let out a surprised gasp as the curled fingers of steaming cold carried her through the air. She was partially shifted. The eldritch nature of her form was more exaggerated than ever before, and as Shiv caught her, her psychokinetic tendrils flicked about. They struck the Fae, yet they did nothing, bouncing off her body like there was a threshold she couldn't pass through.

“There, all of you are together now. The three who burn, all gathered as one before the queen they freed. What a wonderful story.” She clicked her tongue, and her face fell in disappointment. “Just a shame we're missing all the important bits leading up to this emancipation. Now it just seems like you were written in by the hand of the author as a desperate final measure to achieve a happy ending where none should have been possible.”

An arrow wreathed in Chronomancy erupted out from beside her head. It came within a centimeter of piercing her skull, but it froze in place, as did Adam, as the cold fused around him. Shiv tried to move, and the coldness scraped him as well, wrapped him in its loving embrace, and held him still.

Reality stopped moving. The confines of existence were narrowed until he was simply trapped, trapped in a cage sculpted in the shape of his body. That same fate befell Uva as well. The prison crept across the throne room, extended across the lands, and surged to encompass all reality.

No actions can be performed while the Narration is ongoing.

Before them, the Queen of Winter radiated with lunar brilliance. “Don't worry. I cannot hurt you right now. It is time for exposition. I wish to talk with you. I wish for you to know what I desire. I wish for things to be made plain. Because I am lonely, and Harkness was a terrible conversationalist.” She turned, directing a disdainful stare at the slack-faced vegetable slumped upon her throne. “She has served her purpose in drawing you here. Now I have all I need.”

Evanescia, the Usurper-Narrator of the Fairwoods, has marked you as an offering to the Broken Watchtower.

Evanescia, the Usurper-Narrator of the Fairwoods, has marked Uva Mettabon as an offering to the Broken Watchtower.

Evanescia, the Usurper-Narrator of the Fairwoods, has marked Adam Arrow as an offering to the Broken Watchtower.

Each notification struck Shiv like a hammer blow over the head. He tried to move, but the distance between him and his body and mind was vast. It was like the innermost aspect of his consciousness had been extracted entirely—displaced and exiled. He and his friends, for a moment, became sketches on a page; color bled away from their persons, and they blended into the backdrop. Each stood before the throne and the true Usurper Queen who looked down upon them; however, she suffered none of these effects. The gnarled-looking textures of withered paper never touched her. She remained a full person, colorful and radiant, vivid with detail. She continued speaking while everyone else had to listen.

“To begin, I would like to explain a few things.” Evanescia descended from her dais and ran a taloned hand along Shiv and Uva’s faces. Shiv tried to go Non-Sequitur, tried to swap his physical body with his Severed Shadow, but neither was allowed.

He was pinned beneath the weight of an entire dimension. However, something inside him trembled. He could still move bits of his soul. He could still struggle, and he tried to trigger his Non-Sequitur again and again. Desperate to break free, desperate to squeeze out from the cage fused to the shape of his body.

“By now, you might have understood that I am not the true Mother of Moons, sovereign of the Winter Court. Not usually, anyhow. I usurped the true queen’s position before your old enemy arrived. Originally, I just wanted to find what amusement I could via court politics and general warfare. It had been a little while. But when a group of former bandits brought a little bird from Integrated Earth's New Albion to me, why, the flowers of possibility began to bloom in my mind. And after I finished extracting what pleasure I could from her through conversation and a spot of torture, I delved into her memories and, to my elation, found something wonderful glowing just over the horizon.”

Evanescia’s form began to change. With every step, her form began to shift. Her queenly regalia faded, just like winter mist dissipating with the coming of spring. The moon hovering above her crown combusted into a ball of flame and then became a swirling raindrop of ink that spilled over her and reshaped her entire body.

What Shiv beheld then, when the downpour of ink dripped away, was the most… nondescript woman he could ever describe. Every time he tried to focus on her, the details slid away from his mind. It was like water running down a slope, dripping away from his reach. He couldn't hold on to any of the details. Ultimately, she was blank-faced, vague of attire, shadowy of contour, perfectly able to assume any role, put on any garb, and slip away in a crowd without being noticed.

He focused on the blank canvas that was her face. There was nothing there, nothing but space for everything: any kind of eyes, any type of nose, any sort of lips, any set of ears. The shape of her skull was constantly in flux as well. This one was a shape-shifter of the highest order. It wasn't just her physical body that felt fluid; it was everything, every single aspect of her. That's why Gardener of Doubt showed her to be vibrating so violently: It sensed a liar of liars before him, but lacked the words to describe the lie at first.

“I have need of you, Deathless. All three of you. Perhaps you and the Archer more than the Operative, but all three. More specifically, I need the strife inside you. I need the flames that empower you—that only continue to burn hotter. Do you know that just one of you has enough fire within to rival a full season of warring between the Courts? It’s really quite something. You should be proud. I’m looking forward to scouring your memories and learning all about your histories. The battles you were in must have been things of legend.”

Evanescia sighed wistfully. “But I suspect I’ve seen it all before. Too much. I’ve consumed Patternists whose very breath has wiped away worlds, men, women, and more who have stolen the fire from stars. I have drunk the life out of fools who have slaughtered entire dimensions clean of life. Grand as your battles must have been, I think they have you beat.”

The indescribable shape of Evanescia stepped before Shiv, though there were no eyes in her face for him to meet. “But though they were powerful, they died. There was an end. But you, Deathless, you have no end—or are not meant to. Udraal's masterpiece. Just like the Broken Watchtower and I are his mother’s. Some part of this feels so fated… There is a reason why you stumbled so blindly and ignorantly into my story, into my world. The System loves to apply its magnetism. Even with a few degrees of separation between.”

Once more, Shiv activated Non-Sequitur. Once more, he bounced off the prison constructed around him. His soul ached with strain, but he felt something in the faintest crack, the slightest rip. The moment he sensed that, he tried using his skill. Any skill. His eyes flashed as he managed to analyze his enemy—and an explosion of indescribable pain tore through his mind in return. If not for his stasis, he would have dropped to the ground and writhed like a dying insect.

“Again, please don’t interrupt,” Evanescia quipped, “it is quite rude. Though you are impressive—incredible, even, for a babe so absurdly young. Legend already. Low Legend. With at least one Skill that defies the System’s will. It takes something like that to tear at my epilogue.” She frowned. Something within her emotional core shook. Evanescia was debating with herself about something. “I am going to reward you for trying. How about that? I do like a good hero, and I think you’re going to make a great and exciting one. Someone who will entertain me for at least… oh, a million years before I have your Path changed to something else. I think I might give your Path a go after, Unique as it is. But you are not the only one. Just like there are no Deathlesses beside you, there are no Narrators beside me. Not in all the Fairwoods. Not in all the Fae-ruled dimensions across Integration. Only me. And the reason you cannot perceive me is simple—I am everyone. Or at least I can be. Look upon me and see no distinguishing details. That’s the blessing and curse of the Self-Insertion Skill. Here. Let me show you how it works.”

Evanescia walked away from him and toward Uva. Shiv’s insides exploded with rage. He flung his Non-Sequitur against the cramped narrative holding him still. Something tore around him. The faintest hints of color spread across Shiv’s midsection. Evanescia noticed, but ignored it as he failed to break free. However, Shiv’s Non-Sequitur began to leak out of him. His Vitae spilled free in droplets—he wasn’t truly trapped anymore. There was a crack. He could squeeze through—he could escape!

Come on! Come on!

Non-Sequitur 167 > 179

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 192 > 202

His emotions did a violent flip as his Unique Skill reached a threshold for Evolution, but acquired none.

The Usurper Queen came to a stop before Uva and hummed. “Interesting. Burning just like the other two. Even more intensely, sometimes. Just a shame you’re filled with that unconverted filth. The System hasn’t fully Integrated parts of you yet. It will take some time to distill the Outsider magics away from the virus-gods infecting you. Until then, I think I’m going to use you as… Ah, so many little minds there. Good, good. I have need of a better surveillance network anyway. Divination is just so reactive.” She patted Uva on the head like a pet, but then stepped away from her. “I’ll give you some time. I look forward to wearing your Path personally more than anything else. You have an aesthetic I enjoy. We just need to carve away those changes into something more… floral. Perhaps a butterfly rather than a spider? Yes, that will work.”

