Words fail to describe how much I loathe most time loops. I can stomach a few variations that allow me to retain my levels and progress, but the nature of a dimension-wide loop rarely allows for that. When the history of an entire dimension gets reset, it usually requires an extreme effort on the part of the Pathbearer to retain any memory of the events they lived through—and the struggle to keep your soul and skills unedited by the System is a gargantuan struggle even for a Transcendent Pathbearer.

The easiest way around the problem is gaining a Domain and becoming Divine, but that comes with its own problems. You’re functionally exiled from most worlds, require an Avatar or a catalyst to channel your presence, and eventually, you will cease to exist if there is no more faith fueling your functionality. I’ve killed a great many lesser gods with ease just by obliterating all their followers. It’s frankly laughable watching a god wink out of existence because you turned everyone on their homeworld to ash via a meager Mythic-Tier Pyromancy Spell. It’s certainly not a form of immortality I desire.

But there are exemptions. Especially if the System wants the loop to end—and most times, the System does want loops to cease. Because having all strife suffer the fate of retro-continuity and be made into false-history means that the mana generated from all that struggle is rendered nonexistent. A deeply tragic outcome for the System. Pair that with the fact that the magical lore of time technically shouldn’t be able to turn time backward, and the matter gets even more damaging and complicated for existence.

The closest I’ve personally ever come to true madness was trapping myself in a loop with an advanced Chronomancy Skill I was testing, forgetting I was in a loop due to the nature of said loop, and then suffering 1 million years of excess memories when I finally managed to break out. I didn’t even manage to retain that many levels in the aftermath, and I was forced to forget so many things so as not to be reduced to the state of a drooling vegetable.

No. I desire control over all aspects of existence and also myself.

Amorality is not the goal. Mere agelessness and an eternal delay are not a solution. It’s just a slower form of decay…

There are other kinds of loops, however… Instead of going back, you can simply accelerate the pace around you faster. It doesn’t necessarily have to purely be a factor of time. A narrative loop can technically be formed. A series of fixed events that you can mostly control, placed within a dimension of accelerated Chronomancy…

Hm… I think I’ve just been inspired.

—Udraal Thann

320

Curse 3: Double-Subversion

As the light faded, so did the cold. The chill in the air drew away from Shiv and Adam as it tumbled forward in a swirling haze of mist that shrouded the throne. Harkness' silhouette remained in place, unchanging.

Shiv expected her body to transform, for some kind of horrific monstrosity to burst out from her—because that was the kind of life he led. Confriga had turned into the Recollector. The people at Monster Mystery Meat had burst apart in sprays of gore as the bread inside of them tore free. Harkness turning into a monster wouldn't be a surprise. It would just be another bloody moment in Shiv’s life.

With that in mind, he advanced on her, striding toward the veil of winter without fear in his heart.

“Shiv…” Adam called out warily.

“Just watch my back,” Shiv said. “I think I'm going to finish hacking Harkness' head from her body before she turns into whatever the hells she's going to become.”

A low rumble of laughter greeted him. Instead of Harkness transforming, a hazy shape loomed over her, rising tall as a parent would over their child. “What an imagination you have, Deathless. Or perhaps it is just the life you have led. One does not burn so brightly with the System's favor if they are not embroiled in blood and battles nigh-constantly.”

The voice was low and feminine, refined yet dangerous. Violent jolts of electricity ran up Shiv's spine. His Skills screamed out at him. Sage of the Enkindled Heart responded with worried agitation, unsure why it felt that way. Gardener of Doubt caused the shadow standing over Harkness to start vibrating violently. And A Glimpse of Perspective began whimpering and repeating a phrase inside Shiv's mind:

Longer than you think. Longer, longer, longer, longer than you think. Longer than you can possibly imagine.

And without warning, a vision took him. A vision of a cobbled path extending before him, disappearing into the horizon. Before he knew it, Shiv found himself walking forward, passing through forests and fields, but never leaving the road. And so he walked. He walked for a minute, for an hour, for a day, for a month, for a year. The sun fell, replaced by the moon's pale watch, and the lands around him withered and died. He kept walking, and soon enough, the sun rose again, and with it, nature sprang to life. But as he kept walking, the trees lost their leaves once again, and before he knew it, flakes of snow fell from the sky and covered the world in a blanket of death. After a time, the cold was banished by the dawn of a new day, and life returned to claim its throne.

And so it went.

The stars spun like a great wheel above, the seasons came and went, and through it all, Shiv walked.

For ten years. A hundred. A thousand.

He walked and walked, but the road had no end. It just kept going and going and going. There was no choice but to travel down that endless, narrow road. There was no way back, no sides to turn to, and most of all, no end in sight.

This road—he knew it. He knew it by now. He'd walked it a million times. The stones and the grass and the trees might be different, but he knew the road, and it never changed.

He'd been walking in a circle. But there was no stopping. He had to walk forward, forward forever and forever and—

A Glimpse of Perspective 76 > 79

A burst of activity from his Non-Sequitur Skill snapped him free of the vision. Shiv gasped and shook his head. He saw the shadow stepping beyond Harkness, approaching him in turn. The Deathless clenched his frying pan tightly, preparing for whatever battle against whatever monstrosity was to come.

Yet through the frozen haze emerged a woman. No, not a woman. Something elven, or even more primordial than that. She resembled Cullywier; her body was too thin, her limbs too long, her eyes too dark and round. Her features too delicate, yet pristine and perfect. The greatest difference was that her body was covered entirely in feathers, colored like the dark depths of a frozen lake, and a pair of avian wings drooped behind her back and became as if a cape billowing in her wake. It was like looking at a parody of humanity. She had an expression that taunted him, that mocked him like he was the alien. Like he was wrong.

Atop her head was the crown once worn by Harkness, and in an instant, the cold mists that once formed an armored shell around the former Aviary operative became a flowing dress for the strange Fae.

“Guessing you were the one that's been whispering stuff to us,” Shiv muttered. “The one who didn't let me stop time. The one that broke Adam's Commander's Foresight as well. I… couldn't really focus on the voice. Till now.”

The Fae maiden smiled. Something in that expression made Shiv want to cleave her in half or flee from her as far and fast as he could. “No, I just spoke to you. The System here stopped you from doing all that. You can, of course, revert your personal history, but the Fairwoods are built differently from your world. Father Time does not appreciate violations of a direct nature. You are fortunate that you arrived at the moment of the Moon's triumph. If the Summer Court were still here, Father Time would have visited you directly and visited great pains upon your person for violating the laws of chronology.”

“Lucky me,” Shiv replied, trying not to shiver from the uncanny way her low voice trailed across his senses, like something in the firmament was shifting at her will. “Now, to get to the point, who the hells are you? The Winter Queen? We set you free by kicking Harkness’ ass, is that it?”

“I am the one who has been waiting for you. I am the one who allowed Lady Eileen Harkness to assume this throne and play the role of Queen. I am the one who guided her to this victory in anticipation of your arrival. I am the one who is going to give you everything you want, as you are the one who is going to give me everything I want.”

And as she spoke, Shiv saw her teeth were pointed and rowed like a shark's. They were those of a predator, hiding behind the lips of a creature delicate and soft.

But the Deathless had teeth of his own. They ran as the rim of his frying pan. And they could be called on to erupt from his body in an instant if he shifted his physiology to a more eldritch nature. Every blade pierced deeper than matter when it came to him, and Shiv had no intentions of folding or bending to another's machinations.

“So, what? You're going to take away all the Curses burning inside me? Is that it?”

“Of course I will.” The Fae smiled and placed her hands together. “You deserve a reward for completing your Quest, do you not? You have stopped Eileen Harkness from fixing the Broken Watchtower. You are owed a boon from the Court of Winter, especially since you ensured my salvation as well. Ah, but here I am, speaking to you so informally. Let me make this invitation proper. Let me grant you the Blessing I gave Harkness when she was brought before me in months prior. First, a cleansing.”

The Queen of the Winter Court stepped forward, taller than Shiv, but far, far thinner. She slowly strolled around him, circling his person, but he forced himself to stand still.

“I will help you boil away those impurities, those Curses staining your soul. I have just the thing. I need you clean regardless.”

She sounded positively giddy as a concentration of incandescent frost flooded into Shiv. The suddenness of the magical intrusion took him by surprise, and the way the magic dissolved into the exterior of his Vitae rather than sinking to the depths of his soul caught his attention. Shiv briefly thought the spell of the Mother of Moons had failed, but then he felt a series of substances break against him. It was like dead skin being scrubbed off his soul, peeled away as a new, healthy layer took its place—and all it cost was the slightest bit of Vitae in the process.

Curse Lost: Favored Archenemy - Your Nemesis will always be able to sense your presence, regardless of guise or appearance. Your Nemesis will always have a sense for where you are. Regardless of dimension, world, distance, or time, you are marked for an eternal war.

Curse Lost: Hands of the Bloodied - Anything you craft and create will be stained with blood and degrade at an increased pace.

Curse Lost: Golembane - All artificial constructs will view you as a hostile entity.

Curse Lost: Meta-Dyscalculia - All numbers you see will be scrambled; math will be your enemy.

Curse Lost: Touch of Rust - All metals and materials erode, tarnish, and break down when you touch them at an alarming pace.

Curse Lost: Withering of the Usurper Queen - You are no longer laden with the sorrow of coldness and finality.

Curse Lost: The Gaze of the Usurper Queen - The eyes of the Usurper Queen are no longer upon you.

Blessing Gained: Plot-Armored Protagonist - The Fairwoods favor you, O hero of legends…

The Challenger has been alerted to these changes.

Maiden the Genius has been alerted to these changes.

Daughter the Deadly has been alerted to these changes.

And as she extracted all his Curses and infused him with her Blessing, the Winter Queen stopped vibrating. It was like she'd been lying every second before just by existing, but now, when she spoke those words, when she promised to relieve him of his Curses, she was being honest.

She had been speaking the complete truth only in the past few sentences, and never at any other point.

A razor-thin layer of ice broke apart around Shiv’s body. It was like he was being hatched from a cocoon, reborn clean of taint. Vaguely, Shiv felt the other gods who'd tarnished his soul reaching for him, trying to reassert their powers, but they were far and separated from this place.

In a faraway realm, the Challenger roared. Maiden scowled. Daughter shrieked. But the Queen of the Winter Court just smiled serenely, gentle like a mother gazing proudly upon her child.

As the last pieces of winter’s touch peeled from his person, Shiv let out a disbelieving breath. Relief overtook him, but there was also an awkward feeling that rose with it—a sense that it had been all too easy despite everything he suffered. Like this was more an anti-climax than a moment of triumph.

It kind of is, Shiv realized. A literal Queen of the Fae is intervening on my behalf against the Ascendants and other gods. I’m not getting free because I figured something out or defeated an enemy. I was literally brought just where I needed to go, stomped the shit out of Harkness, set the Queen free, and got what I deserved.

And if the remaining unfailed Quest he still had wasn’t lying, he was going to get more rewards than just a purification of Curses.

Quest: Stop the Usurper Queen from reassembling the Broken Watchtower.

Reward: Evolves Chronomancy Skill to Legendary-Tier; grants a secondary Chronomancy Skill at Adept-Tier

Failure: Cedes complete authority over Seasonal Resets to the will of the Usurper Queen.

Shiv waited. But the reward notification never appeared. Huh?

“Shiv,” Adam called out from behind. “Are you… Are you cured? Are your Curses gone? Is that what she just did?”

