“How do you get enough?” Erick asked. “How does that all work, anyway?”

Zago said, “Adventurers like to buy things with rads. Merchants then sell those to the Mages guild or use them as currency themselves. We transfer the rads we get to enchanters and such like Ulrick, and then those enchanters collect gold to pay for the rads they’ve gotten from the guild.”

Ulrick smirked, “You lot take a good cut, too. Don’t forget that part.”

“And Spur takes a cut, too.” Zago grinned. “And we all prosper from the actions of violent adventurers and the thousands of kilometers of monsters everywhere around Spur."

Erick asked, “With all the new adventurers going into Ar’Kendrithyst, what does this mean for the guild?”

Ulrick breathed deep, thinking.

Zago guessed, “I’ve been going over the old ledgers from before the Great Purge; I know what to expect, but actually seeing the numbers go up everywhere is… Both wonderful and strange. We’re going to need to expand back to pre-Great Purge size, and soon. This won’t be a problem for us; I have the utmost confidence in my people. It just takes time.”

Ulrick said, “I’m going to need to hire a second enchanter. Don’t know where I’m going to find a good one.”

“I have some names I can give you.” Zago asked, “Or I could direct them your way?”

“The second one. Thank you, Guildmaster.”

“Of course! This is what I do.”

Erick asked, “What about the Shades? Won’t they see this as an attack? Spur growing larger?”

Zago went quiet, thinking.

Ulrick said, “All of the people who come into my shop who’ve been in the Dead City say that the Shades are happy.”

Zago said, “I’ve heard that too. And that scares me.”

Erick firmly said, “I’m already working on a few new spells for defense.” He smiled, holding up his beer. “I live here, after all.”

Ulrick held up his beer. “I’ll cheer to that.”

“Hear hear!” Zago held up her wine glass, grinning. “Good show. And if you’d like to work together, I do have resources at my disposal that you might not, Erick.”

Erick smiled. “Maybe I will. Thank you for the offer, Sirocco.”

Zago smiled.

- - - -

Valok stood beside Erick’s garden of successes, holding a plate of sliced red tomatoes in one hand while nibbling on another slice. Krakina had already finished off her tomato slice and was inspecting the other vines in front of her. Sunlights shone down on the garden. Darkness loomed in the rest of the human district.

Valok said, “Why red?”

Krakina declared, “I like purple! Why not purp—”

‘Hey, Dad!’

Jane’s happy voice came into Erick’s mind.

“Sorry, Valok. Krakina. Jane’s calling me.” Erick said, “Go ahead and pick whatever.”

Valok smirked, then set his plate aside on a table beside the garden. He walked among the green, careful where he placed his feet. Krakina joined him, picking her way among the vines.

Erick turned away to face the empty, dark lands of the Human District, and said, ‘Hey, Jane! Everyone loves the potatoes I made.’

‘Where’s my care package!’

‘I have it all set up. Just need to deliver it to the Courthouse, tomorrow.’

‘I need it now. Hold on—’

Erick smiled. He imagined Jane opening up the burlap sack Erick had prepared and crying for joy. She did that sometimes.

‘Killzone is coming to get some samples.’

Erick smiled wider. ‘Good! Tell him he was invite—’

Killzone blipped into the air in front of Erick’s house. Krakina squawked as she leapt away from his sudden appearance, cursing in surprise. She switched to louder, more direct cursing, as Killzone walked up to the house and in the front door.

‘He’s here now.’ Erick walked over toward the front door. ‘I’ll tell him myself.’

‘Hows the party going?’

‘Very well. A lot of people are here. I know almost all of them.’

‘I love you, Dad. You sound busy. I’ll talk to you tomorrow.’

‘Love you.’

The gossamer thread of thought that connected them broke like so much dried out spider silk.

Erick found Killzone talking to Silverite in the foyer.

“Captain Killzone!” Erick said, “I sent you an invite!”

Killzone turned, saying, “Your daughter will not shut up about the potatoes.”

Erick laughed loud, then said, “I’ll get you some!”

But before Erick could get them, Anhelia intercepted Killzone with the blacklight stone affixed to a finger, like it was a giant diamond ring and Anhelia was its angelic, violet caretaker. Killzone though… Killzone shimmered radioactive purple, almost as bright as a lightward. He stopped moving, then began to gaze at his own body.

Silverite stepped into the room, saying, “Wow, Killzone. That’s a good look on you.”

Erick had to watch… whatever was happening to Killzone right now. He was having some sort of deep emotional response, and even if Erick didn’t understand it, he could see it. Rats was nearby, so Erick asked, “Can you please get that care package I made for Jane, for Killzone?”

Rats, and now Teressa, stood in the foyer, looking at Killzone, who looked like a purple wardlight. Rats didn’t move. He just stared, along with the rest of them.

Killzone eyed the stone on Anhelia’s hand. “Can I—”

“Heck no! This one is mine! Ask Erick if you want one. He’s already going to make Silverite one—” She smirked, adding, “—If he knows what’s good for him.”

Killzone tore himself away from the faint blacklight [Ward], to look at Erick.

Silverite stared at Erick, waiting.

“Okay!” Erick stepped to the front door and [Stoneshape]d two dense pebbles from the ground outside. He stepped back inside, asking, “How big do you want your blacklights?”

“I love that name, by the way,” said Silverite. “And Anhelia’s size is fine.”

Killzone stared, pure want in his radiant purple eyes. He blinked, he said, “Uh. Very, small. Tiny, tiny.”

Erick whipped out two blacklights, one about a foot across, the other the same size as the thumbnail sized stone; both of them seemed to pour out the same amount of ultraviolet light. Silverite eagerly took her larger blacklight. Killzone, however, froze. Erick had to reach up and take the man’s warm hand, then unfold his massive metal fingers to place the stone in the center of his radiant purple palm. Killzone stared at the stone, then let it fall into his flesh. Suddenly, he was back to solid black, save for the rim of purple glow from Silverite and Anhelia’s lights.

Poi held out Jane’s burlap sack care package to Erick. “Sir.”

Erick took the —oof! Heavy!— bag and held it out toward Killzone. “I hope my daughter isn’t giving you too much trouble.”

Killzone looked at the bag he had grabbed. He broke from his trance. Scrawled in dark ink across the bag was ‘NOT SPIDER EGGS’.

Erick smiled.

Killzone laughed. He held the burlap sack like it was 5 pounds of potatoes, and not the 50 it was. “We got her running missions with the other people with shadow skills. She’s already saved several adventurers. She’s a good fit for the Army, if a bit hot headed.”

Now it was Erick’s turn to be stunned.

She’s really going to be okay, isn’t she?

Erick said, “Thanks for taking care of her.”

Killzone nodded, stepped back, and blipped away.

Anhelia said, “I’m glad I told him about the blacklights. That was just adorable.”

Al called out from the other room, “How do you make this coffee, Erick!”

Erick rushed into the dining room to start making coffee.

- - - -

Erick sat with Silverite on the porch while people talked in the garden in front of them. Silverite had her blacklight in her chest, almost completely occluded by her body, and her clothes.

Erick asked, “What happened in the Great Purge?”

Silverite breathed, then said, “I fucked up.” She went quiet. She said, “In those days, there were many more Shades than today. Usually over two hundred. Three hundred, sometimes. We were killing them every other week, but more would show up just as fast. For hundreds of years it was a game for them, and, I admit, for us, too. Some adventurer from Spur would kill a Shade and the other Shades would laugh at whoever got taken down, and then the rest would forcefully recruit from whoever they could capture.

“Someone arose that challenged the Shades too much. This was the start of the problems, though we never saw it as a problem in those days.” She got a far off look in her eyes, as she said, “He killed Shades by the dozens. More were dying than they could forcefully recruit. When they did try to find victims, he was there, and he killed them for their evil. Eventually, this man’s actions galvanized their society. A separate, infighting, immortal-except-for-idiocy society, became whole. Fractured factions banded together. The man was still tearing through them all, of course. Nothing they did mattered.

“I’d love to blame the Great Purge on the Dark Dragon, but all that Void did was stand in the background while a hundred Shades simply avoided the man, and killed Spur instead. The man, for all his power, could not defend against a hundred Avatars of the Dark Dragon.”

Silverite said, “One hundred and four years later, we don’t kill Shades unless we have to, and they stay inside their city. It’s a very simple truce: If we attack in force, they kill people who can’t get away, and if we do normal adventuring, they don’t force people to become Shades. Bulgan was actually the first person in ten years to become a Shade.”

“What happened to the man? The one who killed Shades?”

Silverite sighed, “He went away.”

- - - -

Erick sat in the second dining room with Mog, Al, and a twenty pound plate of fries that had been forty pounds when Mog set it down twenty minutes ago. One almost-empty keg sat to the side.

And Erick had just said something strange.

“You thought I was 30!” Mog laughed, “How could you possibly think I was 30?”

“Blame it on your goddess!” Erick pointed at Al, “Al looks like’s hes 30, too, except for the little bit of grey. How old are you, Al?”

“48. I think.” Al looked up and away, in the middle of sipping his tenth beer. “Is that right?” Al shouted behind him. “Savral!”

Savral sat with Bacci in the loveseat in a corner of the room. He looked away from her, to yell at Al, “What!”

“How old am I?”

“You’re 50! And drunk!” Savral returned to sharing a moment with Bacci. She giggled, as Savral whispered something too quiet for Erick to hear.

“Get a room!” Erick shouted, “In your own house!”

Mog giggled, downing her twelfth beer. She said, “I’m 46, Erick! Two years younger than you.”

Erick rushed to change the conversation. “Either of you know about the guy who caused the Great Purge?”

“It’s one of the wroughts in town.” Al said, dismissive. “It has to be Killzone.”

“It’s not him!” Mog declared, “It’s Silverite, for sure, back when she was ‘he’.”

Savral yelled, “You’re both wrong. It’s—”

Bacci pulled Savral’s face back to her. Erick looked away.

“Why do you ask?” Al sipped his beer.

“It just sounded interesting.”

“You know what’s interesting?” Mog smiled, pressing her huge muscular arms against her equally ample chest, nearly spilling herself out of her slippery, silky red dress. “That this dress holds up this well. What do you think about this dress, Erick?”

Al chimed in, “Oh no no no! He and I have a promised date when he reaches level 50.”

Mog shrugged. “I’m comfortable having two boyfriends.”

Al laughed loud.

Erick had a plan, going into this conversation, but…

“I’ll have to talk to you later.”

Erick stood, pushing down his obvious enjoyment of this particular scenario, much to Mog’s and Al’s delight, and promptly rushed out of the room. There were too many balls in the air—

No. Um...

Too many assets to juggle—

Not right either.

Too many crushingly important investigations, with depths in need of plumbing and hard, so hard, problems that needed gentle, loving massaging—

NOPE.

Too many people to talk to.

Sure. Let’s go with that.

- - - -

“The wind tells me many things, Erick.” Krakina drank coffee in the moonlights and the glows of the house lights. “They talk all funny these days, though… Your rain is nice. I love the lightning! Boom! Crash! But magic formed by the hands of people is not the most natural thing on this world. It confuses the wind.”

“I heard. Sorry about that.”

Krakina shook her head. “The good outweighs the bad. Spur is green! I have gold. I am satisfied.” She took a deep breath of night air, holding her coffee cup in one wing-hand, flexing the other wing out, feeling the dark air of the human district. “Are you satisfied?”

“No.”

Krakina withdrew her hand from the dark, laughing loud. “What! How! Look at your house! Look at the city! It glows! It grows. This is because of you!”

Erick said, “I would like my daughter not to get herself killed. If there was a way to empty the Dead City of Shades, then I’d like that to happen, for sure.”

“Phhbt!” Krakina said, “Your daughter is as thickheaded as they come. If you stopped one terror she would run around the world, trying to find another. She is like Ikawa! My granddaughter wants rid the Crystal Forest of mimics! Foolish children, chasing impossible dreams.”

Erick smiled. “But that’s what kids do, and it makes me feel young again to be around them. 20 Vitality certainly helps, too.”

Krakina cackled. “That’s right! You’re planar! Do they truly have no magic where you are from?”

“None that I knew about, but there had to be some, right? I mean. I’m here, now, talking to you. Technology certainly didn’t get me here.”

A breeze blew across the yard.

Krakina sighed out, happy and content. “The wind is telling me you are trouble. That the world is balanced, right now. It’s not a great balance for everyone, sure. But balance does exist, and we are in an age of balance. Don’t go poking too hard at my reality, Particle Mage.”

Erick stared into the darkness, alongside Krakina, both of them sipping their coffee.

- - - -

Maia slurred, “Yoouuu ned to go to Oshen-sad. Headmamer wants to kill all Shads, tao.”

Erick said, “I’ve heard from multiple sources that concentrated attacks on the Shades is bad.”

“Dey’re dum degelodaniacs! Yoush get one fight other! Do all da work of killsing demselves, demselves.”

“That is one idea.” Erick looked over to Eduard, slurring his speech at Ramizi, whose hand was in Eduard’s pants. “I think another idea is you three go home. You’re drunk.”

Maia shouted, “I’M NOT DUNK!” She muttered, “Otay. Aybe ‘m dunk.” She threw both hands wide. “BUT I GOT THIS! [CLEANSE]!”

