Thick air spilled out of her, and Eduard, and Ramizi.

All three of them blinked. Ramizi instantly pulled his hands out of Eduard’s pants.

Maia groaned into her hands. “I’m so sorry, Archmage.”

Eduard shuffled off with Ramizi and Maia in tow.

“Wait!” Erick stopped them before they got all the way gone. “Take some potatoes! And some ice cream— Icies.”

Eduard paused. “… You have icies?”

Ramizi laughed. “I want icies.”

Eduard smacked Ramizi, but not that hard.

- - - -

Erick spotted Anhelia, still enjoying her blacklight, but now standing at the balcony railing of the second floor veranda. She was alone. An open bottle of quicksilver sat on the railing, while half an iron bar sat on a nearby stone table. The moons shone overhead. Anhelia fluoresced purple; brighter than the wardlight streamers strung around the house.

Erick walked to her.

Anhelia spoke before Erick could, her back still turned to him. “You’ve finally decided to come to the information source, have you? A girl would think you were teasing her, talking to everyone else first.” She turned and looked behind Erick. “And you’ve lost your ‘bodyguard’.”

Erick sidled up to the railing. The successful garden was on the other side of the house; there was no one below to witness his conversation with Anhelia. A quick check with Meditation revealed no eyes in the air, either. He had already popped several eyes since the start of tonight's events; none of them reappeared.

“I wasn’t sure what I was going to ask, before now.” Erick looked at the blacklight stone on the top of her hand. “I also didn’t know what I was going to offer as payment, until I realized we’re overbalanced.”

Anhelia smiled. “Personally, this will get you a lot of answers. Professionally, I can only talk like this a few times without being seen as playing favorites.”

“I’m torn between asking after who thinks you play favorites, why that would matter, and asking what I came here to know.” Erick looked down across the darkened district, toward the wall and the houses to the south. The wardlights of the city twinkled in the darkness. “And between just enjoying the night with friends.”

“Now you are teasing me.”

“Maybe.”

Anhelia smirked. She said, “If Shades were truly monsters, they wouldn’t be able to do anything but kill. But since they can do things like threaten, and coordinate, and even have a society —however wretched it is— they’re only monsters in the technical and psychological sense. They’re the worst people you’ve ever known, but gifted with vast amounts of stolen power by an ancient terror, with no limits on how they use that power except for one commandment from their god: Keep Ar’Kendrithyst under his control.”

She stared out into the darkness.

She said, “The Dark Dragon has only ever rescinded his command once, and that was during the Great Purge. Some would say you would need to bargain with the source of the Shades in order to clear Ar’Kendrithyst. Others say you’d need to kill dozens of Shades, and then kill him when he appeared in defense of his interests.”

“Do you know what he wants?”

Anhelia smiled softly, then not at all. “The Shades say the Dark Dragon holds a terrible truth about the Sundering and the Script, and until an ancient injustice is rectified, the Shades are here to stay. Others say that he captured some fragment of the Old Cosmology and he uses it like any delusional megalomaniac would; for more and more power, built on more and more lies and lives. All I know is that Shades lie all the time, about anything and everything, and if the Dark Dragon cared about anyone or anything, he wouldn’t murder everyone he meets.”

Erick had no idea what to say to that. Melemizargo didn’t murder him or Jane.

But he wasn’t about to bring that up, not here, not to her, not to anyone.

Anhelia looked south, and then up. Erick followed her gaze. Ar’Kendrithyst was a black void below a star filled sky.

“My grandmother used to live there, you know? Back before it became the abomination it is today. The original fighting only lasted three months because the Dark Dragon destroyed some fundamental structure, and the city rose from the Underworld. A quarter of a billion people perished all at once.” Anhelia turned to Erick. “If you want someone to help you kill the Shades, or even just one or two, I’ll help. The Shades have killed my grandmother, my mother, and too many of my children for me to think about right now. We could murder one, or two. Ten to forty. Ideally I want to kill every single one of them, and then the Dark Dragon, too. Killing a single one is exceedingly difficult, but you and I? We could do it with just the two of us…” She looked away. “…Maybe.”

Erick said, "But the reprisal...”

She nodded. “Yes. The reprisal.”

Erick stared at the night.

Anhelia eventually said, “Bulgan’s death is assured. All he has to do is show himself, and Spur will rally to kill him. All of the other Shades will stand back and watch as Spur does it, too. Might even cheer us on.”

“… how do we get that confrontation, and how do we ensure we win?”

“If I were a betting woman, I would bet on you being the key factor to that, somehow. Some way. If you figure something out and you need my help, I’m available for this, all the way.” She smiled sadly, “But these kinds of conversations are best kept quiet. Your main detractors for any sort of grand plan are Silverite, Zago, strangely enough Mog, and even stranger: Killzone. Though you won’t get those stories out of me. I have to think about my own position in this world.”

Erick nodded.

- - - -

Vanilla Icies were served, though Erick insisted on calling them vanilla ice creams. The ice cream was a major hit, but the only reason for that was because of the vanilla. It had been a very short hop from ‘Erick beans’, as the farmers had called them, to vanilla beans. Ratchet already had her vanilla clippings, but several other people wanted some, too.

Erick gave them away. He gave away quite a lot, that night. Some unexpectedly priceless things, some spices he knew were priceless, as well as enough of everything else to cover the true nature of the evening.

Erick was planting seeds, in some cases quite literally, in preparation for a future harvest.

Some people saw through Erick’s machinations. Silverite, Anhelia, and Krakina, for sure.

Others had their own agendas. Zago wanted Erick’s knowledge, Ratchet wanted his spices, Ulrick wanted various things from everyone at the party who was not Erick, and even Eduard wanted something. Eduard saw the vanilla icies and talked about the future.

Valok was totally on board with Erick’s potatoes, though. Someone would want to grow them, and Valok knew the right people for all of that. Valok also knew the proprietors of almost every restaurant in Spur, too. Potatoes would be on many menus by the end of the week.

Jane would be thrilled.

- - - -

Irogh showed up after everyone else had already gone home, wearing his normal clothes and walking with unearthly grace, through the open door of Erick’s house, then into the dining room where Erick and Rats were cleaning the remains of the spread; there wasn’t much food left at all.

Not much, but there was still some food remaining. Rats promptly dropped the only dish that held all the remaining mashed potatoes. White mush went everywhere.

Teressa rushed into the room. She saw the mess and swore, “Dammit, Rats!”

“Sorry!” Rats squeaked.

“It’s okay. It’s okay.” Erick dropped a [Cleanse] across the ground, then Handy Aura’d the dish together. One [Mend] later, the baking dish was good as new. Erick set the dish down, then turned to Irogh. “Hey! Welcome! Let me make you some fries.”

Irogh smiled. “I didn’t come for food.”

Erick turned to the storage room. He frowned. “I’d offer you vanilla icies, but that’s all gone, too.” He turned to Irogh. “Why didn’t you come sooner? Everyone was here.”

“Rozeta told me to wait till the end.”

Rats would have dropped another plate, had Erick not already had his Handy Aura out and active. Erick placed the plate back on the table, but he didn’t get a chance to say anything to Rats, because Rats vacated the room. Teressa and Poi also left. In seconds, Erick was alone with Irogh in the dining room.

Eventually, Irogh said, “How goes your plan to rid the world of Shades?”

“… Do you know more about the guy who killed enough Shades to make Melemizargo let them off their leash, to attack Spur?”

Irogh remained silent.

“That’s a ‘I can’t tell you’?” Erick frowned. “How about: How did they do it?”

“That is a dead end of inquiry. You have your methods, why haven’t you put the pieces together? What are you waiting for?”

“Because even if I did do this all on my own I would fail, or trigger another Great Purge. I don’t want to do either of those, and I’m only one man.”

“Then enlist help.”

“I’m working on that.”

“Why am I here, Erick? And don’t say ‘doesn’t she know?’. Deities are allowed to be cryptic; when mortals are cryptic it’s just tiring for everyone involved.”

Erick frowned. “What is Melemizargo’s ancient truth about the Sundering and the Script?”

Irogh immediately said, “He claims that if the Script were destroyed, he could revert the New Cosmology back to the Old. Of course, he omits the fact that this is not guaranteed to work, would probably fail, and either way, everyone would die. Except for him and maybe his Shades.”

Erick breathed out, trying to take all of that in. “Does he have the power to do such a thing?”

“Not directly he doesn’t, and he never did.” Irogh said, “So he tries to kill all the wrought he can, in order to destabilize the Script at its base. If he were to succeed in killing the species that sustains the Script, then the Script would fall apart, all on its own. This would lead to a series of catastrophes, the first of which would likely be the Mana Ocean of Veird blowing away on cosmic wind as the surface is scoured of all life.”

Erick felt existential dread blooming. He tried to crush that horrific emotion.

Erick tried to change the topic, “… Is that why he teleported Jane and I into the sky, here? Instead of kill us? Because we’re not wrought?”

Irogh said, “You tell me: Do you really think he spared you, at all? Melemizargo saw two innocent people pop out of a tunnel from another world, and then he sent them up here, to his largest stronghold on Veird. Jane immediately goes into Ar’Kendrithyst as one of the brightest martial talents Spur has seen in a generation, while the other contributes a whole new school of magic to the Script. Both of you genuinely want to kill Bulgan, and everyone in the town does, too.” Irogh stressed, “The Dark Dragon’s plots are never kind, or direct, least of all to his own Shades.”

Erick’s anger spiked.

Erick said, “I’m not a pawn of the Dark Dragon.”

Irogh said, “No one in Spur thinks you are. I don’t think you are. The gods don’t think you are, either. But your words have power, and power corrupts more often than not.”

“You’re wrong. Power reveals.”

Irogh paused. He read the air for the briefest of moments.

Irogh grinned at Erick. He nodded. “That might be true, too.” He looked to the open door to the storage room. “I can’t stay, but I’d love some potatoes. You just fry them in oil, right?”

The heavy moment passed, like a shadow in the night.

Erick smiled, saying, “Yup! Let me get you some to take home.”

- - - -

Killzone sat on the edge of the bowl of his stone bed, in his room in the very pinnacle of the kendrithyst spike that was Forward Base. The room was ringed in uninterrupted windows, giving him an unobstructed full view of the upper layer of Ar’Kendrithyst. The lights of the moons draped the land in pink and silver light, glinting off and through massive crystal spikes and bridges as far as the eye could see.

Wrought didn’t see with their eyes, though. They saw with their whole bodies, and the glowgem [Ward] —the blacklight— sitting on the table in front of Killzone, in front of his entire, radiant purple body, was the second most beautiful thing Killzone had ever seen. ‘Blacklight’, as Erick called it, was magnificent. Only one secretive people down in the Underworld, known as the Gemslicers, made these, and they didn’t make them for just anyone. They made ‘blacklights’ for the crowns of kings and queens, to give legitimacy to lineages and opulence to thrones. Wars had been fought over blacklights. Dynasties toppled. Lives and loves lost, for all time. All for beautiful trinkets.

And land and power, of course.

But the stories, the rumors, the news, had always been about the glowgems; the completely useless blacklights.

Killzone stared at the stone for a while longer, answering telepathic questions and orchestrating solutions to developing problems, but none of the problems laid at his feet were that serious; he could stare at the stone a while longer. He could dream.

He could remember.

He could laugh as a planar Archmage toppled a priceless, bloody currency.

When he was done, he picked up the stone. He held it for a moment. He wrapped the stone in a black cloth and put that cloth into a stone box, then he tossed that box into a drawer in his desk. He shut the drawer. He thought no more of his old life, down there in the Underworld, where he had been a very different person with a very different future, until a Shade came to his geode, and everything changed.

Killzone sent to Jane, ‘If you want to go Bulgan hunting, let’s go’.

Jane’s reply came almost instantly, ‘Absolutely, yes!’

- - - -

Erick didn’t want to wake up so damn early, but he had to. He had to go back to Mog’s adventuring classes. He had missed too many days already.

Draz, the ‘drill sargent’ incani who ran the class, dressed Erick down in front of everyone with as much politically polite vitriol as he could possibly muster.

There were much fewer people in the class; only 4 had stuck around till day 10. Greenscale Kiri, from the Greensoil Republic, was still there, along with Zimmy Saker, the [Force Shrapnel] girl. Erick didn’t know the others; one crimsonscale male, one young long haired blond orcol woman. Kiri greeted Erick. The others did not.

When sparring began, Kiri promptly flipped Erick onto his face. Most of the rest of the day proceeded with Erick’s face smashed into the sand in various, uncomfortable ways, until mid afternoon, when Draz announced a change.

“Time to head into the Crystal Forest. I’m going to see how you all kill mimics—” Draz looked directly at Erick, to say, “Without your fancy spells.”

