Renir's angry growl didn't go unnoticed by Aenir, but he nonetheless smiled jovially. "Let's talk inside."

Liora hesitated. She could see the orchid they needed just some distance away in the garden. It would be easy to snatch the plant and leave. But something told her that this time Aenir wouldn't let her leave so easily. If this mage wanted to stop her, then she had no doubt that he had a way of doing so.

She looked down at Renir. This time, she would refer to his judgment. Whether he wanted to follow Aenir or just grab the flower and leave, Liora would do it. Only this time, though.

Renir looked up at her, then turned his gaze back to Aenir. "Very well."

Liora nodded and followed Aenir into the palace, up to his fancy magic room. She honestly expected Renir to gush and rave about the magical paraphernalia at least a little, but to his credit, Renir remained just as cold as his exterior.

As soon as the door behind them closed, Aenir burst into laughter.

"I…I can't believe it! Y-You've actually been turned into a gem! HAHAHAHA!" Aenir wheezed, literal tears coming out of his eyes from how hard he was laughing.

Liora could feel annoyance radiating off Renir in waves. "This is why I didn't want him to know."

"Look at your little arms! And those stubby little legs. How adorable! You should get a little hat too. It would suit you well," Aenir continued, laughing.

"Yes, haha. Very funny. You are so inventive, Aenir," Renir said. "I suppose if all you wanted to do was make fun of me, then Liora and I will be on our way."

"No, no, wait…" Aenir wiped the tears from his eyes. "Sorry, I'll stop."

"Oh, really?"

Aenir looked at Renir, his cheeks puffed out as he tried to hold his laughter. After a moment, he let out a chortle.

"Liora!"

"Aye, aye!" Liora said, opening her wings.

"No, I'll stop. Seriously. Let's talk things out. We have a lot of things to catch up on."

"Yeah, like the fact that you murdered our mother," Renir spat venomously.

Aenir's smile finally faded, and he regarded Renir with a pained expression. "You know that's not what happened. It was either you or her. Do you seriously think I could ever look Mother in the eyes if I sacrificed you to save her? It's what she wanted."

"Have you ever considered that there was a way for us both to survive?!" Renir shouted.

Aenir let out a long sigh. "Despite the many years, you're still as naive as a young boy. We cannot save everyone. Sometimes sacrifices have to be made."

"You didn't even try!"

"And risk losing you too? I don't care that you hate me, Renir. I will never regret saving your life that day, no matter how much you curse at me."

Heavy silence descended in the room as two brothers glared at each other. Liora really wanted to know what exactly had happened, but at the same time the atmosphere was so oppressive that she didn't dare to open her beak.

What kind of situation would force Aenir to choose between the life of either his mother or brother? It seemed like a cruel choice. Was there even a right answer to such a choice? Was there really a way to save them both? Liora didn't know; neither did she dare to ask for clarification.

Perhaps Renir would tell her one day, but she would certainly not pry that information out of him. Clearly it was a topic that hurt him a lot.

"So what do you want from me?" Renir finally spat.

"From you? Absolutely nothing. I was actually hoping to help you break the seals. If you could let me examine you—"

"Absolutely not."

"You're just being stubborn," Aenir shook his head.

"Why should I trust you?"

"Because I'm your brother? I want to help you."

"You misled and used MY magpie," Renir accused, wiggling his stubby arm angrily.

"What?" Aenir blinked.

"I told him everything you made me do!" Liora squawked.

"I didn't make you do anything. You looked eager to steal all that jewelry," Aenir shrugged.

"Oh, yeah, same as stealing the water crystal from the antkin. That was certainly an idea Liora came up with on her own," Renir growled.

"I merely steered her thought process in the right direction. But you must have seen what is going on in this country. People are dying every day because there's no water. It's them or the ants," Aenir said, growing more serious.

"And what gives you the right to decide that human life is more valuable than antkin life? There are tens of thousands of antkin living in the underground anthill, and they depend on those water crystals. You must have known that. I can forgive Liora for not understanding the ramifications. She's a bit of a birdbrain," Renir said.

"Hey!" Liora looked at Renir incredulously.

"It's okay, dear. This guy deliberately withheld information from you. It's not your fault," Renir said, and she settled down.

"So you suggest I just leave all these people to die just to protect the ants?" Aenir furrowed his eyebrows, actually looking angry.

"You do not have the right to take away their water crystals."

"It is for the sake of the people!"

"Have you ever bothered to find another solution?" Renir growled. "By the high magic, you never change. You believe that you have to sacrifice one in order to save the other. Have you never even considered that there was a way to restore the natural flow of the river?"

"You think I haven't looked. I… I cannot fix that! It's impossible."

Renir paused. "What do you mean by that? You found something?"

Aenir sat down in the chair. "The water actually isn't gone. The river still flows… if it can be called that."

"Oh, stop being so cryptic and explain," Renir growled impatiently.

Liora flew up to the table where Aenir sat, so they wouldn't have to shout at each other across the room.

"The river originates in the Titanspike Mountains. I went up the stream as far as I could, but ultimately I couldn't reach the origin. The water flowing through the mountains… it's corrupted. The best I could do was stop it from flowing further and harming the people."

"Corrupted?" Liora exclaimed in shock. No, it couldn't be… Did those Night Order jerks cause trouble here too? She was quite honestly getting sick of them at this point. Well, she had been sick of them for a long time now.

"Yes. Renir, I'm sure you're familiar with corrupted monsters, are you not?" Aenir asked.

"Oh, Liora and I both have become intimately acquainted with the assholes causing the corruption. But surely you should be able to deal…" Renir suddenly trailed off. "You lost your connection to holy magic, haven't you?"

Aenir nodded. "It was part of the price to save you. I cannot cleanse the corruption, and frankly, even if I could, unless the source itself was purified, it wouldn't make a difference. But as you are well aware, getting up Titanspike Mountain is basically impossible."

"Why impossible? Wouldn't following the river lead you to the source?" Liora asked.

"The source is at the peak of the Titanspike Mountains," Aenir said.

"So?" Liora asked. "Just fly up? You mages know all sorts of fancy spells, don't you? I've seen mages levitate up a mountain before."

"External magic doesn't work in the Titanspike Mountains. For some reason, all mana outside of a person's body instantly gets sucked into the mountain," Renir explained.

"So I wouldn't be able to use Holy Light or Purification?"

"No, but you are still perfectly equipped to tackle this problem. The mana within your body will still work just fine. That means any of your physical attacks combined with Holy Light and Purification will work."

Liora blinked, then laughed. "Chak-chak-chak! Chak-chak-chak! Oh, fine, I'll guess I'll just have to go and kick some Night Order butts again. I pretty much do it every Friday at this point."

"What are the two talking about?" Aenir blinked. "This magpie can use holy magic? That's impossible!"

"You, Aenir, do not understand just how magnificently powerful Liora is! She specifically evolved to counter corruption and everything related to it. Not to mention that, unlike us, she can simply fly up the mountain," Renir said.

"You think your bird will be able to do it too? You can't be sure of that. It hasn't been tested before," Aenir said stubbornly.

"No, but it is certainly worth trying, rather than slaughtering a whole colony of antkin. They are intelligent beings for fuck's sake," Renir growled.

Liora thought about it. It appeared that to solve this large-scale problem, they would have to get involved in a battle. Well, obviously, they could just fly away and ignore it all.

But it was not the humans' fault that the river had gone dry. Neither was it the antkin's fault that they had the one thing that could save the humans. You couldn't blame them for defending their home. Both sides fought for a good reason; neither was wrong.

The wrong party turned out to be the asshole mages who sowed chaos everywhere they went. If there was going to be a battle, then it was best that the suffering party was the one that caused the trouble in the first place.

In fact, Liora had made up her mind.

"If you attack the antkin, I shall fight you!" Liora said, and turned into her dracoryx form, looming over the sitting Aenir. Sure, he was Level 150, but appearance-wise, Liora definitely looked more intimidating and cooler.

"If you stand in my way, I—"

"If you hurt so much as a feather on Liora's head, I'll become your sworn enemy!" Renir announced.

"Brother, surely you are exaggerating. Think about the bigger picture; there are far more people in the Azhar Sultanate than there are antkin in that—"

"I don't care. I've told you my conditions. I will not choose between two evils. Liora and I will eradicate this problem at its source. All you have to do is not get in the way."

Liora nodded in agreement.

Aenir let out a long sigh. "This little brother of mine. Well, if you believe that Liora can purify the corruption at its source, I certainly won't stop you from trying. But are you sure she's ready to face what's in the Titanspike Mountains?"

"Of course, I can—" Liora straightened proudly, but got interrupted by Renir.

"No."

"What?" She looked at him incredulously.

"Sorry, dear. You really can't. You would need to be a higher tier to fight the monsters living there. But there's a way we could handle it," Renir said.

"What way?" Aenir asked.

"Break another of my seals. The last ingredient we need just so happens to be in your garden."

"You think regaining a bit of your magic will be enough to offset her weakness?" Aenir scoffed. "You won't be able to use magic in the mountains."

"No, that's why you're going to break another one of the seals. I know your talent for incantations. One of the seals requires an incantation to break, and I believe it wouldn't be too difficult for you to do it."

"So in the end, you're willing to lean on your brother after all?" Aenir asked.

"I'll do what's necessary for the best possible result, where people don't have to suffer," Renir spat.

The two stared at each other for a while, then Aenir shrugged. "I still believe that you are being naive, brother, but I will not fault you for trying. I'll do what I must to help you and your magpie."

"Good. Liora and I will grab one of your orchids and go break the next seal. We'll return tomorrow after we're rested to break another part of the seal. No, actually, make it after two days."

"Do not take too long, brother. The Sultan is growing more anxious by the day. If he orders me to retrieve the water crystal from the antkin, I will."

"Tell him you're looking to restore the river, not just blindly do what the old man tells you. I'm going to bring my team into this too," Renir said.

"Your team?" Aenir and Liora asked at the same time. Although Aenir was confused, while Liora was annoyed that he would dare to call it his team. If anything, it was Liora's team.

"Oh, you're going to love them. Although you will come up with a better hiding spot."

Aenir hummed. "Very well. I'll prepare something on the outskirts of the capital. I'll mark it so this little thief can find it."

"Good. Let's go, Liora."

Liora turned back into her magpie form and flew out the window. She threw one last glance at Aenir, who, to her surprise, was smiling.

He mouthed a quiet "thank you" to her, looking genuinely pleased. Was it because she brought Renir to him?

She didn't quite know. She just hoped that they would be able to solve the issue with the corrupted river before a true war broke out between antkin and humans.