Stint set an arrow to his bow, drawing as Dust began to angle to run past the enemies, giving him a clear shot while keeping them out of range. He loosed, targeting the woman and using Seeker Shot to eliminate the difficulty of aiming from horseback. Steam rose from his arrow as it glowed with Vanna’s magic, but to his surprise, the projectile barely even curved, hissing off into the rain.

Arcane Resistance.

“Go on ahead,” the woman said in an exceptionally high-pitched and oddly accented voice as she calmly watched it sail past. “I’ll finish here.”

“Adamant Unbending,” said the man busy slinging Mereck over his shoulder.

“Adamant Unbending,” the woman replied, the words almost lost under Vanna’s cry of protest.

Stint, having drawn a fresh arrow, loosed at the third enemy, hoping it was just the woman that was protected. He used Seeker Shot again, actually making an effort to aim this time. His hopes rose as the bolt curved sharply, only to sink like stones in a pond as the man he’d targeted uncrossed his arms and plucked the steaming arrow out of the air. Like it was nothing.

Pulling down his veil to grin at Stint, the Adamant soldier spun the still-glowing arrow between two fingers until the magic faded. He casually tossed it away before Stint could draw another. A moment later, a bizarre ripple seemed to flow through the air, and a haze of darkness swallowed both him and his companion, taking Mereck with them. The haze shifted, beginning to flow rapidly off into the night.

“Stint!” Vanna shouted, pointing after the cloud, but then she yelped and slashed defensively as the dagger wielder danced away after an aborted lunge.

“I’d be worrying about yourself, girly,” the high-pitched voice said, filled with mirth and somehow carrying such utter disdain that it sent a shiver running through Stint’s blood despite the magic warming him. The Adamant casually stepped aside, seemingly for no reason, and Samson’s blade speared through the space she’d been standing. The Swordsman had switched off his light and approached in silence, but it clearly hadn’t fooled the woman. She was smiling as she engaged him in a ringing flurry of blows, each movement too fast for Stint to make out, Samson’s sword glowing white in the rain as he interspersed Light Cut with his other attacks. Nothing made it through. The exchange ended with Samson stumbling back, his hood flapping wildly. It had been slashed free on one side, baring his helmeted head to the rain.

“Tsk, too shallow,” the woman said, almost contemptuously batting aside a swipe from Vanna, who’d been waiting for an opening. A wave of force sent raindrops flying at the meeting of red-glowing aluminum and dark steel. The woman spared Vanna an unconcerned glance before returning her attention to Samson. “Not bad for a little guy.”

“Stint, they’re gone!” Samson called, ignoring the taunt as he circled slowly toward Vanna. “Help us!”

Stint cursed, sparing one last glance for the departing cloud and nudging Dust with his knees into a wider circle around the square, weaving between the injured as they fled the tent. He drew back an arrow, intent on trying Drilling Shot this time. Before he found an angle that wouldn’t endanger his companions, crimson light bloomed on the horizon, and a colossal detonation reverberated through the air.

“Ah ah ah,” the Adamant scolded, blurring forward. Vanna cried out, her sword clattering to the ground as she stumbled back, clutching her arm. “Eyes on me, girly.”

“Vanna!” Samson cried as the Adamant laughed.

“Oh, flakes, not much time left to play,” the woman said as another explosion lit up the night, catching Samson’s two-handed strike with one dagger and stabbing straight for his face with the other.

Samson somehow managed to get out of the way. Seeing his chance, Stint loosed, but the motion of Dust beneath him threw off his aim. The Adamant didn’t even bother to dodge as his shot went hilariously wide, turning her head to look at him. “Really?”

Somewhere, a bell began to ring, then another, as if anyone could have possibly still been asleep at this point. Vanna managed to get back to her feet, clutching a bloody arm with one hand, her sword forgotten. The Adamant was soon forced to engage Samson again as the short nobleman marched forward.

More booms shook the sky, and a white flash of some other magic accompanied a crackling roar that drowned out the screams of the panicked townsfolk.

“Hit me!” Samson called, disengaging and skidding to a stop next to Vanna. She quickly took her arm from her injury, grimacing and pressing it against his back. The Adamant, not content to just let her do such a thing, had dashed forward, but Stint was ready with another arrow. He loosed, this time timing it properly to his horse’s motion, and the Adamant had to stop abruptly to slash the shaft out of the sky.

“Tsk,” she said, giving him a dirty look. “So you can aim.”

Samson had dove back in, his sword now glowing crimson and his hits landing with waves of force, and for the first time, the Adamant was properly forced on the defensive. It looked like the stacked power of Concussive Blows and Inner Fire was forcing her to rely less on finesse and more on speed to get out of the way. Each time she blocked, the force of the impact sent her stumbling back.

That wasn’t to say it had become one-sided, however. Far from it. Stint didn’t see the woman’s dagger move, but he heard Samson’s grunt of surprise as he staggered back, backpedaling for distance and clutching at a slash in his armor.

“Poisoned!” he called out, panting for breath as he fumbled at his belt for a potion.

“Like I’ll give you time,” the woman said, laughing and dashing after him.

Stint muttered a curse. Knowing that what he had to do would hurt, and also that he couldn’t risk another miss, he swung one leg up atop the saddle, using one hand to pull the flashlighter from his head, taking his cloak along with it. With awakened strength, he pushed himself up in a mighty leap, making Dust stagger. In mid-air, free of the jostling at last, he drew, taking the shot just before he struck the slick cobblestones with a grunt. His weak leg buckled, and he collapsed, but the pain wasn’t enough to overpower his surge of satisfaction.

“Ah!” the Adamant cried, the Drilling Arrow taking her directly between the eyes, mid-lunge. Samson’s attempted block smoothly became a strike that blasted her back hard enough to lift her from the ground. When she landed, however, she barely even stumbled, an expression of rage on her face. The only sign of damage from the arrow was a red welt on her forehead. Likewise, Samson’s slash had torn the fabric covering her upper arm, but the pale skin that had been revealed was unbroken.

“That fucking hurt!” she yelled, taking an aggressive step forward. Then, for some reason, she stopped and screeched at the sky like an irate seagull. “Yes, Olet, it’s my own fucking fault! Would you kindly just shut the fuck up about it!? I just wanted to have a little fun! Wait, WHAT!? WHAT DO YOU MEAN THEY’RE DEAD?!”

“Shoot her!” Vanna cried urgently, motioning to Stint with her good arm.

“I’m working on it!” Stint cried back. He’d only just managed to get himself back up, his leg spasming as he raised his bow. At his movement, the Adamant’s eyes snapped down from the sky and onto him, her expression deadly-serious and without even a shred of the sadistic playfulness it had previously held. Then she...moved...and...

He couldn’t take his eyes away.

“Don’t look!” Samson shouted, his voice from a thousand leagues away. Stint’s bow tumbled from his numb fingers as his vision narrowed to focus solely on the woman’s blades, making sinuous trails as she dragged them through the air. She was coming to him now, gliding rapidly closer with unearthly grace.

All he could do was watch.

No...

No, that isn’t true...

He reached up, pulling his collar away and tilting his head upward.

I can bare my neck for her. Make it easy for her to slice—

The spell broke with a roar, as if the raindrops had been stunned along with him and had then fallen all at once. The sudden rush of sound wasn’t that, though. It was accompanied by blinding flashes of light, Arcane lightning dancing around him and making his hair stand on end. Rather than striking him, however, it girded itself around him, sheltering him.

He still screamed in terror, of course.

He wasn’t the only one. Loudest by far was the tortured wail of the Adamant woman, though it cut off abruptly after not even a second, as if the air had frozen in her lungs.

On and on, the crackle of the lightning roared, until it gently began to fade. And then it was gone, winking out and leaving his body with a sharp shock. It was far worse than anything he’d ever felt from the flashlighter, though he only took a few points of damage.

His ears were left ringing, and his eyes were webbed with glowing afterimages. The latter didn’t stop him from seeing the hulking figure standing beside Dust near the reservoir’s edge.

Is...? Is that...?

Rain wasn’t wearing his armor, but it was him. There was no question about it. Even more unexpected than his appearance was that he was wearing Mereck like an enormous backpack, as if the pudgy man weighed no more than a child. The healer looked sick, clinging on for dear life, but he was alive, with Dozer sitting atop his head for some reason, like a bizarre, gelatinous hat.

“Rain!” Vanna cried, not in surprise, but in warning.

Stint looked up, following her finger, and thus it was that he got a good look at the Meteor plummeting directly toward him.

Ah, shit.
