None of them had spoken a single word from start to end, but merely attacked with a clear intent to kill. She didn’t even have time to consider why they were there, what their true purpose was, or how she could possibly get herself and the mortals out of this situation.

All she could do was fight back as best as possible against superior numbers and power. Things got even worse when a sixth person appeared, attempting to break into the vessel granted by Yggdrasil. This new god gave off an aura even more powerful than the five other gods, and she was lucky the person didn’t join the fight.

Still, their appearance put Artemis on an even worse timer.

While the vessel was incredibly durable, capable of handling attacks from Godkings and Godqueens without problem, it could still be broken into if given enough time and effort, and, going by the way the surface was cracking and melting after not even a minute, this new god had specialized skills to break through its defenses.

Trying to get some kind of opportunity, Artemis attempted to severely injure one of the Ninth Circle gods with the hope it would make their allies hesitate, but despite her success, the other gods completely ignored their comrade and took the opportunity to surround her.

Unable to dodge the next barrage of attacks, Artemis took minor damage, but she knew that even if she was capable of surviving this, it wouldn’t do those stuck in the vessel any good.

She also quickly realized that they weren’t after her life in the first place. She was just an obstacle they had to deal with getting to someone – likely Jake – within the vessel. As she was still trying to find a solution of her own, with time running out more than ever, she heard the god at the vessel speak loudly for them all to hear.

“I’m glad you finally saw sense.”

The gods attacking Artemis stopped for a moment. She whipped her head around and, to her shock, saw that Jake had opened the entrance to the vessel and stood just inside the barrier, still protected from the void but within grasp of the god. Breaking that barrier would only take a few seconds at most, effectively leaving Jake fully exposed.

Looking at the scene, Artemis realized her calculations had been severely off and that the god had nearly broken into the vessel already before the door had been opened, but Jake’s actions still confused her.

Everything in the void had come to a standstill as the god extended a hand forward, inviting Jake to take it.

“Just accept my hand, and I swear none will die this day.”
