The passengers around the couple spun their heads toward the grating sound and recoiled in fearful shock when Anaakendi's crystalline body, filled with turbulent winds, formed a dozen paces away from them.

Niala's ears perked up. “Anaakendi! You're here! You got my message? How did you find us? Are you alone!? Is my father coming?! How far is he?!”

The incarnate held up a hand while she pinched the bridge of her nose with the other and sighed. “Calm, girl. Obviously, I received your message, since I am here. Your father and the others are a few bells south of here. As for how I found you...” Her head clinked toward Leviathan before returning to her. “Do I really need to explain?”

Niala's ears twitched in time with a slight blush. “...Oh, I guess not... But! It's good that you're here! We need help!”

“Yes, so I gathered, but why, exactly? You and the boy are usually the ones to destroy everything in your path.”

David snickered, earning him a stare from his wife. He held his hands up in mock defence. “What? She's right. We usually destroy things.”

Niala vehemently shook her head. “No, you destroy things, I heal people.”

He grinned.

“No, really! I don't blow things up! That's your thing!”

His eyebrows arced as his grin deepened.

“...Today was different! The mega-healing potion was a last resort! And the cluster bomb was an accident! I don't... Oh saints. I'm becoming like you.” She said with drooping ears and a deflating tail.

His expression blanked. “...Why do you sound as if you've been cursed? I'm a good guy! Plenty of qualities! Becoming a bit like me isn't a death sentence!”

“...I guess...”

“I'm not- “ He looked at Anaakendi. “Tell her I'm not that bad of an influence!”

The incarnate woman gave him the look of an unconvinced school teacher.

“Oh, come on...”

After reassuring Niala that her ability to heal and mend far outpaced her capacity for destruction, and ignoring David's pleas to acknowledge he wasn't a force of devastation, they brought each other up to speed.

They quickly explained their situation to Anaakendi, about the magivore blob on their trail, and the losing race they had with it as Leviathan tired and slowed down. They also hinted that they had some issues with their own abilities, without going into details in front of the other passengers.

The incarnate woman told them that she had used her mastery of the air currents to provide a strong tailwind for the incoming flotilla of airships, covering in a single day what would have taken them three.

She agreed with them that the blob was not something that a conventional force could beat, but they would have time to discuss a strategy once they were evacuated from the ground, doubting that the blob had the means to fly.

She departed, heading back to the airships, instructing David and Niala to keep their heading.

The news that rescue was near had quickly spread, and, either through uplifted faces or straighter backs, the effect on morale was easy to see. Even so, the following few bells were spent in tense silence as the sea serpent continued crushing its way through the Deadwoods. The Azure Guards had kept tabs on the magivore blob's position, and the reports were unambiguous; it was gaining ground.

The Flotilla was heard before being seen. Sporadic staccato bursts of violin strings filtered through the night sky to reach alert ears, and soon after, red hues began tinting the blackness in sync with the sound.

A pointing hand lifted, close to a hundred pairs of eyes following the imaginary line it traced, and a wave of gasps, cheers and cries crashed over the passengers on Leviathan's back as the lead airship came into view. Its metallic gold-and-red shell reflected the light of its rotary strum cannons as they kept aggressive flying beasts at bay.

To many, the Alchemical Star looked like an armoured wraith of retribution come to their rescue, spewing righteous bolts of fire at anything that would dare get in its way.

The other four, less ostentatious airships, came into view in turn, trailing two to a side in a V-formation with the Star at its tip.

Flares shot up from Leviathan's back, and the airships flashed a light-born message down in reply: Providing Assistance, Keep Current Heading.

The flotilla banked into a wide turn and took position over Leviathan's form, following along, as their launches were deployed and floated down toward the stranded group.

The air lift was over within half a bell. With the serpent's back now empty, David laid his hand on the tired aspect and bid him back to his inner world with thanks for his service, before himself stepping onto one of the rescue vessels.

The last man on the ground, making certain everyone was accounted for before allowing himself to be taken aboard, was Isaac.

David stepped off the launch and onto the deck of the Alchemical star, turning to help Niala down, who ignored his offered hand and hopped down with the barest of a stumble in her steps. She turned and gave him a grin, only to be impacted by a high-velocity Cornelius.

“DAUGHTER! Oh! My poor, beautiful, genius daughter! When I heard you had taken flight after a monster of flesh, I nearly died on the spot!” He unwrapped himself from her, taking her at arm's length and looking her up and down. “Are you hurt? Bruised? Tired? Hungry? Oh! You must be all of those things! My poor baby!”

He let go of her and swivelled on the spot, marching back toward the ship's interior. “I shall have a bath drawn and a meal prepared! The healer will see you imm-urk!”

His eyes nearly popped out of their orbit as Angeline's firm hand grabbed and pulled on his collar, jerking him back. She let go, leaving him to find his breath back, as she advanced on her sister and embraced her. “Sister, to parrot our dear, manic father, it's good to see you well.”

She pulled back and smiled at David. “And you as well, dear brother-in-law.”

A thud behind the group grabbed her attention.

Isaac, in his stained, battered armour, had jumped down onto the deck.

Her arms slid off Niala as her legs carried her toward him.

He recovered from his landing and turned in time to receive a tall blonde woman who grasped him into a surprisingly firm embrace. The sweet-smelling, beautiful face that had nestled on his shoulder terrified him motionless.

“You are safe.” She said, her voice like a warm blanket.

He blinked. “I- I am safe.” A frown drew on his face. “What- don't tell me you were actually worried, woman?”

“Dear Isaac, of course, I was worried!”

“Why? Because I'm not my brother?” He sneered.

She gently shook her head, her face still hidden from him. “No, Isaac, I was worried because you have the heart of a lion, and you can't help but act upon it.”

He froze, yet heat bloomed through his core. She pulled back, keeping her arms between them, pressing against his chest. Her dark amethyst eyes locked with his own. “And you do so, even when you risk so much, because no, you are not your brother.”

He couldn't look away from the twinkle in her eyes. “Take me, a woman who terrifies and annoys you in equal parts, and yet you pushed me out of danger to take my place.”

His throat swallowed as something sharp pricked his heart. “I... Angeline, I... I do find you terrifying, and annoying, but not because you are those things. It's because, in front of you, I feel powerless to resist anything you ask of me, and I...”

A slight, minuscule shift in the way she smiled gave him pause. He squinted.

There it was again. A tremor, really, as a corner of her mouth attempted to rise more than she wanted it to.

She was enjoying this.

He glared at her.

A pure, bright smile took control of her mouth as she half-stepped backward and hid a chuckle behind her hand. “Saints be praised! You finally called me by my name! Lord Isaac, such great progress! And it only took a near confession on my part!”

He pointed a finger at her. “You manipulated me, woman! Does anything but lies ever come out of your mouth?!”

Her open laugh died upon a caressing smile. “Oh, my dear Isaac, this is why you make such a poor politician. You should leave that to me, you know?”

“What are you on about, woman?!”

She pressed a hand to his chest, tracing patterns with her finger. “You believe only lies can be used to manipulate. The truth, lord Isaac, can be just as powerful a tool.”

Before his brain could process her words, she gave him a wink and turned around. His eyes remained on her sashaying retreat until his thoughts started making sense again.

Blinking himself back to the present, he found the deck silent and all eyes riveted to him.

He pulled on his armour as if to straighten a jacket, tucked his head in and marched off toward the... not here.

David barely managed to hold in his laugh as Isaac basically chased after Angeline, both of them heading toward the interior of the ship.

Beside him, Cornelius had stopped working.

The flotilla gained some altitude after that, keeping plenty of distance between them and the blob while Anaakendi kept tabs on it.

She reported that, with its immediate prey out of its reach, it seemed to be heading toward whatever the nearest source of mana was. Nearby animals had been its first targets, but it now seemed to be reaching for one of the isolated mausoleum that dotted the Deadwoods.

The captains from the other airships transferred over to the Alchemical Star. Anaakendi had relayed the overall situation to each of them individually and had coordinated the rescue operation, but they now needed to decide on how to deal with the magivore menace below them.

Isaac, as the highest-ranked noble present, and now out of his armour, waited for everyone to fill the boardroom even as he consciously avoided Angeline's coy glances, which seemed to amuse her to no end.

He would die before admitting he was growing accustomed to being that woman's entertainment.

And he would sell his soul to the pit fiends before revealing he might be starting to enjoy it himself.

The assembled officers quickly went over the situation on each of their ships, tallying the number of passengers, their supplies, and general operational readiness, before they all stilled and listened to David explain what they knew of the blob and their experience fighting it.

Captain Amerret, from the 'Armoured Justice', frowned. “So, from your own admittance, this creature is resistant to proven anti-fel weaponry?”

“As far as I know, that's correct,” David replied.

“And you're certain it will not simply... die out on its own? From what we could see on the longviews, it did not look like a healthy thing. What are the chances its body simply gives out?” The captain asked.

David glanced at Niala, who nodded and answered. “We don't know for a fact, but magivores sustain themselves through the absorption of mana. They are not like normal living creatures.”

Azure Guard captain Luther dipped his head. “What Lady Allwarden says is correct. The fel, and by definition, magivores, will survive wounds that would kill a normal living thing. They do not function on the same biological principles as the living.”

Kelcraw, of the 'Respite', smashed a fist into his hand. “They'll still die to a good thrashing, won't they? We have five armed warships. We can just broadside that thing from the air with impunity until it stops moving.” His suggestion gained a round of nodding heads.

Isaac tapped his temple before looking up at David. “Do you think sufficient firepower is the answer?”

His brother shrugged. “Sure. The real question is if we have sufficient firepower.”

Isaac frowned. “You think we might not have enough?”

“I don't know, Isaac. We're not experts on this thing. We just kind of... saw it get birthed.”

The captain of the 'Errant Valour' scoffed. “With the ridiculous amount of rotary strum cannons on this gaudy ship, I don't think we have to fear not having enough firepower.”

David looked at Niala, then at Cornelius in the corner, who had a grin smug enough to smother a fire, and finally at Isaac. “I guess we'll find out.”

As the light of the morning sun began peeking over the horizon, the five airships, arrayed in a semi-circle, glided down toward the magivore blob, which was busy undulating and pulling itself over the land toward its next meal.

Interference from flying beasts lessened and eventually stopped as the flotilla descended, as if they could sense the danger to be avoided below.

Deck-mounted light projectors relayed signals and orders. Main batteries were serviced and re-oriented toward the mass of flesh below, even as crew-operated strum cannons were arrayed over the sides of the ships and aimed at the hard-to-miss target below.

For a moment, all motion aboard the airships stopped, breaths were held, and fingers caressed triggers.

A final flash of light, and a half-moon of cacophonous bale light erupted. An unending stream of destructive energy bolts rained down upon the blob. At the centre of the formation, the Alchemical Star's four rotary cannons, which could be brought to bear, each poured almost as much destruction as any other one ship.

The roar of fury was deafening. The air itself began shimmering from the amount of mana hemorrhaging out of the nearly hundred magitech cannons, all intent on ending the blob's existence. Gunnery crews had to close their eyes to avoid being blinded by the ambient glare and just kept firing in the same direction.

The flesh below seemed to boil as it was pierced and ravaged non-stop for a full two minutes, bits of it being flung off into the distance, its mass slowly melting beneath the grinding volume of fire.

And then the first cannon overheated and shut down. A hand-held one ran out of ammunition. The mana wire on another shorted out.

One by one, the angry mouths went silent for one reason or another.

The Alchemical Star's engines of destruction lasted the longest, keeping the symphony of violence going for another minute, before even they had to draw breath.

Heads peered over the railings, curious to see the result of so much firepower.

Where before had been a gelatinous mass of flesh, there was now an... overly cooked pancake.

Which still shivered and undulated, sending out small tendrils to grab at the biggest pieces of it that had been separated, slowly reforming itself.

It became a race to cool down, repair, resupply and rearm, before the blob became whole again.

And then, the rules changed. The mass of flesh compressed a portion of itself, trembling under the stress, and from that patch exploded a long, thick filament that reached out just enough to grab onto the railing of the 'Armoured Justice', the ship closest to it, and began pulling.

It took the crew a few seconds to react, but soon the portable strum cannons were redirected at the offending appendage and began firing, even as the ship strained to gain altitude.

Before it could achieve anything, a second strand of flesh latched onto one of the ship's mana-gathering fins. And then a third, on one of its engine nacelles.

The ship began losing altitude, its crew's action turning frantic as the deck listed toward the ground. A few unlucky souls lost their footing and fell overboard, to dangle at the end of safety lines.

As if sensing tasty, dangling morsels, thinner flesh tendrils speared out of the blob, impaling them, and ripped them off the lines. Their screams were mercifully cut short as they were engulfed into the devouring flesh.

They had not had, it seemed, enough firepower.