Her Unicorn Form would have worked, too. [Beautification Aura] would have been an instant kill, with less chance of accidentally burning her own party. But Poi would have gotten hurt… Maybe. He could probably piggyback off of everyone else’s sights. Back during the Unicorn Hunt, Marric had been fine fighting the Unicorns, and he was a Mind Mage, too.

She could have done that fight so much better.

And she could have trusted them to fight beside her as a monster, too. Why hadn’t she tried that with them? Was it because her father didn’t like seeing her as a monster? He certainly didn’t like spiders.

Was she embarrassed?

Julia loved her father, and everyone else was pretty great, too. Tiffany was warming up to her, finally, but…

She had sunk a lot of that just now, hadn’t she? By demanding to fight on her own, she had basically said that they were all useless.

Dammit.

She was better off alone.

Or maybe, she just hadn’t found the right people yet. She needed people who actually wanted to war and destroy, who were capable of keeping up with her own desire to fight and tear a swath through the world, so that other people could come behind and fix it all up.

That’s all that was happening here.

She wanted to be on the front line.

Her father wanted to be on the backline, and his people were there on that backline with him.

There was nothing wrong with this. It’s just how it was.

Anyway. There’s the spiders.

Pretty nest.

The crevasse was a kilometer long and a dozen meters wide, like a crack in the world that ran from deep in the forested valley to halfway up the bare mountain.

The entire crevasse was filled with glittering red darkness that extended into the world above, the red threads spreading out like blood from a wound. It might have truly been a wound, too; a kilometer-long wound in the world caused by someone’s spell or strength, that then got infected with spiders.

Julia descended to the edge of the crevasse, partway up the mountain, where red thread touched bare rock. She was going to stay away from the forest if she could; the blood weavers were a known threat, but they had to feed on some other monstrous species, for sure.

Her lightform touched the threads, ten meters from the edge of the lair. She plucked threads with a dozen tendrils, and she waited. She did not wait long.

She couldn’t see them yet, but she could feel them. Oozes had [Vibration Sense], just like spiders, and in her lightform, her [Vibration Sense] covered a great deal of space. Oozes were fractionally better at this particular sense when it came to sensing threats that touched the same solid surface. But for threats in the air, spiders won that contest.

Chittering, plucking feet clamored up from deep below. The larger ones had to be a hundred meters away. Less for the smaller ones. Maybe only twenty meters down. They had been hidden in holes carved out of the side of the crevasse and layered over with blood thread, but now they sensed prey upon their nest, and they hunted.

The wound in the world boiled over with the first wave of crimson Blood Weavers. Each spider was the size of a head, with legs twice as long but thin as needles. They shimmered in the afternoon sun as they rushed Julia, who was an ooze, but still in lightform.

She dropped the lightform, becoming bright burning ooze.

The shift in temperature was a minor explosion. Wet threads burst into steam, flash-frying then burning. Heat heralded Julia’s assault as she oozed forward, burning away more threads. Dumb spiders were caught in the flames. They advanced for a moment more, to kill the thing that was killing them, but they never got close.

The vanguard burst into flames, five meters away. The second line overheated, boiling first, and then they too caught fire. The third line, still cresting the edge, wisely decided to rush in other directions, and then away from the threat. Every single one of them was between level 20 to 30, with most being in the lower range. Not many of them were monsters, either, it seemed. She didn’t have [Eyes of Magic] in this form, for that was the basic nature of Shadow Spider eyes, but she did have the All Ability of [Life Sight] of her Hidebound Sneakeye form. [Life Sight] showed none of the usual gathering of life around a core that a monster usually had.

Julia briefly checked her resources. Health? Check. Mana? Check.

Yup. She was fine.

For a brief moment she considered Intelligence again, and decided that maybe she would do it, later. Or maybe she’d pick that up after she saw how it affected those people at Star Song. Intelligence had changed her father, but not by much. Mostly, he just picked up everything she put down, and that was kinda nice.

He even remembered what ‘chuuni’ meant.

Discarding thoughts other than the fight ahead of her, Julia oozed closer to the edge, burning away everything that came close, charring a path to the crevasse. Spiders fled at her encroachment. She reached the edge, intercepting a weaver that was larger than most, almost as large as she was. Ah. This one was a monster. Certainly didn’t look like a ‘Primal’ anything, though. It was just a normal, monsterized Blood Weaver.

It screamed as it charged up, aiming for Julia.

Julia stepped back from the edge, taunting the beast to attack her at her level. Her heat flowed out and up, after all. It didn’t flow down.

The weaver crested the ridge and Julia slipped forward, directly underneath the spider while it stabbed down at her oozy form. It struck, yeah. Julia barely felt the attack, and barely took damage.

The weaver, though, standing above Julia, instantly caught fire and exploded from the expansion of gasses inside its body. A blue box appeared, and yup! Just a normal Blood Weaver. Level 40ish, if Julia’s guess was correct. Spider legs and body parts went everywhere, as they burned.

Some of those burning bits fell into the wound in the world.

Julia poked a bit of herself back over the edge. She didn’t see much, as the flaming wreckage went out of range. That was one bad thing about flame oozes; they didn’t have normal sight. Oozes had [Surround Sight], which was great in most situations, but not in this situation, where the enemy was some hundreds of meters down a dark, blood-soaked hole. [Surround Sight] ended after about a hundred meters, and it couldn’t see around corners like a proper mana sense.

Julia was still glad that she had taken it as her Hidden Monster Class Ability, though.

She sent a [Fireball] sailing down into that red darkness.

Ain’t no way she’d walk into that trap.

Fire exploded. Probably. Julia couldn’t see the damage, but there were vibrations, for sure. She sent more [Fireball]s down into the wound, hitting here and there and lighting a few things on fire. Heat billowed up the hole, and flame oozes were good at seeing heat in the world, so there was definitely some burning down below. She got damage notifications and kill notifications, too.

But not much more than that.

She waited. The ground melted under her presence. Small dribbles of burning rock slipped over the edge of the crevasse, tumbling down into the dark, rapidly cooling as they fell.

This was not comfortable, for multiple reasons. One, in particular, was worse than the rest.

As a flame ooze, Julia needed to exist within certain temperatures in order to feel comfortable. It was, quite frankly, frigid as a witch’s tit out here, in the bright sunshine in the heat of the afternoon. This was like being in the middle of a blizzard. She could deal; she had dealt with this level of awfulness before and she would continue to do so. But the cold was easier to deal with when there were more burnable supplies nearby, and she could start her own fires.

She turned partially to shadows, both to get a better look at what was happening down in the hole, and to escape the cold. It worked. She wasn’t cold anymore.

Julia sent a few shadows downward.

The enemy stood revealed.

Julia jiggled in the shadows, suddenly wary. The target had been waiting, just out of her [Surround Sight], but her shadow sight from her shadow form had revealed all.

Fires burned here and there, but they were small things already being smothered by the concerted efforts of smaller spiders. The true illumination of the monster was from Bright blood spells hovering to the sides of the beast; four spells in total, each spinning like red globes.

The Primal Blood Queen, for that was the only thing a monster of this size could be. It had a body the size of a truck and the legs to match, each the size of tree trunks. It was a tarantula-type, with dark crimson chitin and absolutely covered in bright red needle-hair that shimmered in the light of its own ruby-red spellwork. Two main eyes, lidless and red, watched Julia stand on the edge, while smaller eyes surrounded its head, allowing it to keep focus on its smaller kin.

It was absolutely beautiful. More beautiful than the Nacreous Weaver; Julia had no idea why her father had thought that spindly thing was pretty.

Now, this! This was power! This was beauty.

It was rather smart, too. It had dealt with oozes before; that much was obvious. It had likely dealt with a lot of odd threats before now, and oozes were massive threats. Even if most monsters attacked until they either died or they killed enough to survive everything they attacked, most monsters were still wary of oozes. Unicorns went after oozes first and foremost because they were the only natural monster that could kill a unicorn, and the unicorns knew that.

The Queen Blood Weaver seemed to know that Julia was beyond dangerous, too.

So the monster sat there on the side of the crevasse, perfectly motionless so [Vibration Sense] was useless, out of range of [Surround Sight], and even out of range of most spells. This monster had realized that this particular ooze had shot out [Fireball]s, and it was wary for other tricks. It didn’t sense the shadows moving below it, though, under the threads under its feet.

Julia left the shadows there, but only to watch. She did not attack through them. She could have, but then the corpse would fall down and likely break into dozens of pieces, or otherwise get lost in the nest. Instead, she poked over the edge again, showing her orange ooze self.

The weaver did not move, but its hovering blood globes pulsed with power, growing slightly larger.

The weaver’s one-sided staredown continued.

Some smaller weavers, which were only the size of Julia herself, blitzed out of the crevasse, and rushed her. These were the stupid ones. Sacrificial pawns, no doubt. Some of them held small floating orbs of blood, though, and those were slightly more dangerous than the rest.

Julia let the sacrifices get close. She barely fought back, pretending at more sluggishness than was real. She was feeling slow, for sure, but she hammed it up for the obvious audience. She even allowed herself to be wounded. When a spider carved a [Blood Beam] from a floating orb, aiming at Julia, Julia let the spell clip off a few kilograms of orange ooze before she flexed her fire and burned the beast under 800 degrees of heat, Celsius.

It wasn’t really Celsius, but that was easier than calling it Yols, since they were about the same measurement.

Hmm.

This wasn’t working.

Julia dispatched the wave of medium-sized threats.

The queen refused to move. Or attack. Or reposition. Or anything. She waited. She watched. She did not move.

… Julia looked over her recently created spells and picked the one appropriate for the situation.

Flaming Replication, instant, close range, 250 mana

Create a replica of yourself that moves like you and attempts to attack with your normal attacks, dealing fire damage with a chance to ignite. Or, the replica can run, evading all attempts to capture or contain. Choice is made at the time of casting. Lasts 1 minute.

She had made one of these spells for each of her primary Elements, but there had been no use for them until now.

She cast. A flaming ooze oozed out of Julia and rushed over the edge of the crevasse, burning a path down the stone, through the webs, aiming directly for the Queen Blood Weaver. Julia turned to shadow and vanished from sight.

The replica detached from the wall and fell directly toward the queen, who instantly obliterated it by telekinetically swiping a blood orb across the air, striking the replica, splashing fire in every direction as the queen moved in the other direction. She repositioned so that the bits of obliterated fire touched upon anything but her. One of those pieces splattered on the webs near her, catching the web on fire.

The queen splashed the web with thick blood spells from one of her hovering orbs, dousing the flames. The size of her orbs diminished as she cast, but she didn’t seem to care.

Julia watched from the shadows, motionless. Watching and waiting.

Moments passed. The queen remained motionless.

Eventually, the queen tested a step forward. When nothing happened, she took another. Then she walked across the side of her web, avoiding the smaller spiders as she moved. The larger ones got out of her way as fast as possible. Julia saw why the larger ones moved so quickly when one of them didn’t get out of the way fast enough.

That large spider became another blood orb. Julia barely saw how the queen did it. One second the smaller-than-her spider was living, the next it had churned into itself, becoming another orb of glowing red blood, and then the queen’s four orbs were each back up to full size.

… Julia had made the right decision in telling everyone else to stay away. She could handle this herself.

