Now with four blood orbs around her head, the queen proceeded to stamp out every fire in the area, smushing her blood orbs against the fire until the fire went away. She moved slowly, but fast enough. One well-burned area had to be re-webbed. The queen took a blood orb and made wrist-thick cable-like thread from it, laying down structural threads. The smaller weavers took over from there, quickly filling in the gaps in the nest while the queen watched. After a minute, the queen must have deemed progress ‘good enough’, and moved on. When she went away, the smaller weavers stopped caring about being so thorough in wrapping up their web. They kept at it, but they slowed.

The entire colony had been quiet during Julia’s attack, but slowly they began to chitter and shake their abdomens, and twang the thread near them as they communicated with each other. The queen’s orbs went dark as she started to walk with purpose, shaking the world as she moved down, down, into the dark.

There was intelligence behind that spider’s many eyes.

How intelligent, though?

While she was under the shadows, Julia restored her body with [Greater Treat Wounds]. When that was done, she spoke from the shadows on the other side of the crevasse. “Yo yo yo.”

The entire colony went silent again.

The queen turned around. She began walking back up the crevasse again, slowly, silently, her great big eyes watching for any movement at all.

Julia asked, “Are you intelligent enough to speak?”

The queen froze. Her blood orbs spun back up, returning to brilliant red life.

Julia switched her languages, asking, “Do you speak Ancient Script? Do you speak Inferni? How about Karstar? How about Gargantual? How about good old Ecks?”

The queen had zeroed in on the spot where the sound was coming from. Julia would have been surprised if she hadn’t. But then she ignored that spot, and kept looking, scanning the world for the speaker. Yup; she was intelligent. Also a monster. The core in her body was a grand core, for sure.

The queen spoke, in Ecks, “Help me! I’m down here!”

The spiders around the crevasse began to prowl with a purpose. They poked at shadows, and poked at air. Julia didn’t react when a spider poked at her shadow. The spider was obviously looking for movement, and Julia didn’t give it the satisfaction.

A few other spiders, the medium-sized ones, echoed their queen.

“We’re down here!” “The spider trapped us!” “We’re in the webs!”

Julia felt a lot better about killing them, now. She had to be sure they were monsters, and they were. Plus, her father would appreciate checking, and this way, he wouldn’t have to worry himself over if his daughter was killing sapient beings. Odin was still up there, high in the sky, watching, after all.

Probably.

Julia decided it was best to ensure that he was watching and seeing.

She asked, “What’s 2 plus 2!”

The weavers responded, “Down here! Help us!” and “It hurts!”

The Queen said, “Four! Why the math!”

Ah. Shit.

… Now Julia just had to know. She asked, “Do people often fall for that trap? Or are you truly not that bad of a monster?”

“I’m not a monster! I’m a [Polymage]! This is my life now because I can’t transform back!” The queen scanned her surroundings, as she asked, “Did you come here for thread? I can sell you some! Just bring us monsters. The bigger the better!”

Okay. Well. Now the Queen was starting to sound like a person. And Julia, dammit, was starting to fall for it. She did not like that she was falling for it, but that’s how it was.

Julia had absolutely no problem killing a monster that preyed on people, but this one was too smart, and that was a problem. She was like the Unicorn Queen. In that same way, this Queen Blood Weaver spoke like a person and spawned monsters that followed in her footsteps to kill people, for sure. But Julia had no problem killing that Other Queen, either.

Julia lied, “I’m going to come out now, and talk to you.”

The queen tensed. “I await your arrival.”

Shadows rose from the edge of the cliff face, high above; a purposeful usage of shadows created more by skill than any spell. Every weaver turned toward the figure. None of them moved. Julia remained off to the side. ‘Shadow Julia’ walked down the side of the crevasse, not caring for the spiders nearby. None of them attacked the illusion. Most weavers walked out of the way.

On a vertical battlefield, Shadow Julia walked down, toward the Spider Queen. They met in glowing red darkness, surrounded by the reflective red eyes of their audience.

A figment stood before a Queen ten times her size, and asked, “Are you truly a [Polymage] trapped in there?”

“I assure you, I am.”

“Prove it.”

“I cannot. How would I?”

“Cast [Cleanse]. Monsters cannot do that.”

The Queen said, “I cannot either, but that does not mean that—”

Orbs of blood turned into carving spells of death, ripping through Shadow Julia, and then the Queen moved. She covered two hundred meters in a flashing moment, coming to stand right above where the real Julia hid in the shadows, under the webs. Blood orbs soaked into the webs, turning a portion of the crevasse into blood spikes, killing a hundred smaller spiders in the process. Deaths fueled the return of the blood orbs.

But Julia suffered no injury. She was already on the other side of the crevasse.

The Queen directed her orbs into a different sort of soaking spell that went into the wrist-thick webbing of the crevasse and set the battlefield aglow. Light erupted. Shadows vanished.

Julia turned to light and ripped across the Queen, taking a leg at its joint, tearing it away, into the light. The Queen screamed as Julia dragged its body part up out of the crevasse, into the sun, making sure that her trail was highly visible.

The Queen followed, raging, and so did her horde.

Julia did not want to drag out the kill. Even monsters deserved this much respect.

But the Queen ate its young when it got injured, to restore lost legs and lost Health, and replenish its resources. And then there were the tricks. Three times the Queen managed to snare Julia, as an ooze, in an unburnable cage of solid thread, with neither light nor shadow allowing her escape. This was its most dangerous attack, but even that failed to matter, for Julia simply walked out of the space with a small application of [Aura of Freedom], acting as though the [Blood Web Cage], or whatever spell it was, didn’t even exist.

Somewhere in the fight, Julia figured out how the Queen had seen her when she was in the shadows. It was the [Sanguine Charm] Julia had kept inside her burning body. The charm didn’t burn away, for it was more magic than real, but it was a blood source, and that was enough for the Queen to notice where it was all the time.

Julia asked the Queen to stop fighting, twice, just so her father would see. Just so he would know this was a true monster. It refused. It killed its young in order to live longer. It attacked even when Julia stood still, and stayed away. Julia had survived worse attacks, and oozes could regenerate with just a bit of [Greater Treat Wounds], or, since Julia had [Shedding Form], she just re-[Polymorph]ed into a flame ooze again, for less mana cost.

Every time Julia emerged from her own sliced-down bit of goo as a fully large and in charge flaming ooze, the Queen chittered angrily.

In two minutes, well before Julia ran out of resources and would have been forced to retreat, the battlefield shifted. Julia had clipped off twenty legs and burned away countless crimson hair, burning through the Queen’s Health twenty-times over. The Queen could have kept going, except she had run out of medium-sized weavers to eat. She ran out of resources first.

Julia killed the Queen with a spear of shadows through its center mass. She would have physically gone into the monster and ripped its core out from its abdomen and ended the fight early, but the Queen’s heart was all around its core, and that action would have brought flame into the spider and destroyed the heart. That was an untenable solution. You needed the heart and the brain to get the Familiar Form, after all.

Upon the Queen’s death, Julia got a minor surprise. She had been calling the weaver a ‘Queen’ in her mind, but the kill notification box revealed the truth. The ‘Primal Blood Weaver’ truly was a ‘Queen Blood Weaver’. Not a ‘Primal Blood Weaver’.

Riri had been wrong, yet again.

Odd, that.

The horde went crazy with the death of the Queen, and then they calmed as normal mental functions came back. The Queen obviously had some sort of [Spider Mind] ability that allowed it to control lesser spiders; most magical spiders had that ability.

Freed from control, the animal spiders rushed to get away from Julia; there were no monstrous ones left since the Queen ate them all. The young weavers vanished down the crevasse. Julia considered burning them all away, but there might be a need for more blood weavers at some point in the future, and they were just animals.

Julia transformed into light. She came out of that light as a Shadow Spider that gleamed iridescent black in the afternoon sun. Briefly, she felt the minds of a few smaller, closer spiders like they were extensions of her own body. She discarded those minds, telling them to go back to whatever they were doing, but in fewer words than that.

And then she got to eating third lunch.

Halfway through, she sighed out a horrific chuckle as she got another surprise.

There were no notifications for gaining essence, except for when you gained a new ability, and then lastly when you gained the full Elemental Body. You could feel it when you absorbed essence, though. It was sort of like a piece of the universe revealing itself in the shade of a tree, or the sound of a brook. The Queen Blood Weaver had essence, for sure. Eating the monster felt like reveling in something bloody, which was not unexpected, but still… Kinda surprising. Was there ‘Blood Essence’? Maybe.

But then reality appeared, and the notification Julia got was:

Dragon Essence Blocked and Discarded.

She thanked her Class Ability Draconic Inoculation for the meal, and continued.

- - - -

Ezekiel watched as his daughter ate the Queen Blood Weaver.

He came back to himself.

Nothing had happened to them while they waited there, on that mountainside. Tiffany sat on her boulder. Paul sat on his smaller boulder. Odin chirped on Ezekiel's shoulder. And nothing happened.

This was in stark contrast to what had happened to Julia. Spikes of worry seemed to slam into Ezekiel’s very soul, at least three times, as he watched the slaughter. Once, when Julia just looked over the edge while the Queen was there. Then again, when the Queen spoke. Then again, when it went straight for his daughter.

… There were a few more times there, for sure.

But.

Julia had it under control.

It was a one-sided slaughter.

But if he had gone in there with his own people…

Ezekiel turned to Tiffany and Paul, and said, “I am so sorry. There was no need to put you in danger. I had no idea what I was asking of you— I mean… I thought I knew. But I didn’t.”

Tiffany smirked, and her words sounded sincere, as she said, “Eh! Don’t worry about that. We could have taken them, especially with your [Sanguine Charm]s, but you can’t go overriding your daughter’s choices, can ya?”

She had said those words, for sure, but Ezekiel could tell that Tiffany was relieved to not get into that fight. Not once the Queen started talking. Ezekiel had freaked when the Queen did that, and Tiffany had seen it through her own mana sense, for sure.

… He wasn’t sure how he would have handled that fight, but only that he would have been less aggressive once the intelligence of the monster had been revealed. He would have liked to think that he would have protected everyone, making them all practically invulnerable to the Queen, but doubt was an insidious poison. It made him think of the worst possible scenario, and that scenario was not good.

“I would have pushed harder if we truly went to engage the monster, but I am glad we did not.” Paul said, “Polymages are strong as individuals, and your daughter is among the strongest I have ever seen. I am glad you let her go on her own, Ezekiel.”

Ezekiel glanced at the Odins hovering in the light, all around the battlefield. Some hovered only twenty meters away from his daughter. He didn’t think Julia had seen the majority of them, and that was slightly worrying for a different reason, but he had been ready to swoop in and save his little girl.

Except she wasn’t a little girl. And she hadn’t been for a very long time.

He knew he needed to trust her. But…

It was hard.

He glanced back to the battlefield. The Queen’s abdomen and cephalothorax were carved open, the heart and brain devoured along with a fair bit of the insides.

A second Queen walked around as though testing herself, poking at the ground with massive legs. With a gesture, the former Queen’s gore became an orb of blood that hovered above the second queen. With another gesture, the orb sprayed across the ground, becoming thread. A second gesture pulled that thread back into a blood orb, but it was lesser than it had been before. Without another gesture, the orb became a carving [Blood Beam] a meter wide that gouged into the ground, exploding dirt and stone into the air like a line of excavation detonations.

The battlefield was full of such devastation, but now it had even more.

With her blood orb fully discharged, the second Queen turned to light and shot off—

Ezekiel came back to himself.

Julia —human-shaped Julia!— stepped down onto the ground ten meters away. Ezekiel was thankful for that. No unexpected heart attacks for him! It had been a close thing!

