When Ezekiel remembered, he cast a few [Sealed Privacy Ward]s across the land, at points where someone might [Witness] something they shouldn’t. With secrets once again hidden, he got back to work.

Half an hour later, Ezekiel, Tiffany, Julia, Paul, and Odin, had sorted out four hundred and sixty-four skulls from the rest, some with horns, some with scales, some with nothing. Some of the skulls were attached to bodies. Some were just separated heads.

There had been some treasures in the pile too, but no one wanted to loot the dead. Back in Spur, there was an endowment that anyone could pay into, in order to support the families of adventurers who had died in the line of duty. No one was sure if The Fund still existed in the Clan Exchanges of the Songli Highlands, but if it did, it would be getting a hefty donation at the end of the day.

Together, Ezekiel and Tiffany spotted barely a hundred sets of paperwork in the Blood Weaver pile, and most of the papers were too degraded to read, but the Nacreous Weaver pile had rather intact paperwork. By the time the sun began to set and the world had turned orange and gold, the team had recovered a hundred and seventy-one identification papers. Only seven of them could not be [Mend]ed back to quality. The paper was thick stuff, for the most part. It was designed to survive rain and weathering and unfortunate deaths in the dark places of the world.

Ezekiel buried the skulls in individual nooks in the mountainside, then raised an obelisk monument in the middle of them all. He carved upon the stone an image of Phagar on one side, Koyabez on another, Rozeta on the third, and a small prayer on the fourth that was a common epitaph in some parts of the world.

It read: ‘To those who have lost their lives defending us from monsters, may your gods guide you to a better world. The ones you have left behind will continue to toil against the Darkness, but your fight is over. Thank you for your service.’

The magenta light of [Cleansing Flame]s lit the coming night, burning the avalanche of bodies to thick air.

- - - -

They stopped in at the Clan Exchange in Eralis. The ‘Mage Guild’ in the main city was larger than the one in Darzallia, by a lot. It was five stories of stone and steel and seemed to be specially protected by the Void Song in the air.

They walked in with a massive bag of spider silk slung over Tiffany’s back, much to the surprise of many of the clansmen in the building. Some eyed them, seeing their wealth, and not knowing who they were except that they were unknowns. Some people almost made a move. But others held back those who moved, telling them in silent commands that this was not a procession to be interrupted. Even if they didn’t know Ezekiel and his people as ‘Clan Phoenix’, they certainly recognized a death procession when they saw it.

Ezekiel and his people soon found that, yes, the Clan Exchange had a ‘Fund’. They called theirs ‘The Office of the Lost’, and it was not exactly the same.

In a somber room, Ezekiel handed over a large stack of paperwork to a professional man in stark-white garb. In small words, they spoke of the location of the monument, and of the graves. Then they deposited the spoils gathered by too many monsters.

Many of the papers belonged to people outside of the Highlands, but the Office of the Lost respected death when it had been caused by monsters. The clansmen who had perished fighting against the darkness would find solace in that they had been found, and their graves had been marked. Their families would be told if they could be told, and the treasures Clan Phoenix had found would be used for this service.

A small amount of the treasures would go to the families who had lost people, but most would go to the Border Clans, who keep the monsters out of the Highlands.

It was the perfect sort of corrupt-government note to get Ezekiel’s anger up and fuming before he went to Star Song.

- - - -

Ezekiel sat across from Riri and Patriarch Zalindi at the very same courtyard they had been in earlier in the day, but now the sky was dark. Stars glittered above while gentle white lights illuminated the grey stone and the pink willow trees, and a cold wind blew across the Alluvial District.

Julia sat to Ezekiel's side. Elder Mirizo stood behind Zalindi and Riri; still silent. There was no tea, for there was no need. This conversation wouldn’t take long. Ezekiel had told them as much when he contacted Zalindi not ten minutes ago in a sending.

Ezekiel said, “Thank you for agreeing to meet so soon. Is everything going well with your Alchemists?”

“Most of them are still sleeping off their gifts.” Zalindi’s voice was that of a mountain rumbling. He said, “Loremaster Riri was also sleeping, but not too soundly, it seems.”

Riri looked as well put-together as ever. If she had been sleeping ten minutes ago, Ezekiel couldn’t tell. She affected a small smile, and asked, “Should we have reason to worry about the gifts given?”

“No.” Ezekiel said, “I was trying to break the tension, but I see that raising a concern over the Alchemists was the exact wrong way to break the tension.” He sighed. “I am concerned, but not for the Intelligence I have given you. What I am here for is the truth about the spiders you sent us toward.”

Zalindi gave no impression of tension or worry. But he turned an eye toward Riri, and that was enough. Zalindi was concerned now, too.

Riri, however, was perfectly poised. She asked, “Was there a problem?”

“A few small ones.” Ezekiel said, “A few possible poisoned treasures which make me wary of further treating with you.”

Mirizo watched, a slight concern in his eyes. Zalindi casually glared.

Riri focused, hard, and yet she remained soft. She diplomatically asked, “Please inform me of the issues experienced and I will try to reduce the severity of your suffering or remove it entirely, if it is within my power.”

Ezekiel nodded to his daughter.

Since a part of the deal Ezekiel had made with Star Song was to teach him and his daughter spider silk magic, Riri would need to know of Julia’s capabilities. So instead of simply showing off the Kill Notifications, Julia produced the Familiar Form boxes she had recently gained, then handed them to Riri.

The Loremaster’s eyes went wide. Zalindi watched Ezekiel, but he spared a glance toward the boxes, too. Mirizo read over Riri’s shoulder.

Ezekiel waited.

Riri dismissed the boxes and became utterly professional. Or maybe she merely discarded her apologetic persona, since such an affectation would have been harmful in this situation; Ezekiel wasn’t sure.

Riri said, “The Nacreous Weaver and the Primal Blood Weaver were exactly that the last time I knew of them, which was four days ago and five days ago, respectively. You have gained a great deal more than we bargained for. I fail to understand the issue you believe you have.”

Ezekiel expected this tactic. He came ready to counter it. He said, “I understand that Star Song participates in Stat Quests. I want twenty points for my daughter. This extra allowance from you to me would counteract the disaster of the Queen’s mind emerging in a year. That is why I call this gift of yours a poisoned treasure, for it certainly seems that way to me.”

Zalindi breathed out of his nose, a little louder than normal breathing. He said nothing.

Riri said, “We cannot do this unless you are willing to work further with Star Song, past previously established bargains.”

Zalindi spoke up, “We cannot do 20 points. No. Five points; this is what we can offer in recompense for putting your Clan in danger, and each point would cost you in gold.”

“Not acceptable.” Ezekiel asked, “What needs to happen for 20 points?”

Riri took control of the negotiation, “Two hundred thousand gold per point. 4 million gold.”

“A lesser offer,” Ezekiel said.

“For 10 points,” Riri said, “Clan Phoenix can become a branch family of Star Song.”

Zalindi glanced to Riri, then turned back to Ezekiel.

With not a little bit of pride, Ezekiel said, “I have a counteroffer. For my daughter’s personal help in killing whatever monstrous threats you deem worthy, you will give her 20 points. Half upfront. If needed, I will step in, but I doubt that will be necessary. As of today, Julia has killed an Ancient Unicorn Queen and also this Queen Blood Weaver, solo. She has a Flame Ooze form and many others that are capable of countering many of the monstrous threats of this world. What say you?”

Zalindi and Riri turned toward Julia.

Silence.

And also trepidation.

Small lines of thought passed through the manasphere between the Patriarch and his Loremaster. More lines of thought went elsewhere, tapering off into nothing as they vanished in the distance. Julia waited. Ezekiel waited.

Riri said, “We can afford the 20 points if Julia agrees to do a month of missions. She will be sent out to branch families all across the Highlands. Border Clans, mostly. There will be a few deeper missions into the Tribulations where she will be expected to solo various threats that encroach upon our interests. There will be minor jaunts into the near Underworld. Most of the points she gains will be paid by us. Some points will come from standing Quests that have yet to be cleared, and that need to be cleared. We will not pay half upfront, and Clan Phoenix will become a branch family.”

“You will pay some lesser amount upfront,” Ezekiel said, “And Clan Phoenix will not become a branch family.”

“This is an unwise decision.” Riri said, “Branch families of the Highlands gain much power and opportunity. Are you sure you wish to take this route?”

“Clan Phoenix will not become a branch family,” Ezekiel repeated.

Riri said, “We accept that decision.”

Zalindi silently watched it all.

Ezekiel looked to both of them, while he sent to Julia, ‘Is this okay?’

‘Yes!’ Julia sent, ‘This is great.’

Ezekiel said, “She will not assist you with assaults on people, and 5 of those points will be granted as soon as possible.”

“It will be as you say.” Riri added, “Clan Star Song looks forward to a closer working relationship with Clan Phoenix.”

“We will cement this relationship now.” Zalindi placed his hands together in a near-silent clap and stood. Ezekiel, Julia, and Riri stood with him. “Young Mistress Phoenix. This way.”

Zalindi walked over to the edge of the stone courtyard, where a water fountain spilled from chest level down into a shallow stone basin. The flowers of pink willow trees laid upon the clear surface. A small stone vase sat near the edge of the water.

Julia joined Zalindi at the water’s edge.

He said, “Whenever you are ready.”

He handed her the Quest that they had seen days ago.

Quest!

Deliver a vase of water to Patriarch Zalindi Star Song.

Reward: 1 point.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script

Lesser Poster: Patriarch Zalindi Star Song, of Clan Star Song

It was a ceremony.

Zalindi stood on one side of the burbling fountain. Julia on the other. With a quiet joy and a reverence that Ezekiel couldn’t match, Julia dipped the stone vase into the basin, filling it to the brim. Julia was enjoying this. She stood, and handed the vase to Zalindi. He took the vase and spilled the water back to where it came.

Julia repeated this process four more times.

At the end, she bowed to Zalindi, and it was done.

Zalindi said, “Someone will pick you up in the morning. Clan Star Song looks forward to a close working relationship with Clan Phoenix.”

Ezekiel gave a thankful nod toward Zalindi, Riri, and also Elder Mirizo, who still had yet to say a sound in Ezekiel’s presence. The three of them gave deference to Ezekiel, but Riri went further than the other two, fully bowing.

After it was over, Ezekiel had some thoughts. This transference of points had been made possible by the sacrifices of lesser clansmen who gave up parts of themselves in order to gain access to a clan. This is how they did it here, and the transaction seemed uneven, somehow. It seemed exploitative. Ezekiel didn’t like this part of this culture, but if they did this to themselves, willingly, then it was okay for him, and for Julia, to take advantage of this aspect of their culture, right?

Maybe.

Maybe not?

Maybe he was thinking too much; this was certainly true. Julia was better, now, with 5 more points stuffed into Willpower. She’d be even better, later, when she had 75 Willpower.

By the time Ezekiel got back to the hotel room with his people in tow and his daughter safer, he was feeling better about most everything. He was even feeling okay about his various decisions of the day, and his new obligations going forward. Sure, there had been some rationalizations there at the end, but this was fine, right?

Even the fact that Star Song was scheming was fine.

Ezekiel was pretty sure that the schemes weren’t that bad. But there were schemes, for sure. It was fine.

Except…

One part of him was certainly not feeling fine.

“We ran around a lot there. No breaks.” Ezekiel touched his own stomach, asking, “Everyone else is really damn hungry, right?”

“Gods yes,” Tiffany exclaimed, as she dropped the second spider-silk bag Ezekiel had made onto the table. It clattered with the tell-tale sound of clinking coins. “One grand core means one fine meal!”

“Hopefully more than one meal,” Paul added.

“Blughh,” Julia said, sticking out her tongue. “No food for me.”

“How does that even work!” Tiffany loudly asked, “How do you eat in other forms and not get hungry in this one? It makes no sense!”

Ezekiel laughed.

Paul smirked, saying, “You can still drink beer, Julia.” He said to Ezekiel, “Let’s get dinner. I’m starving, too.”

“I could drink a beer,” Julia agreed.

