Julia waved, saying, “Hey!” She walked forward. “How did you like that fight?”

Ezekiel said, “I am reminded daily that you’re strong enough to do anything you want to do, but always I forget. That is a failing of mine. Sorry.”

Julia paused, then she stepped in front of her father. “I’m sorry, too.”

They hugged, briefly.

Julia tore away first and summoned a blue box for Ezekiel as she said, “So this is pretty awesome.”

Body:

Queen Spider Mind

Perfected Body

Vibration Control

Blood Mana

Extra Resources

All:

Blood Weaver

Ezekiel’s eyes went wide. “Ah. It was a Queen, then? I was just calling it that.”

“Yup! Level 68-ish Queen Blood Weaver.” Julia said, “It didn’t have [Body Control] like it should have had, but I have no doubt that if anyone with blood or a traditional body got anywhere near her, they would have died. I think its [Blood Weaver] Ability used to be [Body Control].” She said, “I’m glad you let me go on my own.”

Ezekiel smiled softly, and said, “I’m glad you’re okay.”

Julia looked to her father, then looked away, seeming happier than before. She turned back and said, “Did you notice the weird thing about this form?”

Ezekiel asked, “The Queen Mind, right?”

“Right.” Julia said, “I think that’s a problem. I also think I’m done with the bigger forms, because I think this one was much, much stronger than anything else I ever encountered. Mentally, that is. If I get anything else, it’s going to be small and purely for its usefulness.” She turned to Paul. “Can you check me over?”

Ezekiel paused.

‘Check her over’?

… For…

For mental contamination?

Many thoughts fled, leaving panic in their wake.

While Ezekiel had a minor panic attack and kept it to himself, Paul agreed to Julia’s request for a scan and checked her out for mental contamination.

And he could do that? Ezekiel didn’t know that. Had he done this before, for her? Ezekiel watched. Time passed.

Paul declared, “Your Triple Familiar Forms Ability gives you a great deal of leeway, but you are pushing the limits. 55 base Willpower is no longer enough. You need 60, at least. 70 or 75 would be preferred. Or you need to get rid of a few forms. I calculate that you have a year to do this before the contamination becomes noticeable. If you don’t do this, the next powerful form you gain could be your last.”

Another panic attack struck Ezekiel’s core. Larger, this time.

Much larger.

A detached part of himself mused that Willpower must have mental side effects that dealt with the ability to keep oneself together, and wasn’t that odd? Did Intelligence help that function, or would it harm that function? Should he foist Intelligence upon his daughter? Even if she objects?

But the main part of him was in shock.

He stood, silent and staring. Not even blinking; barely breathing.

Julia brushed off the concern, saying, “I’m only level 71. I got time to get higher, and there are always Quests around here, right?”

Ezekiel’s eyes went wide. He cOulD sOLvE ThIS PROBLEM RIGHT NOW.

He opened up the Quest—

Julia instantly turned to him, knowing what he was about to do. “No. I can get this on my own.”

Ezekiel put on a calm face even though he was screaming inside. He casually tried, “Allow me to help. Please.”

Julia said, “I appreciate your help, but I can do this on my own.” She asked them all, “Anyone want to go explore a nest? Find some treasure?” She added, “We actually have two nests to explore; we never cleared out all of the other weaver’s nests.”

Nope.

Ezekiel instantly had his Odin scatter. They turned to magenta sunforms. Half of them dove deep into the Blood Weaver lair, lighting up the red darkness in search of bodies and treasure. The other half lightstepped back to the Nacreous Weaver’s hunting grounds, in search of spoils.

He had checked out the Nacreous Weaver’s grounds already, but he didn’t search that place nearly well enough.

“We won’t be clearing either nest,” Ezekiel declared, happy to have the distraction. “Odin is doing both right now.” He half-glanced away, saying, “Ah! Not five seconds to find the tragedies produced by the monster. I’ll try to keep the sites separate so that we can report where the people therein actually died.”

Magenta sunforms deposited a mound of corpses twenty meters away to the right, and also to the left; blip blip blip! Bones stuck out of dried gore. Webs got everywhere. Crusted metals laid dull in the afternoon sun, while clothes and the furs of beasts were vague suggestions of what they had once been. A few small spiders of both kinds had come along for the ride, but they were instantly dispatched by the ripping tear of an Odin who solved the various problems before they could become problems.

Julia, Tiffany, and Paul watched.

In ten seconds, the Blood Weaver pile of bones and gore slipped down the side of the mountain, for it had gotten too large, and sunform Odins kept bringing more. Most of the gore was not people. Mostly, it was monsters of all sorts. Chimeras. Frogs. Snakes. A lot of ant-like monsters that were small, but multitudinous. Wolves.

The Nacreous Weaver pile was much smaller, but contained a high percentage of people. Thirty-one people, so far.

In a minute, Ezekiel’s anger and sorrow over his daughter’s various decisions was matched for his feelings about the horror show that laid before him. He calmed, as many different thoughts swirled and organized.

This was yet another reminder that there was a larger threat out there than the ones that people made for themselves; than the one Ezekiel made for himself whenever he wanted Julia to stay home and safe and not go anywhere or do anything dangerous. He would have to apologize later. Again.

That thought swirled back to the Calcium Disodium EDTA he had almost reinvented earlier in the day.

War was going to be the outcome from that new technology, sure. But another outcome would be that at least one decent-seeming nation of Nelboor would gain a true foothold on power, and that power would allow them to spread even more civilization across this war-torn continent; allowing them to kill more monsters and make more of the world safe for people.

For in his brief time here in Nelboor, he had gotten a good look at this land.

Most of it was uninhabited. Like the Crystal Forest in some respects, but in others, not. The Crystal Forest held no water, and no greenery, and any greenery that showed was ripped to shreds by rampaging mimics. The monsters were the problem, there, just as much as the environment was a problem. But in the Crystal Forest, people couldn’t live without a complete environmental overhaul.

Here, half the problems of Nelboor stemmed from ever-present war, and that required different solutions than the solutions required to fix the other half of Nelboor’s problems, which was a problem of monsters.

An expansion of civilization would help to solve the problem of monsters, but would simultaneously exacerbate the other half of Nelboor’s problems of war.

Ezekiel hadn’t seen much of those brutal, flashing contests of blood, as his Odin prowled the skies. But he had seen the aftermath. Bodies rotting in fields. Scorched spaces in the middle of green prairie. Broken swords. Viscera and worse.

Which was worse?

War?

Or monsters?

This was a complicated problem, with no easy solutions. Plus, was it right for Ezekiel to even make these decisions? Likely not. Except, he had to live in this world, too, and if he did bring Candlepoint’s Gate network here, then he damn fucking better have a fucking say in how this part of the world worked!

While Ezekiel thought, silently, and watched bodies both new and ancient fall down the mountainside in an ever-growing pile of gore…

He thought.

“Sir,” Tiffany spoke over the continuous sound of tumbling bones. “Are you okay?”

“I am fine. I am angry, but I am fine.”

Julia began, “Dad, I—”

“I am allowed to be angry. So are you. It happens. I don’t want to talk about it right now.” Ezekiel said, “There are larger concerns.” He gestured at the pile. “There are a lot of people-bodies in that pile.”

Julia went hard. “Later, then.”

“Later.” Ezekiel turned away from the still-growing pile, to face Tiffany and Julia, as he said, “Now that the spider hunting is done, there is another issue. I remembered how to solve antirhine poisoning. Should I tell them, or should I give it to them, or should I do nothing and let them solve it on their own? I am partial to the last option, but I could be swayed in a different direction.” He continued, “From what I have seen, the Highlands could well serve the rest of the world by expanding, and by this expansion, they could end conflicts and erase the true threat that is the monsters. But I don’t know a lot about the Highlands. I don’t know if I should give them this technology. Perhaps they should come to it on their own. It might take them days, or months, or years to get where I already am. Or it could happen tomorrow. Or it could never happen. What say you?”

Julia and Tiffany went a little wide-eyed. They said nothing. Tiffany frowned a little.

Paul abstained, saying, “I already told you my feelings.”

Ezekiel nodded.

Tiffany said, “Don’t give them anything. Give this magic to Spur.”

Ezekiel said, “Right. This is a good option. I have already given it to the Mind Mages, but I could also give it to Spur.”

Tiffany continued, “Songli has proven they can make a society out of a shitty culture, but so what? They don’t deserve what you’ve already given them, or what you could truly offer them. Not yet.” She shook her head, and said, “We haven’t even been here a full week. At least wait longer than this.”

Julia said, “I agree with Tiffany. Don’t give them this yet, and especially not before we’ve had a chance to talk to Riri. I’d like to know how she had planned on these spider encounters going. That might shift my opinion.”

“Yeah. That too.” Tiffany asked, “Did they try to get one of us killed? Or did she expect you to Wither both sites and then to pick up the pieces afterward?” She added, “I expected a [Withering].”

Paul said, “I would have suggested as much if we had continued toward the Blood Weavers.”

“Yes. I apologize for that.” Ezekiel said, “Please tell me if I am ever this ridiculous ever again, and I will reconsider the plan. Neither of you signed up for this level of danger.”

“Eh!” Tiffany said, “Ah. Well. I still like this sort of thing. Don’t get me wrong! But… Ah. Thank you.” She added, “It’s been nice adventuring. I do like this. Definitely don’t give out more magic, though, Boss. Not this soon.”

Ezekiel resummoned his Odin who had depleted themselves moving around bodies, then sent the new ones out to gather more, and said, “There will be no dissemination of technology right now. Maybe not ever.” He looked to Julia, and said, “I will be using whatever happened here to gain concessions from Star Song in the form of points for you so that none of us have to worry about mental contamination. Please do not countermand me on this when we visit Riri.”

Julia looked at her father, briefly going hard, before she softened. Somewhat. She said, “Tell them I will work for those concessions. This will also give me a better chance to see what they’re about, and besides that, I can handle myself in the field against whatever they might have me do.”

Ezekiel shoved away unproductive thoughts that would only lead to more arguments.

Julia’s change to his plan was an acceptable idea.

Ezekiel nodded, saying, “Okay.” He turned to Paul. “You can check for mental contamination?”

“Of course.” Paul said, “One of the first things I ever learned, since I have to check myself for it all the time. It’s easy enough to do for another.”

… Right.

“… Right.” Ezekiel said, “Of course.” He turned to the bones and otherwise still piling up, still tumbling down the mountainside. There were more ancient bodies down in that hole, but there was no need to grab the rest. Ezekiel was suddenly tired. He had the Odin stop. Bodies and bones continued to slide down the mountainside like a minor avalanche.

Everyone stared at the flow, as ten magenta sunform Odin hovered high above.

“Look at all this death!” Ezekiel asked his people, “This sucks, doesn’t it?”

Tiffany and Julia laughed, tension vanishing as the horror of monsters settled into a gallows humor background. Paul affected a smile, but there was no heart in it.

Ezekiel added, “There’s a hole into the Underworld at the bottom of that crevasse, about hundred meters long and twenty wide. Removing this trash sent half of the rest of the trash falling down into the dark. It seems the weavers hunted from both directions. Yes, there are the bodies of sapients in this pile, but the weavers keep the Underworld monsters at bay. Shall I do anything... About any of that?”

Paul said, “Throw some stone pillars across the hole to block out the bigger monsters. Let the weavers open it more if they need to. Don’t kill the weavers. Underworld threats are worse.”

Tiffany gave an all-encompassing, “Yup!”

Julia nodded.

Ezekiel sent five Odin back into the hole. They [Stoneshape]d crisscrossing pillars from one side of the crevasse to the other, building up a thick network of blockages. It didn’t restore the webbing that had been there before, but it did enough, for now.

The other five Odin got to work on the pile of bodies sitting out in the sun, sorting people from otherwise.

