“I could drink a keg,” Tiffany said.

Ezekiel gestured to the door, saying, “Onward! To dinner!”

- - - -

In a small room where none would see, Riri stood with Patriarch Zalindi and Elder Mirizo. The two men did not look happy with her, but this was to be expected. Something had gone wrong somewhere in the plotting. If one of her ‘underlings’ had fucked up like this, they might even be out of a job, depending on the severity.

Riri had made allowances for many unexpected events, each allowance designed to draw Erick Flatt deeper into her web, but this event came at her from the shadows.

Mirizo asked, “Did you plan on angering him like that?”

No. She had not. But she could not say that truth. She could not reveal that she hadn’t planned for every contingency. Yesterday, if this had happened, she would have considered throwing herself on the mercy of her betters, but today, her mind was clearer.

Riri said, “He was not angry. He was worried.”

“Of course he was worried!” Mirizo said, “Worry leads to distrust which leads to anger which leads to death at the hands of—” He stopped. He said, “I have been prepared for all of that to happen, eventually. I have been prepared at every stage of every possible breakdown, but I cannot properly prepare for our own people handing him poisoned treasure. Especially not you.” He added, “I am not angry that it happened. I am angry that you didn’t tell me of your plans ahead of time, Riri.”

“Have I ever led Star Song astray? No. I have not. Do not talk to me like I am some simple Loremaster or one of your Enforcer underlings.” Riri said, “This was simply an advancement of certain timetables, for while today’s upset was unexpected, it was within projected parameters. We were always going to lure them in with something unavailable elsewhere. So it happens to be points! So it happens that he could have gotten this from any Clan of our standing! We are lucky he came to us for simple points.

“This is acceptable. He could have asked for more and we would have given it.” She said to them both, “We are poised to expand, and greatly. Along with our own advancements in Particle Magic thanks to Ezekiel, this new deal with him is a perfect reason to go on a large recruitment drive. We will gain these points back in a single week. And! With Julia taking care of some long-standing threats and gaining half of her points that way, and with her father backing her up, we are set to expand in ways Star Song has never before been able to expand before! This is perfection. This is what we wanted. All the pieces might not have been planned, but they will be exploited, of that, you can be sure.”

Mirizo listened, silently.

Zalindi told them both, “Riri is trusted, and yet I cannot help but feel that it is we who have been taken advantage of here. Two unknown and potentially lucrative Variants.” He turned to Riri. “How much did they gain from the resources we could have had?”

She said, “We have not lost much revenue. We have lost options, which I would have turned into revenue, but not as of this moment. Pearlchan laid her eggs while I was sleeping, and none of them appeared special, therefore, nothing was truly lost.

“Except, the [Prismatic Thread] from the Radiant Nacreous Weaver is a qualitative upgrade over [Light Thread], usable in many different ways. I could have abandoned six different forms and taken up that one, opening up five slots for other forms. This is the only true loss. The Queen spider has gifted Julia with [Queen Spider Mind] and [Perfected Body], both of which I already have, but both abilities are paired with two different forms. I could have dropped two forms, for that one.” Riri said, “Another lost opportunity, but nothing serious. When I gave those treasures to him they were worthless to me. He has lucked out. Let him have his luck.”

Small lies, but they would serve. If Riri told herself those same lies enough times, she might even start to believe them. A special spider corpse was waiting for Riri under preservation and cold spells, but it could wait longer.

She would have liked to have had that Variant Nacreous Weaver! The Queen was a small loss, but the other one... It would have allowed for...

For a lot.

Jane would still need to come to her to learn how to use her newfound powers, though, so that was one good outcome to this unexpected mire.

Mirizo frowned at Riri; seeing much of what went on behind Riri's eyes, but diplomatically unwilling to voice his own true thoughts.

Zalindi relaxed. “A shame, but no real loss.”

Riri said, “It is more vexing than anything real.” She declared, “The cost for Ezekiel’s deepening interest in Star Song has been paid, and it was as inexpensive as we could have made it. It is up to us to lure him deeper if we wish to do so, but let us not push too hard. The fish might escape if we tug at the wrong time.”

Mirizo frowned. “Spur will push back.”

Zalindi smirked, and said, “Why would Spur get involved? We’re dealing with Scion Phoenix, and he has no connection to that Dark Land.”

Mirizo added, “Holorulo and Alaralti will become involved soon, if for no other reason than because of our solution to the Elixir problem. Void Song knows of Clan Phoenix’s truth.”

“Your second news is more troubling than the first, but we have accounted for this.” Zalindi asked Mirizo, “Which Enforcer will you send to guide Julia?”

“Enforcer Sikali.” Mirizo said, “She already knows Julia, and she has a violent personality. Considering what we already know of Julia, they might get along well.”

“Make it so.” Zalindi asked Riri, “How is Intelligence treating you?”

Riri said, “I feel clarity in odd and unexpected ways. I’ve already thought up a dozen new approaches to our daily operations to make them more efficient and stronger. I have already implemented a few, and will do more tomorrow when daylight operations resume.”

Zalindi gave a rare half-smile, and said, “I look forward to seeing the bounty of your prowess. Both of you. Good work.”

Riri and Mirizo bowed to their Patriarch.
