But something else festered within the limb as well. The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things had attached itself to the Challenger's severed lower arm. The damn thing was nearly two meters long and nearly as thick around Shiv's entire body. And it radiated with his lifeforce—was connected to him by a cord of vitality.

The notifications weren't an illusion. The words he had just heard weren't a hallucination. The Challenger did lose his arm, and now it belonged to Shiv.

“Holy… shit,” he croaked.

A keening sob from Adam made Shiv look away from his new arm. Less than a stride away, the Paragon lay upon the gore-soaked ground, clawing at his skull. He drove his fingers into the softness of his tissue and tore at meat, dug furrows into his bones. The sound made Shiv's stomach twist. A yawning chasm of horror expanded inside him as he beheld his best friend's self-mutilation.

But despite Adam's best efforts, his fingers couldn't find purchase on the Crown of the Anti-Savior. The damned thing had a mind of its own. Its briar-like design sawed and sank deeper, sinking through the bone and reforging the tissues it displaced in a coating laminate.

“No,” Shiv wheezed. He tried to move but barely slid an inch across the ground as his newly grafted arm left him pinned in place. The Hand of the…

Red Rider? Why does the System call the Challenger that? a distracted part of Shiv's mind asked, but he tore away from the stray thought.

The limb felt like the heaviest thing in the world. Shiv tried to push on it, tried to shrug his way out from under it, but it weighed upon him like an anchor bearing the weight of entire worlds—worlds that had been slaughtered clean of life. Looking at the hand, Shiv could hear screams, could see fire and ruin and death, could feel war itself slumbering within.

And it was too much; it was too heavy. It was too great a burden for him to bear. Even as he spent what Shapeless Tides he had, he got no closer to pulling himself away—not until he tried moving the limb directly. The Hand of the Red Rider flared alight with vitality and rose into the air, dismembered but still bound to Shiv by a stream of crimson essence. Moving the hand demanded more than physical strength. Shiv found himself gasping as a counterpressure drove into his mind, crushed his emotions, and made his body creak with strain.

Centimeter by trembling centimeter, Shiv commanded the hand to rise before he rolled out from under it. With that, he was free. He threw himself at Adam, took him into his embrace, and tried to help him get the crown loose.

“Shiv! Shiv!” Adam's face was a mask of blood. The upper half of his skull looked like it had been scalped. A miserable grunt escaped Shiv as he looked away from the flesh flaps which remained of Adam’s hair, his slick visage blending well with the color of his mane. “Hurts… hurts so much…”

“Shit. Fuck. I… Wait, let me…” Shiv willed his hands to stop trembling, and he gently placed his fingertips against Adam's exposed bone. Shiv touched the Crown of the Anti-Savior. The moment he did, however, a blast of divine magic cleaved into him. Shiv's head snapped back as his vitality was nearly emptied.

The upper half of his face simply disintegrated and splattered apart. It took him all the life force he had left to reform.

“Fuck!” Shiv snarled.

Adam was sobbing like a child. The only clear parts on his face were two streams that ran down his cheeks. But his hands were wrapped around Shiv's neck. He pulled at his friend, but he also tried to strangle him. He made fists and struck Shiv across the throat and chest, but fought to keep himself under control. It was like an urge to do harm was overcoming him, was seizing him from the nervous system outward. And there was nothing he could do.

“Need to… need to…” Adam's breathing took on a guttural quality. His azure eyes were turning bloodshot, filling with festering darkness.

And Shiv didn't need to look at his friend's emotional core to feel the overwhelming hate, that miserable need to break, to kill, to dominate, to ruin, take hold inside him.

The Challenger hadn't lied: he did have an alternative means of enforcing an Orcish Skill. But this seemed so much worse than what Shiv went through. Because of course it had to be worse, because of course the Challenger had something especially cruel in reserve for Adam. The orc god knew that he was weakest psychologically—and Shiv knew it as well.

What the fuck was I thinking? How could he have done this? How could he just go along with Adam's wish and damn him to this suffering? Of course Adam was going to pull a self-sacrificing maneuver. Shiv needed to be smarter. He needed to tell Adam no. He needed to find another way to convince—

Something inside the depths of his Tripartite cracked. Something inside his mind and heart tore. What little vitality he had left spilled out in a fleeting trickle, and Shiv came close, too close, to that final edge where oblivion held out its arms.

"Shiv! Stop! You must stop! I can't process this guilt. This self-loathing is fatal to us! You need to stop. This is not about you. This is him. We must do the right thing for him. What happened happened. What's done is done. Focus on getting that crown out of him." The Harbinger sounded more ragged than Shiv could ever recall, even after the Challenger had pieced it back together.

They were all on the verge of breaking. All of them.

"I don't know how! I don't know what to do." Terror, true, pure terror, was taking hold inside Shiv. His words were meant for Adam, were meant for his Harbinger. Even with what was told to him, the guilt he felt was like an ocean—and once more, he was drowning. But the Crown of the Anti-Savior itself was an enigma, and Shiv had no idea how to even approach pulling it out of Adam's skull. It was constantly burrowing deeper, and the enchantments the Challenger had left upon it made it strike with devastating force against anyone who tried to remove it.

“If you can't get it out…” Adam swallowed, blinking as delirium took hold. The Paragon was no longer screaming, and that left Shiv consumed with dread. A look of fleeting clarity took hold in Adam. He blinked, and for the briefest of moments, it was himself again. He stared straight into Shiv's eyes, swallowed, and said, “If you can't get it out, I need you to kill me, Shiv. It hurts. I can feel it eating my mind. Shiv… please.”

The sheer agony Adam endured bled over into Shiv. The Harbinger screamed as the strain of the mental imbalance drove the Legendary skill to its breaking point.

A microsecond longer, and the Harbinger would have shattered. Shiv would have shattered. The emotional anguish he endured would have been too much for his body, his mind, his heart, his existence.

There would have been no future for him. All those possibilities that spoke to him would have been nothing more than a final, fleeting, tragic mirage.

But Shiv wasn't alone, and neither was Adam. Tendrils of Psychomancy burrowed into him, and suddenly Shiv felt all his trauma get siphoned out. A nest of translucence rained down, splashing over Adam, burrowing into his mind the same way the crown did, but his suffering didn't subside. However, Shiv felt his senses clear—Uva created a layer of insulation between himself and the worst of his thoughts. She took over when the Harbinger could push on no longer and injected soothing spells into him.

"It's alright. It's alright." She spoke to him both physically and mentally. "It's all right, I have him. Take a moment. Let me handle this. Just take a moment, and steady yourself."

All the overflowing nervous energy made Shiv shake. A crushing numbness took hold—a numbness that kept growing and growing because Uva constantly drained away the toxic feelings that threatened to unravel him. He quickly learned what being catatonic felt like and decided that anhedonia was better than the caustic torture of regret.

Once more, Shiv became a passenger in his own body. He moved on autopilot, and the red right hand that was now bound to his soul hovered in the air, looming like a pillar on the verge of collapse but never truly falling.

Groans sounded all around him. The others were getting up, shaking off the Challenger's influence.

The first to join them was Valor. The ancient legend knelt down and helped Uva hold Adam steady as he thrashed like a rabid animal.

“Uva!” he snarled. “V-valor! Kill… kill you—me!”

“What… what is this? What did the Challenger put inside him?” Valor sounded shaken, terrified. Nothing like a Legendary Pathbearer, more like a lost old man.

“I don’t know,” Uva said. Her voice was calm, but her composure was also a facade. She was removing as much trauma from herself as she was from Shiv. It empowered her Psychomancy, but it seemed that the Crown of the Anti-Savior functioned just fine without magic. “I have access to his mind, but…” A gasp of discomfort escaped her. “I can't stay there. Not long. The pain… the urges… It’s…”

“Too much,” Adam breathed. “Please. Do it. I need…”

“No. No.” Valor knelt down and squeezed Adam’s hand tightly. “We will find a way. We will get it out. Be strong. Strong, like I know you can be. Can Hu! Can Hu!”

The Undying called for the Penitent, but there was no need. Can Hu was already in motion. And vaguely, Shiv realized its body had changed, its skeletal frame glowing bright with the same red-gold hue of Shiv's Pillar of Orichalcum, and it was far larger than before, sprouting more limbs and hovering drones behind him. Wings like a dragonfly's extended out in six different directions from Can Hu’s back, and they radiated with pulses of gravity rather than plumes of fire.

“Let it never be said that I don't keep my promises,” a distant voice breathed into Shiv's mind. The Challenger chuckled. But at the very end, Shiv caught a whisper of pain from the god. “Enjoy this struggle, children. As I have enjoyed what you inflicted upon me.”

Outside of the Court Leviathan, the wind was howling, but there were voices in the undercurrent. Voices of orcs screaming in agony.

When Shiv’s attention returned, he found Can Hu plucking at Adam’s head with dexterous, many-jointed fingers. “He has been implanted with old technology. From long before the Fall. The Crown of the Anti-Savior. A means of highest punishment devised during the War of Faiths to punish those who worshiped the canon of the One Faith.”

“How does it detach?” Uva asked, decidedly less interested in the lore.

“I…” Can Hu fell silent. Shiv couldn’t read the mind of the automaton, but he could see into its heart all the same. Hopelessness had found a home inside Can Hu. “It is a terminal implant. It is not meant to be removed. The construct is nanomolecular. It merges with the brain to take over the tissues and command the body and its various systems.”

“Then… then what about Technomancy?” Uva continued. “Wait! Where is Five? Bring him! Maybe he can interface with the Crown!”

Can Hu rose—though its mood never lifted. “I will find him.”

Yet, Shiv could see and feel the doubt inside the Penitent. Doubt that Can Hu kept to himself.

“Kid? Kid? You alright?” A hand was on Shiv’s shoulder, and he found Jessica looking down at him with genuine concern.

“I think I… made a mistake,” Shiv muttered, only half present. “I think we both made a mistake.”

The Giantsbane regarded Adam for a moment, then looked away—old traumas inside her welling. She dragged Shiv back to his feet. “Alright. Let’s get you out of here first. Fuck, let’s get out of this orcish hell pit in general. I knew this shit was going to happen at some point, but this—”

But any hope of Shiv leaving died as Roland finally rose to his feet a few meters away. “Adam!” His voice was pitched with misery. He barreled past Rose, all but drove Valor aside, and let out an anguished sob as he witnessed the state of his son—his pride, his joy, his blood; his only surviving son. “Oh, no, no, no. Starhawk! Thaen, I need you! Help me! Help him!”

The Starhawk, however, was absent.

No divine visage formed over Roland.

No hint of incandescent mana emerged.

“Starhawk!” Roland’s cry took on a mix of hurt and madness. “Thaen! I can feel you! I know you’re… Why? What do you mean there’s nothing we can do? You—you lie! You lie! There has to be something—something! Is it me? Am I not enough? Is it my soul?”

Shiv only realized Roland was speaking directly to the Starhawk after several exchanges.

Roland reached out and clutched Uva by the arm. “Hero Mettabon. I need you—my son needs you. I am spent—I’m worthless. Help my boy. You can do—” Roland swallowed as he heard something. Something spoken to him, and only him. “No… No. No.” Tears spilled down his face, and he turned his maddened gaze skyward. “No! If you cannot save him, then… then what is the point of you? What's the point of this? What am I fighting for? How much have I given, over and over and over! I will have nothing left without—I will have nothing! Please!”

But the sky remained sick with the smog of war, and the Starhawk kept his distance.

"The Starhawk is shaken," the Harbinger whispered, coughing. "He is as brutalized as Roland. He is demented and shaken. The Challenger has scarred us all."

“Father…” Adam whimpered. “Father?”

Roland’s head fell. He cradled Adam against him, brushing stray locks of hair out of his face, indifferent to the blood. “I’m here. Oh, Adam. Oh, my son.”

“It’s not… It’s… Hurts…” Adam whimpered.

“It’s alright,” Roland pleaded. “We’ll… Uva can help. She’ll make you well. She will.”

“No.” Adam shook his head. “It’s… it’s… it’s not his fault.”

