The loss of Kieran Mori and the Town Watch had been hard to bear, but it was the sudden arrival of Silver Cog and their infernal Auction House that had really gutted his trade business. That and the closure of the road to Southport. War was afoot – always an exceptional opportunity for enterprising businesses like his – and yet he found himself unable to turn a single coin of profit from it. Nobles and merchants alike – long loyal to him – had turned in droves to the auction house, throwing their money at the annoying Silver Cog representative like confetti at a wedding. If it had been any lesser merchant company, he would simply have paid someone to take care of him.

“I have a proposal for your consideration that I believe you will find quite profitable,” Jax said, retrieving the folder with his notes and placing it on the table between them.

“I hope you’re not trying to bribe me, Mr. Hawkhurst,” Markus said with a frown on his face as he ignored the papers. “I don’t believe I need to remind you that bribing a crown official is a serious offense.”

“Oh, no, it’s nothing like that,” Jax said. “It’s merely an opportunity to build a good business arrangement. I’m certain you will find everything to be perfectly in order.” He nudged the folder further across the surface of the table toward him.

“Would you like a drink, sir?”

Jax scowled daggers at the waitress, annoyed at her timing, but Markus smiled at her, so he swallowed his words and identified her instead, imagining he was some fire mage casting an incinerating spell.

Waitress – Sun Elf – level 18

A moment of dizziness struck him as he studied her, the lounge tilting like the deck of a boat in a storm as the background murmurs grew briefly louder, but then it passed as suddenly as it had come. He dropped his eyes suspiciously to his drink for a moment, but then Markus spoke.

“I’ll have the White Lotus tea, please,” the banker said, dragging Jax’s attention back into focus. Quickly, he tucked that tidbit away in his memory for later. Knowing the man’s preferences would come in handy later.

“At once,” the waitress said, bowing and disappearing. Jax immediately put her out of his mind as Markus finally reached for the folder and opened it. Please take the deal.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
