“I was at the center of Oceanside’s business for nearly 85 years, turning problems into opportunities and spinning gold out of every place I touched. I can do the same for this land, our king, and you, if you will work with me to make it so.”

He stopped there.

Mox spoke, “Mox Dawnborn, formerly Dawnsider. I think I directly fought against you, Burhendurur, for I remember your horns in that one battle against Hullbreaker north of Eidolon. I hope to not be doing any more of that sort of fighting at all. My hope is to raise this land to glory and power and change for the better, and to raise a family when I am able.”

Mox finished, faster than Erick would have thought.

Raingorl spoke, “Raingorl Brightsnapper, formerly Bonesnapper. The only one of you that I know is Zolan. I plan on making universities and other such schools, as well as seeing to the overall health and wellbeing of this land. I would ask you all not to start fights among the rest of us who are just trying to live our lives and make good with what we have.”

… A bit more antagonistic than Mox.

Burhendurur allowed himself a small frown that he had been holding back from giving Mox. Volaro narrowed his Carnage red eyes, not appreciating Raingorl’s smack against his honor.

Aisha barreled on, “Aisha, formerly of Stratagold and remaining of Archmage’s Rest, but my allegiance is now to our king, and to House Benevolence. My hope is to understand how Benevolence can stop all Sunderings, and to ensure that the magic that comes out of this House is of benefit to us all.”

Sure. Fine.

Aisha defused most of the obvious anger in the room.

Volaro spoke, “Volaro, formerly of House Carnage of Ar’Cosmos. Judge, primarily. I find myself dissatisfied that we two dragons are pitted against four of you. I can only hope that our king will be able to see that he is being led astray by the warmonger Mox and the golden thief Zolan, before disaster [Strike]s.”

Erick frowned.

But he said nothing. No one said anything against Volaro. Zolan did have a certain smirk in his eyes, though. Mox frowned a little, as though she were hearing some sort of weird lie that she just couldn’t even begin to understand.

Burhendurur said, “Burhendurur, formerly of House Death of Ar’Cosmos. My department will be the enforcement arm for House Benevolence, therefore I doubt that this situation here is as simple as my colleague formerly from House Carnage says; 2 against 4. It is more like me against every single one of you, for I will not suffer violence under this roof, and I will work tirelessly to ensure that everyone— Including you Volaro— does not physically harm anyone else. I am more than capable of fielding that duty.” He continued, “To that end, I have seen anomalies in the manasphere of this House. Some of them belong to your airy agents, Mox. Stop that. You are not allowed to enact violence on this land, and these spots are always preludes to your assassinating actions.” He said to Erick, “Other manasphere disturbances belong to Fairy Moon, who we have already asked to stop. Others still belong to Shade Goldie. The Shade of Assassination is here, now, standing beside your throne. Right back there.”

People tensed, including Erick, as Goldie stepped out of the air ten meters behind Erick, near his throne.

The goldscale Shade wore the same black armor she had worn when last Erick saw her, at that ritual in the desert not 25 days ago. Her massive black sword held in the air behind her like a guillotine edge, waiting to strike, but her face was almost relaxed. Erick was a bit worried that she was showing up now, after having been in the wind for almost an entire month, but she looked… ready to receive orders? He supposed?

Everyone else was terribly worried… Except for Sitnakov, standing off to the side.

The giant adamantium man looked ready to fight.

Erick wanted none of that, though.

With a bit of easy sunform, Erick silently turned his chair to face the woman. “Hello, Goldie. Good of you to join us. Would you like to take a chair, or watch from back there?”

“It would be easier for everyone if I remained in the shadows until called upon,” Goldie said, her eyes bright white with the power of her god. “I would have everyone know that I will suffer no underling to order me about; I will only take orders from you, my lord.”

“Fair enough. Thank you for your attendance Goldie. I will accept your report on the Chelation War afterward. At ease.”

Goldie relaxed, fading back into the empty air.

Erick turned back to the table, saying, “Excellent introductions, everyone, if a bit more antagonistic than necessary, in some cases. If we can keep it to that level and not escalate, then I will count this as a win.”

Zolan stared a little at Erick as he realized once more that he was dealing with true power; that Erick might look like a normal guy, but that was very far from the truth. Mox was simply ready for actual shit to hit the fan; these small words by dragons and a Shade and a Wizard were not nearly as bad as she had expected. Raingorl was feeling that he had gotten his foot stuck in a [Force Trap] and he wasn’t sure how to move; he couldn’t go anywhere.

Aisha was calm, though she was focused more on the person standing behind Erick, than on Erick— She glanced left, and then right…

She was watching Goldie, specifically, wasn’t she? She was.

Goldie aside, Volaro and Burhendurur were obviously in cahoots and trying to see how far they could push the power Erick had given them, but Erick fully expected that. He did not expect them to actually... Approve of Goldie’s presence? They liked that Goldie was here? But… Yeah. He was reading that right—

Oh.

They liked that Erick was able to command Shades around.

For that put them on the same level as Shades, which was actually a very large power increase for them.

They liked that.

Well okay then.

Erick said, “And those are the introductions. Now, we will begin the actual meeting. Zolan. You had a note-taking magic, correct? Did you regain that spellwork?”

Zolan picked up what Erick was putting down. “I did regain that magic. I simply need some supplies, for I have not prepared in that way.”

A stack of clean paper blipped onto the table in front of him, along with an assortment of pens and two jars of refillable ink. Erick had been taking notes on a similar stack of paper in a different room, through Ophiel, but now Zolan could publicly take notes, and everyone would know that notes were being taken.

Zolan smiled a bit at the casual display of power, and then he casually displayed his own power. Tan-colored magic washed across the stack of paper and black words began appearing on the white surface; ‘test, test’. The pens remained untouched, though the ink jar gained a slight sandy glow.

Erick began speaking, and words appeared on those pages as he said them,

“The duties of the Overseers of House Benevolence, are as follows.

“Castellan Zolan will have financial oversight over budgets for all aspects of the House. Every department will get money allotted to them beyond the stated salaries I have already discussed with all of you, and my castellan will be in charge of overseeing those and ensuring propriety.

“Zolan will also be in charge of organizing this Gate District. This will make him like a mayor for this ‘town’. This means he will need to get a sewermaster, and all of those assorted necessities. This town will be filled with embassies, though, each of which physically belong to the societies I connect to the Gate Network.

“Zolan will be overseeing the money that comes out of the Gate Network.” Erick looked to the man, saying, “Imagine if you were me, but without the need to worry over the larger picture outside of this Gate District. I will be the one actually crafting the Network and putting people into districts along Gate Road; I will be the one worrying over the larger politics of the Network itself, but if you have suggestions and assistance with those placements, then you will give me those suggestions.”

Zolan was slightly stunned with the massive amount of power Erick was granting him, but then he realized that this was exactly what he signed up for.

Erick continued, “And now, to explain how I see this land developing.

“I will be inviting people to live here, or to create new towns. I expect Candlepoint to grow very large, but I also expect other cities to come along and blossom beside the water, or in the lands beyond, which I will be turning back into actual forest, eventually.

“It is in these lands where Mox will be my Overseer of the Exterior. She will be responsible for coordinating and managing exterior cities to make sure they fall under the laws and regulations that we set forth here at House Benevolence. She will also be responsible for collecting taxes from those lands, and to ensure that those lands are productive, either in people, or in product. She can create dungeons out there in order to bring in more revenue for House Benevolence. I imagine us gaining a multitude of smaller city states under the aegis of House Benevolence eventually, with them starting off as hangers-on of the established lands, but eventually transitioning into incorporated lands with their own mayors.

“Those mayors, once their city has been approved by Mox, will gain a governor’s seat on what is essentially a ‘royal court’ in all but name.

“Zolan, and the current mayor of Candlepoint, Mephistopheles, are the first two people on that court. They will have an advisory role, for now, but I expect them to eventually be helpful for making laws that every city will follow.

“Raingorl will be my Overseer of Wellbeing, who will see to the mundane education and the health of every person living in these lands. I expect every proper city to have at least one school and maybe a hospital, but a single school and hospital will be more than enough in this beginning.

“Aisha will be my Overseer of Magic. Please work with Mox in the beginning to create some dungeons. I will be transforming one of those dungeons into a Benevolence dungeon… Somehow. Other duties of the Overseer of Magic include starting a magic school. I expect to be participating in this school, and if we need to start off with Arcanaeum Consortium teaching, we will, but I eventually want to see to teaching people about runic enchantment. I also want to make a few magics to make that sort of enchantment much easier for wide scale distribution among the normal people.

“Wands made of normal iron, for example, but with [Condense Oxygen] and [Condense Iron] workings on them to prevent the degradation of those wands through the normal use of magic on them. From there, and with [Renew], this will have turned a normal iron wand into a ‘magical metal’, which will enable wands of [Cooking Fire], for example, to be made out of simple iron and 20 mana from anyone who can channel [Renew].

“The tentative idea there is that I want to bring magical items to the common person, and not just to adventurers able to pay continual rad costs and for expensive materials like gold and such.

“I also plan on enacting wide scale Denial magics all across this land to ensure that it's easier for the common person to work and live in these lands; like they do in Songli. Instead of Singers, though, I was envisioning a ball of iron a meter across, or something similarly easy to enshrine in the center of a city, or something like that, which continually provides Denial of all smaller magics.”

Aisha stared a bit, her countenance seeming to sparkle like she would love to see Erick manage this feat of power. She simply nodded, but that movement was reverential.

Erick continued, “Volaro is my Overseer of Law. He will be ensuring that all the court systems that arise out of this organization are without corruption, and positioned toward reformation of offenders, or peaceful negotiations between antagonistic parties. In addition, I expect him to write up a complete code of law that is in line with the namesake of our House Benevolence. In the future, I believe the governors’ court would be the ones actually making the laws, or perhaps they will send a representative to make those laws in some sort of congress we will create later, but for now, Volaro will be writing up those laws.

“And they will be administered fairly.

“We will have no caste systems or equivalents in this land.

“I reserve the right to overturn anything I do not like, which goes for him just as it goes for all the rest of my Overseers.

“As for the outcomes of trials, I might be offering [Blessing of Empathy] against the worst offenders, along with halfway houses to get them in a better place before they rejoin the rest of the world. Perhaps I will insist that in trials where the outcome is execution, that the convicted is instead allowed a choice of [Blessing of Empathy]. I had once said to Volaro, personally, that I might offer [Reincarnation] in order to ensure a real transformation of a problematic person, but I see now that that would be a mistake. I doubt I will be doing that.”

The three reincarnators flinched, and then relaxed, as though some terribleness had come and gone without actually doing anything at all. Aisha and Burhendurur were surprised, and happy that Erick had chosen not to degrade his magic in this way. Volaro would have words to say about Erick’s decision, though; he had initially thought the idea repulsive, but it must have grown on him.

Erick continued, “And finally, Burhendurur is my Overseer of Enforcement. He’s the guard on the walls and the patrol in the streets. He is the only one allowed to wield violence as a tool inside these lands. If any of you have a physical problem, you will either come to me, or go to Burhendurur. I expect him to use summoned souls in monster bodies in order to keep the order outside the walls. But inside the walls, the only area where Burhendurur will have guard duty is here, in the Gate District.

“Once a city state incorporates, they will be expected to field their own guard, just as Candlepoint has its own guards.

