“Before that transition, though, I expect the Overseer of Enforcement to work with developing lands and try to establish guards out of the local population, and to guard those lands until such a force rises out of those lands. When the transition occurs, the Overseer of Enforcement will step away peacefully, and let the incorporated land defend itself from interior and exterior threats. Burhendurur will still be expected to protect cities from exterior threats, though he will never use person-based necromancy to do this. Summoned souls only, like as one would summon for an elemental, or a slime.” Erick finished with, “The only point of the necromancy itself is to provide a more stable body so the creature cannot simply be [Dispel]ed; there will be no sapient-necromancy in these lands, except for my own… Which is only technically ‘necromancy’. I do not like this exemption, though, so eventually we will do something different. Perhaps directed teaching of necromancy and allotment of that magic through certification.

“And that is how I see this whole thing working out, right now.”

Zolan’s magic had flowed across a mere three pages by the time Erick finished. It wasn’t much, but it was more than enough for a start. As Erick looked around he saw questions and concerns waiting behind the eyes of every one of his Overseers.

First, though, he said, “But let us talk of smaller things for a while, as my family has made for us breakfast foods, and such.” He gestured to the side of the throne room at an innocuous section of the ‘forest’ wall. That wall of trees opened up, double doors swinging wide to reveal Jane and Kiri, pushing forward tables that rested atop [Floating Platform]s. Cinnamon rolls and other assorted sweet breakfast items awaited, alongside coffee and teas. “Please help yourself.”

Erick stood from his chair and walked toward his apprentice and his daughter, and Kiri and Jane set the food tables down. Erick grabbed some food and a nice mug of coffee. It wasn’t until he was already pouring himself a cup that everyone else started to move.

Awkwardly, and with hesitation, the others stood, and then they began to move toward Erick, to the tables to grab something for themselves.

Erick smiled a little, and then he asked the air, “Goldie? If you would like something to eat, please join us.” As Goldie stepped out of the air only a few meters away, looking ready for a cinnamon roll and simultaneously putting everyone else back on edge, Erick turned to his people and tried to normalize the idea of having a Shade around by asking, “Do you like the name ‘Overseers’? We can change that if you want.”

Goldie grabbed a cinnamon roll and some coffee, and then she went back to being invisible and intangible.

Erick goaded conversation with another innocuous question.

And then, slowly, people started to talk.

Zolan was first, emboldened as he was by the power Erick was giving him and the need to see that power wielded correctly. Then came Burhendurur, when the topic of security arose. There was talk of necromancy and of the limits the Death Dragon would employ in his exterior security measures, and of the clear limits on his interior power. Zolan asked Aisha to explain the validity of Burhendurur’s necromancy ‘without using sapients’, and though Burhendurur took a hit to his honor at that simple question, he did not complain; he took that [Strike] in stride. And then, diplomatically, and with a fair bit of history, Aisha explained that certain uses of necromancy were not the bad uses of necromancy, but that it was hard to distinguish one from the other in almost all scenarios. Only with extensive testing and with a necromancer better than the one you were testing, could you tell if a soul was sapient or not. In this case, she would simply trust Burhendurur’s and Erick’s decisions to protect this land with summoned creatures in fleshy bodies, for she trusted Erick explicitly, and he trusted Burhendurur in turn.

As the conversation continued, Erick’s Overseers spoke of their own desires for the future; their needs that might not fit into the roles that Erick had given them.

Raingorl asked a pertinent question, “My king. You have technologies you wish to share with the world, yes? Do you have a plan for getting those out there? If you are amenable, I would like to take that responsibility; I feel that these things like your record players and particle physics would fit in well with mundane education.”

Aisha was instantly uncomfortable. She wanted that technology, if only to ensure that it was used in a responsible manner. Erick had already put Particle Magic out there, and who knew what would be the next thing like that.

Erick could think of a dozen things that would change the world again, that he wasn’t ready to release. The nature of light was still mostly hidden. Jane’s computers were still a world-changer, and they could be [Duplicate]d and thus change the world. DNA was a big one for Blood Magic improvements. Sound, and molecular vibrations would allow a person to remake Erick’s own [Physical Domain], which he knew could not get out there right now… But the ship had probably sailed on that one, if the Holy O’Kabil actually understood the record player he had given her.

Erick said, “Many of the technologies I envision releasing on Veird will likely have cascading effects, therefore I doubt I will be doing much of that in the immediate future. When I do decide to release more ideas into the world, those ideas will likely go through my Office of Magic.”

Raingorl frowned a little, but he accepted Erick’s answer.

Aisha was silently thrilled.

Almost everyone noticed Aisha’s silent thrill, too.

Every single person in this room was fully capable of reading each other rather well; in pulling apart the nuances of a lingering long or small breath held in reaction, instead of on purpose. Erick found he approved of that, quite a lot. It boded well.

Every single person here also exceeded Erick’s expectations of them ten fold; no one yelled. Everyone simply spoke their minds. And sure, they were guarded and reluctant, and some of those words were pointed with the sting of true history, but they still spoke. They still tried to work with each other.

And that boded well, too.

Erick added, “But the knowledge of electricity is already out there, and I do wish to make [Small Spark] the central magic of a revolution of gears and work.” He said to Raingorl, “That is about as mundane as you can get, and there are smaller things out there that I am sure will not actually create new magic. We can discuss all of that with Aisha and yourself at a later date.”

Aisha nodded, a bit tenser.

Raingorl grinned, exposing his lower fangs. He nodded.

The conversation continued.

- - - -

What came out of those first three hours of conversation was wonderful. Erick ended up with six concise-as-they-could-be lists of duties and responsibilities for each department, and for his own duties as the Head of House Benevolence. He got off pretty lightly with only a single page of responsibilities, mostly amounting to ‘keep House Benevolence looking and acting good’, ‘ultimate defense against outside enemies’, ‘maintain the Gate Network’, and ‘keep the world safe’. He could have gotten off with no responsibilities at all, for no one expected him to do anything except for what he wanted to do. After all, he was making a House out of the best talent in the world for the express purpose of relieving himself of all burdensome duties, correct?

While that was mostly correct, Erick still wanted people to know what he was prepared to do in times of stress, or otherwise.

The whole talk was fantastic, really. When the hashing of duties came to a close, Erick had gained a great idea of what to expect from his people going forward, for every single person he hired took great care in crafting their duties, and to ensure that all bases were covered. And what’s more, everyone seemed to relax a little around each other. This first meeting wasn’t exactly a team building camp, or trust fall exercises, but everyone here was a professional, and eager to work, for a multitude of reasons. Most of those reasons went unsaid, but Erick understood what was happening here well enough.

Zolan wanted power and to make himself a centerpiece in the world again, organizing a hundred separate forces into something cohesive and thriving. He had missed that part of his life, and he needed it back. He was also rather interested in all of the other powers sitting there in the room with him, and he wanted to prove himself as fully capable of standing beside Wizards and dragons and archmages, and even Shades.

Mox was ready to make civilization flourish. She wanted to transform everything into something better, and to ensure that the people who came along later were well organized and ready to help her turn even more of the world into something more habitable and more good.

Raingorl was much the same as Mox, but instead of places enabling the thriving of people, he wanted people to enable the thriving of places. There was a slight difference there between Mox and Raingorl, but they were basically focused in the same sort of direction.

Aisha wanted things to be safe, and for no mistakes to be made when it came to magic, but she was also willing to try new things, and she was especially ready to learn of Elemental Benevolence.

Volaro wanted things organized in a certain way. He wanted to know when problems arose, how those problems would be handled. Volaro’s insights into the separation and declarations of the various offices of the overseers was invaluable, as he could cite from a hundred different systems of law and pluck out exactly where Erick’s delineations were good, and where they needed work.

Burhendurur showed himself to be a rather competent warrior-philosopher, once he got over the need to defend his homeland Ar’Cosmos and casually threaten people that they were not allowed to physically threaten others. He seemed to really latch onto that idea that Erick had floated out there in his interview, which was fine, because Erick was not going to have a handful of different guard-type organizations running around here, no matter if it would make some people more comfortable in the short term. Eventually, though, Erick conceded that if people wanted personal guards they could have them, but no one was allowed to actually raise armies around here. Burhendurur also reluctantly agreed that this was fine.

As another good note, they had all agreed that ‘overseer’ was a fine title for their positions, while ‘governor’ was a good title for people like Mephistopheles, of Candlepoint. Zolan would technically be a governor as well as the castellan of House Benevolence, which he approved of immensely.

- - - -

Erick said, “And those are the duties, apportioned. I feel good about this, and I am glad you all feel good about this as well. I cannot do this alone, after all. So. Moving on?”

Nods and small words of ‘yes’ came from all around. Everyone had copies of the duties expected of everyone else, along with plates of mostly eaten cinnamon rolls and cups of coffee, filled or emptied as the person desired. It was time to get to the next part of the day’s schedule.

“Moving on.

“Now to assign everyone else from Ar’Cosmos, Oceanside, and Stratagold.” Erick blipped in packets of resumes onto the table, splitting them out to each person as he had already decided. They were not even packets; some departments had 10 people, some had 4, but all 42 people had been split up as best Erick could do. As his people began opening the folders, Erick spoke, “I’ve taken a basic accounting of every applicant, and put them where I thought they might best go—”

Erick almost stopped talking because everyone had glimpsed the first names in their packets, and their reactions were somewhere on the spectrum between disbelief and anger. Zolan rapidly flipped through his packet as though he were looking for someone, and not finding that person, he was miffed. Burhendurur and Aisha had the same reaction. Raingorl, who only had 4 people, raised an eyebrow, for half of the people on his team were from Ar’Cosmos. Mox got a lot of wrought and that was strange for her. Volaro narrowed his eyes at his own packet and wondered if he was being made fun of, for he had a lot of wrought in there.

“—Where they might best serve a sense of unity and working together, as well as play to their strengths.” Erick said, “But it appears all of you disagree with these assignments, and probably because I barely assigned with respect to where you originally came from. Let me explain my reasonings before you get too angry.

“I have 42 people to place, and some jobs need more people than others. Wellbeing needs infrastructure, so they only got four, and there are no outside settlements yet, so Exterior is also light on people. And since Exterior is doing dungeons right now, they got wrought Stone Mages. There are a lot of magically-inclined people of certain specific bents, and the two offices which require those with magic are Magic or Enforcement, so you got the most people. Law will take time to sort, but there’s not a whole lot of need for that right now, so Volaro got the second fewest number of people, at 5. There weren’t a lot of lawyers in the offerings, either.” Erick said to Zolan, “I need to put a good, united face forward, so my castellan got an even number of all forces, but it seems you did not get the person you wanted in your group.” He looked at all of them. “Each office will get more money to hire more people as the budget allows, so don’t think that these are the only people you’re allowed to have.

“But I want all of us to get along with each other, and that means people working in groups besides their own.

“Problematic interactions can be mitigated through the directed movement of certain individuals as the need arises…” Erick said, “But for now, unless you have a deep objection, these are the people working under you for the foreseeable future.”

Everyone tried to talk at once.

Erick raised his voice a little to be heard, saying, “You will all still live separately, with the reincarnators living on Yggdrasil, Stratagold’s people in their tower, and Ar’Cosmos’s people in their separate tower. Eventually, I expect the reincarnators to move to the actual House, as you wish, but that is not needed right now. As for now, you will all still get to communicate with everyone you wish to communicate with, for this will be a united House, and to that end, I am splitting up who you actually work with so that extreme factions do not form.”

Erick finished.

A moment passed.

