It was still a bit before go-time, and Erick was fretting. He had a simple plan, because anything overly complicated was doomed to fail. That plan went like this:

Get everyone into the same room.

Ensure violence would not happen.

Proceed to lay out some general duties so that everyone understood what they were getting into.

And then they would talk some, and Erick would assign smaller duties as necessary, for he surely hadn’t thought of everything that needed to be assigned. He assumed that this would take the longest amount of time, and most of the actual problems would arise here if not in that initial meeting.

Then he would assign the other 42 new hires to the various departments. He assumed that this section would also have a fair bit of discussion and anger. Hopefully, he could control this anger.

And that was it. His whole plan for this entire day.

Erick doubted that they would be able to get through everything in a single day. If they got through half of his goals he would be thrilled. He was pretty sure that he could keep the peace, though. Either way, he had rooms for the reincarnated back on Yggdrasil, while the wrought and the people of Ar’Cosmos already had their rooms inside the tower. All of those spaces were [Fairy Stronghold]s, too, so they were immune to casual observation.

Everyone would be mostly safe after the meeting, too, because he would be there.

“… Gods above I hope this works,” Erick said, as he paced in his kitchen.

Once again, Erick glanced at the clock on the wall. That clock had been a gift from Stratagold, back when Erick visited their district and he admired the clock tower, which had both the local time on top of the tower, and Stratagold time on a separate dial, just below the local clock. It was a small marvel that they had thought to put up such a tower, and that Erick hadn’t thought of such a thing first. Upon seeing the obvious utility of such a double clock, Erick wanted every district to have a tower like that, but he also wanted clocks on a wall inside House Benevolence that displayed every single time zone from every other Gate-linked land out there.

The clock on his wall right now was the first of many, for sure. It wasn’t the nice, solid green jade magical clock that Erick had had back in Ar’Cosmos, but mechanical clocks were nice, too.

Erick kinda wanted that jade clock back, though. Maybe he could ask Ar’Cosmos to provide a bunch of—

Teressa set a cinnamon roll on the table beside him, saying, “You look like you could use another.”

Erick chuckled a little. “Ahh. I am a bit of a mess right now—” Eyes wide, Erick looked around again. “How are we on supplies? Did we run out of anything important?”

The kitchen was absolutely filled with food of all kinds, but most of it was small cakes and rolls. There were large glass containers for coffee and tea, and that rounded out this morning’s general needs. Erick was all set to host a nice meeting between the overseers. If the day went super well, then Erick was halfway ready to host a get-together between all of his people.

Mephistopheles would be coming to partake of his planned role in an upcoming ‘royal court’. The only other person in that court was Zolan, so it wasn’t much of a court at all, but—

“Fuck,” Erick said, “I need a different name for the governors court— Oh! I can just call it that.”

Erick’s schedule was very full. Today was a massive day.

Teressa was still on Erick’s previous question, though, answering, “We’re low on almost all of the odder stuff, but that’s only because we haven’t been taking care of the garden recently. Stuff like flour and basic vegetables are taken care of, but stuff like beef and chicken are not.”

Erick stood straight. “What? No meat? But I had just looked...” He gazed outward with Ophiel, looking at the lands on Candlepoint’s southern edge. “Ah. Daetroi’s herds are still small— Wait… I don’t see any chickens? Where are the chickens? He had, like, a good four hundred of them with more being hatched and grown every day.” He counted the cows. He scowled. “And surely we didn’t go through a third of the herd in 20 days?”

Poi said, “Someone grabbed all of the chickens two nights ago and the cows have been vanishing, too. Slip has been investigating, but we think they were stolen by external forces. No real way to get them back, either.”

… What?

Erick had a surreal moment of disbelief, and then came the anger.

“What. The. Fuck.” Erick scowled at the world as he looked deeper into the manasphere near the former chicken coops. Two days ago was easy enough to [Witness], but it was still cloudy due to the passage of time. “… What the fuck? They all just… Flew away?” Erick looked more. “They flew away into the desert, and that’s everything. It ends there, some vanishing before the others, but all of them eventually vanish.” He came back to himself and looked around, asking, “They’re usually not that good at flying. Or [Teleport]ing?”

Teressa shrugged. “We think it’s a subtle [Husbandry]-[Teleport] spell, [Call the Flock]. A rare spell, but the Class Herder can get something like that.”

Poi shrugged. “It’s a theory.”

“… [Husbandry Teleport] is an option?” Erick frowned, mostly at himself. “Of course it’s an option.”

“You have to brand them, first.” Teressa said, “That means someone branded all the animals before they stole them but that could have happened weeks ago. Haven’t been able to find anything on that, either, so Slip is chasing down leads.”

Erick sighed. “Okay. So. No chicken for a while. Okay. Okay…” Erick frowned. “That’s just fucking annoying— Nope. Out of my hands. Not my problem right now. It’ll take Daetroi what? Two weeks to get back up and running?”

Teressa frowned a little. “Ehhh. Two months?”

“Months! Why would it take—” Erick shook his head. “Nope. Not a problem right now.” He looked around the room. “This makes all of this food a bit more extravagant than I thought it was, and yet, it’s not that special at all.”

Teressa burst out a laugh. “Sorry if I’m not a Cook, Boss.”

Kiri and Jane both frowned at Erick at the same time. Kiri was mixing up a bowl of cake batter in the kitchen, while Jane was icing more cinnamon rolls fresh out of the oven.

Jane slapped down her knife, and then sarcastically said, “I could throw them out. We could have nothing instead. Nothing will probably taste a lot better than our meager offerings.”

“I don’t even like lemon cake,” Kiri said, setting down her bowl with much to-do.

Erick eyed them all, then said, “That’s not what I mea— Shit.” He caught sight of the clock. “It’s time.”

Jane went back to icing the cinnamon rolls, sighing as she said, “We’ll catch up.”

Erick looked to his daughter, and his apprentice, and his guard, and his prognosticator.

His family.

Was he being too hard on them? Shit. Maybe he was.

“Sorry,” Erick said, “I know this has been rough on all of you, too—”

“Dad. It’s fine.” Jane said, “And no. It’s not been that rough at all. Nothing has happened besides a lot of standing around and watching you work.”

“Yes. But.” Erick looked at Jane, saying, “You don’t want to do that. I know you want to be anywhere else but here.” He looked to Kiri. “You and I haven’t done nearly enough magic.” He looked to Teressa and Poi, saying, “… Actually. Are you two happy?”

Teressa smiled. “Yeah. I am.”

“Me too,” Poi said. “I’m perfectly content.”

“Ah! Good.” Erick said, “Two out of four. Okay.”

Kiri sheepishly said, “I thought we were pretending to be mad.” She furrowed her brow, and said, “If this whole House Benevolence works —And I’m going to work to make sure it does! This whole thing is among the most important events to ever happen to this world… And to me too, too, I suppose. I’m happy, Erick. I am… Just a bit bored, but that’s fine? That’s fine.”

Jane looked to everyone, and then frowned. She actually was a bit mad. Erick couldn’t blame her for that, but she certainly seemed to blame herself. Jane said, “Okay. Well. I guess I’m the odd woman out. Sorry. I should have…” Her voice trailed away. And then she breathed deep, and said, “Kiri is right. I don’t know what came over me. I mean… This is everything I ever wanted, too, right? Like… Making a clear and obvious good difference in the world? Yes. That’s everything I want.”

It was not everything she wanted, at all. She wanted to get out from her father’s shadow, and every single day that desire grew. And yet, she did actually want to make the world a better place. She just wanted to do more violence and less guarding.

… Erick could do nothing about that right now, but he would need to send her and maybe Sitnakov out on assignment, or something. Both of them were struggling—

He realized something.

Erick asked, “You haven’t been able to go out and find your sword, have you?”

Jane frowned, embarrassed. “No. I haven’t. It’s not a big deal, either.”

“It is a big deal.” Erick asked, “Would you be okay with me making that a task for you and some of the other enforcers? I’m going to need some tasks to give out at the meeting. Some assignments that I can set as small, achievable goals, which will make the Overseers all work together. I didn’t really have one for Enforcement yet. And! I need to ask you about that, too. You still want to go hunt monsters, right? I’m hoping to be able to put you into Enforcement for monster hunts.”

Jane’s face flushed a bit red with embarrassment. “I… Yeah. Yeah. I want to do that. That’s great. That’s.. That’s really good, dad.”

Erick felt a thrum of joy in his soul to see his daughter happy again. “Okay! Then here’s the plan: We’ll go to the throne room, and from there I’ll pick up the people from Oceanside. I want you to bring in the breakfast stuff up there, soon. I’ll send a [Gate] for you. Start making the coffee now, please. And then…” Erick breathed in, out, then said, “And everything will come together, or something.”

“On it! Coffee!” Jane said, moving to the machine.

Erick simply nodded. Then he turned to his right, and opened a [Gate].

Without another word, he got on with the day.

- - - -

In Erick’s opinion, the throne room at the top of the tower was the best location for all the major meetings of the House, but that room wasn’t quite finished. Until last night. While laying in bed and unable to sleep, Erick frantically worked through Ophiels to make the room presentable and functional. Shaping tables out of eternal stonewood. Reluctantly making a throne (that he wasn’t going to use in the actual meeting). Making chairs that fit the table. Realizing that the shape of his table would mean a lot going forward, he scrapped all that he had come up with and turned the table into something else. Lighting. Carving the walls. Fixing everything that he had disturbed while he had done all that movement.

Erick stepped out of his living room and into a place that almost looked like a clearing in the woods, but it was not that at all.

Teressa stepped out of the portal behind him, looking around, her eyes going wide.

Poi smirked as he stepped through, saying, “You could have gone more fancy.”

“It’s pretty fancy already,” Teressa said.

“Oh! Let me see!” Kiri said, rushing through the portal— She stopped on the other side. “Ah? Hmm.”

Jane followed through next, her eyebrows rising as she looked around. “It’s rather… Prismatic, dad.”

“It’s not that prismatic… Eh?” Erick asked, “Is it too much?”

The white throne room at the top of House Benevolence was 40 meters across, and had a dome roof made of triangular sections of glass that fit together like hexagons. Pillars in the shape of tree trunks lined the room like reliefs, their branches stretching up into that domed ceiling, holding it aloft, while their roots flowed a good 3 meters out from the wall in gentle tangles. In most places, those roots were simple, and would not hinder people walking out of the hidden doors Erick had installed all around the room, but it was easy to see that the roots meant something, for those roots stopped abruptly as they reached that 3 meter demarcation. Where the roots stopped, they formed a circular lip all around the room. That lip meant something, but it was hard to see from just that clue.

The full breadth of Erick’s Shaping revealed itself in the smooth floor beyond that lip of faux roots, when that smooth floor transitioned into faux tilework.

All around the room, the empty space between the roots and the tile remained unbroken, except in the north. There was an empty space there, where a short dais rested; the circular design was the rune of [Renew], and Erick’s throne would go where the gap lay in the rune. Erick was perhaps most happy about that part of his design.

But the room was very white, as it was made entirely out of eternal stonewood. To counter this, Erick had added color by placing special wardlights onto the ‘leaves’ of every single ‘tree’ that surrounded the room. He had even put up sconces all around, attached to the trees. Rainbow lights, ever shifting in their nuanced colors, glowed upon those sconces.

The throne room was a lot of green, and white, and nuanced rainbow, but it was actually all just plain white light; Erick had gotten the idea for such lighting from Redflame’s castle in Ar’Cosmos. All those lights were Carnage red flames, but they all gave off plain white light.

Erick was less than thrilled about the throne, but it had been necessary to have one, and so he did.

The throne was of similar make to the one at Candlepoint; a simple white throne that was easy to sit upon. This one was slightly different, in that he had thrown a ribbon of rainbow-white light across the back of that one. Other than that it was nothing special.

Erick moved through the room as he pointed and explained, “The echo was pretty bad in here until I added the tree pillars and all the faux foliage; now the sound is somewhat diffuse. There are doors hidden in the forest, mostly where the roots are absent, but all of the setup for this room is kept below. There are stage doors in the floor here; that’s where I put the furniture.” Those furniture pieces began blipping into space in the center of the room. “Ophiel is helping me move them up for today. The only main entrance is through those trees over there, at the southern end of the room; they fold inward. The room beyond that fake forest wall is meant for food delivery. That’s where you’ll come in from.

