“I went with a simple round table for the meeting, and all the chairs I made for it are all the same.” Erick began arranging those chairs around the large table. “I won’t actually sit in the throne while we’re having a normal meeting. The throne is for special events… I guess. I also made a whole bunch of other tables that can go all around the entire room, sitting on the [Renew] rune or otherwise, which is where I will put them for the larger gatherings I have here, but the party tonight —if we get that far— will be at the atrium downstairs.

“And this is basically it!” Erick put a hand on the back of the chair he planned to sit on; it was exactly the same as the other chairs around the 4 meter wide circular table. “What do you think?”

Teressa glanced at the table, saying, “That needs to be bigger.”

“… Eh?” Erick asked, “But it’s orcol-sized already?”

Poi said, “You’ve got under two meters of distance between you and your next nearest person, and that won’t [Fly]. Also, the center of the table needs to be empty, so everyone can see each other’s feet and to see if they’re working magic underneath. Also, Sitnakov is coming in right now.”

Right on cue, The Adamantium Wind stepped out of the air and into the room. He happily said, “Morning! It’s time for the great big meeting, right?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “And I hope to the gods above and all others besides that this goes well.”

Poi nodded, adding, “I’m reasonably sure that we’ll have some unexpected guests, so you need to add more space to that table just for that reason.”

Sitnakov looked at the table. “That’s too small.”

“Okay okay.” Erick looked to Jane and Kiri. “Please get things ready; I’m closing the [Gate] after you go back through.” The two girls rapidly complied, returning through the portal to home. Erick closed the [Gate] and began reshaping the table, doing as Poi and Sitnakov suggested. “Six meters across mean around 2.5 meters between everyone. If two more people show up then that’s two meters between each person?”

Poi nodded; acceptable. Then he said, “Oceanside has alerted me that they are ready for pickup. Aisha, Burhendurhur, and Volaro will be ready to join the meeting when you call for them. Within 15 minutes?”

Erick nodded. “Within 15.” He looked across the world to Oceanside, where four people awaited in a courtyard at the hospital; three people Erick expected, and Kirginatharp. He opened a [Gate] from there to here and turned to them, saying, “Hello, everyone.”

Kirginatharp asked, “How is the housing for the others?”

He was nervous.

Erick was nervous.

Both of them tried not to show it.

Erick said, “The housing is ready when the people are ready to come back. Everything is secured behind [Fairy Stronghold]s, runic webs, redundant illusions, and a direct promise from you-know-who to not go into those spaces where she has not been invited. I have explicitly uninvited her, too.”

Kirginatharp breathed deep, then he turned to Zolan, Mox, and Raingorl. “It’s been a pleasure working with you all these years. I look forward to continuing to work with you in your new home, and profession.” He turned to Erick. “Thank you, Erick. Everyone else might be a day or two getting ready. They’ll be waiting.”

Erick nodded, then he turned to his new people. “Welcome to House Benevolence, Zolan Brightborn, Mox Dawnborn, and Raingorl Brightsnapper. I didn’t mean to change your names, but it happened. I hope you’re happy with everything else.”

All three of them wore impeccable clothes—

Fuck. Erick needed a theme for his clothes, didn’t he? Or was that too ‘Star Wars’ trooper armor? Whatever the case, Kirginatharp or someone else had taken notice of how Erick had styled his own [Conjure Armor] these days. They had made similar clothes for his new Overseers; mostly white, but with black accents.

— on their new, younger bodies. Zolan was an absolute hunk of a 20-something demi, with nice violet skin, black hair, and small horns, and Erick was embarrassed for himself that he had an instinctual reaction upon seeing the guy, but there was no other way to say it other than Zolan was fucking hot. Which was fine. Zolan seemed perfectly aware of his body, if his casual expression of solidity was anything to go by, or perhaps he was just ready to start the workday, for real. He was ready to be political.

Mox wore white and black as well, which contrasted nicely with her dark skin. The human woman was also 20-something, and a fire seemed to burn in her dark eyes that was brighter than the sun. She was ready for anything.

Raingorl was your standard stupidly-beautiful 19-ish orcol man, blessed by the Goddess of Beauty and Brutality, Aloethag. That blessing hadn’t been so obvious back when Erick had sent the guy to Oceanside to recover, but now that Raingorl was up and about, that blessing was obviously present. He wore his black hair cropped short, and his clothes a bit loose. His left hand seemed to want to grip something, but he was probably just missing his cane, since he didn’t need it anymore.

The three ‘youngsters’ came through the [Gate] at near the same time, and then each of them took a knee, putting one hand over their chest and the other to the ground.

They lowered their heads and spoke in unison, “We owe you our lives, Apparent King and Wizard of Benevolence, Erick Flatt. We hope to repay your kindness and your trust by supporting the growth of your ideals, and of your House. Thank you for accepting us under your aegis.”

Unexpected, but perhaps Erick should have expected this. He spoke calmly, “Rise, and join me as we discuss our place in the world, and how to make everything better for everyone that we can.”

They rose.

Zolan had a small smirk he couldn’t control. Mox was relaxed, and prepared. Raingorl chuckled a little; he was happy to be of service to a higher ideal again. All three of them had missed this. All three of them had been exactly the kind of people who wanted to make the world a better place in the first place, which is why they went to work with Kirginatharp, the Headmaster. Time had made mockery of their efforts, and so they had to retire.

But now, they were here, out of retirement, and ready to resume with their life’s work, under a different power.

Erick turned and looked to Kirginatharp, standing on the other side of the [Gate]. The sun beat down at an angle over there, casting the gold and white master of Oceanside into tiny shadows. Here, at the Gate District of Candlepoint, the room was awash with white light from a thousand sources, while overhead the sky was golden with dawn.

Erick nodded to Kirginatharp.

Kirginatharp nodded to Erick.

And then Erick closed the [Gate].

He took a moment to breathe, and then he broke the ice, asking, “Any problems you’ve noticed? Everything working out well?”

Zolan said, “Everything is working out very well.”

Erick smiled. “Good.”

“I haven’t needed to clean and heal as usual for the first time in 95 years.” Mox said, “I now have a whole extra hour of every day, and an extra 3500 mana.”

“That’s great!” Erick said.

“Aloethag seems to have taken pleasure in my return to youth.” Raingorl frowned a little, but even that looked hot on him. “She has given me a stronger blessing than usual. It should not affect my work.”

“Okay… That’s different.” Erick asked, “It’s okay?”

Raingorl smiled brightly. “I can live with it.”

“Ah. Good! Great.” Erick looked at the three of them, asking, “Any other changes I should know about?”

Zolan said, “All of our magical signatures are either paler or outright white. Mine is the color of new sand.”

“Mine is full-white,” Mox said.

“New growth green,” Raingorl said.

A bit weird! But fine! Erick was happy, for every one of these people seemed happy, and that’s what mattered. But it was time to switch gears. He was their boss, now. Erick looked at the three of them, and said, “Your counterparts will be joining us shortly.”

Zolan, Mox, and Raingorl each seemed to flick a switch, and turn professional. The time for small talk was not exactly over, but it was also time to work.

Erick had two different Ophiel each open up two different [Gate]s, about ten meters apart from each other. The celesteel human wrought, Aisha, stood on the other side of one portal, while the incani-like Burhendurur and the orcol-like Volaro stood together behind the other [Gate].

Erick said to them, “Please join us in the throne room. We will be discussing the future of our organization now.”

Aisha gave a small bow and strode forward. She wore robes that looked almost exactly like Erick’s, but fit for a woman, and made of her own iridescent silver body.

Burhendurur and Volaro gave small nods and walked into the room. Both of them wore robes like Erick’s, too, which was good. But they had made a mistake and it had nothing to do with what they wore.

Erick told the two dragons, “Eventually, I hope to attain a certain easy familiarity with each of you, and therefore there will be no need for bows or other such acknowledgments of stations. But that time is not right now.” He stared at them. “Everyone else bowed.”

The two dragons startled, and then they bowed. Everyone else gave small expressions of relief, righteousness, and gathered solidity. Burhendurur and Volaro did not seem put off by being put in their place, either, for in each of their minds, Erick could tell that yes, that had been a small test, and that they were both personally miffed at being called out on their antics, and relieved that antics would not be tolerated. Volaro actually seemed pleased with himself, as if he had given Erick a way to rise above the other people in the room at a small cost to Volaro’s own pride. Volaro seemed to have pride to spare, so this much was nothing to him.

Weird, but fine?

Good, actually.

Volaro seemed to have no trouble in being told that he was crossing a line, or perhaps he was fine with Erick telling him off. At least this would make it easier for Erick to tell Volaro that his judgements were unjust, and for the Carnage Dragon to do something else.

“Okay.” Erick turned to everyone, caught a hundred smaller thoughts in the expressions of eyes and shoulders and heartbeats and tensing hands of all his people, and said, “Everyone please have a seat where I placed the wardlight with your name and position.”

Without words, and in a guarded manner, the six of them complied.

Zolan sat to Erick’s immediate left, then there was Mox, then Raingorl, followed by Aisha, Volaro, and Burhendurur. The glowing names and positions faced toward the center of the table, so that everyone could read the others’ more easily.

Erick opened with, “Welcome, everyone. First, thank you all for choosing to be a part of House Benevolence. Together, the seven of us here and whoever comes afterward, will be working to make all the world a better place, a more connected place, a safer place, for all of us and all people, even those who have historically been enemies. Enemies of others, or enemies of ourselves, it does not matter. We work toward a brighter future.

“For our toil, we will be powerful, and able to cause change on a large scale. Mostly, I expect this change to come through proving our economic strength, and the strength of our defense, in order to provide peace and prosperity and to raise the standard of living across the entire world.

“We will even open new worlds, eventually.

“There will be difficulty, of course. I had expected to fight off at least one war by now, but that has not happened, likely due in no small part to the wrought and Oceanside and Ar’Cosmos and others each working in the background, in their own ways, to make this happen. You and your people all came to this table, ready to cooperate, and I thank you for your presence, and your oaths of fealty.

“I will prove myself and my goals worthy of your trust, and I hope you will do the same.

“I have a small measure of tasks to get done today, but after that, I hope that all of you will be able to talk with each other, and to plan whatever you wish to plan, and to work together to make our wishes of a better future come to fruition.” Erick paused, then he said, “Here is what I want to do, today:

“Introductions.

“Delineation of overarching duties and expectations, as understood by me.

“Then there will be a small break for refreshments.

“Then we will come back, and you all will speak of your delineation of duties, as understood by you.

“We will then have a reconciliation of overlaps and blank spots, in order to clear out those overlaps and assign those blank spots.

“And then we can work through the resumes of others I have already gotten and already assigned to your various offices. Some of my assignments will not be met with approval, but if you have better ideas of who should be assigned where, then I will accept or deny those adjustments.

“We might not get through all of that, but that is the entirety of the goal today.

“I expect we’ll need about a month before a lot of the historical angers begin to lessen. I expect at least one or two fights, and for some sort of real problem to appear. I hope, though, that that does not happen, and that there is only peace under the roof of this House. Angry, hurtful peace is fine, for now. In the future, I expect real, lasting peace and cooperation. I am sure almost all of you already know each other, but we will do this properly, anyway. We will begin with introductions.” Erick turned to his left, saying, “Zolan, if you would start. Please keep it under 5 minutes, or shorter, then we will move on to Mox, then Raingorl, then Aisha, then Volaro, then Burhendurur.”

Zolan looked out across his new compatriots. He held a thousand judgments about all of them, with most of those judgments cast upon the obvious-dragons. Some of those thoughts were good. Some were gauges of danger. But he put hope into his voice, as he said, “Zolan Goldbranch, now Zolan Brightborn; a foible of our King’s magic. My previous boss was an enemy to some of you, and a friend to most of you. That will likely bring difficulty, but the Headmaster is doing all he can to ensure that this works. Our Apparent King will become the living embodiment of a treaty between Oceanside and Ar’Cosmos, but more than that, I believe that House Benevolence will change the world for the better, and I, as Castellan of this House, will do my part to ensure that this House functions as best it can.

