Then everyone tried trying to talk all at once, again.

Erick turned the conversation back to order.

Voices rose. Emotions ran high. When old grievances came out into light, Erick shut that down. This only forced Zolan and Aisha and Volaro and Burhendurur to use more circumspect wording. But even that much was able to bring the conversation back down to a manageable level.

It was enough.

Erick knew he was not going to get what he wanted, though. He had expected this. It was too much to make known enemies work as closely together as Erick had tried to make them work. And so, Erick finally agreed to allow for small changes, which is what he was planning on allowing already.

Erick explained, “To change, then: You all get your first picks, starting with Zolan, then Aisha, then Burhendurur, then Volaro, then Raingorl, then Mox. Then Mox will pick again, followed by Raingorl, Volaro, Burhendurur, Aisha, then finally back to Zolan. Then, I will put the rest of our people—” Erick repeated, “—the rest of our people where they were already going, and the organization will end up looking almost exactly as it already does. I reserve the right to veto any specific choices.”

No one was really happy with that, but then Zolan started asking about specific people. He found out that Erick had placed a woman he wanted by the name of Iloya into Enforcement, for she was very good at managing people and Enforcement needed that. And then Zolan started talking with his fellow reincarnators. He was trying to game the system with picks.

Not to be outdone (and while Burhendurur complained that Iloya looked to be the only person he would even want to keep, both because she looked competent and to deny Zolan that person) Volaro spoke of taking back one of the professors from Ar’Cosmos Arcanaeum that Erick had placed into the Wellbeing office; a man by the name of Harolan. Harolan was a professor of law. Raingorl wanted to get rid of Harolan, because he was a law professor from Ar’Cosmos and that didn’t sit well with him, and he also wanted one more person. He wanted five of the people Erick had spread around here and there, which he simply was not going to get, though, so he started narrowing down the people he absolutely wanted on his team.

Everyone started to do that.

Erick wasn’t quite happy that everyone was fighting against how he had placed out the people, but he accepted it. No one was quite as willing as he was to work so closely with former enemies. But Erick at least managed to hold firm that there would be some working with old enemies. Everyone only got two picks.

An hour later, those picks had been made.

Erick had only needed to veto the movement of Harolan, for he wanted Wellbeing to have a different take on law, and the law professor from Ar’Cosmos was needed for that role. Neither Raingorl or Volaro were happy about this, but they could just remain unhappy; this was necessary. When Erick had interviewed Harolan, the man had spoken very well. He was sure that Raingorl would come to appreciate his expertise in international law. Volaro could just deal, too.

And Erick gave one final notice, “I truly hope that you don’t let talent languish, even if that talent might come from a former enemy. Every single person in these folders is highly competent and ready to work for House Benevolence. Please keep that in mind. And yet, at the same time, insubordination will happen. Let’s all try to work through this, as we can.” Erick added, “And that’s all I have planned for today.” He smiled. “It has taken us all morning and half of the afternoon to get here, and we did well.

“Zolan, Raingorl, Mox; I have your houses ready on Yggdrasil, alongside all the other houses of your fellows. Eventually, you can move here into House Benevolence, or you can stay up there. It’s only you three who are back from Oceanside right now, though, so take as much time as you want. I’ll open a [Gate] for you to get there in a minute, and then I’ll meet you there and tell you how the [Fairy Stronghold] works. Don’t leave the house yet, for you probably won’t be able to get back in without me telling you how.

“Aisha, Burhendurur, and Volaro, you already have your rooms set up. I hope they are to your liking, though I know they are not fully set up yet, either. This land has no sewermaster right now, but with Mox’s volunteering to do the sewerwork before she works on the dungeons, any water issues should be resolved soon. Perhaps a few days yet.

“And that’s everything for now!” Erick happily said, “There is a small get together in a few hours and Candlepoint will be joining us for that. I expect any immediate economic prosperity to try and go through there, if at all possible; buy things from them, hire from them, that sort of thing. They don’t have everything, but they do have a lot. Candlepoint is now your city, too, so treat it as such. This Gate District is more like a business district, than a real town.” Erick smiled, and said, “And that’s it! Anything you all wish to add in this meeting?”

There was a lot there, in what Erick had just said. It took a moment or two for everyone else to gather their thoughts.

Zolan spoke first, “I could go for hours longer, but there is only one thing I specifically wish to discuss right now. What do you mean exactly when you say ‘go through Candlepoint’, when we have a Gate Network right here?”

Others wanted to know that, too.

“Good question.” Erick said, “I’m not sure what I mean by that, exactly. I know what I don’t want to happen, and that is I don’t want Candlepoint to become a slum, a backwater, or anything like that. I want it to be a cosmopolitan city that eventually encompasses a great deal of the lakeside. I want to be able to walk through Candlepoint and buy anything from all across the world. And I want you all to treat it as your new city. You might just like it.” He said, “There are a lot of good people there, like this woman Zaraanka Checharin. If she wasn’t a shadeling, and if she was anywhere else, she would become a scion of industry. That’s probably why Melemizargo took her soul when she died and turned her into a shadeling. Then there’s Valok Greentalon, a shadeling who used to be a friend who I worked with to make the Farms at Spur. We were going to transform Spur into a breadbasket of the Crystal Forest… And then he was assassinated and turned into a tool to make me move certain ways. There’s a guardmaster there by the name of Slip.” Erick looked to Burhendurur. “He’s very good at his job; everyone thinks he is a Shade and I’m not sure either way.” Erick said, “There’s also Justine Erholme, who is a speaker for Koyabez, who currently runs the ‘True Interfaith Church’ over there, as they’re calling it. That black and white building is the physical representation of a pact between Melemizargo and the Pantheon to mark their non-aggression toward each other. There’s Ava, a former shadeling who is the sewermaster; she does a remarkable job, really. And then there’s Mephistopheles, their mayor. He’s a Cultist, and he has pulled that town out of multiple desolations. They’re all very good at what they do, and I hope you all get along well.”

Erick’s six Overseers were silent in contemplation.

And then Zolan said, “I look forward to working with them.”

Erick smiled.

There were a few smaller words after that, but eventually, Erick dismissed the group.

- - - -

Erick showed the reincarnators to their joined apartments and explained how it all worked, as well as informing them that he could adjust everything more to their needs with some more magic, but that could come later. Other than that, this was their property and they could do what they wanted with it, including inviting people inside if they wished. Erick explicitly offered to [Gate] in Zolan’s Paladin great grandson, Zorik, and Zolan took him up on this offer. Thirty seconds later, Zorik walked through a lightning portal, into the living room, carrying a bunch of bags. Erick offered the same to Mox and Raingorl, if they wanted any family to come here, but both of them were fine as they were, for now. Inviting too many people was a security issue, and they were living on Yggdrasil, which came with its own set of complications.

An introduction to the big guy took about two minutes, with Yggdrasil’s [Scry] hopping off of Erick’s shoulder to say hello.

The rest of that conversation took about five minutes, for all three of them were familiar with [Fairy House]s. All three expressed that they would never use a [Fairy House], though, unless they were desperate, and especially with Ar’Cosmos so close. Erick explained that he had gotten a good promise of non-intrusion from the person they were worried about, which only half-alleviated their worries.

He would have stayed longer to talk about smaller things, like how they were doing in their bodies and how everyone else was doing, and to ask after how their regaining of magic was going, but he could tell they wanted to be left alone, either to move into their apartments, or to talk amongst themselves about the meeting. Back at the House, Aisha was already talking to her people, with Sitnakov there, too. Burhendurur and Volaro were similarly giving bad news about work assignments to their own people. And so, Erick left Zolan, Mox, and Raingorl alone in their nice house on Yggdrasil’s branch right above his own. They talked amongst themselves, and probably to Kirginatharp, too.

Erick wanted to busy himself with helping to prepare the ‘business party feast’ later, even though Kiri and Jane had already done a lot of that work already, but he could not. He had one more meeting to take.
