There were a lot of similarities between the various stages of accretion that Erick had gone through with his mana, inside Ar’Cosmos, way back when, and the cultivation of here and now. It was kinda odd that he was doing accretion again, but differently, in this land of Other Fae.

Cultivation was not accretion, though, except in the superficial sense.

For mana, Erick had started with a core. Rozeta had helped him make that, and also his secondary Status in the Core of Veird. From there, Erick had accreted to keep his core intact and solid, and to not go insane with hunger from having a degrading core. Making a core was the first step toward True Wizardry, and Erick had started that journey in the Core of Veird in order to have Rozeta’s help.

And then Fairy Moon had kidnapped him to Ar’Cosmos for the other half of accretion learning. In that place, Erick had needed to open his aura and then soak his mana inward through his body, enhancing his body through charging himself with his own power. This led to his core stabilizing in his body, turning perfectly spherical; gaining an infinite number of facets.

And that was accretion at its base.

Erick had gone beyond that in his ascension to Benevolence, and then eventually becoming a True Wizard. He had become a fully crystallized being, and also a person.

Apparently the end step of cultivation was the complete opposite. The final step of reson cultivation, which appeared to result in a person becoming a fairy, was to ‘break all preconceptions and be Simply You’. There was no Paradox, like with mana and accretion and crystals and personhood; there was Simply You.

The Fae were naturally like that.

Other people had to work for that power.

At its lower levels, accretion shared one major thing with cultivation, though. Cultivation was all about finding the path forward that you choose to walk, and then walking it. Your ‘Truth’. Erick had done that with his creation of Benevolence.

Other than that, cultivation was almost entirely about ‘becoming a being of doing’, which was philosophical speak for ‘being a person of passion and action’. The ‘action’ part was just as important as the ‘passion’ part. Wizardry in this New Cosmology was all about actual Wizardry, after all; about pulling forth possibility from nothing and thus making the impossible possible, which required true purpose and power.

There was no grand path to become Simply You, though.

There was simply the act of getting more You, through all the methods one could possibly consider, and that is what worked, if it worked for you. The book had a very clear line about what that actually meant, and that line sent Erick down a deep ‘thought hole’, as Poi would have called it.

Erick set down the book and looked at the ceiling as he had a think.

He voiced the question he had read,

“Do I believe that what I am doing is enough to become Simply Me?”

Was Erick going to become a fairy, whether he wanted it or not?

Erick considered…

He felt in his very bones and soul and mind, that his answer was ‘yes’. Yes, he was doing something that would make him eventually become indelible upon the fabric of reality itself. Erick could have tried to lie to himself about that, but that would have been a lie.

The creation of Yggdrasil. The transformation of Margleknot. The Benevolent Sun in the sky of this central city. The eventual saving of Veird and the expansion of Veird into the universe. The eradication of Malevolence, which was another solid goal…

Erick hoped that whatever awaited him in the future was a good sort of fate because he saw where he was headed, his Lightning Path traveling off into the far, far distance, headed toward strangeness on an uncertain horizon. Unknown and unknowable. Hidden yet apparent. Truths beyond truths.

Erick would eventually walk that full Path if it made the universe a better place.

But for now, Erick simply stood.

The Lightning Path was already beckoning, there at the front gate of his property, and so Erick would walk it, even if he hoped that it would slow down.

He stepped through the house, to his closet, to view the nice clothes that Lionshard had bought for him. He opted for the sunglow and nightglow robes that most matched his usual fare, but these ones glowed on the edges and drank deep all light in the accents. They were appropriate for courtly drama in multiple ways. First, because they were simply the most beautiful clothes that Erick had literally ever seen, but Lionshard called them ‘simply appropriate for court’, and because they would regrow to their full, mended size, as long as Erick kept a fraction of their fabric around and set them in the light of any sun for a short while. That regrowing part was important, because they were certain to get shredded in any real Fae Enclave drama.

They’d also transform into some jewelry for him to wear as a dragon, when he eventually turned into that Truth of his.

So dressed, Erick stepped out of his house, onto the green grasses in front of the gate to his property—

He had been on a mission, which is why he had moved that fast, but he didn’t know that moving with fabrics like this would cause them to billow out and then fall downward in a truly, quite artistic sort of falling. His robes moved like those hair commercials back on Earth; all shimmery and magical. Erick smiled at that, at how his weightless clothes felt and moved, never getting in the way at all, and always making him look good.

Ah.

Nice clothes.

Nice clothes were nice!

Erick moved on.

He looked at the men who had just stepped on to the other side of the portal to his property. Erick stood on grasses and moss, but the two men in front of him stood upon black crystal. Erick said, “I assume you’re Blighter, from Wraithborne Tower. And this is your understudy, Seabass?”

Erick opened the portal between him and the two men on the other side. They now had a clear entryway onto Erick’s land.

Blighter was an elven man of dark, sharp clothes that matched his hair, but his skin was as pale as fresh snow and his eyes were red as blood. Seabass was a fraction darker of skin than Blighter, and his eyes were a bit more purple than red. Both of them were immortal vampires, or at least that’s what Erick mentally called them. They were bloodborn, which were either a very advanced form of blood ooze, or a virus that infected elves who did too much blood magic. Erick wasn’t completely up on the specifics of it, but Lionshard had spoken a bit about them, once Erick had asked the old platinum dragon about the letter he had gotten from the Tower.

And now these people from the tower were here.

They had large, black leather briefcases with them, each of them completely open to Erick’s vision, if he wanted them to be. Some non-magical seals on the outside of the briefcases denoted them as belonging to the Wraithborne Tower, and ‘woe betide all who seek to assail the Tower’. That much was probably enough to warn most people off from peeking.

Erick looked inside the briefcases anyway. It was just paperwork.

All the actual secrets were probably inside the heads of these two men, for the insides of these two men were kinda weird and bloody. Not very intelligible. They were probably immune to Mind Magic, because they certainly looked oozy in some parts, which was quite an interesting thing to see.

Want to be immune to Mind Magic of all various types? Be an ooze! Solution good in many different lands; not just Veird.

Blighter bowed, then rose saying, “Greetings, True Wizard of Benevolence, Erick Flatt of Earth and Veird. I am Blighter from Wraithborne, as you have correctly deduced. This is Seabass, my understudy. I would enjoy a sit down at your pleasure to discuss the case of Nothanganathor, the Painted Cosmology, and what you want to happen. I ask for safe passage while conducting these duties, and request relinquishment to the Wraithborne Tower instead of death or sundering, if I should fail to live up to your demands upon the reality of the case.” Blighter gestured to Seabass, saying, “My understudy wishes for the same.”

Seabass bowed quickly, and professionally.

Erick stepped back from the portal. “Request granted. Please come in, Blighter. Seabass. Let’s talk.”

- - - -

In one of Erick’s front rooms, Blighter set out paperwork for cooperation with the Tower.

Erick read it over, and said, “So that’s a lot less evil than I thought you would be. I was expecting absolutely devastating costs and blood contracts and such. All this says is I agree to not hold the Tower liable for the outcome of the Fae Enclave meeting, and that you cost 1,100 resons a day. A thousand for you, 100 for Seabass.” Erick asked, “So what’s the catch?”

Blighter said, “I have an Understanding with the Fae Enclave. You do not. They will use every trick in the universe to try and get you to falter and fail in everything you attempt to get out of them. If you allow me to speak for you, and if all you do is nothing but stand there, no matter what the fae say, then there are no catches here. But as soon as you speak they’ll instantly hold you in contempt and lock you up in a Time Stasis, and then they’ll try to work me over as your representative, until they come to some sort of agreement that they can deal with.

“We expect to get paid for the days you’re missing, since we will still be working.

“In the event that you talk and they really don’t like you, then they’ll jettison you to Layer 1 and we’ll still be talking in court until you come back.

“Please understand that they will very much attempt to get you to contempt yourself. Anything except for you speaking in regard to a direct question, and then answering fully honestly, will be contempt.

“The Fae Enclave will only truly deal with you in court after they’ve had their fun, or if they think they can have more fun adjusting a previous decision of theirs.

“I can tell you right now that they will not overturn their decision of Nothanganathor and the Painted Cosmology. Shadow burned a lot of goodwill with them when she tried to kill them to make her viewpoint stronger. All she did was make them angry.

“I will attempt to make you the Arbiter of Veird, but you’re likely going to have to settle for something else. I don’t know the exact shape of that ‘something else’, but it will be between several horrible decisions for you. The Fae Enclave deals in very nebulous concepts, and there are lots of outcomes on the table right now. For instance: Would you give up your Ascension to become the Arbiter of Veird? Your sense of purpose? Your Element? Your entire life on Earth? Or on Veird?”

Blighter stopped talking, because that had been A Lot.

Erick considered.

Erick asked, “And what if I went in there without you, for the first time?”

“Once you stop talking through lawyers, they stop taking you seriously. Therefore, this is not a recommended course of action. You would be able to speak your mind to them, though. Mind, please, that the outcomes of such an action could be a lot worse than what we could get out of them for you.” Blighter said, “Therefore, in my professional opinion, you should not meet them alone at any point in time.”

Erick pretended to need to think, to draw out the moment, as he asked, “So if they kicked me away, and I had you there in a professional setting, you could make bargains for myself while I am out of commission. And those bargains would be binding?”

“Yes,” Blighter said, “If you are not comfortable with that, we can do a different arrangement involving you as a self-representing person and us standing back and offering legal knowledge when you ask it, or when we have words that we feel the need to tell you. That sort of arrangement is unorthodox and makes the Fae Enclave rather uncooperative and violent toward the counsel of the claimant.”

“… Ah. Well I like that option better. I won’t have you making any sort of bargains for me, ever, without my prior, complete approval.” Erick said, “But you going in as my counsel and me self-representing would be putting you at risk. Can you handle that?”

Blighter said, “We would ask to step out after assisting you three times. That is the usual number of allowed interventions.” And then he added, “Ascended Flatt. I tell you right now that I would stake my life on making this case work out in your best possible favor. The Tower wishes to work with you. We desire your complete desire to work with the tower. We would not do anything to make you truly decide that we’re not worthy of cooperation, and we certainly would not harm your capability to be you, after facing the Enclave.”

“… Well.” Erick looked at both Blighter and Seabass, and said, “Let us speak of the actual case, and if you have a way to actually win, then I would hear it.”

Seabass opened up his briefcase which broke some sort of word magic on it, because all of the basic paperwork inside suddenly shifted, words becoming images that moved, animated with life until they settled down onto the pages again and told a much different story than ‘basic paperwork’. Seabass set them out on the table with a flicker of purple power, and Erick breathed in when he read what was down there.

It was the story of Nothanganathor versus Melemizargo, which became the story of how Nothanganathor had sought out help from the Wraithborne Tower for Propagation magic, and how he had taken control of the Veird situation during the Sundering. Great swaths of the story were missing and speculated upon, and those parts of the tale were noted with angle brackets, but Erick felt they were true speculations.

He summarized the hundred page document in his mind.

- -

11,500 years ago:

Ikaramaliana, the Goddess of Magic, informs the Painted Cosmology that she is passing into Darkness, and that there will be a tournament between all capable peoples for the Mantle of Magic.

11,450 years ago:

The tournament is held.

Through great hardship two <brothers or cousins> reach the end stage of the tournament. Melemizargo and his Endless Style, versus Nothanganathor with his Shadowed Sun style. Melemizargo, of <Creation>, had been expected to cede to his brother, of Paradox, and become Second to the God of Magic. <This did not happen.> <With a surprising amount of absolute hatred,> Melemizargo fights Nothanganathor for real.

Melemizargo ascends atop the shattered body of his brother, to become the God of Magic. In that moment Melemizargo and the Elven Conclave breaks Nothanganathor’s Shadowed Sun existence and rips apart every source of power Nothanganathor has across the entire Painted Cosmology, <cursing him to forever be unable to ascend to any kind of True Power at all>.

