They cursed Nothanganathor to obscurity, for Nothanganathor was responsible for the Goddess of Magic’s untimely death. <Ikaramaliana had been dead for 50 years by now, but she lingered long enough to hold the tournament.>

Nothanganathor is banished as a <leviathan>; not a true dragon at all. <All history has been rewritten to make him appear as a false dragon, like a snake.>

11,000 years ago:

Nothanganathor, who had been a traveler of many universes and who had found power in many places, comes back to Margleknot and begins rebuilding his power. He had always been a friend to Evil, which is why he was able to find a way to <poison and kill his mother>, but now he is at his weakest, and he drinks deep of the fountain of Evil. He begins to grow long, instead of dense.

He begins on his journey of rebuilding himself into something that could destroy the curse upon him, and to take the mantle of the God of Magic of the Painted Cosmology to further break his curse and truly Ascend once again.

9500 years ago:

Nothanganathor comes and goes from the Wraithborne Tower, venturing into the Painted Cosmology at the behest of Margleknot, to discover what happened to Margleknot’s person in that universe.

It is a quest given to him because Nothanganathor has long been a friend to everyone except the Good, and most people commiserate with his loss against his brother, since most people in the Painted Cosmology simply do not care for this uber-cosmology.

8500 years ago:

Nothanganathor officially allies with the Wraithborne Tower and with the man who would become Emperor Morbion Blackthorn. He also allies with the Corrupted Void Sanctuary, and the Corrupted Archive.

The search for Margleknot’s lost person goes unsolved, and is <officially abandoned.>

7900 years ago:

Nothanganathor invents Malevolence.

The Wraithborne Tower truly begins to take root in Evil, and grow stronger. They are fully Evil in these days.

The Corrupted Void Sanctuary gains a strong presence and does not falter like normal Evil organizations.

The Corrupted Archive gains a strong presence and does not falter like normal Evil organizations.

7500 years ago:

Morbion Blackthorn rises as the Emperor of the Wraithborne Tower.

Thus begins an expansion of Evil upon Margleknot.

6500 years ago:

Paradise Rises, a land of Good people, falls to the Wraithborne Tower.

6250 years ago:

The Prismatic Wilderness, a land of Good entities, falls to the Wraithborne Tower.

The Wraithborne Tower suffers a major setback due to the Celestial Observatory and decides to go softer in its Evil. Thus, begins the Reformation. The Wraithborne Tower begins to grow at a truly astonishing rate, now that it has pulled back from all its truly Evil ways.

6000-1450 years ago:

Nothanganathor is largely missing. <He is believed to be inside the Painted Cosmology, working toward ends that are unknown.> He occasionally comes back to Margleknot to make friends with rising evils and fulfill missions for the Fae Enclave. Whatever the Enclave wants, Nothanganathor will do.

During this time Nothanganathor goes from a leviathan a few tens of kilometers long, to world-spanning, and eventually to sun-sized. He is still not capable of Ascending, and the Enclave prefers it that way, for Nothanganathor is the Enclave’s greatest weapon against problems that need solving, <primarily problems of corruption.>

1450 years ago:

The Sundering of the Painted Cosmology.

Since the Sundering was an unknown destruction, and Nothanganathor is in the neighborhood, the Enclave puts Nothanganathor in charge of figuring out what happened. Nothanganathor is fine with this. The Enclave tells him that if he should merely wish to eat Veird for all eternity and never truly find out what happened in the Sundering, then that is fine, too. They were running out of things to feed their favored weapon, anyway.

<The only true caveat they gave him was that if someone should Ascend from Veird, then they would be allowed to Ascend and give statements on what happened to their universe.> (there are many caveats)

The destruction of a universe is a very large deal, after all. They want to know what caused the destruction so that they can prevent such a thing, or, as some believe, use such a weapon for their own ends.

Present day:

Nothanganathor is requesting the dissolution of Ascended Flatt’s influence inside Margleknot, while also apologizing that he could not fully contain Veird due to planar influence.

The Wraithborne Tower is currently choosing which side to back.

The Fae Enclave desires that Erick Flatt make an appearance.

- -

Erick sighed as the weight of it all crashed onto him again. “And this isn’t even the full story.”

“Correct, Ascended Flatt.” Blighter said, “We have many documents under the Seal of the Tower that we would rather release to the Fae Enclave instead of to you, for those documents will be hampered in their effectiveness if we allow you to use them yourself.”

If Erick had detected even the slightest bit of disrespect in that statement, he would have had to stop himself from biting Blighter’s head off, but Blighter was being the best lawyer he could be, and so Erick simply thought.

Erick had a lot of things he could do at that moment.

He chose what felt like the optimal one, but which likely wasn’t.

Erick said, “Here’s what I’m going to do: I’m going to go to them and you’re going to play backup, and when they decide to start playing hard I’m going to request tasks to solve in order to build up goodwill. When I’m doing that goodwill building, you’re going to build a real case and show me some of the various things that you’re keeping from me. You are not allowed to bargain for me, but you can make hypothetical bargains to bring back to me. Now. On the subject of goodwill building: Does the Wraithborne Tower have things they’d like done that are classifiable as ‘good’? Because that’s something I need to work on, too.” Erick said, “You all are very close to being good, and Benevolence is a better worker of soul magics than Elemental Death.”

Blighter easily asked, “What are your opinions on reincarnating beyond-ancient evils into forms that are soul-stable? Our goal would be to make them vulnerable to other evils, to harvest them for what they have inside of them.”

“… Oh gods— Okay!” Erick mumbled. “That’s like… at least 3 different moral quandaries. Probably a lot more if I took more than a single moment to think about it… I would want to reincarnate them into simple people once again, without any special power. I would also protect them from harvesting… and probably do exactly what I did with Derock... But that is what you want to happen anyway and you know I’d be fine with that. You want me to simply make some ancient Evils young and alive and not so evil anymore, and then set them outside of the sight of every single person they ever knew, and make them untrackable in the process. Why ask in this particular, sinister way? Like you’re going to ‘harvest them’, etcetera?”

“To see how you would react.” Blighter said, “A lost evil reborn in a new body is fine. We simply want to get rid of them to clean house, one way or another. If they come back with Benevolent power then we’re good with that.”

Erick frowned a little. “Moving on.” He changed topics. “You know I have experience with some fae, right? Margleknot gave out a huge dossier on me to a whole bunch of organizations. What makes the Fae Enclave so special-deadly?”

“The main problem with the Fae Enclave is the same problem that makes fae everywhere so deadly.” Blighter said, “It doesn’t matter how many times you kill them, or how many times you win. They are the truest of immortals. All they have to do is win once.”

“… Ahhh. Yeah. That same problem.”

“They also have rather total control over the space of this land,” Blighter said, “They can shove even Ascended into Layer 1.”

Erick thought for a moment. “Have you all tried soul shackles on them?”

“Only the foolish attempt this. It merely makes them truly mad.” Blighter added, “But yes. Going against the Fae Enclave is how most places perish in Margleknot. If you annoy them, they will annoy you right back. If you please them, they might please you right back. The onus to be useful is always on the plaintiff or visitor. More than one Evil-based organization has fallen to them, one way or another, and the Wraithborne Tower has been born and died a thousand times over, each time taking a different name. The same thing has happened to some Good places out there, too.”

Erick nodded. “Your help is appreciated.” He said to the air, “Yggdrasil. I’d like to set up a continuous payment to them for their services. 1,100 resons a day.”

Words appeared for them all to see.

Done.

“Thank you.” Erick conjured two reson orbs, both of them the same size, but one was worth a thousand resons and the other worth 100. He handed them to Blighter, and then Seabass, saying, “A bonus for today, or whatever. Now let’s talk about the Propagation Magic that Nothanganathor learned from you, that you have left out of the meeting until now.”

Blighter looked to Seabass; a confirmation to do something.

And Seabass opened a hidden compartment on his briefcase that even Erick didn’t see, because it literally did not exist until then. Erick sensed the presence of some sort of odd, eldritch power, in that opening, like what he had seen in Lionshard’s orrery room, in the weirder, deeper parts of the empty sky here and there. Seabass used something similar to that intangibleness to pull out a single sheet of paper with words upon it that danced.

He set the paper down, being careful not to look at it.

And then he backed away and fell to his knees.

Blighter went to one knee.

A voice opened up in the air. “Hello? Who is this that seeks an answer from the Archive?”

Erick couldn’t even see the magic, but he could sense that something was floating above the piece of paper… He didn’t look too closely right now, but he could if he wanted to.

Blighter spoke, “It is I, a contracted lawyer of the Wraithborne Tower named Blighter, requesting the cooperation of the Corrupted Archive in order to grant knowledge of shared and sealed power to another.”

Erick watched, and did not interrupt.

He guessed he was in bed with Evil now, eh?

Felt less dirty than he imagined it would feel.

The voice drawled out, “Eeehhhhh! You can’t ask for that through a contact sheet!”

A beat.

Blighter was suddenly uncomfortable, as though he had not expected that answer at all.

Seabass was confused.

Erick assumed this was either a very good play, or else the man on the other end of the contact sheet was kinda loony and his lawyers weren’t sure what to do now.

Erick spoke up, “Hello, Corrupted Archive.”

“Oh!” said the sheet. “Who is this now?”

For a brief, horrible moment, Erick wondered if he had fucked up.

Erick felt the shifting of something beyond as the air above the contact sheet flexed and twisted, and an illusion that Erick had not noticed was suddenly noticeable. It was a sparkle of light that resolved into an absolute hole in the universe that led to a black infinity that was not black at all, but merely a color beyond reckoning.

A color made of eyes and tentacles and mouths.

… Kinda reminded Erick of Fallopolis, actually—

The colorless horde tried to step through the hole—

“Nope,” Erick said, flexing his Authority, suddenly feeling a whole lot more secure in everything. “We can talk through this thing, if you please.”

“Oh oh oh!” said the eye/mouth/tentacle thing. “Someone with actual Authority around here, eh? Who might you be, little… not mortal. Oh. Ascended? Oh wait.” Every single eye, mouth, and even a few of the tentacles in the infinity beyond the hole, seemed to smile. “You’re a powerful one. What might The Corrupted Archive grant you to tempt you to corruption?”

Erick gestured to Blighter. “The lawyer here, Blighter, on behalf of the Wraithborne Tower, is requesting the cooperation of the Corrupted Archive in order to grant knowledge of shared and sealed power to another.” Erick said, “I am that ‘another’.”

The colorless horde paused.

“… One moment.”

The colorless horde pulled away.

The colorless horde returned. “Ask the question, little Blighter.”

Blighter metaphorically regained his feet; he was still kneeling. “This one requests to be allowed to know the history of the entity known as Nothanganathor, his time learning Propagation Magic in cooperation between the Tower and the Archive, and what he did with that Propagation magic. This one requests to share this knowledge with the Ascended here known as Erick Flatt.”

The colorless horde said, “Oh? Let me see… Yes. That’s acceptable. This has been spoken and cleared prior to this event. Release the knowledge, if you desire. The Corrupted Archive is satis… Wait. Ascended Erick Flatt?”

Blighter easily said, “This conversation now falls under lawyer privilege and cannot be used to demand more concessions than are already stated in agreements between the Tower and the Archive. If you wish to make a separate deal with Ascended Erick Flatt, please make that deal and do not involve us as a bargaining chip.”

The colorless horde frowned but accepted Blighter’s words. He said to Erick, “You want Nothanganathor True Dead? You come to us when the Enclave fails you. Contact paper finish.”

The portal winked out. The paper collapsed inward and then turned to ash.

Erick [Benevolence Cleanse]d the space—

And an absolute torrent of mana of every possible flavor washed out into the world like a tsunami of thick, white air; an ephemeral bomb. It was thick enough to ruffle hair and clothes and paper, but not much more than that.

Erick patted his clothes down, saying, “Well then! That was ‘corruption’? What exactly makes corruption so dangerous?”

Erick had heard a little bit about corruption from Lionshard, but Lionshard had been evasive about that, so Erick wanted to know why these guys had decided to open a portal to corruption in his meeting room. Erick had some Thoughts on why they had tried it, but he chose to keep those thoughts to himself. For now.

Blighter rose from his kneeling position, saying, “Corruption is not dangerous in small doses, but I believe the Archive might have gotten a bit too corrupted lately, if it wasn’t able to know that it should have approved our request right away. I would apologize on their behalf, Ascended Flatt.”

“Apology accepted. You didn’t answer the question, though.”

