Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1453 (Veird, layer 789), ??? (Margleknot)] [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 0, Margleknot]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Soul: 56.9m per day / 658.56 per second , [Darkness Level = 3.83x Ascension baseline]

Body: 324

Mind: 437

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+599, -3] Basic upkeep

Mp: 93.7m/∞, ↑ [+204, -1] Basic upkeep

Hp: 90.6m/∞, ↑ [+197, -1] Basic upkeep

Pp: 90.6m/∞, ↑ [+197, -1] Basic upkeep

Resons: 2.82m [+59.26 = +6.58]

After leaving the Wraithborne Tower Erick spent 5 days doing nothing but answering hundreds of messages per hour. It was good work. It was necessary work, too, and not just because he was directly helping people. Erick had needed some time for his Status to stabilize at this new, higher level.

As resons churned into being through his Wallet magic, and then piled into his Status, they also piled into his Soul, Mind, and Body, in a rather easy sort of accretion, but different. Erick had watched his Status rise and rise, all of his Stats gaining ground slowly but surely. The rate of growth had been rather fast at first, but after the first half of a day, Erick already saw where this was going. It was tapering off.

And sure enough, after his Body gained 112 more points and his Mind gained 120, the resons generated in his Wallet automagically stopped refining everything about him. Erick hadn’t even known that he could continue his accretion efforts until that happened, and now that it was done, he wasn’t sure he could actually accrete on his own, anyway. He had needed to increase the Darkness inside of him in order to accrete again.

What he was doing with resons wasn’t called ‘accretion’, though.

He could probably turn up the accretion tap to 100% reson accretion —or ‘cultivation’ as the people here called it— and get higher than that, and achieve a truly solid body. But Lionshard had opinions about that sort of thing.

Lionshard sat with Erick on Erick’s balcony, smoking a very large platinum pipe, blowing out a streamer of silver clouds. “It is quite wonderful that you have stumbled upon some sort of automatic secondary-cultivation-methodology. Makes me think you’ll go the distance with your place here in Margleknot.” He laughed. “It’s quite funny that you’re doing the basic cultivation all the way up here at this level of play, though.”

Erick smoked on his own silver pipe that was a match for Lionshard’s. The pipe had been a gift from Lionshard to go with all the new clothes he had also given him. Whatever they were smoking was pretty darned awesome, making Erick feel kinda floaty, but Erick could tell that he could cut off its influence with a mere thought. He chose to keep the influence going, though. With a minor bit of physical lung control, he blew out a pair of rings, and then he used just a bit of magic inside to shoot arrows of smoke through both of them.

Lionshard watched, smirking.

Erick asked, “What do you mean by that? Basic cultivation?”

“Well… That’s a big topic. Broadly speaking, at its base, Ascending is hard.”

Erick chuckled.

“Yes yes. I know. State the obvious.” Lionshard said, “Anyway! Ascending is hard, so people have to cheat. Ascending in this universe is incredibly hard, because resons are hard to cultivate and infinity has infinite problems. And so, we cheat using the powers of other universes. We’ve got oodles of other forms of power in this universe because it touches so many others. Mana exists here, though it’s hard to cultivate outside of a proper manasphere. Then you’ve got super powers, and various forms of martial energy, and then there’s pure Life or other things like it. The fairies are the source of most of the Life worlds, but there are lesser forms of people that cultivate things like Flow or Stone, which is not like Elemental Stone at all. Lots of places are like that; only one source of transcendental power.

“This universe only really has resons and you can’t do much with infinity except travel it and bring parts of it with you. Fairies can, but that’s another discussion altogether.

“And so, people cheat. They use multiple sources of power in order to ascend, because…

“Imagine a house with multiple floors.

“Mortality is floor 1. It’s like a hundred subfloors.

“Ascension is floor 2. Maybe a good ten subfloors.

“Floor three are the fae; also stratified.

“You start on floor one, and you have to get to the next floor. You can use a rickety ladder, or you can use a ladder and some rocks. Using a ladder and rocks is stable, and gets you to floor 2.

“Now you’re on floor 2, but you can’t pull the ladder up behind you to get to floor 3, or even higher on floor 2 than you already are, because you have to have a path to floor 1… for reasons. So hopefully you used enough rocks and your ladder is big enough to get you all the way up. If not, then you gotta search for a third thing.” Lionshard said, “In your case, you have used mostly mana and a bunch of tools to reach very high on floor 2, and you’ve barely touched resons at all. Can you use these same materials to reach floor 3? Probably! You’ve barely touched what resons can do, after all.

“Whatever the case, you built very well, and your systems are still working to strengthen you well, because you made them that way, and they’re cultivating for you, like a ladder that grows on its own.” Lionshard added, “The door to floor 3 is very hard to break through, though, and most people would stop where you are right now anyway.

“But your automagic systems are still running.

“And your automagic systems are cultivating resons, like a normal, basic mage here in this uber cosmology.” Lionshard finished with, “Because that’s what you’re doing. You’re doing everything backwards. Like. A normal mage here in this cosmology funnels resons into themselves, trying to build a ladder to a higher realm. You started with mana, though, and now you’re doing resons.” He smiled. “Automagically. Ha!”

“… Huh.” Erick blew out some silver smoke, saying, “Well that’s fun.”

“I bet if you worked out the math your ‘wallet’ is basically exactly as many resons as you mathematically expect to have. Very few are actually going into your ‘Status’.” Lionshard giggled, then spoke conspiratorially, “Maybe you’ll reach heaven-defying stage soon— Or core formation— No, wait! You’re still at ‘meridian expansion’.” He smiled, saying, “You’ve still got a ways to go before you reach core formation, but I wouldn’t be surprised if you just woke up with a reson core one day.”

Erick raised an eyebrow, “The only one of those that I know is ‘core formation’.”

“I know! That’s what makes it so funny!” Lionshard plucked a book out of the air then set it on the table between them, saying, “Here here. Don’t do anything it says directly. Find your own Truth. This could still give you some tips about stuff, though. Still good to know all of it, too, so you know what it means to cultivate resons.”

Erick smiled as he took the book. “Thank you.” He read it all in a flash, then paused. “...Oh. That’s different. Not too unexpected, though. Resons are more ephemeral than mana? That’s why I can’t really see them like I can mana?”

“Oh yes.” Lionshard said, “Resons hide inside infinity… Sort of.” He turned a little bit more serious as he said, “Cultivating is not accretion is not developing is not gardening is not Finding the Path is not burnishing is not... etcetera etcetera. And then there are several types of cultivation, all of them different from each other. There’s peering cultivation —the most common— which is to look through infinity and find the version of yourself you want to be, and then aspire to them. This causes your reson generation to increase. Then you either get into demonic cultivation, which is the capturing of other selves and eating them, or cooperative cultivation, which is where everyone raises each other up.

“Like imagine you are a farmer who truly wishes to do… something. Avenge your family, for instance. You can use your resons to peer through infinity to find yourself having achieved your goals, and you know what it took to get there. This ignites a spark that causes you to take those steps, and you eventually find yourself at a new plateau of having avenged your family.

“Now what? Is that where you stop? Most people do.

“Most people never touch resons, anyway, so most people never even get to see the possibilities ahead of them, to learn the way forward. Most people simply do what they want, or they do not.

“Considerably fewer people achieve true reson manifesting, which is the first real step toward cultivating in this universe. That usually comes after a person achieves their first or maybe second goal. That’s when they finally get a glimpse of what they’re actually doing with reson generation.

“Some people simply burn out, because they have ‘used up’ their reasons-for-being.

“Mana is so much easier. Having both is truly useful, though.” Lionshard said, “And you managed to get reson generation going through mana manifesting. That’s the most common way to do it, but you even managed to make it easy with a personal manaminer.” He smiled wide. “You have a ‘status’! That’s quaint, too.”

Erick thought as he listened. And then he asked, “Do they not have manaminers here in this universe?”

“Oh sure. All over the place. Margleknot doesn’t allow them here, though, because he’s basically a manaminer… except not. Functionally? Sure. Actually? No. People use manaminers to solidify some parts of Layer 1 into strongholds, though.” Lionshard added, “They steal people’s mana with those miners, too, in order to power those bases and defenses.”

“Ahhh. That reminds me. People generate mana and resons in this universe, yes? Like… how many manas per day? How many resons per hour?”

Lionshard looked thoughtful, then said, “Resons are simpler to explain, so I’ll start there. Resons are the reason-for-being, and they are incredibly ephemeral. Much more so than mana. An average person can generate anywhere from… 1 to 5 per day? The average body has a pool of resons that drive them forward, and that number is anywhere between… 50 to 150. Numbers are hard when it comes to resons. A young and energetic person with a good plan for life might have a well of 250 resons in their body. An older person who is very sure of themselves might have 350.

“Reson generation is very much a matter of person, place, and purpose. Take a fish and put them on land and they’re going to spike in reson generation for a short while as they try to get back to water, and if they can get to water, then they’re fine, but if they can’t, then they die.”

Erick took a moment to think about all of that. “Is there a way to measure the number of resons in a person?”

“Not really. It’s all subjective.”

“Ahh. Okay.”

Lionshard nodded. “Anyway. Mana generation… is a larger, less-certain subject. Some universes have mana as a byproduct of life, like the Painted Cosmology. The Painted Cosmology had mana as a part of life itself, too. Mana is always… a creation of the soul… yes. I would say that is true enough to be true. Mana is a creation of the primal part of the soul that is the gift of the universe itself to the individual, that marks them as a part of their universe. This marking can be passed around a lot, though. When you put Benevolence out there, it ignited tiny drops of Darkness inside every slime born from it and from every person who decides to accrete it, and in that Darkness, they become beings of mana.

“All the mana you create is from the Darkness expressing itself… hmm. Expressing itself through the multi-dimensional crash of possibility through the lens of Your Everything? If that makes any sense. Talking about subjects like that is always more philosophy than reality. That could all be wrong under certain circumstances. Anyway. All the mana you put out there is from yourself. Your sprinkling of Darkness is just the newest bits of Darkness in this universe, but there’s been Darkness out there for a long while.

“Most of the mana out there is from other universes.

“Other people can take those manas into themselves and cultivate it and, in doing so, imprint within themselves the Mark of That Universe, whichever universe ‘That’ might be.”

Erick’s eyes widened a little.

Lionshard nodded knowingly.

Erick asked, “Could I have been imprinted with the Darkness on my original world? Earth?”

“Oh sure. Lots of things are possible.”

“… Ah.” Erick nodded. “Infinity is large.”

Lionshard chuckled. “Infinity is large.”

Moments passed in calm smoking.

Erick asked, “What other sorts of mana universes are there?”

“Uncountable lots! Depending on how you count, there’s either around 550 big, named mana universes, or ten million.” Lionshard said, “There are only around a handful of truly impactful other universes, though. Now let’s see… Ah. There’s the Drawn Universe, where mana is created when people draw things or build sculptures or stuff like that. Spellwork and mana in the Drawn Universe are inexorably linked. There is the Building Universe, where people build shrines of power and make mana that way. The Drawn Universe and the Building Universe have something of a friendly rivalry going.

“There’s the Garden Universe, where mana comes from gardening. Lots of those types of universes out there where power comes from cultivating things that grow. One such universe like that is thought to be the world where Margleknot originally came from, but no one really knows and Margleknot isn’t talking. Then there’s the Pocket Universe, where everything is layered into each other, all eggs within eggs within eggs, with the main part of that universe being a place where people cultivate individual pocket dimensions. That’s sort of like the Garden Universe.

“The Painted Cosmology was one of the few that were named in how they were created, instead of how they functioned, because classifying how they worked —through mana— was too not-specific-enough. Do you know how many universes have something in them called ‘Darkness’? Lots. That sort of naming just doesn’t work, because each Darkness is different. In those veins, there’s the Struck Gold Universe, the Cubic Crash universe…”

Erick listened to universes and smoked silver with Lionshard for a while. It was a good break from the work.

- - - -

Lionshard went back home.

Erick looked over a few things from the manual he had gotten from the platinum dragon.

