“Corruption is something unknowable that actively causes harm to all who view it, and which grows large and fast if allowed to grow. It is a breaking-down of all natural order into something terrible, and it is responsible for the deaths of many universes. We believe it is from another specific universe, but we don’t actually know. Many of the greatest forms of malicious evil are based around corruption, and all of the strongest forms of propagation magic are based on corruptive ideals. Malevolence is one of those magics. That is what Nothanganathor learned at the Corrupted Archive, among other things.” Blighter continued, “But Malevolence is not corruption. It is a mana-based version of corruption that is able to interact with and deny corruption, or allow corruption to run rampant. This is partially why the Fae Enclave is fine with Nothanganathor doing whatever he wants. He is very good at killing corruption.

“Other types of mana-based powers include Elemental Crisis, and Elemental Misfortune. Other, non-mana powers are much more varied in their ability to fight, create, or contain corruption, including Entropy Manipulation, Reality Bending, Karma, and Sealing.

“Evil is very good at killing other Evils, Ascended Flatt, and that is why Margleknot is about Balance, instead of just being about Good.”

For a moment, Erick was speechless.

And then, because he truly had no idea, and he needed to know, he simply asked, “Is Benevolence good at anti-corruption magics?”

It should be good against corruption, right? Erick had invented Benevolence with the idea of tackling issues exactly like this ‘corruption’ problem, though he had never heard of what corruption could really do or how it was used before now.

Benevolence worked hard to prevent all apocalypse scenarios…

But did Benevolence actually work against the first real apocalypse scenario that everyone else knew about, but which Erick did not? This was, perhaps, the first real test of Benevolence on the greater stage of the universe…

And Erick had no idea if his power did what he wanted it to do.

He felt like Benevolence would work very well against corruption, though.

It was just taking a while?

“I’ve no idea!” Blighter said, appearing slightly excited for the first time, and perhaps, a little bit, aware of Erick’s internal monologue. “If Benevolence works against corruption then we might have an actual chance against Nothanganathor in fairy court!” He instantly digressed, saying, “Or maybe not, honestly. Elemental Malevolence is incredibly useful against corruption because corruption likes to work behind the scenes and that’s where Malevolence shines. The Corrupted Archive has been using Malevolence to clean itself up when it gets bad enough which is probably what it is doing right now.” Blighter added, “And it is very possible that even if we should get Nothanganathor all the way into a corner, that he is going to say something to the Enclave along the lines of ‘I helped to bring Benevolence about, therefore all my Evil was justified and you owe me’. That’s the tactic I would use against you if I were working for him.”

… Well then.

Erick asked Yggdrasil, “Yggdrasil? Is Benevolence working against the corruption out there?”

Yes. Of course it is, Father.

This is a very weird question.

Benevolence is right up there with The Fractal Mandala and the Sacred River when it comes to fighting corruption. Fighting corruption is where practically all of my half of the Benevolent Sun is going, and most of my production on Veird. And since you bring it up, now is a good enough time to inform you that I have added another Surface to your Benevolent Sun. Your daily income has a little more than doubled since last you checked.

It’ll hit 500b per day soon enough. I need you to speak to the Enclave about allowing me to make it larger.

Current income: 382b per day

Current expenditures: Max.

“Oh! Well look at that.” Erick laughed a little. “Right! Right. I thought it was… Well that’s a lot more specific than what I had known, and I didn’t know any of that. Okay! Good.” Erick felt secure as he told Blighter and Seabass, “I’m going to the Enclave now. You can stand back and watch what happens. You will have notes for me afterward. I assume they’re either going to shove me to Layer 1 or give me an impossible quest or five.”

Blighter stared hard at the ‘The Fractal Mandala’, but he realized that Erick had finished instructing him, so he bowed, then rose, saying, “Probably a shove to Layer 1 and the quests, Ascended Flatt. They likely won’t be impossible quests, either, unless you anger them most severely.”

Seabass bowed with him, and then rapidly packed the papers back up.

“I’ll try not to anger them— Ah! That reminds me.” Erick asked, “If I meet slavers over there on Layer 1, I am going to dismantle them. Tell me now if that is going to be a problem.”

As though he had been prepared for it, because he probably had been, Blighter said, “The Wraithborne Tower has interests on Layer 1, and we ask that you leave our clearly-marked lands alone. Everything outside of our territory is fair game. We have warned our allies about this already, and that warning is 4 days old as of right now. There will probably be a lot of false-Tower icons out there, but the actual Tower zones are very clearly marked and visible from every single direction as grey pillars of light in the sky. We make them that way so that we can serve as beacons of relative safety in the Fractal Wastes. If you wish for guidance out of the Fractal Wastes, then you might try one of our outposts.”

Erick considered that, and then said, “Honestly, if I find people raping and soul mutilating then the Seal of the Tower is not going to save them.”

“We accept this highly likely scenario. Extensive damage to our interests will be considered the cost of doing business, as long as you don’t completely try to remake the Wastes in your image.” Blighter said, “Everyone on the Fractal Wastes has been expecting you to show up for a while now, though, which should tell you a lot about a lot.”

“… Ah. I suppose it does.”
