Shalahora raised a hand, a shade spawning, "Yes. My shades are beneficial for scouting purposes."

I shook my hands, "I'm talking about when you said within a few days. You can actually tell the time here?"

Shalahora tilted his head in confusion, "Oh, that...My shades live for almost three standard galactic days. I used their duration to determine how long we've lived here."

I blinked, "Genius. Just genius."

Shalahora leaned back, "Are...Are impressed by that?"

I lifted my hands, "Well yeah. I have no idea how long we've been here."

Shalahora answered my unspoken question, "We're just over half the way through Schema's guideline of three months. For that reason, tensions are mounting."

I leaned back, "What, no way. It's been way longer than three months."

Shalahora's eyes narrowed, "What are you talking about? Hm...Wait." He leaned forward in his chair, contemplating my words, "You're the newest ruler. Hm, you mustn't be measuring in standard galactic time. Your confusion stems from that cause, surely."

I leaned back into my chair, my soul leaving my body. I facepalmed, "What? Oh...Duh."

I massaged my temples, "It's not my sense of time. It's Schema's. Oof."

Shalahora peered at my city as he shrugged, "By my measure, wealth and ignorance are better than knowledge and poverty. One is fixed with a few words while the other requires many actions."

I raised a hand, "Thanks for the compliment, but I'm taking that loss on the chin. Anyways, sorry for interrupting you."

Shalahora's blinked a few times before interlocking his hands, "It's no issue. I'd imagine that would be a rather maddening conundrum given the lack of days here, and you lacked perspective. As for what I've said, I created a temporary alliance with the survivors here after arriving. The planet's hostility seemed endless, so I chose the pertinent path."

I shrugged, "Makes sense."

Shalahora's eyes narrowed, "Since coming here, the survivor's caution saved many, and their wariness proved wise. Many rulers chose to plunder the planet at will, however. Many have died from the elements, but that was merely the beginning."

Shalahora sighed, "Many rulers are elected after their ancestral creators have died. Some carry little combat ability, and as you may imagine, that fared poorly here."

I nodded, "This planet is a hellhole, that's for sure." A look of disgust came over my face, "So they all died, just like Schema wanted." Many of my minds jumped into action, "Even better, it was a targeted genocide. The richest empires are the ones most likely to have elected weak rulers based on actual ruling ability rather than raw strength."

I grimaced, "So Schema will assimilate the guilds with the most resources and the least chance of actually stopping the takeover. A bit psychopathic, but well played." I clapped nice and slow, "Good one, Schema. You really got one on us."

Shalahora's gaze turned sad, "That's a brutal cynicism you carry. I could not bear it."

I frowned, "You've focused mostly on fringewalking, so you might not be as aware. To me, I've tried pulling my planet from the dark ages for a while now-" I whirled my hand in a circle, "But situations like this keep stopping me. Apparently, it's stopping everybody else too."

Shalahora peered off, "Hm...Perhaps. We'd never of survived the eldritch without Schema, however. He gave us magic, the system, and our means of communication. That alone offsets these plots."

I took a breath, "Hah...Maybe. From the way I see it, my planet already had an infrastructure, defenses, and decent technology. Schema destroyed our communications, scrambled everybody all over the place, and put us back into the stone ages. We're still licking our wounds from that initial scrambling."

I shook my head, "So Schema took all of that away then pretended like we only gained it in the first place because of him. He used a hypothetical situation to indebt us. The thing is, I was born before the system was on my planet, so I remember a time before he arrived. Those days were better than the endless war we've joined."

My hand crushed the armrest of my chair, "And Schema's mass murder of peaceful factions doesn't exactly build up my opinion of him. It has a habit of rubbing me the wrong way."

A prolonged silence passed over us. Shalahora murmured, "I've never dwelled on Schema's actions this deeply, but I shall reflect on them more in the future."

I calmed myself down, remaking the armrest, "I'm just being salty. I don't know why." Gazing at the shining sea of bones, I nodded, "I take that back. It's this planet."

Shalahora gazed at the bones with me, and he said,

"This planet isn't the only reason rulers died here. Valgus Uuriyah and his followers have killed many of the wanderers that lingered and wandered from the beginning."

My eyes turned to slits, "He killed other rulers? Why?"

"To eliminate competition."

I pulled my hair back while disgust spread onto my face again, "He's an idiot. It would've been so easy to leverage his combat strength into economic gain. He acts as the other faction's guardian. From that position, he controls the flow of resources and leaves this place a hero. And number one in the lottery's rankings."

I threw my hand out, "Instead, he chose to be a villain because he's working with one brain cell."

Shalahora laughed before shaking his head, "You seem so different from when we talked before."

I raised my eyebrows, my primordial wake stretching over us both. I pursed my lips, "Huh. It's, er, a part of my abilities. This mindset lets me think a bit sharper than normal." I opened my eyes wide, "Though, I'm a bit sharper too, so it's a give and take."

Shalahora stood up, "Ah, then that explains it." He walked to the window, interlocking his arms behind himself,

"My last bit of relevant information revolves around Valgus. He chose not to attack the survivor's faction. I am certain that passivity came about because the survivors assimilated the pro-Schema faction within the first two weeks. That swelled their numbers to over two hundred, a number Valgus couldn't eclipse."

A hollow, cynical smile traced my lips, "Ah, Schema's supporting faction didn't last too long. I wonder how pro Schema they are now that everything's settled down?"

I recoiled, noticing my scathing tone, and I straightened up in my chair, "I keep interrupting you. Again, I'm sorry."

"No one may be kind at all times, just as no one may look towards the brighter side of every situation. At times, life forces us to show our barbs as if we were thorned willows. These are your thorns, so wear them with pride."

"Hm...Thanks."

Shalahora nodded, "While I have no more factual information on Valgus, I carry my suspicions. I've searched this planet for a while now, both for treasure and your presence. Fate played a large part in finding you, but it was no accident I was wafting through these dunes near the shining hell."

"You're looking for him?"

Shalahora seethed, his claws brandished, "I believe Valgus intends to do something with the bones here."

Shades rushed our direction from outside the city, and Shalahora turned to them,

"And I shall uncover exactly what that something is."
