At eleven, he killed Silent Pei and made a name for himself, only to come to Mahakala’s attention a few years later. The monk was a curious sort, one whom Goujian tolerated only because he couldn’t kill the annoying bastard and had no choice but to endure his sermons. It took years, but Goujian eventually accepted the monk’s teachings and gave up the life of a killer to focus on bettering himself. The beatings were nothing, but reflecting on all his sins and transgressions left him bent double beneath the weight of his guilt, and it was years before he finally came to terms with his past.

As a grown man, he was filled with righteous anger upon learning how lax the Empire’s laws were, favouring nobles above commoners and caring not for the safety and well-being of its most vulnerable. It was highly likely Goujian’s father had succumbed to the Enemy himself, which would explain why a peasant farmer would kill his wife unprompted. This led to countless arguments with Mahakala, in which Goujian insisted they could do more to benefit the people, that they should do more to help guard against the insidious whispers of the Enemy, but the stubborn monk drank and sinned his way through every day and night and cared nothing for Goujian’s valid arguments.

Leaving his Teacher was harder than leaving home, for Goujian truly loved the life of an initiate. He possessed a hunger for knowledge and a mind to match it, but there was much work to be done out in the world. He toyed with the idea of joining the army, but instead, he gathered a few like-minded allies and set out in search of signs of Defilement. Against all odds, he uncovered clues of an outbreak and tried to bring it to the local administrator, but without a noble to put in a good word or coin to grease the clerk’s palms, he was unable to secure a meeting with anyone of importance. Undeterred, Goujian set out with his comrades with clubs and pitchforks, intent on dealing with the Defiled themselves and ending the local threat once and for all.

His first mission ended in complete disaster, for the Defiled villagers proved to be far stronger than anticipated. Goujian was the sole survivor of the attack, but the death of his comrades was enough to prompt an investigation by the local administrator, whom Goujian finally had the chance to speak with. Rather than share the credit for uncovering a Defiled plot, the administrator tried to have Goujian poisoned and claimed all the credit for himself. Goujian survived, if just barely, and later on would learn he only did so because Mahakala had been there watching over him the entire time, if only to ensure his continued survival.

This setback was not enough to dissuade Goujian, and he returned to his holy crusade against the Enemy. It was during one of these missions where he found Wen Zhong, a mutilated child who barely still drew breath from within a charnel pit of death and depravity. That was how the boy remembered it, a boy who would forever remain one in Goujian’s eyes, even though Wen Zhong was only a few years shy of sixty when he died.

Killed by Goujian’s own hand. Oh how that pained him, as did the deaths of his other Disciples, each one as precious as a child in his eyes. While BoLao’s death had almost destroyed him, at least it spared him the pain of having to kill her himself, for sacrificing the others had been necessary in order to pursue his Path. It was his fault, this Goujian accepted, for he had taught his children poorly and was unable to undo a lifetime of indoctrination in only a single day. The Heavens were cruel, denying them the Truth it shared with him, and he would forever have to live with their blood on his hands, blood that would only wash out when he’d fulfilled his destiny as Heaven’s Chosen Champion.

Pain. Anger. Sorrow. Shame. Regret. Joy. Pride. All this and more, Goujian experienced anew as his mind and body drew close to death, the emotions welling up from within like an endless font of the human condition. All this and more, Goujian fed to the Void, a sacrifice of Soul and Emotion to fuel what was to come next. The Energy of the Heavens gathered around him, seeping into his Core and the herbal bath he was immersed in, but he refused to give this power free rein and clung to the Razor’s Edge instead. Too much was as bad as not enough, so he immersed himself in power and emotion while anchoring his thoughts with purpose and obligation, for he’d come too far, sacrificed too much, to simply falter and fail here.

Were he to allow it, the Energy of the Heavens would mend Goujian’s injuries and renew him to full health, no different from before he took this near-death injury. However, that was not his goal here, for by coming so close to death, it pushed him to the brink and enabled him to find True Balance once more, an opportunity too sweet to pass up. Armed with Vyakhya’s lessons and the power of a Divinity, Goujian would once again be given the chance to reforge his flawed, human body and reshape it into something more suitable for his needs. Even with all of the Wisdom’s expertise, there was no way for Goujian to create a perfect body, for perfection was anathema to life itself. Nothing could ever be perfect, for there could always be room for improvement, but Goujian would do his best to get as close to perfection as possible.

That was why he needed to study all those animals and learn how their organs functioned, so that he could take what he’d learned and use it to improve himself. The strength of a bull, the agility of a tiger, the durability of a rhino, the tendons of a deer, the metabolism of a bear, he gave himself all this and more, but he was not yet done. He took elements from the chitin of the mantis and used it to improve his skeletal frame, adding another reinforced layer over his overburdened bones. He modelled his skin after the thick, porous hide of the elephant, while simultaneously bringing more blood vessels to the surface to enable him to better shed the heat generated by his dense musculature. Then, he added a second layer of chitin in strategic areas of his flesh, a benefit modelled after the oriole’s hollow bones, one that would reduce the strain on his joints without negatively impacting his strength or durability. In fact, the added empty space was in some ways a benefit to toughness, providing an extra layer of protection to his inner organs from Resonation and other such internal attacks.

There were thousands of other minor modifications he added as well, but here in his damaged body and mind, he was already fast forgetting what they might be. The Soul was a vessel for Heavenly Energy, enabling him to process far more information than what the human mind could comprehend, but he was expending his Soul to control the Heavenly Energy fuelling his body’s reformation. That was the crux of the Martial Dao, the realization that the Soul was the linchpin of it all, a lesson one could not teach with mere words, for how could one explain the concept of a soul without first learning how to perceive or quantify what a soul really was? Even Wisdom Vyakhya had no answers here, and Goujian knew that if one were able to grasp the answer to this question, then they would wield the power of a True Divinity.

The power of Creation and Destruction itself.

How long the reformation process took Goujian could not say, but at times it felt like only seconds had passed, and others, as if he’d been lying in this tub for weeks without end. Only when he sensed his work was almost done did he allow the Energy of the Heavens to mend his physical mind, and as his mending organs forced the shard of metal out of his head, the renewed pain was almost too much to bear. The darkness rose to greet him once more, but he fought against the urge to submit, struggling to the very last because his work was not yet done, and this final but vital part required he take full control by himself.

Opening his Core to the Heavens, he greedily lapped up every drop of Chi he could and directed it throughout his newly forged body, suffusing his bones, muscles, organs, skin, and even his hair with Chi to the utmost limits. No longer did he intend to store Chi in his metaphysical Core, he meant to draw the Energy of the Heavens into his physical body itself. One with the World, he walked the thin line between struggle and surrender as he bound his body and soul even closer together than they already were. Doing so was a double-edged sword, for while destruction of his body would now result in damage to his soul, it would take a Peak Expert on the level of Mitsue Juichi to physically harm Goujian’s body, because not only had he physically improved himself to the best of his abilities, he was now a walking, talking, breathing Spiritual Heart.

This was the secret of the Brotherhood’s Path to Divinity, one they uncovered by studying animals in the wild. A secret jealously guarded by the Imperial Clan, according to Wisdom Vyakhya, and a step their Scions intuitively took much earlier along the Martial Path. This explained their significantly higher strength and talents, but now Goujian would use this to bring Heaven’s justice down upon them.

How ironic that in order to pursue the True Human Path, Goujian had been forced to study mere beasts. Praise to the Heavens, indeed.

“Well done.” The glowing praise echoed softly in Goujian’s ears, enhanced so that they were able to hear the ants crawling underneath the floorboards without the risk of going deaf from a loud shout. Opening his eyes, he reeled under the deluge of information that greeted him, for he saw more than before, yet another enhancement he was highly proud of. With these new eyes, nothing would escape his notice, and even the speediest of Peak Experts would be captured with crystal clarity. The Wisdom glowed with pride as he took in Goujian’s looming form, needing no inspection to tell that his student had done everything as instructed. “Good, good. Not yet a Divinity, but above all except the strongest of Peak Experts, you will be a formidable weapon of war indeed.”

“Thank you, Teacher,” Goujian said, bowing in heartfelt thanks. “Your student could not have succeeded without your guidance.”

“Words of gratitude are unnecessary,” the Wisdom said, his smile fading away beneath the weight of his statement. “Show me your conviction through action, and that will be gratitude enough.”

Knowing what the Wisdom wanted, Goujian glanced at his hooked sword, the one he’d renamed himself for. It was his favoured weapon, but he was no longer the same man he was before. Where the sword once fit comfortably in the palm of his hand, he now had to awkwardly clutch it between three fingers, for he was now a behemoth of a man compared to his former gaunt and spindly frame. To make matters worse, the weapon was too light and too short for his reach, the balance no longer a good fit for his size, and though it had served him well for many decades, it was no longer suited for his needs.

Placing the tip into the palm of his hand, Goujian Honed the blade and pressed down hard.

Flesh compressed and skin stretched, but as he put more strength into the blade, it was the weapon which gave way first. Metal snapped and screeched as he bent and broke his blade, the bound fragments of his Soul spilling out into the world at large, and though he was saddened by the loss, he knew this was for the better, because Spiritual Weapons were but another lie, propagated by the Imperial Clan to help keep their stranglehold on the Empire tight.

He would forge a new weapon for himself, once he learned to wield the Energy of the Heavens at will, but until such a time, he would have to make do. No matter though, for the Wisdom was right; Goujian himself was the weapon now, one which he would use to take the Dog Emperor’s head and put an end to the endless cycle of Samsara.

“What next?” he asked, knowing the Wisdom would have things all planned out, for there was nothing that could escape his notice.

“You will go speak with Gen,” the Wisdom replied, his disdain for the brat evident in his expression. “And tell him that Falling Rain is with the Abbot, hiding in the Arid Wastes. Your Senior Brother knows the location, and he will guide you all there.” Switching to Sending, the Wisdom continued, “Once there, you will ignore the Uniter’s orders and kill Falling Rain, for we can ill afford to let such a prize fall into that fool’s hands. Kill the boy and bring his body back for this monk to study, and then we shall uncover his secrets together.”

There were more layers to this than Goujian understood, but he was nothing if not loyal to the cause. “Yes Teacher,” he said, bowing low in respect. “Your student will do as instructed.”

And gladly too, for it was long past time for that damned brat and Imperial puppet to die.

Chapter Meme
