Rage and joy.

Two emotions which rarely went hand in hand, but this was what Goujian felt as his sword scythed through Nian Zu’s neck. To think that he’d come so far as to open with a killing blow against a Colonel General, even if it was one dealt in the ensuing chaos moments after his allies murdered the newly appointed Legate Yang Jixing. This was Goujian’s crowning achievement, his moment of glory after a lifetime spent wasted in service to a lie, but he had many lifetimes ahead of him yet, so long as he emerged from this battle unscathed.

Easier said then done, for Nian Zu’s life had yet to fade when Clearsky Bao made his move, the iconic blue-steel sabre brushing against Goujian’s robes before his own initial swing was even complete. Moving on Insight alone, he followed through with the already completed attack and turned it into a brilliant textbook parry, one that sent his foe hurtling back from whence he came. Still yet to learn his lesson, Clearsky attacked again, and now that Goujian was ready and watching, the fastest Warrior of the North seemed to move at a veritable crawl. Sidestepping into a blind angle of the attack, Goujian lowered his shoulder and met speed with raw power, and the latter handily won with a splat.

And so died Goujian’s second victim, his life gone before his corpse hit the ground, and soon enough, Clearsky Bao funeral pyre would darken his namesake with clouds of smoke and ash.

Immovable Binesi and Singing Spear Yukun arrived next, two more of Nian Zu’s Famed Fifty, and Goujian was more than happy to send them to join their beloved commander. Despite being outnumbered and supposedly outmatched, Goujian held the upper hand in all their exchanges, a development that surprised even him. Never would he have thought to have progressed so quickly, and he relished the power of Heaven’s Truth. The heady rush of combat coursed through his veins as he traded blows with the two spearmen, but even though their movements were easily read and his power was unmatched, he was not yet used to direct confrontation, and old habits died hard. Whenever he saw an opening to attack his foes, his instincts held him back, for even ants can bring down an elephant provided there were enough of them. Weaving in and out of battle through clever use of Concealment, he took full advantage of the chaos to engage his foes on more favourable terms, as Binesi and Yukun were a difficult pair to dispatch. The former exposed Goujian’s weaknesses for all to hear, but he made use of this in combat and tried to mend his erroneous ways. A mistake, in hindsight, for despite his flaws, he was still stronger, faster, and more clever then both his foes combined, but his overabundance of caution kept him from killing the stalwart veterans who made full use of their superior experience to hinder his efforts to dispatch them.

Then, when victory almost seemed at hand, Dreadnaught Han BoHai joined the fray, an unstoppable powerhouse of force and fury that pushed Goujian’s reforged body to its utmost limits.

Slow and powerful, that was Han BoHai’s reputation, a mighty yet cumbersome Warrior, but that was only in comparison to his peers sitting at the peak of the Martial Path. Or rather, what common Warriors saw as the Peak, where mere mortals like Nian Zu, Shuai Jiao, Mitsue Juichi and their ilk stood, head and shoulders above everyone else but still a long ways away from the true summit. Goujian had touched upon this summit for a brief, ephemeral moment, but in his weakness, he could not see the way forward and stumbled back down to the valleys below, which left him in a unique position. He’d tasted the air of the Martial Peak, but he’d been blind, deaf, and dumb at the time, which offered him little advantage against those who had yet to even discern its existence. As such, despite Goujian’s superior Path laid out before him, he was far enough from the summit to struggle against the likes of Han BoHai, a graceless oaf whose solution to every problem was to pummel it out of existence.

Not the worst solution, as Goujian himself discovered first hand when trading blows with the behemoth Dreadnaught. Disgraceful for someone like himself to be found lacking in raw power, especially to a damned gorilla like Han BoHai, but it gave Goujian a fresh perspective of his reforged body. At first, his body had been riddled with flaws, forcing him to relearn how to move and fight without damaging himself, flaws he’d since corrected in some minor fashion with help from the Uniter and his exploitation of Heavenly laws. That was all there was to it, or so Goujian believed, but Han BoHai showed him that he was still holding himself back. Though unable to go all out, Goujian’s limits were far beyond what he dared push himself to, at least not until the Dreadnaught forced him to surpass those self-imposed boundaries. The resulting exchange showed him that he was not only able to match Han BoHai in pure strength, Goujian even came out a little bit ahead once he cut loose and gave everything to the fight.

And what a wonderfully refreshing experience it was, to stand in the limelight after decades spent skulking in shadows. This was where he belonged, at the forefront of the war against the Enemy, Heaven’s Chosen Champion here to uphold their cause.

There was nothing quite like a battle to the death, with two combatants putting everything on the line to settle their differences through pure Martial Might. As Goujian traded blows with Han BoHai, he exulted in glorious combat even as he raged at his foe’s stubborn refusal to break and die. Their duel was not without its merits, as Goujian gleaned much from the exchange with regards to the Martial Path, and were he not deep in Enemy territory, he would have happily let the duel play out to its natural conclusion. Alas, time was short and his foes were closing in on him from all sides, so he pushed himself to the utmost limits in an attempt to kill Han BoHai before more flies came to bother him.

But there were too many notable Warriors here in the Northern Citadel and they all seemed ready to ruin his fun, though Goujian didn’t expect that damnable Bekhai savage to interfere by casting blades of Chi from her empty hands. The blades struck and mangled both his feet, but he could still fight, and as he turned to face his new foe, one eye was cast into darkness and all he knew was pain and hatred.

The empty Void consumed him and he woke in the safety of his Natal Palace, a facsimile of the stark, bare room he lived in while under Mahakala’s tutelage, a servant’s room offered to them by a particularly pious merchant. Looking back on it now, he realized his time spent here was among the happiest years of his life, for even though he loved and cherished his Disciples like sons and daughters of his blood, he’d been too consumed by his misguided crusade against the ‘Defiled’ to ever truly enjoy his time with family. Every spare moment had been devoted to work or training, for there was no end to evil, and thus no rest for the benevolent, and revelations since had tainted those few pleasant memories that remained. As Mahakala’s student and an initiate of the Brotherhood however, Goujian had been free to do as he pleased, for the sinful monk believed that the lessons of life were best learned by living through it, experiencing all that the mortal world had to offer so that one might understand the sacrifice denying it entailed.

How foolish of Goujian not to see Mahakala’s hypocrisy, which was all so clear to him now. The monk spent his mornings chanting and flagellating himself to atone for his sins and reflect on his actions, only to pick up right where he left off the day before. Some monks of the Brotherhood likely stayed true to their Path, but Goujian imagined most strayed day after day only to assuage their guilt with what his teacher would have called ‘meaningful suffering’. Deceitful as Mahakala’s lessons might have been, Goujian couldn’t deny he’d been happy then, learning to read and write, appreciate art and calligraphy, build homes and carve wood, alongside a multitude of other meaningless skills the Brotherhood put much stock in, all while under Mahakala’s protection. It was a simple, carefree existence, but one he ultimately realized was no different from hiding one’s head in the sand, for even though the Brotherhood sought to experience the Three Poisons in order to lend significance to eschewing them, they did so whilst isolated away from the world, a contradiction of goals Goujian only recently realized. At least Mahakala had the courage to immerse himself in the red dust of the mortal world under real life conditions, rather than replicate the experience behind the safety of their isolated monastery walls.

Thus it came as no surprise to learn Mahakala had been something of an outlier when it came to the Brotherhood, but Wisdom Vyakhya was another, one who’d discovered the Truth just as Goujian had, but was far further along his Path. The old Wisdom had an interesting take on the Noble Eight-Fold Path and the direction the Brotherhood should take, one Goujian was most intrigued by. The Right Livelihood dictated to live in a way to cause no harm, while the Right Effort necessitated the prevention of unwholesome states, those of evil and unwholesome thoughts dictated by the Three Poisons. However, the First Noble truth stated that life is suffering, while the second Noble Truth was that mortals suffer because of the Three Poisons. Together, this brought about an interesting dilemma, for if the Brotherhood sought to follow the Noble Eight-Fold Path, then they were bound by the Right Effort to end all suffering. However, if life is suffering, then there could be no end to suffering without also an end to life, which the Abbot took to mean that the Brotherhood could not end all suffering, because doing so would be in violation of the Right Livelihood, among other virtues.

Wisdom Vyakhya disagreed. Ending all life and suffering was akin to freeing all the souls trapped within Samsara, the cycle of reincarnation which begets all life, which in turn was a state of existence the living only valued because they feared the unknown which came after. As enlightened monks of the Brotherhood and adherents to the Noble Eight-Fold Path, they knew that life was merely a transitory phase to prepare our eternal souls for what came next: ascension to the beyond. Without Samsara to trap us within the cycle of reincarnation, there would be no barrier to ascension, so by ending all life and the means to propagate it, the doors to Nirvana would then be open to any and all who cared to step through them.

A novel view of the matter, to do harm in pursuit of the greater good, and while wholesale slaughter might seem morally reprehensible, nature was not so kind as to let all its creatures live in eternal peace and harmony. Death and conflict were two core tenets of existence, ones meant to propagate suffering and sin, so better to let the fires run rampant and burn the world to ashes, so that a new path might be cultivated in the aftermath.

And so Goujian found his life’s true goal, not merely to overthrow the Dog Emperor and supplant him, for he saw the errors of this Path. The Emperor would still have to die for his sins, but Goujian had no intentions of taking the throne for himself, or bestowing it upon another. No, overthrowing the Empire would merely be the first step, for now he had a higher purpose, to elevate all of humanity and bring them with him on his journey to Nirvana.

All this and more, he discussed with Wisdom Vyakhya in great length, who took it upon himself to mend Goujian’s patchwork foundation while also Healing his body, mind, and spirit from the wounds he took in the Northern Citadel, where he’d failed to kill Nian Zu and only escaped alive thanks to Zhu Chanzui’s direct interference. Grateful though he was to his two-time saviour, Goujian was in no condition to thank the Ancestral Beast, for his injuries were so serious he had yet to wake. His discussions with Vyakhya took place within the sanctity of Goujian’s Natal Palace, and for a time, he was reminded of the happiest time in his life once more, when his only purpose was to learn for the sake of knowledge itself. How the Wisdom made his way into Goujian’s Natal Palace was a question the man refused to answer, stating that some lessons were best learned without guidance. Not the most helpful response ever, but Goujian knew the truth behind the Wisdom’s words because he’d used them often enough when teaching his own Disciples.

Wen Zhong, the serious scholar who lived for his work. Stoic Sochun who never wavered once when facing the trials and tribulations of Heaven. Sun-Sin, the wild southern child who grew into a fine, educated young man with a unique perspective few could truly understand. Chubby Mapan, whose love of sweets was only surpassed by his empathy for humanity, his eyes always full of tears when administering the Mother’s Mercy. They were all gone now, dead by Goujian’s own hand because they did not understand the Truth and sought to hinder his new Path. A necessary sacrifice to make, but it pained him to know they were suffering still, trapped within the cycle of Samsara and unlikely ever to emerge. Only Yuanyin was left to him now, a determined and resolute young man who lacked the ability to think for himself, but Goujian loved his boy all the same. Thus, he asked Wisdom Vyakhya to oversee the boy’s education, for it was clear Goujian himself was too lacking a Mentor to ever guide anyone successfully.

