The Wisdom was most gracious and accepted Yuanyin as his personal Disciple, an honour denied even to Gen and Mitsue Hideo, two of the most promising young Chosen of Heaven to join their ranks. Goujian had yet to meet the latter, but he had little hope that a spoon-fed noble possessed the requisite empathy and determination required of those Chosen Champions of Heaven, for their Path was long and arduous indeed. Regardless of his worries, Goujian gave his full attention to Wisdom Vyakhya and immersed himself in his lessons, and for a time, life was nothing short of perfection.

“Observe.” Pointing at the dissected corpse spread out across the table, Wisdom Vyakhya directed Goujian’s attention to the tiger’s flesh. “In what ways does the tiger differ from the human? Spare me the obvious answers, for I know you are capable of so much more.”

Quality of muscle. The texture was completely different from human flesh, denser, thicker, yet also more pliable as well, giving the tiger added strength and resilience compared to human counterparts. The organs were more efficient too, capable of making use of more while wasting less. Heart, lungs, kidneys, stomach, this was true for almost every internal organ, as Goujian discovered firsthand by studying the beast’s innards. There wasn’t actually a dead tiger, here in his Natal Palace, but only a facsimile so perfectly sculpted it was all but indistinguishable from reality. Created by the Wisdom himself, this showcased his understanding of tiger anatomy as well as his painstaking attention to detail, because while Goujian held absolute control here in his Natal Palace and could conjure whatever his imagination desired, he lacked the information needed to create a replica of a living beast. Without knowing the texture of a tiger’s muscles or how their organs were situated, any attempt to will a tiger corpse into existence here in his Natal Palace would result in an inaccurate representation of the real thing. His mind would simply fill in the unknowns as it saw fit, because as Wisdom Vyakhya pointed out, power was meaningless without knowledge to guide it, and that was a flaw they worked tirelessly to fix.

Once Goujian familiarized himself with the tiger’s internal organs, the Wisdom had him study a wolf, then a bull, bear, stag, oriole, snake, and mantis, the significance of which was not lost on him. Eight animals, eight Forms, but before Goujian could come to a proper conclusion, the Wisdom had him study a giant panda, elephant, carnugator, and various other powerful beasts in the wild. Not only did this showcase the astonishing breadth of knowledge the Wisdom possessed in matters of anatomy and biology, it opened Goujian’s eyes to how vast and all encompassing the Dao really was. There were many similarities amongst all the animals, but countless differences as well, and one could spend a lifetime trying to understand why those difference might exist. A single lesson left Goujian with more information to process than what he learned from a month of self-study in the greatest library of the West, which was where he’d previous sought answers to help mend his flawed physical body.

There was no haste to the Wisdom’s lessons, as he was happy to drone on and on about the process of efficient blood flow or proper breathing methods, and Goujian was ecstatic to simply listen and learn. Not for the first time, Goujian regretted his life’s decisions and the direction his chosen Path took, but even though he had been fooled by the Dog Emperor’s lies, he had the right intentions and thus had done the best he could with the information available to him. Now, he wondered what it would’ve been like if Wisdom Vyakhya had stumbled across him and become his Teacher all those years ago, instead of the hypocritical Mahakala who’d failed him so thoroughly. Perhaps Goujian would never have turned away from the Brotherhoods’ teachings and sought to apply what he thought to be True without their support. If he’d taken his vows, then the Bloody Confessor would never have existed, and all those Chosen of Heaven would still be alive today, allies in the Holy War whose lives were cut short by a misguided fool.

There was no cure for regret however, so Goujian gave his lessons his all and vowed to never let such a travesty happen again. Understanding anatomy was merely the first step, and the next came in the form of mathematics, an area of study which was never his strong suit. Numbers didn’t speak to him the way they spoke to Mapan, who took control of the Aspirants’ finances as soon as Goujian was sure the boy could manage it. Wisdom Vyakhya accepted no excuses however, and he showed Goujian the multitude of ways in which mathematics could be made easier, especially by a Martial Warrior in possession of a Natal Palace and near perfect recall. Then the mathematics grew more complex and rote memorization was no longer enough, but again, Wisdom Vyakhya broke his lessons down in a way that made them easy to understand. Force, inertia, velocity, trigonometry, astronomy, Goujian devoured these lessons and more, all of which put together was but a mere sliver of the Dao, yet even one as learned as Wisdom Vyakhya could not claim complete knowledge of even a single subject.

Further highlighting the fact that it was impossible to master the Dao in a single lifetime, and thus the Penitent Brotherhood led by the Abbot was following the wrong Path.

Next came lessons in pharmacy, or what the Wisdom called chemistry, and again, Goujian was taken aback by the fathomless depths of the Wisdom’s knowledge, second only to the unknowable Dao. Once he had learned enough to suit the Wisdom’s tastes, Goujian set to envisioning the perfect human body, one without the marked flaws of his initial attempt. Though he managed to fix many of those defects by enduring constant pain and suffering meant to break down his body so that the Energy of the Heavens might repair it anew, Wisdom Vyakhya showed him that this was merely the Uniter being too miserly with his time and secrets to bother with teaching Goujian properly. “To cultivate means to nurture the truth, to seek an understanding of the Dao and the fundamental laws of creation and destruction.” Giving Goujian a placid look that told him he should know better, Wisdom Vyakhya added, “The Uniter only cares about the result, and he would have you give yourself over to the mercy of the Heavens, so that they might judge what is best for you. While useful to some, we pursue a higher understanding, and thus, I demand more of you than he.”

Such was the difference between Insight and understanding, and between the two sat a gulf as wide as the Heavens themselves. Gen had touched upon this once, but Goujian had failed to see what lay in front of him, that while the Uniter demanded understanding from Gen, he was more than happy to direct Goujian down the route of mere Insight. Yet another duplicitous manipulator who directed him down the wrong Path, and Goujian would not soon forget this.

Luckily, he had the Wisdom here to guide him along the Path of understanding and help him unravel the mysteries of the human body and forge a truly perfect physique. How Goujian was supposed to accomplish such a feat without achieving True Balance, he could not say, nor would the Wisdom offer any hints. “Crawl before you walk,” he would say, every time Goujian brought the matter up. “And walk before you run. The Dao encompasses all, so to learn even a small portion of it will take time and patience aplenty. I share with you knowledge painstakingly gathered over multiple lifetimes of dedicated study, and you think yourself ready to move on after a mere three months of study?”

Three months? It was the first time either of them had brought up the concept of time, and Goujian only then realized how long he’d been in convalescence. His injuries taken at the Northern Citadel were far worse than he thought, and his recovery would be long and arduous indeed, but Wisdom Vyakhya assured him that this was the perfect opportunity to rebuild his physical body from the ground up. Eventually, he revealed that they would still be utilizing herbal baths and physical beatings to power Goujian’s transformation, but the difference was that the Wisdom expected him to direct those changes himself, rather than rely on the Energy of the Heavens to do things for him. A lofty goal indeed, and even though it seemed well within sight, the Wisdom always had something new for Goujian to learn every time he came by for a lesson.

This was a good life, the lot of a scholar, and were it not for the grave miscarriage of Heaven’s justice propagated by the Imperial Clan, Goujian would happily spend the rest of his days in this joyous, peaceful manner.

At Wisdom Vyakhya’s urging, Goujian meditated within his Natal Palace and ruminated on the direction he intended to take, keeping all his lessons in mind as he devised a plan of action. His first plan was a disaster, one the Wisdom picked apart without mercy or compassion, and the shame of his incompetence brought Goujian low for several days. Time well wasted however, for Goujian was much more careful with his second proposal, and then his third, fourth, and fifth iterations when the previous ones all failed to reach the Wisdom’s requisite standards. Trial and error was a poor way to go about unravelling the secrets of Creation, so Goujian counted himself fortunate to have the guidance of someone as brilliant as Wisdom Vyakhya. The man might even already have a perfect plan in mind, but he would keep it to himself because otherwise, Goujian would learn nothing from this most precious of experiences.

Finally, Goujian presented the Wisdom with a plan he approved of, so it came time to reforge his body and return to the world of the living.

Pain greeted him when he opened his eyes, his mind a jumbled mess struggling to make sense of his situation. On some level, he was prepared for this, had been forewarned that his body was in dire straits thanks to the shard of metal that penetrated his skull and lodged itself in his brain, delivered by none other than the traitor MuYang. Wisdom Vyakhya could have extracted the projectile and Healed the injury with ease, but instead, he left this for Goujian to do this by himself. Another lesson, and a much needed one, for it would be his first time directing his Chi and efforts not with his mind, but with his soul instead. For good reason too, as his mind was currently in shambles and utterly useless for his purposes, which meant Goujian had no choice but to rely on his soul to guide his actions and Heal his wounds.

If he failed, then he would die, for there would be no additional aid offered or rendered. That was the condition Wisdom Vyakhya had laid out in exchange for his teachings, one Goujian eagerly accepted in his pursuit of the True Human Path. Only by reaching the pinnacle of humanity would he understand the limitations of mortality and divest himself of all mortal trappings to ascend as a being of pure Divinity, so if failure meant death, then it could only mean that he was never destined for Divinity.

Which was absolutely absurd, for he was Goujian, a Chosen Champion of the Heavens fated to help cleanse this world of lies and corruption, beginning with the cancer that was the Imperial Clan.

Drawing upon his faith and conviction, Goujian pushed through the physical pain and sought Balance. Not the false Balance of the Empire, but True Balance, the embrace of all emotions pleasant or otherwise, emotions which welled up as his mind fixated on bittersweet memories of the past to distract him from impending doom. Yet another example of the flaws of Heaven’s Path, for the human body was as far from perfect as one could be. And why not? In Heaven’s eyes, functional was already detrimental to their purposes, which was to propagate the endless cycle of Samsara and suffering.

Life is suffering, and Goujian meant to put an end to it all, but first, he must suffer more.

Darkness veiled his eyes, and he was eight years old again, watching his father beat his mother to death with bare hands. Goujian laid in bed with the covers over his face, quiet as the grave and unwilling to move a muscle. Not because he was scared, which he was, but because he was selfish and didn’t want to die alongside his beloved mother, the woman who loved and cherished him beyond all else and went hungry so he would have enough to eat.

The sun had yet to rise when he ran away, never once looking back at the seemingly happy home he grew up in. The guards hung his father, but Goujian garnered no satisfaction from this, for he loved both his parents dearly, even though he feared his father for what he’d done. Alone and unloved, Goujian suffered through all the trials and tribulations that followed, fighting amongst other street urchins for mere scraps and killing without blinking just to be safe. He lived by the laws of fear and strength, knowing that if he were to ever show weakness, then that would mean his death, for others saw him as a ruthless killer, when in truth, he was just a scared boy of ten who wanted nothing more than to hug his mama tight and beg her to forgive him for leaving her to die.

Mama knew. He remembered this now, she knew he was awake, saw him watch her die, and she looked away. She looked away so that she would not give it away, so that his father would not notice as well. Even to her last breath, his mother sought to protect her son, but Goujian thought of nothing and no one but himself.

