Rain worked through the effects of the various skills in his head, writing numbers next to them to rank them. He had to re-order them a few times before he was satisfied,

Skills for level 18

Immolate 1 2 3

Shear 1 2 3

Spring 3 5

Summer 4

Energy Well 3 5

Life Well 4

Aura Synergy 3 6

Aura IFF 1

Magical Synergy 2

That should be pretty good. I can’t take aura IFF or magical synergy yet because of the requirements, but I’ll get them as soon as I can. I’ll take immolate next, and train it and refrigerate so I can get shear. That should also help train my metamagic, that way I can power through summer and spring faster. Still probably gonna take a while. Healing is more important than stamina, but running out of either in a fight will get me killed right quick. Sorry aura synergy, you didn’t make the cut. Stamina is more important, particularly if I’m with someone who uses it for their skills. I might reconsider when I get there.

Maybe I should just start sticking points in the defensive auras gradually. I’ll never get them all at once, not with how the cap works.

Rain finished off his ration bar and slipped his notebook back into his pack. He noted that his mana was full again, so he drained it out with detection. Switching back to winter, he glanced up at Tallheart. The man had started a fire in the middle of the enclosure he had created. It looked like he was going to use the fire to dry out the clay and lock the stones in place, completing the forge.

I wonder where Jamus is. He said he’d be back by nightfall, but the sun is already almost down.

Rain got up and walked over to Tallheart.

“All done? Need anything else?” Rain asked.

“The clay must dry overnight. Build up the fire. I must eat.”

“Sure, you got it.”

Rain settled down near the flames and started feeding in larger and larger branches. He watched them for a few minutes to make sure the fire was burning strongly. Tallheart had wandered off into the trees, presumably to find something for dinner.

Does he seriously not try to stockpile food? Isn’t winter supposed to be coming, or something like that? It sure feels like it’s getting colder.

Rain shivered and held out his hands to the fire. He pulled out his notebook after a bit and started reviewing his language notes. Every twenty minutes, he would pause to activate detection or purify. He didn’t want to risk using refrigerate. He thought it had a decent chance of putting out the flames or damaging the forge somehow. After around an hour, Tallheart returned and inspected the fire.

“Good,” he rumbled.

“What now?”

“We sleep.”

“I’ll stay up for a little while, Jamus said he would come back.”

“Humph, very well,” Tallheart said. “Use your aura.”

“You got it,” Rain replied, activating purify with all his modifiers. When his senses returned after dropping the skill, Tallheart was already walking away to the hut.

“Goodnight,” Rain called after him.

Tallheart hesitated, then looked back and gave him a nod before ducking into the hut. Rain searched the darkness for any sign of Jamus, shrugged, and moved on to the next page in his notebook.
