Ali’s conscious awareness seeped back into her slowly, like waking from a dream. Something flowed into her body like a soothing stream. It sparkled and bubbled, washing its way through her, and the darkness and haze within her mind slowly began to dissolve.

She lay there for an indeterminate time, clinging to the calmness and the relief that flowed within her, somehow washing her soul from the inside.

And then, finally, she opened her eyes.

“How are you feeling, dear?” Lira asked.

How am I feeling? Like I need a cup of my aunt’s tea? Her arm throbbed a little, still, but her mind was blissfully clear and sharp. “I’m… ok?” she said, and to her amazement, it felt true.

Ali sat up slowly with the aid of Malika’s helping hands guiding her and looked around.

“I am humbled, Great Mother,” Azryet said, bowing his great scaled head toward the comparatively tiny dryad. “Your work is extraordinary.”

“It is nothing,” she demurred, but Ali could tell that Lira was happy and relieved. “It’s never too late to learn something new, for all of us. Let’s go check on our dear Mato, shall we?”

Ali turned to look around, and her eyes widened in shock as she saw Mato. She had been moved elsewhere within Azryet’s domain – a huge, vaulted ceiling rose overhead, and the chamber was filled with soft, diffuse light that emanated from the walls as much as the glowing holy plants. A great circle of the stone floor had been precisely excised, exposing the earth beneath. Mato was planted in the center, a giant tree that towered taller than ever before, but his bark glowed with an ominous reddish-black, and many of his branches were withered and twisted. A heavy pall of miasma cloaked the tree as a terrible aura of demonic energy radiated from him.

“Mato?” she asked, her voice coming out as a startled, terrified squeak.

“I’m ok, Ali,” he said, but even his telepathic voice was twisted and laden with repressed pain. Black sap oozed from the wounds in his bark, like demonic blood dripping down his trunk.

“Lira! What is happening to him?” Ali squeaked.

“He is taking your corruption upon himself,” Lira said, squeezing her hand in what was meant to be reassurance, but Ali was horrified by the sight.

“But won’t he…”

“Watch, dear,” Lira said. “With your mana sight.”

Ali clutched at her robes with her hands, biting her lip, but as she watched, she saw what her aunt meant. The terrible corruption he had siphoned off from her was slowly fading. Bit by bit, the darkness receded. Green returned with aching slowness to his leaves, and if she observed closely for long enough, his bark was smoothing out.

“That must be awful,” she said.

“It’s fine,” Mato answered, but Ali ignored him. He was just being Mato – admitting pain would probably seem like failure to him. Besides, he was a tank for a living. He always took everyone’s pain upon himself – that hardly meant it was ok.

“Yes, it is extremely painful,” Lira said. “And he will need to do this for you every few days. He can withstand it better than you could, given his endurance, health, and his Incorruptible title. Lifting your corruption will allow Malika to rejuvenate your soul and bloodline. You can’t allow it to progress too far. Promise me that, Aliandra.”

“I will,” she said, the words twisting painfully in her heart at the implications for Mato, and at the sensation of Malika’s healing pouring into both of them. “As long as Mato is ok with it.” She turned to look at the tree and said, “If you ever want to stop, please just tell me.”

“Don’t be silly, little one,” he answered. “We’re friends. I’m not going to let you down.”

There were so many things Ali wanted to say. That he didn’t owe her anything. That he should look out for himself. How could she endure the pain of watching him suffer on her behalf – especially when they would need to perform this ritual every day? How can he… She forced herself to stop and just said, “Thank you, Mato.” She reached out to touch the bark of his tree as her voice struggled against the lump in her throat. He does this for me. And yet, if the tables were turned, she would have done the same for him in a heartbeat. For any of them. She sat down to wait beside him while he recovered.

It took most of an hour before his bark was whole and his leaves restored to their former green, and then his trunk shivered and twisted as he shrank back down to his Beastkin form.

“So, what do we do with this ugly thing?” Mato said, pointing at the Phylactery Calen still held. His recovery had taken a long while, but everyone was still gathered in the room.

Lira had brewed some tea just as she’d wished for, and Ali gratefully sipped on it, enjoying the aroma while Naia wobbled happily, nestled now on her lap. Ali finally felt healthy. Her arm was still tender, and it still leaked darkened blood from around the voidstone runes, but the pain seemed manageable. Certainly, it was far better than before. Mato seemed to be back to his normal self – almost. He was still a little pale, but he seemed able to put a good face on it.

“Lovely tea, thanks, Great Mother,” she said.

Lira threw her a certain kind of smile. “Aunt Lira to you, dear. And, it’s a pleasure.”

Ali smiled back.

“We cannot just destroy the soul artifact,” Azryet said in the meantime. “I cannot deconstruct it while he’s inside. Freeing the Lich’s soul would allow him to escape and make a new Phylactery. Worse, he is employing a barrier reinforcement that is challenging to break.”

“How do we even kill him, then?” Calen wanted to know.

Indeed, it seemed nigh impossible to end a Lich who had amassed as much power as Nevyn Eld. Were they to kill his Avatar, as they had several times now, he could simply make a new one. If they figured out how to break his Phylactery, he was capable of fashioning a new one. Destroying both, according to Azryet, would leave his soul wandering the realm until he made a new Phylactery and the entire nightmare restarted all over again.

But Ali was not even the slightest bit worried. “I know how to end him for good,” she said, levering herself laboriously to her feet. Suddenly, she had the attention of everyone locked upon her; a rather unsettling experience given that two of them were deity-ranked classes, past the fifth tier.

“You can end him, where I cannot?” Azryet asked, balancing his severity with a broad wink. “Explain yourself, young lady!”

Ha! Azryet seems rather pleased, she decided.

“I’m over three thousand years old; I’ll have you know,” Ali said, drawing herself up to her full height. At that moment, she realized she was still wearing the Defiance of the Meek title, and she surreptitiously swapped it to Ancient instead, but the soft snort of mirth from Lira told her that her subterfuge had not gone unnoticed.

“Nevertheless, ending his evil is the most important task we have,” Val’korr said soberly. “I, too, am curious what it is you have learned.”

“It was his great secret,” Ali said. “He bound himself not just to his phylactery; he bound himself to his dungeon, too.”

“Are you certain?” Azryet asked, his great eyes widening as the yellow and white swirls of holy mana within them shone. “That… that explains much.”

“Absolutely certain,” Ali answered. She had experienced the dungeon rage several times during the battle when he had used domain magic to replenish his mana. At the time, she had not immediately recognized the implications, but the feeling was unmistakable. He hadn’t even needed World Walker due to the unique nature of his soul and his avatar being able to exist in separate locations. The second clue had been the simultaneous use of the Aegis of Absolution around his avatar and his phylactery. They were linked, after all.

“That would explain why he was so powerful, nigh unstoppable,” Lyeneru said softly.

“Yes. Nevyn Eld’s soul was the last boss of the Crypt of Kings,” Ali said. That had come to her when she had been confronted with the puzzle of how the three kings of ancient Dal’mohra had been squashed into a region of dungeon domain the size of that throne room, and all granted the champion-rank domain enhancement. Azryet himself had explained how Denizens eased the pressure on the domain, and it had been a small leap of insight to recognize what the Lich had done to himself. “I believe you’ll find he possesses a Mana Siphon domain magic spell. This was what allowed him to abuse the Aegis of Absolution while still being able to cast his magic with impunity.”

“I see. That would explain why the shield appeared impervious. He could never run out of mana. But then, how then did you defeat…” Azryet paused with his talon upraised, looking about as sheepish as a majestic dragon could, which was to say, not much at all. “Oh, I see now. That is why you inscribed that cursed abomination upon your arm and bound yourself to your domain.” The great Dragon God fell silent for a few moments while his eyes fixed her with an unreadable expression. “You turned his Mana Siphon against him, didn’t you? You… burnt the mana of an entire dungeon?”

“Yes,” Ali answered. There wasn’t much more to say, really. In the end, it was quite simple once she had the key. Mana Siphon worked both ways, so provided she could burn enough, it didn’t matter that he had the full power of the Crypt of Kings. She had intended to drain it all, dropping the Aegis guarding the Lich’s phylactery by running it out of mana, but Naia had intervened, using that same channel as a path to the Crypt of Kings, and offered her a portal linking the domains. From there, it had been trivial to consume all of the Crypt of Kings with her Domain Architect and claim the dungeon for herself. She could feel the Well of Eternity pulsing soft power into her domain from all the way across the Abyssal Realm.

“Err… what does that all mean?” Mato asked, looking back and forth between her and Azryet with a confused frown on his face.

“Nevyn Eld is a dungeon boss,” Ali said. “And he’s outside his domain.”

“Wait, do you mean he is suffering Domain Withdrawal?” Calen asked.

“Oh!” Mato exclaimed. “That’s good, right?”

Calen winked at him. “Thanks for a wholly different sort of damage?”

Azryet gurgled in appreciation. “Indeed!”

“Not quite,” Ali said, nodding an apology to Lira for interrupting her as she was about to speak. “As Lira has explained, a Phylactery is basically a cocoon of domain mana wrapped up around a soul – a gross simplification of the fiendishly complex magic.”

“Essentially correct, though,” Lira nodded.

“It is the last remnant keeping him alive,” Ali finished.

“And you have a way to separate them?” Azryet asked.

“I do,” Ali said, gazing up at the big dragon. “May I prevail upon you for assistance one more time?”

“It would be my pleasure,” Azryet said, his vast maw cracking into a toothy grin as holy mana began to condense within.

“Right,” Ali said, summoning a small disk barrier in the air. “Put it there, please, Calen.”

He set the alabaster urn on the floating golden disk and stepped back. Then he took another step, ever prudent.

Ali took a deep breath. This was going to be a challenging undertaking, but she had lived within this spell for three thousand years, repaired it once, and even seen it cast. Besides, she had a cheat sheet.

“Clarence?” she called, not needing to call a second time, or even raise her voice, before the eager tome popped into existence before her face and swooped around her head. As was his peculiar talent, he opened promptly at precisely the chapter she needed. Ali pushed up her sleeves and consulted her memories. She compared them to his brightly inscribed pages and then proceeded to channel her life energy into a storm of glittering arcane runes that she spun out of mana around her right wrist.

Azryet’s gentle healing breath came down all around her like a sustaining cloud, buoying her up while she worked. Motes of light and mana bubbled up out of her body, but for the first time, her life energy was sustained by the Dragon God’s healing winds. As the spell left her fingertips, she knew it was perfect, for she finally understood what her mother’s spell actually did. She fed a single point of Authority into it.

[Realm] Aliandra Amariel [Ancient] has cast the legendary spell: An Instant, Frozen in Time.

A glittering golden cylinder snapped into existence in the heart of the chamber, capturing a twisted, transparent form within it like a firefly trapped in a pillar of amber. As the spell solidified, it drew his soul over into the Spirit Realm, leaving his Phylactery behind.

Ali lowered her hands and sighed. “Thank you,” she said as the Dragon God’s healing breath faded, leaving her unscathed from the incredible spell her mother had created.

“Ok, now what?” Mato asked, glancing between her and the golden tower she’d summoned.

“Now, we wait,” Ali said.

“Huh?” Mato snorted. “Huh. Right. Should I cook us some lunch? Beating up dragons does make a bear a bit hungry.”

“Indeed, little one?” Azryet rumbled.

A roar of laughter shook their group at that.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
