It took a fair amount of research and testing to get done, but Charok, Song, and I eventually figured out the optimal nest-shape for Roc and his cronies where they can pass the winter in relative warmth and peace.

It’s a birdhouse.

Basic ass birds.

Poking his brown-and-white feathered head out of the circular entrance, Roc greets me with a trilling laugh as I enter the aviary, which is really just a wooden shack with a gap under the roof for easy bird access. Lining the walls are my laughing bird houses, large, rectangular block homes with slanted roofs which serve no purpose since they’re already indoors, but the birds love it, so who am I to judge. Unwilling to leave his cozy little birdhouse, Roc’s cries increase in intensity until I arrive at his ‘door’, quieting only when he finally gets his scritches and treat. The other laughing birds know their place and keep quiet inside their warm homes until their turn arrives, forcing me to amble about the hay-strewn room in a haphazard manner to accommodate their strict scritching hierarchy. I don’t mind, and to be fair, I’ve neglected my sweet birbs for too long now, mostly because they stopped coming out after they laid eggs and I hate taking the stairs, but I don’t know how long I’ll be gone this time around and I don’t want them to forget me.

I feel the same way about my kittens and bears, but the rabbits are a lost cause. Not because they’ve already forgotten me, but because they have no loyalty. Unlike my other floofs who are wary of strangers, the bunbuns will let anyone feed and hug them, those furry, long-eared traitors. Even Mama Bun isn’t immune to this, though she loves me most...

I hope. Whatever. I’ve already said goodbye to all of them, even Mama Bun and Pong Pong. Much as I’d like to bring them with me, I promised Pong Pong safety, so I cannot in good conscience bring him on this trip. Also, he’s worthless in a fight and I don’t want to ship his poop back to the citadel, so it’s better he stay with Taduk. It didn’t take much convincing either. All my teacher had to do was offer the turtle more shrimp and they became best friends forever.

Animals have no loyalty.

All too soon, a knock sounds at the door telling me time is up, so with a heavy heart, I say my last goodbyes to the birds and pray I’ll be back in time to see their babies hatch this spring, with Dastan and his retinue in good health to boot. Maybe it’s asking for too much considering they’re soldiers heading out to battle, but this whole kerfuffle with Jixing and the Disciplinary Corps has left a bad taste in my mouth, and not just because of the blatantly corrupt justice system. My friends, allies, and even subordinates have all offered their support and commiseration for my current ordeal, but I haven’t heard a single person say anything to defend or sympathize with Dastan, Sahb, or any of the other slave soldiers at the centre of this issue. No one cares that they’ve spent more time fighting on the front lines than most, or that they’ve been all but sentenced to death despite their heroics, or that these promising Martial Warriors will be wasted for nothing, because at the end of the day, they’re just traitors and slaves.

A sentiment which disgusts me, but no one else. Everyone just expects me to head out to the front lines and toss Dastan’s former retinue into the meatgrinder until they’re all dead so I can come back safe and sound, but they’re my friends and comrades. I can’t just let them die, but I also can’t protect them for long, or even at all considering my current condition. While Nian Zu will oversee things to keep me safe, he can’t protect my people forever, not that he seems willing to even try. Living Legend my ass, he was all gung-ho about straight up executing the ‘traitors’ until I pointed out the Emperor favours young talents, whatever that’s supposed to mean. Why does the big man on the throne care so much about rising dragons and what sort of protection does this offer? No one can say anything concrete aside from Justicars doling out harsh punishments for the murder of young warriors, or promising young talents being whisked away by Imperial Scions, but those sorts of thing should be the norm, not a privilege of youth and talent.

I hope it’s not because the Emperor likes having back-up bodies to steal...

Bah. This is the worst. I was actually enjoying my time as a cripple until stupid Jixing came along. Now I’m stressed and gloomy all the time again, not to mention the paranoia. I hate it.

Outside the laughing bird’s shack, Kuang Biao and my Death Corps escort greet me with a Martial salute while I shuffle over to my litter, which is essentially a chair on two poles. It’s not the most comfortable vehicle I’ve ever ridden in, but it beats being carried over Kuang Biao’s shoulder like a sack of rice, so I’ll take it. On the way down, we stop at Akanai’s apartment to pick up Song, who stands waiting outside the door with her hair braided in a bun, and armour polished like the good soldier she is. Wishing she’d waited inside or even came up to say goodbye to the birds so I’d feel less guilty, I say, “Is Grand-Mentor in? I wanted to say goodbye before I left.” And to Sarankho too, but since she’s not out here, then she’s probably curled up beside Mila.

“Mama is busy.” Though she doesn’t go as far as extending her arms, Song plants her feet in front of the door with hand on hilt, ready to fight the Death Corps back should they attempt to push past. To be fair, I’d be worried too if I were in her shoes, because you do not want to wake the bears. Lovely, hardworking, and talented she may be, Mila is not a morning person and Husolt is both less lovely and more liable to smash someone into a meat paste, so it’s best to tread lightly around them in the early hours of the day. I find it’s best to let them sleep in unless there are nearby enemies to eviscerate, and since I’d rather not start a rebellion, I’ll have to settle for last night’s farewells.

Honestly, I think Mila would love coffee almost as much as I do, but despite my frantic efforts to find this sweet, nourishing elixir of life, I’ve got bupkis to show for it. This world sucks in so many different ways.

Navigating the stairs in my litter doesn’t allow for easy conversation with companions, but once we’re out of the building, I clamber into my quin-drawn rickshaw and ask Song to join me, opening our conversation with, “Hi.” My stilted smile makes things even more awkward, but Song responds with a nod as the rickshaw pulls out of the courtyard and we set off on our merry way. “This all happened too quickly so I haven’t had time to talk about it, but I’m sorry you’ve been dragged into this mess.”

“Not an issue,” Song replies in her customary monotone, her eyes on the horizon instead of facing me. “I look forward to returning to the battlefield.”

Oh good, so I’m the only one who’s terrified. Cool, cool, cool. “Not gonna miss the relaxing rickshaw rides through the citadel?”

“I enjoyed these peaceful days.” To my surprise, Song even sounds like she means it as her expression takes on a wistful look in the reddish morning hue, her bangs fluttering in the wind for a picture perfect moment. Only a single moment though, before her gaze solidifies back into her standard, stony facade. “But I am a warrior, first and foremost.”

Warmed by her determination, I inwardly applaud her mental recovery, having come a long way from believing she was and would forever be little more than a slave. Hell, she’s come a long way in just three months and change, considering she seemed absolutely distraught when her token was destroyed in Sinuji, but it seems she’s come to terms with being bound to my side. A good thing too, because I’d feel terrible if she was miserable all the time, and doubly so for being the reason for her misery, but she’s taken it all in stride and even stopped avoiding me these last few weeks. While still bound to my service, I’m always careful to word things so I never give her orders, and she’s largely left to her own devices and does whatever she pleases. Five kilometres isn’t exactly a lot of room to work with, it also can’t be considered a short leash either, enough for her to go out riding with Akanai or spending lazy afternoons reading in her room.

Still a leash though, but unless she feels like shattering her Core, there’s nothing we can do about it.

That said, even though she has all the free time in the world, Song isn’t wired for lazy. If given the choice, Song probably would’ve spent most of her time fighting on the front lines anyways, because I’ve never met anyone more obsessed with the Martial Path. She practices more than anyone I know, is always full of questions, and she still finds time to wake Lin up every morning and help make my medicine, though I suspect it’s only because Song takes sinister delight in watching me choke down those foul-but-heartfelt concoctions.

Not gonna lie. I love Lin, but I’m not going to miss her medicine.

Out of petty revenge, I ask, “How’s your Aura coming along?” I already know the answer, but I like asking because when I do, Song always crinkles her nose and pouts in frustration. It’s adorable, and I can’t help myself when it comes to cute. It’s the same reason I’ll sometimes wake the sleeping bunbuns just to see them yawn, or wrap Aurie in a blanket burrito and laugh at his big, sad stare. Cruel, but I need the cute to survive. “No progress,” Song replies, her scowl so similar to Mila and Akanai’s. “Luo-Luo’s musical performances have done nothing to help, so Mama and Sister have been trying to teach me how to appreciate the arts, but I do not understand. Music is pleasant to the ear, but nothing else. A painting depicts an image, but unless it is informational, like a map or a portrait of a wanted criminal, then what is the point? A dance is simply wasted movement, and poetry wasted breath. What do the arts have to do with Aura and the Martial Path?”

That’s a pretty good question. With all the parties and excitement that’s been going on, I haven’t had a chance to think on it, especially since I agree with Song’s breakdown. “I don’t think it makes sense either, but from what I can gather, it has to do with eliciting a powerful emotional response to help Condense your Aura.” Shrugging at Song’s blank look, I explain, “Yea, I don’t know either. I was distracted by all the torture and suffering going on when I Condensed my Aura in the midst of overseeing a Purge, so I don’t remember the specifics. Mostly anger. Lots and lots of anger.”

Gotta say, it’s a nice change of pace, being able to talk about the horrific experience, even if only to a select few. Not everyone knows I swore an Oath to keep quiet, but if word got out that I was no longer restricted by Oaths in general, I’m pretty sure all hell will break loose and I’ll be labelled the anti-Mother or something.

Hmm... I wonder if the reason Defiled have so many Aura users is because they’re more in touch with their emotions? Anger is only one catalyst, because I know Yan Condensed her Aura using love, while Mila and the others Condensed their Aura listening to Luo-Luo’s musical performance. Granted, it could also be Spectres, but I don’t think all Defiled strengths can be attributed to the ghosties, else it wouldn’t explain why Lang Yi and the other former slaves from Yo Ling’s island proved to be such talented Martial Warriors. The Spectres are probably more of a catalyst, ones who lay the ground work for successful Core Creation and Aura Condensation. Hell, knowing what I know, they might even inhibit the Defiled from Natal Palace Formation, because there’s a good chance an Expert-level Martial Warrior could expel or even eliminate Spectres residing inside their Natal Palace. Take Bei for example, she went full Demon, but after I showed her she had nothing to fear from the Spectres, she cast them out of her Natal Palace where they’d been keeping her prisoner.

Piece by piece, I’m putting the puzzle together, but I still don’t see the big picture. I’ve got the ‘what’, but I still haven’t figured out the ‘how’ or ‘why’...

“Uhn.”

Song’s noncommittal grunt doesn’t mean much, but the tentative pat on my arm speaks volumes to her empathy, so strong it can overcome her aversion to physical contact after mistaking my distraction for melancholy. Smiling in thanks, I settle back in the rickshaw and sigh. “I don’t understand where Aura sits on the Martial Path. You need a Core to store Chi, a Natal Palace to practice and memorize Chi skills, and a Domain to keep your Chi skills from fizzling out.” I leave out the bit about one’s Domain being a manifestation of one’s Natal Palace because Akanai said everyone needs to realize this on their own, but my point still stands. “All three steps build upon one another, but Aura doesn’t fit into the progression. Even though everyone who has a Domain also has an Aura, I’m not entirely certain an Aura is necessary since animals don’t have Auras.” Besides Pong Pong, but he's a special case for obvious reasons. I’ll need to do some human testing, but I don’t want to ruin anyone’s Martial future. That’s the thing about having a conscience, sometimes it gets in the way of science...

