Realizing I’ve deviated from the topic, I re-tell Yan’s Aura-success story even though Song’s heard it many times before. “...so her desire to protect her loved ones drew out her Aura, and I think something similar happened with Luo-Luo’s music. It helps the listener get in touch with their emotions, and then I guess Chi does the rest.” So successful at helping with Aura Condensation, my consort’s concerts are wildly popular events nowadays, with Mom in firm control of the guest list, but Song’s been to every one of those concerts and made zero progress.

“I want to protect Mama, Papa, and Sister.” In a tone I might almost call petulant, Song continues, “I do. I can even prove it under compulsion if needed, but I cannot Condense my Aura.”

“I know you do, and everyone else does too. Do you want to hear my best guess as to why you’re having difficulties?” At her nod, I ask Kuang Biao to put up a Sound Barrier around Song and I, out of respect for Song’s privacy. “I think your issues with Aura stem from your traumatic past.” Seeing her lack of anger and abundant confusion, I take the plunge and continue. “Aura is about the expression of one’s emotions, but you repress your emotions out of habit. You’ve gotten better, but you still default to your neutral expression, because you’re not used to letting your emotions show or affect you. I’ve seen you smile, but I’ve never seen you laugh, or scream, or even make a snide comment when annoyed, a habit which might be interfering with Aura Condensation.” Shrugging, I add, “I’ll be honest though, I could be talking out my ass. The Death Corps never show emotion either, but they have Auras.” Not including Kuang Biao, I have twelve out of three-hundred and sixty, which at one in thirty, is even higher than Defiled ratios for Aura users. Either Luo-Luo is much more important than I thought, or the Imperial Clan has been holding out on their Martial secrets.

Probably both. I didn’t think Luo-Luo was even remotely important before Jixing arrived, but I doubt he’d go to all this effort just because he has a crush. Besides, it’s public knowledge that Martial Warriors from the Imperial Clan are significantly stronger from natives of the outer provinces, so it’s a given they’re hoarding secrets.

“...How can I improve at showing emotions?”

Though not entirely convinced, Song still asks for advice. With another shrug, I say, “Maybe smile when you’re happy and frown when you’re sad? No idea. I’m not a big emotional sharer either, which is why I spend so much time with the floofs.” Since she doesn’t respond, I sigh and add, “I’m gonna miss their antics, but if last night taught me anything, it’s not safe to bring them into a war-zone.” Signalling to Kuang Biao he can drop the Sound Barrier, I tell Song about my run in with the Abbot, though I leave out Luo-Luo’s naked presence to spare her the embarrassment. Poor girl, she can’t catch a break. First the tandem pooping, then Zabu and Shana sleeping in my yurt with their pups, and now this. “... so I suppose Zabu will have to put up with my affection for the next few weeks. Ping Ping too, but she’s not exactly cuddly.”

Quietly marching along from behind our rickshaw, Ping Ping squeaks at the sound of her name which puts a rare smile on Song’s face. “She has a kind and gentle soul,” Song says, tossing a whole salted fish she had tucked away somewhere, which Ping Ping devours with delight. “She worries she might hurt you if she is over affectionate.”

“Fair enough.” I should give Ping Ping more hugs. She’s got no floof, but she’s floofy in spirit.

With nothing else to talk about, Song and I sit in comfortable silence while Ping Ping and the Death Corps escort us to the main gates, where Nian Zu, the Abbot, and the rest of my Honour Guard stand waiting for my arrival. Appalled by my lack of manners to keep the Colonel General waiting, I scramble to get off the rickshaw and greet him, but Nian Zu waves my efforts aside, saying “Don’t come down, we won’t be here long.” Looking like a true hero in his gold-embossed armour, with a dark cloak draped about his shoulders and a gleam in his sharp eyes, he seems more vigorous and imposing than the first time I saw him some three years ago, standing tall and proud despite having to look up to speak with me.

A true hero by any measure, even if he doesn’t quite live up to my exacting standards. Then again, neither does Dad, or anyone else for that matter, so it might be time I lowered the bar a little.

Since it’d be rude to go down after being told to stay, I hunch over so we’re almost eye to eye and offer a Martial salute. “Private Falling Rain, reporting for duty. Apologies for keeping Colonel General waiting.” Kinda sucks that I’m not even a ‘Private First Class’. My rank literally cannot go any lower and still exist. This sucks.

“No need to apologize, for you are not late. I merely came early out of habit.” Gesturing at my Death Corps waiting by their cattle-drawn wagons, Nian Zu asks, “You’ve everything you’ll need?”

“Yes, Colonel General.” A hint of pride creeps into my voice, because I know how impressive it looks. Thirty-one wagons for three-hundred and sixty Death Corps, thirteen slave soldiers, Song, Ping Ping, and myself. If we were standard army soldiers, we’d have double the number of wagons at the minimum, and there’d be no room for my soldiers to ride on. Technically, I should’ve left all this for Nian Zu to deal with, but since he didn’t mention it before leaving last night, I just had Red Two arrange everything and told him to send an itemized invoice to Yuzhen.

That’s the great thing about being drafted. Now that I’m part of the Imperial Army, technically the province has to foot all my expenses, including Ping Ping’s hefty meal bill.

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Giving zero respect to Nian Zu’s rank, the Abbot inserts himself into the conversation to speak with Song. “Would the young miss care to exchange seats with this monk? There is much to teach and little time to do so.”

Ah shit. I didn’t account for the Abbot. Aside from Mahakala’s Spiritual Spade, the Abbot only carries a small rucksack and a water gourd, which is hardly enough for months on the front lines. He better have a change of clothes in there...

Luckily, Song never intended to sit with me in the first place, only keeping me company because I wanted to talk, so she climbs down to greet Erdene who’s trying to edge Zabu and Mafu out of the way so she can take over the rickshaw. Hopping up beside me with weightless ease, the Abbot settles in and closes his eyes without a word, leaving me free to continue my conversation with Nian Zu.

Wait. Was I supposed to pack food and stuff for the Colonel General too? Glancing around in vain hope, I realize the Hero of the Wall brought literally nothing aside from his weapons and armour, not even a horse to ride on or waterskin to drink from. Then again, I probably should’ve expected as much from a guy who defended a single, static position for most of his career. What does he know of supply lines? Wondering how to best politely word the question, I ask, “Colonel General, err, will you be... um... needing... anything?” Dude didn’t even bring any guards. Does he think this is a picnic or something? He is a hundred-and-one years old, even if he looks mid-fifties and can probably bench press Moomie...

“Comrade Du was kind enough to lend me his carriage, and it is waiting outside along with my guards and provisions,” Nian Zu replies, an answer which fills me with trepidation, but he reads my concerns like an open book. “No need to worry,” the Colonel General says, his smile not quite reaching his eyes. “Unlike myself, Comrade Du has family and friends to think of, so he will not be joining us on this trip.”

...Well, this is awkward. “Then this soldier awaits your orders, Colonel General.”

“Let us head out and make room for others.” Climbing onto my rickshaw, he squeezes in beside me which makes for an awkward ride, but luckily the Abbot is much skinnier than Mahakala else we definitely wouldn’t have fit. Luckily, the gates are already open and it’s only a short ride across the bridge before Nian Zu dismounts and saunters over to his waiting carriage, ringed by no less than fifty heavily-armoured veteran soldiers each carrying a distinct Spiritual Weapon, or at least something that looks like one. A true elite force, but I hope they know what they’re getting into considering Jixing is liable to threaten and blackmail anyone on my side.

Praying I won’t have the deaths of innocents on my conscience or traitors to look out for, I turn to the Abbot and ask, “You said there was another monk from the Brotherhood with you? Is he staying at the citadel?”

“No, Jorani made arrangements for our Brother and Kukku, and they will arrive with the others.”

“...What others?”

Instead of answering, the Abbot gestures behind us and I lean out the rickshaw just in time to see Alsantset riding out the gates, followed by thousands of quin-mounted Bekhai and cattle-drawn wagons packed with soldiers, yurts, and provisions. Trotting up beside me, my sister scowls before my disapproval and says, “What? I hold the rank of Major and am free to visit the front lines as I please.” Softening her tone, if not her expression, she reaches up to pat my cheek and Sends, “I know you mean well little brother, and refused to ask for help out of concern, but you cannot play these games of politics without losing a few pieces. You are one of the People, and every one of these Sentinels is aware of the risks and here of their own free will. We will protect you little brother, or we will fight to the last to avenge you.”

Warmed by the sentiment, I look out at her retinue and find many familiar faces in the crowd, all here to help me fight against the odds. There’s Tenjin and Tursinai, here to protect Song as usual, and Argat and Jochi trying to blend into the crowd. Having changed out of his monk robes, Jorani rides at the head of them leading most of the former bandits from Sanshu, with Chey and Ral at his side. Lang Yi cuts a striking figure in his Khishig leathers, his eyes burning with anticipation as he stations himself close to me with the rest of the former miners, each one ready to lay down their lives in my defence. Next to arrive is Wang Bao leading his people in wagons and Ulfsaar on his charioteers, their morale high and spirits lively as always, scoundrels to the last, but my scoundrels. The eight survivors from Shen Huo are here too, each one grinning wildly as if setting off for adventure, though Rustram’s grin might have something to do with the lovely Sai Chou sitting beside him, with most of the Protectorate following along to boot. Aside from Chu Xinyue and his people, my entire retinue is here in full force, ready to fight alongside me once again and refusing to leave Dastan’s crew on their own.

Even the Sentinels came along, from Yan’s friends and fellow orphans Altan, Tomor, and Mugi, to Alsantset’s gorgeous-but-disapproving friend Maral and her grumpy, jealous husband Gansun, and even the Healers Jigari and Abjiya along with their medical aides. Orgaal is there, looking as bored as always, and so are Agadei, Kiril, Hadai, and Tuya, Charok’s friends who handled the powerful warriors in Gen’s retinue while I roughed up their leader. Not only that, but the Sentinels from Alsantset’s retinue are no less enthusiastic, returning my stare with grins and smiles a plenty, mostly unfamiliar faces, but supportive ones. There are even former members of the Iron Banner joining us, the same heroes who saved me from the mines and are now here to guard me against the Imperial Clan. The fierce, scarred Khagati, the kind and portly Mengu, stern Ghurda who always -

Hang on. Ghurda’s here?

It doesn’t take long to find who I’m looking for, and his hulking form brings a tear to my eye. Sitting atop a quin almost as large as Mafu, Huushal makes for an imposing sight with his massive sabre strapped to his back and single armoured shoulder guard to protect him. Radiating focus and ferocity, he doesn’t smile or say anything, but simply nods in response to my stare before following Ghurda away while his two wives trail behind.

Gotta say, the twin half-bear sisters Yesui and Yosai look less than pleased to join me, but they’re still here and I am grateful for it. Plus, this means Huu doesn’t hate me, so maybe we can be friends again. That’s the most important part.

Overwhelmed with emotion, I grin and wave to greet the new arrivals, though my good mood dissipates when I see two well-dressed quins pulling an all-too-familiar rickshaw. Waving back with both hands as if she’d done nothing wrong, Lin stands beside the seated Luo-Luo whose arms are wrapped tight around Lin’s waist, holding fast for fear my sweet wifey will fall out. Proud as can be, Lin directs her quins and comes to a stop directly beside me, beaming from ear to ear as she says, “Hi hubby.”

“No.” Using my strictest voice, I point at the gates and say, “Go back inside. This is not a game.”

“Don’t wanna!” Hands on her hips, my sweet wifey stands tall in defiance, something she’s never done before. “I’m coming, and you can’t make me leave. You’re weak now, and I’m strong, so you gotta listen to me, ya?”

...Shit, is this how marriage works? Am I being bullied?

