Guiding them through the mud room was a challenge. Beta seemed to effortlessly reduce her mass to nothing, practically gliding over the mud without leaving a trace, while Gamma, on the other hand, had a near meltdown at the thought of being trapped under layers of muck. He quickly tried to play it cool, but his unease was evident.

Delta was more than a little worried about Gamma. It wasn’t just that his defenses were high, they were so tightly welded together that there wasn’t even a sliver of space for her to get her fingers into, no room to pry open his barriers and reach the real Gamma inside.

She knew she couldn’t push the subject now, though, not without risking driving him further into his shell.

The Mushroom Grove made them all pause, except for Alpha, who confidently walked forward and past Boary, carefully stepping around the blue mushrooms that leaned toward him, as if sensing the fluids coursing through his body.

“You have a thing for mushrooms, huh?” Gamma said, trying to make it sound like a joke, but Delta couldn’t help recalling how that whole thing even started, her tongue curling with the unpleasant memory of Gutrot. The taste was so vivid that her goddess aura flared momentarily, causing Gamma to start hacking as Beta stumbled, clearly affected.

“Ah, it tastes like a dirty ashtray covered in raw pickle juice!” Gamma screeched, their voice filled with disgust and outrage.

“That’s... him,” Beta said in surprise, tasting her own lips for a moment as if trying to confirm the sensation. “His power left to rot and ferment. You’ve been eating pieces of his old self,” she added, her voice laced with astonishment. Delta, however, found herself less offended by Beta’s words and more by the idea that she simply liked mushrooms.

“Gutrot Mushrooms? They were the only thing to grow around here,” Delta mumbled, frowning as she pulled up the old screen of Gutrot Mushrooms.

Gutrot Mushrooms: A viable mushroom that can survive even when no mana is present. Their taste is unique. Due to getting a blessing from Dabberghast, more lore has been unlocked.Due to growing Wynn, more info has been unlocked.Due to having Beta in your Dungeon, more info has been unlocked.Due to becoming a goddess, more info has been unlocked.This notification is in the queue of over six hundred thousand pending to be reviewed when the core remembers to check.

“Wasn’t Nu and Prim meant to be on top of that?” Delta said in alarm.

‘Without the aid of systems Nu and Prim, your queue would currently be breaching over three billions notifications thus far. Would you like to undo their work and open all closed notifications?’

That sounded like fun, but Delta couldn’t afford to spend that much time fact-checking that many messages. It was just too overwhelming.

“These remaining notifications, are any of them likely to kill me if I don’t look at them right now?” Delta asked aloud, earning curious looks from both Beta and Gamma as she seemingly spoke to thin air.

‘Negative. No notification pending contains information critical to your personal survival or the safety of any dungeon inhabitants.’

Peachy!

With that, she opened the expanded profile of the Rotguts.

Rotguts: A form of power cast-off by a god summoned from another plane of existence. The summoning was imperfect and the god was forced to discard some ‘realms’ to appear and take on a new form. The previous form had the realms of ‘Rot’, ‘Infection’, and ‘Usurpation’ and smaller related realms. The mushrooms, much like the magic inside wizards, are evidence of a god’s discarded power, not needing mana to grow as they thrive in decay.

Due to consuming these as one of your first items, your mana gained the power of ‘Infection’ and ‘Usurpation’ which has caused an IMMEASURABLE amount of cascading ERRORS which have been approved by Admin Sister.

Delta’s defense was that she never willingly ate the mushroom, it was mostly forced on her.

Delta explained what she had learned, and only Alpha looked genuinely surprised. Beta and Gamma, on the other hand, simply made knowing noises, as if they had already pieced it together.

“Gods eat gods. You were basically a goddess from the start, just without any of the fancy titles,” Beta said casually, as if this was the most logical conclusion.

“Speaking of, Miss D, what are your godly realms?” Gamma asked in an innocent tone, though there was a mischievous glint in their voice that hinted at a deeper curiosity.

“Not a clue. The goddess thing was mostly just something new I got to help one of my monsters learn magic,” Delta admitted, her tone light but honest. Gamma made a noise that sounded suspiciously like they had stubbed their non-existent toes.

“Of course,” they said after a brief pause, their voice adopting a forced polite tone, though the incredulity was barely hidden beneath the surface.

Delta asked the system for an update on her goddess status.

Delta: Goddess of ChangeFollowers:Rats.Some humans.Dungeon monsters.Nu.Prim.Sis.

Realms: Change. Mushrooms. Freedom. Kindness. Learning. Gambling. Growth. Peace. Erot-

“I got a few realms!” Delta said quickly, cutting the screen off as she refused to look at any of the kids.

Goddess bless abilities:Bless: It blesses. Strength: yes.Curse: Heck: Sends someone to heck. Strength: Absolutely yes.

“That reminds me, Alpha!” Delta exclaimed, suddenly turning to the calm teen who blinked once in response.

“I hit you with a dozen blessings, did you grow any... extra eyes?” she asked, tilting her head curiously. The teen frowned slightly, as if the question itself was an odd one.

“I only have two eyes,” he began slowly, clearly puzzled, while Beta quickly buried Gamma into the mud to stop them from blurting out something snarky. “But I did gain a passive called ‘Heckin Eye,’ which apparently lets me open a gate to... heck?” Alpha read off his own screen, his tone filled with confusion as he tried to make sense of the bizarre ability.

Delta thought of the monsters in the secret floor that were evolving and mutating like a petri dish being fed energy drinks.

“Don’t... use that,” she said, her voice faint. The idea of Alpha unleashing dozens of Deathstar Dragons or Mountain-sized Rexes or small barking dogs on unsuspecting bandits was mildly horrifying.

She kept meaning to go there, to catalog it properly with the help of Hero, but it was always easier to just avoid it. Instead, she’d put a chair in front of the door as the ominous thing bulged outward, threatening to escape, and covered her ears to block out the unsettling sounds it made.

She looked over at Beta and she stared back with a tilt of her head.

Delta had an idea.

A terrible... wonderful idea.
