Ulvama hmmed. Then she grinned wickedly and proved how she had maintained her status in the Mountain City tribe.
“You sound like [Princess]. Everyone too fat. No one eats, eh? Even poor girl.”
She patted Mrsha on the head as the Gnoll lay on her back and pretended to die of starvation. Erin’s face fell, and grudgingly, she looked at Lormel.
“…Maybe we could have a snack. For anyone who wants it! I wasn’t big on fish for breakfast, anyways. Who does that? British people, I tell you who. And they’re weird.”
So said the young woman who had invented the ‘Archmage of Syrup’s breakfast’, which was a hollowed out mountain of pancakes, syrup, and butter. Lormel took down the hamper but paused with a frown as he sensed something. Slowly, he opened the lid—then recoiled.
“Throne—!”
Erin saw him shut the lid, peek at what was inside, then look around. Instantly, everyone sat up in alarm.
“What? Oh no. Did it spoil? I knew Pebblesnatch hadn’t improved that much! Is it alive?”
Erin groaned, but Inkar had a different fear.
“Is the food…infested?”
Ulvama scooted away as Lormel searched for words. He stared into the hamper and then slowly raised the lid and showed everyone what was inside.
“Miss Solstice, I believe we may have…a stowaway.”
Then Erin saw a little, tiny head of a lamb poke up over the box, body covered by fluffy wool. The Sariant Lamb was as small as a cat, and its tiny round hooves and expressive face made it a member of the most lovable, adored species in the entire world. It was bleary from a food coma and probably a bit of asphyxiation in the enclosed hamper.
Erin stared at the lamb as Ulvama’s eyes widened then narrowed with instant hostility. She peeked into the hamper and pulled something out.
“But where food? What about…?”
She pulled out some food. A brown pellet. She sniffed it, and her face wrinkled up.
“Eugh!”
She threw out the inevitable conclusion of what happened if a creature ate too much. Everyone ducked as the pellet bounced around the carriage.
Erin just stared at the lamb. It looked sleepy, then alert, then—to her amazement—embarrassed? Its face was expressive, and Erin thought it looked like that! Or was it her imagination? For the next moment, the lamb made the cutest squeaking sound as it looked around and smiled at the coach.
Tkrn, Inkar, and Mrsha fell for it. Mrsha sat up, looking fascinated, and Tkrn and Inkar looked amazed. Nanette’s face froze up in horror, and Ulvama reached for the lamb and the hamper. She pulled the door open, revealing the carriage moving at amazing speed, and tried to chuck the lamb straight out.
“Miss!”
Lormel saved the lamb as the creature screamed in alarm. Ulvama was unmoved.
“Stupid thing ate my food. Anyone got knife and fire? Going to be hard to bleed it…”
She eyed the lamb with incredible hostility, but Ser Lormel jerked the hamper back. He was clearly alarmed, but he turned to Erin.
“It seems one of the Sariants of Riverfarm has…accompanied us unwittingly, Miss Solstice. I fear we must arrange transit back.”
Erin nodded, still eying the lamb. Lormel sat down and used his speaking stone to tell Lyonette of the incident. Meanwhile, the lamb hopped out of the hamper and trotted up to Erin.
“Mm?”
It smiled up at her, and the [Innkeeper]—edged away from it.
“Uh—these are the Sariants that Laken hated so much? Hi. Hi there…what were you doing eating all our food? You don’t look covered in poo. You smell sorta bad.”
The lamb nuzzled Erin’s leg, and the [Innkeeper] flapped her arms.
“Go on, why don’t you sit there? Shoo. Shoo…”
“Oh come on, Miss Erin.”
Tkrn lifted the lamb into his lap, and his eyes widened.
“So soft! Even your Shockwoolies aren’t this soft, Inkar! Isn’t it cute?”
He held up the lamb, and Inkar cooed at it. The lamb nuzzled a hand and licked Tkrn’s paw, and Mrsha peered at it. It looked frightened at first, then smiled at her.
“So cute! And not frightened of us at all. Don’t you like it, Erin?”
Inkar agreed. Erin Solstice hesitated. She saw the lamb smile up at her, and the [Innkeeper]…the lamb’s face fell as it realized a potential miscalculation here.
After all—
Erin was a [Witch]. And while Nanette could no longer sense what Erin could, she remembered.
 
——
 
Sariant Lambs. The cutest animal in the world, highly intelligent, virtually helpless, and expensive. So expensive, in fact, that Ser Lormel suggested the carriage drivers might take the lamb back to Riverfarm.
They were far, far. Too far away to turn around right now. By the time they stopped for lunch—that they had to buy, thanks to the lamb—the little creature had won over Mrsha, Inkar, and Tkrn. Even Lormel a bit; she—the lamb was a she—nuzzled hands and sat in laps, but she was so inquisitive and cute that even Mrsha ‘spoke’ to her, and to her delight, the lamb seemed only too happy to try and play ‘patty cakes’ with her hooves.
The other carriage disembarked in the town of Hoodlum, which suggested it might be seedy. However, it was only named after the founder’s class. A reformed [Hoodlum] had made this city, and the only thing that Erin could tell was off as the carriages parked on a dirt road was a bunch of men and women loitering and eying the visitors.
Hands in pockets, talking in groups, but they were fairly social. One raised a hand as Otto parked.
“Heading to Invrisil? Good spot to stay. You want to get some food? I know a great café or food to go from a [Grocer]. My pleasure.”
“Friendly people.”
Erin murmured; the man led Ser Sest down the road as he procured vittles. The people did a double-take at the Goblins, but then one muttered.
“Must be the [Mercenaries]. Hey! You! No trouble, you hear? No one causes trouble in Hoodlum.”
It was like having a group of the archetypal friendly thugs around—something Erin had assumed only existed in television shows. They even had a style that would have been called trendy back home at one point—ragged knees on their pants and torn shirt cuffs. Give them some more accessories like earrings and, uh, spiked collars and they’d be a sight.
Half the carriage was fascinated with them, but the rest were just crowded around the Sariant Lamb, who was still, somehow, as appealing as an entire town as colorful as this.
She was like Elirr’s cats, but a lamb. Erin saw why people loved them as pets—the lamb waited, peering up at Garia, who stopped to give it a pat. Even Numbtongue, who looked wary, was amazed as the lamb trotted up to his guitar.
“Don’t let her bite my strings—”
He was hurrying over when the lamb clumsily strummed some of his guitar strings. The [Bard] stopped, and the lamb baahed.
“Baah, bah baaaaah baah~”
Was she singing? Instantly, the [Bard] picked up his guitar and began to play along to the melody as the lamb sang. She had a good singing voice, could do a little backflip, and could even stand up on two hooves. She seemed so starved for affection, it was incredible anyone had left her alone.
Lyonette looked half sorry as she lowered the stone.
“What an amazing creature! The one Mother keeps around isn’t nearly so energetic, but he is nearly twenty years old.”
“They grow that old?”
Erin was startled, and Lyonette shrugged.
“The creatures want for nothing. This one would go for fifty gold pieces—not that many would sell a pet. Of course, they’re almost as expensive to keep—I just heard from Laken. He says that he will ‘reluctantly accept the lamb back’. Which means we can send this lamb back once we reach Invrisil.”
The news was taken by Erin, Ulvama, and Nanette with some relief, as well as Ser Sest. However, the lamb heard this and began to mewl in the most piteous cries.
“Oh—I think it wants to come with us!”
Garia covered her mouth. The lamb ran over and tried to cling to one leg. Then it tried to do the same to Erin, and she backed away. Lyonette frowned at Erin, but she was consulting with Ser Lormel.
“Keep it? I don’t imagine His Majesty wants for lambs. But we can’t have a pet.”
“Why not? You have Apista.”
Numbtongue said this mostly to be contrary. He was amused by the little lamb—right until she tried to tug a waterbottle out of a pack for the sweaty Goblin. He pointed at it.
“Ooh. Handy.”
He turned to Erin and was surprised by her wary expression. Once again, the lamb looked at her, and Erin forced a smile.
“…Like I said, everyone can get a pet. But you’re a cat person, right, Numbtongue?”
“I like cats.”
He agreed amiably. The discussion of pets had come up, and he wouldn’t mind a Carn Wolf or a cool animal. But a lamb? Lyonette exhaled and looked around the small town in which they’d stopped. Ser Sest was returning with a loaded bag of food as the man who’d set him up helped carry the food back.
“You lot from the City of Adventurers? Or Orefell?”
He stared at the Goblins as if not quite sure they were real. Indeed, a small crowd had gathered, and Lyonette hurried to assure him that Numbtongue, Gothica, and Ulvama were friendly. To her surprise—the [Hoodlum] or whoever he was nodded.
“Don’t worry, we’ve seen weirder. Plus, I’m sensing some good vibes off this lot. Lots of style. And, uh…”
He meant Numbtongue’s guitar, Gothica’s…gothness, and mostly Ulvama’s breasts, which he kept staring at. Someone elbowed him as Lyonette politely raised her brows.
“Hoodlum’s no stranger to strangers. We sort out even monsters ourselves. ‘Sides, we’re close to Onononno.”
“Close to what?”
Erin swiveled her head around. She was eying a Runner’s Guild down the main street of Hoodlum’s town, parked next to the Mage and Adventurer’s Guilds, both modest but standard. The [Hoodlums] grumbled.
“The City of Slimes. Crazy. Dead gods, I’d take those singing Drakes over that lot.”
“We get visitors from there, now and then. Or people who think they want to stay there. Then they come here and ask for towels. Lots of them. Where you from again?”
“Liscor.”
Numbtongue’s grin was wide, as it always was when someone wanted to talk to him rather than point and run. Erin would have loved to ask about the City of Slimes or participate in the exclamations and questions from the people in the crowd, but she was dealing with the lamb. She eyed the little creature as Lyonette dithered over how to transport it back.
“We could ask a City Runner to take it back. It’s pricey, but no more than hiring the coach to go back. Emperor Laken has indicated he’s fine with either option, but I don’t know if a lamb should ride in a backpack—”
“I’m sure it’ll survive. Let’s do that. Heck, we’ll send the hamper.”
Erin shook her head. She kept trying to roll away and the lamb would follow her, much to her great annoyance. She turned to the Runner’s Guild, and again, the lamb set up a piteous wail.
“Erin! You’re heartless! What if I took in the lamb? Please? My father hates Sariants, but he’s never been around one—or we let it stay at the inn?”
Despite having been around the lamb for five minutes, Garia was instantly taken with the idea. Lyonette wavered.
“I’m sure His Majesty won’t object.”
Erin! Let it stay! Apista can have a friend!
Mrsha also liked the playful lamb. Erin, though, grew more and more hostile as everyone nodded. Ulvama was nudging her, and Erin glanced at her.
“Nope, sorry guys. [Innkeeper] rules. No lambs. Let’s just take it to the Runner’s Guild. Now.”
She picked up the lamb, and the female lamb began crying. It actually sounded like a cute wail not dissimilar to a baby’s, and every head in earshot turned to Erin. She saw the little lamb kick its short legs, squirm, and turn its head to stare up at her pleadingly. It tried to smile at her, and the [Innkeeper] bent her head down and whispered.
“I see you. You don’t fool me. What are you doing here?”
Only Mrsha heard that, and the Gnoll’s face grew instantly confused. For—what did she see?
A cute lamb who was so irresistibly friendly and attentive and intelligent it was like having all the best qualities of a pet with no apparent downside? Oh, you could know they were parasites who’d want to be pampered and only realize how lazy and devious they were later. But even knowing that, you could still like their perfectly-adjusted cuteness, which was literally so perfect that Erin thought a cartoon animal couldn’t do it better, let alone anything of nature.
Even Inkar was fooled. Even Numbtongue! But the lambs had one weakness, and it was this:
A [Witch] saw emotion. She was a kind of competitor in the space, albeit usually on the opposite end. And what Erin saw was the lamb’s true emotions.
Which was a level of hostility, contempt, and downright hatred of everything in the carriage so strong that it made the lamb’s innocent smile that much more sinister. It was as if she could see a sneering face behind the smile and the tears.
The lamb did not fool her. Erin was carrying it across the street when the wriggling, mewling creature dropped the act. It looked up at her, snarled, and bit her.
“Gaaaah!”
The [Innkeeper]’s wheelchair ground to a halt as Erin yelped. The lamb was biting her! It leapt off her lap and raced towards the carriage.
“What the—”
Erin stared down at the bite. The lamb was closer to omnivorous, but it was so small it had barely broken the skin.
“Someone grab it. And put it in the hamper!”
They tried. At first, the Thronebearers went off to corner the lamb, and then the Goblins began to help. However—the lamb fought and snarled and even defecated and vomited when they tried to take it away from the carriages. It grew so desperate and wiggled so hard that even Dalimont couldn’t hold onto it for fear he’d crush its bones.
Erin blinked. The lamb was struggling. It was so desperate to stay that it turned into a cute whirlwind of milk teeth and hooves.
Of course, that just amused everyone. Numbtongue ignored the biting lamb until it kicked him like a horse, digging its front hooves into the ground to kick him with the back hooves.
“Ow. Sort of strong. Why does it want to come with?”
The lamb was indeed desperate. Erin frowned as Ulvama hissed.
“Kill it! Here! Take this rock! No, I’ll do it.”
She went to bash its brains out, and she was stopped, but Numbtongue was carrying the lamb to the hamper. Then Erin saw the lamb inhale—and freeze.
It held its breath as the amused [Bard] laughed at it. He poked the lamb—then frowned.
“Hm? What is it…?”
He began to poke it, urgently, but the lamb turned redder under its dark grey skin as its cheeks puffed out. Thirty seconds, forty…a minute and Garia was trying to get it to open its mouth.
It was trying to asphyxiate itself! It would only breathe when Numbtongue took it away from the hamper.
