Four Thronebearers and the [Princess] slowly entered the carriage. The [Princess] hesitated at the door, and one of the [Knights] actually lifted his arm, as if pushing something back. She steeled her spine, and the watchers saw a bright aura, faint, but protecting her, push at the intense hostility coming from within.
She entered the carriage, and the door clicked shut. Rather, the Runner had to imagine, like someone entering a box with a Ghoul. No escape.
 
——
 
Forty minutes. They had forty minutes to Invrisil. The Thronebearers, including Dalimont, had gotten a crash course in humility from watching their Order fail on the field of battle—and seeing a [Paladin] run and carry them for an entire day before fighting an undead horde practically unarmed. Then run back.
They could perform any diplomatic feat, but this was going to be forty minutes of close-combat warfare. Worse—they were the support, and all four realized they might catch worse than a hand in the ensuing battle. Being burned alive was not a pleasant way to go.
Nor was being strangled by the aura in the carriage. A Level 40 aura from someone with training at the height of an emotion?
Breathing was tough. They had to remember their training and concentrate their own wills. Yet the [Princess] sat there, arms folded.
It might be less than forty minutes; the poor driver, Otto, was pushing the carriage as if trying to outrun the fury behind him.
The conversation, when it began after six minutes of Lyonette folding her hands and looking past Erin at the seat to her left, was far more pleasant than the air in the carriage.
“An army of them. An army of Antinium going to get hurt and die. And you thought I shouldn’t know?”
“I never said that, Erin. Ser Lormel did not realize we had not spoken to you; it slipped our minds after the Elemental incident. If anything, it proves we had every intent to tell you. It was an honest mistake.”
Lormel nodded as if he were a bobblehead toy; Erin stared at him, and Dalimont actually reached over and held a shield out, blocking the aura. She turned her gaze to him, but then snapped back to Lyonette.
Her normally kindly hazel eyes were blazing with fury. But unlike when Erin got mad—this was furious. It was, to Lyonette’s relief, not the cool that had come over Erin before she jumped Montressa and the other [Mages]. She had seen that, and if Erin had been that calm, Lyonette would have worn armor, because it meant Erin would be throwing a jar of acid soon.
“So you meant to tell me. Mrsha said, ‘I shouldn’t be worried’. Me, worried. While Antinium are dying.”
Lyonette closed her eyes for a moment.
“Mrsha was concerned. We all were. This is a vacation, Erin—”
“So if Mrsha got hurt on vacation, I shouldn’t tell you?”
Lyonette’s eyes opened wide. The mother glared at Erin.
“An entire Crusade appeared at Orefell, Erin. By the time we knew about it, they were locked in combat. They saved the day! You couldn’t stop them. I swear on the Eternal Throne I knew nothing about it until I learned the battle was taking place.”
The [Innkeeper] didn’t get calmer, knowing the facts, she just switched targets.
“You could have told me. But you kept it from me.”
She was trying to stare a hole in Lyonette’s head. Now, the [Princess] rallied with some anger of her own. Her foot began to tap, and she gritted her teeth.
“And what would you have done but cancel the trip, Erin? Or worry and panic? You would never have learned your craft. You even leveled up! Twice!”
The Level 14 [Witch of Second Chances] just stared at Lyonette. Her body was trembling, whether from exhaustion or anger or both, it was hard to say.
“You kept it from me, Lyonette. You could have told me. I thought we were a family. Yesterday, I talked with Numbtongue about not treating him like a child. Only to find out everyone’s treating me like I’m made of glass! This—this isn’t like you.”
Now her stare swiveled to the Thronebearers, and Dame Ushar began to sweat. It beaded on her forehead and ran down the small of her back as it felt like the temperature went up ten degrees.
Lyonette interposed her head between Ushar and Erin.
“If you think the Thronebearers influenced my decision, they are simply here to support me, Erin.”
“Fine.”
The gaze swiveled back. Erin stared at Lyonette.
“Then it’s the most [Princess]-like thing you’ve done since we met. It reminds me of Chaldion. It reminds me of how you talk about your family.”
Lyonette flinched a bit, and her face went white. Then snapped back.
“Well, perhaps it was for your own good! And whether or not you like it, there are times when keeping secrets is important! You needed to focus, and you could do no good.”
“I could have done something. I deserved to know! I need to trust you!”
Erin leaned forwards, and Lyonette refused to lean back.
“And I need to make sure you don’t collapse. You can barely walk, Erin! You are made of glass—and we have all seen just how quickly you can die.”
She recoiled from her own words as Erin turned paler. Then Lyonette clenched her hands.
“I—refuse—to let you endanger yourself like that again. If you had gone screaming off to Orefell trying to fight or save the Antinium, we would have had to tie you down. I was wrong not to tell you, later, about the Antinium. That was my mistake. I’m sorry. But I hid that from you because I feared you’d do exactly this!”
They were wrestling, invisibly, as Lyonette held her aura against Erin’s towering fury. The [Innkeeper] had to inhale, exhale or she’d grow dizzy.
“I—how am I supposed to trust you?”
“Trust us? We all agreed. From Mrsha to Numbtongue. We voted, and every single person knew that you would panic and cancel the vacation. If the Antinium were in trouble, we would have told you. But they won. They won without you, Erin. And that matters because your name isn’t tied to them. Erin—an army of the Antinium has now declared itself a seventh Hive. If you had been there, you would have never known peace. Nor the inn.”
Slowly, the [Innkeeper] digested this. Then dismissed it with a single blink of her eyes.
“You lied to me, Lyonette. We’re supposed to be a family.”
“Well, this is how I treat my family in Calanfer.”
Now, the [Princess]’ voice was rising. The Thronebearers all stared in different directions, somehow managing not to stare at any one person. As if the fraying seats were the Eternal Throne and had to be stared at or the universe would fall apart. Lyonette saw Erin scowl.
“I thought we were better than that.”
“You are. Mrsha certainly is. I trust Numbtongue more than all three of my brothers and most of my sisters combined! The same with Bird. But Erin—family keeps secrets from each other. Everyone does. If it meant you looked innocent of sending the Antinium out? I would keep the secret again. You know Chaldion, Erin. If he thought you were behind the Antinium marching? He might order some of his Eyes of Pallass to find six crossbows again!”
The [Innkeeper] was too mad to concede a point. She glared at Lyonette as she had to sit against the seat back to keep upright.
“Our ideas of trust and working together are different.”
“Ser Sest!”
Lyonette’s tone made the [Knight] jump, but neither young woman looked at him.
“Princess?”
“Are there things the Thronebearers keep from the throne? Or that my family keeps from each other, to keep them safe?”
He bowed.
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Erin swiveled her head to him. Once again, she blasted Ser Sest with her aura made manifest—but to her surprise, he held her gaze. He blanched, but he held. Erin held the gaze back.
“I thought you were supposed to be there to help Lyonette. If I think you’ll pop her into a sack and run away with her, why would I let you stay with us?”
Ser Sest’s jaw tightened as he took a breath. But the four Thronebearers seemed to suddenly form a wall of gilded metal. Weak, ornamental—but somehow, firm. As if they would fall before maces, but not even a [King]’s aura could budge them. Dalimont answered for Sest.
“We are the Thronebearers of Calanfer, Erin Solstice. We do perform dark deeds and keep some secrets behind our armor. I will not pretend my Order is without copious faults or that we don’t answer to the crown. But we are still the [Knights] who rode to Rhir following the first queen of Calanfer. Please, Erin. Do you think after all that has been said and done we have not seen the change in Her Highness? Even a Thronebearer who had seen the Eternal Throne every day of his life—even he admires the rising sun.”
He sat back, and Ser Sest nodded wordlessly. Dame Ushar hesitated and cleared her throat wordlessly as Ser Lormel ducked his head in agreement. Erin looked at Lyonette, and the [Princess] had turned red.
That was the most startling thing Dalimont had said. It almost made Erin let go of her anger. Furious—she swung back to Lyonette, angrier because she was getting distracted from the point. She pointed at Dalimont without looking at him, lest she lose her feeling altogether.
“Your [Knights] keep secrets from you, Lyonette? Like what? Torturing people? Crimes? And you’re happy with that?”
“Nothing so direct. Sometimes it’s better not to know, for truth spells. Sometimes it’s better that you never knew anything. Let me give you an example, Erin. Do you remember the time Mrsha came back with a bloody nose from the playground?”
Erin narrowed her eyes, trying to figure this one out.
“Yeah. So what?”
“It turns out one of the other children, Unessi, bloodied her nose. She did not hit her face while playing with Ekirra’s soccer ball as we both thought.”
“She did?”
Erin was grappling with another kind of anger for a moment—and Lyonette’s voice grew heated.
“Yes! I was outraged to learn that a month later when I heard it from Unessi’s mother. But do you know why Selys lied to my face? Mrsha too?”
The [Innkeeper] was silent. The [Princess] spelled it out, tapping her palm.
“Because, I would have personally found Unessi and her wretched mother, and you would have too, and likely got us banned from the playground. Especially because Unessi called Mrsha a Doombringer.”
“She said that?”
“It is sorted and dealt with. By Selys. She did not tell me, and I was furious. But I believe Selys was right.”
Lyonette folded her arms, and Erin shook her head.
“I wanted to know about the Antinium. I wanted to know about Mrsha. Don’t keep any secrets from me.”
Now, the [Princess] was in full temper herself. She gave Erin the most scornful, indignant, angry look of her own, and her lips quivered. Then her arm shot out, and she pointed at Erin’s chest.
“Then tell me what the ghosts told you! All of it! Tell me what has you so nervous, and tell me how many quests and secrets are locked inside your head. Otherwise, don’t you dare lecture me about keeping secrets.”
The [Innkeeper] froze a second, and Lyonette waited exactly one more before she snapped.
“There, you see? I know you have more secrets than I can count. Yet I do one thing—and it was a mistake—and you explode so badly no one will dare to sit in the same carriage with you. It was my mistake, Erin, but do not, please, try hypocrisy on me.”
The two of them simmered as Erin tried to think of how to respond. Lyonette brushed at her pants as if they were a skirt repeatedly.
“I won’t keep Antinium or world events from you. That was a mistake. But you must trust me more, Erin. Erin! Do you really think we would have kept something from you if it wasn’t alright?”
The [Innkeeper] didn’t respond. Lyonette’s eyes shimmered a bit, but she held back her frustrations.
“I cannot follow your lead and just—let you do your ‘thing’, Erin. You’re playing the most dangerous of games, with other nations. Chaldion sits in your inn. The Titan courts you! I know you’re aware of how much power you have—so let me decide things myself. I am a [Princess] of Calanfer. And I cannot run from that. In Oteslia, I realized that I wanted my class. Because a [Princess] can sometimes command an army. She has [Knights]. Lionette Solstice had neither.”
Now they were going back. Backwards, to a discussion they’d gone over in history, but never in how they’d felt. Erin sat there, and Lyonette looked from side to side. None of the Thronebearers met her gaze.
At the very beginning, only Dalimont would have understood and been ashamed. Now? They knew their orders. Lyonette had a delay due to complications. But someday, they would have their orders.
Erin’s head turned to Lyonette, and she felt a flash of fear. And it took away from the anger she was trying to keep bubbling.
“I know how much you did, Lyonette. I do trust you. Remember Christmas? I’ve been letting you take charge. Heck, you practically run a lot of the inn, and that’s fine because you’re better than me. You take care of Mrsha…but I can’t give you a throne or my job. What else is there?”
The red-haired girl was just shaking her head, and she looked nothing like the 6th Princess that Ser Sest had volunteered to find. He had expected a frightened girl, in over her head in her ridiculous escapade, or a spoiled [Princess] who needed help before something caught up with her.
He looked over and wondered when she’d grown up. And he wished that her minders and tutors and her sisters and parents could see her. Let alone her subjects.
That wish, whether he knew it or not, ran counter to the desires in the [Princess]’s and [Innkeeper]’s hearts. Lyonette exhaled.
“I felt helpless in Oteslia, Erin. Then my past caught up, and I was almost glad of it, because I was leaning on Ilvriss’ authority, the Gentlemen Callers—and if they hadn’t helped, I would have been fairly helpless.”
“I know how that feels. That’s what it’s like. You can’t be the adventurer.”
Lyonette smiled.
“…But I am a [Princess]. And Erin—it was fun being your [Barmaid]. You found a spoiled, freezing, disgraceful failure of a [Princess]. I was, to my entire class. If not to how my parents raised my sisters and brothers—to what I should have been. And I knew it. You helped teach me.”
“By leaving you behind. By letting Toren torment you.”
“Yes. But you left me part of your inn, and you did the best you could. Well, now I am a [Princess] in truth, and everyone knows it. This was the first thing I did that you didn’t like since you woke up. I fear I’ll do more, and I need you to let me try. Because, either way—I won’t be able to be here forever.”
Now, she was speaking ahead of Erin’s wrath to something so distant and so close that Erin’s fury almost subsided completely. A pit writhed in Erin’s stomach, but she refused to turn away. She couldn’t as the carriage rumbled on.
