“My cure. This is everything I want. Not even the Healer of Tenbault can do this. Just give me a few hours every week off. I don’t want gold, except for potions or whatever. I’m rich. I’ll pay you.”
She stared so longingly at the vial that Erin was worried she’d pop the lid and drink it now, but Tessa seemed to read Erin’s thoughts. She held up the sparkling vial. It kept changing colors; in the setting sun, it was gold, then orange, then a dark green against her black cloth armor.
“See? I don’t even need it. Breathing feels better. Someday, I might feel like having sex. Or…”
A blank look crossed her face, and Tessa looked around. Erin held her tongue, but she had to ask.
“Or what? Breathing feels better? Did it—not?”
Erin didn’t even think about breathing unless she was tired, in which case she felt a straining in her lungs, a sense as if she couldn’t inhale properly or ever fill her body with enough oxygen. But that was the failure of a body that had been frozen. Tessa just shrugged.
“I remembered a day when breathing didn’t feel like a chore. I don’t know why. The Healer of Tenbault made it so that I could lie in the sun and smile, but it always faded. The flowers make me…normal.”
Then a strange smile spread across scarred lips. Then Tessa blinked and felt at her expression. As if she didn’t know what it was on her face. She gazed at Erin.
“Don’t make me go. Eating is good. Watching plays—I laughed. Even bathing feels nice. What else? It doesn’t matter. I’ll serve you even if you need me to kill monsters every day. Alright?”
She looked at Erin pleadingly, and the [Innkeeper] half shook her head. But not in denial. After seeing that?
“I’ll never make you go. If that’s what you want—okay. But we’ll have to talk. And can you not disappear all the time if things are okay?”
Instantly, the Named Adventurer was relieved and burst into a real grin.
“You want me to appear? I can do that. Anything you want—even—well, anything.”
She was so eager to please Erin should have been relieved, but it was that first smile she was chasing, as frightened of itself as it was uncertain. She couldn’t bring it back now; she had no time. But she would find it again. For now, she let the Drake tuck that vial back in her clothing.
Tessa climbed back onto the ceiling of the coach as if her gloves were sticky and she were as light as a feather. Everyone stared up as Ulvama woke up to see a giant Drake hanging over her. Erin sighed as the [Shaman] screamed.
“Not like that. Just—normally.”
“Alright. I was sitting on the top of the carriage and looking for [Bandits], anyways. Be more visible. Anything else?”
“When we get to my inn—I want to talk with you. About you.”
“Sure. I guess that’s easy.”
Of all the things, that seemed to make Tessa more uncomfortable than the idea of killing monsters. She crawled out the window—or rather, rolled the glass down about four inches, then, disturbingly, squeezed out the crack as if her bones were liquid for a moment.
That was when Erin started hearing Nerrhavia’s voice in her ears. She wondered how badly—hurt—you had be to need Faerie Flowers. Halrac was one thing, but Tessa? She sat, troubled, as they headed back to Invrisil.
 
——
 
It was a two-day trip this time. The [Drivers] for this route back had a better set of Skills, so they claimed they could do a two-day haul and have them back in the morning.
It surprised Erin, because she’d assumed that the best [Drivers] were in Invrisil, and it had taken them three days. But the [Driver] up front assured Erin he was better.
“We might not be Named Drivers—”
His buddy chortled as they parked near the inn, and Erin raised her eyes, not knowing the secret system of [Drivers]. The man went on.
“—But we’re faster than most! [Rapid Driver] is Otto, here, and I’m a [Competitive Racer] in my spare time. I was a [Jockey].”
He was a shorter fellow, as many [Jockeys] were, and he had a very affable air compared to Otto. Well, Otto had a spike in his tongue. Ornamental, not a casualty of some injury.
“What’s with Otto’s tongue-spike?”
The other driver didn’t speak much, possibly due to it. The first [Driver] was named Cornerer, which Erin assumed was a nickname. Probably having to do with rounding corners? Or aggressively running his opponents off the road and into obstacles.
“It gets the ladies interested. We’re very respectable, Miss, but we do like the wild races you can find hereabouts. Driving is just a side-job.”
They came very highly recommended, which was why Lyonette had engaged their services. As for why two highly-qualified road-racers were part of the local scene? Cornerer looked astonished.
“Why, the local races are picking up strong around Riverfarm, Miss. No better place to be a [Driver] like us or race. I’m not surprised you got some slower fellows at Invrisil. We ran them out of business in the area.”
“One was a woman, but yeah. Why’s that?”
Otto winked at Erin as he chimed in.
“Riverfarm’sh shafe. Goblins?”
He spat in Numbtongue, Ulvama, and Gothica’s direction, but in a rather approving way, especially for Gothica’s bladed parasol. She gave his tongue spike an approving look and tugged Ulvama’s arm. The [Shaman] slapped the claw down in a way that said, in the Goblin’s parlance, ‘no, I am not piercing your tongue for you.’
Otto grinned.
“Goblinsh nothing. No [Bandits], no problem!”
It seemed as though Laken’s safe roads and empire were attracting interesting opportunities. At any rate, as everyone bedded down for the night, Erin was glad to spare a day of travel, and as always, she liked meeting people.
…She was less pleased to wake up in the middle of the night because she was so energized from her long nap. Erin would have probably still slept; she needed more rest, and this wasn’t her inn where she got twice as much sleep.
—But she happened to hear some loud, if distant voices and peeked out the window. There she saw a night-race involving Inkar, the two drivers, and among the competing racers—Numbtongue. He thundered down the town street on horseback past Erin’s window as she stared at him.
 
——
 
“Numbtongue. Are you being sliiiightly irresponsible? What if you got hurt? Why was Gothica up and betting, and what if you crashed?”
The Hobgoblin folded his arms and stared at the ceiling. He wore the expression of someone who was slightly irritated, mostly resigned, and sad about being caught.
…Because of Erin. She was trying not to lecture him. She’d just stood there in the common room of the foreign inn as he came in, and he acted like he was in trouble.
“It was safe. They had lanterns.”
“But you’re on horses, not cars or bikes.”
“Inkar said the horses could see. People don’t often die. I’m a big Goblin. Can I go to sleep now?”
The [Bard] stared past Erin’s head, annoyed. Then he glanced to the side.
“I’m not childish. Shut up.”
Then he turned the other way.
“You too.”
Erin opened her mouth. She assumed he was speaking to his ghosts. He wasn’t always that obvious about it, but she knew that at least two of them were Pyrite and Shorthilt. Numbtongue was recalcitrant on there being any more. She thought about it.
“I get it. You don’t want a lecture, huh? That’s way too bossy, and you’re an adult Goblin, like when you and Lyonette got into it about the computer. Don’t treat you like Mrsha. Am I right?”
He brightened up a bit.
“Yeah.”
Erin nodded amiably. Then she raised a palm and slapped his stomach as he stretched out. The [Bard] oofed reflexively and sat up hard. He glowered—and Erin poked him.
“Hmm?”
“Stop that.”
His eyes glowed with annoyance, but Erin poked harder, and he shifted to avoid the finger.
“Hm? Huh?”
“Stop that.”
He growled, but Erin kept grunting and poking him. Numbtongue went to shove her away, lightly, then grabbed one hand. Erin made a fist. He grinned—annoyed—and went to grab her.
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
Numbtongue ducked the punch and smacked his face into the table. Erin waved her fist warningly. Don’t try that on me!
He let go of her hands, and she kept poking at him. At last, the [Bard] snapped.
“Stop that!”
Erin stopped communicating in the eloquent way of Goblin poking and folded her arms.
“I’m not Lyonette. I’m sure she lectures, but I’m just asking you if that was dangerous. I know you’re an adult, Numbtongue. Gonna behave like one?”
He turned red, stared at her, and then swatted at something by his side.
“Shut up!”
An invisible Goblin ghost had apparently made a snide remark. Now embarrassed, Numbtongue folded his arms again and stared sideways, blushing. He glanced sideways at Erin.
“Fine. Maybe Gothica was bad. She tried to get on horses too, but she’s too small if they go wild. I was safe, though. They have Skills to protect horses and riders. [Race Organizers].”
“Ah. See, that makes sense. You could have led with that.”
The [Bard] grudgingly nodded. He seemed astonished at being called out and probably remembered the other times he had asserted his difference from Mrsha and Bird. Erin quite appreciated it, but she had been making a point too.
“Numbtongue…nothing’s the same, is it?”
She sat in the dark inn, where the [Innkeeper] who had given them rooms for the night was peeking at Erin, much like a housecat stared at a lion who had wandered into her abode. Erin waved at the woman, and the [Innkeeper] ran away.
Numbtongue sat up, looked at Erin, and stretched out.
“Yeah. But you’re breathing. It’s pretty good, eh?”
“Yep. Breathing is better than being an icecube. No one, uh…cooled their drinks on my body while I was out, did they?”
The Hobgoblin began snorting as Erin grinned. Then she grew serious again. She kicked at the table and looked at Numbtongue.
“So you and Garia are sorta close? And…you and Octavia?”
The Hobgoblin bit his lip, then exhaled. If he did not appreciate being lectured by Lyonette on being ‘responsible’—this was the one conversation he didn’t want to have with Erin. Especially because she was trying to be tactful about it. But this day had to come. In fact—he looked at her and wished they’d had this kind of chat before she was shot.
Way back when Earl Altestiel had first proposed to her.
 
——
 
That damn [Knight Marshal of the Rains] had ruined everything. It served him right, getting rejected and bawling his eyes out before running back home.
That was how Numbtongue chose to remember and recollect the events to everyone he met.
A [Bard] was allowed to have creative license, but as Pyrite would calmly point out in that way of his—while Shorthilt teased and Reiss offered advice—
That had been a personal moment for Numbtongue. A moment when he had looked at Erin and hinted, hinted very strongly, but still not managed to say the thing that had been on his mind for a long time.
Which was that he quite liked Erin. A lot, in fact, and if she had not been the [Innkeeper], the person who had helped change his life, and if he had had any kind of hints—he would have said something long ago.
If she were a Goblin, in the Redfang tribe or just in general, it would be so much easier. Goblins had their own methods of attracting each other, and they were sometimes direct, but other times extremely subtle.
Numbtongue had heard from Headscratcher that once a Redfang [Smith] had forged her name onto another warrior’s blade. He had used it and bragged about it for six battles without ever noticing the tiny inscription near the handle. Then his buddy jumped him, won the blade, and offered it back to the [Smith] along with some Pallassian steel ingots he’d seized from a raid.
That was the level of romantic drama you got in even the Redfangs, the least subtle of tribes. Now, Erin was sitting right next to him and asking him about Garia and Octavia.
Mostly in the sense of whether or not both women were aware of the relationship and okay with that. Numbtongue would have rather talked about love with Mrsha; she’d run away in disgust. Even Bird. Even Lyonette!
But not Erin. He was…passing fond of Erin. In fact, Numbtongue had quietly wanted to say something long before Altestiel came along.
That he did not was for two reasons: first, he did not quite want to lose what they had. Second, because they were best of friends and family, and he didn’t know if that would have made them good lovers.
Life was too short for a Goblin warrior to hesitate. If Headscratcher were alive—Numbtongue would have held his peace forever. Which was ironic because Goblins could have open relationships, the very idea that Erin was struggling with. Of course Garia and Octavia knew.
“And they’re okay with that? None of them want to be, um, girlfriends with you?”
He gave her a blank look.
“I don’t want babies. I said that, and both of them agreed.”
Very vehemently. With that out of the way, what was the problem? It was not ‘girlfriend’ or ‘boyfriend’. It was just fun.
Very fun. Erin grew uncomfortable, and Numbtongue stared at her. He put his head back, stared at the ceiling, and Shorthilt stood over him.
“Say it. Say it. Say it—”
His ghostly finger poked Numbtongue in the forehead.
“Go away. No.”
He spoke, and Reiss and Pyrite pulled Shorthilt back because—Numbtongue looked up at Erin as she wrestled with the idea of an open relationship.
“As long as they know. That’s good! Y’know? Everyone should be happy. Everyone should find…someone. I mean, Lyonette has, I guess. I haven’t seen her and Pawn together that much.”
Numbtongue’s carefully blank stare intensified. Erin went on, frowning.
“Not that I spy on them. But I don’t pry! And Ishkr? Okay, now I think about it—only Jelaqua’s in a long-term relationship. Typhenous is trying to court Eloise. And Mavika. He’s sort of like you.”
Numbtongue opened his mouth and then thought of Typhenous. He decided the comparison was a compliment and closed his mouth. Meanwhile, Erin was talking herself into or out of something. She kept raising and lowering her hands.
“If she’s, um, doing well, that’s fine. I’m not a prude! It’s her life, and that’s fine. Yup. Yup. So as long as it’s good—”
She turned to him, and he grunted. It felt like someone was squeezing his chest.
“It is. What about you?”
Erin paused, and for a second, she looked at him. Really looked at him—and instantly glanced away. She stared into the darkness of the inn and hesitated.
“I…want to fall in love, I guess. But I don’t quite know how it’s gonna happen. I have a lot to do, but when I was dead—it was on my list of regrets. I don’t want to die without trying, Numbtongue.”
“Right.”
He waited. He looked at her so long he knew she sensed it. And she glanced at him, and she was silent.
