Instead, Erin looked up, and the Thronebearers felt a crawl down their backs as Erin’s gaze turned cold one second.
“If…the Thronebearers found you, Lyonette, that’s one thing. But what if you actually dyed your hair? What if we used spells?”
“And Ser Dalimont and Ushar, Lormel, Sest?”
Erin shrugged slightly.
“…What if the carriage just stopped and they got out? Got out and went home? You don’t have to do anything you don’t want to, Lyonette. I promise.”
She looked at the [Princess] as seriously as she had once faced down the Grand Strategist of Pallass and stared down Skinner. And Lyonette brushed at her eyes.
“You really would try. And you’d succeed, Erin. But my mother and father, my kingdom, will never stop. Even if we took all the precautions—and besides that? I don’t want to run from who I am. Erin, listen to me again. I want to be a [Princess]. A good one. The best of them. I could have chased away the Thronebearers. Pulled tricks like Mrsha. I haven’t. I am a [Princess] of Calanfer, and you have one in your inn. We have to reckon with that, because you’re a [Witch], and our classes have not gotten along. We have not always gotten along, but I want to, as long as I can.”
She looked at Erin, and now the flames were dying out and Erin looked troubled and tired. Lyonette reached out and gently took Erin’s hand. Erin squeezed Lyonette’s grip weakly, and the [Princess] sighed.
“…Because someday, I will go back to Calanfer. They will take or pull or force or cajole me back into returning. And I don’t know what will happen after that. Not what my parents expect, but Calanfer is so very far away, Erin. Even with magic doors. Nor is the Eternal Throne easy to leave. I did it once, but that was because I barely mattered to it.”
Her head looked out one of the glass windows, north. Erin took Lyonette’s hand urgently.
“They can’t keep you, Lyonette. Enough. I’ve seen the largest bullies in existence. You don’t have to ever go back.”
To that, the [Princess] just gazed back at Erin.
“But what if Calanfer needs me more than I need it, Erin? What if the cost of staying away gets too high? You taught me a hundred lessons, Erin. Yet you never taught me to run away.”
The [Innkeeper] blinked and then almost smiled. The [Princess] sat there, wistful, and Erin looked at her.
“So what are you going to do? Build a castle out of my inn? You be the [Princess] and I’ll keep doing my thing?”
Lyonette snorted.
“I don’t need a castle. Drevish’s plans are ostentatious enough for any number of royals. Erin. Can you forgive me about the Antinium?”
“No.”
The [Princess] and all the relaxing Thronebearers looked up. Erin held her scowl, then slumped in her seat.
“Alright. Fine. Don’t do it again.”
“And will you tell me your plans? Your big ones? Even if not here…”
Lyonette stressed the word with a pointed look at Ushar, who reported to Queen Ielane and King Reclis directly.
“…Then soon? Talk to me regularly?”
“I do.”
“About your plans, Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] was slumping over in her seat.
“Sure. And what do I get?”
The [Princess] smiled sadly. A bit exasperatedly, as if she was talking to a child. And a quirky boss, the worst kind, and her friend.
“You need to tell me that, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] was staring at the ground. Her head rose—and she gave Lyonette a sad look of her own. There was no [Witch] anymore with a flaming hat.
Just her first class. So Erin sat up, exhausted, but then she nodded a few times. She looked Lyonette straight in the eye.
“Lyonette. I get why you wanted to hide the Antinium Crusade from me. Don’t do it again. Don’t ever do something like that again. You can be—careful, but tell me. Understand? Sometimes we keep secrets, but not that kind.”
“Yes. I understand.”
Lyonette ducked her head. Erin opened her mouth, lifted a finger, then shook it a few times while thinking.
“…And that’s all I’ve got. Bleh. I overreacted a tiny bit, didn’t I?”
The Thronebearers and Lyonette looked at each other, then, as one, chorused in the most perfect way their emphatic denials. Such that Erin saw their complete dishonesty and the bald-faced lies on their tongues.
“I hate all of you. I’m just tired of secrets. Tired of things I have to keep hidden or else it’ll hurt—everyone.”
She tried to pull an Ulvama and put her feet up on Ushar’s lap. The [Knight] looked so uneasy that Erin stopped. Lyonette gave Erin a sympathetic look.
“Welcome to responsibility, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] almost threw something at Lyonette until she realized the [Princess] wasn’t mocking her. She thought of Fetohep, who had done much the same thing. And her—with the knowledge of the deadlands to pretty much the entire world.
The [Princess] ducked her head. Then she spoke hesitantly.
“If it helps, Erin, I didn’t mention the Goblins for much the same reason. I really did fear they might die, and I didn’t want you to get so badly hurt. Everything has changed. For myself…I’m also glad you spoke to Numbtongue.”
Erin didn’t quite flinch. She stared up, remembering Numbtongue’s expression.
“Goblins? Yeah. Riverfarm’s okay. I thought they’d want to come back. Pebblesnatch as well. As for Numbtongue—that’s my fault too. But I didn’t know. Wait, were you listening to us?”
She sat up, and Lyonette’s open mouth snapped shut.
“No.”
Erin’s eyes narrowed, and Lyonette stared out the window. Then she whispered.
“I, myself, believe I need to talk with someone too. Just to see where we are and what’s supposed to happen next.”
She gave Erin such an unhappy look that the [Innkeeper] sat there. Then Ser Dalimont coughed. Everyone looked at him, and the [Knight] cast himself into the blaze for the good of all.
“Apropos of what has been said—Princess Marquin, Miss Solstice, I believe, er, there is another element that Erin has not realized. From the, ah, coverage of the monster raid on the High Passes. In fact, I think the aforementioned Goblins might be closer to Liscor than we are.”
He was eying a [Message] scroll that had a few lines from Selys addressed to Lyonette. The [Princess]’ head swung to him, then to Erin with a dawning wide-eyed realization. Then Erin realized they were speaking about another group of Goblins than the one she thought, and her eyes widened.
“What? What? Whaaaaaaaaaaa—”
 
——
 
“—aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaat?”
The scream was coming from the back carriage. Both had stopped on the road, and Mrsha crawled out of her carriage and hid behind the largest object.
Which was the half-Giant who bent down to let her cling to his shoulder. Jelaqua’s beaming smile turned uncertain.
“Is—is that Erin? She’s actually that mad?”
Ceria Springwalker leaned over her wagon, cackling, as the two undead horses that had been carrying the Halfseekers and Horns of Hammerad to Invrisil came to a stop. They were within spitting range of Invrisil’s gates, but despite being tired from the road, fighting, and all the drama—she felt better already.
Pisces had been subdued and thinking all ride, but now his brows rose as he turned from reading his spellbook. Ksmvr stopped eating the cheese that Vaunt had given him, and Yvlon stopped holding her nose. Ulinde was gulping down way too much cheese too, and it had been a smelly ride back.
“So you did not tell Erin about an Antinium crusade and Rags’ forces showing up in battle? And you thought this would, ah, resolve itself amicably?”
Pisces waved a feather bookmark that Bird had given him at Numbtongue. The [Bard] was wincing as he eyed the shaking carriage and nervous horses.
“Shut up. She was doing [Witch] stuff.”
“…Learning how to explode?”
Seborn Sailwinds glanced over at Mrsha, then at Nanette. The girl was looking worried about her new caretaker’s wrath, but she tipped her imaginary hat very politely to Seborn.
“Hello, sir. Salt below.”
His brows rose.
“Wind above. Pleased to meet you, Miss…?”
“Nanette.”
She shyly shook his hand, and Mrsha peeked out from behind Fort Moore as he rumbled.
“I can see why Erin is so angry. Not that she should take it out on her friends and family. At least we’re nearly back to Liscor. She can greet the Antinium when they arrive. It will be a day or two yet, even if they march fast.”
“Are they headed south via however they got here or overland? Will they make it to Liscor without—incident? They might be safe when they reach Celum, but that’ll take some time.”
The question suddenly provoked some nerves in the others. Garia gulped, imagining how many cities lay between Orefell and Liscor. None of whom knew Antinium.
“Wales’ forces are escorting them, so they should be safe.”
Numbtongue exhaled, and the adventurers realized—that the inn’s guests didn’t understand how good the reputation of these Antinium were in Izril’s lower north right now. Or how scary Xrn was.
Ceria was still chuckling, and then the inn’s guests saw how the adventurers had fared on their ‘vacation’. Despite having Orefell’s resources after the battle, everything had been so chaotic that no one but Yvlon had managed to clean up. They were smelly—Ceria had sticks in her hair from sleeping outside, and despite everything having been healed by potions and Zimrah, Moore kept rubbing his back, which he’d thrown during the battle. Jelaqua and Ulinde’s Selphid bodies were full of bite marks, and Ksmvr was so sleepy he could barely nibble on his cheese.
They were the victors of a great battle, a heroic moment, even if they had not been the sole key players. Mrsha looked up at Moore, then down at Seborn.
“Hey, water rat. You got any food? We shared most of ours with Orefell.”
He poked her in the side, and she gave him an outraged look, which turned slightly respectful. Mrsha hesitated, then grimaced and pointed. Everyone looked over, and Jelaqua made a delighted sound. Yvlon groaned.
“You’ve got a Sariant Lamb?”
Numbtongue grinned.
“It found us. And ate all our food. That’s Nerry. Don’t ask what it’s short for. And we met Griffon Hunt!”
“I forgot they were over there! How’s old Halrac doing? How’s older Typhenous?”
The [Bard] snorted.
“Flirting with [Witches].”
Everyone laughed, and for a moment, they relaxed, watching the carriage. And yet—Mrsha saw the same City Runner who they had passed catching up. The young man pointed at the Horns, Halfseekers, and fished for an autograph card in awe. In fact, the gates were opening and the Watch was waving. Then Mrsha wondered what Lyonette and the other adults had hid from her, while they checked to see if anyone they knew had been hurt in the battle. She looked at Moore and wondered if he had been a hero again.
But then, he always was, and the half-Giant patted Mrsha gently on the head.
“Your boon was very helpful, Mrsha. Or rather, should I thank Lyonette too?”
“Oh. Yes. Where is Erin? I have a piece of my mind to speak to her about her admittedly helpful boon myself.”
Pisces snapped his spellbook shut for good. He frowned around, but Ceria was still watching the carriage.
“I think someone’s told Erin that Rags is at Liscor. She should be; she claimed she was flying, and I bet a Wyvern can make it from Orefell in two days.”
Everyone turned to stare at Ceria, and the half-Elf winked at Nanette in a friendly way. And sure enough—the doors of the carriage flew open, and Erin Solstice flopped onto the ground.
Everyone stared at the [Innkeeper] as four Thronebearers and Lyonette hurried out to pick her up. The [Innkeeper] was trying to push herself up.
“Rags is—the Goblins are—bisque! Where’s my stupid chair? I’m mad at all of you!”
Mrsha ducked behind Moore again, but Erin was excited. So excited that Ser Dalimont was unloading her chair and she was pointing to the gates when she noticed the adventurers.
“Wait a second. I’d know those filthy robes anywhere. Pisces! Seborn! Moore!”
“Jelaqua? Hey, Erin!”
The Selphid saw Erin being pushed over and laughed as Erin stared at them.
“I thought you were at Orefell!”
“We got bored and headed back. Hey, Erin. Killed a few hundred goats. How was your vacation?”
Ceria lifted a hand, still chuckling. Erin hesitated, and Numbtongue answered.
“She called a Water Elemental out of a river.”
A spray of cheese struck half of the adventurers in the wagon as Ulinde expectorated. It wasn’t that the famous Winebreath Blaster or variants thereof were that common. It was just that you tended to have someone with their mouths full of liquid or solids at helpful times.
Ksmvr barely looked up at Erin; he had instantly fixed his attention on Nerry and was offering her cheese and patting her with his patented four-pat technique. But Erin was barely able to focus on that.
“Yeah, I did. And there’s an Elemental of Law now. Stupid beeping thing hates me. Ceria—Pisces—did you see Rags? Dalimont says she’s at Liscor! We have to get there!”
“An Elemental of What Now?”
This time, even Ceria and Pisces felt that this was beyond the regular Solstice effect. They sat up, fascinated, but Erin pointed.
“Rags? Liscor?”
“If Selys says she is, Erin—Erin!”
The [Innkeeper] was trying to wheel herself past the wagon. She called to the Horns as she looked around.
“Sorry, guys. Hey, someone push me! I’ve got to get to the inn now!”
She was so frantic she rolled past the battle-weary Horns. Of course, that was not her fault; Erin had not seen the desperate battle against the Eater Goats and Gargoyles. But Lyonette had, and she saw the brief look of disappointment over Jelaqua’s face and Yvlon’s discontented expression.
They had nearly died out there. The Silver Swords had escaped unscathed, but the other teams had lost teammates.
“Erin…”
Numbtongue was glancing at the adventurers, but to his surprise, Ceria lifted her skeletal hand, and he fell silent.
“Push me! Someone push me!”
Then a Drake appeared, and Tessa leapt off the wagon, freaking out everyone she’d been sitting next to. She grabbed the handles of Erin’s wheelchair.
“I can push.”
“Good! Take me into the inn—I forget the name! Just push, and we’ll find it. Sorry, you guys catch up—”
Then Shriekblade, the Named-rank Adventurer, began to push. Erin’s last words disappeared into a breathless scream. A blurring [Innkeeper] shot across the ground, and the first [Guards] and people coming to congratulate the adventurers scattered.
The distant scream from Erin’s mouth trailed off as Ceria snorted. Lyonette was apologetic. She looked at the adventurers, and she knew what they’d done.
But Erin was…thinking only of the Goblins.
“I’m sorry, everyone. Erin’s just—”
Ceria lifted an amused hand, and her pale eyes were calm.
