“Don’t worry, Lyonette. We’re used to it. No one told her how heroic we were, right? Besides—”
The half-Elf glanced off into the distance where people were already shouting and Erin’s distant screams of ‘left, left’ were coming from. She grinned.
“—She’s got to go. Her first guest is waiting for her, and it’s been so long since they met.”
That was true. Suddenly, everyone wanted to go and see what was happening. The carriages and the wagons began starting forwards as Garia just began jogging, dragging Numbtongue past the [Guards] and the people. Pisces, though, refused to walk when he could let the skeletal horses pull the wagon.
He spluttered as they entered Invrisil, and Lyonette eyed the crowds and then the Horns, who waved at the people demanding autographs. The Halfseekers seemed pleased with the attention, and no doubt the Silver Swords, catching up after Dawil had marched north with some of his people, wouldn’t mind the autograph demands and mild cheering.
But Lyonette did. The [Princess] thought of Eternal Calanfer, so flawed, but so good at one thing. She looked around, and Ser Sest and the other Thronebearers straightened to attention. She crooked a finger as she spotted a Player of Celum in the crowds.
As for Pisces? He was spluttering as a few hooded figures watched him from afar and wondered how they’d meet with him ‘in private’ later. The [Necromancer] was outraged.
“First guest? First guest, Springwalker? If it refreshes your ailing memory, I remind you that I was Erin’s first true guest.”
The half-Elf laughed in his face.
“No you weren’t. That’s Relc and Klbkch if you want to get technical.”
“I was her first…paying guest.”
“No you weren’t. Relc and Klbkch paid for their food. You didn’t. You were her first criminal. You tried to extort her. No, wait, you were her first charity case.”
Mrsha punched Pisces’ leg as he turned red and spluttered. Yes, Mr. Third Guest! Beat it, bub! And Nanette sat amongst the adventurers as Nerry let Ksmvr scratch her head and comb her fur, and she wondered what this fabled inn looked like.
 
——
 
Goblins. It almost felt old and nostalgic to hear the call from the walls and the word spread through the city. Oh, the newcomers panicked a bit, but the real Liscorian citizens just looked up.
“Goblins! Goblins are at the gates!”
A panicking young woman ran into a square as a Drake looked up from watering some bushes she’d planted. Raspberries, fruitful.
“Goblins? Not Crelers? How many Goblins?”
“A hundred, some on Wyverns?”
The Drake [Gardener] thought about this.
“Do you have any moths? Undead? Is the [Innkeeper] back?”
The young woman looked at her and hesitated.
“N-no. I don’t think so. Why?”
“I just don’t see the reason to make all that fuss. Now, if it were a thousand Goblins. Or Hectval. Or an Archmage, maybe it’s worth screaming my eardrums out. Or maybe you could hold this basket while I gather my raspberries.”
Then the unfortunate young woman was holding a basket while the Drake, fearless of the thorns with her scaled claws, plucked raspberries.
The crazy thing was that it was only slightly bravado. Most of the Liscorians were headed to the western gates because they loved a good gawk, but they were doing it in an unafraid way. After all, Celum, Invrisil, and those Pallassians had to see how a citizen of Liscor handled adversity. They had a reputation they now needed to maintain.
But—Goblins. The word swept through the city, because it was not that [Bard] who played a pretty good tune or the Cave Goblins.
It was the first tribe. Even if they had changed—these were the Goblins who had once been pressed against Liscor’s gate. The ones who had fought against the Goblin Lord. So many had died that day, and the Watch Captain herself stood on the walls, sword at her waist, wondering if the group that had flown down on Wyvernback had a grudge.
Of course they did. Of course they remembered.
Why else would a single warrior, who rode on a gigantic Carn Wolf’s back, be the lone Goblin riding through the gates?
He was short, for a Hobgoblin. Tall for any regular Goblin and growing still, wiry, and his very appearance provoked a memory. But he was shorter than his father, his Chieftain, and he carried two blades, not one.
But one of those blades was red, as red as the paint that criss-crossed his arms and body. The Carn Wolf sniffed the air as the [Guards] and citizens drew back. Some called at him to stop, but Redscar simply trotted through Liscor’s gates.
Fearlessly, he looked around, not even resting his hands on the hilts of his blades. He swung right and left, appraising the crowd for threats. But no one threw anything at him—they just stared up at him with hostility and fear. Memory and guilt.
Antinium, Drakes, Gnolls, Humans…Redscar glanced over his shoulder as the rest of the Goblins clustered outside the gates and around a hill where a single inn stood. Watching him.
The Goblin held himself like a blademaster, tensed and relaxed simultaneously. He had trotted through those gates with all the will in the world.
Even if a thousand spears and bows had been aimed at him, he would have gone through those gates with will alone and cut them to pieces if he had to. For that was how much it mattered.
Yet, being here? Suddenly, Redscar didn’t know what came next. He raised his head, and Thunderfur sniffed the air.
Then—the Goblin turned and beheld an unfamiliar place. A city with sprawling streets, people largely unarmed. Children and houses. He stared at the insides of the walls.
A vision. Hundreds of thousands of Goblins had never seen it.
If they had—walked these streets—stumbled in here?
What might have happened? He looked around, craning his neck, as his wolf slowly padded forwards and the murmurs spread. Gazing for the Goblins who could no longer see, whose bodies were long gone.
Like a dreamer, he slowly got off his wolf. And walked forwards, a few steps. The people who watched him moved back, and they had only seen that look of baffled curiosity once before.
On an Antinium’s face. And Redscar’s was much easier to read. He stared at fresh loaves on display in a [Baker]’s window. Made with…‘baking soda’. The Goblin turned, and it seemed then as if he were blind or having some terrible dream.
For when he looked at a group of children peering at him, he saw little Goblins. Running about the streets. He looked at an oblivious [Builder] hammering a nail into a house being redesigned and wondered if a Goblin could ever look so idly bored at having a job in a city, instead of afraid.
It hurt worse because the dream was just that. It had died at those gates. Not everyone could meet his eyes. Some did, with the kind of blank anger that said they saw just a monster. And some saw Redscar’s distant look and perhaps saw a city that a Goblin Lord had dreamed of.
The Goblin who had never fallen in battle, who had fought every foe to the death, found his legs were shaking. He leaned against the great wolf, who sniffed the air. Thunderfur made a soft, whining sound in the back of his throat. But neither one said anything else to the watching citizens.
They reminded Liscor’s people of no debts. Redscar spoke no history or bitter words. For him, what would have been the point? He simply stood awhile as the Goblins outside the gates watched.
As if he were a [Soothsayer], trying to see a future that might have been.
 
——
 
A Goblin in Liscor. But know that this was only the beginning.
For an [Innkeeper] was coming. Now, she was so close that her inn felt it.
Dismounting Goblins who were leaping off saddles and helping down other less-experienced riders looked up in alarm at a sound. They reached for blades as a small Goblin held up a claw. It was no attack. The Antinium in the tower was waving at them and envying their pet birds.
The inn. The front door had swung open. The clacking sound was of every shuttered window swinging open too and a door to a garden appearing against one wall. A Goblin with a [Chef]’s hat, nervously clutching a pack of tools, oohed. More hopefuls chattered, checked they had everything, and rushed forwards excitedly.
Inside the inn, a Gnoll glanced up as his sister ran to tell him there were Goblins.
Liska found Ishkr carefully preparing two chalkboards, the kind of which hung over the inn’s bar.
“Ishkr! I said there are a hundred Goblins and Wyverns outside!”
“Huh. The stables won’t fit the Wyverns. I’ll have food ready in a moment. Hold on. Take this sign and hang it up.”
Liska stared at him, nearly tearing her fur out.
“Did you hear me? What’s this?”
“Adjusted prices.”
Ishkr pointed at the menu overhead, and Liska saw he’d cut all the prices on the menu. Then he held out another board with identical items and began to write new numbers. He was marking everything up by 100%.
“What’s that board for?”
Ishkr sighed as his sister failed to even help him in one small way. As usual. He carefully wrote a price on the board.
“Goblin prices. Party prices. I’m getting ready. Can you at least hold the door to Invrisil open? Liska? Can you at least do that?”
 
——
 
Something was coming to Liscor. To the inn.
That something, well, one of the somethings, was a screaming [Innkeeper]. She was blurring across the city, the wheels of her chair spinning so fast they created a mirage where they looked like one solid object. She was leaning back—because Shriekblade was tilting the chair back and pushing.
It made Erin feel like at any second she would somersault backwards out of her chair and turn into paste. She was screaming as they zoomed past a City Runner sprinting towards the Runner’s Guild. The woman slowed and stared as she saw an [Innkeeper] moving at possibly fifty miles per hour, just missing pedestrians.
“Left! No, right! That street! We’re gonna crash!”
They were headed straight for a wall. And if Shriekblade stopped the wheelchair, Erin died because there was no seatbelt. Instead, she got a glimpse of how fast Shriekblade was. The Named-rank saw the brick wall, so she ran ahead of the wheelchair as she turned it left.
But sheer momentum kept the wheels—now in danger of being destroyed from friction—drifting towards the wall. So Shriekblade leapt up, braced herself against the wall, and pushed as the wheelchair came within mere feet of it.
All so fast that it looked to bystanders as if Erin suddenly did a 90-degree turn at the speed of—
“Aaaaaaaaaaaa—”
Then she was gone, terrorizing another street as she headed towards the inn. But what was really happening was that things were setting up.
An [Innkeeper] rolling through Invrisil on an adventurer-powered wheelchair? Goblins in Liscor?
Setup, setup. And at least one [Head Server] knew it full well. It took a while to eventuate a party. Even the [Innkeeper] at the peak of health couldn’t do it in less than, oh, an hour.
And it would take more than that to pull a party across at least three cities. Probably four. But Lyonette du Marquin was everywhere. The first person she found in the crowd was the [Mayor] of Invrisil, who had come for an autograph.
He didn’t have security along the streets. The crowd was begging for autographs like [Beggars] for coin. There were no flower petals, no music—no celebration for heroes in battle.
Let alone Liscor! At least Invrisil had the excuse that it was only three Gold-rank teams. But this wouldn’t do. The confused [Mayor] was being harangued by Lyonette as his [Bodyguards] tried to block her—and ran into the Thronebearers, considerably more impressive in situations like this. Dalimont checked a huge woman with an arm and a look.
“…And I would strongly recommend you ask for Manager Temile’s cooperation in this endeavor, Mayor.”
“Temile? But the Players cost a fortune, and he’s booked for months! You can’t get the Players to do anything!”
Lyonette gave him a sweet smile, like a child pointing to a jar on the top shelf and claiming no one could reach it.
“Then I shall have a word for you and ask him to speak to you, Mayor. Now, I believe a budget is in order. How much is Invrisil willing to pay for adventurers? Or, to put it another way, how will the City of Adventurers treat adventurers who just answered the gravest of calls? Perhaps the Five Families would be willing to sponsor…? Oh, and I believe a call to Wistram News Network is in order. Or I can speak to Miss Drassi myself.”
He swallowed hard. He had heard rumors, but this was a woman in her element, young as she was, and it occurred to the [Mayor]…
“May I know your name, ah—ah—Miss?”
“Lyonette, Mayor Curle. Lyonette. Now, if you’ll excuse me. Liscor’s Council awaits.”
 
——
 
A storm. How did you create a storm? Lyonette had learned from the best, and she had to first seed the clouds in every city. With gold and words and intentions.
All the conditions were right; everyone had seen the news. She just had to push them. But she had to stoke the winds and throw flower petals or other suitably thematic elements into the air. Find the right [Actors], and she knew so many.
The Horns of Hammerad were halfway across Invrisil when a marching band of sorts began playing, and a [Crier] began shouting.
“The Mayor has declared a three-day holiday! To celebrate the victory at Orefell, the Gold-rank teams and the Antinium Crusade and soldiers of Wales, Remendia, Ocre, and…”
Then there was a flame in the air. A rumor running hot across Izril that if you wanted, you could, you must get to the City of Adventurers and perhaps go through the door to Liscor. Because there was going to be a celebration, obviously.
Only, it was going to be a multi-city event, and you could be in each one if you played your cards right. Nobles and [Merchants] scented the opportunity to rise in station or wealth.
All Lyonette had to do was start a fire, and she had learned from an expert who had thrown banquets with silver coins, not gold. Maviola El would have laughed.
But it was coming. Not here yet. For the first time, you could see it coming. A party. And who was invited?
Mrsha looked up as a boy strolled next to her wagon and inserted himself into it. She nearly kicked the street boy out in outrage.
Adventurers only, stupid! And their cool friends. Then her eyes widened as he gave her a gap-toothed grin, and Grev swung himself into the seat.
“Look who’s back! Hey, Miss Ceria!”
“Is that Grev? I thought you were with the Players in the north.”
He looked offended.
“Me? I’m a Face on the streets these days. I’m not going to First Landing. Too far. Heya, Numbtongue. ‘N who’s this? Hey, have we met before? You look familiar.”
