As they drove away from Riverfarm, Erin was napping. A little witch curiously watched her face as Erin dropped off.
One moment, she was full of energy, talking about her [Garden of Sanctuary] and promising to show Nanette around—the next?
She quietly fell asleep. Or rather, began dozing. She began murmuring and nodding along to Ser Sest reading out Mrsha’s pithy comments. Then she was sleeping with one shoulder against the carriage door.
What surprised Nanette was that no one else was surprised. Lyonette whispered to her as Gothica fished around the carriage.
It was Mrsha, Ser Sest, Gothica, Lyonette, Erin, and Nanette. A good mix for a single carriage. The other carriage and riders rode ahead of them. It was a quiet ride, not that bumpy, back to Invrisil.
“She’s almost out of energy. I think she ran out of stamina potion again.”
“Stamina potion?”
Lyonette nodded. Then, and only then, did Nanette learn that Erin couldn’t walk. At least, not without magical help. She stood and did everything with potions.
“She uses it to keep up her energy if she’s been running about all day. It’s getting expensive. At least Octavia provides the potions, but she’ll run out of her healing…gel…at some point.”
Lyonette commentated as the Goblin and Gnoll put the blanket over Erin. Nanette was astonished.
“I didn’t know Miss Erin was still recovering. No one did. Well—”
Then she thought of the older [Witches]. Maybe they had, but they’d respected Erin’s privacy, at least there. And Laken? Had he known?
Erin slept as Lyonette smiled wanly at Nanette. She reached out and patted the girl’s knee.
“Erin’s recovery has been slow, but she’s back. I trust you know about that?”
“All of Riverfarm knew that His Majesty was trying to help someone. I…”
Nanette hesitated.
She had been lost in her own world as distant as Erin’s. She looked at Erin, and Lyonette’s smile looked old. She sat there as Mrsha glanced up, and then Nanette saw it.
They looked like people her mother had met who had survived natural disasters or monster attacks. Not [Soldiers], but veterans, survivors of something. And it did not make them wholly poorer. Sometimes, Califor said, an earthquake downed houses. It broke walls and burst dams and shifted mountains. Then it unearthed steel in some people’s souls.
The [Princess] looked at Nanette.
“We all went somewhere. I journeyed to Oteslia, and—I made quite a number of mistakes. But we did what we could. You’ll meet more people who went further and did far more than I to bring Erin back. Now, we’re seeing what the inn looks like. It hasn’t been that long since Erin woke back up, Nanette. I hope you’ll fit in. We are all finding our way, as you’ll see. Even if some pretend better than others.”
She had a strange way about her, Lyonette. Nanette knew she was a [Princess], but she was also a mother, despite being just eighteen. If anything, she reminded Nanette of someone twice her age at times. Shyly, the young witch nodded. She liked Lyonette already. She hoped she would like this inn.
Yet she was no silent Gnoll, and Lyonette seemed keenly aware that Nanette would not fit into the same spot that Mrsha had when she first came to the inn. Nanette proved this in the next moment. She nodded at Erin.
“I’m glad Miss Erin did leave Riverfarm as friends. I don’t think she and His Majesty—Emperor Godart—really liked each other that much.”
Lyonette blinked.
“No, they quite respected…”
Then she fell silent. The carriage rolled on, and Erin began to dream. She had been half-listening to all of this, but too exhausted to speak and too tired to really remember what she heard consciously.
But she dreamed of things they had said. True dreams.
 
——
 
“You’ve never asked me about my story yet. Legends have presented themselves to you; that even I must admit. But I? I inform your very world, and few can match me, I swear. Don’t you want my secrets? I think we would quite like each other.”
Erin Solstice looked up, and Nerrhavia bent over her. The young woman was making a burger in the lands of the dead, and memory was forming, piece by piece. She was remembering cooking one up the first time she’d made one. The hungry ghosts were eating the enjoyment, the feeling of triumph as much as the taste.
Nerrhavia smiled, and Erin scowled.
“I don’t want to hear from you any more than Roshal’s people. I know what you did. Califor’s right. Words can be like poison, and you have poisonous fingernails.”
The ghost of the Immortal Tyrant innocently hid her painted nails behind her back. Her face-paint was a work of art, her body a second vision of perfection, or what she thought perfection was. She wore, as so many times, the gown in which she had died, still marred by her own blood.
“But you and I are so similar. Our moralities differ, but I was no high-born woman. I was not even cloth when I was first born into my fading kingdom. I was a simple scribe, a Human woman good with numbers. I made everything they curse me for, and ‘Nerrhavia’s Fallen’ now wastes. All because I sought it. You understand that.”
Because Erin did—she turned away. She put her fingers in her ears.
“Lalalalala. I’m not listening. There’s no scenario where I become a tyrant and enslave people. Forgetaboutit.”
Nerrhavia drifted past Erin, amused. She spread her arms to an imaginary wind, and the dark fabric of her dress shifted, as if it were a pair of black wings, as it blew behind her.
“Why would I make you a [Ruler]? You would be so very poor at it. But you know that even if the [Witches] get their way—all they are giving you is a power that sticks. Ultimately, your struggle will be far greater than even mine. Even empowered by legends and myth—there’s something none of them bring up, don’t you notice? Goblins.”
Erin glanced up. The Immortal Tyrant smiled in that superior way of hers.
“…There’s no Goblins here. There’s a lot of history. I get it. People died to the Goblin King.”
“And you protect them. You will be a [Goblinfriend] and set yourself against more enemies than I dreamed of. Do you not want to hear a piece of advice from someone who survived it all for a thousand years?”
Erin hunched her shoulders. Nerrhavia drifted until she was leaning over the [Innkeeper]. She whispered, so intimately that Erin tried to throw her off, but a sweet, calm voice spoke in her ears. Then it dropped away, turning more casual, not as eloquent or practiced, and Erin heard how the woman called Nerrhavia had crafted her image. And she wondered how much of Nerrhavia had ever been deliberate.
“…the secret for your great deed, Erin, is not to hesitate. You are a fine player of chess. You break your opponents who are lesser than you into pieces. A kind girl. A merciless player.”
She had watched Khelta lose to Erin along with a score of ghosts. Of all the talents that set the girl apart, and for all the awe around her, she was still one of the greatest in her talent. Such as it was, to Nerrhavia.
Erin scowled.
“I know to be ruthless. Is that all you’ve got?”
“No. Not all. Just don’t hesitate when you reach for a hand and find one covered in blood. Your ‘Goblins’ will let you down. I know people; how many will be murderers of innocents or harm people in self-defense? How many of your Redfangs are [Raiders]? Trust no one without loyalty. Don’t mistake me. But even if you want to be as pure as any [Knight]—you will always need someone like me.”
“To do the horrible things?”
Erin shivered. And Nerrhavia gave her a scornful look and tried to slap her across the cheek—lightly—and looked Erin straight in the eye.
“No, silly [Innkeeper]. No—because I think that if you had fallen into my kingdom when I first began to take it, or even later, when they screamed my name a thousand times, I would have made something of you. Something fierce and deadly, such that they would have called you the [General] who crushed any army. Or a [Queen] of your own, or perhaps just a [Witch] or the [Innkeeper] you are.”
She had said this time and time again, and Erin’s rebuttal was on her lips, her snide comment.
“Yeah, and if you met me, you’d be a great [Innkeeper]. Or a [Barmaid].”
Then, as they stood together, Nerrhavia threw her head back. She laughed, and the other ghosts looked at her askance; she bent over and kissed Erin on the lips. Or tried to. Erin felt the slightest touch of a ghost and recoiled and batted at Nerrhavia’s face. But the ghost whispered in her ear.
“Yes. Perhaps I would have been. You need souls like mine, Erin Solstice. And I think we will seek you out. For—what you do for Goblins—can you not do it for your guests? I would have needed you if you existed. Look at the Sage of a Hundred Thousand Secrets and his wretched tale. If he had known you, could you have filled that gap that drove him to death before greatness? Reach down and take my hand, poisoned or not, in my many forms, and I will reward you with loyalty.”
Then Erin knew she was dreaming and remembered all the things she wanted. She recalled this conversation exactly, even if so many things were hazy—
But she really hadn’t remembered the kiss. A dreaming Erin sat there, looking exasperated and worried.
—And the Erin of now stepped outside her body and regarded Nerrhavia in her dream. Poisonous and sinuous. Someone who had abandoned her very humanity in a literal sense. She had cut her flesh off and replaced it with cloth. Because she thought it suited her.
Every move she made was beautiful. Beautifully corrupt. Beautifully arrogant. But what made her alive even in Erin’s memory of the deadlands and the faded souls there was this:
She had never forgotten who she had been. A woman had become the Immortal Tyrant, but she had changed herself until she faced down Giants and other ghosts. That was the problem.
Erin looked at Nerrhavia and cursed her, because she always knew what to say to people. It was kind of good advice.
“…But how can I trust you, Nerrhavia? Even Roshal sounds like they make sense, if they speak to you long enough. I wish I didn’t sort of like you. I wish I had no enemies.”
She floated through her dream and that conversation between the [Innkeeper] and one of the ghosts who had shaped her upon waking. Erin almost woke there and then—until she saw that head turn.
Nerrhavia looked straight at Erin. Not the dream Erin, but the real one. Even dreaming, Erin felt her heart start in her chest, a rapid pulse. And the ghost of the Immortal Tyrant reached out. She caught Erin’s hand and lightly pinched with her nails. Erin flinched at the sudden flash of pain, but the tiny cut was all. Nerrhavia let go.
“Trust? You have been speaking to Drakes and Khelt’s folk too long, Erin. I trusted so few. Do you love something? Grasp it, even if it burns you alive. That is what the [Witches] taught you. But rather than hold fire like a pretty torchbearer—let it burn you and transform you. I leapt into seas made of venom and swam deep. Trust me? We are already embarking on our final adventure. And I have chosen you for my tale, [Innkeeper].”
She reached out, and Erin backed away, trying to wake up. Wake up—but the tyrant did not come for her with blades or poison, but gently caught Erin’s hand as if she were a suitor and bent to kiss it.
 
——
 
Then Erin woke. With such a start that Mrsha tossed up her hand of cards in surprise and the bad hand rained down around them.
“Huh?”
It took a moment for Erin to come back to herself. It was evening, and she looked down and saw Nanette and Mrsha had been playing cards. Erin realized she’d been asleep in the carriage all day! Shakily, she looked around.
“Lyonette?”
She gazed around and wondered if Nerrhavia had made it. She was still halfway in her strange dream. Then she woke up more, and relaxed.
Just a dream. Erin smiled until she noticed the tiny cut on her wrist. She stared at it for a long time, then brushed at her lips and shivered. She looked back at the cut, then decided to put it from her mind. Not to forget, but because she was sure—
This wasn’t over.
Lyonette wasn’t here; she’d traded coaches to hang out with the older passengers. Instead, Erin got Ser Dalimont, a snoring Ulvama lying on the other side of the carriage, Gothica, again, and the two children. Nanette was already learning Mrsha’s language.
Erin apologized for startling the others. She rubbed her eyes and wondered why she’d dreamed of Nerrhavia. Probably because of Laken. She had not liked him, for all he’d come across better than Magnolia’s Earthers had. If anything, that was why; he had his opinion, and hers differed.
But she quite respected him. Sort of. It was like the [Witches]. Erin realized that was his place, and she’d needed to bite her tongue at times. So why had she thought of Nerrhavia?
Perhaps she was sensing something. Or…Erin looked at Nanette and saw no guile, nor duplicity like Nerrhavia. But it was sometimes what you didn’t see that mattered. Erin closed her eyes, then spoke a name that almost no one had spoken—nor thought of—for most of the trip.
“Shriekblade? Tessa? Are you in here?”
Dalimont glanced up. Gothica jumped as a voice spoke.
“What do you want?”
Erin slowly looked up, and Mrsha and Nanette panicked as they realized the scarred Drake all in black was in the carriage—and she’d been clinging to the roof the entire time. Like some monstrous gecko, her tail curled around her waist—she stared down at Erin with two huge eyes.
“There you are. Do you get tired of hiding all the time, Tessa?”
“Nope. I feel great. Need me to hurt someone? Like a lamb?”
Erin wondered why she was bringing up the Sariants. Laken had hated them, but they’d barely done more than stare at her and Wiskeria. Of course, the [Witch of Law] had kicked at them every single time one got near, so they were right to be wary.
“No…I’m just wondering how long you want to keep doing this. I know Ilvriss has hired you—”
“What? Is something wrong? Do I smell? I can take a bath!”
Instantly, looking alarmed, Tessa swung herself down and landed in the center of the carriage. Dalimont was checking his side, but the Named-rank was fixed on Erin. The [Innkeeper] shook her head.
“No. But how long do you…want to keep guarding me and the inn? Do you want to do this until your contract runs out? How long is it?”
Tessa gave Erin a blank look.
“I have no idea. Someone manages my money at the Merchant’s Guild. Ilvriss didn’t say how long. I’ll do it forever. Or until I die.”
“Forever? Why?”
For answer, Tessa just produced a little, shining vial and smiled as she held it up.
