Patting his sweet Lin-Lin’s soft, fluffy ears and pinching her pliable cheeks, he supressed the urge to just carry her away to safety, maybe even back to the hidden heart of the jungle of their birth where they’d be safe and sound for a time. Alas, she was no longer just his precious, adorable daughter anymore, but Rainy boy’s wifey first and foremost, and he could hardly bring them all away into hiding. Such were the trials and tribulations of being a father, to place your child’s needs and desires before your own, but even though these last two decades had passed by in the blink of an eye, he couldn’t remember a time when he’d been happier.

Rainy boy and Lin-Lin were just perfect for each other, one too serious and the other too carefree. A good Balance between the two, capable of complementing the other’s Path, and together with Yan, they should be fast enough to get safely away from Meng Sha before the Demon attacked. A difficult thing to do, leaving his precious daughter’s safety to another man, but aside from Rainy boy, there wasn’t another person Taduk would even think about trusting with his sweet Lin-Lin’s life.

Sensing his melancholic thoughts, his sweet daughter looked up at him with her big, brown eyes, so worried and anxious for once. Wishing he had the strength to overturn the Heavens and set her troubled mind at ease, Taduk could only scrunch his nose and smile to reassure her before Cloud-Stepping away to the boat. Muttering an apology under his breath, he hefted Luo-Luo under his arm like a sack of rice, not the most comfortable or dignified means of conveyance, but it couldn’t be helped. Taduk lacked Hua Lie’s ability to Domain Plate anything she pleased, and Luo-Luo was too tall and top-heavy to be easily held in one arm any other way, not to mention the fact that this minimized the impact of her frantic movements once she inevitably panicked.

Before the girl could even let out a cry however, he brought her away from the ship to Li-Li’s side, for Hua Lie had already gathered Mi-Mi and the pets, leaving only the precocious half-cat to collect. Patting her lightly on the head to notify her of his arrival, he kept a close eye on Li-Li’s sword hand until she relaxed her grip, for her quick-draw attack was fast approaching a level where it might conceivably kill him if he wasn’t actively guarding against it. The same could be said about Yan and Mila’s exceptionally destructive applications of their respective Blessings, and Taduk wasn’t sure if this generation was pushed to excel because of the war, or if Rainy boy had done something to help all his wives along, but it didn’t really matter either way. The important thing was that these women were important to him and Lin-Lin both, to say nothing of what Akanai would do to him if he failed to bring her daughters back, so Taduk would see them all safely away, or die trying. “Hello Li-Li,” he chimed, bouncing Luo-Luo on his hip in hopes it would ease away her screams and struggles, but unlike Lin-Lin, the Imperial Scion was not so easily soothed. “I’ve come to bring you away before the big bad Demonic Divinity kills us all. If the thought of this discomforts you even the slightest, then I can bring you over to Hua Lie instead, yes?”

Turning his full attention back to the Demon to make sure he wasn’t missing anything important, Taduk idly hoped Li-Li would have no objections, because the alternative was carrying sweet Mi-Mi away, and while he loved the girl dearly, he would rather not have to Cloud-Step with ponderous Mi-Mi in one arm and uncooperative Luo-Luo in the other. Not because he couldn’t, since he could carry ten Mi-Mi’s away to safety if he really had to, but Hua Lie was strong enough to carry a hundred while barely even noticing the extra weight, so why not pass the burden over to that hard-headed fool of a rabbit?

Despite all of Akanai’s silly arguments about treating Li-Li like a kitten, the girl didn’t mind having her head patted and even leaned into it, so starved of affection yet terrified to seek it out. Alas, Taduk didn’t have time to indulge her or even listen to her answer, for matters with the Demonic Divinity became even more interesting, and he lost himself in thought.

Balance and Imbalance. Creation and Destruction. Two sides of the same coin. This was something he’d long since determined to be true, and the driving force behind his desire to learn how to Heal. As he grew in power as an Ancestral Beast, he soon discovered he was functionally unable to wield the Energy of the Heavens with more than a bare modicum of control, limiting him to less than a single percent of his total capabilities in order to avoid widespread destruction, a restriction which frustrated him to no end. It was like having all the books you could ever want except they were all written in some indecipherable language, while also inlaid with Runes that might well explode when you tried to open them to boot. Thus, in an effort to learn how to exert more control over the Destructive aspect of Heavenly Energy, Taduk sought to uncover the mysteries of Creation, mostly because studying the Destructive aspect would have seen him hunted down by every Divinity in the world for violating the Treaty.

Yet another bothersome constraint, the Treaty, prohibiting him from exploring the full depth and breadth of the Dao, but even he had to admit it was a necessary one. One mistake while carving a Runic Inscription resulted in an explosion strong enough to shatter stone, the result of only a smidgen of Heavenly Energy running amuck, so he could hardly even imagine the aftermath of a Divinity faffing matters up while trying to harness Heavenly Energy with their Will alone. Then again, he hardly had to imagine it; he could just look beyond the borders of the Empire to see the total destruction their predecessors had wrought.

That being said, he would still have loved to explore both aspects of the Dao, but until now, he’d been restricted only to one. In all likelihood a good thing in more ways than one, as he might never have come so far if not for the Treaty forcing him to focus on the most advanced form of Heavenly Energy use that one could safely utilize. Healing was a fascinating subject, because the human body was a complex and convoluted machine that belied understanding, so intricate and interconnected that even an entire human lifetime wasn’t enough to unravel all its mysteries. Suffice it to say that Healing was the subject that’d captured Taduk’s interest for the longest, and he was still learning more and more about it with each passing day. That being said, he was also one of the foremost authorities on the subject, meaning that if he were to declare himself the second most knowledgeable Healer in the world, no one would dare claim themselves as the first, including the egotistical upstart Zhen Shi who fancied himself as some grand visionary. Taduk had read the man’s journals which Rainy boy kept tucked away in his chest, and it was clear the man was brilliant, but also deeply disturbed and easily distracted, overlooking important details and critical discoveries that didn’t fit his line of thinking in order to pursue studies he found more interesting or agreeable instead.

Zhen Shi was a genius visionary, this much could not be argued, but a failure as a scholar, one obsessed with finding facts to fit his predetermined conclusions and satisfying his sadistic urges rather than following the facts to the immutable truth.

As for Taduk, he felt no shame in admitting his wrongs, because life would be boring if he already had all the answers. As such, he found Vyakhya's transformation into a Demon most fascinating even though it was so different from what he’d seen before, doing away with many of the facts and preconceived notions he once believed to be true. Or maybe Taduk found it fascinating because it was so different, for this was a glimpse at the other side of the coin which had long since been forbidden, one which gave him an entirely new perspective of the Dao to consider and might well hold the answer to the issue that plagued him and all others like him. What was the next step after Divinity? Whether it be an Ancestral Beast or Human Divinity, it was clear that their Path had yet to reach the true Peak. As a Cloud Chaser Hare, Lin-Lin had been so close to perfection on the day of her human birth, while Taduk didn’t know what to make of Rain’s progress, but where were they supposed to go from here? A lack of control meant they couldn’t study the uses of Heavenly Energy as they pleased, not without risking catastrophic consequences. This was doubly so considering how much focus most placed on the Martial Path, meaning they only ever learned how to kill and destroy, so all they could really do was twiddle their thumbs and maybe practice in secret far away from prying eyes and potential collateral damage.

Which made this Demonic transformation a calamity and opportunity both, one Taduk would be a fool to dismiss out of hand.

At first glance, it was easy enough to see that Vyakhya was a false Divinity, a contentious term one could arguably use to describe most of the human Divinities Taduk had met. Degrading though it might seem, there was really no better term for it, because Vyakhya had not arrived at his current level solely through personal Insight and achievement, but through external aid and support. This wasn’t to say his method was inferior, because a Divinity was still a Divinity, regardless of the process used to become one, but a false Divinity was deemed false because their awareness and comprehension of the Dao was sorely lacking in comparison. It was a difficult matter to quantify, but it showed in the results, for though Vyakhya had clearly Shattered the Void, his success was superficial at best.

To Shatter the Void meant to bring down the barrier between the physical and what Rainy boy called the metaphysical, which was as good a name for it as any. Whether you called it the Void, the Heavens, the Empyrean plane, Primordial Elements, or what have you, it was all semantics. What mattered was that it was there, and mortals were separated from it by a barrier, but in order to ascend to Divinity, one must first bring down that barrier in order to have unfettered access to the Energy of the Heavens. Therein lay the rub however, for if one were to wholly Shatter the Void and remove all barriers between themselves and the Heavens, then one would have to bear its full weight.

And having experienced the oppressiveness of the Heavens firsthand, Taduk knew that even he, a proud Divinity and Ancestral Cloud Chaser Hare, had no hopes of surviving such an attempt.

Not that he could describe the experience with any words, for he’d been but a mere beast at the time, an adorable, long-eared, satin-furred king of the skies much like Lin-Lin when he first met her. While he had no memories of his ascension or his life before it, he still had an impression of how formidable the Heavens truly were, and from this, he’d long since concluded that he, and every other Divinity true or false, had yet to wholly Shatter the Void. This wasn’t to say that they’d failed in the attempt, because they’d all clearly found some success, but after seeing Lin-Lin’s ascension, Taduk believed that each and every one of those Spiritual Beasts had abandoned their attempts to wholly Shatter the Void out of continued self-interest. Those Spiritual Beasts set out to overcome mortality and ascend to the Heavens, but once they touched upon the secrets of Creation and Destruction both, they realized that moving forward could only end in failure or death. And so, having discovered they were still lacking in some way, they abandoned their efforts and reincarnated into human form instead, a reincarnation they themselves controlled and directed in order to set themselves up for future success.

Meaning that, in a way, becoming an Ancestral Beast was but the first step on a new Path that went beyond Divinity, a most awe-inspiring perspective to take in.

Of course, all this was merely Taduk’s own personal theory on the matter, and he might well be wrong. It seemed as if Rainy boy and Ping Ping set Guan Suo on a Path going the other direction, but neither one could explain what they’d done or why they went about things in that way, while Guai Guai hardly seemed aware of his past life’s accomplishments. However, since Taduk had yet to discover anything to disprove his ideas, it was the best information he had to work with, and he would continue to do so until the facts proved otherwise. Regardless if you were a true or false Divinity however, the cold hard truth of the matter was that Ancestral Beasts and Human Divinities alike had yet to wholly Shatter the Void, because if they had, they would have been crushed under the weight of the Heavens. Or swept away, or consumed, or broken down and repurposed by the cycle of reincarnation, the actual outcome was still a matter of debate, but suffice it to say that Taduk was certain no Ancestral Beast or Human Divinity in existence had wholly Shattered the Void, else they would not exist. Thus, the greatest distinction lay in how much of the Void each Divinity had Shattered, which again, was difficult to quantify, but without anything better to work with, Taduk assumed that the more powerful Divinities had Shattered more of the Void, and thus were closer to ultimate success.

