“Ha. Ha. Ha,” the Demonic Divinity intoned, neither features nor lips moving as it spoke with Zhen Shi’s booming voice. “So it would –”

A dull, hollow thunk echoed all across Meng Sha as Rainy boy’s bullet of Chi smashed harmlessly into the Demonic Divinity’s Domain defenses. The impact wasn’t enough to shift the aberration, but clearly it felt something as the empty sockets of its eyes glowed with naked black hatred and barely restrained violence. Looking at his Spiritual Rifle in mock surprise, Rainy boy exclaimed, “Oh gods, I’m sorry. Finger slipped.” Taduk might almost have been convinced had he not felt the stirring of Heavenly Energy gathering in the rifle once more as Rainy boy continued, “I really need to see about putting a safety on this thing, but I swear this never happens.” Even as he said it, he pulled the trigger and fired a second shot, this one powerful enough to rock the Demonic Divinity back on its heels with an impact that sent air and sand flying in all directions. “Oh, geez, I can’t believe I did it again, but in my defense, it’s been so long since I handled my polearm, so you understand, right?” Even now, Rainy boy was able to make jokes, but then he threw away all pretense and said, “Ah fuck it. SUP-PRES-SING FIREEEEEEEE!”

Bullet after bullet hammered home into the Demonic Divinity, but without taking the time to gather his power, these shots were far too weak to move it, much less cause it any harm. After a good ten seconds of non-stop firing, Rainy boy sighed and shook his head. “Alright then. Clearly this isn’t working, so I guess I’ll let you go on with your monologue then.”

In spite of the gravity of the situation, Taduk found it difficult not to laugh at the boy’s pluck and courage, and many a soldier in Meng Sha managed a nervous chuckle, but Zhen Shi was not amused. “Try as many times as you care to, little worm,” he hissed, and Rainy boy took that as an invitation to begin gathering power into his rifle once more, a turn of events even Zhen Shi hadn’t expected. Ignoring it for now, the crazed torturer brought the Demonic Divinity’s ghoulish face down to loom mere centimetres from Rainy boy’s, but he matched its vacant stare with a smirk. “Your futile efforts will change nothing. This Transcendent being is beyond your pitiful comprehension, one which has surpassed all others.”

“A weapon to surpass Metal Gear,” the boy intoned, though Taduk had no earthly idea what he was saying.

Neither did Zhen Shi, but he paid it no mind and continued, “Little worm, this Sovereign offers his thanks for providing him with so potent a puppet. You have succeeded where so many others have failed and helped create a being which surpasses Divinity, one unbound by the restrictions of feeble human Will and emotion.”

“You’re welcome,” Rainy boy replied, sounding wholly unimpressed and unintimidated. “Honestly? Wasn’t even trying. Anyone who spent centuries failing to accomplish this should probably take a good long look in the mirror and ask themselves why they’re so fucking useless.”

A snicker slipped past Taduk’s lips, but only because sweet Lin-Lin buried her face in his robes to muffle her laughter and squeezed his stomach too tight. Playing it off as a cough, he mumbled something about sand in his throat and pretended to look for his waterskin while gesturing for Zhen Shi to continue, because so long as he was talking, he wasn’t killing, which meant Meng Sha could still be saved.

“Mock all you want, little worm,” he hissed, his tone concealing a mountain of barely restrained anger. “It will not change your fate. Know that this Sovereign now holds the unlimited power of the Heavens in the palm of his hands, and could kill everyone you hold dear with little more than a thought.”

“For someone so old and powerful, you sure are a terrible liar.” Still gathering power into his rifle, Rainy boy scoffed at Zhen Shi’s declaration. “If you could kill us all, you would, and we wouldn’t be having this conversation. It’s probably not easy controlling a Demonic Divinity, is it? Yea, didn’t think so.” Rainy boy sounded mighty pleased, but somehow, Taduk wasn’t sure it was a good thing that the Demonic Divinity was not so easily controlled, since it would wreak havoc upon the Empire should it be set loose. “Whatever. My time and patience are limited, so say your piece and be done with it. Some of us have things to do and places to be.”

For long seconds, Zhen Shi said nothing, but the Demonic Divinity drew a long, slow breath into its lungs before deliberately stretching out its exhalation. All for effect, since it hardly needed to breathe, or perhaps it was being affected by Zhen Shi’s efforts to rein in his anger, Taduk wasn’t sure which. Either way, there was a long silence before he spoke again, and when he did, his tone was tense and terse. “This Sovereign will make this offer but once. Order your forces to withdraw from the West and surrender yourself to my care. This Sovereign will then leave the outer provinces untouched for a period of ten years, and swear to never use this Transcendent Divinity in battle so long as the Treaty remains intact.” Holding out a hand to forestall Rainy boy’s instant retort, Zhen Shi added, “Think before you answer, little worm. Ask your honoured teacher to gauge this Transcendent’s strength, for it is no empty boast to say it is utterly unmatched.”

“I can sense how strong it is myself,” Rainy boy replied, faking a reluctant sigh. “Very powerful. Unimaginably so.”

The boy paused, yet still continued gathering power into his rifle, so much so that even Zhen Shi could no longer stand idle. “And?” he demanded, drawing the Demonic Divinity back to ready its defense. “What say you, little worm?”

“What say I?” Even the surrounding soldiers could see what Rainy boy’s answer would be, and their grim acceptance spoke volumes to their courage. “I say, ‘Parry this, you filthy casual.’”

The explosion of power set the earth to shaking as Rainy boy unleashed another Chi bullet, one which smashed into the Demonic Divinity’s defenses and drove it back a full three metres before finally fading out of existence. The resulting shockwave knocked many a soldier off their feet and even made Taduk reel back a bit as he felt the blowback wash over his Domain and shower him in sand and dust. None of it actually landed on his robes, thank the Heavens, for sand was notoriously difficult to get out of clothes, and he would rather not spend his last few moments alive being tormented by sandy grit pouring into every crevice of his skin.

Though his efforts ended in failure, it was good to see Rainy boy back in high spirits, spewing nonsense and giving no face as he was wont to do. A shame they would have to part here, but Taduk would sooner die a thousand times than let his sweet Lin-Lin and Rainy boy come to harm. “Leave now,” he said, moving to stand in front of them both. “I will hold the Demon here.”

“No need.” Stepping in front of him with an almost indifferent wave of his hand, Rainy boy approached the Demonic Divinity with casual disregard for his safety and the safety of everyone around him. “Don’t worry Taddy. I can tell he doesn’t really want to fight us here, because then he’ll lose his new toy. Isn’t that right, you decrepit, eight-hundred-year-old fuck? You’re so full of anger and regret, I can taste it on your fetid breath. Enough of your games now. Fight or fuck off, but know that I will be coming for you soon enough.”

“Why must you force this Sovereign’s hand?”

“Typical abuser’s mentality. ‘Why are you making me hurt you?’ ‘Stop struggling and this will be easier.’ Get the fuck out of here with that shit.” Sneering in outright contempt, Rainy boy advanced upon the Demonic Divinity and jabbed it with a finger, though he could only reach its belly given the vast disparity in height. “You think your fancy new puppet will hold all the answers you seek, but I already know you’ll fuck it up, just like you fucked everything else up. Know how I know? Because you’re worthless, and you know it. You’ve spent so much time studying and getting all your ducks in a row, but I barely even knew what I was doing and still ruined all your best laid plans. The only difference now is that I finally figured some things out, so enjoy your reprieve while it still lasts, because I’ll be coming for your head soon enough.”

“Good, good.” The naked anger set Taduk’s hairs to standing as Zhen Shi growled using the Demonic Divinity’s throat, a low, rumbling vibration reminiscent of a steel plate scraping against jagged stones. “You think yourself clever, little worm, that you hold all the answers and know how the future unfolds, but you are mistaken in more ways than one, and this Sovereign will magnanimously explain.” Leaning over once more so that the Demonic Divinity’s face was eye to eye with Rainy boy, Zhen Shi continued, “You see, this Sovereign already has the answers he needs, and has no need to study this Transcendent. Alas, little worm was correct in assuming it is also not easy to control, and this Sovereign has wasted too much strength on discourse and is wholly spent, so he must now abandon his efforts to bring it away.” The Demonic Divinity’s smile seemed to stretch without shifting even a single millimetre, as Zhen Shi’s voice oozed with smug satisfaction. “Do not say this Sovereign did not try warn you, little worm, but now you will reap that which you have sown.”

Silence hung like funerary drapes over all of Meng Sha as Zhen Shi withdrew from the Demonic Divinity, but as the aberration’s oppressive Aura burst out to shower them all in unmitigated rage and hatred, Taduk heard Rainy boy mutter, “Well... Shit.”

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3

Chapter Meme 4

Chapter Meme 5
