The earth shook and the Heavens raged as the Demonic Divinity clawed its way into existence, a most fascinating and novel experience worth studying, but Taduk absently took it all in for later perusal while wistfully reflecting on how quickly the years flew by.

These days, sweet Lin-Lin and Rainy boy were everything to him, but less than thirty-odd years ago, Taduk was but a vagrant bachelor who spent his days and nights immersed in whatever subject caught his fancy. At the time, it was Spiritual Beasts and Plants and the methods they employed to become more than their mundane counterparts, the latest branch in his wide-spread efforts to better understand how one became a Divinity so as to shed new light on his own Path. The Saint’s Tribulations mountains had plenty of specimens to study and Akanai had been more than happy to accommodate his ‘eccentric’ and ‘reclusive’ ways without too many requests or demands, so life was good for an indeterminant number of years, or at least more than he cared to keep track of.

Then things changed, and Taduk never did like change much. It all started when Akanai took in a wolf-pup for a Disciple, and that rabbit-brained blockhead Hua Lie thought Mentoring looked fun, so she took a Disciple too. This led to both women making more demands of him, because neither one knew how to treat a Disciple gently, and they even dragged him off to do battle with the Defiled at one point, but this much he could tolerate. Mostly because little Hai understood gratitude and gifted Taduk with a manor in Shen Huo once he became Magistrate, but also because he was rather fond of Baatar and Sarnai. The real disaster was not the distraction they all posed, but rather something far worse, for the wolf pup and mountain rose went and fell madly in love and kicked off what might well be the greatest calamity of the century.

Not for them, as Baatar and Sarnai were a heartwarming couple who suited each other well, but a calamity for Taduk which he was ill-equipped to endure. It all started when those two love-struck darlings invited Hua Lie to their wedding, where their vows put all sorts of silly ideas into that wooden head of hers. From the day they met, that floppy-eared temptress had been making bold advances upon him, which in turn spurred Ling Lu to do the same out of a sense of friendship and rivalry. Not the worst thing in the world, for no man was immune to the attentions of beautiful women, and there was no denying that they were both very lovely indeed. Under different circumstances, he might have considered a dalliance with one or the other, but he rejected them both because neither one truly held his best interests in mind. Hua Lie only desired him because she mistakenly believed their pairing would result in a viable child, one who would naturally grow into a Divinity as he or she came of age, but he knew full well she would leave him once she realized no pregnancy was forthcoming, as well it should be between a rabbit and a hare. As for Ling Lu, her motives were even less pure than Hua Lie’s, for the Ancestral Gazelle’s interests were driven solely by her desire to one-up Hua Lie, and Taduk was no prize to be mounted and stuffed.

Nor did he have any desire to risk Hua Lie’s ire, for somehow, the stupid, flea-bitten, ancestor of a rodent had learned how to utilize a limited amount of Heavenly Energy without killing everyone and everything within a dozen kilometres.

It wasn’t that she was necessarily stronger than Taduk, but that she could beat him silly without breaking the Treaty, while he was unable to retaliate or even effectively defend himself without risking it all. Should their relationship turn hostile, the only thing he could do was run, and while he was the faster of the two, she possessed a dainty little nose which could track him to the ends of the Empire and back again without missing a single step. Among the Divinities of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, Hua Lie was second in terms of usable strength, inferior only to Lao Lang, an Ancestral Wolf so old he’d likely known the Saint who gave the mountains their namesake, assuming it wasn’t him in the first place. In contrast, Hua Lie was close enough to Taduk’s age that they were unsure who was older, a coincidence which only further reinforced her belief that they were a fated pair. That being said, deflecting her advances was simple enough because in spite of her many insistent proposals, there was no real love between them, as demonstrated by how every few decades she would become enamoured with some mortal or another and bear yet another child which she so desperately tried to love.

Say one thing about her, but Hua Lie was a determined woman, one who treated all her half-rabbit children well despite her instincts screaming at her to kill them for being too weak. Not an experience Taduk wanted to share in, for he feared the guilt and pain would be too much for him to bear.

Hua Lie’s determination would soon prove to be Taduk’s downfall however, for after witnessing Sarnai’s trials and tribulations of love result in a resounding success, Hua Lie approached Taduk and told him in no uncertain terms that she intended to marry him and be his wife regardless if she could bear his child or not. Before, her interest lay solely in the realm of mating and propagation, which was easy to reject because he knew it was a partnership destined to fail, and he had no desire to subject himself to that particular brand of misery without good reason. A marriage however, that was a different story, for he’d long since envied Machali and Da Hui’s partnership, tumultuous as it might be. Though they were always arguing about this or that, they were also always together and supportive of one another, and as wonderful as it was to watch Baatar and Sarnai’s romance bud and blossom into something beautiful, Taduk had lived long enough to know it was destined to end in heartache and distress once the mountain rose withered away and left the wolf pup to mourn alone.

Which was why Taduk mostly kept to himself. It was just easier that way, but a marriage with another Divinity, one that would last into the ages… that was something entirely different, a possibility wholly worthy of consideration.

A decision of this magnitude could not be made lightly, especially since he had next to nothing in common with Hua Lie save for the fact that she was rabbit and he a hare, which was only a similarity to an idiot like her. Despite all their differences however, he was still tempted to at least try, because among other reasons, it was rare to find new ground to explore and navigate. To give himself time to think, he escaped to his manor in Shen Huo for a time, but little Hai’s incessant requests made it all but impossible to focus on his dilemma. How was anyone supposed to get anything done with him dropping in every few weeks to see if Taduk could treat this person’s boring, mundane sickness or attend that person’s insipid banquet? You would think that short-lived mortals would be more prudent with their limited time, but they frittered away whole decades doing nothing of note, and they thought him the mad one.

Then one morning, Taduk woke up and decided he’d had enough of everyone’s antics, so he set out from Shen Huo without leaving word of his departure. It wasn’t the first time he’d set off on a journey by himself, since he often went wandering to search for Spiritual Beasts and Plants alike, but it was the first time he left without telling anyone since he settled down in the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains. Akanai was rather particular about that, keeping track of his comings and goings, a good friend and hard woman who wasn’t afraid to lambaste him for accompanying Husolt out at all hours of the night, as if her husband wasn’t the one to drag Taduk out and about to begin with. More than once, she’d put him on an involuntary vegetarian diet in reprisal, and there wasn’t a thing he could do about her cruel and immoral punishment. There was not a single denizen of the mountain range who would dare cross their hero and Chief Provost, not even for a Healer. Even if Taduk were willing to publicly reveal himself as a Divinity, he wagered they’d still all take her side regardless, for Divinities were abundant as cabbages at the marketplace compared to the unique and extraordinary Akanai of the Bekhai.

Still, despite knowing the horrors that would await him should he ever return, Taduk felt a weight lift off his shoulders the moment he took to the open skies. He was never any good at making important decisions or interacting with other people, as he preferred to focus on his studies instead. Lately, things had gotten too complicated for him, what with Baatar and Sarnai and all their friends, as well as little Hai spreading word of Taduk’s work and calling him a ‘Medical Saint’. That title never sat right with him, because even though the world praised him for his generosity and kindness, it had always merely been a means to an end. In order to study medicine, it was best to see it in action, so he went out in the world to treat as many people as he could. Gold was meaningless to a Divinity like himself, but others saw his indifference to wealth as altruism and benevolence, even though he felt that the information gleaned from Healing so many was more than worth the effort. Then there was the wide array of test subjects for medicines, which he was always careful to ensure was safe, but even he made mistakes every now and then. Yet even when his errors resulted in someone’s death, no one ever blamed him for his failures, they only thanked him for his efforts even though he might well have made things worse.

Curious creatures, humans were, so full of hate and anger, but also empathy and compassion. Now there was a mystery even he couldn’t solve, not that he was doing any better with his chosen studies.

It’d been decades since he made any real progress with his research, for no matter how many Spiritual Beasts or Plants he came across, he had yet to find a singular thread to link them all, and nothing to explain how a mundane beast or plant might elevate themselves to become more. There was a time when he tried to study the Martial Path instead, but he was not suited for it, because too much of his Dao came naturally to him, which left him unable to fathom the hardships others encountered along theirs. Just finding Balance was a struggle for some, which was as incomprehensible to Taduk as a healthy human struggling to breathe, which was why he’d switched focus to beasts and plants instead. Beasts because at one point, he’d been one, and plants because they were easier to understand than people or animals, but alas, his success was limited at best.

Which was why as soon as he realized he was simply taking his normal route around the province, checking in on previously discovered Spiritual specimens, he quickly grew bored and wanted to do something new. It’d been less than a century since his last trip, so surely there wasn’t much of interest to find, though years later, he learned that a garden snake living at one of those sites had successfully Refined its Spiritual Heart, but only after it put its tail through Rainy boy’s chest. That would come later however, as Taduk picked a new heading on a whim and soon arrived in the forest of his birth, the isolated heart of a lush and verdant jungle in the Southern Province many kilometres away from civilized life. Once, there’d been a giant Kapok tree overlooking the waterfall nearby, and he’d lived out his earliest days inside the nooks and crannies of that towering giant, but the original one had long since withered and died with new trees sprouting in its place. There were still fruits and tubers aplenty scattered throughout the familiar jungle, and plenty of stagnant pools where fish stopped to spawn, both of which provided him with ample, albeit unappetizing sustenance. Those were his earliest memories of this place, when he was already an established resident of the jungle living comfortably on his own, a child younger than even Tali and Tate were now, yet wholly capable of surviving without any help.

But only just. Divinity though he might be, back then, he’d only been marginally stronger than a mortal, and wholly ignorant to boot. Even now, the memory of gnawing away at tough roots and chomping down raw fish made his stomach turn, and he cringed to think of what a fool he’d made of himself when he finally found the courage to leave the jungle to seek out others like him. That had been a long and arduous journey he did not care to revisit, filled with trials and tribulations aplenty, but being in the jungle again reminded him of simpler times, when all he cared about was filling his belly and avoiding the fierce predators of the night.

As if on cue, he heard the tell-tale cry of a minokawa and an involuntary shudder coursed down his spine, reminding him of all the close brushes with death he’d had in this life and the last. This fear was something ingrained into his heart and soul, for the minokawa was the Cloud Chaser Hare’s one and only competitor for the title of King of the skies, a massive avian predator capable of hunting even jaguars and anacondas, to say nothing of a young boy or Cloud Chaser Hares. To feel such fear irked Taduk greatly, for he was a Divinity now, one powerful enough to dominate everything under the Heavens, and he refused to be cowed by a fat flying turkey. In a fit of pique, he Cloud-Stepped over to where he heard the minokawa cry and unleashed the strongest attack he could conceivably let loose without breaking the world, an Amplified slap that could shatter stone from inside and out.

