It made sense after all, if one assumed the ultimate goal was to have unfettered access to Heavenly Energy without expending all of oneself to hold it, meaning less of a barrier equated to more access. Some Divinities might have Shattered themselves the equivalent of an open window, meaning the Energy of the Heavens was less responsive to them than to a Divinity who’d Shattered themselves a door or what have you. The greater the remaining barrier, the weaker the Divinity, but such things were not set in stone. With time and comprehension, one could whittle away at what remained of the barrier and turn a window into a door or whatnot, and perhaps even one day wholly Shatter the Void once they understood what they themselves were lacking and made up for it in some way. This was the goal most Divinities worked towards, but Taduk never did like to sit still and meditate, so instead of looking inwards for answers, he looked outwards at the world instead.

All roads lead to the Dao after all, and even if Taduk’s methodology was flawed, he had plenty of time to improve upon it. Though old for a Demi-Human, he was young for a Divinity after all, so why not take the path less travelled? It only seemed right, and Taduk was always one to trust his own instincts.

And those instincts told him that in the grand scale of Divinities, Vyakhya sat close to the bottom, if not at the very bottom itself. Not only was his comprehension of the Dao sorely lacking, his presence was only marginally more significant than a powerful Martial Warrior like Shen ZhenWu, or that Seneschal he kept on hand, though still many times more substantial than someone like that hateful Hideo currently cowering behind the monk or the likes of Akanai and Baatar. In more practical terms, this meant that Vyakhya’s connection to the metaphysical was tenuous at best, meaning he would likely have to work at it in order to summon enough Heavenly Energy to break the Treaty, a willful act rather than an inadvertent one. A failing of most Human Divinities, which was both a blessing and a curse, the former because it gave them more free-reign to act, and the latter because it meant they were too far removed from the Energy of the Heavens to wholly appreciate it in all its glory and majesty.

Now however, Taduk’s instincts were screaming at him to say that Vyakhya’s flaws were being fixed and fortified at an unbelievable pace, likely by the maleficent spiritual entities Rainy boy called Spectres. Though visually, this appeared like every other Demonic birth Taduk had ever seen, metaphysically it was a storm unlike any other. The currents of Heavenly Energy roiled and raged as Primal forces overrode the laws of Creation and Destruction both, twisting reality and rewriting causality in order to accommodate its vast and domineering aberrant presence. It was unlike any other ascension in that there was no sense of awe or admiration for the Heavens, only a cold and foreboding gloom and doom that twisted his stomach into knots. Unnatural was the only way to describe it, an affront to nature and life itself, but even more pronounced here than with any other Demonic birth because these changes went beyond the mere physical, and not in any way familiar to Taduk. When Spiritual Beasts Shattered the Void, they underwent a process to entwine the physical with the metaphysical, but it was always in that one direction. The essence of their existence was anchored in the physical world with ties to the metaphysical one, yet the Demon here was going about it in the opposite way. This was a metaphysical entity forcing its way into the physical realm, which would not be so surprising if not for its incredibly massive metaphysical presence.

And if metaphysical presence was any indication of strength, then this Demonic Divinity was several times stronger than every Divinity currently in Meng Sha combined, including Rainy boy whose connection was so substantial it was a miracle he had yet to slip up and cause widespread destruction given how much anger and emotion he’d already shown. This Demon was by far the strongest entity Taduk had ever come across, for if Martial Warriors were blades of grass, Taduk was a towering tree, and the Demonic Divinity was a mountain at the very least, but only because he lacked the ability to take its full measure.

In contrast, Rainy boy’s recent progress was a mix of contradictions, for Taduk had been unable to follow along with what he’d done. It was both familiar, yet unnatural, straightforward, yet profound, boisterous, yet subtle, and altogether wholly implausible as the Heavens raged and stilled, blazed and chilled, came together and fell apart in a process that borrowed elements from both sides. Though it was clear he succeeded, it was difficult to gauge his presence, for there were times when his power seemed deep and unfathomable as the ocean, a sturdy and domineering seven-story fortress of a pagoda, while at other times, Taduk could hardly perceive the boy’s presence with anything besides his five physical senses.

This was a phenomenon Taduk had only seen on two other creatures, the illustrious Divine Turtles Ping Ping and Pong Pong. In all likelihood, Rainy boy was right in denying he was a Divinity, for he’d accomplished what Taduk had hoped to do and gone beyond mere Divinity, a being who could control the Energy of the Heavens without running the risk of breaking the world.

A most curious process, especially given how Rainy boy’s attacks appeared so deceptively weak to Taduk’s instincts among many other things, not even as powerful as Nian Zu’s Shooting Star. There was still so much to study, so many questions to ask, but he knew now was not the time for distraction and put his musings aside for later. Though there might well be several seconds more to go before the Demonic Divinity was fully formed in reality, it was high time they all put Meng Sha behind them, for there was no guarantee the Demonic Divinity would strike once and only once. Going back through his memories to find Li-Li’s reply, Taduk ascertained that she’d indicated she was willing to allow him to carry her, so he lifted her by the waist and Cloud-Stepped back over to the others and said, “Grab Yan and Lin-Lin then run fast as you can, Rain my boy. There’s nothing else we can do here.”

Bounding over a kilometre away in a single step, he stopped when he realized Rainy boy had yet to move, and in his panic, Taduk almost cursed the boy for his stubbornness. Returning back to Meng Sha with his wards in hand, he prodded the silly blockhead with his toe and said, “Come come. Long past time we were gone and I can’t carry everyone away on my own.” That was the best way to convince him to move, to ask him for help rather than tell him what to do, but this tried-and-true tactic failed to provoke a response, so Taduk moved onto his next gambit, which was logic and reasoning. “You might think you can Devour the Demon, but this one is a Divinity-level existence. Even if you can defeat it, its death throes alone will be enough to kill everyone here, so it’s time we were away, yes?”

Just as Taduk was about to try something else, Rainy boy came out of his fugue. “Hm?” he began, so distracted from studying the Demonic birth that Taduk’s words had only just reached him. “Oh, don’t worry Taddy,” he continued, which was the first time he’d ever used this curious term of endearment, and Taduk absolutely loved it. “It won’t attack. He won’t let it, because he wants to study it himself.”

He being Zhen Shi, Taduk presumed, since Vyakhya was hardly in any state to study anything now that he’d willingly given into anger and despair. Say what you will about him, but Rainy boy had a knack for driving his foes to Demonification, though it would be better if he learned to exercise this talent with more restraint. Then again, Taduk rather liked seeing him act so unbridled and unrestrained, because for better or for worse, this was the man Falling Rain was, and the man Taduk loved like a son.

He still remembered the day they brought the little foundling to him, so broken and battered he could hardly understand why anyone would treat another living being this way. Kill if you must, but what purpose did torture and torment serve? The poor boy had been a little twig of a thing, so thin he was more bone than flesh, and covered in so many bruises and cuts it’d been easier to categorize the areas which didn’t need Healing. Most incredible of all was the fact that he still refused to let his guard down, despite being battered, broken, and near death, sitting there wrapped in a blanket while shivering with fatigue and fright yet still vigilant against any and all threats in a desperate bid to stay alive.

But then he looked upon Taduk and his amber eyes lit up for all of a second, his cracked, bleeding lips stretching into a smile so full of joy and amazement at the sight of two magnificent, velvety, Cloud Chaser Hare ears.

It reminded him of Lin-Lin’s first smile, and Taduk could scarcely believe someone in Rainy boy’s state could still find joy in spite of everything he’d experienced. He knew then that Rainy boy would go far in life, and time proved him right. Oh how refreshing it’d been to see the boy talk down to a Divinity while wholly aware of Vyakhya’s status, to say nothing of how magnificently he dispatched of his admittedly overconfident and unprepared foe, but that unbridled, domineering arrogance which cared nothing for rank or status was part and parcel of Falling Rain. It wasn’t that he was rude, not exactly. He could be polite when he wanted to, and usually was, but he was also not a man to suffer disrespect lightly. He treated others the way they treated him, and in the eyes of the noble elite, this was arrogance beyond his station. In recent years, he’d grown more subdued and reserved as a result of the trials and tribulations he’d faced, believing that his attitude had brought trouble down upon himself, but while this was partially true, he wasn’t being fair to himself by trying to change who he fundamentally was just because people in power didn’t like how he refused to grovel at their feet.

As for Rainy boy, today marked the return of that unconstrained man, the same one who had the courage to face Akanai every day without complaint and beat up a noble in public for being overbearing and tyrannical. Falling Rain was someone who dared demand kowtows from a Brigadier and extort his peers for gold during a contest, a bold and domineering Warrior who mocked his rivals and drove them mad while simultaneously feigning humility to lessen their achievements. Then there was the matter of how bold and brazen he could be, defying a Purge and staining his own hands in blood just to spare strangers another second of suffering, or charging headlong at a Demon with nothing but a mundane spear in hand at the tender age of sixteen. He loved, he laughed, he fought, he cried, and throughout it all, he was never ashamed of what he did, only indignant that his way was not the way things were. This was a strength few truly understood, the strength to stand apart, for at the end of the day, humans were social creatures who lived in packs, yet Rainy boy was more than happy to stand against the tide because he believed his way was right.

A quality he kept all these years and would soon help him change the world, assuming he survived this calamity today.

Against his insistent instincts and better judgement, Taduk directed Li-Li, Luo-Luo, and Yan to go stand with Hua Lie while he took his place with Lin-Lin behind Rainy boy. Since he seemed confident that it was safe enough to stay, Taduk would trust him, or in the worst-case scenario, give his life buying time for Hua Lie to get everyone out safely. At least then Lin-Lin would no longer be hunted, or at least not hunted by all without the temptation of two Ancestral Cloud Chaser Hares around. Besides, despite all his talents and accomplishments, Rainy boy was rarely this assertive when other lives were at stake, so surely he knew something everyone else didn’t. Standing there with his Spiritual Rifle resting on his shoulder, he was the very picture of calm and undaunted while watching the Demonic Divinity take form. With the actual metaphysical process over and done with, Taduk had no interest in watching the grotesque metamorphosis play out, and instead hummed a cheery little tune while covering sweet Lin-Lin’s eyes to spare her the sight. It didn’t sound pleasant at all, with all the bones cracking, flesh squelching, tendons snapping and more, but at least it was mercifully short.

When the Demonic Divinity let loose an inhuman screech, Taduk finally turned to study it and found a hulking humanoid aberration towering over them with spade in hand, in what he assumed was a debased image of Vyakhya during his younger years. Clad in flowing robes of bloody entrails hanging down to its bare feet, the muscular, monk-like Demon held a string of blackened skulls in one hand, a grotesque mockery of the wooden beads that Mahakala held during Rainy boy’s banquet, and a weapon similar to the spade Vyakhya held in life, only with a massive bladed head that would look comically oversized if it wasn’t clearly a weapon of death and destruction. Howling in defiance to the Heavens above, the Demonic Divinity lowered its eyes to gaze upon Rainy boy down by its hips, and only then did Taduk see its empty eyes and vacant expression fixed in a ghoulish, fanged smile, one which almost seemed kind and merciful if you didn’t look closely enough.

Not to Taduk though, for he knew that was not a smile of joy or compassion, but one of a predator looking down at its prey.

