Admittedly it wasn’t much to be proud of, but he was surprised when his blow merely dazed the minokawa for a moment, though a moment was all its prey needed to turn the tables around.

That was the first time Taduk laid eyes on his sweet, precious daughter, though she looked very different at the time. A tiny, rounded thing, even for a Cloud Chaser Hare, able to fit comfortably in the palm of his hand, yet so full of fury and voraciousness as it tore through the minokawa’s throat and set it plummeting from the skies. So intent on devouring her catch, the little hare almost crashed into the ground before catching up to the corpse, but she caught it at the last moment and Cloud-Stepped from mere centimetres above the ground to arrest its momentum and keep its catch from being pulped into the dirt. Settling down on a nearby tree, Taduk watched the little beast partake of its meal from afar and noticed a deep and vicious puncture wound in its side, one which would likely prove fatal if left untreated. Seeing how she might well be one of his descendants from his past life, he Healed the hare on a whim only to discover that it was no mere beast, but a Spiritual Beast brimming with power and potential.

Usually, he could sense a creature was a Spiritual Beast so long as he could see it, though it was only recently that he understood how. Back then however, he was fascinated to find a Spiritual Beast capable of evading his superlative perceptions, and more importantly, able to find him despite his cloak of Concealment and offer a bared tooth threat warning him to stay back. Seeing him heed her warning, the little hare continued to stuff its cheeks while Taduk Healed her considerable injuries, and he was amazed by how quickly she devoured the minokawa which was almost twenty times her size. Once her meal was finished, she hopped once in Taduk’s direction, then thought better of it and took to the skies, whereupon she disappeared into the clouds and evaded all of his attempts to track and follow her away.

Back then, he thought it merely a missed opportunity to study a powerful Spiritual Beast and didn’t give it a second thought, but then two months later, he came across the same hare almost two-hundred kilometres away from where they first met. It was injured again, ripped open from shoulder to hip along one flank, and it hopped out in front of him as bold as could be while watching his reaction as if asking him to Heal her again. He did, because this level of intelligence was beyond anything he’d ever seen before, to not only realize that he’d Healed her earlier, but also track him down from so far away after so many weeks which he spent under a cloak of Concealment.

This happened several more times over the course of a year, and each time, he could tell that the little hare was growing bolder thanks to his care. Not just with the targets she hunted, coming back with more grievous injuries each and every time, but also with how comfortable she was in his presence. One time, after he finished Healing her missing paw, the little hare hopped over to his shoulder and planted herself there as if too tired to go searching for a safe place to rest, and he was touched by the level of trust she showed. While it might not seem like much, he knew how difficult it was for a creature that was both predator and prey to sleep in the presence of another, but she was all too happy to curl up against his neck and snore fitfully without a care in the world. After a few days, she left once more only to return an indeterminate amount of time later bearing fresh injuries, but eventually as the months turned into years, she started staying with him longer and longer until she was rarely away from his side.

It was a novel experience to be sure, for she wasn’t so much a pet as she was a companion, and Taduk had been starved of companionship for too long since leaving the mountains. As such, he was all too happy to keep her close and spoil her rotten while also studying her behaviour and mannerisms, only to be blown away by the sheer level of intelligence the little darling demonstrated. She learned her name quickly enough, as well as a dozen simple commands like ‘no’, ‘eat’, ‘wait’, and ‘sleep’. She also loved to perch in his pocket or in between his ears with her face sticking out in order to study the strange world of humans around her, tilting her head this way and that as if struggling to comprehend what lay before her eyes. She even knew how to communicate in a primitive sort of way, leading him out of the city and away from civilization before showing him how she loved to play, by soaring high into the clouds then letting gravity bring her back down to earth in a rush of pure, unadulterated glee, which he experienced first-hand as he played alongside her and spent many a day chasing her about through the clouds, or being chased in a joyous game of tag.

Though he didn’t realize it at the time, it soon became clear that the little hare had chosen him as her protector, for one fateful night after more than a decade together, she brought him back to the jungle where they first met and stomped her feet every time he tried to leave while refusing to let him catch her. Figuring he’d humour the sweet hare, he found a comfortable spot in the treetops and laid down to rest, while the little hare nestled up under his chin and snuggled in for the night. A few hours later, Taduk’s beauty sleep was rudely interrupted by a monumental convergence of Heavenly Energy, one unlike anything he’d ever felt before, and he opened his eyes to see the darling little hare awash in the power of Creation and Destruction both as she took her first step towards True Divinity.

In that one, singular moment, the secrets of the universe were laid bare before him and Taduk learned more about controlling the Energy of the Heavens than he’d learned in all his years of studies combined. Even now, he still could not find the words to describe it, except to say that it was a form of Balance far beyond his meagre comprehension, a mellow, undemanding method that only required he stay true to himself, but even the tiny morsel he understood was enough to catapult him along his personal Path to stand shoulder to shoulder with Hua Lie and the Old Wolf in terms of usable strength. This was significant, because a Divinity without usable strength might as well be a fish upon the chopping block, for the Treaty would not protect them if they lacked the strength to protect themselves, and bearing witness to this Cloud Chaser Hare’s ascension provided Taduk with usable strength aplenty.

Then, reality shifted and in the blink of an eye, the little hare was no more and a toddler sat in her place, a brown-eyed, honey-skinned child who looked to be no older than two, with a full head of sable hair and two floppy little hare ears dropping down from her crown. Those large, limpid eyes filled with tears as she tried to make sense of her strange surroundings and circumstances, but even as she took her first breath to let loose a terrified wail, she caught Taduk’s gaze and suddenly all was right in the world. The tears spilled out, but her chubby cheeks stretched into a smile of pure love and joy as she reached out towards him with a laugh, and there was no force in the world strong enough to keep him away.

From that day forward, Taduk was a father in every sense of the word, for though she was not the blood of his blood, Lin-Lin was his daughter in every way that mattered. As he swaddled her in a white-silk scarf and cooed at her adorable expressions, he knew the world would not treat them kindly, for the temptation of a breeding pair of Divinities was too strong for most to resist. An army of Divinities to raise and mould as you wish, even the Emperor himself would be tempted by such a prospect, but Taduk had only just met his darling daughter and would sooner tear the world asunder than let her come to harm. Knowing their future might well be one filled with bloodshed and calamity, he decided then and there to never harm another living creature again, not unless it was to protect his precious Mei Lin. The day he killed again would be the day he broke the Treaty, and now almost twenty years later, it appeared as if that day had finally come.

Not solely because of the Demonic Divinity mind you, which was rather fascinating now that he thought about it. Even accounting for the danger this miscreation represented, it’d been a good many centuries since he’d encountered something so unique. Well, that wasn’t entirely true, as Rainy boy always had some peculiar notion worth exploring tumbling around the back of his head, but this anomaly might well prove to be a watershed moment for every Divinity present. Demons were, at the core of it all, a deviation from the Dao, or at the very least an irregularity worth studying, but Taduk never had the time or inclination to make contact with the Defiled. Putting aside their murderous tendencies and hideous concept of home decor, the Defiled were an unpleasant bunch who resided in inhospitable lands, to say nothing of their lacking manners, hygiene, and culinary skills. ­

There was a time when Taduk would’ve hardly cared about what he ate, but he’d long since grown spoiled living with the Bekhai, especially once Rainy boy learned how to cook. Another oddity that, the fact that everything the boy made tasted so much better than anything bought or paid for, even though he wasn’t anywhere near as skilled as Charok or even Alsantset. An extra pinch of love, that was the answer Rainy boy gave when asked why his food tasted so good, and though he was being tongue-in-cheek, Taduk suspected it might well be the truth.

Something worth looking into if and when he had the time, like after he navigated through this calamity alive and puzzled out all this Runic Inscription nonsense, but for now, it would be best to focus on the matter at hand. While a Demonic birth wasn’t anything too out of the ordinary, as Taduk had seen more than his fair share in recent years, a Demonic Divinity was another thing altogether. Demons were fundamentally the result of a massive imbalance, but the Path to Divinity was achieved through Balance, so how would the creation of a Demonic Divinity differ from that of a regular Divinity or Ancestral Beast? How fortuitous a happenstance to see this happen so soon after Rainy boy’s recent unfathomable progress, because now Taduk could compare and contrast the two events while they were both fresh in his mind. Not that he understood much about what Rainy boy did, nor would it help if the boy explained it, for he was always going about things in his own unique manner. No matter though, because Taduk did so love to solve puzzles and mysteries, and today’s events would provide both in spades.

A shame about all the lives which would soon be lost, but between Hua Lie, Rainy boy, and himself, Taduk was certain they could at least save the lives of little Lin-Lin and her friends, while the Abbot and his gaunt Divinity friend would undoubtedly save a few more. Only a handful out of hundreds of thousands, a true tragedy to be sure, but Taduk just didn’t have it in him to mourn for strangers anymore. Not like Rainy boy, a kind soul who would undoubtedly blame himself for all these deaths, and the Empire would likely blame him too. Not because he was at least partially responsible for taunting the mad monk in his moment of death, but because only then would the Empire have justification to rally Divinities to attack the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains. Regardless of how matters unfolded moving forward from here, Lin-Lin’s status was no longer a secret and the world would soon come a-hunting for Taduk and his daughter both.

Something to deal with tomorrow, as he had more important matters to focus on today, but he never was any good at keeping his mind on task. The gravity of the situation finally dawned upon him as he calculated how quickly they’d all have to move to leave safely, and as much as he would love to witness the Demonic Divinity’s birth in full, preparations needed to be made. Cloud-Stepping over to Yan’s side, he uttered, “Pardon my hands,” and carried her over to stand with sweet Lin-Lin, well within reach of Rainy boy so they could all make their escape together. Bless Yan’s heart, for she didn’t so much as blink in surprise, taking the speedy movement in stride and reaching out to clasp Lin-Lin’s hand like the supportive sister wives they were. A tough girl, little Yan, so full of pluck and spirit, and he wished there’d been something he could’ve done to help her find her Path, or at the very least guide her during her Awakening. Akanai had asked if he could help, but Taduk wouldn’t have known where to start, for using his Blessing of Air and Water was more a matter of instinct and intuition than actual intellect. Everything he knew about utilizing it, he’d learned in his past life, when he soared through the skies as the king of all hares and chased the clouds wherever they went. His precious Lin-Lin was the same, though the subject matter differed greatly between them and she learned at a much faster pace. Whether this was because of her inborn talent or sheltered upbringing was difficult to say, but Taduk had hoped to give her many, many, many more decades to learn and laugh before her carefree days came to an end.

