She grinned in return, remembering how often they’d had conversations that ended in that or similar ways. “Indeed.”

As they stepped through the wide double doors, another voice from Tala’s past greeted them. “Master Renix, Master Trent, did you forget something, or—”

Mistress Atrexia cut off as she was walking across the floor, clearly in a position of authority within the place.

Her eyes widened a bit as she took in those with Masters Renix and Trent. “Mistress Tala, you’re still alive, eh? And Master Rane, I have heard well of you, be welcome. It has been a long time. Welcome to my establishment.” She bowed to each. “Mistress Kannis, you are a bit early for lunch. Can I assume it is due to these two?”

Mistress Kannis smiled. “It is. Will that be a problem? I can wait on my food until later if—”

“No, no. It’s more than fine.” Mistress Atrexia smiled. “I’ll let the kitchens know.”

As the woman turned and left Tala turned to Mistress Kannis. “Mistress Atrexia works here?”

“She and her husband own it, or I suppose you could say they own the contracts to run it within the Caravaners Guild. You know her?”

“She was on the same trip as Masters Renix and Trent when I met them.”

“Oh! I didn’t realize that, or I’d have told you about her.”

“If that’s the same Mistress Tala—and if my eyes don’t deceive me, it is—then she knows me too.” Master Cran set his book to the side and stood from where he’d been sitting at a table near the entrance—just as he had so long ago when Tala had first met him—and bowed deeply. “We only spoke occasionally, but I am the aforementioned husband. Do you remember me?”

Tala blinked a few times, taking in Master Cran. “I do, yes… I had not expected this day to be so full of reunions.” She looked around. “I half expect Master Tang to come walking in now.”

There was a momentary hesitation that lengthened into an awkward silence as Masters Trent and Renix winced. Mistress Kannis frowned, clearly not recognizing the name.

Master Trent finally spoke, breaking the building silence. “Master Tang died defending a caravan some four years back. He held the line against a wave of creatures. No one else was even hurt, making him the sole casualty of the incident.”

Tala felt herself deflate a bit. “Oh… I didn’t know.”

Master Trent gave a sad smile. “There’s no reason you should have known. He wasn’t the most pleasant man, but he acted in honor at the end.”

She honestly didn’t know how to process that, and it sat heavily on her heart while she contemplated.

Mistress Kannis waited a moment before clapping her hands and drawing everyone’s attention back to her. “Honored acquaintances aside, shall we all sit? I think it is a wonderful time for catching up with old friends before Master Rane and Mistress Tala depart.”

Master Cran grinned, seemingly trying to help lift the mood as he motioned to the table that he’d stood from. “And for meeting new friends. Who is the lovely young woman with you?”

Tala gilded herself and smiled. Well, here goes nothing.
