The new loop had just started, yet Orodan’s rage and grief ran hot from the last one. Unlike most, his mental scars and wounds carried over just fine, and they were still raw from the loss of Fenton.

Yet, despite that, the sudden and almost intrusive sensation of others affecting his skills cut through any feelings of grief and sorrow.

Interlopers.

Not physically present, they likely didn’t even know where he was yet, nor he they. But their attempts to commandeer his Domain of Perfect Cleaning were immediately apparent.

It wasn’t as though someone was directly trying to wrest control of the domain from him. Rather, the very insights and comprehensions that he had were being tested, held under close scrutiny.

He closed his eyes and simply felt.

It was as though he was in a grand and metaphysical debate hall which he couldn’t see, but only feel. And within, multiple beings who considered cleaning, purity and harmony their bread and butter were now suddenly offended at his unannounced intrusion.

The very fabric of reality trembled as a battle unseen to the naked eye occurred, and the concept of cleaning was warred over.

If this was how every loop was to start from now on…

…then Orodan could only smile. For him, it was free training.

And it was time to teach these brash interlopers some manners.

Time to show them that no other talent in the universe came close to his own with cleaning.

The first to challenge him was a brilliant, utterly blinding white slime. Whether that was the creature’s true form or a metaphysical representation in this strange sensation dependent concept-scape they were within, who knew? Orodan wasn’t watching with his eyes, only feeling, and the sensation he got from this being was that it was an amorphous thing. Everywhere its form flowed, the very particles were cleansed. It was at the Embodiment-level of purity, and its insights and talents were threatened by the intrusion of Orodan.

Almost immediately, he casually slapped its pitiful comprehensions aside. It mistakenly believed that purity involved the purging of all which was undesirable, yet this was done by the standards of its own dogmatic perspective. Orodan’s counter-argument, that cleaning was as much about the natural order sometimes as it was about purity, swiftly put it on the backfoot.

The other Embodiers in this metaphysical landscape were now on-edge with just how quickly and casually he had dismantled the slime. Talking didn’t seem to be possible here, but the feelings of alarm and wariness were almost palpable.

As was Orodan’s defiant and brash challenge for the next one to come up.

A bipedal goat-woman, some sort of humanoid animal being, was the next to step forth. Entire worlds came alive around her, ecosystems which were natural, biomes with life and diversity within.

She was far stronger than a majority of the others, and her concept of harmony seemed quite resolute as she understood the importance of the natural order, and that purity didn’t simply mean purging everything till all that remained was a sorry sight of sterility and lifelessness.

Orodan and her metaphysically clashed comprehensions and insights for a few seconds…

…until she too was forced to become wary as his insights overpowered her own.

Harmony in nature was nice, but if one wanted true order then the simple existence of life wasn’t the only thing required. Each individual thing had goals, aspirations. The lowly cockroach sought to find food, shelter and propagate its species. The trees desired water, sunlight and nutrients from the soil in order to grow taller and stronger. And even the minuscule forms of life unseen to the average naked eye naturally tended towards a certain state.

Harmony then, wasn’t merely about preserving the natural order, but about improving it. Harmony could not be achieved unless everything thrived. Something easier said than done, she challenged. For how could bacteria responsible for decay thrive while other things lived?

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 155 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 160]

Yet a simple flex of Orodan’s Domain of Perfect Cleaning in tandem with Reality Alteration created the bizarre scene of plants, bacteria, insects and more; all thriving within an empowered and seemingly impossible ecosystem. Indeed, such an odd sight shouldn’t have been possible in the real world. Yet Orodan’s will pressing down onto his Celestial skill had brute forced the matter, and his talent had ensured it held stably. It was such an impossible thing, to find the one configuration of life among billions of combinations, where everything was utterly thriving yet nothing was stifled by the growth of any other.

It was an awe-inspiring feat of skill and spoke well of his insights. The goat-woman frightfully stepped backwards as well.

These ‘debates’ weren’t battles of raw power, but insights, comprehensions and talent. In fact, the recent Embodier he’d bested in ‘debate’ didn’t seem like she was a fighter of any sort. And there were many Embodiment-level beings who might have crushed him in battle that were anxiously hanging back as this battleground didn’t suit them at all, yet they were fearful of losing power to him.

Naturally, there was only one more being left who dared to challenge him.

The Arch-Devil’s representation in the metaphysical realm of insights was that of a blazing wall of fire, with a fiery orb of black and white at the center. The wall of flame to the orb’s left was blazing white, while the wall to the right of the orb was composed of ominously dark tongues of fire. He only recognized that this was the Administrator based off of the familiar feeling of its power which Orodan had faced in the past.

It lent further proof to Orodan’s assumption that nobody in this metaphysical mindscape was visible in their regular physical form. The slime’s concept was related to spreading its purity through purging, hence it looked as it had. The goat-woman spread life and natural ecosystems as she was related to purity through harmony, and the Custodian represented balance with its purity. He wondered how his representation looked, but there was no way of asking questions or speaking here.

Only actions and ‘debates’ with their skills.

And instead of waiting for it to come his way, Orodan decided to slam his Domain right into the Administrator’s aura of purity and balance.

The Custodian was more than a little alarmed, was the feeling Orodan got. It was one of the strongest beings in all System space. It was possibly the second mightiest of the Administrators, just behind the Warrior, yet its cold logic and plans made it a far worse enemy in many aspects.

It must have been exceedingly surprised, at having anything at all challenge it for the first time in countless years.

But the outcome was a foregone conclusion. Orodan had had this duel once before, and the victor had been apparent even then, let alone now when he was even stronger.

The Custodian represented balance. For so long had it tried to act as the balancing agent for the System, the Boundless One, the inhabitants of their corner of reality.

But what was balance?

Balance spoke of a need to give and take, of problems which required concessions. One for the other, or the other for the one.

Yet Orodan asked a simple question, not in words but with his Domain.

Why require balance at all? What if the scarcity which necessitated balance itself ceased to exist?

Even Orodan didn’t have the complete answer to this question yet, but what he did have… was a better shot of answering the question than the Custodian. Their insights and experiences clashed once, then twice. And on the third clash where Orodan recalled all the slavish cleaning he had to do just to earn his keep in the orphanage, the Administrator quailed as it realized even it was no match.

His senses took in every Embodier around him.

They were all at his mercy. He had proven himself the better of them all!

If he so wanted, right now, he could greedily absorb their insights and add to his own, thereby empowering him. And to that thought, and for this situation overall, Orodan had only one word…

“Pathetic.”

The words were spoken in the real world as he opened his eyes and returned to the familiar hovel at 13 Briar Court in Ogdenborough.

Not only did Orodan refuse to steal anyone else’s insights, but it felt incredibly weak and short-sighted. Rather, he made a careful note of all the concepts he’d encountered and made a singular vow.

On his own, he would come up with insights and comprehensions for each one. He would carve his own path to the pinnacle of cleaning, and would borrow the power of none other to do it.

“Your mind went somewhere else,” Zaessythra remarked. So she hadn’t been privy to any of that then?

“A brief moment to remind those who would stand against me of the threat I pose,” Orodan replied. “And earning the ire of plenty of them I’m sure.”

Orodan had technically won the ‘debate’ in that strange Embodiment space for those related to the concept of cleaning. Right now, it was obvious to all of them that he was the single greatest Embodiment of Cleaning that the universe had ever seen. He’d challenged and beaten two of the most talented, and they’d not stood a chance. Therefore, even if he hadn’t taken any of their powers, the sheer threat he posed meant that many of those Embodiers were likely preparing to make their respective moves on him.

Whether that was killing him or attempting to forge an alliance, remained to be seen.

But for now, he had things to do. Chief among them was the consolidation of his power and studying the text on true soul genesis which the previous looper had given him. Orodan had acquired power, a lot of it. And in a short amount of time. For now, he needed a few short loops of two weeks apiece where he simply worked on some skills and figured out his next steps to bringing Zaessythra back.

The impending fight at the end of the two weeks promised plenty of fun and excitement too.

And of course, this new Elemental Living Enchantment skill of his needed to be explored further. And perhaps he could even learn the actual Body Enchanting skill from Bluefire now and try to work it all together in tandem.

But mainly… it was time to see just what differences Domain of Perfect Cleaning had at the Embodiment-level. Especially since Orodan now felt familiar with it in a way he never had before.

The distant echoes of the departing harpies overhead still carried lightly upon the wind.

Those things were awfully annoying, weren’t they?

And Orodan did recall vowing once upon a time to eradicate them all.

He stepped out of his hovel and made for the perimeter of Ogdenborough, ignoring the singular perimeter patrol of the militia he passed along the way as he strode into the wilds south of town.

Orodan was probably more familiar with how harpies sounded than anyone else on Alastaia. He started every loop hearing the damned menaces after all and he’d been looping for many years now.

Even if his power was beyond anything else on his home world, he wasn’t above having a certain level of disdain for these foul pests. Especially since the fell cry of these feathery fiends was something he negatively associated with the loss of people he’d grown close to over the course of a long loop.

Harpies themselves were more pest than actual monster. Flying monsters in general needed to remain light for the sake of aerodynamics while flying, at the early levels before they learned magical skills at least. And taking away the advantage of opposable thumbs and acquiring an avian’s fragile bone structure made them poor combatants in a direct fight.

Whichever dark experiment had fused human and bird, Orodan didn’t know. But much like spider dragons, harpies were the remnant of a bygone era where experimentation and attempts to create new and stronger species were more commonplace. Not that the attempt had succeeded with these irritating birds.

Harpies could hit hard, but were fragile. And the bipedal civilized races were too bony, dangerous and not possessed of enough meat to be worthwhile prey. Thus, for these birds, direct combat was something they were averse to, instead favouring ambush hunting.

Naturally, they avoided the more well-developed towns which had an air watch capable of shooting down aerial targets. And they also avoided Mount Castarian given how well-defended it was with the ancient machine beneath it.

Of course, Ogdenborough had no such things and the pests loved flying over it while wailing at the top of their lungs for some reason. And while this meant quite a few sleepless nights for him, it also allowed him to closely track their flight path through the air via closely scrutinizing the minuscule particles shed from their feathers and the trail of disturbed air currents. Something which would have ordinarily been impossible or only doable with high skill levels for a regular tracker was easily handled with Vision of Purity.

And as Orodan walked out of town, he felt the Domain of Perfect Cleaning wanting to be let loose. To clean.

It was only once he left the bounds of Ogdenborough well behind in the dead of night that he allowed it to run free.

Like a muscle that was begging for use, overflowing with energy, his Celestial skill began to passively cleanse everything around him with no expenditure of energy on his part. Around him, the surrounding hundred metres of forest began rapidly changing, almost glowing.

