The grass underfoot began thriving and practically glowing as its impurities were cleansed and it was guided down the correct path of optimal growth. The worms and insects in the ground began growing in size and evolving as the filth within their bodies was removed and even their very minds were improved. The air became cleaner, the world energy in the earth denser, the ambient mana in the air purer and everything all around better.

Orodan immediately retracted the passive aura back into himself before he could do any further damage.

“Well… creating a national resource over the span of a single second is somewhat impressive I admit,” Zaessythra praised.

Orodan though, could only shake his head in annoyance. He had felt clearly that the very concept of Cleaning seemed to radiate off of him, as though he was it. To him however, it was a useless ability, and one best left in check lest he cause unintended consequences. A passive aura of cleaning which extended a hundred metres, while impressive to Adepts and Elites perhaps, was a drop of water in the ocean for Orodan who could cleanse the entire divine dimension with concerted effort.

And he wasn’t entirely comfortable with the idea of cleaning someone’s mind without meaning to.

The aura was both a part of him and also not a part of him. It was the very manifestation of the concept of cleaning clinging to him and then expanding outwards. As though the concept itself wanted to be around him.

Even still, keeping it active and letting it passively clean, while useful, wasn’t good training. Orodan much preferred to manually clean. The basics were the best method of attaining true mastery after all.

Still, it wasn’t an entire loss. And Domain of Perfect Cleaning, despite this strange reality-warping passive aura he now had, was still his skill and could never do anything he didn’t want it to do. Altering the passive effects to not manipulate minds was simple enough.

The hundred metre patch surrounding him was more than a bit of an eyecatcher however. Glowing grass, resplendent trees with sparkling leaves and marble-like precious wood. On the ground were insects and small animals of such abundant life and quality that their bodies could be used to create Grandmaster-level potions and food. And finally, the air was so utterly clean yet contained in a strange boundary that it would remain indefinitely like this and could be extracted for use in creating artifacts and gear especially useful to wind mages.

What a headache. The Republic and the noble houses within it would almost certainly joust and butt heads over the ownership of this previously shoddy patch of land. It was a mere hundred metres of territory, yet it was now of a value greater than that of an energy well.

In fact, just like with energy wells, monsters would doubtlessly want to begin settling here too.

Thankfully he wasn’t too close to Ogdenborough, and hopefully one of the noble houses eventually secured the area. As it stood, this place had now become a strategic resource of national significance.

In any case, Orodan continued on, suppressing the aura until he neared the harpies’ lair.

It was a gnarled tree in the midst of a clearing surrounded by wooden thicket. The creatures weren’t entirely stupid, it would be extremely difficult to find this place. Plus, the presence of wolves, bears and other strong creatures would dissuade any idle exploration by foragers and ill-prepared hunters.

No wonder these stupid harpies had gone unexterminated for so long.

But that changed today.

It came as no surprise that the dumb birds had felt the creation of the hundred metre patch of land.

The wind stirred as the hybrid monsters took to the air in the direction he approached from. Not to make for him, but to find the area of dense energy he’d left behind. Fluttering wings, an eerily human-like face and yet none of the characteristic intelligence of humanity. Whichever dark sorceror had tried mixing human and bird had failed miserably with these stupid things.

And today, Orodan would settle a grudge he’d long since held in his heart.

Vision of Purity told him that there were at least a hundred Apprentice and Adept-level harpies among the thick branches and leaf-laden boughs of the gnarled tree, and with a singular cast of his Celestial skill, directed entirely towards the purpose…

…Orodan wiped them all from existence.

He couldn’t have done this before. Eliminating something or someone from existence entirely had been too difficult a task in the past. But now, at the Embodiment-level, Orodan understood that beings, just like filth, were things that could be cleansed just like anything else.

The harpies were gone, but that didn’t feel right. In fact…

…a brief look at the tapestry of fate and a quick glimpse down the river of time greatly shocked him.

They weren’t just dead or even gone. It was as though they’d never existed in the first place.

Orodan could only stare at his hands, still glowing with the power of Domain of Perfect Cleaning.

Dangerous.

That was the only word which came to mind.

And remaining in this now quiet forest wouldn’t do his mind any favours.

And now, with the peace and quiet of the vanished harpies. Perhaps it was time to consolidate his power and clear his head.

Good thing he knew exactly where to find a certain first mentor of his.

#

Velestok was as Orodan remembered. A relatively cozy-looking town, not quite as large as Trumbetton which was at the center of the county, but either the second or third largest bastion of civilization in Volarbury county otherwise. More importantly, it was under the protection of House Simarji, whose Grandmaster kept the town safe from any would-be threats.

Of course, Adeltaj Simarji, the Grandmaster of the house and the strongest resident of Velestok, didn’t look as though he was in any shape to be defending anything.

The aftermath of a thorough training session in which Orodan had proven his strength and given Adeltaj sufficient instruction in the ways of the halberd and combat. The old man’s hands still trembled as he lifted the cup of tea for a sip.

Orodan quirked an eyebrow at the sight.

“I could just heal you…” he muttered.

“No, that will not be necessary. The pain helps keep me grounded and is a good reminder to remain humble,” Adeltaj refused. “It certainly verifies that I am awake and not dreaming the absurd things I’ve just heard.”

“Long ago those words might have slightly irked me, but now I can’t even dispute them. The words rang absurd, even to my own ears as I recounted the story,” Orodan agreed. “A zero-sum game at the Embodiment-level, what a strange battleground I’ve walked into. Perhaps I should be filled with more sorrow at how things ended in the last loop, but with everything now laid before me…”

“You feel you do not even have time to grieve?” Adeltaj asked and Orodan nodded. “I suppose I know that feeling myself.”

“Never have I been the sort to bemoan my fate, to aimlessly dwell on what I’ve lost,” Orodan continued. “One battle after the next, that is simply my destiny, one I have chosen for myself. Yet this naturally leaves little time to process the loss of someone I considered close. Fenton… I might not have known him for long, but he was a dependable lad with a kind heart… a good man.”

“A man?” Adeltaj asked.

“Aye, a man. Even before my arrival he tirelessly worked, day in and day out, to provide for his ailing mother. What else can you call someone like that?” Orodan asked. His face took on a somber set. “Even still, as his teacher I failed him. He should not have had to die in order for me to prevail. I was not strong enough.”

“You are too hard on yourself. Sad it may be, but as a warrior yourself you know better than any other that one’s path is their own. From what you tell me of this brave young man, he was a hero who chose to put himself in harm’s way to help you, sacrificing his own life in the process,” Adeltaj consoled. “Which, as you say was what I did as well. If this mad time loop story of yours is true. Which, you seem to believe at least, from what my lie detection skill tells me.”

“Indeed, who better to talk to about idiots throwing their lives away than a man who has a natural penchant for the same thing?” Orodan asked with a smirk. “There will be no need of such heroics this loop. I’ll be leaving Alastaia behind before any danger can befall it.”

“Your sense of responsibility is a credit to you. I am much the same,” Adeltaj said with a smile.

“A little too much responsibility in your case. Then again, I suppose you felt obligated to stand in the way of something that would have slain your student, even if you knew then that I was a time looper,” Orodan replied. “Now, while this conversation has given me some clarity, I did not come here just to mope after sparring with you, old man.”

An orb was produced. Something Orodan had carefully studied on the way back from dispatching the foul harpies of Ogdenborough.

“An intricate device… the maker of this must be quite talented for I have never seen such complex enchantments before,” the old Simarji praised.

“This was his dying invention. Something to transfer memories to someone across the time loops. And while his own memories fill the first slot… there are eleven more here that seem to do the same thing,” Orodan explained. And while he fully intended to learn the mechanics behind this device in time, that he might be free from any dependence upon it, for now this was a powerful tool.

“Old man… I’ve told you my story, how my student died and what he handed me before he did.”

“Then this… is what he handed you?” Adeltaj asked and Orodan nodded. “And you want for me to transfer my memories across the loops?”

“They’ll only transfer once I have the orb make contact with you,” Orodan explained. “Otherwise, each loop you’ll go around thinking nothing’s changed and remain none the wiser. But once this makes contact…”

“I will remember then, won’t I? I understand why you’ve come to ask permission before doing this. Many would not want to remember, to know that they’re caught in a time loop not even centred around themselves,” Adeltaj correctly surmised. “But why me? You’ve recounted your tale, and I have seen a glimpse of your power. As much as it wounds my warrior’s pride to admit… you weren’t taking me seriously in the slightest. What could I offer to one such as you?”

“If the Adeltaj Simarji of my early loops had thought that way, then Orodan Wainwright would not be here. One of the most important abilities in my arsenal, I only acquired during training with you,” he explained. “You were and are my first mentor. Do not think lowly of yourself and the wisdom you possess.”

“I am only seven-hundred years old. Compared to you…”

“You would still be old, as the time I spent descending unto the depths of madness wasn’t the same as lived years of experience. And mainly… it would be nice to skip past this lengthy conversation each time, though I’ll be continuing the spar,” Orodan said with a smirk.

“My old bones won’t be thanking you for that, but I suppose regular sparring can only be a good thing,” Adeltaj said. “But you still have not gotten to the part where I somehow help you. I don’t doubt the Adeltaj Simarji of your early loops was a mentor to you, a young man with drive and honor would be a wonderful student to have. But now? It would be more fitting that you teach me.”

“If that is what you want, certainly. But the best teachers are often students themselves, and learning will never end for me,” Orodan countered. “And what I often lack at the start of each loop… are connections.”

“Connections? You?” the old man asked, bewildered. “What need have you of connections when you can supposedly shatter Alastaia itself?”

“If I was a selfish man who cared not about the fate of his home world, that might be the right answer. Unfortunately, I am not, and not only am I invested in honing my personal strength for the battles to come, but also that of my world and its peoples,” Orodan answered. “To that end, connections will count for much. How do you expect me to get into Bluefire Academy otherwise?”

The old man’s mouth hung open for a brief moment.

“Did you really say all this just so you could have my house sponsor you for entry into Bluefire? What will anyone at that academy teach you? Who will believe you’re a student?” Adeltaj Simarji asked, rubbing his forehead out of stress. The old man then had a look of understanding on his face. And Orodan didn’t like that look at all. “Unless… you weren’t sponsored as a student.”

“While I don’t mind teaching, doing it so soon off of what occurred recently would be… undesirable.”

“An instructor? You would fail most background checks and the necessary gamut of security scans of your mind and soul that the Republic and its authorities would insist upon before you were allowed anywhere near the nation’s next generation of talent,” Adeltaj explained. “And don’t think about asking to serve my house either, that will draw far too much attention to the Simarjis and still won’t get you into Bluefire easily. Not without some questions asked.”

“Then… how? I’ve been a student before, I can lay low,” Orodan said. In response, the old man simply gestured towards the utterly devastated woods in the distance. “I can also just reverse time to restore that.”

