“And have the Time Wind dragon flight and all the Grandmaster chronomancers of the Republic and Novarria come by wondering who is capable of that? I have a much simpler solution,” Adeltaj suggested, and Orodan got the feeling he wasn’t going to like what he heard. “The Republic of Aden is always in search of powerful individuals to add to our ranks. In particular, if you’re powerful enough and can contribute… then background checks become somewhat irrelevant in the face of what you can bring to the table. Orodan Wainwright… how would you like to become a noble?”

Zaessythra’s mad laughter cackled in his head as he could only be struck speechless. And after regaining his faculties, he replied most sensibly.

“Absolutely not.”

#

In hindsight, Orodan hadn’t counted on Adeltaj being so persuasive about the matter. What ‘absolutely not’ really meant, was that he almost certainly would not… unless a whole suite of conditions, boundaries and agreements were met.

And once Adeltaj had finished reassuring him that none of what he feared would come to pass and then drew out a plan of approach, it wasn’t the worst thing to agree to. Especially when he really needed an outlet that didn’t involve mindless slaughter in order to center his mind.

For starters, he refused to engage in any stupid noble ceremonies. Adeltaj would handle most of the talking, and as long as Orodan rendered an exceptional service and proved his power and usefulness to the Republic, him becoming a noble was all but a mere formality.

It went to show the difference in how manipulative Agathor was. While Orodan didn’t care for nobility and detested the idea of becoming noble, not once in his early loops had Agathor or Arvayne Firesword brought up the idea of granting him nobility. No, that would have granted him far too much independence and not suited their plans at all back then.

Still, here he was, a city before him.

The more things changed, the more they stayed the same.

No matter how strong Orodan had become, Alastaia would remain his home world, the Republic of Aden his nation and Karilsgard the capital of it. He had seen the city in various states of alarm, had participated in besieging it, and had even seen it and Alastaia itself destroyed once. Yet approaching the gates of the Republic’s capital city always evoked a feeling of nostalgia within him.

He had learned a lot, but all his travels across the cosmos had only reinforced the fact that knowledge could be found in the humblest of places. And while Karilsgard and the academy it housed weren’t the jewels of knowledge that Novar’s Peak and Eldiron contained, let alone the other more advanced worlds of the cosmos, they were… familiar.

And sometimes familiarity, basic knowledge and practice were what one needed.

Of course, as always, the odd nature of his Status drew attention. He had three titles active, one related to Wainwrighting and the other two for Weaving and Alchemy. But given the sword, shield and uniform of the county militia he wore, there was no way anyone was buying it. Akin to a masked traveler garbed entirely in form-covering black attempting to enter a fort, so too was he quite conspicuous when entering a city with that combination of titles and get-up.

A familiar swordsman of the Capital guard approached him, a corporal, if Orodan recalled correctly.

“Militia man, might you hold that we may speak a moment?” the corporal asked, and then his eyes landed upon Adeltaj Simarji to Orodan’s side, and the man’s demeanor changed entirely. “L-lord Simarji? Our apologies sir, is he with you? We did not know, please carry right on.”

Orodan and Adeltaj walked past the gate with nary a word of complaint from anyone else. It illustrated the power of having connections. If he’d come by himself, and he had before, then the corporal would have stopped him, inquired about his business in the capital and Silestor Lumenarin in the Cathedral would likely have been informed. But now with Adeltaj by his side, such things needn’t be a roadblock to acquiring proper knowledge.

“Where are we headed?” Orodan asked. “The High Spire where the council sits?”

“Close but not quite,” the old man said as they walked. “Naturally, when I sent word to them that I had a prospective candidate for addition to the Republic’s forces, they wanted to see your capabilities for themselves at Bluefire, which just so happens to be where you’re headed anyhow, no?”

“Don’t tell me they want to test my combat capabilities. I have little patience for holding back and playing games at this time,” Orodan warned. A mournful wrath yet simmered in the back of his mind. If pushed the wrong way, Orodan was sure to smash in the face of anyone who provoked it. Particularly if they were affiliated with the tyrant three. “I came here to display my enchanting abilities and see for myself how this new skill of mine can be applied.”

“And you will, there is to be no combat involved and I’ve made sure those coming to assess your worth are in no way affiliated with the Cathedral. Today’s meeting at least, should be of a more productive sort,” Adeltaj promised.

Orodan would believe it when he saw it. Far as he was concerned, becoming involved with the Republic’s council and national politics in general was a recipe for creating a mess.

The two of them traversed the streets until the towering singular tower of Bluefire Academy, with its symbolic sapphire flame, was visible. From there, a simple trip into the tower and a brief pass through the teleporters brought them into a specific chamber. None of the guards dared to stop Adeltaj Simarji, and as his accompanying guest that extended to Orodan as well.

Orodan’s spatiomancy was at a level where he knew what was on the other side of the teleporter before he even stepped through. Two women and one man. Two of them were familiar to him, the other was not.

“Ilevida, it is good to see you well,” Adeltaj greeted. “You too Yallista. And I see we have the prodigious Gormir Eltros with us as well?”

Ilevida Balmento, headmistress of the school of psionics at Bluefire, and Yallista Arthurius, headmistress of the chronomancy school. The other man was Gormir Eltros then? Orodan had never made his acquaintance before but had certainly heard much about him.

“Yallista has been getting rather antsy Adeltaj. Such a large swathe of the Aenechean Forest utterly destroyed? The Council wanted to see who you had brought along themselves until your communication mentioned that it was an improvement granted to you by this man,” Ilevida said and then eyed Orodan up and down. “You are… an enchanter? Not built like one are you?”

“Physical training doesn’t preclude one from enchanting does it? The sturdier the body, the more mana it can safely channel and the better the caster performs in general,” Orodan replied.

“The Republic’s military might would only increase if more young mages took that advice seriously,” Yallista Arthurius agreed. “But we haven’t come to discuss the training regimen of pur nation’s mages now have we Mister Wainwright? I profess, I have never seen the Wainwrighting Apprentice title before, although Weaving and Alchemy are odd titles to display for one who claims to be an enchanter.”

“While some mysterious remark about how it’s good to keep one’s cards hidden might seem the obvious response, in truth I’d simply forgotten to change my Status,” Orodan said, adding the Enchanting Master title to his Status casually so that any who used Observe could see. “Will that suffice?”

“Somehow, I do not think you’re merely at the Master-level,” Ilevida said, her eyes narrowing and then shaking her head. “No matter. Keeping watch for threats to national security is no task of mine.”

“Indeed, we’ve come to witness this new method of enchanting you claim to possess. Allegedly your usage of this skill allowed elder Adeltaj Simarji to level a massive swathe of forest far beyond his typical capabilities,” Gormir Eltros spoke. “Apologies if I did not introduce myself. Gormir Eltros, a Master-level enchanter much like yourself. Here to evaluate your talents, though… with us both being the same level that’s more than a little awkward.”

On Alastaia, civilization was young and the Republic of Aden being a breakaway nation from Novarria was younger still. Consequently, Not every nation had an associated Grandmaster for every skill. In the Republic of Aden, the best enchanter around was Gormir Eltros and two other Master-level enchanters typically agreed to not be near the man’s calibre. He was a famed body enchanter but not yet a Grandmaster, though close, from the whispers Orodan had heard.

Orodan could at least appreciate that the man wasn’t acting arrogant or feeling threatened by this test, which if successful, would elevate Orodan’s social status to being on par with, or possibly greater than his own.

“Well then we’re both in for a treat because it will be my first time seeing how this works too.”

Gormir frowned at his words.

“Pardon? Are you saying you’ve never tried this Elemental Living Enchantment yourself? Are you… sure this is safe then?”

“Perfectly,” Orodan assured. “Not only will I not use any more power than would be necessary to destroy this tower, but I’m also more than fast enough to react and prevent any mishaps from getting out of hand.”

That didn’t exactly leave the Master-level enchanter feeling any safer. After all, being a non-combatant and a mere Master at that meant that Gormir Eltros’s capacity to take damage was far lesser than an equivalent combat specialist Master. Ilevida and Yallista were slightly on-guard too, as Orodan’s words had essentially revealed that he was a combat specialist himself, even if they’d suspected it already.

“All of you are far too tense,” Adeltaj intervened. “I can vouch for Mister Wainwright’s character. He has nothing but the Republic and our world’s best interests at heart.”

Alastaia’s best interests, certainly. The Republic and some of its crooked inhabitants? Not so much. He wasn’t in any hurry to correct the old man however.

“Let us dispense with business. While this will work with any tool, I can display the effectiveness of this far easier with an existing enchanted weapon. Do you have any here? Preferably one that deals fire damage,” Orodan requested.

Yallista tossed him a simple steel dagger.

“I use it for cooking, sometimes,” she informed.

It was basic enough and the metal was of decent quality too. But the enchantment on it was shoddy, something Orodan immediately noticed thanks to all the time he’d spent around Fenton.

The memory of that put him in a dour mood once more, but he brushed it aside and simply swept the enchantments clean off the knife with a single brush of his fingers and the casual application of his Celestial skill.

“What… what was that?” Gormir Eltros asked. “I could have swore she handed you an enchanted knife… right? Elder, what did you give him?”

Even Yallista was frowning.

“That knife was enchanted just now. How did you remove it without anyone noticing?” she asked.

“Cleaning,” Orodan honestly answered. “But that’s not what I’m here for. This is.”

[Elemental Living Enchantment 12 → Elemental Living Enchantment 13]

The gentle power of a Candleflame filled his hands. Not emanating from it, not held aloft as though it was being cast, but filling his actual hand itself. Unlike his prior uses of the skill during battle, this time it was exceedingly gentle as the flames calmly melded with his cells, his hand and the flames practically coexisting in the same space.

And from there, controlling the fire was easy enough as it flowed down to the knife.

It was odd… Orodan felt that the moment the fires left his hand and transferred to the knife, his control over them should have become more difficult. And yet, all the difficult elemental control training he’d performed with Talricto where he puppeteered his own mana into forming spells, now showed its worth.

His control over the Candleflame was entirely steady, the flames not acting unruly at all. And slowly the fires began to enter the knife, forming a simple but very well-done two-dimensional inscription for extra fire damage. It wasn’t mana that was forming the enchantment. It was…

“Fire…! Actual flame! How can it be?!” Gormir Eltros declared, falling to his knees.

“Gormir, get a hold of yourself and explain what we’re seeing,” Yallista said. “From our perspective it looks as though flames are crawling into my knife and forming an enchantment. Different from the typical blue lines of mana inscription I’m used to.”

“That’s just it elder, those lines, that inscription… it isn’t mana at all. It’s pure flame…” Gormir explained, his tone now subdued and respectful as though he was watching incredible art. “How can an enchantment be woven purely from an element? How does the element not fade?”

“Eventually, like all other mana-based enchantments, it will certainly lose power,” Orodan explained as he finished the work and passed the knife to Gormir. “Though how long it lasts currently depends on my skill, which isn’t even at the Apprentice-level. But otherwise, it fades not… because it is living.”

Indeed, the flames coursing through the knife were not simply static, but animated. The flames maintained their inscription of fire of course, but they pulsed with energy and a mind of their own. In fact, Orodan suspected that if the user of the skill were someone with a weak will or an ill-disciplined temperament, the flames could very well do what they wanted and lose the inscription shape they were maintaining.

