A true Paradox Wizard traveled to their own past; they did not muck around with alternate realities at all. Erick was a true Paradox Wizard. When he eventually figured out the Big Time Travel Magic, that he had spoken about with Phagar before, then he would (if he was aiming correctly!) end up on the God Pact world, under the direct purview of the gods like Rozeta and otherwise.

And being under the views of the gods meant that there would be uncomfortable questions and shit. Even if he evaded Rozeta and the other gods of the Pantheon and their paladins, Melemizargo would definitely notice him. Phagar, too. As for Nothanganathor… Erick could probably evade him… Maybe.

But he couldn’t evade anyone if they could sense his Benevolence spilling out everywhere.

So Erick needed to figure out how to hide his mana.

Briefly, Erick thought about trying to literally ‘hide’ his mana, perhaps through camouflage, to make it look like something else… And that might be part of the solution. The Script contained and purged everything it didn’t recognize, so leaving a bit of Benevolence around wasn’t a huge deal, as long as it looked like, say, Elemental Fairy— No. Elemental Mystical. Yeah. That worked.

And thinking of Mystical… There was another part of the solution to Erick’s mana spilling everywhere, and also the solving of an old problem that he had never gotten around to solving.

Elemental Mystical was what the Script used for Abilities like Clarity, which dropped the mana costs of stuff from 100% costs, to 50% costs, and then even lower, once more and more Mystical mana was being used to dupe the ambient mana to play along with what the Intent-filled magic was doing.

Erick needed to reinvent Clarity for himself.

And he also needed to contain all of his mana; to spill it out there and then bring it back, so that he never actually used any mana at all, like what Solomon had shown him a year ago, back when Erick was trying to figure out how to get Elemental Genesis. Erick had cheated to get Genesis, so he hadn’t really learned the spill-and-suck methods that Solomon had shown him with the tubes and junk. But now it was time to learn those methods.

Erick couldn’t very well travel to the past and then disrupt his own present could he? Absolutely not.

So the only way to do that was to go into the past and be absolutely invisible. Invisible to gods, and everyone.

… But he probably couldn’t do that.

Just being realistic, now. He could not do that. Not on his own.

He needed help.

But the very second he showed up on Veird, no matter the time, he would face the horrors of Nothanganathor, so he couldn’t get help from Phagar… Not yet, anyway. Phagar would have been the first choice.

So who would his second choice be?

Hmm.

Well…

Considering that he was about to fuck around with time in a very, very big way, then why not pick the best possible person to ask for help?

Why not ask himself?

Erick stared out into the void, waiting for himself to appear, to help…

Nothing.

… Erick still needed to work on the gate space, anyway. Something solid that wouldn’t fall apart, that he could access from anywhere… and any time. And maybe, if he did it right…

Erick gazed out into the void. The nothing shifted, but not in any particular way. Erick’s [Wizardly True Sight] eyes were still working fine, and he saw far and true just as well as before, but there was truly nothing out there… And yet, Erick did not feel scared of the emptiness like he had when he had faced the emptiness of Fenrir’s surface. This place was just… just empty. Kinda relaxing, though.

He wondered if his future self was staring back at him from the emptiness, hidden in a cloak of absolute secrecy… or whatever Erick ended up calling it.

Erick held out his hands, a little bit across from each other, and began trying to learn how to perfectly recycle his own mana… and his resons too! Why not. A jolt of Benevolence jumped from palm to palm, fraying as it writhed between his hands, tendrils of white curling and breaking away as the power left the absolute solidness that was Erick’s body. The jolt that exited Erick’s right hand, entered the void, and then came back to Erick’s left hand, had been reduced from wrist-thickness, to hair-thickness. It was a near-complete failure.

This was good experimentation to figure out some better mana control and to try and understand this void, as well… And that made Erick smile. Everything was coming together.

Erick tried the jolt again, this time adding in an expression of his Benevolence Domain to the working. The fraying was less bad this time, but it still didn’t stay together like it should have. Erick began weaving in Elemental Mystical into the whole thing, Intent on making the mana want to remain itself, corralling the whole thing together. Asking and tricking the mana into behaving worked a bit better than pure force; the ropes of Benevolence didn’t fray nearly as much. As the Mystical-altered Benevolence flowed, it turned back in on itself like loose yarn. It was a rather unstructured working, and it wasn’t good for anything except stringing between his hands, but it was rapid progress in the realm of ‘making magic that no one else can sense’ and ‘figuring out dimensional barriers and other Elsewhere logics’.

Gathering the mana he expressed and stuffing it back into his body was kinda difficult, though.

But this emptiness was a great practice zone for expelling and bringing mana back; no interference of any kind except for active dissolution did great for refining control.

Erick played around with the mana for a long while, while also inspecting his body, and the differences that allowed his body to exist without injury in this nothing-space, but which tore at his mana whenever he cast anything. It wasn’t hard to figure out the difference was that mana was mana, and his body was made out of particles, but there was more to it than that, because when Erick cast some Genesis to create a simple quartz crystal, the crystal evaporated just like how particles didn’t.

Erick was still wearing his clothes, too, so it wasn’t a matter of living or dead particles, or whatnot.

What a fun little (probably very large, actually) puzzle!

Erick smiled as he played around with mana, Authority, and Domains. Soon, his work all began to flow together, like silent music, pieces of power building upon other pieces of power, forming an orchestra of Intent and understanding. Erick created a symphony in the dimness of the void.

- - - -

Erick played with power for a long while. Hours or days, he wasn’t quite sure, though according to some math and looking at his Status, he had only been in here for a little over… A month? Really? It had been that long? Time flew when you were having fun, he guessed.

He had made a lot of progress in keeping his mana together and even making it come back together once his spellwork broke.

Erick flicked a ball of Force into the air and the Force broke into shards that then rotated around and came back into the shape of a ball, right above his palm. All of that had taken place outside of his control; outside of his aura. The next part actually took effort, though, as Erick gripped the ball and sucked the ball back into his hand, into his mana well. Erick smiled.

He had managed to do that perfectly this time, and five previous times as well.

He was ready to make a new Ability out of his [Endless Aura] —his ambient mana accretion ability— and his Mana Siphon, and all the rest of his control. This Ability would affect all of his spellwork, and make everything going forward easier, because then he could hide from himself and all others, even in his own timeline...

As long as he got it right.

Erick opened the barrier of his skin, allowing his mana to flow into the void like a white tsunami, tinged with gold and rainbows. Tens of thousands of Mana, Health, Psyche, and resons all poured into the grey void, establishing his Authority in the area, providing Erick with the space and the manasphere necessary to do a larger working.

Briefly, the area around Erick looked like Benevolence Itself, all white with clouds.

Erick expanded his [Endless Aura], crafting tubes of power into the white, into his own expression of power, and then he coiled Siphon through those tubes. [Endless Aura] was incredibly fragile, and even more so in this space, but Siphon and Erick’s own aura control helped to shore up those weaknesses.

Erick spoke,

“In sightless Void this power’s blessed

“To gently guide a Wizard’s quest.

“Magic turns might to sights unseen

“as Mystical becomes smokescreen.

“And if it is ever known, it turns to here, to this Void’s rest,

“Cleaning up as it departs, ensuring Paradox’s behest

“to not be known until it’s time;

“to show the world, to show the truth,

“That this stranger is not some simple youth

“But a Wizard, true, in his full prime.

“And that this is not a void at all.

“It is Benevolence’s home sprawl.

“And so, with gifts, I mark this space,

“this vibrational, eternal grace,

“With power lovingly inclined,

“We mark simple purpose:

“To be kind.”

This was a void, right?

Well it was Erick’s void, on the other side of Benevolence, uncontained and unrestrained, and it had always been.

He had just needed to claim it.

The universe peeled out from under Erick’s feet, revealing white stone floating in air, as the void retreated like Erick had turned on a light in a dark room. He was that light, and the room was Benevolence; the vibrational frequency that Erick’s personal mana vibrated upon. This, then, was yet another extension of Benevolence Itself, but outside of any mana-controlling forces out there in the Layers of Infinity.

It was a gate space, but it was more than that. It was outside of all other forces, and so it was everything Erick needed it to be.

The Void pulled away as Erick’s magics twisted outward, becoming clear in the far distance as the spell stabilized. There was no mist, like in Benevolence Itself on Veird, but that was only because this spell held itself together here, in this space, and there was nothing else outside of it; just emptiness, waiting to be filled—

No.

There was something else out there.

Of course there was other stuff out there.

Tiny glinting stars, far, far away. Further away than it was possible for light to traverse in the brief moments that this land had existed, but nevertheless, those stars still existed, and Erick saw them with senses far beyond his eyes. Erick somewhat focused on those stars, and on the largest one in particular which seemed to be getting closer, or maybe Erick’s new ‘Benevolence Itself’ was getting closer to it. Erick would get there soon enough.

He finished coalescing his new ability inside of his soul.

Text popped up in the air.

Wizard’s Clarity

A purpose clarified. A power controlled. Resources you expend automatically cloak themselves when they leave your control, mimicking the powers around them. Resources automatically attempt to return to you, if they exist on the same plane of existence as you. If your resources cannot return to you, they return to Benevolence Itself, and then they return to you, unless you decide otherwise. If neither of these options hold, then your resources permanently transform into whatever they were mimicking and fall out of your control, possibly forever.

But Benevolence always knows its true purpose.

As Erick finished making the ability his ‘clarity’ of space around him reached the nebula up ahead.

Erick’s rocky platform was a spot of solidity inside the sphere that was his mobile gate space, and as it crashed into one of the distant ‘stars’, that star became a nebula that surrounded Erick’s space like clouds outside of a glass bubble. Those clouds rumbled. Sparks jolted from the intangible edge of Erick’s space, which was maybe a few tens of kilometers wide, and then Erick’s gate space settled into the center of this strange land. As the clouds moved, Erick caught glimpses of a series of worlds that he had never seen before.

There, just beyond the mist in so many different directions, lay foreign lands.

Erick focused on the nearest, largest one, and then he Saw.

Spires of silver metal curled up from desolate, former utopias, like the tower-bones of great civilizations gone to corruptive rot. There were no trees, but there were lots of red and brown and pulsing growths here and there. The streets were littered with the dying and the destitute, while bands of marauders, wrapped in half-rotted leathers and streaked in blood, used spikes on poles to poke people out of hiding holes, and out of piles of refuse.

… But they were not spears; they were instruments of cruelty that left no mark upon the people they injured, except in the form of tumors that then turned into eyes and mouths.

Those mouths yelled with lungs that did not exist, exposing their new host’s deepest secrets and also the locations of others hiding out in that broken world. When people got away from the hunters of slaves, because the hunter didn’t really care about being methodical since the bounty was everywhere, those tumors turned on their new hosts, burrowing deeper and telling their hosts how much they would hurt them unless they returned to the fold. The tumors were in charge of the world, and they grew upon the marauders, who were really just slaves themselves.

Many people, newly infected by the eye/mouth tumors, simply walked along with the higher-ranking slaves, while the slavers’ tumors spoke of bounty waiting for them back at base. Some of the people using the poles to poke others, to make new tumors on those victims, readily agreed with their tumors. And so, the ‘new citizens of the empire’ walked along with their captors, because it was easier to walk and cooperate than it was to live whatever semblance of life they were trying to live.

It was easy for Erick to imagine that this world had been prosperous not too long ago; that it had fallen victim to this plague, or whatever it was, merely last year.

And then Erick looked away from that, trying to find the cause of all of this horror. Erick’s Benevolent Space responded to his searching eyes, moving for him, the entire space parting clouds as it moved on, further into the bad lands, past more fallen cities, and then off world, to another world, deeper into the infection.

