Aside from what he was looking at, which Erick still didn’t fully understand, Erick guessed what was happening with him and Benevolence right now, as his Lightning Path flickered in front of him, and Erick’s ‘space ship’ moved along, images of recent history appearing beyond the clouds. His Space was guiding him to a confrontation that Benevolence had not been able to solve itself. Benevolence was supposed to act on its own, most of the time, and it did. But sometimes it needed people to actually do things, and Benevolence needed Erick to do something right now.

Erick had not imagined that this is what his first action after creating a gate space on Earth’s moon would have been (and he was probably nowhere near Earth at all) but Benevolence had been spilling out of Margleknot for decades by now, hadn’t it. Of course there were places out there that needed a Wizard’s touch.

The spell was slowly guiding Erick toward what he needed to do, but Erick’s sight went far, and he saw what he needed to do long before his new floating rock brought him there. Erick took control of his gate space, and metaphorically ‘pressed the accelerator’. How did he do that? He wasn’t quite sure. But he had seen his Lightning Path headed in a direction, and he desired to go faster, and so he went faster.

He would be solving this problem, wherever it happened, and he would be solving it in the quickest way possible; through brutal force.

After all, there was no danger of accidentally ascending to Fractal Godhood anymore.

Erick’s mana cloaked itself. He was invisible and intangible to everyone out there, just like the Fae were, when they wanted to be. He could do anything he wanted to, to save everyone he wanted to save, and no one could stop him.

… Though that was probably some hubris talking.

Anyway! This was good testing for his new Wizard’s Clarity; to make sure it worked as intended. If absolutely no one saw him act, then ‘Operation Ultimate Time Wizard’ was a go.

Erick parked his gate space over the main world of the system.

Which he now recognized, thanks to the yorddle in his Status, and his own memories of a message asking for help several years ago. His yorddle told him a lot of stuff, but he didn’t pay attention to most of the time junk; he’d be fixing that soon enough. He was a Paradox Wizard, after all. The question of ‘what year is it’ was mostly a matter of choice.

Erick Flatt, [65-ish], [Current Year: 568 New Painted, (Post-Veird, Layer 789). [Current Reality: Abarial, Eleventh Millennium, Layer 172,287,913]

Erick was now 568 years past the destruction of Veird and the Godhood Ascension of Nothanganathor. He didn’t like that. Because he didn’t like that, he noticed something that he had failed to fix in his Status long ago. There was a hanging bracket in the middle. Erick changed that.

Soon, the readout looked different.

Erick Flatt, [65-ish], [Current Reality: Abarial, Eleventh Millennium, Layer 172,287,913], [Current Year Veird, Layer 789: 568 New Painted, Post-Veird], [Current Year Earth, Layer 99,081: 2710]

Earth was kinda far ahead too, eh?

Erick would get back there, too. For now, he had some people to save.

- - - -

Fixing the situation would be the work of an age, but Erick didn’t want to do that, so he worked harder, and not exactly smarter. He wanted to test the limits of himself, anyway.

Erick appeared in a nexus of his own power, wreathed in Mystical Benevolence, invisible to the world, high above a valley of the damned that was more like a crack in a whole planet than a ‘valley’. The world itself was spherical, Earth-sized, and the planet was called Abarial. In this crack in the world, monsters spewed from some Other Place. The very land was corrupted.

Erick had never seen corruption before. Not really. He had seen it a little bit when he spoke to that eldritch thing in the Corrupted Archive, through that piece of paper activated by Blighter and Seabass, in order to facilitate the legal dispensation of knowledge to Erick. Back then, the corruption he had seen had been a twisting of the world, like seeing something through a mirage that was also a lens into another set of realities.

Corruption was, by definition, corruptive, and it came in many different forms, all of them rather easy to recognize when you knew to look for twisted Infinity.

The entire bottom of the valley was like that; all thousand-kilometers-long of it, about a hundred kilometers below the surface of the world overhead. The walls of this crack in the world of Abarial were filled with wall-cities. Those cities were like bee hives, honeycombed and filled with life. Some of the streets were normal places, with greenery and white buildings and bright lights. Most of them were filled with hungry people dying on the lower levels, closer to the corruption at the bottom of the valley, and also, paradoxically, in the higher lands, at the top of the valley. The only safe spots in the whole place were a 10-or-so kilometer-wide band that circled the whole valley of the damned. For whatever reason, the corruption in the center of the valley leaked upward, out of the center of the valley, like condensation on a wet glass, then it flowed up into the sky, where harsh winds on the surface billowed that corruption out into the rest of the world.

So being nearer —but not too close!— was the only safe space to be.

Once, long ago, according to these people, and not too long ago at all, according to Erick’s view of time, Erick had received a request from the world of Abarial, through a complicated series of relays that had burned out between Margleknot and these distant people. Those people had thrown Erick a request through time and space, for help. They did not expect that request to land, or to get help at all.

Erick recalled that whole message.

“Hello…” The woman paused, looking at someone off screen. She whispered, “Is it on— It’s on. Ah. Fuck. We can re-record it.” The woman looked at the camera, breathed, then said, “Hello, Father of Margleknot. I represent an organization of mageknights of the world of Abarial, a former nexus world located on Layer 172,287,913.

“We are very far from Margleknot, I realize this, but until very recently, within the last thousand years, our worlds were doing fine. Better than fine. We had 7 colonized planets in our Abarial system and had begun to expand throughout our layer. We were a nexus world at the further edges of Margleknot’s roots.

“And then something broke between The Great City at the Center and propagated to us, and Margleknot broke connection to our world and 187 more worlds in our nexus in order to preserve the whole. We do not begrudge Margleknot their decision. It was a normal enough decision that happens to lands without world trees, which are only tenuously connected in the first place. It happens.

“It can also usually be repaired.

“We thought we could repair the problem on our end, but we cannot. The pillars are crumbling. The fountains are running dry. The storm is dying, and we have no fuel for the fire. We have only been able to send out this message because of the vast changes of Margleknot into this new form have revitalized a small part of our connection. That revitalization will not spread. It is already fading.

“Our nexus is dying.

“Our billions of people face extinction, and we have thus-far been unable to reconnect to Margleknot except through these most expensive of messages. We have no idea what the problem is. A thousand years have passed since the Degradation began, and none of our people have been able to find out anything solid; anything more than what we have in the books and papers we are sending with this message. With a prayer to the Universe, we hope and pray this message finds you in a charitable mood, for we have had to empty a world of life, evacuating all the people we could, in order to pay to bring this message to you now.

“Please help us, Father of Margleknot, and our gathered worlds will become your staunchest allies in all of your needs, forevermore.” The woman paused in prayer to the camera. And then she said to a person off camera, “That was good, but I need to do better. This thing could actually work, couldn’t it?”

Another voice said, “It could work; if this isn’t some old cousin’s tale. I’m not convinced we’re not deluding ourselves.”

The woman laughed. She smiled, and then she focused, saying, “Okay. Going again.” The woman breathed in, and then looked to the camera—

And then the message had broken.

Erick had gone on to request more Benevolence be spent in this direction, and Yggdrasil and Lionshard had told him they had done that, and he believed them...

“And yet,” Erick said to himself, floating in the sky, “The repair didn’t take, or something bigger happened.”

Erick had seen much of the local system on the way to this planet, second from the sun, Abarial. This crack in the world was the ‘Great City at the Center’. That corruption down there was supposed to be a ‘fountain’. These people were supposed to get Benevolence and then succeed in repairing themselves. They were supposed to be a land of new Benevolence users, who would take in this power and then fix themselves, and then spread Benevolence outward, everywhere. Some of that had happened; specifically, the people using Benevolence. That’s why this part of the universe had been such a large, demanding nebula to Erick.

And yet...

Erick frowned, and then he stepped back into Infinity, into Benevolence Itself.

From a much higher point of view, Erick gazed down at the world and its assorted fractal infinity, and then he found the ‘time dial’ on his Intent and the gate space, and he ‘turned the dial backwards’. It was all mostly metaphorically metaphysical, but it worked, and Erick gazed backward through time. What he saw appalled him. Every single version of this world was a cancer, growing at the heart of the problem. Benevolence had worked for a time, long ago, but then it had stopped working…

For some reason.

Erick was able to work Benevolence Itself because he had Authority here, and so he could see quite a lot once he flicked his perspective around this way and that, but he couldn’t tell exactly why the plan to save this land had failed. He suspected Nothanganathor was involved, but that might have been reductive. Whatever the case, Erick was here now, and he needed to make a systemic, infinite change.

Erick sorted through Infinity until he came across a version of this land that seemed to be poisoning all the rest, exactly like corruption was capable of doing.

Erick stepped back out of Benevolence itself, and into a much worse version of the chasm.

The beehive lands, hooked to the walls, were filled with people who had become their eye and mouth tumors; the people themselves were little more than appendages that hung off of the body of the tumors, which were all a few meters tall. The biggest problem was with the corrupted fountain at the bottom of the chasm. It was filled with a gooey mirage, thick as gel and mirrored in horrors. The air above that infection spilled upward like a constant-hurricane, filling the world of Abarial with infection that leaked through all of Infinity within this Layer, and even outside of this Layer.

Erick hovered in that hurricane, like an invisible ball of light that no one saw, and even if they did, they probably only saw a mirage. There was nothing in this sky that looked like itself. The only thing in the sky at all, that people could really see, were confusing mirage-clouds that blocked the sun and gave everything a bloody sort of glow.

The corruption did not touch Erick at all. It tried. It failed.

And then Erick, as a human, opened his aura up at the bottom of his sun form, and Benevolent Lightning crackled between him and the very center of the world of Abarial, piercing the lake of corruption as though it did not even exist. Erick’s power coruscated through the goo, illuminating the entire valley of the damned like the sun had reappeared in the sky, except the light was coming from below, and that light was white.

Brown and black clouds peeled away from above, and the storm of corruption faltered under Erick’s strength.

The tumor-filled people of the valley walls all noticed. They had long since given up on being themselves, though; they were the hosts of tumors, and not their own people. Erick didn’t want to imagine what sort of horrors a person like that experienced as they lived, but he saw those horrors anyway.

As Erick’s Benevolence cleaned the world below, the spent Benevolence spilled outward, annihilating the corruption even more as it went sideways. A billion mana went fast. And then two billion, and four. At 5 billion spent, the tumors on the walls tried to find the source of the anti-corruption, to stop whatever was happening, but no one saw Erick at all, and Erick noticed a fundamental change in the world. The sky cleared as Benevolence ate at the corruption up there, too, and the waters of the fountain turned blue, and healthy. At 10 billion mana spent, the tumor people started to lose cohesion, to falter and shrink.

Erick started spending Health, Psyche, and finally, resons.

The world seemed to explode, and yet that’s not what happened at all.

Erick detonated with power, yes, but he was fine, and as the wave of power washed out over people and their tumors, the people and tumors were fine, but they were split asunder. Two people in one body became two people, in two healthy bodies. Erick desired them made whole, and they were; even the tumor people, for they could not help that they were tumors. They still had the souls of sapients.

The trash on the streets evaporated. The growths on walls and floors turned to splashes of mana and thick air, [Benevolent Cleanse]d away. Castles fell into the waters below, and everything changed for everyone, here at the City at the Center.

When some newly-peopled tumors started taking fists and knives to their former hosts, Erick sent Lightning to strike down those people, and whoever else it needed to strike down. [Blood of the Valkyrie] spread among those who needed the help to fight back. Soon, the war machine began to churn, to erase lines between people and bring all under the oversight of the Apparent King.

[Seeds of Atunir] landed on the rim of the valley of the damned, where the broken silver bones of past civilizations lay in heaps and stretches across the land. Those white seeds took instant root, and then began to tower, and then to spread. Within ten minutes of Erick descending onto the world of Abarial, upon this former Great City at the Center, Erick had cleaned the land and the Valkyries were doing the rest.

