Something awoke down below. It was like a tentacled, great demon, living at the very bottom of the chasm, wrapped around an ancient artifact that was the core of Abarial that should have been making clean water, but which was now getting processed by the tentacled thing into more and more corruption. Erick suspected that core-thing was a manaminer of incredible power that had somehow lost its oversight control, for whatever reason.

Erick wasn’t going to fight the giant tentacle thing as a human, so he became his draconic self, right as kilometer-long tentacles, black and hooked, reached up into the sky. They were not normal appendages. They flickered, and one tendril became ten, and then became knives and eyes and fangs all chained together, and then they became baby faces, screaming as they tried to bite. They attempted to grab onto Erick, and he let them, because he had already done experiments with the corruptive touch of whatever-the-fuck this was, and this thing could not affect him.

Just as his experiments proved, the thing grabbed Erick, and the corruption broke within Erick’s Benevolence. Those baby-faced arms, and all the rest, became withered, old leather, which probably pained the creature, because it screamed along several dimensional axes. Erick let the thing pull at him, because he pulled at it, too, to line up the corruptive thing for a good shot, in order to expose its endless maw in the middle—

He wondered what the people out there were seeing.

Probably a whole lot of mind-bending shit, as this thing wrestled with a dragon half its size, which was still very large—

Ah.

There was the monster’s mouth. It screamed its terrible scream.

Erick opened his own mouth and screamed a stream of Benevolent dragonfire down its throat, into the depths of whatever existed down there, inside of the beast. The monster screamed louder as Erick shoved a few billion mana’s worth of reson-empowered [Benevolent Cleanse]s down its gullet, but soon the creature faltered. Its voice choked off. It tried to get away. It tried to close its mouth. Erick held it firmly open, and filled it with fire. Soon the creature began to explode in small parts all throughout itself, and far, far away from here.

When Erick was done with that, he focused on the Valkyrie Weave he had created to organize the killing and recreation of all of the people of this world. He had needed to leave that Weave while he fought the beast, and now corruption had gotten into that Weave. Some of the Valkyries were turning on each other. A bit of maintenance cleared that problem right up.

And soon, Valkyries flew across Abarial unimpeded and vicious.

Erick spent the next 4 days clearing away another 7 major monsters of the Abarial system, one of which was on the sun itself. Finding that one on the sun had been a minor problem, because Erick’s Lightning Path had told him he wasn’t done here, but he couldn’t actually find the problem. It wasn’t until Erick broke out the [Infinite Imaging] and set it to locate corruption that he found the thing that had infected the sun itself. It had poisoned the light, and thus poisoned the entire system. It was the original infection, and somehow no one had ever noticed it before now.

Maybe Erick shouldn’t have been surprised by that.

Erick never would have found the problem without his own spell, because the infection on the sun was just a spot of orange light that was the same as all the rest of the light. Dragonfire took care of that one, doing what solar fire seemed incapable of doing.

Erick spent 7 more days in the Abarial system, and 2 days on side Layers because some corruption had filtered into the nearby inhabited worlds. People were still putting up fights against the corruption. The original Layer had lost the fight, but the society on Layer 172,287,915 was connected and still fighting. Poorly.

Erick let the Valkyries go to town on everything, even those minorly-infected lands that were still fighting, until the problem was completely solved. Ten billion minds working together and ignoring politics did wonders against systemic issues, but it was a rather shitty thing to do. Eh! They’d all be fine in the end.

Erick never showed himself. Other people rapidly took up the mantles of power against the problems plaguing their land, and with all of them gaining each other’s knowledge of magic, and the capability to share everything, too, they began to set their worlds to rights rather fast.

The Valkyries spoke of the Apparent King all the time. They spoke of searching for him, of finding him, of going home. They needed to know. They needed to expand, and find him, for he had obviously done this for them. He had saved them all.

Erick half-expected godhood to suddenly take him, but, even though he was so far away from Margleknot, perhaps he was still connected? Yggdrasil was probably still taking away this divinity, even though Erick knew that Yggdrasil couldn’t act this far away from Margleknot; not directly. Anything past 50,000 was iffy.

So maybe his Wizard’s Clarity was working just that well, and they simply couldn’t notice him, because he had decided not to show himself. Absolutely no one spoke of big black dragons, and no one spoke of human-shaped Wizards either, because why would they? There were no dragons on the Abarial system. There were no humans, either. They were all elves. The Valkyries certainly tried to put a face to their worship, but eventually they all agreed to simply not worship at all, because the Apparent King didn’t want to be worshiped, and that was probably what actually saved Erick’s bacon from the Curse of Power.

The people of Abarial had their own gods, after all, and though they were currently Valkyries, they were still themselves. There’d probably be a Valkyrie God rising to power after this, though.

Eh!

Not Erick’s problem.

Erick set up several [Reincarnation] zones in the lands around New Abarial, as they were calling it.

With a silent command, Erick ‘ruined’ the Valkyrie plans for universal searches, and ‘told’ them all to go get remade as they were. It was more of a silent command made through the Weave. The Valkyries took to this command rather well. As soon as it went through, the collective mind of all of the Valkyries had a laugh, saying, ‘Ah, yes. He doesn’t want to be found, and home is right here.’

Five days and many different worlds of [Reincarnation] machines, hooked up to yet more [Seeds of Atunir]-created forests of Benevolence Mana, and the entire population of Abarial was freed of their corruption, and their entire system of multiple worlds was cleansed of danger. They still had social problems to solve, and now that the mind meld was gone those problems actually started to reappear, but that was on them.

Erick had done enough.

He erased every speck of magic he had created, and felt a bit giddy as it returned to him, or as it vanished into Benevolence Itself.

Erick retreated back into Benevolence Itself, and when he turned back and looked at Abarial through the Fractal, gazing upon all the variations of infinity in this land, he saw his influence spread alongside the slices of layer 172,287,913, and 172,287,914, and 172,287,915. He saw people returning to life, and making peace with their captors, or their slaves, and even more people calling for executions. He saw people helping each other, too, whereas before they had no desire to help at all. He saw kings decide to turn a new leaf, and to choose things like forgiveness and exile over public humiliation that led to ruinous revolution just a few years down the line. He saw kings deposed and wealth stolen and wealth made.

It was life, as it should have been, coming back.

Erick saw Abarial connect back to Margleknot under its own strength. This land was still one of the furthest from the ‘Center of the Universe’, but they got their connections fully up and running once again, and then they spread, not as Valkyries on a mission, but as people, populating worlds once again.

Erick smiled at that.

His resources remained in the trillions. Almost all the resources he had spent, had fallen into the fractal splash that was the edge of his invisible, intangible, Mystical-cloaked form, and come back to him, through the automatic accretion that was Wizard’s Clarity. It did take days for that to happen, and when he left his Benevolence behind it went outside of his control, but everything he spent in front of himself came back readily, and easily. That was part of why he had spent so long there. The other part was that he needed to help in a few scenarios here and there, and that is what he did.

So that was fantastic.

None of his big numbers had gone up at all, which confirmed his suspicions that Abarial hadn’t noticed him at all, which was also fantastic.

Turning Benevolence Itself back around, back through time, turned out to be as easy as willing it, and soon, Erick was standing on his rock in the middle of the void again, while behind him, Benevolence spread outward exactly as it should have a long, long time ago. Erick smiled at that, too. He might have been flowing backward in time right now, but Benevolence acted along time-based vectors, too, so of course it spread outward, even if Erick was headed backward in time.

Or maybe he was seeing the fall of a former golden age, returning out of history, and Erick had merely visited the land at a dark point in its time.

Maybe Erick would find out later.
