For this to be doable on the fly, when Manon had never even spoken to the girl, it must have been like that.


Let me help you, Hazel. You’ll feel more at home with yourself if you go ahead and say what’s on your mind.


She lifted the shape of the thought toward the light. Then, she waited.


Body language over the past few seconds indicated that Aulia was doing a fair job on her own of making Alden Thorn uncomfortable. While Manon was identifying Hazel’s usefulness, he’d been shooting a panicky look at the boy with the eyepatch.


Eyepatch had said something. Then Aulia had laughed, making a dismissive-looking gesture with her hand while she leaned toward Alden. He’d fixed his eyes on Hazel and replied.


There had been some back and forth while Manon worked, and now…


“I am your granddaughter!” Hazel shouted so loudly that the words carried over the music and up to Manon’s window. “I am your protégée. I’ve done everything you ever asked me to, and you gave my S to that whiny, lazy little whiff the second he was selected!”


So that’s what the idea eating away at you was, Manon thought while the girl below continued her rant in full voice. Some of the things she said were contradictory. Some of them made no sense. But Manon knew what Hazel was really saying.


So childish. Such a common feeling and always so useful to me, though this is definitely the most dramatic result I’ve ever had from pulling it out of someone.


Manon wondered if she’d needed to do anything at all. To be snapping like this, the girl must have been on the very precipice of her self-control. She might have lost her head any second without Manon helping her get it out of her system


This isn’t fair, Hazel Velra was screaming at the top of her lungs, using far more words than necessary. My life is unfair.


Manon smiled. Hazel was revealing grievances, wants, and weaknesses galore. She was a volatile creature, but volatility was only a problem if you planned on managing someone longterm. If you just wanted them to give you information or stir up trouble for someone else, it was a useful quality. The girl had spent her entire life at Aulia’s knee. And here she was having such a terrible day.


This, Manon thought, is an opportunity.
 


 Stolen novel; please report.

“You and I have a lot in common,” the Rabbit woman said, shaking her head sympathetically.


She’d been going blah, blah, blah for a long time. Hazel had paid attention to enough of the chatter to know they didn’t have anything in common at all. And her bare feet were freezing against the marble floor. This sofa was hard as a rock.


Why did I agree to come with this annoying stranger? she wondered.


Because she’d run away from the party sobbing. Because she’d assumed the black sedan that had stopped for her had been sent by her parents to carry her back home in privacy, and the second she’d gotten in the woman had spoken as if she was affiliated with the family somehow. One of the help, Hazel had assumed. Someone from Grandpa Corin’s office possibly.


And when she’d realized the Rabbit was just one of those people who wanted to suck up to a Velra…well, Hazel didn’t mind. Maybe if she disappeared and refused to answer her messages for a while, her family would understand how badly they’d treated her. Her parents and her grandfather could’ve stood up for her. Instead, they’d just flapped their lips pointlessly and cringed.


My skill…they took my skill from me.


She couldn’t believe this was really happening.


The ability was only useful on Earth if people didn’t know she had it. And she wasn’t required to get consent before using it like so many of her relatives needed to before they used their own skills. It was a privilege she’d earned for herself, a product of her giftedness and her effort. Her one solace for the rank disaster.


That boy…


I didn’t do anything wrong. It wasn’t a big deal. But Grandma sided with him. It’s like Lute all over again. She thinks they’re special even though they haven’t done anything to earn it.


At least Lute was an S. At least he’d gotten it at fourteen. It was nothing he deserved, but it was something.


Alden Thorn had just been a delivery boy for Hazel’s Chainer.


She felt almost numb. The video filled her eyes, the opacity just low enough that she could still see the woman sitting beside her, eating the karaage she kept offering to share with Hazel.


Hazel had taken a few pieces. Her mouth felt greasy, and the comments under the video pierced her eyes.


“You know it can feel really good to get things like this off your chest,” the woman said. Manon Something. Somewhere in all the blahs she’d managed to convey that she was a contractor of some sort for Hazel’s grandmother. Like that was a special connection they shared.


Grandma probably doesn’t know her name either. She probably smiled at her once, and this old lady thinks it meant she mattered.


Hazel reached for another piece of the chicken and chewed it. She wiped her fingers on her dress. She could never wear it again now. It would make people think of Alden Thorn announcing that she was too dangerous to be around.


Maybe she did want to get something off her chest after all.


“He’s not stable.” She gestured at the video in front of her eyes even though Manon couldn’t see it. “People shouldn’t just believe whatever he says. Avowed who spend months in bad situations usually come back damaged. It’s sad, but it’s the truth. I guess that’s why he’s so upset about his Peace of Mind. Because he’s got problems. He’s overreacting, and people are too ignorant about wordchains to realize what I did wouldn’t have been that bad to a normal person.”


Manon was quiet for a beat. Then, she brightened.


“Hey! Do you want to trade stories? I actually know Alden a little bit. I’ll tell you some embarrassing things about him and you tell me about…oh, whoever you like! Who’s done something embarrassing around you lately?”


That sounds stupid. Why would I gossip with someone like you?


“I think I’ll go,” said Hazel, standing and heading toward the door.


“Not just yet!” Manon sounded so disappointed. “I’ve even got a few pictures of him in a funny costume. Let me just grab the tablet I keep my Triplanets photography on.”


Pictures? Hazel frowned. Maybe it would make me feel better.


The Rabbit woman rummaged around on a bookshelf for what seemed like too long.


Why doesn’t she just send me a copy through our interfaces?


Tech could be better and more convenient for capturing photographs and video. Hazel loved her drone and her phone. Maybe Manon was the same.


She stood beside the shelf watching Manon scroll very slowly through a photography folder on the tablet. “Aulia thinks I use social media too much,” Hazel said. “I told her it was my outlet, but she doesn’t understand. ‘Hazel, why don’t you get a productive hobby?’ But it’s not like making fans isn’t productive. And now they’re going to think all the wrong things about me because of Alden.”


“Aulia doesn’t care about your interests?” Manon asked in a surprised voice. “But you’re her granddaughter!”


“She keeps saying she expects me to be mature. She’s not always mature. But I have to be.”


“The older generations aren’t always fair to the younger ones. I’d apologize on our behalf, but your grandmother is quite a bit older than me.”


“When she was my age she’d already had her first child. I don’t think she even knows who Grandpa Corin’s father was.”


“It sounds like you’re more responsible than she was.”


“I’ve been working on the Triplanets for years. I think I understand more about the real world than most people.” The large, sideways timeglass on the bookshelf caught Hazel’s eye. It looked out of place with the rest of the decor in the apartment. She reached up to tap the metal case that held it idly, and she frowned as it slid along the wood.


Wrong.


She didn’t feel like she’d tapped it that hard.


Oh. I performed an extra Force of the Traveler’s Body just now. I remember. Over by the door, right before walking over here to stand beside Manon and see the pictures. She could even feel her own imbalance, but it never bothered her the way other peoples’ did.


How strange that I let it slip my mind.


Hazel enjoyed the whole set of wordchains in the Force of the Body family. She liked turning the sweep of a hand into something explosive. She usually elected to cast a single one on an ordinary day though. Why did I decide to add another one?


“Most people aren’t thinkers,” Manon said. “Or doers. They just exist. You’re different. I can tell. Can Aulia not see that about you?”


Hazel frowned. “What did you say you did for my grandmother again?”


“I run a little side business for her during a certain annual event. We’ve been partners for almost fifteen years.” Manon looked at the timer. “Unfortunately, my payment was supposed to be time with Horatio Qu—”


“So that’s it. Everyone wants to know when the healer will be back.” Hazel rolled her eyes. “He’s just being a whiner. Aimi barely hit him with the car. He yelled about the Gloss threatening his life and then requested assignment to Artona III for a supplemental Healer school. He’ll get over it soon enough and ask to come home. According to Grandma, he doesn’t even like other planets.”


Manon’s smile was strained. “That’s good to know, but ‘soon enough’ for someone as old as Horatio or your grandmother can be rather long to the rest of us…anyway, where were we? You were telling me that Aulia expects maturity from you even though she isn’t always mature herself!”


“Do you even have embarrassing pictures of Alden Thorn?”


How would she? That’s right! That was the thought I had. That was why I cast the extra strengthening chain. Because the pictures sounded unlikely, and I thought she was a little creepy. The way she ate that chicken wasn’t normal.


Alden and Manon were both Rabbits, but Alden hadn’t been on Anesidora for long. Why would they know each other? Why would they know each other well enough for her to have pictures of him in ‘a funny costume’?


It sounded like a fiction the woman had invented just to make Hazel talk to her for longer.


“I do,” said Manon. “From a job we did together. They’re on this tablet.”


Lie.


Hazel didn’t know Alden. But she knew about him. He’d only had the one job. The one that had ended badly. It was so ironic that the job had been at…


LeafSong. That school of all places. No wonder Grandma has completely taken leave of her senses when it comes to the delivery boy. She probably thinks the universe is shouting his name.


Hazel started to turn away. She was going to march out the door and leave this pitiful lying Rabbit to her pitiful little life. And then…the rest of the facts pulled themselves together.


“The LeafSong Entrance Examinations?” she asked slowly. “Is that the job you mean?”


“Yes,” said Manon, smiling at her as though she’d said something flattering.


In that moment, Hazel Velra understood everything about the past few hours.


She thinks I don’t know what she does at that school. She thinks it’s such an important secret that Aulia wouldn’t share it with me.


“You know I have more than one contract tattoo with my grandmother,” Hazel spat. Her anger was boiling up inside her.


Manon stared at her. “More than one?”


“You think she wouldn’t trust me with information? Me?”


The nerve of this woman. She did that…to me…!


“I can’t believe she’s paying someone like you with Horatio!” Hazel couldn’t repeat the precise details of Manon’s work even to the woman herself, thanks to a rule in one of the contracts. But she would force out every biting truth she could manage around the limitations. “You don’t even do anything hard! All kinds of people could do that job. And we don’t really need it. Grandma just thinks having you do it might one day give us something interesting. You’re useless. You should be fired.”


Manon’s eyebrows were heading toward her graying hairline. “Now calm down. There’s no need for us to have an argu—”


“Are you trying to do it to me again? You think I don’t know what you can do to people? You think Grandma Aulia wouldn’t tell me something like that? I. Matter. I know things. I know who you are!”


Manon’s face paled.


“You were there to pick me up right as I ran away from the party!” Hazel shouted. “Do you think I’m stupid?”


In the corner of her eye, where she’d minimized the video, a commenter was saying her dress made her look like a convenience store burrito.


“I would never act like I did today! I would never say things like that!” Hazel slapped her hand against the bookshelf so hard that a ceramic figurine fell off to shatter on the icy floor. “You made me!”


“I didn’t!” Manon said.


“I don’t believe you! You Swayed me. Why aren’t you doing it now? Did your C-rank skill run out?”


“I’m not a Sway! Listen, Hazel, I understand you’re—”


She was reaching out toward Hazel with a hand.


Hazel’s own hand wrapped around something heavy on the shelf beside her. She swept her arm through the air.


All of her favorite daily chains were with her, defending her from the evil madwoman who stood before her. Hazel was graceful, accurate, strong.


The timeglass connected with Manon’s temple. There was an impact. A warm spatter. The soft but weighty thud of a body collapsing to the floor.


Hazel stared down, chest heaving. She felt cold and hot. The air smelled like blood.


