Alden’s concerns about being filmed were completely forgotten for a moment. He almost wished Lute’s mother would recognize him from their brief encounter the other night in the hall of Laura’s apartment building. It might be easier if she caused a scene of some kind with him, instead of staring at Lute like she was about to cry.


Even Haoyu didn’t seem to have a way to combat this level of tension. His smile was forced.


Roman let out a gasp.


Good, thought Alden. He knows them both. Maybe he’ll say something helpful.


A finger tapped him on his shoulder, and when he looked toward Roman, the other boy shoved a half-finished iced coffee into his hand.


“What—?”


“Does my hair look okay?” Roman demanded.


“It’s got some confetti in it. Why?”


Roman flipped his head upside down and shook out his hair. A second after he righted himself, he disappeared into thin air. By the time Alden got over his surprise, Lute had taken the opportunity afforded by the distraction to leave. Lexi and Haoyu were following him. Nodding at Jessica awkwardly, Alden took off after them.


“All right…” Haoyu said a couple of minutes later as they walked past a club that was advertising a comedy night. “That was definitely more interesting than Konstantin’s party. I always hoped high school would be exciting, but it’s exceeding my expectations on that front already.”


“I declare our first operation a success,” Lute said in a tone so blithe Alden would never have guessed he’d just had what must have been an emotional encounter. “We survived my family. Lexi didn’t find the diamonds, but he claimed like eighty percent of the party favors anyway, and he will never run out of jewelry again.”


“They’re Christmas presents for my little sister.”


“And Alden…revealed his true nature to us and everyone else,” Lute continued.


Alden groaned.


“Righteous, politely devastating—” Lute said.


“He was polite,” Haoyu agreed.


“It made his attack so much more effective!” Lute hopped over a grate in the sidewalk.


Alden was glad they approved. And at least I know for sure now where Hazel and I stand.


He thought it would be less stressful in the long run to have it all out in the open. Now he wouldn’t have to wonder why she’d done it and what it meant and if he was crazy for being upset about it.


“There are some real idiots in the comments on that video,” said Lexi. “You definitely shouldn’t read them.”


“You’re reading them?”


Lexi shrugged.


“Most people are cheering you on,” said Haoyu.


“I don’t want to be cheered on. I want to be ignored.”


“Someone’s connected you to the gokoratch songs video Finlay posted yesterday,” Haoyu said. “It’s starting to get a lot of hits, too.”


Alden considered it. “That’s not enough of a comfort. But I’ll take it.”


“Are you really going to send that thing to your…foreign friend?” Lexi asked.


“Yes,” said Alden. “My foreign friend needs to know how much we’re all enjoying his contributions. Can we discuss anything other than the Hazel incident?”


There was just a second of silence, then Lexi said, “Lute, your cousin Roman needs a pet or something. One that doesn’t mind him talking to it for hours.”


Mention of Roman made Alden look down at the coffee he was still carrying. “I can throw this away, right? He’s not going to reappear and want it?”


“His summonses usually last around thirty minutes,” Lexi reported. “We’ll be back at the apartment. I say trash it.”


“You guys talked about his summonses?” Haoyu asked.


“He talked,” Lexi said in a sullen voice. “He mistook my silence for me being a good listener.”


“If you remembered everything he said, doesn’t that make you a good listener?”
 


 

Manon Barre had barely gotten any sleep since she’d made it back to Earth. Astounding how much can fall apart when I’m only gone for a few hours.


Now she was on the third floor of a building, sitting in a folding chair and watching the people in the alley below her through a window. It had been all too easy to get in. She’d simply told the owner she was considering renting this empty space at a later date, and the access code had been granted. She had an excellent reputation in the event industry. There was no reason to say no to her even if a party for a certain noteworthy family was taking place this evening.


Manon’s inbox was full of angry, confused messages from the boater, and there was an obnoxious amount of “respectful advice on the pursuit of our shared interests” from Aulia Velra’s daughter-turned-personal assistant. The first issue was being addressed one boater member at a time. Three of them were already pacified, and the others would be…as soon as she could manage it.


All the busybodying from Aulia’s little helper was unnecessary. Manon had carved the grooves that her peoples’ lives fit into. They were mostly content, and they would refocus themselves on the things that really mattered after she had devoted enough time to tucking troublesome ideas into the recesses of their minds again.


Aulia only makes my job more difficult by butting in.


Now that some of them had discovered a Velra representative would come running at their call, they were getting an overinflated sense of their own importance. That would have to be handled, too.


Manon wasn’t sure the extra work the Velras had made for her was unintentional.


It would be nice for Aulia if I was too busy tending to their petty upsets to ask her inconvenient questions about our agreement.


And there was a lot of upset right now. Manon had never suspected that such a brief absence could lead to so much mayhem, not after all these years.


The little shit thought it out. I’ll give him that.


The members’ faith in their leader, their gratitude toward her, and their affection for her would have been strong enough to withstand a simple word of warning. But a multipage essay of warning being delivered to each of them, in duplicate no less, was something else. A spoken word could be pushed out of the mind so quickly. Having so many words that so thoroughly speculated on a portion of their lives shoved in front of their eyes once and then again shortly afterward in hardcopy…


This was supposed to be the age of text messages and short attention spans. What was a teenager doing outputting research papers on Manon’s activities in his free time? Did he not have anything better to do?


You’d think someone who just came out of some kind of disaster would have other things to worry about.


And why on Earth was he standing below her right now, popping confetti balloons at a Velra birthday party?


Manon couldn’t figure it out. Had Aulia realized the boy was aware of her involvement with the boater? Had she invited Alden Thorn here as some kind of a bribe? Was he here on his own because he’d gotten wind of Aulia backing Manon and he fancied himself a sleuth?


He’d arrived with the one-eyed short boy. Jessica’s S-rank. Maybe they were acquainted, and it was just a coincidence?


It doesn’t matter. I’ll deal with him when the boater is finally settled again.


One chore at a time, and this evening’s had already been decided upon. Aulia and her assistant clearly didn’t have enough to do lately if they could engage in thinly-veiled negotiations with some of Manon’s people. She needed them out of the way so that she could re-establish control.


An attempt to do the LeafSong job without her would be doomed. It was obvious to her, but maybe it wasn’t so obvious to an out-of-touch S-rank.


So tonight we find something to distract her from meddling in my end of the business. If I keep her busy for a while, and I re-establish control fully, she’ll leave it alone for now. And…


Finding a way to make sure Aulia honored their bargain could wait just a little longer. That was going to take some more planning.


Manon watched. She waited.


This party was not hers. The people attending it were not hers. But a Rabbit with Tailor Environment was more used to working on the possessions of others anyway. And Manon’s skill had topped out some time ago, the last, lovely features settling into her mind and making her one of the very best at figuring out exactly what changes she could make to suit the owner of a space, event, or thought.


As a consequence of that, she could also tell what arrangements were less suitable.


This party had a few different people who could be considered “owners” with varying needs and degrees of connection to the space. Manon targeted Benjamin Velra first, since it was the man’s birthday.


Good lord, she thought. Did they even ask him if he wanted a party at all?


Almost everything in the alley was less than ideal for him. If she’d really been rearranging and positioning things to suit him, instead of just taking a peek, she would have ordered a getaway vehicle for the man and told him to go someplace quiet. The only things in this environment that fit him were the cake, the trash bins the children were playing in, and the wrapped gift his eldest daughter was presenting him with.


Manon frowned down at Aimi, then moved on.


She targeted Benjamin’s wife next. Hikari Velra. And she suddenly saw a dozen new possible arrangements for tables and chairs.


She cares about where people are sitting.


It was possible to learn a lot from tailoring an environment.


Not really surprising that another S-rank who’s been by Aulia’s side for so long would be interested in manipulating the various family relationships.


Before Manon could move on to a new target, the queen herself arrived.


Ah, there you are Aulia. Let’s see what suits you right now. Let’s see if a lowly C-rank can make sure it stays out of your grasp.


******


An interesting thing about Tailor Environment that most non-users didn’t understand—the owner’s wants and needs both mattered when it came to arranging a perfect space. The skill balanced those things, but it didn’t tell Manon how it was balancing them or what the client’s actual thoughts were. She didn’t need to know to do her job, so she didn’t.


But she could often guess anyway. For example, if the magic indicated that a family heirloom should be placed in a highly visible but otherwise awkward location, that probably meant that the owner was so fond of it their desire for its presence outweighed practicality.


Is this something Aulia wants? Or something she needs? Manon wondered, watching the woman make her way through the crowd with that way she had about her that most older Anesidorans would probably recognize even if she were to suddenly inhabit another body.


The woman’s ownership of this party was so strong from the moment she appeared that Manon could see the whole puzzle, and what suited Aulia most right now wasn’t her own comfort…but Alden Thorn’s.


It wasn’t the easiest thing to pick up on, but it was there to an experienced eye. For this space to suit Aulia as well as it could in this moment, a particularly nice decoration should be moved into Alden’s line of sight. One of the confetti bubbles—no doubt containing a party favor he would like—ought to be shoved in front of him.


What’s this about?


Aulia moved through the crowd so swiftly that Manon barely had time to understand what her skill was telling her. Figuring out why it was telling her such a thing would no doubt take hours. She had to move now.


It suited Aulia for the boy to be comfortable. It suited Manon for Aulia to have some trouble.


And Alden deserves to be miserable, thought Manon. Sometimes the universe gives us such unexpected opportunities.


As Aulia engaged him in conversation, Manon looked for an opening. She couldn’t exactly toss a chair out of the window and smash the boy over the head, though that would no doubt get the job done. It would have to be handled the subtle way. Which wasn’t simple.


These weren’t her people. On-the-spot thought rearrangement without something that resembled acquiescence from the owner of the thoughts wasn’t really what the skill did, but there was a way if she found exactly the right type of person with the right mental state…


She tried Jessica first because weak people were usually easier. Then Cady Velra.


Without much hope, she tried Alden himself and found he wouldn’t work either. Even at LeafSong, she’d barely managed to push a couple of his thoughts to the back of his mind—suspicions toward her, she was now sure. And that had probably only been possible because a boy on his first assignment was so tense in so many ways that having that tension reduced suited him.


Next, she targeted Hazel Velra—Aulia’s daughter, though everyone seemed on-board with politely pretending she was a great granddaughter.


There! A piece I can move.


Manon couldn’t read the thought. To her, it was just a shape she was allowed to access and fit into a new slot. To guess at what it was, she would have to know Hazel well or be down there reading the girl’s expressions and listening carefully to what she said. And that wasn’t possible.


But with all involved parties targeted and her skill working at its absolute maximum, Manon could tell that nudging this thought forward in the girl’s mind would somehow make the environment less pleasant for Alden and less ideal for Aulia.


Sloppy. But it will have to do.


She focused her full attention on Hazel Velra. You’ve got something inside of you that’s bothering you, don’t you? Something you need and want to let out so badly that you’re about to burst with it. There’s a part of your mental environment that it would feel so good to let out, but some other pesky concerns are holding you back.


