“C-contract,” she said, “call…call my grandmother. I need her. I need her right now!”


In her hand, unseen, a single grain of sand slid from one side of the fifteen-year timer to the other, marking the passing of another minute.
 


 

The party was ending. As the last few guests exited the alley and a team of low-rank Brutes and Shapers began the clean-up, Aulia was situating a tiara on top of Miyo’s head.


A call notice came in.


“Fine,” Aulia said with a sigh. She winked at Miyo’s questioning look. “Your cousin’s calling. Do you want to place a bet with me on whether it will be an apology or not?”


“Not,” Miyo said at once. “A thousand argold.”


“Done!”


This was their little game.


She had the call go to audio only. “Yes, Hazel dear. Do you have something to say to me?”


“Grandma,” Hazel sobbed. “Grandma, I killed the Rabbit.”


“Ow!”


Aulia had accidentally yanked the tiara through Miyo’s hair. “What did you say?” she asked in a steady voice.


“I k-killed the R-rabbit.”


Aulia clasped her hands in front of her chest. The graffiti on the wall behind Miyo switched to an image of a tongue and a lollipop.


“Repeat yourself, please,” said Aulia.


The lights of her interface flared and shifted, screens changing rapidly as she requested and paid for information. The boy had last been seen in public entering his dormitory with Lute and the other two. Hazel’s last known location was an apartment building near Nautilus Needle.


Aulia exhaled.


“Hazel, Alden Thorn may very well be an extraordinary friend to this family one day. I’m sorry you’re having such difficulty adjusting to a slightly different reality than we had planned, but I see no reason to indulge your behavior any furth—”


“Not that Rabbit!” Hazel’s voice was nearly a scream. “Manon! The LeafSong Rabbit. She tried to user her powers on me. I had to…I had to kill her. It was self-defense!”


The grating sound of chairs and tables scraping against concrete filled the alley as the cleanup crew began to put them away.


“That’s the third time you’ve made that face tonight,” Miyo noted, rubbing her scalp.


Aulia glanced at her.


<<Smooth,>> Miyo said in Artonan, sweeping a hand straight down over her own face and making her expression blank.


She was getting an interesting attitude now that she was a teenager. Aulia couldn’t appreciate it at the moment.


<<I assume Hazel has failed to offer an appropriate apology?>> Miyo asked. <<I win.>>


“Indeed you do,” Aulia said. “One moment, dear. Hazel, I’m so happy to hear about your decision! Practicing your skill and serving others is a good way to make up for that shameful display earlier tonight. Our friends will be pleased to have you around full-time.”


“W-what?” Hazel asked. “Grandma, there’s blood everywhere. But it was self-defense. I swear. She was doing things to me with her powers.”


“Don’t just rush off!” said Aulia. “Where are you? I’ll send someone for you. You need to come home and pack.”


“Is Hazel going somewhere?” Miyo asked.


Aulia nodded at her. “Important news,” she said to both of them. “Hazel plans to become a volunteer on the Triplanets. She’ll be leaving us soon.”


“Volunteer?” Miyo asked.


“Yes! That’s an option for us Chainers. If you feel a call to service and choose to deny your own comforts and sacrifice your rights to payment and time off, they won’t refuse you!”


Miyo raised an eyebrow. “So she’s trying to avoid the backlash from that video. How long is she going to stay?”


“A long time,” said Aulia in a thin voice. “She’s probably going to stay there a very long time. I suggested volunteering shortly after she affixed, but she was feeling such a lot of disappointment about her rank that she refused. She’s had a change of heart. Would you like a car, Miyo?”


“Me?”


“You are such a wonderful granddaughter.” Aulia leaned over and kissed her on both cheeks. “I think you deserve more than a thousand argold. Let’s get you a license. And a car. Or a helicopter. You pick.”
 


 

Alden took a deep breath and let himself slide beneath the surface of the water. He’d gotten a turn in the claw-footed bathtub. Finally.


And all I had to do was ask Hazel Velra to stay away from me. Easy-peasy.


He let air escape from his nose and bubble to the surface.


Recovery sauna time had done wonders for him after Monday’s gym class, but he was still achier than usual. The hot water was good. He could feel his auriad, loosely looped around his fingers from the spell he’d been practicing while he soaked, drifting.


It would be fun to have the wordchain finished for the obstacle course tomorrow, he thought. But I think I’d have to stay up all night hacking away at it. Friday’s a better goal.


A notification light in indigo, his high priority color, appeared and he accepted it with a thought as he pushed himself back up for a breath of air.


Oh, it’s just that.


He’d been hoping it was Boe. Instead it was a notice that Manon Barre had updated her social media page. He clicked through to look at it because he couldn’t stop himself and saw, to his surprise, that the new post was her special away animation again.


She got summoned? She only just got back.


The hourglass turned over.


Maybe they’ll keep her for longer than a few hours this time. One or two of the boater members might still want to escape from her. If they’re not all like Laura…


No. He was supposed to be letting this one go. He’d done what he’d set out to do. If it hadn’t helped, then it hadn’t.


Alden ducked his head under the water again.


I wonder how long it will take to make an ice cube in hot water like this with my freezing spell?


His auriad stopped drifting around in the water so much. He felt a few of the loops tighten around his fingers.


He smiled. 
 
 
 
******
