Ren didn't say anything, because there wasn't really anything else to say, and motioned to the door. They followed him out of the bedroom and down the hall to the Marilith Demon's room, then he used his polymorph helm to return to normal and knocked. The door opened and the Marilith Demon slithered up to her full height and looked down at him.

“I won't submit to you, Tainted King of the Predators.”

Ren walked up into the air and put his face right in front of hers. “I would never ask you to, my snickety-snake.” He said and cupped the sides of her face with his hands, then gave her a kiss. She was a little stiff at first, then her arms wrapped around him and she kissed him back. It was a little odd, since her mouth was twice as big as his; but, they had learned a long time ago to accept it for what it was. A sign of affection.

“I assume we are moving.” The Marilith Demon asked, and Ren nodded. “What about my pigs?”

“How many are left?” Ren asked.

“Four.”

Ren chuckled. “You started with four.”

“They are slippery little devils.” She said and smiled.

“It's a good thing I built a pen for them at your new place, then.” Ren said. “Shall we go?”

The Marilith Demon nodded and opened the roof door, then slithered out and down to the ground and the pig pen there. Ren and the succubi were surprised when the Marilith Demon made two brief whistling sounds, then the pigs came right over to her. She reached down to pick up the smallest one, and it slipped right out of her hands.

“You see?” She said and tried again, with the same result, and the pig made a snorting sound as if it was laughing at her.

“All right.” Ren said and jumped down to land beside her, then cast a huge portal. “Go on, now.” He said to the pigs.

“I should go first, so they know it's safe.” The Marilith Demon said and went through the portal, and sure enough, the pigs went right in after her. The old sow was last in line to go through. She stopped for a moment and sniffed at Ren's face, snorted, then went through the portal. Ren checked the All-Seeing Mirror and saw they were safe on the other side, and he dismissed the portal.

“Shall we fly there?” Seldanna asked and floated down to him.

“No time.” Ren said and cast a huge portal to take them to the top floor of the roost.

“He's pushing his luck as it is, and he still hasn't spent quality time with either you or the maids yet.” Teepo said.

Seldanna and the other succubi floated through the portal and Ren stepped through himself and dismissed it. Once again, he felt an immediate reaction from the other succubi in the roost and used his Heat Sense to watch them coming up to see him. It didn't take long.

“What happened, My King?” Zunala, the oldest succubus asked as she came into the room with her mate, Weston.

“I'll explain when the others... there they are.” Ren smiled as the rest of them came into the room with their partners. He took out the Vasalor Statue and activated it, then he told them what had happened and how his Tainted King title had changed again.
