They’re finally here. She couldn’t make them out from this distance, but Calen’s wings at least were bright and distinctive. She summoned another batch of the tiny slime monsters while she waited for the group to wend its way through her new, sparsely populated forest of giant oaks.

Right as the procession rounded the lake, approaching where she waited, it happened. The complex eddies of water-affinity mana from the mushrooms and the arcane mana swirls from the tiny slimes she had dumped into the lake suddenly stilled. The entire lake seemed to freeze for a moment. Deep within the waters, she once again saw the intense concentration of mana explode through the lake in a silent shockwave, leaving the water pristine, perfectly clear, and beginning to glow with the familiar cerulean blue that it had once had.

Perfect!

The glow illuminated the approaching group, and by the light, Ali recognized them as they stopped to stare at the lake with exclamations of surprise that turned to excitement. Vivian led the group which included Malika, Calen, and Lira. Basil and Eliyen were near the back of the group, along with several people she didn’t recognize, led by the farmer Sigurd.

“Hi again, Aliandra,” the stocky farmer greeted her, with a brief nod. “Where would you like us to start?”

Straight to business, she thought. “Hi Sigurd,” she answered, happy that he had remembered her from their Kobold hunting quest. “Anywhere you like,” she answered. “Is this going to work for you?” she gestured out to the open areas nearby.

“It’s a bit rocky, but I think we can make do.”

“I can help with that,” Ali answered, reaching out with her Domain Mastery skill, flattening and pulverizing the rock to make a broad field nestled between two enormous oaks.

“Oh, that works,” Sigurd exclaimed, while several of the other farmers oohed and aahed as she flexed her domain skill. “Oskar, can you handle fertilizer?”

“On it, boss,” a heavy-set farmer with a full black beard answered. “There was plenty of raw material for my skills up in them sewers. I’ll be right back.”

He slipped out of the tree trunk and collapsed on the ground. His body flopped around for a while as he tried to remember what being a person was like. His branches were pale and floppy.

Arms, he corrected himself. Wet noodles… for arms. Right. Mato was aware that he was struggling to readjust to his body from his time spent as a tree, but his mind somehow retained the calm, serene, and expansive state he had experienced during the meld. As his awareness slowly shrunk back into his body, he heard a soft chime calling his attention.

Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 24 (+4).Requirements met for skill advancement.

An advancement is good… he thought, knowing he would normally have been jumping in excitement, but his mind still rested in the lingering embrace of the Tree Meld’s magic. With care and deliberation, he examined the notifications in the peace of his inner grove, noting how much stronger his inner tree – the mental representation of his magic – seemed.

Mentor: Lirasia.Communed with an Elder Tree.Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 20.Vitality has surpassed 200.Wisdom has surpassed 50.Used Vitality Rejuvenation to restore Life Drain.Used Vitality Rejuvenation to cure Undead Blight.Arboreal Sanctuary gains Tree Form.Arboreal Sanctuary gains the Shapeshift trait.Arboreal Sanctuary – level 24You emit a spherical Sanctuary aura of nature magic centered on yourself. Range: 17.2 feet.Your natural health regeneration rate is increased by +136.8% [100 + skill + wisdom / 10] and you can recover even from critical injuries. Your regeneration is shared with allies (including animals, beasts, and plants). Range: Sanctuary.Mana: You can redirect damage from anyone to yourself. Range: Sanctuary.Mana: Shapeshift into a tree.Tree Form: You maintain a meditative state increasing your health and mana regeneration by +500%. The base range of your Sanctuary aura is increased to 500 feet, and exposure to it applies Vitality Rejuvenation. Your Strength, Dexterity, and Endurance are replaced with additional Vitality, Perception, and Wisdom. Nature, Domain, Area, Shapeshift, WisdomAccept this advancement?

He took his time to study the advancement while his body lay weak and unresponsive on the grass between huge, gnarled roots.

I can be a tree… and Malika’s going to tease me for the next decade and then some. I hope the others are alright… His heart pinched with a brief pang of guilt at the fact that he had left them to face the council trial without him. I should go see if they need help…

It was a strange existence, being a tree, and as he lay there reflecting, he felt like his entire being had been carefully dismantled before being reassembled into something that felt like it should be him – but wasn’t quite. He was a shapeshifter, used to the idea of assuming beast forms, but this advancement was clearly heavily influenced by his exposure to Lirasia’s mana and experience – he could still feel the complex knot of her mana deep inside his chest, tying him to her in some delicately intricate way. Her patronage even showed up as a new entry on his status, right below his aptitudes:

Patrons & Tithes- Mentor: Lirasia

He accepted the advancement to his Arboreal Sanctuary skill, trusting that this was on the path to balance Lirasia had spoken of, and directed his attention upwards. He had sensed powerful magic at work at the edge of his perception while he was linked to the tree. His curiosity drove him to rise and take a step on shaky legs. His second step was steadier. Pleased, he began to climb the library stairs to the forest above, intent on finding his friends.

Natural Prowess has been updated.

***

Mato walked slowly through the river passage, taking in the damp moisture underfoot. As he entered the burned forest cavern, his enhanced sense of smell filled with the stench of ash and charred wood, but also the zesty freshness of new growth, and his mind recalled the great tree’s sense of balance in all things. Life passed, but then it grew again; a never-ending cycle of renewal.

He shambled forward, feeling the rush of new sensations through his sanctuary aura. The serene existence of new oaks tugged at his senses, the flow of the sap, and the drawing of mana through their giant trunks. Each of them shared their endless calm with him as he passed.

He approached the lake beside the shrine and happened upon a scene of busyness – the sense of activity clashing with his internal state. Basil knelt in the dirt growing something. Ali had her Grimoire out, flickering with the light of her magic. There was a group of five farmers, some of whom he recognized, toiling under the light of Calen’s magic. The deep, knowing eyes of Lira studied his approach with a radiating kindness.

He knew he was the one who had changed, and yet he felt disconnected from all of them. They are still my friends.

Quietly, he greeted them, garnering strange looks of inquiry and surprise.

“Mato? Are you ok?” Calen’s voice was not calm – he seemed strangely anxious.

Am I ok?

He considered the question carefully, examining his mind, and his body. Both seemed to be there, which was good, he thought.

“I think so,” he replied slowly, after his long consideration.

“It’s his first Tree Meld, he will return to normal soon.” Lira’s resonant voice filled his ears, triggering echoes of communion with the Elder Tree. The same sense of serene calm filled her voice, the same mana, and the same will, and he suddenly realized she was the tree. There was no sense questioning which of them had been in communion with him, which was his mentor. Lirasia and the Elder Tree were one and the same being. While he lay within the tree, it was her mana and experience that flowed through him, instructing him.

Normal?

He considered the word for a while. What did it really mean?

“I think I’ll plant myself here,” he said, slowly, choosing a spot between two large fields, studying the farmers who had stopped their labor to stare at him.

He ignored the curiosity all around and warped his body – the new magic coming easy to him as if he had been born to it. His roots dove deep and hungrily into the rocky ground, twisting and pushing as he stretched them – a strong grasp with which to anchor himself to the bedrock. His trunk stretched upward, splitting and stretching as his branches reached upward and outward. When he was ready, he grew his leaves, breathing the scents and mana in the air.

His growth was natural and swift, and he finally stopped, larger than the normal oaks, but still a ways short of the giant trees surrounding him. His roots drank thirstily from the lake, tasting the refreshing coolness of the mana-purified water, drawing it up through his trunk, and releasing the excess mana to overflow through his leaves.

I’m not as big as that tree. But as he settled into the familiar calm, sensing the flow of sap and mana, stretching his senses outward, he felt it was right. He was this tree, with none of the previous sense of being lost inside something enormous.

His mana flowed through him, and his regeneration surged, pouring upward and outward into the world around him. His Sanctuary aura exploded outward, encompassing a vast area and, although he couldn’t see, or hear, he could feel the trees, taste the mana, and sense the people as they moved about within his domain.

Name: Mato BahrRace: BeastkinActive Buffs: Tree Form, Natural ProwessClass: Druidic Shapeshifter – level 39- Arboreal Sanctuary – level 24- Swipe – level 27- Brutal Restoration – level 28- Bear Form – level 27- Wolf Form – level 4- Bestial Combat – level 26- Natural Prowess – level 17- Survival Instinct – level 17- Battle Trance – level 10- [Locked]General Skills- Identify – level 10- Cooking – level 7- Wilderness Lore – level 6Aptitudes- Languages: Common, Beast, Plant- Mana (Affinity): Nature- Strong (Racial): +7 to Strength- Tough (Racial): +10 to EndurancePatrons & Tithes- Mentor: LirasiaAttributes- Vitality: 409 (+184)- Perception: 93 (+40)- Intelligence: 17 (+7)- Wisdom: 367 (+178)Equipment- Trunk: Banded Feral Plate Armor – level 20Armor: 288Physical Damage Reduction: 20.86%Health: 4090/4090Mana: 2936/3670 (734 Reserved)

In his new form, several of his skills were unavailable, and it took only a moment to realize what was common: anything requiring stamina seemed blocked when he reached for the skill activation. He considered it for a while, deciding that it made sense – he no longer had endurance, strength, or dexterity – the attributes having been removed by his Tree Form. Instead, his other attributes had been greatly increased, however, this did mean that stamina was entirely missing.

Natural Prowess had automatically updated in response to his new form, and he spent a little time studying the change.

Natural Prowess – level 17Attributes most appropriate to your form are increased by +75.9% [40 + skill + base wisdom / 10].Mana: Wisdom, Intelligence, and Perception are increased. Beastkin, Reserve: 20%Stamina: Endurance, Vitality, and Strength are increased. Bear Form, Reserve: 20%Stamina: Perception, Dexterity, and Strength are increased. Wolf Form, Reserve: 20%Mana: All attributes are increased. Tree Form, Reserve: 20%Nature, Buff, Wisdom

But the biggest difference was the change to his domain – he could reach out over eight hundred feet through his Sanctuary aura, sharing his vastly increased health and mana regeneration with everyone in range. Satisfied, he simply remained, stretching his mana and magic to whatever task they chose to undertake, sensing his overflowing mana pouring into the plants, assisting with their growth.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
