Amara showed her teeth, "It means everything. I can now recognize, tap into, and interface with those energy flows. It will take far less time to infiltrate their other various systems, and their security parameters are likely similar between planets."

Torix nodded, "Good, good. I was worried we didn't get anything from this risky venture."

I frowned, "Or at least enough benefit to justify the risk. Either way, could you do the loudspeaker thing we mentioned for an entire world?"

"Yes. It would be simple, though it wouldn't last more than thirty minutes at most. Their Builders would recognize my connection point and snap it."

My eyes widened, "Builders, huh?"

"Yes. Builders construct system data and strands. They are used by Schema via personalized, constrained AI's that do his service."

I swung my hand, "So that's what those robotic, lifeless AI's do. They're like system cleaners."

Torix stated, "Could we kill them?"

Amara shook her head, "They would lie at the center of Elysium's headquarters, which is no doubt well hidden. Destroying that headquarters would tear their teeth and rip their claws. Should we ever find that hidden throat, we should bite into its succulent flesh."

Amara shrugged, "No matter the outcome of this rebellion, someone's neck will be ruptured, however. It is only a matter of whose neck is exposed first."

I blinked, "You mean if Schema loses?"

"Yes."

I never really thought about that possibility. It didn't seem like Elysium's goal was ever domination, even from the start. They just wanted to take many worlds, put them under their banner, and then maintain order. That required defending themselves from Schema's grasp, but they weren't the most offensive group. Not yet, at least. That could change any second, considering the amount of firepower at Elysium's disposal.

I reached out a hand, "Alright, thank you for the report."

Althea perked up, "I also think I discovered some sort of ritual for powering up Lehesion."

Torix pulled out his fancy obelisk, and it automatically interfaced with the hologram. Turning to the moment of the ritual, Torix pointed at a mage,

"You mean this specific event, correct?"

Althea pursed her lips, "Yup."

Torix took a deep, unneeded breath, "This is problematic, to say the least. They've created an augmentation ritual that enhances Lehesion's abilities. The mages likely die afterward, but that's irrelevant if they sustain a steady supply of mages."

I watched Lehesion zip around the Spatial Fortress, and I whistled in response,

"Damn...I don't think I can keep up with that."

The others at the table went silent. My words carried more weight than I expected, especially for an off the cuff remark. Keeping myself relaxed, I leaned back, feigning confidence,

"At least not yet. Gaining a class will come soon, and then a new tier of skill after that. I'll be more than ready then."

The dread oozed off the table, everyone more comfortable just from a few words of reassurance from me. I let out a mental sigh. Being relied upon was hard, especially when it involved destroying those that obliterated worlds. Either way, Torix pointed at the last bit of Althea's video,

"This interests me. The ring is alive, isn't it?"

The dungeoneers and Althea shrugged. We turned to Amara, and she seethed, "And to what end could Schema need that machine for? It's far too large and lumbering. That was likely created before Schema, in an ancient time, where no monsters ruled. To what end? I cannot even fathom a reason."

We thought about her words, the scale of the universe coming into our minds. It was amazing how much we didn't know about...well, everything. We went into the unknown with this mission, at least, and we came out with an absolute motherload of information. It was the kind of report that would let us get a lot more done.

Knowing their contributions, I stood up and gestured to our returning team,

"Alright then. Let's dispense with rewards."

They stared at me, kind of surprised that I was offering anything. I turned a palm to Lester and Isa, "You guys did well helping them infiltrate then doing something useful in the meantime. I'm giving each of you a suit of armor, and your rank has been raised to Dungeoneering Specialists. You'll get better monthly payment, along with some perks."

I turned to Torix, "Make it happen."

Torix gave me a slight bow, "As you wish."

I talked at Althea, "You did a lot of reconnaissance, and you managed to help uncover some vital info about Elysium's defenses. Well done. I'll be making you a new jumpsuit, and you'll be getting a personalized, super golem guardian. It'll help you when you need extra muscle or just keeping you safe in general."

She let out a sigh of relief. Even if I couldn't protect her all the time, I could still give her an unkillable guard that could do it for me.

I turned to Amara, "You've given us information on how Elysium operates, along with information on some of their various weaknesses. You'll also be helping me with getting Blegara under control. So far, you've helped the guild time and time again. It's time we help you."

I opened my status, and I sent Amara my last Follower title. She gawked at her status, unable to believe her eyes.

I put my hands on my hips, "It's up to you if you want to accept the title. It'll come with many responsibilities, but also many freedoms. You'll be able to come and go from the guild as you please, and I won't be lording over you all the time. No one will. You will be free."

Amara blinked over and over, staring at the message from different angles. She pointed at it, "Are...are you certain?"

I grinned, "I give my own what they deserve, and it's about time you get some compensation for what you've done."

She accepted the status, and over the next few seconds, she growled like an animal. Her body reformed from the rush of free stats, and she stood a full foot and a half taller after a minute or two, going from five feet flat to six and a half tall(1.5 meters to 2 meters). Amara relished in the rush of power, her eldritch hunger flaring. It died down as she looked at me, and she gave me a deep, sincere bow,

"Thank you, guild leader. I shall cherish this, truly."

I turned to Hod, who slumbered out of exhaustion, "I'll give that guy a scythe and some gauntlets. Those will suit him well. As for Alexander, I'll be making him a cloak and staff."

Althea gave me a smile, letting me know I was on the right track. I returned the gesture before turning to everyone else, "Do you guys think that's about all we need to cover?"

The returning team gave me nods, along with looks of adulation, namely from Isa and Lester. I pulled the meeting room's door open with a gravity well while Torix canceled out his silencing magic. Florence and Helios walked in, both of them conversing for once instead of bickering.

"Really? you managed to get uncle out of a war front once?" Florence asked.

Helios stood proud, "I did. I preemptively memorized that planet's data beforehand without his asking. This allowed me to exceed expectations, even those expectations were high."

Florence looked at us, and I pulled up his data card between two fingers,

"Looking for this?"

Florence nudged Helios, "I told you they'd find it. Two hours flat."

Helios shrugged, "I suppose we'll let Obolis know his suggestion was a failure."

Torix fumed, "You two are very lax, considering we just caught you spying."

Florence pulled out a fly held between two of his claws. As Florence smashed it between his fingers, a burst of blue magic erupted from the fly with a skull-shaped poof of smoke. Torix looked away, appearing nervous,

"Touche."

The two albony sat down before Helios's eyes locked in on all the documents spread on the table, the ones Isa and Lester grabbed from a shop. Helios pointed at them,

"May I?"

I turned to Torix, and the lich shrugged,

"I don't see why we wouldn't share it with them. These hardly hold value."

Helios tapped the document, and tracing magic coursed across the paper. He read the magical lining, and as he finished, he set the form down,

"These are the orbital paths of Gypsum."

Torix leaned back, "How did you read that? It's encrypted."

Helios interlocked his hands behind himself, "I've been researching Elysium's new encryption as they've been updating them. I ran through several of the common patterns, and it gave me enough insight to discover that document's contents. That's warping information, isn't it?"

I raised my palms, "Don't look at me. I have no idea."

Helios piled the papers together while looking at the various devices, "I can use this information, memorize it, and then warp freely to this world. Give me a matter of weeks, and it shall be done."

Torix's eyes narrowed, "Weeks, you say? We're expected to trust in that?"

Helios spoke with confidence, "I am a prodigy for a reason."

I furrowed my brow, "Uh, I'm out of the loop. What's going on?"

Helios gestured at the papers, "These carry the orbits, algorithms for calculating orbits, time system data, and the solar system's location. This...hmm, Gypsum, was it? Its orbit is inordinately complex, so it will take some time to master. It can be done, however."

I turned to Torix, "So why are you so impressed?"

Torix pinched the bony bridge of his nose, "I forget there's much you still know little about. Warping requires memorizing various orbital speeds, patterns, and the time systems used on a planet. It can require more than that, such as factoring in the speed of a solar system's rotation around the center of the Milky Way or its general location within the galaxy as well."

Helios added, "Along with the Milky Way's current floating path in deep space."

Torix nodded, "Most mages cannot warp a far distance as these calculations become absurdly complex. Even if they can maintain said arithmetic, the act of 'throwing' your portal, so to speak, requires absolute precision. Otherwise, warps move and wobble. You may be halfway through walking into one before it begins warping you into the ground."

I raised my eyebrows, "What happens then?"

Helios deadpanned, "Your body intermingles with dirt, killing you."

I spread out my hands, "Why haven't I noticed this before?"

Florence spoke up, "You've never been around someone who sucks at warping. The specialists you're around have also stuck to warps that were close by. If a warp is within a visual distance, you can offload a lot of the calculations to proprioception and your brain's natural ballistic engine."

Helios flicked his fingers, "You 'throw' the portal so that it matches your location. That is a feel oriented process. Once a portal is out of sight, calculations must be made, else people will die. I'm an exception to the norm regarding portalling, so I can throw my portals over light-years using my mathematical ability. And skill, but that much was obvious."

I crossed my arms, "So learning to go somewhere new should take longer than a few weeks, I'm assuming?"

Helios smirked under his mask, "Oh, most definitely. A planet like Gypsum? Oh, it could take months to years if you can learn it."

"Why can't you just use a calculating app for this kind of thing? That would make it a hell of a lot easier."

Helios took a breath, "Excellent question. The reason is simple - portalling requires visualization. Accurate visualization. A calculator will give you the correct position and orbital path, but you won't understand the depth behind the number. By following through with the equations on your own terms, you can extend your awareness far beyond what you'd believe possible. It's as if you're putting on a pair of binoculars constructed out of the equations you've used."

Florence scoffed, "In your case, Helios, it's more like a telescope."

He raised a hand, "This is how I go about the process. I understand where it is. Then I pinpoint that reality and path mentally, calculating the processes to enhance my precision. Afterward, I use my experience to land the portal."

I turned to Torix, "How long would it take you to learn this kind of thing?"

Torix stared to the side, "I...would likely be unable to do so. I've made attempts at learning long-distance portalling. The practical concerns meant I thought of it as a ritual oriented process. That's where my own ritual spawns from, and that's how I made it to Earth in the first place. There was a prolonged, strange energy signature. I mapped its direction, figuring out Earth's movement patterns."

Torix rolled his hands, "It was an ingenious solution, but to make a long story short, I used my runic calculations to map a position to Earth."

Helios leaned back, "Well, the lich knows how to do more than reading charts and graphs. He can make them."

Torix brandished a hand, "It's to be expected of me, really."

I leaned my head onto a hand, "Portalling sounds ridiculously hard."

Florence scoffed, "You're telling me. I was never suited for it. Most warpers are cold, calculating individuals. That's why-" Florence put his hand over Helios's shoulder, "My brother is one of the finest warpers out there. He's an ice king, after all."

Helios crossed his arms, "I think of it as using my personality to my advantage."

I pointed at myself, "Could I learn to warp?"

Helios raised a brow, "Hmm, perhaps. I doubt you're of the aptitude for long-distance portalling. The time investment in maintaining the skill is enormous as well. Short distance, throw based portalling could be learned, however. Mastered, even. That would suit your magical style as well."

Helios turned a palm to me, "I could organize lessons for it while I learn the data for Gypsum."

I raised my eyebrows, "Alright, could you keep your sarcasm to a minimum while teaching me?"

"Oh, certainly."

I sighed, "Well, that's about all I could hope for. We'll get those lessons done after we've established a bulwark on Blegara."

