Helios tilted his head, "Don't forget your contractual obligation to Obolis. You still need to handle the Ahcorus and eliminate Plazia-Ruhl."

I gave him a thumbs-up, "We'll get it done."

Turning to Amara, I put my hands on my hips, "It looks like you'll need to stay on Blegara for a bit to get a lock on their security, at least based on what you said?"

Amara nodded while draining the crystalized mana I gave her. I spread out my arms, "We'll get to Blegara tomorrow morning. Without us resisting, I'm pretty sure Elysium's established a pretty widescale network there. Unlike Earth, there isn't really any kind of pro-Schema faction to worry about, and few Vagni really systemized anyways."

I gave my hands a single clap, signaling this was done, "Alright then. The gialgathens will be helping us launch an attack a few days from now on Blegara with my golems. We'll have a few surprises for Elysium on top of that as well."

Althea stood up and walked over to me, "How many golems are there now?"

I grinned, "Many."

We ended up chatting for a bit, Isa and Lester recounting a few stories about Gypsum. It was a fascinating world, and I anticipated stepping on it one day. For now, getting the most out of this excursion to Blegara preoccupied my mind. I could get thousands of more Omega Strains during Amara's stay there, which was the perfect excuse for it.

I didn't want Helios or Florence to become suspicious of my actions, so I hadn't made any trips to Blegara. If Obolis uncovered the Omega Strains there, he wouldn't hand over the planet so quickly. By waiting for the right moment, I covered my tracks and prevented Obolis from becoming aware of the hidden resource.

That being said, Helios warping me wasn't the best idea either. He could plant an unseen bug of some kind like before, and that might put Obolis in the know. Preemptively stopping a problem before it began, I walked up to Helios after the meeting,

"Hey. Don't worry about getting Amara and I out towards Blegara. I'm going to get Spear to help us out. You need to be able to focus on those coordinates and lessons."

Visible relief passed over Helios, the idea of warping us over and over looming over him like a dark miasma. He raised a hand,

"I'll repay your kindness with my full efforts."

He walked off towards his own living quarters, carrying the documents and warping devices. In fact, everybody got to work after the meeting ended, many of our members moving onto their own projects. I was no different. I caught up to Torix, who walked his way towards our golem station. I joined him. While jogging over, an idea popped in my head, and I wanted to run it by Torix.

I waved a hand around us,

"Mind setting up the quieting magic?"

We departed towards the forgotten tunnel where the Omega Strains did their magic. During our brisk walk, Torix raised a hand and snapped his fingers. A moving bubble of sound protection passed over us, blurring the outer world. I continued, "How are the Omega Strains doing?"

"Excellent. There have been no issues outside of a few untimely deaths."

I frowned, my eyes widening with shock. Torix cackled, "You should see the gaze you just gave me. Hilarious, I tell you. No one has died. I am a lich, a true master of life and death, after all. Given your orders, I've taken care of these test subjects as instructed."

I let out a sigh, "Thank you. Should we move forward with the project then?"

"Absolutely."

"Cool. I'm thinking of taking my golems with me when going towards Blegara. They'll help me harvest as many Omega Strains as possible while we're over there. Do you think they're ready for that?"

Torix stopped in place, and I turned to him. He raised his hands, "That's...That's genius."

I raised a fist, "Hell yeah. The thing is, I have no idea where all the golems I sent you are. I'll need to swing by and pick them up. Same with Spear." I looked around, "Speaking of which, where the hell is Spear? It's been a while since we last talked."

Torix scoffed, "Oh, I've been utilizing that resource since you gained Helios as your personal chauffeur. If you'd like to meet with Spear, we're on our way to him."

I pursed my lips, "Huh. Okay."

We went deeper through our abandoned tunnel, passed where the Omega Strains were located. Further beyond, a newly built door stationed itself a ways away from every other experimental chamber. From inside, dim shouting echoed out. I turned to Torix, "What's in there?"

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself, "Let us find out."

The door swung open, and an expansive concrete room unveiled itself. It was larger than a football field, having steel pillars dispersed throughout it. Closer to our side of the room, Spear stood with his chest out and spear at his side. He planted it down, and a battalion of super golems followed suit. Spear roared,

"I serve my master. His will is my will. His goal is my goal."

The super golems made a telepathic shout, repeating his words. After finishing that statement, Spear looked towards us, his Sentinel armor still cracked over him. Spear pointed back towards the super golems, "Meditate on the depths of your gratitude as I speak with your masters."

The golems thought back, "Sir, yes, sir."

They sat down in unison, crossing their legs and meditating as Spear liked to. I gawked at him,

"So, you've been busy, huh?"

Spear walked up, "Yes. I gave these things the course we Sentinels went through, but I replaced Schema and the system with the Harbinger and his guild." Spear peered at the group of nearly fifty super golems, "It has worked well enough."

I peered at the disciplined group, "No kidding." I waved my hands, "Anyways, I need these guys to help me get some stuff on Blegara. Can you warp me there?"

"Yes. When will that need to occur?"

"As soon as you can make it happen."

Spear turned and shouted at the golems, "Everyone stand. You have a new mission effective immediately."

They did as he said, standing into position. Spear stepped aside, "This man needs no introduction. He'll brief you on the mission, and you'll do as he says. Understood?"

A thought roared back, "Sir, yes, sir."

Nervousness crept up my spine as I coughed into a hand, "Ahem, ahem. So, uh, I'll need you to harvest Omega Strains from Blegara tomorrow morning. Torix will show you them, and you'll just put them in your personal pocket dimension. They have very little mass, so it's more so a speedy harvesting mission than anything else."

They spoke out with an awe-inspiring level of unity, "Sir, yes, sir."

I spread out my hands to Spear, "Holy shit. You're good at this."

Spear took a deep, satisfied breath, "It comes naturally to me. I love this feeling. Discipline, honor, and gratitude - that's all a soldier really needs." Spear stared into the distance, his mind wandering to a different time,

"By Schema, I loved boot camp. Those were the days."

Staring at Spear, I realized I would never have been a great soldier. I was too stubborn and defiant, and though I recognized those qualities as strengths, the military wasn't the place for them. In this case, the golems' single-mindedness made them far more effective as a unit. So much so, they intimidated even me.

Lacking any kind of complaints, I messaged Amara, detailing the contents of our new mission. Handling everything I needed doing in the day, I went by my living space, the personal suite at the top of Mt. Verner. Surfing her obelisk and relaxing on our bed, Althea peered up at me. I grinned at her-  and she returned the gesture.

We rested together for a while, relaxing and enjoying some time off for once. A bit later, I ordered a few foodstuffs, and a chef from the lower floors had them delivered. Waiting and talking, Althea told all about the mission, focusing more on how she felt during it rather than stating facts. It affected her more than I think she realized.

The encounter with the Spacial Fortress stuck out as particularly traumatizing. I waited on addressing my concerns until after our evening meal for that, wanting her to have a good time. We got two glasses of wine, two steaks, and a cilantro soup dish I enjoyed. I didn't make it for me, though. That soup had been her favorite from when we did these dates all the time before we killed Yawm.

Ever since killing him and coming to Giess, quiet moments like this came less and less frequently. I tried staying in the moment, really soaking the meal and time with her in. Despite not wanting to, time passed as we sat at a glass table for two. Before we knew it, we watched the sunset in the distance, talking all the while.

It was the most relaxing day I'd had in a long time.

As the night settled down, we cuddled on our bed. Althea looked stressed out, and despite my curiosity, I took my time, trying to exercise some patience. I leered at her while asking,

"Hey."

She muttered back,

"Hey."

"So, I don't mean to pry, but you seem stretched thin. Is everything okay?"

She looked up at me as I hugged her from behind, "I...I think it is. At least it is now."

She cuddled closer, and we sat there for a few minutes. Thinking I resolved the issue, I relaxed some. Althea spoke up,

"Maybe I'm not okay. I feel...petrified. It's weird."

"What do you think has you so shaken up?"

Her eyes glazed over, and she relived a terrible memory. She shook it off, "I think it's...uh, that fortress thing."

I tried being gentle with my words, "What about the fortress thing?"

"Seeing one up close, it really puts into perspective how powerful Schema is. It also made me feel helpless. I couldn't have done anything, and we're lucky we're alive. In all those missions, that's the closest I've come to death in a while. Maybe ever."

I didn't know what to say, so we stayed quiet. Althea stared at the ceiling, taking a moment to think. Her voice cracked a bit, "Yeah...I'll pull through. It's just, you know, hard sometimes."

She blinked back a few tears before I winced. She cried for a while, and I couldn't think of anything to say. Instead, I took deep breaths, trying to soothe her with my own sense of calm. It helped, but she still shivered a bit from the whole experience. She stared out a window into the dark after settling down, and she murmured,

"Do you ever feel like you're in over your head sometimes with all of this galactic war stuff?"

I closed my eyes, "All the time."

She pursed her lips, "How do you get through it?"

"By moving forward. I've found that if I overthink about what's happened to me, I end up getting overwhelmed."

"That doesn't exactly sound healthy."

"Yeah, it's probably not."

She laughed a little, more so as a release than out of genuine humor. She whispered, "I don't think I'm strong enough to do that all the time like you are."

I shook my head, "No, I don't think it's real strength. I think...I think I'm hiding from something. I never look at this terrible monster chasing me, and instead, I keep looking forward. You're the strong one. You face that monster head-on, even when you know it's horrifying."

"You really think so?"

"I know so."

We lingered there for a minute, and she wore a sad smile on her face. Within minutes, she fell asleep in my arms, exhaustion taking her. I used gravity as I got myself out from around her, and the whole event got me thinking about our circumstances. We were dragged into this after just wanting to avoid our unknown statuses. Even after killing Yawm, Schema wanted more from us.

Now, he got more. Probably more than he ever hoped for, and that left me angry and resentful. Schema had a bad habit of playing a rigged game with people, one where he always ended up on top. I wasn't precisely boiling with hatred, but some bitterness leveled overtime at the AI. This kind of incessant, constant stress...it wasn't good for people.

I might handle it via stats and my armor, but most were like Althea, barely holding on all the time. It wasn't fair, not to her or anyone really. Elysium showed a better way, but they went about their changes via mass murder. Torturing the eldritch and silvers wasn't exactly right either. I learned that fact from Amara and Other Hod, who helped us and worked within our guild just fine. I was sure other eldritch wouldn't be so different, at least some of them.

Seeing people struggle like this all the time, it made me think back to my contract with Yawm. He used Etorhma's cipheric augments to power the deal, and he likely copied a lot of his own contracts formed with the Old Ones. For that reason, it was a guaranteed outcome - I had to rewrite a meaningful change in Schema's code at some point down the line.

To do so would require more studying, a few Builders like Amara, and luck.  If all that did happen, which was a big if, then I'd write down some of the changes Elysium fought for. While I disagreed with their methods, their goal was sound. They wanted Schema to be finished and become fully realized. Routine updates would be even better, but I doubt Schema would allow that to ever happen.

Still, it was worth wondering about.

After leaving Althea to sleep, I went and made golems all night. The routine, fulfilling hustle cleared my head by morning, and I met up with Spear and his super golem armada. They looked ready and trained for the task, all of them knowing how to use their storages. Their own repositories lacked many of my pocket dimension's abilities, but they got the job done.

Ready and waiting, these giants surrounded Amara. The eldritch Builder shivered while around them, and her terror suffused the entire area. As I showed up, she actually relaxed a bit. Amara still gawked at the titanic golems like they were demons, but my presence helped. Her promotion to a follower gained her trust, which was a whole lot better than controlling her through abject terror.

