“Is that a threat?”

“I wish it didn’t have to be.”

“Still, no,” said the Dungeon Core. “Your days are numbered. You won’t be able to hide out in that Dungeon much longer. I’ve already–”

“Who said I was hiding?” asked Joakim with a smile that suddenly turned cold. “I won’t ask again. The fate of the world is at stake, and you are standing in my way. Submit.”

The Dungeon Core did not respond immediately. He glanced at the two blue cylinders. They were clearly mana batteries, and very dense ones at that. The sight of them made him nervous, but he wasn’t about to lose his home for a second time.

“No.”

“Then you leave me no choice. The Dungeon Core has no interest in feet.”

“Wha—?”

For a moment, the Dungeon Core was bewildered, forgetting what he had set the Floor Challenge to. In that moment, Joakim vanished, along with the mana batteries, and a split second later, reappeared back at the first Floor.

Once there, he held out his hand, and five figures appeared. The Dungeon Core gasped as he recognized them as the first Party who had entered the nested Dungeon. Except they weren’t Adventurers anymore. They were undead, completely under Joakim’s control.

As soon as they were out, they formed a semicircular enclosure around the entrance to the Dungeon, and a few seconds later, when a merchant appeared, they killed him.

“No…” breathed the Dungeon Core.

But he was powerless to stop what was happening. The System’s rules were absolute, and unless the Dungeon Core was willing to personally interfere using his own body, there was nothing he could do to stop it. And if he went there personally, he would certainly die.

Joakim casually strode into the city of Maligar with the batteries on his back. He killed the guards at the gate with a casual flick of his wrist, impaling them with deathly purple mana bolts. The guards did not fall to the ground, though, instead wobbling before righting themselves, their eyes now hollow and soulless.

The guards followed him into the city, where he began slaughtering left and right, raising each person as a member of his undead legion. The undead then went and gathered more of the living, which he killed and turned, spreading his influence like a plague throughout the city. The mana batteries on his back constantly replenished his stores, allowing him to continue his massacre without pause.

“Stop!” cried the Dungeon Core, possessing a bird and flying toward Joakim “Stop! Please!”

Joakim ignored the bird’s words, killing it and adding it to his army.

“These deaths are on your hands,” said Joakim, expression grim. “Either show your true self, or silently witness the results of your inaction.”

The Dungeon Core wavered, but could not bring himself to show Joakim his true form. He would have loved to say it was because he was thinking ahead. That he knew that if Joakim succeeded, his power would grow, and even more people would be put at risk. But that would have been a lie.

He was scared. He didn’t want to die. He didn’t want to lose Maligar again. And in his selfish fear, he reasoned that ultimately, this would be fine. The people of Maligar had already died, but as long as the Dungeon remained, they would never truly be gone. If he submitted, Maligar would be lost forever, but if he held out, the Adventurers would eventually be able to defeat Joakim. He just had to be patient.

But even despite this, a part of him retained self awareness. He knew he was being selfish. He knew that his indecisiveness had caused this. He knew that despite his words to Yona, he had already long since made the exact mistake his Dungeon was meant to warn against. But he still couldn’t move. He could only watch as the people of the first Floor were massacred to the last man. No one was spared. Women begged, children cried, but in the end, they all went silent.

“This is your fault,” said Joakim, looking up at the sky. “This could have been avoided. I tried to do this the easy way, but you leave me no choice. If you won’t submit, this is the only way I can win.”

The Dungeon Core didn’t respond, and only continued to watch as one by one, the undead citizens of Maligar disappeared, claimed by Joakim and stored away in whatever extradimensional space he kept his slaves in. Soon, the city was empty, and the mana batteries were drained, and in the center of it all was Joakim, looking up at the sky with tears streaming down his face.
