To ensure it wasn’t just a one-off, Jake proceeded to craft several more potions using the Soulflame cauldron, doing so without much issue. High on success, he tried to make a few poisons too, and once more found himself able to make them, though he did notice some issues as the difficulty of his craft increased. When he tried to craft a Bane Poison, the Soulflame cauldron proved too much of a limiting factor, making Jake fail the craft.

From this brief experimentation, Jake concluded that while he could craft using a Soulflame cauldron, it was harder than using an actual cauldron. For something like potions, it wasn’t a limiting factor, but when the craft got complicated, he really needed those formations inscribed upon cauldrons. Plus, it did take a bit more effort to infuse energy through his Soulflame rather than just using his hands placed on the sides of a cauldron. So, yeah, he would have to stick with a real cauldron when crafting anything that actually proved challenging.

With this being the case, Jake’s idea of using his Soulflame to create a cauldron perhaps seemed dead in the water... yet Jake considered his experimentation a great success. Sure, he couldn’t replace his cauldron with one made from his Soulflame – at least not yet – but he had confirmed it was possible to use it for easy crafts.

Jake knew that when it came to alchemy, one of his significant advantages was his consistency. Jake had an insane success rate compared to everyone he read about, and he couldn’t even remember the last time he had failed to craft a regular potion. That’s why he dared to do something perhaps no other alchemist would even consider.

Cauldrons were all designed to be nearly the exact same size to help alchemists stay consistent when crafting, and because they were the perfect size when trying to craft. It wasn’t too small, allowing it to house all the ingredients comfortably, but it wasn’t too big either, making it harder to control everything inside.

However, the pot’s size meant that batches were relatively small, and it was rare to get even ten bottles from a single successful craft. Again, not a problem under usual circumstances, as making the cauldron bigger also meant that every craft became riskier. Failing a craft meant losing all the ingredients, so if one used a bigger cauldron, the failure rate not only increased significantly, but the loss in resources would also be far worse.

Jake didn’t fear either of these drawbacks... which was why he did something many other alchemists would judge profoundly stupid, though he was sure Villy would appreciate it.

Using his Soulflame, Jake started forming a cauldron again, but instead of making it the regular size, he expanded it. He kept growing it until it reached several meters tall, looking more like a giant vat than a cauldron.

With a smile, Jake stabilized the entire thing, making what he temporarily named his Soulflame Mega Cauldron. Once his monstrosity of alchemy was ready, he filled the entire thing up with water before proceeding to dump shovel-fulls of herbs into the mixture, his giant grin never fading throughout.

And that was how Jake managed to create a market-distorting potion production facility in the cellar of his lodge. By going big or going home... and seeing as he was already home, it was an absolutely flawless plan.
