A moment that Ranthia had feared for eighty years drew nearer with each day that passed. And Ranthia desperately struggled with her own decision, unwilling to admit the truth: she had made her choice long ago.

“<I wish I could go with you, but I just… I can’t… I can’t abandon everyone else. I had hoped the war would end, but I can’t abandon Remus until it is.>” Late one evening, after they finished their dinner, Ranthia finally confessed the decision she had made.

The reason she gave was only a tiny piece of the truth. Her greater fear wasn’t what would happen to Remus if she left—it was what would happen to Avyna. If she abandoned her duty and left Remus in the lurch, the shimagu were the least of her worries. There was no way that anyone would let her abandon the war during a delicate stalemate, not without consequences.

Avyna was proud and she was capable in ways that Ranthia still struggled to truly accept—but no one was immune to a knife in the dark. There was a reason that the path of an unseen killer had appealed to her when she was younger, before she found her passion for the artistry of dance—it was certain in a way few things were. And Ranthia had her doubts that anyone that sought revenge would deign to strike her down and leave Avyna untouched.

“<My love, I know well that you made that choice. You made it a long time ago and you have affirmed it multiple times in the years that we have spent together. I do not begrudge you for your decision. …And, in truth, I could not have brought you with me, even had I believed you would change your mind. But do not worry, my love—we are both immortal. I trust that we will meet again, no matter what is to come.>” Avyna squeezed her hand reassuringly as she spoke.

But in the aftermath of the words—and the truth that she had never known—Ranthia had no idea if she felt better about her choice or if she felt worse than ever. …It was true, she never truly discussed accompanying Avyna, but to know that it had never even been an option—it hurt. She had always assumed it was possible; a piece of her still wanted to believe that Avyna had offered it before, yet she was unable to recall clear words of offer to accompany Avyna on… whatever it was she would soon be involved in.

Avyna had never offered details; she had only ever spoken of her opportunity in the most abstract of terms.

Even after eighty years, Avyna still held secrets that Ranthia had never been allowed to learn.

For their final day together, Ranthia and Avyna chose to spend the entire day in their bed. In those sleepless hours, Ranthia desperately did everything that she could to engrave every detail about the woman she loved in her heart and her mind. Every scent, every flavor, every texture, every musical sound, every wondrous sight—no detail was unimportant. Ranthia never wanted to forget anything about the woman she truly loved.

They had promised to meet again, once Ranthia’s obligations were finished and once Avyna had succeeded in her opportunity. They had a location set. …But not a time. Neither of them could predict the days, months, or—more likely—years that it would take to reunite.

And Ranthia refused to let anything pass from her mind until that day came. Even as she silently hoped that Avyna did the same for her—not that Avyna ever needed to fret about forgetting.

It was a day that filled her heart, even as it broke.

The day was unseasonably chilly. It was as if autumn had impinged on the sovereignty of summer—as if Pallos itself acknowledged the departure of warmth and joy.

Ranthia watched the elves while they loaded Avyna’s crates into one of their needlessly ornate wagons. Each of the wagons in the caravan was a work of art, with finely carved details that were painted in vivid hues. There were elaborate patterns and details so fine that there was more to discover the closer one looked.

But Ranthia couldn’t appreciate the craftsmanship. If anything, her bitter mind dismissed the artistry as wasteful—the wagons were exposed to the forces of nature, after all.

“<This is it, my love. Farewell, for now.>” Avyna offered simple words, with a perfectly ordinary smile adorning her beautiful face. She was effortlessly composed, as though it were a day like any other. She embodied an artistry greater than the combined wasteful efforts that adorned wagons, even her ordinary appearance was so special… so wonderful…

Ranthia, in contrast, was a mess. Her vision blurred as her eyes remained watery. She felt as though her nose would run at any moment. She was desperately using every trick that she knew in her struggle to keep it together, but it wasn’t enough. It could never be enough. What little self-control she had left was being tested with every beat of her pounding heart—and she was failing that test more and more openly.

“<As soon as this war ends, I’m heading to the City of Arts! I’ll wait for you there. As long as it takes!>” Ranthia promised.

There was no blindfold. Why hadn’t she worn the blindfold? Somehow, she had walked right past it and put her ugliness and her weakness on full display.

“<I know, my love. And I look forward to such a day.>” Avyna answered.

Something about her tone was strange, but Ranthia’s mind was too busy crumbling to figure out what. Gods and goddesses, she couldn’t believe the day had truly come—that Avyna was truly leaving her side. A piece of her had always believed that something would change. That Avyna would change her mind or… something!

It wasn’t supposed to happen!

How could it be fair for her to finally find true love, just to say goodbye after such a paltry bit of time?!

But even her heartbroken thoughts whittled away the final moments.

“<Take care, my love. I expect you to live for many thousands of years.>” Avyna smiled warmly in Ranthia’s direction—as though the world hadn’t gone wrong somewhere along the line—then she turned to depart.

There had to be something that Ranthia could say. There were things she should say, but the words felt impossible to compose. She accelerated her perception to its limits and pushed at that boundary with everything she had as she clawed desperately for some way to change Avyna’s mind—or at least to properly say goodbye! Avyna’s movements—still at mundane speeds—were effortlessly beautiful as she took each step that was required to reach the wagon. Her fingers found a cleverly concealed handhold that she leveraged to gracefully lift herself to the wagon—

Fuck preparation! Ranthia abandoned her efforts and moved. Just as Avyna’s feet landed inside the wagon, Ranthia seized the elf’s slender arm before she could pull it inside.

“<We might be immortal, but even eight thousand years with you would never have been enough for me. I will wait for you in the City of Arts. So please, come back to me. Let us meet again, no matter what happens. Because I fully intend to share my love with you for an eternity, my Gemheart.>” Ranthia spoke in more-or-less perfect High Elvish.

Then she leveraged her height and pushed herself onto her toes to extend her reach, just enough to find Avyna’s lips. One last time. One last kiss that meant everything—that Ranthia poured everything into. One more moment stolen from the tapestry of eternity.

And then the wagons started to move, and Avyna’s lips were pulled from Ranthia’s. The ordinary smile was gone; in its place Avyna wore a stunned expression and she was rendered speechless as her conveyance began to pick up speed. A slight blush colored her cheeks and her perfect, adorable ears.

But it only lasted for a moment or two. Avyna recovered and called her final farewells, as Ranthia—openly succumbing to her heartbreak—tried to match them. The distance between them grew moment by moment until, after an indescribable amount of time had passed, Ranthia could no longer see any trace of the woman she had given her heart to.
