It had been a long road, but Ranthia was finally mostly convinced that she had improved at creating from-scratch images ‘quickly.’ Avyna was less impressed with Ranthia’s speed, but at least the results weren’t… well, creepy. But as Ranthia’s speed improved, Avyna proposed a game to help with the training process—and with experimenting with the unpredictable limits that [Diffuse Reflectance] had shackled her with. The game had Avyna naming a few traits and timing Ranthia’s efforts to build an image around them.

[Reflections of Reality] refused to let her even attempt to shift into an image that was ‘too far’ removed from her baseline appearance, but no matter how many data points Ranthia acquired, she still couldn’t codify that into any firm rules. Instead, the Skill seemed to mirror her gut feelings about the images—which made sense to her and frustrated Avyna. At least Avyna’s various challenges had taught her something that she hadn’t expected—she couldn’t even form the image with [Scattered Reflections] if it was too far removed from a human.

But they weren’t pushing [Scattered Reflections]’ boundaries with their current game. Avyna was sticking exclusively to human baselines, though each set of traits she called out demanded a dramatically different woman—even before she started to push for unnatural hair and eye colors. The game was hard enough without Ranthia needing to imagine appearances unlike any she had ever seen before!

Ranthia set aside her frustrations—and ignored her escalating headache—as she worked through the requested image. On a whim, she selected pale skin, just a shade or three better than sickly. The green hair was probably easier than Avyna had hoped it would be, but hazel eyes proved unexpectedly tricky—her first attempt was a bit too grey.

“Done!” Ranthia announced, before she projected the new artificial image and attempted to activate [Reflections of Reality].

She was a bit surprised that she managed to shift into the unfamiliar body—she must have put more of herself into it than she had meant to.

“<Oho, not bad. You even finished slightly faster than the last one. I had pictured a darker shade of green for the hair, but that is on me for not specifying. The face is appealing and plausible. …The physique is less plausible.>” Avyna gravely pronounced her judgment… before she pinched one of the oversized breasts.

Ranthia tried to make her approving noise sound like a wince. Neither of them was fooled.

“<You said huge, I assumed you meant large even for the frame!>” Ranthia argued.

Avyna nodded in agreement, before she leaned down for a kiss. Ranthia’s current form was shorter than usual.

“<It is interesting that, no matter how your form varies, you always taste the same.>” Avyna noted when they separated.

Ranthia stole the opportunity to shift back to her original body and dismissed the image—she had no interest in getting ‘carried away’ when she wasn’t herself. It was too uncomfortable.

“<It makes sense, remember I don’t establish what’s inside of me when I create images. That was why I struggled to accept that I was actually immortal, no matter what White Dove pronounced. No matter what these forms look like, I’m still Ranthia.>” Ranthia replied, flagrantly overlooking the fact that her words didn’t match the sentiment that had just passed through her head.

“<Fair enough, my love. Now… Let us try someone with one arm, the other severed somewhere just before the elbow. And orange hair, ridiculously long!>” Avyna smiled mischievously.

“<You really are trying to give me a headache, aren’t you, Gemheart? Fine, but only one more after this!>” Ranthia groused before she tried to calm her mind and start concentrating.

Avyna, predictably, did not make it easy on her.

Six more years…

“<My love, when you finish with your prayers, can you join me?>” Avyna’s gentle voice cut through the warm silence.

It wasn’t an interruption—not truly—Ranthia was even able to nod her reply without distracting herself from the words she offered to her god alongside access to her mana. Her words were nothing serious, she spoke of minor events around the base—of the little examples of chaos that life had to offer. Things like the children knocking over a stack of crates that the quartermaster had just set up; the scouts that spent four hours stalking and tracking each other in circles, each fretting that the other was a cunning shimagu spy; or the base commander choking on his tea when an advisor misspoke—accidentally suggesting that his second had died, as opposed to merely running late due to a torn uniform.

Ranthia concluded her final story and offered Xaoc her sincerest gratitude—not for any specific thing, but she tried to never lose sight of how miraculous Pallos truly was and how amazing life’s chaos could be. She reveled in the brief sensation of warmth that He sent in response before she stood and saluted her homemade altar. Xaoc had left her with roughly a fifth of her mana, which was good enough—especially with her mana regeneration steadily refilling it.

Ranthia padded her way across the rugs and carpets that adorned their home to where Avyna sat at the desk. A quick kiss was applied to each of her lover’s horns, before Ranthia leaned against her lover’s shoulder and peeked at the map that covered the bulk of the desk. Ink drawn on rolled leather, it was the kind of map that cost a fortune, and Ranthia was curious about where Avyna had borrowed it from.

“<What’s this for?>” Ranthia chose to ask a slightly more pertinent question.

“<While you prayed to your chaos god, I concluded the finishing touches. I made this for you, my love, and I believe that we should discuss what is to come.>” Avyna adopted a serious tone while she explained it.

…Ranthia was more than mildly distracted over the fact that Avyna had made the map. It was… good. No, as she paid more attention to it, she amended the thought: it was damned good. The map almost certainly rivaled the quality of the one that Avyna had borrowed back when they were in Coalition City—except Avyna’s was far more portable and drawn on a material that could stand up to travel and heavy use.

“<…This is a very good map.>” Ranthia lamely admitted, when she finally noticed Avyna’s impatient look.

“<Of course it is. I am something of an expert at copying and adapting the expertise of others. This is an amalgamation of the most accurate maps that I have seen.>” Avyna’s words and tone implied impatience and disinterest, but Ranthia could hardly miss the little signs of her lover’s joy over the praise.

“<You even enchanted it. Durability, waterproofing, fire resistance, and…>” Ranthia trailed off as she tried to place the bottom-left corner’s subtly glowing lines.

Living with an enchantress was educational, even if she had no hope of ever getting into the art herself.

“<You have learned well, my love. That set is to prevent smudging of the ink. But please, we need to discuss things. Are you prepared to focus?>” Avyna was undeniably pleased, but she also was wary of getting too sidetracked.

As if Ranthia had ever let a session of ego stroking lead to greater distractions, honestly! Still, she nodded and stood, retrieving a nearby stool so she could squeeze in next to Avyna at the desk. She did steal Avyna’s left hand to hold between her own, but she gave the elf her otherwise undivided attention.

“<As you are aware, I sha… I must depart, to take advantage of an opportunity that I have spent the bulk of my life pursuing. I cannot overstate how much it might change, if I succeed.>” Avyna’s opening words were impassioned, yet gentle.

They still tore through Ranthia’s heart like a serrated blade.

“<I remember, Gemheart. I know it’s… important to you.>” Ranthia struggled to keep her emotions together.

“<In addition to this map, I wish to set aside some time each day so that I may equip you with every piece of knowledge that I possess that will be of assistance as you travel Pallos. As a reminder, this is Ar-Suelle, the City of Arts. Will you permit me to teach you more about it and the Tympestshard Council in general?” Avyna made her offer, not as a [Merchant], but as a loving partner.

Ranthia’s nerves frayed, but she managed to nod. With that, she began to learn about the cities, key rules, and other important information—as well as the important persons—within the elven territories and, eventually, throughout Pallos.

She had five years to learn what she could from Avyna…

“My love? Are you home?”

Ranthia looked up from her book and hopped to her feet. Avyna had some sort of errand to take care of after they closed her shop for the day and insisted that Ranthia should head home by herself. They rarely spent time apart anymore—Avyna had even taken to joining her when she trained or ran scouting missions in recent months—which left Ranthia impatient for her return.

Ranthia eagerly passed under the curtains… only to fully accelerate her perception and dive back through them at her top speed. Moments later—with both blindfold and tunic on—Ranthia passed through the curtains again.

She hadn’t realized that Avyna had brought someone home. In hindsight, yes, Avyna had spoken in Creation instead of High Elvish, but still!

“This is Numeria; I have made the decision to hire her to work in my shop. If all goes well for the next four or so years, I shall leave the shop in her hands.” Avyna explained, unable to keep the mischievous smile off her face.

Her exquisite elven minx had done that on purpose!

Ranthia fixed a high-speed glare at Avyna, before she returned to mundane speeds to greet the kid young woman. A brunette that was in her final teenage years and with brown eyes that were somewhat overfocused—a clear symptom of minor vision problems. The girl squeaked out a nervous sound that was presumably meant to be a “thank you,” in response to the greeting.

Meeting a Sentinel could be intimidating, Ranthia supposed. She was mostly certain that she had been fast enough that the kid couldn’t have gotten an eyeful, not at her level.

“If Avyna accepts you, that is all that I need to know. I might be a Sentinel, but before any of that, I’m romantically involved with her, so please, feel free to relax. I trust my beloved’s judgment, and she wouldn’t have chosen you without a reason. She’s been looking for someone worthy to inherit the shop for a long time.” Ranthia kept her tone gentle and sweet, hoping that the kid wouldn’t assume she was being spoken down to.

Thankfully, the girl seemed to relax. Not much, but at least a little of the tension seemed to leave her too-rigid back and shoulders.

“She already knows the mathematics of business, due to helping her mother and some of the other sex workers. She had no interest in that profession and jumped at the chance to find a different life. Honestly, I had never even thought to search there for someone to leave the shop to. I could have hired her away years ago!” Avyna explained, clearly slightly cross with herself over missing out for so long.

“Well, you still have time to train…” Ranthia trailed off awkwardly. She didn’t want to call the girl a kid or anything like that, but she found herself struggling to recall the name Avyna had given. Minoria, maybe?

Just four years more…

Ranthia let a feeble groan pass her lips and bonelessly struggled to raise her hands in surrender. She could only hope that her surrender would earn her a moment of mercy. She truly doubted she could endure anything more.

“<Is something wrong, my love?>” Avyna asked in a smug, saccharine voice.

“<I can’t… and water, please…>” Ranthia managed to squeak the words.

“<Very well, but you should remember this was your idea.>” If Avyna was able to get any smugger, she’d probably have started purring like a cat.

Ranthia had been utterly defeated. No matter how she improved, she just couldn’t keep up with Avyna. She truly believed that she had improved—dramatically, even—over the past seventy-seven years, but in that same time Avyna had utterly mastered Ranthia—physically and mentally.

She truly was so unfair.

Three more years…

“<I know that we had run out of cheese and done without it for a time, but I do believe that you went overboard, my love.>” Avyna commented with obvious amusement while she surveyed Ranthia’s purchases that had completely covered their dining table.

“<I intend to make the cheesiest dinner ever.>” Ranthia replied, firmly refusing to acknowledge her mistake.

Okay, yes, it really was an excessive amount of cheese! But it was only a mistake if she failed to make use of it all before any of it went off!

“<Oh, my love… Very well, let us see what we can do.>” Avyna decided, as she favored Ranthia with a smile.

Ranthia, eternally grateful, kissed the elf. She was all too aware that every kiss was precious, and she refused to miss a single opportunity for one.

After all, there were only two more years…

“And with that, you can no longer possibly acquire enough to unseat me from first place, my love.” Avyna boldly declared.

Numeria had joined them for a night of games. Not entirely surprisingly, Avyna had completely dominated them. Numeria had even tried to give what she had left to Ranthia, in hopes of closing the gap that Avyna had established. But even as they worked together and made a valiant effort, their final hope proved to be futile.

“We really shouldn’t have let her pick a game that involved market dominance.” Ranthia admitted. In many ways the game was over well before it ever began.

Numeria nodded her agreement. The dwarven-made crystal lenses that remedied her vision reflected a glare over the board when she angled her head just right, not that it mattered with the game all but concluded.

“You are both being remarkably poor [Merchants]. I expected accolades and earnest congratulations.” Avyna mock-grumbled.

“How do you put up with her?” Numeria whispered far too loudly.

“With unquestioning love and absolute adoration.” Ranthia answered at the same volume, struggling to keep her tone and expression serious.

Just as she hoped, Avyna rewarded her with a kiss.

Gods and goddesses, they only had one more year…

Avyna had begun to pack, slowly. Items and objects disappeared from their home here and there, almost unnoticed. But only almost. Each time Ranthia noticed an absence, her heart ached.

Time dwindled.

Ranthia had learned as much as she could from their reviews of the map. The tax code book had vanished at some point—no doubt it was packed somewhere in the spatial crates that Avyna intended to bring along.

When she left.

