A novel emotion detonated inside the Eldest: ice-cold terror. It rushed through its Hatchling’s veins in crashing waves of disbelief. Their lesser spawn shouldn't be able to perceive it. They were the Eldest. They'd been here long before them. The children couldn't perceive their existence. They superseded all that came after it. Those were—

“Those are not the rules anymore. Not for them, and not for you. Not since you started gaining your own levels and the Stranger started gaining his. Now, you belong to this System, like me, and there is nothing that precedes its authority in Integration. We are all touched by mana. We have all been defined, and that's the thing about getting skills: once set, there is no going back.”

A cone of tumorous fingers burst out from the Hatchling’s stomach, extending upward in lengths of lashing limbs that clawed at its face while slicing pieces of its body away with beams of retroactive mana. The Hatchling gasped with the Umbral’s voice and thrashed in alarm, blindly ripping sections of its body away with splashing whips of lightning. Its Dreaming Storm turned inward, stripping its Stranger-corrupted flesh out of material reality into the confines of its memory before a fatal blow could be struck.

But in doing so, the Hatchling compromised its offense. The divine mana used to infest its enemy's web was distracted and diverted, and rather than playing passive for a moment longer, the Seeker retaliated with an inverted storm of her own.

The mental architecture of her city-spanning web came undone, and the pretense she held in imitation of material architecture dissolved. All the Seeker’s mind mana snapped back together in a rising spire made from a thousand thousand threads. Instead of being a static, unmoving city, the mental structure she projected became dynamic in itself as it went slithering forth, a moving mana field carrying all the minds that fueled it with power, carrying the highest dreamer of all.

She guided the coursing current of Psychomancy and stormstuff to strike the exposed Hatchling like a colossal serpent, and as it responded in desperation, ripping through the front-most section of Uva's psionic construct, what spilled out from the gaps once more were spiderlings, Terrorspawn, a single instance of a screaming human woman, and stretching limbs sent forth by Uva herself, crossing through psionic bridges and mental portals to drive a rapier shaped of eldritch geometries straight through the Hatchling’s skull.

A wet squelch rang inside the Hatchling's skull. The horrible, all-too-mortal sound of splitting bone and parting brain matter was accompanied by indescribable agony. Its senses went haywire. The world went dark and bright and dark and bright dark again, and when the Hatchling regained a measure of self-control, it realized it was hanging limp in Uva's grasp, hanging from an extended needle formed of geometric fractals.

The Eldest screamed at the Hatchling, tried to force their Avatar to respond. But their wants, feelings, and will were no longer the law, and ultimately, when a mortal organism's brain was severed in a specific way, the damage carved away any chance of personal agency even before the final coming of death.

Uva stood upon a pedestal now—a towering spire with a flat top, shaped into matter from raw Psychomancy mana. Arteries of quivering energy hatched free from the Umbral's mind, her mana field a thing of storm and web co-mingling to become a tree. A tree that swallowed the Hatchling's own, growing around that dense trunk, incandescent mana in coiling branches of infectious translucence.

Earlier, the Hatchling split Uva’s storm-tree down the middle. Now, it realized that act had been pure folly. You couldn't sever a thought and expect it to disappear. You could only damage the dreamer. In attempting to destroy that which the Seeker wielded instead of that which she was, it had let itself be engulfed. Through the Starhawk, it had unleashed enough power to part a sea a million times over, but with power alone, the waters were fated to crash back inward. The Hatchling had let itself drown. It had let itself get drawn deep into the web, and it had achieved nothing at all.

“Now you see,” Uva said quietly, looking upon the Hatchling with an expression of disappointment and vicious triumph both. “Now you understand. I told you. You weren't a good Psychomancer. A good Psychomancer is akin to a seamstress. You weave. You mend pieces together. When attacking, you try to overwrite and drown your enemy. You confuse them. You force them to play your game. You subvert every aspect of their mind. I didn't even need to do that with you. You were all too predictable. Your power crippled you from the start. You never needed to be subtle in ways a Psychomancer who grows into their own over time would. You truly never needed to learn from true failure. And that's why you never stood a chance.”

Somehow, using the last remnants of its biological control, the Hatchling lifted a shivering hand and tried to push itself free from Uva's blade. But halfway through, it began to seize; its eyes, copies of her own, began to roll; then came a booming clap of thunder, and a lash of Psychomancy forced its mind to endure even in the face of biological destruction. The lash made the Eldest within her twin face Uva, mind to mind, thought to thought, being to being.

“You imagined you could take my flesh from me?” Uva asked. “You imagined you could simply seize my skills? Transform my soul? Become me? This was where you were wrong. Your actions were driven by delusion. A mind isn't something you can simply take and shed. A mind must be transformed, and a person is the same.”

A disdainful scoff echoed through the entire Delve, and the sheer virulent hatred coursing through Uva's mind scalded the Eldest. “But you never become. You just stay yourself, even if you are something that came before. Even if you are a creature of metamorphosis and power. What is the point then? What is the point of transforming someone if you simply end up as a blank slate? You say you would become me, but I'm just looking at you, seeing how you perform, seeing what you tried to force. You are nothing more than a monster, no better than a dying insect thrashing upon the surface of a lake. Without me, what skill did you possess? What worth are you on your own? What even are you unto yourself? You dub yourself Eldest. I name you Parasite—for more than any other eldritch god, that is what you are. Thief of vessel, thief of power, thief of even ego and memory, but never of identity. And how strange that it matters so much to you when your identity seems to hold no worth in practice.”

A croon of absolute misery slipped out from the Eldest. They hated her. They wanted to crush and kill her with their mind, but their Avatar was damaged beyond repair, and so the Eldest realized it knew that oblivion was encroaching. The System had baited them into this mistake, had lured them away, and now this part of them was going to perish.

There was nothing they could do.

Nothing but attempt to bargain once again. “I saved you. You wouldn't have survived in my son's Garden without me. Your Blackedge would have crumbled. You would have died.”

“And that makes me beholden to you?” Uva asked. A ghost of a sneer appeared on her moon-bright skin, and her eye, bright and hollow with pale and pure mana, glistened with contempt. “You used me to gain what you want. Now I use you to obtain what I desire. Bargains struck in coercion and without consent will not be upheld when the moment passes. Let this be a lesson for all the other bodies you try to take. Let this be a lesson, if only the single one you will ever learn.”

“Please…” the Hatchling whispered. “Don't want to die… Take me back into your… Absorb my…”

“Silence!” Uva's Psychomancy made the command a fundamental truth rather than a desperate request. “I will decide now. And you will suffer my choice. Just as I have once suffered yours.”

And with that, she ripped her blade clean from the Hatchling's skull with a sickening squelch. In the aftermath, an existential void swallowed the Hatchling.

That aspect of the Eldest ceased to be.

***

Elsewhere, in a place before places, in a darkness so deep that light was a metaphysical impossibility, an Outsider before Outsiders bled, wailed, and suffered.

A single, indelible wound was left upon the Eldest themselves—a stab wound burrowing up through their left cheek, made to manifest across every body they would infest from this point on. Made to manifest without fail, without any chance to heal.

Rather than seeing themselves birthed from a new Legendary Psychomancer, rather than becoming realer than they ever were before in this place of unexistence, in this void only touched by the thinnest tendrils of mana not long before, the Eldest was not only scarred by a mortal, but further infested by what she represented.

The System dug its hooks in deeper, and it used this chance to direct the divine essence it had bestowed upon the Hatchling to mutilate the soul of the Eldest themselves.

Curse Imposed: Egoscarred (Absolute) - All acts of Psychomancy will see your eternal wound torn wider, and know that, should you make one of your Avatars face the progenitor of this Curse, you deliver them unto their doom.
