Ninety percent of the mana web was shredded through; the complex architecture within was obliterated, rendered down to its component motes. The falling rains and translucence were banished for a brief moment, and the Hatchling felt its magic strike home, but not touch the girl. A dozen minds were utterly dissolved beneath its lightning, but that was all. She still had thousands, stolen from the simulated expanse of Weave.

The Hatchling could practically feel the System’s scorn: I gave you another chance. I gave you power. I gave you a god so that you would never run out of power, so that you would possess skills beyond your own. I gave you the potential to destroy everything, only for you to achieve nothing.

The notification became real as the Eldest’s ire made it so. An existential frustration boiled through them, and their mind rattled with unbridled rage. But the Eldest was also patient. The Eldest knew what it took to defeat an adversary many times one's size, and the Eldest adapted—or at least tried to.

The Hatchling struck randomly, bombarding the few patches of translucent mana remaining with its own Dreaming Storm. But try as the Hatchling might, without absolute saturation across the entire city, the great nest simply regrew—rebuilding itself in jolts of mind-mana that inspired a growing futility.

Next, the Hatchling spread its magical attacks out and struck everything at once, keeping the web separated into broken patches. At once the storm it commanded parted, with every individual chain of lightning spreading wide like a hand opening up, but the moment those gaps were exposed, the remaining sections of Uva's nest struck back, launching their bolts down upon the Hatchling and upward where her storm was alive below it. The Eldritch God’s Avatar responded, but as it failed to grasp the intricacies of Uva's skills once more, it remained far too slow. Uva's Multitasking and Reflexes Skills were stacked together. She only grew faster when her mind had multiple instances running in other bodies, and so a series of concussive impacts bombarded over the Hatchling.

Exposed and possessed of a Magical Resistance insufficient before such a dominating Legendary skill, the Hatchling’s consciousness should have been destroyed in an instant, but the presence of the Starhawk kept it alive and spared it from immediate destruction. Snarling, it retaliated with divine lightning, leaving through the translucent veins digging into its mind—but it failed to counter where it truly mattered, as Uva's lightning scattered of its own volition, revealing payloads of summoned Outsiders stored within.

A rain of Terrorspawn and fractured spiderlings crashed down over the Hatchling. It let out a pained scream with Uva's voice as its body was torn asunder, bits of its flesh ripped away over and over by chittering swarms of geometric horrors. The spiderlings didn't last long; they broke themselves against a bulwark made from time, as the Hatchling shaped a shard of time-halting frost around its body.

But it was gouged and gashed, and by the time it fought the horde of creatures off, it was missing an eye, severed of all limbs but its left hand, and gored across the abdomen, with thin fingers in a facsimile of Uva's own trying to push intestines spilling out in swaying ropes back in its body.

A screaming symphony of pain played across the Hatchling's body. It clutched its wounds, marveling in horror at the blood pouring out from its flesh, and along with the Eldest it felt that cold touch of mortality sink in for the first time in truth. “Is this what it is like?” the Hatchling whispered, looking down as steaming organs spilled through its splayed fingers. "This is it, to be another, in their entirety? To be narrowed down into a single body, a single vulnerable, fallible body? Is this what it is like, to be born as an individual instead of existing as a primordial idea before existence, before all other Outsiders?"

These thoughts echoed true in the Eldest.

They had been spared the risk of death as a birthright, simply because they were first, because they had to exist before anything else did. Once, they had been the primordial concept of origin.

But what now? Severed from that old reality, before the System, what am I? Just a bag of bleeding, screaming, wretched meat?

The Hatchling had struck with impunity. It had unleashed its mana in overwhelming bursts of crude and brutal power, and had left itself open. Now it had paid the price, and it knew. It could feel the System laughing. It could feel the System’s cruel delight as if mocking hands squeezing its shoulders, whispering to stand up, get over it, and try again.

And then a whisper came, carried by distant rumbles of lesser thunder, rumbles that vibrated from the regrowing webs above and below. Watching the psionic webbing reconnect the remaining patches that had survived the Hatchling's run was like witnessing a forest regrow at an accelerated pace, and in the span of seconds, everything the Hatchling had destroyed was swallowed by a new propagation of psionic storm-stuff. “For all the power you've been given, you are an embarrassing Psychomancer.” The Seeker’s words sounded from above as below, taunting the Hatchling. “If this was how you intended to perform after stealing my body, then I am glad you were denied the chance. I would not want to see my legend or skills debased by such a pathetic display.”

“Show yourself,” the Eldest spat, speaking directly through its spawn. “Face me, face me! You struck a bargain. You owe me survival. You owe me what follows. My Hatchling is meant to be born. It cannot remain inside of you. I must become—”

The Seeker laughed, her voice alive with audacity and dry derision. “Nothing needs to happen. Nothing has to happen. That is the way of the System. It desires only strife, and the one that can prevail against it is rewarded, while the one who fails becomes a footnote in someone else's legend. Reality doesn't care for you nor me, not the way you want it to, but that's to be expected. You were the only reality you once knew, after all.”

An all-too-human, all-too-Uva-like snarl escaped the Hatchling as it reared back the wondrous power given unto it like a hammer. Bombardments of storm and mind-mana crashed down into the grand web that had been made of Weave. Dozens of kilometers of translucence dissolved beneath thunderclaps of incandescent eruptions. Towering pillars of golden destruction speared into the stolen city, slicing and burrowing through the Umbral’s nest.

But through it all, Uva never stopped talking. Never stopped taunting. “I see you now for what you are. I see you. More than being a poor Psychomancer, you would have made a shameful mage in general. Have you ever learned anything for yourself? Have you had an idea that was solely your own? Have you ever discovered something for yourself? Have you suffered and survived failure after failure or adapting through trials? Was anything ever truly your own, or are you just a parasite?”

“I AM WHAT WAS, I AM WHAT IS, AND I AM WHAT WILL BE!”

The Eldest bellowed their answer through their Hatchling, through its Psychomancy, with the fullness of their conviction, but bearing a crushing feeling of agitation above all else.

“Perhaps the world was that simple once, but you're no longer an enigma to me, Eldest. You are simply a tragedy, even if you are the progenitor of the Outsiders and all things besides. What does the name Eldest even mean or represent in these days of the System? Simply that you are old, at best the primordial soup from which all life flowed. Even if you predate the System, you are not greater than it, and though your power is still immense, you've done nothing with it. You've let it languish. You are raw, you are ignorant, and you are sloppy! These are unforgivable sins for a Pathbearer, and that is what you are, no matter how much you try to deny it. You carry flaws that you just cannot overcome, even if you have a god carrying you through the fray.”

As it tried to drown out her damnable voice, the Hatchling saw a specific section of Uva's web vibrating more than the others, where coiled lengths of stormstuff were thicker than city blocks and rose higher than most of Weave’s grand spires.

The Hatchling snarled; a chain of lightning fell from on high and cleaved it through to its foundations.

The divine light of the Starhawk drowned the world like the rising of a sun. That absolute power brought ruin to all it touched, enough to wipe even the greatest of Legends away from the face of reality.

The toll that was reaped was a slight pruning of mana, and a single mind lost among Uva's many, many generators.

“I told you before that you are a terrible Psychomancer. If you were even a mediocre mind mage, you would realize what you are doing is hopeless. You cannot destroy the dream if the dreamers still remain. And you cannot find the dreamers if you don't know where they are, where to even look, all because you won’t descend into the dream itself.”

And though it was revolting to suffer a lecture from a creature so parochial, so small, so fleeting, the Eldest was different from their offspring. They remembered. They lived. They listened. And they tried to learn.

Instead of once again bombarding the Seeker’s constructed city with a flood of raw power, the Eldest directed the Hatchling to begin concentrating its lightning into flowing strings to bridge the gaps between her shredded web.

The Hatchling countered one set of invasive psionic architecture with its own. Veins of incandescent lightning were transplanted over their translucent counterparts. Godly fire coursed through these links, flowing from place to place as the Hatchling made use of the deeper aspects of its Legendary Skill for the first time. This wasn't just a storm. It was a storm that built. It was a storm that projected the mind over reality, and in turn could reap pieces away from reality and hide them within the mind.

Now it understood where all the actual architecture went, where all the spires were taken. It was hidden inside of her mind. Everything that had been destroyed wasn't lost; it was simply displaced, using all the people she'd chained to her own consciousness. They fueled her with an ever-recovering supply of mana, which allowed her to make this a fight of attrition.

Now it was the Eldest’s turn to laugh, and laugh they did. “Foolish. Hubris. You should have known my nature is different. I was. I am. I become. I listen, and I have listened to you. I will know who you are. I will know how you perform. I will become you. I will be birthed from you. I will become, and you will be nothing more than an aspect of who I was. You will be a husk, and I will be—be—”

The Seeker hummed as her stormwebs shook with anticipation—which vibrated over into the Hatchling’s own mana. “Ah, good. You listened. That means you’re gullible. I would ask you to look up, but I am afraid the result would merely be unseemly. Legend Hymn. If you would, please.”

A feeling of wrongness took hold inside the Hatchling. It started inside its injuries. Its injuries that were regenerating for some reason. As it looked down, it realized it was regrowing its missing right arm and both its legs. It saw that its wounds were bubbling, intestines being reeled back into the chasm of gore that had been made of its midriff. Uva didn't possess a healing skill of this magnitude—she didn't possess a healing skill at all. This should have been impossible. It should have been—

Bubbling masses of tumorous darkness exploded out from where its missing flesh once was. Branching fingers beset with gleaming, golden eyes grew out from its body in the place of limbs, and they reached back inward to grasp the Hatchling, while digging nails into its flesh from the bubbling tar within.

In that moment, the Eldest felt it: another presence settling inside its own being. No, not just one, but two. A kaleidoscopic glow leaked out from its injuries as well, a hint of the dreaming child's influence seeping forth from the Stranger's mutations.

“Oh, right, I forgot to mention, while the System came to your aid, someone came to mine. With all that eldritch essence inside of me separated for this Delve, and you waiting at the very bottom…”

“No…”

“The Headmaster assures me that this wasn't a very complicated thing to do. The System isolated you into a very narrow area within my soul; he simply moved the other eldritch influences inside of me and mingled them into yours. Looks like you are not going to be the one that comes before the one that is the one that will be. It looks like you are now a part of the Stranger and what remains of the Dreamtaker as much as they are a part of you. I wonder what might hatch from me, even if you were to win. I am curious if it will be more of your design, or closer to the Stranger instead. Or perhaps the Dreamtaker will surprise us all again.”

As a nightmarish sprawl of golden eyes, imbued with memory and time, twitched and searched to uncover what body they had spawned within, the Hatchling felt the Stranger’s presence breach into its body, and the Eldest's true offspring sensed and remembered his parent’s presence for the first time in existence.

“Progenitor!” the Stranger seethed, closer to human fury and outrage than any kind of incomprehensible emotion possessed by an Outsider. “See you, remember you now… Understand now… Won’t be able to steal from me. Won’t use me… Never again…”

