That was stupid, even for you, Mato. He had no idea if that had been a smart idea, or critically stupid. If he had been struck while in his Beastkin form, he would undoubtedly have been killed. He barely had any armor in that form – but it had worked, and now he had just a little breathing room to heal himself again. A bright arrow whizzed by and cracked against the bony ridges an inch above one of the scorpion’s many dark eyes.

It took two more rounds of fireballs and lightning bolts before one of the fireballs penetrated through the carapace and detonated inside the creature. Bone plates flew everywhere, some even stabbing through his armored hide. The elemental monster stumbled. There was some yelling in the background and a stream of magical attacks, and a breath or two later the creature clattered to the ground in a heap of bony legs and shattered armor.

His chime sounded, but Mato ignored it for now and shifted back to normal, breathing a deep sigh of relief. He was almost out of mana again, despite having used the mana potion with his risky mid-combat shift trick. He sat right where he was, breathing hard, and looked up only when Malika stopped by to check on him.

“You saved me.” He stared at her for a long moment. “Thank you.”

“Any time,” she said, slapping his shoulder lightly. “Your potion trick was crazy.” She grinned. “Crazy good.”

He grinned back. It was crazy. Now that he thought about it, so much could have gone wrong, but if he hadn’t done something, he would have been so far up the creek he wouldn’t have been worried about paddles.

His attention drifted inward to his notifications. Time to see if this was worth it.

Your group has defeated Shield Warrior – Kobold – level 20.…Your group has defeated Piercer Scorpion – Elemental – level 28.Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 20.+10 attribute points.

Oh, twenty! Finally! Guess I should’ve paid more attention to my notifications. Quickly he spent three points each on vitality and wisdom, and then considering the dangerous battle he had just survived, he spent two each on endurance and perception. Hopefully, he would be a little tougher and maybe he could get better at reading the tells in combat.

Swipe has reached level 14.Bear Form has reached level 12.Bestial Combat has reached level 14 (+2).Natural Prowess has reached level 10 (+2).Identify has reached level 7.

Mato bit his lip, trying to contain his rising excitement. This has been a while coming. Now, let’s see…

Class skill slot unlocked.New skills are available for Druidic Shapeshifter.New skill unlocked.Class level has reached 20.Earned at least 15 skill levels with Shapeshifter trait skills.Experienced extensive combat in a shapeshifted form.Panther FormStamina: Shapeshift into a panther. You gain Bite, Rake, and Ambush attacks. Your attack speed is increased in Panther Form, and you can use stealth. Reserve: 20%Nature, Shapeshift, Buff, DexterityNew skill unlocked.Class level has reached 20.Wisdom has surpassed 35.Healed more than three different allies in the same fight.HealMana: Channel your mana to heal your target. Range: 60 feet.Nature, Ranged, Healing, Channeled, WisdomNew skill unlocked.Class level has reached 20.Perception has surpassed 20.Survived magically enhanced attacks while enduring impaired senses.Survival InstinctYour natural senses of sight, hearing, and smell are significantly enhanced. You have a sixth sense about incoming attacks, how much damage they will do, and how to move to mitigate the most damage. Range: SanctuaryNature, Physical, Perception

Another form? Mato got up and slowly limped over to where the others were gathered, taking a second to re-read his notifications and the descriptions of the new skills he was being offered.

“Get anything nice?” Ali asked.

Mato said, “Uh, how did you –”

“Grin about this wide.” The little Fae spread her hands with a chuckle.

Unsurprisingly, his perceptive friends had noticed his level almost immediately. “Yes,” he said and shared all his skill choices with them – the three new ones, and Wrath of Nature and Primal Rage which he had previously passed over or discarded, but were still available for him to choose if he wanted.

He had his favorite, but he wanted to hear what the others thought. If it were entirely up to him, he would pick based on his gut instinct, but the others often thought of reasons he would never have considered.

“Seems like a pretty easy choice,” Malika said. “I would go with Survival Instinct. You don’t seem to do much fighting from the back, so Wrath and Heal wouldn’t be your style.”

“You ran out of mana in that last fight,” Ali said. “Do you think Survival Instinct would have helped with that?”

“Yes,” Mato said. “Definitely. If I could have avoided more of those attacks, I wouldn’t have been in such a desperate need to heal myself. When I can just let Brutal Restoration keep me topped up, it’s much easier on my mana.”

Mato looked over to Calen. “What do you think?”

Calen took a moment with a furrowed brow before speaking. “I think it depends on what you want to do. Your class seems to offer you an enormous amount of versatility. You have choices that allow healing or damage from melee or ranged. You can switch forms for a whole variety of roles. How you choose should depend on how you want to grow your class – specializing will make you stronger, but less versatile. Survival Instinct is only useful if you’re getting hit. So, if you want to stick with tanking, I agree it’s the best choice. On the other hand, variety would require spreading your attributes out more and being less focused on any one role.”

As usual, Calen had to be prompted to share his opinion, but his ideas were well thought out. Mato considered the versatility of the ranged healing and the stealth of the Panther Form. What do I really want?

“Do you like tanking?” Ali asked him.

“I think so, why?”

“Don’t you have a Wolf Form that you barely ever use? Maybe you like tanking more than you think? I mean, I see that Wolf’s kind of a useful backup form for different situations.”

She’s right. I pretty much only ever use my Bear. Mato considered. But I do like my Wolf Form… Survival Instinct had been his intuitive choice. He hadn’t even considered that it wouldn’t be used at all while he was in his Wolf Form – a form he used for scouting, or occasionally damage when he wasn’t being hit. Well, the passive sense enhancement would be nice. Might be good to use Wolf a bit more so it doesn’t fall behind. At least, that’s what Calen would say.

Calen was trying to get him to think about his long-term growth, rather than just picking whatever felt right. The problem would be picking a role and a specialization that suited him.

Do I really want to be a tank? It was the right role for the team. But if he made his choices based on this team, and they changed groups later, he might find himself far too invested to change. This kind of thinking hurt his head.

“You can pick it now, and if you want to change your role, you can swap out the skill. You just lose the skill levels.” Ali reminded him.

Just like when he had swapped Primal Rage for Bestial Combat. It would be a setback if he needed to change, but right now he didn’t see himself in any other role, and it felt right. As long as he didn’t go too long before committing to his decision, she was probably right.

“Ok, I’ll give Survival Instinct a try.” I guess now I need to invest in perception more often. He already wanted vitality and endurance for resilience and survivability, strength for power, and wisdom for mana and resistance against taunts. Attributes are hard, he thought, switching to his Bear Form to check his status.

Name: Mato BahrRace: BeastkinActive Buffs: Bear Form, Natural ProwessClass: Druidic Shapeshifter – level 20- Arboreal Sanctuary – level 11- Swipe – level 14- Brutal Restoration – level 12- Bear Form – level 12- Wolf Form – level 4- Bestial Combat – level 14- Natural Prowess – level 10- Survival Instinct – level 1- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Identify – level 7- Cooking – level 5- Wilderness Lore – level 6Aptitudes- Languages: Common, Beast- Mana (Affinity): Nature- Strong (Racial): +7 to Strength- Tough (Racial): +10 to EnduranceAttributes- Vitality: 138 (+48)- Strength: 80 (+28)- Endurance: 97 (+34)- Dexterity: 8- Perception: 22- Intelligence: 9- Wisdom: 43Armor: 481Physical Damage Reduction: 46.2%Health: 1380/1380Stamina: 776/970 (194 Reserved)Mana: 430/430
