“It’s still a fool’s move. This is the King of Destruction. And he has two of his highest-level vassals on the field.”
“But what would you do, Grand Strategist? If this is objectively the best place to be in…”
Chaldion looked up.
“If I were in that position? I’d retreat to the capital.”
“Despite it being an inferior position to defend?”
“Yes. And I’d pull back every soldier holding against Jecrass and Medain. Even if it meant losing all of my eastern and northern flanks. This [General] whomever is gambling on the fact that he can stop the King of Destruction with his two-to-one advantage. And this Grand Mage whatshername, and ‘artillery support’ from the academy.”
He laughed derisively. Across the world, other monarchs and leaders watched. Prime Minister Lyfelt, sitting in a small cabinet meeting, shot to his feet.
“Send a [Message] to General Fultoolm—no! To this Drake! This—this is slander. General Fultoolm assured me this was the spot—”
Chaldion went on. And he seemed to be looking straight at each viewer as he spoke.
“They’re going to be slaughtered. This isn’t a battle. Watch. They’re about to begin.”
 
——
 
The pass was narrow, the ground a mix between rock and soil. Both armies were lining up.
The army of Belchan on one side, rows of infantry forming walls of steel. At the back, hundreds of [Mages], some students of the academy, others graduates, shielded along with the [Archers] behind tens of thousands of [Soldiers].
Hundreds of [Mages]. Still a vast number for any one army. It was one of the features of Belchan as a nation. And General Fultoolm was no fool. He’d formed his infantry into formations, not one giant line as one might imagine. They were prepared to hold the center while the flanks pushed forwards and engulfed a smaller force.
And indeed, their army was twice as large as the one entering the pass. The King of Destruction’s army looked small indeed. A mass of foot and horse, with only one small group of [Mages]—Parasol Stroll. Yet, their side had half-Giants. The laughing Serpent Hunters, armed with poison blades on one flank.
Two vassals and the King of Destruction himself. He was on foot, surrounded by the Rustängmarder. The hundred-some elites and the [King] stood at the center of the army, near the front.
“I would have thought that this [General] would have lined up his soldiers in a more…orderly fashion. He has gaps in his formation.”
The Empress of Sands mused. There was a snort of derision from herself. A head sitting above and staring down at the scrying orb, the young [Emperor], snapped back down at her.
“If he lined his soldiers up in a straight line they’d be wiped out. He has his pikes braced to prevent the [Steward] charging; the pockets are meant to draw his opponent in.”
“Too much room to maneuver.”
Another of the Empress’ heads spoke. The grizzled [General] stared down at the pass.
“It wouldn’t matter against a lower-leveled army, or two larger forces. But the [Steward] is too quick. The pass is too wide. The pikes will not stop him.”
“Nor the half-Giants.”
“Nor the [King].”
Laughter, a female head laughing derisively. Not the head that sat on the beautiful Stitch-Woman’s body. Another of her minds. And more whispers. The Empress of Sands looked up. And her heads, her other selves that practiced war, were in agreement.
“The King of Destruction has his reason for war. And Belchan’s army is a line of sand before a wave.”
“It cannot stop him.”
“It will not stop him.”
“I erred.”
The young man spoke down to the Empress. He spoke to himself, angrily.
“No, you erred. You were warned. The King of Destruction has his reason for war. And now he will conquer another nation. This head is flawed. Put me on.”
The other heads voiced their agreement.
“My perspective is wrong.”
“Put me on. I understand war.”
“No, put me on.”
“Put me on.”
Voices, whispering, demanding. Like the voices everyone had in their head, but louder. Real things. Each head wanting to take control, to lead. The female head of the [Empress], who had been Emira Saet-rei of Doran, before she became another part of the Emperor of Sands…paused.
“I have made errors. I did not believe the King of Destruction’s subjects would have been attacked. I did not consider that the Prime Minister of Belchan was such a fool. And I do not understand war with such clarity, it is true.”
She nodded to the two armies. The King of Destruction was striding back and forth, bellowing at the other side. He was demanding their surrender. Or else—
Annihilation. Belchan’s forces shuddered, but their [General] raised his sword. And their Grand Mage shot a [Siege Fireball] across the pass. It exploded early as Parasol Stroll twirled their umbrellas, but the act heartened Belchan’s [Soldiers]. They roared defiance at the King of Destruction.
But Reim’s army was eerily quiet. The King of Destruction nodded. The Empress watched, until her younger, impetuous male self, interrupted.
“Put me on.”
“No.”
She looked up at herself, and the head, who still remembered being Emira Saet-rei, beautiful, intelligent, brave—and horribly obsessed with bad puns—ignored the young man’s head.
“I know that I am the perspective needed. I have made mistakes. And clearly—I underestimated the folly of Humans. Of men. But do not get a head of yourself.”
Silence. Then half of the heads groaned. Puns indeed. The Empress of Sands smiled. Then her smile vanished. She watched, in silence. The battle was beginning.
 
——
 
The air was hot. Both armies stared at each other. The King of Destruction’s was advancing.
Slowly. Grand Mage Esiela shifted. Her robes kept her cool, kept the elements at bay, and were warded against common weapons and spells. Nevertheless—she was sweating.
She tried not to show it. And, as she stood behind the tens of thousands of [Soldiers], she kept her back straight. She knew they were looking at her. After all, she was the Grand Mage of Belchan, head of Belchan’s Mage Schools.
The highest-level individual on her side of the battlefield. And she was a [Mage]. She could cast spells at range and to greater effect than any [Warrior]. That was the boast of all [Mages]. More firepower than a common [Archer] with only a handful of arrows, with more versatility than any idiot with an axe. Esiela was capable of becoming invisible, levitating, and she could cast [Siege Fireball] by herself. She didn’t need to link to use the spell.
Students at her back. Esiela looked over her shoulder and saw some of Belchan’s older students. They stared at their headmistress in trepidation. But also—with trust. The Grand Mage made herself smile confidently.
She shouldn’t have looked back. Doing so only made her conscious of her role. She stared ahead instead.
The King of Destruction stood at the front of his army, surrounded by his vanguard. He was roaring orders as he advanced. His voice was no longer magnified, but it was still impossibly loud. And—he was only a man. And far away. But he seemed…larger.
His rage was a physical thing in the air, beating down on Belchan’s army. Esiela was actually using an [Aura Shield] to block the effects, but she knew it was there.
“So. This is the King of Destruction.”
The Grand Mage murmured. She sensed General Fultoolm looking at her.
“Take him down, Grand Mage. Do that and his army crumbles. That is all you and your students need concern themselves with.”
Esiela bit back a sarcastic response. ‘Only’ slay the world’s most infamous [King]? And yet…she’d agreed to fight.
Esiela had seen the images, of course. The Prime Minister, Lyfelt, had ordered scrying orbs banned except with extreme necessity, but most of the [Mages] in Belchan had seen it. The sight, the bloodshed had disturbed Esiela greatly. But it had not been all of Belchan; just one village! And the King of Destruction would slaughter countless innocents if he got to the capital. He had already, or put them into chains as slaves.
So Esiela would fight. She was already preparing bound spells to unleash one after another from her staff. [Acid Orb Volley], [Siege Fireball], [Chain Lightning]—any one of the powerful spells would obliterate any one man.
Even the King of Destruction. Esiela realized she was breathing faster.
The army was coming. Only eighty thousand. There were nearly twice that many [Soldiers] here! Remember the plan. Ahead of her, some of the fortifications the army had been constructing seemed like a paltry defense. A few channels filled with spikes, walls of dirt raised by [Mages] and [Diggers]—but there had not been enough time for a proper fortification. The King of Destruction had been too fast.
A figure strode forwards as both armies drew nearer. Esiela saw a glowing form. Magic armor, covered by a powerful illusion from head to toe. Her skin chilled and crawled further.
Mars the Illusionist.
Belchan’s army paused as the army of Reim halted for a moment. And then the [Soldiers], half-Giants, [Riders], who had been so silent, began to shout.
“Mars! Mars! Mars!”
The [Vanguard] glowed with magic. Esiela licked her lips. Those were…powerful artifacts she was wearing. The woman stopped, standing in between the two armies, in the dead zone.
“Within bow range. Prepare a volley—Grand Mage, your spells—”
General Fultoolm murmured. Esiela shook her head.
“Her armor will stop any arrow, General. Don’t waste your magic. I’ll…deal with her after the [King].”
Her voice wasn’t trembling. Or if it was…Fultoolm stared at Esiela. He lowered his gauntleted hand. The Grand Mage stared at Mars. The woman had raised her sword in one hand, pointing it ahead. Straight at Esiela, or so it felt. In her other, a black shield with a snarling face dripping…blood….was secured to her arm. What artifact was that?
“Come! Where are Belchan’s heroes? Is there no one strong enough to face me? Or is your army so ball-less and craven that you only fight unarmed children?”
Mars bellowed at Belchan’s army. The [Soldiers] hesitated as she walked back and forth, beckoning.
The air was electric. Esiela froze as Mars’ words rolled across the army. She felt the power of a Skill, but she didn’t know what was happening.
“What’s going on?”
She whispered to Fultoolm. The [General] was grinding his teeth.
“[Call of the Champion]. If no one comes out to face her, Mars will demoralize the entire army. And any [Champion], [First Warrior], [Royal Protector], or so on will lose their class. But better that than losing one of our best—I kept our champion classes off the field for that reason.”
“Because they’d die?”
No response. Mars laughed derisively.
“So be it! My lord! Give us your command!”
She turned her head. And Esiela saw the red and gold-haired head turn. She felt the air grow hotter.
“Here it comes! Brace—don’t falter, brave sons and daughters of Belchan!”
Fultoolm roared. [Courageous Speech]. It made Esiela stop sweating as much. Mars’ contempt had been pressing down on her. She turned her head to Fultoolm.
And the King of Destruction pointed across the dry ground. He had been still. Coiled. No—more like waiting. Burning with the same fury that hadn’t died after days of battle. Now, he roared one word.
“Charge!”
Esiela’s head snapped forward. She saw the first ranks of infantry begin running. They were still out of bow range! Weren’t they going to tire themselves out?
But then she saw how fast they were moving. The people on foot covered the ground unnaturally quickly.
[Rapid March]. And striding ahead of them were—half-Giants. Esiela looked up. Thirty-foot high men and women, carrying axes. She aimed her staff.
“The King of Destruction! Grand Mage! Focus on him!”
Fultoolm roared. He was shouting orders. Esiela jerked her staff down. She aimed.
There he was. Charging with the Rustängmarder. They gleamed of death magic. Necromancy. But he was there. Coming at her. Looking…
“Unleash. Unleash!”
Esiela shouted. The spells stored in her staff triggered at once. Orbs of dark brown acid flew forwards, followed by a glowing, massive fireball. And lightning.
None of them reached the King of Destruction. One of the half-Giants in front saw the spells, swung down his axe and shield to block them—but the spells detonated before they even reached him.
The Grand Mage’s eyes bulged. She turned. A flow of mana had reached out, snapped the bindings on each of her spells, triggering each before they reached their target. She looked around, tracing the magic back—
There. A group of about four dozen [Mages]. Each holding a brightly colored parasol. Young and old, dressed in magical robes, like her. They strolled forwards, twirling the objects that were their magical foci.
Parasol Stroll. Esiela had discounted them; they were [Mercenaries] as much as [Mages]. And she was higher-level than any of them. But—Esiela pointed her staff again at Flos.
“[Shatterbolts]!”
A powerful Tier 4 spell, multiplied in a hail of ghostly darts. They flashed at the King of Destruction—
And again, vanished. This time Esiela saw the [Mages] of Parasol Stroll pointing. They were cancelling her spells! All-together, each one taking a different dart.
She stared at them. Then aimed her staff their way.
“[Arc Lightning]!”
A bolt of lightning shot up, arcing downwards in a long curve—slower than regular lighting, and subdividing, becoming dozen of lightning bolts! That would—
 
——
 
“Incoming. Brace.”
Ulyse of Parasol Stroll saw the lightning bolts falling. He raised his parasol, spun it. Every [Mage] in their loose formation did the same, halting.
The colorful umbrellas twirled. The lightning bolts hit a barrier in the air of twisting colors. A mass-shield. Ulyse heard the thunderous detonations, but not a shock made it to his group. He smiled.
“Tier 5 spell. That must be their Grand Mage.”
Mirin commented. She’d thought the [Grand Mage] would be in hiding, and that was a decoy. But Ulyse hadn’t.
“She must be getting upset. Incoming. At a walk, everyone.”
The [Grand Mage] was aiming more spells at Parasol Stroll. The [Mages] advanced. Arrows were flying their way, too, as Flos and his army closed the remaining ground.
And that was a mistake. Grand Mage Esiela had diverted arrows meant for the half-Giants and [Soldiers]. But they were useless on the mercenary mage-company. They raised their parasols, joining their magic. And the air shimmered and glowed as spell and arrow failed.
Grand Mage Esiela was staring. Ulyse grinned around his parasol. He bowed slightly her way.
“Taunt. One, two, three—and reply. [Arrows of Sand].”
