The Horns of Hammerad sat in a bar. A bar.
Not an inn. Or a tavern. Or a dive, or a hellhole, or a pub. A bar. There were differences.
They were covered in dust. Stone dust, mixed, mostly with limestone but differing in color and consistency. They’d tracked it in, but no one was objecting.
They’d had a bad day. Rock Golems. Yvlon was still hacking; she’d inhaled more than a few lungfuls of stone dust. Ceria was pouring a glass of water in her face.
“It’s in my eyes. I can’t get it out!”
They’d been fighting a Stone Golem…infestation? Plague? Again, it wasn’t any of those things. The natural-occurring varieties of Golems sometimes just appeared, especially in areas with lots of magicore. And they caused havoc.
But they were now powder. And the Horns were free to continue on their journey north. After they rested.
Pisces was helping clean Ksmvr off. The Antinium was practically covered in Golem remains. The [Bartender] brought over a bucket of water, but he put it on a table far from the Antinium and [Necromancer]. It was Ksmvr he stared at, with clear nerves.
Dust and grime hit the floor, but no one objected. The Horns eventually stopped hacking and groaning. Then they just looked at each other.
“I hate fighting Golems. What were they made of, pumice?”
“Soft loam.”
Pisces grumbled. He wasn’t dirty; he’d stayed out of the Golem’s reach, fighting from a remove. His comrades hadn’t been as nimble, or, in Ksmvr’s case, had opted to fight closer up.
It didn’t matter. It was one adventure in a number they’d had since going north. And at least they were being paid for this one. Indeed, their payment came as the old [Village Headwoman] walked over. She was in her late nineties. But since she was a half-Elf—it really didn’t mean much.
Even so, the half-Elf had years on her, more than Ceria or Falene. The [Cryomancer] stood up respectfully as the other half-Elf, Disabella, walked over. She looked like she was oh, just thirty years old, with that immortal youth all half-Elves had.
She had dark skin, black hair, and she had lived here all her life. In Izril, a half-Elf far from home. Ceria bowed slightly.
“Miss Disabella, sorry about the mess.”
“I dare say you’ve earned the right to a mess. After clearing out dozens of our pests.”
The half-Elf [Headwoman] was a curious mix of things. She was spry, lively, but she acted…old. Motherly. Because she’d married three times and had over a dozen children and grandchildren. She made Ceria uncomfortable. She was the exact opposite of the half-Elves who lived in their timeless villages in Terandria.
A half-Elf who lived in the present, who mixed with other species. ‘Entangled’ was the derogatory term sometimes used, again, only by the half-Elves who believed in separation.
Ceria wasn’t one of them, but she understood the word. Because…Disabella was aged. Not in body, but her relationships and life among the mortal races made her feel older. They had left lines on her face despite her ‘youth’ as half-Elves measured such things. She had lived each one of her ninety years in this village. Ceria, who had grown up for over forty years in a half-Elf village, couldn’t imagine it.
The [Headwoman] gave Ceria a smile as if she could read the younger half-Elf’s every thought. But again—they had talked. And this was the end of their battle against the Golems who’d haunted this village’s mines, attacking anyone who went too deep.
“My gratitude. And you’ve earned your fee. We can’t pay you much—”
“It was our honor, Miss.”
Yvlon tried to bow and stand and not cough all at the same time. Disabella smiled. She reached for the small pouch of gold she’d brought.
“Nonsense. Most Silver-ranked teams couldn’t have beaten Stone Golems, even softer ones. They’ll be telling stories about seeing one of the Byres family’s [Knights] for years. Yvlon Silverarm, perhaps. Some of the children are shouting that already.”
The [Armsmistress] turned bright red. She tried to protest, but Disabella just laughed at her. She looked at Ceria and nodded.
“Here. Gold, and—”
What was placed on the table was an old, old little compact mirror. It had a crude hinge and it had been made of a seashell. As Ceria slowly flipped open the lid, she saw a shining oval of glass.
A scrying mirror. Disabella’s possession. Ceria looked up at the other half-Elf.
“Disabella! We can’t—”
“Take it. It was a suitor’s gift anyways. I daresay the village will miss it, but we don’t need to see this Wistram broadcast anyways. We can’t pay you properly. So if you’ll accept this in place of gold…”
Indeed, the bag of gold was mostly silver with only a few gold pieces. Ceria hesitated. The scrying mirror did indeed make up for the cost. But the mirror…
She looked at Disabella. The half-Elf gestured.
“Go on. Truly, I don’t need it.”
Perhaps not. Ceria took the mirror and flipped it open. At her touch, a small picture formed in it. A familiar Drake’s voice spoke.
“—we are reporting to you from Viadem’s Pass. The battle led by the main army of Belchan, led by Grand Mage Esiela of Belchan’s Academy and General Fultoolm is taking place. They are hoping to defeat the King of Destruction’s army. Both sides are approaching—the King of Destruction is less than fifty miles from Belchan’s capital. If this army fails to stop him—and no force has managed to slow his advance—”
Ceria stared at Noass’ face. The Drake had been reporting nonstop on the conflict in Belchan, covering the war. It was a first for this world, and the Horns of Hammerad had been watching with everyone else on the little hand-mirror.
Now, it was a gift. The [Cryomancer] looked at Pisces and Ksmvr. The Antinium looked at her. Pisces raised his eyebrows.
“It really is overpayment.”
“Not if scrying mirrors stay as cheap as they have been. The [Trader] who brought some through last week had them at a tenth of the price. Wistram’s ruined the value of heirlooms.”
The [Headwoman] smiled. She waited. And Ceria saw an old smile, filled with nearly a century’s worth of life. But she had to wonder—how easy was it to be Disabella?
Ceria had met the headwoman’s husband. And he was in his fifties, a good man. But she looked so young. And she would be that way while he aged.
Perhaps…the compact mirror really wasn’t what Disabella wanted to own. A suitor’s gift. Ceria slowly nodded.
“Thank you, Miss Disabella. We’ll take this in place of the gold, though.”
Pisces rolled his eyes as she slid the bag over the table. Disabella didn’t argue.
“Thank you again, Ceria. If you want to stay the night…”
“We’d love a bath.”
Pisces murmured. Ceria caught herself nodding.
“I am choking on dust, Captain Ceria. I believe this impedes my combat efficiency.”
Ksmvr waved a hand. Ceria smiled. Disabella smiled as well; she hadn’t been as bothered by Ksmvr as the other Humans on their road north. There had been…incidents.
“A bath for all of you, of course!”
“Thank you. And if we can help in any other way…”
Yvlon coughed. Pisces nodded and sighed as he edged over to stare into the mirror. Ksmvr shuddered.
“Bath…?”
The Horns laughed at that. Ceria put the mirror down and realized her hair was covered in dust. Every time she turned, she created a cloud that sent everyone into coughing fits. In time, the Horns found washbasins being brought to them, and the villagers came around to thank them—again, wary of Ksmvr, except for the children who begged to borrow his Ring of Jumping.
Another adventure, and the Horns would nearly be at Invrisil. And then they’d see The Wandering Inn again. Ceria yearned for that, and she knew her friends did too. And then further north, to find Ryoka.
All these things would come. But for now, the Horns sat around. And the other villagers and the adventurers began to stare at the little scrying mirror, listening to the voice as the images flickered. Tonight wasn’t their story.
 
——
 
War in Belchan. Three days had passed since the King of Destruction’s furious declaration of war. And today—
The war was coming to its end. In Pallass, Noass was commentating with Sir Relz on an aerial view of the battle, courtesy of an actual [Scrying] spell linked with other spells.
That was necessary—there was no way for any [Mage] on the ground to get close. Because both armies would slay any bystander casting magic in the area.
Three days. It had taken Tiqr weeks to fall, even with a coalition of nations invading. But Tiqr had been larger than Belchan, and the other armies unprepared for the stiff resistance the Empress of Beasts had put up.
And…the attacker had not been the King of Destruction. From the moment he had declared war, his army had marched deeper into Belchan, leaving a trail of destruction that had been captured by the worldwide broadcast. Flos Reimarch’s force of sixty thousand soldiers had already been camped within the outer limits of Belchan; now, after three days, they were almost upon the capital.
“Analysis, class. How has the King of Destruction made such incredible progress?”
Niers Astoragon stood on his lectern and looked at his students. His special class was emptier than normal, so he’d merged it with some of his advanced regular students and the officers. The room was unnaturally silent as the [Strategists] and [Tacticians] watched the silenced view of the battle.
The Titan had, of course, been observing the entire conflict. He’d been teaching lessons around it nonstop. Now, he pointed.
“Marian.”
“The King of Destruction’s fought through numerous engagements, Professor. Eleven major ones…”
The Centauress cleared her throat. She looked restless. But most of the students who’d seen battle did. They could sense the conflict was nearing and were having trouble keeping their eyes off the scrying orb.
“Focus, class. Objective decisions in the heat of battle.”
Niers spoke quietly. He understood their emotions, though. The students focused back on him, some flushing. Marian went on.
“The King of Destruction does not have a large army. He’s gathered some of his reinforcements from Hellios, but most of his actual army is still on the march north. By all rights, this army should not be attacking Belchan; they have nearly double his forces trying to hold the pass.”
“But he is going to engage them. And he hasn’t been slowed, even by forces larger than his. Why?”
Marian paused.
“Because he’s the King of Destruction, Professor.”
“Correct.”
The Titan of Baleros nodded. That was an accurate summation. He pointed at the scrying mirror. At the tiny shapes that the [Mages] performing the [Scrying] spell were trying to zoom in on.
Orthenon, the King’s Steward. Mars the Illusionist. The King of Destruction himself and his elite vassals. You could see the half-Giants in detail even from this range.
“Half-Giants. I should say, true half-Giants. First Shepherd Zamea of the Nomads of the Sky is twice as large as the average War Walker. Think on that.”
The class did. The Dullahans paled; Niers nodded. Cameral and the others could appreciate how vastly tall that was.
“We have at least three individuals on the field over Level 50. And that makes light of the other of the King of Destruction’s vassals. Grand Mage Esiela is most likely over Level 40, as befits the leader of Belchan’s mage academies. At the very least she’s high thirties. General Fultoolm…? Thoughts?”
“Below Level 40, at least, Professor.”
Umina raised her claw. Niers nodded.
“Levels aren’t everything. But…well, we’re looking at nearly a hundred and forty thousand [Soldiers]. Not a small number. Although Belchan’s lost a vast number to the King of Destruction already, and they’re warding off attacks from Medain to the north and Jecrass to the east. Still, that’s nearly double the King of Destruction’s forces. Do you think they have a chance? How would you fight this battle?”
Silence. The students looked at each other. At last, Cameral raised his hand.
“By your leave, Professor?”
“Go on.”
The Dullahan pointed to the scrying mirror.
“I…agree with General Fultoolm’s strategy in large. He’s holding a narrow chokepoint with little room to maneuver. We can see Belchan’s [Mage] corps, which the King of Destruction lacks in number, holding at the back of his armies. In theory, they should be able to bombard his forces throughout the battle. The King of Destruction also lacks an individual as powerful as Grand Mage Esiela. And they will be in range of Belchan’s Academy.”
“Which has a number of bombardment spells. Their students could even be charging them as we speak.”
Niers nodded. Cameral shifted.
“Yes, Professor. All in all, the terrain and composition favors Belchan’s army. If the King of Destruction reaches the capital, it would be a battle more strongly in his favor. However…”
He paused. And that summed it up. Niers grinned around the room.
“Would any of you want to be General Fultoolm? What would you do? And finally—does he have a chance in winning with two-to-one odds, a [Mage] advantage, favorable defending conditions and long-range support?”
 
——
 
“Absolutely not. If I were there I’d retreat. This is off-the-record by the way. I am not here in any advisory capacity. All my musings are my own opinion, not the position of Pallass’ military.”
Grand Strategist Chaldion waved a claw as he reclined in the chair. Noass stared at him. He tried to bow and nod at the same time. Chaldion was sipping from his iconic drink. And smoking on a puffer.
“Er, absolutely, Grand Strategist. But a number of other [Strategists] and interested viewers have pointed out that this is the spot to hold the King of Destruction’s armies…”
Chaldion laughed.
“Absolutely it is. A perfect defensive position, which is where Belchan has thrown back armies from Hellios and Germina in the past. Fighting around the capital would be madness; Belchan’s walls are too low and the city hasn’t withstood sieges before.”
“So—”
The old Drake leaned forwards. And his fake eye gleamed red. He’d removed his eye patch for the interview and it was unsettling, intimidating Noass greatly—
And very stylish. In Tails and Scales, Grimalkin snorted as he took a long draft from his cup of goat’s milk. Rufelt and Lasica and the other patrons of the bar were watching Chaldion live, on…tv. Television.
It was a surreal experience. Rufelt couldn’t help but glance over at the [Sinew Magus].
“Something wrong, Grimalkin?”
“Nothing. Chaldion’s certainly enjoying himself.”
Indeed, the Grand Strategist was reclining in his comfy chair as he took a long smoke from his burning cigar. The end was glowing brightly as he exhaled.
