How could you fight a dead man? He was already—
Half-Giants cracked the earth as the King of Destruction roared.
“Advance! Cut their army in half!”
He was poised to do it. But—the [Mages] were creating walls of magic, slowing the advance. On them everything hinged.
Grand Mage Esiela was panting. But she’d brought down four of Parasol Stroll. They could win! The King of Destruction was pushing in with his elites, but if he fell—
“Students! [Mages]! Hold back the enemy! Teachers, with me. We kill the King of Destruction.”
The [Grand Mage] turned. Parasol Stroll launched spells at her back, but the massed ranks of Belchan’s spellcasters were using the same tactics on them. They had learned in minutes the lessons of battle.
Esiela ran backwards. She could see how far the King of Destruction had pressed into the canyon. He was indeed trying to split Belchan’s army straight down the middle. But if she reached him—Mars the Illusionist was distracted! And the half-Giants and the Rustängmarder couldn’t protect him from her spells.
“To me! We kill the King of Destruction!”
Blood was in Esiela’s eyes, her pulse thundering in her ears. She ran around the back of Belchan’s armies, searching for the King of Destruction. His advance would be his undoing. She turned, as the back ranks of [Archers] whirled. Looking at her. She raised her staff, shouting, rallying them—
“—iela! Esiela!”
A hand grabbed her. The Grand Mage stumbled. She turned. One of the teachers in her school was pointing. Esiela looked at him. And she realized the [Archers] weren’t looking at her.
A second army appeared at Belchan’s backs. Thundering down the canyon was a group of nearly ten thousand [Riders]. For a moment Esiela’s heart jumped. Reinforcements?
But no—Fultoolm was screaming for the infantry to turn. For the archers to fire! And Esiela recognized the figure leading the wedge of cavalry. Her heart stopped.
Orthenon. The King’s Steward. The Left Hand of the King of Destruction.
He had circled around. Somehow, he’d travelled around the entire canyon range, fought through the forces there and reached their rear. How had he done it so fast?
Because—he was the [Steward]. Not one of the Seven, but second only to his [King]. Esiela stared. Then she began to back up.
“Form a line of pikes! Bring him down! Bring him down! Fire the bombardment spells!”
Fultoolm was roaring into a communication stone. And from the sky, Belchan’s Mage Schools began to unleash the stored magics. The spells that had been raining down on Flos’ army began to aim for the [Steward]. And the [Mage] corps, retreating behind another wave of [Soldiers] began to fire spells too.
[Valmira’s Comets] began to hit the ground. The glowing meteors made of magic exploded, sending shockwaves of earth fountaining up. Lightning bolts fell out of the sky, and rains of arrows burst from miles away, aiming at Orthenon.
They missed. The artillery spells were tracking the [Riders] too slowly. Each one was racing faster than anything on land Fultoolm had ever seen. Only a bird was faster. They wove, dodging spells.
“Cavalry! [Charge Commander] Veldeen! Stop the [Steward]!”
Belchan’s own cavalry detachment, a small number for the battle in the pass, raced out. They aimed straight at the [Steward], buying time. Fultoolm saw them racing at Orthenon. Stall them until he could put enough pikes and [Soldiers] between them and—
Orthenon raced ahead of the [Riders], a dark blur. The [Steward] was armed with a spear and his sword. He twisted as he raced at the [Charge Commander].
“[Sword Art: The Tide Breaks].”
The gaunt man flashed past the first rank of Belchan’s cavalry, riding perpendicular across them. His sword cut in a blur, rising and falling so fast that it did indeed look like a pattern of silver.
Horses and riders collapsed, heads and limbs severed. The first rank of the cavalry fell, and the following ranks collided, crashing into screaming piles of people and horses. Orthenon turned his horse, shot onwards.
They were coming. Grand Mage Esiela was moving back, throwing spells. But the [Steward] cut one in half, dodged another—and Parasol Stroll was cancelling her spells again!
She’d retreated behind a thin rank of spears. They were covering the [Archers] and [Mages]. Pikes braced, ready to impale horses. Esiela saw the [Steward] aiming straight at them and hoped. Even if he had so many horses, they couldn’t—
“[Steelflesh Charge].”
The [Steward] and his wedge of horses hit the spears. The pikes knocked [Riders] from horses, made some rear, took a few down. But for a few seconds, the flesh of his cavalry was steel.
And a few seconds—
The [Steward] had his spear out. He beheaded the [Sergeant], then rode straight through a group of [Archers]. He ignored them as his [Riders] followed. He was making for the students of Belchan. Then he leapt from the saddle, landed in their midst.
They stared up at him. The [Ruinbringer Steward]. Orthenon of Reim. A legend in their times. The man drew his sword. He looked at a teacher of 1st Year students. High Mage Fredalius, a kindly fellow who always had a treat—
Orthenon beheaded him. Fredalius never had time to raise the barrier spell with his wand. The [Steward] cut left and right. Belchan’s students and [Mages] stared as the magic-users around Orthenon collapsed without a sound. The [Steward] kept moving, calmly lopping off hands and limbs. His sword was a blur as he walked through the spellcasters.
Only after a second did they begin to fight back, to run. It was surreal. The [Riders] were tearing apart the [Archers]. A few [Mages] tried to aim spells at Orthenon. Others made barriers.
The [Steward] leapt over a rising [Wall of Stone], blurred. Six children died. Children, who’d come to fight because Grand Mage Esiela had been assured they’d be safe.
She stared, so shocked by the carnage she couldn’t move. And again—the same thought echoed.
It wasn’t fair. Spellcasters, [Mages] with years of training just to cast basic spells, students of magic who’d spent their entire lives training in their craft died with a single sword thrust. Up close—all their magic was useless. The [Steward] was faster than they could even say the name of a spell. And bunched up, they were dying like flies.
“Pull—”
Fultoolm’s voice froze in his throat. He stared as the [Steward] just…took apart Belchan’s rear lines. It wasn’t a battle, it was a slaughter as his [Archers] and [Mages] were cut down. He looked around.
Fultoolm saw the King of Destruction fighting through his army, circling, joining Orthenon’s assault, hammering Belchan’s army from multiple sides. Flos had fewer numbers, but so many individuals who couldn’t be killed.
Heroes. So many heroes. Legends from the age when the King of Destruction had conquered Chandrar. Fultoolm turned. Retreat. They had to retreat, make a second stand. If—
“There you are.”
The [General] heard a beautiful voice. He turned, and saw a woman with white hair, a tall, lithe form. He stared into her vibrant, glowing eyes that shone like the dawn.
Of course, it was an illusion. It was said that Mars the Illusionist had any number of forms. That her true appearance was wretched—that she wasn’t even Human. She was a tricky opponent, for all she fought from the front. Her illusions could distract, confuse.
But he was glad of it, in this moment. Because she looked the part. A gallant heroine, champion of the King of Destruction. Not even touched by blood.
Mars the Illusionist saluted Fultoolm. His command was slaughtered, his elites dead. The [General] stared at her. Then he raised his sword.
“An honor.”
He charged at her. Mars saw his sword blur. She jerked back. The [Lightning Slash] sent crackling electricity dancing across her chest. She brought her sword up. Fultoolm saw it coming. He didn’t close his eyes.
The [General] toppled, cut from below the right arm across to his left shoulder. And his army cried out as they felt him die. Mars stood over his body and turned. She raised her sword and bellowed a wordless cry of victory. Then she looked down at the [General].
“An honor? You served the wrong ruler.”
She shook her head. Then she sheathed the shining blade and drew the sword made of fire. The King of Destruction’s army poured forwards.
And Belchan’s army began to surrender. [Soldiers] who had seen the [Mages] destroyed, Orthenon pushing in from the rear—the King of Destruction, the Rustängmarder, the half-Giants or Fultoolm’s death—they threw down their weapons and raised their arms.
“Yield! Yield!”
Teres had blood in her mouth. Not her own. She was fighting with a cluster of veterans to the side when she heard the call being carried across the battlefield. The group of Belchan’s elite [Spellswords] who had been holding the line looked up, hesitated, and then threw down their blades.
All across the battlefield, Belchan’s [Soldiers] were surrendering. There were only a few pockets of—no, even the most stubborn of their warriors didn’t have the heart for it. Not in the face of Zamea, or Mars. There was no glory, no pride left to fight that.
Teres only realized she was gulping for air, her heart beating out of her chest, after she lowered her sword. Then she felt her burning arms, the cuts she’d taken, a burn across her chest and chainmail that had fused with her skin.
She didn’t throw up—but only because she’d felt this before. The crash at the end of a battle. Teres looked around, trying to tell what had happened. She had been so caught up in her fighting she hadn’t seen the entire battlefield as others had. She saw the remaining [Mages] on Belchan’s side surrendering as Orthenon wiped his blade. And a woman, kneeling in front of Parasol Stroll as Ulyse, Mirin, and the others surrounded her.
 
——
 
All told nearly half of Belchan’s army survived. Put another way—nearly half of them had been slaughtered. Still, Reim’s forces had gone through Belchan’s so fast that some pockets of the army hadn’t even had time to fight before the battle was decided.
It was a nightmare. No—surreal. Grand Mage Esiela knelt on the dry ground. She was surrounded by Parasol Stroll. She hadn’t even taken any wounds. But she’d seen Fultoolm die. So she had surrendered. She couldn’t even flee; she’d tried to cast [Invisibility] and other movement spells and Parasol Stroll had caught her.
Now, she was afraid. The [Mages] were suppressing her magic. She couldn’t have cast spells if she wanted to. And she saw the King of Destruction standing with his vassals as the rest of the [Soldiers] were disarmed.
Prisoners of war. They hadn’t been executed. But they’d be slaves. Or ransomed at least, by the Slavers of Roshal. Imagine that. Nearly seventy thousand people…
Better than being dead. Grand Mage Esiela was imagining a mage collar around her neck. She wanted to throw up. But only her dignity kept her from doing so. Her students…
“Six [Mages]. More than we thought. Grand Mage, you are powerful.”
The leader of Parasol Stroll leaned on his bright umbrella as he addressed her. Ulyse was a kindly, uncle-ish sort. A mix between the grandfather and uncle, really. But he had battled her with deadly spells, killed dozens of people during the battle.
He was relaxed, afterwards. Just taking his leisure amid the dead. That was the difference between him and her. Esiela shuddered as Ulyse looked at her.
There was a younger woman standing next to him. Ulyse turned to her.
“Mirin, the mage-collars the Slavers of Roshal carry won’t work on someone of Grand Mage Esiela’s caliber. We’ll have to ensure she doesn’t escape.”
“Or offer her a place.”
The other woman’s voice was quiet. Esiela shuddered as the [Mages] of Parasol Stroll all looked at her.
“Offer me…?”
For answer, Ulyse reached out and picked up an umbrella. Covered in blood. He showed it to Esiela.
“This belonged to Vivica. One of the [Mages] you killed. Six of our own are dead. But that is war. So, as is our custom, we offer you a choice. Be bound to our company, with the blood-debt of the defeated and the fallen. Take up a parasol and walk with us. Fight with us. Six dead. So, then—six years. Swear by magical oath and blood. Or become a [Slave]. The choice is yours.”
“If the King of Destruction wants her slain…”
One of the [Mages] murmured. Esiela just stared. This was all too much. Ulyse nodded.
“We need more magic, especially of her power. I will argue if he asks it. Well, Grand Mage Esiela? You do not have long to decide. Ten minutes.”
He nodded. The King of Destruction was pointing. Esiela saw his [Soldiers] were moving. They were…beginning to march?
Yes. Reim’s army was already beginning to move down the pass while some guarded the prisoners. They were moving. Advancing to the capital.
To kill the Prime Minster. And bring everyone there the King of Destruction’s justice. Esiela’s blood chilled. But she was helpless. Even if she fought with tooth and nail—the [Mages] were surrounding her. And she was fairly certain that they could fight hand-to-hand far better than she could.
“Grand Mage?”
Esiela jerked. She looked up at Ulyse. A kindly face and those…calm eyes. She shuddered. After thinking for one second, Esiela croaked.
“My students. My—the teachers. The other [Mages]. Will you…?”
Ulyse nodded.
“We will extend the same offer to the others. As is our custom. Slavery or the possibility of ransom or joining our number.”
“And I would swear…”
“To uphold our purpose. No more. Simply to fight with us to the utmost of your ability, cast spells as commanded. Since you are a defeated [Mage], someone will have to monitor you. Mirin, perhaps. But our oaths are sworn with blood magic and other contracts. They are not forsworn lightly.”
His eyes glinted. Mirin looked at Esiela. The Grand Mage shuddered. No indeed. She knew just how well you could bind someone with magic, especially with their blood if they gave it of their own accord.
Six years. But…she knew Roshal’s [Slavers]. And six years serving as a battle mage compared to what a [Slave] might…? Especially someone as valuable as Esiela.
No, there was no choice. Esiela nodded. She licked her lips and realized they were bloody. She immediately gagged.
“I—I will. Join you.”
Ulyse glanced around. The [Mages] of Parasol Stroll nodded.
“Ah, good. You will be a welcome addition, Grand Mage. Then we will administer the oath. Quickly. We must recover and await his Majesty’s orders. And I imagine, I must explain your presence to him.”
He nodded at the King of Destruction. Esiela froze as Mirin produced a vellum scroll glowing with power.
“Await his…?”
The leader of Parasol Stroll looked at Esiela with a smile. A cold one.
