King Raelt inhaled slowly and spoke.
“To prevent a slaughter. The people of Belchan have done nothing wrong, Your Majesty Reimarch.”
Flos’ eyes narrowed.
“Some of Belchan’s people slaughtered Gnolls for no other reason than that they were Gnolls and mine.”
“Yes. And they are dead. The people of this city are innocent.”
Raelt dared not look away. If he did, or even blinked, he would never be able to meet Flos’ eyes again. The King of Destruction looked past him, at the parliament, tallest of the buildings in the city.
“Bring out their ruler. The [Minister], Lyfelt. He will answer for the pain of my subjects on my blade.”
King Raelt paused. And then he nodded, slowly. He gestured at Geril.
“You will have him.”
Teres exhaled slowly, behind Flos of Reim. She didn’t see the figures perched on the walls. Rémi Canada held the scrying mirror level, like a camera. Noass and Sir Relz leaned forwards with the world. Listening to the enhanced picture and sound.
“One life for hundreds of thousands. He did it.”
Rémi’s assistant, a Garuda, whispered. The young man from Earth looked at her. And he whispered back.
“Stop whispering during the filming. And this isn’t over.”
He was right. Flos Reimarch raised a hand as he stared at the city behind Raelt, eyes burning. He looked back—and his eyes found the white Gnoll standing in the army.
Sailt. The young Gnoll was watching. So were the Gnolls in Rufelt’s bar. Across the world. And the King of Destruction’s burning gaze grew hotter as he met the white Gnoll’s gaze. He turned back.
“Another thing, Raelt. Bring out the members of Belchan’s parliament. The [Politicians]. And the officers. Their Watch Captains. Their leaders.”
Raelt froze. He looked at Flos.
“…What will you do with them?”
“Execute them.”
The King of Destruction’s voice was normal. He gestured at the city.
“Spare the citizens. But bring me every politician, every coward who hides behind paper. Every single one who allowed my people to die because it was convenient. Because they thought they could get away with it. Because it didn’t matter. Belchan’s leadership. [Mages] too, if they did nothing. The leaders of every city who ignored the Saltstone Tribe as they marched past. Bring them to me, or allow my [Soldiers] to find them. They will take no others. Not their family or children. But they will be brought here. And I will see their deaths.”
He looked at Raelt. And the [King] saw the King of Destruction’s expression flicker not one whit. Behind him, his vassals nodded. Teres’ stomach clenched. But she saw Sailt smile. And the Gnolls murmured, here and elsewhere.
Justice.
That is what they heard and saw. But Raelt did not. He looked at Flos Reimarch. And his voice shook as he replied.
“Many of those people have no idea of what Lyfelt ordered, King Reimarch. They would be completely ignorant.”
“Some knew. That is enough. I will not take the thousand lives I vowed. But I will see every single one of this rotting nation’s leadership answer for the crimes done to my people. No less.”
The King of Destruction’s eyes flashed. He spoke with such conviction, such fury.
An honest fury. Raelt felt the same thing beating in his breast. He was almost ashamed to meet the young white Gnoll’s gaze. Ashamed to stand here, arguing, when he had seen what had happened.
But he would have been far more ashamed to have done nothing. He would have not been worthy of the crown he wore, if he had not come. And, it was a partial justice. A flawed one. But the King of Jecrass shook his head.
“No.”
“No?”
Orthenon and Mars twitched. They looked at Raelt. And the [King] looked up. Raelt Leysars looked at the King of Destruction. And he felt the difference between them.
Raelt was a Level 26 [King]. Average. Neither good, nor bad. But low-level. He had not ridden to war. His nation had not suffered disaster and neither had he expanded the borders vastly. He was a good [King]. A decent [King]. If he had ruled like his father, as a good, decent [King], he would have been in his mid-thirties in level when he died.
That was what you expected. Raelt was not the man who had taken a country apart. He was half—less than half of Flos’ level, he knew. He had higher levels in another class besides [King], for goodness’ sake.
He was just a [King] who liked fencing. Who enjoyed throwing rotten fruits at annoying River Wardens. Who hated bells. Who disliked horses, or rather, riding them. He was fine with the stupid animals, but he wasn’t a huge horse-lover. He liked dogs. And he had wept for the Gnolls, who had been slaughtered as neither dogs nor people deserved.
But this was wrong. Raelt shook his head, standing in front of the King of Destruction and his [Steward], and Mars the Illusionist. The half-Giants looked down at him. And his army and the world watched. The [King] met Flos Reimarch’s eyes.
“No, Flos Reimarch. I will give you Lyfelt, to face justice. As he deserves. But no more. You have already drowned Belchan’s soil with the blood of its people. Enough. Or will you declare war on Jecrass, King of Destruction?”
His words provoked silence. Teres, even Orthenon, Mars, Zamea, and the others, were stunned. But the [King] refused to step back. He met Flos’ eyes and the King of Destruction stared at him.
“You are protecting murderers and cowards, Raelt.”
“No. Just silly, foolish people. Thoughtless, but not cruel. And if you slew all of them, the world would be empty.”
Raelt shook his head. He looked at Flos, and he pleaded with the other [King].
“Do what you must. But show mercy.”
“Mercy. And did my people have that when they cried out for it? Was it ever given?”
“No. But if you kill all those you demand, King of Destruction, King of Reim, you will kill guilty people. But innocents too. And if you do—you will be a monster like the very man you have come for.”
Silence. The King of Destruction breathed in and out. And Raelt looked at him and was afraid. But he had tossed his hand in, the same way he always lost games of cards with Lyfelt. But this was not a game of cards, of betting and doing the most valuable thing, like politics. It was just doing what was right.
At last, Flos Reimarch shook his head.
“No. I respect your will, King Raelt. And I would that you had joined me. But it seems you and I are different sorts of [Kings]. Different men. And I will not stop at one man. I could never face my subjects if I were anything less.”
The King of Jecrass nodded heavily.
“And I will not back down. What then?”
“War.”
The King of Destruction said it simply. Raelt bowed his head. After a moment, he raised his head. And he looked around.
The King of Jecrass looked straight into the scrying mirror that Rémi Canada held. And his words were caught and heard by all like this. From the Empress of Sands, to the Drakes in Pallass, to Rufelt’s bar, to Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia, King Perric of Medain, and more. Fetohep of Khelt. The Archmages of Wistram.
“I dislike politics. But hear me, now, King Flos Reimarch. Jecrass is not your enemy, nor that of Reim. But we have claimed Levrhine. And we refuse to allow you to slaughter our citizens. Prime Minister Lyfelt…we give you, for your judgment, and for the crime committed against your people. But no more. Do you declare war, you are forsworn. And every nation shall take arms against you. For what you pursue is not justice, but bloody vengeance. And Jecrass shall not allow it.”
His voice was soft. And he looked at his army, and weighed them against the smaller army led by the King of Destruction. And he saw death. But he did not move or yield the ground.
And the King of Destruction, Flos Reimarch glared at Raelt. Frustrated, furious. And then—suddenly—calm. Terribly so.
“Very well. You have made your case, King Raelt of Jecrass. And we understand your will. Yet for honor, for the pride of my people, for my justice, Reim shall never retreat. Not until justice, as we will it, be done.”
The two [Kings] looked at each other. Raelt felt hair stirring on his neck. A terrible foreboding. Yet, he only waited. The two were bound now, by ancient tradition. By the will of [Kings]. If one had fled now, they would no longer be a [King].
“What then, King Reimarch?”
Flos turned. His eyes burned across the ground. Neither his army nor Jecrass’ could meet his gaze. He nodded.
“To prevent the death of our subjects, to prevent war, we invoke ancient custom. The will of Chandrar’s rulers. So it was in Hellios, when King Treland made war on our subjects. And so it was in days since and past. King Raelt Leysars of Jecrass. I challenge you to a duel. And let the one who yields or perishes be forfeit. Before both armies, we will clash. Do you or your people break the duel, or retreat, you are forsworn.”
Old words. Raelt felt…nothing. He looked at Flos. And then realized what he felt was a crushing weight on his neck. Something heavy, dragging at his chest.
A duel. Ancient custom. He should have expected it. And it fit. Oh—how it did.
Duel. Or be called craven. Duel the King of Destruction. Or let it be war. He looked at Flos Reimarch. And nodded.
“Well done.”
That was all he said. Flos Reimarch looked at him and spoke in a low voice, meant for them alone.
“You forced me into it. Turn back, Raelt of Jecrass. And no one will think the less of you.”
King Raelt of Jecrass looked at Flos Reimarch. The King of Destruction. Raelt had no such title. He was lower in level, in ambition, and he had not seen a tenth of the sights Flos Reimarch had. But…he smiled, slightly.
“It occurs to me you have always made one mistake, Flos Reimarch. You read parts of me so well. But you do not know me.”
The smile caught the King of Destruction off guard.
“Indeed? What do I not know?”
Raelt shrugged. He was shaking. And he looked at the King of Destruction, at the army, and tasted bitter death. But he smiled.
“You assume I could turn back. I could refuse. That I could have not come here, or stood my ground. But you forget one thing.”
“Which is?”
Raelt Leysars spread his arms. He laughed at the King of Destruction, with dark despair, with the pride and the arrogance that had made Jecrass. That burned in his veins.
“I am a [King].”
And the King of Reim looked at him. For a long moment. And then he threw his head back and laughed. The two men howled with laughter. Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction, nodded.
“Well said!”
Then he walked back. And King Raelt knew he was going to duel the King of Destruction. So he stared at the twilight skies. And he wondered what his last words to his daughter should be. He wished…he’d had more time.
But he couldn’t have ever done anything different, really. That gave him some comfort. King Raelt reached for his belt pouch. And a bell rang once.
 
——
 
The sun was setting. Or rather, it had set a while ago, and the last vestiges were disappearing behind the horizon. It wasn’t going to be a duel at sunset with the fading rays of light on each combatant’s back like something out of the stories; they’d probably end up fighting in the darkness anyways.
There was nothing special about the sun’s position, anyways. It was always rising or setting. And if it wasn’t out, you could call a duel under moonlight—with the stars aflame, or not one in the sky—poetic.
You could find meaning in any moment. And the [Poets] and [Bards] would. But they had never fought. And all Raelt found in his heart was a cold certainty.
He was going to try and kill another man. With a sword. Cut him to bits, hack at his flesh until his opponent stopped moving. He’d try to do it more elegantly than that, but there was no grand ambition in his heart.
He just wanted to live. And the [King] was certain…that he would not.
Raelt of Jecrass stood in a ring of his people, in silence, like that of a wake. He was stretching. And yes, a [King] should not ‘limber up’. But he was a poor [King] compared to the giant standing on the other side of the field.
Reim’s army had withdrawn, and the two forces were now standing at a greater remove. Well…a few hundred paces. They’d formed a vast circle, outside the gates of Levrhine. It was here, amid rocky earth and soil, that they’d fight.
Nothing special. Raelt couldn’t help but analyze the terrain for any advantage.
“Pure ground. Could use a [Stone Wall] scroll. Geril—”
His voice was the only sound in his ears in the immediate vicinity. Raelt saw his old retainer and friend start.
“Here, Your Majesty—”
He had a selection of all of Jecrass’ treasures. Scrolls used for battle, rings—every single artifact in the possession of the River Wardens, or General Lael’s officers. Raelt eyed the other scrolls proffered. Some were marked with symbols, for easy use.
Like the Scroll of [Fireball]. He didn’t take that one. Raelt took the [Stone Wall] scroll.
“My thanks.”
“Your Majesty, the other scrolls—”
“No.”
More silence. Raelt was doing practice lunges, and then sideways ones. Well, he knew he looked ridiculous as he leaned from leg to leg, transferring his weight, letting his muscles slowly warm up. But he had to be ready.
“Your Majesty—I have a poison. And—a wand of [Lightning Bolts]. If you have nothing of the like in your armory, I pray you will accept it—”
A voice. River Warden Dulfe looked at Raelt. And the [King] looked at the man’s face. Even now, Dulfe wore the illusion spells that added to his looks. But his face was pale. And he was looking at his [King] with somber…
Respect? If not that, then gravitas. Not like the same man who argued with Raelt. Funny. Raelt yearned to tell the man he would be more respected without such obvious illusions. So he did.
“Warden Dulfe, you are better served without illusions. You are not an ugly man. Nor a handsome one. But a man’s vanity has never changed who he is. I have often thought you would be better loved without such magics.”
The man started. The other River Wardens and officers stared at Raelt. The [King] was so casual, matter-of-fact. Dulfe hesitated, looking around, and then bowed his head.
“Yes, Your Majesty. But—the wand?”
“No. No poison, no wand. This is a duel.”
“But sire—”
“No. What sort of [Kings] would we be if we used them? Look at my opponent.”
Raelt pointed. And those around him looked. They stared across the ground.
And there—there was light. And sound. [Light] spells lit up the dueling ground. And standing amid his subjects, laughing, arming himself for battle like Raelt, was the King of Destruction.
Raelt felt a mild chill as he looked at the other man. As if he was so cold, he couldn’t even feel it. The subjects of the Realm of Jecrass shuddered. Another River Warden spoke up.
