The rapier cut deep, the inside of Flos’ arm. But shallow. And the broadsword—
Raelt flung himself backwards, a second before it ran him through the belly. He saw the shield in Flos’ other hand flicker, his parrying dagger moved. The strike with the edge of the shield towards his neck missed.
The [Duelist]-[King] stepped back, using his mobility to give himself a moment as Flos checked himself. The King of Destruction was wounded twice. Across the shoulder, and his left, sword arm. But neither cut was deep or had scored any critical wound. He was left-handed, which had thrown Raelt off.
The King of Jecrass wasn’t wounded. But his left hand was numb. He’d knocked away the shield coming at his face, but the force behind the blow—
He couldn’t rely on parrying. One good strike would shatter his guard. Maybe even his sword.
A monstrous strength. And Flos was fast. Raelt had been hoping to end the battle in one thrust. A fool’s hope, but when the other [King] hadn’t known how fast he was, he’d had the element of surprise.
Now, the two looked at each other. Flos glanced at his arm, dismissed the blood. He grinned.
“Nearly.”
But not enough. Raelt opened his mouth to reply, as if they were just on the dueling ground. But he couldn’t reply casually. He saw his death reflected in the way Flos shifted his guard, warding his vitals. He wouldn’t let Raelt get in a second shot like that. And the odds of him winning—
As Raelt began to walk left, he realized there was a dull sound at the back of his ears. He was locked on Flos, and the other [King] didn’t seem to hear. But there it was. So loud that Raelt couldn’t tune it out.
Loud…? And then Raelt realized.
It was screaming. Shouting, from hundreds of thousands of voices. His head turned. And he saw the people on the wall of Levrhine. The citizens of Belchan. His army, and beyond them, in the scrying orb, the people of Jecrass. [Fencers] and [Duelists] the world over—everyone else.
Shouting in awe. For there the two [Kings] stood. And the King of Destruction bled onto the ground. The golden bell rang as Raelt turned his head. They were cheering him, Belchan and Jecrass’ citizens. Believing in a miracle for a second. And the King of Destruction laughed.
“Don’t be distracted, King of Jecrass!”
He charged in, shield raised. Raelt jerked, caught off guard. He stepped back, but that was a mistake.
Flos couldn’t catch Raelt’s footwork or [Quick Step]. So he threw his sword. It spun through the air, a scything blade. Impossibly fast. Raelt raised his dagger to parry, remembered—leaned left. The sword flashed past his face. It kept flying, straight at the onlookers. Orthenon leapt forwards and struck it out of the air.
But the King of Destruction was close. And he had a second blade in his hands, already. An axe. The long-handled hatchet swung in a quick cut at Raelt’s unguarded left arm. The [Duelist] twisted again—too close! He tried to jump back—
And realized he was being led. Raelt’s dagger flashed downwards, slashing. He caught the King of Destruction alongside the helm. And the bigger man didn’t even flinch. His hatchet locked with Raelt’s rapier. He was too close to Raelt’s chest—
Flos Reimarch rammed into Raelt’s midsection with his shield. Raelt felt the wind go out of him. He tried to move back, and Flos heaved.
Raelt felt his ribs compress. He moved backwards. Reduce the blow, reduce—
Pain. And then Raelt realized he was flying. The [King] flew through the air as Flos heaved and threw him. Raelt turned, seeing the ground coming his way. His ribs—
He hit the ground like a meteor, trying to absorb some of the impact. Raelt rolled, pushing himself up. He saw his [Soldiers]. Jecrass’ army, staring at their [King].
Flos had thrown him…dead gods. At least thirty feet. He’d just gotten his shield under Raelt and pushed. Only Raelt jumping at the same time had saved him.
As it was—Raelt’s ribs were fractured. He felt them burning, agonizing pain. The [King] fumbled for a healing potion.
“Your Majesty—”
The voice saved him. Raelt saw the spinning axe, dove.
The hatchet flashed past him, and went through two [Soldiers] before the wood and metal buried itself in the earth. The King of Destruction lowered his arm as Raelt dodged away.
“Hm.”
Flos rearmed himself, with a swordbreaker this time, replacing the shield with it, and taking a shortsword in his other hand. The notched dagger was designed to catch an enemy’s guard. Raelt stared at him. At the dead [Soldiers]. He reached for a healing potion.
The King of Destruction had already healed himself. He had taken a sip from a little vial, and the two wounds on his body had closed. Raelt had to down his entire potion as his ribs stung and joined. One of the most expensive potions in Jecrass’ treasury. Shakily, he raised his rapier.
The cheering had stopped. Flos Reimarch casually advanced as Raelt tried to think. But his head was empty. He had to…
“Orthenon, ward both sides. Mars, Ulyse.”
“Your Majesty.”
The [Steward] bowed as Flos turned his head casually. The King of Destruction eyed Raelt. He rolled his neck.
“Well, Raelt? Shall we begin?”
The [Duelist] looked at the King of Destruction. And he raised his rapier and leapt forwards.
 
——
 
The two [Kings] fought in the growing darkness. Amid the glowing [Light] spells, surrounded by two armies, in front of the gates of a city. Like something out of the story books.
But so long as Jecaina lived, she would never read those books the same way. Because she watched the same legend she dreamed of meeting. And he was killing her father.
Jecaina was a [Duelist]. But she owned a silver bell. She had not known what it meant. But the golden bell—which only a Level 30 [Duelist] could even possess—that belonged to her father. She hadn’t even known that. She’d always thought he never had a bell, since he hated them.
Now, the [King] of Jecrass fought for his life. And he showed everyone, his subjects, the River Wardens, the world, and Jecaina that he had earned that bell.
His feet flashed as he turned, maneuvering. Each time Raelt stepped he was a blur, never stopping, moving, repositioning, refusing to slow. If he did he’d be caught. His rapier darted, seldom thrusting, slashing, using the tip to reach and cut his opponent. His dagger stayed close to his chest, ready to deflect deadly thrusts.
The King of Destruction was laughing. His blades cut the air, slower, but only just. He didn’t have Raelt’s speed, or reach, but his strength—
He threw a javelin, dropping his sword, and pulled out another broadsword. He threw that too, and the spinning blades shot through the air. They could sunder steel and flesh with the sheer force of the throw. Raelt dodged left and Flos leapt into the opening he’d created, already armed with another blade.
The flying weapons were blocked by Mars and Ulyse’s spell. The air shimmered as Flos’ vassals shielded the audience. Raelt dodged backwards, but he couldn’t run forever. This time, as he stepped back, Flos Reimarch pointed.
“Come, King of Jecrass!”
The javelin he’d thrown arced back towards his hand. The [Duelist] whirled and leaned. The tip of the Returning Javelin opened the top of his shoulder. Flos threw the magic javelin again, and then rushed forwards.
A single thrust, like silver. The rapier tore open the King of Destruction’s chest on the right side, going through the enchanted armor. A powerful thrust—but it had missed again. Flos had tried to capture it with his swordbreaker. And in his hand he held another sword—
He cut, the sword going high, the swordbreaker going low, aiming at the other [King]’s side. And Raelt deflected the blade aimed at his face with his dagger.
The swordbreaker caught him on the ribs as he twisted away. It didn’t matter that he’d been hit with the flat of the blade. Flos just grazed him and Raelt’s ribs broke.
Jecaina made a sound as her father tried to retreat. But the King of Destruction just switched weapons and threw another blade. There was nowhere for Raelt to run.
“Surrender, King of Jecrass. This is your final chance.”
Flos called out. He had taken several deep cuts from Raelt’s rapier. But he’d protected his eyes and vital spots. Now, he drank from a potion and his wounds healed.
Raelt’s ribs were broken again. He had to drink another of his potions down. He looked up. Flos looked at him.
“I will not offer it again. I cannot.”
He had the [Duelist]’s measure. The King of Destruction changed his weapons again. The shield, and the magic javelin. He looked at Raelt. The [Duelist] coughed.
“I gave you my answer once.”
“Indeed.”
The two paused. And then they fought. Raelt dove as the javelin flew. He reached for the scroll.
“[Wall of Stone]!”
A vast wall of rock rose from the ground. Flos narrowed his eyes as the [Duelist]-[King] disappeared. He turned, warily walking around the wall. Shield raised—
Raelt leapt onto the top of the eight-foot wall. Flos Reimarch looked up, and the [Duelist] bellowed.
“King of Destruction!”
He lunged. A [Fencer’s Lunge], carrying him down. He landed, scoring a slash down Flos’ arm. The King of Destruction cursed, pivoting—
His back was against the wall. The [Wall of Stone] boxed Flos in as Raelt turned. All of his Skills. He had to use all the ones he had.
“[Flurry Blades].”
His rapier blurred, slashing faster than the eye could follow, aiming for Flos’ face, his chest—
The King of Reim snarled as his shield rose. He blocked his face—his chest and armor tore as the piercing rapier cut at his chest, his arms, legs. Deep cuts! His blood ran onto the ground, but his sword arm shielded himself. And the Skill—
[Evasive Leap]. Raelt dodged backwards, just in time. The sword which cleaved the air would have torn the rapier from his hand. He settled his posture as the King of Destruction lowered his shield.
He couldn’t reach for a potion or he’d heal. If he switched weapons—Raelt had to end this.
“[Wind Cutter].”
A flick of the rapier. The air rippled. Flos saw a blade of air flying at his face. Reflexively, he raised his shield.
Now. Raelt lunged. For Flos’ heart. He saw the world blur as he leapt. And the King of Destruction threw himself sideways.
The blade hit him in the side. It went through Flos’ side, tore as the [King] fell sideways. Cut through flesh, organs. But missed the heart. Raelt turned, cursing.
“[Double Slash—]”
His blade cut Flos as he rolled. This time, deep, deep along the back, severing some muscle. Flos Reimarch was on the ground. He had to get up, but Raelt was there.
A flash of metal. He was throwing his sword. Raelt jerked back. But the blade curved—magic—
The impact as Raelt raised his parrying dagger and rapier broke something. Snapped a tendon—Raelt lost grip of both rapier and dagger as they twisted, tearing the skin from his hands. He stumbled backwards.
His sword. He looked for it. The King of Destruction was rising. Raelt saw it lying in the dust. Now, now, now! He ran for it.
Nine feet separated the two. Flos’ teeth were bared, he was still off guard.
Now. Raelt snatched up his sword as he lunged, rolled. He aimed the sword like an arrow. And used his last Skill.
“[Sword Art: Hurricane’s Spiral].”
He vanished. Flos’ eyes widened as he saw, in those infinitesimal moments between seconds, a silver blur flying at his chest. A spiral, a single leaping thrust as the blade traced a pattern in the air. The destination unknown to anyone but Raelt.
Fragments of time measured by flashes. The King of Destruction raised his shield, protecting his face. And his sword arm rose, empty.
But Raelt was aiming at his heart. The [Duelist]’s sword struck, going through armor, through flesh and bone. Raelt felt the impact, felt his sword go through the King of Destruction—
And he saw Flos stagger. The King of Destruction stared at the blade running through his chest. But off target. He’d twisted. The blade had missed his heart, going wide. But if Raelt twitched his hand—
He tried. Raelt’s hand moved. But the rapier held still. Flos’ chest constricted around the magical blade, but it was enchanted. If it moved two inches left—
But the blade didn’t move. Raelt didn’t understand. He heaved. But the blade—didn’t—
And then he felt it. Something so absolute that his hand couldn’t budge an inch. A crushing strength. He looked down and saw.
Flos’ sword-hand held Raelt’s wrist. The King of Destruction had seized the hand after it had struck. And he would not let Raelt finish the blow or move.
Raelt let go of his rapier. He had to—he pulled back, but Flos’ arm held him. The King of Destruction dropped his shield. He was bleeding. Covered in blood. But he spoke as he reached for something.
“I caught you at last.”
Slowly, he raised his hand. And drank the healing potion. Raelt saw his injuries beginning to heal.
The King of Jecrass desperately struck at the rapier still embedded in Flos’ chest. But the King of Destruction moved. He grabbed Raelt, and threw him—
Raelt hit the wall of stone. He felt something explode. The impact sent him down, but he was getting up. And he was free—
The King of Destruction pulled the sword out of his chest as his wounds healed. He tossed the rapier to the ground and Raelt saw him move. Raelt tried to dodge, but his legs slipped. Something was wrong—he needed his sword—
Flos Reimarch grabbed Raelt as the [Duelist] slipped. Raelt’s body wasn’t working right. He punched the King of Destruction in the face. And Flos seized Raelt’s armor and ran with him into the wall of stone.
Jecaina saw the wall of stone crack. Then, both [Kings] crashed through it. Raelt lay on the ground as the King of Destruction hurled him through the wall. The King of Jecrass wasn’t moving. He twitched as Flos casually coughed and checked the wound on his chest. Flos took another drink of a healing potion.
Raelt reached for his. He broke the glass vials on his chest as many as he could grab. His bones—he rolled away as Flos charged at him. The King of Destruction grabbed him. Threw him again.
Flashes of light. Raelt hit the broken [Wall of Stone] again. He couldn’t move for a crucial second. His body was breaking, healing—he saw Flos running at him. A fist—
Raelt raised his hands. The impact pushed him through the wall. He lay on the ground.
Get up. He had to get up or he’d die. The [Duelist] rolled. He saw a blade miss his head. Flos Reimarch had grabbed a weapon. Raelt got to his feet. He saw his rapier. He dove for it.
The King of Destruction slashed, and missed. He watched as Raelt grabbed the blade. The [Duelist] rose.
Out of potions. Something was still broken. He was coughing up blood. A lung? He looked at the King of Destruction.
