“No. The test is that they don’t ring if they’re worn by an expert. A proper [Fencer] wearing the bell makes no sound. If the bell rings—it’s unnecessary movement. At most, it rings once or twice in a duel. Experts count how many times it rings in a bout. It’s meant to showcase your abilities by never being seen, Jecaina. Unless you look for it. That’s a [Fencer]’s pride.”
For a while his daughter just stared at Raelt, open-mouthed. And then she turned bright crimson. She hung her head, and Raelt regretted his outburst. But he rode on.
Lyfelt, old friend. His heart ached for the foolish, arrogant [Prime Minister]. But despite it all…Lyfelt had not been a bad man. But Raelt was not coming for him. He was riding to do what was right. Nothing more, nothing less.
 
——
 
“The King of Destruction is approaching Levrhine.”
That was all you needed to say. Flos Reimarch rode at the head of his army. They were tired, but not by much. Stamina potions, Skills—and their fury—kept them moving.
Gnolls marched with the army too. One had white fur. The others carried bows, hunting javelins. Many had gone south, civilians. But these marched behind their [King].
For vengeance. To answer a [King]’s fury. For a child, for a people killed far from home.
The pounding feet and hooves were like thunder. Teres was afraid. Flos had marched to battle in fury, laying waste to each army. But with each passing mile, the dark energy coming off him grew deeper.
He was not coming to Levrhine for battle. But his justice. And he had sworn to kill a man.
Prime Minister Lyfelt of Belchan. Not just him. A thousand of Belchan’s citizens for every Gnoll that had been slaughtered. And Teres…feared he would carry out his threat.
She still remembered the dead Gnolls. That—could not be forgiven. This Lyfelt was to blame. But the others? People who had no idea, who were just Belchan’s citizens?
No. She was resolved to stop it. Somehow, even if she had to put herself in front of Flos. That was Teres’ resolve. She just hoped she could do it.
She wished Trey were here. But he was marching north with the rest of the King of Destruction’s armies, and Gazi. The Quarass had declined to do battle.
This was how they rode. In fury and retribution and bloody vengeance. In silence. And racing ahead of the vanguard and marching [Soldiers] was the [Steward].
Orthenon spotted the capital city of Levrhine first. He put up his hand and his [Riders] slowed. Orthenon had only six thousand of his cavalry with him. He wasn’t about to start the siege—just prevent the Prime Minister from fleeing. But what he saw made him stare.
An army occupied Levrhine. A massive one was encircling the city. The gates were open and horses were pouring into the city. A winding column was joining the rest of the army.
“Another army? Reinforcements?”
A worried voice from one of the officers. Orthenon wondered the same thing. His eyes narrowed and then he spotted the banners. A horse on fields of gold.
Jecrass’ banners. The [Steward] cursed. He kicked his mount forwards.
“With me!”
The arrival of the King of Destruction’s steward provoked a ripple in the army. He was outnumbered six-to-one. But the entire army pivoted towards him—until a command rippled through their ranks. A man on horseback rode out of the gates. Then he dismounted—he’d had enough of horses.
General Lael and the River Wardens and an army of elite [Trick Riders] and [Lancers] surrounded the man. But the [King] of Jecrass didn’t step back as Orthenon rode down on him. The [Steward] stopped abruptly.
And he looked down on King Raelt.
“What is the meaning of this, King Raelt of Jecrass? His Majesty marches on Levrhine. Why is Jecrass’ army here?”
His voice was flat. And Jecaina, being restrained by Geril, shuddered. In awe and trepidation. Danger hung from the Left Hand of Destruction. The [Ruinbringer Steward]. A man who had slain monarchs, nearly as many as his [King].
She looked at her father. And he seemed small, compared to the tall, dark figure. But Raelt Leysars of Jecrass only nodded to Orthenon. And the circlet on his head flashed as he spoke.
“I’ve subjugated this area. Pull back your men, King’s Steward. These lands are now formally part of the Realm of Jecrass.”
Orthenon stared at Raelt. Incredulously. He looked past Raelt, at the capital city.
There was no smoke. No sign of damage at the gates. Nor had Jecaina seen so much as a bared blade. The people of Belchan had thrown open their doors and let the army in. They’d taken the palace in moments.
Just in time too. Orthenon had been only minutes behind. Raelt met the [Steward]’s burning gaze.
“Jecrass declared war on Belchan. The Realm of Jecrass was unable to let the slaughter of innocent citizens pass—”
He broke off as Orthenon leaned over the saddle. The [Steward]’s gaze fixed on Raelt’s face.
“The King of Destruction demands justice. This trick will not protect the Prime Minister. Or Belchan.”
Pressure. Like a [King]’s aura. Raelt saw the people behind him stagger. He locked his legs and replied in a level tone.
“I have claimed this city. Justice will be done. If the King of Destruction would like to witness it, he may come himself.”
Orthenon locked eyes with Raelt. The two didn’t blink. Abruptly, Orthenon sat back upright. He waved his hand in a circle—the [Riders] behind him moved.
Everyone around Raelt tensed, and the [King] felt a leap in his chest. But the riders were just turning around. Orthenon looked down at Raelt. His voice was cold.
“His Majesty is on his way. He will decide what occurs next. That is my warning to you, King Raelt of Jecrass.”
Then he bowed slightly, a courtier’s bow to a [King]. And he was gone. Raelt waited until he was a hundred meters away, already accelerating faster and faster—and then he sagged.
It had begun. There was a babble of voices after Orthenon was gone. People talking to him, demanding—asking—
Afraid. Raelt saw it on their faces. It was in him too, a terrified, clawing thing. But he mastered it. He couldn’t hear the others as he turned.
“Keep a watch out for him. The [Steward]. And the [King]. The other one, I mean. Geril. Where’s Geril?”
The [Retainer] looked at Raelt. The [King] paused. His daughter was staring at him with wide eyes.
“Jecaina, you will remain with the army.”
“—”
“No buts! You will stay with a guard of [Trick Riders]—”
The famously mobile elites of Jecrass, well, one branch.
“—and stay safe! Do you understand? No arguments this time, Jecaina!”
Only after Raelt saw his daughter nodding did he realize that she hadn’t responded. The [King] caught himself. He looked around.
Everyone was looking at him. Morale. They were terrified. And why not? Their [King] had barely been able to deal with the [Steward]. Raelt was underlevelled. Why not be afraid? Even with an army larger than the King of Destruction’s. Raelt breathed in and out.
“I must speak to Lyfelt. Watch the gates. General Lael—deploy the army.”
“For what, Your Majesty?”
Raelt looked at her.
“For a battle. An army is approaching.”
Her face went as white as the other’s. Raelt just shook his head. It was common sense.
But it couldn’t come to that. He knew. So, slowly, the King of Jecrass ascended the steps to the parliament where the Republic of Belchan was ruled.
Lyfelt was there. He had been hiding in his home, but the parliament building had safe-rooms. He had holed up in them from the mob, and then the army had forced the safe rooms open.
Another flaw. Raelt was led by some of his [Soldiers] and the terrified [Politicians] and leaders of Belchan to the vault. What was the point of a vault you could open from the outside? His [Soldiers] had forced the safe word and key out of the caretakers in moments.
Prime Minister Lyfelt’s family had been taken to safety. But the man, a handsome, charismatic leader, waited inside.
He looked…smaller. Raelt had been to Belchan a few times, but they often communicated via the magic statue. Raelt forgot that Lyfelt was shorter than he was.
A good looking man, the kind you could vote for. Believe in. But just a man. Not a [King]. Raelt knew the look of a [King]. And that was of someone who could never walk away from his duties until the end. Who wore them for life. A heavy thing, a crown. Flos Reimarch, for all he was so different, had that look.
Lyfelt looked up as Raelt came in. He started, afraid, as if he had expected…but he tried to smile.
“Raelt. My friend.”
The [King] heard him distantly. He looked down at Lyfelt. Then, abruptly, he sat in the safe room. It had enough food to last Lyfelt a long time. Artifacts to dispose of waste…Lyfelt could have lived a long while. Assuming the King of Destruction couldn’t crack the safe with his bare hands, or order his vassals to destroy the entire building.
“Raelt, I can’t tell you how grateful I am. And it—it’s brilliant. I will repay you, I promise.”
The [King] said nothing. He felt his armor bending as he let his shoulder slump, alone with Lyfelt for a moment. Felt the rapier and dagger at his side. The Prime Minster waited, went on, his voice quavering.
“Politically—it works. Belchan’s capital is yours. The King of Destruction has no cause to attack Jecrass. He would be making a mistake. If—the other nations could back your claim. I’m sure they would, but to be safe—”
Raelt looked at him. And he said nothing. His mouth felt closed, sealed by something stronger than magic. Lyfelt hesitated.
“He could force the issue. But—Raelt. I am eternally grateful. I didn’t know what to think when Jecrass invaded. Let me help. I can at least try—”
“I have one plan.”
Raelt spoke, though it felt like it took all of his strength to do so. The [King] looked at his friend.
“My plan is this: take Levrhine first. Claim it, before it is destroyed and the people slaughtered for your mistakes.”
His words were blunt. Lyfelt paled. But then he nodded.
“I don’t deserve your mercy. But you are saving lives. It’s…heroic. What will you say to the King of Destruction when he arrives, Raelt? Do you have a plan?”
“No.”
“Then what do you intend to do? Fight?”
“Fight?”
Raelt just looked at Lyfelt. The word sounded as ludicrous out loud as it had in Raelt’s head. Fight that? The Prime Minister hesitated.
“Then what? If he demands…”
The coldest words Raelt had ever uttered came out of his mouth. But he never looked away.
“I have taken Levrhine. But I do not intend to do battle with Flos Reimarch. I intend to give him what he wants.”
He waited. Lyfelt stared at him. What little blood remained drained from his face. He opened and closed his mouth.
“Raelt? You can’t be—you know—how—Raelt?”
He stammered, at a loss for the words for only the second time Raelt had known him. The [King] said nothing more.
Lyfelt scrambled over to him on the bench.
“Raelt. You can’t do this. He’ll kill me. Torture me! He said—I did not know. I swear to you, Raelt! Please! Think of our friendship. Please—”
The [King] heard nothing more. He sat there, and he watched Lyfelt’s lips moving, as the man pleaded, begged, raged. But Raelt could hear nothing. He just sat.
And Lyfelt eventually stopped. He looked at Raelt, staggered onto the bench. And he began to weep.
A [King] should not cry. But he was no [King]. Raelt sat there with his friend for a while. Hearing nothing over the ringing in his ears.
In time, there were running footsteps, sounds which interrupted the deafening, damning silence. Raelt looked up. He heard a panicked voice.
“Send for General Lael! The King of Destruction is leading an army towards the capital gates! His Majesty—”
“I’ll go myself.”
Raelt slowly walked out of the safe room. The [Messenger] stared at him. Raelt descended the steps, the flurry of people and voices silent and invisible to him.
The King of Destruction was waiting.
 
——
 
“What is this?”
Flos Reimarch’s voice was very quiet as he stared at the army assembled in front of Levrhine. Jecrass’ army was large. But they shifted, like a breeze before his very gaze.
Teres was there. Zamea, crouching. Mars, Ulyse, Jelaim, Ytol, Chieftain Nelrra—Flos’ vassals. The [Steward] addressed his lord, his voice soft.
“They went in through open gates, Your Majesty. No one so much as shot a bow at them.”
Jecrass’ army had stormed through the capital and occupied it in the hour before Flos’ army could get there. Now, they stood in front of it. Barring the way.
The King of Destruction looked at the city, and the army. He was quiet. Still. As contained as he had been the night the Gnolls had been found.
“I see. Then come with me. We will see what King Raelt has to say.”
He motioned. Teres saw his vassals hesitate.
“Which of us, Your Majesty?”
The King of Destruction turned. And his eyes gleamed in the fading light, like burning embers.
“Everyone.”
The army of Jecrass faltered as Reim’s forces advanced. The mounted horses were at a disadvantage in close quarters. But they had not been given the order to attack. Who would order that? So it was stay—or retreat.
“Where is King Raelt of Jecrass?”
Flos Reimarch spoke as he rode up towards the other army. They looked up at him and both animals and people quailed. The female [General] flinched as she met the King of Destruction’s gaze. Teres thought she recognized a young woman far in the back of the army, mounted like most of them.
But then there was King Raelt. Teres had only seen him from afar. And she was surprised.
He was a tall man. Not exactly as serious-looking as Orthenon, but attractive. Limber, wearing leather armor and a rapier. He looked…normal. Not exactly like a [King]—or rather, Flos. The only [King] besides Fetohep that Teres had ever met.
He was on foot. Flos looked down at Raelt as he approached with an old man in armor. The King of Destruction squinted. And then he slowly dismounted.
Mars and Orthenon walked forwards with him, as they had again. But this time the air hurt. King Raelt paused as he looked at the King of Destruction. He could feel his anger.
The conversation between the two men was simple. The two [Kings] looked at each other.
“King Reimarch.”
“King Raelt of Jecrass. Why is your army here?”
“Jecrass declared war on Belchan.”
“Why?”
“Because we witnessed the atrocity. Jecrass could not stand by. Nor could I.”
Flos paused. His eyes flicked to the city.
“Yet you conquered Levrhine without a battle.”
“The people thought it safer to surrender to Jecrass than Reim. I have no idea why.”
Mars smiled. But it was a smile with a glint in her eyes. Flos just looked at Raelt.
“I am not in the mood for games or jokes, Raelt. I considered you a sensible ruler, a good man. Why are you blocking my armies?”
