Neither man said a word. No quarter, no mercy. Raelt was out of Skills. Flos Reimarch slowly advanced. The [Duelist] sighed. He lifted his blade and advanced.
 
——
 
The golden bell rang. Jecaina watched her father fighting. He had no tricks left. He wasn’t even able to keep his distance. He just cut, aiming at Flos’ face as the King of Destruction slowly wore him down. Another blow—Raelt went stumbling backwards.
“No.”
The [Princess] of Jecrass breathed. She saw her father stumbling, falling to one knee. He’d broken something. He kept spitting blood. Flos of Reim advanced, cautiously. Unwilling to give Raelt another opening.
“He can’t die.”
Jecaina whispered. She looked around. But both armies were silent. Watching the end.
“His Majesty—”
Geril was trembling. Jecaina saw him looking at her father. Then at her.
“Milady. You can’t—”
He seized her. Jecaina didn’t know why. Then she realized.
She’d drawn her sword. She was fighting Geril.
“Let me go. I have to save him.”
“No, milady. Your Highness. The honor of Jecrass is at stake! You cannot!”
Jecaina didn’t want to hear. But the other [Soldiers], General Lael saw. They grabbed the [Princess], held her back.
“No, no. Let me go! I command you!”
She didn’t care about the honor of the duel. She just wanted her father to live. He was stumbling backwards again. The King of Destruction wasn’t even wounded. Wasn’t even tired. Jecaina pleaded.
“You have to do something. Please—”
She looked at General Lael. And then at Geril. The old man gazed at her. He looked at Raelt.
The King of Jecrass was going to die. He would not yield. And nor would Flos Reimarch give him any mercy. Not in this duel. Not with both nation’s honor on the line. There was only one way.
If someone disgraced their honor. Geril studied the hauberk he wore. His old hands gripped the spear he carried. He looked up.
“Milady, Jecaina, stay where you are.”
He turned. And he smiled as Jecaina looked at him. The old and faithful servant, friend, and second father to Raelt and his daughter hefted his spear. He tensed, and Jecaina hoped. Geril opened his mouth.
“His Maj—”
And stopped. A shadow fell over him. And Jecaina saw her last hope die. Cut, by the watcher.
A dark gaze. A sword, aimed at Geril’s throat. The King of Destruction’s faithful servant stood there.
Orthenon. The Left Hand of Destruction. He held his sword at Geril’s throat and looked at General Lael, the other officers. Jecaina.
“The duel will not be interrupted.”
The officers of Jecrass’ army, the [Princess], and Geril all stood still. Overwhelmed by the [Steward]. And the River Wardens stared at Orthenon from afar.
There were no miracles here.
 
——
 
Raelt fell to one knee. He was tired. So tired. His arms burned and his muscles were torn. He was bleeding. And he saw his death walking towards him.
Cautiously. Raelt had been given two chances. But the King of Destruction had seen both of them. Raelt had hurt him.
But the King of Destruction bore no wounds now. In the end, one was a [Duelist] and a [King]. An average [King]. Good at fencing. Worthy of his golden bell. But the other was the King of Destruction.
Time. Raelt stood up. Flos of Reim held a sword and shield in hand. He waited. He had seen men die before, and his guard was up.
Raelt would not die on his knees. He looked at Flos of Reim. He was out of Skills. Out of magical items. He’d lost his dagger, and there were no more potions.
“But skill. The blade lives. It is more than class. More than a Skill.”
The [King] mumbled. He looked at the King of Destruction. And he lunged.
A perfect step. Raelt slashed, thrust—Flos of Reim grunted as the blade cut across his shin, stabbed through his ruined armor along the shoulder blade. He slashed, and Raelt stepped left, dodging the blade.
He cut along the King of Destruction’s neck, but too shallow. Raelt stepped back as Flos knocked him back. Onto his back.
Raelt stared up at the sky. He saw a figure move, heard a cry. He looked up—
The sword tip hit the earth as Raelt turned his head. Flos blocked the return strike. He calmly stepped on Raelt’s right leg and snapped it. The [Duelist] made no sound. He braced as Flos Reimarch took aim again—
And jumped. His sword went under the shield. Through the King of Destruction’s belly. A second time Flos’ eyes widened. But again, he grabbed Raelt’s hand. This time he held the sword in his other hand. Raelt looked up at the blade as the King of Destruction lifted it.
“Protect His Majesty!”
A voice bellowed behind Flos. A bolt of lightning flashed. Flos and Raelt turned. The lightning exploded in midair as Ulyse raised his staff. There was a cry.
Someone had cast a spell. Someone had broken the truce. Abandoned honor. Jecaina stared, but it was not Geril. Not her. Nor General Lael. Orthenon’s head turned. And Raelt saw the man who had abandoned his honor in the eyes of the world. And also found it.
Warden Dulfe. The River Warden sat on his horse, aiming his wand at Flos. With his other hand he drew his sword. He pointed straight at the King of Destruction.
“Rally to His Majesty! Charge!”
He kicked his mount forwards. And his personal [Soldiers] charged. For a moment, Raelt and Flos stared.
No one had expected it. Not from the River Wardens. Not even Orthenon. Dulfe charged, breaking the circle of the duel. Flos Reimarch turned, dropping Raelt to bring his shield up.
The River Warden struck at the King of Destruction as he galloped forwards. His [Soldiers] raced at Raelt. Flos blocked the blow. Dulfe reeled backwards. And he looked at Raelt.
“Your Majesty—”
Something flashed. The man’s head toppled from his shoulders. Orthenon appeared, shaking with fury. Raelt saw Flos turning, saw Orthenon pivoting.
Hands grabbed him. Dulfe’s [Riders] dragged Raelt off the ground, never stopping their breakneck gallop. The [King] felt his broken bones screaming but they were grabbing potions.
And both armies erupted into chaos. The army of Reim howled and charged, and Jecrass’ forces rode forwards.
Defending their [King].
“Cowards! Craven oathbreakers!”
Zamea roared as her axe swung. Jecrass’ riders split around her. And it was true. The duel had been violated, the rules broken. Raelt had been saved by one of his subjects.
But Jecrass’ army burned. They rallied around their [King], who had dueled the King of Destruction. Craven? Cowardly? River Warden Dulfe had not thought so.
Nor anyone else in Jecrass.
“What…what?”
Raelt blinked as horses thundered around him. Flos Reimarch was bellowing orders as his vassals closed around him, cutting down Jecrass’ [Soldiers] left and right. He saw his daughter, Geril, General Lael bellowing orders.
“Your Majesty! We must get you to safety! We can only hold the King of Destruction off for minutes!”
The [Riders] were pouring potions on Raelt, babbling at him. They were forming a shield as the half-Giants strode towards them, axes swinging, huge faces furious. Raelt looked around.
A battle. And he was alive. He had lost the duel. But he had lived. Dulfe had died for him. Raelt stared upwards.
And he realized he was grateful. He had lost. But he wanted to live.
“Get His Majesty on horseback and out of here! Block Reim’s army—”
Geril was shouting. Raelt pulled himself up.
“No.”
He stood. His subjects stared at him. The [King] looked around. And he was a [King] once more. Not a [Duelist], a man condemned to death. He looked around and saw Reim’s forces tearing apart Jecrass’ army. Zamea’s axe shone with blood. The [Mages] of Parasol Stroll were creating a magical shield as Mars and Orthenon rampaged. And the King of Destruction was pointing at Raelt, his eyes burning with fury.
“Jecrass is at war with Reim. Split the cavalry. Let the infantry stop the Rustängmarder and foot. Don’t engage the half-Giants or Mars! Maneuver! Hit and away! Don’t get near the [Steward] or Mars! Move!”
Raelt looked around for his horse. He mounted up, swaying. He was healing, but—the world was flashing. But he had to command. They couldn’t run. They’d all die.
Levrhine would be destroyed if they retreated. So they had to…
Win? Yes! Raelt couldn’t imagine it. But his people were dying. By the hundreds, each second. They had to win. This wasn’t his life, but theirs.
“To me! Rally on me!”
The [King] bellowed. He thrust his rapier into the air. And the army of Jecrass looked up. They saw their [King] charge his horse forwards.
Straight at the King of Destruction. And the army followed. The cavalry of Jecrass thundered after Raelt.
“King of Jecrass.”
Flos was on the ground, surrounded by the Rustängmarder. Raelt plunged towards him. His rapier speared one of the Rustängmarder through the throat. Then he saw the King of Reim, waiting for him as he carved one of Jecrass’ daughters from her saddle.
How dishonorable. The King of Destruction raged at Raelt without words. And Raelt agreed. But—his rapier darted at Flos’ chest, was knocked away.
I want to live. And for my people—Flos struck a blow as Raelt thundered past him. The [King] blocked, but the impact sent him reeling back on the saddle. His [Soldiers] surrounded him, shielding him as Raelt sagged, holding onto the saddle horn.
Flashes. The King of Destruction roared as he cut down the [Riders]. His Rustängmarder held, but Jecrass’ army kept fighting. Raelt sagged, knocked senseless by the blow.
The world went dark. Raelt heard a voice. Like his own, but vaster. Speaking into his head.
[Duelist Level 35!]
[Skill Change – Quick Step → Flash Step!]
 
[King Level 28!]
[Skill—
“—eward! On the left!”
Raelt opened his eyes. He saw Orthenon cutting through his riders. Flawlessly, his blade severing metal and body with ease. He was staring at Raelt, his expression twisted with fury.
“[Flurry Blades].”
Raelt whispered. His rapier blurred as the two shot towards each other. Orthenon’s spear flashed, blocking the volley of thrusts and cuts. He leaned over, slashed.
Flos Reimarch saw two of Raelt’s [Soldiers] block the slash along with their [King]. The [Soldiers] died. Raelt took a mortal wound along his side. But for healing potions, he would have died. He clung to his saddle as Orthenon turned, but the [Steward] was under attack from all sides.
Jecrass’ army surged around Reim’s. They had broken up their formation, attacking and moving. The [Riders] dodged away from Mars as she swung a blade that sliced the air with slashes of light that stayed and severed anything they touched, refusing to fight her.
But they couldn’t perfectly avoid Zamea, or Parasol Stroll. The half-Giant cut through a group of [Riders]. The [Mages] were blasting Jecrass’ warriors apart. And the Serpent Hunters were covering them. They were armed with bows, blowpipes—and their blades made anything they cut or struck die within seconds. Horses, people—
A slaughter, an echo of the battle with Belchan’s army. Raelt reeled as he drank a healing potion. He had to stay upright. Had to—
“There you are.”
Zamea spoke. Raelt saw the huge half-Giant bring her axe up. He saw it coming down. And jumped.
The axe missed him. It split the earth. Raelt saw it bury itself in the hard ground, saw Zamea wrench. And he moved.
“[Flash Step].”
He blurred. And the King of Jecrass raced up the haft of the axe. First Shepherd Zamea saw the Human coming. She tried to let go, but too late.
Raelt raced up her arm, dodging her swatting hand. He saw her face turning, and he lunged.
His sword ran through Zamea’s cheek. Raelt heaved, and cut into the half-Giant’s cheek. She howled and tore at her face. He dodged backwards, saw the hand coming.
And jumped.
Raelt fell to earth. Thirty feet. He hit the ground poorly.
 
[King Level 28!]
[Skill – Aura of the Lion obtained!]
 
[King Level 2—
 
Up. Raelt saw his [Riders] surrounding him. Zamea raged, striking at them with her bare hands. But the sons and daughters of Jecrass refused to give way. They blocked her crushing blows.
Flos Reimarch saw Raelt grabbing another horse. The King of Jecrass raised his blade.
“To me!”
The King of Destruction felt a chill. He watched Raelt plunging forwards again. But Jecrass’ [King] was marked. And this time it was Mars who found him.
Her hair was like fire this time, and her dark skin and eyes burned. Mars the Illusionist, in her fury, had changed her weapon and armor. She wielded the sword made of fire, but her armor now left afterimages as she raced across the battlefield. As fast as the horses. And her blade set them to flame, throwing riders.
“Raelt!”
Mars the Illusionist surged at him, ignoring the other [Soldiers] trying to slow her. The King of Jecrass twisted. Flos saw him duck one flaming blow, and then the second set him and his horse on fire.
Both screamed. But Raelt kept riding, striking at Mars with his rapier. He ripped another potion from a [Soldier]’s hands and drank it, tossing the rest on his mount. It was only fire. The burns healed as Mars switched blades.
That sword made of pale metal. It cut straight through a River Warden. Mars ran at Raelt. And half a dozen [Trick Riders] crashed into her.
“Now!”
Ropes flew from their saddles. They snagged Mars and began dragging her across the ground. The [Vanguard] twisted. She slashed the ropes in half, but she’d lost Raelt. And he was still charging.
“Enough of this. Orthenon, to me. We’ll break this army in half. Commander Ytol, form up a charge!”
Flos snapped. The [Death Commander] and the Rustängmarder formed the head of the vanguard. Raelt saw them as he shouted, rallying a tide of riders at his back.
The King of Destruction. Four half-Giants. Orthenon and the vanguard of both riders and infantry.
Death. Jecrass’ army faltered. Thousands of their forces lay dead already. And Mars the Illusionist joined the spear led by the King of Destruction. The army of Reim howled as they charged.
“Morale.”
Raelt whispered. They had to stand. They had to fight. Even if three of Jecrass’ died for one of Reim’s. Six. Ten.
He was at the head of his army as they pulled back, afraid. Raelt felt his skin chilling, his heart burning. The potions and magic were screaming in his veins, making him want to puke and faint. But he was their [King]. He had to say something.
“Morale!”
The King of Jecrass bellowed the word. No grand speech. All he could think was that stupid word. The army of Jecrass looked at their [King]. Most hadn’t even heard the word he spoke, but they answered him, shouting what he had surely said.
“JECRASS!”
Raelt charged. And they raced after him. Flos Reimarch paused as he saw Jecrass’ army pouring at him.
“Damn.”
