“We will be assaulting Belchan’s capital. You wouldn’t happen to know the name of it, would you?”
“Levrhine.”
Esiela whispered. Ulyse nodded.
“Your magic will be invaluable for that battle. We will be attacking them before nightfall. His Majesty does not intend us to rest, or for Belchan to reorganize.”
She looked at him. And she could always refuse. But the collar awaited. Esiela bowed her head.
In the end, she’d never really had a chance. Not she, or her army. She drew her own blood and signed the contract, felt the magic bind her.
Then she took the parasol and marched with the other [Mages] upon Levrhine, her home. And the people of Belchan, the students of Belchan’s schools, Prime Minister Lyfelt, saw the Grand Mage marching against them. Just as they had seen the battle, the death of General Fultoolm. The way the King of Destruction had swept over Belchan’s army.
They had seen it all.
 
——
 
“Well, that’s it then.”
No one had spoken in the scrying orb’s studio for a while. Grand Strategist Chaldion or whomever he was, quietly drank and smoked as he sat back in his chair. Noass and Sir Relz, who were normally trying to fill the silence with commentary…were quiet.
There wasn’t much to say. They’d just watched Belchan’s army routed within…what, thirty minutes? An hour at most. And Reim’s army was marching on the capital.
The students in Belchan’s Mage School had to be panicking. Their staff and headmistress had been killed or…converted. Only some of them had gone to battle—the ones who’d been deemed able to fight. There had to be thousands more students.
And of course, Levrhine had its own garrisons and defenders. Probably tens of thousands, to prevent a surprise raid. A decent army. And there were other parts of its military. They could presumably rally and fight back.
They could. But they wouldn’t. Because the international broadcast, the television, magicvision, whatever you wanted to call it, was working against Belchan.
It had shown them just how overwhelming their foe was. So the King of Destruction had shattered their morale. In his city, Prime Minister Lyfelt might be in power, but when the King of Destruction rode on the city, his head might be offered at the gates for some modicum of mercy.
Perhaps. Or perhaps not. Perhaps the [Politician] could stay in power. But he’d never fight off Flos Reimarch.
“Morale.”
That was the second thing Raelt of Jecrass said. He adjusted the scrying orb, but the other Drakes were still speechless.
In the picture, Chaldion looked sideways at Noass as he leaned back. His voice echoed out of the scrying orb.
“I believe I predicted this. Would you like a breakdown of exactly how badly Belchan’s army was beaten? Because that is why he is called the King of Destruction.”
Raelt saw the Drake who was named…Noass…stir. The [King] wasn’t in a mood to listen, though. He had seen enough. So he deactivated the scrying orb, put it in his saddlebags. And he said the word again.
“Morale.”
“Your Majesty?”
The [King] of Jecrass turned. Raelt Leysars had forgotten he wasn’t alone. He’d been so engrossed in watching the battle. He saw his old retainer and confidant, Geril, looking at him.
“Morale, Geril. That was what General Fultoolm lacked. Along with everything else.”
“I don’t follow, Your Majesty.”
Geril cocked his head. He was dressed for war. As was Raelt. But while the [King] wore light, enchanted, flexible leather armor and a rapier at his side, along with a few rings and potions, all treasures of Jecrass’ limited treasury, Geril was wearing much heavier armor.
He was an old man, but he was wearing a damned hauberk, as well as other pieces of mail armor and a conical helmet. He was also carrying a spear he could use from horseback.
Mind you, he could probably use it. The [Retainer] had fought in wars before, and he had been a veteran of a number of battles. Still—Raelt would have just as soon not brought Geril to the front lines, even if he did hope to avoid a battle.
But Geril had insisted, and he could help command as well as fight. Raelt nodded at him.
“Morale. If Belchan’s army had held, they might have done more damage. Well, that and they let the King of Destruction hit them. You can’t fight half-Giants and Mars and—all of them head-on.”
That was Raelt’s opinion. His blood chilled as he remembered Zamea cutting down [Soldiers] like wheat. No indeed, fighting the King of Destruction head-on was suicide. He went on, forcing the words out. A cold, calm analysis. It was that or succumb to what he’d witnessed.
“Morale. If your army fights, then the King of Destruction’s army is just another army. With powerful Skills yes, but his strength comes from his line breakers, his few elites.”
“You may be right, sire. But then wouldn’t both armies still be destroyed?”
“Yes. In the best case you take two-to-one losses. Three-to-one even, but you destroy his army. And in the worst case—he uses his [Army of the King]. Or maybe that’s the best case.”
“I don’t follow, Your Majesty.”
Another voice to his left. Raelt turned and saw General Lael looking at him. She’d watched the entire broadcast too and her hands were tight on her mount’s reins. Raelt spoke quietly.
“It’s the best case in a sense, General. Because you and your entire army will die—but the King of Destruction loses his best weapon for a month. Either way, you lose the battle. But without morale, your army won’t force either outcome.”
Silence. The riders around Raelt stared at their [King]. But Raelt wasn’t in the mood to debate his point. He didn’t like war. But he’d done a lot of thinking and he’d seen high-level battles before. That was just his conclusion, though.
“The King of Destruction is thirty miles away from the capital. Even if he’d delayed in taking prisoners…General, pick up the pace. Advance at a gallop if we must. We must get there first. Stop taking prisoners. Advance at all speed, without opening us to ambush.”
“Your Majesty—”
“Now, General.”
Raelt ignored the worried voice that came from one of his River Wardens riding in his company. General Lael nodded. She rode ahead and Raelt turned.
Ahead and behind him rode Jecrass’ army. A substantial force, larger than the one that had been destroyed by Flos Reimarch.
But then, Belchan was fighting on multiple fronts. And Raelt had taken all the forces he could spare straight across Belchan’s borders as soon as he’d declared war, three days ago. Mostly horses, over a hundred thousand of them. The foot could barely keep pace, even with Skills boosting their movement.
A vast army. For the two nations, at least. Medain’s was far larger, Nerrhavia’s beyond compare. But these armies had warded Belchan and Jecrass well in their alliance, sometimes with Hellios and Germina as well.
And three of the nations were fallen or falling. Raelt still couldn’t believe it. But he had seen Belchan’s army, [General], and Grand Mage defeated. And now he was marching on his friend and sister nation.
He was not the only one. Medain from the north, Jecrass invading from the east. And those were only the two closest kingdoms. The Claiven Earth, even Nerrhavia from the south—armies were marching on Belchan for a piece of the nation.
Or—perhaps in simple outrage over what they had seen. Not outrage that children or civilians had been slaughtered, but that it had been seen, a first in this world. Public favor was more on Flos Reimarch’s side than it was Belchan’s.
But the dead. Oh, the dead and slaughter. Yes, The King of Destruction had been merciful, in a way. He’d taken prisoners from his battles rather than execute all of them. Indeed, the only reason he had taken three days to reach Levrhine was probably because of all those battles and ensuring the prisoner trains wouldn’t escape.
The same of course, applied to Jecrass. Their army had marched over the border and invaded Belchan. But Raelt’s armies, led by General Lael and the [King] himself hadn’t really fought many battles. A few skirmishes the first day, but after that they’d been bogged down.
By all the people surrendering, or trying to flee the King of Destruction’s advance. Conquering a city that opened its gates and begged for mercy wasn’t a great feat. But it had slowed Raelt from reaching Levrhine.
Now, he was in a race. But if there was one thing Jecrass was good at, it was moving fast. Their cavalry was among the best in the world. And they only had about sixteen miles left.
“Pick up the pace! We’re riding ahead!”
Raelt snapped at Geril and his River Wardens. They stared at him. But they obediently accelerated with their horses.
The King of Jecrass himself cursed as he felt the saddle crushing his nether regions. It was a good saddle, enchanted, and his horse was a brilliant stallion, some pureblood breed known for its ability in battle. Cimallion or something.
Raelt didn’t know. He didn’t like horses. The King of Jecrass was often defined by his dislikes. He disliked oranges, his River Wardens, bells, horses, and war. But he was also a [King], and so he was often in close proximity to all these things. So Raelt rode. He was a decent rider, even if he’d never had the class. As he leaned over his horse, he heard a sound, one of his dislikes.
Jingle, jingle.
The ringing of a bell. A silver bell, attached to a young woman’s rapier. Jecaina of Jecrass, [Princess] and sole known heir to the throne, leaned over her own mare as she caught up with her father.
“Father! Father! Are you going to attack Levrhine?”
“I told you to stay back! Jecaina!”
Raelt snapped at his daughter. The [Princess] had insisted on coming with him into battle. Raelt and Geril had forbidden it, but she’d ridden with them and they hadn’t been able to get her to leave. Even with an escort of [Soldiers] she slipped out of their clutches. Raelt had been about to order her bound and carried back to the palace, but—she was a [Princess] and a kidnapping was possible.
“Father, the King of Destruction is riding on Levrhine!”
Jecaina was wide-eyed. Raelt snapped back.
“Really? And here I thought he was riding past it.”
The comment provoked an open-mouthed stare from Jecaina and the River Wardens in earshot. Raelt was not known to be an angry [King] at all. In fact, he was rather known for being snippy at worst, and rather even-tempered in all but the worst situations. But right now he was letting his inner self out because it did not matter at the moment.
“But Father—what are you going to do?”
Jecaina looked nervous. As well she might. All of the River Wardens in attendance—a full third of them and their armies—had expressed serious reservations. Raelt didn’t care. He had to do this. Just as he’d been unable to stand the sight of the slaughtered Gnolls—he had to. He looked at Jecaina and saw the silver bell again.
“That damned bell. I told you not to wear it.”
“What? What’s that got to do with anything?”
The [Duelist Princess] covered the bell, surprised at the old argument. It was a beautiful little silver bell. No casual trinket either. The silver bells of [Duelists] were known the world over as a mark of skill by anyone who studied the art of blades. [Fencers] and [Duelists] wore them into battle, and anyone who carried a silver bell was a recognized talent with the blade.
Strutting your abilities. Raelt hated it. He hated bells, showing off. He hated his River Wardens, who were all talk for the same reason. You did what you had to do, that was all.
“Father, my bell has nothing to do with—what about Levrhine?”
“I’m going to do what I must.”
Raelt Leysars spoke coldly. Almost numbly, but for the fear and trepidation in his breast. He did not want this duty. But he was a [King]. And the crown he wore meant he took on all of his duties, and he was his own judge, and could never run from his responsibilities, or what was right or necessary. That was what Lyfelt did not understand.
Because he was not a [King].
“You don’t understand what the bell means, Jecaina. You got it for defeating a [Fencer]. But the bell means more than that. It is not supposed to ring.”
The [King] looked at his daughter. She stared back at him. Raelt was garbed for war. He had taken his armor—not the royal armor because that was mail and Raelt thought it was too heavy and inflexible—but his armor, and his sword.
A rapier. Unlike the foil that Jecaina liked to use for her duels. Raelt had lived in Terandria. He loved exercises with his sword, but that was not really [King]-ly. His rapier was enchanted, and on his left side, he also carried a parrying dagger.
A cup rapier with enchantments on the blade. Just cutting enchantments to add to the piercing quality of the rapier; it was a thrusting weapon after all, meant for light cuts and thrusts. A dueling weapon, which was sometimes derided as a weapon for small engagements, not the actual battlefield.
Well, it was better than an épée. And Raelt’s rapier was enchanted with cutting magic so a slash from it was far more dangerous than a regular rapier. Feather light, perfectly balanced, with a cup guard on the handle. No idiotic and often impractical swept hilts, which often traded defensive properties for aesthetics. Actually, Raelt’s hilt was a pappenheim-hilt, which was actually two shell guards, but that was only if you got technical.
And he carried a parrying dagger enchanted with a five-pound [Weight] spell. Raelt fought like a traditional [Fencer], not with one rapier. Or two, like a flashy idiot. The dagger was used for knocking a blade aside, keeping an opponent wary of both hands.
Raelt liked fencing. He had taught his daughter how to fence, which is where she had gotten the same love. But he didn’t force his hobby on anyone outside of his family. He even dared say he was good at it. A parrying dagger was short and it was a stupid, stupid thing to use in a fight unless you were good at it. An enchanted sword was useless in the hands of an amateur.
But King Raelt carried no bell. He never wore his. He looked at Jecaina now. And the father, riding to war, had a proper fatherly squabble with his daughter. Because…what else was he supposed to do?
“It’s ridiculous. Silver bells aren’t a mark of pride, Jecaina. They’re a test. I never told you because I thought you’d figure it out.”
“Figure what out? Is there something inside?”
Jecaina looked at her father, bewildered. Raelt sighed.
