Both armies hit each other. Raelt saw the Rustängmarder holding the ground as the riders of Jecrass crashed on them. Slaughtered. Mars and Orthenon cut the [Soldiers] coming at them like flies. But Jecrass’ armies didn’t stop. And slowly, the Rustängmarder were pushed back. Each of Flos’ [Soldiers] cut down two of Jecrass’ [Soldiers]. But the third cut them down.
“Bring Raelt of Jecrass down.”
Ulyse snapped. The [Mages] took aim. Grand Mage Esiela closed her eyes, but she was linked.
Raelt saw the [Siege Fireball] coming. This time, he urged his horse forwards. He felt the fireball explode, searing heat—an impact—
 
[King Level 30!]
[Conditions Met: King → King of Challenges Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Duelist removed.]
[Skill – Army: Flicker Charge obtained!]
[Skill – Royal Arms obtained!]
[Sk—
 
Ulyse saw Raelt standing up. He was bleeding, burned. He should have been dead. But each time he rose—the [Mage] had seen it before. Raelt pointed as he mounted his horse again.
“[Flicker Charge].”
His army—flickered—just like the name. Ulyse saw a group of [Riders] charging at the Serpent Hunters vanish for a crucial millisecond. And then they appeared amid the elite warriors, avoiding the first line of blades, fighting.
“Your Majesty! The King of Jecrass is counter-leveling!”
Ulyse projected his voice across the battlefield. The King of Destruction pivoted. He saw Raelt, his blade glowing, leading another charge.
A lower-level foe, growing exponentially against impossible odds. Flos of Reim snarled. He had seen it before. He pointed.
“Ulyse, bring him down. Orthenon! Go.”
The [Steward] shot forwards. He was carving a path towards Raelt again, as the [Mages] of Parasol Stroll began to rain lightning bolts down on Raelt’s position. Flos turned his head.
Jecrass’ army was being torn apart. But they refused to give. As Raelt rode, they kept fighting, even into a slaughter.
“They refuse to break.”
And it was taking a toll on his warriors as well. The Serpent Hunters were falling back, carrying comrades whose string bodies had been severed, desperately field-stitching them up. One of the half-Giants was roaring, downed, his legs shredded as Zamea and another stood over him, keeping the army back.
And then—Parasol Stroll was bringing bolts of electricity down as Orthenon tried to corner Raelt. They were forming a massive ball of bound electricity over their heads. Flos saw them aiming it up—
And then an explosion. The [Mages] brought up their parasols just in time as something hit them. A flash in the air, and no debris; mana washed over people around them, bright and painful, sending [Soldiers] around the [Mages] stumbling back, armor blackened. Flos shielded his face. Mars looked up.
“What was—”
She saw a comet falling at her. The [Vanguard] raised her shield.
The [Valmira’s Comet] spell hit her and detonated. Everyone around Mars was thrown back. The [Vanguard] had braced. She lowered her shield. And she saw more spells raining down from the heavens.
“Your Majesty! Belchan’s Mage School is loosing artillery spells!”
Flos shifted to see. He saw distant flashes of light from the academy built into the hillside. And then he heard more horn calls.
Levrhine’s gates had opened. From the gates poured Belchan’s garrisons. Their [Mages] were holding the walls and arrows were raining down on Flos’ army. The King of Destruction saw Parasol Stroll shielding themselves and Orthenon breaking away as a wall of Belchan’s [Soldiers] appeared. Shielding Raelt.
The King of Destruction stared at the distant King of Jecrass. He looked around.
“He’s rallied them. Their will is unbreakable.”
He paused. The King of Destruction sheathed his sword. He put his head down and uttered an oath. Then he threw his head back and laughed.
“My lord?”
“Mars! Find Teres and bring her to safety! Commander Ytol, signal Orthenon to take his [Riders] and strike Jecrass’ army. Signal the retreat!”
The King of Destruction roared. His vassals stared at him, but then moved within moments. Ytol raised his horn and blew a wailing call. The army of Reim looked up.
And they began to pull back. Raelt couldn’t believe what he was seeing at first. But it was true. Orthenon raced across the battlefield, dodging spells, still cutting down his opponents as the infantry pulled back, in an orderly retreat.
“They’re leaving?”
General Lael stared. Her face was cut open, and she was covered in sweat and blood. But she was alive. Geril, shielding Jecaina, had a chunk of flesh missing from his leg and side. And Jecrass’ dead littered the field, with Belchan’s.
But Reim’s forces were retreating. Raelt stared around. He stared at the King of Destruction’s back. Why? He had been tearing Jecrass’ army apart.
And his elite vassals had been in danger. Not Orthenon or Mars perhaps, but a single half-Giant falling, or his Rustängmarder—he might have won. But to do that, he either had to use his [Army of the King], or watch as his army was burnt away.
He had refused to do that. Just as Raelt had speculated. But he’d never imagined…
The [King of Challenges] realized he was swaying in his saddle. He kept hearing himself leveling up, kept blacking out, hearing and not hearing.
But then he heard a sound that jerked him into wakefulness. A single voice, from hundreds of thousands of throats. And again, Raelt emerged from his quiet world of ghosts and saw something strange.
His army, cheering him. Belchan’s citizens and their forces, standing on the walls, screaming his name. His River Wardens, his subjects, who had only known their [King] from afar. Shouting his name.
“Raelt of Jecrass! King of Jecrass!”
Jecaina, his daughter, was staring at her father with a strange look in her eye. The same look she got when she talked about the King of Destruction, or Terandria, or the Queen of Pop. That of a girl dreaming of a story.
But so he was. The King of Jecrass. The fearless [Duelist]. A man who had stopped the King of Destruction. Wounded him in a duel! Forced him to retreat.
“The King of Jecrass has thrown back Reim! We are seeing Reim’s army in retreat! He—he’s—he did it!”
Noass and Sir Relz were hugging each other, shouting into the scrying orb. Noass turned, staring about.
“He’s no ordinary king! How can he—someone name him! What is he?”
There was silence. You couldn’t just call him ‘King Raelt’, or ‘King Leysars’. Or even the King of Jecrass. He was something more than that. And into the silence, someone spoke.
“The King of Duels. The Duelist King.”
Rémi Canada watched as the King of Jecrass raised one hand and flinched at the roar of sound it created. Noass looked around.
“Who said that? Write that down! The King of Duels has held back the King of Destruction!”
The young man from Earth nodded. If he were still interning at a news organization, that would be the headline. Not anything else. Forget the honor of the duel, the way Flos Reimarch had crushed every army before this with a fraction of the forces, or how close the battle had been.
The headline was the same. Victory.
 
——
 
Defeat. Teres stared at Flos Reimarch. She was bleeding. She’d been stabbed. The magical armor had protected her from everything but the enchanted spear that had hit her. The old man had nearly killed her, but…
She was alive.
But Reim had been defeated. The army was retreating. Flos Reimarch himself had called for it.
It was beyond silence. Just—shock. The other vassals were staring backwards. Mars, Orthenon—the [Steward] had a few cuts, but he could still fight. And yet—they were leaving.
Teres didn’t know what to do or say. She was afraid. But—Flos Reimarch wasn’t raging. He sat with his shoulders relaxed, sighing, as the blood from his duel dried on his clothes and armor.
“It seems we’ve been defeated.”
He spoke at last. Mars twitched. Orthenon looked at Flos. Commander Ytol just nodded, lashed to his saddle. The King of Destruction looked around, and then found Teres.
“How…refreshing.”
Teres stared at him. The King of Destruction looked at her. And then he laughed. He threw his head back and laughed again. His vassals eyed him.
Flos Reimarch wiped tears from his eyes.
“Ah, how frustrating. An interrupted duel, Belchan’s forces—truly, frustrating. We could have kept fighting, but Raelt of Jecrass has inspired his subjects. And now look at us. Riding back, leaving our dead behind. Doesn’t it enrage you, Teres?”
He nodded to the column of [Soldiers]. Teres nodded. Flos watched her.
“Are you…angry, Your Majesty?”
“I am still furious. The Prime Minister lives. And my army was repelled by Jecrass. The duel’s honor was broken. Yes, Teres. I am angry. But also—did you see him, Mars? Orthenon? What did you think?”
Flos turned his head. Orthenon bowed slightly.
“I missed him by a hair, sire. The blame lies with me.”
“He’s quick. A strong [King]. And he held you to a duel for a while.”
Mars’ eyes glinted. Flos smiled.
“Yes. He did. I misjudged him. I thought I knew Raelt of Jecrass, but the boy turned into a different man. And now he has Belchan and Jecrass. How troublesome. And at the same time—how glorious.”
His words stirred those following him. The King of Destruction sat up taller in his saddle. He looked around.
“My blood is boiling. Not since before my slumber have I felt this! Not just rage, but admiration. I am almost glad the duel was interrupted. Because I should like to have such a man as my vassal. As an ally! But as he is—he is a worthy foe.”
The others looked at him. Teres just gaped. Was he mad? A worthy foe? She couldn’t comprehend that.
But then—she heard a laugh like thunder. Zamea was laughing. So was Mars. Even Orthenon smiled. Flos threw his head back and laughed.
Part of Teres wanted to laugh too, and she didn’t know why. But Reim’s [Soldiers] looked at their laughing, delighted [King]. And they laughed too.
Madness. Madmen and madwomen, laughing. Just for a single moment. And then—Flos quieted. He turned in his saddle.
“It seems we must wait for the bulk of my armies indeed. We cannot waste time, however. Mars, you, I, and the bulk of our armies must secure the position we have taken. We will need to establish secure zones, ensure the cities do not revolt. And we are now battling at least Belchan and Jecrass! Perhaps more nations! We ride! Move out!”
He picked up the pace. Teres stared at him. They were still moving? But the King of Destruction was already snapping orders.
“Orthenon, take your [Riders]. You will assault the Mage School of Belchan with Parasol Stroll. Destroy it—otherwise we will be under constant assault. If Raelt has already reinforced it—”
 
——
 
That night, Belchan was ablaze. With light, sound, motion. War had engulfed it. But now—Jecrass was at war with Reim as well. And King Raelt of Jecrass officially took control of both nations.
The Mage School was burning. Raelt was giving rapid orders, listening to [Messages] coming in.
Jecrass and Belchan versus the might of Reim. What a ridiculous notion. But the world had seen it. It was still echoing with his title. King of Duels.
And the first [Messages] were coming in. Dignified [Messages], from other nations being broadcast the world over, read by Noass and Sir Relz on live television. Supporting the defense of Jecrass, the Duelist King.
Not declaring war, though. Not Medain, or Nerrhavia, or the Claiven Earth. But at the same time as these grand shows of support were taking place—[Messages] were sent covertly. Even a [Courier], racing from Medain.
“I have sent a small gift to you, King of Jecrass. And—you may find groups of [Mercenaries]. Yes, [Mercenaries] heading north.”
Queen Yisame was speaking directly to Raelt. He stared at her. Mercenaries from Nerrhavia?
“How many?”
“One cannot say. But perhaps…oh, I may estimate at least forty thousand. Perhaps more, if more are attracted by the allure of war. Naturally, they require payment.”
Hence, the gift. Which was, if the Merchant’s Guildmaster was right, about three hundred thousand gold pieces. Raelt swallowed. Then he slowly nodded.
Gifts from Nerrhavia. He’d just received money from the Empress of Sands, too. Support. Like King Perric of Medain hinting that some of his adventurers might be willing to enlist in Jecrass’ armies as outsiders.
Support. Indirect aid. Jecrass stood alone at war with the King of Reim. But supported covertly.
Still, what was shouted from Wistram and spoken the world over was this: Jecrass was at war with Reim. It stood with Belchan, throwing the might of Reim back. The King of Duels had fought the King of Destruction and triumphed.
That was what everyone said, and what many heard in the days thereafter. And there was truth in that. For a man had fought. And he did live. But the King of Duels’ fearless defense of Belchan’s innocent people? His magnificent victory?
That was just the headline. And yet, while the true man, Raelt Leysars, disagreed with the legend, the titles, his subjects ignored him.
They had seen the man their [King] was. And they knew the truth. So they followed the King of Duels, the Duelist King of the Realm of Jecrass.
Raelt Leysars, the [King of Challenges].
