“No one would begrudge you bringing poison, sire. Or—any weapon. I beg you—”
“I would, Warden Winta.”
Enough leg exercises. Raelt began stretching out his fingers, arms. Neck too. He could hear the King of Destruction laughing. And there—there was the [Reporter].
Rémi Canada. He had appeared in Levrhine, probably to witness the battle. If he hadn’t expected it—well, he held the eyes of the world. He was broadcasting both sides. And the difference was night and day.
Flos Reimarch stood with Orthenon and Mars and his other vassals. He was laughing, as they checked his armor and plied him with objects. Almost like they were relaxing and offering him little snacks and treats. They were excited. No fear in their eyes.
“Milord, no plate armor?”
“None. I’ll take the helmet, but plate will be too heavy. And Raelt looks like a quick fellow. Let’s see. I have a broadsword. Spear—”
“Here, Your Majesty.”
Orthenon and half a dozen [Warriors] instantly offered their artifacts. Flos ignored them all. He waved away the spear shrouded with dark fog Mars produced.
“None of your grand artifacts, Mars! Give me straightforward weapons! Axes, spears, swords—we fight with skill and daring, not with gold.”
“Apologies, Your Majesty. Your opponent doesn’t seem to be taking any poisons or artifacts either. A brave man.”
Mars grinned, her white hair waving in the slight breeze. Her armor shone, and Orthenon lowered his magic spear.
“No need for antidotes then! A brave fellow indeed, and straightforward! I knew I liked him. A [King] after my heart.”
Zamea laughed as Flos tossed a pair of bottles over his shoulder and Jelaim nimbly caught them. The First Shepherd’s voice was audible across the battlefield.
“Brave or foolhardy, King of Destruction?”
“He stands with conviction, Zamea. Let not one person scorn him.”
The King of Destruction smiled. He was placing the different swords and weapons into his bag of holding. Enough blades for a small company, in case he broke one. He had a few potions, but like Raelt, he was going to fight mostly with blade.
“Alright, Orthenon, give me a few scrolls. Yes, yes. I have healing potions—stamina potions? Do you think we’ll be dueling that long?”
More laughter. Orthenon bowed. He was serious as ever.
“One should never be unwary, Your Majesty.”
Flos Reimarch’s eyes sharpened.
“No indeed. Very well. Two. Now, step back everyone. I need to warm up.”
He took a sword and cut the air with it. His swings were fast, compact—a seasoned veteran’s motions. Raelt watched from afar.
 
——
 
“What do you think about this battle, Sir Relz? The King of Destruction isn’t as famous with the blade as his warriors. He’s not the Illusionist. Nor his [Steward]—the rumors say he doesn’t have or use personal Skills in battle.”
“He’s as strong as any adventurer, though, Noass. We saw him cut down a number of high-level [Warriors]. I…we must applaud King Raelt of Jecrass’ daring, at least. Indeed, Flos Reimarch is unguarded! That helmet and his armor probably have enchantments, but there are still gaps. One thrust to the face would kill him.”
“There’s a chance, is what I’m hearing.”
“Yes, absolutely. A chance. King—the ruler of the Realm of Jecrass could—”
Sir Relz paused. The two Drakes were commentating on the lead up to the duel. But even he couldn’t say it.
Raelt could win? Look. The [King] tried not to smile bitterly as he warmed up. Even he didn’t think he had a chance.
Everyone was watching. In the moment, in Raelt’s mind, there was only him, the ghosts standing around him, and the King of Destruction. But the event was comprised of thousands of individual moments, each person taking away…something from watching.
 
——
 
“Pisces. What do you think?”
Ceria whispered as her team sat around the table. The bar was silent as people crowded to see the tiny scrying mirror. The [Necromancer] looked up as every eye turned to him.
“…The [King] of Jecrass is a fencer. A dueling dagger and rapier. I can’t tell the enchantments, but if he’s wise, the dagger is enchanted with [Weight]. Like Yvlon’s sword was. He can divert most attacks with it. And a [Fencer] has reach and mobility. It depends on his level. However…”
“He is most likely going to die within the first five minutes of combat.”
Ksmvr calmly announced. Yvlon looked sideways at him, and then at Ceria. The half-Elf looked at the other [Warrior].
“Yvlon?”
“…I agree. There’s no way this [King] can win. Even if the King of Destruction doesn’t have an active Skill like those two Drakes are saying…he’s got a massive level advantage. He’s going to be fast and strong. He’s stronger than I am by a bit. And that means if he gets one strike in…”
The others stared at Yvlon. At her bare, glorious, silver flesh that moved like skin, but was as strong as steel. Stronger, perhaps. Ceria gulped. She’d seen Yvlon swinging her 30-pound sword around fighting the Golems. She wasn’t quite as fast as she’d been with it when it was enchanted to weigh only a few pounds, but when she hit something—it broke. And Yvlon had literally punched through one of the Stone Golems and torn it apart with her bare hands.
The King of Destruction was stronger than that. The Horns looked at each other.
“A [Duelist] or [Fencer]. Depending on his level. He certainly looks…competent. But that is the King of Destruction. And I do not see a bell.”
Pisces spoke softly. Ceria looked at him. She remembered. Pisces had once carried a silver bell, a mark of pride.
“If you had a rapier and time to prepare, Pisces. Against the King of Destruction? With [Invisibility] and your Ring of Shatterbolt and…?”
He looked at her. And the [Necromancer], her arrogant, sniffing friend, smiled faintly.
“Why, Ceria. If all four of us were to fight Flos Reimarch? My advice would be to run away. This isn’t just about levels, or Skills. Or magical items or chance.”
He looked at the two [Kings].
“He is…going to die.”
 
——
 
It was a sentiment shared widely. By other watchers, in other parts of the world.
In Rhir, the fifth-greatest [Lord] in the world…according to some lists…stood in his private quarters. He was not alone. A younger man dressed in [Knight]’s armor stood with him.
“King Raelt of Jecrass’ only means of survival is to forfeit the duel. If he survives long enough. Five minutes would be…appropriate without him losing face.”
“He seemed serious, Lord Operland.”
Hayvon Operland, the foremost [Lord] of Rhir and the Blighted King’s court, nodded.
“In that case, he will die. It is not just a matter of Skill—”
He gestured dismissively to the scrying orb and the Drake commentators, who were muted. Hayvon looked at Richard, one of the otherworlders who were residing in his estates.
“The King of Destruction is no foreigner to duels. He has fought [Kings] and [Champions] in single combat and in live battles more years than Raelt of Jecrass has ruled. When he was a boy, he slew the King of Hellios in a duel. And he rampaged for decades after that. I cannot fathom a world in which he loses.”
Richard nodded quietly. Even from afar…the King of Destruction looked like a monster. He grinned as he shouldered the broadsword and shield he was using first. A pure, relaxed expression of someone who had fought these battles to the death before. By contrast, King Raelt looked…grim.
“What a waste.”
That was all Hayvon said. The [Lord] looked at the battle between the [Kings].
“Either way, one dies. There is a chance King Raelt survives, if he succumbs to cowardice. Flees. But he is not likely to last the first minute. And either way, two [Kings] risk their lives while the Demons grow in strength. Look at these petty conflicts.”
He looked at Richard, with the same fervent gaze Richard had come to respect. A man devoted to stemming the Blight and his kingdom’s enemies. And they were terrible enemies, capable of horrors.
Richard nodded. But the two turned back to watch, nevertheless.
 
——
 
It was time. There was no one counting down the time both sides had to prepare. But Raelt was ready. And so was Flos. The two [Kings] looked at each other. And Raelt felt cold, despite his exercises. He stood up, and heard nothing. Saw nothing, but the other [King]—
“Father.”
A voice intruded on his thoughts. Raelt looked around. And he saw his daughter.
Jecaina. His beloved child. Raelt didn’t know what to say. She was just watching him.
“Don’t. Father, you can’t—”
She looked at him. And then past him, at the legend she idolized. And Raelt of Jecrass searched for the proper words. His father had never spoken them to him. He had died, when Raelt had been far from home. Suddenly. Raelt always wished he could have heard them. But now, he realized he didn’t know what to say. So he did his best.
“Geril. General Lael. My River Wardens. Bear witness.”
His company started. They looked at their [King] as Raelt stood with his daughter. And the [King] turned to look at his army. Many had probably only seen his face once or twice. He spoke to them, but mostly to her.
“People of Jecrass, bear witness. This is my daughter, Jecaina Leysars of Jecrass. Heir to the throne. Your [Princess]. If I fall, she will carry on my name.”
“Father—”
They watched, the people of Jecrass. Through scrying orbs as the [King] removed his circlet of gold.
“Jecaina, it is a foolish thing to fight a pointless battle. As a monarch, you must safeguard your kingdom first. Your ambitions, your petty desires and ego—that is not what matters. You serve your nation, and it is the nation which matters. Flee, retreat, kneel if you must. My father knelt to the King of Destruction and he was a good ruler. And I am a [Duelist]. I enjoy my small hobbies, my little world. I do not challenge Giants.”
The [King] turned his head and looked at Zamea. Flos was waiting, backed by his army of legends. Raelt looked back at Jecaina.
“However, there is something else you must always remember. And that is what it means to be a [King]. To wear the crown. You must never, can never be anything less than the crown you wear. That is the dignity, the weight of your duties. Never compromise on your soul. And sometimes that means you fight to the last.”
She swallowed hard, her eyes swimming with tears. Raelt placed the crown on her head, softly, and bent to kiss her on the forehead.
“I am sorry.”
He stood, then, lighter for the absence of that bit of gold. And the [King] turned. And he walked away from his army and subjects, into the ring between both armies. With his back straight, his posture relaxed, and the rapier and parrying dagger in his hands.
The army of Reim began to chant as Flos Reimarch advanced. The King of Destruction. They shouted his name. The half-Giants and Rustängmarder, his vassals.
“Flos Reimarch! King of Destruction.”
He smiled as he raised his sword. And they howled. On the other side, Raelt heard nothing. Then—a shout.
“Raelt of Jecrass! King of Jecrass!”
Mortal voices, shouting. His River Wardens, his old retainer. His daughter. His army took up the chant. But they were drowned out by the roar of the half-Giants, for all their numbers.
The two [Kings] approached. Raelt Leysars was calm. He was an average [King]. Yes, that was true. But he had another class.
[Duelist]. And he was higher in level in that than his class of [King]. Which was probably a mistake. But he had been a young [Prince]. And he loved the sword.
He hated bells. And horses, and oranges. And other things. But as Raelt walked forwards, he felt in his belt pouch. And he pulled something out.
Orthenon, the King’s [Steward] stood in the center of the ring of bodies. He called out calmly as Raelt fiddled with his rapier’s hilt.
“Upon my signal, both sides shall duel until death or forfeit. Any who interfere, I shall cut down.”
The two [Kings] saw him walk back. And it was time. Raelt heard his blood thundering in his veins. He felt more alive than he could remember in years. And what a shame that it should be so. He wished he had felt like this for a thousand days.
“Moments like these we live for.”
The King of Destruction stood. His hair shone red and gold, and his eyes gleamed like emeralds. He did not ask Raelt to surrender again. He just waited.
“Sorry. One moment.”
Raelt felt silly. He was still fumbling with a bit of string, as everyone waited. The King of Destruction just nodded. What dignity. Everyone stared at Raelt as he cursed over the bit of thread, trying to tie a knot.
Had he lost his nerve? What was he doing? The King of Destruction waited patiently. And then Raelt fit the knot, tied the string. He lowered his hand. And as he raised his rapier, something shone from the hilt. Tied with a bit of thread.
It rang in the silence, as the two [Kings] faced each other. A high, piercing sound. Familiar. Flos Reimarch stared at it as Raelt slowly walked left. And the King of Destruction circled the other way. Only he saw the little object clearly at first. But the gleam amid the falling night caught the eye.
What was it? Then—the watchers heard the sound again. Coming from the rapier, and the object Raelt had attached to it.
A jingling bell. It rang a third time, as Raelt shifted his posture. Delicate, beautiful, made so that even the slightest motion would make it chime.
But it was not silver. Ceria Springwalker stared into the mirror. And she saw a flash of—
“Gold?”
She glanced at Pisces. The [Necromancer] gaped with wide eyes at Raelt of Jecrass. And the two [Kings] paused.
“You surprise me once again, Raelt of Jecrass. But you never wore it before.”
Flos Reimarch smiled, his eyes dancing. Raelt shifted his posture.
“I just dislike bells.”
Odd last words. But too late. The [Duelist] and [King] exhaled. And it was done. He saw the King of Destruction’s shield lower a fraction.
And he stepped. Across the six or so feet in a single lunge.
[Fencer’s Lunge]. Aiming for the King of Destruction’s heart. Raelt’s rapier flashed, the tip aiming for Flos’ heart. The quintessential attack of his class.
The tip of the blade missed. Flos Reimarch shoved the rapier’s lightning fast thrust away. It skidded upwards, slashing through his enchanted armor along the shoulder.
Blood ran along the rapier as Raelt disengaged, flickering back. With each step he blurred. Not [Flash Step], but [Quick Step]. Nearly as powerful, and his was not a spell; he could do it forever. He circled, lunged in as the King of Destruction turned. A second strike, at Flos’ side. Feint, slashing at the wrist that held the broadsword.
The King of Destruction halted his counterthrust. But he was exposed. Raelt was going for his tendons, so the [King] thrust his arm forward.
