“Why would a Lord of the Wall want to speak with Erin Solstice? It is curious how many famous and powerful people she attracts, is it not?”
Krshia shook her head as she refilled Lyonette’s cup. The Human girl sat tensely in her seat across from the Gnoll and nodded.
“It is. But Erin’s…special. I think she can handle him.”
“True. But I hope whatever he wants does not lead to another incident. Erin Solstice is adept at causing those as well.”
Krshia shook her head as she sipped at her tea. She picked up a cube of meat and popped it into her mouth, and then offered Lyonette the bowl. The girl eyed it and reluctantly took a cube. She bit into it and her face changed.
“This is good!”
“You think so? Truly?”
“Yes! I mean, I don’t eat raw meat because it leads to disease. Not that I’m saying this meat is bad, but us Humans—”
“Yes, I know of your customs.”
Krshia smiled, interrupting Lyonette’s babbling. She nodded at the bowl.
“Be at ease. We Gnolls know how to prepare such food. We ensure it is clean and prepared correctly. You need not have any if you are uncomfortable.”
“No—I’ll have some more.”
Lyonette helped herself to another cube, making Krshia smile. That mattered to the young woman. She shifted.
“I wonder if I could make it. Or take some for Mrsha? I’d like her to have her people’s food to eat. Erin makes great food, but the taste of home…”
“Hmm. It is not good to transport such food, but I could teach you the recipe. And you could bring Mrsha here more often. It would be good to teach her more of our ways. Although she was born to a tribe that lived in the wilderness…she may know more than I do of some things.”
Krshia sipped at her tea and Lyonette nodded. The girl paused as she sipped from her cup. It was hard to forget how she’d been raised—she was acutely aware of her posture and the way she held her teacup. She felt as though she were back in court, sipping tea with nobility. Only, there was no such thing as a Gnoll [Lady]. That was a pity.
How strange life could be. Lyonette looked at Krshia, and remembered the sensation of being grabbed by a huge paw, staring into the Gnoll’s eyes, and seeing huge fangs as a stall burned behind her. She was ashamed of that. But now she was sitting in said Gnoll’s apartment. The same place where her nephew had lived. Where Brunkr had…
Lyonette’s eyes moved around the room and Krshia noticed. The [Shopkeeper] lowered her cup.
“There is little of Brunkr here, I am sorry to say. His shield and sword remain, but he arrived here as a warrior, not meaning to stay long. I have only my memories to remind me of what he was.”
“Oh. I’m sorry. I was just—”
“I take no offense, Lyonette. Actually, it is that that I wished to talk with you about.”
Krshia put down her tea cup and Lyonette felt her heart begin to beat faster. The Gnoll sighed, and in the privacy of her own home, she slumped. She seemed tired, old, and sad all at once. When she looked at Lyonette, there was loss in her brown eyes.
“I still wonder if I could have known. If I had paid more attention, if I had not been blind to that traitorous Regrika Blackpaw’s true nature—she is no true Gnoll. And she will be hunted. But if I had only had the foresight to question instead of being blind—would he be alive?”
Lyonette sat still, not knowing what to say. Krshia shook her head.
“These are useless thoughts, of course. What is done is done. Only justice and mourning remain. But I am plagued by them. Yet I would not burden you with my grief, Lyonette. No. I wanted to call you here to thank you, instead.”
“Thank me? But why—”
“For making him a [Knight].”
Krshia spoke plainly, and Lyonette’s heart constricted with fear. The Gnoll looked at her, not accusingly or with suspicion, rather, with certainty.
“I know you are a [Princess], Lyonette. And I know you gave your blessing to Brunkr to make him a [Knight].”
“How—how do you…?”
The Gnoll snorted.
“I have ears. Brunkr is not good at keeping secrets. As for the rest…it is enough that I know.”
Lyonette was frozen in place. Krshia shifted, watching her carefully.
“Mistake me not. I do not seek to profit from this knowledge. I have no other motive than to give my thanks.”
“But I didn’t do anything.”
Lyonette whispered. Krshia shook her head again.
“No. You did much. True, he only had the class for a matter of days. But becoming a [Knight] was Brunkr’s dream. It was thought that he would never achieve it, since Gnolls have no [Lords] or other noble classes that could bestow such a class. But you gave it to him, and I must think it made him happy in his last days. For that small gift, I thank you.”
She bowed her head and Lyonette burst into tears. For a few minutes there was just her snuffling and Krshia offering her a handkerchief, wiping at her own eyes. Silence. Words unspoken. Lyonette managed a few words after she had finished.
“I don’t deserve thanks. All I did—”
“Water.”
Krshia raised her hand as if catching raindrops and tossed it away. She sighed.
“You have done much to offend. Much, it is true. But that is the past and you have changed. The debt has been paid, and while I might hold a grudge—no. My nephew’s life is worth more than mere hatred. I forgive, Lyonette. And I thank you for changing. Not least for taking care of Mrsha.”
“What else was I supposed to do?”
Laughing, crying. Krshia smiled and Lyonette grew calmer over time. At last, the two sat, drinking and returning to something like normal conversation. But now the secret was out, Lyonette felt compelled to speak.
“The reason why I ran away—it may seem silly to you, but I really felt like I had to. I was wrong—stupid, arrogant—but if my family knew where I was, I’m sure they’d send someone after me. They might be looking already, but they have no idea where I am and I’m not exactly a First Princess or high-level, so…”
“I understand. I shall say nothing of it if you do not wish me to.”
“Thank you.”
After a while, Krshia spoke again.
“It is curious how you were able to make Brunkr a [Knight], though. He said you spoke only a few words and he gained the class that night. Is it truly so easy?”
Lyonette hesitated. But now was not the time to keep royal secrets. She nodded.
“It’s…well, it’s not supposed to be that simple, you understand. But in practice you can make someone a [Knight] with only a few words. It’s usually a matter of ceremony because it’s so important, but if you’re in a hurry you can skip all that. At least…I can. I think [Lords] have to work harder at it, you know, have a crest, induct the person into their service, and so on.”
“But a [Princess] is able to do the same more easily? Because your class is superior?”
“Maybe…well, no. I think Mother explained it once. You see, a [Princess] has a different role from a [Lord]. They have their own households, vassals, and so on, so they can support quite a lot of [Knights] depending on how rich and powerful they are. Whereas even a high-level [Princess] has a limit on the amount of [Knights] she can appoint. Mine are personal protectors, you see, so I can choose them quickly and as I please, whereas a [Lord]…”
“Must set up such circumstances. So I see. That is fascinating.”
Krshia nodded. Lyonette smiled and went on.
“It’s a feature of royal classes. Obviously a [King] can appoint a lot more classes, like [King’s Champion], specialized knighthood orders, and so on. I can’t do any of that—the only other thing I can do is royally appoint some business I like.”
Krshia had been chewing at her raw meat. Now she paused and gulped.
“Royally appoint? I am not familiar with this.”
“It’s simple. I can bestow a royal class on someone. Like…say you’re a [Gardener], right? If I want, I could make that person a [Royal Gardener]. Although that’s rare and I can probably only do that for one person. Father has a [Royal Chamberlain], but it’s not common to do. Although it does help!”
“I imagine it would. Such a class…hrr. Am I right in thinking it offers better Skills, or perhaps more unique ones?”
Lyonette nodded cautiously, trying to dredge up half-remembered lessons.
“I think so. It’s just an addition, so you can change classes and transform it like normal. It just makes you, well, better.”
She paused as Krshia mulled this over, and then had a crazy thought. She spoke before her courage failed her.
“Would you like me to give one to you?”
Krshia choked on her tea and nearly sprayed it all over Lyonette. When she’d finished coughing, she looked at the [Princess].
“You are joking.”
“No.”
Lyonette met her gaze, her legs trembling wildly.
“I’m serious. I could give it to you if you want.”
“Why? I am not your subject. And such a gift—”
“I gave Brunkr a [Knight] class. I think…well, I just think that he’d want me to help you if I could. And that’s the only thing I can do.”
Krshia looked at Lyonette. She sat back in her chair, speechless. When she spoke, it was distantly.
“Say I accept. I would receive a royal title and…nothing else? It would be a gift, yes, not an obligation?”
Lyonette hesitated. She frowned and gulped some tea.
“I don’t know. It’s been years—decades, really, since my family gave their blessing to anyone. We make [Knights] and [Lords] and so on, but businesses are different. It’s…I can remember my grandmother knew a fruit seller who she made royal. I think it helped her business, but I can’t remember if it did anything else. You don’t have to, I’m just offering…”
“I see. But if it is so useful, why have your family not appointed more? Surely it would help your kingdom. What stays their paws…hands?”
“Trust, perhaps.”
Lyonette looked wistfully up at the ceiling. She shook her head in response to Krshia’s confusion.
“It’s just…you see, it’s so political back home. If my family gave a [Merchant] a royal blessing and he started working for another country, or denounced our kingdom, it would be a scandal, you see. And it’s not as if my family meets with many ordinary people that often. Not that I think you’re ordinary! I…”
“I know what you mean. So. That is what you offer and it is for me to accept or not. From what you say the risk is small. However.”
Krshia got up and walked back and forth for a few seconds. Lyonette looked at her anxiously, regretting opening her mouth. Why had she said that? And yet—she remembered Brunkr and couldn’t regret offering.
At last, Krshia slowed. She sat down heavily in front of Lyonette and looked around. Lyonette did too. Krshia’s apartment wasn’t large, but it was comfortable, and showed many years of care and hard work. The [Barmaid] remembered that Krshia had apparently come to Liscor decades ago to work.
“It has been long, and I have worked hard to get to where I am. I lost much.”
Krshia raised her paw to forestall Lyonette.
“Much. Material goods and money…but I received a gift far greater than that in return from Ryoka Griffin. I do not begrudge you that. As for my nephew, I ache. Now I must rebuild, and yet I asked myself the other day whether it was worth trying, if I had the strength to do so another time. And now a gift is offered, unprompted. Would I be a fool not to take it?”
Lyonette held her breath. The Gnoll nodded.
“All things change. This is what we Gnolls know. To stay the same is to be a fool. So you offer and I respond thusly: yes. Lyonette, if you will give me a blessing, a royal title, I would accept with gratitude.”
She stared at the [Princess], and Lyonette stood. She trembled with nerves as much as anything else. She raised a hand and Krshia looked up.
“Hrr. Should I kneel?”
“No. I can…no. I just need to say a few words.”
Lyonette took a few breaths. She felt…she remembered staring at a Gnoll’s back, her legs and arms covered in sweat, holding a sword and feeling the skin of her palms sting. She blinked, and Krshia was looking up at her, waiting. Lyonette spoke, and felt a shiver as the words spun out from her heart. Ancient words. Familiar words. True words.
“I, Lyonette du Marquin, do solemnly grant you, Krshia Silverfang, and whatever business you pursue, my royal favor, now and unto perpetuity. You who have forgiven us when we did not deserve it. You, whose kin we called friend, however briefly. You, who have lost much—we offer our small blessing. Let the world know you are favored and let that favor grant you all the riches you wish for.”
She reached out and touched Krshia on the brow. The Gnoll bowed her head and Lyonette waited a second. Then she withdrew her hand. It was over.
“Did it…work?”
She looked at Krshia. The Gnoll blinked and touched the spot on her head, wrinkling her brows. She rolled her shoulders and sniffed the air and looked at Lyonette, tilting her head from side to side and shrugging.
“Hrm. I do not know. I do not feel different. But perhaps…let me sleep on it.”
She grinned, showing her teeth, and Lyonette smiled as well. There was a moment where the past was forgotten and they were just enjoying themselves. Two people, one step closer to becoming something like friends. Then it passed, leaving everything different. Krshia raised her teapot.
“More tea?”
Lyonette gulped. She looked at Krshia and smiled guiltily.
“Maybe. But first…could you tell me where the bathroom is?”
 
—-
 
“Bow, Human worm!”
“No, you bow, you jerk!”
The Wandering Inn was full of shouting voices. Two in particular. Ilvriss staggered as Erin hit him with her authority, trying to force him down. The air was thick around the Drake, but his own aura of command pushed hers back. He pointed.
“I will not stomach such insolence from a Human!”
“Oh yeah? Oh yeah?”
The Drake [Lord] and Human [Innkeeper] circled each other like angry pigeons, trading insults, fighting with their respective auras. They circled rapidly, and then walked, and then finally sat and snapped at each other. Erin wiped sweat from her forehead and accepted a glass of water from Ishkr. Ilvriss looked up with bloodshot eyes and waved at the Gnoll.
“Give me a drink.”
Ishkr looked at Erin. She nodded and leaned back in her chair, exhausted. Mrsha leapt onto the table and licked her face.
“Give him something, Ishkr. I’ll kick him out if he’s being a jerk.”
“I’d rather leave…than stay at a Human inn.”
Ilvriss sat upright, looking hungover and miserable. Erin pointed to the door with a hand that shook.
“Go for it, buddy. It’s a nice walk through the slush.”
Ilvriss considered this and leaned back in his chair as Ishkr came out with a cup of cold water.
“I don’t answer to you, Human.”
He grimaced as he drank from the cup.
