Erin admired a minor artifact that was attracting a lot of children. She thought Mrsha would love it—although the price tag was far more than she was willing to pay. A few dogs were also trying to go after the ball, but the [Merchant] who owned the object was determined to protect his wares, lest dog drool drive down the price.
“It’s so weird seeing a Gnoll owning a dog.”
“Why? I’ve seen Cat-Tribe Beastkin who have their own cats. They’re just animals. Plus, I hear Gnolls and Beastkin make great pet owners since they establish themselves as pack leaders easily.”
Lyonette looked at a Gnoll who was indeed leading a large mastiff around with ease. The Gnoll growled at the dog as it tried to run after the ball and the dog froze, whining a bit. Erin noted the lack of a leash.
“That’s cool. But don’t Gnolls also eat dogs?”
“Well…so do Humans. And it’s not all of them. Just a few tribes and some Humans. Honestly, I’d be more worried about Ceria. I know for a fact that half-Elves will eat dogs.”
The Gnoll dog-owner looked at Lyonette and Erin, horrified, and hurried her dog away as if she was afraid they would break out the forks and plates right then and there. Guiltily, Erin and Lyonette walked away.
Life was good. Tranquil. Placid, even. Both girls weren’t exactly waiting for the ball to drop, but when it did, they weren’t surprised. They were just about to split up for Erin to go visit Klbkch and Lyonette to see Krshia when they heard someone shouting at them.
“You there! Human!”
It was a vaguely familiar voice. Erin turned around, frowning, and saw a Drake wearing fancy clothing striding towards them with a small host of Drakes following behind. A few things struck her at once.
The first was that she’d seen him before, although her memory was a bit fuzzy. The second was that this Drake was rich. He had fancy clothes on, and a number of sparkling rings on his claws that were clearly magical. And lastly, he was drunk. The Drake was walking well, but there was a certain unsteadiness in his steps that told her he was some degree of sloshed, and early in the morning as well.
“Can I help you?”
The Drake stumbled as he approached Erin and she took a step back. He looked at her, slightly unfocused. He reeked of drink and looked…well, Erin had seen Relc on a bad day with his scales flaking off, bloodshot eyes, and reeking of sweat and grime. This Drake was pretty much all those things except richer, which meant he’d covered up the smells with cologne and his clothes were new at least.
“You’re that Human. The one who owns the inn.”
He looked at her and Erin recognized him at last. Wall Lord Ilvriss was hard to recognize without his armor and in his disheveled state. But he still managed to sneer at her and project quite a bit of arrogance into his tone.
“Human. I have business with you.”
“My name is Erin Solstice. And I remember you. You’re the lord-guy who was with Zel. You ran into my inn with Olesm two days ago, right after him! You knocked over two tables and nearly stepped on Mrsha’s tail!”
Erin put her hands on her hips and glared as the rest of Ilvriss’ escort caught up. She spotted Olesm hovering at the back of the group of important-looking Drakes. She waved at him.
Ilvriss sniffed. He glared at Lyonette.
“I am Wall Lord Ilvriss, [Innkeeper]. I have confidential business I wish to discuss with you. Your employee may leave.”
It was ironic, Lyonette thought, that she was on the receiving end of the treatment she’d used to give Erin and other people. She glanced at Erin and the young woman made a face.
“If you want to go, Lyonette, I’ll handle Wall-Face over here. It might take a while so meet me back at the inn when you’re done.”
“Okay.”
Lyonette backed away, half-wanting to stay as Ilvriss narrowed his eyes at Erin. The young woman turned back to face him, frowning.
“So what do you want? Hey, didn’t I throw a pan at your head once?”
The Drake blinked, and then frowned at Erin.
“Yes. I recall. You should consider yourself fortunate that at the time I had not activated my rings for battle. You are equally fortunate I overlooked that transgression. Now—”
“Wait, your rings? How would that help?”
There was a muted gasp of collective outrage from behind Ilvriss as Erin interrupted the Wall Lord. She didn’t care; she was enjoying herself. From Olesm’s face, he was equally horrified and amused.
Ilvriss paused. He was clearly drunk and hung over, and thus behind even Seborn in terms of mental acuity at the moment. He stared, irritated, at Erin and raised his hand slowly. Two fat rings, one made of ruby, the other sporting a large topaz in the center, glinted at her.
“I am a Lord of the Wall, one of the Drake nobility, you ignorant Human—I am naturally equipped with many magical items that ensure my safety. But my attire is not why I wanted to speak to—”
“Oh yeah? What does that one do?”
Enjoying herself now, Erin pointed to one of the rings. Ilvriss blinked.
“That ring sets my scales aflame with magical fire. Stop interrupting. I—”
“And what about that one? The shiny yellow gem one?”
“A projectile shield. Would you—”
“And that?”
“Strength enchantments. Wait—stop asking questions!”
The scales around Ilvriss’ face grew redder, and Erin saw his escort shifting their feet and twitching their tails. She heard a strangled noise and saw Olesm trying valiantly not to burst out laughing. He was having chest convulsions trying to hold it in.
Ilvriss glared around and massaged his temples, seeming to wake up a bit more. He growled and stepped closer to Erin. She stepped back to avoid the fumes of his breath.
“You stink. Have you been drinking? It’s not healthy, you know.”
“I don’t—stop talking—I came here to—”
“I should know. I’m an [Innkeeper].”
“Shut up!”
Ilvriss finally roared at Erin, and she did shut up, if only to wipe the spit off her face. The Wall Lord breathed heavily for a few seconds, and then straightened.
“I came here to discuss a mutually profitable arrangement, Human. You need not speak—no, be quiet! Simply listen. You are in possession of a powerful magical door that is enchanted with the [Teleport] spell.”
“Yup.”
Erin smiled as she nettled the Wall Lord. She didn’t exactly dislike him—she thought he was a rude jerk, but he had helped her before and she mainly just enjoyed annoying him. Ilvriss purpled a bit, but he went on slowly.
“I understand your magical door connects to the Human city of Celum, a hundred miles north of here. I wonder if it could be attuned to another location?”
“You mean, another city? Sure. I was planning on getting it to link to Invrisil, but then there was that Goblin Lord business…why, do you want to take a trip somewhere?”
Ilvriss nodded, and several of his adjutants murmured as he straightened.
“I am in need of rapid transportation, Human. Obviously I am reluctant to ask your ki—I would like to make a trip to my home city of Salazsar at all speed. How quickly can you connect your door to that location?”
Erin blinked at the Wall Lord.
“Salazsar? Oh…that’s one of the Walled Cities, right?”
She’d assumed nothing could make Ilvriss more irate, but that off-hand remark seemed to drive his annoyance with her to another level. He opened his mouth, closed it, and then replied as his tail thrashed the ground angrily.
“Salazsar is the premier Walled City, the hub of Drake civilization and an icon of the continent you ignorant—ape!”
“Fine. No need to be rude about it. Okay, how far away is it?”
Her cavalier attitude seemed to be stumping Ilvriss. He paused.
“Does that matter?”
Erin nodded.
“Yeah. You see, my door can only go as far as Invrisil in terms of distance and even then, it’d only be able to transport one person at a time and it would take a day to recharge each time.”
The news elicited a groan from the Drakes behind Ilvriss. The Wall Lord frowned.
“Really? Is there no way of improving upon the enchantment?”
“Nope. At least, Typhenous and Pisces didn’t think so. I could probably recharge it faster if I had mana stones, but that doesn’t mean I can make it go further.”
Ilvriss glanced over his shoulder at one of his aides. The female Drake was doing calculations on an abacus, which intrigued Erin. She glanced up at the Wall Lord and nodded.
“That would save us at least a week of travelling, Wall Lord, not to mention the dangers of the journey.”
“Very well.”
He grunted and turned back to Erin.
“If the limit of your door is to Invrisil…that puts it at around four hundred miles…then I request it be linked to Pallass. That is a Walled City, Human.”
“I knew that! I think. And I’d be okay with that, Mr. Rude Drake, but I can’t do it just like that.”
Erin glared at Ilvriss. He glared back.
“Why not?”
“Because…I need to put an anchor at the place I want to go before my door can connect to it. So, sorry, but until I get someone to run all the way to Pallass or Invrisil, I can’t make the door connect anywhere else. I was going to get a Courier to do it, but then the Goblin Lord appeared and…”
Erin shrugged helplessly. Ilvriss rubbed at his face and growled.
“Ancestors preserve me. The door needs an anchor? Very well, I will employ the Courier in this city to take whatever this…anchor is. I assume it is not heavy, or at least portable via a bag of holding?”
“Oh, it’s really small. But I already asked Hawk and he said—”
“I don’t care what he said! He will begin his journey this day on my orders, threat of Goblins or not! I am a Lord of the Wall, not some [Innkeeper] with a few gold coins!”
Ilvriss snapped at Erin. She raised her hands.
“Well excuse me. It’s just my door that you want to use. What if I said no?”
By now their discussion had attracted a few people who were watching with interest. Ilvriss’ jaw worked silently as he glared at Erin.
“You are in no position to refuse—”
“My inn, my rules. I’ll let you use the door if you ask nicely.”
Erin folded her arms and smirked. Ilvriss looked like he was swallowing his tongue. Olesm was doubled over and clutching at his stomach, much to the concern of the Drakes around him. When Ilvriss did find his voice, it was strangled with the effort of restraining himself.
“I will send one of my people to the building you call an inn. Give them whatever instructions you need. And when the door is connected to Pallass, I expect to be the first person through. If not, I will ensure you regret it.”
There was nothing to really say to that. Erin stuck out her tongue and Ilvriss recoiled as if it were a snake. He took a step back, closed his eyes, and took a deep breath. Then he turned and snapped at his escort.
“Come. We’re returning to the Tailless Thief. At least there the innkeeper knows how to treat people above his station with respect. Swifttail, with me.”
He beckoned and Olesm reluctantly trotted over. The [Tactician] glanced apologetically at Erin as Ilvriss began to walk off. Erin could hear the Wall Lord speaking loudly as he walked.
“I appreciate you not gagging in front of the Human. I understand the reaction, but they do become hard to deal with.”
He clapped Olesm on the shoulder and Erin scowled at Ilvriss’ back. She cupped her hands to her mouth and shouted at him.
“Hey! You’re a jerk, you know that?”
Her voice, amplified by her [Loud Voice] Skill, echoed down the street. Ilvriss froze mid-step and the people around Erin gaped at her. She looked around and shrugged.
“What? Someone had to tell him.”
Ilvriss stormed back down the street, furious. Erin waited until he was close and then spoke.
“You’re also drunk and smelly, by the way. You shouldn’t wear so much cologne. It stinks.”
“I should cut you down for your insolence. Were you in a Walled City, I could have you flogged for your tongue!”
“Really? Well guess what? You’re not in one, and unless you want to walk the rest of the way back, you’d better be nice to me!”
Erin shot back. Ilvriss rumbled in his chest.
“I could confiscate that door—”
“Try it! If you do, I’ll hit you with another pan, you jerk! And I have Gold-rank adventurers in my inn! And evil Goblins! Lots of them! You won’t take my door alive! I’ll help you, but only because I don’t want you around, got that?”
Erin shouted back at the Wall Lord. He looked ready to throttle her, and Olesm and another Drake had to hold Ilvriss back. She grinned at him, and privately thought she’d pushed her luck as far as she could. Erin turned.
“Smell you later!”
“Don’t walk away from me! I am a Lord of the Wall! You do not leave without my consent!”
Ilvriss roared at her back. Erin turned and stuck her tongue out again.
“Oh yeah? Watch me!”
She began to walk away, faster this time. Ilvriss tore himself loose from his escort and charged after her.
“You do not walk away from a Lord of the Wall. I depart, and you wait. Stop, I command you!”
There was something incredibly sad about the way he tried to bar Erin’s path. She danced around him and he blocked her. And then Ilvriss pointed.
“I said stop.”
He used a Skill. It had to be one, because his aides, the people on the street, and Erin’s own feet immediately halted in place. She froze, and felt Ilvriss’ command holding her still. It lasted for all of two seconds, until Erin got mad.
“You don’t order me around!”
She felt a flicker in her chest, a…feeling. It was like when she’d used her own [Inn’s Aura] Skill, or resisted Magnolia’s charmed voice. Erin reached inside herself and pushed back. It was very hard, but she began to move her feet. Ilvriss gaped at her as Erin laboriously began to walk again.
“How are you—stop! I command you!”
He pushed again, but Erin was ready and pushed back. Her feet kept moving and Erin began running away. It was very hard to resist Ilvriss’ command and she decided she’d had enough. Time to go back to the inn. Unfortunately, Ilvriss didn’t know when to quit.
“Halt! I will not be disobeyed!”
The street was frozen as the Wall Lord chased after the Human girl. She ran, making rude gestures at Ilvriss as he unsteadily staggered and shouted at her. Olesm, halted in mid-stride, could only stare at Ilvriss’ back as the two disappeared down the street. It was over a minute before his limbs could move again.
On the whole, he reflected, that had not been one of Ilvriss’ finest moments. But he also had to admit, it had been incredibly funny. Olesm giggled to himself as Ilvriss’ aides debated going after him in hushed voices. He was in a good mood today. Or maybe he’d just had too much to drink already.
It was probably the latter.
 
—-
 
