They reached the square’s edge just as Zac asked. They pierced through the dense mist’s final layer, and there was no longer any need for any explanation. The central square was built in direct connection with the docks, yet the Peregrine Ocean was nowhere in sight. Instead, they faced a huge, nightmarish city. It stretched further than should be possible, exceeding even the bounds of the memory domain.

It looked like a dozen versions of the Transformation Docks had been fused into one to create a dizzying world of twisted buildings. Some buildings had been replaced by burning ruins, others unnaturally fused to sport a dozen doors or multiple disjointed ceilings. Even the sky had been replaced by districts hanging upside down.

The chaos wasn’t limited to unsettling architecture. The streets were rife with slaughter and mayhem. The air was filled with a mix of screams, raucous laughter, and the clashes of desperate battles. The scene looked a lot like what happened to cities conquered by the Kan’Tanu or undisciplined Zecia factions during the intersector war.

Zac barely had time to take in the scene before his Danger Sense alerted him to an incoming threat. Turning into a blur, he unleashed a monstrous punch at a shimmer to his left. A twisted face full of malice barely had time to appear before Zac’s fist connected. The shockwave compressed the surrounding air until it shattered and released a clap of thunder, yet the misshapen head remained intact.

The head-on attack only stopped its emergence from the crack in space by pushing it back a few inches. It was Zac’s knuckles that throbbed painfully from striking the knotted forehead—a complete opposite of the outcome his years of experience had anticipated. The invader only emitted the aura of an Early Hegemon, but his forehead seemed no less refined than a C-grade War Regalia.

Zac had never encountered such a contradiction before. It should be impossible. Even a pure body tempering cultivator would emit something like a Fiend Energy or Vigor matching their grade. Anything less, and they’d lack the strength to utilize their body. There was no mistaking what made the impossible possible. The invaders were overflowing with the corruption of the Lost Era.

The ambusher looked human, apart from possessing three eyes and knotted bulbs all over his face. He veritably reeked of deranged malice, and Zac’s punch had only triggered a hunger for slaughter. While troubled, Zac didn’t back down. If a fist didn’t work, he’d try with his axe. The forehead was too sturdy, but Zac wasn’t dealing with an Izh’Rak Reaver. Not all parts were protected by bone.

If all that failed, the comforting haze of the central was right on his back. He’d interrupt the prayer if he had to. The stage was almost empty, but on the platform were plenty of High-grade cultivators who could deal with the threat. As if the Heavens didn’t want to get his hopes up, shocked roars and the sounds of battle erupted behind. Far more terrifying fluctuations seeped through the haze than what Zac’s opponent could muster.

Thankfully, they were still inside the Transformation Docks, giving the Empire the home-field advantage. A stream detached from the immense blob of Imperial Faith accumulated above the central square. It struck the mutant attacker before he could emerge from the gate, like it couldn’t tolerate the existence of any creature who dared profane the day.

Zac’s excitement at the timely assistance didn’t last long. The golden light didn’t seem to actually harm the mutant. However, Zac quickly noticed something odd. Zac's right arm turned into a blur, and a flash from [Death’s Duality] passed right through the mutant. There was barely any resistance this time. The miscreation was cleanly cut in two, including the adamantine forehead.

The pathway shattered soon after, yet Zac wasn’t relieved. He’d already gotten a better look at the other invaders filling the streets. The streets weren’t exactly overflowing with mutants, but they all emitted the same fiendish grade-transcending strength. There were also more of them popping out by the second. Zac figured the one he killed simply was unlucky enough to emerge right next to the square.

“You overestimate me,” Zac sighed. “I might be able to deal with these things if we can lure them over to the square one by one. But getting out of here is out of the question.”

“We can,” Janos said as his sphere came alive. It released a nearly identical light as the halos, creating one for each of them.

Zac moved around a bit and discovered the halo would cover both him and his weapons like a film of illusory faith. Even Alea’s chains gained a golden hue without weakening the Inexorable Death lurking beneath. Zac looked at Janos with awe and suspicion. Had he known this would happen? If so…

“Like you said. We need to go. Do you know the way?”

With the sphere in one hand, Janos pointed toward the distance. “Weakness. Shift.”

“What does that—”

A streak of pure destruction filling the whole sky interrupted Zac’s question. It tore through thousands of buildings and annihilated multiple blocks suspended in the sky. The attack was at least launched by a Late Monarch inside the square. It changed nothing. Yet another set of buildings replaced those destroyed, and new mutants emerged from flickering gates.

“… Alright. Weakness, shift. Good enough. You’ll show the path and I’ll keep us safe,” Zac said as his body began to grow.
