Roland moved his hands like he was giving a presentation, "It involves a thin surface level of stem cells spread over the upper thorax of this insect. By various undulating fibers using a thin layer of cilia-"

I tuned them out, turning towards Kessiah and Althea. I pointed outside, "Want to see the rest of the town?'

Kessiah started walking out of the tent, "Yeah. Better than watching those nerds gush."

I rolled my eyes while Althea grabbed my arm,

"I thought you'd never ask."

I smiled as we walked outside. Across from the Enigmatta, a marble building stood tall. Flags waved in the wind, bold and red. They carried images of an executioner swinging an ax. I pointed at the guild, "So uh, who are they?"

Kessiah whistled, "They're the inquisitors. Not very friendly. They pretend that they're the police force for Schema. More often than not they work like gangsters."

A spitting sound came out of Kessiah's intercom, "If I could, I'd spit at them. They just extort the locals. Their leeches"

Althea pointed at the agents of Schema, "What about them?"

Kessiah sighed, "I want to hate them, but there's really no reason too. The agents of Schema are basically the preliminary guild for Speakers. They're diplomats for Schema's cause basically."

I nodded, "Ohhh, ok."

Kessiah pointed towards a castle beside the Enigmatta's tent, "That's the worst of them all though. They call themselves the Empire."

My eyes narrowed, "The Empire?"

Kessiah waved her hand in disgust, "They're just a bunch of pompous, self-righteous, wannabee royalty. The only thing kingly about them is their egos. They won't listen to you unless you suck their dick the entire time your talking. Hard to talk like that."

I grimaced, "Well, Schema's ok with them."

Kessiah scoffed, "Yeah, they're a strong faction. They're probably the second strongest faction on Giess."

We walked forward, people walking out from around us. Althea patted her thighs, "Who's the strongest?"

Kessiah pointed her hand at the building in front of the empire's castle,

"Them. The Soldiers of Fortune."

That's who Selesha talked about earlier. I took a mental note on them as Kessiah continued, "They're higher level than most, that's for sure. They're just a bunch of mercenaries that clear dungeons for a price. Their motto is, 'Better to pay in credits than in blood.'"

I shrugged, "Most of the time its true."

Kessiah nodded, "And they charge an arm and a leg for it too. I worked for them for a while till one of my assigned teammates tried slitting my throat while I was asleep. Needless to say, it didn't work out for him."

Althea leaned towards Kessiah, "Why'd he do that?"

Kessiah rolled her eyes, "He didn't like how I talked to him or something. He was ridiculous."

Althea nodded, "What did you say?"

Althea and Kessiah chatted away about who said what. I wasn't one for gossip, so I looked around. I peered at the Soldiers of Fortune. Their base was more like a bar, panels of glass showing the inside.

People sat at tables, chomping away at meats and drinking brews. A few hired espens served and prepared the drinks and meats for them. They paid them in credits for cheap labor probably.

These espens served all kinds of food to all sorts of species. The inside oozed a sense of comradery, everyone laughing and telling stories together. They talked over odd but catchy music that flowed out from inside.  For alien music, it didn't sound bad.

It looked pretty fun honestly.

An electronic touchscreen plastered itself along the back wall. Pictures and descriptions showed along it. A few members read from this display, interacting with the interface. One of the posts rewarded a member with several red dungeon cores for completing it.

I turned towards Althea and Kessiah, "Hey, can anyone finish the assignments or do you have to be a part of the guild?"

Kessiah looked up, "You want to do work? We just got here."

I rolled my eyes, "It's a great way to explore and see what's going on here."

She looked back to Althea, "Knock yourself out. You won't receive full payment, but they'll give you a slice."

I turned to Althea, "You want to come with me?"

Althea shook her head, "I want to go see some shops. I have all this money, might as well spend it."

Kessiah put her arm over Althea's shoulders, "That's more like it! Come on, let's get you some drinks. I passed by a place right over there."

I waved them off as Kessiah gushed about where to spend for what. I walked into the base of the soldiers, ducking under an archway. As I stepped in, people stared at me. I walked forward with a casual trot, keeping to myself.

As I passed by the bar, I reached the touchscreen. I clicked the accept button on the red dungeon core contract. I almost turned around, but someone stood too close. If I turned right now, I'd bump them. I turned my head,

"Hey, can you give me some space?"

It was a stocky, gray humanoid. A pot belly bulged from underneath his plated armor. He didn't have a helmet on his thorny face. Based on how ugly he was, he should've.

Two slanted eyes stared up at me and narrowed into splits. He pointed around,

"Why are you going around putting a debuff on everyone here? Who do you think you are?"

I looked around, finding several other aliens staring at me. I shook my hand, "It's not a debuff. I'm too heavy. I spread my weight out using skills."

He laughed, "So you're too heavy for the floor? What are you, a fighter?"

I nodded, "Yup. Are you going to get out of my way?"

The weird ogre guy frowned at me, "Is that a threat?"

I looked away, facepalming my helmet. This 8-foot goblin was too close to me, his breath getting on my face. He was used to shaking people down. In my mind, this guy was testing me. I didn't want to take it personally. Even then though, this was an excellent introduction to the guild.

Real classy.

Before I did anything else, I analyzed him.

Khan Mar(Level: 1,568 | Species: Bellop | Faction: Soldiers of Fortune/The Empire) - A far-off illegitimate child of royalty within The Empire, Khan leveraged a few strings to get to where he is. He never wasted his opportunities, however, and this lets him far exceed the merits of his birthrights within the empire. Using gunplay and grappling, he kites enemies, using premade gear as cc tools.

He's no match for you given his level, though he is by no means incompetent.

I looked back at him, knowing all I needed to know about him,

"Look, I've got shit to do. I explained myself already. I didn't have to do that. Let me leave."

Khan shook his head, the smell of booze on his breath. It leaked in through my suit. I hated the smell. It reminded me of my dad. Khan patted a gray pistol on his hip, red light glowing along it. With a sleight of hand, he unholstered the gun and pointed it at my knee,

"I won't say this twice. Cut that aura off, now."

I shrugged, "If I do, I'm going to wreck this place. My feet are going right through this nice floor."

He adjusted his grip on his pistol. With only two fingers and thumb, it looked strange.

"Not my problem."

I put my right hand on his shoulder, "Look, I'm walking out right now-"

He clicked the trigger.
