“I’m sure. I just hope you can see things from Ogras’s point of view,” Zac said. “I’ll make it up to you somehow. I already owe you one for helping me inside the Mousetrap.”

“I haven’t been mistreated, and my incarceration has given me time to consider various matters. I will not retaliate against Mister Azh’Rezak. My outcome could have been much worse.”

“Girl, I’m glad you see things that way, and you’re welcome. I’m just doing my job keeping you safe,” Ogras said as he began undoing Tavza’s bindings.

Zac was impressed by Tavza’s show of restraint. Her brows briefly rose with annoyance at the demon’s jab, but she didn’t so much as swing at Ogras after being freed. She simply activated her bloodline, releasing dense waves of Miasma through her body. The lingering traces of Chaos were quickly hidden by her Abyssal Death.

“You didn’t—?” Zac hesitated after she was done.

“I’m not pursuing the Dao of Chaos,” Tavza calmly said. “It’s still a topic worthy of study.”

Zac slowly nodded in agreement. The perfected Life and Death left from his own Chaos attack was part of his inspiration for his upgraded Daos. It was a shame Chaos Energy was so volatile, or generating it would have been the perfect way to gain insights into its subsidiary Daos.

“Maybe we can compare notes later,” Zac said. “I need to settle some matters. Will the two of you be fine by yourselves for a little bit?”

“We should be fine. Go, settle your breakthrough,” Ogras waved. “We’ll keep each other company.”

Zac stopped just before leaving the cave. “Can I ask you something? Is it possible to advance your bloodline to C-grade as a Hegemon?”

Tavza looked at Zac with surprise and confusion. She held back her questions, instead slowly nodding. “It is. But not in your current state.”

“Why not?”

“You first need to reach Peak D-grade. Peak Hegemony means achieving perfection of the grade. As such, your body must be ready to withstand the advancement to the next stage. This includes auxiliary paths. However, few pursue such a route. Evolving bloodlines or constitutions to C-grade before forming an Inner World is exceedingly difficult, much harder than entering Monarchy.

“My bloodline is one of the purest of the past generations, but I’m not confident in taking that step. Having talent and the willingness to put in the effort isn’t enough. Special treasures or encounters are necessary to break through your limits.”

“It sounds like there are certain advantages to doing it?” Zac asked.

“Naturally. A C-grade constitution will allow you to fight at the level of a Pseudo Monarch without their drawbacks. If anything, your situation would be the opposite. The stronger your foundations, the better the Inner World you can form. A C-grade bloodline will help you withstand the process.”

“Thank you,” Zac said, lost in thought as he headed to a nearby cave.

His Draugr side had already swept through his body by this point, and one thing was for sure: Monarchy might be closer than he’d expected, and it was time to start planning in earnest. Finishing the job and evolving his Void Emperor bloodline early sounded like something to be seriously considered.
