“Gotta say,” Marina wiped the sweat off her forehead, feeling slightly lightheaded. “These ants might look all cute and clumsy, but they are definitely not holding back. You sure this doesn’t hurt?”

She had never seen this much blood in her life, especially not from injuries like these. The most she’d seen was from knife accidents in her own kitchen that were easily patchable by bandages, unlike Hecate’s wounds, which likely could end someone’s life with just one of them.

“It was my choice to engage in hand-to-hand combat, so…” Hecate fitted herself into her nightgown. “There is nothing for me to complain about. I asked for pain, and it was what I received.”

“Weren’t you just complaining about your dress moments ago, though?”

“Well, my dear, some things are outside of my control. The maker of that specific dress should’ve considered the possibilities of today’s events. And made it impenetrable.” Hecate said, “Wouldn’t you agree?”

“I-I don’t know.” Marina shook her head, tossing the cloth towel into the bucket of water, now tinged with a reddish hue. “Can you uh, talk to Mellie while I do dinner prep?” She doubted the bee girl would want to see her.

“It is what I have in mind as well.” Hecate nodded, “But know that, my dear, your words carry much more weight than mine, especially to Mellie.”

“Yes, I know… That’s why I need you to break down the wall a little bit.”

Hecate tilted her head. “The wall?”

“Yeah, like you know that weird awkwardness and tension that makes it hard for you to want to talk to that person,” Marina explained. “That’s the wall.”

“Ah. How interesting. I shall go ahead and search for her, then.” Sliding into her high-heels, Hecate headed for the ladder. “Oh, by the way, what are your plans for supper?”

“Uh,” Marina paused. “To be honest, I have no clue, but it’s going to be edible, I promise.”

“Such reassurance.” Hecate lowered herself onto the ladder with one hand dangling from the attic floor. Climbing downwards with high heels was not the greatest of ideas. She took a small backward leap before ending with a graceful turn.

The hut was still quiet, and the door to Mellie’s lab was still open.

“I think she might still be outside,” Marina said from behind. “Wait, hold up, what if she went into the forest at this hour to avoid us? Hecate, we need to—”

“No, my dear, that won’t be a possibility, her scent is right next to the house.” Hecate pointed out, “She is right outside.”

“Okay, thank god.” Marina let out a sigh of relief. “Good luck, I will go do some prep now.”

*****

After giving Marina a gentle nod, Hecate walked to the door. Placing her hand on the doorknob, she was once again reminded of her distaste for its design, too functional to be archaic, yet too primitive to be sophisticated. But regardless of her disdain, the door opened, as all doors would.

Greeted by the maroon, twilight sky, Hecate took a step onto the blue grass under the door frame. She turned towards the direction of Mellie’s guiding scent. Only to find the bee girl with her back against the wooden hut, and her face covered in her arms, quietly sobbing away.

“Oh… Miss Hecate…” Mellie wiped her tears as she looked up.

Hecate froze for a split second, wondering if it was her footsteps or her perfume that alerted Mellie.

“Ah. My apologies for interrupting.” She bowed. “Would you like to tolerate my presence, or would you prefer your time alone?”

“It’s fine… Miss Hecate, you can stay.” Mellie pointed at the patch of grass next to her. “I would rather have someone here next to me.”

“Goodness gracious.” Hecate sat down before pulling out a handkerchief from her satchel. “Here.”

“T-thank you.” Mellie folded the handkerchief. “Did Miss Marina send you?”

“Well, I am also a being capable of my own decisions just like yourself, and even though she bestowed upon me her wishes, I choose to send myself,” Hecate replied.

“So, Miss Marina did send you.”

“Umm…” Hecate shrugged. “Slightly, yes.”

Mellie quickly glanced at Hecate’s body. “You healed really fast, ant spears are made to leave everlasting wounds. Is that one of the perks of being an Authority Bearer?”

“Oh, Mellie, the cost is far greater than the benefits,” Hecate said. “And the amount of pain you must endure is… immeasurable.”

“But what cost is worth greater than immortality?” Mellie turned to meet Hecate in the eye. “And what pain is greater than the pain of being powerless?”

Hecate smiled as she patted Mellie on the head. “There are plenty, Mellie, and I am sure that one day you will understand, regardless of whether you choose this path or not, but just know that neither me nor Marina would look at you any differently.”

“I just feel like I am not good enough, like I couldn’t do much to help you or Miss Marina,” Mellie said, pulling herself tighter around the knee. “And that you two feel like you need to hide stuff from me, cuz I will only slow you down.”

“This may sound sort of unbelievable, but I sometimes feel the same way as well.” Hecate nodded.

“Yeah, Miss Hecate, I have a hard time believing that.”

“Well, Marina’s dream is to open a bakery, and she now owns a bakery. However…” Hecate paused, “When we searched through the pantry, we did not find a single grain of flour. Which is also why we decided to set foot in this forest. And I just wish that I could do a slight bit more than getting her from place to place, I really do.”

“But Miss Hecate, I feel like you’re doing so much already.”

“Well, it’s all I could do,” Hecate peered into the distance before looking back to Mellie. “And you have done much more for Marina’s dream than I ever could.”

Mellie raised a brow. “All I did was process that salt block, and some other small things, I—”

“And that is progress, more progress than if we were still traveling by ourselves.” She brushed Mellie’s messy hair with the tip of her fingers. “Remember how happy Marina was when you extracted that small bowl of salt? She was overjoyed, and she was proud of you.”

Lowering her head, Mellie stared at the ground. “Really?”

“Of course, a righteous maiden does not lie.” Reaching into her satchel, she pulled out a tin can. “I bought this when I was living in the city.” She removed the lid to reveal the assortment of chocolates. “Do not tell Marina, let this be our own little secret.”

“These look really expensive…” Mellie hesitated. “You sure about this, Miss Hecate?”

“A lady must learn to control her urges, which includes sweets.” Hecate pumped up her chest. “Which means I won’t be finishing them anytime soon, so please hurry before Marina sees us.”

“Okay.” Picking up a striped piece, Mellie took a small nibble. “Wow, this is not like anything I’ve tasted before, its somehow bitter and sweet at the same time! Thank you so much, Miss Hecate!”

“My pleasure.” Hecate returned the tin can back into her satchel. “Marina said she was preparing supper. She must be close to done by now. Would you like to join us?”

“Yes.” Mellie dusted the dirt off her clothes. “I would love to.”

“...”