Erick hated the smell of uncleaned battlefields. Of blood and mud and piss and shit. Of death. All of those smells now assaulted him, as he walked across the bloodied grasslands of floor 2, of the Glittering Depths. The scent brought to mind all the death Erick had seen in the wake of the Wizard of Anarchy, raising a mountain all the way to the Edge of the Script in the center of Quintlan, in the Fractured Citadels, where undead were as numerous as trees in an endless forest. Memories of eliminating Terror Peaks came to mind next, and of the millions dead in the Chelation War, where bodies weren’t able to be cleaned for days…

When had this ‘battle’ of the second floor even taken place? It smelled a lot worse than it should smell. Or had Erick ‘arrived’ at this battlefield on day 2 or 3 of the slaughter? Maybe even day 4.

Erick held his head high, and walked on. The bodies were getting less and less numerous as Erick and his band of rescued people got further away from the front lines. Erick had encountered several patrols of the red tabarded in the two hours they had walked away from the front lines, each one rather more deadly than the last, but he had rescued more than a few soldiers, including Kinder. Those rescues even helped rescue even more people, but mostly in a distracting sense; Erick did most of the damage. His rescues now numbered 47 semi-healthy people, and another 13 people on makeshift stretchers.

He was up to number 6 in the Rescue and Revenge questline. Every completion netted him another 500 mana regen, along with a small collections of metamonds and metirons. He had a very small hoard of loot at the moment, but all of it was useless without being transformed into proper, working tools.

Erick looked to the air, and said, “Status.”

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 8500

Meta-Irons: 1850, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 5/10, 0 in storage

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 97/100

Rod of the Lightning Guardian, 872/1000

Necklace of [Meditation], 47/50

Wand of [Drinking Food], 200/200

Belt of Many Functions, (depleted), (depleted), [Unsensible], 247/250

Shield (depleted), 211/250

Unused Meta-Irons: Staff of the Anti-Magus (BROKEN) 50/50, Wand (Empty) 5/5, Wand (Empty) 5/5, Bracelet (depleted) 5/5, Bracelet (depleted) 5/5, Breastplate (depleted) 250/250,

Unused Meta-Diamonds: [Murky], [Benediction], [Flaming Ooze], [Shadow Bolt], [Paper Control], [Memorize], [Minor Treat Wounds], [Force Shield], [Force Spike], [Health] x 7, [Basic Light] x5, [Basic Shadow], [Basic Stone] x2, [Basic Air] x2, [Basic Fire] x3, [Basic Water] x4, [Unknown] x18

- -

Erick didn’t actually carry all that. Kinder wore the breastplate and another of the soldiers carried almost all of the extra metamonds and metairons. Apparently that was ‘close enough’ to Erick carrying it that it still counted under his status.

A few of the people Erick had rescued even had meta-items of their own, and some of them had proven very useful in certain situations. There was one woman who called herself ‘Scout’, who had magic in that same vein as her namesake. A group of over 60 soldiers was not a quiet thing, even though most of them were trying to be quiet, so Erick had sent Scout ahead every so often to check the way forward, to ensure that they weren’t ambushed.

Scout once again appeared in the air ahead of Erick, about forty meters away, already walking Erick’s way. Air and Light and Shadow peeling away as she came closer. She bowed, unhurried, and then rose when Erick got close. She spoke in a monotone voice, “I detect no enemies ahead of us, sir.”

Erick was pretty sure that she was an NPC, because what he had asked her to do was look for enemies, people who needed help, and Marii’s hidden base. Several times now, Scout’s only response when returning had been that she had seen no enemies ahead of them. Erick asked, “Did you see Marii’s base?”

“I detect no enemies ahead of us, sir.”

Kinder spoke up, his voice rather like a normal person’s, “We might be close to Marii’s.”

Erick told Scout, “Go out and check for more enemies, then report back. Make sure we’re not ambushed. If you see Marii’s then report back and bring us there.”

The woman backed away and half-vanished, the world seeming to curl around her body, leaving her mostly invisible. Her supple shoes and lower legs were still visible when she moved too fast, which is what she did, her feet lifting off the ground as she almost floated away, hopping through the air. She took ten steps for every one anyone else would take.

Erick nodded to himself as he saw Scout vanish up the low hills. “That’s a good movement skill; trustworthy, even if it’s not foolproof. I prefer an entire Elemental Body, though.” He asked Kinder, “Are there Shaping spells here? I haven’t seen any yet.”

Kinder, who was probably from Greensoil and not an NPC at all, said, “Might have some Shaping magic inside those unknown gems you picked up, sir, but maybe not. Those are rare.”

“Do you know why some of those looted gems are unknown?”

“I’m surprised you can tell what any of them are at all, without [Identify].” Kinder plucked out a gem from his pocket, to hold it aloft. It shimmered blue and white and gold. “I have no idea what this one is. Gold is divine magic, right?”

“Usually.” Erick shrugged. “White and blue means Light and Water, so maybe Healing Magic is my guess.”

Kinder put it back in his pocket, where he was keeping all other truly special-seeming ones that Erick had given him to hold. “Marii should have [Identify]. She’ll be able to tell us more.”

“So where is she?”

Kinder looked around, then directed his gaze up a distant, yet nearby hill, just to the right of their current direction. There was a rock at the top of that hill. “Architect Marii put stones like that around her location, so we’re close. Want to walk up to the top of that hill there and see if we can see?”

“Yes.”

Erick began walking that direction, and the caravan followed. When they got closer, Erick directed the caravan to stay in the lowlands, as he and Kinder ascended the hillside. Two minutes later, Erick stood at the top of a hill with a stone half buried near the top.

He saw their destination. Or at least he saw where their destination probably was. He also saw the entire plains spread out before him.

This was a vast, vast land of undulating hills and trees here and there. To the area that Kinder had called ‘fallward’, which was where the sunstar fell every evening, which was what Erick termed ‘west’ in his mind, lay the majority of the battlefield, and the resistance headquarters known as the Plains. Smoke rose from there, like someone had started prairie fires across half the horizon. To the north, or ‘moonwards’, where the actual moon of Insten sat in the sky, like an unmoving silver dot, lay the mountains. To the south, or ‘Riamways’, where Riam hung in the sky, lay the depleted lands of Insten and the actual frontlines of Insten’s war for independence.

Erick, Kinder, and the caravan had been headed ‘risewards’, or east, to get here, wherever ‘here’ was.

“There,” Kinder said, as he pointed. “Those hills. Marii’s base is hidden under Illusion Magic or whatever she does with the place. There are probably traps from Marii scattered all over there. Maybe Riam ambushes too; trying to stop people like us from reconnecting with known forces.”

Erick nodded. “Yeah. Probably.”

Kinder smiled, even though there was danger. “But the place doesn’t look on fire. Looks like it survived.”

Five hills over from their current location, a collection of six hills sat in a hexagon pattern. Each one of those hills had one very bent tree growing just off the side of the hilltop, which was odd, but not too odd. But each of the six hills were exactly the same, and every hill’s tree was turned a sixth of the way around on the hilltop, as though the hill had been copied, rotated a little, and set in a 6-hill grouping.

“Which hill is the correct one, Kinder?”

“All of them.” Kinder said, “And none of them. Whichever one the enemy is not at.”

A slow smile crept upon Erick’s face. “Oh? That’s interesting. Can you take down that defense with a simple numbers attack?”

Kinder frowned a little. “Not sure what that is, sir.”

“Putting a person on each possible hill, or attacking all hills at the same time.”

“Oh! … I don’t know. Architect Marii has pretty good defenses, and I’ve heard stories of people sneaking up on all sides and one of them getting in to see Marii. But that’s okay, right? Means she’s split the enemy into six parts, and she can pick whichever one she wants to kill first.” Kinder said, “She’ll see us coming, sir. We can probably go up all at once and she’ll just let us in.”

“We’ll find out.”

Scout appeared out of the air nearby, before stepping closer enough to report, which she did. “I detect no enemies ahead of us, sir.”

Erick pointed toward the six hills that made up Marii’s defenses. “Go alert Marii. Tell her we’re coming in with refugees.”

Scout dashed off.

Ten minutes later, Erick stood at the base of the nearest illusionary hill, with his caravan of people behind him.

The air shimmered ahead, and light parted, revealing a collection of towers and walls with glittering metal roofs and floating gems above those roofs. The ground outside of Marii’s base was empty, save for Scout, who stood in the middle of the shimmering portal to safety.

Scout said, “Architect Marii is waiting.”

Find Architect Marii’s hidden location. 1/1

Erick told his caravan of people, “Inside. Double-time.”

For another five minutes, Erick stood outside of the protected space, making sure the others got into the protected area first. And then Erick went inside, and the shimmer of Illusion magics closed behind him. They hadn’t been assaulted at the last moment. Which was pretty good! Erick had expected an ambush.

Perhaps Marii and her people had actually already killed all ambush-capable forces? That’d be nice. Erick hadn’t seen much of Architect Marii’s place, but already he was interested in what he saw. The idea of scattering the position of a house over several locations was novel to him. Maybe he could even replicate the effect back on Veird, with his cloud castle. You could never have too many defenses, after all.

As Erick followed the caravan into Marii’s hill-spanning castle, he imagined that he would be spending some time here making some new mana-crystal-based magic, for mana crystals were excellent tools for making further magic.

Mana crystals weren’t used on Veird itself, but they were used inside Ar’Cosmos, and other Script-distant lands, like here in the Dark. Maybe some of it could even translate to Veird, so that he could use it in case he ever needed to go past the Edge again.

… Hopefully that would never happen again, but there was a lot of good to be had in preparing for Edge cases.

Erick chuckled to himself at his own joke, as the shimmer separating Marii’s hill from the rest of the world closed behind him.

From this angle, inside the shimmer, Erick looked out across the land, inspecting what he was seeing. Each of the six hills were maybe half a kilometer across at the top, with another half kilometer between them. Marii’s hill had her castle, of course, but the other tops of the other five hills looked like they were green pies, with a large helping of foggy ‘meringue’ on top. That airy, watery, foggy area was probably a major component of the illusion magics that made this place appear on whatever hill Marii decided to appear on... Or something like that.

He’d find out about all that later.

A gate into Marii’s castle held open in front, where soldiers stationed at this base scanned Erick’s rescued people with various magics, and guided refugees to tents and cots and other resting stations inside the castle. Other people started healing the refugees, while the soldiers Erick had gathered began to seamlessly mix into Marii’s forces.

Good.

Erick wouldn’t have to deal with all that organization.

Kinder stood just ahead, having waited for Erick, to say, “Marii will see us, now.”

- - - -

Inside a side room, off the main castle courtyard, Erick met with the woman in charge of this castle.

Marii was a short woman with flaming red hair and bright green eyes, and a rapid, no-nonsense way of speaking, “You’re the rescuer, then? Good. What do you need to kill all the Reds attacking us? Or are you going to coward out and go to the mountains like the rest of the bastards that came this way?”

Her words were spoken with half-inflections, as though she were stating words off of a script that she had never practiced for. She was clearly an NPC, and not really ‘there’, but Erick treated her as he would any person; with as much truth as he could.

“Gonna kill the reds here, so I need access to your mana chambers and I need help identifying the stuff I managed to take back and scavenge from the patrols.”

Marii breathed out a little, and her tone turned easier. “Good answer.” She retrieved a ring from her pocket, and held it out to Erick. The ring had a dull white gem. “Ring of [Identify].”

Erick took the ring—

Marii pointed with her now-free hand. “Mana chambers that way. Don’t break them. They’re all we have left from this location.”

“Meta-iron forging facilities?”

“Through the door next to the mana chambers. Those are hard to replace, too.”

“Do you know how to shape a new meta-iron from old meta-irons?”

“Yes. Melt down the scrap, pour it into a prepared mold. Take the iron out of the mold and clean it up. Runes and words if you want. Prime the iron with several meta-diamonds that you don’t give a shit about, but which are similar to the meta-iron that you want to eventually use, then you break that meta-diamond and start inserting the ones you care about. Test with [Identify] each time you add a new gem to make sure you’re doing it right. Wham bam, there’s your completed item. We done here?”

“… Sure. We’re done.”

Architect Marii walked away. She was busy, apparently.

Erick watched her go for a moment, then he went off to the mana chamber room.

- - - -

The mana chamber room held three different cubes like the ones Erick saw back at the arcanaeum, on floor 1, each of them three meters wide on all sides. A few tables sat opposite the mana chambers, ready with tools of all sorts and to hold whatever projects anyone might be working on. This was clearly a space where many different people could all work on their own projects at the same time.

