Invalid command. Are you in need of special assistance, Ashes Woodfield? Transport to the entrance is just an ask away.

“Nope. Thanks though.” Erick hefted the half staff in his hands, and felt kinda good about the thrill of discovery he was about to embark upon. “Gonna make my own help.” He turned to Kinder, and said, “Tell me if I’m needed to repel an attack, or whatever.”

Kinder slammed his fist against his chest without missing a beat. “Before you do that, sir! We could use that wand of [Drinking Food] for the people, sir!”

“… Oh. Right.” Erick looked to the mana chambers. “I was in there for a while, wasn’t I?”

Kinder added, “And. Uh. Since you made a [Rejuvenation] wand… Few of our healers survived, but Architect Marii has some Healing Magics so we’re limping along, but we don’t got any proper priests with real healing, so we’re kinda hurting. A lot. Any additional healing would help.”

Erick felt a sudden stab of shame. “Right.” Erick put the broken staff back down and grabbed the two requested wands. First thing Erick did was attune the Wand of [Rejuvenation], bringing him up to 10/10 metamonds in use. Attuning took little more than a will-to-power and an empty metamond slot, but un-attuning took 10 minutes, so he couldn’t switch his loadout in combat, but outside of a battle it was easy enough to do that. He’d remove one or both of his utility wands later. For now, the Wand of [Rejuvenation] and the Wand of [Drinking Food] got used. “Let’s go feed and heal some people.”

Kinder almost glowed as a smile broke across his face. “Thank you, sir.”

- - - -

As soon as Erick saw the tired, dirty, hungry, and injured people he had left in the care of the Marii and her people, Erick realized he had fucked up. It didn’t matter if they were all NPCs, and they felt as much real pain as a slime could feel, it was still fucked up to leave them in that pain. Marii was currently kneeling beside a man on a blanket on the ground, trying to heal the man, her hands glowing cerulean blue. It wasn’t working so well. She was covered in blood and she had a bunch of assistants helping her, either with preparing people for healing later, or doing aftercare, but there were at least twenty people that needed healing, and nine of them were comatose. Added to that, there were a hundred other people in the courtyard, and undoubtedly more stuffed away in all parts of the castle. The place was packed before Erick had gotten here with his rescues, and now it was overflowing.

Everyone was getting in everyone’s ways.

Erick needed to take care of the people he already had rescued, if for no other ‘real’ reason than to make sure this place ran better than it currently was. Erick instantly roped Kinder into helping him, but Kinder seemed prepared for that even before Erick asked.

Soon, Erick had gone through the crowd, tapping the most injured people with [Rejuvenation], while Kinder got the kitchens up and running. After Erick was done in the courtyard, he went to those kitchens and held his Wand of [Drinking Food] over a large, self-heating black pot and began filling it up with lukewarm oatmeal, while Kinder got the bowls and spoons ready. Marii’s base was quite large and well defended, but it was meant for a crew of about 20 people. The pipes still carried water into the castle from somewhere, but the place had run out of food as soon as it started taking in refugees, which Erick guessed had started yesterday, and then continued on even after Erick had arrived several hours ago. Erick watched, right then, as the front doors to the courtyard opened and more refugees showed up and filed into the castle.

There were probably 500 or 600 people here, now.

And all of them seemed hungry.

The line to Erick’s food cauldron was thickening up, just like the oatmeal inside the cauldron itself. It actually began to look appetizing, too, once it wasn’t so liquidy. Erick didn’t have to organize anything. The soldiers got that done, while Kinder ladled them bowls. Erick had more mana in him than just for making oatmeal, though, so he tapped the people who passed by with a [Rejuvenation] from his other wand, to ensure everyone was in good, healthy order.

It was simple, good work, even if it was done inside a memory of a land long past, the people were rather more memories than real themselves, and Erick was cutting into his goals of playing around with mana crystals. There was always time to help people, and this way, Erick got a chance to see everyone in the castle.

Two hours later, as the last person passed through with a bowl, Erick offered a tap of [Rejuvenation], but the soldier shook their head. They explained that they had already been through the line three times.

When it was over, Erick happily said to Kinder, “I haven’t been able to do anything that simple and nice for people in a long time. I kinda miss it.”

Kinder side-eyed Erick. “But you do this all the time—? Ah. The healing is new.”

Erick chuckled. “I usually work on a much larger scale than this. It gets impersonal at that scale.”

“You must have hit your head pretty hard out there.”

“I probably did.” Erick stretched, popping his back, and then rolling his shoulders. He put his wands back into his back fannypack, and said, “Time to make a magical sniping staff and kill some memories of Riam.”

Kinder muttered to himself, “Weird coping mechanism, but alright.”

Erick almost tried to prove his sincerity of words with some hard evidence that the people here were not full people, that they were just facsimiles; Erick had seen every single person in the castle as they went through his food line, after all. The easiest ‘proof’ that no one here was real was that the people around here repeated the same words whenever you asked them questions.

A better proof lay in the souls of these NPCs. Every single person in this castle, except for Erick, had a soul as thin and barely-there as a slime. The dungeon had given these NPCs some complicated instructions, for sure. But they were still fake people.

Kinder had some sort of obfuscation on him that made his soul appear like all the rest of the NPCs. Marii had the same thing on her, too… Probably. Marii was much more of an NPC than Kinder. Erick had caught the red-head saying the exact same thing, word for word, to the people she healed more in-depth than Erick was able to heal, which she had continued to do the entire time Erick was making food.

Erick wasn’t going to say anything about souls and the nature of reality to anyone here, though, because that reminded him too much of what Melemizargo used to say about all the people of Veird, except for when he spoke of Erick, Rozeta, or Jane.

- - - -

Magic was weird outside of the Script, Erick thought to himself, as he entered the metiron workshop.

There was no true Mana Altering outside of the Script, for starters.

People were born with the mana they had, and they had to work hard to discover what they were good at, or figure out how to manually Mana Alter, which still wasn’t a pure sort of thing. But in the Script, the Skill Mana Altering allowed anyone to conjure whatever mana they were trying to conjure from the shared pool of Script mana that everyone contributed to.

Erick had long ago learned aura control, and singing to the mana to ‘flavor’ his own mana properly, but if he was casting, for instance, a plain [Water Bolt] or other basic Water spell from the Script, then the Script would give him Water mana for that spell. If he were to hum the tune of Elemental Water, what he was truly doing there was helping the mana, and thus the Script, to properly target Water mana to give him for that Water Magic.

Casting Water Magic on his own, through aura control and Benevolence and self-creation, was a lot more difficult. He could still manually Mana Alter, of course. Not only did Benevolence lend itself very well to becoming any Element Erick wanted it to become, but Erick was also rather good at manual magic.

And, of course, mana was possibility, and possibility can change if it is sufficiently primed to change.

That’s what the Glittering Depths was doing here with mana crystals.

Mana crystals, on their own, were very, very good at innately Mana Altering all the mana that passed through them. This was because mana crystals, much like Erick singing to the mana, caused a harmonic convergence in the nearby mana, which propagated a localized change in the nature of the mana that passed through or near the mana crystal.

So what happened here, with these metirons and metamonds, was that people pumped mana into their meta-irons, and the metiron would act as a conductor for the metamonds, allowing that mana to pass through that metamond, which was a mana crystal chock full of alterings, shapings, and the imbuing of intent, to create magic. That magic would then get conducted back through the metiron, and happen as it was directed to happen.

People were able to make mana do the same sort of things through other sorts of enchanted objects, like wands of [Fireball] on Veird, made with various Elemental Fire materials and spellwork, or like with Erick’s manalight-infused All Stat rings, which was a resonance of a different sort. That particular resonance between wavelength of light and Script-assigned colors caused a confluence of reactions in a soul which caused an empowerment of Stats. Even runed metals, as one would use in a runic web or other sorts of enchantments, were just words inscribed into metal so that the Script and mana itself could understand and then act upon those words. All of magic and enchanting were simply ways for people to communicate with the mana, and for the mana to respond back.

What this dungeon was doing with mana crystals was like… Higher order mana crystal magic.

Erick had some experience with mana crystals before, but not nearly enough. Here, in this dungeon, he was getting some rather good experience.

And so, Erick picked up the broken Staff of the Anti-Magus and rolled the meter-long length of silver metal in his hands. He inspected the tangle of wires and branch-like extensions at the top of the staff.

He considered Mana Altering, and he wondered what he wanted to make of this weapon, exactly. Through some clever combinations of the basic six types of metamonds he had found on the battlefields outside (or been rewarded for rescuing people), Erick could make literally any small magic he desired. He didn’t simply have access to Stone and Water, he also had Ooze when Stone and Water came together, and if he added in a twist of the right Intent, he had Elemental Tree.

He could even take some Elemental Healing, throw some proper Bloody intent at it, and make Elemental Blood, even though he had no Elemental Blood starter metamonds at all.

… Erick hummed at that thought.

Elemental Blood might be one of the best options for offensive use here, in the Glittering Depths, where most people didn’t have Health, since Health was the primary way in which Blood Magic was defended against. Any Blood Magic would probably rip through the NPC enemies out there like a knife through paper.

And Erick had Health, now, so he wouldn’t be vulnerable to his own weapon. All he needed to do was wear that Breastplate of [Health Regeneration] he had made earlier. That’d be 1000 Health right there, which was a lot for the average person to have.

And yet, as Erick set down the broken staff, and went over to the modeling wax, he considered the wider implications of creating a super-weapon inside this dungeon. He was rather sure that he could do exactly that, too; he could make a super weapon.

Here, in this dungeon, Erick could make an auto-killing magic that could shoot as fast as an automatic machine gun, firing auto-targeting [Blood Bolt]s that mowed down whole groups of people. Such a creation was what the dungeon wanted for the completion of floor 2, after all. A super weapon that could alter the course of war.

… Erick did not like killing people, even if they were ‘not real’.

He much preferred helping people.

Looking back on it, he was kinda appalled how easily he had devolved into killing those Riam soldiers, in the Rescue and Revenge quests. Usually he tried to talk down situations like this, but then again, usually he was far and away the most powerful person in… Well almost the whole world, actually. On Veird, he could force people to bend to his will, and ensure everyone came out the other side of those confrontations without getting messed up too much.

But here, at this lower power level, Erick had gone with the flow of the dungeon, and killed people he would have otherwise tried to ‘save’… Even though there is no saving any of these people.

They weren’t real. They couldn’t actually be saved.

People had tried to save NPCs they found in dungeons long before now. Usually what happened was a person had to physically drag their desired NPC out of a dungeon, because the NPC would never go willingly. The NPC would usually be screaming and fighting their captor the whole way, too, because they knew that absolute death awaited them if they stepped outside of a dungeon. Which is exactly what would happen in almost all cases. An unawakened NPC would break like shattered magic long before they reached the dungeon entrance.

But sometimes, some NPCs would wander to the dungeon entrance on their own, notice the barrier that their friends couldn’t even see, and then they would step through, and become a real person. If Erick weren’t so sure that Kinder was already a real person, pretending to be fake, then he would try to rescue the man from the Glittering Depths, or at least show him the front door.

He had done that a lot when he helped Destiny to liberate the Freelands and their slave dungeons, all those years ago.

Was this another one of those situations? Was the Glittering Depths a slave dungeon?

Probably not.

There was no real danger that Erick was killing real people, here. Any weapon he made would just get used against NPCs, which, while horrible, wasn’t all that bad.

But people and ideas and objects came out of dungeons all the time. Memories and possibilities in the mana turned from subjective Reality, to mundane factual reality. And in that case...

Erick looked down at the blocks of wax he was about to carve, and at the weapon he was about to make…

This weapon would be real.

As Erick considered what he was going to make, he knew for a fact that he could reproduce this weapon outside of the Glittering Depths, as soon as he figured out a way to make mana crystals on Veird.

