Erick took up the entire space himself. After having the people he rescued, who held his loot, set out that loot from the R&R missions on the left-most table, Erick began sorting it as he desired, tapping his new Ring of [Identify] on everything, one by one.

Most of the metamonds were attack magics, like [Wind Cutter] and [Fireball]. Most of them, and especially [Fireball], had similar displays to what Erick would expect to find in a blue box from the Script, but different. Erick recalled the standard blue box for [Fireball].

- -

Fireball, instant, long range, 75 mana

Launch a quick ball of fire that explodes on contact, damaging a medium area for 50 + 2x WIL and igniting everything touched, dealing WIL damage per second for 10 seconds.

- -

But the floating text for the [Fireball] of the Glittering Depths read:

Fireball, instant, long range, 75 mana

Launch a quick ball of fire that explodes on contact, damaging a medium area for 100 damage and igniting everything touched, dealing 25 damage per second for 10 seconds.

Mana Density Multiplier: 50%

The damage of the [Fireball] of the Glittering Depths was flat, without any modifiers. Erick suspected it was based on a person with 25 Willpower. This told Erick a lot about a lot, but he’d organize those thoughts later.

That MDM number was concerning. A bunch of the stuff Erick used [Identify] on came back with that ‘Mana Density Multiplier’, but certainly not all. [Wind Cutter] was at 50%, just like [Fireball]. But [Water Bolt] was at 95%. [Stone Shot] didn’t have an MDM.

Didn’t take a genius to understand that every single spell that had a large area of effect component was hit hard by the Mana Density Multiplier. Spells that conjured some solid thing and then threw it, like [Stone Shot], weren’t affected at all.

All the spells inside Erick’s gear, surprisingly, didn’t have an MDM at all. He would have expected a few things, like [Self Rejuvenation] and his Lightning Rod to have that mana density drawback, since they were both buff or debuff spells and those things seemed like they would dissipate in the mana density disparity between his body and the dungeon (or an enemy’s body and the dungeon).

Erick had a quick think.

Spells were like balloons filled with just enough air to fill them out, and not to actually expand them at all. Depending on the environment a spell was cast into, that spell would act based on its environment. Perhaps the best notion of what was happening here, with this MDM entry, was what happened when you cast an air spell underwater, or when you cast a water spell (meant for underwater combat) above water. Or an air spell inside stone (but not really the other way around, since stone was rather non-compressible, in most scenarios.)

At high interior mana pressure as compared to outside space, a spell would either grow physically larger than expected and thus weaker, or fail altogether. At equalized mana pressure, a spell would act as expected, doing what you made it to do. At a high exterior mana pressure, a spell, once cast, would collapse inward, with a smaller area of effect, or fail, as the flows of intent and magic inside the spell could not move as they were made to move.

High exterior mana pressure existed in places like the tunnels near the Core of Veird, where mana flowed through the planet in flying rivers thick enough to see with the naked eye, where monsters roamed in order to naturally draw all that thick mana into their own grand rads. In there, spells didn’t so much fail due to mana pressure… So maybe not like there at all.

That was probably due to the Script, though.

Moving on.

Equalized mana pressure happened almost everywhere else on Veird.

Past the Edge of Veird, and also here, in the Glittering Depths, almost all spells had a higher interior mana pressure than the emptiness everywhere else. So spells like this [Fireball] metamond, which created an effect outside of a body… Had some sort of low multiplier?

Erick wasn’t sure exactly what this ‘multiplier’ meant. Was it a thing that area of effect spells had, to explain how they would act in this environment down here? Or was it a purposeful effect, imposed upon area spells by the dungeon?

… Erick was leaning on the idea that it was some sort of estimated behavior, a way to tell the user that it would have a ‘50% effect’ (whatever that meant) because dungeons were meant to be places of learning. If the dungeon was doing weird shit to your magic, making your magic act in strange ways that it would never act like anywhere else, then those dungeons were generally shit. Grand Dungeons, like these Glittering Depths… Sure, it had a Second Script, but it was meant to be a learning place, and it was a learning place, with lessons that could be learned and then taken outside the dungeon.

… And with that in mind, Erick suspected spells with a low MDM were highly affected by mana density, and spells with a high MDM were not affected at all; spells like [Stone Shot].

Stone Shot, instant, long range, 5 mana

A bolt of stone strikes where you aim.

But [Water Bolt] had a bit of MDM, because it was a ‘splash’.

Water Bolt, instant, long range, 5 mana

A highly distracting bolt of water unerringly splashes a target.

Mana Density Multiplier: 95%

Water was prone to shifts in density a little, so that 95% was understandable, but Water’s malleability was nothing like Fire and Air, while Stone was rock solid through most conjuring, simply because Stone was… Well. Stone.

Erick might put [Fireball] inside one of his extra wands and see what happened; to actually test his theories. He expected to make a [Fireball] that was… Larger and weaker, probably.

Anyway. Moving on to other theories and crafting...

Why did his Rod of the Lightning Guardian not have any MDM at all? Why did [Self Rejuvenation] not have an MDM?

Rod of the Lightning Guardian, attuned artifact, 1000/1000

Spend a variable amount of mana to empower the rod with Benevolent Lightning. Touching any living thing with this empowerment will inflict a lingering destruction unto the touched target, disrupting auras, exterior magic, and steadily causing physical damage.

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], attuned artifact, 99/100

Continually heal at ten times normal rate.

Overcharge healing for 25 mana, condensing a week of healing into 10 minutes.

So things got complicated here.

Erick started at the beginning.

A body, which was currently under the control of a soul, had a sort of ‘stickiness’ or ‘merge-ability’ to it, when it came to certain magics. Healing magics, primarily. Both normal-living-things, and monsters with a core had souls that controlled their bodies. Normal people had souls all throughout their bodies. Monsters (and people like Erick) had souls inside their cores, which exuded control over the body through a natural ‘aura like’ effect; but it wasn’t the soul, exactly.

Health, as that which existed on Veird, was an example of this sort of soul-control a living soul had over the body it inhabited.

But there was no Health in this dungeon, without actually using a metamond for Health.

And here’s the big thing: without Health, the body was completely vulnerable to interior spellwork. Erick could have taken his rod and stabbed it into one of Fyuri’s wounds, or whatever, and fried her from the inside. Even touching her body at all had fried her much, much more deeply than was possible on Veird, where Health would have stopped that from happening.

And so, without Health… Shouldn’t these spells that affected living things be stripped away, as mana was stripped away from people, here in the dungeon?

Well.

Obviously not.

Erick’s rod’s lightning and the [Self Rejuvenation] were obviously working their power on the soul-animated body, and not being pulled away or negated by the dungeon’s mana vacuum.

So that was half of the answer as to why his bracelet and the rod both did not have a multiplier; they both functioned to affect a body.

… But Healing Magic outside of the Script went off of the blueprint of the soul… And Erick’s soul was fully contained into his core, as was the case with most people who had cores. So there were some interesting interactions happening there.

For Erick’s purposes, the Healing found in the Glittering Depths had to be tied to the physical body more than it was tied to the soul, because if it was tied to the soul, then Erick wouldn’t have had any physical changes at all when he came into the dungeon. Or maybe he had that backwards?

Erick had adjusted his body through [Perfected Polymorph] and gained a temporary Familiar Form called ‘Ashes Woodfield’.

But this Form is not the one he had made earlier.

Erick looked down at himself.

His hair was a bit longer, and he was a bit more muscular than he had made himself, before he stepped into the dungeon today. A little younger, too. Erick had initially thought all of that was due to some sort of resonance with the memory of the dungeon and the Dark and Ashes-of-the-Old-Cosmology, but perhaps this change was a conflict of soul versus body, and brought to a conclusion outside of Erick’s expertise because of the generalized Healing Magic of his [Self Rejuvenation] bracelet.

Was this Wizardry? Making him look more like how Ashes should have looked?

… No way to really know, though, without extensive magical testing, and another talk with Atunir.

Could also have something to do with his draconic soul, and Erick, in his heart of hearts, wanting to be more handsome than he had originally made Ashes… Because yes, he was a bit vain sometimes. Who didn’t want to look pretty!

So maybe this different form was from the disconnect between his body, his soul, and what he wanted, and what he made, and how Elemental Healing was working here in the dungeon…

Erick almost chuckled.

He was quite far out of his depth right now! All of these tiny things coming together in odd ways!

Erick was rather sure that if some academically inclined person desired to make a name for themselves in the Healing arts, then they might want to come to the Glittering Depths to do safe Healing Magic experiments in a low-mana environment. Dragons and normal people; both would be good to have down here, doing experiments. Sure, it was a dungeon with different rules of magic, but the Glittering Depths was specifically made to help people understand magic in a low mana environment; not to fuck up peoples’ basic understanding of how magic worked.

So, perhaps, the Glittering Depths, free of all Script interference, might actually be the purest expression of magery anywhere on this planet… Except for maybe Melemizargo’s own, personal dungeons.

Even Ar’Cosmos, with its anti-Script nature, couldn’t boast this level of pure magic, basic and unmangled.

… Was someone already doing this, though? Seems like someone might. But Erick couldn’t recall if he knew of anyone trying to figure out Healing Magic in low mana, non-Script environments. Such research would be good for civilization, for once they got past Veird and into outer space, mana would behave like itself, instead of like how the Relevant Entities decided it should behave.

… Did Erick want to do that research himself?

No. Not really. He did not have enough time for such a distraction, and he did not want to become a hermit, living inside a dungeon, separate from Veird and the people he cared about.

… Maybe he could set up a lab at the Edge of the Script? That might be nice. Safer than being inside a dungeon, but not by much at all…

Maybe.

Anyway!

Healing Magic and various bodily-affecting magic probably worked (arguably) reasonably normal in a low mana environment, because the body was a natural ‘conductor’ for mana-based effects (with that whole ‘it’s the aura, but not really the aura’ thing happening here).

And that wasn’t even bringing up the complications of monsters and healing! Monsters had bodies separate from their souls, which made their bodies easier to repair because an attack on the body did not attack the soul, as was the case with what happened to most other people when you cut off their arms, or what-have-you. If a person got their arm cut off, and they were not healed for a long time, then the soul that existed in that arm would gradually fade away and/or retract, and that unfortunate person would need to get a [Reincarnation] from Erick in order to regain their arm, because the arm would be gone.

And that whole thing was complicated, too.

On Veird, Healing Magic worked perfectly fine to heal people with degrading soul conditions, because the Script heavily supported that action. But gradually, if the underlying soul damage wasn’t healed, either through powerful magic (for large, dangerous injuries) or time and careful healing (for smaller injuries, since souls did heal over time), then the person’s ‘healed’ body would gradually fail in those areas where their soul didn’t reach anymore.

Healing Magic was incredibly complicated, but here in the Glittering Depths, Erick felt he was seeing Healing Magic unaffected by the Script for the first time.

He was also seeing how magic worked in vacuums.

Erick used his [Identify] ring on his belt, to check out [Unsensible].

He got another surprise.

Belt of Many Functions, attuned artifact, 0, 0, 247/250

(Empty)

(Empty)

Unsensible, self, low grade buff, 25 mana

Let no one else mana sense your self. Lasts 10 minutes.

Automatically recast when spell fades.

Mana Density Multiplier: 75%

That ‘Automatic’ clause was something Erick had never found on a Script-based spell, and that it labeled itself as a ‘buff’ was different too. Buffs were usually harmful to people, because they messed with the nature of one’s soul. But [Unsensible] had not harmed Erick at all, as far as he could tell…

Maybe it was harming him? He couldn’t tell, though? He had only been using it for a few hours?

… It probably was harming him.

Erick flicked his aura through the belt, and turned off the [Unsensible].

… And he waited.

He waited for the crash of a stressed soul, and for the weakness of a buff —any buff at all— leaving the body…

And he felt… Just fine? Weird.

Okay. [Unsensible] was doing something that was not normally possible under the Script; reactivations aside, buffing magic should stress the soul. Erick reactivated the [Unsensible], and considered what might be happening.

… And he looked fine. His soul, inside his core, was fine?

… So the Script was either purposefully disincentivizing buff spells, or this Second Script inside the Glittering Depths was enabling buff spells in some odd sort of way…

Perhaps…

