He could always ‘tunnel’ out of the Glittering Depths into another dungeon somewhere nearby, like Kiri had done during her Worldly Path. She had gone into the Grand Dungeon at Freeland and come out at the Benevolence Grand Dungeon at Candlepoint. Erick could maybe do the same thing and bring an intact meta-weapon out onto Veird, or at least the mana crystals, which was the big thing.

Maybe. It might work that way.

Anyway!

Erick didn’t have [Metalshape] here in this dungeon, so he had to do this the long way.

He grabbed some bulk wax and some heated wands and sculpting tools, and began fashioning the general shape of the weapon he would make out of the broken ‘Staff of the Anti-Magus’. The base metal was already primed to cut through magical defenses, if Erick was understanding that wording correctly, so that was his starting position. All of that would probably vanish as soon as he turned the metal liquid, though.

So really, Erick could make anything he wanted…

Form follows function, and Erick had some functions he might be putting into this weapon already. Those functions weighed on Erick’s mind, and in his fanny pack. They had all been tests; little more than aura controlled mana, cycled down to crystal and imbued with perfect intent, even if the final product remained unknown, for now.

And that had worked out well, because Erick was very good at making magic, and this stuff was the most basic magic there was.

Long Bolt, instant, long range, 5 mana

A bolt unerringly strikes a distant target.

Targeted Insta-Bolt, instant, long range, 7 mana

Aim a bolt to unerringly and near-instantly strike a specific area on a target.

Bleeding Bolt, instant, long range, 7 mana

A bolt of blood unerringly strikes a target, causing the target to bleed.

Burrowing Bolt, instant, long range, 7 mana

A bolt of burrowing force unerringly strikes a target, inflicting deep damage

Decay Bolt, instant, long range, 7 mana

A bolt of spreading decay unerringly strikes a target, inflicting a spreading rot.

Explosion Bolt, instant, long range, 7 mana

A bolt of explosive force unerringly strikes a target, and detonates.

Multi-Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana

A bolt of force homes onto a target, before splitting and inevitably striking multiple times.

All of them were created with the lowest power settings that Erick could manage; 2-to-5 mana for a delivery system and the rest of the spell cost for the desired effect. Separately, they were almost useless. On Veird, under the Script, not a single one of these spells would do more than 10 or 25 damage to a person. That [Bleeding Bolt] would probably hit for no actual damage at all, cause a bleed only if it hit a vulnerable area, and then prevent a body from naturally staunching that bleed for maybe ten seconds, at most. But together, and here in the dungeon where no one had any Health, this sort of combination would be devastating against a single target.

Which is exactly what Erick planned to use them for.

So Erick sculpted wax in the shape of a sniper staff.
