Maybe since the Glittering Depths didn’t actually interact with a delver’s soul until much later in the dungeon (when it actually started giving out base increased mana production that worked everywhere) and instead had a delver use dungeon mana to do everything, this allowed buff spells to work well, here?

Erick hadn’t done much with buffing or debuffing magic, except in a general sense to understand them, in a long while. Perhaps he should talk to Syllea Wyrmrest at Treehome and see if she had any more insights into buffing and debuffing magic; she had helped Erick a long time ago with that sort of stuff, and all that magic was her favorite type.

Anyway.

[Unsensible] had an MDM. This was probably because it made an aura that existed outside of his body, and did not stop right at his skin. This was probably to include his clothes and weapons and stuff like that. This also meant that it drained his mana more than it normally would, in a full-mana environment.

Erick was rather sure that the Mana Density Multiplier of [Unsensible] was the reason that it wasn’t topped off on mana. Erick wasn’t running his [Meditation] amulet right now, so his regeneration was around 5.9 mana every minute, which was going into every single piece of gear on him. [Unsensible] and [Self Rejuvenation] were the only things active right now, so they were taking all of that mana.

But [Self Rejuvenation] was down 1 mana, sitting at 99/100. That was a constant drain, though. Whenever it reached 100, it flickered down to 99, constantly suffusing him with Healing, with the rate going up when necessary, like in the middle of a fight. That tiny trickle wasn’t enough to actually heal him from any of his wounds in a fight, but it was noticeable, and it was probably as much as that spell could do without causing him cancers.

[Unsensible] was down 3 mana, which meant that it was a different kind of spell; one that activated an effect, and then waited till that effect went away before activating again (which was new, and interesting, and you couldn’t do that under the Script!). It was also a spell that activated outside of his body, marking his space in reality as ‘unsensible’ to mana sense.

And it was activating more than every 10 minutes, for that exact reason. It was making magic, and the lack of mana density in the air all around sucked that spellwork away. Erick wasn’t wholly sure of the timing on that, but he would keep an eye on it, as he moved on to other parts of his loot, and other thoughts.

Erick used his new Ring of [Identify] on [Benediction].

Benediction, self, perfect buff, 10 mana

Empower the target in every physical way. Lasts 10 minutes.

Erick smiled as plans formed in his mind. “I’m gonna use that with… Maybe… Every self-empowering spell I have here.”

Yes.

That would do nicely.

Sure, making magic here in the Glittering Depths might not be like making spells on Veird, and he couldn’t take any of these spells with him out there, but this environment itself was the real prize of this whole dungeon experience. This was good practice for making a lab past the Edge of Veird, where he could work on mana crystals outside of the Script, and outside of the influence of the Dark.

Erick certainly wouldn’t be making a simple staircase to the Edge, like Holo had done. The gravity alone in that single, stable location, was crushing. No; Erick would have to make an orbital lab, so that gravity didn’t pancake him or other mages he invited out there to play with magics outside of the Script.

But for now, Erick decided to work on a generalized buffing spell for use here in the dungeon.

Erick had several plans for the Glittering Depths. Discovering Ashes’s storyline and why it called to him was but one of his goals. He had a few more. He wanted to use all this stuff he learned here to make a true orbital platform outside of the Script, in order to play around with real magic, out there in the void of space.

But before all that, Erick would need to clear away the dangers of floor 2.

So Erick grabbed [Memorize], which was a basic Elemental Book memory enhancement spell, and [Benediction], along with a bunch of other stuff, and went into a mana chamber. He closed the door behind him, flicked his aura through his Rod of the Lightning Guardian, causing mana to flood into the confined space like a thin fog.

As the air began to fill with white mana, Erick relaxed, ready for the relaxation that came last time when he—

And then he frowned, as a pressure built. A twitch of anger zapped across Erick’s mind. Fuck. His core was equalized with the manasphere of the second floor. But as the mana pressure increased in here…

With a sigh, Erick reinforced the barrier of his core against exterior mana, and ensured that the dungeon mana didn’t invade his own. Whelp! It was nice to not worry about a manasphere/core differential while it lasted, but now Erick was on the other end of the equation. Mana pressed in against Erick, and Erick knew that if he did not have a core, that he would have been fine. But he had a core, and he felt squished.

Better than monsterizing, though.

Experiments in mana crystals and on orbital platforms might have to wait until after Erick became a Full Wizard, and didn’t need to worry about core/soul/body discrepancies.

Eh.

Put it on the list of goals!

- - - -

Four hours later, Erick opened the chamber and white fog spilled out into the world where it rapidly vanished into the manasphere in every direction.

Making mana crystals was kinda fun!

Erick hadn’t managed anything too spectacular, for he had only really stretched what he knew mana crystals could do with the creation of the breastplate, so he was almost 100% sure that all of these spells he had made were repeatable on Veird, if he felt like making them.

And that, right there, was concerning.

As he began putting his new items out on the tables, Erick recalled the words that had splashed through the air when he exited the dungeon at the end of Floor 1: “Upon leaving, all of your collected items will turn into non-functional iron crystals and iron gems, but they will regain functionality after re-entering the Glittering Depths, provided they have not been altered. Altered items might not function the same way inside the Glittering Depths! Alter an item at your own risk!”

All of this mana crystal magic he had made would translate to Veird just fine.

All of these metamonds and metirons, and how this here specifically functioned… Well.

Erick was 100% certain that he could make a mana crystal that functioned like a metamond, if he could actually make such a thing on Veird. If mana crystals were allowed, but they weren’t, except in very extreme cases that actually violated the rules of the Script; like with Erick’s Full Wizard crystal form. Now that was Wizardry. A clear violation of the Script.

Of course, one just had to go to Ar’Cosmos to make a mana crystal; so that problem was solved. Erick even had some mana crystals back home that worked just fine outside of Ar’Cosmos. They couldn’t be made here on Veird, but they could certainly be imported.

Mana crystals were just pure enchantments in crystal form, and those worked across all worldly boundaries.

The metirons would be ‘tougher’ to make on Veird. Such a creation would have to be some heavily runed thing. But Erick had already done such workings on the iron Gates of the Gate Network, so maybe it wouldn’t be too bad?

Atunir had even said that all this stuff in here could work outside a Second Script Glittering Depths space, with a bit of work. Spaceships, and junk like that.

… It was quite possible that, if not for certain transformations that happened around the entrance of the Glittering Depths...

Erick asked the dungeon, “Glittering Depths? You purposefully transform these meta-diamonds into non-functional things, don’t you?” Erick looked up, asking, “They could work fine on Veird, but you ensure that they do not. Correct?”

Kinder walked into the room. “Talking to yourself, sir?”

Erick turned to the man from Greensoil. “… You weren’t there a moment ago.”

Kinder frowned. “I was outside, sitting on that bench out there and trying not to fall asleep, guarding you while you worked and prepared to interrupt you in case you were needed for defense.” Kinder professed, “I take my job seriously, sir, even if you seem not to, being inside those chambers for hours on end.”

Erick rolled his eyes. “Yeah yeah.”

“So what did you make, sir?” Kinder stood on his tippy toes, craning his neck to see all the stuff Erick had laid out on the tables, as he asked, “Not much weaponry?”

The weaponry would come later, as soon as Erick truly figured out what he wanted his weapon to be, but he had made a bunch of low level metamonds that would serve that function… Probably. Those metamonds rested in his fanny pack, for he did not want them on display.

But since Kinder was asking about it… Did Kinder have viewing access on Erick, here in the dungeon?

… Or was he just being curious, and worried, because he didn’t see any weaponry, and weaponry was what was needed to combat the dangers out there, upon the plains.

Eh.

“I’m still thinking of what I want the weapon to be, so for now, it’s a bunch of defensive stuff.” Erick waved his hand with the Ring of [Identify] over the items, saying, “Nothing too interesting; just preparation for bigger fights and faster movement. I decided to unattune a few things since I’m close to my 10/10 metamond cap.”

Breastplate of [Regenerating Health], unattuned artifact, 250/250

You have Health when wearing this breastplate. 1000 Health. Regenerates with your mana.

Bracelet of [Hidden Wind], attuned artifact, 100/100

Step lively through the wind and the light. 1 mana per step.

Shield of [Reflection], unattuned artifact, 250/250

Reflect high-grade and lesser targeted spellwork.

Wand of [Rejuvenation], unattuned artifact, 100/100

For 5 mana, grant a touched target increased healing, condensing a week of recuperation to 10 minutes.

Erick passed his hand across his belt, saying, “This one is perhaps the most interesting.”

Belt of Many Functions, attuned artifact, 50/50, 50/50, 50/50

Blessed Memory, self, perfect buff, 1 mana per minute

Your mind is a palace.

Eternal Benediction, self, perfect buff, 1 mana per minute

Your body is a fortress.

Benediction of the Unseen, self, perfect buff, 1 mana per minute

Mana does not record your presence unless you desire it so.

Mana Density Multiplier: 75%

“I changed up almost everything about the belt. I added mental and physical benediction-class buffs, and I made the [Unsensible] a lot better. Still has that Density Multiplier stuff, though, since it exists partially outside the body. I imagine it’ll tick maybe 10 mana per minute in a full mana vacuum, but that’s still fine.” Erick looked at Kinder, adding, “You want me to make you any copies of any of this? That offer is only if you want to go out and hunt red tabards with me, though.”

Kinder’s mouth hung open as he read the floating text. He was at a loss for words long before Erick began explaining what he had made. It was only several seconds after Erick stopped talking, that Kinder exclaimed, “… HOW?!” And then he gushed, “The mana costs alone are crazy! You actually managed to do a true at-cost [Rejuvenation]?! And what you did to [Unsensible]. Fuck. That’s a lot better than—”

Kinder stopped talking as he realized he was saying too much.

Erick just smiled. “I’ve had a whole lot of practice with spellwork in all sorts of environments long before I came here, Kinder.”

“… Apparently, sir.”

Erick nodded, then asked, “Are you ready to drop this act and tell me why you chose to follow me into this dungeon? Who are you working for?”

With rote practice, Kinder said, “Not sure what that means, sir.” He added, “And I’m working for Insten, for freedom from our oppressors. Same as you.”

“… Sure. I’ll believe you for a while.” Erick began putting on some of the items he had created, starting with the belt. As the metal slipped around his waist Erick gasped at the sudden feeling of his senses heightening and his mind clearing. Once again, he was able to count Kinder’s individual eyelashes, and see all of his various microexpressions that very much separated the man from the NPCs elsewhere in Marii’s keep. The man was barely sweating, but he was still sweating. He was nervous, and well trained not to show it. As Erick felt his body rapidly acclimate to being stronger, and to the entire world feeling less oppressive in gravity, in general exhaustion, and all sorts of ways, Erick said, “Now that’s the good stuff.”

The shield and breastplate remained on the table, for they would be too bulky for what he needed to do next, but Erick put the Bracelet of [Hidden Wind] on his unoccupied wrist. Erick flicked power through the bracelet and the weight of the world seemed to lose its grip on him, as though Erick was airstepping with [Air Body]. Light and Shadow began to bend around him, fucking up his sight and turning the world into the reflection of a carnival mirror, but Erick just waited a moment, and the funhouse effect dimmed as the magic settled down. He could once again see where he was looking, as the magic began to recognize where he was looking and clear a path.

Erick moved his head around, and his clarity of sight lagged behind, but it caught up well enough.

He stepped backward—

And catapulted backward, smashing right into a wall and crashing to the ground, to land on his hands and end the [Hidden Steps] effect. He rose, with all the dignity of a man who had experienced a non-lethal, embarrassing spell malfunction. It was not the first time for Erick. “… That’ll take some practice.”

With wide eyes, and completely glossing over Erick’s malfunction, Kinder said, “You copied Scout’s magic.”

“Aye. Seemed simple enough to make.”

“She got that [Invisible Steps]— [Hidden Steps] is what it’s called. Not [Invisible Steps]. She got that bracelet from the Mountain for meritorious service. Cost them… I’m not sure what it cost them. But I know that those bracelets are near-impossible to get right. You can’t make them with a spell tome.”

Erick smiled again. “I’ve been making magic for a long time, Kinder.” Erick picked up the broken Staff of the Anti-Magus, saying, “And now I’m going to make a sniper metiron, use it to clear out this floor of the dungeon, and then come back here to play around with mana crystals.” He spoke to the air, “If the mana crystals made here still work on Veird, like I think they will, I might spend a good month here playing around with all these mana crystals.”

Words appeared.

