A chorus of muted laughter came from the other prisoners. "Take your pick," the crystalline column said. It tilted its body and jabbed itself at one of the nearby portholes lining the ground.

"I should elaborate more," Five continued without offense. "I'm looking for one with a particular spell combination circulating across its walls.”

The prisoners all looked at each other, and a few of them shuffled. "Well, there's a lot of cells here. I don't think you expect us to go through all of them."

Five simply nodded. "Of course. I expect you all to be helpful and speed this process along.”

"So, what, we're all going to be errand boys now?" another prisoner called out. This one was a large human. Instead of having flesh or skin, however, their body was veined with coursing lightning, while a layer of glowing stone formed an exoskeleton around them. "If you think—"

"What patterns?" the elf that Shiv nearly broke earlier said aloud. It was the first thing she'd said ever since Shiv decided to spare her. He made eye contact with her again, and she flinched away from him. “What are the patterns? I can find the cell. I will send my Shadows of Futures Coming.”

Everyone else was looking at the elf, and Urri's mouth was slightly agape.

Psycho-Cartography: This could be a trap, or it could be our choice turning out good for us. There are many ways to use fear. Some of them come with the benefits of mercy. Sometimes, mercy is strength.

Instead of answering the elf, Five held out a hand, and three different spell shapes formed. The first looked like an arcing symbol with three dots in the middle. Following that, there were two lines with a triangle infused with complex geometries. The third was a fractured rectangle with strange circuits running in between.

Before Shiv could even fully remember the symbols, the elf sent out a small army of golden shadows. They expanded more and more with each passing second. They cut free from the elf’s person, gliding through the crowd and circulating through the valley. More shadows appeared over every porthole and descended into the cells. Shiv was staggered by her efficiency. More than that, he was impressed by how soon she located what the Aviary agent was looking for.

"I found it," she called aloud after about half a minute. Every single shadow snapped back inside her, and Shiv wondered how her Chronomancy worked. He didn't see an extension of her running in the past. Could it be that she was launching projections into the future instead? That was useful. And if she could cast multiple versions of herself across time…

If I could do that, I'd be beyond unstoppable. Shiv imagined a version of himself that could fight across the future. Chronomancy was a hell of a Magical Skill.

"Wonderful," Five said. He walked toward the elf with both hands clasped behind his back. "Show me. After that, I think I’m going to give my associates a house call.”

She broke free from the other prisoners, and almost reluctantly, they followed along as well. They kept their distance from the elf and Five, and they only started moving after Shiv did. While he walked, Bonk came beside him and began keeping pace with Shiv while retreating backward. He kept his eyes on the other prisoners, and he grinned widely at them.

"Bonk, what are you doing?" Shiv said.

Just then, Rebis appeared right next to the wolf-man, and he stayed close. The elf regarded the amalgamated Pathbearer, but she didn't do anything. Shiv understood what the cyborg was trying to do. Five was his friend, and he was going to make sure the elf didn't harm him.

"I'm just making sure no one tries to take a run at you again,” Bonk said.

"Didn't want to help earlier?" Shiv asked.

"Oh, you seemed like you had that. Besides, I wanted to be entertained as well." The orc sighed. "But it was a wise thing you did."

"What, letting her live? I didn’t expect you to approve.”

The orc simply smiled. "Insul. Sometimes, the most delightful cruelty to inflict is letting your enemy know that you could have taken their life at any time. Sometimes, mercy is dominance."
