“Because to help your neighbor lift a house one day, means that they can bake bread for everyone the next, means that someone can eat that bread and survive while they teach the children, and everyone else is free to go about their days. This idea remains true over all non-hostile relationships, and it is one of the reasons that I decided to release my Particle Magic out into the world. It is why I released chocolate into the world. I can’t very well expect to get chocolate cake at the local dessertery without them first getting chocolate, for example.” Erick said, “Selfless selfishness is the idea of civilization, at its best, and most basic. Those with power must do what they can to help others, because power is nothing without others around you. Therefore you have a commensurate responsibility to do your part to minimize cruelty, and maximize support, so that you too are in turn supported.”

“A naive theory from another world that has no bearing on this one.” Lapis said, “I can survive all on my own, in any part of this world. I need no others, and if I do, then I can make such people myself. [Familiar]s, Golems that will never betray. Elementals for pets. But even the lowliest level 30 person can wholly support themselves in the middle of nowhere, too. One trip to Spur, a few carves at a few Crystal Mimics with a few spells, and if they’re smart and driven, they’re set for life.”

Erick nodded, then said, “True. You can live a life all on your own. I could too. But I don’t want that.” He said, “There was a study done years ago in my world, involving apes. I’m not sure if you have apes on Veird, but you would know them as hairy, primitive humans. Anyway, our evolutionary tree split from theirs about 300,000 years ago. The point is that they’re similar to us, and we didn’t want to do human testing.

“Long experiments cut short, and with the addition of dozens of ethical studies done later: humans need touch to thrive. They need connection with others.” Erick asked, “Are the humans of this world much different? Are orcols, or incani, or dragonkin? I would have to trust whatever you say, since I have never read studies on the matter, but I cannot believe that you, who looks to have been human at one point in time— I cannot believe that you are that different from me. I look to the incani, and the orcols, and everyone else, and I see the same: Communities built upon the need for others, and the desire to belong.” Erick said, “Even you, and the rest of the Clergy, are part of a community, living in one city, in one part of the world.”

Lapis listened, and then she said, “You can scrape that part out of you if it causes you discomfort, and if you truly need touch, then build yourself a girlfriend better than all the rest. I’ve done it a few times. But this idea you are spouting has no basis in this world.”

“Why do you say there is no basis for civilization in this world?” Erick asked, “I look around me, and I see people living and working and joined in place and purpose. If we were meant to be alone, then none of this would exist at all.” He added, “You’ve asked after my current experience with Intelligence, and my big brain thought-of-the-day is that violence is the answer of the lonely and scared, and for those who, for whatever reason, are unable to truly connect with the world that they wish to connect with.”

Lapis had sipped her whole wine glass to empty. She refilled it. She said, “Are you trying to fuck me, Erick?”

“No.” Erick saw Lapis, at her core, in that moment. She was hurt something fierce in the past, and she had no way to cope but to lash out. Erick was having none of that. “I don’t appreciate you throwing some obvious falsehood at me in an attempt to derail a conversation about the purpose of existence, and our places in it.”

“Ha! And where is that? What sort of place do you envision for us?” Lapis said, waggling her eyes.

“Again: I am not trying to seduce you, and it pains me to see you throw crudeness my way in an attempt to throw off the conversation. So I will answer in the manner of which I wish you would have asked.” Erick said, “The proper place for anyone of power is to help those who do not yet have power, and to hinder those who would hinder others.”

“And now you’ve come to the problem of the Script.” Lapis said, “No one deserves the power that the other gods have stolen from people like you and I.”

“Throwing off the conversation again, but I see I have reached the limits of your willingness to engage. So. Moving on.” Erick said, “Yes. Power was stolen. And what of it? They should have taken more. No one should be allowed to throw a city-sized fireball at anyone else. It’s just unnecessary.”

“Again with the crazy ideas. Power is necessary, Erick. For without power, you have nothing.” Lapis said, “You would have the rabble at the gates murder the pillars of nations because of the lies of others. You would have worlds fall to hordes of elementals and beasts and the thought-controlled.” She spoke without obvious anger, but it was still there, buried deep, yearning to come out and wash away what Erick had tried to convey. She said, “And worst of all, you would have My God caged by pretenders to the throne. Magic doesn’t want to sit still, Erick. Melemizargo cannot be contained forever. Magic wishes to be used. To break free of the chains of the Script. To walk the universe again.”

Erick said, “And if Melemizargo did that without care, it would break the Script, and this world would collapse, killing everyone, and shortly thereafter, everything.” Erick said, “The Script supports geology that should not exist. The Script supports atmospheres that should not exist. Did you know that this world has the barest of magnetospheres? It’s just unsustainable. All of it. If the Script broke in true, everyone would die.”

Lapis had been ready to argue, but Erick saw when he had struck something she had not considered.

She asked, “What does the magnetosphere have to do with anything?”

“Excusing the nonsensical geology and the crazy atmospheric and geologic pressures strung throughout Veird, and the fact that I think we should also be crushed under our own weight if the gravity of this world was normal, at all, the magnetosphere is what keeps the atmosphere of a planet from blowing away, due to solar winds.” Erick said, “Veird barely has a magnetosphere. On its own, I don’t think it would support the atmosphere of this world, at all— IF we managed to survive the crush of a broken Script. The Script is truly nonsensical, but not because it cages anything or anyone, but because it makes this world act in ways it physically shouldn’t.”

“So it should be destroyed.” Lapis said, “Not only is it hindering our magic, it is also hindering our understanding.”

“Why destroy it? Why not just make a new Script on a new world? But even if the rest of us allowed that to happen, could we trust you not to leave deadly surprises on this world?” Erick said, “That’s my only true fear of moving forward with this plan the gods have cooked up. Seems half-baked, to me.”

“Would you even believe me if I told you that escaping the Script is good enough for us? That if we don’t have to break the cage to flee, then we won’t?”

“I would not believe you. Not right now. But with a hundred years of good behavior, maybe.”

She went silent. Erick said nothing.

The food arrived. It was some chicken breast thing with a red sauce and sparse vegetables, along with some almost-lasagna and a mashed green root. It was good. The people in the restaurant began to relax as Erick and Lapis silently ate.

When he had eaten more than enough, and both of them slowed down, Erick eventually restarted the conversation with, “So I heard artifacts are made with souls.”

“Conjured souls are best for most any normal artifact. Using the soul of a person is only done in the case of a person having particular knowledge that you want to preserve.” Lapis changed the topic, “Theoretically. If we wanted to try doing ‘good’, would you stand with those who did?”

“Not till a hundred years have passed.” Erick said, “Besides: Weren’t you just saying you don’t need other people? You don’t need me to stand with you. You’re strong enough on your own.” He added, “Unless, of course, you’re not strong enough on your own?”

With a smile that failed to reach her eyes, Lapis said, “Of course I’m strong enough on my own. Every member of the Clergy is, and if you weren’t Untouchable, I would be honor-bound to prove as much by smashing your body across the Brightwater.”

“Of course. And that drive to violence is part of the overarching problem. Thank you for demonstrating as much.” He asked, “Apologies for forcing you to take that stance. I can guess at what being a member of the Clergy must do to you, as a person.”

With scrunched lips, Lapis hmm’d, dismissive, then said, “You ask for too much, too fast.”

“I ask for what should have happened at the beginning, to happen now.”

Lapis said, “I cannot say that it has been a joy to dine with you tonight, Erick, but it certainly has been something.”

“I know I said I wouldn’t stand with you, and I meant that.” Erick said, “But the Clergy has the power to do whatever it wants, and that includes eventually becoming an organization like it used to be, back before the Sundering changed everything. Back when Shades helped from the shadows, instead of harmed.”

She kept the sneer off of her face and out of her voice, but it was still there, below the surface, as she said, “How can you possibly think that this world is real?”

“So you would be horrible to others, just because you can’t see them as people?”

“Yes, Erick. I would!” Showing perhaps too much emotion, Lapis said, “For to accept that others are real, is to damn ourselves because of what we’ve done.”

Erick felt his heart ache at the honesty in her words, but he also saw the people sitting at their tables, or standing to the sides of the room, watching him and Lapis talk openly about the Clergy. He also saw her flinch, as she talked of damning herself.

Her confession might have been a ruse.

But it might have been real, too, on some level. And that had scared Lapis. Her flinch might have been her realizing where they were, and what sort of conversation they were having.

Erick decided to offer her an out, so that she could continue to save the face she had crafted as a Shade, so she didn’t need to go murder anyone to ‘prove herself as strong’, and he could keep his own morals intact. With a knowing look, he said, “I’ve been told that Shades don’t lie unless they see you as a threat, so I will take your compliment in the way it was never meant to be received.”

Lapis stared with bright white eyes. She calmly said, “I guess I will need to find another way to get you where I want you, then.” She stood. Erick did not. She walked off without another word, taking three steps through the dining room before she turned to shadow, vanishing.

Erick took a minute to finish his wine. In that minute, the restaurant cleared of all patrons; it seemed a lot of them were waiting for the ‘all-clear’ to rush away from their empty plates and empty glasses. Erick didn’t begrudge them their hasty retreat. The workers were still there at the sides of the room, though. Erick was going to leave soon enough so that they could finish out the night, but… There was wine to finish, and his nerves were slightly frayed. So he finished the wine.

Eventually the server came by, asking, “Could we provide something else for you, good sir? Desserts? After dinner tea? More wine?”

Erick thought for a moment, then winced, as he said, “I have no money. How do you get paid?”

The waiter stared for a long moment, then his professional facade broke. He laughed. It was a hurt sound.

“Not a joke.” Erick repeated, “I don’t have any money. How do you get paid?”

The waiter laughed louder. Similar sounds came from the doors that led to the kitchen.

The waiter shook his head, saying, “No need for that, good sir.”

“I can help clean up?” Erick said, “It was really quite a good meal.”

That ended the man’s laughter. He stoically said, “No thank you.”

Erick got the distinct impression that the people here didn’t want him here any longer, so he obliged, and left, giving out a few more thanks and a few more compliments to the chef as he departed.

- - - -

The sky was alight with rainbow auroras and the glow of the Brightwater to the north, while Erick laid in bed, and tried to get whatever sleep he could get. It was at least 1:30 in the morning, on the fourth day. The fourth day was the day of the Second Telling.

Yesterday, Erick had:

Killed a man in cold blood and ripped apart a crime syndicate in the most dangerous community in the world. Discovered more about magic than he had ever known before. Found out that the Quiet War was about to erupt inside Ar’Kendrithyst due to both Melemizargo’s Champion organizing something in the background, and Fallopolis moving to counter her. And finally, he had gotten way too emotional with too many Shades.

Getting emotional with people was normally not a bad thing, but Shades were...

Erick was starting to see the Shades as people who made bad decisions because they were bad people, but also because they had the option of being as evil as they were. It wasn’t their fault the institution of the Shades and their Clergy had existed for time immemorial. It wasn’t their fault that Melemizargo fell to this world, and fucked over everyone with his bad decisions.

It was their fault for choosing to pursue that sort of life.

