Erick’s mind went in a few different directions at once. One of those directions circled around the idea of forgiveness. Could he even forgive these people? These Shades? No. He could not. He was an outsider. Others would need to forgive the Shades for what they have done and for what they continue to do. Erick could only enact cold justice… If he needed to.

Another part of his thoughts went out to a few Ophiel that scouted the area.

But his main thoughts were on magic. Lapis was right about one thing: Without power, there is nothing. So Erick considered his experiments on [Counterspell], taking place among some Ophiel on the grasslands to the south of Quilatalap’s cottage.

The proper use of [Counterspell] was something that Erick would likely never be good at. It required seeing the target and instantly acting to disrupt their magics, as those magics happened. In the heat of the battle, that was just not possible. Not possible for him, anyway.

Ophiel, though, was getting rather good at [Counterspell]ing.

Erick watched five of them go at it for a while, one of them erupting with shadows, the other faltering as a spell failed to happen. Then they switched, and the first one cast, while the second countered. Other Ophiel chortled in guitars and violins both when a spell was countered, and also when the counter failed. It was a fun game for him.

Erick couldn’t play around though, so he worked with a separate pair of Ophiel a bit away from those five. He played with [Counterspell] and Ooze Magic and other Esoteric spells. Soon enough, he made a few spells he knew he would need.

Ethereal Force Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana

A bolt of ethereal mana unerringly strikes a target for WIL.

That one was just for practice, but the ‘ethereal’ nature meant it could fly through most normal defenses. Health and [Ward]s would still stop it, but that was fine.

Ethereal Ooze Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana

A bolt of ethereal ooze inexorably slaps a target for 15 + WIL, and coats them for one minute.

That one was kinda fun. Erick didn’t expect Ooze to ‘slap’ the target.

… The white coloring was still a bit of a ‘problem’, though. First world problem, for sure. But…

… No. The white goo was funny.

Erick left it exactly as it was. This was fine. This was great.

The next spell was great, too.

Tangled Bloody Ooze Bolt, instant, long range, 25 + Variable mana

A bolt of ethereal bloody ooze inexorably slaps a target for 3x Variable, then deals constricting damage each second for one minute.

Erick’s first foray into combining Blood and Ooze Magic seemed to work out well, producing a bright red spell that got away from the immaturity of the previous spell. His [Tangled Bloody Ooze Bolt] resulted in a tangle of thin, separated, and constricting red slime, that tangled up an Ophiel rather well. Ophiel got out of it, of course, but [Watershape] and [Stoneshape] did not help. Ophiel had to turn to light and become a struggling ‘amoeba’ to escape the tangled red ooze.

Erick’s next experiment was a smaller one, made with smaller parts, before he went for the big spell. His brief attempt at harmonizing these parts of the spell, and the resulting blue box, proved he was on the right track.

Harmonic Suppression, instant, long range, 20 + Variable

Launch an ethereal, inexorable ooze that automatically and constantly applies a counterspell of appropriate cost to its target, using up an amount of Variable cost. Lasts one minute.

And then Erick channeled the mana of [Harmonic Suppression] and [Tangled Bloody Ooze Bolt]. One was the sound of disharmony, while the other was the sound of a slippery seeker of death.

The two spells came together into something more than the sum of their parts.

Harmonic Blood Ooze, instant, long range, 25 + Variable

Launch an ethereal, inexorable Blood Ooze under your control that automatically and constantly applies a counterspell of appropriate cost to its target, using up an amount of Variable cost. Lasts one minute.

Now that one was an interesting spell!

Erick tried his new spell a few times, Ophiel against Ophiel. It worked a lot better than Erick thought it would have worked. He even tried out some of the odder Esoteric Elements out there. Eventually, though, after renewing some spells and putting up some more, and reorganizing his Ophiel, and growing tired of the 20-second wait between spells, he managed to find some sleep.

- - - -

Ten crystal pillars, filled with arteries of darkness, lined the round, crystal room. The walls beyond those pillars were paired to the pillars, and filled with similar, but smaller veins of dark power. All were joined to a singular goal. All met in the center of the room, in a wide pool in the middle, where darkness swirled and combined and melded in a pit that was darker than the deepest black, and spanned the whole world.

That pool swirled, faintly, or maybe a whole lot. It was hard to tell. Those dark waters let out no light. There were no waves to be seen. There was no roil. There was no telling what was happening in there.

Not unless one used sights beyond the norm. In that case, the darkness might also have been pure white.

Step. Step. Someone made a sound over there.

The room had been empty, and then it was not.

A janitor, a normal enough shadeling human, stepped out from behind a pillar. Yes, he was a janitor, but he was also a high priest of some high order, depending on your point of view. He was dressed in black robes, and he flicked shadows all around him as he walked, cleaning up any stray patches of dust that might have appeared for whatever reason. Mostly, he just balanced the mana in this holy space. His appearance in the room changed something intrinsic, though, for it was at his debut, that the true size of the room came into perspective. The pillar was ten meters across. The pool was half a kilometer wide. The veins in the walls were the size of the janitor, while the arteries in the crystal towers were the size of rivers.

Perspective shifts again, to something more current.

Another steps into the space. She is a Shade. She is meant to be here. She is Tania Webwalker, the most powerful Shade of the current era, and if rumors are to be believed —and they usually are— she is the Champion of Melemizargo.

The janitor notices Tania. Of course he does. It is his job to know who is here, after all. He bows. This is a normal occurrence for him. He makes to leave, to give Tania her space. He turns and ends up, instead, in the jaws of a massive white spider. He is dead, but not before he can think of his son. Hopefully the kid will grow up okay without a father.

The chances of that happening are low, but not that low.

Tania turns to the side, and calls out to another janitor on the other side, “You’re promoted. Kill your human compatriots or you will meet the same fate of all the rest who fail to take up the sword tonight.”

The incani man, dressed exactly as the human man before him, knows better than to countermand Tania. He gratefully accepts his new charge. He decides that he never liked the humans in his workplace, anyway. With this sort of thinking, it is easier for him to do what he does next.

But his story is not why we are here. That smaller drama is not what we are witnessing tonight.

Fallopolis steps down onto the head of Tania’s spider, crushing it in a brilliant shattering of darkness and death. The first janitor’s left leg falls out of the monster’s maw.

Tania’s white eyes go wide as she witnesses the death of her beloved pet who she raised from an egg 89 years ago. She wants to scream. To cry. To kill Fallopolis right now. She does none of that.

Fallopolis says, “TSK TSK, Tania! Killing the help is bad form.”

Tania recognizes the threat before her. She whispers, “So Erick told you.” It is not a question; it is what happened. Tania can connect these many dots.

Fallopolis says, “He’s still Untouchable. I will guide him to kill all of you.”

“Our society is already dead, Fallopolis.” Tania says, “This is just the final act in a long play.”

“You always went too hard for those dramas.” Fallopolis says, “That’s how Bulgan managed to pry open your frigid cunt, isn’t it?”

“Let us leave the men in our lives out of our current conversation, Fallopolis.” Tania says, “The Culling is happening. Have you prepared?”

“I have.” Fallopolis says, “You never should have been appointed as His Champion. You are not cosmopolitan enough. You came in here with your ‘kill all humans’ attitude, and it never got any better. The goal of the Clergy is to enlighten the world to the problems of the Script, and for all of us to overthrow the leaders and false gods of this world. It is not a task for one people. It is a task for all people, together.”

“I’m not for the stage. Not like you. All I have is honesty and truth on my side, and the truth is that the world would be better off with all humans dead.”

“No, it would not.” Fallopolis says, “We have this argument every time—”

“Tonight will be the last time we speak, Fallopolis, one way or the other.”

Fallopolis continues, “—and every time I tell you that unless you have enough power, that I just don’t care what you want.” She eyes Tania, saying, “You cast a True Judgment at me, and I lived. That was your best shot.”

“No. It wasn’t.” Tania says, “My best shot is still coming.”

A few more Shades have stepped into the room by now. There’s Rodel, the Shade of Whispers. Goldie, the Shade of Assassination. Bulgan, the Shade Doomed to Die at the End of the Day.

It is not his designation, but that is the thought in your head and in mine.

Truthfully, they’re all doomed to die. The world has cast their vote long ago, and I reinforced that vote when I allowed my Clergy to become who they became. The world tried to show you the truth, and you didn’t believe. But after a while, you saw parts of the whole. Then you fought against the inexorable march of consequence, and still, you thought to turn some to your side. You are a good man.

But this isn’t a world for good men. Not yet.

Turn your gaze back to my Clergy, standing around the Well, My Heart. Twenty seven of them stand upon the Dark Shores of Eternity, and argue with words of no consequence. They rail against the truth that Tania has been showing them, with each use of My Judgment over the last two days; that they have fallen out of favor. Some recognize what is about to happen. Those are the smart ones.

Tania proves the validity of her claim by executing two human Shades you have never seen before. Their names are unimportant, now, but they were the most sane of my people, and two of the most powerful. It is not a coincidence that Tania chose them to display the validity of her claims.

The stupid ones choose sides, aligning themselves with Tania. They gaze at their former brethren with greed-filled eyes.

It is an ugly look. It is a look they have been wearing for a long time. It is a look that Tania will wipe from their faces when she eventually turns them, too, into red paste on the floor.

The smart ones flee. Tania kills two more before they can escape. Two more humans, of course. She was never able to get over her prejudice. She was born to a loving family. A human mother, an incani father. They tried to make a life for themselves out in the Crystal Forest, but her mother was tracked to her home by her Angel-fucking family, and the rest is a tale of fire and hatred. Though the particulars are different, Bulgan has a similar story of an attack on the Wall. Theirs is a story that has happened all too often.

Look at Bulgan now. He chops off that man’s head rather fast.

Normally, that would not kill one of My Clergy. But Bulgan is strong enough to do this much.

Oh? Why not just take their power from them?

A rumble of laughter vibrates the dark pool. Ah. Some of the Shades see this. Some of them call out to the Dragon of the Depths, but they will have no answer today. Tania already gave them His Answer; His Judgment.

But here is the answer you wish for: I cannot take away their power.

Maybe, theoretically, I could. But I cannot, for that is not who I am. I am not Rozeta, and she will learn, someday, that what she has built is a farce that cannot be allowed to continue. Maybe she will let me help her on the next one.

But… Maybe not.

So I will just have to convince everyone else that what I want is what is best for everyone. No one should be allowed to tamper with the abilities of others, with their Holy Connection to the Mana.

Maybe the next Script will be completely self sufficient. Unable to be tampered with by Rozeta, or me, or any other.

Ah. Will you look at that? The Well Room is now a land of coruscating spells and deadly force, of blood, and fire, and death, and war. It was so nice before, but balance must be broken for life to live. Oh well.

“You should wake up now. The bombs are getting closer.”

- - - -

The bed lurched. The world was sound and fury. The very air crackled as it broke. Chaos clashed against the windows, burning, freezing, shattering the world outside.

Erick had already activated [Hunter’s Instincts] when the bed lurched. A dream passed into oblivion, but left him with purpose, and now, he moved. At a thought, a sunform Ophiel grabbed him and tore him away from the windows near the bed, through the light of the room—

The two of them struck a chaotic wall of power and shadows just beyond the door, where the [Prismatic Ward] ended and the house beyond was beginning to evaporate under the spell layering the land. Ophiel’s sunform tendrils tore at that chaos, but Erick sensed a Domain in the elemental roil; Ophiel’s scratches barely touched the swirling color.

