My prison? Right, that’s what this is. Narrowing my eyes, I exert my will to tear it apart and let the cleansing waters in, but nothing happens. The invisible walls are solid and weighty, outside of my control. Glancing at not-Baledagh pinned to the wall, I realize it's not responsible for this. Like I said, it has no power here, weak and impotent now that I’ve wholly rejected it.

But Baledagh hasn’t rejected it. Through him, the Spectres keep the waters at bay, using his instinctual desire to live in order to keep us alive. I can't let this happen, we need to die and drag the Spectres down with us. Wandering back to his side, I turn to watch Baledagh’s dreams, still continuing despite our impeding death. I could kill him easily as turning my hand, but I can’t bear to do it. I want to leave him in there to enjoy his last moments, but even that tiny mercy is denied to him. With one last lingering gaze at his perfect family, I reach out and pluck Baledagh from the dream.

Surprise, anger, recrimination, and despair all flash across his face, the bleak truth shattering his fragile heart as he comes to grips with reality. With a crestfallen look of anguish, he croaks one, simple word. “Why?”

“This all needs to come down,” I answer, gesturing around. “I need your help to do it.”

After a short pause, he asks, “Will I die?” His hopeful tone breaks my heart and all I can do is nod. Relief etched across his face, Baledagh closes his eyes and the walls come crashing down. The Spectres wail in fury as the waters wash over not-Baledagh, its physical form melting away beneath the torrent, washed clean of all its evil and corruption. With his arms opened wide, the deluge sweeps Baledagh away, his body sinking deep into the void, eroding away in the darkness.

Standing in place, I wait my turn, but the waters only swirl around me, a gentle ebb and flow circling me, pleased to be here. Warm and comforting, it fills me with... not memories, but an awareness of my time spent adrift. While channelling my Chi on the brink of death, the Heavenly Waters of Sanshu found me and came to my aid. Not wholly sentient yet with a will of its own, it bonded with my Chi for reasons unknown, as naturally as filling a cup. Warding off predators and nourishing my body, it clashed with its antithesis, the Spectres within me. Unfortunately, the Spectres grew in power due to Baledagh’s emerging consciousness and the Heavenly Waters were forced to flee, believing me lost and with no desire to be used. Even then, it kept close, searching for a chance to reunite with me.

Huh. Looking back on it, ever since I woke up, I never went to gather water on my own, despite my fascination with it. I always waited for someone to bring me water, no matter how filthy or thirsty I became. The Spectres subtle influence, keeping me away from the Heavenly Waters, seeking to corrupt me before returning to seize it? Is this water the Tears of the Mother? The stuff that nourished the Sacred Trees of Sanshu and empowered the giant turtle in Ping Yao? The water remains silent to my questions, not out of spite or desire for concealment, but rather because... it’s water. It doesn’t know what the fuck I’m talking about. It likes my Chi, so here it is, all up in my business.

An odd pet, but I’ll take it.

Bringing myself to Baledagh’s side, I halt his descent, tearing up at his departure. Asleep, his features seem so soft and rounded, like a child still yet to reach adulthood. This is how he sees himself, because mentally, he’s still a child. It’s not fair. Why does he have to die? Because he’s Defiled? The waters don’t respond, continuing to erode away at my little brother with a vengeance. It sees him as anathema to my existence, like the Spectres are to it, so it works to purge him from existence.

For my benefit.

I don’t understand. I never asked to be here, I never wanted to usurp Baledagh, yet it seems I’m destined to do so regardless of my wishes. He rejected the Spectres, same as me, so why can he not be saved? Glaring angrily at the Spectres, I blink in surprise at what remains. A light in the void, energy clean and untainted, the Spectres' remains, purified by the Heavenly Waters and fading fast. As I reach out to grasp it, the waters bubble and foam, displeased by my actions and attempting to sway my decision much like the Spectres, but I don’t give a shit. It doesn’t give orders here. It’s water. I drink that shit for breakfast.

The purified energy encircles Baledagh, protecting him from the waters. His existence is faint and weak, suppressed by the Heavenly waters but no longer fading. Instructing the waters to stay away from my little brother, my new friend bubbles with disapproval before rescinding from Baledagh, forgetting its displeasure almost immediately. Satisfied with the situation, I steel myself before waking, dreading the impending pain. I mean, I fell into a river filled with toothy fucking fish. If I’m not dying, I’m probably still grievously wounded right?

Well, no sense delaying.

Stepping from the void, I gasp heavily, my lungs burning with pain as I bob at the water’s surface. A chorus of chirps and squeaks greet me as I find myself surrounded by quins, the voracious oversized otters keeping guard while Mafu holds me afloat. Cheeks stuffed with a still flailing fish, the fat quin almost seems proud. Laughing out loud, I pat his head and say, “Good boy, Mafu. Take me back to shore? There’s work to be done. Defiled to kill, cities to save, you know the drill.”

Following my gestures more than my words, Mafu paddles towards land, skimming through the water as our escort of quins follow suit. Still catching my breath, I smile at the absurdity of it all. Even with a new pet blob of Heavenly Water, Mafu is still number one.

Sorry Zabu, you were here first, but it’s bros before hos. You brought this on yourself.

Chapter Meme
