Not dramatically -- not the sharp resistance she had felt when she swept the compass toward the gap from outside, reading corruption density like a barometer. This was subtler, a heaviness in the bearing that was less about what was present in the gap and more about what was absent. The forest's life around her registered as positive pulls of varying strength. The ruins registered as stronger pulls from behind. The gap itself registered as -- neutral, which in the compass's new language meant depleted. Nothing to pull toward. A space from which the land's resonance had been drawn out or suppressed.

She breathed and reached for the threshold stone.

The bond was there. Dimmer. Like touching something through layers of cloth.

She held it. She did not let herself attend to anything else -- not the tree, not the compass, not the background forest. Just the threshold stone's warmth, muted and compressed, requiring active maintenance the way a lamp required oil: not automatic, not passive, but held. She was aware of the effort in a way she was not aware of the Shelf's constant cool presence or the Eye's bright attention. The threshold stone, under the gap's compression, needed her.

And something changed in the quality of the needing.

The stone did not know any of this.

The stone was four thousand years old and had been waiting for someone to stand on it with genuine presence since the last healer pressed her palm to it three hundred years ago. The stone did not have a deadline. The stone did not know that the Crying Forest pulse came every eighteen days or that the gap was expanding at a degree per four days or that a sixteen-year-old girl was trying to reach Known depth before the anchor's compressed zone intersected with the pulse's leading edge.

The stone was just a stone. And she was standing in the gap, holding the bond against compression, and the stone was -- here. Patient and warm and faintly singing at its crystal lattice, the way it always sang when the temperature changed, and she was part of what it held now, a small fact in its very long history.

She stopped trying to earn it.

She stood in the gap and felt the dead tree's absence above her and the sun's warmth on her shoulders and the corruption's thin wrongness at the edge of her awareness, like a smell you had learned to filter out, and she held the bond not because she needed to but because she was here and the stone was here and holding was what she did.

The [Dormant] trait stirred.

Not waking -- not the awakening she needed, the full Known-depth emergence the system had promised her. A smaller thing. A movement, the way something sleeping adjusts in its sleep without waking. The bond's quality shifted for three breaths: the warmth deepened, the patient presence became briefly, sharply aware, something ancient regarding her from behind the compression with the same attention she brought to the threshold stone's handprint. Then it settled back.

But in those three breaths, she understood something about [Dormant] she had not understood before.

The trait was not asleep because it was damaged. It was asleep because it had chosen to wait. There was something in the threshold stone's mineral structure, in the specific resonance of a place that had been an anchor for generations, that was deliberately conserved. Put away. Held in reserve. The [Dormant] quality was not absence -- it was storage. The stone was keeping something, the way the healer's house kept its window angle and mortar-bowl wear, the way the prayer-notch kept its generations of care. What the threshold stone kept was itself. Its deepest self, its oldest self, the self it had been before anyone had ever built a gathering hall around it.

*At Known depth, the sleeper wakes.*

She was not at Known depth. She was at Glimpsed, pressing toward Familiar, standing in a gap with the bond compressed around her like a lamp in a strong wind. But she had seen the sleeper move, and she knew, now, that it was worth waking.

---

She was there for three hours.

The compression did something to the survey process she had not anticipated. Outside the gap, discoveries arrived in the wide-aperture mode she had learned: sustained distributed attention, the Wayfinder's fundamental posture, noticing without grasping. Inside the gap, with the bond requiring active maintenance, she could not sustain wide attention and deep bond-holding simultaneously. She had to narrow. She had to choose what she was paying attention to, each discovery the product of focused observation rather than ambient noticing.

It was harder. And the discoveries felt different.

The first inside-the-gap discovery came from the dead tree itself: the bark's absence was not random deterioration but patterned, the stripping running in a spiral from base to crown that matched a specific decay pattern she had read about in Cartographer's certification materials -- a parasitic fungus that climbed in a spiral path as it consumed the tree's outer layer, always progressing counter-clockwise in this hemisphere, a phenomenon she had not expected to see in a ghost-elm and had not seen before. The fungus had exploited the gap in the ward -- had grown in through the breach and claimed the boundary tree precisely because the ghost-elm resonance could not protect it from the inside. The gap and the tree's death were not sequential events. They were one event, the fungus and the corruption finding the same weakness at the same time.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY LOGGED
  Location: Varethen — Corruption Gap
  Type: Ecological / Mechanical Interaction
  Dead Tree Death Cause: Parasitic fungal spiral decay,
  entering through pre-existing resonance weakness.
  Gap origin: simultaneous, not sequential.
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Working inside compression. Bond actively held.
  This discovery registered. The gap is not dead.

  Discovery 6/? toward depth advance.

  +55 XP (Discovery: Ecological — Compression Multiplier)
  +3 Surveying Proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

She looked at the notification for a long moment.

Compression multiplier.

The system had not told her this would happen. But looking at the number -- fifty-five for an ecological discovery, when the outside-gap surveys had been awarding thirty-eight and forty-two -- the math was clear. Holding the bond while surveying did something to the quality of what she found. The effort registered as something. Not just as practice or as attunement, but as a fact the system had seen fit to reward.

She sat down on the ground beside the dead tree and thought about this for a while.

She had two hours left before the light changed. She had three more things she had intended to observe: the gap's soil composition at the boundary versus its center, the specific pattern of living ghost-elms' lean away from the gap (which suggested the resonance field was not just absent but actively being deflected around the gap, like water around a stone), and whether the compass could distinguish between corruption-presence and resonance-absence in the gap's interior.

She did all three. She did them slowly, with the full attention she was capable of, holding the bond against the compression and noticing what the holding cost her. By the time she came back through the ward boundary into the settlement, she was tired in the way she got tired after a long day of mapping -- not physical exhaustion but the particular depletion of sustained attention, the feeling that she had been listening hard for too long.

Three more discoveries. The soil was different at center versus boundary (discovery seven). The ghost-elm lean was actively deflective, not passive (discovery eight). The compass could not distinguish -- the gap registered as the same type of absence whether from corruption or from resonance depletion, which itself was information (discovery nine).

Nine discoveries. Standard bonds: threshold. Anchors: she didn't know, but she was closer than she had been this morning.

---

The triad arrived uninvited.

She had come back to the threshold stone after the gap work, not to survey but to sit. She was tired. The bond was still dimmer than usual, recovering from the compression's demands the way an eye recovered from bright light: slowly, by degrees, the warmth returning from muted to full as she moved deeper into the settlement's warmth and the gap's thin air was replaced by the ruins' resonant patience. She sat on the gathering hall's foundation stones, her back against the threshold stone, and ate from her pack, and felt the bonds re-calibrate.

The threshold stone settled first. Its warmth returned to the familiar depth, the geological patience reasserting itself, the quality of a thing that had been here before the settlement and would be here after it. She felt it come back like returning warmth to cold hands: gradual, then suddenly complete.

Then the prayer-notch. Warmer, more alive -- the [Tended] quality registering as a brightness, generations of care expressing themselves as attunement to the living things within the ruins, and there were living things here: the moss on the walls, the ghost-elm roots threading through foundation joins, the basin thrush that had been investigating the terraces all afternoon. The prayer-notch warmth sharpened her awareness of all of them.

Then the healer's house, quieter. [Kept]. The weight of endurance. The mortar-bowl wear on the threshold, the south window angle, the structural memory of a place that had performed the same function with complete steadiness for longer than she could precisely calculate. The healer's house warmth did not ask anything of her. It simply held, the way [Kept] things held -- because holding was what they were for.

And then all three were present at once.

Not sequentially -- she was not cycling through them in the way she had learned to cycle through the bond-network's data. All three simultaneously, the way the stone's noon singing was simultaneous with the sun's angle and the crystal lattice's thermal response. The threshold stone's patience. The prayer-notch's warmth. The healer's house's steadiness. Three distinct qualities, three distinct temperatures, three distinct modes of being-present.

They were not the same. She was not losing the distinctions. But they were happening at the same time, and the happening-at-the-same-time produced something she had not felt from any of them individually. A chord rather than three notes. The threshold stone's geological age plus the prayer-notch's living warmth plus the healer's house's endurance -- together they made a sound that none of them made alone: the sound of a place that had been inhabited for a very long time by people who cared for it, and had been abandoned for a very long time by those same people's descendants, and was still here, still warm, still holding what it had always held.

She had been trying to feel Varethen as the ruins. She had been feeling three structures separately. She had not been feeling the settlement.

She wrote in her journal, with her back against the threshold stone in the late afternoon light: *It was like hearing a chord instead of three notes.*

Then she crossed it out. It didn't sound like useful notation.

But she left the crossing-out in. Crossed-out things were data too.

---

Familiar.

It came just before dusk.

She was not at the threshold stone when it arrived -- she had walked the terraces for an hour, the late light making the stone terracing gold, the [Wayfinder's Eye] shimmering over the terrace walls in the specific way it shimmered when a feature was nearly ready for a discovery. She was crouched at the second terrace step, her hand on the wall's mortar, when she felt the bond change.

Not an increase. Not a deepening in the way depth was supposed to feel, the slow accretion she had imagined from reading. It was a shift of quality -- like the difference between knowing a word and knowing what it means. All her threshold stone discoveries had been adding information. This was the moment when the information became understanding.

She straightened. The bond settled in her chest at its new depth with the ease of something returning to the right place after a long absence from it.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  BOND DEEPENED
  Location: Varethen — Threshold Stone
  Previous Depth: Glimpsed
  New Depth: Familiar
-------------------------------------------------------------

  [Dormant] — Elemental family
  Stat bonus: None. The trait reserves its gifts for Known depth.
  The sleeper stirs but does not yet wake.

  At Familiar depth, the bond is more legible, more present,
  and asks more active attention to maintain.

  The cluster anchor's Familiar depth increases triad relay
  sensitivity. All three nodes now transmit at higher
  fidelity.

  Discoveries at depth advance: 9
  Next threshold (Known): Additional discoveries required.

  +80 XP (Bond Deepened — Familiar)
  Active Bonds: 5 (Warden's Shelf [Glimpsed],
               Warden's Eye [Glimpsed],
               Varethen — Threshold Stone [Familiar],
               Varethen — Prayer-Notch [Glimpsed],
               Varethen — East Secondary Structure [Glimpsed])
  Network Connections: 10
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

She read it twice.

Familiar. Real progress. She was not close to Known, but she was not standing still.

The bond asked more. She could feel it already -- the threshold stone's presence more distinct, more demanding of attention than it had been at Glimpsed. The stone was not louder exactly. It was more specific. She could feel the direction of the settlement's well from the threshold stone's anchor, the way a person can feel the rooms of a familiar house without looking. She could feel the prayer-notch's warmth not as ambient but as directional -- northeast, approximately eight meters, the precise location registering in her ATT stat the way a compass registered magnetic north.

The triad relay was sharper too. All three bonds transmitting at higher fidelity, the chord she had felt against the foundation stones now clearer, more present, the three voices distinguishable as themselves within the harmony.

She was going to need to pay attention to maintain this. More than she had paid to maintain Glimpsed.

She looked at the terrace wall where the [Wayfinder's Eye] shimmer still lingered. The discovery she had been approaching when the depth shift came -- the terrace's specific construction technique, the mortar composition, whether the same hands had built both terrace levels. The shimmer waited.

She reached for it.

---

Day 14.

