The next day, it took some time for the Eyes of Arana to fall behind, but they eventually did. Zero-Five reported this to Viv mid-morning while they were taking a short break.

“They are being very sticky. How many are there?”

“Three, rotating often,” the masked hadal replied.

“They must be sending word back to Frostbay.”

Zero-Five shrugged again. He wasn’t being very cooperative with the non-murderous stuff. Viv wondered how long his patience would last.

“I have decided to keep our discussions a secret from Arana,” Frosthawk finally said from the side.

He was rather grumpy this morning, though Viv didn’t know if it was due to Sidjin’s departure since he should not be seen, the lack of coffee, or his natural predisposition.

“I appreciate it as a gesture of trust.”

“Indeed.”

“Though I would point out that she will kill you if you share this in case you are compromised, and she will kill me if she can anyway.”

Frosthawk grumbled something in his beard before conceding the point. During a break, Cerus finally confessed about his family and how they were, and he had trouble saying the word, threatened.

Then the dam opened.

“General Kobanis recruits his goons from Arana’s clan. They are a lazy, entitled lot… So rude and disrespectful!”

“Loyal to a fault,” Cerus confirmed. “They wouldn’t want to lose all of their steel. They have a lot of it. Most of it, in fact.”

Viv collected information as fast as she could, and it was… complex. The villages were too spread out to revolt, and there were a lot of them. The Remnants didn’t exactly have a census but it was abundantly clear there were at least sixty to seventy thousand souls spread out among the cold plains that hugged the Harrakan mountain ring. It was several times what Viv’s New Harrak currently had. She was basically a toad trying to swallow a bull, and yet the Remnants were so weak and disorganized… Of the loyalist forces, there were several she could finally identify.

The villagers, weak, scared, and untrained, but who could potentially provide shelter and information.

The Guardians, led by Cerus. They were only loyal because their families lived spread out in a few villages near the capital that were vulnerable to raids from nearby southern tribes. Raids that were only prevented by troops stationed there, and even then not that well. Easy.

The mages, led by Frosthawk. They would follow the old archmage, but his family was in the jewel island and no one knew where it was.

The Eyes, a group of spies Viv had absolutely no way to turn and that she would purge with prejudice anyway. They were basically a dictatorial secret police.

The last element was Kobanis’ army. Even inferior to her heavies, fighting them inside of Frostway would still cause a lot of destruction, which she would rather avoid if at all possible. Fortunately, she had an idea. She started formulating a plan, then perhaps the others would have ideas as well.

***

During her trip south, Viv did her best to win over the villagers, mostly with modest gifts of tools which they appreciated enormously. The difference between having one hammer and two hammers was not as significant as the one between one hammer and zero hammers. The same was true of saws, steel knives, and other specialized instruments that made life so much easier. It wasn’t too suspicious of her to have brought those, she hoped, and Zero-Five confirmed that no villages had been burnt after she left it. So far.

Soon, she stopped worrying about the coup. There was the small matter of defeating a juvenile dragon. On the day before they arrived at their destination, Viv secretly left her camp to attend a meeting set up near one of Sidjin’s portals, inside the pine forest. She gated there, only to find… a lot of people.

Quite a lot of people.

It was like a fae gathering, well-dressed mysterious people gathering in muttering clumps in the middle of the wilderness while reality was twisted nearby. The most notable pair, however, was made of Arthur and Solar. They stood at a distance and a little away from each other. Arthur seemed incredibly uneasy. She did that thing where she trampled the ground without realizing it. As for Solar, he was his stoic self.

“Greetings, Viviane,” he greeted first.

Mother.

“Your daughter and I have aligned on a very important point, though for different reasons. I will leave you to it.”

And just like that, he turned away to leave through his portal.

“Well that was quick?”

His mate needs help with their spawn.

Mother.

It is important.

I felt his aura near the village.

He really is my brother.

The two walked closer to each other. Viv patted Arthur’s neck like in old times. Of course, now it was considerably larger.

“We, ah, never talked about it. Also about what I did… Feeding you…”

Cannibalism is common in spawn, if the parent leaves them to fend for themselves.

It is… an insult among dragons.

Judgment told me so.

She seemed dejected.

“I’m so sorry.”

Yes.

I am, too.

Because he is cruel.

Like our mother was.

Judgment talked about her, also.

He may have been alone for a very long time.

Mother, I would still like him not to die.

It was a request. Viv nodded. It would probably be easier to force the dragon to submit or to flee rather than just straight up kill him anyway. As for him being an ally, she really wasn’t sure it could be done anyway. He was… really an asshole. Even for a dragon.

“I’ll try.”

Then, you must face him alone.

The dangerous blade master agrees as well.

You must defeat brother in single combat.

Viv didn’t have to think long to realize Arthur was right, though it seemed like an incredibly dangerous idea.

“If I face him with allies, he will see us as humans. Cooperating together to fight a dangerous predator.”

Yes.

But since you carry marks...

“Then if I defeat him in single combat, I would be like another dragon claiming dominion.”

He would listen, if only out of fear.

But only you can do that.

I am smaller than him.

His… primitive mind will not understand.

But you carry the mark of the nurser.

“I will try. It will take some planning though, and I may have postponed it for too long.”

The others have thought in your stead.

They are ready.

Go talk to them.

Viv patted Arthur one last time to make her way to one of the largest groups of casters she had seen since Helock. Abenezigel was here, his size allowing him to look over heads. There was also Sidjin, Lana, Rakan, and Frosthawk whom Sidjin had apparently smuggled away from his tent, then many of the ladies under Lana, and Rakan’s most senior trainees. The glances were unusually hostile.

“Am I bothering the conclave?” she asked.

“Could you please stop making a mockery out of space magic?” Rakan asked with false outrage.

“A mutiny!”

Frosthawk tensed immediately, however the mood relaxed with a few laughs then so did he. Sidjin approached her with a new harness.

“If you want to win this, you are going to need a lot of tools, but mostly, you will need to fly very fast. But before we do some tryouts, there was somebody who wanted to talk to you.”

Viv hadn’t noticed him, her keen senses overwhelmed by so many mana signatures. Lak-Tak was here. His thin mustaches quivered with excitement.

“Err, you’re here for… Oh. Ooooooh.”
