“Even if you are that strong, I will still not defect.”

“Because she has your family?” Viv innocently replied.

Terror filled Frosthawk’s features. Viv waved her hands immediately lest the old man fell off his horse.

“I haven’t seen or heard anything. It’s just that tyrants tend to be extremely consistent.”

“Not just them. My mages. Their families. We are all… part of a web. And Arana endangers all of us. Curse her…”

He frowned.

“Is this the point where you tell me you can guarantee their safety?”

Another test?

“I do not wish to make promises I am not certain I can fulfill. You will need to tell me  what you know while we ride and while my people keep an eye on our followers. It would be wise if you keep a distance at camp. That way, their suspicions will not arise too quickly.”

“Even assuming you can save them, Arana is mighty. She has a thousand well-equipped and well-trained men with her, not to mention her assassins. We would be overwhelmed.”

“New Harrak is strong. Stronger than you think.”

Viv felt a light pulse of mana from the side and smiled.

Impeccable timing.

“And I can prove it. Here!” she said, pointing at an empty spot in front of her.

Frosthawk frowned.

“Are you deran — AAAAH!”

A burst of mana heralded the opening of a mage gate, and from there, he emerged, looking gorgeous in armored robes.

“Did you miss me?” Sidjin asked.

“Every hour or so. Frosthawk, meet Sidjin, my paramour and the creator of the gate spell.”

“A pleasure, fellow archmage,” Sidjin said with the unctuous tone of the consummate courtier.

Yep, it was going well, but as the two mages immediately went into the techniques behind portals, she couldn’t help but remark upon herself.

Even when attempting subterfuge, Viv’s first and most obvious reaction was always to try and find the right person for the job. It kept working, but it also meant she depended on others to solve her problems.

Maybe it wasn’t so bad. After all, she was using her best tools for the job.

***

One hour later, Viv rode behind what proved to be an extremely animated discussion.

“It cannot be done,” Sidjin insisted, “because the mana consumption curve of connected portals increases at the speed of one eighth of the distance squared for every mile, thus making extremely long passages unsustainable.”

“But what could cause this then? Not the Seveno constant, or the spell would not function at all.”

Viv leaned forward on her saddle.

“That’s because of the curvature of the earth.”

The two idiots looked at her, offended at her interruption. Sidjin recognized her smile and predictably went off at the same moment.

“Woman, don’t you dare.”

“It’s ‘cause Nyil got to dig through rock to connect the portals in a straight line, see?”

“What? Preposterous!”

“THAT IS NOT HOW SPACE MAGIC WORKS AT ALL!”

“But there is a grace distance of a league and a half where consumption is minimum,” Viv replied, the very image of winged, abyssal-eyed innocence. “That’s because we’re digging through air, then the curvature means we have to dig through rocks.”

The two froze in their tracks. Viv had no idea if she was correct or not. It only mattered that they believed she might be.

Sidjin choked on his fury while Frosthawk opened and closed his mouth in a solid rendition of a beached fish.

Most excellent.

She shrugged with the most insufferable expression she could manage. A second later, insults and imprecations washed over her, speaking of witch logic and other harmful stereotypes but she didn’t care, for she had already won. Sometimes, it took a nerd to lure another nerd. With this, her nerd collection had expanded by one. New minion: obtained. They could whine and protest all they wanted.

Viv rode on.

***

While the two were still arguing, Viv began her subversion of Cerus. It immediately became apparent that it would be an uphill battle.

“Arana is harsh but fair. She might be misguided on occasions, yes, however the same can be said of any leader.”

“Harsh? What is the punishment for failure?”

“Not death, I know what you are saying. Death is the penalty for treason. I have… failed several tasks, and I am still here.”

“And are some of the tasks perhaps impossible to realize? Unrealistic given the resources available?”

“We are meant to be pushed to our limits in the service of the empire.”

“No, you are meant to be under constant pressure and in a state of panic, so when she forgives you for an inevitable failure, all you feel is abject gratitude. Is she unpredictable, kind and motherly one time and stern and terrifying the next? Are you always on your toes around her?”

“I, that is, of course, a powerful advisor such as she…”

“Those are the tactics of an abuser. She will have you doubt yourself and shake with terror.”

“I do not serve her. I serve Marus and the empire!”

“But she gives the order,” Viv insisted.

Cerus retreated into his own annoyance, and Viv knew this was going to take some time.

“Your Majesty,” a gruff voice said from the side.

Viv turned to see that Ban had joined her. The dry old man glared at her with his usual ‘you’re my boss now but just step out of line and I’ll shove my pilum up your rectum’ look. So he was in a good mood, probably.

“Yes?”

“Lemme talk to the lad.”

“Oh, of course.”

“C’mere boy,” Ban said, grabbing the slightly taller Cerus by the shoulder and directing him away like he was five years old. Viv felt mighty pleased to have, once more, competent and motivated minions who were mostly loyal so long as she didn’t ask for too much. Truly, the empire prospered.

***

That night, they made camp in a secluded valley nestled between two small mounds, not far from a village where Viv bought fresh fish for only a few iron bits. The villagers were absolutely ecstatic to get iron, and Sidjin went as far as using some advanced magic to make basic tools.

“Mana-intensive and it makes for inferior products, but it helps in a pinch,” he said.

“You are very resourceful.”

“I strive to find a way to achieve anything with colorless mana. Perhaps one day, it will be the most used hue.”

Viv didn’t think it would for a single second. The unintuitive castings required will and fine control. Most people wouldn’t bother. She kept her remark to herself, however. There would always be a blue caster with a need to make fire and this would help a lot. They already had a repository of colorless spells safely recorded within Sinur’s Gate’s library.

Zero-Five confirmed that Arana’s agent had caught up, and that they had placed themselves atop the cliff to keep an eye on Viv and the Old Imperial underlings. As such, Viv made extra sure to have both Frosthawk and Cerus’ borrowed tents set at a distance in complete isolation. Anyone looking would assume she either hated them, or found that they had questionable hygiene. Either way, this would give the appearance of conflict.

After a nice grilled fish dinner, Zero-Five gave his complete report. The hadals had been extremely busy for two days, but now she would get a better picture of what she was up against.

“They sent many runners. Paths dedicated to speed. We could not follow them all so we followed two. Others went east, and north along the sea. We found two things.”

His mask was solemn tonight. It couldn’t be too good.

“There is a village of prisoners farther north, on a large island a little off the coast. We found the ships carrying food to them, as well as some reports. There is another island called the jewel island, but it is hidden.”

Viv thought about it for a second.

“They may have the larger gulag, well, island, for the common law criminals and the potentially dangerous opponents and their families. The jewel island hides something more. I suspect valuable hostages might be held there.”

Zero-Five shrugged. The axeman wasn’t exactly a keen strategic analyst. He preferred a more direct approach.

“The other runner was too fast but we found out he was going to a… favored village. The one that harbors ‘general’ Kobanis’ family.”

“Favored village?”

“That is the term they use. They have iron.”

“Likely the place where the loyal guards are drawn from. It would make sense then, because in a revolution, they would stand to lose the most. Those we cannot convert. You will still find someone to scout the area.”

“Huh?”

“Find where the villages are. I know what to do with them.”

“Huh.”

“As for the villages north, they are too far from us right now. Frosthawk also mentioned during the day that they were spread out. I give up on them for now since we don’t have the resources to spread out that far. For the southern ones, my understanding is that they hug the shore so I will show myself there to begin with. I would like us to start on the eastern villages, those that lead back to New Harrak. We will be… congratulating them on the reunification of both inheritor states through the sharing of tools. Yries-made. I know we have surplus. Let Sidjin know since he is the one operating the network right now.”

“Understood.”

“Good. And let them know that I am going after the dragon and could use advice on, well, everything.”

Viv was confident she could undermine Arana, but going without her advisors to prove she could be subtle when she wanted to was a waste of lives she couldn’t afford. She would at least bounce ideas off of them.

***

“Grandmother, the scouts have returned,” Marus said, waving a deciphered text with a lazy hand.

“It is as you suspected. She is trying to turn our people against us.”

“It is always as I suspect,” the older woman replied.

She was poring over reports in her office at the heart of the palace. Poorly made bark paper covered every available surface, pins linking them to one another. There were people, projects, ideas, conspiracies, clans, all bound together, all a massive spider web of feelings, loyalties, and influences. Control was about all of it. Nothing could escape it, or control itself would be lost.

The newcomer was but another hurdle.

“She gave Frosthawk a horse.”

“Lent, I assume, though it confirms my fears that she is indeed a distant Paramese and not a particularly obnoxious southern tribe trickster.”

“The Eyes report that they talked, but the mage told her off.”

“He is old and cunning. Her design must appear awkward and demeaning to one such as he. He knows the price of betrayal.”

“They report that they built a separate encampment.”

Arana nodded. She expected no less.

“She will still try to turn him around. The Eyes must keep a close watch.”

Arana surveyed the corner of her domain that covered magic. Mages were a necessity, especially in times of turmoil. She could ill afford to lose one of the Frosthawk’s last scions, but if it came to it… She picked one of the images. Irlan. A placid man. A suitable replacement if it came to it. If Frosthawk proved loyal, she would wait another two years before… retiring him in favor of the younger, more malleable candidate. Otherwise… well, she still had his family. He would accept death rather than see them perish, and if needed, she would ship the ring fingers of each and every one of his children to convince him. She had resorted to this tool before.

Such a headache, but that was the price of safety.

“I have ordered the soldiers to stay mobilized. I believe we should have them march east. Just in case,” Marus stated.

“A wise choice, Marus. I believe the village they saved, the one under one Elder Osso?”

“Yes?”

“It was fully destroyed by the dragon.”

“... I see. I will give the order. We should avoid destroying too many villages. The crops…”

“Hunger will pass. Revolt would not. Please have your men find any contaminated villages and deal with them. I want to know where she came from, so have them find it for me. Follow the trail east. My Eyes will assist them in this regard, my grandson.”

“What if we find them? Should we invade?”

“I believe this would be premature, especially since we do not know if they are the client states of adversaries we would be better served not provoking. No, finding them first is enough. We can worry about absorbing them once their troublemaker here has met her demise.”

“What if she… doesn't?”

Arana reclined in her chair.

“What is my second lesson?”

“Look at the motives. She is not motivated to kill the beast. She merely needs to pretend she did, and so long as the dragon doesn’t—”

“Not hers. The dragons. The creature is a predator. They flee rather than fight a tough prey because being wounded can lead to their death. It is simply not worth the effort. The same cannot be said if said prey follows them to their lair. There, the dragon will be backed into a corner, and when it is…”

“She will either die or flee with her tail between her legs.”

“She cannot fool the Eyes. They will know if she lies.”

Marus remained silent. Arana considered him with approval. Looking for points of failure to remedy them was a good quality in a planner. Her grandson was learning.

“How have the people received the news that the… Kark, was it?”

“Yes. I found a record of them in the archives. An unruly people.”

“That they are dangerous savages with a taste for imperial women. This rumor has taken well. I am concerned about the ‘empress’ herself.”

“The world that came after the fall is a decivilized one, and anyone who pretends otherwise is a charlatan at best, and a traitor at worst.”

“I see. I will pass on the word.”

“Good.”

***

