Arrows and magic filled the air as Ali and Calen engaged, but Malika tuned it all out to focus on her chosen opponent. She landed a powerful double kick combination and the Flamecaller whirled to face her. Her heart quickened as she ducked and dodged the blurring spear. The twisting energy of its stamina flickered so fast that she struggled to follow the details, and despite her incredible speed, the sharp blade found its mark several times.

Three black-scaled Kobolds materialized right behind the Flamecaller, looking positively tiny beside the massive serpentine elemental. Dark daggers gleamed in the firelight, stabbing with respectable speed. The monster hissed angrily and the scales along its torso flared with an intense heat that made them glow. Her next punch slammed into a much denser, scaled armor, burning her fist. Most of the strength of her punch was rebuffed by the sudden density, with only the magic of her Soul Strike getting through.

“Armor skill,” Malika announced. Rezan’s relentless insistence on focus, attention, and learning about her enemy had changed the way she fought. She had not seen any energy usage prior to the heat and glowing scales, meaning it had to be a mana ability. The only time she had felt something similar was when she had tried to punch through Basir’s rock armor – this was a little more yielding to her attacks, but no less problematic.

In response to her words, the elemental’s energy surged in a brief strange formation centered around the throat and it let out a loud hiss that thrummed with power, tearing painfully at her ears. A powerful surge of fear coursed through her and the Flamecaller suddenly seemed to grow impossibly large and powerful. She diminished, shrinking into insignificance, cowering against the overwhelming might of the monster. The implacable stillness of her Clarity settled within her mind and suddenly the vision of fear and intimidation snapped, banished, presumably by the strength of her high wisdom and bloodline skill.

“Malika!” Ali yelled.

Malika stumbled as pain replaced the illusion and she suddenly noticed two fresh spear wounds, burning punctures deep in her left thigh and ribs, earned while her mind was distracted. Shit. Quickly, she healed herself, ever grateful that her armor skill was passive.

You have gained Clarity.

“What was that?” Calen shouted.

“Intimidation skill,” Malika yelled back. It had to be that – or some fear-imbued war cry variant. Mato appeared to have recovered quickly, but Ali’s three rogues cowered where they stood. Stamina blazed a radiant white within the monster and the Flamecaller’s spear let out a deafening whip-crack as it cleaved through her guard in a blindingly quick arc. It seared through her flesh, leaving hungry black flames licking the edges of the gash and continued on to slice all three cowering rogues.

She pulsed her Healing Mantra, but her magic struggled to heal her while the flames flared angrily. Fuck. She healed it again. That felt like pure fire damage, she thought, healing a third time to stem the persistent and agonizingly painful consuming power of the black flame. She glanced over, but it seemed Ali’s Acolytes had noticed the same thing – at least judging by the focused expressions on their faces and the frantic gesticulation of their hands.

Malika focused on dodging, blocking, and counterattacking the uncannily agile spear, meanwhile, in the background, she was categorizing all the abilities she had observed. The heat of its scales dissipated, and she found she could punch it again, meaning it must be a short-duration defensive ability boosting its armor. The cleave attack was nasty, and Ali’s rogues were still struggling with the aftereffects of the intimidation.

On the other hand, she was quickly getting used to seeing the monster’s stamina usage with her Soul Sight, and as she became more familiar with its patterns of thrusts, blocks, and sweep attacks, her blocking and dodging became that much more efficient. She resisted another intimidating hiss from one of the nearby Flamecallers, but again Ali’s rogues were reduced to cowering by the overpowering mental attack.

Cleave!

She saw the attack coming by recognizing the spike of stamina usage within the thick muscles of its torso and arms. She dodged, but the strike continued, slamming through the rogues, and setting their bodies on fire. One of them died outright, while the others survived long enough to get a restoration or some other healing spell from the Acolytes.

Suddenly, and without warning, the largest Flamecaller switched its spear to a right-handed grip and a great shield of black flame appeared on its other arm. It sprang backward, gaining a surprising amount of distance with its incredible feat of strength. Malika responded, accelerating to close the distance, but the Flamecaller had similar ideas. The energy pattern from its original attack flickered powerfully through its body, and the entire bulk of the serpentine monster blurred across the intervening rock, slamming its spear clean through her side, up to the crossbar, and out through her back. She winced at the searing pain of flames tearing through her as she was flung bodily off the creature into the air. The energy pattern repeated.

Shit! she thought, followed immediately by the echo of Rezan’s voice reverberating through her mind once more. No excuses, did you learn nothing? Change the attack vector, unbalance the foe!

She pulsed mana into her Divine Step, blue-white soul magic manifesting in the air beneath her feet as she pushed off the force of her skill in mid-air, redirecting her trajectory up and over the blurring spear and the trails of flame it left in the scorching air. She tucked her legs to clear its head, wincing at the still-burning wound under her ribs, and aimed a powerful kick at the back of its head, accurately striking the spot between two of the spinal ridges. Only then did she spare the mana to cast another Healing Mantra, landing behind the creature as it struggled to reverse its enormous bulk and momentum in the face of her feat of agility.

That’s how to do it, she realized as she studied the monster from behind. As it wheeled to strike her, she decided to not be there, pulsing stamina into her Divine Step and sprinting around to the side, not even a single step touching the ground. What followed was an extended aerial dance where barely one step in ten touched the ground. She twisted and spun, flipping and dodging around the creature, all the while striking out with rapid punches and kicks. Despite her speed, the creature still managed to block with its flaming shield, and it scored regular hits with its rapid spear strikes, each block or cut searing into her, fueling the dark flames that consumed her flesh and blackened her skin. She could tell her body was on fire in several locations, but she just channeled more mana into her Healing Mantra to keep up her relentless attacks. It was a powerful upward kick to the throat that finally did it. Her foot connected with a full extension supplying maximum power to the blow, bypassing the shield of flame, and her Soul Strike flashed straight into the monster’s head. The light in its eyes dimmed and it slowly toppled sideways, hitting the ground with a loud thump and she finally relaxed, easing her prodigious stamina expenditure to a more reasonable amount.

“Good!” Calen shouted, redirecting his stream of arrows. “This one next!”

Aargh! He was right, of course. This was no time to rest.

The Restoration magic on her slowly pushed back the flames that still burned on her body, and she looked out at the rest of the battlefield, trying to ignore the pain. Mato was burning from countless already healed wounds, still tanking three of these creatures. Behind him, three lightning totems were pulsing out lightning novas, and arrows and magic surged in the flickering light of the flames.

I’ve learned how they fight, Rezan. Watch this, old man! she thought, a big grin on her face. She hopped once and tore into battle, targeting Calen’s favorite monster.

***

Malika sat beside the burning bear, taking a few moments with Clarity to regenerate her stamina and mana and then pulsed Healing Mantra into him once more. She hissed as her fingers brushed the persistent black flames that burned away at his wounds. He grunted unhappily, still unable to shift back to normal as he was taking far too much damage to release his prodigious vitality boost. The little kobolds chirped anxiously beside them as they too continued to heal him.

Why am I regenerating so much?

She opened her mana regeneration information, hoping for some insight, but the only thing it showed was that she was receiving substantially more mana and stamina regeneration from Mato’s Sanctuary aura than she normally did.

Mana RegenerationPercentage of maximum mana regenerated per hour.+100% Racial (Human).+470% Clarity.+335% Sanctuary.Total: +905%

This is ridiculous. It’s like his battle trance triggered, but it usually only works for stamina… She opened her stamina regeneration, finding identical numbers. But then the amount dropped for no apparent reason.

Stamina RegenerationPercentage of maximum stamina regenerated per hour.+100% Racial (Human).+100% Relentless.+470% Clarity.+100% Sanctuary.Total: +770%

She sat and stared at it in confusion for a little, and then automatically healed Mato again, and suddenly the amount jumped back up.

Oh! She opened up her Clarity skill and then suddenly had her answer.

Clarity – level 13Your proficiency with meditation is enhanced by your Ahn Khen bloodline. Your mind has reached a permanent state of clarity, during which mana and stamina regeneration is increased by +235% [40 + skill x 15]. Bonus is doubled if you sit and focus.Soul, Bloodline, Wisdom, Endurance

The amount her regeneration had increased was precisely her own skill’s regeneration rate. And it had come through Mato’s aura. Sanctuary shared all of his regeneration with nearby allies. Including his Battle Trance. But her healing had just given him her own Clarity regeneration buff for a few seconds, and his Sanctuary appeared to be sharing that with her too.

Curious, she placed her hand on Mato’s flank, deliberately putting it in the flames and holding it there while she grimaced at the pain.

“Uh, Malika?” Ali asked, a worried look in her eyes.

“Just testing something,” she muttered and then healed both herself and Mato in rapid succession.

You have gained Clarity.

Her regeneration jumped yet again.

Stamina RegenerationPercentage of maximum stamina regenerated per hour.+100% Racial (Human).+100% Relentless.+705% Clarity.+335% Sanctuary.Total: +1240%

“What the heck do you need to test that requires burning yourself?” Ali asked.

Holy shit. Without bothering to say anything, she just shared her stamina regeneration with her friends.

“What the heck!” Calen exclaimed, sitting bolt upright. “How…”

“Clarity,” Malika said, grinning at him.

“Did you get an advancement, Malika?” Ali asked.

“Nope,” she said. “I’m just using it four times.”

“You… what?” Calen gasped, and Malika was treated to the half-elf being literally speechless for a moment.

“I get double Clarity for sitting and focusing,” she explained. “And I can give Clarity to anyone I heal for a bit more than sixteen seconds. It works on myself… and Mato.”

“Ooh!” Calen said, scrambling for his notebook, and then immediately storing it again with a look of chagrin on his face as the pages caught fire. “And…”

“Yes, his Sanctuary reflects it back to me for the fourth instance.”

“Ok, that’s… really ridiculous,” Calen said. “But… we can use this!”

“You’re regenerating your entire stamina pool every five minutes?” Ali said, still staring.

“Four minutes fifty seconds,” Calen corrected absently, his eyes taking on a faraway glaze.

Now, that’s a bloodline skill! No wonder Rezan said they were important.

Her mana regeneration was nearly as good, just not getting the advantage of Relentless. And to make it even more useful, Sanctuary reflected her Clarity boost to every member of their team in range, including Ali’s minions. All she had to do was heal Mato when he was damaged – and that was nearly always.

Finally, having resolved her confusion to her own satisfaction, she turned her attention back to the results of the fight. Ali got up and resumed her deconstruction of corpses and the no-longer glowing spears.

“Those Flamecallers have a temporary duration armor boosting skill,” she said, thinking about the most important skills she had seen during the fight.

“Yup, when the scales glow, the only thing that gets through is my nature magic,” Mato agreed, finally shifting back to his Beastkin form. “By the way, that Clarity thing is awesome, Malika.”

“Thanks!”

“They can also do pure fire damage with those spear attacks, and it leaves your wounds burning for ages.” Malika had spent a substantial portion of her resources continually combatting the persistent flames.

“Yep, I noticed that one,” Mato said with a wry grin. “They figured out that I have a lot of armor and swapped to that very quickly. I was burning a lot. What is that flame – it’s very not fun.”

“It’s hellfire,” Ali said, joining them on the rocky ground. “I can identify their mana affinity. I can’t see that hiss thing, so I’m not sure what it does. But it’s really bad for my rogues – they couldn’t fight.”

“It’s a martial arts intimidation skill,” Malika answered. Both she and Mato had high wisdom, and her Clarity helped her keep her mind calm under pressure. “Your rogues are probably not high enough level to resist a level sixty Intimidate.”

Ali twisted her mouth and frowned. “I need to find some higher-level minions soon,” she said. “This is becoming a real problem.”

“What about these Flamecallers?”

“Not sure,” she answered. “They seem to be some classed variant of a hellfire elemental, so I’m thinking I probably can’t summon them. I will try though, if we can get enough.”

“You didn’t get it for your elemental imprint?” Calen asked, looking surprised.

“No, and I really have no idea why,” Ali grumbled. “This stupid classification system makes no sense.”

“That’s too bad, they’re very tough,” he said.

