And then something attracted his attention. It didn’t come from within the walls but from the harbor, the natural one at the western tip of the city. The one where his ship was waiting for him.

“No. No!”

Sai flew as fast as he could.

***

The prisoner gave himself two more days of life, maybe less. He licked his parched lips and thanked Emeric for having him be captured during winter, at least. Sometimes, he could suck on snow when the others were not looking. The other prisoners didn’t trust him. Wretched things, all of them. Some were surviving villagers from the fallen villages, thin and dying but still occasionally fed. Fodder for some ritual, no doubt. Others had been carried over the sea from the Shadow Lands by slavers eager to sell to those who didn't value gold. The slavers had learned that Octas hated every form of civilization, even the most cruel ones. They were also ritual fodder. Maybe a gaze, maybe something the savage bitch would cook up. The prisoner didn’t care. His only hope was to be executed as an example because he was too much of a coward to kill himself by other means.

A woman stared at him from the other cage. She was a lower caste thing from the mainland, also a coward, but one made meek from birth. She was hopeless. When their eyes met, she turned away.

The prisoner was bored. Why was dying so very tedious? He almost wanted the cultists to get to it. Instead, the cowled idiots were lowering crates from one of the many small ships who’d made the trip from the homeland or Vizim to carry men and supplies for the great work. Turned out that it took a lot of flesh to keep their ravenous allies going. In the bay, a makeshift port had assembled itself to welcome those blasphemous shipments. The prisoner watched a man roll a barrel up the rickety pier towards one of the warehouses. Actually, they were improved fishing shacks but that still made them one of the few remaining intact structures outside of the walls. The spider bitch was thorough.

As for the flesh father…

The prisoner turned to the nearest flesh tree, one of the most active on the island. It was an unholy meat construct capable of producing cursed fruits that sustained the flesh walkers. Towering over the burnt husks of real vegetation, they only took the vague shape of a real trunk, a grotesque parody of life. They smelled weird as well, a strange mix of sourness and floral notes. Eminently disturbing. The prisoner averted his gaze. He didn’t want to find another eye looking at him. Again.

“Careful with those, they contain iron bars, you dimwit,” the quartermaster screamed at a fumbling cultist.

“Boss, do you hear that?”

“Hear what?”

But the prisoner heard, and soon, so did the quartermaster, and then so did everyone. The cultist looked up at the ubiquitous gray sky with incomprehension. It was… a screech?

Light.

Heat.

Sound.

The prisoner jerked back against the cage, feeling it bite against his thin chest. He took a deep breath. His ears popped. Where there was once a small ship before him, now there was only an expanding ball of fire sending scorched debris falling like rain. The man pushing a barrel had died. The pier was a flaming wreck. On the other ships, men and women panicked. Some jumped into the water while others pulled on rope. Others still looked up to the sky to find what was attacking them. The prisoner did it as well. He had nothing better to do. There was a sort of liberating feeling to being helpless in the face of death. No need to struggle.

A flash of white scales. A serpentine shape. Gray mana blurring with speed as the creature attacking them made a second pass and another ship was annihilated. Corpses were tossed  by the explosion, cloaks burning. They were dead before they hit the water.

“Neriad protect us,” someone whispered in the next cage. “It’s a dragon.”

It was, in fact, a dragon. The prisoner stared uncomprehendingly at the shape of archers and a cultist mage attempting to stop the flying calamity, but their target was a blur of spells. The earth buckled under them without a circle appearing or symbols being used. Only the Thunder Lord could possibly slow that beast down, curse that backstabbing cur. Why was there a damn dragon here, of all places?

And why was there a foreign woman as well?

The prisoner blinked. Next to him, a pale-skinned caster carved circles and symbols into the suddenly flattened ground. She was tall, with a black armored robe and a strange, misshapen shield covered in heraldry. A silver circlet adorned her helmet. He reassessed her as a leader of some sort as well as a caster. Her hair was colored strangely. A Paramese, for sure. Or a savage from the Empire of Dawn. No, she was no thrall. He frowned.

[Foe of Efestar, Ascender, Fourth step of a well-rounded black war caster path. Elemental.  LETHAL. Peerless war caster. Born for magic. Empress of New Harrak. Monster Slayer… ]

So many… what? He’d never heard of her! Harrak? Wasn’t the place destroyed? And she was an enemy of Efestar? Elemental? What was she doing here all calm and — but wait. That was his chance.

“Lady? Lady? The gate? Please?”

His voice revived the spark of hope in the chests of the other wretches. They crammed themselves against their cages with emaciated limbs grasping at her, filthy nails clawing the air for the salvation she represented, but she didn’t budge. With methodical speed, the witch kept drawing an increasingly complex array on the ground. The prisoner knew enough about rituals to realize this one was excessively complex despite the… rather artistic arrangement. She was also drawing several at once. It was something only the best casters could do. The prisoner didn’t know what an elemental archmage was but it was clearly one of the light gods’ champions. Fresh off the boat then? Maybe he still had a chance.

“Lady, we can be of help.”

She didn’t reply. The array completed, then she fed power into the construct.

There was so much mana here the prisoner could feel it press against his skin. The air shimmered, then the world inexplicably split open, smoothly, like a window, and beyond that was a courtyard covered in flowers with mossy, damaged walls, and warriors in heavy armor. Quite a few of them.

“Go. Go!”

The fighters actually crossed the space. They were here now, soldiers of the light. From the city to the pier in an instant.

A portal? This was a portal? It was! The prisoner thought only Oleander’s team was capable of such a feat! The soldiers immediately opened the cages around him while the witch created another circle. Behind him, the bay’s last boat went up in flames yet the witch wasn’t worried. The dragon was on her side? How?

Then he was facing a furious man.

“This one is a cultist. He’s one of them.”

Uh oh.

The templar attempted to break the cage, only to realize the lock was enchanted. The prisoner gave him an apologetic shrug which only enraged him even more.

“Sorry, Neriad’s dog. I wouldn’t need you for a normal lock.”

The elemental one approached in turn, and the prisoner had his first good look at her. She was… exotic. Very strange, and beautiful if you liked that kind of thing. The eyes were the catch. They were pure black with emerald rings where the iris should be. What was she doing serving the light ones? She looked at him with her alien eyes and there was an assessment there he didn’t like.

The woman approached and a blade of pure void erupted from her extended hand. She casually flicked it through the lock. Part of the metal and all the enchantments were… just gone with a hiss.

The templar opened the gate. Well, at least they would make it fast.

“Let him go,” the woman said.

The templar twisted around, outrage plain on his face.

“Milady, this is a servant of a dark god.”

“I know. Stand aside.”

The templar grew defiant but something hit him. With his advanced soul sense, the prisoner could feel it as well, though it was focused on someone else. Intimidation. Powerful. Perhaps even specialized. It felt like standing in front of a scaled oven with a cold patience behind. It was pointless to fight her off. She would get her way and quickly.

“NOW!”

The templar obeyed, though reluctantly. The prisoner didn’t wait until they could change their minds. He was out and away in a rush. He raced past burning buildings, charred corpses and panicked cultists rushing here and there. Exhaustion made every step a chore. Had to work on his endurance a bit, after this was done. Hunger gnawed at him but that one was an old companion and it didn’t stop him. Suddenly, thunder roared behind him.

The free man slowed down then. Behind him, down the slope, the bay was a scene of utter devastation. The carcasses of ships still smoldered so that it looked like the ocean itself was on fire. An inferno devoured the husks of structures where a makeshift port used to stand. Smoke and screams clogged the atmosphere, and while he could see the templars freeing the other prisoners and killing the surviving cultists, behind the island was but a hazy landscape of red and gray beset with black smoke and flying embers. The dragon shrieked again and the top of a distant hill burst into flames. But all was not over for Efestar’s servant. Sai was here.

The free man still resented Sai’s ascension to dominance over Efestar’s scattered servants. He resented the archmage’s cocky confidence, but there was little he could do because Efestar’s blessings affected him in… another way. The Thunder Lord floated over the scene clad in a halo of clean air, his a purifying presence. Just then, the sun found a small dip in the clouds. Light backlit the flying figure to give him a colorful aura. Here was the flying champion coming to the rescue while below, the black witch carved away at the ground, abyss-lined jade looking up with cold disdain.

“You have courage, I will grant you that,” the Thunder Lord rumbled.

The witch didn’t bother to answer. A black shield surrounded her. Electricity still crackled on its surface. The Thunder Lord’s spells lingered and rock didn’t stop them but it appeared black mana had. She had never stopped casting.

The Thunder Lord must have felt something because he attacked with insistence. Air blades met strange disruptive spells. Fireballs were swallowed effortlessly. Another thundering attack had the same result as before, so Sai apparently decided to target the templars instead as they evacuated the last of the rescues but it was too late. They were already within her protective aura, and she intercepted his attacks with ease.

“Hyperbeam.”

A thick black ray speared the clouds. For a moment, the free man expected, no, hoped that Sai had finally perished for his arrogance but the archmage was a survivor, and thanks to his strange understanding of gray mana, he was suddenly… not there. Another spell that made the air unbreathable was immediately countered when the witch saturated Sai’s surroundings with black mana, shattering the delicate construct. He flew higher, above the thick air yet below the gloom of the perpetual dark clouds. His form blended in the world of gray.

The free man knew what was coming so he ran faster. The wind picked up, yet before the Thunder Lord could trigger his attack, the witch struck.

“Metamorphosis.”

The leftover mana made him shudder, as if his skin didn’t quite fit.

Despite the imminent danger, the free man still turned as he edged the slope. He wanted to see. He needed to see. The leftovers of the attack made the clouded air even darker, and it was now clear that the witch’s target had never been the Thunder Lord.

The free man realized it had never been a duel. The witch had an objective. The Thunder Lord was merely in the way.

“I swore to myself I would never inflict the aspect of change on a person,” the witch said in Old Imperial, her voice carried by the wind.

“But you’re not a person.”

The flesh tree shivered. The free man had seen temple guards hack at it and die, grabbed and absorbed into its flesh. He’d seen mages attempt to set it alight and fail. The tree had regrown from the voracious attention of the flesh walkers. Now, for the first time, the free man saw it writhe in pain. Limbs erupted, flailed, and fell off like torn petals. Tumorous growths bubbled over its horrid surface and slowly, it half-melted, half-fell forward. Mouths bloomed and screamed. The din was deafening. When the trunk touched a nearby rock, it broke to spill a vile liquid that hissed against the flames. More gashes opened, wounds that would have killed a titan. Still more limbs popped haphazardly over the collapsing mass as its regeneration fought against the spell and lost. It was being devoured by the very thing that had brought it life. Suddenly, the tree stopped struggling.

The free man watched with rapt attention, an attention he regretted immediately when a single, perfect eye opened on the last intact piece of skin. The eye turned towards the witch.

Terror froze the man’s breath. This was… this was… Gomogog. The hungering god spotted the witch. The torrent of ichor turned into a wave that aimed for her.

“No you don’t. Deadland domain.”

The witch walked to the portal. She was the only one left behind, and behind her, a sphere of gray expanded. The fires sputtered and died. The grass died. Even the waves lost their color. The cage where he’d been kept turned brittle and the dark god’s attack fizzled.

The free man finally got it now. Not a caster of elements. A caster that is an elemental. A black elemental.

When had Neriad found such a champion?

