The flesh tree finally collapsed, but the Thunder Lord’s attack came as well. Wind blew, lifting planks, then entire stones as a hurricane formed, centered on the witch’s location, but she merely raised walls around herself with a gesture. The portal was still active. What was she waiting for? The free man was still a spectator, despite the dangers. His chances of survival were bleak anyway. He might as well learn what he could. Perhaps bargain his knowledge.

Just as the twister started, it evaporated. The free man heard Sai scream when the archmage plummeted head first into the ocean. One of his legs was on fire.

It was a glorious sight.

“What took you so long?” the witch asked the dragon landing by her side. It was a young one, relatively speaking, and white as snow.

Steal spell first.

“Fair enough. Let’s go.”

The pair crossed the portal, which closed soon after.

The free man ran. He ran for a long time. He climbed into the burnt forest with burning lungs and aching legs. After twenty minutes of walking, a spider skittered into view but he merely flashed Efestar’s mana and the creature reluctantly let him go. He finally reached the promontory where he had hidden emergency supplies. An upturned stone surrendered a backpack with some food he devoured, and clothes he changed into. As he turned, the lowlands came into full view. It was, inexplicably, burning again.

A portal flashed open by another flesh tree. Cries and spells surged into the sky, then after five minutes, the tree burst in a geyser of red ichor and a scream like an angry kettle. He looked at the three remaining trees. Perhaps the dark servants could protect one or two, but they would have to assign much of their remaining forces to guard duty. If they didn’t, Gomogog’s servants would starve and they never truly starved so long as there was someone edible around… The man knew where this was all going.

It was the dark god’s turn to be left without choices.

***

It was bright here. Summer light warmed Viv’s skin while a light breeze spread waves across the green grass. She raised an arm to see her burn scar covered by a summer dress. An earth summer dress.

“Nice touch,” she said.

Someone with her soul sense would know when she’d been dragged into the in-between, though it had been done with a considerably lighter touch this time. She wasn’t currently in the City of the Gods either. It was… a different place. Just as she thought the light would burn her skin, a wide-brimmed hat came to rest on her brow.

“I thought you might appreciate a break,” a warm voice said.

A man walked by her. He was a northerner with unusually dark skin, and tall, not Efestar tall, more like tall-human tall with very thin limbs. A turban covered his scalp while a loose, simple white garb covered most of the rest of him. Jewels adorned his delicate fingers in shades of gold with the occasional precious stone glinting pleasantly. Without a word, the two sat on the slope and watched the plain in front of them and the mountains in the distance. The weather was perfect.

“I have never been a fighter,” Sardanal said.

Viv gave him her attention. He was measuring her response, somehow. It didn’t seem like she was being judged.

“I have always abhorred violence. Even at the end despite everything the old gods threw at us. I was always in favor of mending bridges. There are some who could not be redeemed, like Gorok and some of his most ardent followers, but I believed until the end that Enttiku and Octas could absolutely be. We turned the goddess of death to our cause and, as a result, we lost a friend. This battle is a penance for me as well.”

“You might be proven right in the end.”

“Perhaps. I lament the cost, especially since it will be paid by others.”

Sardanal touched the rings on his hands, thoughtful.

“You have come to defend my cause and so I shall tell you, thank you for standing for what is right. I must apologize in advance because… there is only one way this can end. Octas has invested too much in this battle to back up now. Not that she ever learned how to do that.”

“I know what she will do. She’s been very consistent so far.”

“It will be worse this time. If she is proven wrong here, it will hurt her essence. She will be broken and cast into the shadows for decades, maybe longer. I am telling you this because I… will not incarnate.”

Viv waited for more to come. It didn’t. Sardanal merely looked forward.

“Due to a lack of suitable candidate or…”

“My incarnations are always brief and gentle. Sometimes, I appear in the grandest festival, or during famines or plagues when I am needed, so candidates are numerous, but as I said, I am not a fighter. If I manifest here, I will only be a target and when that form is killed, I will become unable to support you anymore. Worse, my host might be made an example of. I apologize for not being here while you fight for me.”

“That’s… ok.”

Sardanal seemed surprised.

“Truly?”

“You will still support us with your magic, right?”

“Of course.”

“The view of soldiers is different from yours, in my culture. You don’t have to be the one to shed blood to serve the cause. We need doctors, cooks, quartermasters, smiths, drivers, all of those as much as we need warriors. You don’t need to stand in the shield wall to be instrumental in our victory.”

“I agree. Many do not. Are you prepared enough for the battle to come?”

“The dark ones only have one option left but it’s a strong one. I think we’ve done the best we could. The rest depends on us… and Efestar, I suppose.”

“I wish you success. Remember that I will always be at your back, and if you do save my island, I will make sure Harrak receives its fair share of our victory.”
