The light of dawn rose over Sardanal’s last refuge and Thunder Lord Sai was furious. The curs had food now, food and weapons. And some reinforcements, if the incoherent screeching from the spider fuckers was any indication. The only thing he could agree on with his ‘peers’ was that they had to strike now before the templars put some meat back on their bones. The assembled forces of the Dark Gods made their way up the cliff, whatever troops had answered the call anyway. Some days it was like herding beastlings.

Gomogog’s flesh abominations led the way, lumbering titans of writhing meat with pits where their mouths ought to be. Scabs and scars marked where fire and arrows had gnawed at their monstrous forms to little effect. So close to him, they stank horribly. Theirs was a rotten smell mixed with delicate flowers that made the mix deeply revolting. Then spiders and hybrids under Octas followed with those nasty little assassins she had tossing spindles at mages. He shivered. They were allied in the cause of showing the deeply flawed nature of society, the hypocrisy and lies it relied on to maintain some people at the top but beyond that… uneasy was their alliance indeed.

Efestar’s troops were by far the least numerous, mostly because the God of Scorn preferred to act from the shadows. Veiled archers, quiet assassins, they snuck in the wake of larger threats with poison-tipped arrows.

Sai frowned. There was something weird going on with the dark god. His magic was acting… erratic, but it was not for man to question the divine. Instead, he focused his attention on the mess of a column climbing up the desolate slope towards the hated walls where so many of his minions had perished.

This place used to be lush and green. It was said that Sardanal’s Cradle never truly knew winter, that there were always flowers blooming but looking at it now, it was hard to believe. When Sai had landed, the cultists occupied only the forest. They had later breached the defenses of the servants of the light near the central valley, then devoured their way up the island from there. Many of Octas’ hybrids were corpses of villagers and soldiers, attached to the bodies of her infamous spiders through dark sorcery. They moved over the cracked earth, the fallen houses and the burnt orchards like locusts. Not a pleasant sight but war never was. Those scorched fields were all that remained when fat lords rested on their laurels and Sardanal was no different.

A skittering announced the coming of Many-Legs, Octas’ champion. Whatever he had started as was long gone. Now all that remained was a patchwork of shells covered in appendages: claws, arms, paws, legs, tendrils, tentacles, stingers, anything and everything that struck its fancy. A mental image formed in Sai’s head. Few of Octas’ fiercest champions kept the ability to speak.

Moving up.

Now.

Sai shivered again when the message clawed at his mind in all its alien horror. The house-sized abomination scurried forward with deceptive speed. From his position at the back, Sai could see the verdant mana of Sardanal covering the ramparts and the defenders behind, filling them with vitality. It was the only thing that kept them standing and it wouldn’t last. The light gods always failed their followers at the most critical moment.

Sai the Thunder Lord was standing there with the fetid wind at his back amid the chittering of advancing hybrids when something strange moved in his mana sight. Threads expanded and contracted to the side. He heard a meaty sound. Something sprayed his war mask. He touched the liquid with a gloved finger. Red. Thick. Familiar. Blood, not his.

To his side, the mass of flesh walkers stumbled. Long gashes dripping putrid ichor and atrophied organs covered their unholy forms. The ones that held the center collapsed and didn’t rise again. Space seemed to shiver where they once stood.

“What?”

What just happened? His dark gray robes were soaked, though their enchantments remained intact. The sneak attack surprised him so much he checked himself for wounds but found none. The Cowl of Efestar should still be hiding his presence. Was this the reinforcement he should be concerned with? He turned to Many Legs by force of habit but of course, the brainless abomination was already rushing towards the fortifications with a low hiss of rage tinted with glee. What kind of spell could do this? There had been no warnings, no colors marring the canvas of the world. Colorless mana? Unlikely. Sai watched the assault progress with trepidation. He had to learn, then he could strike.

At first, everything proceeded as planned. The dark mass of the spiders and surviving flesh walkers surged through a cloud of ash. The rare surviving templar archers and his own assassins exchanged the few remaining arrows on the island, then a group of shelled spiders disappeared. This time, Sai saw it happen. The packed formation was racing up, ignoring the few pitiful fire spells cast at them by the rare surviving enemy mages and then they were just… gone? Cut to ribbons by… something. A colorless construct that turned flesh to slender streamers. It reminded him of a report he’d read a long time ago. His eidetic memory searched for the exact recollection.

A prince tortured for his crime against a city that had turned its back on him and his friends. A recruit ripe for collection, but he had not been bitter enough, apparently? His name was Prince Sidjin. Could it be the same man? What was he doing here anyway? This was a Viziman battlefield. Even he, as a champion of the Shadow Islands, was but a guest on this ancient battleground.

Sidjin was a… siege defense specialist.

Not. Good.

“Spread out,” he ordered, his pitch lowered by the war mask. “Do not stand next to groups of warriors.”

A few assassins stopped hiding behind packs of spiders. Sai cursed. Many-Legs would not listen to him. He had to take off despite the risk. His shoulder still lanced from a lucky arrow. With a breath, he cleared his thoughts. Gray mana spooled from his core to extend all around him. His superior mind handled two spells at once, one that would cover his body in a thick layer of gray mana infused with the meaning of avoidance, the other in a powerful construct that would carry him up. He soared into the air in a burst of mana.

The sky was his.

It never got old, feeling all that gray mana around him, even in the bleakest of moments. A grin curved his lips as he watched the town become smaller under him. As before, verdant mana blocked his sight and muddied the mana signatures. He would have to make do with what he had.

The chittering carpet of creatures kept advancing. Strange, transparent constructs of immense complexity bloomed among their most dangerous hybrids to tear them limb from limb. After the fourth such slaughter, even Many-Legs perceived the danger. The insane champion screeched and the assault scattered, but it was already far too late. What had started as a relatively organized assault had devolved into a mad dash for the walls, the relatively tight pockets of the dark gods’ forces dispersing into a chaotic mess. It was not the end of the magical assaults. Invisible javelins tore through flesh walkers one by one, saturating their large forms until even their regeneration couldn’t keep up. They fell.

A part of Sai felt relief at the death of those abominations. The rest of him knew this was a problem, one he had to solve personally.

Suddenly, a figure in a heavy cloak appeared on the battlements, hands clutching a large staff. His head was covered by a cowl. He waved his hands around until a large fireball formed, then he tossed it at the approaching spiders.

It was rather obviously bait, one his assassins did not take. Unfortunately, the stinger-spitting spiders did. A thick spike clanged on the form’s body, revealing the extremely thick armor underneath. Sai recognized Kal the Mountain, a champion of Neriad. It was so obvious! And there was a diagnostic spell and… there was a short-range blast taking out one, then two of the rare and valuable spiders from their hiding place. Sai cursed under his breath. The diagnostic spell came from… there, inside a squad of heavily armored guards. He had to time his assault well. The Cowl of Efestar would only hide him until he attacked. then he would be a very valuable flying gray mage in bow range.

He merely needed some patience.

The assault began. Spiders crawled up the wall. Animalistic ones jumped the defenders while others spat poisonous gobs and nets, but where the servants of the dark gods had been on the cusp of victory before, now they were struggling. The defenders were haler, their weapons repaired, their arms strong and kept energetic through the green mana constantly renewing them. Colorless mana had dispersed the deadlier groups so that the attackers reached the crenelations piecemeal rather than as a united force and it made a world of difference. The hybrids swung in vain at shield walls before being pierced by spears. It was obvious the assault would fail but perhaps Many-Legs could still salvage some sort of gain. The abomination scaled the wall with ponderous grace, as unstoppable as fate itself. He attacked the troops on the tower with rabid frenzy. His appendages wailed on the defenders with rage. Sai saw a body tossed over the battlements. The shield wall crumbled, then corpses crashed to the courtyard beyond. It stopped as soon as Denerim arrived, that naive fool.

The bearded warrior fought Many Legs conservatively. He cut the legs as they attacked, taking few risks. It was like watching a gardener prune a tenacious plant while his apprentice, the Hallurian defector, hovered at the edge, ready to move in and attack Many-Legs’ true body. Another stalemate. Idiots.

The Fallen Prince ought to act soon. Sai knew it. Many-Legs was too tempting a target, and as expected, another transparent spell emerged from the hazy mist of Sardanal’s protection. A thread-thin construct. It whistled through the air before embedding itself deeply into Many-Legs’ flank.

The damn creature screeched. The Prince must have hit something important.

That also meant he was focused on offense.

Carefully, Sai wove his personal hex. The sky rumbled above when he infused the air around him with the meaning of potential. Pride filled his chest. He was one of the few casters in history capable of using it.

Potential crystallized in front of him, then he guided the deficit down towards the prince. He would not feel it. How could he? Potential was not mana. It couldn’t be felt through normal means, only through the tingle on one’s skin and the coppery taste on one’s tongue. Sai relished that special moment when he was alone, hidden from view, away from the vicissitudes of the fight against oppression. There was only him, the gray mana flowing from his core, and the complex array hanging in the air before him. He was the storm and he could not be touched. Power coursed through him. The power to liberate. The power to be free and to scorn the world itself.

“Storm.”

A massive bolt crossed the sky, landing among the soldiers in a cataclysmic first strike. The blinding flash faded to reveal white lines coursing through the cracked pavement over bubbling stone and the shaking form of a couple of guards. Shaking, but not dying. Sai reacted immediately by moving aside but Sidjin did not counter immediately. Sai’s opponent stood next to an enchanted metal rod he’d raised from below at the last moment. Even the excess energy had dissipated on a transparent shield with a few templars catching stray energy. As Sai dodged, Sidjin had been repairing his defense rather than countering. A patient opponent.

For a second, the two took the measure of each other. Sidjin, a tan Glastian with a scar on his cheek and deep brown eyes looking mournfully upwards, curly hair hidden under his cloak. Sai, the Thunder Lord, face hidden behind a mask, body covered in a protective gray robe. A fallen prince and the apostle of a dark god. Two experienced combatants. Two archmages.

Then the spells flew.

Sidjin opened with a salvo of skewering transparent spears Sai had to dodge without seeing. Only his trained perception and the almost imperceptible trail of the spells gave him any sort of warning, and he used his speed and flexibility to great effect in dodging them. Meanwhile, gray mana spells and a smaller thunderbolt fell upon impenetrable defenses, the prince’s fortress an array of complex hexes designed to counter Sai specifically. Efestar’s champion tried fire and his own colorless attacks to destabilize Sidjin but it was clear the archmage was a master of defense at the top of his art. Sai needed options. He needed the unpredictable.

“Efestar, bless my aim.”

The dark green energy of scorn fused in his fist like acid. Scorn clouded Sai’s mind. Had to crush. Had to take revenge, but Sai prevailed over the dark god’s domain. It was not his first divine spell.

Once again, the energies stuttered, threatening to waste Sai’s efforts. He regained control at the last moment then dodged a gray spell cleverly hidden behind a transparent barrier. Sidjin was canny.

A baleful spear surged towards Sidjin. This one wasn’t gray mana but hatred made manifest. Sai followed the spell’s trajectory with anticipation, but Sardanal’s light surged forth and for an instant, it was as if a bejeweled hand swatted the spell aside.

“Dammit.”

An arrow flew by. His shield pushed it away but below, the situation was getting worse. The walls held strong despite the forces thrown at them. Spider corpses formed a small embankment in front of the walls. Many-Legs was reeling from several wounds. Sai’s time was running out.

