Yea, I really can’t be trusted with that much power. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. If anything, it should be Ping Ping with the Floofy Touch, because she would use it responsibly. Probably. Or maybe not. Maybe she’d floofify everything in sight, because as far as I can tell, she loves all things floofy. Currently resting atop Baloo’s bouncy belly, the little girl squeaks up a happy storm while rubbing her face in bear fur, which is both utterly endearing and oddly maniacal at the same time. Noticing my gaze, she shuffles over and lowers herself none-too-gently onto my chest, where she nuzzles my chin and sinks in for a snuggle with a contented sigh.

Yea, this is way better than human Ping Ping. That’d be weird. What sort of animal traits would an Ancestral Turtle have anyways? Probably baldness, which I don’t love, or a hard-shelled back, which I hate. What if she had greenish-black skin too? Oh that’d be super weird. No, this is for the best. Ping Ping may not be physically floofy, but she’s floofy at heart, which is where it really counts. Even the floofiest lion is no good to me if he’s too murdery to hug. That’s just common sense.

Though I will hug a lion at some point, even if it’s the last thing I ever do...

Giving Ping Ping a kiss on the beak, I stroke her head and cuddle my floofs in hopes of allaying all my fears, but alas, they still linger in the back of my mind. It doesn’t take much to turn an orderly withdrawal into a massed rout, and from what I’ve gathered, Hongji was the one who made the call. This means Sinuji was facing a serious threat, which in turn means Alsantset, Mila, Yan, and Huu are all in grave danger. Rustram and my retinue too, as well as the Sentinels riding with Alsantset and countless other people I know and care about, but there’s nothing I can do to help them. I need to come up with something brilliant to turn the tides of war, something so powerful even Divinities will have to think twice before making a move.

Mila’s spring-powered Spiritual Guns were a promising start, but she stopped making those because she didn’t believe their design was ‘optimal’ or ‘perfected’, and she’s been waiting for Divine Inspiration to point her in the right direction ever since. Then there’s my whole endeavour with Runic Cannons, but the only things the Tyrant has given me thus far are bills and bupkis. Gunpowder is out of the question, since there’s no way to hold said gunpowder without giving Not-Gen and any other Fire-Blessed Defiled or Demon an inordinate amount of explosive fuel for their Chi-Fires. Chariots, crossbows, and catapults are about the only real weapons I’ve contributed, and those weren’t even unheard of. The Empire stopped using chariots because regular cavalry is more versatile and almost as effective, which meant using trained warhorses to pull glorified wagons was seen as a waste of resources. Crossbows and catapults were already in use too, as I’d seen soldiers firing them off of the Northern Wall and village hunters wielding slings and longbows, but the mindset is that Martial Warriors fight in close combat, and anything else if for peasants or cowards.

I just can’t think of any other weapon I could conceivably bring out to use against the Defiled. I know there are non-flammable explosives, but I have no idea where to even begin researching them. Steam powered engines might be useful, but considering any schmuck with a Spiritual Weapon could turn a tank into scrap iron, I’m pretty sure even I can’t afford to mass produce steam-powered vehicles of war and come out ahead. What would they even do anyways? Run the Defiled over? Chariots can do that for much cheaper and are probably more effectively once you take into account the angry bull or cow pulling it.

So where do I go from here? What other technological marvel can I pull out to help the Empire win this war?

...Maybe Zhen Shi has a point about my methods and mindset being flawed. I don’t mean the point he was trying to make about me weakening humanity as a whole, because that was utter horse shit, but a different, accidental, yet valid point nonetheless. All this time, I’ve been so focused on technology, I’ve overlooked a vital weapon in the war against the Enemy, and that’s the Martial Path itself. Or Martial Dao. Whatever. The Dao is all-encompassing, but we focus on the martial aspects because that’s what we need, but our understanding of the Dao is almost zero. Humanity as a whole is missing so many pieces of the puzzle that we don’t even know why 99% of the population fails at Core Creation. That’s literally the first step, which, if anything, proves that we can’t possibly be following the correct path. If the Mother, in all Her infinite wisdom decided that one percent of humanity would be responsible for defending the rest, then She seriously gimped us in the War against the Enemy, and I just don’t see that being true. Putting aside all the religious aspects of the Martial Path, I have to believe that the reason so many people fail at Core Creation is because we don’t truly understand what this first step entails. Those who do succeed do so through luck, but since Defiled have a 100% success rate, there’s obviously a factor we Imperials are missing. I mean, we can’t even explain how it happens aside from ‘find Balance’, because for most Martial Warriors, it’s as easy as breathing. One second, we’re normal, everyday humans, and the next, we’re channelling the Energy of the Heavens into our newly Created Cores.

That’s how it was for me, that’s how it was for the twins, and that’s how it was for almost everyone I know, except for Lang Yi and his fellow former slaves. They were all normal citizens of the Empire until Yo Ling and his butchers came along, and like most normal citizens, many of them also tried to Create Cores, but failed. Then, after months or years of torment and suffering at the hands of the Butcher Bay Bandits, Lang Yi and his comrades emerged as fully fledged Martial Warriors with only a modicum of guidance from Jochi and Argat. Sure, Lang Yi and co. almost turned Defiled along the way, but that doesn’t explain why they were unable to Create Cores as children and succeeded in a matter of days or weeks after living through their horrific ordeals.

Looking at things another way, Imperial dogma states that if you find Balance, you can succeed at Core Creation. Does this mean everyone who fails is unbalanced? Absolutely not, because if anything, unbalance would bring them closer to Core Creation like it did with Lang Yi. Given what I’ve experienced and read in Zhen Shi’s notes, there’s no fundamental difference between the Defiled Martial Path and the Imperial one. The Defiled just have the dubious benefit of Spectres helping them along, passing on Insight and Blessings with ease while driving their hosts to indulge their basest instincts. I saw this first-hand myself, back when I’d easily comprehend the Martial Path when meditating as Baledagh, yet lacked any and all understanding of what I did or how I did it.

That’s the difference between comprehension and understanding. Even the greatest Martial Warriors of this time can only claim comprehension of the Martial Dao, because no one truly understands it. Maybe that’s where I should turn my attention to, unravelling the secrets of the Martial Dao to elevate humanity as a whole, much like Zhen Shi ostensibly tried to do before becoming public enemy number one.

I just... have to explain a deep, mystical concept which has remained ineffable for all of human history without being influenced by evil murder ghosts and going bat-shit crazy. Oh, I also need to hope that my explanation somehow allows the Empire to churn out Martial Warriors fast enough to throw back the Enemy, and I need to do it before the Imperial defences are overrun and the Defiled torture and turn millions of helpless civilians, while slaughtering countless more. Easy peasy, right?

...It’d probably be easier to develop a conventional weapon of massed destruction.

Still, it doesn’t hurt to consider the possibility, since there’s nothing else for me to do. Mom is busy helping Akanai keep the Sentinel families calm while Luo-Luo heads out to her office to work. Grandpa Du is no doubt riding Dad’s ass for news about Yan, while Taddy left for the farm and Lin-Lin is still in bed. I can’t visit GangShu or the Abbot because their people brought them away to Mother knows where. Lastly, the Legate is all the way in the Central Citadel, so I won’t be meeting with him anytime soon, which is good because I’m not looking forward to that discussion. So with nothing better to do, why not ponder the mysteries of Core Creation? Besides, what I learn might help me figure out how to fix a Core too, so instead of doing anything productive, I idle the time away with my floofs while pondering the nature of the Martial Dao.

Which is where Grandpa Du finds me several hours later, at almost eight in the morning according to my pocket watch, though it feels much later thanks to how early I woke. “Good news,” he says, beaming from ear to ear as sweet Kishi joins my cuddle puddle. “The withdrawal was a success. Brigadier Hongji took grave injury, but he will survive, and his forces are all safely behind fortress walls now. Even better, Yan performed above and beyond all expectations and has many well-deserved commendations in her future.”

Even accounting for Grandpa Du’s penchant for over-exaggeration, it sounds like Yan pulled off a miracle and is now being heralded as the ‘Sanguine Storm’. A little derivative of Grandpa Du’s title, the Sanguine Tempest, but a well-deserved title nonetheless. Not only did she almost single-handedly cut her way through an intercepting force of Defiled, she even nabbed herself a bonafide Demon kill while also holding nominal command over the bulk of the retreating forces. That is a hat-trick of achievements if there ever was one, but she wasn’t the only person to excel. Apparently, Hongji sent back a list of heroes who went above and beyond the call of duty, a list which is even now making the rounds. Many of those heroes are now dead, names I recognize in passing like Xue Biqian, a stuck-up noble from the Society who Fung beat bloody during the Contest, or Ru Minsu, a kindly old warrior who presented Akanai with a written apology the day we first arrived in Nan Ping, one which acknowledged the wrongdoings his elders had perpetrated against her some five decades ago and offered remorse and recompense. There’s also Jin ZhiLan, the lovely, flirty, ambitious, and ultimately kind-hearted Warrant Officer who I fought alongside in Sanshu, who even now might be lying dead on a funeral pyre which has yet to be lit aflame, never to laugh or smile again.

The list of dead continues, and I recognize every name there, because each and every one of them was a vaunted hero of the Empire whom I crossed paths with at some point. To my great relief, my loved ones on the list are not marked as deceased, so I am able to take great pride in their achievements. While Yan’s stands out the most, Mila and Alsantset are also mentioned by name, for their part in combating the Defiled cavalry and holding off a concentrated Demon assault. My fierce sister claimed three Demon kills of her own and is being recommended for a promotion to Lieutenant Colonel, while my fiery wifey got a special mention for assisting in the deaths of seven Demons. It’s stated that while Mila didn’t kill any of the Demons, her ‘unique’ weapon was instrumental in tying them down, which allowed other Martial Warriors to deal the killing blow.

Huushal and Ulfsaar are also up for commendations, as are Mister Rustram, Chu XinYue, Jorani, Ral, Chey, Wang Bao, Ghurda, Naaran, Tenjin, Tursinai, and even the irregulars, my merry band of commoner convicts, garnered themselves a small mention, but the most surprising name on the list is Siyar’s. The quiet, solitary killer apparently Condensed his Aura to fight off a lone Demon wreaking havoc amongst the Imperial lines and not only held out until reinforcements arrived, he even did what he does best and cut his foe’s throat from ear to ear. Though he almost died in the process, reinforcements arrived in the nick of time to snatch his ass out of the Ichor and save the rest of Hongji’s beleaguered force, reinforcements led by none other than Zian himself. Almost as an afterthought, Hongji closes out his list with, “And Lu Jia Zian, who has more than fulfilled the requirements of his provisional rank by single-handedly killing two Demons and assisting in the deaths of five more, an exemplary young hero and model of Imperial nobility we all should strive to emulate.”

Even though Zian’s appearance there was planned, it sounds like it was a close thing with so many Demons taking to the field. Hongji’s forces held though, and as happy as I am for everyone, I can’t help but feel like I’m being left behind, though I disguise my despondent mood as concern for the dead. Of course, this makes me feel even worse since I should mourn the dead properly, especially considering the fact that Hongji’s list only holds the names of those he deemed important. Who knows how many others died? Fifty-thousand soldiers were stationed in Sinuji, but many would have fallen in the days leading up to the withdrawal, and many more during the withdrawal itself. It sounds like the fighting was bloody, and I hate myself for not being able to help, so the next few hours are spent wallowing in self-pity and worrying for the future.

