Which is how Lin-Lin finds me later on that morning, curled up in a floof pile in the middle of my courtyard. Shrieking in delight as she throws herself atop me, my sweet, honey-skinned wifey wiggles her way past Banjo and Aurie to slip into my embrace. “Hi hubby,” she says, after a long, wet kiss on the cheek. “Welcome back.”

And that’s it. There are no burning questions she has to ask or concerns she wants addressed, because she’s just happy I’m awake again and basking in my company. I envy Lin-Lin’s outlook on life, so happy and carefree because she focuses on the good and doesn’t let the bad bring her down. She’s probably just as worried about Mila, Yan, and the others as I am, but she doesn’t let that affect her happiness in this moment, or any other moment. Some might think her simple, but nothing could be farther from the truth, because she is cognizant of all the same problems I’ve identified and stress over, but to her, those problems simply exist without affecting her in negative ways. She prepares for worst case scenarios without letting doom or gloom intrude upon her happy mindset, and that is something I wish I could do.

Sensing my inner turmoil, Lin-Lin flashes a mocking frown which is so at odds with her dignified crown of braids and elegant, lady-like appearance. Breaking into a familiar grin, she scritches Ping Ping’s head and says, “Silly hubby. You’ve been awake for a few hours and you’ve already twisted yourself into knots.”

“I can’t help it. It’s in my nature.”

Giggling as Banjo rests his chin atop her head, Lin-Lin slips out from under the bear and reverses their positions, propping her head atop his big bear snout before taking my hand in hers. “Well, you should change, hubby. Whatever will be, will be, but we’ll face it together.” Poking me in the cheek, she flutters her lashes and peers out at me from behind her large, lovely eyes, sitting atop her plump, rounded cheekbones which I do so love to kiss. “Now, why don’t we have breakfast, ya? Even if you’re gonna worry, you shouldn’t do it on an empty stomach, and I need to eat before I leave to help daddy at the grove. Packed lunches just aren’t as yummy, and I can’t keep bothering Char-Char everyday for lunch.”

“...I’m sure he doesn’t mind, but how’d you know I skipped breakfast?”

“Hehe. Luo-Luo told me.” Coming to her feet with remarkable ease, Lin-Lin pulls at my arm and fails to heft me up beside her. Not just because I’m laying here like a sack of potatoes, but also because Baloo is fast asleep and snoring, though Ping Ping heard the word ‘breakfast’ and is already scampering around my wifey’s ankles, no doubt eager for scraps. Unable to refuse either of their pleading gazes, I gently shift out from under Baloo’s bulk and make my way over to the kitchen with Lin-Lin on my arm and my floofs at my heels. She’s right about taking things as they come, as she usually is, but it’s not easy to keep my neuroses in check. Out of curiosity, I ask, “I’ve been thinking about Core Creation, and how no one really understands it because it’s really an all or nothing experience. Either you find Balance and Create a Core, or you don’t. Was it like that for you? Or were you more like Yan, and had trouble for a few years until it just... magically made sense.”

“I dunno,” Lin-Lin replies, without even stopping to think. “I was too young and don’t remember. Daddy says I was four when it happened, but he also says that’s when I started walking and talking too, so I think that’s just the age he gives when he doesn’t remember the truth.”

Yea, that sounds like something Taddy would do. He probably celebrated her first step as much as he celebrated her ten-thousandth, not because he wasn’t excited for her first step, but because he gushes over everything she does with the same level of enthusiasm. Honestly, I don’t know how he does it, but I admire that about him, and I admire Lin-Lin more for not being a spoiled princess, because with a father like Taduk, that must have been supremely difficult.

Spending time with Lin-Lin is good for the soul as we eat, feed the floofs, and generally enjoy one another’s company. All the while, word from the front continues to trickle in, which leaves me with mixed feelings. BoShui also performed admirably on the battlefield, albeit in a different clash some hundred and fifty kilometres north of Sinuji, while Ryo Da’in, the Isshin brothers, and Gulong all accomplished something to stand out, but the news is pretty much all downhill from there. The bulk of the Imperial forces stationed on the front lines were able to make it back to the second line of defences, but the casualties were not light. A preliminary report which I should not have had access to puts the casualties at somewhere north of twenty percent, meaning one in five soldiers stationed on the front lines didn’t make it back to the second line. While we killed an absurd amount of Defiled and Chosen in the process, as I pointed out before, Zhen Shi has more than enough to spare, and most of the attacking Demons escaped alive, including one exceedingly dangerous Demon Hongji dubbed the ‘Dark Child’. An Esoteric Blessed monster responsible for killing eight Peak Experts and many more Demon Slayers, it even grievously injured Exarches Bralton and Erien in a hard fought battle which lasted hours. Luckily, the formidable husband and wife pair held on long enough for reinforcements to arrive and are expected to make a full recovery, but that was only a single dangerous Demon, and almost half the Demons who assaulted Hongji’s forces escaped with their lives. To make matters worse, who knows how many more powerful Demons Zhen Shi has waiting in the wings?

There are no Spectres needed to bring down my mood, because the bleak reality of the situation is enough to do that on its own. The Empire might be celebrating a successful withdrawal, but all I see is the impending downfall of civilization and a future in which humanity is ruled by a crazed, seemingly immortal monster in human flesh, one who sees survival of the fittest as his religion.

And like he said, if I am fate’s champion set to oppose him, then Zhen Shi has all but won.

Chapter Meme
