"If I had to guess, he pissed someone off. Maybe scammed someone he shouldn't have. If he's willing to shell out the gold to have this message delivered to you in under a day, something has to be wrong. Next time you see him, you should be careful." Master warns me one last time before he walks back to the forge.

"This is why I asked father if I could deliver the message." I turn back to Braddon. "It's always something interesting with you." He stands there laughing.

This would be an excellent time to practice using Sense Soul on someone without warning.

I activate my skill and look at the wisps surrounding Braddon's soul. He immediately stops laughing and draws his bow scanning the clearing's edge. He seems more panicked the longer I look at his soul.

He's young but one of the best hunters in the village. Comparing the amount of experience around his soul, his level should be in the high 40's, maybe even 49.

His eyes meet mine, and I deactivate my skill. I smile at him, and he pales a little bit. "Sorry, practicing a new skill. Works best on people who are laughing at me." I give him a Cheshire grin.

"That's an oddly specific skill you've got there. I'll have to watch out for it." He gives me a quick wave goodbye and moves for the safety of the tree line.

I was right, as long as I don't try to look directly at someone's soul, I won't be attacked by the eyes. And it seems like the person I'm using Sense Soul on won't be affected as severely as master was, though it does seem like I finally managed to intimidate Braddon.

From the corner of my eye, I see master looking at me from the forge. When I turn towards him, he waves me over.

Is he mad that I used the skill so soon on someone else?

I reach his side in time to watch him remove the crucible from the forge. He sets the hot ceramic off to the side and turns to me with a severe look. "You used your skill on him?"

I shyly nod in confirmation. I try to come up with an excuse. "I thought I could control it better without hurting the person I used it on. It worked, by the way."

Master nods his head, "I understand." I wasn't expecting that, I was ready for him to judge me.

"I know you won't use your skills to purposely hurt others, you're not that kind of a person. I have to give you a warning and some advice as your teacher. Skills like yours are considered dangerous by a lot of people. Remember when I told you about sacrificial skills? It's the same thing. If the true nature of your skill is revealed, it could put you in danger. If you decide to practice your skill, I recommend you ask for help from either your parents or myself. And especially make sure people can't see you when you're using it. The way you look at people when you use your skill is a dead giveaway." He's telling me to practice it secretly.

I nod in understanding before smiling at him. "Thank you, master."

"You shouldn't take this so lightly." He berates me because of my smile.

"I'm not taking anything lightly," I correct him. "I was just thinking about how lucky I am to have you as my master." His serious scowl fades away quickly.

"If I didn't have you as my master, I would have done something stupid years ago, and a noble would've come and snatched me up in a heartbeat. I've never left the village before, and yet you're able to teach me about the outside world. Mother taught me how to interact with merchants, but she had a pretty sheltered life before she met dad. And don't get me started on father, I love him to death, but if it isn't trees or mother, he can't help me when I have questions. Take that carrier falcon, for example, not even Camden's son knew how much it was to hire one." I start to tear up a little bit.

"Why are you crying?" He asks, bewildered.

"It's just, I felt like you've been distancing yourself from me even more than usual these last two weeks. And the way you looked at me after I used my skill on you. It felt like you were about to fire me from being your apprentice. I don't want to lose my apprenticeship. Master Del."

I watch Del awkwardly scratch the back of his head. "You say that now," Master Del says with a complicated look on his face.

"Does that mean you don't want me to be your apprentice anymore?" I tentatively ask.

"No," he quickly answers. "I still wish to be your teacher. It's just I don't know what else I can teach you."

"What, are you talking about? You're still teaching me loads of things. What makes you think you don't have anything else to teach me?"

"I've already taught you everything I know about blacksmithing. The only thing left for you to do is to continue practicing. I can't teach you to work with metals I was never allowed to touch or how you're supposed to find magical metals in the wild. I've been answering all your recent questions with answers I've only read in books and taught as a child. I have no real experience with everything you're trying to do." Master tells me while looking dejected.

"And you think you haven't helped me learn how to work with mithril? What about the basics of enchanting, if you and mother hadn't helped me figure out the basics I wouldn't have figured out as much as I already have."

Master shakes his head in denial. "It might have taken you longer, but you would've figured it out on your own. The only questions I've been able to fully answer are the things I've learned traveling Olebert. You'll soon realize I can't answer any more of your questions and that it's time for you to find a better teacher."

"Ok, it's a deal!" I cheerfully reply, drawing a questioning look form master. "You should know me by now, I always have questions to ask. Tell you what, you can kick me out of my apprenticeship once I stop asking you questions, alright?"

Master looks at me with a surprised look. He straightens his back once he realizes I have no intention of going anywhere. He finally looks me in the eye without any of the fear or doubt that was previously there. "If you insist that stubbornly, what kind of master would I be if I threw my best student out?"

"I'm your only student." We share a laugh together at the horrible joke.

Master looks over at the crucible he removed earlier and then looks back to me. "Why don't you show me your latest alloy? It should be cool enough by now."

"I would like that," I reply. "You can help me bounce around some ideas on how to improve my arrows tomorrow. They need to be good enough; I can charge Kervin for the rushed job."

Both smiling, we get back to work as master and apprentice.
