Del-Razen's Point of View:

"What do you think, Master?" I hear Aaliyah's voice next to me.

I pretend to wake up and slowly open one of my eyes. In her hands are two ingots that are 1'' x 1'' x 4''. Both of the ingots are steel mixed with pieces of chameleon spider carapace.

"I think I improved the ratio a little bit better." Her smile is so bright I'm forced to close my eye again momentarily as she shows off her achievement. "This one has a better magic conductivity, with a better flex and strength ratio compared to my old mixture. I dropped the carapace concentration by half a percent to 17.5%. It should make an even better arrow shaft now."

I pretend I can tell the difference in the alloys and nod along with her presentation. I give a fake yawn to hide my true feelings. "Does that mean you're done experimenting for the day?" I ask in a relaxed tone.

"Not yet. I think I'll try one more mixture, this time with 17.75% carapace." I watch her walk over to our work station, placing her ingots off to the side and scribbling her findings down on a piece of parchment.

She cocks her head to the side to see if I'm watching her, so I close my eye and pretend that I'm not watching her.

Ever since I made that engraving pen for her, she's been trying to make the best magic conductive steel she can without using mithril.

Secretly watching her work, a whole host of emotions run through my mind.

The amount of pride I feel towards my disciple can't be conveyed with words. Of course, that pride only makes the envy I feel towards her hurt me more. Is this what masters are supposed to feel towards their students?

Master… if someone told me a decade ago, I would have someone address me as master; I would have thrown my hammer at them.

When I took Aaliyah on as an apprentice, I was sure she would quit after the first day in that mine. If I knew what kind of person she was back then, I would have known that never was truly an option.

Raising such a talented person is a blessing and a curse at the same time. My greatest fear is the day she realizes she doesn't need me anymore.

I've slowly faded myself into the background as she's continued to rapidly improve to try and keep that day from coming. I'm quickly running out of things to teach her.

Almost every question she asks me these days is almost impossible for me to answer. I may have years of experience on her, but she's quickly catching up to me at a monstrous pace.

A talent like hers deserves to be nurtured by someone like one of the grandmasters back in Truset. A stripped dwarf who ran away from home doesn't have the right to be called master by someone like that.

Here she is, optimizing alloys all on her own. I have to pretend I know the difference in the metals she's showing me. Without the ability to sense magic, I'm slowly becoming obsolete. I can still craft better weapons than her with the help of my skills, but at the rate she's improving, I don't know how much longer that will last.

That child is a monster in every sense of the word. People don't earn as many skills as quickly as she does, and her skills level at an incredible rate that anyone else would say is impossible. It took me three weeks working with metal to earn the first level of blacksmithing. She got the skill after I had her make her first nail!

Her parents might not realize how ridiculous she is, with humans hoarding information as they do, but it's understandable for me to see. She excels at everything she does.

If she chose to pursue a magic profession, I'm sure she would have a star right now. If she wanted to be a knight, she would be serving under one of Olebert's generals. She could be an apprentice under the owner of Silver Herd instead of trading with one of their traveling merchants if she wanted to.

But she chose a profession in blacksmithing.

I don't know why she earns skills so easily, but I know they won't stop leveling anytime soon. She pushes each of her skills to the limits each time she uses them and continues to make items someone of her skill level shouldn't be able to make.

She asked me how to level her Hammer Skills skill, and it only took me, showing her a few niche techniques and a few days of practice for her to pass level 50. Even with the help of someone who has more experienced than you, passing skill tests should take months or even sometimes years, not 72 hours.

Thanks to her ridiculous mana skills, she's able to not only craft easier but tell if her work is flawed in a way I've never heard of before.

And her willingness to try new ideas has her continually expanding her knowledge. From the moment she made that sword, she called a katana; I knew she was getting close to the limit of my teaching ability.

Two weeks ago, when she called me out on never making an engraving pen before, I thought that was the point she was going to decide to leave my tutelage.

I've already taught her everything I know about the metals I've worked with and how to work them properly. Everything I've taught her recently has been a theory I learned as a lad in Truset. Because of my inability to use magic, I was never taught advanced techniques or was allowed to practice with magical ingredients. The only other time I've worked with mithril was after I first left Truset and tried to make magic items for humans.

I quickly realized I was only wasting the mithril with my skills.

At the beginning of her apprenticeship, I may have told Aaliyah that I wouldn't share Stone Kin secrets to dissuade her, but it's not like I ever had anything groundbreaking to reveal. The sad fact was, I was allowed to leave so easily because I didn't know anything that the human nobles didn't already know.

I lightly sigh to myself and sneak another peek at Aaliyah. She's using small wooden measuring cups she carved for herself earlier in the month. I had to help her estimate their sizes accurately, but that's the only thing I could contribute.

I can estimate the composition of basic alloys, but changing around the structure by .005% is beyond my ability. With Aaliyah's skills, she can accurately judge the structural differences between different metals. Aaliyah told me she noticed the mining helmet I lent her had an incredibly small amount of mithril mixed with the steel to help it hold the enchantment. I wasn't even aware of that.

She doesn't even have engraving ink, yet she already knows more about enchantments than I do. Since she figured out metals need a strong magical internal structure, she's been using her spare time to experiment like she is now.

She already figured out a way to improve our standard steel's magic conductivity by changing our steel formula to 98% iron and 2% chameleon spider carapace. I can't see any difference with the steel, but she says it conducts mana 23% better without compromising its strength.

I thought she would finally have to challenge herself when it came to learning enchanting, but she's picking it up at the same speed she's learned everything else I've taught her.

I have to admit; I cried on the inside a little when she explained how she decoded the runes she found inside the mining helmet. She even carved the enchantment on a piece of wood in its entirety for me to see. Aaliyah told me she hadn't gotten the enchanting skill yet, but I know as soon as she gets the ink she needs, she'll quickly gain levels in it.

Once she gets her hands on some engraving ink, I'm sure she'll be able to make better weapons than anything I'm capable of.

Before this time next year, she'll be almost as good a blacksmith as I am. The only thing she needs is everyday experience with crafting different items.

I need to tell her I can't teach her anything else, but I can't muster up the courage to say it. Watching her grow is the only thing in my life that I'm grateful for.

I see her turning her head in my direction again, so I shut my eyes and pretend to be resting. I hear her footsteps through the snow on the ground as she nears me. "How are you able to sleep so much? I have a decently high level, and I don't feel tired as much as you do."

It's because you work yourself to death every day that you don't have a problem sleeping. I complain in my head. "What do you need?" I ask without opening my eyes.

"I need your help with leveling one of my skills." Tarrow's forge, another one!

"Which blacksmithing skill is it?" I grumble as I sit up to keep up appearances, but I make sure to give her the attention she deserves.

"It isn't one of my blacksmithing skills…" She visibly hesitates. "…It's my tier 5 skill."

It takes everything I have not to visibly react to her request. I've only gained two skills since I took Aalyiah on as an apprentice Teaching and Acting. I've found my self using the latter more than the former.

I give her a stern look. "I don't know what you think I can help you with? Tier 5 skills are too personal for you to get help from someone else to level them." Not that someone of my caliber has any real knowledge about tier 5 skills.

She looks down nervously and fiddles with her hands. "It isn't that I need you to teach me anything about the skill," she says.

"Then, why do you need me?" I question her.

"Well, I've been trying to pass the level 30 test by myself, but no matter what I try, the skill won't improve. I spent a long time meditating on it last night, and I think it's because I need to try using it on other people." She shyly looks up at me.

I'm reminded of what she told me her tier 5 skill was. It had something to do with sensing souls. A skill that would put her on any kingdoms watchlist.

I remember panicking when she first told me about it. I can't believe she trusted me with that kind of information.

I can't help but have a nervous look on my face. "That means you want to look at my…." I can't say it out loud.

"Only if it's ok with you!" She waves her hands in a panicked gesture. "If you don't want me to do it, I can wait until our next hunt and try it on a chameleon spider instead."

"If you can use it on animals, then why do I need to be your first test subject? Why not try it out on some bugs first?" I offer her a quick solution.

"I tried that this morning on a fly. It didn't work; I think it's too small." She says with a disappointed look.

Part of me wants to help my disciple with the one thing I can still do, but I'd be lying if I said I wasn't afraid of her skill.

I study Aaliyah's face while I debate if I should agree or not. It's subtle, but I can see a trace of resolve in her expression. That look only comes out when she tries to butter me up.

"I went to master because you're the strongest person I know. I can feel safe knowing master is helping me." She puts on a fake look of desperation.

I bet she thinks I don't recognize her little scheme, but I've been on to her since she first used Charm on me when we meet. Not to say her argument doesn't stroke the flames of my ego.

"Is it going to take long? You still need to keep an eye on your crucible." I look at the forge, making it seem like I'm going to decline.

"It shouldn't take long and most likely won't hurt you." She looks at me with begging eyes.

If only she knew how little I'm able to say no to her.

"Double check the forge really quick, then let's get this over with." I make it appear like I barely agreed to her request. I can't do much for my apprentice, but I'll still try to help her with anything she asks of me.

She gives me a hug and a smile before she runs over to the forge adding enough fuel to the fire to keep it hot while she leaves it unattended. Unbeknownst to her, I use the time she's away to settle the anxiety I feel bubbling up inside.

After she has fire ready, she runs back over to me and takes up a position on the bench closest to my own. The seven feet between us must not affect her skill all that much.

"Last chance to back out, master?" She gives me a playful look. Don't tempt me, girl!

"By the way, if I pass out, don't freak out." She reminds me. It’s sad how little that bothers me anymore; my stupid apprentice has knocked herself out so many times it doesn't even come as a surprise to me anymore.

"I know, just get to it." I urge her to get it over with before I change my mind.

"All right, here I go." Her eyes widen, and she stares intently at me.

….

Is something supposed to happen? I was waiting for beams of light to shoot from her eyes or something amazing like that. I just stare back at my apprentice, waiting for something to happen.

The seconds tick by slowly, with the two of us looking at each other. I start to relax a little, but Aaliyah only looks like she's concentrating harder as time passes.

I'm about to ask her if she wants to try again later when I get the sudden sensation that multiple people are looking at me. I flinch and look around our clearing but find no signs of intruders. I look back at Aaliyah and almost stumble off my bench when I look into her eyes.

It feels like her eyes are physically holding me in place and slowly drilling into me. The longer I hold her gaze, the worse the feeling becomes.

"Almost there." I hear her mumble. What is she trying to do!?

A sudden sensation of fear washes over my body. Every hair I have stands on end as I feel like Aaliyah is looking at something sacred inside of me.

I push off of my bench and launch myself backward, trying to avoid her gaze. The unnerving feeling vanishes as I move out of her line of sight but is quickly replaced with an overwhelming sense of fear. Every part of my body is screaming at me to run away from her!

I debate whether or not to follow my instincts until I watch Aaliyah fall off her bench, holding her head with both of her hands and screaming through her teeth.

I suppress the desire to run away and instead move next to my spasming apprentice. The shield she usually envelops herself with is gone leaving her shivering in winters cold winds.

