I scoop her up in my arms and rush her into my hut.

Her screams slowly fade as I set her on my bed and wrap her in every blanket I can get my hands on. But no matter how many blankets I wrap around her, she continues to shiver. I move over to my fireplace and start to get a fire going when I hear her stutter slowly behind me.

"I-M…F-I-N-E… J-U-S-T… N-E-E-D… M-I-N-U-T-E." She slowly tells me.

I release a breath I didn't know I was holding in and watch my struggling student as she recovers.

"F-O-R-G-E." She points to my front door.

I can't help but sigh. Even when you can't move or speak properly, you worry about your work. I make sure the blankets are tightly wrapped around my student before leaving my hut and attending to the forge.

While I pump the bellows and add some more coals to the fire, I shiver when I think back on Aaliyah's gaze at the end. It might have been hard for her to use, but she managed to make someone over 30 levels higher than her want to flee with everything I had.

"Such a monster," I whisper to the flames.

Aaliyah's Point of View:

I can't focus on anything with this pounding going on inside my head. If that didn't level Mental Resistance and Sense Soul, I don't know what will. I complain to myself.

I can't stop shaking because of the image seared inside my mind. Mental Resistance is fighting it, but it's taking forever. Usually, when I look at the core of my soul, I'm knocked unconscious and brought inside it, but when I looked at the center of master's soul, I was assaulted by the eyes immediately.

It happened in the span of a second, but I can't forget the image I saw. Instead of the two eyes that usually repel me from my own soul, a third eye appeared and helped the other two shield me from master's soul.

I've gotten much more used to being kicked out of my own soul, but to have it happen when I'm in the real world is more painful than anything I've ever felt before. The pain isn't physical; it's more like every thought I try to form becomes scattered by the eyes that remained seared into my mind. The forceful scattering of my thoughts feels like someone is scrambling my brain. I could barely say a handful of words to master in my curet condition.

I constantly try to focus on the memory of seeing master's soul from before the eyes attacked me. I need to ask master what he felt when I looked at the colorless wisps surrounding his soul. He started looking around, trying to find something, after I was able to focus on the wisps surrounding his soul. After seeing the outer parts of master's soul, I was able to confirm the wisps are the accumulation of experience and skills.

It was hard to decipher his soul wisps, but I noticed two things. Master has more of the energy surrounding his soul than I do because his level is higher than mine, and though I couldn't decipher any of his individual skills, I noticed master had less of them than I do.

The most important thing I saw before I was rejected by the eyes was that the core of his soul is smaller than my own. I don't know why, but my soul was almost three times the size of his by comparison.

If I continue to level Sense Soul, I'll probably be able to see someone's status page. The outer parts of master's soul weren't hard for me to look at, and it was only when I tried to look at the core of his soul that I was met with the backlash.

Thinking about the backlash, the pain in my head is finally fading away. Was the pain worse because of that third eye? I'm used to seeing the first two, but that third one felt different. I try to hold on to the memory of the third eye as the mental image fades away.

Once the image completely disappears, I can only remember a vague sense of the third eye. My shivering eventually stops, and I regain control over my body. The first thing I do is stand up and clean myself with magic before I reactivate Mana Skin.

"Ahyt ls weem appiss!"

Clean, and with my skill reengaged, I open up master's front door and walk over to the forge.

Master notices my approach and turns toward me. When our eyes meet, he flinches and lowers his gaze away from me. Oh, gods! What did I do? Master always taught me it was a sign of respect for Stone Kin to look each other in the eyes, and now he refuses to meet mine!

"You feeling better?" He asks me, refocusing his attention on the forge, avoiding my gaze.

"Yeah, I'm feeling a lot better now. How long was I resting in your cottage?" I ask from behind him.

"An hour, maybe two. Your skill has some strong effects." He responds in a hollow voice, refusing to look at me.

"What happened when I used my skill?" I hesitantly ask master.

Master's voice shakes a little as he tells me. "At first, nothing. Then it felt like I was being surrounded by people staring at me, and in the end, it felt like you ripped open my chest and looked inside at something I never knew existed. I… felt violated and scared. If you didn't collapse when you did, I might have run away."

My skill did all of that! "I'm sorry, master. I didn't know my skill would do that." I sincerely apologize to master's back. No wonder he doesn't want to look at me.

"There's no need for you to apologize. It was my own decision to help you."

"You say that, but you're scared to look at me." Master flinches at my comment.

Slowly, he turns around and meets my gaze. I can tell he's struggling, but he refuses to look away. "I just need some time to recover, that's all. Or do you think your master is that weak?" I shake my head no, but I still feel bad for asking for master's help.

His expression tightens. "Listen good, Aaliyah. Until you decide you no longer need me as your teacher, I will always help you to the best of my abilities. I'll admit your skill had some effects I wasn't ready for, but you are my student. Even if you need help to continue practicing your skill, I'll always offer you a hand. Just give me some time to recover, ok?" He actually manages to give me a small smile.

"Thank you, Master Del-Razen. I wouldn't be where I am today without your help." I give master my biggest smile and turn away from him. I could see he was struggling to maintain eye contact.

I move to the farthest bench away from master and sink into a meditative state.

I pull up my status page, checking on the changes to my skill levels.

LV: 62 Experience: 411,020/ 481,032

Health: 2,060/2,060

Stamina: 1,152.61/1,386

Mana: 583.41/1,000

Vitality: 206.00

Endurance: 80.09

Strength: 130.00

Dexterity: 120.00

Senses: 60.46

Mind: 62.55

Magic: 100.74

Clarity: 75.46

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV78), Running (LV73), Blacksmithing (LV61), Axe Skills (LV55), Hammer Skills (LV52), Cleaning (LV50), Chanting (LV47), Mining (LV47), Drawing (LV42), Cooking (LV37), Trading (LV37), Dagger Skills (LV31), Acting (LV30), Wood Carving (LV27), Sword Skills(LV25), Sewing (LV24), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV78), Double Step (LV58), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV43), Axe Arts (LV36), Hammer Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV30), Increase price (LV16), Lower Price (LV15), Dagger Arts (LV12), Sword Arts (LV8), Marching (LV5), Gourmet (LV2), Shout of Valor (LV1)

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV58), Mana Manipulation (LV52), Double Strike (LV33), Precise Strike (LV33), Weighted Strike (LV23), Flash Step (LV16)

Tier 4:

Inject mana (LV46), Mana Skin (LV46), Mental Resistance (LV42), Extract Mana (LV24), Magic Blacksmithing (LV17)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV31)

Increased Skill Levels

Meditation (LV78) 3,900exp

Running (LV73) 3,650exp

Blacksmithing (LV60-61) 6,050exp

Hammer Skills (LV51-52) 5,150exp

Chanting (LV47) 2,350exp

Mining (LV47) 2,350exp

Drawing (LV40-42) 6,150exp

Sword Skills (LV25) 1,250exp

Wood Carving (LV24-27) 5,100exp

Double Step (LV58) 5,800exp

Measurement (LV42-43) 8,500exp

Expel Mana (LV58) 8,700exp

Mana Manipulation (LV52) 7,800exp

Double Strike (LV32-33) 9,750exp

Precise Strike (LV31-33) 14,400exp

Weighted Strike (LV21-23) 9,900exp

Flash Step (LV16) 2,400exp

Inject mana (LV46) 11,500exp

Mana Skin (LV46) 11,500exp

Mental Resistance (LV41-42) 20,750exp

Extract Mana (LV23-24) 11,750exp

Magic Blacksmithing (LV17) 4,250exp

Sense Soul (LV31) 15,500exp

Skill Experience: 172,400exp

Crafting Experience: 56,741exp

Fighting Experience: 4,699exp

Total experience Gained: 233,840exp

It's shocking to see how much experience I got for leveling Sense Soul, but I'm still a ways off from my next level. Going over my skills that leveled up, I can see how I've shifted my focus over the last two weeks. My running and sword training skills have fallen to the side in favor of increasing my crafting skills.

I've been practicing carving runes into our firewood every night and spending almost all my extra time here at the forge. I've made 54 spears, 26 for Kervin, and my measuring cups to improve my arrow shaft composition.

Then there are the levels I just gained. That head-splitting attack raised Mental Resistance by two whole levels! I managed to get Sense Soul to level 31, but I don't know how I'm supposed to train it from here. If what master said was true, then I'll have to pass another test once the skill reaches level 40. Plus, after how master reacted to my skill, it's not like I can just use it randomly on people to practice it.

Master said the worst part of my skill was when I tried to look at the central part of his soul. If I avoid the center of people's souls, then maybe I can practice the skill by judging what level people are. I can say it's a simple observation skill or intimidation skill if I have to.

I could also try using it on a chameleon spider, but that won't give me much of a chance to use it.

I'm afraid to say it out loud, but it looks like the chameleon spiders are spreading out. We only had to slay one these past few weeks, and it wasn't even that close to the village. The hunters rarely go out these days other than to do perimeter checks, and they haven't seen any close to the village. The spiders have chased almost all of the local game away, leaving us reliant on Kervin's meat deliveries.

Many of the villagers are happy the spiders are leaving, but that's not necessarily a good thing. Camden has sent word to the surrounding villages that the spiders might be coming their way, but he hasn't received a reply yet.

With the spiders leaving, I'll also have to ration out the carapace I use for my work. We have plenty stocked away, but it isn't an endless resource. Now that I can't sell the extra parts of the spiders to Kervin, I need to make more spears, or I won't be able to afford the supplies I need.

I need the extra capital to discuss with him obtaining the herbs I need to practice engraving, and that's not even including the mithril.

Donating half the spears I make to the village hurts my profits, but I still believe the village needs to be prepared for the future. I've donated over 50 spears so far, and It has gotten to the point Camden has commissioned Salus to make a village armory. The spears need a big building, so Salus needs to wait for spring before he can make a strong foundation.

I think he's just waiting for brother to come back to help him.

"Aaliyah!" I suddenly hear my name being called from the path towards the village.

Del notices it too, and we both watch Braddon emerge from the trees, waving his hand at me. He quickly closes the distance between us.

"Chameleon spider?" I ask.

"No, nothing like that. My father sent me to give you this letter that just arrived for you." He shows me a piece of parchment.

"Is it from Richard and Sandra?" I excitedly ask and motion for him to hand the letter cover to me.

"Nope, not them. They only send letters through Kervin and never by carrier falcon." He hands me the letter.

"Carrier falcon, like the bird your father raises to communicate with the surrounding villages?" I ask as I take the parchment.

"My father wishes he had a carrier falcon. The bird my father uses is a trained forest thresher, it's big enough to carry a few messages small distances but nothing like a carrier falcon. Think of a bird five feet tall with a seventeen-foot wingspan."

"That's a big bird. Is it still here, I would like to see it?" I ask.

"Sorry, it flew away once we removed the message from it," Braddon tells me.

Master who's standing next to me decides to explain further. "Carrier falcons are magic beasts bred to deliver small packages at incredible speeds. The bigger the bird, the faster it flies. It costs a lot of coin to hire one, and based on his description of its size, I'd say whoever sent you that letter paid over 5 gold for it to be delivered to you fast."

"5 gold to deliver a letter!" Now I'm really curious as to who would send me something like this.

I unravel the parchment and skip past the delivery information noted at the top.

Dear Aaliyah,

This is Kervin, writing to you from Teeburn. I sold your weapons, and people were impressed by your work. Though the spears were appreciated, I was approached by someone who wished to buy some arrows made from you. I'll still purchase any spears you've made, but please switch to making arrows before I return.

I was asked for the best arrows you could make, so quality, not quantity, is needed. If this letter reached you on time, then I'll be back to your village in precisely two weeks with the goods you ordered. A lot of gold is riding on this deal, so I know you'll do your best.

Sincerely, Kervin.

He shelled out gold just to tell me to make him some arrows before he returns! How much gold are we talking to get this kind of treatment?

Master reads the letter next to me and frowns. "You need to be careful, Aaliyah," Master warns me.

"What do you mean, master?"

