"No! No!" Rebis tried to fly up. He got a meter up into the air before Shiv yanked him back and tore his other wing off. Blood sprayed through the air, and before Rebis could try anything else, Shiv dropped a plunging elbow on his armored head. An echoing impact sounded through the room, and Shiv continued delivering blow after blow while he spat word after word. "You were broken because you failed the ritual. You were broken because you were a fool. Everything you did, every bit of power you have, and still you failed!”

"No!" Enoch howled. “I am not broken! I am not—”

With a final punch, a skill within Shiv advanced. And when he next spat a phrase, another thing changed inside of him, and something changed within Rebis as well. "The broken thing wasn't the ritual. It wasn't your action. It was always you. Unlike you, I don't need to steal power from a god. I'll find my way there on my own."

Silver Tongue 50 > 52 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Striking Proficiency 50 > 51 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Skill Fusion: Cutting Barbs (Adept) - Hammerhand (Adept) > Sticks and Stones (Master)

Sticks and Stones > 52

Something peculiar happened to Enoch. The Ascendant’s ethereal body came alight and remained that way. It glistened, and there was a patch of glass that emitted a ray of brightness, a ray that called to Shiv's punches. Rebis suffered the same fate. His chest was glistening, and underneath that Legendary armor, Shiv felt a calling, an unspeakable urge to drive his knuckles through that weakness. And so he listened to it. While Rebis clutched at his head, Shiv gritted his teeth and drew in a quiet breath. "Sorry, Rebis. I would have tried to save you if I could.”

Rebis went still, and then, in a moment of strange clarity, gave a choked sigh. "Was never any way out. Never asked to be made. End it. Just give me…”

Shiv drove a blow directly into Rebis's chest. Adam's Legendary-Tier armor proved its worth. It rang like a gong, and Shiv's punch barely even rattled the plating. However, he felt something behind the armor crack and break. At the same time, a portion of Enoch fractured as well. Shiv's punch was hyper-accelerated as it moved within the brilliant patch emitted by the glistening vulnerability, and when it struck, it was like bursting through glass rather than hammering against High-Tier flesh.

"Look at you now," Shiv said, speaking to Enoch rather than Rebis. "Even now, despite all you have, after all the power you stole, you're still pathetic. You're still just going to lose. Just like always."

As Enoch heard him, another section of his being turned to glass as well, and Shiv targeted this new vulnerability. Part of Rebis's face became brittle, and Shiv struck it. The moment his elbow landed, it zipped forward in a sudden rush of amplified force, and a cataclysmic snap echoed through the chamber.

Part of Rebis’s skull caved in, and the Avatar went down, going limp. There was no time to celebrate. Shiv turned his attention to the mana core and—

A chain of lightning exploded out from his gut. He felt the lightning hook inside him as Stormhalt tried to pull him back. As Shiv gasped and wrestled with a god's power, he cast his Vitae forth into the mana core and began to engineer its collapse. His soul was practically boiling out of his body, and Shiv didn’t think he could take much more.

Another two impacts slammed against his person. Shiv felt his pillar crack—but endure. He felt more Overflow Tides flood him, and he heard Stormhalt snarling some stupid nonsense or another as he tried to pull Shiv away from the core.

Shiv gritted his teeth and pushed forward. I need to—

Suddenly, just as Shiv was dragged off balance by Stormhalt, Rebis drew in a ragged breath and turned, driving a clawed hand straight at Shiv's temple—

Only for Enoch to howl in pain once more as his soul itself was lit ablaze.

A new color exploded into existence. Azure blue spilled down from above the mana core. A flaring beam of power rushed into Shiv, and the Deathless looked up to behold both Can Hu and Adam slip back into the fray. The Penitent’s body was shredded in so many places that only its torso remained intact. Through the gaps, Shiv saw Adam, his body a raging current of crashing water, but his face still human—and contorted by strain. Shiv had lost sight of them at the start of the battle, but it looked like they'd barely made it through.

Stormhalt’s lightning slackened as well. The City Lord cried out in misery as Adam drew closer. But as he did, the Gate Lord’s Righteous Dawn began to crack. Shiv’s eyes widened. “Adam! No! Stop! Your skill—”

Adam’s sun flared even brighter—grew even larger.

And when it shattered apart, the core chamber went from a realm of burning incandescent to the perfect blue of an endless sky.
