Everyone but the dwarf in question was entirely unsurprised that Virgil was the first one to make a move, but Aofie herself only looked contemplative at the news. However, that was exactly what Emmanuel was counting on. Now that she’d been declared on, Aofie would turn to Winter Hornet and break convention by expanding the battle into a three way slug fest that took care of the three most combative Great Powers in one fell swoop.

It would be perfect.

Instead, Aofie turned to Emmanuel and said, “I’m calling in the Empire as a defensive ally. Hastor’s agreement is still in effect. I might as well get some use out of it. I—”

Emmanuel processed her following words, but hardly heard them. He… hadn’t expected her to do that. He’d considered it, but it had been so unlikely as to be unfathomable. He immediately started churning through the set past and possible futures, trying to see what had changed to lead to that catastrophic deviation. But with other Tier 50s making decisions, the future was impossibly murky.

Just as he’d wanted only a few minutes ago, but now cursed.

Thankfully, Emmanuel wasn’t the only one who was surprised.

Winter Hornet looked angry enough that Emmanuel was afraid he was going to join the Federation just to take advantage of the treaty bypass Aofie had just given him by calling the Empire in as a secondary target.

That would be very bad. Population wars were typically one on one affairs to keep things more controllable, but the wars were very much still wars. While some of their people may think the population wars were lesser wars, the opposite was true.

Lessening the population of immortals was useful, but none of the Great Powers would throw away perfectly good assets for free. If they’d been willing to do that they’d simply kill the extra cultivators in some other fashion themselves. Like all wars, the Tier 50s would try to maximize their gains even as they tried to minimize their losses.

Which was exactly why he wanted nothing to do with this war, and why he’d worked so hard to distance himself from it. It was probably why everything was falling apart.

It was Allister who came to his rescue by taking the man’s attention onto himself. “Don’t try to be coy like Virgil, Hornet, your people claimed and took that Tier 37 world when it was still firmly in our jurisdiction. Do you think I was ever going to allow that without comment or reprisal? Don’t try to slip out of what’s coming your way.”

“There is no jurisdiction except the size of one's fist. Let's see whose is bigger.” Winter Hornet’s aggression slipped off Emmanuel as it fell onto the Great Power most similar to his own.

Allister didn’t acknowledge the change in plans even as he deviated from them, but his actions helped carve a path to a salvageable conclusion.

With only one even mildly acceptable solution remaining, Emmanuel turned to Tobias and fluctuated his spiritual perception inside the other man’s projection. It was the closest thing to silent communication they could manage at the moment, though it only obscured what they said, not that they spoke. None of the others could comment on such actions without opening themselves up to similar reprisals, and that was good enough.

That might not stop them if the two of them weren’t quick, but Emmanuel thanked his lucky stars the turtle’s predicted actions and desires hadn’t shifted like Aofie’s.

Tobias had made it clear he wanted to declare on the Federation, thanks to their last treaty being shorter than most due to the resource exchange lowering the Collective’s war score. Something Emmanuel had been counting on in his plans. It was why he sowed the seeds of conflict between the Federation and the Clans in the first place.

Tobias had blood in his mouth and he wanted more, whereas Virgil wanted to, needed to, redirect against a more neutral Great Power that they didn’t have a blood feud with.

To that end, he was perfectly willing to agree to keep the war on the less lethal side, aiming for only ninety five percent of the other’s accepted casualty rates. It was callous, but worked in Emmanuel’s favor, giving him no reason to say no.

Deal brokered, Tobias spoke to the group as he threw out a silent lifeline Emmanuel would be paying for the privilege of accepting. “As much as I’d prefer to join the Clans and use this opportunity to wipe the stain that is your collection of planets off the face of the Realm, Virgil, I’ll be declaring on the Empire. I’d rather fight them than see someone aid the Federation to even things out.”

His glare went to Winter Hornet, making it very clear who he was talking about.

With a primary war declared on them from an outside power, Emmanuel now had a perfectly reasonable excuse to limit his involvement in the Clan and Federation war, which had suddenly become his highest priority now that he’d been dragged inside against his will. He wanted nothing to do with the shit storm that war would kick up if his plan still worked.

Now that the Tier 50s were close together and the future was in such flux, it was impossible to separate figments of the truth from wishful fiction, even with his father’s Talent. He’d have to trust that his previous planning was solid, and that he could salvage some amount of chaos during these wars.

Aofie glared at the turtle, but she’d been the one to bring in a third party, which went against the spirit of a population war in the first place. On the surface, Tobias’ actions seemed like they helped the Federation, but the desire for further conflict between the Collective and the Federation had been at an all time high after their latest interrupted war. The Collective had tasted victory against their greatest enemies, and they desperately wanted more.

Politics made for strange bedfellows, but Emmanuel hoped he could work with this last minute pivot.

The Empire would now have to fight in two separate conflicts, but he planned to ignore the Federation war for as long as possible. His only saving grace was that the Federation wouldn’t have many troops at their shared borders, given their pre-mobilization against the Clans, which would buy him time should Virgil be dumb enough to antagonize him.

He wouldn’t put it past her. Or Aofie to try and force his hand.

Their wars settled, only the Corporations and Republic were left, but that made it easy for the two. They only needed to exchange a few words to settle things on their ends, wrapping everything up.

War had been declared, just as he’d expected. It just hadn’t played out the way he’d expected, and that feeling settled like a rock in his stomach as he teleported back to his office.

He had plans to try and salvage.
