“The real answer I’m getting at is that their controls ensured there was room for people to advance upwards and eventually out, should they make it that far. Yes, they forced people to stop advancing at Tier 45 instead of 46, which helped a little, but they also had a peak Tier 48 world, so they had much fewer problems regarding the tip of the Tier pyramid than we do today. However, fewer is far from none. The kingdom’s infighting near the end was, like all things, driven by resource scarcity at the top levels. Even with a Tier 48 world, there wasn’t enough of the pie to go around and there were too many powerful people fighting over it, which led to it shattering. Their population control worked to keep the mortals in line, but they didn’t manage to find a way to stop the immortal factions from entrenching themselves and expanding. It seems an immutable part of a cultivator's nature, whether they be human or beast, to repeat the same patterns over and over.”

Matt leaned forward and refilled their glasses for a third time, emptying the bottle with a dejected sigh. “So what you’re saying is that we are doomed to repeat these actions, unable to change our course? Even with Manny’s plans for the Capital worlds?”

Tur’stal didn’t sugar coat it, but she still managed to catch him off guard with her response. “Maybe. But that’s exactly why I wanted to talk to you about your plans after the war. I’m not content with the way things are, Matthew. I don’t have a solution that can solve the Realm’s problems, but I might have one that solves the Empire’s. And frankly, everything else is outside my scope.”

Matt perked up at that and leaned forward, even though he had an idea of where they might be going. “Oh? And what would that be?”

Tur’stal held up a finger on each hand. “Two things that will feel like one. I want to remove the bottlenecks that force cultivators into conflict. My plan is similar to what the Empire has already been doing. Instead of forcefully limiting how many low Tier worlds we have to control the mortal populations, I want to increase the amount of high Tier worlds first. I want to widen the top of the essence pyramids in each kingdom in the Empire, thereby relieving some of that high end pressure. In the short term, I acknowledge it can make things worse, but it's also the place where the Empire has the least population. We’ve recovered nicely from Agatha’s purges in the lower and mid Tiers, but eventually, those open top Tier positions will be filled and consolidated and then we'll be in the same place in five or ten immortal generations. Ideally, once the peak is taken care of, once we have enough throughput, it will be far easier to scale the amount of lower Tier worlds we have so that the average promotion time is less than the spots available. It would require forcing people to keep moving or take the independence vows, but it offers us an answer better than culling ourselves.”

Matt wanted to snort at the idea, but only nodded along.

She brought up very valid points. Agatha’s impact still scarred the Empire’s highest echelons even sixty thousand years later. At least, the numbers proved that stance when compared to the other Great Powers, even if he’d never felt the difference. He was self aware enough to know he didn’t exactly interact with people of his own Tier, but given how often it seemed like some Tier 45 had a grudge with him, he could only trust the math.

“And you want my help?” Matt cut to what he felt was the point of the meeting.

Tur’stal nodded even as she took another sip of her wine. “Yes, but admittedly I’m jumping the queue due to how interested and involved you were in the construction efforts.”

At his raised eyebrow, she explained with a roll of her eyes, “It must be obvious, Matthew. Once you are out of the war Tiers, your mana will officially reach stupendous levels. You are already making forty three billion mana every second, and that will only double again and again and again. While I’m sure you could find something to spend that much mana on, even if you can’t launder that much mana through your guild, all of us Royals have ideas we’d like to see implemented with your help. My idea is aimed at smoothing out that demand curve while we still have a chance.”

Her words caught Matt off guard, but he wasn’t all that surprised as he read over the small information packet she sent over with a flick. What shocked him was a seemingly insignificant detail her information contained.

“Your second idea is to repeal the terraforming policy?”

“On lower Tier, secondary worlds? Yes, without a doubt. And probably for the same reasons you refused to allow settlement on your guild’s storage worlds, despite the public pushback. Those extra planets, especially the ones in the higher Tier systems, end up becoming mortal havens, and for good reason. The mortals aren’t wrong in their desire for a safe planet next to the economic hubs. Repealing the terraforming policies is the best solution I could come up with to answer the question of how to stop mortals from filling those gaps and defeating the purpose of my efforts. We need more rifts, but we don’t need more arable land. In fact, we need distinctly less around high Tier hub worlds, as most are already overtaxed by their delving population. Let alone the mortal one. For less hospitable worlds, a terraformed moon can be moved in to ensure safe access for delvers, but I think we need to deliberately leave more secondary planets alone and only use them as places to delve, not places to live.”

Matt ran through the math and whistled. He couldn’t help it. “This is… I'm struggling to find the word. Ambitious maybe? That doesn't sound important enough. If you did this, you’d change the face of the Empire. And I’m not sure if it would be in a good way. The terraforming policy was implemented for very good reasons, given the previous dynasty’s predilections.”

Tur’stal nodded along, not denying his claims as he tried to process everything she’d said.

He didn’t hate the idea, though he’d have some input if asked. “And you want my help paying for it?”

“I can’t exactly get started on my own, given the scale of the project. Realistically, this is going to take more than a single immortal generation even with your help. But! If I can get the ball rolling, get the highest Tier stuff out of the way before I ascend, we can make our replacement’s task a lot easier.”

Matt agreed with the sentiment, but couldn’t help but notice a piece of information she hadn’t directly mentioned. “And this is to be centered on your queendom?”

Tur’stal’s bemused expression was his only immediate reply.

Her words only came out after it was clear he wasn’t going to be the first to speak. “Yes. Is that a problem?”

Matt took another moment to gather his thoughts. “Not inherently, but it does strike me as strange given how we got on this topic. We just did major work on the lower Tier worlds Empire-wide. Are the other Royals after the same thing, since the Emperor took care of the bottom rungs?”

“Unlikely. Contrary to your unspoken accusation of double dipping, I was actually against the latest round of internal infrastructure, which most of them were all for. Not because I believed my own plan that much better, rather because I believe that it focused on many of the symptoms without addressing the root cause. While I’m not advocating for us to make the mortal Tiers worse, as the Kingdom actively did, I am sure that those improvements make an already flooded Tier 15 to 20 window all the more jam packed. Those efforts greatly exacerbated this upcoming population war, Matthew. As part of being a Royal, I had to accept that there will always be wars that I can’t stop or solve. But similar to you, I’ve always disliked the population wars and how they are handled. They are a distasteful necessity fueled and driven by cultivator nature, and the reality that there is only so much essence to go around. I’m trying to make that problem better before I inevitably ascend.”

“And Manny doesn't?”

“The Emperor’s gaze is, by necessity and design, wider than my own. To state the obvious, he needs to worry about the other Great Powers. He needs to think about how to protect a properly constructed garden, whereas my job is to build it. I can’t, in good conscience, say the Emperor was wrong in where he focused his efforts. Short term goals are always important, especially if not fulfilling them leads to the failure of the long term ones. I simply would have put my energy elsewhere if I'd have been him. As would the other Royals, I’m sure. We all have our own agendas and ideas on how to improve things. I’m confident they will reach out to you after the war to talk about them, but that's why I’m jumping the line. No one can force you to help us, but we know you and I’d eat a tree, root to leaf, before I’d believe you’d turn away honest attempts to improve things.”

Matt snorted and rubbed his face. He’d drained his third glass and was already feeling the alcohol, but he did nothing to stop it. “Thank you. I think?”

“You're welcome.”

The silence was comfortable as Matt mulled over the proposition. “I know you aren’t pressing for an answer now, given the wine you started us with, so all I'll say now is that I don’t hate the idea. I just can’t see how we hide any of this from the other Great Powers. Such projects won’t be cheap or easily hidden.”

Tur’stal’s smile turned wicked. “Oh, they’ve already noticed something is wrong. As far as I know, Frederic has done a lovely job obscuring things, but they’ve already identified spending is higher than it should be after the latest round of infrastructure work. They roughly know the expected income and expenses from our lands, and have had quite the tizzy trying to figure out how we afforded it. When they realize we stopped funding the Farm, they are going to tear themselves apart in confusion. That will hopefully buy us even more time.”

Matt thought about everything Tur’stal said before leveraging himself to his feet as he heard her outer door open and someone else enter. They’d already gone well past the allotted window and he didn’t want to take up any more of her time.

“I’ll think about it. I don’t hate the idea, but it feels… unreal for you to come to me with something like this. I like the goal, I really do. It just seems… Impossible.” Matt smiled at the last bit before adding, “Fuck the impossible.”

Midway to the door, he spun back around and asked, “Got another bottle of— thank you.”

He took the bottle a vine had already extended to him and cast [Portal] all in the same motion. Except he cast the spell directly under his feet, allowing himself to fall through the aperture and out of the room.

He caught himself immediately, or he’d have gone through the spa’s reinforced floor, but he managed it without a tremble.

Liz and Aster were puddles under the hands of the masseuse, literally in Liz’s case, but both perked up as Matt waggled the bottle of wine back and forth the tiniest amount.

“Look what I pilfered from Tur’stal’s stash!”

***

When Emmanuel felt the message pass through the beacons calling for a gathering, he debated letting a clone go, but ultimately chose to let the clone continue on with the paperwork. While sending a clone would have indicated his own lack of interest in the upcoming war, fitting in with the general Tier 50’s trend he expected, he couldn’t let even a copy of himself shoulder the burden.

His people would be fighting and dying in this war, and they deserved his best, even if he already knew how the meeting would play out.

Unlike his other recent moves, he didn’t make a spectacle of it and simply teleported next to Minkalla, waiting for the others. Janet was the next to join him, but she was quickly followed by the others. The only one who didn’t send their real body was Tobias, but given his size and habitat on his shell, Emmanuel hadn’t expected him to.

Winter Hornet was the first to speak as he rubbed his hands together. “Finally. Who wants to get started? Emmanuel, any chance I can convince you to declare on me? Come on, it would be fun. That treaty was too long. I tried to let it run its course, but even I can’t keep my people contained any longer. The glut of newly advanced cultivators is already reaching Tier 23, and it’s time to spend them before they become a much harder to solve problem. Why don’t we just agree to let the truce lapse and fight like true cultivators?”

Emmanuel internally rolled his eyes at the stupidity such an action would imply on his end, but he didn’t let any of that show. Instead, he shrugged as if it didn’t matter to him. “If you are prepared to pay the breakage fee, sure. I need to refill my coffers after my latest round of spending. If you are volunteering, I don’t see why I’d decline.”

Aofie snorted and looked like she was about to interject, but Janet was the one who got there first. “Gentlemen, our personal animosity isn’t in question today. If you want to have a spar or spat, do it on your own time. We all agree that it's time for a population war, so let’s skip to the relevant details. Who wants to fight whom?”

Virgil pointed a finger at Aoife and cast the first stone, exactly as Emmanuel foresaw so many years ago when he’d set that particular piece in motion.

“Aofie. You and I need to have a talk about privacy, but I suppose our people can do the important exchanges.”

