“Yup. I’m glad you had a better plan. I’m not that much of a hero.” Liar. Gazing at him, Ali’s lower lip trembled. He reached out and squeezed her shoulders with his big arm. “Whatever. We’re alive and that’s what counts.”

“So, what should we do now?” Calen asked.

“Dinner,” Mato said firmly, and added, “We will think better after we are calm and fed, and you know that food is the ultimate recipe for everything.”

Yes, and that he had to say it was a measure of how shaken he was.

***

Ali woke the next morning feeling physically refreshed, but mentally worn down by the worries that had plagued her sleep.

The discussion that began over dinner yesterday went late into the night with everyone eventually turning in without a clear resolution. Obviously, Mato would not be fighting the elementals with his back to the archway in the future. But besides that, the inescapable conclusion was that they were just not strong enough. Either they needed to drastically increase their health, or they needed even more fire-resistance equipment – likely both.

It had been some time since Ali had done her dungeon maintenance chores, and as her mind roamed her dungeon, she noted the growing piles of corpses and trash. Needing something to take her mind off the immediate worries, she wrote a quick note letting her friends know she would meet them at the guild once they woke up and headed out into her forest cavern with her personal guard of minions following her.

Her first stop was the shrine. During the day, while they couldn’t scour the town for useful stuff, she had her trash collector Kobolds gather any corpses littering her domain to pile them up beside the Grove. That way, she only needed to make one stop to deconstruct all of them.

She gritted her teeth and deconstructed the mangled remains of the assassin, before tackling the pile of zombies, skeletons, and random monsters that her defenders had taken care of over the last couple of days.

Variant: Cavern Crawler added to Imprint: Spider.

She dismissed the notifications for skeletons and zombies, only the low-level spider being of any use or interest to her – although, she already liked Seth’s Tunnel Weavers better. Still, she dutifully summoned one to familiarize herself with any useful skills or abilities it might have.

Then she made the rounds through the sewer tunnels, deconstructing the nearly unmanageable piles of trash. All the junk yielded several new coins, some variants of wood and stone that she hadn’t seen before, and a bunch of worthless imprints that she immediately discarded.

Hmm… not very useful, is it? When she had read about the scavenger dungeon’s strategy, she had had high hopes for the idea but, while she wasn’t about to abandon the plan, it was proving to be much less effective than what she had imagined. Unless she was willing to invade people’s homes or shops for stuff, she was unlikely to get much more value with this plan. Unless there’s another siege or large-scale fight, she thought, but then caught herself with a grimace. Wishing for war was not a thought that sat well with her.

She had not earned any usable monster imprints this way, for obvious reasons. But she had received a great spider variant from Seth’s quest. Perhaps a better strategy is to use the guild? She had more than enough money to put up a few collection quests.

Ali shelved that idea for later and turned her attention to her real purpose for being in the sewer today. She had gained two levels from fighting the Flame Broodmother. This had meant a three percent reduction per level in the reserve cost for her entire minion army – everything in her dungeon was a little cheaper – and she had invested all twenty attribute points into wisdom. While she wasn’t exactly rolling in mana, she felt positively flush compared to what she had been eking by with the last few weeks.

And that brought her to the second thing she realized she had learned from the Flame Broodmother encounter. The Emberforge Mines was a powerful dungeon, and hers was pitiful by comparison. It was not just that the domain itself burned intruders, but the first boss of the Emberforge Mines could have wiped out all her minions, bosses included. It wasn’t even a raid boss. It was entirely unfair that she didn’t have enough mana to afford a good selection of bosses at her class level – she had minions with enough mana to do it, so why not herself?

Well, one minion. She couldn’t afford another Forest Guardian boss.

Ali finally found herself at the spot she had been searching for. It was a crossroads of sorts – five tunnels joined in a small chamber, all the flows merging into a single large outlet, roughly in the center of the entire sewer system. Probably right beneath the marketplace if her sense of direction wasn’t entirely haywire.

This should do. She pushed the walls of the chamber backward, her Grimoire glowing as she created stone and brick and fed it to Domain Mastery. It took maybe ten minutes to widen the chamber to an appropriate size for the boss she had in mind. Carefully, she adjusted the channels to make them less uniform, meandering a little, and creating a modest-sized pool in the center.

Her mana lit up the appropriate imprint, and in short order, she had her newest minion.

Toxic Slime – Ooze – level 5 (Poison).

Perception, for sure. Her purpose for this boss was primarily to ensure that fewer assassins made it down into the forest cavern undetected to somehow be trampled by her Forest Guardian. Or at least give her forewarning. Her secondary purpose was to have something a little easier for the new guild members to practice on.

Quickly, she selected the choices she and Calen had hashed out last night over dinner during a break from the interminable fire resistance problem.

Domain Respawn applied to Toxic Slime.Boss Domain Enhancement applied to Toxic Slime.Attribute Enhancement (Endurance) applied.Attribute Enhancement (Perception) applied.Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +44.

Only forty-four mana? She and Calen had worked out all the details in advance but seeing the number in her notification drove home the reality of it. A level-five monster cost her almost nothing compared to something closer to her class level. Even a group threat boss – something that would challenge a whole group of level-five adventurers – cost her next to nothing.

Choosing the lower ‘boss’ domain enhancement gave her new boss a quicker respawn time than a raid boss would have had – four hours instead of six – which suited her goal of having a sentinel in the middle of the sewer.

Next, she chose to implement Calen’s other suggestion, quickly creating a small assortment of low-level weapons and arrows, spreading them around the chamber, and attaching them to the domain too. Calen thought this would give the novices a strong incentive to test themselves against the boss, and Ali was happy to provide rewards that would make them stronger – a bit of a ramp-up before they needed to face her Kobolds. She finished up the room by adding a few poison traps.

The rogues are going to hate you, aren’t they? she thought, slipping her awareness into the mind of her new Toxic Slime boss to survey the world through its senses. She had quite a lot of experience using slimes for this purpose, and instantly she felt the shape of the sewers all around her, feeling the flow of the water through the channels, and the heartbeats and footsteps of her various monsters crawling through the tunnels. To her delight, the perception enhancement substantially boosted the range of the ooze’s Tremor Sense, and she could ‘see’ clearly what was going on several tunnels away.

Perfect, she thought, happy with the easy success. She flew off to check on the Tunnel Weavers she had installed in what she was now thinking of as the ‘spider wing’ of the sewer. A section of tunnels and rooms closer to the Kobold raid where the average level of the monsters was a little higher.

Her spiders had certainly been very busy, and this entire section of the sewer had a creepy spider-lair feel now, with dense webs covering the ceiling and walls, and draping down to the ground from above in many places. Lurking in the web overhead were many watchful eyes.

She reached the end of the tunnel and stood in the center of the chamber, looking up at the ceiling.

“You, come down here,” she said, and the Tunnel Weaver that had made its lair above descended on a thick strand of spider silk, an action so similar to the Flame Broodmother’s descent that she shivered even though she was in no danger.

Tunnel Weaver – Spider – level 8 (Poison)

She touched the spider’s smooth carapace with her fingertips and bound it to her domain mana.

Domain Respawn applied to Tunnel Weaver.Boss Domain Enhancement applied to Tunnel Weaver.

Again, she wanted a sentinel in the dungeon, a monster that could provide some early warning of intruders and incursions, so her first pick had to be perception. Besides, the Tunnel Weaver had some interesting perception skills to work with.

Attribute Enhancement (Perception) applied.

For her second choice, she wasn’t quite certain if her skill would allow it. Technically, poison affinity was a subset of nature, although it depended highly on who you chose to ask. She chose the Affinity Aura option, and to her surprise, her notification chimed.

Affinity Aura (Poison) applied.

Seems to work. That’s great!

Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +77.

Her spider’s black carapace swelled, growing substantially larger as the domain mana rushed through its body, enhancing its power. The pressure of the powerful domain enhancement bore down on the domain lattice as if weighing heavily upon the mana. Although the choice of the boss enhancement was noticeably less powerful than her two raid bosses, she was quite sure it would prevent having another similar boss in this space.

She studied the phenomenon carefully, filing it away for the next time she was in the mines. Being able to recognize the phenomenon might just give them an early warning of an upcoming boss encounter. It seemed to be somehow related to the domain’s mana density, and how much magical load the structure could bear. Theoretically, her own domain in and around the library should be able to support much more, given that the density had been so dramatically enhanced by the elder tree that grew there. If I can learn to detect the strain on a foreign domain…

Affinity Aura snapped on as her magic upgrade completed and toxic green mist billowed from the abdomen of her empowered spider, filling the room. Before it could engulf her, Ali snapped a spherical bubble around herself and banished the rest of her retinue to the tunnels outside. It wasn’t exactly a huge threat to her, but there was no reason to sit in the poison. For a level-eight party, this would provide a substantial challenge for healing, or for their ability to source antidote potions, but against her high-level magical resistance, it barely itched.

As soon as she released it, the Tunnel Weaver boss rapidly climbed back up and concealed itself among the webbing on the ceiling.

For this boss, the web itself would provide the hopeful novices with a substantial reward. Malika had checked the current market rates, and the adventurers tackling this boss would find themselves quite well rewarded by the tailors’ and weavers’ demand for quality monstrous thread. Still, she spent the time to fill the nooks and crannies at the edges of the chamber with Forest Amanitas and even three small Violet Dreamclouds to offer a reward that would interest the herbalists and every class that used poisons. The Amanitas were a great low-level poison, according to Basil, and the three Violet Dreamclouds were substantially more valuable, providing a potent ingredient for soporific potions or poisons. It didn’t take long to attach everything to her domain so that it would respawn automatically if harvested, and she finished up by inscribing a few Grasping Roots traps inside the room.

She connected with her Tunnel Weaver boss and reached out through its senses. She saw the chamber rather blurrily and in various shades of blue and what looked like ultraviolet through its strange eight-eyed vision, but that was not the sense she was most interested in. Its perception magic pulsed through the web under its eight deadly venom-slicked legs, and she simultaneously saw the pulses rippling out in waves through the web. She felt the world through the net. The entire body of the spider acted as a resonator, and the sense, much like that of the oozes, used vibration to carry information about the world back to the spider in its lair. But this spider could sense mana, and the range it could see around the web strands was large enough to perceive herself as she stood all the way down there on the floor of the chamber.

Now I need to inform the Guildmaster about the new bosses, so there are no accidental deaths. Sigh. A dungeon’s work is never done.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
