The Defiled numbers were overwhelming and their Demons slaughtered elites as easily as turning a hand. Despite Akanai’s timely arrival with her reinforcements, the Bridge was all but lost. With defeat looming on the horizon, Jia Yang did as any competent commander would, ordering his men to withdraw in groups to reconvene in Shen Yun. Though they lost the battle, lives could still be saved and put to use defending the sturdy city walls for months, holding out until reinforcements arrived from the Central Province. After the Defiled broke through the second wall and swarmed into the province, his actions would be lauded as keen foresight, losing the battle only to win the war.

Except they didn’t lose the battle.

Without rhyme or reason, the Defiled withdrew from under the inclement weather. The Demons fled first, disappearing in the blink of an eye as soon as the shower began while the Defiled fought on, but within the hour, the battle was over. Minutes stretched into hours as the defenders waited in place, unable to understand why the Enemy retreated whilst on the cusp of victory. It made no sense and now Jia Yang’s actions looked like those of a coward, preparing to flee to save his own skin while Baatar and Akanai led the Empire to victory.

Grinding his teeth, Jia Yang swallowed his anger and waited, half hoping for the Defiled to return and finish what they started. His opponents would note his ‘cowardice’ and pave the way for Baatar to claim the title ‘Commander of the Wall’ unimpeded and unchallenged. Jia Yang’s dreams of becoming Patriarch of the Situ Clan seemed fleeting and distant, all his years of effort and hard work undone in a single battle.

Losing to a half-breed bastard, even one who fought like a hero from legend... It was almost enough to drive him mad with rage, unbalancing him past recovery.

Almost.

Breathing through his mouth, Jia Yang fought for calm, preparing for his next move, but for the first time in his life, he wasn’t sure what it would be.

Chapter Meme
