 pulsing through his body, something spiky that he had never noticed before boiled and expanded as if to purge Deo of Delta’s gift.Deo could only exist as they clashed.Exist and trust Delta.He had to... because when Deo looked at the spike lancing through his heart... he felt afraid.Deo was so afraid of that darkness.---Delta had to focus, the feeling of her mana not only filling Deo, but overflowing would normally kill someone who wasn’t used to such Mana, but as it flowed, it soaked in, removing spots of black as it went.Delta was both in the core, floating as an avatar in the garden, and now... inside the soul of Deo. Under the gleaming castles of his courage, his flowing rivers of love... under the very sun that was his nature... a poison grew fat off his efforts, gorging itself on his experiences, robbing each flower that grew in his soul of sustenance.Her chest ignited and her own core pulsed dangerously in the dungeon. A feeling like she had never quite experienced before rose up in her like a wave of emotions. Delta despised it. Delta absolutely despised the sight of it more than the Spider Queen, more than the Princess of Bone... more than her despair at being a core.Delta despised this thing living in Deo, nibbling where his wonderful soul had been eroded at the edges, melted by something cruel. She rushed at it and it rose like a behemoth, cracking the ground, intending to destroy as much as it could simply to show that it was able to.It was like a giant black worm with boney-thorns erupting out of its slime-soaked flesh at every angle. It was like its mouth was inside out and it rolled, causing Deo’s soul to bleed.“Get out of him,” she warned, eyes blazing. The thing merely dug deeper, fortifying itself and drinking up her anger as if it were entertainment. Delta’s skin began to glow orange, her aura eclipsing her skin.She kept it close, not wanting to scour Deo’s soul in thoughtless anger. The worm moved first, firing its bone-thorns at her with tendrils still attached. It was attempting to hook her, bleed her, wound her... make her suffer.Delta’s skin blazed and the first dozen thorns simply turned to ash.Her hair was dancing wildly now, her form a burning sun that was slowly gaining shape. Delta would need to be more precise in her means of attack so she coiled inwards and called out to the power that flowed through her.She was answered and she was swallowed by a pillar of orange light, forming rapidly inside Deo’s soul. The world around them existing for them only and no others.Those watching would see mana clashing with infection... nothing more. Delta refused to see this battle as so mundane... she refused to reduce Deo’s curse to such... levels.She looked down at the now hesitating worm.“Well... well... the things you invite me to,” Wyin said, her massive form a true world tree in size. Her thousands upon thousands of branches all barbed as Delta sat at the top, like a burning phoenix.“Wyin? You know how I said killing...destroying things until they screamed for an end, pathetically grovelling for a death that’s too good for them is barbaric and below us?” Delta asked, voice thin like razor wire. Wyin’s face formed on a branch nearby, looking unsure.“I remember words of a sort,” she admitted. Delta locked eyes with the countless beady red eyes of the worm spore.“For that... thing?” she said and the world around them went quiet as Delta spoke her next words.“That conversation never happened,” Delta said, hands clenched.Wyin’s face was serene, angelic, and in love when she heard this.“Beautiful,” she said, sounding breathless then her face vanished and the worm screamed as roots impaled it from below, lifting into the sky. Wyin’s voice now booming, the true giant that she was.“I don’t know you or what you did to Delta,” Wyin began as all her green leaves turned a dark scarlet red in the orange light. The worm tried to use some magic or skill to melt into slime, but Wyin’s roots seemed to cause vines and parasitic seeds to grow rapidly, pinning it together.“I only know I won’t ever mess up as badly as you,” Wyin said simply then the world was filled with a storm of petals, orange, and thorns.The edges of this world flowed into the ground, freed from the creature. They poured into the world and the edges began to smooth over... extending... flowing like rivers over arid lands. Trees grew, the sky extended, and Delta saw pieces connecting together.Mountains where winds blew majestically, forests where animals and insects sang, rivers that sang with mirth, storms that howled with fury... all of it coming back to this world and free.Free.Deo was----“-free!”Deo frowned as he wrinkled his nose at the weird sensations. A sort of vibrations that was too intense.“Grim, you can’t get free loot because Deo willingly drank a weird orange fountain and passed out,” came a different mix of sensations and oddities. Vibrations hitting the side of his face with clear different pitches and warbles.He touched the side of his head in confusion, only for his hand to hit something strange. A spongy thing.He sat up so abruptly that Poppy sat back with her mouth making a-“Eh! Deo, you surprised me,” her mouth moved and those sensations bounced with them. Deo, confused, stumbled to the garden pond where he looked into the reflection. He looked tired... and weirdly, a little ill.His fiery red hair was brushed aside and Deo stared at the two glowing veins running through his ears, little orange nodes running over the back of his ears. He touched them slowly and they jiggled before settling back into place.“You’ll need to turn them off soon, your mana is quite low. Your own soul won’t be perfectly aligned with your sense of hearing for a long time, but Delta promises her blessing and own mana will bridge the gap until they’re done healing,” a soft voice said and Deo looked up at Alpha.“Alpha!” he started, thinking he was being too loud until his voice just... evened out.“Yes... and I see Delta snuck in noise-cancelling benefits to your new gift,” he announced, sounding a little pained. Deo fell to his knees before letting out a massive yell. The sound was amazing.He yelled and yelled until he began to cry.Who knew crying was so noisy?Deo did...Deo knew. Deo knew what laboured breathing felt like to others. What his name sounded like in other’s voices. What grass sounded like when rustled... what cloth rustling was... he knew it all.Deo... finally knew what life sounded like and he wept.Even as his new gift ran out of mana and the silence returned... Deo’s heartbeat was light as he knew it wasn’t forever now. Just for a little while.Deo loved Delta.He would love her until the day he died.Deo Brawndo would not let anyone harm Delta, his friend. A kind dungeon who would help nobody special like Deo because she could. Deo would protect that.He wouldn’t let anyone make Delta cry.No one.---Wyin laid in her dungeon room, bowed like a strong wind had knocked her over. Her branches were wild and she had a delirious look on her face.“I really must do that again,” she announced, unable to stop herself smiling like a loon.All she knew was that when they went to the third floor... Delta became a goddess.People. Third floor.Wyin wouldn’t kill adventurers ever again. She needed the idiots alive to experience that again!
