Tongzu snorted with disdain. “There is no area large enough to accommodate my army aside from the plaza. It would be impossible to attack in sufficient numbers.”

A wolfish look came over Gerel, a smile without smiling. “Exactly. The same goes for the Defiled, and seeing as we’re outnumbered when it comes to quality soldiers, this works to our advantage. We'll rend and tear them slowly until nothing remains.” Pointing at the map, Gerel marked the major passages out of the south-western district. “The passages through the outer wall have been closed off, so these five bridges are now the only path into the rest of the city, aside from swimming through the ponds or canals. At your Guard Captain’s suggestion, we lifted the sluice gates and flooded the canals, using bloody bait to lure in hordes of carnivorous fish. The majority of the soldiers are positioned to guard the bridges, and should the worst come to pass, they have orders to destroy the bridge. By doing so, we contain the Defiled to the south-western district. It took a little diplomacy to roust the inhabitants, but Guard Captain Sovanna is a... persuasive woman. I only had to kill two people before the rest fell into line.”

“Hmph.” Dreading the fallout from his ‘diplomacy’, Tongzu decided to deal with it after the battle. For all he knew, they’d all be dead and he’d be spared having to eat crow and apologize. Instead, he studied the plan as Gerel continued to elaborate, but though he looked long and hard, he found no obvious flaws. Still, he disagreed wholeheartedly with the strategy, interrupting Gerel mid-explanation. “Your proposal would have me give up an eighth of my city to the Defiled without a fight. Then what? Pray for deliverance? Even after Major Yuzhen arrives, we’ll have no ground from which to mount a charge. What good is cavalry without their mounts? Am I to keep them there and starve them out?”

The wolfish grin seemed to stretch even though Gerel’s lips remained pursed and neutral, the air growing cold and still. “All the Major needs to do is keep the Defiled from leaving through the gate. You want to make them bleed for stepping into your city, but my claim supersedes yours.” Leaning forward, Gerel’s amber eyes promised wanton violence and slaughter, forcing Tongzu to instantly revise his opinion of the man. A dangerous warrior, he’d rather be matched against a dozen Vichears than cross weapons with Gerel. “You look down on a mere Senior Captain and I cannot begrudge you this. Rank holds no allure for me, only battle, but now I have reason to seek it, a promise to keep. Karma has been sown and these Defiled cropped up almost instantly, their lives a gift laid out before me. Do not interfere in my moment of glory. Sanshu is full of danger and your death would mar my victory.”

Repressing his shudders, Tongzu stared blankly as Gerel strode out of the room, unable to formulate a reply until the man was out of sight. Blinking at Sovanna, he asked, “Did he just threaten me?”

“That he did.” Sovanna nodded, bringing a cushioned chair to the window, which he gratefully collapsed in. “An intense sort, I swear if he had a tail he’d be wagging it nonstop right now. Happy as a fox in the hen-house he is, a born killer if I’d ever seen one. Don’t be too cross with him though, he saved yer life last night.” She shivered dramatically, perhaps to ease his guilt over doing the same. “Mark me, but I’m glad he’s on our side, not a man I’d like to cross. The servants say he came in through the window and tore a Wraith’s arm clean off before it even knew what hit him. Killed five in total and walked out of yer room like he’d been swimming in blood.”

From his vantage point, he absently watched as Gerel rode off with Vichear and the other Bekhai. Private First Class Gerel, the unknown, unranked, warrior who, at twenty-seven years of age, took the world by storm when he claimed eleven certified Demon kills in a week, and his numbers continued to rise. Those who saw him claimed he cut Demon and Defiled down like a farmer harvesting wheat, earning him the Name of ‘Demon Reaper’.

Whether it meant ‘Reaper of Demons’, or ‘Demon who Reaps’ was still a matter of debate.

Chapter Meme
