Veronica sneered at Stormhalt before releasing him. The armored City Lord hit the marble floor with a resounding crash. Veronica’s summoned hands of Orichalcum receded into Dimensional rifts. She glared at Ascendants and their Avatars. Then she strolled away from Stormhalt, clasping her hands behind her back.

“Fellow council members, Great Ascendants, I see we have to talk about a few things again. I see that we need to be reminded of the rules we abide by. Mainly, how our politics are supposed to be inflicted on our enemies rather than each other.”

“Then we must speak of our wayward brother,” Kathereine began.

“We will not speak of the Starhawk until he and his Avatar are in our presence and properly accounted for. Not before that. Never before that.” She made eye contact with Kathereine again, and a pressure built between them. The chamber groaned. The gilded walls cracked apart, revealing Orichalcum behind. Paintings were ripped down the middle, and glass shattered. Even the marble floor came apart in an expanding web of fissures. “Never before.”

Veronica began circling the chamber. She eyed the Ascendants more than their Avatars, and she enjoyed their silence. Yeah. That’s right. You know I’m right, but you never listen. You never listen until one of you actively shits the bed. Despite the burning frustration nested within Veronica’s bones, she quite liked this—the feeling of being the pillar of the Auroral Council and the tiebreaker between the gods.

“She is right, you know,” Maiden’s voice sounded forth from the clockwork golem she used as her vessel. The massive entity was a collection of snapping gears and hissing steam. Yet, beneath the metal were patches of biomass that melded with the inorganic exterior. “You were always impatient, Kathereine. We know that Matthew has grown unstable as of late, but the goal is to convince him. Or bind him to us. Not to be rid of him. That is not the consensus we came to.”

The Ascendant herself appeared in the golem’s metallic reflection. She looked as she always did, a shadow sprouting far too many limbs hunched over a crafting table. Sparks flew out as she worked, and between the flashes of light, Maiden’s full glory was shown. She was as much of an art project as all of her creations. Only patches of flesh remained of her. The rest was a jigsaw of glass, metal, crystal, and more. Yet, despite the filigrees of contrasting matter comprising her form, there was still a gorgeous presence to her. Maiden’s face was like cracked clay lined with whorls of gold. Her hair was a nest of copper, and a faint smile lined her lips. Pits of shadow existed in place of irises, and there was a boundless intellectual hunger in her expression as she worked on.

Kathereine’s beauty made her fellow Ascendants look plain, but Kathereine was ultimately human. A bit too human for Veronica’s tastes—but gods came in all shapes and personalities.

“Oh, the consensus,” Kathereine retorted with mockery. “Maiden. I do so admire your willingness to abide by the rules when none exist.”

“But one does,” Maiden replied. Her clockwork golem lifted its face at Kathereine as the gears it had for eyes snapped and turned again and again. “There is a single law that determines all our fates: The Great One. Should our connection to them be damaged, should the skills we crystallized in their mind be affected, then there is no us.”

“And such is what I was trying to prevent,” Kathereine said, gliding across the room. Her white dress flowed and flapped behind her, turning into the faintness of wings. But then the wings broke apart into petals, and a fragrance filled the room. The Songbringer hummed as she circled the clockwork golem like a snake preparing to wind itself around its prey. Then, she struck. She wrapped an arm around the golem, and for the first time, Maiden looked up. It was a strange sight—though one infused with aesthetic.

Maiden stared up at an angle, looking past the shell of her golem like a portrait of someone looking beyond their frame. Meanwhile, Kathereine grabbed the golem by the arm and grinned amiably. “Why, if Matthew had his way, there would be no Republic. There would be no us. We all know what he intends to do.”
