Had he been assigned a chore he didn’t know about?

She stomped over to the chair she usually sat in and started shoving it away from the television.

Move the chairs? Maybe that was what she’d said. He stood up and moved his own chair out of the way, too.

Kibby pointed to one of the cushions, and he took it obediently. It was a heavy, stuffed leather pillow, square-shaped with logograms stitched around the edges in gold and silver thread. It looked like the ultra luxury version of the chopped-up yoga mats they used in wordchain class at the consulate.

“Are we saying wordchains?”

Kibby paused. “No. Unless you need to do it for _________?”

“Let’s do what you want.”

He said that a lot. It gave him an excuse to let her lead without looking completely clueless all the time. He hoped.

Kibby set her cushion down and started taking off her socks. Alden blinked. Were they doing school of some kind? An educational show?

That was usually what barefoot meant with Artonans in his experience. He dropped his cushion beside hers and hurriedly unlaced his own shoes. When they were done, Kibby walked over to the panel that controlled the lighting and spent over a minute dimming it until it was at some precise level that satisfied her. Then she disappeared again and returned with what looked like a polished wooden chopstick. She used it to measure the distance between her cushion and Alden’s.

Wow. It’s got to be school. We’re being so serious about the layout.

Then she pulled a round silver disc from her pocket. Alden was startled when she used it to set the end of the measuring stick on fire. She let it burn and looked at Alden expectantly.

He smiled at her. I have no idea what you want.

“Let’s have a good education time?” he suggested.

She looked surprised. So that probably wasn’t the right thing to say. But she considered it for a while, then nodded at him and blew out the stick.

Kibby walked over to the television and turned it on. She had to stand on her tiptoes to reach some parts of the screen, but she didn’t like it when Alden did it for her. She brought up a program he hadn’t seen before.

Well, good. Klee-pak was starting to stress me out.

An Artonan woman in wizard’s garb stood in a dimly lit room that was mostly multicolored wood and large shuttered windows. Barefoot children who looked at least a couple years younger than Kibby were filing in one after the other with cushions under their arms.

They all did the thing with the polished measuring stick while the adult watched them patiently, and then they set their sticks on fire and recited something that was several sentences long while they faced one of their neighbors. Kibby glanced over her shoulder at Alden.

“Um…I’ll say it better next time.”

Then everyone sat on their cushion, and Kibby rushed over to hers. She knelt on it, and Alden joined her. He hoped she didn’t mind him sitting cross-legged. Kneeling for a long time didn’t seem that comfortable.

He still wasn’t sure what was going on in the video. His best guess was wizard kindergarten, but it wasn’t what he would have imagined. They spent the first twenty minutes stretching their fingers in specific ways while the screen showed close-ups of small Artonan hands, and the teacher offered advice in a placid tone that would have put Alden straight to sleep if he wasn’t so busy trying to decipher what the heck she was talking about.

There were way too many words for fingers. Was she naming specific muscles or saying something completely unrelated?

After finger exercises, there were mouth exercises, breathing exercises, and an exercise that Alden was sure was supposed to be some kind of mental thing. Since he couldn’t understand what was being said, it just looked like a bunch of little kids drooping on their cushions.

Kibby drooped right along with them.

Alden was bored.

And then, fifteen whole minutes after the drooping had started, just when he was certain this was all something completely incomprehensible that didn’t apply to him, Kibby gave him a friendly pat.

On the existence.

Which was not a place he’d known could be patted by another person, so he considered it a real achievement that he didn’t shriek and fling himself across the room. Instead, he froze, processing the feeling in the same way he’d spent the past ten days processing a few other new feelings that came along with living in demonville.

Lacking any actual names for them, he was calling his new states of being “centered,” “askew,” and “assertive.”

Centered was for how he normally went about life. He couldn’t even detect it. As far as he knew, it was just the absence of the other feelings.

Askew was what happened when he got smacked by a demon bug, which hadn’t occurred in two whole days—major success.

And assertive was the feeling he’d had upon activating Azure Rabbit by himself for the first time—a sense that he was actively expanding his personal space. He’d begun to notice it now when he was using his skill, too.

He had two theories about why he was aware of what it felt like to assert his authority when he hadn’t been before. The first was that the System had been stopping him from feeling it somehow, either by taking some of the load off with all the various little conveniences it provided or actively altering the way he felt things to make them less confusing to a human.

The second one was that humans really couldn’t feel authority at all under usual conditions, and he was only beginning to feel his own “assertive” state now because he was constantly pressing against something he’d never had to deal with before. Like the difference between breathing normally and breathing with a thick cloth over your nose.

The chaos was everywhere. He knew it. All day yesterday, he’d been askew whenever his skill wasn’t active. He could only relax in the vault. It was why he’d had yet another talk with Kibby about the importance of spending time in the unpleasant place.

Pat, pat, pat.

Alden shook his head and tried to focus. Well, here’s a new one to add to the list. Centered, askew, assertive, and…poked? Petted? Wizardy fist bump?

It was kind of cute. He was sure he was supposed to friendly-pat back, but he didn’t have a clue how. He couldn’t even activate his skill without breaking her concentration and asking her to hand him something. He’d been wearing a string around his neck as his preferred carried item lately, but he always lost entrustment on it when he went to sleep.

Alden drooped on his cushion like the little kids. Maybe slouchy posture helped? He closed his eyes and tried to imagine himself patting back.

It was a failure. But maybe not a complete one.

When Alden gave up on trying to do something and instead focused intently on just the sensation of Kibby’s magical fist bump, he gradually became aware of his own power as he had a few times before.

It’s here. Around me. My own little patch of authority, keeping me here and keeping me myself. It’s been shaped by the System so that I can use my skill, but it’s still mine. Joe said that there was always a portion of it unbound…I guess I should be able to do things with it. Right? Surely a little friendly pat?

The lesson ended before he could get there.

Well, that was all right.

“Sorry,” Alden said, when Kibby gave him a disappointed look. “I can practice.”

Why not? He had plenty of free hours ahead of him. And it was about time for him to figure out how to spend the next weeks of his life now that he had started to get a handle on surviving.

After the magic class, they spent a few hours watching Artonan children learn important life skills and suffer hardship. Kibby seemed pleased.

And Alden sat beside her, making a list in his notebook of all the things he wanted to do if he didn’t die from eating the spiky strawberry. He had to assume he had a future. One back on Earth, where he would maybe one day  attend school, get a job, play video games…

Live on Anesidora.

He hadn’t really dug too deeply into his feelings about certain things yet, but maybe it was necessary. Boe and Jeremy would have known something was wrong the first time he skipped their usual phone call. He didn’t think Joe could entirely hide his absence from LeafSong, so the university would have known by the next day, too.

Alden wasn’t officially off on a super secret mission. He was a Rabbit, and it was supposedly a berry collection quest that had ended in disaster. It wasn’t the kind of thing that the Artonans would keep under wraps for any reason he could imagine.  He wouldn’t just vanish with no word like Hannah had.

He would be officially declared something. Dead, missing, lost cause. He wasn’t sure which because he wasn’t sure what anyone else might know about his current predicament.

But they would tell his aunt.

If they declared him dead, legal stuff would happen.

If they declared him missing, Connie would definitely contact someone from Anesidora, probably Ms. Zhao or Mr. Thomas, and try to get them to find out what had happened to him. It most likely wasn’t something they could do, but Alden’s aunt wouldn’t believe that. And she’d be desperate.

In the same situation, he would have been, too.

Sorry, Aunt Connie. Sorry, guys.

Dead or missing—either way, he’d be a known Avowed when he made it back home. So the secret unregistered route was completely off the table now. He’d have to go fully on the run if he didn’t want to live on the island.

I don’t think I had any doubts about registering. But I feel like someone took a choice away from me anyway. It’s stupid.

Well, life on Anesidora would be his starting point. He could still go from there in a ton of different directions. Battlefield support like he’d always dreamed wasn’t off the table. It…seemed like a more extreme decision than it had before, though.

Alden had a lot more experience with being an Avowed dealing with a crisis now. It was so hard. He was terrified literally all the time that he was going to screw up. If Kibby died—his fault. If he died and she was left to suffer here alone—his fault.

The first time she’d abandoned him in the vault, he’d used the privacy to break down and sob until he almost couldn’t breathe. And only then had he gone to find her.

That didn’t seem like very adult behavior. Never mind superhero behavior.

Maybe I’m not cut out for this after all.

If he’d had training of some kind, would that have made a difference? If he’d had partners? A team? Would he have helped them the way he’d always envisioned or would he just lean on them?

He didn’t know anymore.

What he did know for sure was that weird, awful shit could happen to you as an Avowed. You could choose a peaceful life for yourself, and you’d probably get it unless everything Alden knew about living on the island was a conspiracy.

But maybe you wouldn’t. Maybe you’d randomly get summoned to a place like this.

Even if I’m not hero material, I still want to be able to survive.

So he would learn all the things he could learn in this situation. Language. His trait. His skill. Maybe even magic if Kibby had more of the kindergarten lessons.

How will I even know I’m gaining authority and leveling the skill if I don’t have the System?

Not sure. Try it anyway.

“What are you doing?” Kibby asked as Alden stood up from his seat and stretched.

He took off his string necklace and handed it to her. Familiar with the ritual, she handed it right back. His skill activated.

“Practicing,” he said. “Practicing my magic. And running for my health.”

“———?”

“Exercise,” he confirmed, assuming that was what it was. “Can I ask you for a gift, Kibby?”

She stared at him for a long time and then nodded.

It’s not that serious. I just don’t know how to say favor.

“Will you help me learn to talk better? When I say something bad, will you help me say it better? You’re smart, so you know what I want to say a lot. Give me help when I talk bad.”

“You want to say badly,” said Kibby promptly. “Or ———. Or ————.”

“Badly,” Alden repeated. Awesome. Adverbs. “Thank you.”

“Can I watch the exercise?”

“Yes, it’s not secret.”

“You don’t ———- ‘secret.’  ———- is better.”

“It’s not private?”

“That’s good,” she said seriously. “You sound less ———.”

“I’m happy,” said Alden, wondering what he sounded less of. “Thank you for teaching me.”

It was a start.
