Father Vytal shrugged. “I don’t know. That’s part of the problem. If He’s not a very powerful man living in the sun, I don’t know what He is and I don’t know how to describe Him.”

“But then, how do you know He’s real?” asked Temperance.

Father Vytal smiled. “I know because I have felt His presence when I pray. I look at the wonder around me, the beauty of creation, and I know it is His design.”

Sweep nodded absently, trying to process everything Father Vytal had said.

“Anyway,” said Father Vytal, “this is a conversation better suited to several days. We can’t have a proper discussion all in one night. Besides, Jack is just trying to frighten you with tales of skeptics because his scary stories about Governor Erin Kempenny weren’t working.”

Father Shane chuckled again. “Bah. Your godlessness and Kempenny’s witchery are nothing. The scary part is the potential of rebellion, or even secession.”

Father Vytal nodded sadly. “After a hundred years, do you really think Kempenny might try to secede?”

“I don’t know what she’s planning, but you know how bitter Erin was when Sean picked Maggie instead of her.”

A sudden piercing wail echoed through the trees, silencing the discussion. It was unlike any animal noise Sweep had heard. In fact, it sounded almost human, pitiful even, but with a growling undertone of malice.

“Speak of demons,” Father Shane whispered, his grip on the sword he’d been sharpening tightened.

“Father Shane, perhaps you want to put your armor on.”

Father Vytal phrased it as a suggestion, but it sounded like an order and Father Shane was quick to nod his agreement. He stood and began to shrug into the leather and metal clothes.

“Piety,” said Father Shane, “Come help me.”

Sweep hurried to the large cleric. The armor was designed so a person could put it on without help, but having help made it faster. Father Shane had insisted on teaching the girls how the straps and clasps went together, though Father Vytal had said apprentices didn’t need to know the trappings of war. Now Sweep was glad Father Shane had insisted.

As she buckled one of the straps on the breast plate, she considered Father Shane’s use of her name. Usually he called her “child” or more often “brat”. But Father Vytal had introduced her to Father Shane as Piety Churchstep, not Sweep. Father Shane didn’t know she had ever gone by any other name. In fact, nobody called her Sweep anymore, she hadn’t heard the name for months. Even so, she had trouble thinking of herself as anything.

“Piety, pay attention,” Father Shane barked in a whisper.

Sweep took hold of the strap he was pointing too, ducking her head in apology but not speaking. His whisper had cautioned her to be quiet. When she finished helping Father Shane into his armor, he drew a short sword and held it down at his side. The fire glinted off his red-lacquered armor, making him seem to shine with a holy light, which, Sweep supposed, was the point.

Father Vytal waved to her and Sweep approached. She felt his presence at her mind and responded, reaching out telepathically.

“There’s something out there,” he said quietly, “Do you feel it?”

Sweep stretched her mind and touched her mental shield, the gossamer glass casing that kept her safe. She let it drop and stretched her telepathic sense into the woods around her. She felt Temperance, scared but determined, she felt Father Vytal, wary but curious, and she felt Father Shane, ready and excited. She pushed her sense further, further than she and Father Vytal had ever attempted in practice, and it was like stretching a muscle long out of use, it hurt a bit, but it also felt good, it felt right.

“Careful,” Father Vytal cautioned, “It has a strong will. It might be telepathic.”

And then she felt it. It wasn’t an animal; she was able to identify animal minds—and, now she thought on it, those animal minds were still and frightened—but neither was it human. There was something base and ruthless about it that made it different. It was strong-willed, but not a telepath, at least, it didn’t have the same sense to it Father Vytal’s mind did. It was also keenly focused. Sweep concentrated on its focus, trying to determine what it wanted and suddenly she gave a sort of mental blink, and could sense what it could, knew its thoughts as though they were her own.

Her vision edged with red and she could change between seeing light, and seeing heat, like focusing and refocusing her eyes. She could smell the fear of the animals around her and could hear their heartbeats. She could hear the whispered conversation of her quarry. They searched for her. Hunger gnawed at her from within and sparked her hatred of the living. Some might become like her by the end. She hated that, hated creating competing predators. Of the four humans huddled next to the fire, the big one with the sword was the most dangerous. He’d have to die first, a quick lunge at the throat where that large vein pulsed…

Sweep gasped as she pulled herself out of the creature’s mind. “It’s hungry,” she said. “It’s hunting us. It’s going to kill Father Shane first.”

With a frustrated snarl, the creature burst from the trees around their small clearing, and hit Father Shane in the chest. Father Shane brought his sword to bear, but not fast enough. The large cleric staggered under the blow and landed on his back in a crash of armor and shouted oaths. The creature was human shaped, but impossibly thin. Its ribs showed clearly on its torso, its skin stretched taut across the bones. Father Shane wrestled with it, but it was fast and much stronger than its thin frame implied. Father Shane bled from wounds along his arms, face, and neck and the creature used its unnaturally long tongue to lap the blood.

Next to her, Sweep felt Father Vytal tense, both physically and mentally. In the next moment, he flexed and directed his mental energy at the creature as though it were a sword. The creature screamed and tumbled off Father Shane who lay still. The creature writhed, beating its fists against the grass. But its incapacitation didn’t last. It leapt to its feet with flexible grace and sprinted at Father Vytal.

Temperance screamed.

Father Vytal tensed again, but the creature was fast and Sweep wasn’t sure her mentor would be in time. Rapid as thought, she pictured her mindspace, seized her power, and lashed out with her telepathic energy just as Father Vytal did so as well. The creature jerked sideways, and tumbled to the ground where it fell and rolled about, keening high and loud. The stench of rotten flesh filled the air. Its body curled in on itself, its arms covering its face, its knees pulled up to its elbows as it lay on its side. It twitched once more, than the high-pitched keening faded and the night was still.

Father Shane shattered the silence with a heavy yell, as he plunged his two-handed great sword into the creature’s side, pinning it to the earth.

Sweep gasped and jumped away. She hadn’t realized Father Shane had gotten up.

“Just in case,” Father Shane said breathily.

The large cleric’s face was a bloody mess. One eye had been ripped out. Blood oozed from a large wound in his neck. The wounds were awful tears through skin and flesh. What had been the hard muscles of a well-trained warrior now looked like butchered meat. Blood from his various wounds dripped to spatter the grass. Sweep’s stomach clenched and she swallowed hard.

Father Shane breathed hard, but he was still breathing, and he needed help. Sweep opened herself to him, examining him with her healing power. His aura, a deep scarlet spiked with gold, pulsed faintly. He staggered a few steps and sat hard on the ground.

Father Vytal hurried to him and Sweep was at his side. She felt the senior cleric begin healing the wounds, and she reached to him mentally. “Wait. I was in the creature’s mind. I saw what it is. Its bite is venomous and if it doesn’t kill its victim, it transforms them into one of them.”

Father Vytal hesitated a blink, but then she felt his trust in her. “We’ll have to draw out the poison. We haven’t talked much about poisons yet, so follow my lead.”

Sweep nodded and smiled. Of course Father Vytal would turn even this dire situation into a lesson. Sweep watched as Father Vytal searched Father Shane’s body for the poison. It was easy to see the shadows over the warrior cleric’s aura. Then, carefully so as not to disrupt the blood flow, he drew the poison back to the wounds where it oozed from his body in thick, pitch-like rivulets. Nearly half an hour later, after careful work, Father Shane lay in his tent, sleeping soundly, his body free of poison, his wounds closed to angry red scars, and his belly full of a sleep-aiding tea Temperance had brewed.

Working together, Father Vytal and Sweep had managed to heal the worst of Father Shane’s wounds, but attacking the creature had taken much of Sweep’s strength, and drawing out the poison had been painstaking work that had drawn on most of Father Vytal’s strength, and they hadn’t healed Father Shane’s eye yet.

“It takes great precision and a lot of energy to regrow a lost organ or limb,” Father Vytal explained, as they rested next to the campfire. “And it has to be almost right away, or there’s no chance at all.”

“What happens if we try anyway?” Sweep persisted. “Losing an eye is pretty bad for a warrior, isn’t it? Couldn’t we at least try?”

Father Vytal sighed. “I understand you want to help him. But do you remember how you felt after you expended yourself on Catherine’s behalf?”

Sweep nodded. “I was fine after I rested for a few days.”

“You instinctively stopped before you might have seriously hurt yourself. When people with powers overexert themselves, the result can be painful, debilitating, even deadly.”

Temperance reached over and took hold of Sweep’s hand. Startled, Sweep looked at her friend. She hadn’t realized Temperance sat beside her. It was peculiar, Sweep thought, that no matter how much had changed over the past months, some things remained constant. Temperance had grown taller and more confident, had dedicated her time to studying the properties of medicine, but still sought to protect Sweep.

“What do you think, Temperance?”

“If you can help him, help him. But if you permanently damage yourself, how much is gained?”

“We’ve been practicing for months now,” Father Vytal added. “You should have a good idea of how much you’re capable of. Do you think you can regrow Jack’s eye without hurting yourself?”

Among the Sisters of Sacred Heart, such a question would have been designed to force a girl to admit ignorance, to admit she was wrong, but Father Vytal was truly asking for an answer and Sweep did not want to give one blithely. She slipped into her mindspace, the better to sense her power, and reached out with her healing sense to Father Shane.

“Show me how it would work,” she said to Father Vytal, “and I’ll see if I can do it.” Holding Temperance’s hand as she was, she made sure Temperance could hear the mental voice as well.

Sweep could feel Father Vytal’s resignation, understanding the only way he could stop her from trying would be to do so forcefully and Sweep knew he would not. So he guided her healing sense, as though taking her hand, and showed her how some specialized parts of a person’s body, things so small they couldn’t be seen, could be encouraged to take on the shape and function of any part of that person’s body. All they needed were guidance and energy.

“I think I can do it,” Sweep said. She stretched her power, a sort of mental muscle, and though it felt achey, like after a long day of extra chores, she had more yet to give. “Please, Father Vytal, let me try.”

Father Vytal sighed audibly, but mentally he said, “Take it slowly, be careful. If you feel yourself being stretched too far, stop. Using up all your strength will kill you. Do you understand?” He sounded exhausted.

“Yes, sir.”

“Piety, I’ll not be able to assist. I’m tapped out.”

“I understand, sir.”

Sweep immersed herself in Father Shane’s scarlet and gold aura, targeting an area deep within, searching for the substance that could regrow his eye. It responded to her touch, eager to be guided and she swam along the cleric’s aura to his eye. All around her, his other wounds, great crimson scars only half healed, called out like a bonfire at midnight, but she ignored them and instead focused on the now empty socket where his left eye had been.

“Grow,” she commanded. And though the substance of Father Shane’s body could not understand the word, her healing power echoed her will and encouraged the regrowth of the eye. It started slowly, a pale liquid flooding the orbit a drop at a time before a thin skin encompassed the liquid and began to fold and ripple in peculiar ways Sweep did not understand. But Sweep did not need to understand, she had instructed Father Shane’s body and now all she needed to do was provide it with healing energy to finish the job. And so she did. The folded sack of liquid filled skin took shape quickly after that, forming light receptors and a flexible lens and tiny muscles.

• • •

Sweep took a deep breath and blinked. The faint achiness had grown to an encompassing pain. She groaned and realized she lay upon her back, in a tent.

“Piety?” It was Temperance, but she spoke far too loudly. “Piety, are you all right?”

Sweep took deep, even breaths, but the pain did not abate. She tried to tell Temperance to be quieter, but she could not speak. She tried to put a hand on Temperance’s arm to tell her friend she was all right, but she could not move.

“Piety?”

Temperance’s voice stabbed pain through her head, starting at her left eye and streaking across to the right side of her jaw. Instinctively, she shied away, and stepped into her mindspace.

Here, the pain was muted, she could think clearly and the first thing she wanted to do was reassure Temperance. Carefully, she sat at the desk in her mindspace and summoned the bowl of water, but when she placed a fingertip upon the water’s surface, the stabbing pain shot through her head and she jerked her hand back. Her power was what ached. It was the pain of overuse, just as Father Vytal had warned. There was little she could do from the mindspace, she decided.

Before leaving, however, she examined the chessboard and moved a knight. The current game was the best she’d ever played and, though she wasn’t winning, it was close.

When she was back in her body, she opened her eyes to see that dawn had come. Temperance knelt over her and Father Vytal sat nearby. It was awfully cramped in such a small space.

“Piety?” Temperance whispered.

