Night’s stillness shrouded Riverton as they rode out of town. Sweep sat nervously on the saddle, the reins in her hands, for all the good they did. Temperance sat behind her, arms firmly around Sweep’s waist. Before them, Father Shane and Father Vytal rode with practiced ease. Steady the Donkey’s lead was attached to Father Shane’s saddle and his packsaddles were laden with supplies. He kept up his even pace without complaint.

Sweep and Temperance had looked at each other with uncertainty when presented with the riding animal, but Father Shane had simply lifted each girl onto the saddle. As Sweep had ended up in front, he’d handed her the reins, and off they went. Sitting astride the beast pushed her dress up to her knees, making her glad for the stockings Temperance insisted she wear.

They were mounted on horses of high quality, or so Father Shane had told them. He’d wanted Father Vytal to sell Steady and the cart, but Temperance had objected and Father Vytal had sided with her.

“We could use a pack donkey. Besides, I’ve grown fond of him.”

Father Shane gave a disgusted snort but didn’t push the issue.

Father Vytal sold the cart.

Father Shane wore a set of leather armor sewn with metal plates lacquered red. He also carried a variety of weapons including a large, two-handed sword, a heavy mace, two short swords and several daggers. As a Sword of the Church, an investigator, adjudicator, and warrior at the behest of the Church Council, he was well prepared for mayhem.

By the time Riverton lay well behind them, Sweep’s reservations about riding a horse were born out. The awkward, bouncy gait of the horse smacked the saddle into her backside over and over again, and her thighs were soon sore from gripping the horse’s body. They didn’t stop for lunch, but ate dried meat and crusty bread in the saddle. By the end of the first day, she was bruised and aching and Temperance complained of the same. That night, before bed, Sweep eased the pain of their saddle-sore muscles with a bit of healing power. It seemed like cheating, so they didn’t tell the Fathers.

• • •

The road south was well maintained and heavily traveled at first. The four of them stayed at inns some nights and slept under the stars others. Father Vytal stayed true to his promise, teaching his apprentices to recognize constellations and take their bearing from the stars, which lead to stories of the Twenty-seven Realms.

“Didn’t I promise to tell you about the Realms?”

Sweep and Temperance nodded. They sat on a fallen tree Father Shane had dragged into camp. Father Shane sat cross-legged in front of his tent, maintaining his weapons and armor, lending a strong scent of oil to the camp. He sharpened a short sword with a smooth, steady grace.

“The Twenty-seven Realms,” said Father Vytal, his voice taking on the resonant tone it often did when he spoke on such matters, “Were created when the trine-voice of God shattered the void. The Prime Realm, what we call Treyaria, is the Universe as we know it. It is the anchor of reality. The other twenty-six Realms orbit the Prime Realm as though it were the hub of an invisible wheel, and they, in turn, influence the Prime Realm. There are three categories of the other realms: foundational, civilized, and aetheric.

“The Foundational Realms – Body, Mind, and Soul – are in constant intersect with each other and the Prime Realm. They are the spark of life within the universe. Every living being of the Prime Realm is a unique balance of Body, Mind, and Soul. The Foundational Realms cannot be visited because they’re always intersecting with the Prime Realm. Said another way, visiting the Prime Realm is the same as visiting the Foundational Realms.

“The twenty-one Civilized Realms are home to all manner of denizens, each with its own set of rules for reality. They are as strange and varied as one might imagine. One of them Intersects with the Prime Realm every few years.

“The Aetheric Realms – Light and Dark – are dichotomous and complementary, each dependent upon the other. The Realm of Light is a place of energy and warmth and movement. The Realm of Dark is a place of quiet and coolness and peace. The balance of the Aetheric Realms creates the Twilight Intersect. They are outer orbiting, occasionally Intersecting with the Civilized Realms and rarely Intersecting with the Prime Realm.”

Father Vytal fell silent. The crackle of fire filled the void, punctuated by Father Shane’s careful sword-sharpening.

Eventually, Temperance cleared her throat and Father Vytal nodded at her. “What happens when one of these Realms… um… Intersects with us? With Treyaria?”

Father Vytal smiled. “The Foundational Realms constantly intersect and the Aetheric Realms Intersect so rarely there is no reliable record. But when the Civilized Realms Intersect, it has significant influence and sometimes gateways between the Realms open.”

“And the intersections are predicted by the stars?

“They are. In fact, a rare Intersect is predicted for couple years from now. The Intersect of the Aetheric Realms – Light and Dark – is expected to Intersect the Prime Realm. That the Twilight Intersect, and not the actual Realms of Light or Dark, is expected to Intersect… It will be something to behold.” He paused, blinked, and refocused his attention on Piety and Temprance. “Would you like to see it?”

“Bah!” Father Shane interrupted. “You’re filling their heads with superstition, Tristam.”

Father Vytal’s expression firmed and he looked at Father Shane. “You, who talks of demons as a cover for investigating treason, accuses me of superstition?”

Father Shane snorted. “Have you ever seen a so-called Intersection?”

Father Vytal nodded. “I have.”

Father Shane stopped sharpening his sword mid-stroke. “You have?”

Father Vytal allowed himself a small smiled. “Would you like to hear about it?”

Father Shane hesitated for several moments. The sounds of night creatures—insects chirping, birds fluttering—filled the silence.

“Bah!” Father Shane said again, and returned his attention to his sword.

“I’d like to hear about it,” said Temperance.

Father Vytal smiled and returned his gaze to his apprentices. “Truly, there is little to tell. It was about ten years ago in the lands to the west, at the edge of the great desert. There were five of us, all interested in the Realms, and we had calculated the time and place of Intersection of the Dream Realm based upon the stars and on old testimonies. We were right.

“I’d been having strange dreams for weeks, vivid dreams that woke me laughing and crying. We all had. And when it appeared, just before night fell on the desert, a great hole opened in the sky and it stretched like a bowl on its side until it just touched the ground. I don’t know what I saw, not precisely, it was a jumble of images. And on the other side stood a man with white skin and black eyes and he held a book in his hands. And he winked at me.”

“He winked?” demanded Father Shane. “You’re teasing us.”

“I’m not. The man winked at me. At all of us I suppose. And then Keith, the eldest, he walked toward the hole, and he stepped through. Next thing we know, we’re all waking up the next morning like none of it had happened.”

“Like it was a dream,” said Temperance.

“Precisely.”

• • •

Everyone helped with the chores of setting up and breaking camp. But on the third night, Father Shane noticed Sweep would have nothing to do with preparing meals.

“How come you don’t have to help cook, brat?” Father Shane growled.

“Because any time I do, the meal goes horribly wrong. Even if all I do is mix flour or peel potatoes.”

Father Shane gave her a steady look as he ground herbs in one of Father Vytal’s mortar and pestle sets. “Like a curse? That’s a cute way to get out of doing some chores. But it won’t work with me.”

Sweep shrugged. “I don’t care to get out of chores. I’ll clean all the dishes after dinner if you like. But I can’t help with the preparation.”

“Leave her be, Jack.” Father Vytal came to her rescue. “I don’t know what it is, but she’s right.”

“You’re too soft, Tristam. Make her stir the soup or something.”

“Jack—“

But Sweep interrupted. “It’s all right, Father Vytal. He won’t believe us until he sees it for himself. I’ll stir the soup.”

The soup was inedible. Sweep and Father Vytal spat it out after one taste of burnt ashes and far too much pepper. Temperance didn’t even bother to try it. “I know better,” she explained. But Father Shane claimed it wasn’t all that bad and he’d be damned if he let that much food go to waste. He ate the soup while the others stuck to hard bread and cheese.

“A bit… peppery, but not bad. You see?” He gave Sweep the full force of his certainty and patted his stomach. “No disaster.”

Sweep was woken from her sleep a few hours later by a horrible groaning. Concerned she exited the tent she shared with Temperance, wrapping a blanket around her shoulders to ward off night’s chill. She found Father Vytal standing several strides away from camp, and beyond was a hulking shadow bent double. The groaning came from the shadow.

“We tried to warn you, old friend.”

Father Shane waved one hand weakly, his arm a shadow in the night. “Don’t.”

“I could heal…” Father Vytal’s offer was interrupted by a horrible retching.

When he was done, Father Shane spat twice then took a deep breath. “Your brat poisoned me, Tristam.”

“I’m beginning to think she really is cursed. You’ll remember none of us ate the soup. You insisted.”

“Enough Tristam. I’m being punished enough, I don’t need you…”

Father Shane stopped and took several deep breaths, but it didn’t help. Sweep slipped back into the tent before the retching continued.

Temperance was awake and sitting up when Sweep entered.

“What happened?”

“I think Father Shane believes us now.”

• • •

After several days’ travel, they saw fewer merchants and farmers and travelers, and after a full week, they had the road to themselves.

Still a day’s travel from Sunslance, by Father Shane’s reckoning, they made camp well off the road in a small glen that already had a fire pit. They set camp and attended chores. As evening settled, Sweep altered one of Temperance’s dresses. Temperance examined a flower Father Vytal had asked her to evaluate. Father Shane used the firelight to maintain his weapons and armor, which seemed to be his default state.

“We’re in Kempenny Province now,” Father Shane said, looking up from his short sword. “Have you girls heard the stories about Governor Kempenny?”

Sweep shook her head absently, concentrating on her work.

Temperance said, “No, sir, except for what you’ve said. The Governor is a witch?”

Father Shane chuckled. “It’s cute how they keep calling us ‘sir.’ I didn’t think you were one for formality, Tristam.”

“I’m not,” Father Vytal replied. “They were brought up strictly and consider it proper address.”

Father Shane laughed again. “Anyway, the Governor Kempenny. Like you said, she’s a witch. She commands black magic. Or so I’ve heard it said.”

“Magic is a tool, Jack,” Father Vytal replied. “Just as the Realm of Light is not good and the Realm of Dark is not evil, neither is magic.”

“Well,” conceded Father Shane, “You are the resident expert in powers and magic and whatnot. But even so, there are strange stories coming out of Kempenny Province lately. More than just this demon nonsense.”

“So,” said Sweep absently, “You admit demons don’t exist.” She knotted her thread and cut off the excess with a small pair of scissors.

“What?” Father Shane looked at her, frowning, brows drawn.

“Back in Riverton, you argued with Father Vytal about the existence of demons, and now you’re admitting it’s nonsense.”

“Brat, you’re having a conversation that ended weeks ago.”

Sweep shrugged but smiled. She was beginning to understand Father Shane; he liked to argue about anything and everything and from any point of view. He’d argue about the color of the sky if he thought he’d get some fun out of it.

“Humph. As I was saying, rumors have it that Governor Kempenny is a witch. They say she sneaks into nurseries and steals babies, that she makes cow’s milk go sour and chickens refuse to lay eggs.”

Sweep watched Father Vytal take the bait. “Are we to blame her now for too much rain or too little? These are the same complaints laid at the feet of outsiders by every group of xenophobic, superstitious folk I’ve met all over Khulanty and beyond. Erin’s feud with the Royals is well known. She’s the outsider, so the superstitious make up stories about her. They’re old stories with a new skin. You’re making Kempenny Province sound like something out of a campfire story,” Father Vytal admonished.

Father Shane grinned at Father Vytal like he was about to do something mischievous. “You’re such a skeptic,” he admonished. “I suppose you’ve told your apprentices about how you don’t believe in God? Have you converted them into atheists yet?”

Sweep looked up from her sewing, accidently sticking herself with the needle. Instinctively, she reached for her power and the small wound closed.

“What?” Temperance demanded.

Father Vytal sighed and glared at Father Shane. “You are a rabble rouser, you know that, Jack?”

Father Shane smiled behind his scraggly beard. “I do.”

Father Vytal shook his head then addressed his apprentices, who looked at him, eyes wide and jaws slack. “If you will recall our discussions of the Scriptures, I have constantly questioned the easy interpretations. I have insisted that the message of the Scriptures is complex and requires much thought to fully understand, have I not?”

Both girls nodded and Sweep felt her initial panic at Father Shane’s accusation wane. Again, the broad cleric was playing a game, trying to stir up a bit of fun.

“When I was much younger and bolder,” Father Vytal continued, “I posited that God, as we talk about Him, does not exist. I wrote a paper wherein I argued that God was not some grey-bearded old man living in the sun as though the sun were some kind of manor house.”

“You’ve got a grey beard, Tristam,” Father Shane interrupted.

Father Vytal shot his compatriot a scathing glance. “Quiet, you.”

Father Shane chuckled merrily, as though he’d won some contest.

“Instead, I suggested God could not be defined in terms of humans and mortals.”

Sweep looked at Father Shane who winked at her. She looked back at Father Vytal. “Then what is God?”

