Overhead, the carved wooden roof of my pristine bedroom takes shape and defines the limits of my Domain, a sight which only I can see. The pressure eases and I breathe freely once again as the world stands helpless to obstruct me, for now I am the calm, and I am the storm. Pushing myself to my feet, I take a moment to study my Domain, modelled after the Natal Palace I thought forever lost. Though only the ceiling remains, it is as detailed and intricate as I remember, though it curves and deforms against an unseen obstruction around Not-Gen, which I understand to be his Domain pressed against mine. Domain against Domain, much like Aura against Aura, and I instinctively move to Hone my Domain and shred his to pieces. Not-Gen’s eyes widen in surprise, then fear as his paltry Domain threatens to crumble beneath my assault. “Truly a heretic,” he snarls, retreating from the pressure, his face twisted in sheer rage and disbelief. “Standing in utter defiance of Heaven. A curiosity, but one which cannot be left to grow. Die, Devourer.”

A pillar of fire erupts from my feet and all I know is pain and light. Opening my mouth to scream, even this is denied me as the heat sucks the air from my lungs and leaves me to suffer in silence. My clothes melt and skin cracks as the fire devours and destroys, then all sensation is lost as even my nerves are rendered unto nothing.

Water.

I need Water.

This is the last thought in my mind as the world fades to blissful darkness.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No.

This is not how it ends.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The storm clouds cast a dark pall over Sinuji as Falling Rain knelt battered and defeated before the Enemy Emissary Gen. The world seemed prepared to mourn the loss of the Mother’s Chosen son, but Falling Rain was not yet ready to go quietly into Her warm embrace. Even with his Spiritual Weapons broken and Core shattered, our unfaltering hero laughed at his foe, his actions clear as day despite the Enemy’s attempt to muffle and isolate him from his allies. Raising his head to the Heavens in open contempt of the Enemy, Falling Rain’s actions lifted the spirits of all who witnessed it, a valiant warrior laughing in the face of death. Taking things one step further, Falling Rain struggled to his feet and the half-Demon Gen scurried away, his fear evident as he came face to face with the Mother’s Chosen Son, a warrior short of stature, but one who towered above all others.

Still, this did not seem like enough to save our young hero from death. Even the likes of the Tyrant OuYang Yuhuan, Lord of Thunder Lei Gong, and Eccentric Gam couldn’t break through the dozens of Demons arranged against them, some newly formed during the Enemy’s blood-fuelled sacrifice of their tribal comrades, while others emerged from the ground or materialized from shadow once the Enemy’s dastardly schemes were revealed. Formidable creatures of death and destruction, they worked in concert with imposing Defiled Peak Experts clad in Runic armour to thwart all efforts to rescue Falling Rain, causing grievous injuries to the above Experts and the numerous nameless Bekhai guardians sent to guard him in secret. Alas, the resistance was too staunch and these great heroes were too late, and all hope was lost as flames engulfed our young hero, a blazing conflagration from which nothing short of the Mother’s Divine Intervention could save him.

So intervene, She did.

The inferno burst apart in an explosion of steam and smoke, and the blackened form of Falling Rain emerged from the obscuring clouds. Ensconced in a sphere of streaming water, it flowed about him in a protective field to guard against further attack, but little remained of our valiant young hero aside from charred tissue and scorched bone. The sight elicited bewildered gasps and heart-rending screams from all who saw his horrific plight, but true to his title of the Undying, Falling Rain’s grievous injuries gave way to healthy flesh as he regenerated before our eyes, Healing himself from the brink of death as only a Student of the Medical Saint could. A testament to his fortitude, Falling Rain refused to cower behind his defences or flee for safety, though none would blame him if he did, for he had only just survived by the slimmest of margins. Bearing grisly wounds which would have incapacitated even the greatest of Warriors, Falling Rain raised his shrivelled, burnt arm and hurled a lance of piercing water at the Emissary, and the two fated foes joined battle in earnest.

Clouds of smoke and flashes of light veiled their duel in shadow, the Mother and Father clashing through their chosen instruments, but it was not a battle fated to last long. Overhead, the shriek of metal and air drew all eyes towards it as a shooting star descended from the Heavens and slew a powerful Demon, one who only moments before stood ready to dispatch a fallen Bekhai Expert. Only then did we realize reinforcements had arrived, ten-thousand strong riding to Sinuji’s rescue on quin-back. Many have heard the idiom, ‘A tiger father begets a tiger son’, but the same rings true for a dragon mother, for it was Mountain Rose Sarnai’s spear which slew the Demon before returning to her hand, only to be cast out once again. One throw, one kill as she rode to her son’s aid, slaughtering Demons from a thousand paces despite still recovering from heavy injuries suffered in defence of the Empire.

Not to be outdone, the Bloody-Fanged Wolf dropped from the skies and landed with a crash, his hair-raising howl of fury chilling the blood of friend and foe alike. Unstoppable in his rage, Demons fell like cabbages before Major General Baatar’s Bloody Fang and Crescent Moon, wielding sword and pole-axe with consummate skill as he braved fire and Ichor without flinching to save his beloved son. Joined by other Peak Experts of the Bekhai and Empire, they fought their way through the pack of Demons and Defiled to reach Falling Rain’s side and sent the Enemy fleeing before Imperial Might. Mere moments after their hasty retreat, the storm-clouds burst overhead and unleashed a deluge of rainfall to celebrate the safe rescue of their young namesake.

And thus, the Mother’s Chosen son survived to fight another day, broken, but undefeated.

-An excerpt from ‘The Storm over Sinuji, a saga of Falling Rain’, as written by Han BoShui

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Blinking the darkness out of my eyes, I’m treated to the sight of my beloved family, all hovering about with smiles and tears a plenty. Kissing my left hand, Yan nuzzles it against her cheek while Mom squeezes my other hand tight, smoothing the scratchy blankets over my chest. Alsantset and Charok stand behind her, holding each other close in visible relief, my older sister unable to decide if she should hug or hit me while Charok beams with pride. Arms interlocked with Song, Mila and Lin’s beautiful smiles sandwich the lovely cat-girl’s scowl, while Taduk rests his chin next to my pillow and sighs in relief, his joy warring with exhaustion from keeping me alive. Kneeling beside him, Dad strokes my hair ever so gently while wearing the biggest smile I’ve ever seen on his stony expression. “Good,” he says, nodding in heartfelt approval. “You survived. Good.”

Wracking my brain for memories, I draw a complete blank after being engulfed in fire and ask my family to fill me in. Upon hearing their tales of how they fought off an army of Demons and my awesome, water-wielding prowess, I try to summon Heavenly Energy to do my bidding only to draw hellish torment and suffering upon me. Once my screaming and flailing dies down, Taduk pats my cheek and soothes my pain with his Healing touch. “Don’t try to use Chi, Rain my boy. Your Weapons are broken and Core shattered, so leave it be. You wouldn’t try to walk with two broken legs, or lift anything with two broken arms, yes?”

Swallowing my pain, I gasp, “Then how did I...? Will I...” Silence falls over the tent and no answer is forthcoming, because they don’t know either. The pity and sorrow hurts almost as much as trying to use Chi, so I clear my throat and try to lighten the mood. “Well, I may be a cripple, but at least I’m a rich cripple.” No one laughs and Mom breaks the awkward silence by insisting I drink some water. Agonizing as it is to sit up, it’s not so bad once the moving is done with and the room stops spinning. With Dad propping me up, I drink deep from the cup and realize how thirsty I really am, draining two more cups before Mom tells me to take it easy and rest. Leaning against Dad’s shoulder instead of lying back down, I change the subject and ask, “How did you all get here so quickly?” We were expecting reinforcements, but Dad should’ve been stationed five days march away and we only learned about the Defiled army three days ago. Even if he set out the minute he got the message, there’s no way he could’ve made it here so soon.

Blinking in muted surprise, Dad tilts his head and his wolf ears flop to one side. “We left as soon as we received word.” After a moment of shared confusion, understanding dawns and he laughs, a cheerful sound I don’t often hear. “What I mean to say is, we left as soon as we received word from you.” Reaching into his pouch, Dad unfurls a letter for me to read, the letter I wrote upon returning to Sinuji a week ago, telling them how I made Gulong remove his own tongue and asking for advice, as per Hongji’s suggestion. “Luckily for us, Tursinai wasted no time delivering it, else I fear we might not have made it in time.”

Going by the time line, Dad isn’t exaggerating when he says he left right away. “...Wait. You rode out with an army because I said I was worried the Society might act against me? Not that I’m complaining, but it seems a bit much, no?”

Rolling his eyes, Baatar scoffs. “I wanted to empty the citadel of cavalry and rush to your aid, but Nian Zu would not allow it, because he does not know you like I do.” Reaching out to stroke my hair again, he chuckles and adds, “You are stubborn and intractable, and you never ask for help, so when I read your letter, I knew the situation must be dire indeed.”

Smiling so wide my cheeks hurt, I happily accept the pain and sink into Dad’s chest, knowing I’m safe with my family here to protect me. This is where I belong, wherever I have loved ones to be with. I’m crippled, but alive, which beats the hell out of dead and whole, and it’s not like I’m utterly without hope. There’s at least one person who broke a Spiritual Weapon and went on to become a Peak Expert, so even if I never reach those staggering heights, there’s a good chance I make it out of this whole. Besides, I totally remember forming a Domain, and while I’m not entirely sure how it works without a Core, Natal Palace, or Aura, I’ll figure it out with some help. Plus, there’s all the stuff I did while I was unconscious, namely forming Water Shields and Water Spears while keeping myself alive while burnt to the bone, so I’m probably still secretly awesome somehow.

It took seven and half years to get where I am, so if I have to do it all again, it’ll probably only take half as long, if not less. And I’ll have bear hands too, soon as I figure out how to quasi-demonize... Hell, by this time next year, I bet I’ll be back on the front lines fighting again.

...

Maybe I shouldn’t be in such a big rush to recover and take some time for myself. I deserve a little R&R, and it’s not like the Empire won’t survive without me.

...

Fuck it. Even if the Empire doesn’t survive, I don’t give a shit. So long as my family makes it out okay, then the Empire can go to hell.

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme 2

- End of Volume 25 -
