“You're not asking for much, are you?” He asked and shook his head. “I don't know about the others, but I can't do it on an empty stomach.”

Ren took out a Health potion and walked over to the pots, and took out the ladder again. He climbed up and poured half of the potion into one pot, and half into the other.

“The stew is almost done. Once you get a bowl of it in you, you're going to feel fantastic.” Ren said, and stored the ladder. “You've got 2 picks and 4 shovels. I'm sure there's a few people who will want to have some kind of protection around the place.”

“I know I do.” One of the male giants said, then one of the women said she'd help.

“Get something to eat first.” Ren said. “You're no good to anyone while you're hungry.”

“I hear that!” The same giant said and picked up a bowl and spoon from the crate of mixed items.

Ren turned to Laurelia. “It's lunchtime, so I should be back in about 5 hours. You're in charge until I get back.”

“I'm wh-wh-what?!?”

Ren chuckled. “Make sure everyone gets at least one bowl of stew, and that there's enough tents for everyone. I'll bring more when I come back.”

“You're leaving me in charge.” Laurelia said. “Me.” She shook her head. “You're crazy.”

“Not an insult.” Ren laughed. “See you later.”

“Goodbye.” Laurelia said, and Ren ran over to Princess.

“Having fun?” He asked her, and scratched her chin.

Bored...

“Well, I need a really fast ride back to Nathalia.” Ren said. “I wonder where I could get one?”

Not nice to tease...

Ren smiled and pat her neck. “I've kept you idle for too long.” He said. “May I?”

You may...

Ren climbed up on her back and looked at the two dogs. “Try and keep up!”

Riley and Stacy barked at him, and he could feel the challenge was accepted as Teepo landed on his shoulder.

“Let's go!” Ren said.

Princess took off like a shot, with the dogs close behind, and Teepo chittered in delight. They had barely started to get a good pace going, and had to slow down because they were already at the Garrison. Ren waved to the Warriors on the top, and the gate opened for him. Princess sauntered through with the dogs at her sides, and came to a stop at the next gate.

“I think I might have to make it standing orders to open the gates all the way through when I'm around.” Ren said.

“It already is, sir.” The Warrior said and opened the next gate.

Ren saw it was clear all the way through, and Teepo chittered in laughter.

“You'll still have to stop at the other end.” The Warrior said.

“Understood.” Ren said and nodded to the Warrior, who's eyes widened at the Honor gain. Princess took off and a few minutes later, slowed down at the front gate. It opened, and they passed through and Princess kept running. It only took a few minutes to get to Dornrach, then back to House Neram Keep.

“Home, sweet home.” Ren said, and climbed down from the saddle, and led Princess into the courtyard and then to the stable. The dogs came in right behind her, and she huffed at them. “I think she wants you to run the track with her.” Ren said, and smiled as he felt their acceptance. He pat Princess on the neck, left her some more food, and went to the house.

“Nathalia?”

“In the kitchen.”

Ren went through the main room and looked into the kitchen. He saw that Nathalia had her back to him and was wearing an apron and a pair of underwear. That was it. Her breasts hung partially out the side of the apron, and the fabric wasn't thick enough to hide everything.

“I'd ask you what you're doing, but I can clearly see that you're tempting me with your delights.” Ren said as he stood in the doorway.

“You don't know the half of it.” Nathalia said, stepped away from the counter she had been in front of, and grinned at Ren's shocked expression.

“Bacon!” Ren exclaimed. “Where in the... no, don't tell me!” He said and held a hand up. “Let me fantasize about you hunting in a fur bikini, and spearing a boar for me.”

“A fur what?” Nathalia asked as she laughed.

“It's just a bra and underwear, made with thin colorful cloth.” Ren said as he came over to the counter. “Have I told you how much I love you?”

“Not tod-” Nathalia started to say, then stared at Ren as he picked up a piece of bacon and kissed it.

“I love you!” He said, and kissed it again.

“REN!”

Ren started to laugh, ate the piece of bacon, and looked at Nathalia. “Yes, My Love?”

“I...” Nathalia put her fists on her hips, and her large breasts slid a little further out the sides of the apron; which exposed a bit of the tips. “That wasn't funny.”

“It was the only way I could think of to stop myself from tearing off what little clothing you have on, and making love to you right here, right now.”

Nathalia blinked her eyes at him, then she smiled coyly. “What if that's what... mwh!”

Ren kissed her, and then did exactly what he said he was going to do. Over the next two hours, they christened the floor, the table, two of the chairs, ate some bacon, then christened the counter and the floor again. When they were done, Nathalia was exhausted and Ren was a little winded.

“By the gods...” Nathalia said, and looked at him as they lay on the floor. “Was it the bacon?”

Ren laughed, and kissed her. “Let me put it this way.” He said. “I'd never seen anything sexier than you standing there with your back to me, with the space between your legs, and your breasts hanging out the sides.” He closed his eyes and sighed. “I tried to distract myself, then you had to turn around and put your hands on your hips.” He opened his eyes and looked at her. “That little peek drove me crazy.”

Nathalia blushed at the intensity in Ren's eyes, then she remembered the House Neram pendant.

“If it was the bacon, I'd have eaten it all before starting on you.” Ren said, then felt Nathalia's Aura merge with his.

“It... it really was all me.” Nathalia said in wonder, as she felt Ren's feelings. They were just as intense as the look he was giving her.

“It's always all you.” Ren said.

Nathalia's heart leaped, and she kissed him passionately.
