“Daphne, I know I’m not always the most… forthcoming. And I’ll acknowledge that I should’ve told you about the Empire. I’ve been so busy lately that it slipped my mind.”

Yeah, she’d heard that one before. Her uncle continued.

“But I promise you that I would never think such a horrid thing. And I’d appreciate it if you didn’t think so lowly of me.”

Daphne squinted at the man, assessing his expression. He seemed earnest enough, but he also earnestly believed keeping important information from her was “for her own good,” so that didn’t say much on its own.

“Let me attend meetings,” she said. Her uncle’s eyes widened a little, but she kept going before he could interrupt her. “Let me attend meetings, and maybe I’ll believe you. I’m still technically the heir, you know, and I expect to be treated like it until—until I’m not.”

She stood firm, waiting for her uncle’s response while preparing herself for an argument. Her eyes gleamed in the light trailing into the office, and her face was set in a stubborn expression that everyone in the Bellhein manor knew too well. It was probably because of this that after a few moments had passed, Lord Bellhein heaved a deep sigh.

“I… suppose you’re right.” He sounded reluctant, but both of them knew that she’d just spy on the meetings anyway. You couldn’t stop Daphne once she really set her mind on something. “So long as you promise to stop thinking the worst of me at every opportunity.”

“Promise to spend more time with Edmund too, and it’s a deal.”

The noble opened his mouth to argue, probably about to bring up his busy schedule again, but Daphne cut him off.

“He’s your son. He idolizes you.” God knew why. “The least you could do is actually acknowledge him beyond throwing more errands at him.”

Some unreadable emotion flickered between Lord Bellhein’s eyes, too quick for Daphne to parse, but he slowly nodded. It was probably the best she was going to get from the man—at least for now. Satisfied, she directed her attention to the stack of papers on the desk.

“What’re you reading?”

“It’s none—” Her uncle stopped at a sharp glare from Daphne and cleared his throat. “They’re the final qualification scores and examiner notes from the garrison.”

Daphne stepped closer, and she could recognize the pages from what she’d seen the previous day. The whole “siphoning talent away from the garrison to placate your own paranoia” issue was a whole separate conversation, but seeing as she’d actually gotten her uncle to agree to let her into meetings, she decided to leave it for another day.

“Anyone interesting?”

The furrow in the man’s brow returned. “It’s a rather ragtag group,” he muttered, eyes scanning the pages. “There’s a few promising ones, some nobles, cadets from families with military backgrounds. Most, however, are unremarkable or worse. One of the recruits worked as a leveling aid in Galen.” He shook his head. “It seems like the garrison is desperate for anyone these days.”

Of course they were, Daphne thought. That was what happened when you were fighting against the most powerful country on the continent.

“What about 84?” she asked.

Lord Bellhein frowned and grabbed another paper from the stack. “She was accepted into the garrison, though I still think it’s a risky move. Her background is… curious.”

Daphne squinted down at the page. 84’s name was Pyre, she saw, which was a pretty weird name on its own. Her eyebrows rose when she kept reading. A mercenary from Drovna, it said, and not just any part—specifically the Shard Mountains. That explained the ichor-poisoning. The ichor concentration was extremely dense up north.

“I like her,” Daphne said. “She seemed cool.”

“I don’t know if cool is the word I would use.”

Daphne narrowed her eyes. “Yeah? Well, it looks like she scored the highest on all the tests. She seems like a pretty good recruit to me.”

Lord Bellhein gave the paper another long look.

“We’ll see,” he finally said.
