She should probably be more mad that she’d essentially lost the chance to use magic, but on the contrary, Pyre didn’t feel particularly upset about it at all. Maybe it was because she hadn’t been all that interested in magic to begin with and was just selecting [Mana Core] to avoid seriously fucking up her future options, and this gave her an excuse to not use magic without feeling like an idiot. Maybe it was that the whole mystery surrounding her past life and that “blockage” had suddenly gotten so much more interesting. There was clearly something going on here, something more.

It occurred to her that the system was probably waiting for a response, so she directed her attention back to that ever-so-polite voice. She hummed internally as she considered what to do. The ends of her body curled up in mimicry of a grin.

Hey, since I can’t get my first choice, how about you let me pick two traits?

The voice sputtered.

That would be extremely unorthodox. We do not typica—

Come on, throw me a bone why don’t you? This is a pretty big deal. I could seriously be shooting myself in the foot here without magic, you know.

The voice paused, and Pyre could hear the hesitation in its next words. They were noticeably less practiced than usual.

Well… it is true that you have exceptionally unique circumstances…

Pyre waited patiently. A few more moments of silence passed, though she suspected there was more going on behind the scenes. Finally, she heard the voice sigh before it spoke again, its former formality returned.

As an apology for the error with [Mana Core], you may select two traits from the current selection.

[Ossification] and [Sound Perception]. Pyre didn’t even have to think about it. There was another pause, then she felt two waves of warmth pass through her, one after the other. After the last wave had faded, she smiled internally. If she had a head, she would’ve cocked it in amusement.

You know, for an all-encompassing magical voice with god powers or whatever, you’re kind of a pushover. She’d thought she’d have to do a whole lot more convincing.

The system steadfastly ignored her.

We will resume contact if we discover any new information regarding the blockage. Until then, we apologize again, and we wish you a fruitful reincarnation.

With that, the voice fizzled out, leaving just Pyre, the other flesh lumps, her two new traits, and the knowledge of everything that had just transpired.

Well, she thought, this was certainly shaping up to be an interesting second life. And she hadn’t even escaped the flesh pit yet. Pyre’s eyes tilted upwards towards that distant, thin speck of light from above. With the latest revelations, she felt a greater curiosity about the surface than ever before.

Soon, she thought. Soon.
