It was something that Erin had noticed. Whenever Ryoka didn’t want to say something or talk with someone, her face would become very closed off and she’d change her posture to be more withdrawn. She was doing that now, even though the woman was acting really nice.
“I’m sorry. I don’t recall. Please excuse us; we were just looking in.”
“Oh. I see. But if you’d like to stay, we have food hot and ready.”
“That sounds good to me!”
Erin smiled at the woman. Agnes smiled back.
“Oh, and who are you?”
“My name’s Erin. Please to meet—”
“One second, please, Miss Agnes.”
Ryoka dragged Erin away before she could introduce herself. Erin glared; Ryoka was being rude, but Ryoka herself looked annoyed.
“We’re not staying here, Erin. We can afford a much better inn.”
“What? But she’s nice. And this place doesn’t look so bad—”
“I’ve seen good inns, and this isn’t one of them. The food smells burnt, there’s an obnoxious group over there, and the inn’s not crowded despite it being dinnertime. There are better places to be if we’ve got money. Let’s find one.”
She had a point, but Erin was reluctant to concede. Ryoka walked back to Agnes, whose smile had slipped slightly. She had a resigned look in her eyes before Ryoka even spoke.
“I’m sorry Miss Agnes, but we really have to be going.”
“I understand. But if you ever want to stop by…”
The older woman looked crestfallen and slightly hurt. That made up Erin’s mind.
“Nah, let’s stay.”
She interrupted Ryoka. The other girl turned and glared silently at her, but Erin ignored the look. She smiled at Agnes, who gave her a more genuine smile of surprise in return.
“I’d love to have whatever you’ve got. And we’d like to stay the night, wouldn’t we, Ryoka?”
The other girl looked exasperated, but gave up.
“I suppose we will. A table for two, Miss Agnes. Away from those two, please.”
She nodded at the adventurers who were spilling a lot of their drink on the floor in proper quaffing style. Agnes beamed and led the two girls to a table at the other side of the room, talking excitedly with Erin.
“Oh thank you. You know, it’s been hard since my poor husband fell ill. He’s been abed these last two weeks with a terrible fever, and I’m trying to keep the place running, but I just don’t have his levels, I really don’t. I was a [Tailor] by trade before I became an [Innkeeper] with him…”
“Really? That’s so odd. You know I’m an [Innkeeper] myself, Agnes.”
“Someone as young as you? Bless my heart, that’s quite an achievement! No wonder you’re friends with Miss Griffin, Miss Erin was it?”
“Please, call me Erin. Yeah, I have this inn near Liscor, but I’m uh, travelling abroad for a bit…”
By the time Erin had sat down with Ryoka and they’d ordered some beef with potatoes, the meal of the day, she’d become entirely invested in Agnes’ struggle.  She’d even met the two barmaids, Maran and Safry, and they’d both been cheerful and welcoming, if tired. Agnes had chatted happily with Erin before going back into the kitchen to cook, a scene so familiar to Erin that she felt a strong bond with the woman.
Ryoka sat with her arms folded, a scowl on her face. She had refused to take part in any of the conversations. Now she was waiting for their food, clearly annoyed that Erin had chosen this inn to stay in.
“Aw, come on Ryoka. Agnes is nice! Don’t you think so?”
“She’s fine.”
That was her problem. Ryoka got grumpy if she didn’t get her way. Erin was determined to remain upbeat, though.
“Agnes said she knew you when you just got here, Ryoka. You really don’t remember her?”
Ryoka shrugged, looking uncomfortable.
“She’s an [Innkeeper], Erin. No offense, but I sleep in a lot of inns in my job.”
“You remember me, though.”
“You kind of stand out, Erin. This place…”
Ryoka let her voice trail off. She shrugged, looking darkly resigned.
“Let’s just eat. We can talk over dinner.”
“Ooh! I think I see the food.”
Erin turned in her seat and smiled as Safry came out of the kitchen, balancing two plates and two drinks – boiled water and milk in her hands. Ryoka sighed.
“Don’t get your hopes up. Food around here isn’t always as good as your inn.”
“You’re so pessimistic, Ryoka! Come on, how bad could it be?”
“Tell me you didn’t just say that.”
 
—-
 
It was entirely the meal Ryoka had expected, and clearly, not the one Erin had envisioned. She saw Erin’s face visibly react to the slightly charred meat and lackluster potatoes as Safry put them in front of them. Ryoka took a fork and poked at her meat, wondering if she’d even be able to get the fatty bit down or whether she should just order another plate and choose the best parts between the two of them.
Safry apologized to Erin as she put the drinks down. She was already friendly with Erin, something Ryoka couldn’t believe.
“Sorry. Agnes ain’t got a Skill. You sure you don’t want anything stronger to drink? Helps wash it all down.”
“No, it’s fine. Thanks Safry!”
Erin smiled at the other young woman, and then went back to looking at her plate. Ryoka sighed.
“See what I mean?”
“It could be good!”
Erin tried to be optimistic as she speared a bit of meat and put it in her mouth. Ryoka watched as Erin chewed, tried to swallow, and was forced to chew more. Her face fell.
“Aw.”
There was way too much gristle in their meat. Ryoka was picking at her potatoes with her fork; they could have used more boiling and they were bland as, well, bad potatoes.
“Looks like the husband had all the cooking talent in the marriage. That, or this inn makes most of its money serving alcohol.”
“Ryoka! Don’t be rude!”
Erin swallowed her bite with some effort. She looked visibly disappointed, but she tried to eat another bite of potato.
“Okay, this isn’t good…but maybe Agnes just doesn’t know any recipes?”
“More like she’s probably never had to really practice until now.”
Ryoka sighed. She’d begun to understand the advantages of levels, as well as the drawbacks they created.
“Her husband—I guess he had the cooking Skills. Agnes doesn’t, and so she never bothered to learn how to cook that well since she didn’t have to with him around. After all, what’s the point? Someone with [Basic Cooking] can do all of what’s needed, which means that unless you live in a Gnoll tribe where the work gets passed around, you probably don’t learn a lot of skills unless that’s your job.”
Ryoka took a bite of her potato and grimaced.
“Or maybe it’s just her. We can still find another inn, Erin.”
“No, we’re staying here. Agnes is nice.”
Erin was wearing her mule-like expression. Ryoka hated that look; it meant Erin was determined to do things her way. She sighed and chewed the potato and washed it down with water. Food was food, after all.
Why was she so upset, anyways? It was just one meal. After all that had happened today, she could take a terrible meal and a lumpy bed. It was just—Ryoka had gotten spoiled from Erin’s cooking, that was all.
The two endured two more mouthfuls of food before Erin put down her fork, looking distressed.
“This is really no good.”
“I told you. We can leave—”
“No, I said we’re staying. But I’m going to have a word with Agnes.”
“What? Erin. You can’t just—”
Too late. Erin was already up and walking into the kitchen. Ryoka ground her teeth. If Erin caused more trouble, she’d…she’d…
Do what, exactly? Ryoka’s memories kicked her and showed her an image of her challenging a Dragon to a game of riddles. Compared to that, what was getting tossed out of an inn by an angry [Innkeeper]?
Erin was gone for quite some time, and Ryoka was idly wondering if she could pull out Teriarch’s book of spells and read it under the table, somehow. Given that it was practically the size of the table, she doubted she could make it work. The adventurers were still laughing and getting on her nerves across the room, and she was just about to order some alcohol and get stinking drunk to put an end to her miseries until tomorrow when someone called her name.
“Ryoka? Is that you?”
A familiar voice caused Ryoka to jerk up in her seat. She looked towards the entrance, and there in the doorway stood a familiar giant young woman.
“Garia?”
Garia Strongheart strode into the inn with a huge smile on her face.
“Ryoka!”
It had been a long time, or Ryoka would have remembered to watch out for Garia’s crushing strength. The hug the shorter girl gave Ryoka made her bones creak, but Ryoka didn’t care. She was even moved to smile at Garia as the other girl took a seat with her.
“Garia, it’s been a long time. How have you been?”
“Oh, you know. I’ve been running deliveries; nothing special. But you—I haven’t seen you in weeks, Ryoka! I didn’t even know you were in the city—no one in the Runner’s Guild mentioned seeing you. What happened? Were you on some kind of really special delivery? I thought you were just going down to Liscor for a while!”
Ryoka realized with a pang that she hadn’t told Garia about what she was going to do. She shook her head.
“It’s a long story. I’m not doing any deliveries at the moment; I’m actually with a friend.”
“A friend? You?”
Garia’s open face was a bit too shocked for Ryoka’s comfort, but she sat and Ryoka flagged down one of the barmaids—what was her name again?—and soon they were talking.
“Anything new happen? Where’s Fals?”
“Oh, he’s out on a delivery. Nothing’s new—unless—have you heard about Persua?”
Ryoka made a face.
“Tell me she’s dead.”
“No—actually—”
Garia broke off and sniffed at the air. Ryoka stopped and looked up too.
Something had changed. The odor of the inn, like background noise, had long since stopped sending active messages to Ryoka’s brain. But something had changed. The odor of slightly burnt meat had changed, and something new and fragrant was in the air. It made the mouth water, and it was coming from the kitchen.
“What’s that smell? Oh, did Jerom recover? He’s a good cook, although Miss Agnes who runs the inn right now isn’t so much.”
Garia looked guilty and glanced around for the innkeeper as she talked with Ryoka.
“I never expected you to come here. I stay here all the time because it’s cheap and Agnes is so nice, but the food isn’t that good. You can probably find a better place, Ryoka.”
“You’re telling me?”
Why was a nice innkeeper the only requirement for both Garia and Erin? But Ryoka was still bothered by the new smell. Her eyes narrowed as one of the barmaids went into the kitchen and came out with a very familiar bun and burger on a plate. The barmaid offered it to one of the customers and Ryoka groaned.
“She’s not.”
“Who? Is someone doing something?”
Erin. Damn it. It was always her stupid ideas. But even as Ryoka watched, more food began to come out of the kitchen as both Maran and Safry struggled to keep up with the flow.
“Here’s a, uh, hamburger, Miss Ryoka. [Innkeeper] Erin said you’d want one.”
Ryoka eyed the burger with the toasted bun and thick, fried patty. This was a homemade burger with all the fixings; it even looked like Erin had mayonnaise somehow and put it with the fries.
How the hell could she cook so fast? It had to be the [Advanced Cooking] skill, but she was still far quicker than she had any right to be. Ryoka’s stomach growled as she stared at the wonderful hamburger, a far cry from the plate of food Ryoka had pushed away.
“Is that…what’s that, Ryoka?”
Garia was staring hungrily at the burger, and even Safry looked like she could use some. Ryoka grunted and took the plate.
“Tell Erin to make another for Garia. And if she’s making more food—”
“Oh, she is. Like lightning, that one. She’s got [Advanced Cooking]. Isn’t it amazing?”
“[Advanced Cooking]? That’s really impressive. Ryoka, do you know the new cook?”
“She’s my friend. She decided to help your innkeeper out. She’s an [Innkeeper] as well.”
Ryoka grumbled into her burger as Garia tried to press her with questions. The juicy meat was making her feel a lot better, and Garia’s eyes nearly popped out of her own head when she got hers and tasted it.
“This is delicious! And what’s this stuff? Did the barmaid say? Fries? Oh! They’re a potato! Your friend is amazing, Ryoka!”
Both girls devoured the food as Ryoka watched the room change. The diners hadn’t exactly been diving into their meals, but now everyone from the tired workers to the adventurers had found a separate stomach for Erin’s far higher-quality food. It flew out of the kitchen and in accordance to the laws of commerce, the livelier mood and smells drew more customers in.
“And now she’s talking with the guests. Wonderful.”
Ryoka tried to catch Erin’s eye, but the girl had now exited the kitchen and was animatedly talking with people, being trailed by Agnes who was giving the other girl amazed looks.
Garia was munching down her second burger, but she stopped to stare at Erin.
“She looks so…so normal. Nothing like you, Ryoka. How did you meet her?”
Should she lie or tell the truth? Ryoka was debating answering Garia when she noticed a disturbance at the other end of the room.
The adventuring group was clearly not a group of Gold-rankers, like Halrac and Griffin Hunt, but they were certainly boisterous enough for two groups their size. They’d been laughing, telling rude jokes and generally causing a mess since Ryoka had come in, growing progressively drunker. She already hated their guts, but even the exclusively-male team had found some delight in Erin’s cooking.
Unfortunately, that had only made them more excited. Ryoka saw one of them grabbing Safry’s arm as she came by with a refill for their tankards. She tried to pull away, but then one of the men grabbed at her breasts while the other felt at her legs.
She knew that it was common in a time before lawsuits and rules about sexual harassment, but Ryoka’s blood boiled at the sight. Safry finally pulled away, looking clearly distressed, but the men only laughed harder. Ryoka growled and tried to stand up.
“Ryoka. Don’t pick another fight, please.”
Garia had seen the same thing as Ryoka, but she only looked uncomfortable rather than angry. She tried to tug Ryoka back down as the other girl eyed the adventurers. There were five of them and two were still wearing armor. Ryoka itched to pick a fight, especially with the man who slapped at Safry’s butt as she retreated.
She had two options. Do something, or do nothing. Most of Ryoka wanted to get up and kick that adventurer’s face in, but one part of her and Garia was telling her that was a bad idea.
“Don’t, Ryoka! If you cause trouble you could get hurt!”
