“It doesn't matter.” Ren said. “Thank you for giving it to me.”

She smiled and glanced at her mother, and when Ren felt her naughtiness again, she had already given him another kiss and let him go.

Okay, relying on feelings as precursors for actions is not a good idea. Ren thought, and Teepo chittered in laughter.

“We are going to have a talk when we get home.” Her mother whispered in her daughter's ear.

“It's worth it.” The daughter said. “He's a good kisser.”

The mother turned away from Ren and looked at her daughter. “How would you know the difference?”

Ren felt the girl's giddiness and then they heard a booming voice speak.

“Everyone, everyone!” The town elder said from a pedestal in front of the town hall. “Thanks to these Adventurers, the scourge that has plagued our little town has been vanquished!”

Most of the townspeople cheered and hollered, and the town elder let them go for several moments, then raised a hand to quiet them.

“I was saddened to see that not all of those taken could be saved, but I am also grateful that no more than that were lost.” The town elder said. “Now, if the party of Adventurers would be so kind as to come into the town hall, we can bring an end to this event, once and for all.”

The crowd cheered, and Ren went along the train of carts and unhooked each one and stored it. They were identical, so they stacked into the same slot except for the first one. Ren took Princess over to the post near the front of the town hall and pretended to tie her to it, and went into the building. He was so boosted up by the young girl's feelings that he hadn't noticed that everyone, including his teammates, had stared at him as he stored a dozen full-sized carts and didn't show the burden at all.

Clint tied up his mount next to Princess, and the other guys did the same with their mounts and went inside the town hall with Ren. They came to a stop in the main chamber and waited as the town council took their seats and sat down. The town elder came into the room and stood at his position, rather than sit down like the others.

“I've had a talk to the Clergy and the healers, and they tell me that a few of the survivors have been permanently marked by their experiences.” The town elder said. “I do not mean scars or memories, I mean they have the mark of the ghoul on their skin.”

The guard walked into the room with a woman behind him. “Show them.” He said, and the woman started to open her top.

Ren concentrated on his Command Aura immediately. “STOP!” He commanded, and everyone froze. He walked over to the woman and took her hand. “Ma'am, please accept my sincere apologies. You do not need to disrobe to show us.”

“But... it's...”

“It's above your heart, isn't it?” Ren asked.

The woman looked at him with wide eyes. “How did you know that?”

“May I see it?”

The woman nodded, and Ren moved the cloth over just enough to see a faded skull imprint on her skin.

“Thank you.” Ren said as he closed up her top, and he felt gratitude from the woman for saving her modesty in front a bunch of strangers.

“As you have seen...” The town elder sighed. “...you haven't completed the quest.”

“Excuse me, sir.” Ren said and turned to the council. “Please clarify.”

“They are marked.” Another on the council said. “They will attract others to come here and claim them.”

“No, they won't.” Ren said. “But, if you believe they will and don't want them to stay here, then I'll offer them sanctuary.”

“Wh-what?!?” Everyone said at almost the same time, including the other members of Clint's party.

“I will not leave them here if they are going to be vilified or ostracized.” Ren said. “I'll take them to the county I own and give them a home there.”

“But...”

“If we remove them from the town, then the conditions of the quest are fulfilled, correct?”

“Yes.” The council member reluctantly admitted. “Assuming you have proof of the cause of all this.”

“Then please, bring the marked people in here.” Ren said.

The town elder nodded to the guard, and he left for several minutes.

“Ren wha' are ya doin'?” Clint whispered to him.

“Helping complete this quest.” Ren whispered back.

“By takin' these people from their homes?”

“Clint.” Ren sighed. “They are going to kill them as soon as we leave.”

Clint stared at Ren like he was crazy to think that, then he looked at the council members. They all stared at the woman that was marked, and he could clearly see hatred on their faces. The guard came back into the meeting room followed by 7 people of various ages and genders, and he had them stand around the woman.

“Ah'll go and git tha evidence from tha thin tower ya gave me.” Clint said and left the room at a fast walk.

Ren turned to look at the new people. “I have an offer for you.”
