Produveral nodded. “I'm not actually saying any of them are unskilled. They'd probably outperform most people their age by a magnitude and a half, even the Deathless with no training. What I am trying to point out, however, is that even with Unique Skills, it shouldn't have been able to bring down a god. Even if Longinus was an insane fool, he should have been an insane fool capable of ripping through three kids in an instant. But the Deathless here can strike beyond a god’s Avatar and at the Divinity themselves. You were destroying Longinus' sense of self, breaking his emotional control, and effectively leaving him more like a rabid animal than an actual divinity.”

He snapped his fingers, “And that's the thing about the Harbinger: there's no counter for it. Once you learn how to use it better, you can do all kinds of nasty things. Wait for someone to have a bad day, whisper something to them, make them finish themselves off. Yeah, a Harbinger can do that real easy. Find an enemy, kill their children, mock them for not being able to protect their young from you, watch them turn to glass. Yeah, real bastard move, but I've seen it done before. And it can do a hell of a lot more than that. You're barely scratching the surface of that skill. It is a dangerous fucking skill, and I mean that with full emphasis. You haven't even figured out how to skim-strike yet, or how to whisper your thoughts across time, or how to punch misery or specific emotions into a person. You're not physically beating them to death anymore; you're just physically reshaping their personality, punch after punch, blow after blow.”

“You know, everything you're saying just makes me like this skill more, right?” Shiv raised an eyebrow. “Sounds like a hells of a lot of power I'm supposed to just give up because your Chorus said so.”

“Just some safeguards and restraints. A good word from me, and maybe we can just keep it to an alarm every time you use it. An internal surveillance system so that we know you're not actually out there toppling worlds or pissing off a group of people so that you can trigger a planetary genocide without doing the deed yourself.” Produveral grew impassioned at this point. He broke from his folded-arm stance and was actively reaching out to Shiv, trying to implore him. “I won't say it's fair. None of this is fair. I have an adjusted skill too. Practically every Myth has at least one Animantic surveillance system inside them. It's the only way this project can still work.”

“Project? What project?”

“Civilization. Coexistence. Some barest semblance of order to keep everything working.”

Evanescia sneered at his words. “Your civilization works because powerful Pathbearers like you and dominant gods establish systems of order through force, violence, or faith. Those lesser than you abide by the rules or find themselves removed from the System's grand narrative.”

“Yeah, that's how it looks from far away, huh?” The Farwalker sounded like he was talking through clenched teeth. “You know, another problem I have with your stories, Narrator, is that you keep telling the same ones. Loop after loop, the same boring little tales, constrained within your fairy Courts.

His lips twisted into something of a smile.

“How about I tell you a story, for a change? It doesn't have a theme. The ending's a bit abrupt, but it's still a story. Once upon a time, there was an empire that spanned a small planet. Living there wasn't great. But it wasn't the worst either. And it was filled with people, people with lives and aspirations and Paths and dreams of their own. One day, in another corner of the galaxy entirely, an asshole with an overpowered Awareness Skill nobody even knows exists sees their world, he sees the people living their lives, and he decides that he doesn't like the way they dress or speak or live. And because nothing is stopping him and he wants to, he flings a piece of tungsten that hits their little world at three times the speed of light.”

And for a brief instant, a shadowy representation materialized behind the Farwalker. Something zipped through the foliage above, so thin and fine it might as well have been a hair. It struck the dark, vague representation of the world, and the shadow burst, revealing a chasm of flame as the blazing core of the planet spilled out like yolk from a cracked egg.
