… ‘Discussion’. Mostly, Erick spoke, and ‘his elites’ objected or offered advice in some ways, and Erick adjusted his ideas. It was still ‘discussion’ enough to be called that, though.

Maybe it was more like an interactive lecture.

They spoke for little more than an hour, with Mephistopheles speaking second most, Justine offering words here and there, and Ava following up in fourth place. Valok wasn’t comfortable talking at all. Slip was reactive, speaking on security when the topic came up, but not offering much beyond ‘the guard can handle all normal problems, and this is how we do that’. To Erick, it seemed that Candlepoint’s Guard ran the same as any Guard anywhere else in the world, which was a bit surprising, but great to discover.

Zaraanka wanted to talk a great deal, and Erick felt that she would talk a great deal eventually, but not right now. Not while she was still figuring Erick out. She was freaked out about the Wizard thing, and had little idea how to handle that. Zaraanka did speak up when Erick asked over her dealings with the guilds, though, and she was receptive to a compliment about getting healer huts up and running.

“Thank you…” Zaraanka had no idea how to address him, so her voice just trailed off. She realized something, and said, “Your shadow kaleidoscope has been… It’s been one of the few ways to heal us shadelings. Properly. I mean.”

“I’m glad it has helped, Zaraanka. I don’t have that spell yet myself, so I will have to figure out how to make that spell and produce more of them. That sort of magic will become a part of what I eventually want to teach here, but those secrets of light will be a long time coming.” With a light, friendly tone, Erick said, “Including the requests for the Guilds, so far you’re the only one to offer me actual work.”

Zaraanka’s eyes went wide as the vaguely-pink woman’s face paled almost to white, as though she was facing her own execution. “I did not mean to presume upon your—”

Erick shook his head, and Zaraanka stopped. “You seem to know a lot of what needs to be done, and which I can do to get those things done. I approve.”

With a tight look, Zaraanka nodded quickly and quietly. She did not speak again for the rest of the meeting. Erick was not happy about being this feared, but he was used to it by now.

Eventually, the meeting ended. Everyone stood from their various chairs, while Erick had an Ophiel cast a [Prismatic Ward] upon the throne. No one could sit there aside from him.

Erick simply dismissed the conjured table and chairs, though.

And then he put an Ophiel on the throne, and had the little guy puff up a bit. Erick turned to… His people? Yes, these were his people now.

Erick turned to his people, and said, “If you have an emergency of any kind, feel free to tell Ophiel here, and I will hear it. Otherwise, there is lots to be done, and we need to all get back to it. I will be placing the first Gate and welcoming Stratagold to the Surface in the next hour. From there, with any luck, I will be able to build upon the paperwork Zaraanka has already lodged with the Mage Guild in order to gain a Mage Bank in town as soon as possible.”

Mephistopheles bowed, saying, “We welcome the benevolence of your reign, majesty.”

Mephistopheles had been trying out several different variations on title for Erick this whole meeting, and Erick had not liked any of them. Mephistopheles caught on to this, but he kept trying to find something that fit. ‘Majesty’ was about as inoffensive as he had managed.

He had tried calling Erick ‘Wizard’ once. Perhaps Erick’s instinctual grunt of displeasure had been too much; he probably wouldn’t be using that word again around Erick.

The others bowed as well, following Mephistopheles’s lead, saying, “Majesty.”

Erick stood there for a moment, taking it all in, then he left through a portal of lightning. Poi and Teressa followed close behind. Ophiel remained upon the throne, sized to a child, and yet empowered with a double cast of [Unbreakable Form] and a thorny, floating silver shield at his side.

Erick pulled his Sight from that room, though Ophiel remained in attendance.

Let them discuss whatever they wanted to discuss without him.

He had other worries right now.

- - - -

Yggdrasil glowed upon the southern horizon, upon the darkness of the lake. The coast was quiet. The dober dogs slept in a warm pile in their stone houses upon that coast, having eaten their fill of many rats and other small animals also trying to make their homes in that new, green land. To the north of that, lay the wall that ringed all of the lake. It was a massive stone wall; a solid construction ten meters tall and about that wide at the top, while being slightly wider at the bottom, to provide stability. Nothing could actually climb up either side, which was by design. No one wanted crystal mimics to invade the lakeside. It actually went about twice as deep into the ground as it showed above ground, too, to prevent tunneling.

Here, though, just north of that area on the wall, there was no crystal forest, or crystal mimics.

Kiri stood beside Erick on that should-have-been desert land, while Poi, Teressa, and Jane stood a bit apart. For fifteen kilometers in every direction, the sand had been transformed carefully and purposefully into a flat space of solid, interlocking stone blocks, upon a foundation of gravel and sand. Even further toward the north lay another wall, similar to the one that encircled the lake.

Erick happily said, “It’s impressive, Kiri. I like the blocks, too. Around four meters cubed and hourglass shaped. They should hold up rather well for a long time to come.”

“It’s the same sort of flooring that they use for martial tournaments and basic foundations.” Kiri said, “Of course you’d want to remove the bricks and build proper foundations if you’re going to make anything taller than two floors, but I dug down five meters deep all across this land, shoring up the sands to something solid. There were a lot of surprises down there.”

“People? Or just animals?”

“Animals and monsters. Lots of different types. Mostly shadowolves.” Kiri waved a hand toward the land and continued with her explanation, “There are sand holes and drainages placed here and there, so this place won’t fill up with rain water, but there are no proper drainage systems. I didn’t make a sewer. There will be some undermining if it remains like this for a long time, but a sewer system will need to be made anyway, and that will have to be the permanent solution to water drainage concerns. This is what you wanted?”

Erick smiled brightly. “Yes. It is.”

Kiri smiled, too, giving a soft, relieved chuckle. “Good. I’m glad.”

Erick nodded and opened up a very large [Gate] in the air before them. Ophiels came through upon wings of lightning, carrying a large square of white wood.

- - - -

Far, far away, deep, deep below the Surface of Veird, in a cavern that was as bright as daytime and near to Stratagold, another [Gate] opened. Another Gate passed through that lightning portal, carried by Ophiels, to come to rest upon a beach that was no longer a beach at all. That sandy land had also been transformed into a wide, stone surface. Almost no one was there.

There were two wrought guards on duty by the tunnel that led to the embassy, of course. One was a young copper human, all bright shining orange. The other was a grey iron incani man. They saw the Gate coming and the copper boy ran off, while the other just stood strong, watching as Ophiel moved the large wooden Gate around as Erick desired.

Ophiels centered upon the wide stone area, opposite of the tunnel, in the designated spot already discussed. And then they [Stoneshape]d a portion of that floor into a divot. Erick slotted the Gate into the ground, making the bottom, inner lip of the Gate end up a decimeter below the surface level of the stone square. A few more Shapings carved out some space on the open side of the Gate, and secured the Gate into the ground. It would not move without a lot more Shaping, but there would be magic Denying such Shaping soon enough.

By the time he finished with placements, other wrought began to show.

Geode Guardian Tasar. King Alfonin. Archmage Riivo.

They waited; concerned, hopeful, and a little angry.

Anger was a normal reaction to big stuff happening without warning, so Erick did not blame them for that. Oh well. It was better to seek forgiveness than permission, and anyway, they had already discussed much of what a permanent [Gate] would look like between both lands. Still, though, it was better to unruffle feathers while they were ruffled.

Ophiel floated forward with a letter. Riivo took the letter, read it, handed it off to the other two, and the three of them lost some of their concern and anger. Erick had explained everything about how this particular Gate would work, so hopefully whatever they wanted to talk to him about was not all of that, though he would no doubt be discussing what he had already written down, anyway.

It was time to get this show on the road! Ophiel linked a tendril of light to the runic web inside the Gate, and Erick personally cast [Undertow’s Edge] through his [Familiar]. Ophiels settled down into the Abysses around the Gate to provide some starter mana.

And then Erick cast [Gate].

- - - -

Upon the lands north of Candlepoint’s Lake, lightning flashed.

The [Gate] opened. The light of Yggdrasil’s Underworld cavern split the darkness of the night all around. On one side was the Surface, on the other was Stratagold.

But before that diplomacy could happen, an Ophiel appeared on Erick’s side with a very large rustless steel plate, large enough to completely fit in the five meter width of the [Gate], which is exactly what he did. That plate went into the [Gate] and slipped into the grooves carved on both sides, forming a solid steel bridge between here and there.

There was no way to easily move the Gate now.

Denials of all sorts occupied the area around the Gate. Ophiel had had to use his Benevolence sunform in order to move that metal through those Denials, and it had not been easy.

Other people could surely break whatever Erick put down today, but those people were few and far between; Domain holders, mostly. He knew that those sorts of shenanigans would happen, someday, but these Gates weren’t that hard to make. It was the magic inside them that was hard to duplicate, and that stuff was all Erick.

The wooden Gates glowed a brilliant white, while Abyssal Undertows held to the space behind both of them. Erick had opted to change out the ‘corridor of shadows’ effect that he had first created. Now, it almost looked like the Gates were set into a barely-visible wall of shadows that stretched up and out for twenty meters in every direction.

Erick looked through the [Gate], now that everything seemed to be working as intended.

Erick saw the wrought, and the wrought saw him.

Erick stepped forward, to stand atop the edge of the steel platform that straddled both sides of the Gate, saying, “Welcome to the Surface, Stratagold.”

King Alfonin stepped forward, to stand on the part of the steel platform that rested in his lands. “We accept your welcome, and welcome you to Stratagold in turn.” A bit more seriously, and quieter, “Though I question your open declaration of Wizardry.”

Alfonin had known what Erick was going to do, but this was a bit of a ceremony anyway.

“I’ve never been good at lying, so I’m not about to start now.” Erick put on a smile, saying, “Not here, not at this most momentous of changes.”

King Alfonin stood tall, and reserved. “Very well. Then that is how it will be.”

“Would you care to come through? Check out the place?” Erick offered, “I don’t have any structures set up on this side yet, so perhaps I can come through to that side and we can talk there? Also: Have you seen Sitnakov? I keep waiting for him to show up—”

The air flickered about a hundred meters behind Erick, on the edge of the prismatic Denial, and then that black wind resolved into a person. Sitnakov walked this way, holding his head high. He could have walked closer while using active magic, for his Domain could easily break the Domain Erick had cast into the Gate, but he had chosen not to. He had chosen to be royalty, it seemed. Which was fitting. The Second Prince was a near perfect physical match for his father on the other side of the [Gate].

“—I spoke too soon.” Erick turned back to King Alfonin. “Still not sure what’s actually going to happen with Sitnakov, though.”

King Alfonin glanced past Erick, then turned back to the Wizard, saying, “He’s to set up a waystation on that side of the [Gate], and to see to some troops positioned on that side, in whatever lands you designate as officially belonging to Stratagold. As to that subject: this cavern on this side is still yours, but we ask you to officially relinquish this beach and this side of the Gate to us.”

“Done and done. That beach is now officially your property, once again. The rest of the cavern remains mine. Now as for gate fees: As we agreed? For now, a 50/50 tax split based on rates already discussed. In addition, I will charge 1 gold per person crossing, either coming or going, to be paid to me; and you do not get that money.”

Alfonin said, “Agreed. As previously agreed, we will be conducting this business on your side.”

Erick nodded. “It should be easier for you, too. This side has a lot more space and the Denials I put up extend for a hundred meters in all directions. They only extend ten meters on your side, but on this side, people will have to come in from much further away in order to enter and transfer to Stratagold. Much easier to catch any people who might try running through.”

“We will have ways to deal with such an occurrence, but I am glad to hear of these Denials. That makes it much easier for us.”

Erick nodded, then moved on to business that had not been discussed before. “We have no Mage Bank here, though, so moving such monies around might be difficult. I plan on including the Wayfarer’s and Adventurer’s Guild here as soon as I can, as a supplement ‘last mile’ part of the Network, and as a matter of course, respectively, but Mage Bank needs to happen sooner than those other two. Can you make that happen?”

Alfonin looked at Erick, and offered, “We have Geode Bank. Would you care to switch banks?”

A deeply political question, actually.

