Dinner was great for Poi and Jane had cooked well, but dinner was also a tactical level discussion of what had happened today, both in Candlepoint, and in Erick’s workshop.

There were around 4,850 people in Candlepoint. 1,100 shadelings, now known as originals. 2,950 former shadelings, now known as returners. And 800 people who had chosen to stay. There wasn’t any particularly dominant race among those who were staying. The minotaurs had all chosen to stay.

The major players of Candlepoint were the same people who had been there months ago.

Mephistopheles, the red incani shadeling mayor. The other actual-shadelings in town were fiercely loyal to him, and he appeared fiercely loyal to Erick, which was either a problem or a boon.

Justine Erholme, the white incani priestess of Koyabez. She was the only representative of a god other than Melemizargo in town, and she had quite a flock among the returners. Not so much among the still-shadelings.

Ava Jadescale, the snake shifter sewermaster. She had already cleared out the slums under the city, and all those people were now above ground and moving into homes abandoned by those who left.

Valok Greentalon was still a shadeling, and still working well as the master farmer of Candlepoint’s farms. He and his people provided much of the food that fed Candlepoint.

Daetroi Ooragh, the cattle rancher father of Apogough Ooragh. Apogough had been the only survivor of the Farmer’s Council back when the Farms still existed at Spur. His father, the cattle rancher, had not survived, and had suffered a fate similar to Valok. Daetroi was the other half of Candlepoint’s food solution. He raised cows on the southern coast of the lake, south of Candlepoint. He was expanding into other meat markets, but had nearly been shoved out of those markets by the other people. Now that all those other people had left, Daetroi had a lot of extra product on hand, and barely any way to control it all.

Zaraanka Checharin. Human woman, but still a shadeling, Zaraanka was the current matron of the Pink Houses, and she had opened gambling dens alongside her brothels. She had been bringing in a lot of money for the town. She had also opened up healer huts, and had been trying to prepare the town for branch offices of the Adventurer's and Mage’s and Wayfarer’s Guilds. If it weren’t for Candlepoint’s odd nature as a Melemizargo plot, then those three guilds would likely have already moved into town, but because of Candlepoint’s nature, those Guilds had not moved in yet, at all. Zaraanka had lots of irons in the fire, though, so the cold feet of the Guilds were not a large problem right now. Zaraanka was the social butterfly and one of the major captains of industry of Candlepoint.

Almost all of her fledgling industries had been broken by Erick’s announcement of Wizardry.

And then there was Slip, Captain of the Guard. The captain remained a shadeling of black skin, black horns, no hair, and with the brightest white eyes of any comparable people. Everyone thought he was a Shade, but no one spoke that thought aloud, or at least not in his presence. The Guard of Candlepoint was perhaps the only institution which remained strong and secure in the wake of Erick’s Wizardly declaration, with all of the Guard’s instructions dutifully followed. Even before Erick’s announcement, the guard easily caught any criminals who made their criminality known. Mostly, those criminals were exiled. Very few cases demanded execution.

Erick said, “I’ll be checking up on that, though.” He frowned. “I hope he isn’t actually a Shade, but… From what I’ve seen out there today, he seems happy with and good at his job, and yet he’s also fine with just fishing all the time.”

Poi said, “His suspected status as a Shade is what makes others see him as a true threat.”

“Could he be brightening his eyes on purpose?” Teressa asked.

“Theoretically, yes,” Poi said.

Erick had a question about that, but he knew it was a long shot to get an answer about this particular question, since it would put Poi in an ethically dubious position with regard to Mind Mage protocols. Erick asked anyway, “Does Slip have a mind presence? Or whatever you call it? Thought slime?”

“I can answer this one, Erick. Yes, he does, but that doesn’t mean anything. He could be faking his mind-presence. Shades are capable of this.”

Everyone at the dinner table was surprised both by Poi’s answer, and by his elaboration.

Erick moved on, saying, “I discovered a few things about [Gate] I wish to impart. To begin…”

He had to stretch to make his [Gate] reach more than 50 meters across, and 100 meters seemed to be the maximum size. The most common, and easily castable size, was around 3 meters in diameter. If he were just ‘pointing and willing a [Gate] into being’ and literally nothing else about it, 3 meters diameter is how big it would be. Erick always stretched the [Gate] a bit bigger, though, for Teressa, so she didn’t have to touch the lightning ring.

Touching the ring was like touching a fog of fake lightning. The ring looked and acted like lightning, but it was also soft like light. Touching those discharges would cause plants to grow upon any clothing caught in the effect, but the Benevolent Lightning would not cause growth upon bare skin.

The [Gate] opened from a spark and spread outward in a flashing instant.

It closed the same way, but in reverse.

If one looked very, very closely, at the front side of a [Gate], they could see a faint lightning fog, but only near the ring itself; like smoke on water, and the ‘water’ being the flat plane of the [Gate]. Mostly, though, the view from the front side of a [Gate] was perfectly clear.

When the ring closed on anything, it caused a reality recombination, which was Erick’s tentative explanation for what he was seeing—

“Wait wait. I don’t understand that at all.” Jane said, “You’re telling me it doesn’t snap something in half when it’s caught in the middle? I mean. You already said that with Sitnakov’s arm and the kidnapping, but I want to see this in action.”

Erick smiled at Jane’s enthusiasm, and then he cast two small [Gate]s atop the dinner table, about half a meter in diameter and a meter apart. Both were parallel with each other, with their backs facing each other. Erick [Conjure Weapon]d a white staff, and stuck it through the portal. His hand remained outside of the effect, but the staff was now halfway through.

And then he canceled the portal.

Silent lightning crashed inward, slamming onto the staff. Just beyond Erick’s hand, the staff gained a ring of lightning. On the other side of the table, the part that had been poked through, also gained a similar ring of lightning. The now-floating staff poking out of the exit, continued to hover there for a brief moment.

Two things happened at the same time. Lightning flashed up the upper half of Erick’s staff, vanishing it from sight. That same lightning zipped up the staff where Erick held it. As that lightning-light fully flowed down the staff, it vanished, revealing the staff to the world, unharmed.

“What is happening here is something similar to what happens when one goes through the backside of the [Gate],” Erick said. “I imagine there is a way to put some sort of spellwork into this sort of intrusion, onto the staff itself, or onto one’s own body, in order to keep the [Gate] open. Whenever Sitnakov decides to show up I’ll ask him how he did that.”

Jane narrowed her eyes at the staff. She was trying to figure out how she might accomplish the same thing as Sitnakov. “Do that again. With the staff. Again.”

Erick smiled, happy for Jane’s enthusiasm even if it wasn’t for the magic of it all; she was more interested in vulnerability testing. And that was fine. Erick was happy to share this with her.

Eventually, he got back to the other facts he had figured out about [Gate], like how he had no passenger or weight limit, and how [Gate]s could not be moved after cast. He stressed there was likely a lot more to discover in the coming months, but he tried to tell them all the nuances which he had seen so far.

And then dinner was over, and it was time to meet with the representatives of Candlepoint.

- - - -

The sun had set long ago, vanishing beyond a glowing Yggdrasil on the horizon. The city of Candlepoint was not that dark, though. Starlight, wardlights all around, and the moons above provided ample lighting, but there was still lots of room for shadows all around.

And then there was lightning. Bright, flashing brilliance, banishing the night.

That lightning crashed open, forming a portal, linking the eternal light of Yggdrasil with Candlepoint. Erick stepped out of that portal to stand upon the top of black stone stairs. Poi and Teressa flanked him. The three of them all wore white conjured armor. Teressa and Poi had adjusted their own mana color as necessary, but that was not necessary for Erick. His color was already white, though it was a bit more iridescent these days, if one looked close enough.

Ahead, Guard Captain Slip and several other members of Candlepoint’s Guard flanked the wide open double doors of city hall. Slip was dressed in immaculate black armor, along with the rest of his people.

There was an obvious dichotomy there, in the colors of their clothes. Such an arrangement of cloth and color might be a thing in the coming years, if Erick saw fit to enforce such an arrangement, but perhaps something less combative was in order. Something less black versus white. With a simple recast of [Conjure Armor], Erick changed his armor from full white, to white with black trim.

Slip gave a tiny grin, showing off his white teeth beyond the full black of his lips, and his skin. And then he steeled himself. It was time for a bit of ceremony. It was easy enough to see that they had prepared some stuff for him; that was why he had chosen to come in this way, and to allow this ceremony to happen. If the ceremony proved to be unwelcome then Erick would dispense with it, but he doubted it would get too out of hand.

Slip took one step forward and smashed his gauntleted hand against his chest, announcing, “Archmage Wizard Erick Flatt, Fire of the Age! Savior of Light. Welcome to Candlepoint. Welcome home. We hope you approve of your new lands.”

Earnest. Strong. Hopeful. And yet Slip was testing Erick in a way he thought necessary to test.

There was an audience for this event, after all. City hall had been cleared of every single person except for a few, and all those cleared-out people (and more besides) all stood at the base of the stairs, outside of close range, watching. Some prayed. Some worried. Some schemed. There were at least a thousand people by Erick’s count, and about half of them shadelings; almost 50% of all of the shadelings left in Candlepoint. The rest were probably returners. A few of them were spies from other lands, or something along those lines.

Erick saw a princess from the Wastelands and her two guards standing in the far back. He only noticed the woman was a princess by the thin band of gold around her head, and the heraldry she shared with her two guards. There were other important people here to notice as well, but if Erick stood here thinking about all of them he’d never get anywhere.

He saw no threats though, and the crowd was mostly silent save for a few whispers, so Erick continued.

“If I don’t approve of what you have done, then I will make of these lands what I must.” Erick gestured forward, “Guard Captain Slip. Lead the way.”

As Erick had guessed, his answer had been the proper answer for almost everyone in attendance. Without giving away that Slip was inordinately pleased to hear Erick speak like that, Slip struck his chest again, bowed, backed up, and turned toward the open doors. He led the way.

Erick followed.

As the guards of Candlepoint moved to stand guard across the top of the stairs, to prevent the crowd from following, people in the crowd began whispering, ‘Welcome, Archmage!’ or ‘Blessings upon the Fire of the Age.’ or in even smaller words, ‘Wizard.’

Erick and his people passed into the building, and the doors closed behind them, sealing away the sounds of the world outside.

City Hall was different. It had the same black stone walls and floor and ceiling as before. The same large, white crystal lights for sconces and overhead illumination. The same crystal runners down the sides of the main walkway, giving off the same levels of illumination.

But now the hallway had a white carpet laid down the center, and the back end of the hallway had been changed; Shaped into something new. Instead of a desk where people could direct visitors, it was empty, and the wall beyond had been transformed into an archway with a large set of double doors. Those doors were wide open. And that was their destination.

Slip led them into a room that had not been there before now.

A throne room.

Spacious. Pillars to the sides. White cloth hung like decorative, blank banners here and there.

A dais of black stone further in, with a white throne sitting upon that dais.

To the left and right of the walkway stood the heads of Candlepoint. Mephistopheles, Ava, Valok on the left. Zaaranka and Justine on the right, and then Slip, too, who joined them on that side. At a glance, Erick suspected this specific split of people could have been decided in any number of ways, but Erick’s first instinct was that the room had been split based on actual infrastructure on one side, and influence over population on the other side.

Erick did not take the throne. Instead, he stood there, on the carpet, and asked, “So this split is based on infrastructure concerns and population concerns? Or what?”

Mephistopheles, who had been standing just a bit forward, now stepped fully forward, but he did not block Erick’s path to the throne nor did he step onto the carpet. He said, “Greetings, Archmage Flatt. Yes; this split is based upon control of infrastructure and influence of persons. If there is a different way you wish to organize your lands, then we will of course abide.”

Erick looked past Mephistopheles, to the throne.

Here now, was a fear.

The calamity of all of Erick’s previous choices was upon him. All his power and purpose, aligned to this action here, now. Today. Tonight. This night, near midnight.

A split.

A direction that needed to be chosen, and chosen well. A path diverging, but only briefly.

If Erick sat on that chair then things would continue as they had been set up to continue. Erick would be a king. He would have absolute power over these lands, and people. He could organize everything, any way he wished. When war inevitably came, he could respond with his own power, and with the power of his people.

‘His people!’

