The vast majority of Veird switched to Mage Bank over Geode Bank many, many centuries ago, because when the wrought did not like you, they could shut off your money at any point in time. Thus, the Mage Guild opened up their own banking system in order to get away from that oversight, and now Mage Bank was the largest banking system on the Surface, while much of the Underworld actually ran on both systems, though Mage Bank was still prevalent down there, as well. From what he knew, Erick had a rough guess that Mage Bank controlled 85% of banking on the Surface, with smaller banking chains open here and there, and roughly 60% of banking in the Underworld, not counting intra-Geode commerce. Geode Bank oversaw 99% of intra-Geode banking, and 40% of Underworld banking outside of the Geodes.

But if Erick accepted Geode Bank up here, at Candlepoint, at the center of the Gate Network…

A lot could change.

Erick wanted to keep most people happy, but he also wanted to keep most things the same. As much as possible, anyway.

“I will accept both.” Erick said, “I want to make this a land for everyone, so I might as well accept both. If you can get Mage Bank here, then I will accept Geode Bank as well. There is lots of land up here on the Surface, after all. Just gotta turn some of the desert back into livable land.”

“But through which one will you accept payment?”

Alfonin was glad to see that Erick was willing to host Geode Bank up here, for he wanted Erick to accept Geode Bank. He wanted control over the money that flowed through here, if he could get it. Erick expected nothing less from a king; to [Strike] when the iron was hot was a necessary skill in this sort of governance.

Mage Bank would eventually be very annoyed that they decided to hold off on accepting Zaraanka’s proposal, for waiting this long. But Erick wasn’t going to subject himself to that much Geode control.

“I have an account at Mage Bank, so I will accept money through them, here for this part of the Gate Network. Everything through Surface Gates will go through Mage Bank.” Erick said, “When I establish more Gates in the Underworld, then I will accept that money under Geode Bank, though the discussions surrounding that arrangement will need to come at a later time.”

Alfonin eyed Erick. “… Not as disruptive as you could be.”

“I’m trying.” Erick gestured behind him. “Care to pick out some— Ah. Hello.”

Sitnakov had been walking this way the whole time, but now he was three meters away, and so he stopped his approach. He nodded to his father, who nodded back, and then he turned slightly to face Erick. He gave a head nod, that was almost like a minor bow. “Archmage Flatt.”

Erick returned the gesture. “Prince Sitnakov.”

“In addition to my normal duties, I’m to be a knight for you for a while, wherever you will have me.”

Erick relaxed a little, then said, “I expect to be putting out paperwork soon, for people to come to me with monster kill requests. Would you be interested in that? Or in something more stable at a single location, like here on this land? I still need to build my House, but that shouldn’t take more than several hours. After which, I can grant you a room there. Or on Yggdrasil?”

Erick was throwing everything out there to see what stuck. He didn’t want to make Sitnakov unwelcome, but he honestly did not know what to do with the guy.

“I will be helping Stratagold to create our embassy here, and I will be comfortable with lodgings there, but I would prefer to be near you when you are out and about. Perhaps, in time, I will move into this House of yours, if you move in there as well, but I will not be moving into Yggdrasil. If you continue to room in Yggdrasil then I will remain out here.” Sitnakov continued, “Plainly: I will be a guard. Not to Crit the [Strike] too hard, but now that you are a publicly declared Wizard I’d prefer to have you in my Sights, for I am tasked with your safety… As much as anyone can be tasked with the safety of a Wizard. I fully expect an assassination attempt in the next day or three, at the very least, and I want to be there to prevent it.”

“… Okay.” The thought of assassinations so soon threw Erick for a loop. Of course he was worried and prepared, but to have other people preparing for such an event was vindication for Erick’s paranoia, and that was an uncomfortable feeling. What assassination attempt would this next one even be? His… Fifth? Assassination attempt? No? Erick said, “You know, I’m not even sure how many assassination attempts I have weathered now. Does war count as an attempt?”

“Yes.” Alfonin spoke from across the [Gate], “Assassination attempts in war count, unless you are on the battlefield yourself.” And without any preamble or further preparation, King Alfonin stepped through to Erick’s side of the [Gate]. “You’re in good hands with my son, Archmage Flatt. I look forward to this partnership.”

Erick looked up at the very tall black metal orcol, and at his son, and said, “I look forward to this, too.” He gestured toward the lands ahead. “Anywhere you want.” He pointed to a central space. “I believe I will put my House there. It will likely end up as a minor mountain, like what you would see in Songli.”

“Acceptable.” Alfonin gestured for Tasar and Riivo to come forward; they were both still on the other side of the [Gate]. Now, though, they strode forward at their king’s command, stepping out of the light of the cavern, and into the dark of the night. Alfonin turned outward, to view the darkened land. He narrowed his eyes, and then he asked Erick, “Could I get some light? And some ideas of what you envision for this land.”

“Of course.” Erick sent Ophiels flying high to cast wide scale wardlights, bringing the sun back to the stony land. Then he started adding lightsculptures, beginning with the shell of what would one day become House Benevolence; right now it was just a very large holographic blob of light. Illusionary Gates showed what this place might look like in the future, while streets and fences demarcated the land into lots. It had taken Erick less than a minute to do all of that. Then he said, “All of this is subject to change, of course.”

Tasar and Riivo looked across the land, impressed at the speed of Erick’s conjuring. Sitnakov tried not to be impressed. Alfonin succeeded in not being impressed. For everyone else, such a conjuring was old hat.

Alfonin walked forward, judging the land and considering what would come next. “It doesn’t look like you have a city planner, but you at least have a competent stone mage to make this flooring.”

“My apprentice, Kiri Flamecrash, constructed the stonework.” Erick gestured to Kiri. “I’m very lucky to have her.”

Kiri went rigid and still, and then she bowed deeply. To the sides, Jane smiled a little at Kiri’s reaction, while Teressa and Poi stood resolute, and yet relaxed.

Alfonin nodded at the young girl, then continued forward. “Would you accept a city planner? Or do you wish to do this [Cityshape]ing yourself?”

“If you’ve got suggestions, I’ve got ears.” Erick said, “I assume that you’ve been at this city-thing for a lot longer than most anyone out there.”

Alfonin smiled a little, and said, “I have been at this city-thing for a long while, but I have support structures as well. I’ll have some of them contact you, if you wish?”

“I’ll take that help. What’s the going rate for a city planner?”

“I have one very insistent architect who demands I offer you his services, and who is willing to drop his usual price to free for the honor of working on the Gate Network Hub.” Alfonin said, “I would suggest you pay them a fair price of 2.5 million gold, though, and give him your apprentice for the heavy lifting. O’Lark is a difficult man to work with, but he is very, very good at his calling. He built the White Palace of Eternal Light. He’ll build you something similarly unforgettable here, if you’ll have him.”

“I’ll take him.”

“O’Lark will be thrilled.” Alfonin smiled a little, then said, “He’ll be the one finalizing our outpost…” Alfonin looked around, and said, “And I’ll let him decide where to put it. Probably over there?” He gestured to the left, then he turned to Erick. “This looks good, Archmage Flatt. We look forward to working with you. It was good meeting you again, but I must be off. I’m sure you’re busy as well.”

Erick stood straight, and said, “I am. It was good to see you again, too.”

Alfonin was trying to play off his deep interest in everything that was happening here as nonchalance, and Erick was happy to play along with that deception. But Erick made no mistake. King Alfonin was thrilled for this happening, and what was to come. Riivo and Tasar were of a similar mind.

And that boded well.

The King of Stratagold thus took his leave, with Tasar and Riivo following close behind. While the king vanished when he got back on the other side of the [Gate], Tasar and Riivo bowed to Erick, and then vanished as well.

A few soldiers then came through from Stratagold to Candlepoint, bowing deferentially, both to Erick, and to Sitnakov.

Sitnakov said, “We’ll be setting up the temporary base, if that’s alright with you.”

“It is.” Erick said, “If you need assistance with anything, don’t hesitate to send a message through to Poi, or to me. I don’t have a secretary yet to deal with the vast increase in messages and contacts that I expect to field soon, but I’m working on that. You can also flag down Ophiel. I’ll keep one of him fluttering around here from now on.”

Ophiel chirped from Erick’s shoulder.

And then Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye bounced, and then another iridescent eye appeared hovering beside the first. He wanted to be included.

Erick gestured to the second eye, saying, “Or you can flag down Yggdrasil.”

Sitnakov nodded to Erick, then to Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye, and then he got to work with several other wrought, building a temporary base northwest of the Gate.

They parted ways.

- - - -

Once again safe in his [Fairy Stronghold], and with his people around him, Erick smiled brightly, saying, “That went really well!”

“Well done, King Erick,” Poi said, smiling.

Erick scowled. This was really happening.

“Seeing Sitnakov was weird. He looked just like in the stories.” Teressa said, “And King Stratagold looked the same, too.”

“The King of Stratagold knows me now!” Kiri happily said.

“That’s so weird, Kiri,” Jane said.

“What? Why?” Kiri said, “It’s important to know important people.”

“I know that. It’s still weird.” Jane said to everyone, “It’s all so weird. I expected more fights, and then for… I don’t know. For something to happen. And then for dad to solve those fights… Which would put us right back here in this same situation. And apparently there will be actual assassins soon, but we’ll get them, I’m sure.” Jane looked to her father. “And then the world would still change as my father demands.”

For a short moment, there was silence.

‘Demand’ was a big word there, Erick wanted to say.

He wasn’t demanding anything. He was trying to appease all sides and prevent war, to navigate the various troubles coming his way, because his original ‘demand’, if you wanted to call it that, was that the world should be better tomorrow than it was today. That people should have easier lives, more opportunity, and less hardship.

That was a perfectly reasonable ‘demand’.

Mostly, Erick was making this demand of himself. He wanted to help people, and he was going to help the entire world. The dragons were getting a new world, parallel to this one. It wasn’t a cure for the Curse, but it was close enough to a cure for now. Particle Magic was continuing to spread. That stuff was continuing to cause problems the world over, mostly in the form of toxic byproducts and accidental deaths, but maybe Elemental Illusion or Mystical would hold the secrets to less of those side effects, and then people would begin to learn what this world was actually made out of, instead of the Elemental learning carried over from the Old Cosmology. And learning was good. Monsters were getting beaten back, and the world was opening to habitation. The Forest of Glaquin was the safest it had been in a thousand years. Erick would continue to support that direction of change for as long as he was able.

He would raise kingdoms out of the sand himself, if he had to, for the growth of civilization was the growth of opportunity for all, and the surest way to weather any storm was with a neighborhood at your back.

And [Renew] was coming out soon.

All things that Erick was doing in order to make the world a better place.

It was, therefore, perfectly reasonable to demand that people not assault him, and securing a base of power in order to secure that basic right… Seemed reasonable. Erick was not going to be a hermit. And since he wasn’t going to be a hermit, that meant he automatically chose the other option, which was to participate in society.

For all his life, Erick had been working systems of people and government to ensure good outcomes for the lowest common denominator, but now, he had the option to be the system.

Or at least the base upon which all the rest was built.

From there, Erick could create all the good things he wished to create. If people wanted to flock to him to participate in that bettering, then he would ensure those people were treated well, and had good options in their lives.

And so, here now was another responsibility to get right.

A responsibility to his daughter, who never asked for her father to be this way.

Erick said, “It’s an adjustment. I’m not sure if I like being in a kingly position, but… You weren’t there for the meeting with Candlepoint, Jane, but if I didn’t accept this, then there would be a great lot of confusion. I don’t want confusion. No one wants confusion. Everyone wants stability, and I want stability, too. Such stability will come with sweeping changes to how the world works, yes, but the main thing is the creation of stability. Which is a bit of a paradox, I admit, but that’s fine.” He breathed deeply, and said, “So if my acceptance of a crown is what it takes to make this world a better place, then I’ll be a king for a while.”

“Apparently,” Jane said, giving him an unsure look.

Teressa nodded, saying, “The Apparent King.”

Erick looked to the large woman. “Really?”

Teressa shrugged, saying, “If you don’t pick a name they’ll pick one for you.”
