And not just Poi, and Kiri, and Teressa, and Jane. All of these people. All of Candlepoint. That fact would put them at risk. They were already at risk, but until now that risk had been ambiguous. They were shadelings and a few more, and they were shunned by all the rest of the world, but Erick’s presence and power had forestalled the hammer that hung over this city, ready to fall at a moment’s notice. Now, Erick’s presence and power were like a lodestone to the threats out there, and yet, he could withstand that [Strike], if he prepared. His people could withstand that [Strike].

… If Erick did not sit in that chair, then there would be confusion, and then some other system of governance would arise out of that confusion. There would be a return to what had been happening already, but it would be messier, and disorganized. Weak.

And war would still come, only Erick would not be meshed in with the current workings of Candlepoint, and it would be disastrous. A lot more people would die.

It was possible that a lot of people were going to die anyway.

There was no real choice here when all things were considered—

Well.

No.

The choice was the same as it always was.

To remain part of the world.

Or to run and hide.

Erick breathed deeply, then made the same choice he had made a thousand times before. He would not be a hermit. He would not run. He would not hide. He was a part of the world, and by his actions, he would make the world a better place for all. If these people wanted to enshrine Erick as a true power, as a king, then…

He could do that.

He strode past the now-lesser powers of Candlepoint, toward the dais, to his throne.

Small intakes of breath. Squared shoulders. Stern faces. Some truly happy faces. Some worried faces. All emotion kept locked up as tight as it could be, but Erick could still see those emotions.

Erick stepped up the short black stairs that composed the throne’s dais. And then he was there. He had arrived.

The throne was white and solid and fit for a king of no-nonsense strength. No cushion. Not even a comfortable divot for the butt, or a back that allowed any sort of leaning and relaxing. A throne wasn’t meant to be a place of rest, but Erick wasn’t going to be sitting here for any length of time without some sort of comfort.

Perhaps something small? Yes. Something small. Something that respected the gesture these people were giving him, and yet announced to all that this was his spot, now.

With a quick cast of [Fairy Item], which doubled as a way to detect if anyone else was using Fae Magic in the area and to disrupt that other active Fae Magic, Erick conjured a thin cushion for the butt, and then he sat down upon that cushion, upon his throne.

Poi and Teressa watched Erick take his throne, and they were both strangely happy. It took Erick half a second to understand that Poi and Teressa’s happiness had surprised even them, for though they could see what was coming, now that it was actually here…

It was surprisingly good.

Poi and Teressa both trusted Erick with their lives, and now they knew that Erick was actually willing to take up that responsibility in a serious way. Nothing would ever be the same, but ‘nothing would ever be the same’ had happened several times before already. Now that they were here, everything that had come before made perfect sense. Both of them had signed on to be an archmage’s guards, but they had adjusted with the times, and the tribulations. And now they were here, right beside Erick.

Poi and Teressa stood to Erick’s left and right, on the ground outside of the throne’s dais.

Erick looked to the people of Candlepoint.

The six representatives of Candlepoint met Erick’s eyes with their own.

Mephistopheles was beyond thrilled, his glowing white eyes seeming brighter by the second. Slip and Justine were happy for the possibilities that this event finally represented, but they were a bit more reserved than Mephistopheles; they had specific goals they wanted, and not just the goal of security. Zaraanka was well practiced in not showing her worries, but Erick could tell that she was worried about everything that was to come, and she was also worried about Erick shutting down her Pink Houses, or some other such ‘restrictive nonsense’ that only existed inside the Wizard’s head. Ava was both resigned and relieved in equal measure; maybe she could finally get the beautiful life she always wanted now that power had come to town.

And Valok was angry. Erick wondered why, but before they got to that—

“So.” Erick began, “This is odd. I never meant to take this place of power among you. I meant to be an assistant to help you help yourselves. And you did. You did great things while I wasn’t here. You kept the city growing, Mephistopheles, despite the collars upon your power. You kept the faith and the proper path, Justine, despite the many tribulations of this land. You kept them safe, Slip, even though you were collared just as much as anyone. You secured the sewers, Ava, the part of the city that is always capable of being the most dangerous, even though no one respected your laws. You healed people, and brought about the starts of the various Guilds, Zaraanka, even though none of those Guilds saw fit to come here and truly establish themselves. You maintained the food supply for the city, Valok, even though the economy here is in shambles and I have suddenly made it a lot worse.

“None of you have been honored for your work as much as you should be honored, and I am sorry for the dishonor I have caused by announcing myself to the world.

“I intend to help fix all these problems encountered prior to my arrival, or created by my own actions, or the actions of others. Candlepoint will be a metropolis. I have created the first of the Gates which I plan to plant in the ground to the north of Candlepoint, right after this meeting. That Gate will connect those lands north of Candlepoint to the lands near Stratagold’s embassy. From there, trade will flow. Slow, at first, but as people see that I am neither to be trifled with, or that much of a danger, I suspect trade will flow faster.” Erick said, “I have secured alliances with the wrought of Stratagold, and Kirginatharp at Oceanside, and the dragons of Ar’Cosmos, all of whom know about me already. I have secured alliances with various gods, including Rozeta, Koyabez, Phagar, Atunir, and, though I am hesitant to say so, I believe I am doing what Melemizargo wants, too.

“I believe Candlepoint will grow strong and prosperous, but there are no doubt some physical problems and other similarly solvable issues which will prevent such prosperity. Therefore, I will endeavor to solve these problems for you.” Erick said, “I expect physical problems will be easy enough to solve quickly, such as housing and external security. Political and organizational problems I will leave to you, until they actually need to be brought to my attention. Such attention will probably result in massive changes that might not be what you want them to be. As for my personal wants, I will be creating House Benevolence, to oversee the lands already staked out north of the lake, where the Gates will go. House Benevolence will be working with the city of Candlepoint, in what I expect to be a king-mayor-elites sort of relationship, with Mephistopheles remaining mayor, and the rest of you becoming elites, or whatever sort of monikers you desire. I do not wish for nobility to form here in Candlepoint, but if that is what it takes to make this work, then I will do that.

“Now that all of that has been said...” Erick asked, “How can I first help Candlepoint be all that it can be?”

The movers and shakers of Candlepoint listened to Erick and felt several emotions most keenly.

Mephistopheles was vindication personified. Justine held hope like a beacon within her heart for all to see, and feel. Ava relaxed; everything would be alright. Slip was ready to go fishing, knowing that everything would work out fine here on land. Zaraanka had been worried, but she was ready to move on with her fears, and to make the most of a rapidly improving situation.

Mephistopheles stepped forward, saying, “Za—”

“This is cowshit, Erick!” Valok exclaimed. “I do not want to be involved in another war.” The other five elites of Candlepoint stepped backward, and Valok was briefly alone. Valok briefly looked to his compatriots for support, but he found none. He ignored the others and stepped onto the white carpet, to stand directly facing Erick. With a calm, yet furious sort of tone, he spoke, “I do not want a war.”

“With any luck and a bit of foresight,” Erick said, “Any soldiery visited upon this land will be met with utter annihilation. I expect assassination attempts long before I expect—”

“Assassinations then! Label it whatever you want!” Valok said, “The last war you brought to my house ended up with me murdered and turned into a shadeling! They almost killed Delia! My daughter has finally started talking normally with me again, and now you come back into my life with this shit! I’ll be lucky if I’m not killed by tomorrow, and my daughter has to suffer through all that all over again.”

Emotions poured out of Valok like pus from a wound. The man almost started crying but he held it together. His anger was too unfocused to allow crying, for he was also sad, and worried, and a whole host of lesser feelings.

Erick offered him an out.

“I have made the spell [Reincarnation].” Erick offered, “You wish to leave this land behind? To step away from the war, and what is to come? You can. I can offer the same to your daughter. New faces. New race, if you want. Such an offer will set your level back to 0, among many other smaller nuances. It would have the same effect on your daughter. I can help you two to regain level 20 or higher through killing crystal mimics, to help set you on a path of your own choosing. I can set you down anywhere in the world. There will be no way for anyone else to know who you were. To track who you were before. I will not openly offer this power to any who ask, but to you, I offer this, freely and without reservation or attachments.” Erick said, “For if you accept, you will be out of this life forever.”

Valok had been too stunned by the offer to speak yes or no, so Erick had explained what such an offer would entail, and now, with Erick’s explanation over, Valok still had no answer. Erick kept his own countenance even and unworried, but inside, he was breaking up over all the ways that he had failed Valok already. Erick probably wouldn’t offer this option to most people, but Valok was still a shadeling, and Erick needed to do right by him.

Valok’s milky white gaze glanced left and right, looking for answers and finding none. Poi and Teressa met his gaze, but his own people would not. And then Valok looked to the ground. He stepped back, saying, “No. Not… Not that. Not yet.”

Into the deep silence of the room, and to get over what had just happened as fast as possible, Erick asked, “Then is there anything else that is most pressing?”

Mephistopheles squared his shoulders and then stepped forward, but not onto the white carpet. “Zaraanka wishes to ask about the possibilities of getting a few major Guilds to bring offices here. Specifically, Adventurer’s, Mage’s, and Wayfarer’s.”

“… Is there no physical need right now? Housing? Walls? Stuff like that?” Erick said, “I understand the need for the guilds, but…” His voice trailed off.

Mephistopheles happily announced, “We are a physically sound city, King Flatt, and as stability returns, then all physical needs will be seen to in the order in which circumstances require. I dare say it will be quite easier for us to manage with fewer people, too, and if Stratagold works out, then we will have lost nothing too important.”

Erick winced a bit when Mephistopheles said ‘King’, but he let that go.

Mephistopheles continued, “But the presence of the guilds will bring a legitimacy to this land that is unlike most other forms of legitimacy. We need that legitimacy, more than anything else right now.”

“Very well. I’ll work on that first, then. When I install the first Gate to Stratagold, I will have words at their embassy down there. Or something. I’ll see what I can get done.”

Except for Valok, there was a great deal of relief all around. Zaraanka was most relieved of all.

Mephistopheles smiled, saying, “Then now, we would ask what you would like to do with Candlepoint? Do you have any visions for the future? Some direction for which we can align?”

Ah?

Well.

Okay?

That was fast.

Apparently they didn’t need him for much? And they wanted to know what he wanted? Erick supposed this was fine. Expected, really, now that Erick had a chance to think about it. Of course they wanted to know what he wanted out of all this.

“Have any of you been to Songli?” Erick asked, “How do you all feel about widespread Denials? Was what you experienced today good, or bad?”

Looks of confusion passed around.

Justine was the first to speak up, “Stone Denial is useful. I would appreciate that one cast on a general basis.”

Ava rapidly objected, “Perhaps Denials cast upon specific buildings will be useful. I still need to be able to work the land and I cannot do that with your Stone Denial soaking into everything, King Flatt; no offense meant.”

“I don’t take offense at this at all. In fact, I am very happy that you are pushing back on my thoughts, and molding them to something more useful for all. I am not a tyrant, and I don’t wish to be. To that end:” Erick smiled, and then he reached forward and conjured a [Fairy Item] table directly onto the white carpet, before his dais. Six smaller casts created six chairs. The table and seats were a match to the stone table they had in the meeting room upstairs. “Let us have a discussion of magical improvements to Candlepoint, for I have high hopes to make this city both the most magically advanced land on this planet, and the most educated. Therefore, magic will eventually be rampant. Prismatic Denials might be necessary to maintain a sustained peace. But first, emplaced Denials and the capability to cast them without needing to know that magic yourself, is one of my first magics I wish to spread wide. I plan to do this through rune work and [Renew]. Please sit.”

Mephistopheles was the first to take his chair, barely missing a beat between Erick’s request, and accepting that request as though it were a command. Ava, Justine, Valok, Slip, and Zaraanka, took their chairs.

And the discussion began.

