Having reflected on his feelings, Jake was a lot clearer now than ever when it came to his own emotions regarding Meira. From the beginning, her existence had been forced on Jake, and he had just tried to make the best out of a bad situation. The elf had, in truth, frustrated Jake to no end in the beginning with how lacking in agency she was.

It was stubbornness and a sense of responsibility that made Jake push so hard for Meira to break through her mental walls and become her own person. In many ways, Jake had felt bad for her, but he also couldn’t deny that she did evoke some other feelings.

Meira was by all accounts objectively beautiful, and it wasn’t weird that she invoked an innate desire to protect. She had been defenseless and needed his help, which had made Jake naturally inclined to provide it.

Afterwards, when she began to make progress, Jake felt proud of her. However, that was about where his emotional involvement ended. He wanted to see Meira succeed and do well in life, but that didn’t mean there was more to it.

Also, no matter what happened, Jake felt there would always be some innate power imbalance between them and that any emotions Meira had wouldn’t be genuine. It was all just so messy, and Jake believed now was high time to unravel that mess and have a proper sitdown with Meira. With how much she had grown, he hoped that now he could have a conversation between two adults who were at least somewhat equal.

Only after that conversation with Meira did Jake feel like he could have a follow-up talk with Artemis. Jake had to admit that with Artemis in the picture, things in that realm of his life felt a lot more complicated, but he didn’t have regrets and would just have to deal with it.

The Sword Saint clearly noticed Jake in thought as he sent a telepathic message. “If you ever need any advice, feel free to consult. However, allow me to offer one small tip… don’t overcomplicate things. And by that, I mean there’s nothing more complicated than having to navigate relationships with too many people involved.”

Jake glanced at the old man and couldn’t help but joke: “What, are you suggesting I shouldn’t live the fantasy dream of having a personal harem of wives?”

“It’s indeed a fantasy, and the dream quickly becomes a nightmare,” the expert in the matter said. “The only types of partners who are willing to be part of such an arrangement likely aren’t the ones you wish to get truly serious with. I interpret that you desire to be serious with the Godqueen, and if you do, you should put all your efforts into it. It’s the simplest and easiest to navigate.”

“So, no harem?” Jake joked back.

“Not saying you can’t try to have one, just that I genuinely believe you would find the experience absolutely miserable, and I predict it won’t end well for you, judging by your taste in women. I myself have decided that I’ve had enough significant relationships for one lifetime. Sure, I may change my mind one day, but for now, I shall remain untethered and unbound,” the Sword Saint said, getting the last words in.

Jake nodded, taking the advice to heart. He did feel a little awkward having this kind of conversation, which is why he resorted to joking. Luckily, he was saved from delving into the topic further when there was movement in the next room, as the sleeping beauties were finally about to wake up.
