Within a handful of seconds, Fallopolis had de-limbed the ambush predator in a shower of crystal chips, and splashes of glowing red light. In a few moments more, she had torn the monster down to a core; a piece of red kendrithyst with a bright white light inside. She turned her hand, and the red outside of the core broke, splashing more red liquid light into the world like an egg cracking, then falling away to reveal a grand rad as bright as any Erick had ever seen. The jewel floated to the Shade, becoming a drop of light that touched her chest and sunk into her body, carving a tiny hole in her black, ruffled dress, but leaving behind bloodless, unmarred skin.

Erick had either directed an Ophiel to turn on his [Cleanse Aura], or Ophiel had done that himself. Either way, misted red ‘blood’ did not reach Erick; it turned to thick air before that could happen.

Fallopolis turned to Erick, and smiled, saying, “You didn’t react except to back up a step, and activate your [Cleanse Aura]. Why was that?”

“… I am not sure. Didn’t feel right when it was your kill?” Erick frowned at himself. That answer was not honest, but he didn’t feel like explaining any further.

“They’re just monsters, Erick.” Fallopolis said, “You can kill them, you know. You might even get some Participation next time. Get some nice levels!”

Erick looked to the red splashes dripping down the kendrithyst tower. He asked “That wasn’t a golem?”

“Not at all.” She gestured to the bloody tower behind her. “That was a Kendrithyst Mimic. The true adult form of the Crystal Mimic. They’re rather… rare...” She adopted a frown, and put a finger to her lips as if thinking some deep thought. She turned and viewed the tower. “Why did it attack me, though? They never come out against Shades.” She stood straight, asking herself, “Or maybe they always come out against Shades?” She turned to Erick, saying, “Hard to keep the facts straight, sometimes. Ol’ Melly-mel might be gettin' better, but some of us were stuck with his lack-of-sane for a long time. Still!” She admonished, “Best not freeze up like that again, Erick. Throw out a spell or two next time! But now... Where we were? I think you were asking me something about Daydroppers or mutilating people or somesuch minutiae.”

And with that curt dismissal of all of Erick’s concerns for morality, and decency, and maybe a little bit because of the power Fallopolis had just displayed, Erick had a thought. Who was he, to think that he could change the Shades? Maybe, if he were the same person he was a year ago, he would give that pursuit a bare modicum of effort, but knowing what he knew now… The Shades did not deserve that chance. So he switched topics.

“What other monsters do you think we will encounter?”

“I’m sure there’ll be something for you to murder soon enough.” She gestured to the Ophiel that was still running the [Cleanse Aura]. “Bring ‘em in for a landing, will ye? I got red in my hair.”

… She looked clean, but Erick moved the [Cleansing Aura] Ophiel toward Fallopolis.

The [Cleanse Aura] clipped the Shade, then enveloped her, as a practical explosion of thick air blasted away from Fallopolis, like she was the starting point for a fog bank, or the heat mirage of a fire tornado. Fallopolis luxuriated in the breeze, smiling faintly. Erick just watched, wondering what the fuck was being [Cleanse]d. In three seconds, the purifying storm became a trickle. The Shade looked slightly younger, maybe. She smiled. She giggled.

She whipped around, and continued south, her footsteps making dark flashes as she walked in the air.

Erick reluctantly followed, his own footsteps spilling light into the brilliant city.

He chanced, “So? Monsters?”

“Right!” Fallopolis began, “There’s the Kendrithyst Mimics, course. Can’t never spot them till they move. Luckily, your Ophiels’ got some phenomenal sight training. Clued me in before I got skewered. Then there’s the shadowolves, but they’re negligible. Shadow krakens, shadow beasts? They’re bigger and a little bit of fun, but you probably won’t see a shadow-aligned monster out tonight— You know. ‘Cept for Shades.” She glanced at Erick and smiled wider, then turned forward again and continued, “And then there’s the giants. We should see a few of them now or then. Mostly just some weak ones my compatriots are looking to cull from their flocks… Probably… But Kendrithyst is a lot of empty space, so meeting the monsters you might expect to meet can be rather difficult sometimes. Then there the swordwings! Those are new. Skyhook created those from tiny razorwings, and then loosed them in the city about four months back…”

Fallopolis spoke of monsters known, and unknown, as the two of them walked across crystal chasms, ever south. The Palace District was about 120 kilometers distant; Erick wasn’t quite sure, since they wouldn’t be flying directly there. They were moving double-time, though, so maybe they’d actually make it to the party in under 24 hours. But their direction...

Their direction could be a problem, as the Swamp was thirty kilometers south of the Crack, and directly in their path. The Witch lived in that land of curses, poison, and dark waters. Killzone had shown Erick a map, and given him a dozen pathing options, but all of them went around the Swamp. Erick did not really want to go that way...

But Fallopolis spoke on, not giving him a chance to talk.

It was probably on purpose.

She did have a lot to say about monsters, though. Erick could almost believe that she truly did tell people what they needed to know to survive and thrive in Ar’Kendrithyst. Almost.
