Dressed in good clothes, but wrapped in his white [Conjure Armor], Erick’s booted feet sunk ever so slightly into the sands of the Crystal Forest. To the left and the right were shadows, deep and threatening, but they did not reach him, for the light of the sun and the Dead City stretched out through the Crack, to light the way forward, into danger, into the dragon’s maw. Wind flowed through the red and purple break in the wall, shredding on crystal, whistling a tune of desolation.

A woman stood in the Crack, waiting for Erick to acknowledge her, or whatever it was she was waiting for.

Wild, white hair. Tanned skin. Shimmering black clothes, that were almost like a tuxedo. Shade Fallopolis held a spike of Kendrithyst in her left hand, as she called out a welcome, her bright white eyes shining even brighter as she Named Erick like he was a phenomenon, instead of a person. A ‘Fire of the Age’. There was surely to be more such Naming as the spectacle of Shadow’s Feast played out over the next ten days, but Erick was reasonably prepared.

The Feast would be ten days for Erick, but for the rest of the world, it would be 12 hours. He had no idea what would happen during most of it, but maybe it wouldn’t be so bad. If he truly was ‘Untouchable’ (yet another Name), then maybe it wouldn’t be so bad.

Fallopolis lowered her staff, and said, “There are some rules.”

Erick already knew this. He countered, “I have to be inside the city before the party starts. The sun is about to set, and you are blocking the way.”

She scrunched her face into a delightful, old-woman smile, saying, “All true! And yet, I will continue to block your way until such time as I decide to let you into my home.”

“Please be quick with your rules, then.”

Fallopolis nodded, then said, “First, I demand some chocolate, then some flowers, and only then, will we walk together to the Spire, and to the Palace District.”

“… Are you to be my plus-1?”

“We will have a day to figure that out as the journey is just as important as the destination. But for now: I want to be your Plus-1.” Fallopolis twilled her free hand through the air, adding a bit of whimsy to her voice, as she added, “You may pick another at the party; there is no rule against indulging in a healthy sexual appetite.”

Skipping right over the idea that he would want to bed a murderer like her, Erick said, “Then I have my own rules.” Not bothering to wait for a confirmation of his ability to request his own rules, he demanded, “There will be no anger over the littlest things, no torturing of innocents or people with lesser power than you in my presence or to my knowledge, and none of that cursing nonsense that I heard you committed against Allan, and that I am sure you have committed against many others.”

Fallopolis had almost said something when Erick demanded his own set of rules, but when he barreled right over her attempt to speak, she merely pursed her lips in surprise. Then came a coy smile. “You’re a man after my own heart. I accept.”

With a series of thoughts, Erick directed three spare Ophiel to blip to three different locations, whereupon he gathered bluebell stalks, purple flarefire flowers, and sweetred rushes. The three flower stalks grew in a few different places in Spur, from the Garden and used as a spice, to the Adventurer’s District, to inside flowerbeds his new noble neighbors had constructed then filled. Erick had taken notice of them all in his various walks through the city, for they were each beautiful, smelled lovely, and all reminded him of snapdragons, with their hundred tiny flowers radiating from thick stalks. They would make a fine bouquet.

Those cuttings landed in Erick’s quick Handy Aura grasp. While another Ophiel began copying some chocolate bars and cakes out of the tray of desserts for the party, Erick turned the flowers into a proper arrangement.

Not ten seconds after Fallopolis’s agreement, Erick still stood five meters from the woman, but he was no longer empty-handed. One held a splash of red, violet, and blue flowers, wrapped in a bit of conjured twine, while the other hand held a stone box, full of chocolate items. With a final touch, Erick cast a [Cooling Ward] upon the inside of the box.

Fallopolis smiled the whole while. She let go of the kendrithyst staff to let it float to her side, as she held her hands forward, making grasping motions with both. She teased, “You have to give them to me, Erick. I won’t take anything from you.”

Erick breathed deep, and saw the final edge of the sun threaten to vanish beyond the curve of the crystal metropolis, beyond the Crack. He stepped forward, crossing into the Crack proper, edging below the overhang of the wall above. Now one meter from Fallopolis, he looked the woman in her white eyes…

… And handed her the chocolate and flowers.

She took them, squealing a little, as she backed up, then rushed down the sands, playfully racing down the red skyroad that led further into the city, calling out, “Get all the way in, or the Barrier Magic will kill you!”

Erick looked left and right, and saw something in the red-purple Crack. There waited a glittering darkness, deeper than the shadows that were already there, prowling the crystal corridor.

Fallopolis, now down upon the red skyroad leading further into the city, and all the way out of the Crack, called out, “I’m not joking! Dying to your own foolishness is something we will not prevent.”

Erick stepped forward—

A bar of void-dark blackness, stretched behind him, and through a suddenly-dispersed Ophiel, covering the outermost shell of the wall of Ar’Kendrithyst. Erick rapidly pulled his clothes and food and bags inward, out of the way, and he, too, raced down the sands, spilling into the city. And then another bar appeared, crossing the first, like someone was weaving threads across the entrance—

Shadow Spiders, moving faster than the eye could see, but Ophiel had a hundred eyes, and some of them were still outside the Crack. They watched as spiders leapt the Crack, and continued on along the wall, spreading dark threads as they passed.

Erick stepped onto the red skyroad, and kept moving forward. His Ophiel followed, safe, but the ones outside were slashed in half, as they tried to pass through where there were no threads, only to have a spider impact them like they weren’t even there.

Void-dark threads expanded, soaking together—

Erick rushed into the city, proper, resummoning the few Ophiel he had lost. And then he noticed Fallopolis grinning at him. He was on a collision course with the Shade. With an ungainly shift to the left, Erick avoided the unwanted interaction. His Ophiel flowed forward around him, providing eyes in every direction.

Centering himself and standing less awkwardly, Erick looked to the Shade. The Shade smirked, as her flowers and box of chocolates hovered to one side, and her crystal staff hovered on the other. She lifted a finger, and as Erick’s heart suddenly pumped hard, she angled her finger further upward.

With Ophiel, he looked in every direction. He never took his eyes off the Shade.

In fact, he should not have been on a collision course with her, at all. She had moved into his way. But, whatever. She was playing power games, and Erick would have to let her. Erick focused in every direction, with all of his Ophiels’ eyes.

Down, were shadows, crawling in the glowing, purple kendrithyst. Behind him was the crystal-side of the wall, heading off into the distance. To the left, was the Crack, which was now completely filled with shadows. From one second to the next, the shadows shifted. The Crack vanished, as red-purple kendrithyst rapidly filled in the break, turning the red skyroad under them into a simple avenue that ended in a T intersection, with one part heading directly into the city, to Forward Base, the northern part heading down on a descending road that may or may not have led to Fallopolis’s ‘home’, and the southern part traveling along the inside of the wall, like a ledge hugging a crystal mountain.

Erick briefly regarded the city on his right as he also looked skyward, following Fallopolis’s finger.

Ar’Kendrithyst was as beautiful as it was deadly. Spires of glowing red-purple crystal reached into the dark sky, while millions of stars lit the night. It was an impossible sight; one that he didn’t see with his own eyes, but Ophiel’s didn’t suffer from mortal problems such as light blindness.

And then the sky changed.

What appeared in the sky were not the three moons of Veird.

They were planets.

What once was black expanse, gave space over to a bright green and blue orb. Continents of unfamiliar shapes appeared as Darkness retreated. Erick couldn’t see it with his own eyes, but with a few Ophiels turning themselves into little more than an organization of giant eyes and tiny wings, Erick saw a lot.

Cities on coasts. Floating mountain ranges skipping over deserts. Whale pods swimming in oceans.

And then Erick realized he was not looking at a planet. It was shaped like an orb, yes, but those oceans were too deep to be real, their depths too visible to be anything but an artistic creation, while the continents floated over the waters, and the waters floated over the land. It was a place kept in harmony with itself, and though there was a passing resemblance to a normal planet like the one Erick grew up on, the physics of this illusion in the sky were completely alien.

Its physics were like Veird, but taken to the next magnitude of crazy. Exposed Underworlds. Oceans floating over surface continents—

The darkness above pulled further back, revealing another ‘planet’ like the first, but with land made of light and oceans made of fire. It was like looking at the sun, up close, but very much not.

Another orb appeared. Ice and wind.

Another orb. It was a city. That was all Erick could tell. Buildings and waterways and very few green spaces, but mostly buildings. Spires of metal. The shimmer of glass. Lights everywhere. Those lights set the city aglow, making it appear as an illuminated Jackson Pollock painting.

More cities appeared, each shaped without regard for the physical universe Erick grew up knowing, and believing to be the only shape that reality could take. None of the later ones to appear were as large as the first to appear, but appear they did, filling in the black space above.

Erick glanced to Fallopolis, as she snapped a piece of chocolate off of a bar and had a bite. She smirked at Erick, and returned her attention to the sky, seeming to enjoy the spectacle of it all.

The sky shifted again.

A flow took hold of the universe above. A liquid drama. A density that moved, but barred no sight, and impeded no light. Erick recognized the sight immediately. He had seen paintings and read stories, but he had never seen a true representation of what the Mana Ocean actually was. And now he had.

The Mana Ocean appeared in the sky and Erick felt that if he wanted to, he could step into the air, and swim to the city planet, float to the world of light, plunge into the depths of the water and stone world to seek a new existence untouched by mortal hands. But it was an illusion. It had to be.

Erick blinked, and the grip of an unknown magic broke. He looked up again, and saw the same sights, but he knew them for facsimile. Why would he want to go exploring any of that? He liked living in Spur. He wasn’t an adventurer, like Jane.

He turned to Fallopolis. Somehow, he had taken his real eyes off of the Shade, and turned his sight toward the illusions above. A flush of adrenaline raced through his chest.

Fallopolis stared at the sky, too, with a dejected look about her. And then the moment passed. She was a Shade again, with bright white eyes. She turned to regard Erick with a cold countenance. She said, “It’s an illusion to give us a taste of what we’re trying to achieve. Some choose to lose themselves in this one week a year, staring at the sky and what could be, but never coming out into the open, otherwise.”

Erick felt like arguing against the implication that Shades were hermits, and so he did, “And you’re going to tell me that these ‘hidden ones’ are more the style of true Shades? That they’re not the megalomaniac killers who are the front of your whole Kendrithyst city operation, that you do this to better hide your cult’s true intent? That they’re good guys?” He sarcastically asked, “What do they do? Give money to charity?”

Fallopolis smiled wide, and then wider. When Erick was done with his mini-rant, she said, “Completely wrong! They’re all irredeemable killers and altogether awful people. Not a single one of them deserves power, but they all have it anyway. Even those hidden Shades just have hidden operations, inciting horror and pain the world over, all in an attempt to bring down the Script—” She pointed upward. “—And to bring that back.”

“You, too?”

“Of course!” She said, “I usually work to kill other Shades and take their stuff, though. That’s my shtick.”

“I’ve heard that before. Tell me: how is that supposed to work?”

“Usually, I end up turning someone’s project on their head, and they solidify their weaknesses. Or, I win, and take what they worked to achieve. Outside of the City, this means I kill a hundred people here, end a family line there. Or backstab a colleague just as they’re about to realize some important goal, and then I take their stuff.” She shrugged. “That’s the rare event. Most of us stick to Kendrithyst, consolidating our resources and planting prizes for those with the power to take them. To that end, the most common thing I do is to lead a team of adventurers into a project inside Kendrithyst, and have them either die or do my dirty work for me. Fun times!”

