“I’m not going to disagree with it being awesome, but I should warn you it’s likely a lot worse than you think,” Casper said, clarifying. “The walls have incredibly high base damage reduction, meaning that they can take nearly unlimited weaker blows, but risk breaking from one singular powerful attack. In other words, it wouldn’t work on actually strong enemies, and is only good on large groups of weaker foes. This isn’t mentioning the high cost and time requirement to make those stakes, which I have to place down beforehand, by the way.”

Jake nodded along to the explanation, though he was fairly confident Casper was trying to downplay his own skills. He always downplayed his own skills, even at work pre-system, which was probably why he never got promoted despite being the best developer in the company... or he didn’t get promoted precisely because he was the best developer in the company. Either way, Casper only knew how to brag as a joke.

“Sure, that formation, but I’m sure you have plenty of other tricks in the bag,” Jake said with a smile. “Also, why do you even complain? Didn’t you just get a level from that?”

While Jake hadn’t leveled up from slaying the thirty-two Construction Golems, Casper had gained a level, meaning the system also recognized his contribution.

“I’m not complaining about gaining a level, I’m complaining about having to create another pile of Sealing Stakes later,” the Risen sighed. “They are such a pain to carve and infuse.”

“Man, I’m feeling so sorry for you,” Jake said with a deadpan expression. “Is there anything I can do to make things better for poor little Casper?”

The Risen gave Jake a glare before just smiling. “We can finally pick up some speed and get killing. I doubt I’ll get much out of Construction Golems either, so let’s find something actually interesting to fight. Hopefully, we can even encounter a pile of experience – I mean, an enemy powerful enough for some of my single-target focused curses to be relevant.”

“If not, we should file a complaint with Minaga for making the place too easy,” Jake nodded as he motioned for the two of them to enter the labyrinth proper.

“Oh, for sure, and we should leave a bad review written on a massive billboard outside the dungeon entrance,” Casper agreed, following after Jake as the two flew forward.

“By the way, the future version of this place, eh, dungeon two to four, had traps and stuff, right?” Jake asked as the two approached one of the large construction holes in the utterly massive wall of the Grand Labyrinth.

“Yeah,” Casper nodded, entering with Jake. “Though considering this version is still being built, I seriously doubt they implemented any traps yet.”

“Right,” Jake nodded. “Yeah, I guess that tracks.”

Casper was totally right; it wouldn’t make any sense for an in-construction Grand Labyrinth to already have fully functional traps, right? No, no, it really didn’t... but had something not making sense ever stopped Minaga from doing something?

No, no, it hadn’t.
