As the light expanded and solidified, his hopes were dashed. This wasn’t magic—well, it was, but not his. A short, green, humanoid creature with long ears appeared out of nowhere. It barely reached his chest and was fully naked, as well as skinny and bald. Jack thought it looked like a child.

It then turned around to look at him, and he almost screamed. This was no child.

Its mouth was unnaturally wide and filled with sharp teeth. Its nose was long like a finger, its hands sported short claws, and its yellow eyes were filled with malice. It grinned at him, while Jack could only stare.

Goblin, Level 2

Goblins are weak, primal humanoids who move in large groups. They are barely intelligent enough to cook their food, and they often derive pleasure from torturing their victims. Cultivators are advised to kill them on sight.

“Kekeke…” The goblin chuckled in a high-pitched, grating, evil-sounding voice. “Weak, tasty human… I will eat your legs first, kekeke…”

A myriad thoughts ran through Jack’s mind, all at once. He was terrified of this creature. It wanted to eat him alive. He had to escape.

At the same time, a different part of his brain, the analytical one, couldn’t help but notice how this System manipulated him. It spawned a man-eating monster right in his face, made it clear they were enemies, and said it was okay to kill it. Moreover, it gave the monster an ugly, terrifying visage, as well as opening lines that served to squash any doubts in his mind.

Jack had a PhD—almost—in biology. He knew how evolution worked. Nature was brutally efficient, not comically evil.

This creature was not natural. It was engineered. It was fake, a target for him to kill or die trying. He didn’t know why the System acted like this, but he knew these facts because he had spent half his life studying nature and the other half playing video games.

These thoughts snapped like firecrackers in his battle-addled brain. It took less than a second for all the connections to be made, and then came the realization that they were worthless.

He could only fight.

Now would be a good time for magic, he thought, but nothing came. He scanned around, and there was no sharp rock for him to use. He carried no knife. His car key was electronic.

There was no weapon. There was also no time.

He got up and clenched his fists. The goblin pounced.
