"After that, I went back home to write down my notes," I explain to Sandra how I spent my first day off. While talking to Sandra, I removing the kaglese arrow shaft from the forge, moving over to my anvil to use my smaller hammer to straighten it out better. Just looking at the arrow shaft, you could see the slight bend on the one end that needs to be fixed.

“What’d you do next?” Sandra eagerly asks me.

Delicate work such as this doesn’t require a lot of force and produces a lot less noise, so Sandra and I can talk while I’m working without needing to shout at one another. "Well, I wanted to continue experimenting, but after I made it home and recorded my findings, I decided it just wasn't practical."

“Oh?” Sandra gives me a curious look, expecting me to explain my decision.

“I used up more mana than I thought I had,” I clarify. “Drawing all those runes and testing them took up a good chunk of my mana. Even if I went to Master’s clearing to get some blacksmithing logs to experiment with, I’d at most have enough mana to do one or two more experiments. It just didn’t seem worth it to bother Master for such a small reason.”

"I appreciate that," Master comments from his bench, only this time he's sitting up and watching me work instead of pretending to nap. It's actually Tabitha who's lying on her bench this time, looking like she's bored to death. Master has been ignoring her all day, choosing to focus on my work instead of entertaining the battle-hungry monster.

I look up from my anvil and offer Master Del a quick smile before turning back on my work. "Plus, by the time I made it home, Mom had already finished most of my armor and needed me to stand still to tailor it properly. Mom made me stand in place for an hour before she was happy with her work," I chuckle, recalling my day to Sandra.

"The same armor Tabitha destroyed yesterday?" Sandra's question makes me pause mid-swing. "Your mom must have loved that," Sandra giggles to herself in sadistic glee.

I turn my head and narrow my eyes at my friend, causing her to stop laughing immediately. "Sorry," Sandra holds up her palms in a placating gesture and retreats a half step back.

Letting out a sigh of frustration, I move the kaglese arrow shaft back into the forge. “Needless to say, Mother was not happy when I returned home last night.”

"You can't blame your mom for being mad," Sandra tells me, casting a glance at Tabitha, who's staring up at the sky blankly.

"I know; I just felt bad after trying so hard to defend myself."

“If you can call what you did yesterday defending yourself,” Sandra pokes fun at me again, sounding a bit too happy at my situation. Is it just me or does Sandra have a bit more bite to her these days?

“Maybe you should just spend my sparring days with Richard,” I snap back.

“And miss watching you get your butt kicked, no way,” Sandra smiles at me. "I spent the last five years in Drey studying; watching the two of you fight is the most interesting thing I've ever seen in years.”

“Didn’t your magic teacher take you out of the city to hunt goblins?” I point out to Sandra.

Sandra snorts and waves off my question. "We were a group of mages escorted by a handful of mercenaries. We were more in danger inside the city than we were outside hunting goblins. Now watching you and Tabitha fight, that's action! Even if you can't do anything against her," Sandra can't help but throw in that last little quip.

"I'm getting better," I defend myself while pulling the kaglese arrow shaft out of the forge and moving it back to the anvil. I got the bend out, and now I need to do my best to round it out perfectly.

"Well, it is getting harder to follow the two of you," Sandra admits with a crestfallen look. "But what was up with yesterday? It looked like she was meaner than usual, and that's saying something."

“You missed it,” I tell Sandra. “The day you left to hang out with Richard, I scored my first hit on Tabitha, and apparently, that means she doesn't have to go easy on me anymore."

“Gods!” Sandra hisses through her teeth. “No wonder you were trying to dodge so much.”

“Yeah, yesterday I was trying hard not to ruin my chest piece, but that just backfired on me. I was trying too hard to dodge and block Tabitha when I should’ve been looking for an opening. If I swung at her more, my armor might have lasted longer than it did,” I admit in a downcast voice.

"Alright," Sandra claps her hands, drawing my full attention for a quick moment. "As much fun as it is making fun of the golden girl, this conversation is getting a little too depressing for me. Forget about yesterday and tell me what you did on your second day off. I want to hear everything before you show me what you learned tomorrow."

I can't help but smile at Sandra's excitement. Sure, I was too concerned with my gear yesterday, but I won't make that mistake again. Mom was mad at me when I showed her my armor, but she quickly got over it and was just happy it did its job. Though, Mom did say she wouldn’t be putting as much effort into my armor if I’m going to destroy it twice a week, which is understandable.

“That’s right, tomorrow will be our first official day practicing enchanting,” I comment like it’s no big deal.

"Well, you'll be practicing," Sandra crosses her arms over her baby bump. "I have to watch until I can get my hands on my own engraving pen, and who knows how long that will take."

“Kervin should be here in another week or two,” I remind Sandra.

"I know, but I doubt he'll just happen to be carrying everything I need," Sandra pouts. "I probably won't get what I need until after the new year festival."

Shoot, she's right. And with all the chaos in Drey at the moment, there's no guarantee Kervin will be able to get his hands on the right mana gem for Sandra. Grey's dead, and yet he's still making life difficult for people.

I should contact Giovanni and ask him if he can help me out. Now that I think about it, there are a few more things I should ask for as well. My mithril supply is starting to run low now that I'm using it in more things, and it wouldn't hurt to get my hands on some more eathrosse and devil's poke.

I have enough herbs to make three more batches of engraving ink, but I doubt that will last long once I really start enchanting. And we'll go through our supply even quicker once Sandra starts practicing with me.

“I think I might be able to help,” I reassure Sandra.

“Really?” I see Sandra brighten up out of the corner of my eye as I hold up my arrow shaft and examine it for any flaws. I’ll still have to make a few more adjustments after the arrow is completed, but the shaft is good enough for now as it is.

“I can try,” I tell Sandra as I place the completed arrow shaft on my workbench. "That's two down," I remark out loud more for myself than anything. I don't know what it is, but announcing your progress just gives you a sense of accomplishment.

Sandra watches me grab the next ingot of kaglese and move it into the forge. “Are you sure I’m not distracting you?”

“You ask me that now?” I smirk at Sandra.

“I know these arrows are supposed to be important, and I don’t want to mess you up.”

"It's fine. To be honest, these arrows have lost most of their meaning since Pacore captured general Pitz."

“Then why are you making them?” Sandra gives me a confused look.

"Money, mostly," I tell her. "I was given most of my materials on credit, and I need to pay Silver Herd back."

"They just gave you all of your supplies!?" Sandra stares at me with her mouth hanging open in shock. "Merchant companies seldom do that."

I chuckle at Sandra's astonished look. "It wasn't all through credit," I elaborate. "I used my profits from my last delivery to buy my magic obscuring magic tool. And it also helped that Grey, Drey's Silver Herd branch manager, was trying hard to get me to sign a contract with him."

"I remember you told me about him. Didn't you mention something about solving your problem with him earlier in the week?"

"Did I?" I scratch my head. I tell Mom and Sandra almost everything, and sometimes I mix up who I've informed about something.

I shrug my shoulders, less I have to explain. “Anyways, yeah, I’m honoring the terms of my contract, even if it isn’t with the person I signed it with.”

“I get that, but why are you making arrows? Why not try a sword?” Sandra suggests to me.

"I admit, it crossed my mind." Removing the kaglese ingot from the forge, I move over to the anvil and start drawing it out, paying particular attention to the metal's internal mana structure. "It would be fun to try and make something new, but I don't want to risk the coin."

“You’re worried that much about money? How much gold do you owe Silver Herd?”

“About 450 gold coins." If Sandra was drinking something at the moment, she certainly would've done a spit take. Hearing how much I owe Silver Herd immediately sends my friend into a coughing fit.

“That much for some ore!?” Sandra exclaims once she finally catches her breath.

I nod, understanding her surprise. For a small village like this, 450 gold coins is practically a fortune. “Kaglese, the stuff I’m working with now,” I hold up the glowing ingot that is slowly taking shape, “Is a magic metal. I probably won’t try to enchant any of them myself, but the weapons I’ve made from this material are perfect for doing so, or so I was told. If I have to guess, each of the swords and spears I've made are worth between 3 and 5 gold coins apiece. At 70% market value, I would get between 168 and 280 gold coins for what I’ve already made.”

Sandra’s eyes widen the more I explain. “Then there are the arrows I'm making; I'm confident they'll sell for at least 50 gold coins apiece, maybe even more. I could make a sword with what I have, it may even be the best thing I've ever made, but it isn't what was asked of me.”

“Hey, Tabitha!” I turn and call out, grabbing the bored warrior’s attention.

In a split-second, Tabitha swings her feet off to the side of her bench and snaps up with an excited look on her face. “Do you have time for a quick match?”

I ignore Tabitha’s sparring invitation and instead ask for her opinion. “You know a bit about weapons, right? Which are more important, a good arrow or a good sword?”

Most of Tabitha’s excitement fades away when she realizes I have no intention of fighting her. But because I’m asking her questions about weapons, Tabitha doesn’t entirely revert to her expressionless self. "That's tricky," Tabitha thinks out loud. "Good weapons are always in demand, but I'd say quality arrows are always desired the most."

Sandra doesn't seem to get what Tabitha is getting at, so I explain it to her. "Swords can last a long time if you take care of them; arrows are the same, but which are you more likely to lose in a battle, an arrow or a sword? Archers are always looking for replacements, and it will be much easier for Silver Herd to sell a handful of quality arrows than it is for them to sell one amazing sword.”

“I get what you’re saying,” Sandra nods along in understanding.

Tabitha lets out a small laugh, drawing both Sandra's and my attention. "You make it sound like Silver Herd will have a hard time selling your weapons. I'm sure our Master has already worked out a deal in which your weapons will be immediately shipped to the front lines as soon as you pass them off.”

“Really?” I ask, honestly a little surprised by this news. Pacore seemed interested in my work, sure, but I figured he would simply ask me to make more weapons once I was finished with my order. To think Pacore is willing to pay retail price for my work, that’s honestly a little flattering.

“Your crafting abilities are far beyond your combat skills," Tabitha remarks with just a hint of dissatisfaction. "Master Pacore was looking for you even before the two of you ever met."

“He was?”

“Yes, during the battle in which we took Fort North Ridge, General Pitz managed to injure Master with a surprising arrow we were sure she shouldn’t have had.”

Ah yeah, I remember now, was it General Pitz or Pacore who mentioned that my arrow harmed him? "And that's a good thing?" I nervously ask. Knowing Tabitha, she wouldn't be mad at me for selling an arrow to the General, but I did indirectly put Pacore in danger, and she cares about her Master above all else.

"It is," Tabitha starts smiling like she does when we're sparring. "Thanks to your arrow, Master Pacore was able to relish in his fight with General Pitz. Without it, I fear Master wouldn't have had a single challenge this whole campaign."

Does she mean everything other than taking the fort was easy? “Glad I could help,” I off-handily remark as I turn my attention back to my work and Sandra.

“Maybe once you finish your arrows, you could try them out on me,” Tabitha giggles sitting back down on her bench.

Nothing would make me happier, but I don’t have the skills to use arrows this good. I doubt I could even hit the broad side of a barn with a bow, let alone someone like Tabitha.

“The point is, I’d rather take the money rather than chance it,” I tell Sandra.

"Don't take this the wrong way, Aaliyah, but what do you need money for? Technically, you're a student under someone as powerful as Pacore; I'm sure you can ask him for anything you need," Sandra reminds me of my wealthy new Master.

I scoff at Sandra as I move the arrow shaft that's slowly taking shape back into the forge. Sandra glares at me while I work the bellows, challenging me to prove her wrong.

