"Putting aside the fact that everything I ask from Pacore will put me further in his debt; the money isn't even for me. Eventually I'll be leaving the village, and I have no idea when I might be back. In case something goes wrong, I want my family to have enough money they can flee if they have to and still live comfortably someplace else."

“In case something goes wrong?” Sandra repeats.

I nod my head. “Tabitha has been alluding to it that I’ll have to prove myself once I’m brought back to Scholl. I don’t know what that exactly means, but if everyone in Scholl is like Pacore and Tabitha, I doubt they'll be challenging me to a dance-off."

“You're right; I don't think people will enjoy dancing with you as much as Tabitha does.” Sandra misunderstands my earthly reference, but she gets the point I’m trying to make. Still, her misinterpretation makes me smile.

"I plan on leaving a couple hundred gold coins for my family. That's why I want to get this order over with and focus more on enchanting before Kervin returns. Even if I can only enchant a few basic runes, I'll be able to make a lot more money quickly."

“Simple, I like it,” Sandra remarks. “But is enchanting really that easy? You still haven’t told me what you did during your second day off.”

“Mostly more tests,” I smile coyly at Sandra.

“Nice try, but we both know you want to talk about what you found out.” Sandra knows me well.

“Well, after my morning workout routine with Mother, I had to stop by here and grab the blacksmithing logs I mentioned earlier.”

“Naturally, go on,” Sandra eagerly pushes for me to get to the good stuff.

“Fine, I’ll skip over all the boring details of my family life,” I say exaggeratingly. When I don’t get that big of a reaction from Sandra, I let out a soft sigh and start explaining my second round of rune experiments, all while continuing to work on my arrow shafts.

"Even though I went to get the blacksmithing logs, I didn't actually use them in my first few experiments. You see, the night before, I thought of a really important test that I didn't consider during my first round of testing."

“Well, don’t leave me in suspense,” Sandra smiles at my theatrics and plays along.

“Do you think the size of a rune matters?” I pose Sandra the same question I had, and when her eyes widen, I can tell immediately she understands where I’m going with this.

"It's a simple question, but it has a big impact," I explain to my friend. "I took four regular planks of wood and engraved a basic tier 1 mana absorbing rune onto each of them, each a different size. The largest I stretched from one side of the board to the other while keeping the rune’s dimensions right. The smallest rune was about the same size as the runes I copied from the magic items. And the last two tests were in between those.”

“So, what’d you find out?” Sandra enthusiastically asks.

“Size does affect the runes performance, but only to a certain degree,” I explain my findings. “I measured how quickly all four of my tests could absorb enough mana to reach their breaking point, and it was surprisingly close. I expected the largest rune to absorb mana quicker than the smaller ones, and it did, but only by a little bit. In the end, the largest rune only absorbed mana 13% faster than the smallest one."

"Did the larger rune put any extra strain on the material?" Sandra quickly hits me with a question that reminds me how great it is to have someone discuss these things with me; I didn't even consider how a larger rune might put more force on the base material.

For a moment, I stop swinging my hammer and consider Sandra's question. "I don't think it did," I reply. "But the larger rune definitely took up more room, and I would've had a harder time engraving anything else."

“Then I wonder if the runes used to enchant buildings are different?” Sandra ponders out loud.

That's a good question; now I want to kick myself for not studying the enchanted buildings back when I was in Drey. "I guess we'll have to do some further testing down the line." All the same, I don't exactly have any enchantments you'd want cast on a building. I might be able to replicate a lightbulb, but that would eat up a lot of mana for something both Sandra and I could do with a basic spell.

“Looks like it,” Sandra agrees with me. “What was your next test?”

"The next few tests were a little boring," I tell Sandra. "I finally switched to using planks made from the blacksmithing logs and started checking to see if the runes worked differently on different materials. Basically, I retested my first few experiments from yesterday."

“Anything of note?” Sandra asks me.

"Not really," I reply. "My earlier hypothesis was proven correct in that the blacksmithing logs were just better at holding the runes. The stronger wood was able to hold a lot more mana than your run-of-the-mill timber and lasted nearly fourteen times longer than my experiments from the day before. It really does boil down to the materials you use."

Sandra nods along but doesn't interrupt me as I continue talking about my experiments. "After finishing my more basic tests, I moved on to the more fun stuff. My tests proved the blacksmithing logs could hold out longer than the regular wood, so I jumped straight into trying to engrave a full enchantment to see how it would work on a plank of wood.”

“What enchantment did you go with?” Sandra can’t hold herself back from asking.

"Nothing crazy," I tell her. "I only know a handful of complete enchantments, and most wouldn't exactly work well on a plank of wood. No matter what I do, a plank of wood can't purify water after all," I joke.

"I kept it simple and copied the enchantment found in Master's mining helmet. My thinking was a small ball of light shouldn't be too dangerous. But it was either that, or I enchant the plank to produce a small flame, and I think you can guess what the results of that would look like,” I glance meaningfully at the forge where the same logs are burning now.

“Did it work?” Sandra pushes for me to continue.

"It actually did," I smile in triumphant, remembering my success. "The enchantment worked like it was supposed to and produced a ball of light on the wood's surface where the light rune was inscribed. The enchantment even held for two minutes before the wood started to disintegrate."

Sandra looks a little disappointed that the wood didn't survive the test. "Even before the wood failed, the light rune was singeing the wood around it," I explain what I saw.

“But light spells don’t produce that much heat,” Sandra scrunches her face in confusion.

“The ball of light didn’t produce much heat, but the rune itself did,” I clarify. “Channeling magic didn’t exactly help the wood either. Though I did get something good out of the test."

“And what was that?” Sandra asks me.

“After channeling my magic for a few seconds through the completed enchantment, I finally unlocked the Enchanting skill. It’s official now,” I boast.

“Then I’ll need to complete a full enchantment if I want the skill as well,” Sandra ponders out loud. “Can I borrow your notes on the runes you’ve deciphered? I’ll make my own copies and start practicing drawing them.”

“Sure, no problem,” I tell my friend.

“Thanks,” Sandra brightly smiles at me. “So, what’d you do after you unlocked the skill?”

“I took a nap,” I chuckle.

“You did not.”

"I had to," I tell her. "Well, I didn't exactly take a nap, but I did stop to meditate for a bit. As I explained, enchanting eats through your mana quicker than you would expect. If I wanted to do more experiments, I had to pace myself.”

"How long did you meditate for?"

“An hour or so,” I tell Sandra as I move on to my next arrow shaft.

I'm surprised by how efficiently I'm working. I know I told Sandra she wasn't hindering me, but I didn't think either of us believed that little fib. Yet, here I am swinging my hammer as good as any other day, all while having a pleasant conversation with my friend. Swinging my hammer feels natural, the glowing metal moving as I want it with each swing; it almost feels effortless.

As soon as that thought crosses my mind, I feel one of my skills leveling up. I don't even have to pull up my status page to know Blacksmithing gained another level. I'm only one level away from reaching the level 75 test. Master said reaching level 75 in Blacksmithing means you're on the cusp of being considered a true blacksmith, or at least that's how Stone kin see things.

I want to reach that level! I want to push my skills to their limits and see what Blacksmithing does once I pass that test. I have plenty of skills that have passed two tests, and each has grown significantly more versatile; it's only fitting my blacksmithing skills finally join them.

“Then what’d you do?” Sandra’s question brings my focus back to our conversation, but my hands never stop working.

“After I regained some of my mana, I did the next sensible thing,” I wryly smile.

“And that is?” Sandra asks, bracing for the punchline she knows is coming.

“I engraved a flame enchantment to see what would happen.”

Sandra shakes her head from side to side with a smile on her face. "Didn't you always tell me not to waste resources when we were experimenting with engraving ink? And didn’t you say you didn’t want to test the flame enchantment?”

“I wouldn’t call it wasting resources,” I defend my actions, knowing that’s exactly what I did. “And I said I didn't want to use the flame rune on my first test with blacksmithing logs; I didn't say I didn't try it later. Plus, I wanted to see how a rune of the exact opposite nature of the material it's engraved on reacts with one another." I'm happy I was able to come up with that excuse on the fly.

“Sureeee you did,” Sandra looks at me like she can read what my true intentions were.

“I might have wanted to see if it would explode,” I admit to my friend. But in my defense, I was picturing magic grenades when I thought of the idea.

“So, how’d it turn out?”

“Well, it didn’t explode as I wanted it to," I tell her in a dejected manner. "The wood just caught on fire after a few seconds and sort of popped after the runes structure’s failed.”

“That sounds like an explosion to me,” Sandra remarks.

"Please," I scoff at the idea of that little pop being called an explosion. I've seen an explosion; hell, I've been inside one. "Even someone with your physical stats would've only gotten a few light burns, nothing more."

“Then did you learn anything?” Sandra asks with her best mom look. You know the look where your parents catch you doing something stupid and asking what you learned from your mistake, that’s the look Sandra has on her face. I bet Mom or Sarette are secretly teaching her how to get her face to look like that; I'd put money on it.

“I figured out the most expensive way to start a fire,” I joke, earning me a small gasp from Sandra. "No, but in all honesty, the test with the fire rune did help me out. I didn't notice it at first, but after I tested my third completed enchantment, I noticed something I missed with my two prior experiments."

“What was your third test?” Sandra asks for clarification.

“I copied the sharpening enchantment.”

“You tried to sharpen a piece of wood?” Sandra asks more than a little judgingly. “And how was this also not a waste of resources?”

“Have you never heard of a wooden sword before?” I counter much to Sandra’s amusement. “And, shut up, it was a good thing I tested it.”

"Oh?" Sandra's mocking smile fades, and she eagerly listens to my explanation.

“The enchantment didn’t do much to the plank of wood, but that isn't the point. While the enchantment was activated, I noticed a difference in the sharpening rune compared to the light or flame rune. It might have been because there wasn't anything for the sharpening rune to do, considering I didn't exactly specify an edge for the rune to sharpen. But even without a specified target, the sharpening rune held up remarkably well, and the mana inside the rune was flowing more naturally than the light and flame runes."

I give Sandra a minute to digest the information, and she quickly gets a look of inspiration. "The sharpening rune worked better with the earth mana in the engraving ink."

I can't help but smile and nod; Sandra came up with the same conclusion I had. The engraving ink we made is mostly earth mana, and even the ambient mana the ink absorbs to cure is processed into the stuff naturally. I think wind mana would work better for the sharpening rune, but it explains why the other two runes had a harder time working. I didn’t have the ink specific for the job.

“This could be a problem,” Sandra bites her lip.

"We shouldn't worry just yet," I tell my friend. "We have some half-finished knives in storage, and I'll try enchanting them tomorrow. Maybe it won't be that big of a deal that we only have one type of ink; the other enchantments still did did work after all."

“But they also eventually failed,” Sandra reminds me.

"Yeah, but the sharpening enchantment did the same thing. That's why I'm going to use steel tomorrow; I don't think wood is exactly the best material to hold enchantments. We can worry about tweaking our engraving ink formula after we see how the enchantments fair on steel. Remember, we already knew our ink isn’t the best out there, and we were always going to have to figure out how to improve it. This is just a reminder that we still need to devote some of our time to the subject.”

“I don’t suppose you were given instructions on how to adjust the engraving ink?” Sandra sarcastically asks me, knowing full well how little information I was given on the subject.

