“It's still your apartment, Ren.” Frikara said through the door and he opened it to see them sitting in various spots. “You don't have to knock.”

“What if I had company with me?” Ren asked as Teepo flew up to land on the ceiling.

“You would have called to warn us.” Andrela said and laid back on the bed as she put her hands over the slight bump on her belly. “Ren, do I look fat?”

“If you're referring to the little bump that almost no one would notice, even if you were naked, the answer is a resounding no.” Ren said, and the other maids and Xuunah chuckled. “I know you're all still recovering from my visit this morning, so I won't ask if you want to do it again.” He said and walked over to the bed and stored his clothing. “Plus, I've got some Adventurer's business to take care of.”

Andrela nodded and sat up to make room for him, and none of the others made a move to join him on the bed.

“Don't everyone rush over at once.” Ren laughed and climbed onto the bed.

“If you're leaving, we have to give you room anyway.” Navruth said.

“You don't have to worry about that anymore.” Ren said. “When I'm near you, I won't phase out anymore.”

“Wh-what?!?” All the maids said together.

“I've been away from you for far too long.” Ren said and held his arms out to the side. “I won't deny you cuddle time just because I'm busy.”

“Are... are you serious?” Frikara asked, and he felt her hope that he wasn't playing a joke on her.

“I'll prove it in about 10 seconds.” Ren said, and Andrela was the first to slide over on the bed and cuddled into his side. “Any other takers?”

Frikara couldn't resist and climbed onto the bed and laid down beside him, then cuddled in as well.

“All right. I'll see you all in the morning.” Ren said. “Logout.”

*

Ren's avatar lost all of its tension and life; but, it didn't fade, even though this was a safe zone.

“By the gods, he wasn't joking.” Lusinia said and climbed onto the bed with Ren, Andrela and Frikara. “I can't believe he's still considerate of our feelings, even though he's given us what we all wanted and could have tossed us out on our backsides.”

Frikara chuckled. “He would never do that.” She said. “You felt how much he missed us while he was gone.”

Navruth and Verwynn climbed onto the bed as well. They all nodded in agreement that he really had missed them, then they all turned and looked at Xuunah.

“It's all right.” Frikara said and waved her over. “We've all been in bed before.”

“That... that was when he was here to... to...” Xuunah couldn't finish the sentence, and Frikara laughed.

“You can touch him as much as you want when he's like this.” Frikara said and caressed his face, then his chest.

“He... he always stopped me before... before I could...”

Frikara nodded. “We will run interference for you, if you want us to.”

Xuunah nodded and walked over to the bed. “Thank you.”

“We all have urges we need the others to hold in check.” Frikara said. “Girls, remember what I was like when we first started staying with Ren?”

The other maids laughed, and started to tell Xuunah about their first encounter with Ren, and how things used to be. Xuunah listened intently as she laid down and rested her head on Ren's abdomen.
