“Ooh! Are there more?” the shaman squealed with Ali’s excitement, an odd sound coming from a Troll’s lips. Calen was almost certain Val’korr or Gara would have died from embarrassment.

The poppies in Mato’s hands were pitch black with petals that seemed to be made from pure shadow. The light from his magic seemed to vanish, eaten up by the shadows. And there were many more, they sprouted from a corner covered in a dark mossy growth that resembled the fur of a shade beast more than a plant.

“Calen, there’s something bigger up ahead,” Coria said, pointing to where a dense set of spires stood taller and darker than most. He squinted, but somehow her perception skill seemed to be better at handling the shadows than his. “Should we investigate?”

“Of course,” Calen said, his Explorer senses prickling in the back of his head. “Obviously, be careful and stay alert.” There was no way he was leaving here without a thorough investigation – he needed to know as much about this strange, shadowed realm as he could learn. The more they learned, the better they would be prepared for further excursions or defending themselves, and so far, the danger seemed manageable. Besides, we can always run if we need to. He still had the location of the rift firmly held in his mind.

Waiting only until everyone was ready, Calen pressed onward, eyes relentlessly scanning the shadows, leading them along a winding path among the spires and shattered stone. The shadows grew thicker, darker, and somehow more alive, twisting and shifting, darting and creeping, always just at the edge of his vision putting him more and more on edge.

A furtive darting, something small diving for the shadows, snagged his attention and he snapped his head to the side, but whatever it was evaded his eyes. But, by their sudden looks and searching eyes, Coria and Willow had both seen it, too.

There is definitely something lurking in the shadows.

He led them on, moving more slowly now, keeping his motes of light ranging ahead, scouting out the dark corners and hollows. He flushed out several smaller groups of Shades before he finally saw it. As his mote of light passed over a large boulder, it illuminated an indistinct something of pure black – a shadow, taken form and manifested with shape.

Shadow.

“It’s pretty weak,” Malika said. “Looks like one of those wisps.”

“A wisp?” Ali’s troll mage immediately perked up.

A whole lot of things suddenly made sense to Calen. The strange environment, the almost alive shadows creeping everywhere – the shadow mana in this realm was so dense and potent that it was spontaneously spawning wisps of pure shadow, probably thriving in the energy of the realm aura.

A rumbling vibration from up ahead snatched his eyes from the wisps, drawing his attention toward a large cluster of black spires. The shadows wreathing the craggy spikes of black stone twisted, stretching outward until a dense black form detached from it, spreading large wings that appeared to be at once insubstantial and trailing billowing clouds of black shadow – but the reptilian eyes gleaming crimson within the blurred face were instantly recognizable.

“Dragon!” Coria gasped.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
