p until the unique face of the less social troll of Delta's Dungeon appeared."Gnashly. Glad you could leave your cave to join us for once," he said snidely."Jeb handles things. I lay about and look at picture books. I like princes," Gnashly sneered."Jeb has a job and earns his keep, you barely do anything," Nu pointed out and Gnashly snorted, looking unimpressed."I wake jeb up for shifts. I do the hard work," she replied easily."Hi! Pretty girl! I am Dick!" the flower spoke and Gnashly blinked."You are flower," she pointed out."But I'm called Dick! Want to be friends?" the flower insisted."What friends do?" Gnashly asked and Nu watched the scene like a car crash in action."SlauGhter yOur eNemies befoRE ThEy LeaVE YOu!" Dick said, his eyes glowing dark blue then perked up with a small shy smile.Gnashly stared then smiled back."You shall read murder books to Gnashly. The ones with lots of kissing," she ordered. Dick beamed and looked happy.Nu's first order of business would be installing an age-restriction on some of the library ASAP."I'll read all the murder!" Dick said and Gnashly bend down and scooped out a massive chunk of earth along with Dick before patting her shoulder and planting Dick there."Murder! Gnashly roared."Friends!" Dick cheered back."Murder. Friends!" Gnashly continued."MURDER FRIENDS!" Dick yelled.Nu could see this being an issue but also hilarious when Delta finally found out.Sense of responsibility or morally correct thing?Responsibility or morals... Nu recalled the flood of the 1000 Crimson Minnows and he shuddered.It was time for a little revenge.---Grim stared as birds, squirrels, and rabbits flocked to Deo as he sang his silly little song on the way home after school."Row row your boat, gently down the stream!" he said and his voice was like balm to the soul but Grim's soul was bitter so it just itched."What's that noise? It's like some siren or song monster," some girl asked and Grim turned on his heel."It's called singing, you city-dwelling snot-nosed brat. Respect his singing or I will sue you," he warned the group led by a girl who looked spoiled or had everything just handed to her."Alpha, who is this sassy child who thinks I won't destroy him in a court of law?" the girl asked stiffly. Oh, Alpha was here too."Alphie!" Deo said excitedly and windows rattled from the vibrations."Princess this is Grimnoire. He's a local teen who has set up a successful Dungeon Guide business before Fairplay. This is Deo and he is... my friend?" Alpha said, sounding surprised at his own words."There's someone who can stand you?" the girl asked and Grim shot her a look.A princess?Well, if this didn't make his coin purse hum."Alphie is my friend and you can be my friend. I'm Deo! Welcome to Durence!" Deo held out a hand with a huge smile and the girl lasted 3.4 seconds before she crumbled and shook Deo's hand.Grim stared. This girl was... formidable. Most only lasted 1.6 seconds."I am Serma and this is my guard, Mas," she introduced while holding an orange slime.Urgh, why orange?"Hi, I'm Mas!" the boy said and Deo grinned back. There was a long ten seconds as they just kept shaking each other's hand and the sun seemed to brighten and birds began to sing. Their contact was raising the local mood into happiness.Grim had to prevent this!At almost the same time, he and the princess pulled the boys apart, standing in front of them with icy auras."Your friend is a delight and he has you as a friend... interesting," Serma said with glinting eyes."I thought royalty had gentle auras, not their guards," Grim said back, smiling tightly."I own your lands," Serma said, leaning in with a hiss."I don't see the queen's crown yet," Grim said back just as quietly."I like swords!" Deo offered."Me too!" Mas said excitedly."I'm giving Serma the tour. We've been to the bank, the book store, the fountain, the confusing alley that never ends, and now we're heading to the inn so they can book a room," Alpha said, ignoring the atmosphere as if he just didn't care for it."Oh, the royal treatment," Grim said, and Serma smiled back sweetly."Your village is so quaint and charming. I just have to see it all in one day," she simpered."Not everyone has the luxury of a castle and all their wishes granted, I'm glad you're coming off your throne to experience it," Grim shot back and they squared up, eyes glaring at each other."Grim's making a friend!" Deo said in awe."The princess is warming up to him!" Mas responded, just as shocked."Princess, you can be catty with your new friend later, we must sign in to the inn before night," a tall woman in knight regalia said as she appeared almost from nowhere."Lorsa, you are right. Some things aren't that important," the girl said with a nod."Please do come back, I just wanna listen to your holy Serma-one all day," Grim said back and the princess nearly stumbled at the wording. Grim was surprised at his own tongue. He had never seen a pun land so hard."I expected little of you, Grimnoire, but puns? I am truly shocked," Serma said and stalked off. Deo patted Grim while beaming."Grim, do you like the princess?" he asked as Mas followed Serma, shooting waves to Deo."No, you idiot," he scoffed and pulled Deo in the opposite direction with his hand."Snooty bossy arrogant girl," he muttered under his breath.
