“What? What do you mean, it was enlightening?”
“Exactly what I said. I am glad to have spoken to that man. Although I wish you two would have backed up. I needn’t have taken that punch otherwise.”
The mildly reproving tone and glance towards Trey nearly made him lose it altogether.
“That wasn’t our fault! You started that fight! Why didn’t you punch back or—or stop him?”
The King stared in confusion at Trey as if he were the one not making sense.
“Don’t be ridiculous. What sort of King would attack his own subjects?”
Trey’s mouth worked helplessly as Flos led them on again.
“The…kind that doesn’t want to be hit?”
“Hah! Good point.”
Flos grinned at Trey as he rounded a corner, tapping the gem in the center of the brooch twice. One second he was a wincing, commonplace laborer, the next, he was a King. Trey wouldn’t have noticed the slight swelling around his cheek at first glance. The sheer…Flos-ness of the man overwhelmed details at first glance.
“My King! Good morning to you!”
“Good day to you.”
Flos waved at servants who exclaimed upon seeing the King appear out of the middle of nowhere. Trey saw the corridor full of people behind him do a sudden double-take and stare in amazement at Flos. They called out greetings too as Flos abandoned the right side of the corridor and strode down the center again. It was better that way; people got out of Flos’ way no matter where he walked.
“I can’t believe you let him hit you. Why did you call yourself a bad King?”
“Because I am. Because it is true. They may see me as a King worth following, but I will not give myself such laxity. I have failed them. That they would follow me is a mark of the worth of my subjects, not myself.”
Trey stared at Teres. She shrugged. Then she frowned at Flos.
“Why didn’t you tell them you were the King, then? Then they wouldn’t have kicked you. Or thrown beer on your head.”
“Was that what it was? I thought it was water. But why would I reveal myself?”
Flos felt absently at his damp shoulders. Trey tried to explain, feeling all the while that he shouldn’t have to.
“Well, isn’t that what you wanted to do? It’s like…it’s like all the stories.”
“Stories?”
The King halted in the middle of the corridor. He made Trey explain to him what he meant.
“In stories of…King Arthur, I guess, he pretends to be a beggar, or an ordinary knight. He goes around doing good deeds and learning about folks, and then he reveals himself to them afterwards as the King.”
“Why would I do that?”
Flos looked blank. Trey opened his mouth and paused.
“Because…because then they’d know it was you?”
The King shook his head, frowning.
“If I were to do so, then that man would have realized he raised his hand against his King. I would not trouble him with that knowledge. And besides, it is best I keep such tricks secret.”
“But you got punched.”
“Yes, I did. But it was important. And I have a healing potion in my rooms. Follow me.”
Flos refused to continue the conversation until they were in his quarters. There he took a bottle of clear blue liquid from his drawer and let Teres dab a tiny bit of it onto his cheek.
“My stomach will be fine. But a King cannot be seen with a swollen cheek. That much is true.”
“So why did we do all of this?”
Trey complained as he eyed the potion bottle. He was wondering if he could use some on his sore shoulders. Or arms. Or legs. Or if he could take a bath in it. Flos sighed.
“You saw what will come, did you not? Death. Death for my kingdom and my people. It is war I walk towards, and it will take their lives.”
“Isn’t that how war always works?”
“It is. But I had not thought of the cost of it until now. When I was young I did not know why my people followed me, even to their deaths. Now I know, and I am humbler for it. They showed me their feelings—”
He winced as Teres touched his swollen cheek.
“—Quite clearly. And it is good that I know it. Because I must be the King to fulfill such expectations.”
He sat on his bed, head bowed as the healing potion worked its magic and his cheek returned to normal in seconds. At last, Flos raised his head and smiled tiredly at the twins.
“Children, did you see the other part? When I became a King again, did you see it in the eyes of my people?”
“See what?”
Flos smiled bitterly. He stretched out one huge hand and stared at it as he spoke.
“They do not see me. They stare right through me, at something else. An illusion far more complete than any Mars could create. At a dream.”
Teres was the one who hesitantly replied.
“You mean…at the King you used to be? Before you slept?”
“Not even that.”
Flos shook his head.
“They see a King who never existed. Their ideal King, the ruler they made from shattered dreams as I lay slumbering. A King without fault, who will bring them salvation. I am not that King. I never was. I never will be. And yet, that is the King I must be.”
He stood up. He took the bottle from Teres and gently put it back into the drawer of his dresser. When he turned, he stood taller than ever, or so Trey thought. And when he spoke, it was as a King, so that every word hung in the air.
“My subjects dream. It is a King’s duty to turn that dream into reality. I am a King, and I must act like it. I cannot hide behind petty tasks anymore. It is time to be a King in truth.”
He gestured towards the door, and this time the twins walked out with him behind them. Flos explained as they walked through the corridors, every head turning and bowing towards him.
“In truth, Trey, Teres, I have not acted as I should. You have seen me supervising the repairs of a wall, or managing supplies, dealing with the affairs of my kingdom. And while those are true and pressing tasks, they are not mine. I have always left such things up to Orthenon, my [Steward].”
“You did?”
“Of course! He is far more competent than I at such matters. Whenever an issue of logistics popped up I believe I said…what was it now? Ah, yes. I would probably say ‘Orthenon, take care of it’ and leave it to him.”
The twins gaped at him. Flos raised his eyebrows.
“What?”
“You didn’t even say ‘please’?”
“Should I have? I am a King, and he is my [Steward]. My faith in him is complete.”
“Yeah, but—”
Trey shook his head, an activity he had come to associate with Flos. He looked around, frowning, as he realized where they were going.
“Are we headed to the map room?”
“Yes!”
Flos smiled as he threw open the doors to the room where strategy was planned and Orthenon occasionally tutored the twins. He surprised a woman organizing the carefully arranged maps. He nodded to her.
“Will you fetch us a map so I might view it? I would like a…modern map of the surrounding area. Please.”
He looked vaguely pleased with himself for adding ‘please’ at the end. The woman bowed and immediately found him the required map. Flos unrolled it and the twins stared at the inked lines on parchment.
“Hm. This is only a few years old. But I see.”
Flos sighed as he stared down at the countries and nations marked out on the map. Trey and Teres stared. Compared with the map Orthenon had shown them earlier, this map was completely different.
Most of the nations to the west had been swallowed up by a new empire, the one ruled by the Emperor of Sands. Whereas, around Flos’ kingdom of Reim…
The King traced his finger around the tiny, almost ludicrously small plot of land that was his kingdom. His hand moved up, and he went from nation to nation, staring at the tiny names listed there.
There were so many small plots of land around his kingdom that it looked like a spiders’ web. Trey saw Flos’ finger point to a tiny sliver of land to the north, directly next to his capital city.
“I remember these lands. I remember…ruling them. Now each one is ruled by a [Lord], or part of a larger kingdom.”
He turned quickly away from the map. He nodded at the woman and she rolled it back up quickly.
“That was all I needed to see. Come, Trey, Teres. There is something I must do with the two of you.”
Trey didn’t get it. But he followed Teres and Flos out the door.
“What are we going to do?”
“I wish to see for myself what Mars saw. I should have sparred with the two of you myself, rather than leave it all to her. If she does not know your worth, then how can she evaluate you properly?”
“Wait, you don’t mean—”
Trey balked the instant Flos led them back to the training grounds. He and Teres backed up to the doorway as men and women training with weapons turned and called out exuberantly to their King.
“We’re tired. We can barely lift our arms!”
“Good! That means you’ve been exercising. But I would like to see your lack of skill myself. Ah, Mars.”
Flos turned and smiled in greeting as Mars hurried over. She blinked at the sweaty and irate Trey and Teres.
“Are you going to have them train again, my lord? I gave them a workout earlier. They might not have the energy for it a second time.”
“Just a few swings. It has been far too long since I wielded a sword in earnest myself.”
Flos accepted two training swords and tossed them at Trey and Teres. Both twins failed to catch their swords and had to pick them up laboriously. Trey froze when he saw Flos had unsheathed the sword at his side.
“Why do you have a real sword?”
“Don’t worry. It’s not enchanted.”
“That’s not—”
Trey bit his tongue as Flos swung the sword through the air. It was fast in his hands. He saw Mars staring with what looked like love at her King as he held the sword. Flos beckoned at Trey and Teres as they held their blades uncertainly.
“Come. I won’t injure you two. I simply want to see you strike.”
Trey couldn’t remember how Mars had taught him to hold the sword. Reluctantly, he swung at Flos’ left as Teres viciously poked at his stomach. Flos’ sword blurred and he knocked Trey’s blade aside as he parried Teres.
“Good! That was quite a determined thrust, Teres. Try again, Trey. Strike with all the force you have! Don’t worry about me.”
Gritting his teeth, Trey did. He slashed down at Flos and felt like he’d hit a wall when the man blocked. The sword tumbled out of Trey’s hand from the impact. He scrambled to pick it up, hearing laughter as he did.
It wasn’t fun being laughed at. Trey’s ears were red. He raised his arm, ready to try again, only to see Teres try to cut Flos’ head off. She looked as annoyed as he felt, but Flos was encouraging her.
“Good! Spirit! You have a good thrust—you might have run me through there. Perhaps Orthenon would be a good teacher for her, don’t you think, Mars?”
“If you want to give her over to him, I won’t object my lord. But he and I don’t see eye to eye on how to fight.”
“Mm. True. Well, what about you, Trey? Perhaps we should let you train with Mars or I while Teres learns from Orthenon’s style.”
Flos turned to Trey, casually blocking Teres as she tried to stab him in the back of his leg. He motioned her back and raised his sword.
“Mars has taught you to strike, but how about blocking? Come, we’ll take turns.”
He let Trey strike at him, his sword not budging an inch as he blocked. Then he showed Trey how to hold a shield in his other hand. Trey flinched as Flos raised his sword, but the King laughed and gently swung down.
“Brace yourself as I strike. And don’t let your shield stray from your body. When you strike, don’t expose your arm or I might lop it off. Good! Keep your shield up as you stab—there.”
Within minutes he had Trey gingerly keeping the shield in his left hand up as he struck and blocked Flos’ gentle taps to his shield. Soon, Flos had begun using more force. Trey felt heavy buffets threatening to knock his shield away. He braced himself, letting his legs cushion the blow as Flos struck downwards.
“I think I’m ready to stop.”
“Nonsense, you’re doing splendidly. Come, strike at me.”
Trey saw Flos’ face smiling broadly as he peeked around his shield. He also saw approving looks on the faces of the others watching him, and a smile on Mars’ lips. That gave him the strength to weakly cut at Flos’ side.
“Excellent! Raise your shield—I’ll be striking from the left. Harder this time.”
Despite being ready for the blow, Trey felt his arm compress against his body. He made a wheezing, gasping sound as he stumbled back. The King beamed at him.
“I—think—”
“Trey wants to quit.”
In his heart Trey blessed Teres. She glared at Flos, ignoring the disapproving faces staring at her. Flos eyed Teres and sighed.
“One last blow then, from each of us.”
That sounded fine. Trey managed to tap Flos’ sword. Then he raised his shield. Flos was smiling.
“Very good. You’ve the makings of a good warrior, Trey. Now—block!”
He raised his sword high, giving Trey a chance to raise his shield. The young man did, bracing himself. It was just one more strike. But then the sword came down like lightning. Trey froze. It was too f—
The sword struck Trey’s shield. It didn’t cut through the metal, but the impact of it knocked Trey flat.
Trey didn’t feel his knees give way. He slammed back-first into the ground, hearing his back go crack in various places. Trey felt as though his entire body was whumph. The entire impact ran through him and for a few seconds he just stared at the sky. Then he remembered he wasn’t breathing and tried to gasp for air.
“Trey!”
Once hearing had returned he heard Teres’ voice, and felt people crowding around him. Someone opened an eyelid and Trey tried to make his eyes focus. He heard his sister shouting angrily at someone and a contrite voice that was Flos’.
The wind was knocked out of him and it wasn’t coming back. Trey sat up at Teres’ insistence, but then lay back down. He felt…floppy. Could you hit someone so hard their bones turned into rubber?
He felt like he should stand up, but he couldn’t. Trey felt himself being picked up and was carried somewhere. He must have fallen asleep, because the next thing he realized he was sitting up in the room he and Teres shared, in his bed.
“Trey?”
His sister was standing over him. She had a bottle of yellow liquid in her hands. Trey opened his mouth.
“I don’t want to drink that.”
“You don’t have to. It’s a healing potion.”
“Oh.”
Trey thought about that.
“Can you pour it on me?”
“No. Hold still, I’ll rub it onto your back.”
“And my arms. They really hurt.”
Teres helped Trey partly undress. Trey groaned as he saw the bruised skin underneath his clothing, already turning spectacular colors.
“Ow.”
“Hold still. I’ll have you right as rain in a moment.”
