“I am terribly sorry, Miss. I don’t know what I was thinking.”
“Too right! Now if you’re done wasting time—we’ve quite a lot of supplies to be moved. Another [Trader]’s come by and we need all the goods taken up to the storerooms and the kitchens within the hour!”
She pointed down the hall and Trey noticed a stream of people carrying heavy loads coming their way. He expected Flos to refuse, but the man just smiled.
“We would be delighted to help, Miss.”
His comment didn’t impress the woman.
“Too right you will, or I would be having a word with Lord Orthenon directly after this! Get moving you two—I’ll send some others to help unload.”
“We can take care of it ourselves. My two…my niece and nephew here can help me. I’ll carry everything up.”
“Oh, a [Laborer] are you?”
The woman paused to look Flos up and down skeptically. He grinned at her.
“No. Just strong. We’ll have your supplies in a moment.”
Despite herself, the woman smiled. Even with another face, Flos’ grin was slightly contagious.
“If you can do it quick, I’ll have a cold drink waiting for you. For now, bring anything edible to the main kitchens and the rest to the store room next to the library. You know where that is? Then get moving!”
She strode off. Flos nodded at Trey and Teres, and they followed him again, this time heading out of the castle.
“We’re not going to carry stuff, are we?”
Dismayed, Trey stared at Flos. His arms still hurt from practicing with Mars earlier. Flos nodded.
“Of course! I gave her my word I would help unload that cart. A bit of work won’t be wasted while we observe the others.”
“But—aw—but—”
Trey didn’t get any further. In moments he found himself struggling to carry a heavy sack of something on his shoulders. He staggered after Flos as Teres did the same with an equally heavy bag. The King strode back through the castle, carrying five heavy sacks at once. Trey stared, and some of the other people carrying things made startled comments as Flos passed.
“Don’t kill yourself there, Mister!”
“Those bags of flour will wait, no matter how loudly the [Cooks] yell. It’s not worth a broken back!”
Flos laughed and responded jovially as he marched through the halls. He stepped into the huge stone kitchen and after being directed where to put his load, he and the twins set down their cargo and headed back for a second trip.
Trey was massaging his shoulders as he hurried after Flos. The King smiled at him.
“If your shoulders ache after only that, we’ll have to build your muscles, Trey! A set of good armor might not be as heavy, but wearing it for hours on end is far more exhausting.”
“Is that why you can carry all that at once?”
The King laughed as he strode down the corridors, following the right side’s flow of traffic.
“Hah! Well, I must admit that I’ve grown weaker than before. In fact…”
He frowned and his smile vanished.
“That was actually quite unpleasant. Carrying such heavy loads…it is little wonder few choose the [Laborer] class. I am beginning to regret volunteering to carry all of the [Trader]’s goods myself.”
Trey and Teres glared up at Flos. He laughed again.
“Never mind. A promise is a promise. Onwards, you two!”
He strode down the hallway, giving neither Trey or Teres a chance to object or throw something at his head.
 
——
 
An hour later, Trey would have sorely loved to kill Flos for volunteering them to carry an entire wagon-load of goods up several floors to the various store rooms and the kitchen. But any possible threat of violence was impossible; Trey’s arms could barely move and his entire body hurt.
He sat at a table in the banquet hall next to Teres. She was slumped over, but sitting next to her, a loud and obnoxiously good-natured Flos was sharing a drink with some of the other servants taking a break at the same time.
True to her word, the woman in charge of supervising the servants had given Flos, Trey, and Teres a half hour’s break to have a drink and a bite to eat. Trey had been too tired to do more than chew the hot, doughy crescents of spiced bread – a popular snack in the region – and sip some water. Teres was the same, but Flos was sipping at his drink of ale and laughing with a group of men and women as they sat and talked among themselves.
“I’ve only ever met a few men capable of carrying that many sacks of grain by themselves. You’d better watch yourself, or you’ll find yourself assigned to ferrying supplies up for good!”
“There are worse fates, I suppose. But I hardly think you all lag behind. I simply feel invigorated today, that’s all.”
Flos smiled as the man sitting across from him, a balding man with scars on his arms, laughed. Someone reached out to slap Flos on the back.
It was a strange thing. Wearing a different face and speaking with a different voice—even without his aura of command, there was something about Flos that drew people to him, made them listen to him. It wasn’t just that he’d done twice the work of anyone else in the same amount of time. It was that he cared. When he spoke, Trey believed without a doubt he was telling the truth from the bottom of his heart.
“In truth, I feel far more tired than I should be. Tell me, has it been so busy every day?”
“Aye. And then some. But we have our breaks and hot food and no one could ask for more. Besides, you know how it feels. We’re alive at last, and a few sore muscles means little for that.”
The man sitting across from Flos sighed. There was a smile on his lips, and a light in his eyes. Trey heard people murmuring agreement around him. A woman who’d been in the kitchens raised her mug.
“Our King has awoken.”
“He is awake.”
The man sitting across from Flos raised his mug to that. He didn’t cheer and no one toasted. But people drank and sat in silence reverentially, as if those words were a prayer. Trey reached for another piece of fried dough, but Teres had taken it. He looked up at Flos, and saw the man’s smile had become shadowed.
“Ah yes. The King. I haven’t heard much in the streets. What goes on in the palace?”
“Not much you wouldn’t hear about. Gossips always go into the inns at night to talk—”
The others agreed, laughing about how a few tidbits was worth a free drink in any tavern. But then the balding man clicked his fingers.
“What about those two twins, though?”
Trey sat up anxiously.
“What about them?”
The man sitting across from Flos laughed.
“Haven’t you seen them, lad? They’re scarcely older than you—but they’re a different type than you and I. Foreigners, from Terandria perhaps.”
“I heard they were from further than that. But I’ve not caught the name of the nation from which they hail. No one has. Only our King knows where they came from.”
Other heads nodded. The bald man grunted, looking less pleased all of a sudden.
“I don’t know what purpose those two serve. Aye, they’re young, but Lady Mars said she has no clue why our King keeps them close.”
“Really?”
Flos stared intently at the man. He drank slowly as Trey and Teres hunched over at the table, feeling guilty.
The bald man nodded. He leaned forwards conspiratorially, but kept his voice loud enough for everyone at the table to hear.
“She says they’re completely unskilled with any weapons. And that’s true enough. I saw them in the training grounds, flailing about with swords as if they’d never held one before. That brightened my day.”
“Hm.”
“I’ve no qualms with them being here, but I’ve been told they’re to be treated with the same respect as one of the Seven. Imagine that!”
“Lord Orthenon seems to respect them, and I have no earthly idea what Lady Gazi thinks. Lady Mars seems to share our opinions, but she’s respectful enough. I wonder what merits our King’s trust in them…”
The others around the table began gossiping about Trey and Teres. Trey was relieved that none of them had specific complaints, but he felt wretched. He was relieved when Flos cleared his throat.
“The twins are one thing. But what about the King?”
“What about his Majesty? I saw him walking down the hall just this morning. He met my eyes and I’ll swear to you all, he was the same man he once was. Just as great.”
The balding man spoke proudly and everyone nodded. But Flos shook his head.
“If he is as he was, that means war is coming, isn’t it?”
“And if it is?”
The man stared challengingly at Flos. The King did not respond. The laborer drained his mug, speaking loudly to everyone at once.
“If it comes to it, I’d be the first to grab a sword and follow him into battle. He has but to ask. Once our King raises his banner, we’ll follow him as before.”
“As always.”
The female [Cook] said that, and the people around her nodded. Trey blinked as he saw every face just as resolute as the balding man’s. If he but asks, we’ll go to war. He looked at Flos and saw something different written on the man’s face.
Anguish. It was there for a second, and then gone. Flos turned to look at Trey. Then he resumed listening to the people talking in loud, excited voices.
What did it mean? Something had bothered Flos. And it was why he had come here. Trey understood that without needing to be told. But what?
“Why is he upset?”
Teres whispered into Trey’s ear. He shrugged and looked around the room. No one looked upset. Just the mention of war had made other people come over. Some, most were civilians who’d never fought, even before Flos had slept. But a few at the table including the balding man had been soldiers. They spoke proudly of battles past, and of battles to come. There wasn’t a trace of fear or hesitation in their eyes.
So what had Flos seen?
It was a slow realization. It dawned on Trey as he watched Flos mingle and talk with the other servants and laborers, ordinary citizens, craftsmen and soldiers. It was in their wrinkled faces, the way they doted on Trey and Teres, asking where they had come from, where their family was—questions the twins had a hard time answering honestly let alone dishonestly.
It when Trey saw the youngest woman in the room, the young [Cook] in her mid-twenties, that he finally understood. He nudged Teres at once as he watched Flos laugh uproariously at a joke someone had told.
“I get it, Teres.”
“What?”
Trey hesitated. How could he explain? He thought and whispered into Teres’ ear.
“Think about the Great War, Teres. The Lost Generation—you know? Think of it like that. Only the opposite.”
She looked blankly at him, and then her eyes widened. She took in the room, the aged faces. The lack of young ones.
“Oh.”
It wasn’t the faces Trey saw that had bothered Flos. It wasn’t the living. It was those who weren’t there. The children. The young people. There were scarcely any people Trey and Teres’ age, and he had seen…how many children over the month he had been here? So few.
It was a flash of insight. Flos, the King of Destruction would go to war. He would ride off, and his kingdom would rise with him. They would follow his banner into war again, as they always had.
Only this time, no one would come back. Or rather, there would be no one to come back to. This time, there was no generation of young men and women to fight. It would be the fathers and mothers who took up arms, every living soul. There weren’t enough bodies left. This generation would be the last.
This was Flos’ kingdom. Dying. They had come to life, but that life was fragile. Tenuous. They were what remained, but if Flos rode to war, there would be nothing left.
Trey looked up and saw Flos looking at him. The King nodded, and turned back to the laughing men and women. When he spoke, it was quiet, but his voice quieted the loudest laughter.
“What a terrible King.”
He sat at the table as sound died around him. Trey saw every head within earshot turn. The balding man stared at Flos, joviality gone.
“What was that, fellow?”
“I said, what a terrible King he must be. To ask you all to fight and die again. What sort of King could ask that of his people?”
No one spoke. Trey looked around at the suddenly hostile faces. The balding man pushed away his drink.
“Are you new to Reim, stranger? Or did you never lay eyes on our King before now?”
Flos met his gaze squarely, without passion.
“I have seen him before. As he lay slumbering while his kingdom fell to ruins.”
“Then you know nothing.”
The bald man stared at Flos, face reddening. He pushed back his chair.
“If you never met our King before, then you’ve no right to speak of it. He may have slept, but we kept faith with him. We waited, and when he calls, we will go to war and yes, die for him without fear. Because he is our King. Now, I’ve got to be getting back to work. And you had best leave.”
He stood up, staring at Flos. The King stood as well, and Trey and Teres scrambled out of their seats. Everyone was staring at them. But Flos didn’t turn to leave. He stared curiously at the balding man, as if he were staring at something he’d never seen before.
“Why would you follow a King who abandoned you? Who left his kingdom to rot? Why would you love such a worthless King?”
The bald man stared at Flos across the table. His face went crimson, and then white with anger. His voice was barely contained.
“Because he is our King. Because we love him. Because we would follow him to the ends of the earth. Because he is worthy of respect.”
Flos shook his head.
“He is not.”
Silence. Trey saw the tendons bulge on the balding man’s neck. He saw his hand move in slow motion—and then the man threw a punch at Flos.
It was so quick that Trey missed the blur of movement. He only saw the second part of the punch, as Flos leaned backwards, avoiding the blow.
“Bastard!”
The balding man leapt onto the table and started swinging at Flos. The King dodged backwards, letting each punch miss him by inches. But there was only so far he could back up. He blocked one punch towards his chest, took a step back, and ran into Trey. Flos took the second blow to the face which sent him sprawling and a kick to the stomach before people pulled the bald man off of him.
“Get out. Take your uncle with you and don’t set foot in the palace again if you want to walk out.”
The balding man spat at Flos as Trey and Teres helped him up. The other servants and workers held him back, but no one spoke up in defense of the twins.
“Come on.”
Trey and Teres pulled at Flos and he let them pull him out of the hallway. Once they were out, Trey and Teres set a fast walk, hurrying Flos down the corridor. Only when they were a good minute away did Flos speak.
“Well, that was enlightening.”
The twins stopped and stared at him. Servants behind them cursed and dodged out of the way as Flos rubbed at his cheek. It was already swelling up.
