Trey followed Flos out into the corridor. He walked several steps, then felt someone grab his tunic from behind.
“Wait a second. Don’t follow him.”
“Teres! What are you—”
His sister pulled the startled Trey back into Flos’ room. Then Teres shut the door. Trey stared at her in disbelief.
“Teres! What are you doing?”
“I’m staying here. I’m not haring off this time without knowing what’s going on.”
“Yeah, but he—but—”
Trey stared at the door. Flos had been striding down the corridor. What would happen when he noticed the twins were gone? Would he notice they were gone?
But there was no arguing with his sister. Trey knew it just by looking at Teres’ face. Her jaw was set. Teres was still breathing heavily, her cheeks flushed from her earlier outburst.
“I think he’s going to be pretty cross when he realizes we’re gone. We’re supposed to follow him everywhere, remember?”
“Well I’m bloody tired of it. Aren’t you?”
“Yeah, but—”
Trey gave up. He agreed with his twin sister. He just wasn’t sure being rude to a King’s face was the best way to go about it.
Resigned, he stared around Flos’ room while Teres crossed her arms and stared at the door. There wasn’t much in the bedroom at all. Except for the head—Trey hurriedly averted his gaze, relieved it was facing the wall—he couldn’t spot anything remotely interesting. Besides the dresser, there was a wall closet, and a door that led out onto a balcony. But no objects of note. None whatsoever.
Well, there was an empty scabbard propped up against one wall. It was like a footnote, especially since the sword it belonged to was nowhere to be seen. Trey stared at it. That wasn’t the same scabbard Flos wore at his side. This one looked fancy, dark crimson and black leather or fabric capped by metal filigree at the tip. The metal looked like gold, and it shone dully the longer Trey stared at it.
He wondered where the sword had got to while he waited. Trey kept staring at the door. Would Flos notice? Or would he send someone to get them? He’d feel like a complete fool if he and Teres ended up staying here for hours.
One minute passed, then two. And then Trey heard footsteps, and Flos thrust open the doors to his room. He stared around, a confused and mildly miffed expression on his face. He caught sight of Trey and Teres and stopped.
First the King looked quizzical, and then his expression shifted to annoyed, and then amused once more. He smiled ruefully and chuckled before thrusting the door wider.
“What is it you two young lions object to this time? I asked you to follow. Honesty is one thing, but I do require a pair of legs so you may follow me about.”
“Will you explain what we’re doing first?”
Teres glared at Flos. He blinked at her, and then at Trey. The young man had crossed his arms to show solidarity with his sister.
“I am not used to explaining myself.”
“Well, we want to know.”
It was not witty repartee, but it worked. Flos laughed, and stroked his beard as he regarded the twins. He looked thoughtful, and happy again for some reason.
“Too long. Too long since I have heard dissent. Too long since I remembered—yes I will. I will explain myself. Thank you Teres.”
He turned and walked around the twins, towards one of the windows that looked out onto the city. Flos stared down at the streets and people below before turning his head.
“I am Flos. The King of Destruction.”
“We know tha—”
Teres’ peeved voice shut off as Flos raised a hand. This time Trey felt his jaws clamp down, though he hadn’t tried to say anything. There was a difference in the way Flos spoke now. He was serious, quiet and thoughtful, as he spoke.
“You have heard of my legend, at least, part of it. Once I ruled over this continent, and sent my armies to the other continents of the world. Some may have said I was poised to create a kingdom that would last a thousand years. But at the moment when the world feared me most, I gave up my throne. I recalled my forces and let my kingdom fall to ruin. I slept. For twenty long years, I slept.”
Trey had heard all of that before. But seeing the King’s face change, he felt like he understood far more. Flos’ face was bitter with regret.
“So I slept. The sleeping King of Destruction, sitting in his rotting kingdom as other nations picked my empire to pieces. My vassals scattered, and only Orthenon stayed by my side. Until I woke. Now my kingdom stirs, and my people rejoice. They say the King of Destruction has awoken, and that is true. However, that does not mean I am yet ready to act as a [King].”
He looked at the twins, something like pain in his eyes. That was a human expression, a mortal one. Not the look of a King. It was intimate, private. Perhaps not even the Seven had seen Flos look like this before.
“Twenty years. I feel as though I am still sleeping some days, Teres, Trey. It is not as if I can begin again so easily, you see? I doubt myself. I fear I have forgotten how to be myself. And yet, I must be myself, and as sure as I have ever been. Because now I am awake, I owe it to my people not to disappoint their faith again. And yet—”
He sighed.
“Earlier I mentioned my fears. I fear what I must do next. You see, I am a specific kind of king. You know it is my class as well as my birthright, don’t you?”
“Yes.”
The two twins nodded. Flos smiled unhappily.
“Ah, but do you know the secret of rulers? Not all [Kings] are the same. Those who sit upon thrones become different kinds of rulers. Some pursue peace, and their Skills and classes reflect that. Under their rule crops grow mightily, and their people rest under an aegis of protection. But not my people. No, my kingdom knows only one thing. War. I am a King who pursues war. It is in my nature, and when I act, it will be to lead my people into battle, not replenish the land or rebuild.”
A king who specialized in war. Trey released the breath he had held and asked the only question he could think of.
“Are you afraid of war?”
“War? No.”
Something shifted in Flos’ eyes. He smiled, and his gaze revealed something hungry and eager. And just as quickly it was gone, replaced by another, somber thing.
“I am not afraid of war. I do not fear battle. I long for it. But it is the cost I think of. I cannot shake the cost from my mind.”
The cost in bodies? Lives lost? Trey only half understood. Flos nodded back to the window.
“That is why I wish to listen to my people. To understand if they fear what I fear. I do not know. I must confess—that has never been one of my strengths. I can know the will of my people or hear their supplications from their lips, but I often fail to understand the why of it.”
“So what are we doing?”
Flos looked surprised as he stared at Teres.
“Listening. We will walk among my subjects and listen, today. It is time for it.”
Trey and Teres exchanged a glance.
“But…how can you listen if they know you’re there? Are you going to ask them?”
Flos blinked in surprise, and then smiled.
“No, we shall do it in secret. With this.”
He held up the brooch in his hand. Trey stared at the yellow jewel embedded in the center, nonplussed. Flos stared at his confused audience and sighed again.
“Oh, I had forgotten you would not understand. I should activate this now, perhaps, so as not to surprise you. Very well, observe.”
He touched the brooch and—changed. Before Trey and Teres’ astonished eyes, Flos turned from a King into—an ordinary fellow. Trey didn’t actually witness the change—one second Flos was there, and the next a slightly shorter, less impressive man stood in his place.
He didn’t have reddish gold hair, and his eyes were hazel. His belly had more flab and there were wrinkles in his face and grey mixed in with his dark hair. He didn’t look bad—but no one would ever confuse him with Flos.
Even his voice was different. It wasn’t as resonant, and it had a nasal quality.
“There. You see? A perfect disguise. Now that I think of it, it is better that I used it here, rather than where others might see me.”
“How did you—was that magic?”
Teres rolled her eyes as Trey stared at the brooch. She jabbed her brother in the stomach with an elbow.
“Obviously it’s magic, idiot!”
Flos nodded, showing the twins the brooch. It sparkled in the light from the sun, but didn’t shine or twinkle or do anything else that gave away its nature.
“It was a gift from Mars, years ago. It allows me to assume the shape of an ordinary person, a common man wherever I go. I have made use of it on occasion to learn from my people. I will do so again now.”
“So you’re going out looking like…that?”
“Indeed. And so shall the two of you! Yes, I think that would be best.”
He thrust the brooch at Trey.
“Here. Touch the stone in the center.”
Hesitantly, Trey did so. He heard Teres gasp and looked down at his body. He didn’t see anything wrong. He stared at Teres. Her eyes were wide as she looked him up and down.
“What? What is it?”
“You look different!”
“How? Am I uglier?”
“No—well, you were never a looker but—you’re just different, alright?”
Trey saw what she meant when Teres copied him. Her features altered. She didn’t become uglier or fairer, but her hair and nose and mouth and skin tone changed to make her look more like the people of Flos’ kingdom, rather than a London-born girl from another world. Flos nodded in approval as Trey and Teres stared at each other. Trey had to poke Teres experimentally to make sure she was the same underneath, and Teres exclaimed as she felt at Trey’s features and felt his real face underneath the mask.
“It is a temporary illusion. It will last for several hours if memory serves. We shall mingle with my people while we wear it.”
Flos looked happy at the prospect. Trey and Teres exchanged a glance.
“I suppose that’s alright, isn’t it?”
The strange girl standing next to Trey nodded, looking resigned.
“So we’re just going to wander about?”
“Perhaps. We shall see what occurs.”
Flos rubbed his hands together, looking pleased. He paused as he strode over to the door. Trey had a hard time keeping his eyes off of Flos’ face. There was no longer that strange magnetism around the man, and that was almost as disconcerting as his new features.
“We should avoid going near any of my vassals.”
“Why?”
Flos smiled, and it was another man’s lips which turned upwards.
“They would be able to detect the magic. Orthenon is alert for such tricks and Gazi would be able to see through such illusory magic. Perhaps even without her main eye. As for Mars, she might not notice, but I would prefer not to risk it.”
That seemed weird. Wasn’t Mars the one who’d given Flos the brooch? Flos opened the door and after glancing around for a second or two, quickly strode out. Trey and Teres hurried out into the corridor. Not too many people were about, and they didn’t look twice at Flos, despite him walking out of the King’s own bedroom. They didn’t look twice at Trey and Teres either, which he supposed was part of the illusion.
“Few will notice us, unless they are actively looking.”
Flos spoke out of the corner of his mouth as he walked more slowly down the corridor, the twins following him closely. Trey nodded.
“Um, my K—”
Teres elbowed him. Trey stared at her, and then remembered.
“F-Flos?”
“It has been a while since I heard that name. What is it, Trey?”
Trey gulped. He forgot the last question he was going to ask and blurted out his question about Mars instead.
“Why wouldn’t Lady Mars be able to see us? Doesn’t she know a lot of illusion magic?”
“Her? Hardly.”
The man Flos had become raised his eyebrows, looking amused.
“She is called the Illusionist, but not because she knows any magic of her own. Rather, she possesses many trinkets such as these.”
Trey nodded.
“I remember now. She told me. But why is she called the Illusionist if—”
“Watch it!”
Flos turned his head and quickly stepped out of the way. Trey yanked Teres back as four men carrying heavy sacks of something or other walked past them. One cursed the trio as he went past.
“Keep to the right side, fools! Unless you’re carrying something heavy, keep the corridor clear!”
Startled, Trey looked at Flos. The King looked nonplussed, but as he and the twins looked around they realized that they were getting dirty looks.
It suddenly occurred to Trey that they were walking like they had been before, straight down the center of every corridor as people hurried around them. It was so natural that they hadn’t realized it. But that was how the King and his sworn vassals walked. And once Trey looked, it was obvious they were making a mistake.
The servants, workers, and other people bustling about the palace did not walk down the center or wherever they pleased. Instead, they walked on the right side of the corridor while people going the opposite way walked down the left. The center was reserved for people in a hurry, or carrying things too bulky to go with the usual flow.
“I believe we should walk on this side.”
Flos stepped closer to the right wall, smiling at an older woman who did not smile back.
“Hurry up and move. We ain’t got all day.”
“Sorry!”
Trey and Teres stepped smartly and followed Flos on this new, more proper route. They no longer walked at their own pace; they were now following the person in front. When they slowed, the three had to slow as well or run into someone.
Flos, Trey, and Teres were all unaccustomed to walking that way. But they obediently followed the flow of people on the right side of the corridor, chatting quietly as they did.
“Fascinating. I had no idea there was a system for such things. I suppose Orthenon must have implemented it for convenience’s sake. It is this sort of thing that I wish to experience.”
“Walking?”
“Getting yelled at?”
Trey and Teres stared dubiously at Flos. They didn’t think there was too much special about this, but he seemed privately delighted.
“Yes, and yes. How can I lead my people if I do not walk in their shoes from time to time? It is this experience which—”
He didn’t get to finish his proclamation. An annoyed woman’s voice called out to the three and they saw a grey-haired lady hurrying over to them with a scowl on her face.
“What are you three doing? You’re not part of the interior staff!”
Trey stared anxiously at Flos, but the King smiled.
“We are laborers, Miss. We did not have any work at the moment so we—”
He got no further. A huge scowl replaced the smaller one and the woman snapped at the three.
“If you’re not busy you should be reporting to wherever you were assigned for more work, not wandering about the halls getting in the way!”
Flos bowed his head, looking contrite.
