Ren gave her another quick kiss and ran out to the road and then back to the Keep and up to the workshop. He had finally figured out what he was going to do for a 'date'; but, he would need new clothes for it to have the impact that he wanted. He took out the table he'd had at the battle of the giants, and chose the suit pattern for himself.

It was one he had adapted from Thern Neram's designs for royal wear, and he altered it so that it stood out as much from normal royal wear as his House Neram Suit was different from a normal suit. He dyed it a royal purple, added gold accents, and stored it. He recalled one of the dress patterns Sally had given him, and altered it to match the suit he had just made. He made 5 of them, dyed them the same royal purple, added gold accents, and stored them

Ren took out 6 diamond brooches and thought about the time he had found the 5 personal maids inside the hidden room. He smiled as he imagined a gold plate as it flew towards him, then enchanted all 5 brooches with the new design.

“Nice.” Ren said then made a new dress for Nathalia and one for Ereka. He dyed them both House Neram red, and stored them. Teepo? Hows my time?

“Nathalia just got home.” Teepo said. “You might have 20 minutes.”

Thanks. Ren thought and ran into the forge room. This has gotta look good. He went to the forge with gold in it, and poured out enough to make 5 small tiaras and attached a 1 inch wide diamond oval to them. He took out a handful of 1 gold coin diamonds and put them in a line on either side of the large diamond. He smiled as he quickly enchanted the 1 inch wide diamond ovals in the center of each tiara with a single Illumination Rune. It only took a second with his Enchanting up so high.

Ren made a quick necklace with several diamonds of different sizes, then made 4 more once he had the pattern and let the system make them. He enchanted the center diamonds with Illumination runes as well. The last thing he did was make 5 pairs of nice comfortable shoes and stored them.

“Whew.” Ren said, when Teepo said his 20 minutes was up. “I just made it.”

Ren left the workshop and went to the building beside the workshop, then knocked on the door.

“Just a minute.” A woman's voice said, and a moment later, she opened the door. “REN!” She exclaimed. “You're back!”

“I am.” Ren said. “I also heard you've already met Nathalia.”

She nodded slightly. “She's really nice.”

“And scary.” One of the others said. “I like her.”

Ren chuckled. “I'm glad, because you're going to be seeing a lot more of her in a few minutes.”

“Why?”

“I've been invited to a celebration, and I'm required to take a date.” Ren said.

“You can't!” One of them said. “It's forbidden!”

Ren laughed. “I'm not taking her, so don't worry about me causing a scandal from that.”

“Then who are you taking instead?” The one holding the door open asked.

Ren grinned as he stepped into the building. “The 5 of you.”

“WHAT?!?” The 5 women exclaimed together.
