One moment, Ao Lingxuan's frost-laced claw was an inch from her face.

The next, he was gone—a sound of cracking scales echoing through the gambling hall as his body was launched like a ragdoll, slamming into the far wall with such force that the reinforced ice cracked and cratered around him.

Before Ao Lingxuan could even raise his head, Zephyrine had rushed over and was furiously ripping him from the crater by the neck, only to slam him into the wall again, and again, and one more time for good measure.

"Don't you ever try to kill my little sister again," Zephyrine snarled, hurling him to the floor and making the whole building tremble as chunks of ice rained down from the cracked ceiling. She placed her foot firmly on his head, as if threatening to stomp. "Now, are you going to expose your soul so Stella can enslave what is now rightfully hers, or will I have to tear it out of your cold, dead corpse?"

"I'll never be a slave to a human brat like her," Ao Lingxuan snarled, despite his situation. It seemed the pride of a dragon knew no bounds.

"Brat?" Stella stood up, the chair screeching on the ice as she did so. Every pair of eyes in the room turned to her. She walked forward, over the broken table, and down the steps. The crowd of cultivators parted until she arrived before Ao Lingxuan. "You shouldn't refer to your new master as a brat. Mhm, instead of brat, I think the title Matriarch of the Frozen Star Sect has a better ring to it, don't you think?"

Ao Lingxuan roared in her face, but it was hopeless. Even if he got out of this situation, he had lost in front of his entire sect. A person needed more than simple power to rule the masses, and nobody was going to ally with the dragon who bet and lost his soul.

"Maple? He doesn't seem to be complying," Stella tutted and shook her head in disappointment. "Can you do the honors? I'll even let you nibble a little off for yourself."

Maple leaped off her shoulder and onto Ao Lingxuan's chest. Despite being so small, his action seemed to carry a great weight as Ao Lingxuan's bones audibly crunched and the dragon spasmed with pain.

"Final chance to comply, Ao Lingxuan," Stella said.

The dragon, despite the pain, narrowed his eyes at her. "Go to hell, you demon spawn."

Stella sighed. She didn't want to seem like the bad guy.

"Go ahead, Maple," she said, turning her back and walking away.

What happened next to Ao Lingxuan in full view of everyone left in the gambling hall was far from pretty.
