"Spell systems are all about making sure your mana has a way to flow naturally," Erik said, a little too loudly; Cale snorted slightly as one of his apprentices cringed away from him. "A typical First Circle spell consists of five nodes. The node configuration you're using has a direct impact on the efficiency of your spell, so each time we construct a First Circle spell, we need to adjust the node configuration based on the ingredients we're using and the effect we want."

He straightened, then began gesturing to each of the chalk circles—nodes? It sounded like they used the word circles to refer to spell tier, so nodes was probably better. "In this case," Erik continued, "we'll be demonstrating a low-efficiency Basic Illusion using glowbeetle nectar, a glass marble, a gryphon feather, gelatinous residue..."

He paused at the final, still-empty node, then grinned, though his apprentices looked chagrined. "And also a bunch of dirt I found," he said, dropping what indeed looked like a clump of dirt into the final spot.

Elizabeth made an outraged noise. "You can't just add dirt as a reagent! You connected the dirt node to all the other nodes! That's going to make it nearly impossible to refine!"

"That's the whole point of this class, isn't it?" Erik said smugly. "You have to show them how good we are at spell systems! Besides, Basic Illusion loves spontaneity, you know that."

"I'll show you spontaneity," Elizabeth muttered sourly, though she seemed resigned, like she knew there was no point trying to convince Erik to change his mind. Again, it seemed it was routine for them.

Cale had to hold back a laugh, honestly. He liked these mages.

"Anyway!" Erik said. "Devon, show 'em your stuff!"

One of Erik's apprentices—Devon, presumably—nodded and stepped up to the chalk, then bent down to slap his palms against the circle. Mana flowed from his core, through his hands, and into the glowbeetle nectar, then the marble, then the feather and the residue, and finally it reached the dirt and doubled back in on itself.

Then a blaze of light burst out of the chalk, resolving into a detailed, three-dimensional image of Cale's group.

"Ta-da!" Erik said proudly. "What do you think? Devon's got pretty good art skills, right? My illusions all look like they have melting faces, so Elizabeth banned me from making them."

"For good reason," Elizabeth called out. Erik just beamed.

"It is impressive," Graystalk said, leaning forward curiously. Cale was doing the same thing, reaching out with his mana sense to examine how exactly the illusion was being generated. It was rare for him to see what was essentially an alchemy-based method of spellcasting, and even amongst those, this particular method was unique. Something about it teased at his senses, almost like...

Oh. Oh.

Cale closed his eyes so he could better focus on his mana sense. This was a form of magic he'd never encountered before, and he could barely grasp what was happening on the very edge of his mana sense, but if he focused—if he stopped trying to feel for the mana and let it speak to him instead—he could hear the spell.

The reagents that Erik selected were speaking to one another. It wasn't in any language Cale could name, but there was a distinct note that rang out from each of them as Devon's mana poured through them. Each one flowed into the next, forming a beautiful melody that Cale began subconsciously humming to; before he knew it, he was smiling, his eyes bright.

He lived for moments like this, when magic showed him something new.

You have acquired Basic Illusion.

Cale couldn't wait to see what else there was to learn here.
