"I can be your voice of wisdom, no one else has lived in the membrane as long as me! Allow me a chance, I- I can teach you the Demonic Legacy! I can give you true eternal life!"

Desperate screams cry out as thousands of soul ties snap beneath every sword strike.

The growing red and blue immortal bodies fill up larger portions of the void.

Some of the screams that come from the demon become fragmented, like he is talking over himself.

Many of the ancient arrays that were imbued with Realm Waves explode on their own when insufficient energy remains in their glyphs. It releases the telepathy signals moving through them at varied, unpredictable rates, making for extremely fast and slow messages to hit us from all sides.

The smaller the pockets of purple energy in the soul ties become, the harder it is to understand what Noctus is trying to say.

The underlying tone only becomes more terrified and filled with resentment. He is not even trying to hide his mental fluctuations, almost every word he speaks can easily be dissected as lies.

This is nothing but a shameless attempt to cling onto life a little longer.

"You do not understand. I put these soul ties in place to solidify the laws of this system! You'll be at the whims of an even greater power if you do this! Just leave a few intact, I'll hold the membrane together! I'll do anything, state your price!"

The intense pull on the Origin Plane goes almost completely slack. Quickly, the passing centuries slow down to just a few years, then settle at only a few days that pass in between every soul tie we manage to sever.

Massive open areas of darkness, untouched by any other mental prowess, finally become present in the membrane again. This results in much easier and faster travel speeds.

Space does not manifest in a natural, linear sense. Instead, the distance between two points is only as far as the resistance between them.

Before, this membrane was crowded with many oppressive, conflicting auras. It made it increasingly difficult to push through the noise.

Now, with empty pockets of void, space between two points can be seamlessly ignored. It is almost like instant teleportation. With no stronger mental observers present in a void step, it is simple to travel an infinite distance until met with resistance, as there is no one else perceiving the passage of time to stop us.

This phenomenon makes stepping through the void easier and easier, as we seemingly appear out of nowhere, arriving in front of the strongest collections of remaining soul ties to release devastating attacks.

The ripples of invisible aura that permeate through the void after each soul tie is snapped become more frequent and more intense.

It is no physical ripple I can see, nor actual energy that can be absorbed.

Instead, it is like sensing a person's feelings. I continuously get fluctuations popping up in my instincts. This is something that is rarely triggered, usually only during extremely dire life-and-death battles or intimate moments.

Yet, it is happening over and over all around me.

The empty space we void step through seems to amplify its intensity. Without so many web-like veins of soul ties interrupting the energy flow, now these bends in the void become stronger as they float through empty space.

It is almost like the entire membrane is having miniature epiphanies over and over again. The compounding ripples seem to learn and grow from the ones before, and as I perceive them, I too start to understand it better.

"Just leave a few clusters, in the furthest corner away from the Origin Plane. That's all I need! Come on, you're not actually going to kill me. I'm a fellow soul-bound entity to the Fallen One. I have knowledge no one else in this system can tell you."

"I- I'll serve you... I'll do whatever you humans want. Just- just leave me one cluster."

"No- just leave me one soul tie, a remnant is all I need. Please, isn't mercy one of the lesser races' main traits? I- I beg you!"

Noctus' voice, rambling on without any responses, becomes duller and more defeated the further into the void we plunder.

The oscillating white wave of energy moving through the Lower and Upper Realms becomes slower and slower until the passage of time reverts back to its natural rate.

The specks of the fractured Demonic artifact below the Origin Plane stop glowing white and fizzle out, back to its dormant black state, almost blending in with the void.

A bright consecutive wave of fire and icy slashes targets every last soul tie in the deepest pockets of this membrane.

They are the easiest to break through, as our enemy's strength has reached its lowest point, and our power is nearing its peak. Yet, despite their ease in snapping like old rubber bands, the invisible shockwaves that begin rippling and bouncing throughout the void afterward are the strongest ones yet.

There is an eerie silence that follows once the membrane becomes entirely dark once again. It may be quiet, but all of my senses are on high alert, even more strained than when we were in the midst of battle. This is because the remaining untouchable waves that ripple and change the very laws of reality have begun bouncing off each other and growing stronger within this darkness at an exponential rate now that there is no resistance stopping it.
