Shalahora tapped my forehead.

"How many minds do you have free at this moment?"

"About nine."

"And how many may die before you lose your sanity?"

I wanted to lie as I clenched my jaw.

"I can lose eight, and they come back quickly, too."

Shalahora lowered his arm.

"My last question is thus - how deep into the dark do you wish to tread?"

I scoffed.

"Further than I am. That's the goal."

Shalahora's voice pierced into our surroundings.

"Then let us tread into dark waters, Harbinger."

Chapter Begin

Like tearing the arms off a doll, Shalahora killed two of my minds. I coughed into my hand, feeling like blood should've gushed out with the air. Before I breathed in, Shalahora killed three more minds. I collapsed onto the ground. While standing, Shalahora disintegrated two more.

The edges of my mind faded. My vision blurred, and my senses lost clarity. Like a horde of zombies, the pieces of psyche still continued shambling forward. Shalahora stabbed the minds to death, his psyche like a concentrated, psionic blade. Its sheer concentration and ferocity left me stunned.

In all aspects, his presence and ability dwarfed mine. I was a lightbulb staring at a star. Shalahora's voice radiated through my being.

"Adjust to the dying."

Something was off about Shalahora. I grunted.

"I'm...Trying."

Shlahora's voice took on a cosmic scale in my head.

"Your mind is a flood. When your enemies aim to drink from the water, you will bury them. Suffocate them. You need to wield the gush. Take it and learn to live as an incomplete, fragmented being."

I lost my sight as I shouted in my head.

"How in the hell is that even possible?"

"It is the same as what you do to your body. You belittle, degrade, and destroy it. You trust that it will return, full and whole and complete. You must learn to do the same to your mind."

My left arm slackened.

"It's not the same. It's so much-"

Silence permeated my head. Fear sprang through me. Shalahora murmured.

"It is the same. Watch."

Before I shouted for him to stop, Shalahora pieced me apart. I lost my limbs. My body. My soul. I lost my memories. I forgot who I was. Where I am. I fell into a pit of nothing, a broken piece of something that had never been. In a quiet place, I fell into oblivion. A primordial fear permeated everything.

I wanted to cry tears from my eyes that I could not feel. The pressure relented. I returned. My memories flashed back into being. My thoughts returned to coherence. I blinked as sensory information funneled back into my head and mind. I fell backward, gasping for air I didn't need but couldn't live without.

While I kept wheezing, Shalahora stared down at me.

"You tasted it with Valgus. That is closer to death, yet you returned in less than a second."

A second that was an eternity. I put my hand over my chest, praying I was still alive.

"It feels like it's been forever."

Shalahora raised his hand and concentrated dark shadows over it. With a quick swipe, he cleaved into my arm. I peered at it as if he tapped my shoulder. As Shalahora jerked the blade out, my arm healed. He shuddered.

"Invincible. A disgustingly powerful physical form."

I pulled myself up.

"Why did you even do that?"

Shalahora waved his hand.

"Years ago, that would've frightened you. Why didn't it now?"

My eyes widened.

"Because...Because I know I'll be fine."

Shalahora nodded.

"Your mind is the same. It is as infinite and invincible. You must learn to throw more of yourself into the furnace. Your duty demands it. Your guild will need it. And you will need every advantage to cull what is to come."

My eyes narrowed.

"What is that, precisely?"

Shalahora closed his eyes.

"I cannot say. If I do so, it shall manifest grander consequences than silence shall. That is the curse of one so deeply connected to an Old One - I lost my agency in this reality for raw power."

I furrowed my brow.

"You know more, and you're stronger now. You're telling them that you lost your agency? I can understand that with Yawm or Valgus since they lost their minds from the contract, but you're different. You still have most of who you were. Well, from what I've gathered."

Shalahora's form rippled.

"You are correct, but there is a level of knowledge and power where one's perspective shifts. If you are able to see the passing of empires and eons, then eventually, they blur together. Patterns emerge that supersede the individuals involved, and the nature of those people takes all import."

Shalahora reached out a palm.

"That is when I realized that changing those patterns matters more than the empires, but I am helpless to do so. I learned enough and am able to kill in mass. That does not change anything in a meaningful way. I am lost in a cycle of entrapment, one where I can destroy what time has built but not influence its making."

I grabbed his hand.

"Is that why you accepted the contract with me? You think I can?"

He pulled me up. Shalahora murmured.

"I know it. My patron has indicated as much, and they believe in your absolute potential. However, I don't wish for you to walk the path they want for you. That is why you must overcome these mental limitations."

I trembled.

"It feels like dying."

"It does not feel. It is dying."

I peered at the shadow.

"That's why I don't like it. Not even a little bit."

"You didn't like pain either, yet you conquered it."

"That was different. I had the system helping me."

Shalahora's form wavered in the wind.

"And it helps you now. When you are ready, let us go back into the dark. It will become a place of comfort for you. A welcoming emptiness that embraces all that isn't. Until then, goodbye, Harbinger."

He disappeared. Alone in the forest, I gulped. A piece of me wanted to run away from this and do something that didn't involve so much pain. Was it pain? No, it was fear. I was afraid of going down this untrodden path. It terrified me to fully realize what I actually was. To use what I had become.

This wasn't the first time, and it wouldn't be the last. As I pulled myself back upright, I sat down in a cross-legged position. Taking a moment to collect myself, I said aloud.

"I'm ready."

Shalahora reintegrated into reality.

"So soon?"

I sighed.

"Of course. What do you take me for?"

Shalahora let out the slightest of laughs.

"The Enduring One."

Our minds connected. I grit my teeth for what was to come.

"I'm ready."

Shalahora obliterated three minds.

"Yet again, to the dark we dive."

Pieces of my mind died each second. If I stood atop my bodies, a mountain of corpses would've mounted in minutes. The pace of destruction mirrored my mana regen, and I could hardly comprehend it. The mental death didn't help with that, but even then, my soul recuperated with the exact same tenacity and speed as my body.

Shalahora had been right all along. It was a piece of my durability I'd never truly explored. Even after regenerating a hundred times, no scars, wounds, or lingering flaws remained in my psyche. Even after having my mind nearly at the brink of a true psionic death, I came back. I blacked out nearly ten times a second, still able to return to my full consciousness after doing so for minutes at a time.

Despite my ability to do so, I wasn't ready for this. It wasn't something I could rationalize. My human mind simply wasn't built to experience something this traumatic. The ordeal was so close and personal, and it operated on an axis I'd never experienced before. It left me shivering and trembling. I drooled and gasped as if drowning.

It was a conversation with the Grim Reaper, and every word carried weight. The reaper kept talking to me, and I couldn't respond. All I could do was listen to the endless droning of a being that incarnated death. Hearing it speak was enough to drive me insane, but I chose to listen.

I chose to learn.

Shalahora's intensity defied reason. He pushed me further than I expected to go. He never relented, maintaining the same immense and imposing pressure. Why he did so, I didn't ask anymore. He felt an immense urgency and need for this training. Considering who he was, I put faith in the guy, and I put my all into matching the pace he set.

As the sun rose, I stumbled away from Shalahora. I gagged on nothing, and I blinked back dry tears. While I reeled from the experience, Shalahora walked over. He placed a palm on my back.

"The road you walk is a difficult one. One of the most formidable roads imaginable."

My hands shook.

"Th-thanks, Shalahora. I'll let you know when I'm ready to train again."

Shalahora pulled his hand back and turned his gaze, unable to look at me. He closed his eyes before squeezing his hands into fists. He shook his head, and his voice carried pain.

"Yes. Of course. Anytime."

As he faded, I collected myself over the next few minutes. I didn't move the portal, manipulate time, or channel my runes. I existed in peace, the sunrise my comfort and the wind my warmth. After some time, I wobbled back up to my feet. To my disbelief, a quick jog one way and the other verified that everything still worked.

Shalahora wasn't lying to me, but this training was worse than he described. That was likely because humanity didn't have words for this kind of experience. I leaped into dark waters, trying to struggle for air. Jumping onto a much easier, simpler path, I hauled the dimension around with me.

I accelerated time, and even more of myself faded. I lived in that fragmentary existence, a part of a whole that would never be entire and utter. But...it weighed on me less than before. I accustomed myself to it like a warrior getting used to old wounds or missing limbs. As I got a grip on the situation, a notification popped up.

Diesel, Johnathan Hopkins(Lvl 1,893 | Class: Engineer) - We have the prototype ready. We need to test it out to see if it works. Where do you want to meet?

The Living Multiverse | Level 24,102 (Cap: 39,000) | Class: Sovereign - My golem creation facility works well for that. It'll contain the heat from the production process.

Diesel, Johnathan Hopkins(Lvl 1,893 | Class: Engineer) - Roger. Be there in a bit.

I waited beside the facility's ground level. After a while, Diesel leaped out of a few trees. He landed on the ground with a bit of a quake underneath him. I leaned against my facility's wall.

"You have some heft there, huh? Constitution?"

Diesel gawked at the upturned soil.

"Huh, maybe? It's probably your legacy more than my stats. It makes everyone heavy. While we appreciate the benefit, it makes designing some buildings a hassle. I mean, everyone's at least a couple tons."

I frowned.

"Huh. I never thought about that."

Diesel shrugged.

"I think about it like a huge inheritance. There's money and plenty of opportunity, but you have to learn to manage the resources right. Otherwise, it ends up becoming more of a nuisance than what you get in the first place."

He checked his status.

"Oh yeah, it gives me more stats than my levels have. That's insane."

I scoffed.

"Too much of a good thing is a poison."

"You're telling me. Ahem. You needed the limiters, correct?"

Limiters. That was a great name for it. Diesel pulled out a notebook. I floated it up while opening the pages.

"Cool, cool...Hmm, interesting...Ah, so you went with diagrams instead of runes? They're very organized."

Diesel waved his hands around.

"The thing is, all of it was chaos to me because of the cipher conversion. They make more sense when I write them down like that instead, and I let you handle converting them. It helps with knowing what information goes where whenever I've worked with you before."

I took a mental note of that practice. As I flicked through the pages, I found an entire novel's worth of content before me. Diesel filled in two hundred pages over the last few days; he and a team worked on this project night and day, no doubt.

I snapped the book shut, a grin on my face.

"This will do nicely."

The subtlest of smirks grew on Diesel's face.

"We'll prove that bucket of bugs wrong, eh?"

I floated us into the facility.

"That's the plan. Let's get to work."

We landed amongst the metallic corpses, my production line like a pristine and glossy graveyard. Diesel ogled at the gravitationally floating golems.

"How in the world did you make them so perfect?"

"I pull my soul out of my body, then reconstituted from a different place in my true body."

Diesel shook his head.

"That...That doesn't sound healthy. You should get that checked out."

I bust out laughing.

"I don't know if health is what I should be worrying about anymore."

Turning the pages, I adjusted the patterns into cipheric runes. The labeled diagrams made it far easier than before. Even after a few seconds, the scale and scope of the project impressed me, along with Diesel's classic attention to detail.

I murmured.

"You've been practicing. Nice."

Diesel raised two palms at me.

"Oh, no, there's no I in this project. This is a team effort, 100%. I couldn't have done a tenth of that in the time you gave us, but give my guys a raise and a nice title upgrade to their job? Psh, the sky is the limit."

I frowned.

"Let's hope not. We'll need these guys in space and all kinds of other places."

Diesel leaned back, rubbing the back of his head. I scoffed.

"Oh, come, I get to make jokes too."

He smiled.

"Yeah, true. True. It's hard not to take you seriously all the time. This position I'm in still feels so surreal."

"you and me both, man. You and me both. Anyways, give me a few minutes to read this."

"Minutes? Did you practice speed reading?"

"No, but I have a process."

I kind of learned speed reading after making up a system for it on the spot. With tiny gravity wells, I tore the book apart one page at a time. A dozen of my minds read a dozen pages at once. Within half an hour, I read the book and discussed the material with other Daniels. Having a firm grasp on it, I toiled on my grimoire to forge the runes.

