Diesel watched my work, the engineer's eyes piercing as he took notes. I fell into the task at hand. Telekinesis. Gravitation. Heat. Forges and fires. I constructed and dismantled. I tested and delineated. After a few hours, a few test golems gazed back at us. A circular plate hummed on their back, the cluster of runes psionically isolated from the construct.

Diesel put his hands on his hips.

"Yeesh. They send a shiver down my spine just looking at them."

I mirrored Diesel's posture.

"That's how you know they're just right."

After heading outside, we tested their abilities using their new modes of being. Diesel watched from the top of the facility. He pointed at it as the runes of the golem dimmed.

"We call that domestic mode."

I took a step back from the golem. The construct approached a tree, attempting to strike it. It couldn't shatter the bark, let alone destroy it. As I watched on, it pulled leaves off a tree and snapped thin branches. It couldn't rip large ones apart. Its weakness stunned me.

I gawked.

"How did you do that? It's like...Like a puppy golem."

Diesel furrowed his brow.

"We had a copy of the status screen you sent us as a way of measuring how much their abilities had grown. It took some tinkering to get it right with the other golems, but we locked in the right amount after about a day of rigorous trial and error. We adjusted the new models based on the old ones."

I blinked.

"So it was a matter of precision."

A knowing grin grew on Diesel's face.

"Most engineering problems are. That and supply, but the point is, that's what we're here for."

After a few seconds, I set the golem onto the second mode. Diesel pointed at it.

"That's work mode. It's supposed to be able to apply plenty of strength but with some ability for people to intervene. You link to the runes on the back, which links to the actual golem's mind. It works like a transistor does for electricity."

I linked my mind with it, and it carried only a few controlling thoughts. After a few minutes of tinkering, I operated the golem like a forklift. It walked back and forth from trees to dirt, uprooting the plants and clearing the ground. I laughed as I walked backward in slow motion. It did a robot dance, and I enjoyed messing around with it entirely too much. I smiled.

"It's like a tractor or something."

"That's exactly what we were going for. Preferably with less playing involved."

With a mental flick, I set the golem into combat mode. Its runes burned bright, lines of light tracing its hulking form. After checking a nearby area, I had it attack a patch of trees. As if quashed by an enormous, unseen hammer, it smashed the trees in a powerful gravity well. Sap and splinters erupted over the ground, mixing with the earth in a thick ooze.

I rubbed my chin.

"Huh. That's more like what I remember."

Diesel's face paled.

"Yeah. We don't want people using this one too much. We plan to incorporate shows for our guildmates and any cities they go to. They'll be demonstrations of the golem's power. You know, to dissuade anyone trying to take on our guild's authority, but it also reminds the guildmates what they're working with."

I leaned back.

"Authority? I don't know if we want to enforce ourselves that strongly."

Diesel raised a brow.

"What? Have you ever seen what people can do with a legacy and ring?"

My stomach sank a bit.

"No. I haven't."

Diesel's eyes widened.

"What? Really? Is Torix over law enforcement, then?"

Embarrassment burned in my chest.

"He's over everything. I'm like...I don't know, a figurehead."

Diesel peered off, coughing into a hand.

"No, what? No. I didn't mean to step on your toes, sir. I'll shut up now."

I frowned.

"Honestly, I don't know how a lot of the guild is run. It's not something I've had time for. At the very least, that's what I tell myself to make me feel better. So far, it's kind of worked."

Diesel turned an open palm to the golem.

"You're busy making those things, aren't you? And those, those walking artisans. What are they called-"

"Architects."

"Yeah, those are the ones. Those guys are insane. Don't sell yourself short. You're doing plenty."

I nodded.

"I'll try taking that to heart. Anyways, this is looking pretty promising, but how do the modes change if the wielder is incapacitated?"

Diesel rubbed his hands together.

"Trust me, sir. We thought of everything. It starts by assuming a small, aggressive child has gotten their hands on this thing. That's the failsafe parameters we put in place."

Over the next couple of hours, Diesel showed me the ins and outs of the golems. He and his team drilled through this project like an eldritch through flesh. Woah, what kind of analogy was that? I meant, er, more like a dolphin swimming through water. Anyways, by the time we finished testing, the sun set. We stared at the golems in satisfaction.

I reached out a fist.

"We did it."

His fist hit mine like a child fist-bumping a giant.

"We did."

With around a hundred golems ready, I gave Diesel a thumbs up.

"I think I got it from here."

As Diesel got up a few of his tools and diagrams, I pointed at Mt. Verner.

"Do you mind if I meet the team behind this project?"

"Not at all. They should still be on the engineering floor. We've been working into the nights lately."

I picked myself up.

"Need a lift?"

"Please, sir. These rings aren't hard to use, but man, I am terrible at this."

We went in through one of the primary entrances of Mt. Verner. A horde of people walked in through the concrete tunnel like fans filing into a sports stadium. I gave a couple waves to other guildmates, only being a head taller than most people. Diesel looked me over.

"Where's the floating ball?"

"In another dimension."

"Ooh, sounds complicated."

We passed inside before heading to the second floor of Mt. Verner. Diesel took me over to his workshop, diagrams covering the walls and tools lining the workstations. In the center, a set of obelisks glistened under fluorescent lights. A group of engineers stood by, talking about different concepts over a few drinks.

As I walked up, they all straightened up and gave me a salute. In a practiced motion, I waved my arm.

"At ease. Good work with the limiters today. I'll be having you guys work on other projects like this, and they'll pay well. Trust me on that."

Diesel raised his hands.

"We showed the fancy ant bed what we're made of."

A set of cheers radiated through the group. Diesel lowered his hands.

"That guy and anyone else that says we can't. It isn't like Plazia's the only one that doubted us."

They nodded to that. In the back, Amara eyed me with her face wrinkling. As I neared her, she recoiled.

"Blegh. Disgusting."

I leaned against the table. Well, not really. A gravity well held me up, but you know what I mean.

"What's got you riled up?"

She hissed.

"You're dragging a rupture with you and absorbing the corrupting energy it oozes. It's like watching a predator keep its prey alive while sucking out all its blood."

I rolled my eyes.

"You're an eldritch, right? You're all about eating prey."

She snarled.

"Not the kind of prey that sinks its teeth into me while I believe I'm sinking my teeth into it."

"Eh, I'll be fine. Either way, good job with helping them."

She raised her hands, glaring at me with them. Or maybe not. Amara always had an angry look in her eyes. She murmured.

"Yes...They lack all discernment for the cipher. It is how they think. Their minds dart around in odd, disjointed ways. At times, they mirror a herd of sheep, bowing and baying until all they say is noise."

She hissed.

"But at times, genius strikes amidst the mud. Speaking of the grotesque, I may close that rift if you so wish it. It doesn't need to gnaw at you for eternity."

I waved my hand.

"Think of this as training for me."

She sneered.

"Ugh. Of course. Training. You always wish to take yourself further from what you were. If only all of us wished for such an outcome."

I tilted my head.

"Feeling nostalgic or something?"

Amara's face jerked before one of her eyes twitched.

"No. I...I'm just struggling to recall a few events from my past. That is all."

I frowned.

"Need some help?"

Her outstretched hands curled like claws.

"I want no one to corrupt my mind further. Leave me be."

I gestured a hand to her.

"We may be able to do something about-"

She swiped her hand like an angry cat. One of her fingernails broke against my hand before she shouted. The others stared at us before she growled.

"I am fine."

As she walked away, I pinched the bridge of my nose. Diesel walked up.

"Hello, sir. I wouldn't worry about it. She's always testy at the best of times."

Shaking the altercation off, I rolled my shoulders.

"I'll have to have a talk with her about it. At some point, anyways. I don't want her slicing a guildmate apart."

Diesel walked over and picked up her dislodged nail.

"She wouldn't do that."

I raised a brow.

"What makes you say that?"

Diesel flicked the nail to me, and my armor absorbed it in an instant.

"Because that's not who she wants to be, sir."

I frowned.

"Who does she want to be?"

Diesel put his hands on his hips.

"Normal, like us. I think she's annoyed that she isn't able to just walk out into the street without getting jeers or making children cry."

I could relate. I sighed.

"There's not much we can do about it."

Diesel shook his head.

"you're telling me. I tried to get her to look after her hygiene, but she didn't want to. She's so disgusted with herself that she doesn't even realize she's a big part of the problem."

I peered his way.

"You sound frustrated."

Diesel leaned against the table.

"That's because I am. I've worked with her for a while now, and she's a walking set of contradictions. She's always talking about how hideous she is, but she never brushes her teeth or hair. Or clean her clothes. Or anything. If I didn't take care of myself, you best believe I'd be gross too."

I crossed my arms.

"Is it the hypocrisy that frustrates you? Maybe the smell?"

Diesel stared at some diagrams.

"Maybe a little on that last part, but really, it's because I care. I want her to be happy like anybody else, but she won't get out of her own way."

I frowned.

"I can understand that. Happiness isn't something that's easy to get. Hell, it's even harder to keep."

Diesel nodded.

"I know the feeling. For me, it was getting a family and making friends at work. A few drinks never hurt either, but I'm a simple man, really. You know, easy to please. What about you?"

I peered up.

"What makes me happy? Probably time with the people I love, getting a sense of progress, and ensuring our security."

Diesel pushed himself off the table.

"I got to give it to you. You're dedicated. Just...Keep yourself in mind between all the chaos."

I smiled.

"Eh, I'll give it my best shot. No promises, though."

Diesel smiled back.

"None needed, sir."

After a few goodbyes, I stepped away. I stumbled to the side, and my alternate dimension dragged me off balance. Panic welled in my chest as I almost crushed through a wall. A few minds banded together, jerking me back into a proper position. A few of my guildmates rushed over.

"You ok?"

"What happened?"

"What's going on?"

I raised a hand, getting my footing back.

"I'm fine. I'm just tired."

After getting some distance, I took a breath. Dread pooled in my stomach like the ichor of some cursed god. Maybe their curse had become my own? Jesus, more importantly, I wondered where all this melodrama was coming from. I couldn't tell, and I didn't care. I crushed it down and got out of Mt. Verner. Eventually, I reached a hilltop.

I contemplated spending the night in meditation instead of training with Shalahora. That temptation drifted in my head as I gazed at Springfield. The moon floated over the new city, people having moved into it. A few houses still had lights on, the street lamps offering a moody atmosphere. A couple flowers bloomed out of gardens across a few homes. A trader's sign stuck out, the mana-powered light mirroring neon's aesthetic. It cast a shadow over a new warp center and currency exchange from Schema.

Springfield had risen again like a phoenix crawling out of its ashes.

As I found marks of its progress, I uncovered hints of its previous descent. A few ruined buildings and dilapidating houses crumbled on the outskirts of the town. Empty railway tracks crisscrossed the expanse, the rusted steel covered in encroaching greenery. Above it all, the moon glistened in its eternal glow.

The celestial body's gaze pierced through me like some primordial being that far exceeded myself. That sensation crept up, becoming even grander. A chill ran up my spine as it kept glaring as if reading my thoughts and mind with ease. My worry mounted, becoming a growing panic. For a moment, I doubted my sanity.

My self-doubt washed away as an eclipse formed over the moon. My eyes widened, and my runes flared. The eclipse smothered the ground in sanguine red, blood gushing from the earth. It rose, covering everything my guild ever built in seconds. People screamed from their homes, choking on the rising tide of blood. The hands of the dead pulled them down.

The bloody sea rippled with waves of decay, and screams erupted in a symphony. Springfield lost all its progress within a few seconds. My hands shook as I watched my home crumble once more. Baldowah's voice laughed in the distance. His menace was a palpable, insidious aura, and his words roared rage into my soul.

"We watch and wait, little one."

I blinked, and everything returned to normal in an instant. My hands trembled, my guild's destruction leaving me hollowed out inside. Taking a deep breath, I sent another message to Shalahora. The shadow oozed from the ground, his eyes as clear as cyan glass.

He murmured.

"You wish to tread into the gloom once more?"

My eyes hardened as I nodded.

"Until it's no longer dark."
