He took to the air once again, weaving a little to try to throw off his opponent’s aim, but he kept himself in range of that one stationary mote, moving the other three erratically, searching further and further, trying to create the impression that he was accidentally putting himself slightly out of range of them in his eagerness to flush out his opponent – as if he hadn’t adjusted to account for the loss of the Ice Troll’s Frost Nova. He had no doubt Mori had already figured out his teleport range, he just hoped the Assassin would take him for enough of a rookie to make the mistake he was emulating.

As soon as the last of the three motes crossed that invisible line, the spirit realm sight flickered. This time, Calen waited an instant longer to give Mori the chance to lock on to his position, and then he teleported, switching with the mote protecting Ali and his mother, appearing on the ground right in front of the resummoned golden barrier.

Ali’s eyes widened, nodding in the direction of the other alleyway, but she continued summoning.

“Calen?” his mother called.

But he was forced to let her query go unanswered. In an instant, he executed his plan, latching onto the fading remnants of Malika’s earlier Spirit Walk spell with Realm Hunter. He summoned his fourth and final decoy, timing it to the shimmering shift as he retreated to the spirit realm, replacing himself with the decoy. It all hinged on Mori falling for the switch. His timing had to be perfect, but Calen wouldn’t find out if it had worked until later.

He shot the fourth decoy off into the air, making it aim its illusory bow in Kieran Mori’s supposed direction.

In the spirit realm, out of sight of Mori, Calen used Eclipse to enter stealth for the first time and then he returned to the mortal realm, appearing right where he had left, in front of Ali’s barrier, now no longer protected by his mote which was floating off to the side where he had been when he had triggered his teleport. He made his four decoys dart around with as much realistic strategic maneuvering as he could conjure, while he focused on Sense Prey. While his powerful tracking skill searched for the target’s direction, he drew his bow and nocked an arrow to the string, beginning to channel his stamina into Power Shot.

Take the bait. They’re unguarded. Take the bait…

Seconds ticked past with agonizing slowness. Calen channeled his stamina, his focus exquisite. For every second that passed, his power grew. With nearly seventy percent stamina cost reduction from Blessing of the Dawn, he easily surpassed ten seconds with his power skyrocketing. Sense Prey told him Kieran Mori was moving rapidly, darting around the flying motes, but he didn’t quite know where he was so he couldn’t aim accurately, couldn’t time his enchantments properly. What he needed was a distance. And for that, he needed to see the instant of Kieran’s attack.

There! He was staring right at it when the ripple flickered across the shadows in the alleyway and his spirit realm sight told him all he needed to know. Kieran had taken the bait. His body and spear might still be invisible, but Calen knew exactly where he was. As the Assassin unleashed his attack, Calen could track it traveling a perfectly straight line toward his mother, which would take it right through his own body. Here it comes! He adjusted his lead, accounting for the haste from Onslaught and carefully estimating the effect of the Slow curse.

He fired. He was technically shooting blind, but he had worked out precisely where Kieran would be. He knew the direction. He had the starting location, and he knew his target. He had timed the instant the charge began, and, having stolen his movement skill once, he knew precisely how fast Kieran could move.

His arrow catapulted from his bow with all the pent-up power of his fully charged Power Shot. Only a fraction of a second passed before Calen added the light damage and explosive shot enhancements, and then he triggered Righteous Fury.

There was an eye-blinding flash of ultra-intense white as the explosion of light and flame detonated in the middle of the empty street. Stones blasted in all directions, shattering windows and roof tiles.

You have gained Onslaught.

Calen’s mana seared through his veins and his mind as his eyes fixed on the dark-clad charging form of Kieran Mori, silver spear straining forward at full thrust. He had another flight of arrows conjured to his bowstring, but he held them unused. Kieran rushed toward him at incredible speed, but the tip of his spear halted inches before Calen’s throat, his eyes wide enough to see white all the way around. Kieran glanced downward to see the smoking hole Calen’s overpowered Ambush and Power Shot combination had blasted right through the center of his chest.

“Well played, boy…” Kieran said, his voice whistling and faint from air escaping through the gaps in his torn lungs.

And then he collapsed.

Your group has defeated The Spear of Silent Extinction – Human – level 121.Your actions have greatly increased the reputation of your patron.

Calen sank to the ground, completely and utterly spent, his emotions deadened from dancing along the knife’s edge of death for so long. Only now, the import of what they’d done began to catch up with him.

“Calen!” his mom shouted, rushing up to him. “Calen! Speak to me.”

“You ok?” Ali asked, joining them to check on him.

“I’ll be alright… in a bit,” he managed, his eyes meeting with his mother’s gaze for a moment before he turned back to Ali. “You both?”

“You had my back,” Ali said simply, reaching out to squeeze his fingers briefly.

“And mine,” said his mom, drying her eyes on her sleeve.

After a deep, deep breath, Calen added, “He confirmed he was Tala’s mentor. We need to take that shrine artifact to Aiden before the next council meeting.”

“Right,” Ali said, nodding firmly.

As everyone took a moment to process what had just happened, Calen squeezed his eyes shut and searched for the familiarity of his notifications. Numbers were simple. He’d always liked that about them.

Realm Hunter has reached level 106 (+3).+30 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 59 (+2).Motes of Light has reached level 40 (+3).Explorer has reached level 54 (+3).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 44.Eclipse has reached level 35 (+2).Eyes of the Archon has reached level 37.Righteous Fury has reached level 38.Azrael's Wings has reached level 27.Mirage Armor has reached level 40 (+3).Requirements met for skill advancement.Mentor: Lyeneru Silverleaf.Eclipse has reached at least level 35.Intelligence has surpassed 800.Land a killing blow against a higher-level invisible enemy. Eclipse gains Invisibility.(When you gain stealth, you are invisible).Accept this advancement?

At that moment, trolls, kobolds, and imps began boiling up out of the sewer entrance in the alleyway and Malika landed beside him with a light thump. “I can’t leave you guys alone for even a minute, can I? What did I miss? Street party?”

“I guess,” Calen said, struggling to control the trembling in his body as the adrenaline finally caught up to him. He wrapped his arms around his mother’s shoulders, not entirely sure if it was him that was comforting her, or the other way around. As a kind of an afterthought, he accepted the advancement. “Heck yes.”

“I love you too,” said his mother, mistaking his meaning by the width of a few continents or so.

“Yeah.” He hugged her harder.

“At least we don’t have to worry about him anymore,” Malika said, adding a trollish hiss of contempt and poking at Kieran’s shoulder with her foot. “Come, help me with him before someone finds this mess.”

“I’ll get the body, you get the gear,” Ali said.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
