“As long as you keep it to just kissing.” Seldanna said.

“Yay!” Ellaria said and walked over to Stella, who tensed up. “Relax, this isn't going to hurt at all.”

“What are you going to do?”

“A bit of Glamour.” Ellaria said and put a fingertip on Stella's forehead. “Hmm, okay. Who do you love?” She smiled when the image came to Stella's mind and she saw it. “I've got a solid image.”

“Then let her see her love.” Seldanna said.

Ellaria nodded and cast the spell on herself, and her body glowed slightly and it morphed as it changed into a 6 foot tall version of Ren. Stella stared at her with wide eyes and didn't know what to say.

“It's a reflection of your utmost desire.” Seldanna said. “Now feed.”

“But... but...”

“It's not our King; but, it is his representation from your mind.” Ellaria said in Ren's voice.

“That's kind of creepy.” Stella said and Ellaria Ren stepped close.

“You really want this to happen.” Ellaria Ren said, and Stella couldn't deny that she would absolutely love it if Ren was somehow just a little bit taller than her, and Ellaria Ren smiled and took her into a hug. Stella caught her breath as she looked up slightly at Ren's face, then Ellaria Ren kissed her. Ellaria Ren glowed slightly as their emotions flooded out and Stella let herself enjoy the fantasy for a few seconds.

Stella came back to her senses and broke the kiss. “N-no, I... this isn't what...”

“It was just an example to show you that you can make your own emotional gratification that much better.” Seldanna said. “Ellaria, how do you feel?”

“Like I could float on a cloud!” Ellaria said, and Stella saw that she looked just like the other succubi and not like Ren anymore.

“What... how...”

“It only works until someone decides it doesn't anymore.” Ellaria said. “I won't be able to look like that ever again.”

Stella just stood there and stared at her, and Seldanna laughed.

“We have so much to teach you, but not right now.” Seldanna said. “Go catch the pig.”

“I can't, I'm exhausted.” Stella said, then she realized that she wasn't. “Wait, what happened?”

“You can charge yourself up.” Seldanna said. “With some of Ellaria's energy in you, you'll be faster, stronger, and a little more agile.” She said. “Go ahead and try it out.”

Stella nodded and tried to catch the pig. She was only about half as fast as she was with the boosters; but, that was a significant improvement over not having anything. It wore off quickly, though.

“All right, you can rest.” Seldanna said.

Stella sat down beside the house to rest.

“We have all day to get you into shape.” Seldanna said, which made Stella groan and the succubi laugh.
