It was the little Legate’s idea to retake the West, and worthy though his ambition might be, he’d largely left Akanai, Baatar, and Taduk to clean up his mess. Irresponsible is what it was, and while he worked harder than any youth Binesi had ever seen, he still couldn’t bring himself to like the brat for this and many other reasons. The boy had a big mouth and a habit of getting in over his head, only for his powerful backers to swoop in and save him from a mess of his own making, and it seemed like he would not learn his lesson until someone died for his mistakes. It was one thing for Akanai and Baatar to act, for they were Warriors and soldiers to their core, but every time the Medical Saint acted out, he risked reprisal from the Enemy who no doubt knew the unnatural storms were the work of an Imperial Divinity.

In short, Falling Rain was a silk-pants of the highest order, and while he was not entirely undeserving of praise, he fell far short of the magnificent and magnanimous Chosen Son of the Mother that the people of the Empire had made him out to be.

It didn’t help that Binesi was still stuck watching the boy even now as Bai Qi’s forces marched Westward in a bid to retake Shi Bei. Though the fighting had yet to break out, both sides had been hard at work building up their forces in preparation. It would only be a matters of days now before the massive army of Chosen and Defiled reached the recently liberated city, and Binesi wished he was there with Colonel General Nian Zu instead of here in Meng Sha watching the comatose Falling Rain go for a swim in the bay. Yes, a swim. With his pets and wives at his side, as if they were here for a beach vacation instead of fighting a war for the fate of the Western Province itself.

Two weeks had passed since the charming and adorable Mei Lin first brought her husband out into the bay, without clearing it with Binesi, mind you. Had he known in advance, he would never have allowed it, and he’d almost gone apoplectic with rage when he heard what transpired in his absence. As fate would have it, the first day Mei Lin set out into the water with her comatose husband in tow was the same day Binesi traded shifts with Naaran. Ostensibly because the older Warrior was having trouble sleeping and was hoping a double shift would bore him enough to fall asleep standing, but Binesi suspected the amber-eyed grandfather had been put up to it by Mei Lin. Sweet and lovable though she might be, the Medical Saint’s daughter was not above using her charms to get her way, and the darling half-hare had almost everyone wrapped around her little finger, including the majority of Binesi’s guards who failed to alert him the moment the little Legate’s body entered the water.

Fools, one and all, having forgotten how the little Legate almost lost his life when a herd of sharks scented blood in the waters of Nan Ping’s bay. The Azure Sea was far from safe, for who knew what dangers lurked within its deep and unfathomable depths, but once little Mei Lin had gone out once with her husband and returned safely unharmed, there was no argument Binesi could make that would change her mind. Worse, he didn’t dare use force to keep the little Legate landlocked, for the Medical Saint was a doting father and had tasked a fearsome Peak Expert to guard his daughter, a nameless, unsociable woman who punched her way out of a megalodon from inside of its stomach. As such, Binesi was helpless to stop little Mei Lin from bringing her husband and pets out into the water each morning, and the little Legate’s other two wives joined them after they arrived back in Meng Sha. All he could do was station a handful of ships further out in the water and place Peak Experts on each one to warn him of any incoming danger.

That’s where they were now, with Binesi watching the little Legate float face-up in the water, bobbing in place and never sinking beneath the waves despite a startling lack of support from his wives. The three women kept an eye on him for sure, as theirs was not a marriage of alliance or convenience, but rather true love on all accounts. It was clear the little Legate loved each of his wives dearly and they loved him in turn, which made their lack of concern for him all the more baffling for Binesi to behold. Sure, the little Legate was Blessed by Water and could immerse himself in the sea for an indeterminate and possibly infinite amount of time, but there was no guarantee that his Chi skill would work while he was unconscious from using too much Chi. What’s more, it wasn’t as if they were unaware of the danger, for thrice now the quins had warned them of predators drawn to their movements, and each time resulted in a mad scramble to get the little Legate away to safety. Well, at least Mila and Yan had scrambled; Mei Lin simply pouted over the ‘unnecessary’ end to their games and huffed about how her ‘hubby’ needed more time in the water.

Which was just ridiculous, and even Mila and Yan knew it, but everyone commiserated with the sweet half-hare because no one wanted to upset her with the truth.

Day in and day out, this was Binesi’s life now, watching the little Legate as he bobbed up and down with the waves in the Azure Sea. Perhaps this was a form of treatment devised by the Medical Saint, or maybe it was just little Mei Lin’s way of consoling herself over her husband’s pitiful state, but Binesi had to admit that the little Legate looked in good health these days. When his coma first came upon him, he looked like death warmed over, with a pallid and sickly complexion to go along with the pinched, troubled expression that had already etched itself into his features. Somewhere along the way however, his skin had taken on a healthier glow and he’d lost that subtle frown and replaced it with a more serene expression, not quite the slack senselessness of a sleeping fool but more of a tranquil, meditative look. What’s more, rather than deteriorate from lack of use, his physique was still as chiselled and muscular as ever, a slim, wiry figure that was deceptively dense and hid a surprising amount of strength and endurance. Did the boy get taller too? Difficult to tell, laying shirtless as he was, but his swimming pants were looking a little shorter than appropriate of late, though that might just be the style these days.

The boy’s fat quin Mafu popped up from underwater to deposit his pups on the little Legate’s chest, which the beast saw as a safe place to leave his brood so that he could resume hunting again. The young quins could not be considered small anymore, each one being larger than the boy’s rabbits and weighing at least forty kilos apiece. While the rational part of Binesi’s mind panicked and insisted that the comatose Legate was about to drown, he stood in place on the beach and didn’t move because he’d already made a fool of himself once before, and would not make the same mistake again. There was some force at work keeping the little Legate afloat, either an unconscious Chi working he powered himself or more likely the work of the Divine Turtle swimming nearby. Now there was a sight to bring joy to the heart as the Divine Turtle cut through the waves as if they weren’t even there while carrying a shellful of quin pups along with her. Every now and then she stopped to check in on the little Legate and trade out the quin pups so each would get a turn, leading Binesi to wonder just what the boy did in a past life to deserve so very many Blessings from Heaven.

While it was widely accepted that the Mother Above didn’t favour all Her children equally, there had to be some limits as to how much attention one man could monopolize, else it just wasn’t fair...

And therein lay the crux of Binesi’s issues with the little Legate, something he only realized just now. He, Immovable Binesi, a Warrior of almost sixty years who claimed he’d long since come to terms with his lacking talents, was jealous of a young boy who didn’t have a single hair on his chin or chest. Ridiculous is what it was, and he scoffed at his own inadequacy, but a part of him also felt his resentment was justified. Falling Rain was more than just talented, he was in a category unto himself, a young Warrior who accomplished so very many miracles it was difficult to judge where he sat upon the scale of strength. Almost at the level of a Divinity in some ways, considering how he single-handedly dismantled the half-badger pirate Huanhuzi’s fleet, yet simultaneously less than some Peak Experts, for he had issues using certain Chi skills on command and was prone to losing focus in the midst of combat. The boy could Heal like the Medical Saint and Demonstrate the Forms as if he started practising while he was still in the womb, when in truth he had less than a full decade of experience behind him.

So in light of all this, Binesi’s jealousy was hardly unjustified, though it still felt a little silly to begrudge a man for his talents. At least the little Legate was suitably humble most of the time, though he had his moments of unintentional braggadocio, usually in the form of disbelief that anyone could have issues with something he thought was easier than breathing.

A horn sounded at the front gates, a low, booming warning which was soon echoed by every tower along the wall, and Binesi shot up into the air for a better look. What he saw shook him to the core before igniting his blood, and he quickly returned to the beach and Sent warnings to the girls still swimming in the water. “Time to go,” was the message, delivered in terse and succinct tones that would brook no argument, though little Mei Lin would undoubtedly try. “The Defiled are attacking.”

Perhaps the Mother Above hadn’t wholly forgotten Binesi, for She had sent him everything his heart desired. Not only was this a chance to test himself in combat once again, but his brief glimpse of the oncoming Enemy army emerging from Concealment had shown him a plethora of banners bearing the Mataram Clan Sigil, which meant he might well have the opportunity to cross spears with YuChun of the Ten-thousand spears and see which of them was the stronger spearman.

Grandmother had always warned Binesi to be careful what he wished for, but he had no regrets. The Enemy would break upon the walls of Meng Sha, and this time, he would be the one hoisting free drinks and regaling others with the tales of his heroics.

Say what you will about wife and family, but there were a few simple pleasures in life which could only be found at the bottom of a liquor bowl while surrounded by strangers.

Chapter Meme
