The coming tribulation should not take away from the heroics in Pan Si Xing however, and while the Peak Experts that had been present in the city spoke often of a formidable hidden tiger named Siyar who dispatched three Demons with a single blow each, in Binesi’s eyes, the most impressive young talent to stand out was Situ Jia Zian. Killing seven Demons in a single battle might seem unimpressive in comparison to other, more established heroes, but the young man was only twenty-seven and still a few years away from becoming a Peak Expert, yet already a more capable Demon Slayer than most. As anyone who faced them could tell you, killing most Demons wasn’t too difficult. Any Peak Expert worth their salt could deliver the final blow; the tricky part was surviving to tell the tale. Demons were inhuman monstrosities that could shrug off wounds which would cripple or incapacitate a human foe, to say nothing of the caustic Ichor coursing through their veins in place of blood, and many a Peak Expert had died after dealing a death-blow to their Demonic foes. A tale as old as the Enemy itself, for a Warrior to lower their guard in their moment of vigilance only to fall victim to the Demon’s final counter-attack or the resulting spray of Ichor, yet now, there was an up and coming young Warrior who could slay Demons with the best of them.

Lu An Jing would have been proud of his son, which was exactly what Binesi told him when Zian and his retinue arrived in Meng Sha, a gesture the young man obviously appreciated.

The number of heroes who emerged from Pan Si Xing were too numerous to list, but Binesi did his damnedest to learn their names at the very least. He looked forward to a time when he could proudly declare that he’d served alongside the future Colonel General or Living Legend of this generation, though he felt a little conflicted when he realized that the most likely candidate was still the little Legate himself. No matter what his peers accomplished today, Falling Rain had long since surpassed them, for the boy was so formidable the Enemy had all but hidden away their Demons and Half-Demons until he shattered his Core. Then when he made his triumphant return, the Demons disappeared once again and the Enemy aggression abated, a fact which alone was enough to secure the little Legate the well-deserved title of Number One Talent in the Empire.

And talent he was, slaughtering Wraiths like chickens and summoning tidal waves to bring down an entire fleet of ships, which were merely among the most recent of his accomplishments. That being said, he’d done little to help matters in the West thus far, but other heroes had stepped in to fill the void he left behind. Every tale of Pan Si Xing ended the same way, with a look of reverence in the story-teller’s eyes as he spoke of the miraculous rainfall that sent the Enemy running for the hills.

“It was like nothing I’d ever seen.”

“A miracle from Heaven, it felt like.”

“As if the Mother Herself saw our plight and shed tears for our fallen.”

By all reports, Bai Qi held the upper hand before the Heaven-sent rainfall appeared, both in his duel against Baatar and his mental match with Brigadier Hongji who coordinated the troops from the shadows. Between the reveal of the Green Dragon Crescent Sabre, a heretofore unknown Blessing of Sand, and the unexpectedly large number of Defiled stationed inside the city, Pan Si Xing should have ended miserably for the Imperial troops and citizens, yet thanks to the mysterious rainfall, Baatar’s forces were able to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat.

Truly a miracle, or so most believed, except Binesi and several other higher ranking Officers of the North knew better.

He was there when the Defiled almost overran the Northern Wall while Colonel General Nian Zu, the Shield of the North, lay wounded and recovering. There with his comrades, Binesi stood ready to lay his life down in defence of the province, but he had little hope left to him. At the time, Baatar had been inconsolable and largely absent due to his wife’s grievous injuries, and though Binesi empathized with the man as a husband himself, the soldier in him could not forgive him for shirking his duties. It all went back to the Bekhai’s lacking patriotism, for Baatar fought not for the Empire, but for the sake of his own pride, pride which was rendered useless as his wife lay upon what might well have been her deathbed. If not for his absence, Jia Yang and BoHai would not have split command of the forces between them and might well have put up a better defence, but all this was a moot point now. The important part was that Binesi had been fighting on the front lines when the Defiled broke through the outer Wall and was all too ready to sell his life dearly to buy as much time as possible for his comrades to get the Colonel General to safety.

Then the storm-clouds gathering overhead released their fury, and the Enemy broke ranks and fled faster than Binesi had ever seen.

In all the official reports, it was simply a fortuitous coincidence for the storm clouds to break at the same time the Defiled withdrew, but the truth was more or less an open secret at the highest echelons of command. A Divinity had acted at the Northern Wall, one Blessed by Cloud and powerful enough to send whole armies into retreat, but Binesi was one of a select few who knew the identity of the mysterious Awakened Divinity, for Asane was Speaker of the Village and was privy to secrets even he was not supposed to know. Every Speaker in the Mountains was told to be polite and accommodating to the ‘eccentric’ Medical Saint Taduk, but to also refrain from offering him any female companionship without prompting. Baatar’s wife Sarnai played it off as if it was to spare the Medical Saint from having to refuse out of respect for his lost love, but Binesi’s grandmother had been Speaker in her time and had once hosted the Medical Saint in their village when Binesi was but a boy.

An odd sort, the Medical Saint was, prone to distraction and muttering to himself at great length, but he gave candies to all the children so Binesi thought the world of him. He needed help running errands while there so Grandma picked a handful of boys and quietly tasked Binesi with making sure ‘no funny business’ went about, stressing that he was to remember and report back with the names of every woman the Medical Saint spoke to. An easy enough job considering the man spent most of his time there watching the quins, not playing with them or training them, but just seeing where they went, what they ate, and how they spent their days. He had the boys take samples of everything they ate and one poor soul even had to collect their droppings for some reason or another, but otherwise, the Medical Saint mostly kept to himself. After he left, Grandma had gone house to house asking if any young women spent time alone with him. Supposedly it was because he’d given her some coin as a reward to ‘the young lady’ who helped him, but he failed to ask for her name, so he could only ask Grandma to help find her. No one admitted to being the young lady in question, and after the umpteenth time Binesi insisted his vigil never slipped and no young lady ever approached the Medical Saint, Grandma had patted his cheek and said, “I know dear, and I believe you, but you can never be too careful after all.”

At the time, it wasn’t all that important, and Binesi promptly forgot about it until after Asane became Speaker and asked him about the Medical Saint and the strange requirements regarding his care. “A handsome man he is,” his beloved wife had declared, oblivious to Binesi’s jealousy as she shook her head in regret. “It would do us all good if he were to put some roots down in the mountains, and a woman might just be what he needs to sort himself out.”

Even then, Binesi didn’t stop to consider the implications of what he knew, not until after the miraculous storm at the Northern Wall. From there, Binesi put the rest of the puzzle together by dropping a few quiet questions in the right ears and parsing through the non-answers he received. All of it led him to one, clear conclusion, that the Medical Saint Taduk was no half-beast, but an Ancestral Hare hiding in plain sight. Strange for a Divinity to interact so closely with mere mortals, but that was the Medical Saint in a nutshell, so who was Binesi to judge him? Perhaps he had only recently Ascended and wasn’t so jaded just yet, or maybe he was just a sociable sort and enjoyed the company of others. It didn’t matter either way, because beneath all the quirks and foibles, the Medical Saint was genuinely a good man, which was a rare find in this world, regardless of whether one was a Divinity, half-beast, or purely human.

Anyone who dared disparage the Medical Saint would find themselves quickly ostracized. The man was well loved not because of his Healing abilities, but rather because he freely dispensed his medical knowledge to anyone who might have need of it. The village women all swore by a tea that helped alleviate their monthly cramps, a bitter concoction made from nettles and tree bark among other things, but they also claimed it helped with fevers, headaches, muscle and joint pain, as well as a plethora of other minor afflictions. The recipe had come from the Medical Saint’s lips, which the Khishigs shared freely with all the people of the Saint’s Tribulations mountains, and he had never once asked for anything in return. He also shared his remedies with the people of Shen Huo and Shen Bin, though he rarely ever travelled any further than that, preferring to live in relative obscurity with the Bekhai rather than the palatial mansions provided to him by the Magistrates of both thriving cities.

Most telling of all however was something far more innocent and innocuous, for Binesi had heard all about the struggles a Divinity faced after siring a half-breed child, yet Medical Saint Taduk showed his one and only daughter nothing but love and affection. They were the only two ‘half-hares’ in all the Empire, easily differentiated from the masses of half-rabbits by their rigid, upright ears as opposed to slack, floppy ones, and it was clear theirs was a family full of warmth and sincerity. Yes, Medical Saint Taduk was not only an Ancestral Beast, but a paragon of one who exhibited none of the failings seen in most of his kind, on top of being a better father and parent than most humans.

And so when Baatar and Akanai both refused to acknowledge the miraculous storm which sent the Defiled fleeing from the Northern Wall, Binesi put the pieces together and knew it was the work of a Divinity. Now even though the Medical Saint had clearly been present at the time, this wasn’t proof that he’d acted in violation of the Treaty, nor would he ever admit it if he had. That being said, add in the strange downpour which took place during the little Legate’s duel against Situ Jia Zian, as well as the Medical Saint’s pride in his cloud chaser hare heritage, and Binesi had all the proof he needed.

Medical Saint Taduk was a Cloud-Blessed Divinity who single-handedly saved the Northern Province, and now, considering his contributions in Sinuji, JiangHu, and most recently Pan Si Xing, he might well save the West too.

At least that’s what Binesi wholeheartedly believed, though he would never speak a word of it to anyone besides his wife, and maybe his sons if they ever proved themselves as level-headed as their mother. In contrast, the Medical Saint’s student was mildly disappointing. The little Legate had inherited his teacher’s charitable nature and used his power and wealth to improve the lives of civilians the Empire over. Medicinal formulas, technological advancements, and economic innovations, the little Legate introduced all this and more to the Empire at large, but it was clear to everyone involved that the boy was not personally responsible for coming up with these wild ideas. Having watched over him for so long, Binesi had long since seen through the facade young Rain put on when speaking of things he himself supposedly came up with. He only ever spoke in broad terms when explaining his ideas and was always vague when pressed for details, which showed that he himself did not entirely understand the concepts he spoke of. Financial pundits were quick to gush about his brilliant and ingenious introduction of War Bonds and Treasury Notes, but Binesi knew all too well that most of the fine details had been put together by his concubine Luo-Luo, while concrete, cast iron, cheap paper, clear glass, rubber, and Mother knows how many other ideas had come from his ‘think tank’ led by Diyako Zhandos. From this, one could infer that most, if not all of Rain’s ideas were not truly his to begin with, and that he was simply taking credit where none was due.

Not so terrible a sin except when his parents, Teacher, and grandmother had to step in and shoulder the Heavens just to fulfill the grand promises he made with minimal consultation.

