In forty years of military service, Binesi had never seen such bullshit before.

When Lieutenant General Akanai revealed her bold and daring gambit to kill Bai Qi, Mataram YuGan, and Mao Jianghong, Binesi’s heart had soared to see her taking command in a room full of Living Legends. Ever since he was but a boy, the Chief Provost of the Khishigs had long since been a local hero of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, but beyond the mountains, no one even knew her name. Now, she was a Living Legend herself, and Binese could not describe how how gratifying it was to see someone of similar origins rise up so high in the world. Though he took issue with her stubborn naming conventions and lacklustre national spirit, he respected the work she did for the community and her personal strength immensely. Joining the army had been his own personal challenge, for he dreamed of surpassing her in strength and reputation so that the estranged children of the mountains would have a more patriotic hero to look up to, but alas, the Heavens were not so kind.

Immovable Binesi, the Empire called him, a Warrior who could hold his own against the supremely talented, but lacked the ability to surpass them. The title grated on him in his younger years, but as he grew older and wiser, he came to accept his place as the demarcating line between common Peak Experts and those rare talents destined to surpass them. This wasn’t to say he was willing to rest on his laurels and give up his dreams of reaching the peak, but rather he no longer defined himself by his progress, lacking or otherwise. The Martial Path had long since fallen off from being his first priority, and now was not even in his top three, for he had a loving wife and two wonderful sons in his life whom he cherished and adored. With these three blessings from Heaven, his lacking talents and stalled progress took a back seat to finding the perfect pink lotus to bring home for Asane’s garden pond or bringing his boys to camp out in the woods. Looking back on it now, Binesi pitied his younger self for living solely for strength, and thanked the Mother Above for Her charitable compassion in showing him the proper way forward.

Not along the Martial Path, but in life itself, for a solitary existence was synonymous with a sorrowful one, so lacking in love and kinship.

That being said, he was still a soldier and Martial Warrior, which meant he had his pride and ambition, muted and dulled though they might be. His heart still soared at the prospect of taking to the field of battle once again, for Lieutenant General Akanai had set them a most arduous challenge, and he for one did not intend to let her down. So imagine Binesi’s disappointment when Colonel General Nian Zu brought him aside and entrusted him with keeping the little Legate safe in Meng Sha, thereby denying him the chance to shine on the battlefield once more. It was vital work to be sure, for the little Legate had proven himself time and time again in more ways than one, but he also had more than enough protectors without needing to borrow any soldiers from the Colonel General. Unfortunately, the argument fell on deaf ears as Binesi knew it would, for his presence at the little Legate’s side had as much to do with political theatre as it did with actual concern for the boy’s safety. Shuai Jiao had long since revealed himself for the cunning politician he truly was, the same as the rest of his brethren hailing from their snake-pit of a province. If Colonel General Nian Zu were to leave the little Legate without a representative from his camp, then Shuai Jiao would take that to mean the two of them had fallen out and act accordingly.

Even in the midst of an all-out offensive against the Enemy, the faithless Central politicians couldn’t be trusted not to sink their fangs into another man’s sheep, and the little Legate had the fattest flock this side of the East. Even a damn dog knew not to forget favours and violate justice, but the snakes of Central harboured no gratitude for the man who’d done so much to safeguard their province. For this reason alone, the Grasping Vine bore the brunt of Binesi’s displeasure, but as the days stretched into weeks and nothing changed in Meng Sha, he could not help but resent Colonel General Nian Zu and the little Legate both. Only a bit mind you, but how could he not? Binesi was but one of the Famed Fifty, for Mother’s sake, and any one of them could have served as the Colonel General’s token soldier, but Binesi got stuck babysitting just because he hailed from the same region as the Little Legate, as if that mattered one whit to the insular Bekhai.

As for the little Legate himself, how many times could one man fall comatose? Not without reason of course, as he did fine work securing four harbours and saving Baatar from certain death, but Binesi couldn’t understand why the boy needed weeks of sleep to recover from overtaxing his Core, much less days. More than a month had already passed since the little Legate first fell unconscious, and he remained unconscious long enough for Lieutenant General Akanai to roll the dice and emerge victorious. Though all three targets successfully evaded death, the Enemy paid a dear price in manpower and territory to keep their generals alive. After four bitter days of non-stop battle, Colonel General Nian Zu marched into the city of Shi Bei at the head of his army after forcing the insidious traitor Mao Jianghong to flee with his tail between his legs. Now, the easternmost city of the Western Province was back under Imperial control and quickly being fortified by the Spring and Autumn Consortium, a most heartening victory celebrated by people all across the Empire.

And after two years of just barely scraping by while enduring the relentless Enemy onslaught, this landmark victory was exactly what the Empire needed. First Meng Sha, now Shi Bei, the Legate’s foolish, but well-intentioned ambition to retake the West was off to a rousing start.

The Lieutenant General herself also found success in her endeavours, slaughtering an untold number of Defiled pursuers after running roughshod over the defenders of Tian Zangli and leaving naught but blood and ashes in her wake. A textbook raid carried out with the utmost efficiency, or so Binesi’s sons claimed to have heard Quyen Huong publicly acknowledge, which spoke volumes to how impressed the chauvinistic Southern Marshal must have truly been. Though they ultimately failed to take Mataram YuGan’s head, the fault did not lay with Akanai, for even after razing one city and moving to threaten three more, the traitor Patriarch refused to come out of whatever hole he was hiding in. Neither did Mataram YuChun for that matter, who Binesi yearned to fight on the field of battle to determine who was the better spearman between the two of them, but they had not been fated to meet just yet. For all intents and purposes, the Mataram Clan had seemingly gone into hiding, likely to prepare for a counter-offensive to retake the harbours. That explained their absence from recent affairs, for their forces had most likely been too far out of place when Akanai’s attack arrived. This much was expected and even presumed, as it was the reason the plan had a chance to succeed in the first place. Though built with the utmost of haste, Meng Sha’s sturdy walls and lofty towers of iron and concrete would not be easily overrun, while the remaining harbours were largely inconsequential, so even if the Enemy had proceeded with their attack on the harbours, they would have played right into Lieutenant General Akanai’s hands.

There were already rumours abound of how she might well be promoted to Colonel General for her valiant efforts here in the West. If true, it would simultaneously make her the first woman, half-beast, and Imperial Defence Officer to hold the highest military rank in all the outer provinces, beholden only to the Emperor himself and His Royal General, whose name was a mystery to everyone outside the Imperial Clan. Binesi hoped the rumours were true, if only so he could share in her unheard of accomplishment by virtue of proximity, but she was more than deserving of the honour. To think he once dreamed of surpassing such an incredible Warrior, the foolish dreams of a young man who knew not the heights of Heaven.

As for Lieutenant General Baatar, some would say his contribution to the war efforts surpassed even those of his heroic Mentor and Mother, and that he too was a contender for the rank of Colonel General. The mission in Pan Si Xing was the most dangerous and least likely to succeed for reasons that should be obvious. Not to look down on the Bloody Fanged Wolf, who had already been an established Peak Expert by the time Binesi Developed his Domain, but Baatar was tasked with killing the fearsome and formidable Bai Qi, a Colonel General who had already fought two of his famed peers and emerged with the upper hand. Even Akanai herself was unable to claim his head, yet she sent her Disciple to do so in her stead. Not only that, she also sent him out with a paltry hundred-thousand troops, a force comprised of disciplined elites to be sure, but a meagre number of soldiers considering the monumental task at hand. And yet, despite all the odds stacked against him, Baatar was not only able to clash with the Lord of Martial Peace in single combat and leave with his head still attached, he almost succeeded in taking the Defiled Commander General’s life.

Four years ago, Baatar had been a mere Captain of the Imperial Defence Force, and now he was a Lieutenant General standing closer to the pinnacle of Martial might than some Colonel Generals and Living Legends. Perhaps there would come a day soon when the North had three Colonel Generals, and Binesi’s pride soared to see his fellow mountain-dwellers succeed.

The stories of Baatar’s battle with Bai Qi were the talk of the Empire, for few would have ever believed the Bloody Fanged Wolf a match for the Prince of Barbarity. Oh how Binesi would have loved to have seen the battle first-hand, and he envied those fortunate enough to bear witness to such a momentous event. A rare sight to see, two evenly matched Peak Experts battling it out blade to blade with their lives on the line, and while no mere words could ever do it justice, those soldiers who were present in Pan Si Xing never went thirsty so long as they were willing to share their perspective of the action. Baatar himself was currently in Shi Bei, alongside the majority of his surviving forces and the rescued civilians to boot, but many of the wounded and recovering soldiers had been shipped to Meng Sha for recovery, where they were welcomed as heroes with open arms.

As such, Binesi spent many a night buying drinks for the victorious conquerors who took Pan Si Xing and sent the traitor general fleeing with so paltry a force, and from what he could gather, the fighting had been fierce and furious indeed. Already he could see a glut of dramas just over the horizon, and while many would focus on Baatar’s valiant efforts and Bai Qi’s shocking reveals of his powerful hidden cards, there was no lack of heroes to focus on. The married Exarches Bralton and Erien proved themselves yet again by racking up an impressive kill count of forty-three Demons in a single battle, a new and impressive record for them to boast of. Lawgiver Won Gwang of Central was unable to match them in raw statistics alone, but it seemed like every soldier Binesi spoke to only had praise for the man who spent his time on the battlefield lending support to those most in need. Situ Jia Yang’s reputation went up yet another notch, because even after Bai Qi personally scorned him, the Howling Dragon set to work and killed eighteen Demons and an untold number of Enemy Peak Experts over the course of the battle. The man single-handedly attracted so much of the Enemy’s ire, the Wraiths were prioritizing him over Baatar whenever they could, for he had a knack for spotting the Concealed assassins that few could match.

There were also lesser talents to take note of, like Major Rustram’s concentrated push into the city centre which resulted in a slaughter of the Enemy Chosen, a feat which was celebrated by all, to say nothing of Tam Taewoong’s feat of holding the market district to impede the Enemy’s ability to move through the city. Hangman Jorani was praised for bearing the brunt of the Enemy’s initial response, as he led them on a merry chase through the winding streets of Pan Si Xing and left naught but chaos and death in his wake. Though no duellist or Demon Slayer, the half-rat excelled at cutting down chaff with his Spiritual Weapon, a rope that somehow served as both whip and chain capable of reaping the lives of unarmoured opponents like wheat before the scythe. Any Champion or Chieftain capable of avoiding death at Jorani’s hands was quickly dispatched by one of the abundant young Talents emerging from the little Legate’s retinue, which meant their forces were utterly unmatched on the streets of Pan Si Xing until the Demons and Peak Experts took the field. Whether it be the disciplined, foul-mouthed Wang Bao, the wedded half-dogs Ral and Chey, or the taciturn Lang Yi whose spear would one day pierce the Heavens, the Warriors of Falling Rain’s retinue made their names known in Pan Si Xing as the next generation of Peak Experts.

Not without cost of course, one paid for in blood and tears. They were back in the city now, which meant their numbers must have taken a mauling else Lieutenant General Akanai would not have sent them away. There was a reckoning coming, and the Imperials would need every able soldier available if they wanted to hold Shi Bei for an entire month, but all Binesi could do was offer his hopes and prayers from Meng Sha.

