“Because I'll literally be in Republic custody again,” Shiv said flatly. “It's not like I'm giving them a fake body. It's an actual body. It’s my actual body. Frankly, the only false part about this is our actual intentions. They’re not really imprisoning me, and Veronica can use me against the North and South openly as a weapon or something in the meantime. Meanwhile, I’ll keep my activities in the capital quieter or something.”

“Those activities are to cease altogether,” Veronica snapped. "We cannot risk you being spotted in two places at once if we wish for this to work.”

“Then I won’t be spotted,” Shiv replied.

The Councilwoman rolled her eyes. “You are many things, boy, but subtle is not one of them. The odds of you remaining clandestine are—”

“He will not be spotted.” Valor cut Veronica off. This time, she had no objections.

“I see,” she said simply through gritted teeth. “Then I have another stipulation: no more deaths. No more slain Inquisitors. No negotiations on this point.”

“Oh yes, the hell there will be,” Shiv deadpanned. There was no heat or fury in his voice, just a dull growl of hate. "Your bastards are doing shit to children. If I see them hurt an orphan, I’ll hurt them however I want. And I'm going to end Daughter however I can. I don't care if she's a god that's important to the Republic's safety. She's broken. The things she's doing to fucking children—you might be fine with that you hollow-hearted sack of shit, but I’m not. I’ll never be.”

“Was being Cursed thrice over by Maiden not enough for you?” Veronica scoffed.

“No,” Shiv grunted. “And I’ll deal with that soon enough.”

“Right. Going to the Fairwoods to walk in the footsteps of your old mentor.” A cruel sneer spread across Veronica's face. “How has Georges been? It's been an age and a half since I tasted one of his delightful dishes. He lost his smile while learning what it meant to be a slave under Longinus, but I daresay his skills were honed to perfection. Something about watching his fellows be punished for every mistake he made, I think. Good thing you never met that version of him. I suspect you would have found him quite pathetic. I suppose there are small mercies in miserable deaths after all.”

Shiv saw red. His vision narrowed into a long, dark tunnel. On the other end existed only one person, the icon of his everlasting loathing: Veronica Chandler. Grandmother by blood, and someday his victim-to-be. He would pull her apart. He would force lamentation after anguish from her lips, and he would break her for good.

And leave her alive to suffer the aftermath.

The nova of hot fury surging through Shiv cooled in an unnatural instant, alchemized into focus. He let out a monstrous noise, like a beast trying to chuckle when there was nothing to laugh about. “Thank you.”

Those around Shiv shifted in confusion. Jessica stood stiffer than a pole, worried about what was certain to follow.

“Why?” Veronica asked. Even she sounded wary.

She was right to.

She wasn’t the only one who held the song of cruelty close to their heart.

“Thank you for throwing my dad away. For staying as far away from him as you could. Thank you for being little more than a shadow in his life. It's probably one of the wisest things you've done, because even if you tried, even if you gave all this Councilwoman bullshit up, you would've never been able to even pretend to be a mother. And remind me to shake Udraal’s hand for murdering the subhuman fuck you let finish inside you, because only another roach-in-human-skin sack of shit would play with you, and his death was almost certainly a boon for everyone else. So. If you ever, in your most delusional dreams, consider what could have been if you lived like an actual person: stop. You're not a person. You're not even a thing. You’re hardly any better than the demented gods you herd. Just a walking sack of shit obsessed with control that gained too many levels and didn’t die when it was supposed to.”

The Councilwoman’s face remained impassive, but a small patch of her cheek turned glossy, bright, and transparent.

Like glass.

Sticks and Stones 83 > 88
