Nu watched Delta be kidnapped by the giant crab.

He should have expected nothing less.

“If I want deadly warriors... I just need to add crabs to the equation and I can have an army,” he mused aloud. He turned to the paradise around him and opened the menu as he waited for Delta to finally look down and see the void once more.

Fourth Floor purchases and upgrades.Purchases:New Island: Purchase a new island for the floor. Cost 50 Mana. 1/12 spaces taken.

Ocean floor: Purchase parts of the floor to be turned into a visible bottom. Spaces where the floor continues to drift off will be converted into massive trenches. 100 Mana.

Unpredictable weather: Cause storms or heat waves to strike if a party lingers on an island too long. Depending on the local island’s biome, these can have deadly combinations. 70 Mana.

Nighttime Wonder: Have an active day to night cycle for each island, allowing the sky to become a recreation of Delta’s home starsystem. Different events can be triggered at night. 100 Mana.

Breathable water: make all water on the floor breathable, if uncomfortable for people. A O2 bar will be created for each person before they must return to the surface. Allows increased underwater challenges. 50 Mana.

The Reflection World: Accessible only through special means. All islands become hellish and aggressive. This option automatically turns on if ‘You made Delta cry’ has been triggered. 200 Mana.

All of these were very interesting. Nu could see a use in all of them, even if some were mostly for making Delta happy. Nu only wanted her happy, however, because when she was sad, it bummed Nu out and he couldn’t enjoy the bloodshed as much.

He took a look at the monster menu next as Delta went scuttling past, laughing like a loon as the crab raced into the ocean on the other side of the island now.

Noi Storm Crab: Allow a vice function on the claw to allow the crab to crush armored foes. 10 DP.Allow rare gems to grow on the backs of the crabs. Adds defense and valuable loot. 30 DPSolar powered: Allow the Noi Crabs to charge a beam in their open claw from the mana in the air and sun to fire a massive magic beam. 50 DP.The ritual: If five or more crabs gather on one island, they can dance in a ritual to awaken Krab. Krab is a roaming raid boss that can sink islands causing a drastic panic and danger to people who aren’t geared towards racing through the level. All victims will wash up back on the first floor and need to walk back down to the Fourth Floor. 200 DP.

Evolutions:Crabtaur: Locked: Have five islands or more with unique environments.Crabomancer: A humanoid able to use magic. It's actually three crabs in a robe and a fake beard. Locked until a crab island is established.Stabbocrabbo: A crab who exchanged its claws for the sword. While you looted, it studied the blade. Locked until 10 people are defeated in melee combat by Noi Crabs.Bobians: Special cultish crabs that worship the sky worm, Bob. Able to heal and curse enemies. Locked until Bob Shrine is established.

Nu looked up as the crab returned without Delta and he stared at it. It stared back with deep unfathomable knowledge only a crab could express.

“She looked down, didn’t she?” he asked and it blew out bubbles as Delta finally ran out of the ocean screaming.

The last option he mused about exploring, but decided to put it down so he could peel Delta off the crab before it dunked her in the void again.

The menu was left blinking.

‘Monster purchase’.

---

“Ruli.”

Ruli ignored her mother.

“Don’t be a brat,” Mila insisted. Ruli sighed and stopped choking the arrogant Fairplay representative. Nearby, the kid that her mother had vouched for rubbed his neck in horror.

“He said they would ‘shackle’ Delta if she's this potent. Shackle her... like a beast!” Ruli turned, nostrils flaring and the man at her feet gasped in lungfuls of air.

“Hot air. I still have the legal right over what happens to the Dungeon. Despite claims aimed at me, I don’t lock up children or the innocent  in my basement, Dungeon or not,” Mila said calmly and Ruli looked down at the glaring man.

“Run... cause I’m going to drop my foot forward and if you just happen to be there? That’s not my fault,” she growled and raised her foot.

“Peacekeeper! Assault!” the Fairplay punk cried and Ruli looked up the street to see Quiss standing there. Quiss looked down at the man, then at Ruli, then at the gathering of people.

“You’re right, that looks like assault.” Quiss said and walked on.

“W-What are you doing?” the man demanded.

“Nothing... you didn’t ask me to do anything. You just said it was assault and I agreed,” Quiss said as he ducked into Mila’s home to talk to the bruised and battered adventurers that Ruli had gotten from the Dungeon.

“You know, if you won’t sleep with him. I will,” Mila said with some amusement and Ruli shot her a withering look.

“It’s not that I ‘won’t’. It’s ‘I have and he’s never forgiven me for the experience’,” Ruli said without shame and the man under her foot got up and ran off, leaving the boy behind.

“Please... don’t step on me,” the nervous kid said, backing into a wall. Ruli snorted and turned away.

“Ask again when you’re old enough to drink,” she told the kid before looking back at Mila. “Ma, I’m going to get my camping equipment and set up outside Delta. I’ll stop others getting in for now,” she said and Mila nodded.

“I’ll send food through Quiss. The wildlife is only just returning so it's for the best we don’t hunt them until they’re mana adjusted,” her mother said as she looked out.

Ruli could sense more trouble was on its way.

She would need to cut down on her drinking so she was ready.

The idea hurt, but Delta was worth handling people sober.

Plus... Delta could reward her with an open bar if she saw how hard Ruli was working.

Fishing, drinking, and food.

Only an idiot could turn all that into an actual deathtrap.
