That last sentence really threw Jake for a loop. Fifty million? That was nothing! Jake had billions of Credits as a damn E-grade, and sure, Jake was probably the most filthy-rich E-grade around, but still. Jake’s only conclusion was that inflation had truly gone crazy over the many eras.

“Fifty million!”

“Sixty!”

“Seventy!”

“One hundred!”

The bidding for the Eye of the Magus instantly picked up speed as nearly all the A-grades in the auction hall wanted it. Again, Jake understood why, especially for those who were around back then. Records were a lot harder to come by, and there were fewer opportunities for growth. They didn’t have stuff like Nevermore or other World Wonders; there wasn’t an expansive teleportation system across universes that allowed one to travel freely and seek out anywhere one wanted for inspiration.

Even now, this Eye of the Magus would be viewed as an item of extreme value. Jake understood why all these people wanted it... but also knew that none of the current bidders would be the ones walking away with it in the end, because Jake was inhabiting the being that would surely obtain the Eye of the Magus.

So far, the Malefic Viper had just quietly observed the situation and allowed the bidding to continue. The price just kept going up, and as the excitement was getting to a high level... the Viper made his move.

It was subtle, but Jake clearly felt the faint usage of magic from the would-be Primordial. He activated Touch of the Malefic Viper, and as he did so, the room erupted in chaos mere moments after.

Throughout, several of the B-grades present suddenly seemed to fall incredibly ill, with many falling over and throwing up blood. They were mainly the weaker family members of the powerhouses, instantly catching their attention.

The bidding stopped, but before the auctioneer could say anything, his eyes also opened wide as blood began running from his eyes, and he also threw up blood.

Besides the Viper, the beastkin woman looked panicked as she practically flew out of the booth down towards the stage. “Dad!”

The security was on the move instantly, but nobody stopped her, knowing who she was... which also allowed the Viper to subtly follow her onto the stage.

All around the large auction hall, the auras of powerful A-grades erupted, some of them already in mid-tier A-grade from the looks of it. The security also quickly moved to lock everything down and ensure there wasn’t too much panic. There were also several healers present who immediately began working, with everyone trying to locate the source of the attack.

“Dad... Dad, what happened?” the beastkin woman asked with concern as she kneeled down beside her father. The Viper also moved closer, a face full of concern. A perimeter of guards surrounded them, leaving only the Viper, his assumed girlfriend, and the auctioneer within. Alongside the Eye of the Magus, of course.

“Sir, here,” the Viper said, hurriedly reaching into his spatial storage and taking out a red potion.

The man looked at it with surprise for a moment before quickly accepting it. At the same time, the Viper also took out two other bottles, handing one to the woman. “Here, drink; it’s a resistance flask.”

As he said this, he downed a flask identical to the one he gave the woman, making her follow along. After she had consumed the bottle... the Viper’s demeanor changed.

“My love,” he said, leaning in close as he placed a hand on her cheek. She looked at him, confused as he spoke again. “You’ve fulfilled your role perfectly, and now it’s time for your final act.”

Before she had time to understand what he was getting at, the Viper’s hand started glowing. Her face began to swell instantly, along with the rest of her body. The only thing she had time to do was look at the Viper with eyes full of confusion and sadness as he blew up like a balloon within less than a second before bursting open.

A massive explosion of poison gas consumed the entire chamber, and a second later, the auctioneer also exploded, suffering a similar fate. Elsewhere throughout the city, thousands of magic traces left by the Viper also activated, exploding as corrosive gas was released throughout, taking not just the auction hall by surprise as the entire city was seemingly attacked at once.
